

sadfasdf
Life Assurance
The Balance Wheel of L
For the
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR
CHILDREN-
LIQUIDATION OF THE
MORTGAGE
Full particulars will be forwarded
on application.
Life Assurance
The only Business Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF ESTATE
OR BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
Full particulars will be forwarded
on application.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
U/>e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy
Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves.
Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
The Tourist Racket (Page 12)
Vol. 58.—N0. 2973.
Wednesday, February 3, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
It
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .. ■ .
My Address
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels aye eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to. that which _ is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will bft paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates. . .
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIA IN WAR-TIME.
Eight years from when he began it, Ernest Scott,
Professor of History at Melbourne University, has
completed his account of Australia During the War.
A whale of a book of 900-odd pages, it is published
as vol. XI of the Official History (Angus and Robert-
son ; 18s.).
Why no novelist had already taken charge of its
ground is one of the puzzles of Australian writing.
As unfolded through Scott’s fine narrative the occur-
rences in Australia during those five years of war
and subsequent readjustment are more lively,
crowded, complex, exciting, more packed with the
stuff of great comedy and great drama, than any other
like period in our history.
The book is a well-planned piece of historical
writing, its story alive, full of action and onward
movement. There are sweeping panoramic pageantry
of troops and horses against a background of
citizenry; the camps, the ships; the women, their
departing men ; the politicians, the recruiters ; fantas-
tic rumors and suspicions; the censorship, the con-
centration camps, the Broken Hill Turks; the terrific
upsurge of national sentiment, and the responses of
this to rumors, to tragic Gallipoli, to conscription,
to the I.W.Ws. There are the themes of that stamina
tested under the prolonged strain of war, of a people’s
ready submission to the despotism of the War Pre-
cautions Act; the ramifications of that extraordinary
control, putting a guiding or restraining hand upon
every person and every procedure in the land. Also,
of course, for those who would pursue the theme
beyond Scott’s coverage, the lasting effects of all this,
and especially the despotic elements of it, still active
to this present day. It is a tremendous story, and
one different from that of anywhere else, with char-
acters, such as W. M. Hughes, fit for the greatest
purposes of fiction.
It is a story, too, singularly rounded and com-
plete." It begins in a time when everywhere trees
were burgeoning into blossom and sunlight sparkled
over the waking of an Australian spring. Melbourne
“Age” was earnestly advocating reduced defence ex-
penditure ; there was a complicated political situation,
with a double-dissolution Federal election in full blast.
A cable from London on July 29, which should have
served to set our land and sea forces moving in readi-
ness, was mistranslated from the cipher. No blame,
then, to Defence Minister Millen for taking no action.
The warning had been sent throughout the Empire
and eventually reached Australia via the Navy in
China and Maoriland waters. Millen agreed to Navy
representations; but he did nothing about the Army,
and continued to do nothing until the Army heard
about the order and pressed him: there was a very
important election on.
Scott has no idea of pandering to the anti-war
sentiments that manifest themselves in contempt for
the Diggers (the “cannon-fodder” brand of thinkers)
and for Australia’s responses and sacrifices. Wherever
the war guilt lay, it certainly did not lie with Australia.
Whatever anti-war feelings were finding expression
here under the strain of effort and the force of propa-
ganda before the end, Australia in the beginning
went into it eagerly, with no thought of gain, with
no grudge or animosity against anybody, but simply
as part of a nation whose existence was threat-
ened. Scott sees in all that and in the stamina dis-
played in pursuing it matter for our highest admira-
tion. Australia has nothing to be ashamed of remem-
bering its part in the war.
Scott compartments the salient aspects of the
times into separate chapters, each an exhaustive treat-
ment of an often surprisingly interesting subject.
Beginning by covering the outbreak of the war and
the general political scene in two remarkably lively
chapters, he turns next to the censorship, that right
arm of Hughes’s War Precautions Act. He knows,
of course, that it, like the Act it sprang from, was
unavoidable and necessary (in spite of it —and it was
pretty thorough the German Government was
repeatedly advised of events in Australia), but he
sees it in the light of comedy. In the account
of the press fight against it such things come out as
that the press sought to have newspapermen as cen-
sors, only to learn that they had already been tried
but were unsatisfactory, “simply and solely because
their censorship was far too strict.” One of the
noisiest opponents was Stead, of “Stead’s Review.”
Once he submitted an article which the censor slashed
to pieces ; Stead then had the satisfaction of pointing
out that the article was a complete sub-leader lifted
from The Bulletin. More light comedy— not with-
out still prevailing repercussions—in extension of the
censorship to films and books, among these last one
of nefarious intention entitled The Finished Mystery
which was actually published by a religious society
in the United States. There was a suggestion, also,
that gramophone records should be censored, and
there were the giddy forays of minions of Mr. Hughes
against those of Queensland’s Mr. Ryan, the objec-
tive the suppression of certain copies of “Hansard,”
and the outcome Police Court wriffi and counter-
writs, with the Commonwealth haling Mr. Ryan
before the beak (case dismissed) and Mr. Ryan taking
action in return (settled out of court). In attempts
to avoid the censorship, employment of invisible ink,
writing beneath stamps and every other pretty means
beloved of flapper novelists, and the censor staff work-
ing away on such things with chemicals, heat and
other romantic properties. One document was sub-
jected to 19 such tests before it gave up its secret.
By the end of the war letters of 15,000 persons were
being systematically watched.
From that light comedy Scott next deals with
the “Enemy Within the Gates” ; this, for crowded
human interest, comedy and drama, the richest in
the whole book. It gives account of concentration-
camp happenings, such as the Black Hand gang of
one camp, which practised blackmail and assault on
fellow-prisoners till these hundreds of other internees,
completely fed up, armed themselves with pieces of
wood, knives and tools, hunted down the gang, gave
them an unmerciful walloping and hurled them over
a 7ft. picket fence. On this showing many internees
liked posing as martyrs. The fact of their treatment
was (hat there was an abundance of good food, the
rations for prisoners being precisely the same as for
soldiers, and the official regular visitors who gave
friendly ear to their complaints included in turn such
men as Justice Street, Justice Ferguson and future
Chief Justice Adrian Knox. Also in this chapter is
some account of the home-front war fever as it
affected numerous humorless citizens, with its objec-
tions to the playing of German music, its ostracism
pf people with German-sounding names and its chang-
ing of German-named towns all over the Australian
map to good loyal abo. Some account also of the
two Turks who poured rifle-fire into a train of ore-
trucks crowded with picnickers out from Broken Hill,
killing several men and women and badly wounding
others, the Turks in this outburst expressing their
own particular patriotism: they “had lately been
brooding over certain grievances, and had decided
to die fighting for their country.” Some comic
account also of the frenzied home-front furphies by
which whales became German submarines, a bril-
liant meteorite was an airship, birds were aeroplanes
and a rabbitter doing the round of his traps with a
hurricane lamp was a Morse signaller.
Other chapters deal in detail with the extraordi-
nary conscription campaigns and referendums, labor
questions, wool, meat and wheat, shipping, the I.W.W.
outburst, patriotic funds, and so on to the Peace
Conference, with Hughes a highlight here as else-
where, and then the repatriation of the forces and
an epilogue summing up on the spirit in which Aus-
tralia entered the war and the splendid part played
as finely on the home front as in the field. Scott
has done a big job especially worth doing, and has
done it especially well.
A Great French Novel.
Salavin, by Georges Duhamel, translated from
the French by Gladys Billings (Dent; Bs. 6d.), is an
omnibus volume containing the four short novels that
build up the story of one of the most tragic figures
of modern fiction. Duhamel was right to publish
his work in four parts; in the mass it is overwhelm-
ing, crushing. Its finest qualities, its* penetration,
subtlety, poignancy, blunt the reader’s mind with their
insistence. Salavin should be taken in the doses pre-
scribed by the author.
The four books that make this volume are Con-
fession at Midnight, Salavin’s Journal, The Lyonnais
Club and End of Illusion. The first two are told in
the first person by Salavin himself—the human docu-
ments beloved of the French novelist —and the last
two in objective narrative form. The story of this
man is told from within and without with a thorough-
ness that is rather terrible.
Salavin is another version of the ballet
“Petrouchka.” It is the story of man, still only half-
evolved, in his efforts to attain the impossible, his
defeat and immortality. Louis Salavin is the only
son of a widow, a clerk who loses his job and cannot
find another. He is utterly hemmed in by poverty,
by loneliness, by his own lack of gifts and of per-
sonality. He is one of the doomed and inarticulate
thousands, but in his starved heart there begins to
grow a longing for virtue. He pursues it, pitiful,
grotesque and self-deceiving. He cultivates good
deeds, he makes himself ridiculous and brings trouble
to those around him. Even a simple thing like carry-
ing a neighbor’s milk to her door each morning turns
out badly.
Duhamel never spares his poor puppet. He
passes from illusion to illusion, and each gives way
under him. He seeks assuagement not only in good
deeds but also in religion and in Communism; he
tries to free himself from himself, to begin a new
life and achieve martyrdom in service to his fellow,
all in vain. The Confession and the Journal make
us intimate with Salavin in every mood and in every
fluctuation of his spirit; the two other books, told
objectively, shrink him again to the stature of other
men. Each treatment reveals and shames him, and
each is an aspect of the pitiful. Salavin develops from
the wrong-headed young man in a Paris tenement
who underestimates life and writes himself advice on
how to become a saint, to the man, outwardly gentle
and whole, who nurses the plague-stricken and gives
his blood for a worthless native boy in Tunis, but
whose hunger is unassuaged. Life raises new peaks
before him. He leaves the last testament of his
wisdom:
I believed that in measuring all things by a constant
rule I' could avoid confusion; that is not true.
I was not made for great events —one more mistake.
I am bored and lonely. Another great shame.
I should have gone at no matter what cost to the
New Hebrides. I am too near myself still.
Humanity’s only virtue is its need for virtue.
Terrible. Terrible.
I shall never be anyone but him, always him.
It is eternally necessary to begin over again. I
cannot.
The book is a parable, but it is also a story full
of incident, poignant and complete in its detail and
touched here and there with astringent satire —as
when the police make a national conspiracy of a
little gathering of dilettante spectators and poseurs
round a simple and visionary old cobbler. The
characters are sympathetically yet sharply drawn, and
the reader, out of his very exasperation, comes to
love Salavin.
"Best Short Stories."
The short story, though it is at once one of the
most difficult and most effective of literary art forms,
and though, in the individual instance, it may have
taken a year of living and a month of writing, is
generally here to-day and gone to-morrow. There-
fore, Edward J. O’Brien, in collecting what he con-
siders the 42 Best Short Stories, 1936 (Cape; 7s. 6d.),
into one volume, performs a considerable service.
The 1936 collection contains 20 English stories
and 22 from America. The quality compares well
with earlier collections by the same editor. They
naturally vary very much in theme and treatment,
but a gpneral direction is traceable. On the whole
they are shorter and more vigorous than their pre-
decessors. There is no “well-made” story in the con-
ventional sense —a plot with a snap and final click at
the end. They are for the most part snapshots of
life: A small-town dressmaker is faced with the diffi-
culty of making a shroud, and there is nothing in the
fashion-books to help her, “The Shroud,” by Dorothy
McCleary; a little girl finds a way to rid herself of
a hateful hat, “Her Own Sweet Simplicity,” by
Martha Foley; the conversation between an old
woman who is going to see her son; after 10 years
and a stranger in the train, “The Mother,” by Leslie
Hal ward; the inadequacy of Nazi lovemaking,
“Cherry Blossom on the Rhine,” by Rhys Davies;
the crushing of a caterpillar, “The Butterfly,” by
James Hanley. Even the longer stories —“The Mill,”
by H. E. Bates, which tells how Alice Hartop went
to work for the miller’s wife and was seduced by
her master; “Monte Estremo,” by Elisaveta Fen,
which is the story of a day on a walking tour in
Corsica shared by a husband and wife who love one
another but are unhappy-complete themselves with-
out a cut-and-dried solution.
There is no resolution, but that does not mean
that these stories lack point or finish. In place of
an artificial or mechanical solution there is a bearing
on life. The reader feels that these are genuine side-
lights on life, and that satisfies him of their signifi-
cance. This shows on the part of the writers a trust
in the intrinsic interest of life even in its most com-
monplace happenings, and that in itself is a sign of
vigor.
With the overthrow of the pretentious in the short
story there is also visible a technical development, a
greater brevity of styles—like that of S. F. Green in
“A Death in the Family,” freed from inessentials and
boiled down to a graphic strength. There is also a
willingness to experiment in methods of narration, as
in Faulkner’s “That Will Be Fine” and Karlton Kelm’s
“Twinkle and Family Take a Ride,” and there is
(Continued on page 9.)


THE SENIOR STORE.”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
o
o
<3>
m
co
■M
m
K
4- 1
:
P£|
%M
m
n
I
m
M
■I
m
s
X
■
.
11
1
V :
rt
as
m
■s%
iMmMm
m
a
k ;
r *
In ■
Si
NS
fe>
I &
! ' :
ALL WOOL GOWNS
B3l. —This excellent Dressing Gown is properly made
and finished. It is an all wool medium weight material
in effective striped effects. Dark Grey or Brown tonings.
Contrast collar, cuffs and pockets. All sizes.
Price 29/6. Sale Prce
19/6
9/6 PYJAMAS
Medium
weight
#
Striped
F’lette
sadfsadf
832. —For a comfortable night’s rest wear a suit
of these Pyjamas. Made of Striped Flannelette
in our own workrooms. Comfortable sizes for
small, mediums and outsizes. A medium weight,
so they can be worn for many months. Price,
9/6. Sale Price 7/6
12 ; 6 Horrockses W eave
PYJAMAS
833.—A Sleeping Suit for
genuine comfort and restful
slumber. Horrockses Weave
Pyjamas are made in our own
workrooms of soft double-warp
Flannelette. Winter weight.
Buy now for winter. Different striped effects.
Small, medium and outsizes.
Price 12/6. Sale Price 11/6
asdf
r
K
©x\
/
Of? (Vffiu item!
10'6 SILK SHIRTS 9'9
B34—Men’s Fuji Silk Shirts with tennis collar attached or
open sports collar style. Sizes, Min. to 19in. neck. Natural
shade only.
Light Weight Silk. Price .... 10/6. Sale Price .... 9/9
Medium Weight Silk. Price .... 12/6. Sale Price .... 11/6
Double Double Kanebo. Price .. 14/6. Sale Price .. 13/6
6'll WORK SHIRTS, 6'6
B3s.—Men’s Work Shirts made in our own workrooms.
Full-fitting styles reinforced where strain is greatest. Sizes
144 in. to 19in. neck, with 9in. double backs.
Price 6/11. Sale Price 6/6
Also Striped Harvard with 6in. double backs.
Price 5/11. Sale Price 5/6
14'6 CARDIGANS, 11'6
836. —You’ll want one of these! Order immediately and
save. All Wool Cardigans with V-necks. Plain ribbed knit.
Grey, Blue or Heather. Sizes 36in. to 42in. chest.
Price 14/6. Sale Price 11/6
3'6, 4'6 HALF HOSE, 2'6
837. —Buy a supply at this saving! All Pure Wool Cashmere
Fancy Half Hose. New designs in Blue, Grey or Brown
tonings. Sizes lOin. to Ilyin.
Prices 3/6, 4/6. Sale Price 2/6
9 Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
asdf


More from Dugong Island
It Pays to be On the Square
BY
FREEMAN SANDOM
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
ALL sorts of things float
ashore at Dugong
Island, and, being an
evergreen optimist,
old Peter Holzkopf, when-
ever he spots an unusual
object lying between tide-
marks on the beach, hopes for treasure-trove.
As for me, I know Mrs. Pacific to be a great
joker, and I take care that she seldom succeeds in
pulling my leg.
For instance, Peter planned a bit of a shivoo
on the strength of a floating case, low in the water
off the beach. But the bottles of whisky he expected
to find turned out to be rotten potatoes. My guess
was closer to the truth. I had plonked for putrid
cabbages.
Therefore, when Peter got excited over the bit of
flotsam which drifted in off Shark Point I was not
very interested. We had just dragged our net for a
fine haul of shovel-nosed sharks (there is a good
market in Barrierville for filleted cod), and were busy
gutting them on the beach, when his imagination
began to work.
“Let it drift,” I said; “most likely it’s more
potatoes. Our job is filleting these sharks and bringing
’em to town.”
“Potatoes! ” cried Peter scornfully. “Dumm-
kopf! Iss der sea mit potaoes full, you dink, Pill
Flowers? Dis might obium be, berrabs.”
“Perhaps,” I admitted; “but my money is on
potatoes.”
Of course there was no holding Peter, and when
we had launched the flattie and rowed abreast of the
thing it turned out to be opium after all!
| HOISTED the cork float with the attached electric
1 torch and light line on board while Peter secured
the small tin case, which was well soldered and looked
as clean and new as if it had been heaved overboard
from the China boat last night.
“The torch went bung,” I remarked, examining
it, “and the shore gang missed the parcel in the
dark ; then the anchor rope parted and the current
did the rest.”
Peter grunted. He was ripping the soft metal
with his sheath-knife. At the sight of rows of
rectangular brass containers his eyes glistened.
“Doo, dree dousant poonds!” cried Peter. “You
oont me vill millionaires be, Pill!”
“Two thousand cod-guts!” I. said, counting.
“There are sixty tins here, worth about nine hundred
pounds.”
“No madder,” he crooned over the case, “vee vill
rich be mit dis.”
“Hold your horses, Pete. It doesn’t belong to
us —yet.”
“Vat!” He stared as if I was a new kind of
fish. “Vindings iss geebings, ain’t it?”
“If you can hold it, yes. But the opium gang is
a tough lot to buck. The Customs’ll be on the look-
out for this, too. It might pay to be on the square,
Peter.”
Peter doubted it. He pointed to Dick this and
Harry that, whose sharp practices had built nice
banking accounts, and played—with variations —on
the theme that findings are keepings. He also con-
sidered that we two were capable of dealing with all
the smugglers and Customs Departments in the world.
In this way, Peter talking and I listening—and
rowing—we arrived at the jetty. So absorbing was
the subject that neither of us had seen Charlie
Thompson standing there, his legs wide apart, naked
to the waist, hands in khaki shorts, his eyes glued
to the contents of our case.
“Ha!” said Charlie, manoeuvring pipe into
mouth-corner. “Ho, ho!”
Charlie runs the third fish-trap at Dugong Island.
Also a refreshment-room for casual visitors. He is
as smart as they make ’em and has plans for a big
tourist hotel, to be built when some mysterious ship
of his comes home with the necessary wherewithal.
Peter and I had a bit of trouble with him once, but
as far as I am concerned that is all forgotten. In
Peter’s case, though, the man’s unwelcome presence
seemed to open old wounds.
“Vat you vant?” he began aggressively, in disre-
gard of the facts that he was over sixty years of age
and weighed nine stone nothing, while Charlie was in
his prime and was built like a heavyweight prize-
fighter. “Glear oud or I schmash you, see, Charlie!”
“Shut up, Peter,” I cut in quickly. “Help us to
beach the flattie, Charlie. We’ll bring this stuff up
to my place. We can talk it over there.”
TALK it over! It was two o’clock before I got to
bed, and the business had not been settled then —
not by a long chalk!
During the night I fancied I heard an engine
cough into life and gradually fade into distance, but
I was too sleepy to investigate. At daybreak I wished
I had done so, for the opium had disappeared. So
had Charlie and his motor-boat.
I scrawled a short note for Peter, got into my
Sunday togs, collected a bit of tucker, and in half an
hour I was chugging along towards Barrierville.
The sun was an hour old when I came abreast
of the wharf where we usually land. I saw no sign
of Charlie’s launch.
“He’s gone up the creek,” I muttered, and kept
going. In Malay-town smoke rose from chimneys,
and men were pottering about among boats or sitting
on haunches, yarning and smoking, waiting for their
breakfast. Farther up the creek the unemployed
camp seemed lifeless as the grave.
At Jimmy Sailor’s landing I found Charlie’s boat,
as I had expected. Jimmy was waiting for me.
“Seen anything of Charlie, Jimmy?”
“Yep,” he said. “What’s up, Bill?”
“Nothing, Jimmy. How long ago?”
“ ’Bout an hour. Dolled up, ain’t you? Getting
spliced?”
“Not on your life! Which way did he go?”
“Up the street. You won the Casket?”
“No such luck. Did he say where he was going?”
“Nix. You on the jury?”
“No. Tie up the boat for me, Jimmy—l’m in
a hurry.”
I hustled up the street and called at the corner
pub for a drink. “Yes, Charlie dropped in for a
beer,” said old McNamara. “He had a suitcase, asked
the time and when the Tableland train was due to
leave... When does it leave? Eight-twelve. Have
one on”
But I had glanced at the clock. It showed eight-
three, and I went out of the bar like a streak, sprinted
towards the nearest cab-rank and, tumbling into the
first taxi like a spent bullet, told the driver to go for
his life.
He did, and we arrived at the station with a
couple of minutes to spare. I bought a through ticket
(the line is a hundred miles long) and walked on to
the platform, where a good crowd was assembled to
see the train off. Keeping well behind the sightseers,
I sauntered the length of the train, caught a glimpse
of Charlie in a carriage about half-way, and entered
the last as the train began to move.
AT Stony Gully Charlie took a stroll on the plat-
form, evidently to stretch his legs, and then went
into the bar. The same happened at Dead Cat Creek.
But at Bareema he came out of the carriage carrying
his port, and left the station, as I had expected. The
Bareema district is a Chinese stronghold.
I followed, keeping well behind. He went into
the bar of the Scrubfallers’ Arms. I saw the hotel-
keeper produce pen and ink and a large book. Charlie
wrote in the book, had a drink and walked upstairs.
It was half-past one. The dining-room was on
the ground floor, doors open to the street, and dinner
was on. Presently Charlie entered and sat down at
a table.
Wait and see is a policy which, I have found,
gets results. I had waited and seen, and the rest was
absurdly simple.
I went into the bar and asked for a room. When
the register was brought I saw that the number of
Charlie’s room was sixteen. He had signed his name
as F. Brown. I told the publican that my name was
Charlie Thompson, but that as I was unable to write
I would sign with my mark. He filled in the name,
and behind it I printed a large double cross, thinking
this might interest Charlie when his time to make
inquiries came.
Upstairs I had no trouble to find room sixteen.
The door was shut, but not locked. I picked up the
suitcase, went downstairs and out through the back
way. Three minutes later I had engaged a taxi to
take me the five miles to Littleton, where I arrived
in good time to catch the afternoon yellow car bus
for Barrierville. I lobbed there at five-thirty, engaged
a room at Mrs. Brown’s, had tea, then hired a cab
to take me to Little Grisley-street—me and the suit-
case.
I FOUND Okay Reid smoking under the big mango
1 in his backyard. He is a little old man with a
pointed grey beard and bushy eyebrows—very respect-
able in appearance. People say that Okay had a
hectic youth; some even hint that at one time he
was associated with Bully Hayes in one or two
buccaneering ventures in the South Seas. I do not
know if that is true, but, judging from the tales I
have heard him relate, I should think it probable.
He is going slow in his old days, but it is said that
he has a finger in one or two dark pies yet, and his
knowledge of opium matters is certainly up to date.
My business with Okay over, I went to a picture-
show and then straight to bed. Next morning I
attended to a job or two, but at last I got away, and
about noon I nosed in over the shallow flat by Dugong
Island, glad to be back.
Old man Peter was on the jetty, on tiptoe with
excitement.
“Did you gill him, Pill?” he shouted while I was
still a long way off. “Did you der dirdy double-cross
schtone-dead gill?” t
I shut off the engine. “Catch the line, Peter.
We attended to the mooring business in silence—
I can do only one thing at a time efficiently.
When the boat was secured I said “No, Peter.
Why should I? I got the opium backhand I had
a nice trip to Bareema. They’ve had rain up there
and the country is looking fine.”
“To hell mit der gountry,” said Peter rudely.
“I dink you der von pig milgsob iss, Pill. Sharlie iss


der double-cross, oont I meinself—l gill him quick-
dime.”'
“Yes,” I replied wearily, “we’ve gone into that
before. What the devil is the use of violence? Kill
Charlie, and hang for it; Charlie kill me —I would
be dead both ways, wouldn’t I? The trouble with
you, Peter, is that you talk first and think afterwards.
Now shut up and let me tell you about the reward.”
“Zehntausendteufel! ” swore Peter. “You gif him
to der Gustom üb?”
“Hold your horses, now,” I soothed. “I’ve told
you before it pays to be on the square.”
I GAVE him an account of the trailing and the
* recovery of the opium in Bareema, which tale
restored him to complete good-humor.
Peter, as a matter of fact, does not care a fig for
money. He wants something to break the routine
of everyday life, something to talk about when we
lie stretched on the warm sand of the beach in the
starlight. He rocked with laughter when he learnt
of the double cross in the register of the Scrubfallers’
Arms, and spoke with almost affection of poor
Charlie’s feelings when he discovered how we had
turned the tables on him.
I related the story of my visit to Okay Reid and
the discovery made by that old-timer.
Blokes in the smuggling game expect quick and
big profits to offset the heavy risks they run. If they
can augment their profits by swindling their mates
they will not hesitate to do so. When Okay, who is
up to all the dodges in the game, opened a few of
the brass containers in order to get a line on the
quality of the opium he discovered two-thirds of the
contents to be sawdust. He estimated that there was
barely £3OO worth of opium in the parcel. As it must
be got rid of outside the “ring,” the expenses and
risks would be heavy.
“So you see,” I told Peter, “it paid to be on the
square.
“When I brought the opium to old Cranbury at
the Customs he undertook to see that I would get
a hundred pounds reward. I had to promise to keep
a lookout for more. Half the reward—and promise
—is yours. Satisfied?”
After a good deal of explanation and figuring
with a pencil Peter admitted grudgingly that honesty
had paid in this case. He reserved, however, the
right to judge any future cases on their merits.
At last I rose and knocked the dot out of my
pipe. “Let’s fish the traps,” I suggested. “The tide
is low enough. And as Charlie won’t be back for
two or three hours we’ll fish his for him. Forgive
and forget, Peter.”
We had a fair catch from all three traps, and I
brought the fish to Barrierville.
| MET Charlie in the street. He glowered at me
* dangerously, but said nothing. I handed him
money and explained: “We fished your trap in your
absence, Charlie. This is the proceeds, less expenses.”
“Expenses? What the hell d’you mean?”
“Well, there’s my cab-fare yesterday to the
station, train-fare to Bareema,
cab to Littleton, bus back to
Barrierville and cab again to
Okay Reid’s and the Customs
office.”
He clamped his jaws to-
gether and his powerful hands
twitched ominously. But I
knew Charlie had a sense of
humor and was a good loser,
also that the policeman outside
Flannagan’s pub would have a
steadying influence on him.
I was right. In a minute
Charlie broke into roaring
laughter, then clapped me on
the shoulder.
“You win, you son of a
sea-cook,” said Charlie. “Come
and have a drink.”
“Vat you vant?” he began aggressively.
A Character Sketch:—
OLD ENOCH'S BUGGY
By WILL LAWSON..
IT was one of the jokes of Hobart, that old buggy
of Enoch Spraggon, owner of the largest general-
produce business in Tasmania. “When old Enoch
drives round Hobart in office hours things
happen,” they said. He rarely did.
Every morning he drove to business in it, pulling
up at his office and saying to Harry, his office-boy,
“Drive Doctor round to the stables and take him out,
but leave the harness on. I might want the buggy
during the day.”
For years he had said that. Two years, to Harry’s
knowledge, Doctor had stood in his stall like a fire-
brigade horse, ready for the road. But old Enoch
never left the office till evening.
On the day when the Sydney boat was due with
a cargo of coal he would say to Harry as he handed
the turnout over to him “Is the Corinna in?”
“Yes, Mr. Spraggon.”
“Well, go down to the T.S.N. office and find out
when we have to send our wagons for the coal.”
The next morning the old man would ask “Is
all the coal out of her?... All right, trot round
and find out when they want us to send potatoes
down.”
Those visits to the shipping office and steamer
were the bane of young Harry’s existence. The
T.S.N. had a complete monopoly of the traffic between
Hobart and Sydney, and showed their independence
in unpleasant ways.
“Get out of here,” the freight clerk would say.
“Go down to the ship and find out for yourself.”
The mate of the Corinna was rougher still —one
of the old school whose mind ran on windjammer
lines and who swore and blasphemed freely.
“Here comes the freak!” he would jeer at
Harry’s stumpy figure. “What does he want to-day?
Look here, nipper, the other shippers don’t worry
us like this. Who sent you here?”
“Your freight clerk.”
“And who sent you to him?”
“Old Enoch.” Even Harry called him that.
“Well, you tell old Enoch to get into his old
buggy, drive it to the top of Mount Wellington and
push it over the edge. That’ll give him something to
do. Now get off this ship before I kick you off.”
Harry would retreat, look about him to see how
much the freighter was tidied up, and judge for him-
self when she would be ready to load potatoes.
HARRY never told old Enoch of these encounters
till one day the mate got right under his skin and
he saw red.
“You ugly little squirt! Get off my ship or I’ll
kick your pants!” the mate said, with lurid verbal
adornments to his simple words.
Harry’s wrath blazed up. He stooped and picked
up a lump of coal.
“You do and I’ll brain you with this! ” he shouted.
The mate rushed at him, and he ran back to the
office, where old Enoch was talking to the accountant
in the public room.
“I’ll never go back to the T.S.N.! ” Harry shouted.
“Never! ”
The staff stopped work, paralysed. Old Enoch
looked at Harry. “Come into my room,” he said.
When he was seated at his table he went on:
“Now tell me what they said.”
Harry told him.
“Now the exact words that mate used exact
words, now.”
Harry obeyed literally, shuddering at his own
temerity.
“Tut, tut!” the old man said. “Now, Harry, go
and bring the buggy round. I’ll go and see the T.S.N.
line.”
Leaving Harry to hold the reins, he dismounted
at the shipping office and went in. He came out with
a dry look about his lips.
“Take me to the wharf,” he told Harry.
At the wharf-head he left Harry in charge again
and walked to the Corinna. The mate saw him and
came to meet him.
“Your ship’s not ready yet, eh?” old Enoch said.
“Who said she wasn’t?”
“You told my lad —at least you drove him off
your decks and did not give him exact information
as to when you would load potatoes.”
“We’ll load spuds just when we’re ready, and not
before,” the mate said.
“I see. And in the meantime you’ll kick anyone
off your decks who makes inquiries.”
“You’ve got it right. And if you don’t lijce it
you know what to do. Perhaps you’ll teach the spuds
to swim across to Sydney.”
“That’s a good idea,” old Enoch said, looking
about him. “You don’t like my lad?” he asked
quietly.
“No, I don’t nor you either.”
“All right. I won’t send him down again. Good
morning.”
i < '"THAT mate is certainly a very rude man, Harry,”
* he said as he took the reins and drove off.
“We’ll make several calls now I’m out.”
His last call was at the post office. “Now you
can go. Put Doctor away and get your lunch; then
come to the office and get two weeks’ wages. You re
going to have a holiday.”
“But who’ll go to the T.S.N.?” Harry stammered,
aghast. “You’re not firing me, sir?”
■‘l thought you said you wouldn’t go there any
more?”
, “I didn’t mean it, sir.”
“Well, I do. You haven’t to go there any
more. Take a week’s holiday right away from the
ships. When you return they’ll be civil to you.”
Next day nobody went to the T.S.N. from old
Enoch’s office. Though the Corinna was ready for
o Continued on page 7.)


A Ghost Out-ghosted
NON-UNION GHOST
By HAMER
DRA WINGS BY ARIA.
SINCE the only spirits that appeal to my credulity
are sold in bottles, I did not believe in ghosts.
Neither did Blogson. I knew that his idea of
a haunted boarding-house had been one of those
freakish schemes characteristic of Blogson, like the
one that came to him when, going to a bottle-yard to
convert some empties into his fare to town, he caught
sight of a pile of peculiarly-shaped medicine bottles
which the bottle-yard man said gloomily were un-
saleable.
“By jingo!” cried Blogson, “a patent medicine
in those bottles would sell like hot cakes. I’m
going into the patent-medicine business.”
“But you have no money,” I told him as we
walked away, having arranged to take over the bottles.
“An idea is money,” he said.
He proved it. “Blogson’s Betterelth Banishes
Biliousness” was shortly a familiar slogan ; and for
a time Blogson lived in affluence upon his idea and
a start made with a borrowed tenner. The affluence
might have remained but for Blogson’s characteristic
failure to pay his debts and some difficulty in securing
fresh supplies of bottles, which were expensive to
make. Finally, a meeting of creditors was left with
a formula which was, I believe, a mere weak solutio'n
of gin and peppermint, and Blogson’s Betterelth was
forgotten.
In a similar fashion the idea of the haunted
boarding-house had come when, looking for a new
home, Blogson discovered Grantham Hall. It was
one of those old houses which win a reputation for
being haunted by remaining empty. The agents were
prepared to discuss almost any sort of terms to secure
a tenant who might break the evil reputation.
J T was a depressing place, but it filled Blogson with
1 a bubbling enthusiasm, making him forget that he
was stony broke and that the cause of his house-
hunting was the determination of an unpaid landlord
to get rid of him and his family.
“If a place is haunted,” Blogson burbled, “people
by themselves will shun it; but give them a chance to
go there in comfortable social surroundings and
they’ll rush it with ears back. The whole world is
looking for new excitements, and I’m going to give
it one.”
What followed was an amazing example of the
Blogson methods. When he suggested that I should
go with him to the agents, curiosity prompted me to
accompany him ; and he mesmerised me into the loan
of a pound for a formal deposit.
“I came out in my old clothes” —that explained
his shabbiness adequately—“and left my cheque-book
at home. Herb, old chap, lend me a quid until I
cash a cheque,” he said.
That was Blogson at his best. Frenzied finance
followed. Blogson dug an old, useless cheque-book
out of his old papers and rushed round selecting
furniture and distributing cheques as deposits for it,
gas, new clothes and other necessary things. Then
he went to Solomon, who had done fairly well out of
Betterelth (probably five or six hundred per cent, well),
and succeeded in getting some real money to go into
the bank to meet the cheques.
I was wondering how soon Blogson would get
into gaol when the article on “The Ghost in the
Boarding-house,” published in the “Evening Alarm,”
showed me that his harebrained scheme was develop-
ing. It was followed by others; the “Alarm,” in a
slack time, had seized upon a haunted boarding-house
as good news for daily splurging. It spoke of “mani-
festations” and of a crush of people filling every room
in the house, with a long waiting-list of intending
guests willing to pay all sorts of prices to stay at a
haunted guest-house. Parties of members of the
Psychic Society took it in turns to stay there, and
expressed their views—very impressive views—to the
papers.
I had a more substantial indication of Blogson’s
success when Blogson sent me a cheque for a fiver.
I hardly believed the cheque until it was cashed. It
salved the resentment I had felt for the way Blogson
had practically forced me to part up a quid I had
never expected to see again ; and shortly I accepted
his invitation to go out to see him.
IN spite of the papers, I had hardly
* expected the prosperity I saw in the
place. Whilst trimming the previously
overgrown garden at Grantham Blogson
had managed to preserve its eeriness.
Blogson, faultlessly arrayed in a dinner-suit,
roared an exuberant welcome, although engaged on
the ’phone, on which he was telling some inquirer
that there was no chance of booking accommodation
for another six weeks.
“We’re the rage, old man,” he said as he hung
up the receiver. “People put off getting married until
they can arrange dates here for the honeymoon.
We’ve had to send the kids to boarding-school because
our space here is so valuable—naturally, people don’t
expect to get ghosts thrown in at ordinary rates.”
“I’m curious about how you work those ghosts,”
I said.
“Work ’em?” he cried. “I don’t work ’em, my
boy. I’m always afraid of a strike, as a matter of
fact.”
Although he laughed, it struck me that there was
something uneasy in his manner. He rose from his
desk, leading me towards the door of his office.
“I’m sorry, but we’re so crowded that I’ll have
to fix you up in a sort of box-room. But you’ll be
comfortable.”
“Oh, I say, I’m not going to stay. I”
“You’ve got to stay—for one night at least,” he
said. “Let me introduce you. This is Major Dingle—
Mr. Hamer; Miss Durack also. Excuse me —-
there’s that ’phone again!”
“You know,” said Major Dingle, a tall man with
rather protuberant eyes and a strained, austere face,
“this isn’t right, Mr. Hamer.”
“Isn’t right?”
“That’s my opinion. It isn’t right to expose
spiritual beings to vulgar curiosity. I take it, sir—you
look an intelligent person—that you came here as a
genuine inquirer. A place like this should be run
with discretion mere vulgar sensation-mongers
should be excluded. And that is all most of the
people here are. It is an insult —an unwarrantable
outrage—on the Beings who manifest themselves in
this house.”
“There are ghosts here, then?”
“Ghosts?” His eyebrows lifted superciliously.
“If you like to call it that, there is at least one.”
“There is no doubt about that,” said Miss Durack
decisively.
“I have seen him,” said the Major impressively.
“I have spoken to him. I may say he is deeply hurt.”
Before I could inquire further Blogson claimed
me.
“I’ll show you your room, and then have to
leave you. The dinner-gong’s just about to go—come
straight to my table. I’ll keep a place for you.”
“About these ghosts”
“Oh, a little ghost goes a long way,” he said
breezily. “If people come to see ghosts they will
see them. I’m afraid we won’t have much time to-
gether to-night—l’m kept going pretty well—but I’ll
bring a bottle of whisky along and we’ll have a yarn
after you’ve gone to bed.”
| HAD to admit he managed his ghosts well. For
* instance, it was not until dinner was practically over
that the mournful, long-drawn howling of a dog
sounded somewhere outside, eerily close. It brought
a startled clatter of cutlery and an awed silence. I
was startled myself.
Blogson jumped up.
“No need to be alarmed, ladies and gentlemen,”
he cried. “Those who have been here any length
of time have grown used to it; that dog gives us a
howl every night or so.”
“Excuse me,” said Major Dingle from a far table,
speaking authoritatively, as one with knowledge;
“that is the cry of a werewolf. It is no use,” he added
to several men who had moved towards the door, “to
try to discover where it comes from. I have tried
myself, six times, with others —Mr. Daley and Mr.
Johns there; there is never anything to be seen.”
I looked at Blogson, expecting a sly grin, but he
kept a solemn face. I should have liked to hear the
authoritative description of the habits and usefulness
of the werewolf which I observed the Major giving to
his neighbors. Men like the Major must have been
invaluable to Blogson.
There was another diversion —a sudden terrified
scream and one of the women who had left the
room came rushing back sobbingly to throw herself
into the arms of a young man who had been the first
to leap towards the door.
“A hand touched me —out of the blank wall!”
sobbed the girl.
“This is what young married couples like,” whis-
pered Blogson. “The girl likes the excuse for throw-
ing herself publicly into the arms of her hero, and
he likes being the hero.”
We joined the solemn but excited procession that
patrolled the corridors, examining the wall where the
girl said the hand had touched her. Of course we
found nothing.
I reflected that it was pretty easy to make people
feel phantoms in the air. Even the dining-room of
a place where everybody was expecting ghosts had
not been the most cheerful spot in the world ; an
atmosphere of rapt expectancy conveyed even to the
unbelieving a feeling of discomfort. The chatter at the
tables was full of weird mystery. The psychic
researchers revelled in recounting stories of adven-
tures with spirits garnered from all the world, and
their habit of whispering was disconcerting.
The atmosphere accentuated itself; although an
impromptu concert started in the music-room and in
the smoking-room the card-tables were out, people
still exchanged their ghosts. Girls shrieked in corri-
dors and came back with stories of mystic tappings.
O VERYBODY seemed to enjoy these sensations
*—' immensely; but when, having retired to my
comfortable-enough stretcher in my boxlike room,
I had been twice aroused by further outcries, with
subsequent excited gatherings in the corridors to
investigate some new manifestations, it seemed plain
to me that the guests were allowing their imaginations
to run riot. But, waking from a doze into which I
had fallen, I myself saw something that sent me out
of the room like a shot. I collided with Blogson,
clad in trousers and shirt, and nearly upset the
promised whisky-bottle.
“Good God, man, you’re trembling!” he cried.
My teeth chattered as I tried to talk.
“I was just coming along to talk to you,” he said.
“I should have told you about it. But he’s quite
harmless : come back with me and see.”
He was so calm that my shock passed. It only
returned in part, too, when, entering my room with
him, I saw that dim, semi-luminous shadow, the
vague figure of a man, sitting on nothing apparent,
with his head buried in his hands.
“Hullo, old chap,” said Blogson breezily; “you
startled my friend. Not your fault, of course ; he
doesn’t know you as I do, and he wasn’t prepared
to meet you.”
The shadow groaned hollowly.
“It’s cruel —cruel!” it moaned. “The old home
a boarding-house— not a single room left that I can
haunt in peace! I used to have the whole house to
myself, and now even this room is gone!”
“Only for to-night, old chap,” said Blogson
soothingly. “It’s hard on you, I know, but this is a
very old friend of mine and I had to ask him to stay
to-night.”
“Place full of music and noise, too! It’s cruel-
cruel ! ”
The dread had vanished now; I regarded the
shadow with mere curiosity and some feeling of pity.
He looked pitiful. But a tap at the door startled me
again. My nerves were getting jumpy.
Blogson sprang to the door ; he seemed to gesture
the man who stood there into the room, then closed
the door again. I recognised the handyman of the
establishment.
“Well, Jones?” demanded Blogson.
“So there he is, the blighter!” said Jones, with
a jaundiced look at the shadow. “Still blacklegging,
are you?”
The shadow merely groaned again, and Blogson
turned to me.
“You see, Herb,” he said, “I naturally didn't be-
lieve in ghosts when I came, but I was determined to
have one. So I engaged Jones here —gave him an
extra ten bob a week to slip round in a white night-
dress, tapping at doors and scratching walls and
getting into the garret and rolling things about —all
that sort of thing.”
“It was me that thought of the ’owling dawg an
of gettin’ on the roof an’ tapping on the windows
with sinkers on the end of fishing-lines,” said Jones
gloomily. “An’ where’s yer gratitood?”
“At that time,” explained Blogson worriedly, “I
hadn’t met our friend here. He’s a quiet chap ; keeps
to himself, as it were. I didn’t know he was in the
house, and I used to laugh when people declared they
had seen him.”
“ ’E’s got no idea of being an hartistic ghost. I
can scare people worth two of ! im,” said Jones scorn-
fully. „
“In lots of ways you’re certainly a better ghost,
admitted Blogson.


loading, none arrived alongside, much to the mate’s
annoyance.
“Old Enoch’s sulking,” he told the wharf-
manager. “I gave him what-oh yesterday.”
“You’ll say too much one of these days,” the
wharf-manager told him as he went ashore on his
way for his midday beer. “I expect they’ll all send
their spuds down here together so as to give us more
work.”
“We’ll show ’em,” the mate said. “Spuds can’t
swim.”
After lunch still no cargo had come except a
few odd lines from farmers consigned by rail and
boat direct to Sydney. They rang Enoch’s office
the rattling old telephone.
“Where’s your freight?” the wharf-manager
roared. The clerk put him through to old Enoch.
“What freight?” the old man asked.
“Potatoes, of course —the usual.”
“We haven’t any. There’s a blight on.”
He hung up the receiver grinning. The wharf-
manager swore, and rang the other shippers one
after the other, getting more and more worried at
their replies. “We’ve got no freight. There’s a blight
on.”
“It must be right,” he told the general manager.
“They all say the same about the blight.”
“All right. We can’t keep the ship waiting here.
There’s coal to be brought from Newcastle. Get her
away.”
'“THE Corinna went out empty, with a mate who
* chewed his lip and had a far-away look in his
red, angry eyes.
“Anyway, they have to ship with us,” he com-
forted himself.
Followed four placid days on the Hobart water-
front, where the schooners and scows and small
steamers made a pretty picture. All men discussed the
departure of the Corinna, empty, and the sudden out-
break of potato blight. “It’ll kill this port,” an old
salt said. “Once we had whale-oil and timber to ship
away. Now we live like a lot of farmers on carryin’
spuds.”
On the fifth day a strange steamer, large and
deep-laden, loomed in the Derwent and sidled in to
the wharf.
About the same time the T.S.N. manager got a
wire from Newcastle, sent by the skipper of the
Corinna: “No coal shipments for us. Contracts can-
celled. Burrumbeet took it all.”
The manager ran to the wharf, where the wharf-
manager was running his fingers through his hair and
staring at the big boat, which moved like an ante-
diluvian monster among the small fry.
“What have you come here for?” he yelled to
the mate as the manager arrived.
“Spuds!” came the laconic reply.
“Who sent you?”
“Ask old Enoch and his cobbers. We’re char-
tered by them. The Elingamite’s coming next week,
and the Wendouree after that. We’re giving a dinner
on board to-morrow to show-off the electric light.
Better come and have a feed before you go on the
beach.”
Just then old Enoch came on the wharf, young
Harry with him.
“You’ll find everything all right on the wharves
now,” the old man said. “No more obscene mates,
eh? Remember, my boy, never get excited. That
mate was a very rude man.”
The manager of the T.S.N. had gone pale. “I
knew it. When they told me old Enoch was about in
his buggy 1 knew there’d be trouble.”
“Oh, don’t say that!” moaned the shadow.
“Still, he’s a real ghost,” said Blogson. “It’s a
pity he won moan in public like he did just now,
but he s real.’
You didn t play the game with me,” said Jones.
week ** money_in facl> a <|uid a
wcck cAii tx jiuw.
“Money ain’t everythink. There’s perfessional
nrirlp ” said Tones hitterlv “An’ ouc KiniY.
pride, said Jones bitterly. An this bloke, e works
tor nothing. Es only an amachewer—a bloomin’
hlartleal”
The shadow rose wringing Its hinds “r»h r
5 ine snaa °w rose, wringing its hands. Oh, I
can’t stand this—l can’t, I can’t!” he moaned. “No
peace-no place to haunt quietly; bound to intrude
upon people to prevent the work being done by an
imnnstnrl T am mhhpd i r * i
some Quieter olace to haunt T must <mi’ ,mUS
“Pm w ith vou there ” said To h n “T’
Im with you there said Jones heartily. Im
going. There s heaps of boarding-houses now’d be
plad of a good nerfesdonai
me foller vou in ’ere Mr" Blogson T wanted ter tell
t u • ’ ’ °f, son ; . * wanted ter tell
you I put the business up to Sandrmg’am ’Ouse ter-
night, an’ I took their offer. You ain’t goin’ to be
the only one to run an ’aunted boarding-’ouse, Mr.
Blogson.”
“Look here, Jones”
“I’ve said me larst word,” said Jones, with a
stride to the door, ’i’m done. As you prefer your
bloomin’ amachewer, blacklegging ghosts, you can
keep them I ”
Blogson tried to stop him, but the door closed
between them
oeiween mem.
“Well, you’ll have it all to yourself now,” he said,
smiling ingratiatingly at the shadow. “I expect your
co-operation. 11 1 don t get it 111 have to employ
someone else to do the work that Jones has been
d° in B-”
The vague figure of a man, sitting on nothing apparent, with his head buried in his hands.
But the shadow had vanished too. Only a groan
came from mid-air. “There were jazz parties last
week! The place is too noisy! ” said the grieved voice,
growing fainter.
“He’s gone to sulk in the old coal-cellar. That’s
the sort of thing he does,” said Blogson resentfully.
“As a ghost he’s not a patch on Jones. If I don’t
come to an understanding with him I’ll have to get
someone else.”
[ FELT sorry for Blogson, a sort of feeling that I
1 had made trouble between him and his ghost by
occupying that box-room, and I followed subsequent
events with interest.
Sandringham House became, in its advertise-
ments, a ghost-ridden boarding-house also. Then
there were others. Some of the stories told about
them were ingenious. Blisset House, for instance, was
quite new, and there was no ancient reason why it
should be haunted ; but the tale was told that while
it was being erected a scaffolding had fallen, killing
a woman who had come with her husband’s lunch
and the child who was with her.
Shortly, however, there was such a glut of
haunted boarding-houses that the papers lost interest
in such stories.
The glut puzzled me until I saw a very worried
Blogson again. It appeared that he was having a
fight with a union.
“You see, there is something queer about Grant-
ham,” he said, “and the union objects to it.”
It appeared that Blogson had hired another man
to carry on Jones’s work; but Jones, who had de-
veloped a spirit of animosity, had got at the newcomer.
He had gone over to Blisset House. His successor had
passed to The Grange, after Blogson had taught him
his work. Blogson could not keep a handyman more
than a week or so.
A “ Mystic Branch ” of the Miscellaneous
Workers’ Union was formed. Its main plank was
preference to unionists; and that was Blogson’s
trouble. A real ghost could not be expected to join
a union, even if Blogson was ready to pay its fees.
The union’s strongest principle—in this the spirit of
Jones, its president, could be seen —was an objection
to “amachewers.” Men who went to Grantham were
called out on principle, and under the -threat that they
would be barred from future employment, and jobs
were found for them elsewhere. And so the haunted
boarding-houses grew.
"THERE is only a limited number of people, after
1 all, who like haunted boarding-houses, and what
had been a goldmine idea began to peter out. But I
think it was less a realisation of that than the desire
to hit a shrewd blow at the union which had harassed
him that caused Blogson to insert the advertisement
that I saw one morning in the paper.
Its heading was:' —
GRANTHAM HALL.
NO BAD DRAINS: NO GHOSTS.
It was a shrewd move at a time when every
boarding-house was boasting its spare ghost. It
revived newspaper interest; and Blogson was enabled
to explain how he had laid the ghosts of Grantham
Hall by effecting necessary repairs to defects that had
been responsible for queer noises. That annoyed the
Psychic Society, especially Major Dingle; and
Grantham got a lot of new publicity.
But, as far as I can make out, the Grantham
ghost which had refused to give Blogson any real
help was annoyed at being associated with bad drains
and spots where repairs were needed. It came to
life again, and stories revived about people who had
not gone to Grantham to have ghostly experiences
being disturbed at night. Anyway, it seemed that
people who liked the thrills of far-off dog-howls and
mysterious tappings objected to a shadow which sat
on the end of the bed and moaned a hard-luck story.
While a few of the boarding-houses whose ghosts
were definitely bogus still did some business Grantham
languished, being distrusted by people who didn’t like
ghosts and no longer valued by those who did. The
Psychic Society, as a matter of fact, had boycotted it.
All this seemed to bear out the union’s contention
and Blogson’s bitter comment that the amateur ghost
wasn’t a patch on the professional.
Grantham had only a couple of boarders when
last I paid Blogson a visit there. Blogson might have
held on and come back had it not been for his charac-
teristic failure, during the times of prosperity, to meet
the rent and the furniture instalments regularly. The
creditors kicked at last, and Grantham went.
'"THE last time I met Blogson he was in the company
1 of a man he introduced as the president of the
Psychical Frauds Suppression Society. He was also,
it appeared, the president of the Boarding-house Pro-
prietors’ Association.
“We are out to suppress unethical practices in
the control of guest-houses,” he told me. “This idea
of advertising ghosts, for instance. We have found
Mr. Blogson—who, I may say, put up to us the idea
of the P.F.S.S. —invaluable as an investigator of ghost
frauds.”
Blogson always found k way out. He is a man
of ideas. He passed me a whisper: “I’ve exposed
that cow Jones five times ; and I’m after him again.”


11l
.
m
m
88
dmd£s
Clxn-nq,
Dear Sirs,
I am sending you a photograph
of our baby son Graham, age 7
months. He has been fed on
Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
since he was three months old, and
people remark what a big, healthy
baby he is—thanks to Arnott’s
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits.
I am, yours faithfully,
Mrs. E. BARBER,
166 Illawarra Road,
Marrickville.
mm
mm
m
Mi
I
1
llill
WMm
■
tm
m
m
yi
•as ffl
Always ask your
grocer for
Amott’s they
are better than
ever.


generally a greater reliance on the imagination and
co-operation of the reader.
The English and American sections naturally
challenge comparison with each other, and perhaps
it is true that the American stories are in general
more informal and experimental than the English and
more cosmopolitan in tone. Despite a number of
sudden deaths and graveside studies the collection has
good entertainment value. We have come a long way
from the story with a moral.
Australian Writers: McCrae.
Hugh McCrae was born at Hawthorn, Victoria,
October 4, 1876. His father was George Gordon
McCrae, described in the Australian Who’s Who as
the father, also, “of Australian poetry.” Hugh was
articled to an architect, but soon abandoned the
rule and compass to contribute drawings and serious
verse to The Bulletin.” He studied art, acted on
Australian and New York stages, became dramatic
critic and literary editor, contributed his quaint pen-
and-ink drawings and whimsical prose to several
journals, and has steadily built up a varied structure
of poetry, much of which has had fugitive publication
and most of which has been issued in books that are
either unobtainable or abominably expensive. The
most imaginative of Australian poets, and by turn
one of the most robust and most delicate, he is in
appearance a neatly-attired, fine-looking, broad and
limber six feet, in person the pattern of courtesy.
In the expensive London-published collected
edition of his poetry (1928) Australia is flatteringly
held to be a vital force in his work ; an ingenious
case is made out supporting a contention that he is
“essentially an Australian poet.” Australia is, or will
be, supremely pleased with Hugh McCrae, but not for
that reason. Two things count in his literary life.
One is the genius vested individually in him; the
other is a literary heritage from his father, firing and
sustaining his imagination, feeding its growth in the
first place, shaping its direction since, and never for
an instant out of his pen. In his most recently pub-
lished book, My Father and My Father’s Friends,
he groups George Gordon McCrae among “those
Australian writers who, during pioneer days, had a
care for literature; and, as an ark, preserved its
traditions to posterity.” The whole spirit of the book
is his sense of indebtedness for that heritage.
We can flatter ourselves, if we like, that the sun-
light sparkling in his work is peculiarly Australian
sunlight, or, overlooking, as criticism these days tends
to do, the intensely individualistic nature of genius,
we can fancy that the tremendous vitality with
which he has brought English language and ancient
mythology to quick life in his work is a peculiarly
Australian vitality. But despite a gum-tree standing in
a poem, a coo-ee sounding in another, his “Australian
Spring,” the sparkle of sunlight and other things that
an expedition might discover, Hugh McCrae is most
significantly not “essentially an Australian poet.” He
is a poet. The vitality that is in his earlier work is
the vitality that was in Hugh McCrae.
In his first book ( Satyrs and Sunlight; 1909)
there is a vigor of passionate feeling, a tremendous
gusto for life, with a vocabulary to suit. Its figures
of mythology, of romance and history, are not merely
conjured up; they are awakened, revitalised. The
dominant spirit of that early book is life at its most
lusty and vigorous:
I saw him stoop,
One long, lean arm set taut upon his bow,
The other crook’d, and in his finger’s loop
The straining cord where crouched the shaft of woe.
Full in my way he knelt, till I could mark
The white breath steam between his angry lips,
And at the arrow-butt the burning spark
His eyeball made; the skin across his hips
(Of some gaunt tigress strangled in her den),
The deep, thick chest, the falling flanks and thighs
Striped by the moonlit shadows of the glen
O warm ripe woman-fruit, your blossom-breath
Burns like the juice of summer on my 1ip....
That was up to 1909. Hugh McCrae’s next book
was published in 1920, and the change is extra-
ordinarily conclusive. He had moved, with his years,
from that passionate fire of youth to a place of almost
complete fancy. Now and again there is a flash of the
fire, just as, in the early book, there is, now and again,
a mood that gives only a picture ; but Hugh McCrae
has moved into an unfleshly, artificial, though
exquisite place.
Hugh McCrae’s work is particularly notable,
among other of its qualities, for its wide and vital
culture. That is its significance in, and to, Australia.
It demonstrates with unshakable evidence that the
alleged material hostility of this allegedly inimical
environment is not necessarily overwhelming. It
affirms that a defeatist submission to this environment
is a weak retreat from a mere difficulty, not bafflement
at an insuperable obstacle.
HIS POETRY.
Hugh McCrae’s most apparent weakness is an
inability to finish ; in mental shape many of his poems
taper downwards. That this is by no means general
can be seen from the few poems here selected. These
do not represent one important feature of his early
work, the ballads, nor do they convey the charm
of such things as “The Bairnie and the Birdie,”
nor yet —at least, not adequately—his robust, vigorous
vocabulary. Such representation must be left to the
publisher wise enough to make one of the finest and
most readable Australian poets generally available in
an inexpensive collected edition. He is singularly
without obscurity or difficulty of any kind ; his most
dramatic poetry, equally with his most fey and whim-
sical, retains extraordinary clarity of expression.
From the earlier poetry:
SONG OF THE WITLESS BOY.
Below my pretty love I lie . . .
She, nakedly, upon the sky,
White like a swan,
With blue eyes open to the air
Floats in the cradle of her hair;
Hey nonny non!
Death hath no fear for me,
Life hath no care for me,
Merry and glad;
Who would change place with me,
Laugh and gain grace with the
Sky-witch’s lad?
The old ewe runs among the thorns,
The young ram itches in the horns,
Winter is gone;
The mumping priests go down the way
Where Meg and Katie stook the hay,
Hey nonny non!
So let’s sing cheerily,
Dance, and be verily
Merry and glad . .
HUGH McCRAE.
Who would change place with me,
Laugh and gain grace with the
Sky-witch’s lad?
My darling on a cloudy steed
Rode in December, and, indeed,
Her glances shone
Yellow like lightning up above,
But never hotter than my love;
Hey nonny non!
Spring has come back again,
Nothing to lack or gain—
Still we are glad;
Who would change place with me,
Laugh and gain grace with the
Sky-witch’s lad?
O you who throw your tenderest trust
Upon a maiden got from dust,
Go sigh, grow wan . . .
And learn, though late, no woman yet
Of earthy stamp was worth a fret,
Hey nonny non!
(Betsy and Josephine,
Poll, Doll, and Eveline).
Folly run mad!...
I would not change with ye,
Drop ’em, and range with the
Sky-witch’s lad.
THE BRIDESGROOM.
O Death, who hast all women for thy prize,
From that primeval spring when Eve, possesst,
Drew by the splendor of her quickened eyes
Man Adam, laughing, to her fallow breast.. .
Helen, for whom proud gonfalons ablaze
Did black the bastions of the Trojan wall,
Feels the hot breath thine eagerness betrays
Strike, like Sirocco, through her marriage-pall.
And royal Egypt (that effulgent star
Of Antony, audacious Mars’ delight,
Falling to Venus from his battle-car)
Flames in thine arms across the desert night.
Thisbe thou hast: and Cressid droops her head
About thy withered neck, her long, wan lips
Curling upon thy mouth . . . as petals spread
From some once-queenly rose the winter strips.
And, lest thy joy grow jaded in a while,
Uriah’s wife invites thee to the proof,
Fain as of old, when David’s bearded smile
Shot fire upon her from his summer roof.
Here lies Lucrece, her love-locks dimmed with dust,
The colors of her body spoiled by thee:
That even Tarquin, shaking in his lust,
Would quench his eyes that he might never see.
Sheba and Esther, caverned in thy bed,
Are brides ... to keep the silent dark at bay;
And One . . . whose pillow is the Baptist’s head,
Dreams she is dancing while the cymbals play.
These slot-mouthed women, with big, bangled arms,
Once fought like dogs the Vikings on their decks,
Feeling the plaited wounds beneath their palms
Break midway open, and the frothy flecks
Of sweat jerk downward, as the salt-white shields
Stank in the morning sun . . . Yea, these with thee
Are little cage-birds for thy bitter fields
The maelstrom hurtles from the Baltic Sea.
O Husband Death, all these are thine by law:
Yet may Delilah, wantoning thy hair,
Bring down thy strength by magic unto straw;
For then my soul need never know despair . . ,
But I can see the shadow of thy face
Grow grey on her, as, leaning from the pit,
Thy loamy lips beslaver out the trace
Of any love that I therein had writ.
NEVER AGAIN.
She looked on me with sadder eyes than Death,
And, moving through the large, autumnal trees,
Failed like a phantom on the bitter breath
Of midnight; and the unillumined seas
Roared in the darkness out of centuries.
Never on earth, or in the holy sky,
Beyond the limits of the secret ring
God walls about His kingdom jealously,
Has ever been a fairer, sweeter thing
Than she: more fair than all imagining.
Never again! though I should waste the hours
To search the galleries of angels thro’,
Or, in the exhalation of the flowers,
Gaze for her spirit, tremulous as dew,
To reascend the unfathomable blue.
I seek her in the labyrinthine maze
Of stars unravelling their golden chain,
And, from my cavern, mark the lightning blaze
A pathway for her down the singing rain.
In vain, in vain: she cannot come again.
The later poetry: —
COLOMBINE.
Exit the ribald clown —
Enter like bubbling wine,
Lighter than thistledown,
Sweet little Colombine.
Whisht! and behold the game,
Long eyes and pointed chin;
Paler than candle-flame.
At her feet Harlequin.
Look how their shadows run,
Swift as she flies from him!
Moths in the morning sun,
Out of a garden dim.
Faint through the fluttering
Fall of a flute divine,
Softly the ’cellos sing:
“Colombine, Colombine.”
Softly the ’cellos sing:
“Colombine” . . .
“Colombine” . . .
IT.
It is in the eye
Of the buttercup,
It is in the nose
Of Stephanogup.
It is here, and there;
It is in the fourth
Most masculine hair
Curled up to the North
Of the Duke’s own beard ..,
It is in the fish
That the Wolf-girl speared
For the Giant’s dish.
It is in the pack
Volodomir placed
On his stallion’s back ...
It is in the chaste
Brown breast of his wife.
It sleeps on her breath ...
It dances with life
Yet is faithful to death.
PROSE. •
Had Hugh McCrae given his literary life to prose
he would doubtless have stood now as clearly estab-
lished as a prose writer as he is as a poet. The
following examples give only one aspect of his prose
—the nonsense whimsicality. Laughter is never out
of his prose, but it can also, as in My Father and
My Father’s Friends, do a serious job supremely well.
From The Du Poissey Anecdotes :
Speaking of children, “Sir, if I had any I would
have their portraits painted at six years of age, and then
send them (the children) to their Uncle Fackens in
Jamaica.”
On being asked the reason for his doing this, he
replied: “Consider... If they were well-looking, I
could never have the displeasure of seeing them grow
gawky nor note the gradual decay of their pristine fresh-
ness. On the other hand, should they be ugly, by a
single glance at their picture I might assure myself well
rid of them.”
“But supposing their Uncle Fackens as opposed to
his share in the business?”
“Sir, there is no such person. Their Uncle Fackens
does not exist.”
“I, at least, have a desire to go to the devil whole,
not only for my own comfort, but for the dignity of
my appearance after death.”
“Sir,” said he, “when we are in heaven ’twill be
mighty strange to sit and listen to the larks carolling
wider our feet. . . Sir, I find it difficult to believe.”
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Hugh McCrae’s principal published works are:
Poetry. — Satyrs and Sunlight (privately printed,
1909; cheaper edition, by Lothian, Melb., with addi-
tional poems, 1911); Colombine (Art in Australia, 1920;
cheaper edition by Angus and Robertson, 1920);
Idyllia (privately printed, 1923); collected edition with
the title Satyrs and Sunlight (Fanfrolico Press,
London, 1928).
Prose. — The Du Poissey Anecdotes (Art in Australia,
1922) t My Father and My Father’s Friends (Angus and
Robertson, 1935).
Also edited Georgiana’s Journal, a journal kept by
his grandmother (published by Angus and Robertson,
1934), and has recently finished Georgiana in London.
A fantasy, “The Ship of Heaven,” with music by
Alfred Hill, was produced by Doris Fitton for the
Independent Theatre in Sydney, 1933.
The special editions of the books of verse were all
superbly illustrated by Norman Lindsay.


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
m
m
mmm
Z-K
■
m
mm
u
m
m
mm
*
:
m
m
»I|l
m
m
|:
<• ..-' '
■
B
iH
2y
ma
■
1
ii
■
as
«
■i
>
m
mm
Hi
K
ii
X
a*
it
m
m
<^jgf
I
a ; .;,y
HU
M
fe,
V
'V -
&
m
r-;
:
m
m
zm
Wine-filled Casks awaiting Storage in one of the Vast Cellars Available.
ffolt lime cfWie me/ioumeJSmullcuq/uei


The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2973.
February 3, 1937.
ANOTHER INTERRUPTION.
“The Red conquest of the capitalist world has been arrested again by the ‘trial’ of Radek, Piatakoff, Sokolnikoff and 14 other Old Bolshevists at Moscow.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
"THIS WALL OF CONTROL"
Australians cannot without rank ingratitude be
accused of lacking consideration for land men. They
have gone heavily into debt to put scores of thou-
sands of settlers on farms, and dipped deeply into
their purses to maintain them there.
The community has shouldered the burden of
loans for repurchase of land, “developmental” rail-
ways, irrigation works, clearing, fencing, dams and
general improvements; has found in necessitous cases
stores, seed, super., sacks, wagons and implements ;
remitted interest, taxes, water and freight charges and
local rates, and paid bounties on wheat (“acreage” and
“bushelage”), canned fruit, apples, pears, prunes and
oranges, even the worthless mandarin variety. To pay
the wheat bounties it cheerfully submitted to a flour
tax, there being no organised protest even from poor
devils on the dole, to whom every crust was a con-
sideration. In a like spirit it accepted the devaluation
of the Australian pound, largely because it seemed
necessary to help land men to get better export prices.
It even agreed that land men have a right to look
to the Commonwealth to relieve them of part of
their debts by raising specific loans —£12,000,000 is
the present limit.
Nobody has ever reckoned up the cost of all this
paternalism. Perhaps it is beyond precise computa-
tion, for seven Governments and a multitude of State
banks and boards and commissions have been at it
ever since the war, and the accounts may be inextric-
ably confused ; but it must certainly constitute a large
part of the national debt, which had reached
£1,255,000,000 at June 30. Just as certainly this multi-
tude of obligations has been cheerfully borne. But
it is now proposed that the Commonwealth Consti-
tution should be mutilated in order that produce
raised in more than one State may be “controlled”
and sold dear to Australians if it has to be sold cheap
to foreigners. It is asserted that all the parties are urging
this course on the electors, though there is obviously
a great division of opinion in one. In any case, these
parties will learn next month that the patience of
the people has its limits.
For 60 years and more Australians were separated
into half a dozen insignificant colonies, whose rela-
tions were rarely cordial, and were sometimes un-
friendly to the point of danger. Enlightened and
patriotic men induced them to accept a form of union
which, having not long before emerged unscathed
from a great civil war in North America, then had
a great reputation, and still works, though it has
exhibited weaknesses in national emergencies.
The thing that appealed most to the people when
they voted on the draft Constitution was the promise
of inter-State freetrade. It was embodied in Section
92 —'“On the imposition of uniform duties of customs,
trade, commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navi-
gation, shall be absolutely free.” Because the provin-
cial spirit still exists, and because petty politicians
have been allowed to wield excessive powers, this
grand conception has never been fully realised ; but
in James v. the Commonwealth the Judicial Com-
mittee of the Privy Council laid it down that, if the
blessing has been withheld, the right has not vanished.
In other words, Section 92 is no empty formula
but a living thing, opening the way to a region in
which Australians may go about their occasions and
businesses free from the tyranny of politicians and
jacks-in-office.
Now the fluent Mr. Menzies, who was worsted
in the Privy Council case, advises the people to
shut themselves out of this region by voting for his
proposed “amendment”:
92a. The provisions of the last preceding section
shall not apply to laws with respect to marketing made
by or under the authority of the Parliament in the
exercise of any powers vested in the Parliament by this
Constitution.
What does the Government mean by “market-
ing”? It doesn’t say—“the High Court will interpret
that,” Mr. Menzies “explains.” So the people are
asked to make a huge grant of power which will do
away with inter-State freetrade without knowing
precisely how much they will be giving. And who is
to exercise this undefined power? The provincial
Parliaments, in the first place; then the bodies to
which it may be delegated: the ignoble part assigned
to the Commonwealth Parliament is mere ratification.
Listen to Mr. Menzies:--
Any arrangement set up, whether in the form of a
- pooling or a marketing scheme, would need to be by
means of a sub-structure of State legislation and a
copingstone of Commonwealth legislation... .The bricks
in this wall of control are the State laws and the cement
is the Commonwealth law.
And suppose, for example, a committee issuing
edicts from behind “this wall of control” sells butter in
London at the equivalent of ninepence a pound Aus-
tralian and fixes the “home-consumption” price at
Is. 9d. Melbourne or Sydney, what safeguard is
proposed for the consumer? None.
The Bulletin will support the transfer to the
Commonwealth of full aviation powers, for, allowing
that Federal performances in this field have been
anything but inspiring, it is absurd and dangerous that
there should be any measure of provincial control.
And The Bulletin would support the transfer to
the Commonwealth of full powers over trade and
commerce, industry, companies and education as part
of a plan to make the national Parliament supreme
and unchallengeable in national matters, and get the
people to think nationally and rid them of the plague
of overgovernment. Admittedly a Parliament pos-
sessed of full trade-and-commerce powers could legis-
late for pools, marketing boards and home-consump-
tion prices, but the compensating advantages would
be such that the risk would be worth taking ; and.
in any case, no Parliament thus armed would forbid
the transport of goods from one part of Australia
to another. While the Federal system remains, this
paper will never vote for the emasculation of
Section 92.
For Democracy.
Every second returning tripper informs us how much
better off we should be under one or other of the
current sorts of dictatorship. It would seem to imply
something rotten in our state ; but it might as easily
be argued as a sign of general good health, indicating
increasing interest in the affairs of other countries,
and hence some scotching of parochialism.
One of the most singular principles of Democ-
racy is that the supposed advantages of almost any
brand of government can be advocated under its free-
for-all rules. Provided we are alive to that, and to one
or two other simple matters, it costs us nothing to
have Tom, Dick and Harry spouting their pieces for
the Russian, German or Italian system. It is in
the nature of returning trippers to let off hot air; they
have been about and seen things; naturally they are
stuffed up with superiority, and want a little limelight.
Australians are not given to violent feeling over
such matters. There is neither inclination nor reason
for harboring the sort of animosities that prevail
elsewhere, with their roots in old wars and bitter
experience. The Australian sentiment is that if the
dictatorship countries are doing famously for them-
selves, good luck to them. In time they may reach
our standard of living, our religious and political
liberty, our clean system of justice, our freedom of
press and speech, our representative government and
other privileges which make us, in the comparison,
prefer Democracy to the whole boiling of dictator-
ships. That would be the general answer to all the
spouting trippers.
It must be a very prejudiced mind that can read
the past history of Russia and not admit that the
1917 revolution was the eruption of an exasperated
people come to an end of any longer enduring as
inept a brand of despotism as humans ever suffered
under. It must be a very biased mind that fails to
see that Russia is still a full century behind the civil-
isation of Democracy ; and it must be a very child-
like mind that expects us to accept that the sort of
thing with which Russia is at this moment enlighten-
ing the world would be advantageous to any people
who have left such tribal viciousness in the remote
past that Russia is still blundering out of. At any
rate, that country—even despite such things as the
current Dark Age irruption—is in many respects better
off than it was under Czardom.
Similarly, the Fascist countries. No competent
mind can examine the stories of Italy or Germany
since the war without realising that Mussolini and
Hitler have lifted people from wretched dispirited-
ness, hopelessness and obscurity to union, confidence
and hope. And no competent mind can examine
either country’s system without seeing that liberty
of the subject, as Democracy interprets the term,
does not exist; that the press and radio are, equally
as in the Russian dictatorship, mere mouthpieces of
the Government; that freedom of speech has been
taken away, and the totem-pole re-erected instead.
Yet it would be an incurably foolish observer who
could not see that, in comparison with what each of
those countries was immediately after the war, their
recovery of cohesion and nationhood, of their self-
esteem and the world’s respect, has been pretty well
miraculous.
All such matters can be admitted, and our
Democracy stands in no danger from admitting them.
Yet our Democracy does stand in certain danger. The
menace to it is no noisy minorities —their noise might
have the merit of forcing us to give it an occasional
thought. The real enemy within the gates lives in the
very opposite camp. It is stagnation. It is the
state of mind that refuses to be stirred, though
every day more and more of the liberty of
the subject is whittled away, every day bureaucracy
becomes more powerful and domineering, every
day, shirking the responsibilities they are elected
to bear, our Parliamentarians create more and
more petty dictatorships to harass, restrict and retard
the progressive impulse of the people, which is also
the life principle of Democracy itself.
It is stagnation when the imbecilities of such a
censorship as we suffer can be accepted with only
spasmodic protest. Under this impudent and igno-
rant encroachment on liberty, books, plays, journals
and other expressions of art and opinion that have
unrestricted circulation elsewhere in the Empire are
banned. An astringently intellectual book such as
Brave New World remains on the black list, though
every literary parson in Britain has read it and quotes
it freely. By some dictatorial reasoning it is held
that to” us such books are dangerous. The latest
imbecility reported is the banning of the play “Green
Pastures,” a sympathetic, whimsical explanation of
the simpler American negro’s naive distortion of Old
Testament teaching. It has been acted with huge
success in America, and in book form has for years
had unrestricted circulation in Australia: before
bureaucracy got altogether out of hand it was once
acted here.
It is stagnation when dozens of such instances
can be quoted, and when even the list of books that
are banned are refused the people and the people
accept this as reasonable. A censor has said that
“not even the Minister of the Crown” had seen the
list of the banned books. In the acceptance of all
this there is a smell of stagnation.
For that reason Democracy at this moment is most
urgently in need of being emphatically affirmed. It
could do with its own political party, and such a
party might well sweep the country. The alternative
is to go smugly on till the people, their liberties
whittled away till there is no more to lose, their con-
fidence sapped and their self-esteem destroyed, turn
from Democracy to the totem-pole government of
Communism or Fascism. Democracy is too high a
privilege, too hardly won, for this sort of contami-
nation to be allowed to destroy it.
The Tourist Racket.
Last Easter, and during the previous Christmas-
New Year holidays, The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
arranged to have supplies of its weekly publications
on sale at the Jenolan Caves House, a State Govern-
ment “enterprise.” Admittedly there was very little
in it for the Government or the company; but news-
paper proprietaries make a point of studying the
convenience of readers on furlough, and, as tax-
payers contributing to the support of Government
tourist concerns, they are surely entitled to ask them
to assist in furnishing such convenience when it costs
nothing.
A proposal to renew the arrangement over the
last Christmas holidays was refused. The “explana-
tion” was that sales were small (of necessity they are
casual and unpredictable), and “the trouble in for-
warding returns” was “considerable.” A girl with
scissors and paste, a bit of brown paper, an inked pen
and a stamp could attend to the “considerable trouble”
in a few minutes of her valuable time at the end
of the season ; nevertheless, refusal and “explanation”
were repeated when the matter was referred to the
Chief Secretary’s Under-Secretary.
This “you-be-damned! ” attitude helps to explain
the fact that N. S. Wales Government tourist “enter-
prises” are sinks for tax-money. The Auditor-General
had not completed his annual review of their accounts
when his report on the Government’s “Business ana
Industrial Undertakings” was sent to the printer, but
in his examination had gone far enough to indicate
that there had been no check to the dismal procession
of deficits. The loss on the whole herd of white
elephants for the year to June 30 was reckoned at
£15,032 4s. 6d. Jenolan Caves contributed £1487
10s. 10d., the Hotel Kosciusko £4649 18s. Bd., the
1 Kosciusko Chalet £lOl5 Bs. 7d., Yarrangobilly Caves
£957 25., Wombeyan Caves £919 13s. lid.
In his general report on the Public Accounts, an
earlier printing, Auditor-General Spence mentioned
that “the Hotel Kosciusko, one of the major enter-
prises controlled by the Tourist Bureau, incurred a
cash loss of £11,859 6s. 9d. for the period from July
1, 1928, to June 30, 1935, exclusive of charges for
depreciation and interest on capital.”
There are bars at Jenolan Caves and Kosciusko,
and this Kosciusko joint must be the only tourist hotel
in the Commonwealth which shows chronic losses.
Trippers are carried to and from the place over the
Government railways at other “considerable” losses,
but, leaving these out of reckoning, the taxpayer
contributes to the cost of housing, feeding and amus-
ing every tripper who goes there.
The Auditor-General mentions that his view of
the Kosciusko accounts is disputed by the Director
of the Government Tourist Bureau.
The Director discounts depreciation, which for the
period mentioned amounted to £36,620 18s. 4d., and
contends that the actual cash loss is inconsiderable. He
stresses the value of the activities of the Government
Tourist Bureau as an advertising medium for the State.
There is no evidence, however, that this view is shared
by the Treasury, or that Government policy contem-
plates that any part of the cost of maintenance of
Government-conducted hotels and guest-houses should
be met from general revenues.
This may be polite irony. On other pages the
Auditor-General points out, in effect, that “Govern-
ment policy” admits of the spending of vast sums
without Parliamentary authority, and that “the Com-
missioners administering various Government activi-
ties have been given authority to sanction all classes
of expenditure without seeking Ministerial approval,
even “direct payments to themselves for entertain-
ment, travelling expenses and the like.” In other
words, “Government policy” in all these matters
is to let departmental tin gods do what they dashed
well please.
Mr. Spence made another note:
In 1930-31 and 1931-32 advances were made to the
Government Tourist Bureau totalling £25,449 Is. 3d.,
as difficulty was being experienced by the bureau in
meeting its commitments. The advances remained
unpaid at June 30, 1936.
The truth is that a great deal of public money
is lavished, with no recognisable public gain, on
this disobliging Government Tourist concern and
on the so-called National Travel Association, whic
is getting £15,000 from Canberra in this year ot
Mrs. Freer and American shipping strikes. There
are many better ways in which the money could be
spent.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Aerial Acrobatics.
The further Mr. Parkhill immerses himself in discus-
sion of the proposal to manufacture U.S.A.-type air-
craft “for the defence of Australia,” the deeper he
gets into the mire. He has now made it plain that
it will be 18 months before the American models can
be delivered to the R.A.A.F.
This means, if everything goes well, that towards
the end of 1938 Australia will have four new squad-
rons of machines which in 1935-36 were used in the
U.S.A. for training purposes.
It is all to the good that Americans should take
an interest in the defence of Australia. But what
reason is there for supposing that they build better
war machines than the British or design types more
suitable for Australian conditions than an Australian
like Edgar Percival could? During the Great War
they had to use British and French fighters and
bombers because their own productions were useless.
Not one of their Liberty ’planes that were to have
“darkened the skies” was sent against the enemy.
Roaring cataracts of nonsense pour from the
Minister. He says that what has been done will
provide for “all the machines that Australia requires
or can use,” and that his scheme “will reinforce the
supply at Singapore.”
The idea of sending to Singapore in an emer-
gency single-engined 200-m.p.h. machines, capable of
600-mile hops from fuel to fuel, is about as rational
from a fighting point of view as sending Mr. Parkhill
there would be.
The British Under-Secretary for Air has informed
the House of Commons that the Commonwealth
Government consulted him about the establishment
of the aircraft factory. His representations were that
British designs should be selected from the outset, and
the Commonwealth Government’s decision to start
on the American type was “received with very great
regret.” It is unusual for a British Minister to com-
ment publicly on the actions of Dominion Govern-
ments, but it must be allowed that on this occasion
the Lyons Government went “looking for it.”
To Sir Philip Sassoon’s statement a postscript has
been added by the Air Ministry, which says it “will
not withhold any designs from the Commonwealth
Government.” This removes the last vestige of excuse
for building an obsolescent U.S.A. type, and places
Mr. Parkhill in a very peculiar position. For he had
previously asserted that the British Government would
“give the Commonwealth details of the latest secret
machines only if assured that the information would
not be made available to a private firm.”
More Infanticide at Moscow.
To the embarrassment of writing men, professors,
United-Front propagandists and anti-God champions
everywhere, Soviet “justice” has had another airing
at Moscow. The prisoners on this occasion were the
“brilliant” Radek, the wonder-working Piatakoff and
15 other Old Bolshevists whose genius and devotion
to the Cause had been extolled for years.
They all confessed to the crimes with which
they were charged—some to sabotage in factories
and workshops, others to wrecking of trains and
mines ; Radek to a plan for handing over the Ukraine
to the Germans and part of Siberia to the Japanese
as a preliminary to starting another revolution in the
country to be dismembered and defeated.
As in the affair of Zinovieff and Kameneff (dec.),
the plot was imputed to Trotsky. From his refuge
in Mexico Trot, has cabled to that bleating rag the
Manchester “Guardian”—source of so much of the
foreign “news” with which Australians are regaled—
denying that there was ever a plot, and affirming that
accused and accusers are all liars. The reply of those
who are still vocal is that Trot, is congenitally incap-
able of telling the truth.
Fourteen of the 17 are to be or have been shot.
Radek, who seems the most poisonous ruffian of all,
was let off with 10 years—whether as a reward for
past services or for peaching on his pals or for invent-
ing charges against corrupt or inept comrades whom
the ruling gang couldn’t otherwise get rid of is not
clear.
So the Revolution finds it necessary in its
twentieth year to devour more of its children. What
a scared Revolution and what scabby children!
Puzzle-—Find the Rhythm.
According to a panegyric delivered by Mr. Lyons
in the Brisbane “Courier-Mail” Financial Supplement
(18/1 /’37), industrial production in Australia in 1935-
36 is estimated at £3Bo,soo,ooo—nearly £25,000,000
more than in the previous year. As a fact, the increase
is nearer £24,000,000 than £25,000,000 ; but let that
pass. Place production and taxation figures in line
with one another:
Value of Government
Production. Taxation.
1935-36 .. .. .. £380,500,000 £104,599,129
1934-35 356,060,000 92,215,779
Increases .. .. £24,440,000 £12,383,350
Thus, while the people worked and strove to
make wealth, while they increased the investment of
capital and enlarged their energies, bringing the Com-
monwealth further out of the valley of the Depres-
sion, the seven Governments grabbed more than half
of the additional results of industry. They took from
the increased earnings of the people 10s. Bd. in the
£l. Which prompts the P.M. to say that “the move-
ment towards better things has been continuous and
steady, and at all points our economy is in healthier
rhythm.”
In the general uplift recorded in 1936—which
certainly is not to be despised—Queensland’s Premier
witnesses that “Queensland has nobly played its part.”
The State, he says, has made “rapid strides economi-
cally,” and he reminds a public which might be other-
wise forgetful that “the. heritage handed down to us
must be carried on at all costs.” Again, look at the
production-taxation parallel:
Value of State
Production. Taxation.
1935-36 £51,750,000 £7,323,028
1934-35 .. .. .. 52,565,000 6,546,263
Decrease .. .. £851,000
Increase .... £776,765
Value of State Production Less State Taxation.
1934- £46,019,737
1935- 44,426,972
Retrogression .. .. .. .. £1,592,765
For every £1 of decline in income from industrial
production Mr. Forgan Smith took in taxation an addi-
tional 19s. Id., making the population worse off by
nearly £2 a head. So the Premier says that “Queens-
land has nobly played its part.”
The taxpayers certainly have made a large con-
tribution to the “rhythm” in our national “economy.”
Gullet* Should Apologise.
It is strange—if anything happening at Canberra may
be considered strange nowadays—that the two foreign
countries which the Government has taken special
pains to offend should have shown the greatest
advance in purchases of Australian goods. Consider
the growth—and the volume—of exports of Aus-
tralian merchandise to these countries in pounds
Australian: —•
Year. Japan. U.S.A.
1935-36 £17,661,232 £9,343,781
1930-31 £9,500,499 £2,930,407
Increases in five years .. £8,160,733 £6,413,374
Increases p.c. .. .. .. 85.9 218.8
And these countries are great neighbor nations. They
have extensive seaboards on the Pacific Ocean, calcu-
lated by many competent people to have a destiny pro-
foundly affecting the future of mankind and beyond
question of the most vital significance to Australia.
These two Pacific countries, the special targets
of the Gullett policy of assault and recrimination,
raised their purchases in five years from £12.4 millions
to £27,000,000, and they are among the greatest but-
tresses of the present wool market. If there were
any courtesy in politics Mr. Gullett would be on his
knees apologising.
When a Spade Is Nat a Spade.
The Commonwealth Taxation Department has vast
powers. If a taxpayer owes it money—or it says he
does —and another person owes him the equivalent, it
can attach it without any court process. And if it
is subsequently proved wrong the victim cannot get
damages.
As for interpretations, what the department says
goes. Even an invalid interpretation can be validated
by a submissive Parliament —and generally is.
It is laid down that the Income Tax Act shall not
apply “to any income derived from primary produc-
tion in the Territory of North Australia or of Central
Australia,”
“Primary production” means the production resulting
directly from cultivation of land, maintenance of animals
or poultry, mining or fisheries.
The definition includes dairy produce.
In Arnhem Land, a wet region where life through
the monsoon is rougher than in any other part of
Australia, except in parts of the Centre, hardy fellows
have established buffalo stations. They conserve the
herds and shoot buffalo for their hides, which they
export. They reckoned themselves “primary pro-
ducers,” and if they ran cattle and shot them for their
hides “primary producers” they would be. If they
netted the rivers for fish, which they would not con-
serve, they would likewise be “primary producers.”
But where there is a little to be collected, the
mind of the Income Tax Department is an instru-
ment of such precision that it resembles the photo-
electric eye which can detect the noise of a fly walking
up a window-pane. The department has ruled that
buffalo men are not “primary producers,” and must
pay tax.
A Million-pound Monument.
Queensland’s Registrar-General estimated the popu-
lation of Brisbane metropolis on June 30 at 309,772.
The number of persons occupying premises connected
with sewers was only 96,062.
Yet by June 30 expenditure on sewer works
amounted to £4,731,046, exclusive of £897,952 capi-
talised interest (“written down” to £712,126). Year .
after year the ratepayers pay interest on interest.
Total expenditure on sewerage “works” is equal to
about £BO per inhabited dwelling—-and not one-third
of them are linked with the system. The nocturnal
vehicle regularly rumbles past the City Hall, which
is at once the workshop and the club of 21 paid
aldermen. The City Hall cost £1,000,000.
Perhaps it is a mercy that municipal handbooks
rarely descend to such details as nocturnal vehicles
which link the present with the past.
Not Diplomatic.
“D.A.”: I’m only a casual observer in this aerial-
defence hullabaloo ; but I know of one or two things
with a bearing that haven’t reached print.
A well-known Australian aircraftsman went to
Britain for a first-hand view of latest developments.
He was shown round factories all right—without being
allowed to loiter ; when it came to a point of being
given a look at designs or patterns there was “nothing
doing.”
An Australian working on a plan to help the
Empire in the “next war” sought to get co-operation
from the Admiralty through the R.A.N. ; again there
was no information to be given away. The applicant
didn’t really wonder, considering the newspaper pub-
licity allotted to the position of our coastal gun-
emplacements, oil-tanks and the like.
In matters of diplomacy and defence Parkhill
and co. must be a laughing-stock in any part of the
world that takes an interest in us. It is unfortunate
that concerns like 8.H.P., General Motors-Holden’s
and others should have to co-operate with Parkhill
in establishing aeroplane-engine manufacture in this
country, because there isn’t likely to be a penny in it
for the sponsors for years to come —and they knew
that when they put up the money.
"The Children's Hour."
Melbourne is pondering on “The Children’s Hour,”
a three-act tragedy by Lillian Heilman, produced by
Brett Randall at the Princess Theatre. The “Argus”
says the theme of the play is “unpleasant” ; but facts
so often are.
A horrible little girl hates two school-mistresses,
and ruins them with a story of unnatural relations.
Born with a physiological kink, one of the mistresses
does not realise she is any different from other girls
until this suppositious scandal is dragged into the
open ; then she shoots herself.
Australian cities, whether we like it or not, have
a small proportion of similarly abnormal male and
female types ; because they are born that way most
of them must be unaware of their tragic peculiarities
for years. They are actually in a worse position
than any half-caste who might be denied black or
white society; but medical science can help them
sufficiently to banish any suicidal tendencies.
If “The Children’s Hour,” which ran for two years
before New York adults and was presented to London
“ticket” audiences, serves its obvious purpose, it
should create helpful—rather than scornful—interest
in the plight of these unfortunates.
Some aspects of sex distortion have been worry-
ing Australian Judges for years, and late in 1936 the
Victorian Government announced its intention of
establishing a Melbourne institution for the observa-
tion and treatment of offenders against decency. Only
by some such open offensive can Australia help these
people to help themselves and guard innocents from
the fate that befell Sodeman’s victims. Shutting one’s
eyes won’t effect the improvement.
Cause and Effect?
During the four years to June 30 taxation by the
six State Governments averaged £5 11s. lOd. p.a. per
head. The general average was hoisted by Queens-
land’s toll of £6 12s. 7d. a head yearly. From 1931-
32 to 1935-36 taxation per capita by all States rose
by £1 Is. 6d., equal to 21.45 p.c.; the Queensland
leap was £2 Bs. 4d. (from £5 2s. 4d. to £7 10s. Bd. per
inhabitant), or 47.23 p.c. Note that the increased
taxation in proportion to population was in Queens-
land more than double the average over all States.
Now the Commonwealth Statistician, who knows
no politics, whose job it is to deal with cold facts
and disseminate naked truth, provides, what may
reasonably be regarded as a sequel. He reports that
in the December quarter of 1936 the percentage of
reporting trade-unionists registered as unemployed
was 10.7 —back to pre-depression conditions. The peak
was in the middle of 1932, when 30 p.c. of the report-
ing unions were out of work and wages.
“The improvement since May, 1932, has been
experienced” (the Statistician’s own words) in this
order: —-
Per Thousand
Members.
South Australia -. 253
Westralia .. .. .. .. .. .. 247
New South Wales .. 199
Victoria 180
Tasmania .. .. .. .. .. • • 145
Queensland .. .. • • • • • ■ • • 127
For all States the improvement was 193 per 1000
unionists. Thus the State with the heaviest taxation
fared worst.
Behavior of a Bottle-tree.
Australia is full of strange phenomena, such as the
platypus, and the frog from which Centralian natives
drink, and the turtle on which other abos. ride ; and
strangest of all is the bottle-tree.
The bottle-tree is a bulbous, Chestertonian tree
with a defiantly green leaf which inhabits the dry
fringes of coastal to inner Australia. In the middle
of it is water ; round the water is a large bole of
succulent wood.
It is the habit of Queensland farmers in drought-
time to cut the bottle-tree down, peel off some bark
and show the vegetable’s nakedness to a cow. The
cow has one lick, finds the taste good, chews and
goes on chewing. All is well if the cow can eat its
way through the bole; but sometimes the animal
works its head through, finds itself caught, and, if
there is not a helping hand to extricate it, dies. Occa-
sionally a watchful dairyman takes a crosscut saw,
and, when the cow has eaten nearly through, gradu-
ally cuts the tree up. Presently there is still a cow
but no bottle-tree. But if the drought is still fierce
the cow soon becomes dead and the dairyman goes
bankrupt.
Australia and its Government finance increas-
ingly resemble the bottle-tree. In chemical terms, the
proteins which this feed yields are light, the carbo-
hydrates low and the ash content pretty huge.
The way things are going, if we don’t look out,
the Australian cow will find herself looking into
empty space with her neck jambed in a bark ring
of pensions, income tax, overseas interest and cement.
The politicians, being a soft-hearted breed, will
probably take the crosscut saw and gradually save the
cow’s life while there is milk in her. But, after that,
the old lady will be discovered on a bare landscape
strewn with the skulls of politicians and with no
other nutriment except sand and dead-mulga cities.
And a politician’s skull is a poor diet even for a
hungry national cow.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Civil List”: A rare row is expected
when the Commons come to consider
what allowance the late King will re-
ceive and (if any) whence it will come.
The Labor Opposition, which backed the
Duke of Windsor merely as a means of
getting in a kick at Baldwin, are sure
to fight a grant from the Civil List to
the last ditch ; transfers of the revenues
of one or other of the royal duchies
will also be. opposed, for, though osten-
sibly under the control of the then
Prince of Wales, these are national
assets. It is evident that events are turn-
ing out far more unfavorably for the
unhappy King without a country than
many could have anticipated. He has
not improved matters by announcing that
he and his inamorata are to be wedded
as soon as possible after the decree abso-
lute, even if the function clashes with
his brother’s Coronation.
* * * *
“Sixcnate”: The latest thrust at the
N.S.W. Government over depression cuts
is coming from a man who, sent along
for a term, found that the wage-cut
applied even in gaol. A skilled worker,
he was put on to a job straightway and
told that his earnings would be Is. 6d.
per hour, less 9d. p.h. for board ; but,
the 33 1-3 cut being applied, when he
was released he was handed only two-
thirds of the sum due according to his
confident expectation. He is taking a
Supreme Court action to recover the
balance ; and if he succeeds others will
doubtless follow his lead. The issue
depends upon whether wage-earning
prisoners can be placed in the same
category as civil servants who were
affected by the wage cuts.
“Old-timer”: Kentucky and Tennessee
haven’t a monopoly of family feuds. I
came across much the same sort of ven-
detta, though it stopped short of fatali-
ties, in an old Murray River town, then
only connected with the outer world by
mail-coach. Nearly all the inhabitants
were related to one another, and there
was a Montague-Capulet division that
even flared out among the kids. Bitter
brawls and fights were frequent, and the
solitary mounted trooper would judi-
ciously get out of the road when trouble
loomed. After two years, I became
friendly enough with one of the fiercest
partisans to ask him the cause: all he
knew was that the “Mcßlanks and all
their mates were blankards, always had
been and always would be!” Members
of the opposing camps went away with
the A.1.F., and stories drifted back of
bitter fights in Cairo, London and lesser
places. While other towns staged “wel-
come homes” after the war, men return-
ing here were never sure whether the
crowd awaiting the mail-coach was a
guard or an attacking force. They were
still at it when I pulled out.
* * * *
“Nausicaa”: “There is no lack of
graceful action for girls who take up
cricket,” says a Sydney paper, illustrating
its point with pictures of a batswoman
driving elegantly through the covers and
another of the sex tossing up an off-
break with dainty charm. And it is cer-
tainly a fact that in snaps of women’s
cricket matches you get none of the
whirl of arms and legs that make the
tennisette in vigorous action anything but
a thing of beauty. None the less there
is one position on the cricket field in
which it is hard for any woman to look
graceful or even comfortable. That is
the wicketkeeper’s, especially when the
Oldfield stance or attitude is aimed at.
This is possibly one reason why women
have never shown much inclination for
bowls, a much less strenuous pastime
than either tennis or cricket.
•1* v 4*
“A.S.”: Scene: a Brisbane lift. Small
boy enters and props himself against the
wall with the remark “Gee, I’m tired!”
Among the passengers is a large man,
the manager of the business, who com-
ments a trifle gruffly “Tired, are you?”
and, receiving an emphatic affirmative, in-
vites the youngster into his office on the
third floor, which has just been reached.
Follows this colloquy: “Where do you
work?” “In the boot department.”
“How much a week are you getting?”
“Fifteen shillings, sir.” “Well, here’s fif-
teen shillings, and you can take a holi-
day—a long one, mind.” The youngster
mumbles his thanks and, returning to the
“If We don't get a shoot soon, Bill, We'd better paddle back."
Hf remarks to the operator, “My word,
Mr B]ank > s a k i n d-hearted chap, isn’t
he? He ive me fifteen bo b, and told
me tQ take a holiday.” “You young
fool » he is informed, “don’t you know
what that means? It means you’ve got
the sack.” “Me,” says the boy ; “I don’t
work bere j work at Dash’s across the
road j old y came up be re with a mes-
sage.”
* ■* * *
“Verri”: Those women who peel
potatoes and shell peas on ferries or in
public conveyances aren’t in it with one
I encountered in a Sydney-Newcastle
train. She got in at Central Station with
a child of about eight, and explained
breathlessly that the youngster was to
be bridesmaid at her aunt’s wedding that
day in Newcastle and she had only just
had time to catch the train. Then she
produced a white frilly frock from a
cardboard box, tried it on the kid, mani-
pulated it with pins, and began on the
necessary alterations. In a few minutes
she had an army of needle-threaders and
pin-holders assisting her. A box of
flowers was next produced, and two ama-
teur florists, accepting the invitation to
anyone kind enough to arrange a juvenile
posy, began work at once. It was the
most entertaining train journey I’ve, ever
had, and when the lady descended with
the complete bridesmaid at Newcastle
even those who had helped only with
advice and encouragement felt a
vicarious pride in the achievement.
* * f *...
“Gamma” : Soon prisoners will no
longer be jolted about in transport from
Pentridge to the Melbourne law-courts.
A new Black Maria, an improvement on
all its predecessors, is in course of con-
struction. It will cost £6OO, be equipped
with balloon tyres, and contain two com-
partments, one to hold 23 men and the
other six women. It will be covered
outside and inside with 20-gauge sheet
steel to discourage any attempts to scratch
a hole with a pocket-knife, and will be
fitted with plain seats, one for each
prisoner. The fact that strap-hangers
are not provided may be taken as indi-
cation that crime is on the decrease and
that “rush hours” are disappearing.
$ $ $
“A.”: I wonder where the oldest work-
ing typewriter in Australia, could be
found. There are still in commission
machines that were not only “blind” but
had double keyboards. One that the
writer brought out from London in 1897
is still knocking out messages, though
its words are lacking feet and heads; an-
other, nearly as old, goes into recess
only because ribbons are hard to get for
it. But does anybody in the clerical and
writing world ever now drop across an
English, a North, a Densmore, a Cali-
graph or an Oliver?
* * * *
“Birchgrove”: The dust-up over Harry
Lauder’s £5OO broadcast reminds me of
his former trip out here (when he
appeared at the Sydney Tivoli) some 13
years ago. I knew his nephew, another
Harry Lauder, quite intimately, and
young Harry journeyed to the ancestral
coalfields home in an effort to induce
his uncle to back him in his project of
obtaining a musical education. But the
kilted knight seems to have discouraged
family competition—“ Hoots, mon! Stick
to y’r job, ye’ve no got the voice.” How-
ever, the youngster knew better, or his
job (apprentice at the Eveleigh railway
workshops) didn’t strike him as a worth-
while one. Within six months, by organ-
ising a series of concerts at Newcastle,
he raised the wind to book his passage
to America, and within two years we
received glowing accounts of his pros-
perity, along with cuttings from Holly-
wood papers boosting the business
“Young” Harry had organised—the
Harry Lauder Institute of Voice Pro-
duction. So there’s at least one member
of the clan who has a poor opinion of
“Uncle Harry’s” professional judgment,
* # * *
“Pack-bag”: New South Wales has
one military Jack in its police force
anyway (B. 30/12/’36). Coming fresh
to a western township and bursting with
efficiency this cop joined the local
R.5.5.1.L.A., and all went well until an
ex-Digger squatter identified him as the
bloke who had arrested him and some
fellow-Lighthorsemen when on leave in
Egypt. The subsequent unpleasantness
only terminated when the centre of the
disturbance applied for and obtained a
transfer.
* * * ♦
“Molonglo”: Federal Minister Pearce
was right when he suggested that Albury
was once regarded as being the likeliest
site of all for the, Federal Capital. A
royal commission appointed in 1903
ranked the sites inspected in the follow-
ing order for general suitability: Albury,
Tumut, Orange, Lyndhurst, Armidale,
Bathurst, Lake George, Bombala and
Dalgety. Tumut, however, though it
succeeded Albury in favoritism, was
never approved by both Houses (B.
20/1 /’37). It was selected by the House
of Reps, after a ballot, but the Senate
amended (or upended) the bill by sub-
stituting Bombala. The Reps, objected,
but the Senate refused to give way;
five years were to pass before the final
decision was arrived at. By that time
the choice had been narrowed down to
Dalgety and Yass-Canberra, and after
some disputation between the two Houses
the Canberra site carried the day.
* * # *
“Gee”: Unusual bookmarks Cri.
20/1 / ’37)? A friend of mine who con-
ducts a small suburban book-exchange
bought a large stock of second-hand
novels, and without examining them
closely shoved ’em all on his shelves. A
few days later an indignant husband
stamped in and demanded to know what
he meant by allowing a woman to borrow
a book that contained as a marker one
of those postcards the sale of which is
an offence punishable by two years’ im-
prisonment !
* * * *
“Bisi”: Sydney “Sunday Sun” has
been printing a weekly column “giving
the essential matter of history, geography
and English” for “pupils sitting for the
primary final exam, this year.” Among
the items:
1699: William Dampier discovered west
.oast of Australia.
Dampier landed at King Sound or Col-
lier Bay (in the Cygnet) on January 5,
1688. On his second voyage to these
parts, 11 years later, he landed from the
Roebuck at Shark Bay, much further
southward. He was the real discoverer
of Australia for the English nation,
although he has gone almost unnoticed
here. The 250th anniversary of the
landing of the first known Englishman
on the Australian continent coincides
with the 150th anniversary of Phillips
landing ; but it looks as if Will will not
have even a postage stamp in his honor
next year. Born in 1652, Dampier knew
Sharp, Sawkins, Coxon and most of
the buccaneers of the Spanish Main
who were at all socially possible ; he
twice crossed Panama to sack a city or
two, and finally turned up in London in
1691 with a tattooed “East Indian
prince” as his stock-in-trade. The prince
was a failure as an exhibit, and Dampier
was forced to sell him. Nevertheless,
Dampier was one of the keenest of o -
servers, a great diarist, and the kin es
of fellows, despite his companions on
the Main.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Two go-getters, working
on housewives’ keenness for bargains,
rea j or apparent, have introduced a new
stunt in Cairns (N.Q.). The procedure
is for one to call at the front door offer-
ing to grind scissors for Is. 6d. a pair.
Should the lady refuse to bite, the second
operator presently steps roun
back door with a proposition .
job for 9d. A thrifty woman is quite
likely to succumb easily to the tempta-
tion to snap up such a bargain espe •
ally if she is unaware that the °wn-
charge for scissors-grmdmg is a sprat.
THE FAVORED CALLING.
“It is very rarely that a bookmaker comes here.”
—Judge Lukin in Sydney Bankruptcy Court.
Here punters are as plentiful as bees
Among the clover. Rarely comes a day
But finds some patron of the dogs or gees
Heading dejectedly up King-street way.
The deadest certs, are apt to go astray;
The prads on whom the highest hopes are hung
May leave their backers in a hole. But, say,
It’s mighty seldom that a book goes bung.
Hither they flock, whole hosts of devotees
Of chance or luck their debts who cannot
pay,
Men in all walks of life and all degrees,
To get their slates wiped clean, if so they
may,
And feel the cleansing whitewash on them
spray.
But, all that comprehensive crowd among,
You’ll look in vain for chaps the odds who
lay.
It’s only once in years a book goes bung.
They graft like beavers, ev’ryone agrees.
In serried rank they stand; in firm array
They raise their lusty voices on the breeze.
Their tongues are tutored never to display
Disgust, exasperation or dismay
When red-hot favorites leave them sorely stung.
Still, there is this to put against it, eh?
It’s mighty seldom that a book goes bung.
Prince, I could often wish I were as they,
With throat (and front) of brass and leather
lung.
While other trades may flourish or decay,
It’s very rarely that a book goes bung.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Sunbird”: A cable suggesting that
Japan has produced something new in
the way of submarines sets me thinking.
Some four years ago it was claimed that
a Japanese underwater ship was being
perfected which could do the run to
Honolulu and back without refueling.
Almost simultaneously islanders of
Torres Strait (who had previously re-
ported the presence of strange sampans)
spoke of seeing a queer submarine craft
dodging through their ways, submerging
and reappearing at intervals. It took
a course away from the track of ordi-
nary shipping, a fact which puzzled the
native, who knew the waters (“Why,
that boat he know them passage all
same we /”). Understandable enough,
when it is remembered that for years
among the crews of the pearling and fish-
ing luggers working the Strait were edu-
cated Japanese naval officers, eminently
capable of filling in blank spaces on our
charts.
* * # *
“Shanghai”: “Kellick” (B. 27/1/’37)
says no seaman would relish the middle
watch —midnight to 4 a.m. —all through
a voyage. Let me tell him that in the
merchant service this watch is kept con-
tinuously by the second mate and third
engineer, together with the afternoon one
—from noon to 4 p.m.—and also the
dinner relief at night. Also, all second
mates on blue water have to take a sight
at 8 a.m., and third engineers have to do
stand-by duties, outside their watch
“My husband is just the same , dear. You should have a baby-I
always do."
hours, when in pilotage waters. I have
kept this watch for the last two years,
and another of my shipmates has kept
it continuously since 1927. I have not
had a longer sleep than three or four
hours for over 12 months. It’s part of
the job.
“Kellick”: Growing greens at sea is
no longer necessary in the Navy. Even
a tropic islands cruise—once the bug-
bear of any vegetable-loving navy man-
holds no terrors now. Tinned spinach
and cabbage backed up by “limers” will
hold the scurviest of scurvy at bay. It
took a war scare to do the. trick. We
never had tinned veg. until we got stuck
at Darwin during the Italo-Abyssinian
business.
* * * *
“M.L.W.”: After shooting a dying
horse from a distance of five yards with
a shotgun of regulation-length barrels
I can picture what the sawn-off variety,
suggested by “Swanshot” for use. by bank
officials (B. 13/1/’37), would do to a
man at the same distance. But I fear
that the banks would be prohibited from
using them on the same ground of
humanity which in war-time permits you
to choke a man with gas, burn him with
flame or blow him to pieces with a shell,
but objects to your shooting him with a
dum-dum bullet because that messes him
up.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: Sailormen and cooks
aren’t the only ones shanghaied for pro-
fessional purposes (B. 27 /1 / ”37). A
M.L. seaside township in the bad old
days had only one doctor, and he was
frequently in no condition to practise the
healing art. Late one night a
taciturn Englishman who had
taken over a coastal station
arrived to enlist medical aid for
a very sick young wife, and was,
as usual, directed to the local
hotel. One look at the medico
decided his line of action. With
a stout Maori henchman he
picked up the sozzled Galen,
ran him down to the waiting
launch, and dumped him in the
cockpit. It was a 15-mile run
to the station, and twice on the
journey the launch slowed down
while all hands assisted to give
the passenger a refreshing dip.
When the craft was beached the
medico was sufficiently sober to
save the patient’s life. He suffered no ill
effects from his ocean dips, and bore no
resentment.
* * s? *
“Fisher”: Sydney tramway-and-railway
men are seeking authority to wear war-
service ribbons on their uniforms. Police-
men at present appear to enjoy the. right,
and there seems to be no reason why it
should be confined to a single class of
Government employees. The British
Army was once one of the few which
set its face against medals and war deco-
rations, and the opposition lasted right
down to the Peninsular War. After that
lost time was soon made up for. To a
regular soldier his ribbons are good for
at least a dozen years, but specially en-
listed men, such as the bulk of the
A.1.F., have little use for their decora-
tions after demobilisation and display
them only once or twice a year. Mili-
tary officialdom is rather opposed to the
wearing of decorations in civilian dress.
“Hanko”: Though used to a lesser
degree in the war than other death-
dealing missiles, I’m convinced that
shrapnel was the deadliest of all. In the
early days of Gallipoli the Turks em-
ployed it freely, and the pellets flailed
gullies and ravines which remained
“dead” ground even to the sniper in his
eyrie. Also, the guns of Chanak burst
shrapnel over the narrow Anzac beaches,
causing unceasing wastage in working
parties. In France in 1916 the A.I.F.
“ You'll take a Week's notice for this.”
"Tanks, missus. I bin tinkit you givum sack!"
found the Germans using shrapnel spar-
ingly, and hardly at all toward the end
of the conflict. But when used it caused
havoc when thrown over the support and
reserve systems and the forward billet
areas. I dread to think of the slaughter
had Sausage Gully been subjected to a
spraying with the stuff when that
trampled amphitheatre was a concentra-
tion of man-power and draught beast
for the Somme offensive. The British
used a deal of shrap. throughout, and the
barking 18-pounders were the big noise
in the fadeout.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: Unlike some of his race
who have amassed riches, George Judah
Cohen remained a strict Jew: in accord-
ance with Jewish custom, which is
against ostentation at funerals, the coffin
of the man with the Midas touch was
“of plain deal, painted black.” The
four motor-car loads of floral tributes
were not strictly Jewish, but the Hebrew
principle “The law of the country is the
law” can be extended widely ; although
Christians are apt to cause embarrass-
ment at Jewish funerals by sending
flowers it is recognised as their habit,
and hence mustn’t be slighted. The
greatest honor that can be accorded in
Jewry was given to the dead millionaire
when his coffin was taken into the Great
Synagogue for special funeral service.
* 4= #
“Amity”: The most staggering find
reported recently was that of a Mel-
bourne woman who bought at an auction
an old-fashioned writing-desk. Bidding
against her was a friend who retired at
£5, leaving her to secure the article for
an extra ten shillings. In giving it a
thorough overhaul at home, she came
upon the secret drawer beloved of
romantic writers. What she found there
sent her scurrying to her lawyer, who
assured her that the parcel of uncut
diamonds were her legal property.
Wrapped in a wool covering that pro-
claimed their ancient state the diamonds
must have been concealed and forgotten
decades ago.
* * * *
“Fisher's Ghost”: Now that the ques-
tion of naval band instruments has been
more or less satisfactorily settled, what
happened to the equipment of A.I.F.
bands? At full strength there were
something like 60 battalions, all of which
mustered a set of brass or white-metal
instruments, either donated by patriotic
citizens or subscribed for by the troops
themselves. After the war, certain militia
units inherited the trombones and
euphoniums of their predecessors, but that
would account for only about one-fifth
of the whole. Should the rest of the
military instruments still be in store
awaiting the resuscitation of defunct
units, it mightn’t be a bad idea to drag
them out for the use of present volun-
teer shows.
“Emsee”: In Florida (U.S.A.), where
there is no income tax, one means of
raising money is by charging parking
rates for cars in main streets. This
prevents congestion, for with fees mount-
ing up the car-owner doesn’t dawdle;
also it does away with fears of police
prosecution. Sufficient money for the
estimated time required is dropped into
the parkometer, and any excess is
balanced afterwards.
* * * *
“Corporal Wanst”: I back up the con-
tention of “Pardon Me” (B. 27 /1 / ”37)
that for “boning” boots no other substi-
tute was used, in the old Army at any
rate, but a bone. “P.M.” speaks of
mutton bone, but in my time the most
favored implement for putting a final
and permanent shine on cavalry boots
was the thighbone of a turkey. What
they do in these days of patent polishes
I don’t know. In the days of which I
write cobbler’s heelball was first applied
after every trace of grease had been re-
moved with warm, soapy water. Then,
after long and arduous application of
“elbow grease,” the boot, on your own
leg or another’s, was gone over with the
“turkey.” The result was a mirror-like
finish as if the boot had been ducoed ;
further, it was quite impervious to rain
or mud or any ordinary scratching.
* Sjt # *
“Coot”: Re supply of early-morning
aspirins to lodgers (B. 20/1 /’37). A
Melbourne restaurant has a notice on its
walls: “Customers will be supplied with
an aspirin free of charge.”
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The other day I came upon
a large, perplexed, very black Buka
(Solomon Islands) boy keeping carefully
within a rectangle of yellow lines in a
Sydney street, and gazing with a puzzled
air at a black-and-yellow disc. To his
“What name?” his master, an officer
of an island trading schooner, and I—
both fairly good in “pidgin”—had the
greatest difficulty in replying. For the
disc was inscribed “Pedestrian Refuge,”
and pidgin is the language of the primi-
tive which knows not refuges. When
eventually we contrived an answer which
explained that it told the passer-by that
if he kept within the yellow lines no
motor-car could touch him, our problem
asked “Why? What is to stop them?”
It seemed to him that any motor-car
could cross a yellow line, if the driver
wanted it to. Fortunately for us, as we
were thinking up an answer, a cop. drove
us hurriedly across the street with the
ardor of one shepherding headhunters
into a calaboose, and our coon was so
frightened by the performance, that he
completely lost interest in the traffic
disc.
IN THE SOUP.
I do not claim a prophet’s gift;
No means to know I’ve got
If Abbott, M.H.R., will lift
That Darwin job or not.
I cannot state what fate may wait
For birds like Joy-Jaunt Joe
Or pious Paterson. But yet
I have a modest pound to bet
That Parkhill’s cake is dough.
1 neither know nor care a jot,
A button or a hang
If Nemesis is hard and hot
Upon the heels of Lang.
I cannot guess when Mrs. S.
A royal mate will scoop
To add another to her bunch,
But I’ve a sure-and-certain hunch
That Archie’s in the soup.
I couldn’t say if Garden (Jock)
Is heading for a jolt,
If Gandhi’s due to take the knock
Or Baldwin’s shot his bolt;
If Musso.’s might has settled quite
Poor Haile Silassie’s hash,
But still it looks to me as plain
As navvies’ footprints after rain
That Parkhill’s done his dash.
Stormed at and shelled from stem to stern
For bungles past recall,
’Tis time the dullest might discern
The writing on the wall.
This aircraft biz, I’ll say, it is
That’s queered for good his pitch.
And, whatsoever the event,
I hold a firm presentiment
That Archie’s in the ditch.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


c %v
A"
20/ U rl/<>
lOybr9 a
t-39t
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
Qt£#ne*Hj(feh.
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
THIS
GENERATION
THE C
TtPPED
CIGARETTE
i \7
/
POLITICAL POINTS
News from Canberra is that Abbott’s
appointment as N.T. Administrator has
been postponed till the end of the year
—“to avoid a by-election”!
Premier Butler’s vision may be limited
by the boundaries of S.A., but he has a
knack of saying rasping things. For ex-
ample :
Three of the greatest dangers to the
country are Fascism, Communism and
alleged orderly-marketing schemes.
Orderly-marketing schemers are almost
wild enough to pizen his rum and water.
N. S. Wales is now witnessing the spec-
tacle of U.A.P. bosses who don’t care
two straws for “orderly marketing” ex-
pressing the utmost enthusiasm for it,
“to keep the party together.” S.A. has
a Cabinet Minister —Mclntosh of the
Lands —who offers a striking contrast.
Though Country-party and a representa-
tive of a dried-fruits district, he refuses
to take the platform for the ayes, saying
that his attitude has been expressed by
the head of the Government. The head
of the Government says no.
The A.N.A. is recommending Yes
votes on the ground that “all sovereign
rights must be vested in the national
Parliament.” S. G. Herron, its chief
vice-president in Victoria, said this at a
Moreland swarry. Maurice Blackburn,
M.H.R., heard him and drily observed
that an Aye triumph on the marketing
issue would lead to “the operation of a
State plan beyond the State and em-
power the Commonwealth to prohibit the
free movement of goods and men and
revive the old barriers which Federation
was to have abolished.” There were no
further squawks from Herron.
Parkhill’s ratification of the choice of
an American type for the factory which
is to make aeroplanes in Melbourne and
his explanation that it is vastly superior
to any available British model recall the
Liberty ’planes that were talked of so
exuberantly “when the war clouds low-
ered in 1917.” They were to have dark-
ened the skies of France and Germany ;
but they never cast a solitary shadow.
An A.E.F. major-general, writing in the
“Saturday Evening Post,” admits that his
country spent “a billion and a half on
war ’planes without having one com-
bat machine in action,” although “a
few ‘flying coffins’ were used for obser-
vation.”
Since Australian National Airways
began its Adelaide-Perth service, the
Commonwealth Railway Department
has promised a cut in east-west train
times. New £17,500 locomotives build-
ing in Maryborough (Q.) are expected
to accomplish the miracle this year.
H. S. Baker, leader of the Tas. Oppo-
sition, opened the Nat. election campaign
with a plan for compulsory unemploy-
ment insurance. Canberra has had “ex-
perts” looking into aspects of national
insurance, and the States should await
their recommendations before hawking
individual schemes round different elec-
torates ; Australia doesn’t want a col-
lection of insurance schemes as varied as
its education systems.
The Government of the three small-
in-population States have now come out
against' the referendums, and Menzies
confesses himself astonished, though as
a provincialist he shouldn’t be. The three
Governments are actuated partly by pro-
vincialist motives, and partly by the. fear
that inter-State free trade may go. Even
if “orderly marketing” is the blessing
that its champions allege—and at least
half the politicians supporting it don’t
believe in it —it is better for Australia
that these three Governments should
combine to dish it than to concert seces-
sion schemes.
The longer some people stay in Aus-
tralia, the less they seem to learn about
it. In a House of Commons debate on
the unfortunate Empire Settlement Act,
which is to be extended for 16 years,
Somerset de Chair, who spent some
time in N. S. Wales when his father was
Governor, oracularly announced that
Australia could absorb 15 immigrants per
thousand of population—about 100,000
a year. Mr. de Chair is equally positive
“the Australian public would accept the
resumption of emigration with firm
leadership from Britain.” What does the
young gentleman mean?
Jack Barnes, of the A.W.U., is to lead
another team of Victorian candidates for
the Senate. The veteran has been elected
four times (1913, 1914, 1922 and 1928)
“The aircraft-contract argument has developed into a wrestling match between ‘S. M.
Herald’s’ ‘Pertinax' and Mr. Parkhill.”
“Go it, Perty! Give him the aeroplane spin!"
and rejected twice (1919 and 1934), so he
should have learned to take ups and
downs philosophically. His running-
mates this year will be Don Came;ron,
a persistent trier hitherto always unsuc-
cessful, and Dick Keane, who was
M.H.R. for Bendigo during the two
tumultuous Scullin years 1929-1931.
What the N.S.W. Government Rail-
way Department calls the R.R.R. is an
amazing enterprise. Though, unlike
private restaurants, it has licenses to sell
liquor, and sells it on some stations after
hours (Sundays, too), which no publi-
can can do without risking his living, it
used up last year in working expenses
and profit and loss charges 99.3 p.c. of
the earnings. A profit of £5939 was
claimed. It was £927 less than the profit
claimed in 1934-35 ; though three-months’
returns from the huge joint at Wynyard
were included. Neither rates nor taxes
were paid, and “a fire insurance fund
of £1000” is held against stocks and
equipment worth £178,000.
Mr. Stevens is beginning to talk just
like a dictator. “The Loan Council must
find £12,000,000 for our electricity
scheme ; the citizens of Sydney must sup-
port the Water Board’s plan to borrow
£1 375,000 ; we must preserve ; we can-
not allow.” Who is Mr. Stevens? One
of seven Premiers whom Australia em-
ploys on a job which one man does in
Britain, Maoriland and South Africa.
Premiers strut their hour on the political
stage and are then forgotten, except pos-
sibly by ticket porters at whom they
flash their gold passes when travelling
over insolvent Government railways.
For 11 years to June 30, the N.S.W.
Government railways were run at a total
and irrecoverable loss of £29,676,970.
That is the Auditor-General’s estimate,
and it is “subject” to previous remarks
on “the inadequacy of the provision
made for depreciation and the unequal
incidence of renewals.” So far from
the deficit having been “reduced ’ in
1935-36, as alleged in Parliament, U.A.P.
newspapers and the Railway Depart-
ment, the loss was £1,498,262, “sub-
ject” as aforesaid. Auditors-General
don’t deal in blarney or bunkum.
Two Bulletin men from different
States who visited London and made a
point of inquiring what Agents-General
did reached the same conclusion —that
an A.-G.’s main duties were to attend to
loans, get tickets for deadheads and eat
dinners. Since the Loan Council arrived,
one of the main duties has vanished, and
the diminishing importance of the post
has brought fewer invitations to free
meals, so, practically speaking, only one
absurd function remains. It was thought
that the Sydney Government realised this
when it appointed A. E. Heath as “official
representative” merely, but Heath’s term
is to be extended for three years, with
restoration of the old title, and perhaps
an increased salary. It would almost
seem that Mr. Stevens expects to be
A.-G. some day.
There are four N.S.W. Senators to be
elected this year, and, out of a mixed field
of vowels and consonants, the comrades
who voted in the N.S.W. Labor ballot
have picked four As. The theory is that
the AAAA ticket will be placed first on
the ballot paper, and that this will be
“as good as 50,000 votes.” The alpha-
betical dodge has been tried before with
poor results. Actually, there is only one
elected A (Abbott) in the Senate, whereas
there are seven elected Ms (two
MacDonalds, two McLachlans, McLeay,
Massy-Greene and Millen). Electors are
not such mugs as the Sydney Trades
Hall takes them for.
Auckland’s stay-in freezing workers
landed Labor’s “official organ,” the
“Standard,” in a position nearly as awk-
ward as they did the Government. The
taking of a definite stand would have
offended the workers or embarrassed
Savage. So the “Standard” adapted the
ancient truism, “two wrongs cannot make
a right,” the wrongs being the arbitra-
tion award and the strike.
By express permission of Paterson,
Mrs. Freer has arrived in Sydney. No, not
Mrs. Freer —Leo Kelly, the negro boxer.
Though an alien immigrant who came
out under contract and was allowed to
stay in Australia for nearly 18 months,
Kelly has entered upon another appa-
rently indefinite stay. The gates that
were locked and barred and bolted
against Mrs. Freer always swing open
when a black slugger arrives.
N.S.W. is the only State which has a
Minister of Local Government, and
when a municipality is hard up and
hungry for dirt jobs there is a tendency
for the Minister to become the local gov-
ernment. Witness a hunk of evidence
from “S. M. Herald”:
At a meeting of the Central Illawarra
Shire Council it was reported that the
Minister had recommended a local pro-
gramme of works to cost £lOO,OOO, of
'which the Government would find £77,000
and the shire £23,000. It was decided to
prepare plans and specifications.
If local government is to prosper in
N.S.W. it will need to be rid of the
Minister.
While heaving rocks at Lyons and co.
apropos of the air-mail contract, the
aeroplane factory and Mrs. Freer, “S.
M. Herald” is supporting their plan of
constitutional “reform.” It protests, how-
ever, that “the referendum usually re-
veals the intelligence of the electorate in
the worst light.” This is ungracious and
contrary to fact. When a plain case that
will advance Australia is put to the
people, they are rarely found wanting.
For instance, they empowered Parlia-
ment to take over the existing Stale
debts. The politicians slept on it for
22 years; when the question was put
again in an amplified form, with pro-
vision for a national sinking fund and
prohibition of borrowing by any one
State, the voting was 2,237,391 for and
773,852 against.
Small as the powers of Canadian pro-
vincial -politicians are compared with
those of our State tribulations, they have
been abused dangerously during the de-
pression years, especially in the form of
repudiation. Australia’s recent visitor,
R. B. Bennett', suggests a Constitutional
Convention, and he declares that asserters
of the alleged sovereign rights of the
provinces are talking much as the South
Carolinians did before the U.S. Civil
War. Mackenzie King, the Prime Minis-
ter, says something will have to be done,
but he prefers the exploded device of
a royal commission.
Melbourne is finding slum abolition
easier to talk about than accomplish.
When the new Fishermen’s Bend homes
were completed, 22 Port Melbourne,
applicants were selected as tenants by
the State Housing Investigation and Slum
Abolition Board. Of the vacated Port
Melbourne houses, the local council,
which is “completely opposed to slums,"
has condemned only three. The medical
officer reported the other 19 to be in
“good order”; by this time they will
probably have new tenants. Meanwhile,
the Dunstan Government isn’t quite sure
just what demolition power it possesses.


❖ _
Caw VOL) SUPPORT MV OA.UCHT £R
f 'H COMPORT ? "
y What's That to do with you ? "
' Nice car,Jack, P/k»d porV v
"Flash Mat, Ted. Borrow it?"
f/ p
° UT ( QiD hit m«| vnmth £*. 2
OOM~r BE so iuqjjis'tWS^"
»_ , *
this ivuu You got t
" Search wis ' "
II -> l\
Are You smie o-
M , , f ti
WIELu , I You [
’ W,I - T ™ou HAN/E -TUlfe V\ vv
Why be Supe-supererogktory .
OvMrZM 7
* MeVER MIND,' G,E.T ON VnIITH the CitXME''
* Can 4 you seat this MOther? t „ e NOS£> COVn|s
want to i<ho\n what Im making; "
LAUDER STARTS SOMETHING.
“Asked what he was getting for his A.B.C. broadcast, Harry Lauder said, ‘Nobody knows, and it doesn’t concern anybody. I’m not going to say anything about it.’”


n
mm
z J
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
rojsrs
MADE IM AUSTRALIA BY
JonnHcinc
SYDNEY
£- Son Ltd
• SYDNEY
Rapraientotives:
PTY. LTD., Melbourne,, Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
Cat
m
m
M
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
February Issue on Sale Saturday.
AUSTRALIA’S FINANCIAL POLICY.
DANGER OF CAPITALISING FUTURE PROFITS.
WILL SHARE PRICES HOLD?
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
IJ
*
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 L.ittle Collins St., Melb. Cl.
• ' Melbourne’s largest, most modem hotel.
Central —next to Town Hall. Quiet —off tram
lines. Comfortable —luxurious appointments
throughout. Inexpensive—popular “Room
Only” tariff: Singles, 4/- to 7/6 per day,
Doubles, 8/- to 16/- per day. Write Dept.
825 for catalogue. _
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST NON-LICENSEU HOTtL
PERSONAL ITEMS
In the New Year honor list literature
is represented by its first D.8.E., awarded
to poetess Mary Gilmore, who is a sur-
vivor of William Lane’s XJ,topian experi-
ment in socialism in S. America. John
Longstaff now has a brother in knight-
hood in Arthur Streeton. Donald
Mackay, who spent a lot of his money
not long ago mapping parts of Cen-
tral Australia which authority should
ages ago have mapped, becomes a
C.B.E. With R. G. Menzies added,
U.A.P. Privy Councillors of Canberra
can form a bridge four without calling
on either the C.P. or Labor —there are
now six P.Cs. in Parliament. Secretary
to the Treasury H. J. Sheehan gets a
knighthood, and Inspector-General of
the C.M.F. J. D. Lavarack becomes a
C.B. The N. S. Wales list includes only
one retired Leg. Assembly clerk,
W. R. McCourt, two returned soldiers’
association executives, one medical
official of the Far West Children’s
scheme (for which the spring of royal
approval has flowed twice in the past
four years) and a couple of ladies. Vic-
toria has no knights, but S.A. makes up
for that with three—Digger member of
the Assembly H. S. Hudd, Lord Mayor
J. R. Cain and Bank of Adelaide chair-
man H. W. Lloyd. British visitor to
Australia Harry McGowan, of Imperial
Chemical Industries, returns home a
baron.
Though Albert Mitchell, of the
N.R.M.A., who is to look after the secre-
tarial side of next year’s round-Australia
motor contest, has never been over the
route, he knows his Australia. Brought
up as a newspaperman, he was one of
Sydney “Evening News’s” star reporters.
Stocky in build, serene, capable and
ALBERT MITCHELL (“Round
Australia”).
well-liked, he has few equals as
a recorder and analyser of facts and
manager of conflicting humanity. The
job of looking after the longest motor
“race” since the Pekin to Paris contest
doesn’t worry him.
N. S. Wales Governor Philip Game’s
former A.D.C., C. M. E. Gifford, who
remained in Sydney to become organis-
ing financial secretary to Prince Alfred
Hospital, arrived in England just in time
to hear that his uncle, the ancient Lord
Gifford, had died and that he had be-
come a peer with a seat in Gloucester-
shire. He will be the fifth of his line,
the first Lord Gifford having been
Master of the Rolls and Deputy Speaker
of the House of Lords when “Prinny”
was king. The third baron had some
Australian experience. After winning a
V.C. in the Ashanti show of ’73-74, he
spent three years in W.A. as an official
Legislative Councillor and Colonial 1
Secretary.
One of Queensland’s most promising
young barristers, T. A. Entriken, hds
passed on at 38. Entriken won his B.A.
at 18, spent a little while in the Crown
Law Office and then went off to prac-
tise in Townsville. He put in some time
as alderman of the Townsville City
Council.
In Sydney for a breather, Cecil Freer,
once a naval artisan and now the
Northern Territory’s best-known buffalo-
hunter. Freer has a station given over
exclusively to buffalo on the edges of
Arnhem Land. Rarely a year passes
without his heading south, but he pre-
fers the quiet of the bush.
After 58 years’ familiarity with it, Bris-
bane will no more know the dignified
form of Denis O’Connor. His first Aus-
tralian address was S.A. (1877), but a
couple of years later he went to Queens-
land. There he took to hotelkeeping,
gradually expanding his business until he
controlled several hostelries. A genera-
tion ago he was elected a director of
Queensland Brewery, and had been its
chairman since 1919. He was 80 at the
end.
“H.M.”: There was more to George
Judah Cohen than an ability to make
millions. He was 19 when his father
died without making a will, and by the
English law which then obtained in
N.S.W. the estate went to the son. But
on his twenty-first birthday George
Judah saw to the appointment of trus-
tees to whom the estate was transferred
for the nominal sum of £l, their duty
being to share the estate equally among
the members of the family. Later, when
an uncle in Liverpool (Eng.) left £300,000
equally between him and his cousin for
their use if they wanted it —if they didn’t,
for their disposal in charity—neither
touched a penny. Instead, they created
a trust which maintains hospitals, parks
and literary institutions and dispenses an
annual charity to the poor in the North
of England.
R. J. Donaldson, who succeeds foun-
dation member J. Brownlie Henderson
on the Queensland University senate,
began his career as a mining engineer
with 8.H.P., which he left to go to the
war as an Engineers major. Afterwards
he was with the Sulphide Corporation
until he went to Brisbane a dozen years
ago as Gibbs, Bright’s manager. He is
Vice-Consul for the Netherlands and
an ardent worker for various public
bodies, including the Legacy Club.
Lord Trimlestown, who passed out the
other day, belonged to one of the oldest
Norman families in Ireland—it estab-
lished itself there in 1172. He was the
eighteenth baron and a representative
peer, the title dating back to 1461. His
first wife was a daughter of R. J.
Stephens, of Brisbane. Another branch
of the Barnewall family which hails from
Crickstown Castle, co. Meath, has been
settled in Australia for a long time ; the
head of it, the eleventh baronet, John
Robert Barnewall, died at Upper Thorn-
ton (Vic.) a few months ago, aged 86,
leaving an Australian-born heir.*
Athel H. Lewis, leaving in a few days
to take over the London managership of
the Commonwealth Bank, is an Austra-
lian of many parts. Born in Vic., 1891,
educated in Launceston, got his first job
on a Speck tinmine,' recrossed Bass
Strait and became LL.M. at Melbourne
’Varsity, wrote for the “Argus” while
studying law, enlisted in 31st Battery,
was appointed courts-martial officer on
Monash’s staff, and was admitted to the
Bar on demobilisation. After that it
seems he decided to more or less settle,
down, so he took a job as the Central
Bank’s solicitor. Then he became assis-
tant-manager in Melbourne until Robert
Gibson picked him for secretary —a job
LEWIS, of the Commonwealth Bank.
he revelled in because of its breadth of
interests, especially during the stirring
depression times. Lewis plays tennis at
his home (Killara, N.S.W.), is a lieut.-
colonel on reserve, drives his wife frantic
with his collection of old books, and
refuses to swing a golf club. He is a
lightweight in appearance (as Frith’s
drawing suggests), but not in intellect.
Victoria’s new Police Commissioner
Duncan is a 48-year-old Scot who
worked his way up in London from a
constable’s beat to an inspectorship, and
a couple of years ago became head of
Scotland Yard’s romantic “flying squad.”
His leading case was the murder of Con-
stable Gutteridge by Brown and Ken-
nedy ; it was largely through his energy
that the pair ended their careers on the
gallows. Duncan is a well-set-up, youth-
ful-looking man, quiet-spoken and care-
fully dressed. He looks more like a
business head than a policeman.
J. J. Keddie, formerly headmaster of
the Notting Hill State school, is to super-
vise the expenditure of the, Dunstan
Government’s £lOOO grant for Young
Farmers’ Club work. Keddie. has been
closely associated with the work for many
years, and has kept in touch with the
more advanced N.S.W. and Queensland
activities. A feature of the Queensland
movement of particular interest to Vic.
at the present time is school instruction
in afforestation, and Keddie’s clubs will
soon be learning of erosion dangers and
how to check them.
Just when he was being hailed as a
future leader of the N.S.W. Equity Bar,
E. D. (Dave) Roper has been named
Judge of the Land and Valuation Court.
He is a son of W. J. Roper, sometime
Under-Secretary of Lands and still an
active member of the Sydney Sports
Ground Trust. The veteran has four
daughters, all married, and seven sons:
a doctor, an engineer, a bank manager,
two barristers (one is in the, Chief Secre-
tary’s Department) and two farmers.
George Roper, of Binnaway, one of the
land men—both are returned soldiers—
is on the executive of the Farmers and
Settlers and has been mentioned as a
probable C.P. candidate for Gwydir
should Abbott go to Darwin.
From an old friend of a useful Aus-
tralian :
Exit Jack Quinn, one of the finest trainers
of sheep-dogs Australia ever had, and for a
generation the Commonwealth’s leading kelpie
judge. When he was about eight his family
left Boorowa (N.S.W.), where he was born, and
took a station near Merool, and there he began
to learn how to work sheep-dogs. In 1874 an-
other move was made to a property near Coota-
mundra, and 16 years later Jack, then a master
in the art, won his first contest at Temora.
With Clyde, the bitch he used in that trial, he
founded a dog dynasty, and broke into the metro-
politan field with a win at Sydney in 1896.
A couple of years later his standby was Coil,
a blue dog which all the sheep world came to
know. Coil was awarded a full 100 points by
two judges in a Sydney trial preliminaries. That
night Coil broke a leg, but next day, with a
cork splint, the dog again had a 100-points
win. That remains a unique performance.
For some years Coil was to the dog world what
Vic Trumper was to cricket. Jack became an
international celebrity. He was a gentle fellow,
suspected by his rivals of speaking the language
of dogs. Once I was with him on Sydney
railway station when somebody was trying to
force an unwilling mongrel into a dog-box.
Porters stood about giving advice. The dog
was howling with panic. Jack walked up and
said: “Come on, boy, I’ll see you at break-
fast.” The dog had one look at him, smiled as
a dog can smile and walked into the pen. On
a 500-mile journey, Jack went to see him
several times, and each time came back devising
new means of murdering the owner. At the
end of the trip the dog had a new owner.
Jack had been through the train, found some-
body he thought would care for the dog, and
passed out a pound to the original owner.
The new captain of H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia, Hubert Dyke Acland, belongs to
an Oxford family which has given dis-
tinguished service to England. His
grandfather was Regius Professor of
Medicine at Oxford, and his father an
admiral in command of the Channel
Squadron during the Boer disturbance.
Acland —heir presumptive to a baronetcy
held by an elder brother who married
into the great W. H. Smith bookstall
firm and became one of the show’s
directors —won a D.S.O. during the war,
served for a time with Admiralty Intelli-
gence, and for the past three years has
been commanding minesweeping flotillas.
He married into another branch of the
Acland family—that which holds the
Stuart-era baronetcy of Columb-John, in
Devon, and which runs to politics on a
distinguished scale.
E. P. Askew, who becomes president
of the, N.S.W. Motor Traders’ Associa-
tion, has been connected with the trade
for 17 years. He has been on the asso-
A Motor Traders’ president.
ciation executive at various times over
a period of 10 years and for nine was
chairman of its garage section. He owns
a houseful of golf trophies.


I3n\\
m
a
in
4
m
Conveniently near
IN the business of a great modern city, time
and convenience are matters of importance
to both men and women.
The new Head Office Building of the Rural
Bank is located to effect the greatest conveni-
ence and saving of time to the largest possible
number of people. At tbe corner ol Elizabeth
Street, Phillip Street and Martin Place, it is
in the very heart of Sydney, conveniently near
to the city’s major commercial and shopping
centres. It is easily accessible to practically
everyone.
You are invited to visit our new Banking
Chamber and enquire into the convenience of
arranging an interest-bearing Fixed Deposit
or of opening a Cheque Account. You will be
given the fullest and friendliest assistance.
~ 1
RwmLßank
OF HEW SOUTH UUfILES
Head Off
Commissioners: C.
ce: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEINH RUM "MINE TINK IT BEST"
“Mat’s Mate”: The Victorian Mallee
has known some strange sights, but none
stranger than one Mat and I beheld when,
belting down scrub on a lonely ridge
miles west of Murrayville, we looked
up to see a small, dark man walking
towards us with a guitar slung from his
shoulders. That and the clothes he wore
were his sole possessions. In broken Eng-
lish he confessed to being a Mexican,
and said he had tramped from Adelaide
and was making for Mildura. He stayed
at the camp overnight, and the Mallee
heard in astonishment a silvery tenor
accompany the guitar in songs of old
Mexico. Next day our troubadour
travelled on. He had studied a map and
was striking a beeline through that waste,
a thing few Australians would attempt.
We never heard of him again.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Honi had his knife into
the John Hop on whose recommenda-
tion “a Presbyterian order” (as Honi
termed it) had been issued against him.
One day the constable espied Honi
sneaking away from the back gate of
the pub, a suspicious bulge at the hip
indicating a fratture of the law. The
John walked casually towards Honi,
who quickened his gait. The cop then
commenced to run ; Honi also sprinted.
Soon a ding-dong race developed, with
half the idlers of the village and all the
dogs following. Honi, at last overtaken
by the breathless cop, pulled out the
bottle. “Have te trink, old boy ; good
stuff!” he invited, and offered the bottle
—castor oil.
* * * *
“Hanko”: While on the subject of
scentless flowers and blossoms, it is a
fact that the olfactory sense, becomes
so suffused with the odor of some
varieties that you can’t any longer smell
the perfume. For instance, the violet
exudes a chemical component which,
after the first few sniffs, shuts off the
fragrance at the meter, so to speak.
You can’t get too much of a good thing
from the violet, and none shall weary of
it. An example among fruits is the
tomato-plant’s pungent aroma. You
can’t have a surfeit of it, either.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad came across Dave and
Choom engaged in argument. “By cripes,”
he said, “yer at it agen! Blast these
confounded Test matches! I’ll be glad
when they’re over. Then I might get
some work outa youse blokes.” “Test
matches!” echoed Dave. “We wasn’t
talkin’ ’bout. Test matches. We was dis-
cussin’ that new girl teacher. Herb here
ses her eyes is light blue. I reckon
they’re grey.” “Humph,” Dad remarked.
“You’d better stick to th’ Tests. Allen’s
blokes won’t be here as long as that girl
teacher’s likely t’ be.”
“Kriz”: Here’s nominating the in-
terior of the Beagle Bay (W.A.) Mission
church as one of the finest bits of deco-
rative work in Australia. The altar is
completely done in pearlshell, with
figures of angels fashioned from the
shell. Cowrie-shells have been made into
most realistic baskets of flowers. The
ceiling is painted sky-blue, and has pieces
of pearlshell cut in the form of stars
pasted on it, giving, especially in dim
candle light, a remarkably realistic effect.
Nobody could guess that that ceiling was
made from kerosene-tins hammered into
shape and painted!
* * * *
“Heresone”: .The fox is generally
known as a destroyer of native fauna, a
menace to the poultry yard and an occa-
sional nuisance to the sheepbreeder. Few
outside. North Queensland know that here
Reynard has developed a sweet tooth,
and is more destructive in a canefield
than rats. So much so that in some dis-
tricts farmers now plant only varieties
too hard for him to chew.
* * *
“Top Rail”: After watching half a
dozen seagulls at work on a school of
tiddiers in Sydney Harbor I’m satisfied
the birds are either highly incompetent
breadwinners or are first-class sports.
The sprats were in a blanket-size patch
rippling the surface and clearly visible,
at 40 yards to my very ordinary eyes.
With every swoop each gull got from
one to a beakful of them ; it was only
a matter of dipping them out. Yet for
every swoop the gulls each flew in a
wide sweep not less than 500 yards. It
was an extremely graceful performance
—down, snap, and then away off and
up to the right in a wide soaring curve,
as if on a charted track of air, minutes
passing before the return dive. Very
sporting, but as an effort in getting a
meal remarkably casual. As the fish
thought, passing shortly under the shelter
of a wharf.
i|C % *
“Ceion”: In Maria Creek, Innisfail
district (N.Q.), a huge barramundi was
seen floating belly up. When opened, a
syrup tin, chock-full of prawns and small
fish, was found wedged in its stomach.
That’s one way of starving to death!
* * * *
“Spare Brantome”: “Ida D.” (B.
13 /1 / ’37) asks the origin of the saying
that it is physically impossible to eat
pigeon 13 days in succession. The best
authorities attribute it to a story of the
French King Henri IV. when he was
remonstrated with by the Archbishop of
Paris on the number and variety of his
unauthorised lady-loves. Henri sighed.
“Your Grace,” he said, “is doubtless ex-
tremely fond of partridge?” On the
eminent divine admitting he was the
King went on, “But how would you like
partridge for breakfast, partridge for
lunch, partridge for dinner and partridge
for supper seven days a week —in short,
toujours perdrix ?” The good Arch-
bishop must have, been bogged for an
answer. Anyway there is no record of
his finding one.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: In windjammer days
every skipper saw that a crate of hens
was taken aboard on sailing-day to give
him—and occasionally the mates —fresh
eggs for a change of diet. For a time
the hens, fed on galley scraps, would
lay well. Then the vessel would run
into warm latitudes, the egg supply
would stop and the hens would start to
moult. Before long the ship would be
sailing into the cold latitudes again, and
the hens would start to grow a new crop
of feathers; then would corpe more
warm latitudes and another moult. The
sensible thing, of course, would have
been to have roast fowl as soon as the
first moult began, but most of the men I
sailed under kept their hens right through
a long voyage, optimistically hoping for
another supply of eggs. The best sailor
amon° animals is the pig. He keeps
fat on galley scraps and a bit of wheat
sweepings from the last grain cargo,
doesn’t seem to mind a zero temperature
as long as he’s sheltered from the wind,
and in the doldrums lies in a shady
corner and seems perfectly happy as
long as he gets a few buckets of water
sluiced overturn every hour.
# *
“Walkabout”: An argument cropped
up about the amount of whisky a man
could imbibe before becoming “over the
odds.” Quantities ranged from nips to
pints, but Kelly quickly had his wager
accepted when he said he’d bet a pound,
the loser to pay for the grog, that he’d
drink two bottles of whisky in 15
minutes and remain sober for an hour
afterwards. As a preliminary to his
swill, Kelly swallowed a cup of melted
butter, and within the allotted time
finished the two bottles. He certainly
remained on his feet for an hour after-
“Anyone can do that, conshble, but can y' toush y'r toesh?"
wards, but he paid heavily. There were
few worse cot cases in any hospital than
Kellv that nisht '
* * * »
ttT - j- • , „ tt
“Jmdivick : Have often wondered
what dragonflies fed on; now I know
one item of their menu During a storm
the air was thick with flymg-ants, and
half a dozen dragonflies performed won-
derful aeronautical evolutions as they
swept back and forth among them,
claiming a string of victims at each
swoop. The termites were right out of
luck. There were hundreds of birds of
a dozen varieties also engaged in the
business of stocking up the. larder.
* * * *
“R.H.”: “C.V.S.” is off the track
when he says (B. 20/1/’37) that the de-
ciduous myrtle of the Speck is the only
deciduous tree indigenous to Australia,
In the paddock enclosure at Randwick
(N.S.W.) is a fine specimen of the Port
Hacking “cedar fig” (Ficus henneana),
which drops its leaves in October for
about three weeks. Another starter is
that dinkum Aussie the red cedar
(Cedrela australis), now fairly scarce in
a wild state, and consequently very high
priced Thirty years ago the standard
equipment of desks and forms for N.S.W.
State schools was red cedar, and in New-
ington College and many old homes of
Sydney red cedar doors, windows, stair-
cases, etc., are still as good as ever,
There was a proposal recently to dig
out the Phoenix palms in Macquarie-
street and substitute trees, and red cedar
was mentioned because it was deciduous
and would allow the sun through in
winter. Right enough up to that point,
but overlooked was the fact that red
cedar is a brush forest tree, and in Mac-
quane-street, after getting through the few
feet of poor sandy soil on the surface,
the trees would have a diet of pure un-
adulterated rock. Another entry is the
white cedar (Meha azederach var Aus-
iralasica), common in the coastal
brush. In winter the bare branches are
covered with the seeds, which, inciden-
tally, have been proved poisonous to
pigs.
1 *■ *
Paulo”; About Fremantle in the her-
ring season Italian fishermen save the oil
from their tinned sardines, soak some
rags with it and float them in some likely
bay. After a while the seine is run
around - invariably with good results.
* * * *
Fust Blue . I lie gulf separating the
gentleman cricketer from the pro. may
be wide, but it is as a small crevice corn-
pared with that existing between the fly
fisherman and the degraded plebeian who
persists in catching his trout by hook and
worm. Camping along the Goulburn
(Vic.) recently I met a pukka sahib carry-
ing a case of trout flies of practically
every color in the spectrum. When I
asked what luck he’d had, his wrath was
terrible to behold. No gouty colonel in
an exclusive Mayfair club could have
been more indignant at the intrusion of
a cab-driver than was this sahib over a
group of youngsters fishing a little
further down. “Putrid! Positively
he £umed „ F anybo dy
£ si u bait for cate hing trout! It’s
posl g vely sacrilegious!” I regret to have
add , hat two days later a visiting
fto , of fisheries ins ’ ec tors booked the
£ jb f bagging unde rsized trout,
* & * *
“James W.”: “Roly”. (B. 30/12/’36)
wan ts to know why Binghi won’t eat a
sna k e a t has bitten itself. The answer
j s that sna fc es don’t bite themselves,
Snakes bite at anything that lands on or
near them, but never at themselves, and
if they did, with the purchase available,
the fangs would not pierce the scales,
The tiger-snake has stronger fangs and
strikes more forcefully than any other
crawler, but no one ever saw Mr. Tiger’s
trade-mark on his own carcass. Once
the venom enters the bloodstream of
any creature living, it means trouble,
No snake is proof against even his own
variety of poison, and I’ve seen a mon-
goose dead from copperhead bites,
which settles the yarn about his un-
munity. Also, Binghi doesn’t care a
hoot who kills the snakes he eats. His
beliefs do not coincide wth those of
most Aboliars. He cuts off the head
and hoes in.
AT DEADEND FLAT.
Long, long before the hoarding
Is hoisted up, affording
A clue to names and dates and this and that,
A rumor passes, speeding,
Which none may hear unheeding,
“It’s picture night next week at Deadend
Flat.”
The boy-friend comes with Nancy
(If she’s his latest fancy);
She wears her Sunday frock and halo hat.
And, unconcerned with prices,
She eats her fill of ices
The night the pictures come to Deadend Flat.
We give the leading lady
(Although her past is shady),
The tribute of our smiles and tears and
cheers;
We shout our acclamation,
And stamp with approbation,
And share the hero’s griefs and fleeting fears.
What joy that selfsame hero,
Swell guy or bandolero,
Brings to the hearts of flappers by the score!
(We’re really rather partial
Round here to Herbert Marshall,
But flapper hearts have room for dozens
more.)
And when the show is finished
Our zeal is not diminished,
We clear the hall and dance till dawn is near;
Well, yes ... in spite of strictures,
It’s just as well the pictures
Hit Deadend Flat but twice or thrice a year.
N.S.W.
MING.


“Kali”: Quaint souvenirs? An abo.
who worked on Reuben Cooper’s camp
at Coburg Peninsula carried his around
with him. It was part of his anatomy
that he had souvenired from the jaws
of a shark some years previously. He
had very little remaining of what he
described as “sit down belong this
pfelier,” and would proudly display the
bit the shark grabbed.
* * * *
“Palmdale”: I’ve noted with interest
how, in all the best films and worst
books, knocking a man out is accom-
plished by the hero with the greatest of
ease. One sharp, quick blow and the
villain passes out. Yet in all the bush
scraps I’ve witnessed and the few city
brawls I’ve seen, plus four or five
cowardly “king-hits,” I’ve never seen
anything approaching a clean K.O. a la
Hollywood.
* * * *
“Nubeena”: I can’t agree with recent
assertions that feeding poultry or stock
on seasonal herbs to produce a unique
flavor is fallacious. A southern Tas-
manian farmer experimenting with to-
bacco found that the plant grew pro-
fusely but did not ripen or mature well.
He installed a nicotine distiller and
planted 50 acres in a 70-acre paddock.
Later a mob of wethers was turned in
to graze the pasture, but soon neglected
”Hey, YOU — 'ome y' go!”
it for the tobacco. The flavor of the
home-supply mutton killed from that
flock proved so attractive that the family
were soon in the meat trade, and are
doing extra-well with their “special -
flavor” mutton.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: A farmer in South Gipps-
land, on the Victorian-Tasmanian air
route, holds that certain breeds of cattle
are affected differently when a ’plane
on the ’Bidgee, used to
swear that once the skin
dried on a frog’s back
the croaker would croak
no more. If Harry had
not passed in his
whaler’s license I’d re-
open the old argument
with him. I’ve seen
flies over. Jerseys and Ayrshires always
lift their heads to look at the machine ;
Friesians switch their tails and some-
times bellow; but Shorthorns, Devons
and Herefords take no notice whatever.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: Fowls may not be particu-
larly bright at parlor tricks, but I’d hesi-
tate to dub them brainless. Anyone who
has tried to locate where a broody hen
has decided to hatch a setting without
supervision will admit that the human
brain is cumbersome for this kind of
detective work. Watch a fowl-run when
the shadow of a hawk moves across the
ground and you’ll see an exhibition of
intelligent scattering for cover from an
air raid, and try to sneak quietly around
with a kerosene-tin without being bailed
up by hungry and indignant poultry. At
any rate, I should say chooks are no
worse than one who shoves carrots in-
stead of eggs under a likely broody hen,
which, after all, only obeys the same in-
stinct that lures chickless females of our
own species into coddling pomeranians.
“Sa Tiko”: Does any Aboliar know
how long a frog can live with a dry back?
Old “One-shirt Harry,” a notable whaler
green frogs come into Brisbane houses to
catch mosquitoes, and if their backs don’t
dry during a four-hour banquet on a
crackling hot night they never will. My
conclusion is that the back does dry and
the frog is none the worse for it. I’m
on visiting terms with scores of frogs in
several Brisbane homes, and they have
weathered the worst drought known for
years. I’ll wager that some haven’t had
their backs wet for months.
* * * *
“Golden Mile.”: Queer building
material! One of the features of the
Golden Mile is the huge conveyor-belts,
long strips of canvas and rubber 15in.
to 18in. wide. Wornout, these used
to be thrown over the dumps for any-
body to cart away. Battlers, prospect-
ing, converted short lengths of it with
big belt clinchers into substitutes for the
costly hide bucket. Others hacked the
belts into sft. lengths and built fences
around meagre vegetable patches, and
one genius built a complete house. With
studs 18in. apart, 10ft. lengths made
excellent walls, 7ft. lengths with a gener-
ous lap made a roof absolutely water-
proof, and more strips made a floor im-
possible for human feet to wear out in
a lifetime.
* * * *
“Spud”: The largest bungarra? South
Perth Zoo (Westralia) has received from
a Mullewa farmer a lizard 7ft. 6in. long,
with a head as large as a greyhound’s
and standing 15in. high. For 12 years
ii was an annual visitor to the farm. It’s
the first of its kind to find a home in
W.A.’s Zoo.
* * * *
“Hoc”: Old Joe was ill, so he sent
Bob, his faithful sheep-dog, to bring the
cows in. Bob brought them all in except
one very young calf, which refused to
budge. All the tricks known to Bob’s
noble trade left the calf unmoved, so
Bob trotted back to the homestead, to
“How many head of cattle did you put in the big paddock?”
“Pretty nigh a million, boss.”
“You mean two thousand.”
“By cri', I must ’ave missed a few!”
return a few minutes later and wag his
tail under the obstinate youngling’s nose.
The calf immediately followed Bob into
the cowyard, for Bob knew how to deal
with young calves. He had dipped his
tail in milk.
$ $ * *
“Plankton”: To produce a damper
crisp and unburned, unlike the usual
grimy, charcoal-encrusted object, grease
a sheet of newspaper, fold carefully
round the dough, and wrap up again
with another similar covering. Only the
outer paper will be scorched, and the
result is worth the extra trouble. An
old Queensland bushman passed me the.
tip.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Tarpot and his gin Fly-
paper took me fishing. We were will-
ing, but the fish gave it a miss. Fly-
paper threw a handful of dust and grit
into the water about where the floats
were bobbing. “That one all-same
schrimp jump-it about water.” She was
right: it brought the fish nosing round
our hooks. Later Tarpot showed me
how to catch fish without hook, bait or
line. About midday, when, according
to bush Waltons, fishing is dead, we
waded into a hole about hip-deep in
almost opaque water. Tarpot knew
where there was a log half-sunk in the
silt there ; if he hadn’t known it he would
have waded about until he found one —
all bush holes have rotten logs in them.
He brought up two yellow-bellies and a
black bream from that log, and his ex-
clamation of disgust told that a couple
had got away. He showed me how to
do it, and, later, I had a feed or two
from that method of fishing. The fish,
as he explained and proved, lie at mid-
day in the shadow of such logs and
doze. As they are dark, their enemies
can’t see them, but their own vision is also
limited. Sliding a hand stealthily along
each side of the log, it’s odds on getting
a fish if a man grabs as soon as he feels
scales.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Sheep are regarded
as infallible weather prophets by the
Bass Strait cray fishermen. Becalmed
off the East Sister Island, Furneaux
Group, our skipper saw the woollies
feeding in formation towards the eastern
shore. That was enough: “It’s coming
sou’-east,” he. said. “We’ll get out of
this.” And the jumbucks were right.
* * * *
“Kriz”: A dramatic moment on our
lugger off Broome. Nishioka, the No. 1
diver, was spelling on deck, while
Kyokkoh, the No. 2, was on the bottom
12 fathoms below. The Jap. “tender,”
feeling an unusual strain on the line,
eased off till there was about 80 fathoms
of line out. Two hundred yards astern
Kyokkoh’s helmet showed up, appar-
ently forced to the surface or dragged
up by the strain on the line. Being un-
able to do anything, the “tender” yelled
for assistance, so we took a hitch round
the mast, then began to travel astern,
but without getting any nearer to the
diver, who seemed to be travelling
through the water at the same pace.
Then, suddenly, the strain came off the
line, Kyokkoh dropped out of sight, and
a baby whale shook the line free,
spouted uncomfortably close and disap-
peared.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: To see the. grimmest in-
stance conceivable of the struggle for
existence one should visit during
drought a waterhole on the Mitchell
River (N.Q.) on the Brookland station
run, 26 miles from Mount Mulligan. As
the Mitchell dries up fish from above
and below are driven into the hole,
which becomes a seething mass of cat-
fish, jew, bream, tortoises and fresh-water
crocodiles, each striving to eat and not
be eaten. Think what that means when
the pool is so crowded that one cannot
throw in a stone without hitting a fish!
Around the hole strut thousands of white
cranes, ibises and jabberoos filling their
bellies. Cattle, dead and dying, lie in
the water and on the banks. Dingoes
pull weak beasts to earth and tear mouth-
fuls from still quivering flesh.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Who said snakes can’t
hear? When Mat and I were on Tapalin
(mid-Murray) we had a gramophone and
records. A carpet-snake lived under the
hut, and' every time we put on Rubin-
stein’s Melody in F that snake and a
large tarantula (so-called) appeared and
moved brightly round in circles on the
hard ground within the radius of the
hut’s lantern light. As soon as the record
was changed the performers retired. This
went on a whole summer.
* * * *
“Ynot”: Recent mention of water-
divining reminds me of an old prospec-
tor who divined and was working a patch
of osmiridium in a hill at Narrandite
(Vic.). He told me. that years of testing
in the field and in museums had proved
to him that different metals rotated the
divining rod in different directions —
silver and metals with which it is found,
away from the diviner; gold and its
allies, towards him. Two opposing
metals placed together would neutralise
each other and so “paralyse” the stick.
Finally, he confided that “in a certain
place” he had found some ore which
hurled the rod from his hands. When
I met the old chap he had just sent
some of the violent stuff away for identi-
fication. He hoped it was radium.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: Koalas on Phillip Island
(Vic.) are either foolish or cunning.
Their habit of wandering often takes
them miles from the nearest gum-tree,
and when they get tired they simply
climb the nearest post and wait for
some kind friend either to bring them
leaves or return them to the timber.
During the Christmas holidays a bear
sat on a post near Summerland golf
house, at least five miles from the near-
est gum-tree, for nearly a fortnight
before a local inspector picked it up
and returned it to the bush. I’ve seen a
koala sitting on top of a pile 50 yards
out in the sea, having perforce to stop
there until the tide went out.
AFTER THE CUT-OUT.
“Oh, boys!” she cried, “I am amused—
Yes? Fill ’em up; the same again?—
At all you’ve told me, still you’ve used
Some terms I want you to explain,
Like ‘ringer,’ ‘doodah,’ ‘snagger.’ These
Leave me, a town girl, at a loss.
So tell me what they mean, and why,
And have another on the boss.”
My mate, of course, laid back his ears
And rushed right in to have his say:
“A ringer, miss, is one who shears
About two hundred sheep a day.
A doodah isn’t quite so fast
By thirty sheep a day, or more;
My word, the time is slipping past—
The train leaves . . . when? Oh! half-past
four.
“A snagger is a man who’s slow;
He drums the shed and drags the chain —
These yours, Bill? Right, well, here’s a go!
Good luck —and fill ’em up again.
A blue tongue’s (well, I’d rather not;
All right, old man, we’ll let you shout) —
Excuse me, miss, I quite forgot,
A blue tongue’s just a rouseabout.
“The hardest, roughest sheep to shear,
The one that’s always left till last,
Is called ‘the cobbler.’ Yes, it’s clear
You’re learning lots and learning fast.
Well, just one more; the best of friends
Must part, our train is almost due .. .
Oh! we’ll be back. When? That depends.
So long, miss, and good luck to you.”
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


arivate executorship
demands sacrifice !
The demands of knowledge and sacrifice
which a private individual is asked to face
as an Executor or Trustee are such that he is
rarely, if ever, able to completely fulfil them.
Moreover, the intricacies of estate adminis-
tration often lead to the neglect of the
trustee’s own affairs.
But while the private individual may find
his appointment an intolerable burden, the
functions he has been asked to fulfil are the
everyday work of corporate trustees. If you
wish to surrender a trusteeship or act in an
advisory capacity only, consult us —an inter-
view can be arranged at any time. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited has had nearly 60 years’ experience
in the administration of Estates.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£> AGENCY COMPANY LTD
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £lO,OOO with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.;
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman', W. D. Stewart,
R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
United Insurance Co.
, To Re- Re-
ft opt., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £, £ £
1926.. 66,321 10 p.c. = 40,000 26,321 439,401
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 414,401
1927.. 66,748 10 p.c. = 42,500 24,248 438,649
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 413,649
1928.. 67,403 10 p.c. = 45,000 22,403 436,052
1929.. 66,862 10 „ „ 45,000 21,862 457,914
1930.. 68,231 10 „ „ 45,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,639 10 „ „ 45,000 478,784
Unexplained reduction, £lBl6 .. 476,968
Loss.
1932.. 12,022 5 p.c. = 22,500 442,446
Profit.
1933.. 27,140 6 „ „ 27,000 140 442,586
1934.. 49,045 74 ~ ~ 33,750 15,295 457,881
1935.. 38,569 8 „ „ 36,000 2,569 460,450
1936.. 48,454 8 „ „ 36,000 12,454 472,904
The spring of £9885 in last year’s net
earnings fitted in with market anticipa-
tions, but maintenance of the div. at 8
p.c. didn’t. The £lO shares paid to £5,
which sold at £ll 10s. before publication
of the accounts, were at £lO 16s. last
week-end. The return at £lO 16s. is 3.7
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on
his money counts on a 9 p.c. distribu-
tion, and 1.7 p.c. more than that was
netted last year. Also, with £472,409 of
reserves visibly supporting and assisting
£450,000 of share capital, and the two
combined invested mainly in Govern-
ment securities, conservatively valued
premises, deposits, mortgages and de-
bentures, appearances are that the under-
writing section of the business hasn’t got
to turn in much in order to pay a 9 p.c.
div.
For 15 years to the close of accounts
in 1927 the co. paid a steady 10 p.c.,
and handed out £325,000 of bonus scrip
as well, raising paid capital to its present
figure (£450,000). This was possible
because a run of very favorable under-
writing surpluses was available to swell
investments and the returns therefrom ;
thus the said returns, which got a little
further assistance from rising interest
rates, kept pace with the mounting divi-
dend charge. But wider policy-writing
brought heavier claims, especially in the
marine section, slump lightened premium
income, and the contraction in interest
and rents and growth of taxation affected
returns from investments. So the gift-
giving ceased about nine years ago, and
the div. dropped to 5 p.c. in 1932.
Here is a closer-up view of operating
results:—•
Net Pre-
miums, Ex- Loss - Expense
etc. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0
1920.. 287.193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1930. .*498,050 261,695 168,124 52.5 f „ 33.7 f „
1931. .*509,981 290,748 167,101 57.0 f „ 32.7+„
• 1932. .*357,836 256,408 113,450 71.6+,, 31.7+,,
1933.. *344,654 198,341 119,390 57.5+„ 34.6+ „
1934.. *325,693 144,417 132,208 44.3+„ 40.6+,,
1935. .*330,737 165,887 126,281 50.1+,, 38.1+,,
1936. .*366,755 191,806 126,620 52.3+„ 34.5+„
*lncludes interest, etc.
tßatio to net premiums plus interest, etc.
The co. has not separated its premium
from its other income for the last eight
years. However, it was the underwriting
section, mainly London marine business,
that was responsible for the mishap in
1932. when a loss of £12,022 showed up
—it was the first thing of its kind since
the beginning of this century. With the
curtailment of marine risks the loss ratio
improved. Income from other sections
expanded as conditions generally im-
proved. But, on the whole, motor-car
insurance and workers’ compensation
business have, been unprofitable. How-
ever, premiums for these risks have just
been raised a trifle.
Of last year’s income from all sources
(up £36,018), claims took £2 4s. p.c. more,
but the expense rate was £3 12s. p.c.
lower, leaving a net gain of £1 Bs. p.c.
Including £125 dropped from somewhere
into reserves, the profit was 10.7 p.c. on
capital, compared with 8.5, 10.9, 6, a loss,
9.3, 15.1, 14.8 and 14.9 p.c. back to 1928.
Assets can be taken as well worth
book values:
1930 1933. 193'). 1930.
Paid capital. . £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Sundry creditors 164,640 103,466 124,856 124,-73
G °securities . . 503,313 444,970 449,895 450,893
Ca debts, b ° etc. 323,796 284,755 306,014 323,812
Debentures .. 40,688 39,870 > „
Mortgages .. 131,729 123,444 133,<63 131,713
Premises ! ! 118,759 118,759 118,759 118, 7,>9
At the end of September last policy-
holders could see net tangibles equal to
251 p.c. of the year’s total income,
whereas 150 p.c. of net premiums alone
is usually considered adequate. The co.
is thus in a position to take care of a
much larger volume of business than it
is handling at the moment.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Loss. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
192 G. . 7,412 Nil Ao *28,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,35^
Profit
1927.. 48,486 74 p.c. = 47,723 763 141,115
Written off goodwill, £12,101 .. 153,219
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c. = 31,816 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £100,000.. 254,445
Loss.
1929.. 105,342 Nil 149,103
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500 .. 116,603
1930.. 104,435 Nil 12,168
Profit. , _ .
1931.. 64,402 5 p.c. = 31,815 32,587 44,700
1932.. 283 Nil 283 45,038
1933.. 79,995 5 p.c. = 31.815 48,180 93,218
1934.. 90.953 54 „ „ 34,997 55,956 119,174
Written off fixed assets, £20,000.. 129,174
1935.. 75,670 54 p.c. = 34,997 ]
Written off fixed assets, j- 20,673 149,847
£20,000 .. ..J ,
Written off fixed assets, £18,650 .. 131,197
1936.. 68,055 54 p.c. = 34,997 33,058 164,250
So far iamb and mutton have not been
brought within the scope of Maoriland s
Primary Products Marketing Act; but
industrial legislation in respect of hours,
wages and holidays has bumped up costs
for the freezing cos. and others, and the
demands of the taxgatherer have grown
louder and are likely to grow louder still.
Last year the Dominion exported a bit
more lamb and a bit less mutton. Com-
petition kept prices up in the crowded
Canterbury (M.L.) market, where the co.
buys its livestock. At Smithfield (EngT
where it sells the carcasses, lamb fetched
around Bd. early in the term, then the
figure eased a penny and remained fairly
steady until the close of accounts ; there
was little fluctuation in mutton prices.
The drop in the price of lamb was partly
offset by the strength of the wool, tallow
and pelt markets.
After making provision for repairs, re-
newals, taxation and sundry contingen-
cies, the year’s gross earnings were £8453
lighter at £108,964. Exes. (£40,909) were
down £B3B, leaving the net result (down
£7615) at 10.6 p.c. on capital as against
11.1, 14.2 and 12.2 p.c. for the three
preceding years. The div. was kept at
5y p.c. (the average for the last decade
was 3.9 p.c.), money being needed for
reconstruction of the Burnside works,
now practically complete and capable of
dealing with the increased supplies avail-
able in that district. Of the amount spent
on works during the year, £18,650 was
charged against reserves, making the
amount so written off during the last two
years £58,650. The renewals and re-
building reserve now stands at £30,000,
which is included with the lay-by in the
table.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £636,310 £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Debentures .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Sundry creditors,
etc/. . . . 801,954 498,850 456,778 596,958
Premises and
plant .. 780,417 774,184 708,762 668,884
S’tocks, etc. ] [ 318,239 334,997
Debtors L 720,015 456,014 1 118,840 144,314
Cash and| |
investments J L 202,090 334,325
Pukeuri deben-
tures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
The amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc. (up £140,180), includes provision for
taxation, exchange and other contingen-
cies. When the books closed money at
call and cash (together £242,800) was up
£112,750; unrealised consignments and
stocks (£334,997) were £16,758 greater.
On fixed assets £39,878 more was written
off than was spent. By making additions
to its chief earning assets, paying for
them out of earnings, and then from the
same source substantially writing down
the book value of these assets, the co. is
strengthening its position in a highly
competitive market, and, under favorable
conditions, its dividend-paying capacity,
too. Despite the outlay on fixed assets,
the year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£166,679) was £34,288.
The immediate outlook suggests that
the current year’s killings will exceed last
year’s, and prices are firm. Apart from
the possibilities of Government interfer-
ence, the future of the industry depends
largely upon the quality of the stock
slaughtered and upon what happens
when saturation point is reached in the
English market.
Doubtful as to what the future holds,
investors price the fully-paid pound
shares at par or thereabouts. Visibly
the cover is 255. 2d. in net tangibles.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
r» n at ~. ■ To Re— Re—
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves
£££ £ '
1926.. 29,744 10 p.c. = 15,000 14,744 139 513
1927.. 32,617 10 ~ ~ 15,000 17,617 157J30
1928.. 21,435 10 „ „ 15,000 6,435 163,565
1929.. 20,886 10 „ ~ 15,000 5,886 169,451
1930. . 9,528 74 ~ ~ 11,250 107 729
1931.. 8,560 5 „ „ 7,500 1,060 168J89
1932.. 17,051 6 „ „ 9,000 8,051 176,840
1933.. 13,840 7„ „ 10,500 3,340 180,180
1934.. 28,071 8„ „ 12,000 10,071 196 251
Reserves disappear, £107,677 .. 88’574
1935.. 13,533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88!e07
1936.. 18,196 9 „ „ 13,500 4,696 93,303
The wide fluctuations in profits over
the last three years are due to movements
in reserves. Unexplained addition there-
to in 1934 amounted to £16,037. In the
following year the unexplained addition
was not visible, because £107,677, which
the board said had been accumulated to
cover depreciation, was taken from the
pile of general reserves (heaped £46,251
higher than paid capital at the end of
1934) and deducted from the book value
of assets concerned. During the last
term £4500 dropped from somewhere
into the reserve for repairs and contin-
gencies (now £17,000). The addition is
included with the profit shown in the
table, making it 12.1 p.c. on capital.
That was after striking off £12,750 for
depreciation of ship property, plant,
etc. So the 9 p.c. div. was really a more
comfortable matter than the profit de-
clared by the board (£13,696, compared
with £13,532 and £12,103 for the two
preceding terms) would suggest.
The heartening feature for share-
holders is the continued expansion of
earnings, despite industrial trouble on the
coalfields early in the term. Also, the
co.’s vessels, which ply daily between
Sydney and Newcastle, were unaffected
by the inter-State shipping strike. The
length of the co.’s manifests, and there-
fore the volume of its earnings, now
depends largely upon the state of indus-
trial activity at Newcastle, where B.H.
Prop, and others in the heavy industries
are stepping along in fine style. Owing
to competition from rail, road and air
transport, the co. has decided to “gradu-
ally relinquish its passenger service,"
and, with this end in view, has ordered
a new cargo steamer, now being built
in Scotland.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1933. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Capital . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 9,895 11,921 16,659 19,673
Ship property 187,242 184,812 67,502 99,577
Freeholds, etc. 15,279 15,201 2,150 1,650
Plant, stores, etc. 9,287 7,619 5,296 5,209
Book debts .. 13,509 15,661 19,328 20,591
Consols, cash,
etc. .. 120,008 141,629 167,740 142,700
The spring of £32,075 net in the book
value of ship property reflects payments
in connection with the new steamer. To
meet the outlay Consols, cash, etc., were
drawn upon for £25,040. The year’s
shrinkage in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£143,618) was £26,791.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares, covered by 325. 6d. in net tan-
gibles (book value), at 48s. 9d. as against
40s. 3d. a year ago. The return at 48s.
9d. is 3.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis, or
4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution. For the
dozen yq,ars to the end of 1929 the co.
paid a steady 10 p.c., sweetened with
£20,000 of bonus scrip.
R. Fowler, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Di vi dends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 18,437 4000 8 p.c. = 16,631 16,136
Establishment exes, new factory, £1793.. 11.343
1928.. 3,258 4000 Nil 13.601
1929;. 8,779 4000 Nil 4779 18,380
Exes, capitalised, £457 .. .. •• 17,9-3
1930.. (L 760 2000 Nil
Profit on sale of property, £923.. .. I°'°?”
Deficit.
1931.. 22,339 Nil Nil 12,253
1932.. 12,031 Nil Nil 24,284
Profit
1933.. 4,152 Nil Nil 4152 20,132
Assets written down, £79,868 .. •• 100,000
Capital written off, £lOO,OOO .. ‘ ’ Reserves.
1934.. 12,098 2800 2 p.c. = 3,125 6173 6,173
Capital reserve, £703 .. •• *•
1935.. 17,771 2800 5.2 p.c. = 7,812 7109 14,03»
1936.. 19,616 2800 6.2 „ „ 9,375 7441 21,4.6
Shareholders are in a better position
than at any time since the co. took over
R. Fowler’s business in 1919. Tiles,
bricks and pottery are turned out at
Marrickville and Hornsby (N.S.W.) and
Thomastown (Vic.). Slump caught the
co. carrying a burden of overvalued plant
and subsidiary interests. When the busi-
ness became profitable again in 1933, it
was put on a more even keel by recon-
struction of the capital account—Bs. per
share (= £100,000) was lopped off each
of the 250,000 ords., leaving them paid
to 125.; arrears of pref. divs. (£12,200)
were cancelled, and the rate was re-
duced from 10 p.c. to 7 p.c., with the
right to advance with the ords. from the
lower to the higher figure. The recovery
in home-building, etc., was soon reflected
in earnings, and, after a six-year drought
and the loss of capital already referred


m
INCINERATOR
1 he quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
■HI
w
m
$
SCHWEPPES...
146 NOT OUT
By the Special Cricketing Correspondent
Schweppes with their wonderful reputation are doing
better thqn ever this year. As summer advances their
“deliveries” are getting faster and faster. That
Remarkable Indian member of the team, Tonic, is
'always brisk and lively and has scored all round,
displaying tremendous coolness at heated moments.
“Ginger” Ayle alsp well merits his position. His
class can be judged by the fact that yesterday four
in succession were taken in five minutes. His work
in the gully is wonderful.
Schweppes’ refreshing innings nearly came to an
end about 10 p.m., when that sparkling newcomer to-
the team, S. Palato —in partnership with that spirited
fellow Ginn was almost stumped by Law off License
in trying for a quick single. They are still not out,
however, having carried the score up to 146 . . .
from 1790 to 1936.
.
TT-r^/
asdf
PA LA JO
*•' 'dkotAyfe t/uxt faa£a&s
to, the ords. got back into the picture
with a 2 p.c. div. in 1934. The rate has
increased each year since, and so has the
margin of payments to the prefs.
Turnover continued to advance during
the last term. After allowing for depre-
ciation and taxation, the declared net
result was £1845 better at' £19,616, or
enough to show 10.3 p.c. on the £190,000
of share capital. The prop for capital,
however, is none too stout, so the prefs.
were handed their minimum require-
ments and a point was added to the ord.
div., making it 6.2 p.c.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances:
1931. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £290,000 £290,000 £190,000 £190,000
Liabilities .. 90,397 87,140 53,937 45,607
Freeholds and
plant .. 246,644 234,645 187,304 179,789
Stocks .. 59,422 55,380 54,755 55,925
Sundry debtors 27,365 33,298 21,925 27,362
Shares in other
cos. .. 34,652 33,610
Cash, etc. .. 60 75 75 95
The year’s better trading is reflected in
growth of £14,957 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£37,775). An expansion
of £5437 in debtors’ balances and of
£ll7O in stocks was accompanied by a
contraction of £8330 in the amount com-
ing to outsiders. On fixed assets £7515
more was written off than was spent.
As for the current term, the outlook
on the demand side of the business is
satisfactory, but costs are on the up-
grade, and the Tariff Board has yet to
submit to Parliament its report and re-
commendations on the pottery business.
At 245. 3d. the pound prefs. return
5.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. Their
minimum annual requirements were
nearly eight times covered by last year’s
profit. The 125.-paid ords. at 13s. sd.
yield 5.5 p.c. on a 6.2 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover is £5 ss. 9d. prefs. and
13s. 9d. ords., mostly in fixed assets,
worth what they can earn.
National T., E. and A. Co. (Melb.)
To
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 5502 12 p.c. = 4500 t r -i
To superannuation, £lOOO l i
1927.. 5653 12 p.c. = 4500 f
To superannuation, £lOOO j 1 8
1928.. 5553 12 p.c. = 4500 * ~
To superannuation, £lOOO ] 08 81, ' ( ‘
1929.. 5578 12 p.c. = 4500 t 7a arr
To superannuation, £lOOO f ‘ 8 84,888
1930.. 4618 12 p.c. = 4500 118 31,973
1931.. 3874 10 „ „ 3750 124 32,097
1932.. 4254 10 „ „ 3750 1 4 - 101
To superannuation, £5OO j 4 88 ’ 1
1933.. 2425 6 p.c. = 2250 175 32,276
1934.. 2460 6 „ „ 2250 1 _ Qs „
To superannuation, £5OO j ’ BO
1935.. 2931 6 p.c. = 2250 1 77 „„ „„„
To superannuation, £604 J /,UOB
1936.. 2823 6 p.c. - 2250 573 32,636
The National does not disclose the
volume of trusts in hand, but the board
says the number of new estates entrusted
to the co.’s care last year was a
record, and their aggregate value was
above the average of recent years.
Together with the strengthening of real-
estate and security values and abolition
of the special tax (recently 5 p.c.) on
income from property, it all augurs well
for future earnings. The slight contrac-
tion in last year’s net profit need, there-
fore, occasion no anxiety.
After providing for contingencies,
interest, rents, commissions, etc., turned
in £24,103, down £250. Exes. (£21,280,
including £319 written off office furniture)
were £142 lighter, leaving the net result
7.5 p.c. on capital as against 7.8 p.c. for
the previous term. The div. was kept at
6 p.c. For 22 years to the close of
accounts in 1932 shareholders averaged
10.5 p.c., sweetened with £7500 of bonus
scrip.
The market, disappointed at the board’s
delay in proceeding with the new build-
ing programme, prices the £2 shares paid
to 10s. at 17s. as against 19s. a year ago.
The return at 17s. is 3.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis, or 4.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribu-
tion. The cover is 18s. Bd. in net tan-
gibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £37,500 £37,500 £37,500 £37,500
Liabilities .. 50,947 49,169 49,674 49,870
Public securities,
cash, etc... 10,400 10,000 10,000 10,000
Freeholds .. 108,474 108,424 108,424 108,424
Other assets.. 3,999 2,887 2,732 3,026
Liabilities include an overdraft of £32,660
—the co. went to its bankers to buy
adjoining premises in 1927, the intention
then being to put up a block of modern
offices and increase the return from
rentals as well as provide the co. with a
more imposing looking home. Before
a start could be made, slump intervened.
Operating results of Kuala Lumpur, a
Melbourne-controlled co. which is work-
ing ground near Kalumpang (F.M.S.),
compare as follows over the last three
years:—
1934.* 1935. f 1936. t
Treated, yards .. 726,519 908,005 1,304,672
Tin yield, tons .. 223.744 285.355 326.930
Value, per yard . . 12.079 d. 11.433 d. 8.2 d.
Cost, per yard .. 5.175 d. 6.089 d. 4.57 d.
Profit .. .. £21,908 £20,930 £20,814
Dividends . . .. 15,030' 20,040 20,040
* Only No. 1 dredge operating,
t Only No. 2 dredge operating.
The increase in last year’s yardage was
due partly to easier ground and partly to
the improved condition of the dredge,
which was laid up for six weeks at the
beginning of the term for extensive over-
haul and installation of new units. For
the same reasons costs were per
yard lighter, but the ground averaged
only .561 b. t.o. as against .7041 b. for the
previous term. There was little change
in net profit, all but £774 of which was
handed out in two Is. divs. Another
shilling has been paid since the close of
accounts. Prospects are encouraging. No.
1 dredge (capacity 60,000 tons monthly),
which ceased operations in October,
1934, is to be reconditioned in order to
work the shallower low-grade ground
contained in the eastern section of the
property; the price of tin is up, and the
standard quota has been raised. At the
end of October the co. held 853 acres,
containing 35,000,000 c.y. of .81b. ground,
plus 252 acres of low-grade stuff.
* * * *
Because new plant and reorganisa-
tion of equipment called for more money
than was anticipated, and to help finance
development of an important new ore-
body, recently located between the main
tunnel and the Lady Brassey shaft in
an area previously regarded as over-
burden, Mt. Morgan, Ltd., is offering
those on the register 120,000 new 2s. 6d.
shares by tender in parcels of not fewer
than 100. The issue is too small, the
board says, to make a pro rata (1 for
18) distribution. Paid capital is now
£278,000 in 2s. 6d. shares, which are
fetching 17s. or thereabouts on the
market as against 14s. 9d. three months
ago. To ascertain the size and value of
the new ore-body, a nine months’ pro-
gramme of diamond-drilling, driving,
crosscutting and sinking on the 285 ft.
and lower levels will be necessary. On
the 285 ft. level the new make has been
traced for a distance of 380 ft. without
delimiting it at either end. Greatest
width to date js 105 ft.; assays average
6.9dwt. The new oxidised-ore treatment
mill (capacity 800 tons per day) has com-
menced its trial run, and is reported to
be giving satisfaction, and so is the new
3500 kw. turbo set and pulverised-fuel
boiler unit. The co. expects to resume
payment of dividends at the rate of about
per share in March.
* * * *
On the Hodgkinson goldfield (N.Q.),
noted in the ’eighties for its 27 pubs
which did a roaring trade on the strength
of Boz. and lOoz. crushings, the old
Tyrconnel, richest of the early-day mines,
has been reopened by Hodgkinson Gold
Development Syndicate, and a fair ton-
nage of ore has been developed on No.
6 level (493 ft.) —1000 tons is ready for
crushing. The syndicate is also busy
on the General Grant line of reef, an-
other rich producer years ago.
* * * *
Kelsey Creek Gold Mines, representing
chiefly southern interests, has taken over
the Duffer and Scorpion, Kelsey Creek
(N.Q.), and is busy installing plant, ex-
peeled to be in operation in a couple of
weeks. The Duffer has yielded £7OOO
worth of gold from 140 tons ; the only
crushing at the Scorpion returned
from 1| tons. The ore-shoot has been
opened up for about 700 ft and four
shafts have been sunk to 80ft.
* * * *
At Upper Ulam, near Bajool (Q.), a
lode formation up to 3ft. in width has
been traced over a length of 200 ft. and
to a depth of 70ft. at the Welcome Spin,
Over the last couple of years 57 tons of
picked stone was crushed for an average
of 18dwt. Geologist Reid considers that
a three-head battery is needed, and that
the lode looks like averaging at least
* * * *
Since Nov. last South Gordon has
crushed 240 tons from the Nil Desperan-
dum at Inglewood (Vic.) for 9400 z. of
gold, exclusive of sands. The two latest
crushings, mostly picked ore, were 25
tons for 2500 z, and 75 tons for 6770 z.
The co. intends to exercise its option, and
will then have approx. £4OOO in hand.
The ore is coming from a reef, width not
stated, 190 ft. long at the 150 ft. level,
where the ore-body is pitching south into
water. The make has been proved pay-
able for 7ft. over level and sft. under
level, and good values are also expected
below water level (185 ft.). Inspector of
mines W. Kingston says there appears
to be an ore-channel of undetermined
width ; ore now being developed is near
the centre and dipping west, makes
coming in at all angles. At the inter-
section of these the main vein spreads
from a few inches to several feet.
Owing to the delay caused in reaching
production through replacement of the
faulty bucket-band in July, and to re-
fusal of the insurance people to meet
| oss > Cocks Eldorado is asking those
°*} register for more. Holders of the
250,000 issued shares at Feb. 6 are to
offered a further 25,000 10s. shares at
P ar - Since operations recommenced on
N° v - l 2 . the dredge is reported to have
oeen doing all asked of it; recoveries
are Approving, and an early div. is ex-
Continued decrease in’he grade of ore
in the east lode in its main w b orkings was
the c hi e f reason f or the fall in Wiluna’s
profits. Geologists were emphatic that
there was no change in geology or
characteristics of the ore-body that ac-
counted for the grade falling to the ex-
tent it had. Results recently obtained in
developing the east lode in deeper ground
suggest that this ore-body might be
emerging from the poorer zone. To
counteract the effects of the setback
caused by the drop in values, operations
have been speeded on the Bulletin and
Happy Jack blocks, at the north end of
the co.’s extensive holding, and good
results have been obtained. Other diffi-
culties affecting profits were experienced
in the change-over from cyaniding to
smelting, but these troubles are being
rapidly overcome,
.*, * * *
.* end October, the sheet of
Hit Lady Shenton’s near neighbor
(W.A.), showed plant expenditure, £5768 ;
development, £4483 ; payment to
vendors > £15,332; mine operation and
9 dier ouda y, £17,141 ; purchase of addi-
donal ground, £500; money received, in-
cludin§ proceeds from calls, £44,787. At
d4e c ? - s ff rs l annual 1011-up in Perth last
™ onth ’ one shareholder strongly criticised
, th r e directorate and secretary, and then
left Another moved that inspectors be
a PP°mted by contributing shareholders,
{“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


HERE’S YOUR GREATEST
bkoftf Ruilde/i
m
\
V
xi
m
H T-85.30 36
because it
gives you
LOWER
RUNNING
COSTS
© Sturdy ARMOURED
WALLS protect the tread
and casing.
• Twin BEAD WIRES give
greater stability on rims.
©Greater CONSTRUCT-
IONAL STRENGTH en-
sures more miles of safe
service.
were
w
an
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
THE STRONGEST TOUGHEST TRUCK TYRES MONEY CAN BUY
Invest Soundly
in 20
“Listed” Companies
gpR SZCU&irp
By buying
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
you apply the SAFETY-FIRST principle of “wide diversification”
by spreading your funds over the shares of 20 of Australia’s
strongest and soundest Companies, all listed on ’Change.
Your investment, moreover, is safeguarded by
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney,
as Custodian Trustees. It is also realisable at any time.
For further details and application forms,
apply to
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294. BOX 4028V.V., G.P.O.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
jgjl 111 I
*
■
••
PACIFIC
CANADA
and
ATLANTIC
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA amA. AORANGI "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD. '&
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
but couldn’t get a seconder. The chair-
man said that the tonnage must be in-
creased to reduce costs, that the plant
was not a collection of old iron, as some
critics alleged, and that the mine had not
cut out of ore, as others hinted. He ex-
pressed satisfaction with the outlook, but
didn’t say anything about dividends. The
manager admitted that costs (£4 a ton,
including development) were very high,
but argued that small mines couldn’t
hope to compete with big ones in pro-
duction expenditure.
* * * *
Results from four bores, involving
3978 ft. of deep drilling, have convinced
a London co. that in the old Han-
nan’s Reward and Mt. Charlotte, at
the west end of Kalgoorlie (W.A.), it has
two mines destined to become impor-
tant gold-producers. The drill indicated
the existence of a large ore channel,
carrying payable core values. Cash in
hand is said to be. sufficient to reopen the
properties and expose enough wealth to
attract further capital. In the early days
the properties were worked to 500 ft.
They were profitable near the. surface,
but not at depth. Gold at a premium
of over 100 per cent, and modern treat-
ment methods are expected to tell a dif-
ferent tale.
* * * *
Comet, Marble Bar (W.A.), in which
Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance and
another of the De Bernales group
are the principal shareholders, continues
to yield astonishingly good results. In
the east and west shaft workings, at a
depth of 30ft., stuff worth ounces to the
ton is being mined. Latest estimate of
wealth in sight is a quarter of a million.
Preparations are being made to dig
deeper.
* * * *
Yellowdine Options (W.A.), which
began milling in July last, had crushed
about 5000 tons to the end of December.
Cyanidation was commenced on Nov. 1,
and by the end of the year 1024 tons
had been leached. Both plants are giving
satisfaction; returns not stated. Recent
developments suggest that the future of
the co.’s mine as a payable venture hangs
by a slender thread.
* * * *
W. V. J. Higgs has just put out another
(the 15th) edition of his valuable Interest
and Redemption Tables for Australian
Consolidated Loans covering 1937. It
includes the new 3| p.c. loan, maturing
Nov. 15, 1951.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation survevs, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
H= * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENS’OMETER,” a portable testing machine—in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
1
I
111
liiiii
iti
IH
in
Hi
11!
-
wmm
II
m
-
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
_“lt’s a wonder more women don’t take up
angling,” says a noted fisherman.
What ?
4 4 4 4
“Some Coronation mugs are of expensive
design.”
Some vulgar taxpayer wrote that.
4* 4* 4 4
“Tramcar collides with straying camel.”
— “S.M.H."
So at last the twain have met!
4* 4* 4 4*
“Is a car worth the trouble to the average
man?” asks a writer.
It wouldn’t seem so, when you reckon
that you walked home from work so
that you could save car fares to buy a
“ Cripes , this'll be six munce
without the option if they
find we pinched this car!"
car so that you could save car fares to
buy petrol to run the car to save car
fares!
4 4 4 4
A Dash of Bitters.
Blessed are the meek, for they shall be
doormats for the arrogant.
The youth a man used to be wonders
at his misspent age.
Congratulations to anyone whose life
has not resembled a nonsense novel.
A curious hypocrisy of our time is
the mixture of high aims and low cun-
ning.
Norman Lilley.
4 4 4 4
“Harry Lauder tells of a Scotsman who
played the bagpipes for 72 hours without stop-
ping.”
Probably had them on three days’
free trial.
4 4 4 4
The three words most conducive to
peace in this world are “Yes, my dear.”
4 4 4 4
“How wooden some of those social parties
of a previous generation were! ”
—“Sunday Sun.”
And how stony many to-day!
4 4 4 4
“Motoring robs you of essential exercise,”
says a physical culturist.
Unless, of course, you’re a pedestrian.
4 4 4 4
“No dyspeptic has a sense of humor,” says
Sir Bruce-Porter.
It’s anything but funny to him when
anyone repeats a joke.
“He removed the cook from the bottle.”
—Short story.
Wouldn’t it have been simpler to re-
move the bottle from the cook?
4 4 4 4
“I don’t believe in preparing for war,” says a
writer.
Evidently determined to remain a
bachelor.
4 4 4 4
“His knowledge of horses did not prevent
him from going broke.” — “D.T.”
Another man who was pony-wise and
pound foolish.
•J*
Whisky by Music.
An American scientist says that
whisky subjected to music for seven
hours is equal to liquor aged in the wood
for four years. Why, that was the
original way of making whisky!
In Scotland in the days when men
liked their liquor young and robust and
sneered at stuff that had become senile
in the wood, one simply poured barley
water, in which a rusty claymore had
been steeped, into the bagpipes, played
a pibroch, pulled out the choke, and
had one’s whisky.
There is a pseudo-scientific touch
about the American announcement to
the effect that the music used in the jazz
type of distillery is high pitched, pro-
ducing vibrations of 1200 cycles to the
minute. Any thirsty bagpipe-player in
the old days could produce vibrations
equal to those of 10,000 cycles without
tyres being ridden over gravel. And
they did it, mind you, without any
scientific training.
The old Scotch music-liquor for-
mula Was straightforward and honest.
It was the whisky that counted. Nowa-
days people make-believe that it’s the
music that matters, whereas the truth
is that without the whisky nobody could
stand the music.
Angus O’Cohen.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Bones are turned into beauty in Berlin.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Elsewhere the reverse, seems to be the
craze.
4 4* 4 4
“Tests have shown that 10 elephants can stand
on the wings of a modern air-liner without
causing them to collapse.”— News item.
Strict care, however, should be taken
to prevent any more from climbing on.
4 4 4 4
A Great Idea.
Via the flapper press comes an item
about an American who developed a
great longing to see the world, but could
never rake the necessary together. As a
partial gratification to the wanderlust that
was eating him up he sent his hat off on
a tour of three or four continents, entrust-
ing it to air-pilots of international lines,
and duly received the hat back.
Don’t snigger. That American has
pointed a moral for our politicians with
itching feet. Think of what it would
mean to our Treasury if we could induce
them to send their hats on trips! And
what the hat covers would never be
missed, anyway.
D. McM.
“The girl of to-day is equal to almost any-
thing at a pinch,” says a writer.
And out on her own when it comes
to a squeeze!
4* 4* 4* 4*
She sat on the steps in the eventide,
Enjoying the balmy air;
He came and asked could he sit by her
side,
And she gave him a vacant stair.
Doce.
“Thought it Was one of them patent cigarette-lighters."
“I have heard that lukewarm tea and coffee
are a certain cure for something. Can you tell
me what it is?”— Correspondent.
Yes —unwanted visitors!
4 * -i* *
According to Custom.
I’m a suburban retailer and, business
being none too brisk lately, I’m hold-
ing a “closing down”
sale. I’ve pasted
bright “going-out-of
business” signs
across my show
windows, pinned re-
duced-price tags to
all articles displayed
and engaged three
extra blondes to
cope with the rush.
That should clear
all my old stocks
out and allow me
to take advantage of
the recent big warehouse fire sale.
P. C.
•J* -■ A ifr '.\
“After a drinking bout my husband left me.”
—Divorce evidence.
Ale and farewell!
The Question.
Could a man be wild,
Long as was the wait,
When she said, and smiled,
“Am l late ?”
Time and time again
Looks the most irate
Smoothed to that refrain:
“Am I late?”
Old, but winning through,
Now she’s at the Gate,
Asking Peter, too:
“Am I late ?”
Y.
More of the Popular Novelist’s Stock
Phrases Explained.
“He felt that his love could move
mountains.” —A polite way of saying that
she was about 2301 b. in the buff, seven
hammer-handles in the beam, with an
arm like an Irish navvy’s, eyebrows like
an Indian colonel’s moustache and voice
of a heavy baritone. In short, a master-
ful woman capable of blasting her way,
literally, figuratively and vernacularly,
across a continent.
“Her acceptance put him in a trans-
port.”—This phrase could not, of course,
be used in any novel which has its set-
ting in Queensland or N.S.W., where the
hero would find that if he went in for
any sort of a transport, and particularly
a motor-driven one, he would be up for
about twice the value of the vehicle in
annual taxes, and if he carried goods or
a friend in it he might even be up on
every charge short of murder and arson.
“Her voice soared like a lark.” —A lark
being a sort of joke, this phrase is self-
explanatory.
“She moved with a regal dignity.’' —
Readers should not fall into the common
error of thinking that this concerns de-
portment. It succinctly conveys that the
lady is not a moonlight flitter, and that
she is not transferring her household
goods from one of those plebeian
suburbs where neighbors hang over the
fence as the pantechnicon loads up and
confide to each other that the furniture
was bought only a week ago on t.-p.
from Ruffazbagg’s, and that she must be
taking the knock. In other words, she
is either bound for or leaving a “naice”
suburb.
“He wheeled around and spoke.” —
The two terms in this phrase are synony-
mous, and adequately convey the mean-
ing. After all, spokes and wheels are as
inseparable as politicians and free ocean
voyages.
“He ripped out a startled oath.” —
Only oaths that have previously been
thoroughly startled can be ripped out.
The type of oath that cannot be stam-
peded just meanders nonchalantly out
of its own accord, absolutely chock-full
of confidence in its effect on the oathee.
For the modus operandi of the ripping
out of oaths, particularly full-blooded
oaths, apply to The Bulletin’s Service
Department.
“His passion burned in his veins like
fire.” —Burning passions can be lit only
by flames. If the hero is single, it will
be a new flame ; if married, an old one.
“She was by this time a little
hoarse.” —A phrase denoting the unmar-
ried state of the heroine. It is after
marriage that she will develop into a
real nag.
“Fergus's features were finely cut.” —It
is obvious that Fergus has been either
(a) shaving with a blunt razor, or ( b )
trying to remember what his wife is tell-
ing him while he’s negotiating the upper
lip, viz.: that' she wants him to go to
Anthony Florderns’ and get her fyd. of
29in. wide elephant’s-breath shade of
slub rep at 6s. a yard, and how
much will it be?
“Time hung heavily on his hands.” —
A snappy description of a journeyman
pickpocket entering the premises of his
“fence” after having attended a pro-
cession.
S. W. K.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Offices Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
CERRARD SERVICE
Wire Tying Machines — Wire-Seal Strapping— Flat Band Strapping
Corrugated Fasteners Fountain Stencil Brushes Fountpencil
Address Markers Automatic Label Tackers—Tack Strip for Automatic
Label Tackers— Conveyors Packing Equipment
GERRARD TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. Lit).
m
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, PertH, Adelaida, Hobart
Will ijou see their
happiness with Pride?
Picture a family re-union in
days of the future . . the happy
atmosphere of success . . your
children grown up . . fulfil-
ment of your hopes. Education
and the finer things of life
which financial stability makes
possible, can be secured by
Insurance with this Company.
PRoßlffi
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L T .»
Head, Office—37l-373. Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel mace, ■ Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
K, V. PERKINS, General Manager.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Emperor Shares Go Gay
Emperor (Fiji) 10s. shares sold up to
21s. 3d. last week, the market expecting
much when the big mill gets going.
The plant should be right; but it will be
a change from general Australian ex-
perience if initial large-scale operations
don’t take the smile off the faces of
optimistic punters. On last week’s
quotation nearly £1,600,000-worth of
gold in excess of all mining and milling
costs has to be produced before share-
holders will see more than their money
back out of the show. Some holders
seemed quite happy to accept last week’s
quotes ; 27,500 shares officially changed
hands in five days in Melbourne. No
other stock came within coo-ee of it for
activity. Highest quote for the scrip has
been 285., shortly after flotation ; lowest
(it came after the “high”) was 9s. Bd.,
just about this time last year.
E. G. Theodore, one of the vendors of
the property and now managing director,
expects the new mill to start about Sep-
tember this year, and to deal with 150,000
tons of ore p.a., with recoveries of 9dwt.
Such recoveries have been achieved on
the milling of about
27,500 tons p.a. al-
ready. With costs at
17s. 6d. Aust. a ton
(mining, milling, de-
velopment and over-
head) a net profit of
£408,750 Aust. a year
is estimated by Mr.
Theodore. It will be
a handsome profit if
realised.
Mr. Wallace H.
Smith, chairman of Emperor’s directors,
has spoken of the co. “having” 750,000
tons of oxidised ore —that is, half a ton
of ore for every issued share, of which
1,500,000 are out. On a 150,000-ton-p.a.
throughput the estimated life of the oxi-
dised zone is five years, after which
“nearly the whole of the plant installed
for treating the oxidised ore will be suit-
able for the sulphide mill.”
Wiluna, a low-grade show in West-
ralia, treating sulphide (hard) ores at the
rate of about 570,000 tons a . year, has
succeeded, after several years’ opera-
tions, in bringing working costs, exclud-
ing overhead, but including development,
down to around 21s. Aust. per ton—about
3s. 6d. a ton above ML Theodore’s esti-
mate for Emperor, which includes over-
head. Emperor’s immediate ore is said
to be oxidised, which will perhaps make
it free-milling ; and mining costs differ
according to the nature of properties
and the type and cost of labor. Open-
cutting has been mentioned in Emperor’s
case.
But that 17s. 6d. a ton seems a fine es-
timate is indicated by comparison with
Wiluna’s results. All-in costs at Mt.
Morgan (Q.) in 1935-36 were near
225. a ton. If we turn to the Rand
mines in S’Africa we find Consolidated
Main Reefs putting through 1,542,500
tons (4.ldwt.) in 1935 at costs of 21s. Id.
sterling a ton; Daggafontein, 1,391,900
tons (s.9dwt), costs 20s. 2d. ; East Rand,
2,303,500 tons (4.4dwt.), 21s. 6d.;
Modder B G.M., 1,057,000 tons
(3.5dwt.), 14s. 2d. ; New Modderfontein,
2,242,000 tons (4.Bdwt.), 14s. 2d. The
last two appear to have, the lowest costs.
Other profit-earning Rand shows (Sub
Nigel, for instance) have costs as high
as 335. 7d. per ton, with ore going
15.5dwt. The average Rand cost is 18s.
lid. Costs of Golden Plateau (Q.),
according to Mr. Wallace Smith, were
28s. Aust. in 1935. New Occidental’s
working exes, at Cobar (N.S.W.) were
41s. 6d. in the first half of last year,
335. Id. in the second, excluding develop-
ment.
Wiluna’s mining profit in 1935-36 was
£439,894 (Aust.). The figure will be
down somewhat during the current year,
because of lower-grade ore and cost of
changing over to the new smelters.
There are prospects of considerable re-
covery later on, however. On last
Thursday’s London quotes the big,
proved Westralian show was valued on
the market at £2,925,000 Aust.—only 50
p.c. higher than Emperor’s market valu-
tion.
Some people can afford to gamble;
others can’t. At present the Emperor
has still to justify !he potentialities
claimed for it.
The best buys on the sharemarket at
present are Cumberland Paper first prefs.
“Why did you forge this cheque for seven hundred and seventy-seven
pounds?”
“Seven s my lucky number , y'r Honor!”
at 325. 6d., seconds and thirds at 31s.
These shares are really preferred ordi-
naries. They get first cut out of the
profits up to 6.2 p.c., and then participate
with the ords. in any surplus after the
latter have received 6.2 p.c. The prefs.
participate in new share issues also. The
prefs. in Cumberland actually represent a
better investment than Australasian
Paper ords., which are near 375. on the
market. A 6| p.c. div. from Australian
Paper Manufacturers* in which both
holding cos. are interested (B. 27/1/‘37),
would be enough to pay only 4.8 p.c. on
A.P. ords. (after satisfying its prefs.), as
against the minimum 6.2 p.c. on Cum-
berland prefs. A yield of about 5 p.c.
is to be got on the three classes of scrip
at present.
Sydney mining investors may now buy
an interest in Pato Consolidated, one of
Placer Development’s Colombia (S.
America) associates. With 500,000,000
yards of gravel indicated or probable,
chairman C. A. Banks predicts that the
co. will develop into one of the world s
largest dredging enterprises. Good
profits from one dredge are already being
won ; plans for large-scale production are
going rapidly ahead. Placer recently
put 50,000 dollar shares in Pato ■on
the Australian market at 13s. a share.
The scrip is not yet listed, but unofficial
dealings have been at prices ranging from
16s. to above 18s.
* * *
Most base metals firmed again towards
the end of last week, electrolytic copper
lifting to £57 10s. sterling, and lead to
over £27 ; spelter slipped a little, stand-
ing at £2l 16s. The sharemarket showed
small response, which might be an in-
dication of growing intelligence; one
day’s or one week’s prices mean little or
nothing in a year’s mining operations.
Prices for Barrier stocks as they now
stand need big metal prices to justify
them ; South scrip is at nine times par
value, North at 15 times. The mines
must be highly profitable just now;
North should be well able to distribute
divs. equal to 1} times its capital this
year. Mt. Lyell £1 shares steadied at
425. 6d. The highest sale in post-war
times was 455. lOd.
sfc Hf * :Je
In the prospectus of Atlanta Films,
Ltd., criticised B. 6/1 /’37, an attraction
held out to investors were figures re-
lating to results from British film-pro-
duction. Recent cables received in the
Commonwealth have it that the British
industry “is facing a crisis owing to
losses totalling £2,000,000 in the past
year. Two banks are refusing more
loans, and a receiver is likely to be
appointed to take over the affairs of one
big group of producers.” “Large profits”
of Gaumont-British Pictures have been
heard of ; the amount for the last year
was £715,514, which, after deprecia-
tion, debenture interest' and pref. divs.
had been attended to, left only £196,756
(8.6 p.c.) for ord. shareholders, and, as
£200,000 had been set aside for possible
losses on the U.S.A. market, no ord.
div. was paid. To the present the quota
doesn’t seem' to have brought “pros-
perity” to British film cos.
* * * *
A fall of 455. sterling a ton in one
week has frightened many speculators
out of South Seas copra. The market,
unbroken in its climb for several months,
had to steady somewhere, and at near
£2O sterling a ton the position looks much
sounder. London opinion suggests a
gradual firming later on. Shares in
Morris Hedstrom, W. R. Carpenter and
Burns Philp haven’t wavered during the
relapse; at present “shaken-down”
quotes copra should mean comparative
prosperity to the South Seas and New
Guinea.
Mandated Alluvials shares slumped to
under 7s. in Sydney last week; a board
meeting was held on Friday, following
the arrival of the Macdhui from New
Guinea. Shareholders have been scantily
informed about this stock of late. The
shares went to over 40s. at one stage. It
is a show about which people (share-
holders, some of them) are asking in
Pitt-street, “What is happening at the
mine? Is the show any good? What is
all this ore. some reports spoke about
worth?” Where there is much uncertainty
regarding a mining concern it. is the duty
of the Stock Exchange to demand full
information on behalf of the public,
whether shareholders or possible share-
holders. Melbourne Stock Exchange
cleared the air as regards Lancefield by
asking questions on one occasion. Man-
dated Alluvials property should be more
than a pig-in-a-poke by this—active pros-
pecting and development have been in
progress for 12 months.
* * *
Berlei ords. and Winchcombe Carson
scrip, picked here as being overlooked
during the past month, have shown a
substantial firming in the market. Berlei
is up 2s. 6d., the pastoral co. 2s. 9d.
Mauri Bros, ords., another selection (at
725.), have. shown only a shilling im-
provement ; but buying support is steady,
and it isn’t a speculator’s stock. Some-
thing better than 15 p.c. is coming from
this concern eventually. Bankers and
Traders’ Insurance last sold at 385.;
Yarra Falls changed hands at 40s. 9d.
on Thursday. Castlemaine Perkins ords.
have again firmed to 255., and sellers are
reluctant to part with Meggitt ords. at
345. 9d. Edwards Dunlop (B. 16/12/’36)
has risen Is. (to 475. 6d.). All stocks in
this par. are good stuff, though some
have had their rise.
•!* V
In 1936 3,124,666 tons of coal was ex-
ported from N. S. Wales, an improve-
ment of 274,000 tons over 1935, and the
most marked upward movement' in four
years. It represents more than the total
increase of the preceding three years.
Sir Harry,McGowan, of Imperial Chemi-
cal Industries, is now in Australia, and,
as The Bulletin suggested when N.S.W.
Premier Stevens and others were raising
false hopes about the hydrogenation of
petrol from Australian coal, he says “oil
can be produced technically, but, so far
as Australia is concerned, I cannot say
whether it can be produced economi-
cally.” 1.C.1.’s oil-from-coal plant works
in conjunction with other vast hydro-
genation processes; in Australia it
would have to stand on its own feet.
Capital cost would be enormous.
* * * *
Turnover in N. S. Wales real property
reached £33,546,000 in 1936, up 29 p.c.
on 1935 and 174 p.c. greater than in
1932. In 1936 £20,511,000 of mortgage
business was registered, up £4,000,000 on
the preceding year and more than
double the figure of 1932. At the begin-
ning of the year 46 p.c. of the business
was done at 41 p.c. or under, 26 p.c.
at between 41-5 p.c., and 18 p.c. between
5-6 p.c. At the close 33 p.c. carried 41
p.c. or under, 38 p.c. 41-5 p.c., and 21
p.c. 5-6 p.c.
sfc rfc :Jc
In Melbourne last week:
Associated Pulp and Paper contribs., after
a rise to above par, slipped back to 9s. 6d.
Holeproof ords. were keenly bought at
prices ranging up to 325.
Australian Knitting shares were slightly
lower at 10s. 10d., but showed a good profit
to those who bought at 285., cum Yarra Falls
distribution, last year.
National Bank £5-paids sold at £7 155., and
all bank scrip resisted the slightly easier tone
in the sharemarket.


|plHEMYrOBCfl4irovtRTO TRACTOR Pqw£s
x? wooo<xvysA^ o^'
WD-40—Drawbar rating, 27.99
h.p.; belt, 44.04 h.p.
11
1
ppMfNIM
Your long, hard jobs
will be short and easy
your farming more profitable
soon as you begin your first job with a McCormick-Deering
tractor you know that you will complete it in the shortest possible
time. With horses it was a case of sweat and struggle all day
long—slow gruelling toil for man and beast, waste of energy, and
the clock beating you at every step . . .
Don't fret your life away with animal power . . . Invest in a
modern tractor, the right tractor for your job—you'll find it in
the McCormick-Deering line, the only line that provides a tractor
for any farm, any size, anywhere.
Prices from £199 UP
BIG POWER for BIG
FARMS ...
For big-scale farming you have in the McCormick-Deering line the
choice of three outstanding tractors—the WD-40 tractor and the
TD-40 TracTracTor, both operating on Diesel fuel, and the WK-40
tractor, operating on kerosene.
MEDIUM POWER for
MEDIUM FARMS... .
All the tractor power you need on a farm of medium size is yours
to command in the McCormick-Deering range of medium-sized
kerosene tractors which includes the 10-20 and W-30 tractors and
the T-20 TracTracTor. Tell us about your job and we'll tell you the
tractor you need.
SMALL POWER for
SMALL FARMS . ..
If you are working a mixed farm, orchard, vineyard or other small
property you will find the tractor to suit you thoroughly in the
McCormick-Deering 12 Series the W-12, 0-12, and F-12
amazingly sturdy, agile, powerful and economical little kerosene
tractors, the handiest form of tractor power ever produced.
STEEL WHEELS or
PNEUMATIC TYRES
All McCormick-Deering wheel tractors
can be furnished with steel wheels or
pneumatic tyres, which doubles the range
of your choice in the unapproached
variety of modern tractors in the
McCormick-Deering line.
14 DIFFERENT
MODELS
In addition to its wide range of
farm tractors, the McCormick-
Deering line embraces a complete
range of tractors for all kinds of
industrial and municipal work—l 4
different models all told.
Write to us for catalogues or call on your McCormick-Deering local agent.
He will tell you all about the tractor you need.
WK-40—The new 6-cylinder
tractor replacing the 22-36.
10-20 Drawbar rating. 13.5
h.p.; belt, 21.6 h.p.
1
W-12 Drawbar rating, 9.55
h.p.; belt, 13.88 h.p.
0-12 Drawbar rating, 9.44
h.p.; belt, 13.45 h.p.
.CB2B
TD-40—Drawbar rating, 33.51
h.p.; belt, 43,12 h.p.
W~3O Drawbar rating, 19.69
h.p.; belt, 31.31 h.p.
T~2O Drawbar rating, 18.33
h.p.; belt, 25.31 h.p.
F~l2 Drawbar rating, 9.44
h.p.; belt, 13.45 h.p.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN V'^TORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE
COMPANY
Buy a
-DEERING
THE WORLD’S BEST TRACTOR INVESTMENT
George F. Davidson, brother to the
manager of the ’Wales, after 18 months
in Europe returns to Australia with the
opinion that rearmament is not princi-
pally responsible for the somewhat be-
wildering leap in most commodity prices
over the past 12 months. Currency
matters are Davidson’s pet subject, and
he left Australia anticipating that France
would soon leave the gold standard for
ks own good. It didn’t happen as soon
as he expected ; but when it did, by co-
incidence or otherwise, there fol-
lowed a most pronounced recovery in
woild commodity markets. The re-
turned traveller is not > satisfied that
European currencies and costs have yet
been adjusted to a satisfactory basis, and
he suggests that dealers in commodities
are assuming that wbrld monetary affairs
are in better balance than they really
are. He spent some time in Soviet
Russia, where he noticed that rents were
cheap, food dear and clothing exceed-
ingly costly. Simple manufactures (such
as bread) the Russians could turn
out capably enough ; a boot factory
was notable for apparently continuous
breakdowns in the flow of manufac-
ture (he was not allowed to see the
finished product); under the control of
American and Czechoslovakian fore-
men a satisfactory type of motor-car was
being turned out. Davidson has a criti-
cal eye, and got off the beaten tourist
track wherever possible. Tourists, in-
cidentally, the Soviet caters for on a
grand scale ; in that it is ahead of
Australia.
,** * *
David Jones ordinaries, 435. 6d. ex
-,., . , ~
H B^ ts ast wee k, aie at a higher figur
than the V were. this time last y ear before
the new issue was spoken of. The rights
are selling at slightly above 11s. (equal to
3s. 4d. on each old share), and present
the. opportunity to buy on the basis of
41s. a share (the issue is at a 10s. pre-
mium). The scrip will be fully called by
November 1 this year. The business
continues prosperous.
The “Yorkshire Post” says “Australia
still refuses to allow British manufac-
tures to enter on a tariff basis which
permits reasonable competition with the
Commonwealth’s own secondary produc-
tion.” Dear, dear! Australia, for two
years or more, has been unable to pay
interest to British bondholders with pro-
ceeds of surplus exports. We have been
over-importing from somewhere, and it
hasn’t been Japan, with which country
we could once look for a £10,000,000-
a-year credit balance, used to pay for
excess imports from the N.E.1., U.S.A.,
and more particularly that 20-odd mil-
lions sterling due to J. Bull each year
for interest. No; Australian secondary
industries are not “extracting all the
plums,” as the “Post” observes. To the
extent of our adverse balance of pay-
ments they are not getting their full
share of the. Australian market for
manufactured goods.
* * * *
In the nine months to Sept. 30 Britain
bought from Australia 3.7 millions’-
worth more of goods and sold us 1.9 mil-
lions more. From Canada 14.1 millions
more was bought, to Canada 1.6 millions
more was sold ; India, 7.8 millions more
bought, 2.1 millions less sold ; Maori-
land, 4.5 millions more bought, 3.4 mil-
lions more sold. All figures are sterling,
With Japan buying wool in S’Africa,
Maoriland and Buenos Ayres—anywhere
but in Australia—Britain took more
wool from us than usual during the
June-Sept. quarter. Wool is a big item
in the Old Country’s re-exports. The
object of this par. is not to draw atten-
tion to the fact that Canada is the least
dutiful of any Empire country in recipro-
eating in trade with the parent, but
rather to question why Australia is
always regarded by Lancashire and
Yorkshire as the black sheep of the
family. Probably because, once upon a
time, London bought us an enormous
quantity of goods from those districts
and charged it to our account. London
isn’t doing it these days, nor do we want
to see that sort of thing again in a hurry.


m
WE
say our 8 cylinder
car is as economical
to operate as any lower
number of cylinders..**
' " U " like sales,
f »se to do ““* “ Tare desirable too.
, too gs «e refuse cu9to mers at
fMH» E aW * 1 flie confidence of her make o
1,, fair-deafing and , g ,„ind against to
. «e refuse to poison u „ifi do, •“ #at tusiness-
a co9lo Ttl *. *- *vr
All tfiat a g cor* tba g everal ears-
. M t „ keep dinmng '“ „ claimed f» aiins and adjee
We retdise A car . po int yrbere Pet9 o»aUy, 1
economical, I°«<»*J tk~ ‘ itg o«» *•*
fc cannot !*«"'" ler ia disappear
and all advertising
faC ‘ 9 ' a V » is tV-e ** ~ "“ VC .i t „ operate as an,
tbe VotA. econo , „ kn oV?n aS
We t 8-c,Under ear is as al«a,s bee o£ „„
*• - *• anc
““f Is of g»» a CaIS “"VTead of linC l ° 4ale ’ . . i eB will find
;:::-^ itait ; n ess^-“^ pr
— t?X* z *~ m **— win 6laoi 8004
WMi — #?e
XFbat v.e 8»y
an ywber e '
POf® M6TO& COfctfA.fcY £>P AiIKRALM m, IT£>, W. Y!pJ . ' fo-M&V
For Sale
PATENT RIGHTS ADJUSTABLE LEATHER
STRIPPER.
For Kangaroo and all pliable leather, suitable
for all plaiting purposes, simple design, low
production cost, indispensable to plaiters and all
leather workers. Write to H. FARROW, Paten-
tee, Fimiston, West Australia.
Legal Notice.
ESTATE GEORGE CONNOR.—WiII persons
claiming as next-of-kin of George Connor,
thought to have been bom in Orange 75 years
ago, communicate with PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Box 7A, G.P.0., Sydney, giving details of
family relationship.
Miss Annie H. C. Ritchie Deceased.
An ACTION OF MULTIPLEPOINDING has
been raised in the Sheriff Court of Lanarkshire,
at Glasgow, by JOHN DONALD KELLY,
Chartered Accountant, 34 West George Street,
Glasgow, Scotland, Judicial Factor appointed
by the Court of Session on the estate of the late
MISS ANNIE HOBB CAIRD (otherwise
CRAIG) RITCHIE, Pursuer, against GILBERT
BROOM RITCHIE and Others, defenders.
Miss Ritchie died at Glasgow on 13th June,
1934. The purpose of the action is to deter-
mine the succession to her estate, which
amounts, subject to sundry expenses and deduc-
tions, to £372 of heritage (real estate) and
£1593 of movables (personal estate) or thereby.
She was the daughter of John Ritchie and
granddaughter of Robert Tulles Ritchie. Robert
Tulles Ritchie was a child of Thomas Ritchie
and Elizabeth Hay, of Rathillet Mill, Kilmany,
Fifeshire, Scotland, and was born in 1818. The
remaining children of the said Thomas Ritchie
were (1) James Ritchie, born in 1816, who was
a Miller at Rathillet and who married Agnes
Broom and had 12 or 13 children; (2) John
Ritchie, who had two daughters, Mrs. Christina
Thomson and Mrs. Mary Ann Robertson; and
(3) Elizabeth Ritchie, of whom nothing is
known. Various relations have been traced in
Britain, but some of James Ritchie’s grand-
children and of Mrs. Robertson’s children are
believed to be resident in Winnipeg or Calgary
or elsewhere in Canada, or in New South Wales
or elsewhere in Australia, and they or any
other party claiming to be related to any of the
persons mentioned should comply with the last
part of the following Interlocutor:
Glasgow, 7th December, 1936. The Sheriff
Substitute, having considered the petition,
appoints intimation thereof and of this deliver-
ance to be made by Pursuer and Real Raiser
by registered letter to each of the defenders,
David Broom Ritchie, Robert Ritchie and
William Robertson. Further appoints Pur-
suer and Real Raiser to advertise the import
of the petition and of this deliverance once in
each of the “Manitoba Free Press,” of
Winnipeg, and the “Albertan,” of Calgary,
both of Canada, and the Sydney Bulletin
and the “Australasian” (Melbourne), both of
Australia; appoints all parties claiming on
the fund in medio to lodge their claims in
the hands of the Clerk of Court at Glasgow
on or before 3rd May, 1937; continues the
cause on the Procedure Roll of 10th May,
1937.
(Sgd.) W. BOYD BERRY.
Claims should be lodged forthwith, and
addressed “The Sheriff Clerk, County Buildings,
Ingram Street, Glasgow, Scotland.” Claimants
should state date and place of birth and full
particulars (i.e., ages and present addresses, or
dates and places of death) of their brothers
and sisters, parents and grandparents. They
should also advise the subscribers of their
claims.
Of all which intimation is hereby given.
BEGG, NOBLE & CO.,
190 West George Street,
Glasgow, C. 2, Scotland,
Solicitors for the Pursuer.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
No. 233 of 1936.
BETWEEN MAHALATH SUSAN RICHARD-
SON Petitioner
And ROBERT HARLING RICHARD-
SON Respondent.
TO ROBERT HARLING RICHARDSON.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date
the Ist day of December 1936 has been issued
out of the Divorce Registry of the Supreme Court
of Western Australia citing you to appear and
answer the petition of Mahalath Susan Richard-
son of Victoria Park in the State of Western
Australia praying for dissolution of her mar-
riage with you AND in defaplt of your
appearing the Court will proceed to hear and
determine the said charge and you will not be
allowed to address the Court THEREFORE
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within forty-five days from the date
of last advertisement to attend in person or by
your solicitor or proctor at the Divorce Registry
of our said Court and there to enter an appear-
ance in a book provided for that purpose.
T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
MARGARET BATTYE, 8.A., LL.B., of 39
A.N.A. House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Proctor for the Petitioner.
To be inserted in one issue of the Adelaide
“Advertiser,” published in Adelaide in the State
of South Australia, and in one issue of The
Bulletin, published in Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.
National
Advertisers
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Ad\t.
Department, News, Ltd,, Adelaide.
ELEGANT EXTRACTS
From Contemporary Writings and Speeches.
I look back to the time of Federation,
when we had a population of 3,700,000.
To-day we are happy to know that we are
still 98 per cent. British. — Isaac Isaacs.
f- :!= * *
Department of Defence.
Vacancy for Draughtsman (Temporary),
Drawing Office, Munitions Supply Branch,
Maribyrnong, Victoria.
Salary Scale £306-£5lO (reduced to £276-
£4BO by Cost of Loving Adjustment).—Can-
berra “Times '
* * * *
American girls, Mr. Pike said, were
beautiful, faultlessly-groomed, and had
the most perfect teeth. They were as
hard as a bagful of nails, he added.
“People will tell you that Sydney girls
know how to dress,” he said. “You
would not glance at a Sydney girl after
taking one look at a well-dressed
American lass.” Mr. Pike went to
America to have an eye operation. —
“S. M. Herald”
* * * *
Dr. Robertson, chairman of the Board
of Cricket Control, said he wished to
thank the newspapers for some of the
things they had said. — Sydney “Sun.”
sji :}c ❖
I consider Easton the best wicket-
keeper after Oldfield. — Macartney in
“S. M. Herald,” Jan. 22.
At 46 Gregory was twice dropped by
Easton. — Same paper, Jan. 23.
Sundries was top score, 15, when
Easton for the third time let a leg-side
delivery pass to the fence, bringing up
50 Easton fumbled an easy stumping
chance.” — “Labor Daily,” Jan. 23.
C. B. Fry played cricket for Surrey,
Sussex, Hampshire, England, and cap-
tained England against Australia in the
triangular Tests of 1912 in Association
football.— “ Table Talk” ( Melbourne ).
=l= * * *
Canon Langley said that the abdica-
tion of King Edward VIII. was a judg-
ment of God on the evil in the life of
the people in whose society he lived. It
was a condemnation not of Edward him-
self, who was in many ways a great and
lovable man, but of drunkenness, evil
companionship, slackness in home life
and the “high life” of society—really the
“low life.”— Melbourne “Argus.”
* * * *
Moloney took his corner with scarcely
a nod to the crowd. His rusty thatch
showed ominously over a pugnacious
face, thick-set, awkward body, heavy legs
and huge shoulders. Pluto swept to the
ringside in a gorgeous dressing-gown,
which he discarded disclosing a beauti-
fully bronzed body and a pair of white
silk trunks, on which were worked his
initials and a black swan. Over his
boots he wore brown goloshes, and above
his head was a silken sunshade. He car-
ried a bag labelled with his name. —
Perth “Mirror.”
% * * *
A number of well-known British
people have made the trip to Doom
during the past few years, and all agree
that the ex-Kaiser is more pro-British
than ever before. — Sydney “Sun.”
“Lyndo”: Our firm engaged an extra
office boy, whose main duty was to go
round trying to collect some of the most
hopeless accounts. He came back one
afternoon obviously perturbed. “Please,
sir,” he advised the accountant, “I’ve just
been to Smith’s, and he says if he sees
me round there again he’ll break my
neck and chuck me downstairs.” The
accountant pondered the situation. “Go
back right away,” he directed at last,
“and tell Mr. Smith that his threats
don’t alarm me in the least.”
* * * *
v “Bournemouth”: Covered courts are
going up in all directions in the Old
Country, where tennis-players looking
for somewhere to play in winter can go
for their lives. For years they have
been the general rule on the Continent,
where the game is played all the year
round. We could do with a covered-
court craze in this country, where, in
spite of climate, many week-ends are lost
to players through bad weather. The
wood surfaces are used indiscriminately
with grass and compo courts in Europe
by all classes of player, and do not seem
to affect their form.
* * * *
“Marsh”: I don’t know if anyone ever
heard Kruger’s stone lions roaring (B.
13 /1 / ’37), but I recall a Light Horseman
who swore he heard the stone horse on
which the stone General Gordon sits in
Cairo neighing for a feed. The appeal,
imaginary or otherwise, was evidently
successful, for next morning passers-by
were amazed and amused to see the
charger equipped with a nosebag. And
the statue is at least 50ft. high.
* * * *
“Osh”: A chap I once camped with
for a few weeks would carry my money
in any world’s tightest-sleeper contest.
Once he got off you could do practically
anything without waking him. I dragged
him out of his bunk one night to get
some papers from under the mattress,
and he snored peacefully on the floor.
Another time I cut the top out of a kero-
sene-tin with a hammer and old knife-
blade, knocked the edge down and put
a handle in. He slept even through that!


FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Heroina or Bengal Lancer;
next, Lasting.
St. George Handicap: Tuckiar
or The Marne ; next, Heroina or
Cool Spell.
Moorefield Handicap: Tuckiar or
Peanut; next, Celebrate.
Flying Welter: High Speech;
next, Brown Baroness.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Wyndham Handicap: Pooley
Bridge ; next, Beau Ham.
Marine Handicap: Great Legend;
next, Gay Pop.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Punters voted the first day’s racing at
Randwick disastrous. The A.J.C. chair-
man’s colt Caesar was the only favorite
to break the monotony of successes for
outsiders ; apart from that two-year-old,
10 to 1 and better could be got about any
of the winners, though, a couple wound
up a bit shorter. The proceedings closed
dismally with the all-the-way victory of
an old crock, Confab, who was 33 to 1
in a field of eight.
It takes an uncommonly good horse to
win a race like the Challenge Stakes
at Randwick with 9st. 71b. King’s Head
had that weight, and he is a good horse,
but he found the Rosehill-trained filly
Silver Rose (12 to 1) a trifle superior,
being beaten by a “short” neck. It was in
no wise a fluke, for Silver Rose had cut
down the flying Arachne before King’s
Head challenged ; thus she had to with-
stand two challenges. Falstaff was third,
ahead of Goorka. Arachne made the
pace a cracker.
Harry Lauder was one of the first to
congratulate A.J.C. chairman Colin
Stephen when Caesar (Silvius-Wingecar-
ribee) narrowly scored in the Widden
Handicap. It was Caesar’s first public
performance, but he had been well tried
out of the barrier and hopped away like
an old-stager. He ran greenly in the
straight, but Shean held him together,
and the colt worried Oration and Cap-
tain out of the prize. Caesar is off to Mel-
bourne, and should pay expenses.
Fireman (8 to 1) did not win out of his
turn when he took the January Handi-
cap. Mananui galloped sluggishly
throughout, but was third behind Fire-
man and Autoland. The fast pace set
by Young Crusader settled many of the
runners, the time for 10 furlongs, 2min.
3fsec., being only a second outside Phar
Lap’s Australasian record put up at
Randwick in 1931.
Queenslander Lord Bine outclassed his
opponents in the Bondi Handicap. He
blew” in the betting, going from sixes
to fourteens, but not in the race. Wait-
ing on Might Not and Home Thrust to
the top of the straight, Jeffers thereupon
took Lord Bine to the front, and after
that nothing could get near him. Might
Not and Brown Baroness were place-
getters. Mark Antony, the favorite, was
never in it.
The Canterbury-trained Mordent (7 to
1) captured the Novice Handicap very
stylishly. The Ornamentation filly led
from barrier-rise to judge’s box, where
Treasure Trove and the Newcastle-
owned Sir Mart were immediately fol-
lowing her. Mohican was standing flat-
footed when the barrier was released ;
after that he was noticed laboring in the
ruck.
Confab (33 to 1) sent the bookies home
rejoicing after the Paddington Handicap.
The old fellow was allowed to make his
own pace, and Thomas (who used to
ride First Balloon) dashed him away at
the turn. He easily held off Cognac and
On Parade. Viceroy, favorite on the
strength of slashing track trials, twas
struggling throughout, and beat only a
couple home. Verdun did a bit better,
and perhaps needed the race.
This Page’s selection for the Challenge
Stakes was Pavarti 1, Bonnie Legion 2
and Silver Rose 3; and Pavarti and
Bonnie Legion were scratched. A year
ago Heritor was here given for the Chal-
lenge Stakes ; he went out at even more
substantial odds than Silver Rose. Divs.
for 10s. on a tote from which 12| p.c.
and fractions of sixpences are deducted
were £8 Is. Heritor and £5 17s. Silver
Rose.
Gold Rod made his reappearance in
the Kurnell Handicap at Randwick on
Monday. He was said to have galloped
well in private, but his public showing
was disappointing. Well up for a while,
the chestnut faded out in the straight.
The consistent Goorka was never
headed. Some Boy, second nearly all
the way, tackled him in earnest over the
last furlong, but could not get his head
past the picnic performer. Vista flashed
past a lot of beaten horses into third
place.
For its pluck in establishing the Adrian
Knox Stakes for three-year-old fillies, and
richly endowing it year after year in
circumstances not always encouraging,
the A J.C. has at last been rewarded ;
and it was the club's chairman, knight
Colin Stephen, who came in for most of
the applause that greeted the result of
a thrilling race. For his little filly Sal
Volatile (7 to 2), responding splendidly
to Munro’s urgings when pursuit of a
rank outsider, Kinsfolk, seemed hopeless,
caught the flying unknown in the last few
strides and beat her by a head. Peanut,
another outsider, was a good third. The
time was excellent—lmin. 37isec.
Hooting was substituted for applause
when Mananui (5 to 1) came in after
winning the Anniversary Handicap. He
certainly looked better than on Satur-
day, and O’Sullivan had the mount in-
stead of McCarten, who could not ride
the weight (7st. 111 b.), but the improve-
ment was too much for hundreds of on-
lookers in the paddock. Mananui had
the race in his keeping at any stage of
the last 12 furlongs (run in 2min.
31isec.); Oro was a fair second and El
Senorita, who made all the running,
third.
* * * *
Orford, a six-year-old gelding by Pan-
theon, came into his own on Saturday
by capturing the Inverness Handicap at
Ascot, Melbourne.
In the autumn of his three-year-old
career Orford won a mile race in highly
promising style at Caulfield, and was
“set”, for the S.A.I.C. St. Leger. The
V.R.C. stewards discovered that he had
been wrongly entered as owned and
trained by F. D. Godby, whereas F. H.
Scarlett (now dead) was the real owner.
Twelve months’ disqualification was im-
posed on Orford, and Godby had to pay
a substantial fine.
Scarlett will be remembered as having
owned King of the Sea,>a good-class gal-
loper that broke down hopelessly at
Randwick when trained by P. K. Pad-
field. After Scarlett’s death Orford
passed into the hands of Ralph Horne,
a former crack jockey on the Melbourne
“pony” courses. Horne has persevered
with the son of Pantheon, who showed a
return to form in the Geelong Cup, won
by Lord Carrington. He led 50 yards
from home, but missed a place.
Other Geelong competitors that
figured in the Ascot event were Aitchen-
gee, Nissa and In the Air. Last-named
started favorite, because of having
finished an excellent third to Aitchengee
and Iva at Caulfield on lanuary 13. Suffi-
cient regard wasn’t paid to Orford having
run Pewter to a neck in the Rowena
Welter (for steeplechase jockeys) at Caul-
field ; but he shared third favoritism with
Lord Carrington, Streamline and Demo-
tic at 6 to 1, and was in only half a
point less demand than Aitchengee, the
closing quote of In the Air being fours.
Nissa, who is to have an immediate
and well-deserved spell, set the pace,
closely attended by Streamline and
Orford, with In the Air handy enough
to satisfy his backers. Before the home
turn was reached Streamline and In the
Air gave ground. Orford gained the
measure of Nissa, but he had to be
ridden right out to beat the fast-finish-
ing Demotic by a head, with Nissa —as
game a little mare as ever was —only
half a length farther off.
No fewer than 18 horses competed in
the Normanby Trial Hurdle. It proved
disastrous in more ways than one. Wild-
wood fell on the flat and gave his rider,
Fullarton, what was at first believed to
be a harmless fall; but after sitting up
in his cot in the casualty room Fullar-
ton went into convulsions and had to
be removed to hospital.
Fullarton is the leading rider over ob-
stacles in Victoria and widely popular.
News of his serious mishap added to the
gloom of punters over seeing Seven Hills
win at 20 to 1. Seven Hills (Lanius-
Lady Reigle) constantly disappointed B.
Crocker, and was passed on to A. C.
Ling.
In the days of Traquett'e, Artilleryman
and other turf celebrities “Archie” Ling
was foreman to P. T. Heywood —first at
Orleigh Park, Dandenong, and after-
wards at Flemington. For several
seasons past Ling has been a licensed
trainer. It took him eight months to
knock Seven Hills into shape. The
Lanius gelding now may go on winning.
A noted jumper that Ling helped to pre-
pare was Caibye, on whom the late C. J.
Boyd landed the Australian Steeple of
1917.
Two “certs.” were beaten at Ascot.
With ordinary luck in running Gay
Chou (Gay Lothario-Chouette) could not
have lost the second division of the
Effingham Encourage Handicap. This
gelding lately joined the stable of D. J.
Price, and last week did a gallop good
enough to win in open company. Coming
from the rear of the field Gay Chou beat
every rival but Banquet.
The brilliant finishing effort of Gay
Chou was surpassed by Simonian in the
Sandhurst Welter. After suffering at the
start and being many lengths behind
Great Night at the straight entrance, he
ran that grey son of The Night Patrol
to a head. Great Night is owned and
trained by V. O’Neill, who was asso-
ciated with the Melbourne Cup victory
of Spearfelf.
David John, owned by the former Syd-
ney trainer, W. Tasker, followed up his
Kyneton win by taking the first division
of the Effingham Encourage Handicap.
Backed down to 7 to 2, the old fellow
led all the way, and easily withstood a
challenge from High Park, who was in
most demand when the betting opened.
Apart from David John, the only
favorite to score during the afternoon
was Plymouth (3 to 1) in the Anglesey
Handicap, for three-year-olds. Plymouth
(Baralong-Piptamint) did not have much
to spare from Arnshire, who was a mere
head in advance of Gold Token, trained
by Jim Scobie for Mrs. E. E. D. Clarke.
Long odds were to be had about Gold
Token ; he should be worth following.
Fred Hoysted produced Heroic’s Pride
(Heroic—Kalyanni) for the Anglesey
Handicap, but this lOOOgns. colt is back-
ward in condition and was unfancied.
Hoyst'ed took the succeeding event, the
Chesterfield Handicap, with Buteman
(Drake-Curlecue), whom he trains for a
member of the Moonee Valley com-
mittee. Buteman (10 to 1) squeezed home
by a head from a 20-to-l chance, Pheno-
menon, with the unlucky Double Bard
a neck farther away. Barracker tired,
after leading to the turn. He ought to
be cherry ripe ere long.
* * * *
Misnomer is a smart mare, but some-
how she does not seem to be able to
win on Saturdays, though she has tried
often enough. All her successes are
achieved at Wednesday meetings on
former pony courses. It is hard luck
for her owner-trainer, William Kelso, for
the first prizes he collects through the
agency of his chestnut mare are poor.
Misnomer beat Some Boy in a division
of the Flying Handicap at Kensington on
Wednesday. She did her job well, but
it means that she will go up in the
weights again—and she had 9st., receiv-
ing 51b. from Some Boy—and the price
was short (7 to 4) and the stake-money
miserable. There were two divisions
(Belgravia captured the other, defeating
Short Wave, like Some Boy a Randwick
winner), and in each case the handicap
was “of £66 13s. 4d. ; second horse £43
6s. Bd. and third horse £6 13s. 4d. from
the prize.”
Really it is impossible to race a plater
for stake-money in Sydney and show a
profit. In the Flying Handicap at Rose-
hill, about the best field of sprinters that
Sydney can muster these times, 17 of
them struggled for three bites at' £2OO,
“second horse £35 and third horse £2O
from the prize.” At Moonee Valley on
the same day a non-proprietary club put
up £lOOO for a six-furlongs race, and
there were six starters. At least four of
the Rosehill field, King’s Head, The
Marne, Arachne and Falstaff, were good
enough to figure in that' Moonee Valley
sprint, and King’s Head or The Marne
might have been runner-up to Pamelus.
At Rosehill that day there were eight
races and £2OO was the best prize offered.
At Moonee Valley there were six races
—the thousand-pounder, three at £4OO
apiece and two at £3OO. The marvel is
that so many horses are kept in training
at Sydney. It must be because their
owners and trainers like the climate.
* * * *
“Agar”: The rule about apprentices
carrying whips in certain Victorian races
needs amplifying. In these events the
boys are permitted to carry whips only
with the concurrence of the trainer, and
the willingness of one mentor to allow
his rider to go out armed with a flail—
that’s how he used it —was surprising,
especially as the boy had instructions that
on no account was he to employ it.
One cut of the whip sent the prad under
another’s withers, and there was a col-
lision in which the former came off worse.
When the tyro got him going again the
race was all over, but what that trainer
said to the boy could have been trans-
lated into Sanskrit and you’d still recog-
nise it as swearing!
Ins and Outs
With everything in their favor —Brad-
man won the toss, and the wicket was
perfect—the Australians made a woeful
showing on the first day of the fourth Test
match at Adelaide. Fingleton (10) was run
out with the score at 26. Rigg came in,
and at lunch it was 72 without further
loss. Then Fames, put in as a gamble
by Allen, got Rigg (20) and Brown (42)
for the addition of another run —Brown
caught foolishly attempting his risky
hook shot. Bradman made a painstaking
26 before Allen got a straight one
through, and Gregory (23) stayed a while
with McCabe, and Chipperfield a while
longer. These two might have pulled it
round, but at 226 McCabe (88) also fell
to a desire to hook. Oldfield (5) threw
his wicket away a little later, and
O’Reilly, McCormick and Fl.-Smith
added 11 among them. All out 288,
Fames three for 71, Allen two for 60 and
Hammond two for 30.
If the batting was bad the work of
the Australians in the field was worse.
McCormick put an easy catch from
Barnett on the ground—the opener had
only 13 runs against his name then —
Chipperfield dropped a hard one from
Hammond and O’Reilly missed chances
to run out both Barnett and Verity. The
Englishmen were content to potter along
and let the runs come, confident that,
however they went about it they could
establish a good lead. Allen opened with
Verity and Barnett, Verity (19) stayed
101 minutes, and there were 53 on the
board when he left. O’Reilly got his
wicket, and also that of Hammond (20),
both caught. Barnett meanwhile was
going along slowly, and with Leyland
now as partner had 174 up at stumps—
Barnett 92;. Leyland 35 —after one of
the dreariest day’s cricket in the memory
of man. O’Reilly’s two wickets had cost
18 runs off 14 overs, excellent bowling.
The others gave him good support with-
out ever threatening danger against the
negative batting tactics.
Leyland (45) went early on Monday
morning, caught off Fl.-Smith with the
score at 190, and the success put heart
into the Australian fielding. O’Reilly
had Wyatt (3) back before the score
reached 200. He was still sticking to his
task —five overs, one wicket for four
runs (all from the one stroke) on the
day. Ames came in and added a little life
to the batting, and Barnett, who had tot-
tered on to his hundred —in 272 minutes
—showed faint signs of awakening con-
sciousness. At lunch they were 236
Barnett 124, Ames 30. O’Reilly had
snared three for 31, Fl.-Smith 102 for
his solitary wicket. Fl.-Smith got Barnett
(129) l.b.w. eventually—five for 259. The
bowling now was keen and good ; never-
theless Ames and Hardstaff carried the
score along to 300. Oldfield missed an
easy chance of stumping Ames off
O’Reilly when the other ’keeper was 36.
Then McCormick bowled him at 52, and
a couple of overs later followed through
to within about two yards off the bats-
man to catch and bowl Hardstaff. Allen
and Robins looked like holding things
up, but at tea it was all out 330, a fine
recovery. O’Reilly’s figures were splen-
did, four for 51 ; Fl.-Smith four for
129 ; McCormick two for 81 ; Oldfield’s
not so good—l 3 sundries.
o Continued on next page.)


••SILVER
EDGE 19
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LININQ
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYRESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
m.
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN,
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
Ins and Outs
Rain made further play impossible in
the England-South Australia match in
Adelaide, a draw being proclaimed.
*
In Sydney the Victoria-Ma State Shef-
field clash went with all the snap and
click of a dead whale falling off the
Commonwealth Bank building. With a
lead of 32 on the first innings, Victoria
ponderously collected 340 (Sievers 76) in
the second. N.S.W. lost two for 129,
Victoria winning by 32 on the first
innings.
* He
“Marino”: When Bradman scored 38
for S. Aus. against England he added to
his list of records, scoring 1000 runs for
his new State in 10 innings. He can also
claim to have made highest scores against
Victoria (340 n.o. for N.S.W.), highest
against Queensland for N.S.W. and S.A.
(452 n.o. and 253 respectively), highest
for S.A. against Victoria (357) and for
S.A. against Tasmania (387),
* * * *
“Glenelg”: When Allen put Barnett
on to bowl against the South Australians
at Adelaide the crowd was inclined to
restiveness. It calmed down when the
Gloucester pro. had Bradman caught be-
hind off his third ball. In fact, Barnett is
one of the regular change bowlers for
Gloucester, and last year took 34 wickets
in first-class cricket.
* * * *
“Jachris”: The Wolfe’s schnapps
people are evidently of the opinion that
the money they spend on bonuses to
Test-match players—for fours, sixes,
catches, centuries made within 150
minutes and the like—is a good invest-
ment, and it has helped to brighten up
the game. Up to the present match
they’ve already paid out £lll this season,
and over £l3OO since the scheme was
started. For this series they’ve added
offers of £lOO for a score better than
Bradman’s 334 Test record, and £25 for
a hat-trick.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Skipper Allen and his
men were booked to return home via
the U.S.A., but the shipping strike
has queered their chances. Once upon
a time they could have gone from
M.L. to Britain in comfort by half a
dozen British routes without bothering
about the Pacific waterfront. Now one
solitary line to Vancouver is about the
only outlet, a situation which stands as a
monument to the advances this country
has made towards the amenities of civili-
sation within the last 50 years. What to
do with the team if it is stuck is a prob-
lem. State Governments may waive a
point and make the tourists eligible for
the dole or relief work, while Archdale
Parkhill, always receptive of ultra-
modern militaristic devices, might have
got an idea from the bodyline bowlers,
only there aren’t any in this team. Also,
if the side seized the chance to take a few
lessons from Mr. Medica while he is here
they could try swimming home as a last
resource.
* * * *
“Semaphore”: Discoursing on the
trials of a cricketer’s life, Bradman said
it seemed a pity bands .of cricketers had
to travel thousands of miles to have the
temporary fate of the world’s cricket
supremacy “decided by one game.” I
agree, but my solution of the problem
has been ignored by the authorities. It
is to select permanent teams of cricketers
from each country, these to flit back-
wards and forwards from one country to
the other, like the swallows with the
seasons, playing in alternate countries.
Those dropping out through various
causes could be replaced by some
roster system or other. Hordes of attrac-
tive typists, armed with comptometers
and similar machines, would accompany
the team under the supervision of statis-
tical experts, and results could be graphed
and tabulated at fixed periods, the Gov-
ernment department which would un-
doubtedly have grown up by that time,
with Minister complete, taking full charge
without reference to the general public.
Elections would be fought and won on
an umpire’s decision, and the new avenue
opened for extracting brass from the
Loan Council would fill every State
Treasurer with bliss incalculable.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Indications are that five-
day Tests are coming in England. Four
days for the 1938 series have already
been decided on, but after that there
will probably be a change. P. F. Warner
is out in open advocacy of the change,
and points out that if matches are
started on Thursdays instead of Fridays
there will be no interference with county
games.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The writer’s oft-repeated
advice to coming cricket champions in
Queensland, Tasmania and Westralia to
make for Sydney or Melbourne or, per-
haps, Adelaide has not fallen on deaf
ears. Some time ago Sides, one of
Queensland’s best young batsmen, took
up his abode with Essendon. He has
“ Caddie , sir?"
been joined by Horrocks, the young
Westralian who did so well against
England at Perth. In pennant games
last week Sides made a fine 87, but Hor-
rocks, after taking a knock on the head
in his opening over, decided to call it
off for the day.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Poor old Jardine, who is
very much a voice crying in the wilder-
ness of cricket nowadays, has told an
audience that international cricket has
become just a money-spinning business.
He routed out the old furphy about Aus-
tralian barracking having destroyed the
dignity of the game. Barracking is very
much what the players and especially
those responsible for their actions make
it. To take recent years, it was possible
for a team controlled by a tactful leader
like Chapman to inflict a stunning de-
feat on Australia in this country without
raising a squeal. Then we saw Jardine,
notoriously “difficult” among his own
friends, handle his men in such fashion
as to rouse Australian crowds to fury.
This time we have Allen giving our
players the most unexpected setback they
have had for years, and again without
arousing anything of this mythical bar-
racking.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland has
issued a warning to golfers who mean
to make south for the Australian cham-
pionships at Sydney in September to be
all dressed up and ready to go, with all
sonsie and kenspeckle. No decision has
been made as yet to send an official
representative team, but, in view of the
great success of last year’s and the fact
that the special fund is close on £6O in
credit, it is likely this will happen.
Queensland women golfers have fol-
lowed suit and have founded a special
annual competition to provide funds for
sending women golfers to other cities.
G.B. Golf Association has done, the
manly thing by starting this fund with a
£22 throw-in.
* * * *
“Langlaagte”: The Transvaal open
golf championship was snatched from
the visiting British team by 20-year-old
Bobby Locke, the holder of the title.
Locke got a lot of headline space in the
British press last year when he was ex-
pected to give Jim Ferrier the go of his
life in the British amateur championship
at St. Andrews. Hopes were not realised,
but this time the young man gave evi-
dence that he is a player of class. In the
final of the African event he defeated
Padgham with a card of 286 to 290.
Racquet and Bawl
Surprises came early in the Australian
championships at Sydney’s Rushcutter
Bay. First Hopman, down 4-nil at the
opening of his match with Quist, took
the bit in his teeth, went into the net for
smashes and outed the titleholder 11-9,
3- 7-5, 6-3. Then Bromwich treated
Crawford in similar fashion—6-1, 7-9,
6- 8-6—and it left of the mighty only
McGrath. He accounted for Hopman
without much trouble and went up
against Bromwich in the final.
McGrath had a splendid win over
Bromwich to take the title—his first. It
was probably the headiest game McGrath
has ever played. He determined to beat the
youngster with spin, slicing his shots and
varying his pace and his length cleverly.
He used the drop shot to tire Brom-
wich, and he was accurate and careful —
he missed only one smash in the five
sets. McGrath won the first 6-3, and
after a heavy fall early in the second
made but little effort to fight for it.
Bromwich won that 6-1, but the third
was McGrath’s 6-0. He rested again in
the fourth, 2-6, and came up fresh to
take the last 6-1. On the day he would
have troubled anybody.
There were surprise results among the
ladies, too. Mrs. Westacott, playing at
the top of her form, got through to the
final, and with Mrs. Hopman went as far
in the doubles ; but Miss Hartigan was
defeated by Miss Stevenson, whom the
Queenslander overcame.
Nancy Wynne beat Thelma Coyne
7- 4-6, 6-4 for the right to meet Mrs.
Westacott for the women’s title, then
paired with her opponent to hold their
doubles championship from Mrs. Westa-
cott and Mrs. Hopman.
Bromwich had another triumph when
with Harper he put Crawford and
McGrath out of the doubles, 6-3, 6-3,
4- 6-4 —the youngsters had to meet
Quist and Turnbull for the title.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Hopman has
again refused to go overseas with the
Australian Davis Cup team. The next
thing to look forward to is the amount
to be allotted to players and their en-
tourage —for nowadays players are apt
to insist on an entourage.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Perry and Vines
continue to defeat each other in the
U.S.A. There is an attempt to stir up
interest with a tale that Australian in-
terests have offered 15,000 dahlars to the
pair if they will continue their projected
tour to Japan later in the year to this
country. Australian tennis officials deny
all knowledge of the scheme, and if any
wealthy philanthropist is thinking of im-
porting the stars he is keeping quiet
about it.
* * ❖
“Centre Court”: European tennis-
players are reviving the old squeal over
the holder of the Davis Cup being
allowed to sit on the pot until the chal-
lenge round while all other countries
have to fight their way through numer-
ous tough ties and travel half over the
earth for the privilege of meeting the
holders. It is felt that these should either
take their chance in the play-off rounds
with the other competitors or should be
reserved as meat for 12 selected nations,
the Cup’s fate to be decided by one tour-
ney over a fortnight or so at some big
tennis centre —Wimbledon, Forest Hills,
Paris, Sydney, etc. —in turn. Limitation
of entries will spill the fat in the fire.
The attempt to hold elimination tour-
neys between the weaker countries in
the various zones led to disaster some
years ago after a fair trial.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Nine Faulkner brothers have
played a tennis match in Adelaide against
nine Koehne brothers. The Faulkners
won all the 14 matches played.


asdf
Fat-infultrated muscles cause
that waistline bulge, leading
to weakened, abdominal
sagging and causing morbid
and dangerous changes in
the position of the vital
organs.
The Governa Health Belt
will reduce your waistline
and give you a slim, athletic
figure. Approved by medi-
cal men. Supports the deli-
cate organs, and, by its
gentle, changing pressure,
waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
n
'P -B
TRY THE GOVERNA
BELT AT OUR EXPENSE
In 7 clays, your waistline will be 3 inches
smaller— 3 inches of bulge and strain gone—
OR NO COST. Write for full details of
FREE TRIAL, OFFER and illustrated folder
describing the Governa Belt. Mention this
paper. Enclose 2d. stamp for postage.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
252-6 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
fi£»£g
mm
m
,;i"Si;,S'..<
SggjjggSS
wmmm
A REAL OLYMPIAN!
JESSE OWENS the world’s
champion sprint runner and
one of the sensations of the
XI Olympic Games .
Years of arduous training and
brilliant competitive perform-
ances have, as yet, failed to
fault this great athlete whose
versatility enabled him to win
three Olympic championships
at Berlin.
Similarly, inbuilt qualities of
speed, strength, and stamina are
possessed by the Champion
Australian-made—
Olympic tyres
for Cars, Trucks and Cycles !
The Worlds
OMIIaNTSM
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier-Mail
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and here
are the circulation figures for the various areas:—
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane:
43,353
Within a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
(Average net daily circulation for six months'
period ended September, 1936, 69,837.)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
Miscellaneous
“Rube”: N.S.W. country Rugby
League pow-wow is down for Sydney on
February 27. There is a considerable
amount of regrouping and reorganisa-
tion to be done, a job always full of
blanky and recrimination. Country Week
in Sydney will be late in consequence—-
June 5 or 12. One reason is that there
will be no big League games outside the
inter-State matches with Queensland, and
these, may be cut to two in each State.
It seems a confession of defeat that the
League cannot think up some counter-
attraction to the Springboks. What about
that fine Maori form we have been hear-
ing so much about?
* * * *
“Pineapple”: Queensland Soccer people
do not intend to let their matches with
the English amateurs clash with the Rugby
Springboks. One Test will be played
in Brisbane on July 17 after a game
with Queensland on July 4, also at Bris-
bane. The Australian body has decided
that the tourists shall play at Melbourne,
Adelaide and Perth on the way home,
getting off the steamer for each match,
but eating and sleeping at the expense of
the shipping co. Yes, most of our
Soccer controllers hail from the North
of England or Scotland.
* * * *
“Shutemon”: “Outside Right” (B.
20/1 / ’37) is not justified in decrying the
abilities of the amateur Soccer side to
come from England. A letter from a
Soccer-fan brother in London described
the standard in the Isthmian and
Athenian leagues, in which most of these
selected men play, as more entertaining
than in the highest professional league
games. If these fellows reproduce the
play of the old Corinthian and Casual
kind Soccer lovers in Australia are in
for a memorable time.
#¥* - *
“Stand Off”: At the Sydney confer-
ence of Rugby Union officials, coaches
and players which was to settle the ques-
tion of how to beat the Springboks, the
wise men had a lot to say and very little
constructive to advance. Most were
agreed, however, that it is from the loose
ruck that Rugby matches are won. A. V.
Mayne pointed out what The Bulletin
has been hammering into Australian
Rugby skulls ever since the Wallabies
came back from South Africa —that
nearly 50 p.c. of the forwards in Sydney
and inter-State football are “scouters”
and not “pushers.”
¥ * * ¥
“Hooker”: It is most regrettable to
see that the Victorian R.U., which was
showing signs of a welcome indepen-
dence, has again consented to take part
in a repetition of the fatuous “triangular”
tourney which was such a flop in Syd-
ney last year. To help the game along
in a State where there is stiff opposition
the people of that State should be given
a chance to see for themselves how their
representatives shape at the new code.
Playing matches hundreds of miles away
in another State is no earthly use in
stimulating local interest in the game.
* $ • * *
“Bowen Bridge”: Queensland R.U.
reports a big advance on last season.
Clifton and Greenmount, two Darling
Downs centres, have “gone Union” and
minor recruits by the dozen are reported.
The local heads should turn attention
to reopening the old interest in the
Central and North Queensland towns
which once so solidly supported the
Union code.
¥ ¥ * ¥
“Spike”: Sydney’s city engineer has
finished his plans for housing 300 visit-
ing Empire athletes and officials in the
dog-and-fowl pavilions at Sydney Show
Ground, while contracts have been let
for laundry, victualling and other items.
The visitors will have the freedom of the
palatial halls for a month from the
middle of January next. What happens
after that is still wrapped in mystery.
Only five menus are provided, but pre-
sumably they will be different for each
meal, though even then the variation is
little enough. One curious statement is
that no arrangements have been made
for pastry. The visitors should have no
trouble, in clearing that hurdle unassisted.
“The Gaffer”: The Stawell Gift, Aus-
tralia’s oldest surviving professional pedes-
trian event of any importance, celebrates
its diamond jubilee on March 27 and 29.
The famous Sheffield Handicap is
worth £BlO, £5OO of which goes to the
ped. first home. Other sprint events are
the 75, 220 and 440, with half, mile and
two-mile trots for those liking a bit of
distance. There are other events, hurdle
and field as well. The continued success
of the show is a tribute to the honesty
with which it has been run all these
years.
* * * *
In the Brisbane section of the Austra-
lian championships, Dorothy Green,
Evelyn de Lacy and Percy Oliver clinched
Westralia’s right to be regarded as the
premier swimming State. Miss Green
was first (and Miss De Lacy second) in
the 400 metres, lowering the other Perth
girl’s record to smin. 45 3-ssec.; Miss
De Lacy was first (in 12min. 27 2-ssec.)
in the 800 metres, and Oliver first in
the 100 metres backstroke: he, too, cut
the record—to lmin. 8 3-ssec. Between
whiles Clarke (N.S.W.) won the 100
metres in 63sec. and Weir (Vic.) the 200
metres breaststroke in 2min. 57 3-ssec.
Though Miss Green has already proved
herself the finest middle-distance swim-
mer of her sex that Australia has pro-
duced, Sydney flapper papers have
almost ignored her achievements. If she
were a Sydney flapper they would have
given her yards of space.
# ❖
“Hotham”: Melbourne intends to
make all the use possible of Yankee
swimmer Medica while they’ve got him.
He will be asked to swim in eight State
championships of all kinds and descrip-
tions, save those for flappers only. In
addition, all the best of the swimming
talent from other States has been in-
vited to go up against him.
“Quarter Butt”: Horace Lindrum,
who had intended to return to Australia
for a longish spell, has found the Lights
of London too attractive. After a spell
in his native land in April the Austra-
lian returns to mop up some of the
profits from the snooker boom which has
now got Britain by the whiskers. Inman
will come out with him and, travelling
by the Indo-Asian route, the two
will play exhibition billiards on their
way.
$ $ * #
“Shell”: Professional sculling is wak-
ing up again. Evans Paddon, son of ex-
world’s champion Jim Paddon, has chal-
lenged “Snowy” Burns, holder of the
N.S.W. title. Young Paddon, who hails
from Ballina (N.S.W.), was pacemaker
for Burns when the champion was train-
ing for .his race with Fisher at Wood-
burn some months ago.
* * :’fi *
“ ’Ticer”: The possibilities of Austra-
lian big-game fishing having been ignored
for years, there are signs of a frantic
rush to exploit it setting in. The people
running the N.S.W. 150th birthday spree
are belatedly considering a fishing com-
petition open to the world as part of
their hullabaloo. Such a show would
take at least two years to advertise and
organise, and this is out of the question
for the celebrations. The idea should
not be allowed to fade out, though, and
a beginning could be made with judi-
cious advertisement. A British big-game
fisherman going through Australia for a
spell with the mako and marlin in Maori-
land told an interviewer no one in Eng-
land had heard of Zane Grey’s visit here
or its results.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“A Woman Rebels.”
THE REBEL Katharine Hepburn
TIMID SISTER Elizabeth Allen
VERY HEAVY FATHER, Donald Crisp
ADMIRER OF REBELS,
Herbert Marshall
Artistry of Mark Sandrich’s directing
and splendid acting of a solid cast make
this a most attractive film. Had the same
play (it is adapted from Netta Syrett’s
“Portrait of a Rebel”) been stage-pro-
duced 30 years ago women, fortified
with half a dozen hankies, would have
enjoyed a copious howl, strong men
would have done their duty as sob-
steadiers, and the piercing cry of “My
chee-ild! ” would have reverberated
through the precincts. All the elements
of old-time bellowdrammer are in it.
Consider them:
A heavy mid-Victorian father keeping
his motherless daughters in severe sub-
jection, one cringing beneath her parental
tyranny, the other rebellious. Come
marriage for the timid one and betrayal
of the rebel by a bold, bad Lothario. Her
“time” approaching, the rebellious one
joins her sister in sunny Italy. Rebel’s
Lawrence Tibbett in “Under Your Spell,”
at Sydney State.
baby is born coincidentally with death
of sister just prior to childbirth. Substi-
tution of baby, mother bringing her own
child back as her niece, thus fooling the
old man and the world.
Enter Honest Young Diplomat, who
loves the rebel; honor forbids her marry-
ing. Two decades pass. Rebel becomes
famous champion of women’s rights. But
a framed-up scandal causes her to bite
the social dust, from which she is raised
by the patiently waiting H.Y.D., now not
so young.
Katharine Hepburn has done nothing
better; her dignity and restraint in a
difficult role contribute much to the
film’s success. Herbert Marshall’s per-
fect enunciation is a joy to the ear; his
performance is as smooth as silk. Donald
Crisp, Elizabeth Allen, Doris Dudley and
David Manners are strong in support.
At Sydney Mayfair.
“Hearts in Reunion.”
THE “QUINS’ ” DOC. .. Jean Hersholt
HIS NURSE Dorothy Peterson
FATHER OF “QUINS” .. John Qualen
MOOSETOWN’S LONE COP.,
Slim Summerville
Like “The Country Doctor,” this film
revolves around the Dionne quintuplets
(Hollywood screen-names them the
Wyatt quins). Chief parts are acted by
the same players, but the cast has been
augmented to cope with a more am-
bitious plot.
A good idea has been competently
exploited by the producer. Moosetown
decides to have a great reunion of the
3000 the old country doctor brought into
the world as babies besides the “quins.”
The guests, ranging from State Gover-
nors to pickpockets, invade the town.
Against this assorted background stand
out, clear to the old doc.’s shrewd eyes,
the problems and little tragedies of
several people dear to him. Quietly but
determinedly he sets about straightening
things out. His success as diplomat is
never in' doubt.
The quintuplets are ornately paraded
and go through their babyish antics, all
delightfully natural. But it is Hersholt
who dominates the film, enacting to the
life the same lovable character which he
created in the earlier opus. For effort-
less acting Hersholt is in a class by him-
self. The sentiment he evokes is counter-
balanced by the rather homely comedy
of Slim Summerville and John Qualen.
Rochelle Hudson in the feminine lead
isn’t impressive, but Helen Vinson is at
last starting to act like an actress.
Dorothy Peterson makes a bright nurse,
Montague Love looks and sounds a pom-
pous chairman, and other roles are cap-
ably filled. Previewed at Fox Theatrette.
“Under Your Spell.”
HARASSED OPERATIC
BARITONE Lawrence Tibbett
TEMPERAMENTAL
MANAGER Gregory Ratoff
SPOILED SOCIALITE, Wendy Barrie
LUGUBRIOUS BUTLER,
Arthur Treacher
It’s very rarely the final fadeout of a
supporting film is viewed with regret, but
here is one instance.
The writers of the story are not re-
sponsible for that; their part resolves
into merely a mushy rehash of mediocre
plots supposed to be suitable to operatic
singers. Once more a singer, hounded
by a live-wire manager, kicks over the
traces and fades into the Big Spaces.
After him dashes a society beauty en-
dowed with a Brobdingnagian wad and a
Lilliputian brain. Her aim is to bring
him back to sing at her soiree, so that
she may lord it over some other social
quarter-wit. He resists, and beats her in
a breach of contract action ; then, not
satisfied with his good luck, goes and
makes an ass of himself by reaching for
the little gold band in his vest pocket.
Lawrence Tibbett rises above the disa-
bilities of the silly story. His beautifully-
produced and resonant voice is invested
with plenty of power in the sardonic
“Calf of Gold” from Gounod’s “Faust,”
and “Amigo,” a rollicking Mexican song,
“The Dusty Road,” a melodious ballad,
and the spirited theme song “Under Your
Spell” are all admirably sung. There is a
surprising freshness in his acting, too ;
it has improved out of sight. Wendy
Barrie makes the toe itch to boot her
heartily, which is sufficient tribute to her
efforts. Gregory Ratoff revels in one of
his favorite roles, and Arthur Treacher
allows one fleeting grin to cross his horse-
like face in an hour. At Sydney State.
“Craig’s Wife.”
CRAIG’S AFFLICTION,
Rosalind Russell
HER HOUSEKEEPER .. Jane Darwell
HER NEIGHBOR Billie Burke
HER HUSBAND’S AUNT,
Alma Kruger
POOR CRAIG John Boles
The characters are listed in order of
their importance in Mrs. Craig’s eyes.
This lady, determined not to parallel her
mother’s marital mistakes, ensures —or
thinks she ensures —security by alienating
her husband from all his friends and
making of his home a place wherein the
misplacement of a vase by a fraction of
an inch is viewed as a major domestic
crime. Strong-willed, icy, aloof, she rules
the childless household, her raised eye-
brow ruthlessly authoritative.
Craig, easygoing, wealthy and a bit
slow on the uptake, at first refuses to
listen to the warnings of his worldly-wise
aunt. But, following a friend’s tragedy in
which he is slightly involved, the truth of
his wife’s character at last dawns on him,
and he leaves her.
The director has declined the easy way
out; instead of sugary reunion, logic and
life have a place for once. The rapid
introduction of numerous characters at
the start is confusing, but after they have
been sorted out it settles down to a clear-;
cut issue between husband and wife.
Rosalind Russell gives an admirable
portrait of the wife, and John Boles
proves he can pull his screen weight with-
out breaking into song. The ageless Billie
Burke looks as beautiful as they say she
was a generation ago, and Jane Darwell
and Alma Kruger give very sound sup-
port. At Sydney Plaza.
“Charlie Chan at the Opera.”
CHARLIE Warner Oland
SON Keye Luke
NUTTY OPERATIC BASSO,
Boris Karloff
Charlie Chan has solved many screen
murders that have baffled many police
forces. He has ferreted them out in
circuses, Egyptian tombs, racecourses
and divers other places; now he has
been snooping around backstage pas-
sages and trapdoors in an opera house.
He is there to help the confounded
cops find an escaped lunatic, a basso
bent on r-r-revenge because years before
a nasty baritone had pushed him into a
blazing theatre so that he might the
more easily snavel the basso’s wife. Chan
is assisted by his eldest son, whose fruity
Americanisms sort strangely with the
gems of Confucian wisdom which punc-
tuate Chan’s oral deductions. During a
performance two of the cast meet a
grisly end. The Splayfoots reckon it is
the escapee, but Charlie has other ideas.
To prove them, he restages the opera,
putting the fireproof basso with a
dagger in his hand to sing opposite the
remaining soprano, stations a cop in the
wings with a gun, and hopes for the
best'. Naturally, when the nutty one
raises his dagger in the stabbing scene,
and the windy soprano yells, the cop lets
the basso have it. Having thus settled an
innocent man’s hash, Chan proceeds to
expose the real murderer.
The plot is the feeblest of the Chan
series, but it is no fault of Warner Oland
that the whole thing lacks conviction.
Boris Karloff’s staring eyes and gaunt
features are an asset in the role he takes,
and the basso who does his vocal ghost-
ing has a splendid voice—indeed, the in-
cidental singing is the film’s sole attrac-
tion. At Sydney Capitol.
“California Mail.”
MAIL-COACH DRIVER .. Dick Foran
ONLY GOIL Linda Perry
TEETH-GNASHER Ed Cobb
Dick Foran’s indestructibility—whether
opposed to wild Injuns, Confederate spies
or just plain bad hombres —having long
been firmly established, it merely re-
mains to see from what particular brands
of violent deaths he escapes so narrowly.
It may be only coincidence, but it is in-
variably after he has huskily semi-
crooned a song that he is potted at; also,
as this critic has counted 494 shots that
have missed Foran in the last three
appearances the allegedly crack marks-
manship of Western he-men is con-
sidered to have been grossly exaggerated.
Hero Foran swaps punches with his
hated rival for the goilie’s affections.
When shortly afterwards someone sub-
jects him to a barrage at close quarters,
he wonders who it could possibly be.
When, in a coach race for the mail con-
tract, his rival bumps him over a preci-
pice and it’s found that his wheel spokes
John Boles kicks over the traces in
“Craig’s Wife,” at Sydney Plaza.
have been partly sawn through, his
manly brow, trying to fathom out who
would do such a thing, contains more
wrinkles to the square inch than a desic-
cated apricot. So he goes on, doing his
stock tricks, until eventually he stumbles
on the dastard.
The affair has its moments of mild ex-
citement. Dick Foran has done this mid-
nineteenth-century stuff so often that
whenever he wakes up he must look
round for his period uniform. Linda
Perry is fair to gaze on, and Ed Cobb’s
incisors must be almost worn down to
the gums through grinding them savagely
when his machinations gang agley. At
Sydney Capitol.
“A Son Comes Home.”
DEAR OLD MOTHER, Mary Boland
WRONGLY ACCUSED, Donald Woods
HIS SWEETIE Julie Hayden
NOSEY PRESS GENT. .. Wallace Ford
Sound acting by the entire cast and a
snap finish to a rather ordinary story
save this opus from the C 3 class. With
Mary Boland in the star role mother-
love is, of course, the central theme, but
in her skilled hands it is never allowed
to sink to the maudlin. The plot revolves
around the Little Mother, who runs a
waterfront business, and the turpitude
of her motor-bandit son. An innocent
fellow who is given a lift in the son’s
car is found in incriminating circum-
stances, and the rest of the film is de-
voted to getting him out of the mess,
thereby involving maternal sacrifice in
the cause of justice.
Donald Woods and Julie Hayden
supply the romantic interest, and Wallace
Ford gives his usual version of the. cigar-
chewing, live-wire reporter. At Sydney
Civic.
“The Man I Marry.”
PLAYWRIGHT .... Michael Whelan
PLAYREADER Doris Nolan
SHERIFF Chic Sale
DRUNKS,
“Skeets” Gallagher, Cliff Edwards
This slick Sydney Mayfair support is
a romance with a leavening of comedy.
Three of the deliriously happy young
ladies in “Ladies in Love,” at Sydney
State .
It revolves around the attempts of
Doris Nolan to bring Michael Whelan
to heel. Miss Nolan, who is smart and
brittle, jilts a bleating tailor’s dummy and
flees to her aunt’s vacant country home.
She finds it, occupied, illegally, by
Whelan, who has the physique of a heavy-
weight champion, hates women and is
trying to write a play. He is very rude
to her, but Miss Nolan is more than a
match for him at tongue-wagging; and,
believing him to be a nice man at heart
and a minor genius, she sets out to cor-
rect his manners, and gets his play pro-
duced (she is a reader for a theatrical
magnate). It goes without saying that in
the last reel the play, after Miss Nolan
has tinkered with it, proves a huge suc-
cess, and that the helpful young lady is
appropriately rewarded.
Neither Miss Nolan nor Whelan is a
topnotch actor, but they manage their
hackneyed roles briskly enough. Chic
Sale does better as a small-town sheriff,
infusing some delightful character-acting
into the part. Messrs. Gallagher and
Edwards wander amiably around in a
bemused state, but their presence add
little to the working out of the plot and
such comedy as they provide lacks fresh-
ness.
STAGE SHOWS.
The Ballet.
Most interesting of the Russians’
present offerings at the Royal is
“L’Amour Sorcier,” a ballet new to
Sydney, and the first essay in chore-
ography by Woizikowsky, the company’s
leading dancer. This is the stuff of which
ballet should be made—the music by De
Falla, expressive of passion, of Spanish
fire, of gipsy strangeness; the reds and
golds of the scenery, the brilliant cos-
tumes of the gipsy band, the bright sun-
shine of Spain; the dancing not inter-
preting the story, but illustrating it, tell-
ing it. Woizikowsky himself dances the
principal role, his work full of life, of
vigorous grace, commanding, wooing hb
bride with gesture. Raievska as the bride
is equally good, her dancing light-
hearted, confident —a youthful, provo-
cative bride. And Bondireva as the
widow, urgently, passionately demand-
ing a lover, turning from hope to anger
and despair. These three are excellent,
and the chorus of gipsy women give just
the right measure of support, their early
dancing giving rise to a feeling of expec-
tancy, of excitement, which is main-


WOOL YARNS No. 3
THREADS
OF DESTINY
of Destiny—spun not from Clothe’s
distaff, but from thousands of machine spindles
at the Yarra Falls and Globe Mills and wound on
to the warp beams. Threads of destiny—spun
from the finest wool that Australia produces,
destined to be woven into Twills, Fancy Worsted
Suitings, Venetians, Baratheas, Covert Coatings,
Wool Crepes and Wool Georgettes—
W 001... The Warp of Australia's Destiny.
The Yarra Falls and Globe Mills take the wool as
it comes from the sheep’s back, 20,000 bales annu-
ally—£lo,ooo worth every week—the warp on
which Australia is weaving the pattern of her grow-
ing industrialism, scouring, carding, spinning, weav-
ing, dyeing—every step of the clothmaker’s art is
followed through at Yarra Falls, until the finished
cloth of quality, design and color, equal to the
world’s best, is despatched ready to clothe you.
WHAT YARRA FALLS MEANS TO
AUSTRALIA.
Yarra Falls, the greatest textile mill in the Southern
Hemisphere, is a factor in the development of
Australia in her march towards maturity as a great
self-contained nation. Since the woolcombing
MM
m
Winding Warps.
asdf
Distaff-spinning in Middle Ages.
department was established at Abbotsford,
Victoria, 18 years ago, that development has called
for expansion at Yarra Falls. And, to-day, Yarra
Falls and Globe, in addition to the combing and
spinning of wool into yarn, nearly 4,000,000 pounds
per annum, are also weaving fabrics, 3,000,000
yards annually. The mills have grown to a floor
space of 12 acres, to a capital value of over
£1,250,000—t0 a pay roll registering 2250 names,
and that means something to Australia.
AND TO YOU.
To you, Madam! and to you, Sir! Yarra Falls
means the result of your growing demand for Aus-
tralian woollen yarns, and Australian woven fabrics.
So when next you want a quality product in
Tweeds, or Fancy Worsteds, Venetians, Baratheas,
Covert Coatings, Wool Crepes, Wool Georgettes or
other dress materials, remember that Yarra Falls
supply 1250 solid shades and over 5000 tonings.
So support Australian Industry and SPECIFY
YARRA FALLS.
YARRA FALLS Ltd.
WORSTED SPINNING AND WEAVING
MILLS, ABBOTSFORD N 9, VICTORIA.
tained throughout the piece. All in all, a
splendid ballet; the one note that jars
the effeminacy of the gipsy men. The
piece is simple and direct, a single, defi-
nite statement of the idea that only a
love that is pure can lead to happiness.
Dancing, music and scenery blend into
one complete whole.
Scenery is important. It can detract
from the merit of the ballet, be out of
tone, distract the attention. In “Les Cent
Baisers,” the remaining new item in this
week’s programme, it appears inadequate
without being sufficiently so to force
itself on one’s notice. In a manner dif-
ferent from that of “L’Amour Sorcier”
the dancing here is attractive. It is a
more quietly romantic piece, based on
a Hans Andersen fairy tale, the story of
a beautiful princess who spurns the love
of a prince, but is willing to barter her
kisses to a swineherd (the prince in dis-
guise) for some trifling bauble she covets.
Youchkevitch, the princess, and her
maids of honor dance prettily and grace-
fully, and d’Erlanger’s music has the
same qualities. But there is nothing in
the ballet to make it a lasting memory.
Two things were noticeable: Serge
Unger’s fine sense of comedy as the
swineherd with whom the prince changes
his clothes —it was even more apparent
later in the evening—and, in contrast
with Woizikowsky in the previous ballet,
the dancing of Yousskevitch as the
prince. Both had the same technical cor-
rectness, but after the lithe ease of Woizi-
kowsky the other appeared stiff and con-
scious of himself, dancing to the music
rather than with it.
In Tschaikowsky’s “La Lac des
Cygnes” the scenery jarred. The light-
ing was bad, uniformly drab and
dark, without any lighter spots or
any shadows, and it would need an
enthusiastic imagination to see beauty in
the cardboard figure of a solitary and
very ordinary swan being dragged slowly
across the stage behind a colorless piece
of canvas intended, presumably, to re-
present a. lake—the designer could ha\e
got pointers from the ducks at any shoot-
ing gallery. More so than the modern
ballets, these classical pieces—this one
an abridged version of an old favorite —
need careful staging. Yousskevitch, a
prince again, exhibited the same stiffness
as in “Les Cent Baisers,” but, this aside,
the dancing was a delight. Kirsova has
a certain mystical quality about her as
the princess turned swan. Every move-
ment has significance, every turn of the
head, every gesture with her hands. Her
companions have some beautiful dances ;
Roland Guerard and the two girls Bran-
itzka and Tchinarova a gracefully-
executed piece together.
Last on the bill is “La Boutique Fan-
tasque,” in which almost the entire com-
pany dance and make merry to Rossini’s
music; a comedy which halts every now
and again—and sometimes almost for-
gets to go on —while the players take it
in turns to dance for the others. It has
been modernised, provided with one or
two of those little touches which they’ll
tell you everybody nowadays likes, and
which cause maiden aunts to blush, and
it’s quietly satirical; but in the main
it’s just the type of thing that is usually
served up as a pantomime for the
kiddies. Kirsova and Woizikowsky are
featured as can-can dancers, and there’s
some clever work by Bondireva and
Ristic as dancing poodles, and by Roland
Guerard, “a snob.” But it’s the comedy
that is most important, and this gives
excellent opportunity for some clever
miming. Serge Unger, again, Jean
Hoyer, Guerard, Souvarova and half a
dozen others exhibit a keen sense of
comedy. One thing only is not up to
the high standard —an exhibition of Cos-
sack dancing by Valentin Froman and
five Cossacks.
When Greek Meets Greek.
Brett Randall’s new Melbourne Prin-
cess play, “The Greeks Had a Word for
It,” is a hilarious triumph for the legs,
lingerie and wisecracks of three Zieg-
feld Follies girls, and its daring comedy is
a pleasant change from the problems and
deep emotions of “The Children’s Hour,”
which it succeeds. If there is any moral
in this Zoe Akins play it is the familiar
Ziegfeld-ism that a gold-digger can go
further on a snappy pair of legs, fre-
quently displayed, than on more idealis-
tic evidences of her intelligence.
Enid Hollins, Judy Thomas and
Dorothy Stanward make the Randall
production, brightly exploiting the
sparkle in a series of clever lines and
situations. Enid Hollins is the Schatze
who tries, with amusing lack of success,
to keep Jean (Dorothy Stanward) and
Polaire (Judy Thomas) from stealing
each other’s champagne suppliers. Polaire
relies on the quality of her mind : Jean
on the quality of a pair of pins which, in
Schatze’s words, she shows on the slight-
est provocation by “moulting” her
dresses. Schatze has an off-stage “Pops”
who avoids marriage because he has “too
much dignity to risk jokes about a young
wife!”
The male players are generally weaker
than the female trio, but they have less
to do. Guy Hastings, as the rich Justin
Emery who arrives to save his son
(Russell Chapman) from Polaire and
stays to inspect Jean’s lingerie, makes a
good job of his part. Randall appears in
the brief but satisfactory role of the
pseudo waiter; Reginald Dane plays the
prosperous musician who forgets an
agreement to make Polaire famous when
Jean “moults” another gown.
Well produced and well enough played,
“The Greeks Had a Word for It” is full
of sophisticated fun—and has a surprise
ending.
4* 4* 4" *2*
“All Dressed Up.”
Sydney Tivoli’s new show has a
smaller percentage of specialty acts than
usual—doubtless owing to the return of
comedian Jim Gerald —but what there
are can be rated tip-top. Willie, West
and McGinty appear in an uproarious
act; their hilarious efforts to build a
house keep the audience in a continual
roar. What at first looks like, excellent
wordless slapstick turns out to be an
amazingly clever co-ordination of little
“accidents” and perfect timing, involv-
ing ladders, buckets, boards, mortar and
what not. Claude de Car and his fox-
terrier Spotty are equally facile at turn-
ing back somersaults and walking on
their “hands.” Hadji Ah, an Egyptian
gastronomic marvel, swallows 30 glasses
of water, with a pint of kerosene as a
chaser, regurgitates the kero, to feed a
stage fire, and then hoses it out with a
stream of the water he had just drunk,
Don Smith and the Raynor twins m a
songandance medley, tap dancers Murray
and Walton, specialty dancers Patricia
and Cohn wandering minstrel Will
Aubrey Sylvia Kellaway and Mane
Doran help to make a bright show Jim
Geralds comedy in many sketches is
fresh, except for the nnging-m of a few
hoary jests. The ballet, headed by
Natalie Raine, puts plenty of pep into
its work, and the staging of some of
the ballets is quite artistic.
* .j. q. q.
PIIPPFMT ADTRIIDCTC
UUKKcNI ARTBURbTb.
. , , , . . T , .
Arboreal greens predominate m Isabel
Mackenzie s exhibition or oils at Mac-
quane Galleries, Sydney. “Approaching
Ram, the Chilterns” and “Runnymede”
are attractive typically English land-
scapes. Impressionistic influence is
apparent in “Fountain Court, the
Temple” ; it reveals a sure touch and a
sense of perspective that has stood up
to a stiff test. Ten of the 22 canvases
are devoted to English scenes, the bal-
ance ranging over five Continental coun-
tries. “View from the Tuileries” is the
best of the four French subjects, the
banked masses of huge trees in parallel
formation giving a striking effect. “Grey
Day, the Seine,” is a thoughtfully con-
ceived little work. The general lay-out
of “Heidelberg” is admirable, but the
painting of houses on a hillside is not
yet Miss Mackenzie’s strongest line.
4* ►!•
Adelaide artist Frank Lee has bom-
barded his home town with a book of
“cricketures” of the Australian and Eng-
lish Test players whom he caught in
Melbourne. One of the best is that of
Leyland, but he has drawn most of the
men in postures characteristic enough to
satisfy souvenir chasers. Lee was
brought from S. Australia by the short-
lived “Star,” and is still in Vic.
“Bisi”: “Bill O’C.” (B. 6/l/’37) is
not quite right as to the pronunciation of
Rabaul. When the Neu Guinea Com-
pagnie. began there in 1884 the Method-
ist Mission had already learned some of
the dialects of the Duke of York group
and the Gazelle Peninsula of New
Britain, and, with some exceptions, they
had followed the system of spelling now
used by the Royal Geographical Society.
The Reich followed Mission spelling, and
on German maps of 23 years ago one
finds that b means mb, as in Rabaul.
In the Rabaul dialect ra is the article
“the” and mbaul means swampy ground.
Local natives pronounce the name “Rah-
mbowl,” with ow as in “how,” but most
white people pronounce the combined
words as “Rah-bowl,” which is near
enough. The natives never inhabited
the land on which the. town is built, but
traces of their villages can be seen on
the foothills.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
m
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
York Street Sydney
102 years of service and progress —Petty's Hotel. To-day Petty's is still
favoured—for its air of comfort, and its position; quiet, yet convenient
to all business and social centres. New features include new private
lounge and private dining room, hot and cold water, etc.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(3) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann. 16-20 Bridge St.. Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Literature in Australia has been
honored in the person of Mary Gilmore,
Dame of the British Empire, in the New
Year honors list. Mary, who was born
in Goulburn, was for 23 years editor
and writer of the Woman’s Page in the
“Australian Worker.” Before that she
had been one of the band of dreamers
who went from Australia to found a
socialist colony in Paraguay. Helping
the young writer has always been a joy
to her, and perhaps it was with this
thought in her mind that she set about
founding the Fellowship of Australian
Writers. Six volumes of poetry and three
of prose bear Mary’s signature. Her
father was a Cameron of Lochiel, her
mother a Beatty of Armagh.
The well-known Mrs. Greg McGirr,
of North Sydney, who has a long list of
charities for which she works without
let-up, is an 0.8. E. Matron Clarke, of
the Crown-street Women’s Hospital, and
Matron Smith, of the Western Suburbs
Hospital, have each received an M.B.E.
When this Letter saw the Mooltan
gaily dressed, her pennants stiff in a
freshening breeze, and the little yachts,
so white of sail, so buoyant and so care-
free, bobbing to the flagship off Neutral
Bay, it thought with regret of Frederick
S. Adams. The Anniversary Regatta of
1937 is the first he has missed. He has
been taking part in them and watching
them for 60 years, and is one of the last
of the original life members of the Prince
Alfred Yacht Club. Spains, Milsons,
Hickson, Deloitte, Judge Backhouse are
all names associated with a succession
of sun-drenched, breeze-ruffled Anniver-
sary Days, when yachts skimmed over
the tossing blue, graceful as ballerinas.
Last Monday there were 42 events ; the
first was at ten o’clock, the last towards
sunset.
Begonias and phlox, white dresses and
white hats and lawns emerald in the burn-
ing sun helped make the opening day of
the A.J.C. Anniversary Meeting just
about perfect. The only snag to com-
plete bliss was the nag that didn’t win.
Otherwise Saturday was the 1937 race-
girl’s idea of Eden. The Lieutenant-
Governor Streets filled the vice-regal
boxes with a merry party in bright-hued
silks and millinery. The Philip Street
lady’s frock was patterned with jungle-
reds and -greens. A posy of white kid
flowers decked her black hat. Lady
Phillips, from England, was in this group.
Another from across deep water was
Harry Lauder. His kilt seemed to re-
member that skirts are worn shorter. It
had misty blues in it. His head,
above a complexion that would do credit
to a prize baby, shone silver. He was
with James Murdoch and his lady. He
lost a pound, but wherever he walked
jolly smiles greeted him. Niece Greta
Lauder, whose silk frock of deep lagoon-
blue was patterned with black dots, was
with the James Murdoch lady, her frock
black and jade.
Pat Quinan, on the wing between Eng-
land and America, wore with her navy
skirt a blouse of white crepe that zipped
up the front. In the front of her hat,
which was fez-shape, two little owls were
perched. They were made of peanuts,
one red, one blue. With her was sister
Mrs. Colin Galbraith, who wore with her
white skirt a smart loose navy coat. It
had rings embroidered in white down the
front and on the cuffs. Her large white
hat had a high crown of tucked silk.
Mrs. Alan McGregor and Mrs. Adrian
Curlewis were among the smart; so was
Mrs. D. Milgrove. The smartest head-
gear was not the bonnet shape with the
buttoned crown. A white kid handbag
that caught the eye was like a miniature
gladstone. Sadie Budge’s navy frock
was buttoned from neck to hem in white.
Japan’s Consul-General Murai and his
wife are about to leave Sydney after a
residence of some years. They sail for
their native land by the Kitano Maru in
February. Last Thursday they said fare-
well to their Sydney friends in a recep-
tion that brought almost 300 guests to
Craig-Y-Mor, their Point Piper home.
The hostess, as well as a number of
ladies of Japan, wore national costume.
Her kimono of blues and pinks and
blacks was enriched with a wide rose
obi. This was a very Consular party.
Mayoress Parkes and husband Aider-
man Parkes, also the Roy Hendys,
were civic importants. Minister for
Defence. Parkhill and his lady, she cool
in thin black silks dotted in white, paid
their respects; so did the Attorney-
General Mannings. There, also, the
Claude Readings, her toque shining like
a sapphire. Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones’s
hat was mostly a peaked crown. Mrs.
Pao, wife of China’s C.-G., was there in
flowered ninons.
Neutral Bay ferryites will feel a close
bond with the new Cinesound produc-
tion “Tall Timbers.” The second femi-
nine lead will be played by Aileen
Britton, a good-looking girl from Kirri-
billi. Aileen had been playing Shaks-
peare with the Augustus Neville com-
pany until a few months ago. Now she
is to play a part specially written for
her in the screen play that centres
around the Gloucester district, where the
company is now on location. Aileen,
who lives with aunt Mrs. M. Regan at
the Mayfair, Kirribilli, is a daughter of
C. J. Britton, of Armidale (N.S.W.). One
grandfather was Charles Britton, of
Winscombe station, New England, the
other the Rev. John Smith, M.A., of St.
John’s College, Cambridge. Her ward-
robe is in the hands and brain of Mavis
Ripper, the young Cinesound designer,
who is also responsible for the frocks
worn by Shirley Ann Richards in “It
Isn’t Done.”
While holidaying in Sydney last week,
Mrs. Tom Smith, of Melbourne, just
back from Colombo, received further
news of daughter Norma Gadsden’s suc-
cess. Norma, who has been at Beyreuth
and had the honor of being asked to
sing by Winifred Wagner (it is about the
equivalent of a Royal Command), is now
singing German, Italian and French
roles at the Opera House in Monte
Carlo. The director of the company is
Gunsberg. The big work of the season will
be “L’Aiglon,” which will be presented
for the first time under the baton of the
composer. Norma Gadsden was en-
gaged for the leading role, that of the
Empress Marie Louise.
Isabel Mackenzie, of the Education
Department (she teaches art), brought
back from her travels in Europe the pic-
tures which now fill the Macquarie Gal-
leries with light and grace. The show
was opened by Dattilo Rubbo, who was
introduced by new Art Gallery director
Will Ashton —both of them Isabel’s
teachers. England, . France, Germany
Switzerland, Austria and Belgium are
glimpsed in this interesting and varied
exhibition. This Letter’s favorites were
“Fountain Court, the Temple,” “Mar-
seilles,” and “Silver Birch, Luxembourg
Gardens.”
The artist looked very Parisian about
her tunic, which was of navy criss-
crossed in gold. Her skirt was of navy
sheer, her hat black. Two sisters and
her mother were kept busy greeting
friends and being congratulated. Victor
Stuckey, assistant supervisor of art for
the Education Department, was there,
and a little group of nuns were keen ob-
servers. Mrs. Vi Eyre’s frock was
printed in blues and greens reminiscent
of her own pottery glazes; Adrian Ash-
ton and Lesley Willis arrived togetner.
Artists Dora Jarrett and Margaret Coen,
Mrs. A. C. Withers and Mrs. Percy Beni-
son were others who listened to the
speeches and studied the pictures. The
show was notable, too, for the crowds
of young men who wandered in, as well
as for the prize-size zinnias and the
dahlias in the first flush of blooming that
decorated the rooms.
An Anthony Hordern fashion parade
found about 400 women drinking tea at
the Trocadero last Friday. A feature
was the sale, price given alongside the
original. Number one. on the list would
have made any woman get on her bike
and ride for Brickfield Hill. It was a
Patou-blue sheer frock with a coat that
just tipped the top of the waist. Its
turned-up cuffs had a roll at the top,
and its collar was ruched. A short nar-
rowish sash with dark-blue ends gave
individuality. The four-inch or so of
braiding down the fronts of a black silk
coat reminded of the old-fashioned passe-
menterie.
A Vera Botea print that owed its birth
to America carried a small flower design
on a chartreuse ground. It had puffed
sleeves and a double collar. The top
and narrower was of the green, the under
one was of white pique. For going to
tea with the top-marks lad after he’d
been in the wilds of Central Australia,
nothing could be better than the extreme
femininity of the pale-mauve ensemble.
The short jacket stopped above the waist,
allowing the right glimpse of the blouse
of checked net. The pretty fussiness was
fastened with crystal buttons. There
were suits designed by English and suits
designed by American houses. Both
conservative in coloring.
Sydney girl Joan Allen returns to Aus-
tralia as Sylvia Bernita, a coloratura
soprano. With the visiting conductor
Count Patti, she will commence a season
early in March with the A.B.C.
As afternoon was turning into evening
on Sunday the Fleet sailed down Port
Jackson. It was a dignified if somewhat
smudged exit in the changing light.
Before departure the cocktail of fare-
well had been shaken in the Australia.
Captain H. A. Forster and the Australia’s
officers were the hosts. All the Navy
came to this party; so did Sydney’s
prettiest and some of the Russian Ballet.
Joyce Beazley, one of the triggest, was
in black cut on tailored lines. Sue Stog-
dale was a wearer of blue ; so was Mrs.
S. H. Spurgeon, who came with her
Lieutenant-Commander. Her frock had
its full sleeves accordion-pleated, and its
neckline dangled two little beige tassels.
Golden were Mrs. Cox Cox’s hat and
silk suit. Ruffled in crisp muslin was
the blue-and-white frock worn by Mrs.
Theophilus. Bettina Barton, Joan Marks
and Jane Connolly were others who gave
a parting cheer.
Tennis fans went out in hundreds to
watch the final struggle between Viv
McGrath and John Bromwich ; and there
were no more enthusiastic watchers of
the struggle than Jack Crawford and his
wife. The day was so hot that many
women dispensed with hats. Glare
glasses with rims colored to match the
ensemble were much worn. Mrs. Craw-
ford’s frock was white, her hat black
and shady. Mrs. Bryan Fuller, whose
husband is president of the L.T.A., also
wore white. Norman Brookes was there ;
so were the Harry Hopmans and the
Kelso Kings. So were packed stands of
others both in and out of the news.
Frocks were cool and crisp, though hats
often forsook the commonsense of shade,
and were smartly shorn of brim, it
was one of those days when everybody
looking on was happy. Watching those
who strove, sweated and smote through-
out a hot afternoon one wondered if
the Spanish Inquisition knew so much
after all.
Mrs. Gertrude Mercer, who died last
week, was writer Harold Mercer’s
mother. She had a life of vicissitudes—
danced with princes in her girlhood ; was
a heroine of Quebec, Canada, when she
saved some lives in a wreck on the
Lachine Rapids, Great Lakes ; a belle of
Adelaide for a time, when she lived there
with her uncle, Archdeacon Farr, of St.
Peter’s College ; lived in India, and also
for a while was hostess at Government
House, Perth, when her cousin Sir Harry
Ord was Governor. She experienced
poverty, too, but it never cost her her
cheerfulness or a pang of regret for any-
thing lost. She lived to be 86, but she
came of a long-lived family ; her mother,
who wrote as Elizabeth Ord, contributed
her last article to the “Westminster Re-
view” when she was 90 —she died at 96.
The International Club had one of its
smartest lunches last week. The guest of
honor was the new Consul-General for
China, Dr. Pao (pronounced Bough).
Mrs. Pao sat on president Aubrey Hal-
loran’s left, in an attractive black-and-
white outfit, America’s Consul-General
Moffatt, very large in grey, was one of
the speakers; so was the widely-travelled
Forsythe-Sherfesee, who has lived for 15
years in Pekin. Still another speech of
welcome was made by knight Ben-
jamin Fuller. Belgium’s Consul-General
Segaert was at the top table; so was
Mayoress Parkes, very smart in black-
and-white. The Snowden lady, in grey
and white, saw to all the details.
Oswald Cheeke held his first party
since his year-long illness. He entertained
a long tableful of guests. Here were the
interesting Forsythe-Sherfesees (they
came to him with letters of introduction
from Beverley Nichols and Somerset
Maugham). Sister-in-law Mrs. Arthur
Cheeke was in ivory crepes and a very up-
to-date small hat of topaz velvet. Mrs. I.
Moreing was of the party ; so were Ruby
Adams and Lach. Beaton. Ruby’s hat
was mostly a crisp white bow across the
front. The captain of the City of Man-
chester talked entertainingly. Memories
of the Emden and the Titanic were re-
called by the sight of this table. One
guest had been on a ship pursued by the
Emden, and one had been through the
tragedy of the Titanic.
Heirlooms added lustre to the bridal
finery of Helen Shaw. Her ivory satin
frock, patterned with seed pearls, had
been worn by her mother at her wedding.
Her Brussels lace and pearls had been
grandmother’s treasures. Two well-known
country families provided the partners
in this contract. The bride is .the only
daughter of the Gordon Shaws, of Girra-
wheen, Bombala; the ’groom, Percy
Alan Kelman,. is one of the Tantaranna,
Moree, clan. Both Helen and her mother
had been educated at the C. of E. Girls'
Forbes-street, so St. John’s,
Darlinghurst, was the church chosen.
Heather Kelman, in a long frock of
white chiffon, her hair wreathed with
pink roses and delphinium, followed the
bride. Fresh from Girrawheen were the
flowers—phlox, tiger-lilies and gladioli —
that adorned the church and the recep-
tion at the Wentworth. The guests
came from Moree, Hay, Bombala
and a dozen places in between. The
couple left last Saturday on their Maori-
land honeymoon.


EAT WHAT YOU LIKE
—IMO PAIN
Doctors know .digestive upset can be serious. They
know that hot burning acid can cause ulcers—risk of
an operation. Simple to stop the trouble if you end
the cause. For this, nothing beats Harrison-Maclean
Stomach Powder, a famous English formula. Harri-
son-Maclean Powder gives fastest, harmless relief,
maintains normal “balance” required for healthy
digestion, soothes raw ulcer conditions and helps the
bowels. Chemists sell HARRISON-MACLEAN
Stomach Powder at 2/6 —be sure to see the name
HARRISON in front of Maclean if you want the
real thing. If any difficulty, order (add 4d. Post)
from Owl Pharmacy, Martin Place, Sydney. Eat
what you like, when you want to —without fear.
Say “Good-bye” to INDIGESTION.
Harrison-Maclean s;
GIVES INSTANT EASE.
asdf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling list Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you— now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
JOSEPH MICHAEL ORKEN, who sometimes
resided at 10 Lawson Street, Elwood, Victoria,
but was lately residing in Sydney, New South
Wales, kindly communicate with the under*
signed.
HERALD & CRANG, Solicitors.
422 Collins Street, Melbourne.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Melbourne
chatter
Jessie Webb has returned after a year
abroad, much of which was spent wan-
dering in romantic-sounding places ; but,
as Miss Webb is a lecturer in ancient
history and her leave was granted for
historical research, she. placed ruins
before olive groves, and filling up note-
books was of greater importance than
dashing off picture postcards to friends
at home. The traveller planned her
route away from beaten tracks. She
visited Turkey, and was bumped through
Syria and Iraq in uncomfortable trains,
dusty cars and buses. The goal which
she finally attained was in the desert
where work of excavation is revealing
relics of ancient Babylonian cities and
buried canals.
There is nothing particularly difficult
about preparing for a cocktail party if
a known number of people are coming.
The formula’s easy: If x equals number
of people, then lOx equals drinks and
20x equals bites of toy food, with, if
it’s to be a late party, one dozen whisky,
a “niner,” several loaves of bread, bacon,
eggs and soup as margin for error. But
Mrs. William Thwaites had no such for-
mula to work by for her party on Satur-
day in honor of her daughter, who issued
invitations verbally, and was so excited
over getting herself on board the
Ormonde that she couldn’t remember
whom she’d asked. Enough nourishment
was therefore prepared for a battalion.
The party was a great success, and there
were plenty of volunteers to cut up extra
loaves of bread at 8 p.m., for nobody left
except those who had dates at “The
Greeks Had a Word for It.”
Noticed among the guests were Gwen
Wilson, with buttercups and daisies
pinned to her chiffon frock ; Mrs. Brian
Hogan Taylor, in navy-blue net; Phyll
Rowell, with a red ribbon round her
hair; Lorna and Dot Bradford ; Eliza-
beth Dutton Green with a yellow-and-
green piedish frill fluted round the neck
of her black frock.
One of the most interesting addresses
ever given at the International Club was
a talk on the Women of India by an
Indian visitor, Miss Checka Eipe. Miss
Eipe, who speaks perfect English and
always wears her picturesque national
dress, is vice-president of St. Chris-
topher’s College, Madras, holds an arts
degree, and did post-graduate work at
Toronto, which climate she liked in spite
of the intense cold. Recently she spent
several months in Dunedin studying
social science. Miss Eipe’s tour is being
made possible by the Y.W.C.A., which
helps to arrange her itinerary of lectures.
Although the Y.W. meets her at any town
where it has a hostel or representatives,
Miss Eipe is independent and competent
about moving herself and her luggage
through booking offices and the customs.
Ten years ago she travelled alone round
the world.
Guests who accepted invitations to
Mrs. Gordon Challingsworth’s luncheon
party in honor of her sister (departing
for England) were so charmed with the
hostess’s maisonette that they would have
liked to carry home some of its contents
under their arms. The young Challings-
worths have been at their present address
for only a few weeks. Although they
collected their furniture bit by bit every-
thing was in perfect balance, except the
telephone reposing on the floor, where,
however, it is a great success, for every-
body finds its corner of the lounge a
most comfortable spot for quiet con-
versations. Mrs. William Thwaites came
to the party, and also sent round a car-
ful of beautiful flowers from her garden.
Tiger-lilies, gladioli, dahlias and car-
nations were all handsome, but it was
the healthy growth of delphiniums of
which she was most proud.
Wearing a Grecian gown of honey-
gold satin attached to diamente shoulder-
straps, Gwen Munro made a brief
appearance on the stage of His Majesty’s
for the premiere of her picture “Orphan
of the Wilderness.” In her few words
through the mike she paid a tribute to
Brian Abbot, the hero of the film, lost
in a boat between Lord Howe Island
and Australia. An attractive pair of
sisters in the audience, which was de-
pleted of well-known faces through the
invitation premiere a few weeks ago,
were Mrs. Douglas Carnegie and Mrs.
Bruce Carnegie. The latter wore a cun-
ning little white pique hat with a ser-
rated edge to its brim ; her elder sister’s
ashes-of-roses coat was accompanied by
a tiny navy-blue toque whisked round
with a scarlet and navy-blue tulle veil.
The T. N. G. Jennings couple and
their daughters came to Australia on a
family steamer ticket for a quartet. When
they return to their home in Salcombe,
Devon, England, they will be but a trio,
for elder daughter Margaret liked this
country so much that last week she be-
came Australian by marriage. Dr. Law-
rence Stokes was the ’groom, and the
wedding took place at Melbourne Gram-
mar School chapel on an afternoon when
the weather changed its mind every 10
minutes between warm sunshine and
scudding rain. The bridal attire was of
conventional white, with high neckline,
long sleeves, sash knotted at the front
and bouquet of gardenias. Mrs. Jennings
wore a navy-and-white frock, with the
softening of a white feather boa on her
shoulders. Her younger daughter Eliza-
beth’s unusual gown was of ivory chiffon
with a faint tracery of leaf-brown pat-
terning and hem of dark-brown taffeta.
It was mounted over rustling white moire.
Bride’s aunt Mrs. David Hunter wore
black ninon with a little toque of coque
feathers, and her daughter Jean chose
twig-green chiffon and a large white hat.
Mrs. Hunter had more than one help-
ful finger in the wedding pie, for she
lent the bride her veil of Venetian lace
and issued invitations to a reception at
her home in Toorak-road. The ’groom,
who is the elder son of the late H. R.
Stokes, had the support of Dr. J. B.
Couquhoun as best man. Dr. Stokes’s
sisters, Mrs. Trevor Wheler and Mrs.
Norman Cameron (N.S.W.), assisted with
the introductions, and two small nephews,
Donald and Robert Cameron, were page
boys in brown satin trousers and cream
silk shirts.
Wearing one of her diminutive
trousseau hats is Phyllis Smith, who on
Friday, Feb. 5, is to marry Dr. Sam
Aitchison, of Brighton. The bride, who
trained as a nurse at the Alfred, is the
elder daughter of the late Brig.-General
Smith and of Mrs. Smith, of Geelong.
The wedding is to be a quiet afternoon
affair at Scots Church, the wedding rai-
ment a gown and jacket of ivory rapa-
lana and large white hat. Bride’s sister
Lois will attend in frock and hat of
convolvulus blue. Broothorn photo.
Among bridal-gift parties given for
Phyl Smith was one arranged by her
fiance’s good friends Group-Captain and
Mrs. Eric Harrison. Presents included
all manner of things from bean-cutters
and toasting-forks to Irish linen and
featherweight trousseau accessories.
After a buffet meal everybody wandered
into the garden, where dahlias were as
tall as the tallest man present, a canary
sang in lonely solitude and a cageful
of green and blue lovebirds showed in-
terest and affection only for one another.
Bird bath and tray of crumbs for the
wild birds showed a magnanimous spirit
on the part of the garden’s owners, es-
pecially after the way greedy beaks had
destroyed ripening fruit on the trees.
Among the many guests who motored
up from Geelong for the party were
Mrs. Robert Smith and Bob (Lois was
recuperating after an attack of pleurisy);
Mrs. Montie Belcher, in a white linen
suit and cap; the Mayor of Geelong
and Mrs. C. N. Brown, who is almost
of the Air Force, for she is a sister of
Group-Captain “King” Cole, now sta-
tioned at Richmond (N.S.W.). Those
who came shorter distances included the
“Lofty” Todds (Mrs. Todd and Phyl
Smith were at school together at The
Hermitage), Squadron-Leader and Mrs.
H. C. Harrison (no relation of the host),
and Flight-Lieut. and Mrs. D. McE.
Carroll. Both these officers relinquished
the Air Force recently to accept appoint-
ments with the new aircraft construction
co. Guests who received most attention
—even more than the prospective bride
and ’groom—were the Carroll couple’s
twin daughters, who are just out of the
crawling and almost into the walking
stage of infancy. Arriving per pram
built for two, their portable playground
under Father’s arm, they wore white
muslin frocks, one of which was a gift
from Mrs. Eric Harrison, and the other
an identical garment made by her daugh-
ter Greta when it was known that two
babies had arrived instead of one.
Among several functions arranged for
Lady Somers by Guiders, Guides and
Brownies, the most important so far was
the party on Saturday (30th) at the Cam-
berwell North Guide Hall. Here is
Florence Mitchell, who, as commissioner
for Jbast Malvern, was among tne many
in uniform for the occasion. Miss
Mitchell has belonged to the Guide
movement for six years. She is enthu-
siastic, but not up to the point of volun-
tarily living under canvas. When the
girls of her “district” were camped at
Eltham early in the summer she kept in
touch with them through several day-
time visits. Miss Mitchell plays tennis
and golf and is an associate of Metro-
politan. Broothorn photo.
Newly-born Savoy Theatres, Ltd., are
doing important work at the Princess,
where, with clever plays and local
material for casts, they are keeping their
heads above water in spite of the general
public’s passion for the movies, a musi-
cal comedy season at His Majesty’s and
the advent of several pantos, and other
shows. Some of the Savoy players are
pros., but others, though they are now
automatically professional, have had far
less experience than many amateurs. It
wasn’t a particularly fashionable audi-
ence on Saturday for the first night of
the witty, satirical comedy “The Greeks
Had a Word for It.” Judging by the
hearty applause for real humor and good
acting and staging, kid gloves were worn
neither on hands nor on sensibilities.
Judy Thomas, Dorothy Stanward and
Enid Hollins (in blonde wig) were the
three who scatter swear words ad lib,
and towards the end go gay on cham-
pagne. They start off in a night dive
with “Three beers for three ladies,” and
Enid Holins (Schatze) preaching caution
and “ It don’t do for a nice girl to be
getting thrown out of these places.”
Peggy Mackay left last week-end to
take up her new appointment as resident
at Adelaide General Hospital. Dr.
Mackay, an old girl of P.L.C., was among
the five women and fifty-odd men whc
recently received medical degrees.
Dr. and Mrs. Charles Kellaway re-
turned from America last week. Their
trip denotes a singular honor paid to the
doctor, the Director of the Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute of Pathology and
Medicine, who was the first Australian
invited to give the Charles Dohme
Memorial lectures in Baltimore. The
lectureship, an annual endowment, begun
in 1922, is intended to promote more
intimate relationship between chemistry,
pharmacy and medicine. It is open to
lecturers in all parts of the world, so
that the selection committee has a choice
of scientists with world-wide reputations.
The subjects chosen by Dr. Kellaway had
to do with snake venoms.
The William Mortill couple have
turned their backs on their beautiful Tay
Creggan and are bound for Europe in
the Viminale. Somewhat to her hus-
band’s concern Madame is resolved to
visit her native Russia, which she left
in haste during the stormy times of the
Revolution. The couple will travel from
Genoa, through Germany and up to
Riga in Latvia, where Madame’s mother
•nd sister are living. They will also
visit Egypt before setting sail for Aus-
tralia.
Mrs. Ted Dyson and June are spend-
ing their first summer at Black Rock in
their cottage Ecalpym. There is a coinci-
dence about the cobblestones used for
the big fireplace in the lounge. The
bricklayer, while up at Alfredton, near
Ballarat, on another job of work, saw
some satisfactory cobbles, and, thinking
of Mrs. Dyson’s house, then under con-
struction, collected a couple of bags of
them for her chimney. It turned out
that the stones came from a spot a mile
or two away from the late Ted Dyson’s
birthplace at Digger’s Rest, and almost
on the site where he wrote his “Rhymes
from the Mines.”
G. T. Fryer, president of the Union,
made a spirited speech at the opening
t)f the Teachers’ Conference. After
dwelling on environment, which is of
proved psychological value, he asked for
better education facilities, and mentioned
the encouragement which has during the
last few years been given to teachers by
the increased interest in education taken
by parents, school councils and organ-
ised public bodies. But politicians are
not so friendly. The 1936 Teachers’ Act
restores a system of promotion which
caused feeling between 1915 and 1925:
What Admiral Fisher in connection with
another service called the rule of “Bug-
gins’s turn.” Fortunately for the men
teachers their list of promotions came into
operation just before the ratio system was
abolished ; the women had no such luck.
Among the most discussed problems
brought up at the Vic. Teachers’ Con-
ference were (1) the relation between
primary and secondary schools (the Min-
ister for Education will be urged to
favor a State-wide plan by which chil-
dren of 11 and upwards pass on to the
right type of post-primary school); (2)
the unsatisfactory position given to phys ; -
cal education in State schools. The
Education Minister, Dr. Harris, is con-
demned as not being progressive enough
on such subjects as calisthenics.


MORE
OLD COURT
is Sold in Australia than
any other Whisky !
sadf
The smoothness . . . the mellowness
that age alone can give—a quality
whisky at a commonsense price . . 0
that’s the reason. The back label on
every bottle of Old Court Whisky is
the Distiller’s guarantee of its except-
ional age, its mellowness and maturity.
Nowhere can you obtain such an aged
whisky at such a reasonable price.
No wonder Old Court has enjoyed
such widespread popularity for so
many years.
THE DISTILLERS
(finavatitee
that the BLEND of Old Court
in this bottle is comprised of
whiskies aged in the
following proportions:
50% Distilled in the Years 1926"28
50% „ „ » 1929-30
FEDERAL DISTILLERIES
PTY. LTD.
xceptioncil
620
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
Accepted in ’l6; Rejected in ’36
One of the A.I.F. men was a Dutch-
man, born at Dokkum, Holland, in 1877.
Somewhat of a stormy land petrel, he had
fought in the U.S.A. Army against the
Spaniards in the Philippines and served
with the French Foreign Legion in
Morocco. He enlisted in 1916 at Enog-
gera Camp, Brisbane, with the 21st
reinforcements of the 9th Battalion (reg.
No. 6545).
He applied for an invalid pension the
other day. It was refused him because
he had not (and had no means of earn-
ing) the £5 10s. which is the formal
naturalisation fee that must accompany
the application form. He was unlucky
enough to lose his discharge papers and
the permit for enlistment, given him at
Goulburn (N.S.W.). But as he left with
the A.I.F. on the Boonba (a captured
German steamer), and after 356 days of
active service returned by the Nestor
(invalided to Australia at end of 1917,
Class C 3), his credentials could be easily
looked up or checked in the military
records office.
A number of invalid pensions has
been granted to citizens of the same age
as this man who neither enlisted nor
showed any inclination to enlist. Had
the rejected applicant any means of
securing the £5 10s., he could be a sound
pension-drawing citizen of the Common-
wealth to-morrow, whether he had seen
the war or not. He has now asked the
Pensions Office to grant him his pen-
sion conditionally upon its deducting,
out of every pay, a not-too-large sum
that will eventually, and D.V., total up
to the immortal £5 10s.
A pity some military brass-hat didn’t
say to him, before he enlisted, “We can
only accept you as a soldier if you will
agree to a week’s Digger’s pay being
deducted from your wages-sheet until
your naturalisation fee of £5 10s. is
covered.” But we wanted recruits then!
—J. A.' Fihelly (Q.).
Nothing to Warrant a Rush
Nobody can accuse the Common-
wealth Government of being in a hurry
to appoint an Administrator for the
Northern Territory; but there is a
reason. The job is going begging among
suitable men, and it will continue to go
begging while the Government expects
the appointee to exile himself in Dar-
win for five years, living in a house
which is like a vault and being directed
like a schoolboy by clerks in Canberra,
and while £ll7O is thought sufficient for
managing 523,000 sq. miles of Federal
territory.— lran (N.Q.).
“Proposed Colonial Lottery”
In “Plain English” (B. 20/1 / ’37), you
quoted remarks made by Mr. George
Fitz Patrick, whom you have chosen to
describe as “president of the N. S. Wales
Royal Society of St. George.”
The facts are. that I am, and have been
for several years, president of the Royal
Society of St. George, Sydney branch,
and that no one had authority to ex-
press any opinion for the society, nor
does the utterance, published express the
views of the president. Further, although
the society has not, as a body, recorded
its views on the question of restoration
of German colonies, I am convinced
that it is strongly opposed to restoration.
—J. H. King.
[ln an accompanying list of officials,
Mr. George Fitz Patrick is described as
“Chairman of Council.”]
Dr. Page Is Doleful
“Considering the millions of pounds
spent on advertising other products, it
would be unwarranted optimism to sup-
pose that wool could maintain its posi-
tion unaided.” So said Dr. Earle Page
at the Melbourne Wool Conference.
Wool in its manufactured form is
easily one of the most advertised pro-
ducts in the world, both through the
news and advertising columns of the
press. Nevertheless, Dr. Page is so
concerned about the inadequacy of wool
publicity that the industry is being
taxed to remedy the present desperate
position.
Actually, 3,573,745 bales of Aus-
tralasian fleece were sold last year,
against 2,000,000 bales in 1924-25, the
year in which artificial silks began to
come on the market, 1,544,000 bales the
year before the war and 837,000 bales
in 1904-05. The price this year is the
highest average since 1927, and it would
have been the highest since 1924-25 if
Dr. Earle Page and his colleagues had
not scuppered the best of the Japanese
market by a piece of arrant stupidity.
The value of Australasian wool has
increased from £10,000,000 in 1904-05
to £59,000,000 last season, and it will
probably be nearly £70,000,000 this year
in spite of the worst that Mr. Gullett
19 rin
C toll nr Paee that
Somebody should 'woof is - not
the proper way to se aood
to cry misery, and , cea ses to
many years before the steepcesses to
provide the backbone of Austtalia s m
come. Also it mtght be remarked that
the^u y t 0 hC P th - C is not
and the increase m i P , but
by wasteful schemes ot. PF' g f the
by the removal of ax ~ them
shoulders oi graziers s betterment
to put morei money moithebgnwj
ot sheep and sheep raisi g ve „ eta bi e
the wiping out ot di «- 8
pests. Wheat-and-She (
“Attracting Tourists”
One of the great ambitions of Austra-
lian Governments and local authorities is
to “encourage tourist traffic,” and their
methods of doing it are unique.
I travelled to the Blue Mountains, the
hub of fascination for overseas visitors
who wish to rove beyond Sydney—
travelled on a train officially described
as “The Caves Express, Second Divi-
sion.” It was so popular that I had to
cross somebody’s palm with silver to get
a seat in a first-class carriage. It did the
68 miles to Katoomba in 2 hours 35
minutes. From Faulconbridge to
Katoomba is 16.75 miles; this was
traversed in three minutes under an
hour. And after reaching the mountains
the “express” stopped at every station.
There were among us no trippers used
to Birmingham-London ordinary trains,
which do 110 miles inside two hours,
or familiar with the Flying Scotsman —
over 400 miles in under seven hours these
days—so we had no apoplexy cases, but
there was nearly one in Katoomba.
There I gave a taxi-driver an address
which proved to be 300 yards from the
station. He charged 3s. and apologised.
He said that the Blue Mountains shire
fixed that minimum,, and he was not
allowed to charge less. —Ek Dum
(N.S.W.).


asdf
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIEP & CO., LTD.,
I Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
PLUM
asdf
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6; with guard 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, X.vlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor
THE PLUM RAZOR GDAKD, for fin., Jin. and lln
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day seta (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 86/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
k«Dt in order for two
years free of charge.
Wear the
convenient
asdf
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING BOOTS
(Reg. Design No. 9292.)
They are quicker and easier to put on and
take off. Ideal for riding or walking
Zipp Fastener is obtainable at Front or
on Side elastic.
Price 33/9 per pair.
Order Your Size To-day.
Exclusive to
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.
In Queen Street - - - - - Brisbane
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Wongi Wongi”: There are a few
things which Central Australia can teach
the comfortable coastal cities, and one
of them touches the matter of defence.
The latest census shows that Alice
Springs has a population of just over 320
males, of whom about 200 are above
adolescent age ; 40 or so are over 50.
Yet the rifle club has over 40 active
members. Anybody know another Aus-
tralian town with that sort of record?
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The Rabaul public meeting
which protested against the New Guinea
Administration’s gentle treatment of Black
Brother does not seem to have had much
influence. The Administration has not
been moved to firmer action even by a
new petition from the whites of south
Namatanai urging the danger of attacks
on plantation managers by niggers who
have already damaged a few white heads.
Two weeks after the protest, a black
gent, in Namatanai viciously attacked a
manager and, leaving him groggy, went
off shouting that he was going for his
axe to finish the job. What the Court
did to him should teach the native popu-
lation a lesson. He was handed two
months’ imprisonment in one of the most
comfortable calabooses north of Tun-
curry.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Lunch hour had just struck
when a lady arrived in a Brisbane bar
and demanded something to drink the
King’s health. As it looked as if she
had already honored his Majesty (and
perhaps the Queen as well) further ma-
terial for celebration was refused her.
The lady protested. The police were
sent for. The lady retired. The police
retired. The lady returned—-with a pick-
handle and her sleeves rolled up. There
were 20 beer glasses, 16 pots and a bar-
maid in the bar. The glass went with
one rolling smash, but the barmaid, for-
tunately for herself, was not brittle. Then
the woman licensee of the hotel arrived
and the invader descended on her. The
pick-handle rose again. The licensee fell
to the floor unconscious. Her husband
rushed in and threw the visitor out.
But was she daunted? Not she. Within
about 10 seconds she was hurling bricks,
stones and other missiles through the
bar windows. To the police she said
sadly that she was “fairly drunk.” The
charge sheet was half-filled with her
doings over the week-end and her fines
totalled £23.
* * * *
“East Point”: The Interior Depart-
ment has added to its many blunders by
taking over completely the powers of
the Darwin Town Council, which will
now be vested in Canberra. Exactly
why Darwin, with 1600 people, a garri-
son, an aerodrome and a port, should
not be able to govern itself municipally is
a mystery, unless the explanation is that
the Interior Department finds difficulty in
making work for its staff. With a popu-
lation of about 5000, the Territory has
now no form of self-government. Papua,
with only 2173 whites, sports a Legis-
lative Council; so does the New Guinea
Mandated Territory, which has about the
same number of people as the N-T.
Neither of them is allowed to do much
governing, but at least their councillors
are learning the forms of government
and have the machinery of criticism,
which they sometimes use effectively.
* H= * *
“K.”: Dr. Raymond Balls, who died
in Sydney the other day at 47, was
Queensland-born, son of an energetic
woman who ran the railway refreshment
rooms at Brisbane for years. He was
back in Queensland when a long-standing
malady took a serious turn and he was
hurried from Brisbane by air to Sydney
a day or so before the end came.
* * * *
“Gain”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, though it showed anxiety about
Japanese imports into Australia, shows
none about imports into the Mandated
Territory. The Nanyo Boyeki Kaisha is
now sending ships to Rabaul and adver-
tising a willingness to purchase copra,
trochus, ivory nuts and other tropic pro-
duce and to sell beer, mineral waters,
bicycles, paint, cameras, fountain-pens,
cement, canned salmon, sardines and
even milk. The Japanese don’t let us
trade in their mandated islands —in fact,
they won’t allow us to go there.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The Department of Justice
has swooped on Queensland Supreme
Court to make a severe paring in—its
washing bill! Hitherto each of the five
Judges was allowed three towels per
week ; henceforth their five Honors will
have to manage with eight towels among
them every seven days. It would take
Solomon to make a just division of these
among five. Possibly the question will
“Wonder what it eats , Ma!”
be referred to the Court’s brother in
Equity for decision. Or, perhaps,
somebody may tear up a cast-off affi-
davit and the C.J. will draw numbers
out of a hat. The economy will save
the taxpayers 3s. 2d. per week.
* * * *
Queensland has lost a splendid sports-
man in Denis O’Connor, dead in Bris-
bane at 80. One of the founders of the
Commercial, Brisbane’s earliest rowing
club, he rowed five in the State eight
of 1885 ; and he owned some outstand-
ing trotters. Denis O’Connor’s sympathy
for luckless athletes and others who had
found the following of games as a means
of livelihood a snare and a delusion was
boundless. The number of lame dogs
he helped over stiles is beyond com-
puting.
* * *
“Wau”: New Guinea’s air record in
1935-36 was, as usual, a proud one. Over
the tortuous ranges and difficult rises of
the goldfields route, 27 commercial
pilots with 38 machines carried 16,559
passengers and 21,883,4131 b. of freight
with scarcely an accident. Australia had
236 commercial aircraft and carried
75,261 passengers, but only 433,8431 b.
freight. New Guinea’s aerial mail
weighed 128,9821 b. and Australia’s
51,7511 b.
* * * *
“One-bite Annie”: The trainer of
swimmer Jack Medica has cast asper-
sions on our mosquitoes. He says
they’re not a patch on those of New
Jersey, where people use chicken nets to
keep them out, where their song is a
cross between a bagpipe and a cow’s
call for her twins, and where he once
discovered a few dozen malarial visitors
trying to pull the sheet off his bed. Tut!
The New Jersey mosquito is a mere
fledgling beside the best Queensland. In
the Upper Maroochy townships they
used to turn out the town band and
the guard of honor when the mosquito
horde arrived each season, because their
song sounded like Premier (“Big Bill”)
McCormack making a speech. Nobody
owned a posthole digger up that way.
When the new fence was going up you
simply caught a female anopheles and
used her beak, which was sometimes
also used as a bit for the pneumatic
drill. We used to weave the hair on
the males into cow rugs. Unfortunately,
with the passing of circuses, the breed has
died out. An elephant was about the
only thing one of them could bite with-
out going right through him. I once
saw a fairly average specimen having
a drink. He merely stuck his proboscis
through the cement water main and
sucked.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Swimming and boat parties are the
favorite form of entertaining in these
dog days. For Sunday, January 31, the
Alf Huybers arranged a party on the
Blue Bird in honor of the Edols couple
—the lady is a niece of the late knight
William MacGregor. Mrs. Jim Ramsay
and her two pretty daughters, Cecily and
Marjorie, were on the guest-list.
Another water party was arranged by
girls of the Pathological Department of
the General Hospital. They drove to
Sandgate, had an alfresco tea by the
waves, then took to the water. All males
were barred.
Mrs. Tom Rigby packed her four
children into the ’plane at Cracow and
flew down to Brisbane. Suzanne and
Mary are going to school at St. Mar-
garet’s, so only half the family will fly
back to the station a month hence.
Jean and Heather Philp were brides-
maids when sister Jessie, twin daughter
of the C. J. C. Philps, of Wyralong,
Beaudesert, and granddaughter of one-
time Premier Robert Philp and the
Robert Collinses, of Mundoolum and
Tamrookum, was married to Arthur Gil-
bertson, an Aircrafts, Ltd., senior pilot.
He is an Englishman. St. Thomas’s
Church, Toowong, was packed with
members of the Philp and Collins clans.
Sixteen children brought from St.
George and Roma through the Bush
Children’s Health Scheme were all found
to need medical attention of some kind
or other. As none of the parents are
overburdened with this world’s wealth,
the kiddies would have had a slim chance
of the best medical attention had it not
been for the scheme. Nine of the 16 will
have dental treatment after the medicoes
have finished with them.
Winifred Cecilia Trevethan and Kevin
Edward Doran were married in the crypt
of Holy Name Cathedral, with Rev.
Fathers F. Scanlan and J. Garvey to tie
the knot. Cream dull crepe, with high
neckline and long, tight sleeves, was worn
by the bride, who also wore wreath and
veil and carried magnolias and frangi-
panni. Kathleen Fishbourne, in ivory
stiffened lace, was bridesmaid. W. S.
Trevethan gave his daughter away.
Enone Ryan, of Manly and Hay
(N.S.W.), was married to Raymond
Parker, of Milton, in the Sacred Heart
Church, Rosalie. Iris Newland, niece of
the bride, was ’maid. After the Voice
had breathed, Mrs. Flanagan entertained
a number of guests at Rowe’s.
Helen, daughter of the J. P. Kitchens,
of Morningside, kept the church ap-
pointment with Robert Gordon, son of
Mrs. L. Gordon, of Allora. All Saints’
was the setting. J. P. Kitchen gave his
daughter away, and sister Irene was
bridesmaid.
Joan Anderson said her “I wills” very
prettily to Jimmy Campbell at St.
Augustine's, Hamilton. Joan has dark
hair, and Ruth, her sister, who was
bridesmaid, is fair. White-clad bride and
green-frocked ’maid made a charming
picture. Real flowers in the hair and a
fine old amethyst brooch that had be-
longed to her mother were the bride's
ornaments.
Serenely gazing back over
91 years of life, Mrs. Isie
N. Robertson, widow of
Robert Robertson, former
Under - Sec. for Public
Works, sits in her home at
Boundary - street, South
Brisbane, reads and knits,
or waits for a visit from her
grandchildren. One of Bris-
bane’s most hospitable
matrons in her time, she has
been compelled to give up
both entertaining and her
other pet occupation, gar-
dening. She likes modern
girls—se,es nothing wrong
with their frocks, hair or
complexions.
Mrs. Bruce Shearer, off to
England in the Oronsay,
was farewelled at Rowe’s,
Mrs. R. L. Reid and Mrs. Jack Devitt
being hostesses. A huge, basket of flowers
was presented to the guest. Scarlet hibis-
cus in low bowls, set on blue tulle,
was the unusual table decoration.
Margaret Froggatt, shortly to marry
Arthur Downes, has had numerous par-
ties. Mrs. C. W. Gibson, Mrs. E. J.
Belford and Eileen Crowe were joint
hostesses at the last, which was at
Finney’s. There was a floral horseshoe
for the guest of honor, who wore a
shrimp-pink frock and a white hat; a
shoulder posy was handed her mother,
Mrs. R. Froggatt.
Mrs. R. E. Woolcock, Blackall, just
back from Sydney, chose the cool roof
garden of the National as setting for
the tea party she gave to her friends.
A posy for each guest and hand-painted
cards, together with big bowls of golden
gladioli and blue hydrangeas, helped
make the party bright.
Fifty enthusiastic young things surged
on to the South Brisbane', platform on
the completion of their Y.A.L. tour of
Tasmania. Mrs. Euston Moore and Ruth
Parker, of Ayr, were in charge.


ww-sfSi mi .
EASTER:
OTRANTO..TASMANIA
A*
EARLY JUNE:
ORONSAY...PAPUA
EARLY JULY:
ORAMA....FIJ I
: -v
LATE JULY:
ORFORD...FIJI
LATE AUGUST:
OTRANTO. .RABAUL
m
OCTOBER:
:>•>•. 'A
.V ■ '
ORION ... NEW ZEALAND 4
&
Vi,,. ••• ■ ■ v
w,. *
§**>#*■ ' v<i~ „
XMAS:
ORFORD ... NEW ZEALAND
-
c=a
mm
-x.v ■ - w
/ v % "
4
■
Sag
* xbfg* ;
%
:!AAt. «j» —*•:>
t’H
<b
V
V
sr and
.. ... . . .. .. ..
- ~ r\ .
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGA T I O N COMPANY LIMIT ED , INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Hundreds of guests and onlookers
crowded into St. George’s Cathedral for
Margaret Paton’s marriage to Ross
* j
Ambrose, and policemen directed the
heavy-car traffic for the aftermath at
the Paton home, West Perth. The bride’s
gown was a misty confection starting
with a foundation of parchment satin ;
over this came a veiling of chiffon which
was surcharged with spotted silk tulle
apphqued with lace and iridescent with
seed pearls. Graduated pearls girdled
the waistline; the Limerick lace veil,
worn by Mrs. Paton on h~r wedding day,
was caught by a coronet of gardenias,
Gwenyth Ambrose ’maided in apricot
stiffened net over taffeta, with net ruch-
ings edging the neck, elbow-length sleeves
ated hem, the rustling creation topped
with a stitched taffeta bonnet.
On the same day Peter Smith, who has
oft-times wielded a winning racquet in
local tennis tournaments, was married
to Jimmy Nathan, younger son of the
late Charles Nathan and Lady Nathan.
Peter’s ivory silk net, hand-embroidered
with silk coin spots, was cut with rolled
collar, Gibson sleeves and tight-fitting
buttoned bodice, then fell in full folds
to the ground, a wide-stitched band of
taffeta adorning the hem. Her large
green straw hat matched the leaves in
her posy of stephanotis. A white, flower-
embossed organdie blouse peeped from
matron-of-honor Mrs. Boyd King’s
tailoredPatou-pink deque which was
shaded by a wide brown Leghorn hat.
In honor of two members of the Royal
Schools’ Music Club president Mrs.
Cecil Mason slipped on a gold-braided
tunic frock of jade green and ivory crepe
and entertained at her flat in Padbury
House. Peggy Brennan, whose marriage
to J. McCann has an early booking,
parked her blue-flowered linen in a box
seat, and an official pew was provided
r, ?P le B eor | ctt , e °. £
Ivy Stevenson, who sails for England
by (he Mongola . Pianoforte sol * by
Winsome Pammenf, songs from Doric
Horrigan, Ivy Stevenson, Doris Berry
and Jean Newsham, competitions, tea and
chatter brightened the programme.
At Trinity Church, Sloane-street,
London, the marriage of Kathleen Cram-
mond and William Urquhart was per-
formed by an all-Westralian cast. The
Rev. Freeman, formerly of Perth, tied
the knot between his erstwhile
parishioners; the bride’s lustrous pink
satins and floating veil were back-
grounded by the rose-pink matt crepe
a nd Juliet cap adorning Joan Carriss, an-
other ex-Perthite, and the ’groom, who
hails from the south, was supported by
his banking colleague, Noel Nave. Mrs.
Arthur Crammond and Mrs. W. A.
Urquhart, respective mothers of the
couple, were at the ceremony.
Mrs. R. W. Chambers, wife of Dr.
Chambers, of Melbourne, ’ finished floral
blue crepes with navy accessories when
she was guest of honor at a musical
afternoon given by Mrs. P. G. Hamp-
shire. The hostess was girt with trim
black matelasse. Mrs, Leigh Thomason
and Rose Atkinson sang, Kitty Meares
played the piano and Mrs. H. E. Braine
gave humorous recitations.
Eileen Holman sister of Parliament’s
oft-returned May,’was married to Edward
Roy Thompson at St . Mary’s Church,
Bassendean. A deep cream lace yoke
anchored her rich satins, which were
pleated Grecian-wise at the waist and
tied with a silver girdle. From a pearl-
studded orange-blossom coronet her
tulle veil swooped down to the tip of
her long train. Sisters Iris and Sheila
’maided.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
We had better advertise for our lost
summer; a fur coat seems to be the
hardest-worked article of the wardrobe.
At the cricket Lady Dugan looked her
charming self in pastel-blue linen frock,
with navy silk blouse, hat of navy straw
and knotted navy scarf. Mrs. Scrymgour
was wearing black crepe de Chine
toilette, her wide-brimmed black straw
trimmed with white flowers.
To attend the morning-tea given for
Dr. Georgina Sweet was to realise what
a huge number of women’s associations
there are in this city. The tea was held
at the Y.W.C.A. and had been arranged
by the S.A. sub-committee of the
Pan-Pacific Women’s Committee, the
National Council of Women, Women s
Non-Party Association, Women Gradu-
ates’ Association, Y.W.C.A., W.C.T.U.,
Baptist Women’s Association, Medical
Women, Nurses’ Federation and Women
Teachers’ Association. Dr. Constance
Davey welcomed Dr. Georgina Sweet,
who was returning by the Oronsay to
Melbourne after 11 months abroad.
Toe H had a stroke of luck when the
Area Commissioner (E. W. Holden,
M.L.C.) and Mrs. Holden opened their
charming grounds to Toe H members,
League of Women Helpers and their
friends on the one warm night suited to
alfresco entertainment. Mrs. Holden,
gowned in a black silk patterned in white
and pale blue, was entertaining knight
David Gordon (president of Toe H in
South Australia), who had with him
granddaughter Mary Matters, and the
Australian Commissioner (R. K. Wood)
and Mrs. Wood, who was smartly
frocked in navy and white tunic suit with
red-and-white plaited girdle.
At St. Bartholomew’s Church, Nor-
wood, two doctors, Dr. Jean White, only
daughter of Mrs. H. B. White, of Tran-
mere, and the late G. G. White, and Dr.
Frank Welch, son of the H. J. Welsh
couple, of Fullarton, joined forces in
matrimony. The bride, given away by
her uncle, C. P. Smith, wore orthodox
ivory satin with a Brussels-lace veil that
had belonged to her grandmother. Three
bridesmaids in pink taffeta with tulle
headdresses and haloes gave support.
Mrs J. M. Helpman, of Toorak,
mother of Robert Helpman, who has
made a name for himself as a ballet
dancer in London, left by the Largs Bay
for a trip through England and America
Mrs. R. King gave a farewell party for
her, at which members of the Ladies’
Kennel Club of South Australia—Mrs.
Helpman is Adelaide’s leading breeder of
Pekinese —gave the traveller a novel
travel diary. The presentation was made
by Mrs. L. M. Darby, president of the
club (of which Mrs. Helpman is the vice-
president).
The J. H. Finlaysons, of Church-
terrace, Walkerville, have sent out invita-
tions for the marriage of their daughter
Dorothy to Thomas Austin Healy at St.
Andrew’s, Walkerville, on February 23,
with a home reception afterwards. Lorna
Dawson, recently returned from London
and herself due to provide occasion for
the “Wedding March” shortly, will be
bridesmaid. The elder daughter of Mrs.
Auley Macaulay is going far afield. After
a week in Perth she leaves for Bombay,
whence she will journey to Iran, there to
marry Cyril Gurney, son of the H. B.
Gurneys, of West Leederville, Perth, and
an M.Sc. of the Adelaide University.
For the past year the bridegroom-to-be
has been senior science master of the
Church Missionary Society Stuart
Memorial College at Isfahan. As it is
extremely difficult to procure clothes in
Iran, Miss Macaulay is taking for
wedding outfit a supply that will see out
four years, after which they will get fur-
lough and return to civilisation.
Yet another woman is making a bid
for Parliament, Mrs. Mary Fitzgerald
having submitted her name for the by-
election to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of her husband, J. C. Fitzgerald.
TASMANIA.
Artists Mabel Hookey and Isobel Old-
ham had an interesting show at the
Masonic Hall—work that explains the
exhibition of their paintings at the Paris
Salon and Wembley. Dr. Joseph Pear-
son opened the show, which is mostly
landscape and flower pieces in oils and
water-colors.
After all the pre-wedding functions
held in Elvina Mackinnon’s honor, her
marriage with Terence Brown was a very
quiet affair, with only immediate friends
and family present. The bride’s navy-
and-white frock had short high-puffed
sleeves, and was topped by a small coni-
cal hat with eye veil.
Thousands went up for the official
opening of the Pinnacle-road on Mt.
Wellington, his Ex. doing the honors.
The view is superb, and should be an
irresistible attraction to tourists.
The Geoff Butlers were responsible for
an unusual jollification the other night,
when they filled the big barn at their
country home Hammerston with a
crowd of friends for an “old-time dance.
Piled sacks of straw made seats around
the walls, and supper was served in the
dairy. The scent of the hay and “hay-
seeds in the hair” added to the fun. So
did a huge bonfire in a near-by field and
a local accordion-player emulating the
Duke of Windsor in making music.
Mrs. Riddell-Stanley, bound for Eng-
land, where she will represent the
Speck’s National Council of Women,
bade farewell to a crowd of friends at
the Chaucer. She has been an energetic
social worker ever since she came to
Hobart.
The Gerald Adamses put up at the
Imperial for the last week of their time
in Hobart, and were farewelled exten-
sively. Hostesses included Lilias and
Marjorie Lyne and Mrs. D. H. Lord,
whose party was also in honor of Mrs.
Colin Perkins, who is heading overseas.
Pretty Ruth Penny, of the blonde hair
and Dresden-china complexion, has met
her fate abroad, marrying in Alexandria
John Day, resident sec. in Egypt ot
Liverpool, London and Globe Insurance.
The parent Penny (Bushy Park) flew
from Tassie to Singapore, and went
thence to Alexandria to give his daugh-
ter away.
Sheila Parsons is home again after a
twelvemonth trip overseas. Her sister
Anita and brother Douglas gave a cock-
tail party for her at Hadley’s. About
200 rolled up.


THE LOWEST-PRICED TRUCK IN AUSTRALIA
with the Bippe&t Biakei.
@f a*uf AiaulaA, capacity lAuclc
mm
m
Vacuum Servo Brakes (on all
models from 2-2 i tons up) make
braking easy on grades like this.
The brakes themselves supply 90
per cent, of the energy required.
asdfasdf
VACUUM SERVO BRAKES
on all 2-24 ton and 3-4 ton models.
Vacuum Servo Brakes are standard on
all Bedford models from 2-2. V tons up.
They bring sure and positive tiptoe
braking even at the highest speeds
and with the heaviest loads on board.
General Motors - Holden’s Limited
Compare values before you buy a truck . . . and you’ll do as hundreds
of truck men are doing . . . buy a Bedford. For, as these men know,
Bedford previously sold for more than either of its two principal
competitors. Yet to-day, because of the tariff, Bedford actually costs
less than each of them. It’s the same sturdy New-Design English
Bedford . . . with the same features that have made it the most popular
truck in Australia with big fleet owners . . . slow-wearing oversize
brakes, for instance. Bedford’s braking area is 258 square inches on
30-cwt. and 2-2| ton models ... no less than 350 square inches on 3-4
ton models. If you have not yet seen a copy of
the big Bedford catalogue with its details of
Bedford’s new shorter wheelbase design and
many mechanical features, send for one imme-
diately to your nearest Bedford distributor.
A model for every purpose
from 8 cwt. to 4 tons.
CHASSIS PRICES
8 cwt. models from - £2lO
12-15 cwt. models from £252
30 cwt. models from - £272
2-21 ton models from - £299
34 ton models from - £359
(All Prices plus Sales Tax)
AI2B
ENGLAND’S
NOW
New-Design
BEDFORD
CONSULT YOUB LOCAL AUTHORISED BEDFORD DEALER
The Long White Cloud
“Waitot”: On occasion, technical
breaches of the law can be overlooked.
After the Potakas crashed their ’plane in
rough country near Mt. Ruapehu (B.
20/1/’37) they faded a two-day tramp
to safety—and they had no food. One
of the Maoris had previously been deer-
stalking in the same locality, and led the
way to a deserted whare ; it lacked food
of "any description, but supplied them
with some gelignite and, on their way
downstream to a road and a search-
party, they used the explosive to secure
trout. In ordinary circumstances, chas-
ing fish with gelignite earns a stiff
Maoriland penalty.
* * * *
“M.”: Every now and then Nature
surprises science by producing an insect
which prefers weeds to vegetables. Gorse,
originally planted in Maoriland in ditch-
and-bank hedges, was carried into hills
and valleys by birds, and soon became
a curse to progressive farmers. Grubber
and fire attacks have been varied with
chemicals of different kinds, but there
is still a lot of wild gorse contesting pro-
gress with the blackberry. Quite re-
cently Canterbury discovered a bug en-
joying its gorse, and the Cawthron Insti-
tute soon had it labelled as the native
long-horned beetle, brown in color, which
bores from dead to live wood and kills
the bushes from the top. At present
the beetle cannot be solely responsible
for gorse control, but science might find
a way of encouraging its efforts.
* * * *
“Cluny”: References in Australian
newspapers to the infantile paralysis
“panic” in Maoriland probably origi-
nated from the declaration of some
Dunedin picture-theatre managers that
the rest of the Dominion was treating
Otago as a “plague spot.” They said a
Dunedin man attending an Invercargill
dance couldn’t get a partner, and that
a few hotels in other Maoriland cities
were displaying notices asking Dunedin
travellers to “keep out.” It is true
enough that Invercargill girls are care-
fully exclusive, but that seems slim
evidence on which' to base a “panic’
rumor ; at the same time, Christchurch
does seem a trifle scared. After Timaru
reported a case its bandsmen had diffi-
culty in getting a Christchurch restaurant
meal. But these are isolated instances,
and hardly justify description as a
general “panic.”
* * * *
“Mak”: The Reserve Bank of New
Zealand note issue covers only 10s., £l,
£5 and £5O, and the small, red ten-
shilling chit is almost the same as the
£5O note in size, color and design. This
has cost a few careless shoppers £49-
odd, and there is an agitation for altera-
tion of the larger note. Just the other
day a Paeroa visitor handed over a £5O
note to pay for some inexpensive trifles ;
neither he nor the counter-jumper
noticed the error, and the visitor walked
happily away with his parcels and a few
shillings change. The £5O went into
the till with the other ten-shilling notes,
later going out as part of the change
for a £1 note. It was not returned —but
neither was the £9-odd received over a
hotel bar during the Melbourne cen-
tenary by a visiting Maorilander whose
native 10s. note, absently offered, was
mistaken by Bung for an Australian
tenner, which it only slightly resembles!
* * * *
“Korero”: Regular Maoriland air ser-
vices flew 25,000 passengers nearly a
million miles in 1936 —without one mis-
hap. The four services concerned were
Union Airways, operating from Palmer-
ston North to Dunedin ; Cook Strait Air-
ways, flying the Wellington-Blenheim-
Nelson run ; Mercer’s South Westland
service and the Gisborne-Napier com-
pany. Early this year Union Airways
will inaugurate the two-way Auckland-
Wellington service, and Cook Strait Air-
ways will extend to Hokitika to connect
with Mercer’s service. With the estab-
lishment of a Palmerston North-Napier
service, Maoriland will then be well
covered. Another evidence of aviation
progress is the low schedule of maxi-
mum landing and housing charges re-
cently approved by Minister of Defence
Jones ; with the permission of the De-
fence Department, landing fees based on
weight and hangar fees assessed on stand-
ing time and space occupied can be
levied by ’drome officials.
* * * *
“Xo’ : Claim a record for anything
under the sun and it will be disputed.
The obituary notice of a Palmerston
North (M.L.) publican (H. B. Tucker)
mentioned his record license tenure of
37 years for the same hotel. Hokitika
immediately improved this by four years
(the late C. W. Keller), and Tai Tapu,
Canterbury, nominated a continuous 49-
year-old license held by the late John
McKenzie. With the roaring history of
golden, thirsty Westland at stake, Hoki-
tika ripped in a more complex claim—a
license held by one man for 47 years
(the late Reg Fane) and now in its 25th
year with his son-in-law. The original
Hokitika claimant then admitted that its
license had been in the same family for
71 years without a blemish. The Tai
Tapu McKenzies bobbed up again with
an unsmirched 61 years of family owner-
ship and the son of the original licensee
still serving strongly; a quietly tri-
umphant postscript added that for the
whole of the period Tai Tapu mugs (i.e.,
vessels) have been filled with draught
beer from the same brewery.
* * * *
“Motu”: An Australian, has estab-
lished a Maoriland alpine record —five
ascents of the 8260 ft. high Mt. Egmont
before celebrating his second birthday.
He is a huge St. Bernard dog, procured
from Melbourne some time ago by the
custodian of the Stratford house on the
eastern slopes of the mountain. The only
St. Bernard in the province, he is true to
type and birthplace, for he enjoys storms
and cold weather. And he did celebrate
his last birthday—he had a dish of straw-
berries, with cherries as a chaser. Scarcely
a year passes without an Egmont acci-
dent —there was one the other day—and
the big St. Bernard will probably take a
place in future search parties.
“Fergus”: One Dunedin (M.L.) father
must know his Dornford Yates novels.
Whether it be treasure or dogs, the Berry
heroes always lick French and English
Customs officers by choosing the most
obvious place for hiding purposes. The
Dunedin man packed his kids in the
capacious luggage carrier of his car, and
one of the patrols policing Otago roads to
enforce the infantile-paralysis ban on
children’s travelling (B. 13/1/’37) didn’t
bother to lift the lid. But there was
some boasting of this achievement and
later in the week the police found his
camping ground—and chased him and
his party back to Dunedin!
* * * *
“D.N.”: The series of scenic photo-
graphs Maoriland tourist heads are
sending to overseas travel agencies and
hotels will need to be more modern than
atrocities that reach Australia. Straight
scenic pictures generally pass muster be-
cause mountains, forests and lakes wear
no clothes to date them. In many in-
stances beach, street and hotel views look
forlornly ancient; the figures photo-
graphers were once so fond of including
in their shots intrude blatantly old-
fashioned notes with their curious dresses
and bathing costumes reaching almost
to the knees.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Maoriland districts that have
never experienced a severe earthquake
(B. 27 /1 / ’37) are just as likely to suffer
an upheaval as areas continually experi-
encing minor tremors, according to act-
ing Dominion Seismologist Hayes. And
the country keeps a wary eye on its
’quakes. Wellington and Christchurch
have two big observatories, and there are
11 subsidiary stations, with another in
the Chathams; in the whole of Aus-
tralia there are only three seismological
centres.
* * * *
“Mako”: The motoring tradition that
gives a doctor the right to drive at top
speed to an urgent case received a
blow in a Maoriland court when a well-
known medico was haled before the
Bench for exceeding the speed limit. To
the plea of urgency the s.m. replied that
the Act made no exceptions. Two-ten
and costs.
* * =k *
“Hutiwai”: Why hasn’t the eloquent,
agile-minded Maori race produced a
first-class fighting lawyer? Any qualified
native with the ability and money to
shoulder the legal battles of his people
could make things interesting; the
Treaty of Waitangi, with clauses now
obviously contradictory to present Maori-
land law, offers a ready-made short-cut
to Privy Council fame. Just the other
day some Maoris, caught netting white-
bait out of season, explained that
Fisheries Act regulations could only
apply to Europeans, as the treaty had
given the natives “undisturbed posses-
sion of fisheries so long as it is their
wish.” The Marine Department imme-
diately refuted their claim by quoting
Court decisions. But, when Chief Justice
Robert Stout heard a similar case, he
commented that the treaty might have
been intended to give natives such ex-
clusive rights, although, “if it meant to
do so, no legislation has been passed
conferring this right, and in its absence
no such right can be enforced.” The
treaty bristles with similar implications,
nearly all of which were cautiously over-
looked by later pakeha Governments.
Apart from such ancient history, hun-
dreds of court actions involve natives,
and there is a curious dearth of Maori
legal lights.


I
M
P
E
X
asdf
Mica Fixed
Condensers
Used in the “Bulletin’s”
sets and by 27 manu-
facturers.
Yours will be a better
set if you demand
IMPEX.
IMPEX,
181
£,TD., Abbotsford, Vic., and
Clarence Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly ' pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince's Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
AIS Round the Dial.
Last week celebration by the nationals
of two Occasions —on the Monday Burns’s
Day and on the Tuesday Australia Day.
After announcers had paid due tribute to
Rabbie by speaking in bow-legged
voices, Harry Lauder starred in the Mon-
day show, occupying an hour on the air
simultaneously through all national sta-
tions in the land. A surprisingly good
performance—surprising because either
the mike is uncommonly kind to the
Lauder voice or the genial Scot is im-
proving with age. Anyway, he sounded
better than recollection of the Lauder
who was here a century or so ago with-
out benefit of broadcasting.
Lauder addressed himself to a prob-
ably extremely critical audience, the
flapper press having improved its shining
hour in the previous week stirring up as
much bad feeling as it could over the
high fee —stated by somebody to be
£625 —paid for the hour’s appearance.
This is one of the ways in which we sup-
port a reputation for being provincial.
High pay to outstanding figures can
always set up a chatter round the vil-
lage pump. In any case, Lauder prob-
ably had for audience nine-tenths of the
total of Australian listeners. Some
mathematical genius may go ahead and
work out, on a basis (conservative) of
three listeners to every license and so
many possible listening hours in the year
for the guinea, just what fraction of a
ha’penny each listener paid for that
hour’s entertainment. Apart from these
aspects of the matter, Lauder gave good
value.
Things that must have struck listeners
were how much better Lauder is than
all his blight of imitators and what dam-
age such a blight can do to an original’s
reputation. Not one in the scores of
imitators has the main Lauder merit —
his personality. That and the. remarkable
richness of his voice over the air were
the best of the broadcast. After the imi-
tators, too, it comes as a surprise how
comparatively little he leans on Scottish
dialect for his humor ; most of the time
he uses finely-spoken English. To eke
out the offering choruses were consider-
ably overdone: the reiterations of that
classic declaration “I Loov a Lassie”
must have sorely tried all but very
savage enthusiasts. Also, Lauder, who,
it was given out, wouldn’t have any-
body in the studio during the perform-
ance, might have come over better still
if there’d been just one there to suggest
that it isn’t really necessary to get right
inside the microphone. But altogether
he put up a jolly good show, one of the
brightest, best-humored, liveliest and
strongest in personality that this listener
has heard.
On the Tuesday, by way of completely
confounding the village-pumpers, the
A.B.C. spread itself all over the map
with Australia for the Australians. First
of the generally entertaining bill which
this listener was able to tune into was
Michael Terry dealing with the abo. from
the angle of what Binghi thinks of us. To
put the matter bluntly, he thinks we’re
mad. When we head inland we load
camels down with tucker, though there’s
abundance of witchetty grubs, reptiles,
berries and other delectable food along
the way. Instead of taking our women
with us to carry our kit, we leave ’em at
home, and have no one to stir the fire
up at night or to belt when we’re livery.
We put in a lot of time washing our-
selves, when one or two hours after-
wards we’re as dirty as ever ; the myall,
being sane, goes all his life without a
bath, and feels all the better for it. Or,
if we’re scientists, we shoot a crow, split
it open and then gather round and peer
earnestly into its inside. Thus and so
on, Mr. Terry ; full of genuine abo. lore
and preparing a proper atmosphere for
the all-Australian offerings that fol-
lowed.
These included a capital recital by a
young Melbourne pianist named Noel
Mewton-Wood, in the nature of a fare-
well appearance before he goes abroad,
and uncommonly promising, too. For
some reason—possibly mike too close to
instrument—the sharply-struck treble
made an unholy metallic clang at the
listening end, spoiling much of the music.
Next on the Melbourne bill came works
of Australian composers put over by the
A.B.C. Concert Orchestra and Wireless
Chorus, the latter coming on alone to
do Grainger’s extraordinarily atmospheric
wordless “Up Country Song.” Singing
music instead of words, the Chorus con-
veyed ten times as much of meaning as
is usually to be had from choral numbers
with words. Other Australian composers
in this section of the bill were H. Perkins,
of Adelaide (his symphonic suite “The
Chanteyman”), Melbourne organist
Claude Monteith (a setting to an E. J.
Brady ballad from The Bulletin), an-
other Melbourne composer, Louis
Lavater (an especially interesting un-
"’Struth, Dad, if they ain't got the same chimes as our radio at home!"
usual piece for violins only), and Clive
Douglas, who’s with the A.B.C. in
Hobart (a symphony having its first
public performance). After that soprano
Stella Power and baritone Arthur Little
took turn about singing a batch of Aus-
tralian ballads, including a popular one
of Alfred Hill’s, very much one of the
brightest bits in the programme. (Stated,
which will surprise many, that Hill,
despite his considerable association with
Maoriland, is an Australian.) This sec-
tion of the programme capped with a
sensible talk by Judge Foster.
A slight gap after the foregoing and
before the next Australia Day onslaught
was filled in with Essie Ackland records,
these calculated to make listeners take
special note of the fact that this homing
Australian will be here shortly on A.B.C.
tour. Then the excellent voice of Stanley
Bruce from London, holding a nice bal-
ance between apprehension and optimism
over what the world’s likely to do for
itself this year. Hope, he said, lay in
growing understanding of the economical
aspect of international affairs giving
prospect of economic appeasement and
the smooth running once more of com-
merce between nations. After Stanley
Melbourne had delivered himself with
accustomed competence in that vein for
ten minutes or so, a sudden charge on
the microphone of Australian artists in
London, headed by Australian composer
Douglas Glass and including Madame
Evelyn Stockney, Dot Brunton, Malcolm
McEachern and Albert Whelan, the last
of whom, it came out in the wash, made
his first appearance as a fiddler in a
three-instrument band in a tent show on
the W.A. goldfields in the ’nineties.
“Coot”: Recent commendation of
the majority of present-day clerics’ clear
enunciation, as compared with the old-
time parsonic drawl, reminds me that
Melbourne’s finest ecclesiastical broad-
casts are delivered by the Congregational
A. Penry Evans and the conductors of the
Catholic hour. I belong to neither creed,
but I invariably listen-in to both ses-
sions for the joy of hearing pure and un-
defiled English. The Anglican Arch-
bishop is good, also, until he comes to
the finish of his address, when he de-
livers the usual formula in an indistinct
and hurried tone. The same fault may
be found with many of his clerical
brethren.
* * * *
“Elektron”: It’s on the cards that the
Coronation will be televised. Television
engineers have already staged a re-
hearsal, making a working model of the
procession and transmitting it close up,
so as to give a lifesize impression. In
the model, 13ft. long and 3ft. high, a
150 yd. section of Westminster was de-
picted, with soldiers lining the pave-
ment and crowds in the rear. To the
accompaniment of martial music, the
“procession” came into view, with bands,
infantry and Life Guards, with the royal
coach bringing up the. rear.
'{•
If a broadcast talkers’ union is formed
half its members will be university pro-
fessors. Its long-service medal would
probably go to Charteris, of the Sydney
Uni., who has been talking industriously
on foreign affairs for years. Others in
current publicity sheets include Tasman
Lovell, Roberts and Dakin, of Sydney,
Copland and Osborne, of Melbourne, and
Murdoch (W.A.). Murdoch, the style of
whose essays indicates that he must be
exceptionally well worth hearing, starts
on February 10 a nationals series of
three talks on great modern arts —Listen-
ing, Loafing and Living. They will be
given on successive Wednesday evenings.
* * * *
Before it’s all over there should be no
excuse for anyone not being conversant
with what the referendum questions are
about. Apart from press comment there’s
a pamphlet in which the case for and
against on each issue is set forth ; then
there’s the broadcasting. Arrangements
for this have been altered from those
originally agreed to: now the two groups
—for and against—are to have a one-
hour nation-wide broadcast instead of
an hour and a half (which would have
been an extra heavy pill), but they will
also be allowed one hour for each State
separately instead of the half-hour origi-
nally arranged. The A.B.C. announces:
After consulting the members of both
Houses who voted against the proposals,
the Australian Broadcasting Commission
has decided to recognise Mr. Beasley as the
representative of the No group in the
nation-wide broadcasts, a majority of these
members having approved of Mr. Beasley
as their representative.
* * * *
Broadcasting, as the flesh-and-blood
stage it largely supplants used to do,
ropes ’em in from all quarters. Latest
exotic item is Indian soprano Bina Addy,
who opens an Australian tour in Sydney
this week, her first night’s offering en-
tirely drawn from the Indian poet
Tagore. For the whole Australian tour
her programmes are to consist exclu-
sively of Bengali songs which have not
previously been sung in Australia.
Tagore has composed some fifteen hun-
dred of these songs, which gives the most
industrious Australian balladist some-
thing to chase. The soprano is claimed
to be the only Indian woman who has
sung professionally in Rome, Paris,
Berlin and London ; she has on several
occasions appeared in London before
royalty.
* * * *
“Siz”: Picturesque conductor Malcolm
Sergeant was an outstanding hit last year,
and he is announced to be coming again.
Another, billed to be here in April, is
the Finn Schneevoigt, described by
Kreisler as “a great musician and great
leader.” Schneevoigt is a friend of the
world’s greatest living composer, Sibelius,
of whose work Schneevoigt’s Finnish
National Orchestra is the chosen ex-
ponent. Two years ago the conductor
took the entire orchestra to London, for
a great success.
An interesting coming addition to the
A.B.C. scheme for having Sundays musi-
cal feast days will be Silvia Bernita (Mel-
bourne and Sydney will recall her easier
as Joan Allen). Yet another of the ex-
traordinarily long list of Melba pro-
tegees, the soprano is to be heard in
operatic arias beginning in Melbourne on
February 11.
* * * *
“M.C.”: A pity that so much excel-
lent stuff put over in talks in Australia
has to drop into the pit instantly the
speakers say their “Good-nights.” A
well-edited, well-turned-out inexpensive
publication of the best of it of wide
general interest, including that by those
with a real, as distinct from a broadcast-
ing, name in the country, should have a
steady market every year. Some capital
books have been made in England in
this way ; altogether some 200 nontech-
nical, general-interest books founded on
talks and other material in 8.8. C. pro-
grammes have been published. They in-
clude 61 on religion and philosophy; 36
children’s books ; 15 on art and music ;
12 on travel and adventure ; 23 on poli-
tical and economic matters; 16 on
science ; 14 on language and literature;
and others on health, cookery and a
dozen or so other subjects.


“RADIO”
The world-wide technical authority of
amateur, short-wave and experimental
radio.
Owing to an increase in the price of this
magazine, subscriptions are now 20s. per
year in Australia, acceptable at The
Bulletin office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly, in-
cluding special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all radio
magazines—on the bookstall to-day, sold
out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy !
Vs
#> xO l
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Kadiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature ROW.
Radio Constructors,
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
RADIO-
at wholesale prices.
VALVES —Battery valves 2-volt 232
S.G »/-•
8106, 8605, C 603 power. 5/- 201 A. .4/6.
All 100% tested on “Palec” tester.
AERO DIALS —Kadiokes No. 7/14..3/6.
MICA condensers “Impex” .01 1/-.
CRYSTALS —Mighty Atom lOd.
LEARN MORSE —Complete key, buzzer,
battery and Morse chart 4/-.
KEYS only 15/-, 19/6, 25/- each.
HEADPHONES —1000 ohms light-
weight 7/6.
Price list of parts posted on request.
BATTERY SUPERIIET. —Six stage
4-valve, complete in floor cabinet,
Amplion speaker, latest valves,
100 amp. battery, 3 H.D. Batteries.
Aerial and Earth £l3/2/6.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Radio. 'Phone: FX5494.
DON B. KNOCK'S
Using Up Old Valves.
Requests often come along for details
of a humble circuit for a three- or four-
valve receiver to make use of a few good
but admittedly old types of valves. Of
course, a simple little affair built around
the old Reinartz or Neutrodyne cannot
be considered the last word, but the sup-
plicant for elementary information
doesn’t expect it to be. He wants some-
thing he can knock together from odds
and ends ; and if the humble job is done
properly the thing will work, and give
hours of fun and enjoyment at very little
cost.
Museum Valves.
Old valves, such as may be picked up
second-hand, may be “duds,” but plenty
of them may be 90 p.c. and even 100 p.c.
useful. They can usually be obtained for
a shilling or so. Mostly of the battery
variety (plenty of the indirectly-heated
type), they are to be found in two-, four-
and six-volt triodes, screen grids and pen-
todes. Not so many years ago the writer
built some good short-wave receivers
around the earlier battery valves, and the
old All Empire, Go-Getter and others
are well remembered and still used.
Fig. 1. —An old triode used as a diode
detector.
Principles haven’t changed much, and such
receivers could still be put together and
perhaps show points to a few more recent
types. Often an old set can be hooked up
from old valves and give amazingly good
results. Such a set can be used as a
standby.
To-day everybody considers good re-
production, and a means to this end is
the diode detector, whether used in the
second detector of a superhet or the de-
tector of a T.R.F. set. A diode is the
Fig. 2.—A triode used as a half-wave
rectifier.
simplest of thermionic valves —just a fila-
ment and a plate, plus a container of
glass or metal and a vacuum. Old triodes
with good filaments can be put to use
nicely as diodes by connecting together
the grid and plate and using as in Fig. 1.
The older valves, with nice shiny bases
and greedy filaments, can be put to use
in an emergency as half-wave rectifiers
for a dozen and one purposes. As such
valves have very tough filaments they will
stand up nicely to the rated filament
voltage with A.C. Fig. 2 shows the appli-
cation. The grid and plate are connected
together as before and the resulting two-
electrode valve used as an ordinary half-
wave rectifier. Old valves can be used in
this way for bias supply for small trans-
mitters.
Uses for Battery Triodes.
Battery triodes, particularly of the two-
volt .06 variety, are useful in modulated
oscillators for checking receivers. Some
constructors may be using small sets with
two-volt valves fed from a four-volt
accumulator, with the two cells in parallel.
Fig. 3. —Mixing filament voltages.
Perhaps a few four-volt valves are on
hand, and some of the two-volt types are
due for discarding. The two-voltage fila-
ments can be easily mixed, as shown in
Fig. 3. The accumulator is used for four
volts, with cells normally in series. Just
a matter of Ohm’s law. The voltage on
hand is known, also the voltage that is
wanted on the filaments. From these two
it is easy to see how much voltage must
be dropped. One is subtracted from the
other. Then the amount of current flow-
ing through the resistance to be used
must be known, this being the filament
current of the valve. From the known
voltage drop and current flow the re-
quired resistance is found by dividing
the voltage drop by the filament current.
D. B. K.
Australian Ultra-shorts.
In the last three years it has been
consistently contended here that the use-
ful ultra-short-wave regions below 10
metres will, as time goes on, find in-
creasing commercial applications. It is
with this certainty that a few leading
Australian experimenters are devoting
most, if not all, of their time to the
allotted experimental five-metre channel.
This is still more or less unexplored ter-
ritory, and therefore interesting. If ex-
perimenters are apathetic and make little
use of the band {and the still higher
frequency ones) it may be some day offi-
cially concluded that they have no use
for it.
Kruse, of “Radio” (U.S.A.), recently
made some prescient observations on the
position in the U.S.A. and Canada,
where the amateur five-metre band is
now wedged between television and
other channels. When television gets a
move on there may be commercial agi-
tation to grab the five-metre region from
the amateurs. Commercial services are
engaged in experimental tests of chan-
nels on each side of the band, and their
use of these may in the next few years
reach large proportions. Australian
amateurs, though as yet only a small
army, are doing good work in investi-
gating the possibilities, and already their
work is having some influence on the
commercial side. The Adelaide S.S. Co.,
attracted by the amateur developmental
work described in The Bulletin, real-
ised the value of such radio communi-
cation for ships entering and leaving
port under adverse visual conditions, and
got busy. The writer’s station was ob-
served in action, and subsequently, with
the co-operation of Amalgamated Wire-
less, an excellent system of small shore
and ship stations was tested and is now
undergoing trials at a Queensland port.
So effective was this mobile equipment
in initial tests that a ship arriving at
Sydney from Melbourne was able to
conduct duplex telephony conversation
with a shore station at South Head
whilst proceeding along the coast and
al! the way up Port Jackson until berthed
at Darling Harbor. This was on
metres.
There can be no doubt as to the prac-
tical utility of such equipment. In Mel-
bourne aviation has proved a fine test-
ing medium for a special directive ultra-
short-wave beam installed at Essendon
aerodrome by Standard Telephones. So
successful is this that the Defence De-
partment is reported to be in favor of
abandoning certain phases of ordinary
short-wave communication for the easily
concentrated ultra-short-wave.
These instances are only a start in put-
ting the previously-scorned ultra-short
wave to good use. As the experienced
experimenter knows, nine-tenths of the
business in successful ultra-short-wave
propagation over supposedly difficult
terrain is the radiating system. A lot is
known about directive aerials to-day,
but there is still a lot more to find out.
The stamping-ground is the amateur’s
five-metre band, and the more he uses it
the greater service will he be doing him-
self and radio communication generally.
D. B. K.
Television for Australia.
Reported that an Australian theatrical
firm has acquired the license rights of a
German television system and intends to
introduce this form of entertainment.
The systems used at Alexandra Palace,
London, are by no means the only
modern workable systems. The “Sco-
phony” method looms large, and Mihaly-
Traub, Loewe and Von Ardenne are
not' resting on their laurels. In the
laboratories of these investigators, some
of whom are backed by plentiful capital,
definite progress is being made.
The sooner some form of high-defini-
tion television is launched in Australia
the better. It will be a starting-point,
and from that point interest will be sure
to increase. Whatever the system, it
will necessarily make use of ultra-short
waves, and for that reason promotors
would be wise to enlist the aid of ex-
perienced Australian amateur transmit-
ters. It would be little use putting out
television transmissions if they were not
receivable over, say, the whole of a
metropolitan area. This can be made
possible with the right kind of equip-
ment, and local experimenters know how
to overcome the difficulties in the way of
receiving ultra-short-wave signals.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
A number of Sydney stations are try-
ing Bruce aerials, but most are not get-
ting results. The reason appears to be
that resonance is taken for granted.
Writer constructed a Bruce aerial using
7/22 stranded copper wire ; spacing and
length of quarter-wave section, 3ft.
lliin., and stub line fed by a 72-ohm
twisted pair line. Everything was satis-
factory, and resonance occurred at 57mc.
This aerial was slung between ropes and
used to work with VK2BP, who is west-
wards of this writer’s Sydney location,
reports being mostly R 9 plus.
A rigid framework was next con-
structed and solid 14 enamelled copper
wire used for the aerial, which had
quarter-wave sections of 4ft. lin. Tested
near ground, resonance fell about 58mc.
After having laboriously erected the sys-
tem on a rotating pole on the house roof,
the discrepancy in resonance was found
to be considerable ; so much so that it
turned out to be outside the high-fre-
quency limit of the band. The entire sys-
tem has to be taken down and rebuilt.
Evidently the solid wire, having less self-
capacity, calls for a good 5 p.c. increase
in section lengths to lower the frequency
sufficiently. The aerial should also be
lined up as high above ground as pos-
sible.
During the time this rotatable Bruce
was in action, though it was not prop-
erly resonant in the band, the effecl
on reception of distant stations was most
noteworthy. A weak station was heard,
and the control-wheel was turned, bring-
ing the weak signal up to a good R 7.
The great utility of a Bruce aerial for
56mc. can be realised only by arranging
it for quick rotation.
A word of warning: Use a stout hard-
wood pole that will not twist. The 16ft.
overhang of the frame offers a consider-
able wind resistance. One-inch bamboo
sections might be used to advantage.
Some account has been given (B.
27/1 / ’37) of reception of London tele-
vision sound on seven metres in South
Africa. Now comes a report of further
ultra-short DX reception, this time on the
amateur five-metre band. A South
African listener heard an American ama-
teur, and copied the message word for
word. The American, who was work-
ing locally, has since confirmed the re-
ception.
One more instance of the unexpected:
Both the writer’s and VK2HL’s station
(Chatswood, N.S.W.) have been heard
regularly at Mt. Stromlo, near Canberra
(F.C.T.). Distance is about 160 miles.
Now it is hoped that a transmitter will
be put in at the other end to permit two-
way working. During a recent week-
end mobile tests were run by VK2HL,
who took equipment to Ettalong
(N.S.W.). It was hoped to be able to
link up with Sydney stations, but no
reports are yet to hand.
On the evening of 19 /1 / ’37 the pre-
liminary heats were run off for the Craw-
ford Trophy, to be competed for annu-
ally, for the best amateur telegraphy
operator in Australia. In Sydney con-
testants were examined by Mr. Craw-
ford, and the “copper-plate” sending
example set for preliminary exercise by
this old-time telegraphist was an inspira-
tion to all. The “fist” of the Senior Radio
Inspector for N.S.W. may be likened to
an automatic sender, or even better.
There may have been a few stumbles on
the part of contestants on the receiving
side, but as each man took his place at
the key for his sending trial it became
increasingly evident that for plain send-
ing style, apart from punctuation, a good
number of our present-day amateur
operators are capable of an excellently
high standard. Some of the speeds
reached during this evening were well in
excess of the requisite 20 w.p.m. This
contest seems assured of becoming the
most popular introduced in amateur radio
in Australia. Finals will be run off at
the 1937 Amateur Radio and Short-wave
Listener Exhibition.
In “T. and R. Bulletin,” the trans-
mitter magazine of the Radio Society of
Great Britain, there is evidence of great
interest in possible five-metre DX. DX
is reported heard from several sources ;
the item of main interest appears to be
the Alexandra Palace,-Johannesburg
seven-metre record. At the same time it
needs to be remembered that there is a
vast difference in frequency between seven
and five metres and a sharp line of de-
marcation seems to occur at a slightly
higher frequency than seven metres.
{Continued on page 50.)


INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
bold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OP TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St.., Sydney.
THE FINER THE BETTER.
“Bone Phos”: Was interested to see that
animal nutrition specialists recommend a mineral
supplement of fine grind. Found a most excellent
one which is pure, wholesome and palatable, and
easily digested. Contains plenty of that phosphoric
acid —more than any other mineral food Ive
used. Suggest you get some. You’ll find it much
more economical and effective than that meal
you are using. No, I’m not a crank, but you ve
got to progress with the assistance of science
these days. Yes, Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is what
I recommend.
Davis Gelatine (Australia), Ltd., G.P.O. Box
35835, Sydney, will send you a folder about it.
Tell them what stock you want it for.
Old Farmer.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
£1,250,000
1,250,000
£1,250,000
1,000,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund • • ,
(Used partly in business and paruj
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £l,-o ,
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, . •
Agencies in all Australian States and throu a hout
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit ®
America and elsewhere. Brils from -
collected and proceeds remitted. AI
banking- business transacted.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Selling the Clips.
“Murrawong”: The Australian system
of cataloguing clips for sale acts impar-
tially with all clips, large or small, the
rule being that a clip is put on the list
as soon as 25 p.c. of the wool is received
by the broker. It does not matter
whether the clip consists of 1200 bales
or 12: the former’s owner must have 300
bales in the broker’s store to secure his
position, while the small man need send
only three. Every owner on forwarding
his first waybill should not overlook the
request to state the approximate num-
ber of bales which the clip will amount
to, otherwise the broker cannot be
blamed for not knowing when the re-
quired quota is in.
Again, if an owner had, say, five
properties, each cutting 300 bales, the
whole of the first clip would not be suffi-
cient to secure a place in the catalogue
for the. balance ; also, its own chance of
an early sale would be sacrificed. Each
clip is treated separately irrespective of
whether a man owns one or a dozen
stations; in fact, where one property
has two shearings in the one year these
are regarded as two separate clips in
the catalogue and do not affect one
another.
The practice of
spreading wool sales
as far over the year
as possible is in the
grower’s interests.
He may have to
wait longer for his
money, but he gains
by the system in the
long run. The
N.S.W. shearing sea-
son lasts about five
months; to sell the
clip within that
period would con-
siderably multiply
selling costs —wool-
brokers and -buyers
would have to treble
their staffs for the
period and put their
men off during the
slack months. The same applies to ships
and shipping staffs ; further, the world
market could not absorb the clip in one
lump.
Wool Yolk.
“Narooma”: It is a common fallacy
that Central Plains (N.S.W.) wool car-
ries less yolk than that grown on the
colder tablelands. In a year of drought
on the plains that may be so, but as a
rule the tablelands wools are noted for
their bright, high-yielding qualities.
Yolk is conditioned by the comparative
richness of the sheep’s feed, and the yolk
excretion resulting from the heavy grass
and herbage of the plains is far in excess
of that produced by the fine, sparse
grasses of New England.
Arsenic in Wool.
“Dead Finish”: Complaints from
shearers in Queensland regarding the
presence of arsenic in wool have been
heard for a number of years, and resolu-
tions have been sent to the executive of
the A.W.U. protesting against its use in
jetting sheep, owing to alleged ill-effects
on the barbers.
I am convinced that the wool from
sheep properly jetted with a prepara-
tion correctly mixed does little or
no damage. The effects are unpleasant
a * t’ mes certainly, and some people
are more susceptible than others,
For instance, a returned soldier who
has been gassed will detect the pres-
ence of arsenic almost as soon as
the handpiece commences to cut. The
majority of shearers and woolroom
staff, if they are affected at all, will men-
tion a dryness at the back of nose and
m outh, with a tendency to headaches,
. . .
The cause of most complaints is jet mg
done m a sloppy and unworkmanlike
manner. One sometimes comes across
wool with up to |in. in depth of arsenic,
especially in the breeches. When the hand-
P iece > wit h a cutter working at a great
pace across the face of the. comb, hits
this class of wool, the powder is scat-
tered, and the man bending over the
sheep gets his issue, and sometimes for
days at a stretch,
“Glad y ’ turned up—thort I’d 'ave t ’ unload!”
Superfine Wool
“Sheepo”: As “K.Mc.” . says (B.
13/l/’37), producing superfine wool is
costly. S’African sheep-and-wool expert
Taylor put the position well when he
said:— - . .
If the trade wants superfine wool it
should pay an extra 6d. per pound for it.
We were told to breed superfine-woolled
merinos, but the wool became so fine that
the sheep producing it cut hardly anything
at all. .. .Farmers would be well advised to
grow wool that fills the bales and their
pockets.
Time and again it has been said that
certain country is adaptable only for
grazing superfine-woolled merinos. But
many holdings in the Western District of
Victoria; once given over to extra super-
fine merino wools, have now for years
carried Polwarths or Corriedales.
“The finer the wool the greater the
spinning capacity, and hence, the greater
the value,” holds good only on paper.
Price per pound is no guide ; it’s return
per head that tells.
Stud Sheep Embargo.
“K.Mc.” No good purpose would be
served by Maoriland prohibiting the
export of British breeds of sheep, as
“Onehunga” (B. 20/1 / ”37) suggests. The
Argentinos would merely divert their
purchases to the original home of these
flocks, Great Britain. For similar
reasons the Commonwealth refuses to
put an embargo on Corriedales ; for this
to be effective, both Australia and M.L.
would need to act.
The Commonwealth’s embargo on
merinos is in a different category. Our
studs have been worked up to a higher
degree of perfection than obtains else-
where, and other countries were finding
this blood useful to rapidly build up the
quality of their flocks.
Studmasters who want the embargo
lifted argue that foreign flocks can be
brought up to a high standard without
importations, and that it is the suitable
pastures which help Australia to main-
tain its supremacy in producing fine
wools. But there is no doubt that our
export restrictions do retard the im-
provement in flocks of competitive coun-
tries ; and, of course, there is always the
danger that our competitors might be
able to introduce pastures suitable for
fine-wool production. It would be too
late to act if they already possessed high-
quality flocks founded on and main-
tained by Australian blood.
Drenching Sheep.
“Corriedale”: If a large volume of
liquid is given as a sheep dose —against
trichostrongyles, for example—it is nor-
mally much more efficient than if the
same amount of drug is given in a
smaller drench. _
The reason is that, since bulky doses
measure from 25 c.cs. to 40 c.cs., and
anything from 2 c.cs. to 5 c.cs; goes
direct into the rumen before closure of
the cesophageal groove, very little is
wasted in relation to the size of the
drench. When the dose is only around
10 c.cs., with the drug correspondingly
concentrated,-the same 2 c.cs. to 5 c.cs.
goes into the rumen as with the weaker
drench. • Thus there is a big difference
in the amount of effective medicine re-
ceived by the sheep.' ;
The cesophageal groove is closed by a
nervous reflex action caused by the
astringent effect of the chemical when
passing through the pharynx. The!
closure takes a few seconds, whether the
drench is weak or strong, and in this
delay the loss into the rumen occurs. In
a method developed by Dr. Clunies Ross
and H. Gordon, the back of the sheep’s
mouth is . swabbed by one operator with
a mop dipped in copper-sulphate drench,
working about five, seconds ahead of
the actual drenching. This swabbing
closes the groove, and so a drench of
10 c.cs. can be administered efficiently
with the gun.
For small mobs there would be little
value in this method. Its virtue is in
allowing the gun to be operated ; large
numbers may be put through quickly in
this way. However, an extra man or
two would be needed for swabbing,
which would cut into the saving effected
by employing the gun. On properties of
less than 3000 sheep, the method is not
likely to be better than the drenching
horn with the automatic recharger. On
properties above that size it is worth a
good trial, since, where large mobs are
handled, a 30-c.c. drench slows the work
down, whereas a 10-c.c. one may be
given as quickly as the standard 5-c.c.
carbon-tet. drench.
Three-day Sickness.
“D.A.C.”: First noticeable symptoms
of three-day sickness include watering
from eyes and nose, drooping of ears
and in dairy cows a rapid diminishing of
milk supply. The beast will seek the
shade and show no inclination to follow
the herd. Fever is prominent at this
stage.
After 24 hours the fever abates and
muscular stiffness or soreness becomes
predominant. One or both of the fore-
legs are usually greatly affected, though
sometimes hindquarters suffer most. The
animal will lie down, and when dis-
turbed have great difficulty in rising.
This stage usually lasts from one to two
days, after which recovery is rapid.
In healthy animals
mortality is low, but
loss of milk makes
the disease serious.
Drenching often
does more harm
than good ; the neck
muscles being
affected, the animal
has difficulty in
swallowing, and the
drench will some-
times enter th e
lungs, causing pneu-
monia.
Driving stricken
beasts is inadvis-
able ; still, it is well
to bring the animal,
when found in the
early stage, near to
water and shade.
One ounce of salt-
petre to four gallons
of the drinking
water is helpful dur-
ing the fever stage.
If the muscular stiff-
ness lasts several days, it is well to
turn the beast over occasionally so that
; it will not lie on the one side too long.
' Massage from the foot up is beneficial
. in such cases, as are also hot foments.
Bull Indices.
“Steve”: Bull-indexing when herds are
under test, originating from Mt. Hope
Farm (U.S.A.), is already extensively
practised in Australia, chiefly in Vic-
toria, at Dumbalk North, Winchelsea
and Stanhope. By this means we know
that the two-year-qld produces 70 p.c.
of the probable mature yield; three-
and four-year-olds produce 77 to 80 and
90 p.c. respectively.
Taking 10 heifers, their yields are age-
corrected to maturity, then averaged, and
finally compared with the average
mature yields of their dams. Experi-
ments have disclosed that the daughter
of any. two animals will yield approxi-
mately midway between the dam’s pro-
duction and that ability to yield with
which the bull stamps all his stock. The
dam’s yield is known, the daughters
yield is known, then the index figure for
{Continued on page 44.)


Positive Accurate Uniform Sowing
is Assured with
THE
SUNTYNE
The Machine Which Sows
the Great Bulk
of Australia’s
Annual Grain Crop
m
m
,
■ ■
Correct sowing of the seed is of vital importance in cereal
cultivation a factor that cannot be neglected in Australia, where
rainfall is intermittent and uncertain. Incorrect sowing may result
in disaster to a crop just as surely as correct sowing may lead to a
successful harvest, even though rains are below the average, and fall
at inopportune periods.
A t \ ,
Agricultural experts maintain that, to get the best results,, grain
must be sown together with fertilizer on a level compacted sub-surface,
and covered by a mulch of finely-pulverised soil.' A close scrutiny
of results secured over a number of years has clearly proved the
correctness of this practice, and thousands of successful farmers show
their appreciation of the fact by cultivating and sowing with the
Suntyne—a machine that operates on this principle.
Pre-eminent in its single and double operations, it cultivates all
the surface —no weeds missed —pulverises the soil and makes an ideal
seed-bed—level, compact, with finer soil below and the right soil-
mulch covering the seed. The famous Sunflex jointed floats provide
a stump-jump action to the tynes, thereby reducing tyne-breakage to
the minimum.
SPRING TYNES —for stony, stumpy or mallee country.
RIGID TYNES—for country free from obstacles.
As a drill it sows seed and fertilizer at a uniform depth—deep
or shallow —covers perfectly, puts the seed in the right place for quick
germination and a good start, with space for development of strong,
healthy plants.
Sows wheat, oats, barley, maize, peas, etc., and with lucerne
seeder will sow lucerne and other small globular seeds. Many users
sow pasture seeds simultaneously with wheat, oats, etc. Capacity
t 0 sow —g ra in, from 181 b. to 2701 b.; fertilizer, from 261 b. to 2901 b.
per acre. Sizes: —
8 row, 17 tynes, cultivates sft.
12 row, 25 tynes, cultivates 7|-ft.
14 row, .29 tynes, cultivates - y r
' 16 row, 33 tynes, cultivates -9fft
20 row, 41 tynes, cultivates 12ft.
, 24 row, 49 tynes, cultivates 14ft.
• ;o . ' )
■I .. > j«
Descriptive catalogue contains useful information, numerous
illustrations and full details of construction and equipment. Investi-
gate —and use a Surityne for bigger yields and longer wear. Moderate
prices and liberal terms. , .
Ask the local agent, or write to the nearest branch for
descriptive catalogue and prices -free on request.
./
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD., SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, W. 20.
654-664 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 27-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Comer Murray and King Streets, Perth.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Queensland) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Use a SUNTYNE
for Bigger Yields and Longer Wear


fir
m
An Extra-strong- Riding, Working Boot made
of Scotch Ooze Calf Leather and featuring a
heavy double sole. Reinforced at sides with
leather to stop strain on elastic.
Stocked in full and half sizes with medium
and wide fittings.
Price: Brown Ooze Calf .... 42/6
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
IN
EVERY PAIR.
The Value of a boot is discovered
when the boot has worn out. That
extra wear obtained from good-quality
Footwear more than pays for the
slight difference in the price at the
start'.
With the extra wear one gets greater
comfort and better looks, so be
thrifty and buy the best.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele*
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
Complete Travel
Service to
lEuircipie
ON the way Home, see Can-
ada —Land of Glorious
Surprises. Canadian Pacific
trains through the Rockies
. . . Banff, Lake Louise. Pal-
atial hotels at all resorts, and
the famous “Empress” and
“ Duchess” ships on the
sheltered Atlantic Crossing.
These, combined with the
renowned service of Canadian
Pacific, make the most enjoy-
able trip to England and the
Continent.
Illustrated literature and details
from any Tourist Booking Agency
or
9.6.7
World’s Greatest Travel System
59 William Street, Melbourne,
247 George Street, Sydney
Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
Incorporated in Canada.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SCHUTE
BEILLsCSi
:
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
NEWS
im
j//
Y^tates
READ
THE AUSTRALASIAN.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., King St„ Sydney
For Sale.
QUEEN’S HEELER PUPPIES, blues, workers,
watchers, sire Crad’s Son the Marsh, dam Blue
Bell. —K. & E. SMITH, Lorne Street, Fawkner,
Victoria.
the sire is arrived at by doubling the
difference in dam’s and daughter’s yields,
and adding in the case of an increase
for the daughter or subtracting in the
case of a decrease. Example: a mature
cow yields 2501 b. b.f. with average test
of 3.8 p.c. b.f. Her daughter’s age-cor-
rected figures are 300 b.f. with 3.6 p.c.
b.f. The bull’s index figures would in
that case be 350 b.f. and 3.4 p.c. b.f.
When the simplicity of its use becomes
more widely known, bull-indexing will
replace the haphazard methods adopted
by many in breeding dairy cattle. At
present a good bull may be sent to the
butcher before his value becomes known,
and a duffer can lower a 3501 b. b.f. aver-
age herd by 501 b. before the damage is
detected.
Mineral Deficiency.
“Rich J.”: Only in recent years has
muqh attention been paid to mineral de-
ficiency in soils. Phosphate deficiency is
one of the big problems. Lime, once
recommended by leading vets., militates
against assimilation of the phosphates in
licks. A bone-, rag- and stick-chewing
tendency in stock means a deficiency of
phosphates. This is best countered with
dicalcic phosphate licks.
Recent research has shown mangan-
ese and boron to be essential to certain
crop plants. Grey-speck disease in oats
is due to lack of manganese; experi-
ments at Mt. Gambier proved lcwt. of
the mineral per acre highly successful in
grey-speck control. Vegetable crops are
also affected by manganese shortage.
Manganese sulphate, a new fertilising
chemical, is being used to supply the de-
ficiency. Boron is necessary for most
leguminous plants.
Copper and iodine, which appear in
small proportions in most stock licks,
are minerals of the utmost importance.
Absence of copper causes nutritional
anaemia ; lack of iodine leads to goitre.
Standardisation of Stock Foods.
“Molecule”: Need exists for stan-
dardisation of many stock foods. There
is as little uniformity about them as in
the names of trees. In Victoria “meat-
meal” may mean a mixture of meat-
and bone-meal containing as low as 30
p.c. protein and as high as 40 p.c.
ash, or it may mean a meal containing
80 p.c. protein and little or no ash.
Obviously, that must give, trouble to the
average farmer in compounding correct
rations.
In Queensland “meat-meal” may be
a meal made from internal organs, and
containing no real meat at all. Meal
made from meat trimmings bears the
name of “protein meal.” It contains a
high percentage of bone—valuable in
itself, but liable to confuse the com-
pounder of rations.
Bran, pollard and linseed meal are
fairly well standardised, although with
the last-named the difference between
“new process” and “old process” should
be made clear.
Cottonseed meal is sold in two grades,
one containing 35 p.c. protein and the
other 25 p.c., the lower grade being
“broken down” by the addition of a per-
centage of the ground-up hulls. Some
conclude that the high-grade is decorti-
cated and the. low-grade undecorticated.
No undecorticated cottonseed meal is
produced ill Australia. “Decorticated”
means that the kernel and hull are
separated before treatment; unde-
corticated meal, as produced in Egypt
and parts of the U.S.A., is simply the
product after oil has been pressed out
without separating hulls and kernels.
Blood-meal is coming into use as a
feed for calves and for sheep. It con-
tains a high percentage of the amino-
acid cystine. There is need for a stan-
dard, specially as blood-meal is liable
to rapid bacterial decomposition if it
becomes damp. There is a world of
difference between blood-meal suitable
for feeding and ordinary dried blood,
which is only suitable for fertilising
unless properly processed.
Queensland has an excellent Stock
Foods Act which requires the manufac-
turer and agent to lodge samples each
year and give a warranty that every-
thing sold complies therewith. Also the
percentage of protein, fat and fibre must
be declared on every bag or package.
In N.S.W. there is apparently nothing to
stop a merchant from saying that a feed
contains 45 p.c. protein when it con-
tains only 25 per cent.
Standardisation of these products
should be referred to the Standards Asso-
ciation or the C.S. and I.R. as an urgent
job.
Oats as a Cover Crop.
“Hortus”: There’s nothing better than
lucerne with oats as a cover crop. You
get grain and hay for conserved fodder.
Then there is the grazing. Here are one
grazier’s results:
One 21-acre paddock sown in April
was grazed by 1335 ewes from June to
August; a run of 700 acres of natural
pasture was available. In October 234
bags of oats were harvested. Then 1000
ewes and lambs were in the paddock for
eight weeks.
In 1935 200 acres were prepared for
lucerne and oats to be. sown in 1936. A
particularly dry year ensued. However,
excellent results were obtained from the
oat crop. Part was harvested for hay
and part for grain. The oat-lucerne com-
bination has proved so successful on
this station that an additional 500 acres
will be sown. Of conserved fodder there
are 1342 bales of oaten-hay and 3550
bushels of grain. Also, a large quantity
of lucerne hay will ultimately be ob-
tained. Bought in 1934, this 8400-acre
property, which had 20 acres of estab-
lished lucerne, produced 149 bales of
wool from 6600 sheep in 1935. In 1936,
349 bales were secured from 11,000
sheep. It is expected that in 1937 there
will be 17,000 sheep and 600 cattle on
the property. Thus, with oats and
lucerne, the. carrying capacity will have
been raised to almost two sheep to the
acre.
It’s worth tackling, and, what’s more,
it’s a fairly cheap proposition. Useful
assets are a baling plant, eight tanks,
each of 350-bushel capacity, and a
mouse-proof granary.
Field Peas.
“Sorghum”: For rotational cropping
to offset “sheep sickness” due to harsh,
poor-nutritional-value grasses, field peas
are one of the best leguminous winter
fodder crops. They have high feed value
and are a good soil-improver.
Best Way to sow is in a combined
legume-cereal crop. Sown early with
oafs, they can be grazed off twice and
then dried and cut for hay. Sown alone
and cut green just after flowering, they
make excellent pig and cattle feed.
Loams and open soils suit them best.
Ground peas have a concentrate value
next only to linseed. By feeding the
whole crop, up to 25 sheep to the acre
can be fattened, though grazing is waste-
ful because of hoof spoilage. A direct
return from 20 acres showed me a net
profit of £lBO, allowing for sheep fat-
tened on seed left on the ground after
harvesting.
Though not the hardiest of legumes,
field peas mature early, are cheap, are
not attacked by weevils or rodents and
stand hoof grazing better than most
crops.
Sown alone, the rate should be 901 b.
seed per acre with cereal, half-bushel
peas to one bushel oats.
Hints for the Farm.
“Stump Jump”: To clean up itch and
mange in horses, scrub with soft soap in
warm water daily on the bare or scabby
parts. Add a dash of kerosene, to the
water beforehand. This penetrates
deeply, but the effect does not last long;
hence the need for repeated treatment.
“Dimon”: Water hyacinth has little
nutritive value, being largely water, but
it will save cattle in drought-time. That
has been proved in the Burnett (Q.) dis-
trict, where great masses of it were
lately dredged, landed and carted away
to feed dairy cattle and other stock.
Streams in north-eastern N.S.W. are
choked with hyacinth, but during the
recent drought, when dairymen on the
Richmond and Clarence were hard
pushed for feed, this supply was
neglected.
“Upilio”: Failure in digging out
rabbits nearly always lies in missing the
deepest leads, usually blind ones difficult
to locate because the does have sealed
them with earth after depositing their
young. I find the surest way of getting
all the leads is by first locating those
that open farthest from the centre of the
burrow and working them inwards until
cross passages are uncovered. A com-
plete circle of trench makes the removal
of the earth of the main burrow simple
without a double shifting of soil.
“Showman”: Westralian bees are to
be taken to India and crossed with the
giant bees of that country. The West-
ralian, which comes from the Italian
bee, gives a high grade of honey, and
the cross is expected to produce a strain
that will improve the Indian industry.


t: ~
-W d
'
mkk r
llillilli
V, ' - -
■ s ' "
IfNSPMf
iPMMHai
i| 11 11 1
*' z
BMliiilllllll
VfcPJS
gg?
r * ;^^v==
K
W®-
*& J -
I
V *
SI wm
:
mm
M
l
:
I
m
v
1
K
■■':': x:!-!'
y
1
m
■
V-
£
V
Ui
: n
*4
1
I
I
m
m
i
■
*«§?: Iftxs c ;f •/;"5
i
K
s ,
1
:
l
M
U
. ■
mmm
m
jM^gmgHKRHHMSnM
W
i
■
m
1
.
* p
m
si
ii
m
m
WM
S’
*
Cfe
?T
O
f\ x
SI
£
4
-
i '■•• '••.- s
■^il|#!Il!l
«-H
x >-
m I
I
v-
£
- -
h in
1
rfra
■
m
m
1
3P *
. -
,V<
IK
as
ss.
*
as*
s*r
3&
/^ii
Mb mmmsms
nu
p*
• V
i£
HI
;S
>Sd
i rriij
s :
m
■■■■■■
■
lite
' s *fc2
>
v^aSWS
SP
■1
:-x' : ' :: '&y::'
VK
f*
m
■
safest
H I ;
■ ■" “ “1 JIJ111 1 - - ™°^W^Ms§Sii^§§W^BiW9fti
". 5 *
■
wMMMsm
Isf «sl
w.- ••
'
wa
mmem
M&UK '
■• ■ ■ •. .•■•
*2-mx.
mm
<<v •• • -
i
.
US
:•:
.
, T ~ m ~ r -•__ I ..: a :
rich, sustaining value of sun-
ripened oats that is what you get in
every health-bringing glass of Oatmeal
Stout. It nourishes —it strengthens without
fattening.
TO
EYS
OATOfIL STOUT
"There's New life in Tveru Bottle
/✓
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: VICTORIA —Goldsbrougli. Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co.. Ltd., Brisbane,
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co.. Ltd.. Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co„ Perth.
TASMANIA —Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank“offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busmess_
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Steward, mental hospital attendant (male),
fully exp., including sea, wants employment.
Refs.—4456.
Information Sought.
(1) How old was Bob Fitzsimmons when he
beat Jim Corbett for the world’s heavyweight
championship ? (2) What were the ages of
Tommy Burns and Jack Johnson when they
battled at Sydney Stadium ? —4470.
(1) 34. (2) Burns 27, Johnson 30.
* * * *
(1) Number of countries represented at the
recent Peace Conference ? (2) Was it connected
with the League of Nations? What resolutions
were passed? Any other information ? —4307.
(1) Thirty-five nations were represented at the
first World Peace Congress, held at Brussels,
September 3 to 6 of last year. There were
large delegations from Britain and the U.S.A.
(2) It was entirely independent of the League,
having its genesis among a number of inter-
national world figures in the cause of peace,
prominent among whom was Viscount Cecil;
but resolutions consisted of four points in sup-
port of the League. Fuller information is
obtainable from Raymond G. Watt, leader of
the Australian delegation and national secretary,
Australian League of Nations Union, 14 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
« * * *
(1) What are the prizes being offered by the
Independent Theatre, Sydney, for Australian
plays? (2) What are competition rules? —4455.
(1) Prizes offered are: (a) For the best full-
length play, production by the Independent
Theatre and to author £15 or 50 per cent, of
the gross takings of the first performance,
whichever is the greater; (6) for the best one-
act play, production by the Independent
Theatre and a cash prize of £5 5s. (2) Com-
petitors must be Australian-born; no play pre-
viously performed is eligible. Each full-length
play must be accompanied by an entrance fee
of 10s., and each one-act play by an entrance
fee of 5s. All entries must reach the Inde-
pendent Theatre clubrooms, 112 King-street,
Sydney, not later than June 1, 1937.
* * * *
What was the Parliamentary procedure in
the abolition of the Q’land Legislative Council ?
—4539.
Sufficient abolitionists having been appointed
to the Council on the nomination of the Theo-
dore Government, £p bill to amend the Consti-
tution by abolishing the Council was passed
on October 26, 1921; was reserved by the
Governor for the Royal Assent, and was
assented to by the King on March 3, 1922. A
proclamation notifying assent was issued by
the Governor on March 23, 1922.
* * * *
Particulars of the occasion on which C. Kings-
ford Smith was lost on a flight to England?
What food did the party live on while lost? —
4385.
Kingsford Smith, together with Ulm, Mc-
William and Litchfield, left Richmond (N.S.W.)
aerodrome March 31, 1929, hoping to make a
non-stop flight of 2000 miles across the con-
tinent to Wyndham. Running into heavy rain
they lost their bearings and, becoming short of
petrol, were forced to land on a mud flat near
the Glenelg River (W.A.). They had with
them some patent food, a few sandwiches,
coffee and a flask of brandy. When these sup-
plies—together with a bottle of glycerine—were
consumed, they subsisted on wild beans and
mud snails until rescued on April 13.
* # * *
Exact wording of the questions submitted to
the people of Australia in the two conscription
rpforpnda ? — 4516.
First referendum (October 28, 1916): “Are
you in favor of the Government having, in this
grave emergency, the same compulsory powers
over citizens in regard to requiring their military
service, for the term of this war, outside the
Commonwealth, as it now has in regard to
military service within the Commonwealth?”
Second referendum (December 20, 1917): “Are
you in favor of the proposal of the Common-
wealth Government for reinforcing the Aus-
tralian Imperial Force oversea?” The proposal
was that, while voluntary enlistment was to
continue, compulsory reinforcements should be
called up by ballot to make the total reinforce-
•ments up to 7000 per month.
* * * *
(1) Is vocational guidance by a professional
adviser of any real service? (2) Name of a
reliable vocational adviser in Melbourne? (3)
What are the fees? —4311.
(1) Yes; experts say that it has been tested
for 25 years with thousands of successful cases.
(2) Victorian Vocational and Child Guidance
Centre, 312 Flinders-street. (3) Up to £2 2s.
* * * *
(1) What are the chances for a young man
going to Q. or N.S.W. for a learner’s pen in
the shearing season? (2) When does shearing
start ? (3) Would it be possible to start in Q.
and work down to Vic.? (4) Addresses of
Graziers’ Associations in Eastern States? —4312.
(1) Depends on previous shed experience.
Preference is given to learners who have worked
as shedhands and have picked up rudiments of
shearing. Prospects are better in N.S.W. for
a start. (2) In Q. shearing goes on practi-
cally the year round. Bulk of N.S.W. shearing
is done from July to November. (3) Yes, for
a good man. (4) Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Cos.,
23-25 Macquarie-place, Sydney, 129 William-
street, Melbourne, and Shakespeare Building,
Barcaldine, Q.; United Graziers’ Shearing Cos.,
Toowoomba, Q.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
(1) Brief description of plastic moulding
process? (2) Name and address of a firm sup-
plying the raw materials? —4406.
(1) Powder is charged into a heated, har-
dened steel die at a temperature of 160 deg. and
pressure is applied at approximately 1| tons per
sq. in., the mould remaining closed for a few
minutes. The moulding is then discharged,
and after removing flash is complete. (2) A. S.
Harrison and Cos., 85 Clarence-street, Sydney.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
(1) Has an either-side brake been adopted by
any railway co. in England? (2) Has any Aus-
tralian invention for this purpose, other than
Bowman’s (S./L), stood up to official tests and
been used by companies ? (3) Has compulsory
adoption of such brakes been repealed? —4337.
(1) Either-side handbrakes have been used
for years by at least two important railway cos.
in England. (2) No Australian invention for
this purpose is known, but either-side hand-
brakes are universally used on goods vehicles
in N.S.W. (3) Compulsory adoption in England
was repealed about two years ago.
¥ * * ¥
(1) Names of Sydney and Brisbane firms sup-
plying electroplating appliances? (2) Book
on electroplating suitable for a beginner, and
where obtainable ? (3) Best substitute for saw-
dust as used for drying? —44lß.
(1) Laurence Smith and Cos., 109 Bathurst-
street, Sydney; Francis Bell, 25 Clarence-street,
Sydney; S. Cook, Electroplaters, 45 Charlotte-
street, Brisbane. (2) Electroplating (Amateur
Mechanic Works Handbooks), 2s. 6d., post
free, from Dymock’s, 426 George-street, Sydney.
(3) Sawdust is used universally, English box-
wood being preferred.
¥ ¥ * H:
Origin of “Yankee Doodle”? —4529.
According to Grove’s Dictionary of Music,
the first appearance of the tune in print is
dated 1784, and relates to a song by Arnold,
“Two Is One,” but it is a lot older than that.
To other words the tune was sung in 1755 by
Amherst’s troops, who were engaged in a
campaign against the French and the Indians.
¥ * * *
(1) What is the Apocrypha? (2) What are
the names of the books in it ? (3) Why are
they not included in the Bible? —4479.
(1) A collection of records, partly historical,
partly allegorical, included (all save 2 Esdras)
in the Greek version of the Old Testament. (2)
Esdras 1 and 2, Esther, Wisdom, Ecclesi-
asticus, Baruch, fragments added to Daniel,
Prayer of Manasses, Tobit, Judith and Macca-
bees 1 and 2. (3) The Roman Catholic
Church makes a distinction between these books
and those of the Hebrew canon. The Council
of Trent affirmed the authenticity of the
greater part, but did not include them in the
Bible. As the name indicates, these books
were regarded by early divines as being of
hidden, secret and uncertain origin and
authority.
* * * ¥
Why do some springs flow more freely fust
before rain? —4021.
In dry weather underground caverns and
channels become more or less drained and
filled with air, leaving the exit still filled with
water. A storm is always accompanied by a
drop in atmospheric pressure, which usually
extends far ahead of the rain. The fall of pres-
sure compels the entrapped air to drive the
remaining underground water out of the springs.
¥ ¥ * *
Why is it that the rising sun is a lot larger
than at noon and the full moon larger than the
moon at midnight? —4slo.
Merely an optical illusion, brought about by
the fact that on the horizon their size is com-
parable with that of distant terrestrial objects.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
What causes twilight, and why does it in-
crease in duration away from the equator? —
4472.
Caused by intervention of the atmosphere
between sun and earth’s surface. When the
sun is some distance below the horizon, the
upper layers of air remain illuminated and
reflect the light. Twilight lasts until the sun is
18deg. below the horizon; its duration depends
upon season and latitude, being governed by the
sun’s altitude and declination. Near the
equator, where the sun is more directly over-
head, twilight must be much shorter than near
the poles, where the motion towards the horizon
is oblique.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Differences between hard- and soft-paste por-
celain as regards ingredients and general charac-
teristics after manufacture ? —4507.
The hard paste contains more alumina and
less silica than the soft. When baked, it is
sonorous on being struck; it has a milky color,
and is not injured by sudden alterations of
temperature. Its essential constituent is pure
white kaolin. The soft variety has a cream-
like enamel, and is soapy to the touch; it is
lighter than the other kind, not so hard (a knife
will scratch it), and does not require so great
a heat for solidification.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Method of seasoning timber for furniture in
N. S. Wales?— 4272.
Place the boards in a stack not exceeding
4ft. in width. The boards should be separated
by. strips of wood about lin. thick placed about
2ft. 6in. apart to allow a free current of air to
circulate. The bottom of the stack should be
placed on bearers at least Ift. above the ground
and the spacing strips should be placed directly
above such bearers. The stack should prefer-
ably be built under cover to prevent exposure to
sun and rain. If the boards show end splits
the ends should be painted.
* * * *
Since the recent rain in Victoria roses and
some shrubs have developed a white, fluffy sub-
stance on the leaves. Cause and cure? —4180.
The trouble is mildew, and it should be
treated at once by spraying with lime-and-
sulphur or dusting with flowers of sulphur.
Treat in the early morning when dew will help
the application to stick on the leaves. Three
treatments at weekly intervals usually checks
mildew.
* * * *
From what plant are ‘‘jequirity beads” taken ?
How can it be identified ? —4498.
Abrus, a small tropical legume. The flowers
are pink or (rarely) white; pod almost square
at both ends; seeds brilliant scarlet, with a
black blotch; foliage consists of several pairs
of leaflets to each stem, the midrib ending in
a point. The only indigenous species is Abrus
precatorious (weather-plant), the seeds of which
are known as “crab’s-eyes” or “jequirity beans.”
* * * *
(1) Can Christmas-bells be raised from seed
and cultivated in an ordinary N.S.W. garden ?
(2) Where can seed be obtained? (3) Best time
of year for raising? (4) Will seedlings flower
the first year? (5) Nature of soil best suited
and any hints on culture? —4342.
(1) Yes. (2) Seed from A. Murphy, Grand-
view, Woy Woy; J. Morrissy, Pretoria-parade,
Hornsby, sells seed and young plants. (3) Sow
immediately seed is ready. (4) No. (5) They
prefer deep sandy soil, well drained, and if
growing in open ground should be by them-
selves if possible. They can be grown very
successfully in either pots or tins.
He * He *
Information concerning orchids, their identifi-
cation, packing and preservation, together with
possibilities for sale? —4310.
Your best plan would be to get in touch
with the Orchid Society of New South Wales,
the president of which is Judge H. F. Markell,
Kooyong, Hastings-road, Warrawee (N.S.W.).
The society publishes an excellent quarterly,
the “Australian Orchid Review,” costing 6s.
a year, post free from any Sydney bookseller,
or Is. 6d. a single copy. Angus and Robert-
son, Castlereagh-street, recommend Briscowe’s
Orchids for Amateurs (7s. 6d.). Orchids are
fairly hardy, and the tubers will carry safely
if carefully packed in moss.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
(1) Best method of budding roses on then-
own wood, and the best time to do it? (2)
Does the color of the flower make any differ-
ence in this operation ? —4504.
(1) Cut a limb of last year’s wood in which
there is plenty of sap back to about 9in. from
the ground. Below a leaf-stalk on the side
away from the direct rays of the sun make a
T-shaped cut through the bark without injur-
ing the stem, the length being just sufficient
to insert the bud. Cut the bud from healthy
growth deep enough to get a thin piece of the
rosewood, of shieldlike shape. Lift the bark
on the plant with the knife and insert the bud,
without damaging the bark. A binding of raffia
should then be wrapped round, leaving the eye
exposed. Growth should be regularly inspected
and binding loosened. In two to three weeks
the union should be established; this will be
known by the freshness or withering of the
bud. After the budding, water the plant regu-
larly to keep the sap moving. Can be done
up to the end of February. (2) No.
* ¥ * *
(1) What is the average weight of the heart
of a new-born child? (2) Of an adult? (3)
How much blood does the heart cause to cir-
culate in one day? (4) During the average
lifetime ? —4252.
(1) Something under one ounce. (2) About
Tib. (3) Five hundred gallons. (4) For a man
reaching the age of 60, about 35,000,000 gallons.
¥ * ¥ *
Directions for tanning kangaroo-skins by
alum-and-salt process ? Also directions for re-
moving hair from skins after tanning ? —4266.
Dehairing should take place first. Mix half
a bucket of burnt lime with enough water to
cover several skins placed in a barrel or other
deep receptacle. Soak for from five to ten
days, turning frequently; then take out, spread
on a floor with the hair side up, and scrape
off the hair. Then soak for two days in a
bucket of bran with enough water to cover,
which should clean up the skins, and next soak
for ten days in a solution of 101 b. salt, 101 b.
alum and loz. oxalic acid mixed with sufficient
water to cover; turn frequently. Remove and
wash in clean water, then tack out to dry. If
very stiff, rub well with neatsfoot oil. Quan-
tities given will do about five skins. It is diffi-
cult work, and you may easily spoil some skins
before becoming proficient.
* * * ¥
Recipe for salting or any other means of
preserving butter? —4361.
It is very difficult to preserve butter without
refrigerating machinery. Make a brine of salt
and water, strong enough to float an egg; pour
it into an earthenware crock or bread crock,
drop in the butter wrapped in pieces of muslin,
and cover the whole with muslin to exclude
dust but not air. Watch for moulds, and if
these set in make a fresh brine and reset the
butter in it.
He H* *
Recipe for pickling onions? What vinegar
is suitable and reasonably economical 3Bl4.
Either common brown vinegar or white vine-
gar, sometimes called Tarragon, can be
used, and is cheapest in bulk; it is S9M in
pints or quarts. Assemble 31b. small pickling
onions, sufficient vinegar to cover them, 2oz.
cloves, 2oz. peppercorns, 2oz. allspice, 3oz.
salt, 2oz. whole ginger, and, for sweet pickles,
two breakfast cups sugar. Pour boiling water
over onions, peel and place in jars or in one
large earthenware jar. Boil the vinegar with all
the other ingredients (the ginger bruised),
strain, pour over the onions, and stand to
allow vinegar to go through them.
Brief Answers.
J.N.H.: Napuka is the most northerly and
most isolated island in the Low Archipelago.
It is at least 100 miles from its nearest neigh-
bor, and consists of a series of islets connected
by reefs. It is inhabited by a few people who
live in very primitive fashion G.G.: The
line “Away! the moor is dark beneath the
moon” commences Shelley’s “Remorse”
A. : Arthur Macrae’s “Indoor Fireworks"
when produced at the Aldwych, London,
1934, had the following cast: Mary Brough
(Cissy), Rosalind Atkinson (Miss Benbow),
Lady Tree (Mrs. Parry), Fay Compton
(Christina), Reginald Gardiner (Teddy), Jack
Hawkins (Marquis of Yore), Harold Warrender
(Peter), Joyce Barbour (Eleanor), Henrietta
Watson (Marchioness of Yore) and Denys
Blakelock (Pat Swanson) B.McG.:* Nick of
the Woods was written early last century by
R. M. Bird (died 1854). Cannot trace any other
books by him. James Fenimore Cooper’s tales
of the early American frontier, The Last of the
Mohicans, The Prairie, The Pathfinder and The
Deerslayer, are entertaining, and have the merit
of being based on first-hand knowledge. Cooper
died 1851... .D.P.A.G.: Stephens’s works are
now out of print and scarce. Tyrrells’ Book-
shop, 281 George-street, Sydney, has a copy
of The Red Pagan (price 12s. 6d.), also the
Queenslander’s Travel Notes (3s. 6d.) and
volumes one and two complete of the “Book-
fellow” for January to August, 1907 (£3). Sepa-
rate parts of the “Bookfellow” are also avail-
able... .V.E.A.C.: Write Burns, Philp and Cos.,
7 Bridge-street, Sydney H.W.M.: Particu-
lars not recorded in cricket reference books
J.C.: Australia was represented in the 1928
Brisbane Test match by J. Ryder (capt.), W. M.
Woodfull, W. H. Ponsford, A. F. Kippax,
H. L. Hendry, C. E. Kelleway, D. G. Bradman,
W. Oldfield, C. Grimmett, H. Ironmonger and
J. M. Gregory... .A.8.F.: Get in touch with
Australian Mercantile Land and Finance Cos., 4
Bligh-street, Sydney M.S.T.: (1) No such
classes. (2) Don’t know anybody who gives
such lessons privately K.J.T.: Eight shillings
in the pound would be a fair percentage of
gross return to pay to the share-farmer, with
a mutual arrangement about the calves and
pigs... .J.C.: There is no provision in the
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act for payment
of pension to commence from date of lodg-
ment of claim. The Act provides that date of
commencement shall be determined by the
Deputy-Commissioner, and the usual practice
of the department has been followed in this case.
J.A.B.: A copy of a will lodged for probate
can be obtained on application to the Registrar
of Probates, Supreme Court Buildings, Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney. Inspection fee Is.; cost of
copy depends on length... .T.L.: The general
scheme for development from the Namoi River
is under investigation, and it is not possible
to state when work in connection with the
construction of the Keepit Dam will com-
mence or how long construction will take
J.8.M.: Students residing in N. S. Wales
country districts have first claim on Sydney
Technical College correspondence courses;
students from other States are not enrolled if
the classes can be filled from within N.S.W.
Apply Technical College, Brisbane. If it cannot
arrange instruction, write to the secretary,
Correspondence Courses, Sydney Technical Col-
lege, who will consider your case J.L.O’N.:
A N.S.W. widow with children may have an
income of £39 per annum without affecting her
eligibility to receive a maximum pension. It
would not be against your interests to accept
employment at more than 15s. per week, as the
maximum pension would merely be reduced by
the amount by which your income for pension
purposes exceeded that rate. A widow who
is receiving a pension should notify the depart-
ment immediately of any alteration in her cir-
cumstances 8.F.: Inter alia is a Latin phrase
meaning “among other things”; in statu quo,
“in the former state”; and in situ, “in its
original place” W.A.: Can find no record of
the painter C. Harrant. There was a Count
Ferdinand Harrach, painter of historical pic-
tures, landscapes and portraits, born 1832, and
a member of the Berlin Academy in 1874
S. (1) Salary ranges from £477 7s. 6d.
p.a. to £527 7s. 6d. p.a., according to grade.
(2) Pensions are calculated in accordance with
Section 7 of the N.S.W. Police Regulation
(Superannuation) Act of 1906. (3) Yes
J.J.M.S.: Get in touch with the Secretary,
Department of Defence, Melbourne, or the
Director, Australian War Memorial, Canberra.
S.C.D.: Try Queensland Acclimatisation
Society, Bowen Park, Brisbane... .K.C.J.: The
member you mention was elected to the Legis-
lative Council April 23, 1934, for nine years.
He had been previously appointed by the
Governor in September, 1932, under the system
of election then in operation. During the 1932-
33 session he attended 33 sittings; 1933-34, 15;
1934-35, 42; 1935-36, 10. He obtained nine
months’ leave of absence in March, 1936
B. :No Halligan appears on the official list of
the local Olympic Council as a competitor on
behalf of Australia. In the 1912 Olympiad, at
Stockholm, no boxing competitions were held;
the only Murray competing was W. Murray, of
Victoria (walking). No official Olympiad was
held in 1906; on the list of competitors at the
unofficial games at Athens that year there is no
Murray. In the 1908 Games, held at London,
H. A. Murray (M.L.) competed as a runner.
F.C.T.: The Local Government Act
(N.S.W.) provides that a person shall be dis-
qualified for civic office “if he has been con-
victed of a felony and has not received a free
pardon or served his sentence or if he is under-
going a sentence of imprisonment.” Convic-
tion for a minor offence such as the one re-
ferred to would not disqualify F.L.: Mrs.
Keith Miller, who flew to Australia with Cap-
tain Lancaster in the Red Rose in 1928, was
the first woman to reach Australia by air; that
was the first world flight and the longest then
made by a woman. She was previously a resi-
dent of Melbourne, her maiden name being
Beverage J.A.F.: Insert a small advt. in a
city morning daily... .A.L.M.: Apply to the
Secretary, War Office, Whitehall, London
(Many others mailed.)


BEVERLY LONGWOTH LEE,
Authority on book and story writing.
I sell my work and I’ll show you how.
2/- per thousand words, plus postage.
Books by arrangement.
G.P.O. 3751 S.S.j Sydney, N.S.W.
*JAVA-
jfor your holiday
hk
Lt
\
wneir
Waffle
S
r -
This land of countless attractions awaits you —
ancient temples beautiful scenery native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE 87901
The NEW
AIRFLOW flask
makes POWDER
so easy to use
mi,nu
TIAU/H AUC
j/v/jriTl wit
s
CiV
CHESTER
ENGLAND
Sfi
asn 01
*SV3 CALVUTS
Aii dentifrices contain some
powder, that’s what does the
cleaning. But Calvert’s is ALL
powder, that’s why it makes
teeth whiter. Now Calvert’s
Airflow Flask makes powder
even easier to use than paste
from an old-fashioned tube.
Established
1634.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES' ASHTON (Chairman) ; EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E. ; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England ; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd. ;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the world.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
A MIXED GRILL.
“C.H.F.”: At our talkies the other
night an extra-long film was broken just
after its start by a notice flashed on the
screen: “If Mr. X is in the audience his
wife says he has to go home.” The
heavy drama of a few moments later
was marred by an outburst of mirth as
a small man struggled from his seat
towards the exit.
* * * *
“Binduli”: “Smiler” Hales (B. 6/1 / ’37)
and Jack Drayton started the Coolgardie
“Review” in 1896, and provided the gold-
fields with some lively reading, even for
those roaring days. But when the roar
began to die down not even Hales’s
appearance as a Parliamentary candidate
could keep it alive. After that “Smiler”
had some chequered journalistic ex-
periences—I fancy he was one of
the “Coolgardie Miner’s” numerous edi-
tors. In ’99 he was in very low water,
keeping what Ortheris would have called
a “measly, half-license pub” on the out-
skirts of the “Old Camp” and running
occasional boxing competitions. The
Boer War opened up a new prospect for
him, but it took him all his time to raise
the passage-money. However, the hat
went round, the subscription list was
generously headed by A. E. Morgans,
who had experienced more of the rough
side of “Smiler’s” pen and tongue than
any other goldfielder, and Hales found
himself on a troopship that was carry-
ing an S.A. contingent war-wards. He
had, as “J.A.8.” mentions, a kind of com-
mission from the Kalgoorlie “Sun,” but
he sent it only two letters, and only the
first of those was published. There were
few who realised in those days that
“Smiler” was to become a front-rank
war correspondent; it took Fleet-street
to make that discovery.
* * * *
“ludex”: Evelyn A. Hindmarsh
Stephen, sole living grandson of S.A.’s
first Governor (Rear-Admiral Hind-
marsh), is well linked up with the law.
His father, George Milner Stephen, ap-
pointed Crown Solicitor by Hindmarsh,
came to Australia in 1824 with his father,
Judge John Stephen, of the N.S.W.
Supreme Court, whose brother Alfred was
C.J. and TJeutenant-Governor of N.S.W.
for many years. Alfred’s son, Henry
Stephen (like his father, a knight), was
a Judge for 34 years and acting C.J. for
a time. Justice Milner Stephen (present
N.S.W. Judge) is grandson of Alfred
Stephen, and his cousin (Justice John’s
son) was acting C.J. of M.L. at the time
of his death.
* * * *
“Jabu”: Recently when I required the
garb of a convict for an amateur play I
found that, though fancy-dress shops had
abundance of suits with the American
horizontal stripes and the English broad
arrows, not one of them stocked the
grey prison wear of N. S. Wales. When
I described the loose-fitting Long Bay
coat with its one top button, its number-
bearing badge and its square cut, it
seemed that they were entirely un-
acquainted with it, I was forced to wear
Yankee stripes and trust that the audi-
ence wouldn’t notice the irregularity.
* * * *
“El V.”: Among the personal bits
dragged to light about King George VI.
an unusual one that seems to have been
overlooked is that he is left-handed, as I
noticed years ago when he played tennis
at Wimbledon. Has Britain ever before
had a molly-handed monarch?
* * * *
“Rounders”: The crew of the Ameri-
can training ship California State in-
troduced in these parts what it calls
a new sport. The thing seems identical
with the old game of rounders, once so
popular with girls and boys, but now
outvied in this country by vigoro ; it is
simply baseball played with a soft ball,
with the pitching done underhand.
:!: * *
“Old Hergott”: Apropos Marree
(S.A.), mentioned as the locale of a
“Saturday Evening Post” story (B.
20/l/’36), the'American author missed
one bit of worth-while local color. Marree
is the champion cricket town of the
north Flinders country, and with the
help of Robin Russell, of Callana, the
local Bradman, it has walloped all other
villages with which its team has tried
conclusions. Russell, an old resident of
those parts, hasn’t apparently yet
learned of the vast quantities of gold
which the National Travel Association’s
American writer discovered in the
vicinity. He raises sheep, and, with the
good rains that have fallen this year,
has enough lambs to feed all the roving
outlaws and policemen from Darwin to
Adelaide.
* * * *
“Long Dog”: Queer decisions in the
tin-hare industry are not uncommon, but
one at Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) must go
near a record. The leading hound, hear-
ing an opponent overhauling him, re-
sented the intrusion on his privacy and
turned to fight the other. In the result-
ing collision the cantankerous one was
bumped over the finishing line tail-end
first, and was given the decision “by a
rump.”
t- * * #
“Colon”: The double-edged sword
stolen from Stirling Castle was not quite
so large as stated by “Cambuskenneth”
(B. 13/1/’37). The weapon is sft. 6|in.
in length and 2|in. broad at the top,
whence it narrows down to at the
persuasive end. A note was delivered to
the newspapers stating that it would be
returned when Scots awoke to strike a
blow for Home Rule.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character') will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.W.: “I am enclosing an unnamed verse.”
Devoid of merit, t00....W.C.: A bit too
philosophical to make a lilting lyric... .C.M.:
It won’t do J.E.: A very old friend, that,
the chap you meet in Hogan’s bar who “useter
write f’r The Bulleteen” J.R.: “Scanties”
might furnish a rhyme for “aunties” at a pinch,
but not “parent” for “transparent”... .E.G.L.:
I cannot write,
My pen is stilled.
Why not take the hint? ... .L.J.R.: Poor stuff.
... .G.R.H.: The verdict is unfavorable....
N. 8.: Ditto —only more 50....E.M.: Ninety-
three lines of blank verse entitled “Woman—
a Lament for King Edward VIII.” received—
and firmly rejected W.G.: “To the Sea”
went out in the backwash of this week’s verse.
... .E.S.M.A.: Miles 0ff....T.R.: “This ballad
is original and hitherto unpublished.” We
don’t doubt it... .Leones: “Could you do with
fortnightly lessons on astrology for your paper?”
N 0.... A.R.Q.: Saw through “Camouflage”
early in the piece J.J.H.: Practical jokers
have to be the very best of their class
M.A.8.: Charming, but then these happy-young-
couple-worrying-over-a-first-birth stories usually
are... .E.8.R.: That salesman fell down on
his job... .G.E.8.: No stake for Jacky here.
.... M.L.G.: Bellowdrammer .... A.D.M.:
Glimpses of fair humor, but there’s nothing to
the yarn.. . .Mistral: Just squeezed out on a
second reading... .Florence: Sociological views
sound enough, but we have no niche for them;
the “personal-experience” yarn, though illumi-
nating, not up to publication standard....
E.8.R.: You’re a hemisphere out of our
boundary... .E.M.: Far too conventional and
sentimental... .R.H. La V.: Dreaming punter
fell straight out of bed into the w.p.b.; other
unsuitable... .C.S.R.: Cut down it might make
a par....E.W.: War-time reminiscences must
be better than that W.J.M.: Spy story not
up; try a freer style of writing, and cut down
your paragraph content by half Meridian:
Don t whites in the Islands ever do anything
else but talk and drink gin? Excellent dia-
logue might have got the other through, but
thinness of plot beat it... .R.L.: Hopeless....
R. : Your theological romance was passed
on to the religious editor. He is still on the
bender... .M.L.: You could get four cricket
teams out of the characters you cram into 20
pages.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.W.: Too many barnacles on the gags
E.M.: Looks as if you had hurled a prickly-
pear dipped in tar at the drawing-paper
S. : You have a neat style, but the humor
lacks life... .A.N.J.: Have had a glut of female
cricket drawings all illustrating practically the
same jest... .D.D.: A far-fetched pun
wretchedly drawn K.J.: What is the new-
chum chopping—an ostrich with its head in the
sand or a stunted mangrove? W.M.: Hat-
trick-and-triplets gag is as old as our memory.
J.B.: Weren't you taught anything about
perspective?... .L.S.: The type of drawing
which makes us reach for the office blunderbuss.
. ...T.G.: Figures badly posed and the wheeze
a stray from a recent American magazine....
C.W.H.: Read with care the three signposts
and dozen-odd labels and still don't know
what the cartoon is about... .J.H.: Prepared,
at risk of breaking liquor laws, to stand Jacky
a nip of rum, if you promise not to foist
him on us again... .A.M.: Elderly gent, who is
concerned about the tear in his pants is an
old friend... .N.F.S.: But Joe Lyons isn’t a
baldhead, and Archdale is no six-footer....
8.M.H.: Sketch a feeble Lindsay imitation;
jest coated with the dust of ages H.E.: Can’t
tell whether you are for or against the referen-
dum, but you’re no cartoonist... .C.D.: Not
“at home” to the three angular females, nor to
cat toying with fishhead P.R.: Man looks
to have been stretched out, then tied into a knot.
W.C.K.: It will take us a long time to
recover from the sight of that apparition
5.8.: Join a life class and put in the next
few years studying W.R.R.: You belong to
the hit-and-miss school, that portion of it which
mostly misses W.J.: Sketches do not live
up to the high opinion of them you express in
the covering letter A.G.T.: You can call for
the ghoul at your earliest convenience... .R.F.:
Fewer mistakes than last time, but still a long
way off E.F.: Drawing promising, but sub-
iect-matter out of date.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is , tand of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
•
On your next trip to 'England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
P 1 w
IliU
•^s
m
f 'l\
I 'k'
IS,
asdf
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
A
cJiambu*
TkUDir
-BUREAU OF*
.CIRCULATIONS.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering- Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
Tt is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North.
jr-pH information ro'nip® and advertising r£ttes ofot&inahle from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
if any illustration m "THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
PETER JACKSON
The writer of these stories has been
asked by a correspondent to name the
six greatest heavyweight boxers of the
last half-century. As his opportunities of
personal observation have been limited,
he declines the contract, but he will go
so far as to register his opinion that.on
any list drawn up by men competent to
judge Peter Jackson would be first,
second or third.
In the language of the Fancy, Jackson
“had everything”: speed, skill; weight,
height, reach; power of punch, toughness,
gameness; perfect understanding between
brain, fists and feet. Yet he was a raw
hand when he began his career as pro-
fessional. It took years to mould him
into the polished boxer he became, and
at the outset he had reverses of the kind
that have crushed youngsters with hearts
less stout and less aptitude for the game.
An intelligent fellow, he never would
admit that he was “a born fighter.” “It’s
all bunkum to talk of born fighters,”
he said once. “Many a man who was
born a fighter died without knowing any-
thing about it.”
Born a free negro on the little island
of St. Croix, West Indies, long before it
became an American possession by right
of purchase, Jackson was a subject of the
King of Denmark when he reached Syd-
ney in the early ’eighties. For a year or
two he earned his living by hanging
round the waterfront. He was a good
boatman and a skilful swimmer and
diver, and he could take care of himself
in a brawl —a necessity in those days, for
it was a scrapping age, and a harborside
man rarely had to go looking for lash.
Larry Foley was then the idol of all
the young fellows who fancied that they
could fight a bit or wanted to learn the
science he best knew how to impart.
Jackson sought him out, was accepted as
his pupil and in time learned all that
Larry could teach him; but adversity
was also his tutor.
Licked by a Victorian.
After a few fights in Sydney, in one
of which he polished off Joe Goddard,
then known as “the Illawarra Navvy”
(he was afterwards to be “the Barrier
champion”) in four rounds, Jackson went
to Melbourne, then a greater centre of
boxing and wrestling than Sydney, to
meet Bill Farnan, a Melbourne black-
smith, for what was claimed to be the
Australian championship, “Professor”
Miller and Foley being supposed to have
retired, Farnan was no boxer, but he
was a strong, rugged fellow with a power-
ful right hand. Jackson was a mere
stripling, and ill-nourished at that.
Farnan knocked him out in the sixth
round.
They had a return match in Sydney.
In the first round Jackson got all over
the white man, but it was noticed that
he was landing most of his punches with
the open glove. Farnan’s efforts were
so primitive that more than once, when
he threw all he had into a punch, he
turned right round. For two rounds he
was merely a target for Jackson’s left.
In the third, however, he got home re-
peatedly with short-arm rights, and he
had the black limp when the latter’s sup-
porters rushed the ring. Jackson’s seconds
were blamed for this second defeat —it
was really that, although no decision was
given—for it was said that, if they’d
known enough to advise their man to
keep shooting out his left, Farnan would
never have got near him. Foley offered
to fight Farnan for £500 a side, the bout
to be decided in private “to prevent' a
recurrence of the blackguardly scenes
that disgraced the Farnan - Jackson
affair,” but the smith refused. All this
happened in 1884.
Jackson went back to Foley for more
lessons. In 1885 he boxed in “an exhibi-
tion” with “Professor” Miller on saw-
dust in Sydney. He proved too clever
for the “Professor,” and the latter, who
had been busy challenging John L. Sul-
livan and Muldoon, the wrestler (the
“Solid Muldoon” of contemporary song
and story), explained that he was in no
condition for serious boxing, which was
doubtless true.
Peter was now prospering in a modest
way. He had a string of pupils and
became licensee of a pub. In The Bul-
letin of March 27, 1886, there is a refer-
ence to his being matched to meet
Dooley that night: “Jackson now scales
over 13 stone, and his occupation of
hotelkeeper is all against his being in any-
thing like condition. Jackson, who is a
regular giant, graduated from the Foley
stable. Dooley, a fine young six-footer,
JACKSON, before he set out for
the U.S.A.
little more than out of his teens, scaling
in condition 11 stone and a half, has
been under Foley’s eye for some months.”
He Beats Dooley.
As it happened, Jackson was well
enough when the meeting took place at
Foley’s rooms. “Over' 1000 persons were
present to witness a genuine display of
the scientific use of Nature’s weapons.
Among those in attendance were Minis-
ters of the Crown, officials high in office,
and reputable businessmen and others,’’
who, strange as it may seem, “each and
all paid a crown in advance for the privi-
lege of being present.”
At 8.45 p.m. Dooley jumped on the
stage, attended by Jack Hall and Fogarty.
Shortly afterwards Jackson stepped into
the ring with his attendants. Dooley was
nervous, Jackson cautious.
A few tap-and-get-away hits were
given; then the ebon-hued slugger
dropped on to the mark and, following
his lead, fought Dooley right on the
ropes in close vicinity to a knockout,
which the young ’un cleverly avoided by
ducking. As they retired to their corners
the applause was deafening, and level
money and 6 to 4 on Dooley were
eagerly offered, with few takers, though
odd cash bets in sovereigns were made.
Time being called, Dooley came up
smiling. The big man got to work, and
at the end of the round had his plucky
opponent fighting the unresisting air,
while he, fresh as paint, dealt it out hot
and heavy. Dooley, refusing to acknow-
ledge himself vanquished, stepped gamely
out for the third and last round. The
big ’un, smiling and confident, briskly
met him, and knocked the gallant lad all
abroad in the opening rally, when Foley,
with a wisdom borne of long experi-
ence, pulled Dooley’s mitten off and
skied it.
A benefit was a favorite method of
putting money into a pugilist’s purse in
those days. On April 10, 1886, “Pro-
fessor” Jackson “took his benefit at
Foley’s, and his pupils provided a merry
evening.” Among them were Billy
McCarthy and Billy Smith.
On August 14 “Professor” Jackson
had another benefit at which Smith
again appeared, this time in a bout' with
Fogarty, to be known afterwards as “the
Jaw-breaker.” “Fogarty brought Smith
down in the second round with a smash-
ing right-hander on the point of the jaw,”
but, the crowd expressing its dissatisfac-
tion on some ground or other, he pulled
off the gloves and refused to go on.
Steve O’Donnell, another of Jackson's
pupils, boxed a few rounds with Jack
Molloy.
In later years, McCarthy, Smith and
O’Donnell were to go to the U.S.A.,
where, after doing a bit of fighting, they
settled down as gymnasium and club
instructors together with George Daw-
son, who also made his way to Cali-
fornia, where he has lived ever since.
The four taught multitudes of Ameri-
cans how to box. In reminiscences pub-
lished a few months ago, Tom Sharkey
acknowledges his debt to Smith. “Aus-
tralian Billy” Smith, as he was known
all over the U.S.A., died a year or two
ago.
On May 22, 1886, “the main attraction
at Foley’s” was a contest between “Pro-
fessor” Jackson and Pablo Frank (Fanque)
for £25, the former undertaking to knock
out his opponent in four rounds. “To the
surprise of most present Pablo made, a
first-rate show and turned up winner.
Pablo is a very dodgy sort of boxer and
very hard to knock out in a given time. - ’
On July 24, 1886, it is mentioned that
“Foley’s Saturday nights are now an in-
stitution, attended by the Sydney public
of all classes, from city aldermen and
members of Parliament upward.” A re-
port of a tussle between Smith and
McCarthy describes it as “a slashing en-
counter —one of the best seen for many
a day.” It was anyone’s fight till the
eleventh round, when McCarthy got in
a lucky one on the point of the jaw.
In the meantime Jackson’s conqueror
Farnan had been challenged in Mel-
bourne by Tom Lees, and “proved a
chopping-block for Lees when the pair
met on the Williamstown racecourse in
the presence of some thousand spectators.
Farnan’s magnificent physique and
dogged courage enabled him to stand
up for 17 rounds, when the police broke
up the ring. There were constables
enough at the fight to stop a cyclone.
They enjoyed the sport till the stuffing
had been knocked out of Farnan, and
next day they coolly took proceedings
against the pugilists.” The proceedings
failed.
The upshot was that Lees was brought
to Sydney to fight Jackson for the cham-
pionship. This he did on September 25.
The Bulletin came out with a racy
account, written by James Edmond,
afterwards its editor, who came down
from Queensland to join the staff in
1886.
Jackson Beats Lees.
Sinful admirers of the noble art of
nose-bashing rolled up to the extent of
over 1100 to see their favorite science
“exponed” by Messrs. Jackson and Lees
for oof to the tune of £2OO a side at
Deacon Foley’s chapel. Whites pre-
dominated, but darkies attended so largely
as to give the hall a piebald appearance.
A four-round interview between
Molloy and O’Brien served as first
course to the festival; then Foley
mounted the stump and eloquently
orated as follows: “Genelmen (terrific
applause), we ’ave come to see a fight,
and all we want is that there’ll be fair
play and the best man win.” Having
repeated this sentiment several times, he
called upon Mr. George Seale, to act
as referee and deputed Mr. Jack Thomp-
son to hold the Waterbury. Then, the
sluggers being present, Mr. Jack Thomp-
son dilated upon the Queensberry rules,
which unfortunately he had left at home
on the ormolu table in his boudoir, with
fulness and fluency.
The rival pluggers were as widely
different in make as in complexion.
Lees was thick and compact, and being
trained to the hour looked about as well


MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at. which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
GONE WITH THE WIND.
By MARGARET MITCHELL.
(Colonial Edition.)
The great American success,
which is being repeated in Eng-
land. 600,000 copies sold in
America and England since July ' •
“An incomparable piece of storytelling.”
—“Daily Mail .
A PRAYER FOR MY SON.
By HUGH WALPOLE.
(Colonial Edition.)
“The book is genuinely exciting, all the
people are brilliantly drawn, and there is not
a loose end or a careless sentence. Mr. Walpole
is an incomparable storyteller, and this book
reveals him at his best.” Douglas West
“Daily Mail.”
WHITEOAK HARVEST
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE.
(Empire Library.)
This is a new “Whiteoak” novel,
as vital, picturesque and fascinat-
ing as any of its predecessors.
LORDS AND MASTERS
By A. G. MACDONELL.
(Empire Library.)
A brilliant satirical novel on
modern life and manners, by the
author of “England, Their Eng-
land.”
BRONCHO APACHE
By PAUL 1. WELLMAN, author
of “Death in the Desert,” etc.
7s. 6d.
This thrilling story is an account
of the struggle of Massai, an
Apache warrior, against the
power of the United States and
Mexico. It tells of Massai, un-
armed, making his way across
half a continent, heavily peopled
by enemies, to Arizona; of his
depredations there; and of his
murders of whites and Indians.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
YOUTH COMPETITIONS
There are two ; and both close at the end of February.
In one case Fifty Pounds (£5O) will be paid by The Bulletin
Newspaper Company, at its discretion, to further the winner’s advance-
ment in the study, business or calling of his choice.
In the other case the prize will be a literary cadetship — a job on
The Bulletin.
Competitors for the £5O prize are required
to give in writing plain accounts of themselves,
their circumstances and aspirations, and the £5O
will go to the youth who, considered as a
citizen in the making, will, in the editor’s judg-
ment, put it to the best use.
It will not be expected of any entrant for
Youth Competition No. 1 that he must be a
practised writer. If he makes out what is
adjudged the best claim to the £5O it won’t
matter a bit if his grammar is rocky and he
can’t spell.
In the other competition, however, literary
merit or aptitude will necessarily be a deciding
factor.
The Bulletin wants a lad who may be
trained to become a responsible member of its
staff, and naturally preference will go to the
boy who, on the evidence of the writing sub-
mitted, will seem most likely to supply the
requirements.
Youth Competition No. 1 is open to youths
in the 17-22 age group living anywhere in the
Australian Commonwealth or Territories or in
New Zealand.
Youth Competition No. 2 is also for lads
living anywhere in Australia or its Territories
or New Zealand, but they must be aged 17, 18
or 19.
In each case youths living remote from
Sydney will start equal with residents of Sydney
as regards chances of landing the prize.
A.J.A. (Australian Journalists’ Association)
rates for cadets are £2 a week the first year,
£2 15s. the second year and £3 15s. the third
year; then the cadet qualifies as a junior at
£6 12s. 6d.
If the editor’s choice falls on a stranger to
Sydney, the first year’s salary will be made up
to £2 10s., and the lad will have opportunities
of earning more. This will apply also to the
second and third years of his cadetship.
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 7
WHAT I WOULD DO WITH FIFTY
POUNDS.
Set out in plain language what you would
do with the money. Lead up to it by giving a
short account of yourself and your experiences,
stating your age, condition, whether living at
home or out in the world; if no longer at
school, how old you were when you left it, and
so forth.
There is no word-limit for your essay, but
try not to make it too long. Facts are the
essential things. And write on one side of the
paper only.
Set down your name and address on this cut-
ting in the places specified and get one of the
responsible parties mentioned below to certify
to your bona fides. Then pin the cutting to
your essay and address both to Editor, The
Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney,* N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or
minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and bdier,
of
has written the accompanying essay without
assistance and that the facts are as he has
stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 2
WHY I WANT TO BECOME A
WRITER.
Give reasons in an essay of, say, 600 to
1200 words —though there will be no hard-
and-fast rule as to length.
In writing it, state your age, the course
your reading has taken, your favorite poet
(and why), the prose-writer you prefer (and
why), what sort of memory you possess, and
whether you have had anything printed in
your school paper or in some other publication.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Sign this cutting, get it certified by one of
the responsible persons mentioned below, pin
it to your essay and post to Editor, The
Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or
minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without
assistance and that the facts are as he has
stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS
as it is possible for him to do with so
few garments on ; the Professor, when
stripped, was statuesque to the waist, but
decidedly otherwise as to the balance of
his figure. He seems to have been built
from the head downwards, and the con-
tractor seems to have slummed him
after the job was half through. He scaled
241 b. more than his opponent, but this, as
the. “Christian Chronicle” man informed
us, was all to the advantage of Lees,
because it gave him so much more to
hit —a statement that was certainly
logical.
There was a distressing monotony
about the first 10 rounds, which were a
succession of races around the enclosure,
Lees being generally a little in front. He
had evidently been told to keep off his
man. This was sound advice. With
such a man as Jackson in the ring, we
would do more than keep off him—we
would keep off the stage altogether.
Up to the sixth round the men had
worked off only about three penn’orth* of
the entrance money in bashing, and the
seat-holders began to become discon-
tented ; they had paid £1 a head, and
nothing less than gore could be accepted
as the quo pro quid. Therefore the voice
of their united complainings was like
unto, a ton of hailstones on a tin roof,
and it was in vain that Mr. Foley occa-
sionally remarked “Genelmen, we have
come to see a fight,” etc.
One obstreperous individual was
asked by Mr. Foley to go outside, and
he at once obeyed. Mr. Foley’s advice
always has strong persuasive power.
In the seventh round things percep-
tibly improved ; there was not even then
much hitting done, and there would have
been less if Lees could have run a little
faster. The work so far was evenly
divided; Jackson did all the hitting and
Lees all the running. For particulars as
to the way in which Lees tried his left
and nabbed a heavy return on the conk,
after getting much workmanlike punish-
ment on the mark and bread-basket, see
“S. M. Herald.”
In the eleventh round Lees’s left went
on a foreign mission to the heathen with
gratifying results, but in the following
round he accepted board and temporary
lodging at the instigation of Mr. Jack-
son. From this out Tommy’s imports
largely exceeded his exports; the bal-
ance of exchanges set strongly against
him in spite of his attempt to maintain
a system of protection.
The money’s worth mounted up
quickly during the twentieth round, at
least 10s. worth of bashing being done
then. The “Echo” lucidly describes the
way in which Jackson landed Lees on
the smeller and potato trap at this stage,
receiving light returns on the conk and
kisser. In response to some exclama-
tions during the twenty-first round, Mr.
Foley came forward and was understood
to say, “Genelmen, we ’ave,” etc., etc.
Lees now began to get a dim percep-
tion of the fact that Jackson owned a
remarkably enterprising left, but in spite
of this discovery he fought hard and
close, the only result being that Jack-
son’s right permanently resided on the
Melbourne man’s nose. From round 25
Jackson, who was a waiter for an
opportunity, seemed to be fulfilling a
permanent order of hot coffee for one,
and ten minutes of hard slogging recom-
pensed the audience for the balance of
their ticket outlay, for the bashing was
very heavy.
In round 26 Mr. Foley introduced a
pleasant variation by orating as follows:
“Genelmen, we ’ave,” etc., etc. In round
29 Jackson nabbed Lees heavily on the
conk, following this up with visitations
to his opponent’s bread-basket and right
peeper (vide “Evening News”), and dur-
ing the following round Lees handed in
hi? resignation.
Throughout he fought a plucky but
hopeless battle, and at the finish Jackson
treated him with the merciful considera-
tion due to an honorably beaten man.
As soon as the result was posted, Jack-
son was made the apex of a human
pyramid, and carried off in triumph.
Tommy Lees was also well attended to
by his friends, but disloyal mutterings
were rife because Lord Carington’s car-
riage was not placed at his disposal.
At the conclusion of proceedings, Mr.
Foley began an oration thus: “Genel-
men, we ’ave” We left then, as the
words seemed to be in some sense
familiar. Larry has 50 different hits but
only one speech.
"Too Good."
A paragraph dated December 1,
1886, states that “at the moment Peter
Jackson can find no fresh worlds to
conquer. Tom Lees has completely dis-
appeared from the boards; Farnan does
not appear to have the necessary back-
ing for a match and Stewart is not
thought anxious to conclude negotia-
tions.” Stewart was a veteran who
talked fight a lot at the period but did
little.
On April 2, 1887, the “Professor’s”
retirement from tavern-keeping is noti-
fied by a scribe who drops into poetry
as good as Mr. Wegg’s: “Professor
Jackson, the pugilistic champion of Aus-
tralia, has given public-house life best.
Called to the bar some time ago, he
has now transferred his energies to the
ring.”
The Professor can fight, the Professor can spar,
And draw forth the claret the while,
But he can’t run a pub or sit still in a bar,
Because he ain’t built in that style.
The difficulty was to get opponents
to practise his “energies” on. That April
he was reduced to staging a bout with
a pupil, Dan Kiely, and the chronicle
says that “he played with Kiely for four
rounds. Jackson is on the stout side just
now, which rather improves his appear-
ance in ring costume. As to chest, arms
and shoulders the Professor is a picture,
and, barring his rather lean loins, it
would be hard to find a finer specimen
of humanity.” From which it will be
seen that the anonymous writer did not
altogether agrees with Jimmy Edmond.
On April 23, 1887, an antagonist was
served up to him with unfortunate
results for the antagonist: “Professor
Jackson did some really terrific work
when he faced O’Brien, of Melbourne,
in a six-round knock-out. The Pro-
fessor soon cornered his man, whom he
knocked down with great regularity till
O’Brien’s seconds cried a go. Giant as
Jackson is, he is light on his feet and
fights with the rapidity of a 9st. lad.
After Saturday’s show it is hard to sur-
mise where he can get another job at'
his calling.”
On May 28, 1887, “Dick Matthews,
the Yank,” then in Maoriland, was men-
tioned as a possible opponent —some-
what unhopefully. “Last time he was
in Sydney, Jackson put him through in
a couple of rounds for love.”
Yes, 1887 was a rather dull year for
Peter, but it was not altogether with-
out distractions, for the record says that
“Peter Jackson, the champion boxer,
proved himself a champion diver at the
Port Jackson Swimming Club’s carnival.”
One experience with Peter had proved
sufficient for Dooley, and, whatever the
reason, Slavin refused to meet the black
in an eight-round winner-take-all con-
test, Slavin to be the winner if still on
his feet at the end of the eighth round.
And Jack Burke, “the Irish Lad” —so-
called, his detractors asserted, because
he came from Aldgate or Shoreditch —
drew the color line. Martin Costello,
the American, remained, but Martin
evidently made “stipulations” which had
to be agreed to. In the result “over a
thousand people paid ss. for admission
at Foley’s to see Peter Jackson play with
Costello. Peter undertook to knock
Costello out in four rounds. For some
reason or other he merely toyed with
him and allowed Costello to last out
the time.”
"Off to the Rio Grande."
After that Jackson decided to go to
the U.S.A. A Bulletin par. of August
27, 1887, conveys the intelligence that
he was “doing the provinces to raise the
wind. Peter’s occupation in Australia
is gone, as we have no one in Australia
who can hope to cope with him.”
It took him some time to raise the
wind. A paragraph dated July 14, 1888,
records the arrival at San Francisco of
“Jackson, Tom Meadows, Paddy Gorman
and Sam Fitzpatrick.” All four were
after matches, but Fitzpatrick was to be-
come Jackson’s trainer —and Johnson’s,
too, 18 or 19 years later.


The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Pape
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—-Adelaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne—Mr.
A. G. Pike. Ist Floor. Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London — P. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne -Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
"THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate'information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, -with an-atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising - Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
GSJU suggests that for DX tests horizon-
tally polarised waves should be em-
ployed, and appeals to experimenters in-
terested in such work to use horizontal
aerials. In view of the fact that VK4AW
was heard by VK2BP when using a long
horizontal aerial, C.W. DX calls might
well be worth while on five metres using
a conventional 66ft. “Zepp” or something
similar. The vertical aerial is un-
doubtedly most useful for “local” work.
VK2NO.
Trade Review.
Ultimate 11-valve Receiver.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
A “high fidelity” radio-gramophone
combination worthy of attention is the
Ultimate 11-valve de-luxe receiver. The
The Ultimate 11-valve radiogram combination.
model illustrated was supplied by the
Australian agents, George Brown and
Co., 267 Clarence-street, Sydney, for
trial over the Christmas and New Year
period, and putting it through its paces
was a very agreeable holiday task.
The cabinet is a handsome piece of
furniture, and controls and tuning dial
are at a level where they can be seen
and reached from the comfort of an
armchair. The chassis comprises the
well-proved Ultimate all-wave superhet
for A.C. operation, and there is an ex-
cellent high-fidelity audio amplifier as a
separate unit', delivering up to 18 watts
without trace of distortion.
Radio and audio chassis have their
own power supplies. The latest metal-
type valves are employed, and these
comprise R.F. amplifier, 6K7; mixer,
6AB ; I F. amplifier, 6K7 ; second detec-
tor with A.V.C. combined, 6H6; first
audio driver, 6C5 ; driver, 6F6 ; rectifier,
’BO. The audio amplifier chassis carries
push-pull AB power valves, 6F6 ; recti-
fier, 5Z3. The valve list of 11 is com-
pleted by the inclusion of the 6E5 “elec-
tric eye,” a tuning adjunct without which
a modern receiver is incomplete.
The loud-speaker fitted is a 12in. Rola
G-12 high-fidelity model, and the results
it gives must be heard to be believed.
Eighteen watts give a great deal of audio
power, but there are occasions in spacious
homes where substantial dance music
is required. This Ultimate combination
can bring in an orchestra as fully as if
the orchestra itself were in the home,
but it can be shut down to a mere
whisper as desired, and all without a
shadow of distortion. The radio channel
is so good in support of the audio side
that the orchestral performances from
the Berlin short-wave station on 19
metres are reproduced with an unusual
degree of fidelity. As with all Ultimate
models, the short-wave range is - from
18 to 128 metres.
In the fitting of the gramophone pick-
up and turntable nothing has been
stinted. The motor is the oversize Brit-
ish Collaro induction type, with auto-
matic stop; pickup is a German Staiger
with the new heat-treated magnets, giv-
ing an extraordinarily high flux. The
volume control for radio takes care of
volume on electrical recordings, and tone
control acts similarly.
A switch on the
turntable platform
changes from radio
to records. On
radio this is a silent
tuning receiver.
The volume may be
shut right down
and the “electric
eye” watched for
station 1o c a tion.
This is adjusted for
fine sensitivity and
registers on the
weakest of short-
wave broadcasters.
The tuning dial is
the Ultimate de-
sign, with motion
iabsolutely free
from backlash and
action very smooth.
This dial has a
“logging hand”
which travels 16
times faster than
the main double-
ended indicator. ( It
becomes second
nature to watch
this for ease of fine tuning on the short
waves.
Finish throughout is excellent, and
performance on radio and records is
first-class in the 1937 sense.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
Useful even to professionals is the
1937 edition of the Radio Amateur’s
Handbook from the office of “QST.” The
fat little tome has 536 pp. and is well
illustrated. The introduction tells the
story of amateur radio in a way interest-
ing to both technician and tyro. An
article on vacuum tubes is accompanied
by a chart covering every type of Ameri-
can receiving and transmitting valve.
The constructional section describes re-
ceivers and transmitters for both tele-
graphy and radio-telephony. The ultra-
high frequencies, with constructional
data on receivers, transmitters and aerials,
are thoroughly dealt with, measuring
instruments and power supplies come in
for treatment, and the volume winds up
with hints and tips on assembling and
operating an amateur station. The book
is obtainable in Australia from McGill’s
Newagency, 183 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne ; Bs. 6d.
* * * *
Many sorts of radio communication
require something in the nature of a
mobile plate-nower sunnlv. Motor ex-
peditions and fixed Nations in inland
locations need something that will de-
liver a medium D.C. voltage at sufficient
current to operate a transmitter of more
than the “fly-power” type. For some
time the Carter genemotor has been
available in Australia to meet such de-
Carter 1000-volt genemotor.
mands, the popular size delivering around
350 volts at lOOma. from a six-volt D.C.
input. Now comes a new type with far
greater output. The Carter unit illus-
trated delivers 1000 volts at lOOma. from
a 12-volt D.C. accumulator of sufficient
ampere-hour capacity. This new gene-
motor is made up of three of the 350-
volt units in series, and- experience of
these units during long sessions, of mobile
tests on ultra-high-frequency transmis-
sion shows that they are entirely trouble-
free. A 1000-volt unit such as this should
be useful to police, ambulances and
railways. , It is adaptable to aviation
work—in fact, for any radio transmission
where there is facility for constant charg-
‘ ing of the accumulator supplying the
primary power. For the experimental
transmitter located on an’ inland home-
: stead equipped with home-lighting plant,
this new 1000-volt model would'make an
excellent power supply. Stocks are avail-
able at the offices of the Australasian
agents, Amplion, Ltd., 66 Clarence-street,
: Sydney.
The Question Box.
(1) Enclosed is a diagram of a battery-
operated receiver which is giving trouble. How
can the set be made more selective ? Here in
W.A. I can pick up three stations, 6WA, 6WF
and 6AM. When these stations are off the air
I cannot pick up any other Westralian stations.
(2) The set whistles a great deal, and I have
to screw out R l. When the whistling stops
the reception is distorted. (3) Can a variable
wire-wound resistor be used in place of R 2 ?
What size ? (4) Can the power of this set be
increased so as to pick up weak distant
stations ? —484.
(1) The coils are evidently of the large-
diameter unscreened variety. Screened modern
iron-cored coils would be necessary to secure
a fair degree of selectivity in a set of this
kind. (2) R 1 is a variable grid leak in series
with an already high-resistance leak in the de-
tector grid. It. is natural that a very high
resistance (almost an open circuit) will leave
the detector unbiased and cause distortion. (3)
Yes. Can be a 15-ohm wire-wound filament
rheostat. (4) Not without extensive alteration
and redesigning. If your sketch isn’t wrong,
the set was wrongly designed. Coupling from
the R.F. stage should be from the plate, not
the grid circuit of the R.F. valve. Suggest you
make a set on the lines of the Wide-World
Four (described B. 2/1 /’35).
* * * *
Information wanted on lining up an old Astor
six-valve single control neutrodyne. The con-
densers seem to be out of balance, and some
of the stations “double-spot.” Attached is a
sketch of layout with parts numbered.—4%s.
Items numbered IA, 2A and 3A are the
neutralising condensers in the three tuned R.F.
stages; if these are out of adjustment, the whole
action of R.F. amplifier will be ruined. Assum-
ing that all valves are in good order (types are
not stated), this adjustment calls for experi-
ence, and necessitates disconnnection, in turn,
of the filament of plate supply to the R.F.
stage under adjustment. A trick of correctly
neutralising sets of this
kind was to use a
dummy valve with one
filament pin cut off or
shortened so that there
would be no contact.
A grid dip oscillator
was coupled to tuned
circuit and neutralising
condenser adjusted until,
upon rocking tuning
condenser over reson-
ance, no dip in oscil-
lator indicator was
noticeable. Here is a
simple method: Try
slipping a piece of paper
under a filament pin of
each valve in turn,
starting with the valve
in the 3A circuit. The
point of correct neutrali-
sation can be observed
similarly by ear with
filament not heated and
plate voltage applied. If
valve sockets are of the
old fiat-spring type, it
will be easy to insert a strip of paper. The
valves, if of the UX four-pin-base type, will have
two thick pins for the filaments. Slip the paper
in between one of these thick pins and the
socket contact so as, to open the filament circuit
while retaining the others.
* * * V
(1) What causes the dial-light of my six-
valve 1934 battery superhet to burn dimly when
the set is switched off ? A six-volt accumulator
is used, and the set otherwise works perfectly.
(2) Best type, length, etc., of an indoor aerial
to be used for short waves, with a converter
attached to the set ? —486.
(1) There may be leakage in the insulation
material of the “On-Off” switch; this would
' cause a drain on the accumulator, necessitating
.recharging more often than usual. The switch
should be tested on a high-resistance ohmmeter.
(2) Should be as long as possible and erected
to be clear of the walls by a few inches.
Wooden stand-off insulators can be made to
hang over a picture rail. An external aerial
would be far better.
* * * *
In reference to the article ( B. 16/12/’36) on
“Modernising a Portable,” where can such a re-
- ceiver be obtained ? —487.
The receiver described was a typical one used
for the purposes of a constructional article.
. One could be obtained from any experienced
dealer-mechanic —someone dealing in radio who
understands the technical side thoroughly.
•Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place, Sydney,
would be able to make a duplicate of the origi-
nal portable described.
* * * *
In B. 6/1 / ’37 “Perpetu Al” refers to “one-
year-a-charge” primary cells that I understand
are to become available in Australia. Further
particulars of selling agent, price, etc. ? —4BB.
The cell referred to is the new Ever-Ready
“Air Cell.” At time of writing it is not yet
on the Australian market —this a result of the
U.S.A. shipping strike. Samples for test have
proved excellent. Price is not yet decided, but
it will apparently be somewhere near £3 per
cell. Another kind of cell, the “Carboncel,”
has been on the Australian market for years.
The “Air Cell” is on a different principle, de-
livering two volts, whereas the “Carboncel”
gives 1| volts. The “Carboncel” is recharge-
able and can be used indefinitely, but the “Air
Cell,” after approximately one year of service,
must be discarded, not being rechargeable. In-
formation can be obtained on “Air Cells” from
Ever-Ready (Australia), Ltd., Marshall-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, and on “Carboncel” from
Amplion (A’sia), Ltd., 66 Clarence-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Not wanting a multivalve “simplicity"
control set, I prefer a design with a number of
controls, but wherein none is wasted. The
Ideal Amateur Superhet (B. 13/1/ ’37) is the
kind of thing.. Where could I get parts for the
construction of a four-valve superhet on these
lines, for use on the broadcast band? (2) Price
of good pair of headphones suitable for such
a set? (3) Could it be used with a speaker?—
489. . .
(1) Any radio dealer handling wterial for
constructors can supply. (2) About 12s. 6d.
(3) Not as it stands. In any. case, the original
would require tuning modifications to cover the
broadcast range. This can be done without
serious alteration to the circuit. An extra audio
stage will be necessary for speaker operation.


STORY WRITING
AN OFFER TO HELP
BY BERNARD CRONIN.
Writing for publication is one of the
most pleasurable and invigorating pur-
suits open to average intelligence, and
it can be profitable also. This being so,
I have often wondered why so few Aus-
tralians, comparatively speaking, seek to
express themselves by the written word.
Writing calls for no special surround-
ings or circumstances, no expensive
equipment, no formal hours of work;
for effort, yes, but the unrestricted effort
that is the joy of the creative mind.
In its performance, as in its essence,
writing is spontaneous and unfettered.
Once the knack of it is mastered, once
the habit is formed, the writer with
something to say is articulate at will.
He is not tied down by time, place or
even environment and immediate cir-
cumstances.
Good training will create quickly and
pleasantly the correct habit. The un-
trained writer may be amply equipped
with matter and enthusiasm, may have at
his command most of the necessary
qualifications. No matter, if he is un-
able to marshall these with ease and
certainty. If he is not one of those rare
beings whose genius is ready-made, he
will suffer mental distress and much
heartburning unless he submits to train-
ing and discipline under skilled direction.
It will be safer for him to assume that
he is not such a genius, and to regard
what gift he believes to be latent in him
as something that can find its full ex-
pression only by careful development. In
literature there is so little that is tan-
gible and so much that is intangible.
Training is imperative, and if the would-
be writer is to go far that training must
be comprehensive and accurate. Advice
and teaching cannot make good a lack
of natural ability, but it can develop
ability if it is there. That ability often
exists where it is not at first suspected
has been exemplified in the case of thou-
sands of men and women who have won
their way from very modest beginnings
to marked success.
I say, with due deliberation, that I
have seen some of my own pupils—
pupils who started out with little educa-
tion and equipped only with determina-
tion and courage and a willingness to
submit to direction —-develop steadily
and surely, month by month, into com-
petent, systematic writers.
And the fascination of it all! It was
Archbishop Trench who said: “I am
sure, at least, that for many a young
man his first discovery of the fact that
words are living powers, are the vesture,
yea even the body which thoughts weave
for themselves, has been like the drop-
ping of scales from his eyes, like the
acquiring of another sense or the intro-
duction into another world.”
Australia needs more writers. Her great
need, in fact, is a national literature. Every-
where, in the cities and in the bush, she has
her potential great writers. They will emerge
in due course, I believe, but more quickly and
with greater certainty if they organise their
powers and develop their inherent abilities by
training along right lines.
Bernard Cronin, who has published many
novels and hundreds of short stories in Aus-
tralia and overseas, will be glad to hear from
any readers who want exact and scientific
training in the art of story-writing. A letter
of personal advice and an interesting booklet,
“Story Writing/’ will be sent free to them.
This booklet contains references to many of
Mr. Cronin’s pupils, some of them now estab-
lished writers, to the Bernard Cronin method
of training.
Address:
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is the approved system of mental
training for adults throughout the British
Empire, and in several foreign countries.
It is a vital force, a most powerful stimulus to
success in any walk of life. It is a real training, a
training of the individual’s own capacities. It is
based on natural laws, and develops inherent
powers and abilities so that the Pelmanist can
make full use of his own personality in his calling
and in his social life. It gives him confidence in
the usual and everyday happenings and self-
possession in exceptional or difficult situations.
asdf
Dr. I . W. NORWOOD, D.D.,
The World’s Evangelist.
“Peimanism,” Dr. Norwood, a
noted Australian, says, “is sound
Psychology and an admirable
system of Mind-training... .A
proper grasp of Peimanism would
save any life from futility....
Peimanism teaches that man has the
key to his own career
In a word, Pelmanism is a system which makes all other education and experience fruitful
Amongst the attributes and qualities developed by Pelmanism are:—
Observation
Concentration
Judgment
gdgf
for faces, figures, names, cards, appointments, arguments, prices and useful data
of every kind.
These are the qualities on which steadiness, serenity, stability and productive energy rest.
Pelmanism develops them until they become habitual and are exercised in all the affairs of
life.
Sir Herbert Barker, the eminent London Specialist, in an emphatic tribute to the worth of
Pelmanism, says: “Take this Course and give your life a new beginning.”
The Pelman prospectus, “The Efficient Mind,” which is issued free by the Institute in
Melbourne, contains tributes to Pelmanism by many famous men and women as well as
remarkable statements of benefits received by students throughout Australia and New
Zealand.
We shall he glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind," 76 pages,
post free. You can write us fully, or you can make fust a hare
application by using or copying the form alongside. In any case, your
inquiry will he regarded as a confidential communication. We have
no outside representatives. ,
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
The Pelnian Institute is a world-wide organisation.
Its headquarters are in London. The Institute in
Melbourne has been established for 29 years.
More than half a million men and women have
enrolled for the Pelman Course of Mind, Memory
and Personality Training. Of these 35,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
CUT OUT OR COPY THIS AND POST TO-DAY.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Add ress . . v
460
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
vV c \' v c Ir*! A© i 6 ' ■••
O -V>'
A’
e 4?
VO
,H®
*<•
xS-
o x
•>v
is*
• -tf*
..•••■■ ..•••■’
"' ,1
011o 11


INSURE WITH
The
EDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
Company
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
DIRECTORS:
R. Rawnsley Mess ... Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C. William White
-
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager
