

From All Over Australia Come Reports:
HUDSONS
ARE THE
and
Trim am a lire
1 hß&Mhzmhb
i
r
■
KM
m
S!WW»
Sw:
V *SSW -s» >
pROM Terraplane and Hudson owners
everywhere comes this report: "What
*§ou told us about these cars is more than
true! We have proved for ourselves that
they certainly are No. 1 in everything we
want!"
No. 1 IN POWER! Increased to 96 and 101 horse-
power in Terraplane ... to 122 in Hudson] Far more
power per pound of car weight than any other automo-
biles! Dual carburetion in Hudson.
No. 1 IN PERFORMANCE! in the most
punishing endurance test of all time, recently Terraplane
and Hudson captured 40 official stock car records, under
the supervision of The American Automobile Association.
No. 1 IN ECONOMY! In the world-famous Los
Angeles - Yosemite Economy Run, Hudson achieved 25.72
miles per Imperial gallon—beating all competing Eights
by more than two mites per gallon 1 Terraplane put up
an official record of 24.91 miles per Imperial gallon!
No. 1 IN ROOMINESS! 55 inches in the front
seat . . . solid comfort for three grown-ups in front and
back compartments. Longer wheelbases 117 inches in
Terraplane, 122 and inches in Hudson. More room
than in any other popular car.
No. 1 IN SAFETY! Bodies all of steel, with roofs
of solid steel. Safest stopping, with exclusive Duo-
Automatic Hydraulic Brakes. Radial Safety Control and
Tru-Line Steering also exclusive.
C. 11.48
> —— ' * s £ ' !
•"* nvw -«^.
TERRAPUNf ■*■«.
OF THE
10W PRICE FfEEO
HUDSON MO.IC4B oriw f
1 * W MODERATE PRICE FlfLn
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALSETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
134 Phillip Street, Sydney
Queensland Distributors:
MeINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
Western Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, Perth
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
Hobart Launceston
authorised dealers at all main country centres
The Bulletin
Vol, 58.—N0. 2998.
Wednesday, July 28, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LIBRARIANS!
You can now hire quantities of novels with
an exchange of a proportion made every
month. Write for particulars of
Robertson’s “Readwell” Library Service,
c/o Robertson & Mullens, Limited,
107-109-1 I l-l 13 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Cl.
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
II
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HEBE ANI) MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
10pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name •
My Address ;... v
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
THE MERCANTILE MARINE.
Britain’s merchant marine, the story of which is
told in A History of the Merchant Navy, by H.
Moyse-Bartlett (Harrap; 7s. 6d.), was swaddled in
blood and fed an unbelievably hard pap of bully-
beef and weevily biscuits. The tale is dim before
the Tudor age, though long before that British pres-
tige called for the striking of other flags to English
ships. Outside the Mediterranean there was little
commerce, but, with the coming of the Spaniards,
Portuguese and Dutch to America, Africa and East
India, the game of exploration and colonisation began.
The struggle to discover the North-west Passage
was the first great English national undertaking. The
Cabots worked on it in the early years of the sixteenth
century. Then, contrary to general belief, Frobisher
anticipated Raleigh with North American settlement.
His equipment—he sailed in 1576 —was two 25-ton
ships (about the size of a medium Sydney Harbor
motor-boat) and a 10-ton pinnace. Only Frobisher’s
own ship, the Gabriel, got across the Atlantic, and
its crew discovered a gold reef to the north of Hud-
son’s Bay. It was estimated to pan £4O to the ton,
and, since human nature was the same in Elizabeth’s
day as in the twentieth century, Frobisher was able
to return there with 15 vessels. He put up the first
English house on the North American continent and
built the first boat —the ruins of both the hut and the
slip were found about 70 years ago. The mine proved
a wild cat.
Then there was Hawkins. Conventional history
makes him a gallant admiral, one of the fathers of
the navy ; but he was primarily a slaver. The exploit
which started him on the road to success was an
expedition in which he raided the Guinea coast,
cooped up 400 negroes and set out to sell them on
the Spanish Main. Slaves were better than goldmines.
Good Queen Bess got £5OO as her share of the deal
with Don planters.
A second expedition did not go so well. The
fleet Africans inconsiderately attacked the raiders with
poisoned arrows. It took some time to collect another
470 slaves, and then there was difficulty about getting
a license to trade on the Spanish Main. Drake, who
was in command of a ship, cleared out when the fleet
ran into danger with the Spaniards, in a fight with
whom Hawkins’s fleet was almost annihilated. Haw-
kins got home by the skin of his teeth and joined
the navy.
Drake took up the tale. Drake was “of humble
parentage” ; his father at one time lived in an old
hulk and preached to sailors. Drake saw his first
seamanship as an apprentice on a small coaster. His
first two expeditions were made with a couple of
ships of 70 tons and 25 tons respectively and total
crews of 73. With this outfit, 4500-odd miles from
home, Drake tackled Nombre de Dios. He could
have got away with 370 tons of silver bars, but it
was a bit heavy for 73 men fighting their way out
of a town, and they left it behind. However, they
penetrated the American isthmus to a point from
where they could see the Pacific. This was the
genesis of the first round-the-world voyage by Eng-
lishmen, which Drake accomplished in his 100-ton
Pelican (later Golden Hind). He returned in plenty
of time to fight the Armada, and he and Hawkins,
his relative, both died later on the Spanish Main,
whither they had gone with their usual benevolent
intentions.
The seventeenth and eighteenth centuries saw
great changes. The East India Company did more
to develop modern ship standards than any other
influence. It introduced mercantile sea uniform. Its
captains were gentlemen, often having served in the
navy. Its passenger fare was served elegantly with
lashings of wine. Its men were kept under navy dis-
cipline, and its ships included liners of 1000 tons.
Not till the age of steam, which John Com-
pany helped to pioneer with a vessel that went tem-
porarily on the Calcutta run in 1825, were other lines
sailing a regular course established. The ones which
ran to Australia were among those which grew up
in the middle of last century during the gold days,
when James Baines’s Black Bailer, the 2500-ton
Marco Polo, made the voyage in 68 days.
Moyes-Bartlett’s book is a concise record, free
from the romantic shilly-shallying and glossing over
of rude facts which often distinguish such histories.
The author is on the staff of the Nautical College,
Pangbourne (Eng.), but there is no academic taint
in his writing.
J. W.
Maoriland's McGregor.
The story of Squadron-leader Malcolm C. Mc-
Gregor, D.F.C., who died at Wellington, Maoriland,
after crashing a ’plane in rain and mist over Rongo-
tai aerodrome early in 1936, is the story of Maoriland
aviation. It is an exciting tale, even when detailed,
as it is in G. H, Cunningham’s Mac's Memoirs (A. H.
and A. W. Reed, Dunedin, M.L.; 7s. 6d.), with a log-
book simplicity.
Dr. Cunningham makes no pretensions about his
book. He knew the unassuming McGregor better
than most, and the little biography is simply his
tribute to a great airman who was also a friend. It
records the airman’s flying life from October, 1915,
when he began training at Kohimarama (Auckland)
for entry to the Royal Flying Corps, until February
21, 1936, when he was buried with military honors
at Palmerston North, the town his genius for airline
organisation has made a major Maoriland air junction.
Australia knew McGregor as the oldest Milden-
hall-Melbourne air-race competitor, and it applauded
him as the senior pilot of the two who brought
Maoriland’s tiny Miles Hawk monoplane down at
Laverton (Vic.) fifth in the speed race, and with the
England-India and England-Australia light ’plane and
single-engined records.
He was better known in other parts of the world.
Many of his 3527 air hours were compiled over Eng-
land and France; he knew 48 different types of aero-
planes, and he did a few hours’ co-piloting along air-
lines in the United States in 1935, when he studied
organisation arrangements which now operate on
some of the Maoriland services.
The war took him into the air as a 19-year-old
recruit from his father’s farm. After Kohimarama he
went off with a handful of other young pilots to join
the R.F.C. in England. He quickly won a reputation
as a fighting pilot, and became a No. 85 Squadron
flight-commander on whom Majors Bishop and Man-
nock, two of Britain’s greatest war pilots and succes-
sive commanders of that squadron, placed the greatest
reliance. He shot down 15 enemy ’planes, and was
credited with one and a half balloons, a tally that
placed him among the first twoscore of British fighter
pilots. No. 85 Squadron was the “Bishop’s Circus”
of war-time fact and fable ; its pilots were selected by
Bishop when the R.F.C. became the R.A.F.; they
included two Maorilanders, two Australians, three
Americans, six Canadians, one South African, two
Scots and six Englishmen. War Birds, written by
E. W. Springs, one of the American pilots, was about
this squadron’s life, and McGregor was one of the
two Macs so frequently mentioned.
After the war, McGregor took over a farm near
Hamilton, but he was still restless; not even the wild
moments of grass-track motor-cycle racing were suffi-
cient outlet for the spirit that had made him such
an admirable fighting pilot. The 1925 slump took
his Taupiri farm, and he managed a property for his
father until 1927, when he became a drover for two
years.
Along peaceful roads, McGregor developed the
tranquil outlook that turned him into a careful com-
mercial airline operator. He had his first post-war
flight in 1921, and kept up his flying by attending
N.Z.R.A.F. refresher courses. Early in 1929 he
formed a small aviation company to take Maoriland
joy-riding. One machine grew to three, and nearly
every town and village was visited ; generally speak-
ing, the landing-ground’s McGregor selected for those
pioneer flights have become to-day’s established
’dromes. So, from 1929 on, McGregor’s story is the
story of commercial aviation development in Maori-
land.
This is the substance of Mac’s Memoirs, a bald-
enough recital of facts, but one assured of a place
on the shelves of most of the world’s leading aviators.
They called Mac friend and hailed him as an equal.
Most of Maoriland’s aerodromes, many of its quali-
fied pilots, Union Airways—that thriving and efficient
main-trunk commercial airline —and a tradition of
tried air courage are McGregor memorials.
LACHIE MCKONALD.
Birth of a Nation.
The main outlines of the story of Australian
settlement have been already so strongly drawn that
only a work of unusual merit is now worthy of
special recommendation. Such a work is Dr. Eris
O’Brien’s The Foundation of Australia ( 1786-1800 )
(Sheed and Ward; 18s. 6d.). It.is not too high a
compliment to Dr. O’Brien to say that he can now be
regarded as a worthy successor to the late Professor
G. A. Wood, who in The Discovery of Australia,
produced for the general reader the standard authority
on the subject.
There is much in common between these two his-
torians —the same indefatigable pursuance of the fact
to its origin ; the same, measured evaluation of related
facts ; the same judicial appraisal of probable motive ;
and while Dr. O’Brien may be less provocatively con-
troversial in the statement of his conclusions, he is
none the less forceful and convincing. In this com-
ment the subject matter of the two works, of course,
is not compared. The similarity is in method.
Dr. O’Brien succeeds Professor Wood in another
respect. He takes up the story of Australia where
Professor Wood left off. He proceeds from discovery
to the beginnings of settlement; and here he under-
takes an arduous task that has been shirked or only
conveniently sketched by previous historians. The
first half of his book is taken up with an examination
of the social condition of Great Britain and Ireland,
under which the transportation system was developed,
with the more or less casual decision to establish a
penal settlement at Botany Bay.
The second half deals with the organisation of the
“First Fleet” by Governor Phillip, “a nobler man
than the statesmen who sent him to carry out an
ignoble task” ; Phillip’s heroic efforts in spite of the
somnolence of Sydney, who never deserved the honor
that, in the development of the second city of the
Empire, has since come to his name; and the sub-
mergence of the penal colony under the rush of free
selectors. It concludes at the end of the Hunter period
in 1800 and is to be followed by a second volume
which will carry Australia’s story to the end of Mac-
quarie’s administration.
Not the least valuable part of Dr. O’Brien’s work
has been the compilation of a series of appendices,
particularly his collation of the sources for estimating
the numbers on the first fleet, about which every
printed source has contradictory figures, and the esti-
mates of the numbers of convict arrivals in the early
years, which, when completed, will enable an accu-
rate appraisal of the negligible part they played,
numerically and socially, in the creation of the Aus-
tralian population.
The Foundation of Australia is an indispensable
addition to the library of the student of Australian
history.
Dr. Gogarty on Dublin.
“The only way to treat this town,” Oliver St.
John Gogarty writes in his unconventional book of
30 years’ reminiscence of Dublin life, As I Was Going
Down Sackville Street (Rich and Cowan ; 16s. net),
“is the way the Chinese treat their pictures: eschew
perspective; let Dublin portray itself.”
Self-portrayal is indeed an art which Dublin has
always had to merciless and gorgeous perfection. It
is a city full of eloquent self-portrayers, and there is
certainly no other town in the English-speaking world
which can vie with Dublin in the garrulity, fantasy
and wit of its characters. Fine speech is in the air.
o Continued on page 8.)


“Truth in Advertising”—Business Integrity. FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES The Senior Store.”
Anthony Horderns’
BORG
AUTOMATIC
BATHROOM
SCALE
Jl
'4p.
GlAvcL
Even your best friends won’t tell you—and an unwilling
eye may easily ignore a growing tendency to plumpness
—but there’s one good friend who always speaks the
truth—your “Borg” Bathroom Scale.
WHAT YOU SHOULD WEIGH
ĺ
k
After your morning bath, when
you have thoroughly dried
yourself with a vigorous towelling,
step on the scale and see what
you weigh—and govern yourself
accordingly.
ACCURATE
PORTABLE
COMPACT
In
GREEN,
IVORY
WHITE,
BLACK
or BLUE
ENAMEL.
At such a low price, a “Borg” Scale should be in every bath-
room.
37/6 Chromium Finish Model
with Rubber Top.
In Black, White, Green or Ivory. .
Price, each 37/6 JJ/
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each, 33/9
® Household Ironmongery —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free delivery City' and Suburbs only.
Weighs to
18 stone
by one lb o
Good Points
About
“BORG”
1— G enuine
Rubber Mat.
2 Requires no
oiling.
3—Wa t e r -
proof.
WATCH YOUR WEIGHT
DAILY !
Find out in time and it’s a simple matter
to avoid extreme obesity. Doctors always
warn against overweight.
Carefully constructed in attractive modern design, this
compact personal weighing scale is specially built for
homes and flats where floorspace is at a premium. It
is extremely light in weight and perfectly accurate.
The “Borg” Scale is handsomely finished in Green,
Ivory, Blue, White or Black enamel. With coloured
rubber top. Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’.
Price 27/6
Special Price, each 25/-
ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS LTD.
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A Shakspearean Cook
The MAYOP of BAPDIECREEK
BY KATHHRINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
SHAKE Meares had been at the Tin Mines
Hotel for ten years when he got the sack.
The fact of the matter was Tom Strutt had
married again, and his bride, an unblushing
young woman of thirty who had been manageress
of a restaurant, disapproved of Shake. She said
it was all very well for a man to go about
quoting Shakspeare, but she objected to his splutter-
ing into the soup and wiping his face on the dish-
cloths.
“I’ve seen some dirty cooks in my day, in city
hash-houses,” she said, “but Shake, he’s the dirtiest
cook ever I saw. The grease and grime are fair
caked on him.”
“But, sweetheart,” Tom protested, “Shake’s one
of my assets. All the people going down to the
coast for the summer stop in to have a word with
him. Politicians and all.”
“I know,” Mrs. Tom snapped. “He’s a regular
character and a good cook ; but I can’t stand a dirty
kitchen. Besides, you never know where you are
with Shake. He was crying drunk on New Year’s
Day and I had forty men to feed.”
“Well, have it your own way,” Tom said, and
broke the news to Shake.
Shake went about lugubriously all the morning,
muttering to himself. Mrs. Tom thought he had
been drinking when he flourished a frying-pan
at her, shouting: “ ‘Away, the foul fiend follows
me.’ ”
He went on, bawling:
“‘Avaunt! and quit my sight! Let the earth hide
thee !
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
Thou hast no speculation In those eyes
Which thou dost glare with.’ ”
When he left by the milk train one morning
the following week, Mr. Meares announced that he
was brushing the dust of the Tin Mines off his feet:
leaving Bardie Greek —for good.
“Good it is,” Mrs. Strutt agreed.
But Shake was back a week later, and with him
a melancholy, broken-nosed companion he introduced
enthusiastically to Tom and Mrs. Strutt as “my old
friend and sparring partner, Mr. Archibald Black —
better known as Blue Black, the whirlwind boxer.”
Mr. Black, it seemed, had not reaped the whirlwind,
except in blows. That was how he made his money,
Shake explained. You couldn’t blame him. A
man had to live.
Shake had met him at the trots, he said. Archie
knew a couple of good things. They won a bit
and made a night of it. At the gallops, a few days
later, they were cleaned out. Shake thought he had
better come home, and persuaded Mr. Black to
come with him.
“Home?” Mrs. Strutt queried sharply. “There’s
plenty of shacks round the tin mines, Shake. I
reckon you and your mate would be real comfortable
in one of them. No rent to pay, and a bit of money
still to be made puddlin’ tin.”
“ ‘Bloody, bawdy vil-
lain,’ ” Shake remarked bit-
terly as he and Archie tramped
along the road. “ ‘Remorse-
less, treacherous, lecherous,
kindless villain! O ven-
geance!’ She’ll go on her
knees to me before I’ll cook
for her again.”
T” HEY installed themselves
1 in the first empty shack
they reached near the grey
dumps in thick scrub on the
edge of the mines. He and
Archie lived there for a year
or more. Miners camped
round about gave Shake a job
cooking for them, and Archie lent a hand peeling
potatoes and washing dishes. Then there was a
slump in the price of tin. The mines closed down.
Shake and his mate were out of a job again.
Shake had been almost everything in his day,
from lay preacher to pugilist; an actor, steward,
had run a cafe, gone shearing and prospecting,
made a bit of money, bought a couple of gees
and a tobacconist’s shop with a bookmaker’s business
attached ; but he had messed-up all his chances in
life for beer and blondes. That was his explanation,
at any rate, as to why he had taken to cooking for a
living and Shakspeare for consolation.
His faculty for applying an apt tag was part of
his stock-in-trade in the days when he had to live
by his wits. It had kept him out of gaol on more
than one occasion, and never failed to impress patrons
—and creditors. He was called after his patron
saint, Tom Strutt said. If you asked for Mr. James
Willoughby Meares in Bardie Creek, people would
reply that there was no one of that name about. But
Mr. Shakspeare Meares or Shake Meares —oh, yes,
everybody knew him.
When the tin mines closed down Bardie was as
dreary as a dried-up creek bed. Once it had been
a brisk little township with rows of shops and
four pubs. Now only the Tin Mines Hotel and
Pepper’s Store. remained, at each end, with empty,
dilapidated shops staring at each other across the
road.
The few miners who still hung about the dumps,
thinking the slump would pass, and men from the
timber camps scattered through the forests behind
Bardie Creek foregathered at the Tin Mines Hotel
on Saturday nights. They could always be depended
on to buy Shake and his mate a few drinks, and to
applaud vociferously when Shake spouted Henry the
Fifth’s speech before Agincourt or murdered Desde-
mona for their entertainment.
Shake’s recitations were a star item at weddings
and socials, too ; and it was remembered that when
the Prince of Wales visited the Tin Mines Shake was
the man deputed to read the address of welcome
from Bardie. Visitors to the tin mines always
wanted to meet Shake. Bardie Creek was proud of
him. He might be cooking all day at the pub, or
pottering around the camp in grease-grimed trousers
and a grey flannel shirt; but for special occasions he
would turn out in a white suit, newly laundered,
with his hair oiled, and do the honors as if he were
the mayor of Bardie Creek.
The m.c. at a wedding, once, had announced:
“The Mayor of Bardie Creek will now propose the
health of the bride and bridegroom.”
Shake, of course, talked “blushing honors,”
acknowledging his election to this new dignity.
Nothing riled Sam Pepper more than when some-
body asked: “Have you seen the Mayor about, Mr.
Pepper?”
There was no doubt that as chairman of the
Roads Board and a good churchman —Sunday services
were held in one of the empty shops he had bought
Mr. Pepper should have been regarded as the leading
citizen of Bardie Creek, whereas the confidence and
affection of people in the surrounding district went
to a disreputable old blackguard like Shake
Meares. Mr. Pepper was particularly incensed
when Shake’s store account was running into two
figures, which Shake chivvied him into allowing to
run on.
'IT HEY were in a bad way, all the same, Archie
and Shake agreed during the slump. They would
have to do something to make a bit of money.
Usually Bardie livened-up for the annual picnic
and sports. Dairy-farmers and apple-growers came
in from the hills for the day. Men from the timber
camps in the forest round about competed in the
events. But there was nothing in the prospect of
a log chop and footraces to cheer a couple of old
“heads” down on their luck.
Shake had been put on the committee. As an
old sport, he always contrived to be on the spot when
anything was doing in the way of a gamble. As the
date for the sports approached, men at the Tin Mines
Hotel began to get excited about who would win the
log chop, or whether Dick Flynn or Jo Cooper would
get away with the four-forty.
“If on’y we could get up a bank,” Archie
mumbled, “we might do something”
“ ‘Put money in thy purse,’ ” said Shake.
“If I could lay me hands on a few quid, I’d
know what to do with it,” Archie growled.
“‘I could always make my fool my purse,’ ”
Shake mused.
“Aw,” Archie’s irritation flared. “How are you
goin’ to do dt?”
“No good messin’ about with the log chop. It’d
have to be on the four-forty.”
• “Looks as if it were a cert for Dick or Jo.”
“But which? That’s what we’ve got to fix,”
Shake decided.
He put up the idea at the pub a few nights
later.
“Archie and me are going to raffle a turkey,”
said Shake. “Get a bit of a bank and make a book
on the race. How about it?”
The idea went well. Shake got some raffle books
printed. The assets rolled in. Only Old Pepper
had the bad grace to be dubious as to Shake’s
intentions.
“Be a sport, Mr. Pepper,” Shake said. “You
don’t pften get a chance. Half a dollar won’t break
you, will it?”
Mr. Pepper bought a ticket.
“But how are to fix it, Shake?” Archie
worried. “Who’s goin’ to win this blasted race?
And what are we goin’ to get out of it?”
Shake meditated.
“We got to know who’s goin’ to win,” Archie
persisted irritably.
“What’s wrong with getting hold of the lads,
giving them a trial sprint ... see who’s got the
pace.”
“Suits me,” Archie agreed. “Put a clock on ’em
—and square ’em afterwards.”
“Leave that to me.” Shake was Wolsey him-
self. “ ‘Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away
ambition.’ ”
He arranged for Dick Flynn and Jo Cooper to
meet him and Archie one morning at dawn, and
train a bit on the old racecourse. Shake ransacked
the town for a split-second watch. Couldn’t find one,
so borrowed an alarm clock from Pat McGill, who
was yardman at the Tin Mines Hotel.
Shake swore Pat to secrecy and got him to hold
the clock. The time between the lads was a matter
of seconds, he knew. There were no seconds marked
on the clock, so Archie told Pat he would
have to reckon the split between the lads when
they ran.
They finished close up.
“How was it? How did they go?” Archie
demanded breathlessly.
Pat looked up from the clock, beaming: “Begod,
there wasn’t a minute between them!”
But it looked a sure thing for Dick ; he had
not extended himself, while Jo was short of wind,
blowing hard.
“See here, boys”—Shake stood under a bunch
of saplings to talk to them —“there’s a good thing
in this for both of you if you use your block.”


He explained how the good thing might be
worked, and nobody but themselves be the wiser.
The lads were prepared to listen to reason. They
agreed that Dick should keep going as favorite and
Jo fall off in his training, then the money would go
on Dick. There was a kid at the Three Mile could
play dark horse, win like a streak of greased lightning,
they said, and promised to word him.
Shake and Archie were in good spirits. They
had got everything arranged to their liking: were
prepared for a quick get-away after the races if any-
thing went wrong. Pepper’s new Ford would do
nicely, land them in Creektown in time to catch the
express. Then there was every chance of reaching
the city for Saturday, blowing in at the trots, or
making a night of it somewhere en route.
T'HE day promised well. Blazing sunshine with a
* tang of autumn in the air brought all the folk
from orchards and farms round about in to the races.
The apple harvest was over ; the sports were considered
a good excuse for a day out and a bit of fun, after all
the hard work at the end of the summer, picking,
packing and carting. Trucks and rattle-traps buzzed
into the town packed with women and children ; old
fossickers about the tin mines knocked off work and
strolled over to the racecourse.
Tom Strutt had set up a beer stall there in a bush-
shed roofed with newly-cut saplings. The Creektown
band had offered its services for the occasion. It
blared away, gaily, making as much noise as it could
with popular airs between intervals for refreshments
at the beer stall.
Shake had got himself up respectable since he was
a committeeman and starter for the running events.
He trotted round, with his hair oiled, a straw hat on
his head, an old pair of white trousers nearly bursting
over his great paunch, a coat of tussore silk, borrowed
from Tom Strutt, fluttering like a tail behind. Full of
importance and cordiality, he buzzed about, cracking
jokes, laughing at them himself, and setting the crowd
roaring about him. After a few pots, his full fat face
was the color of raw ham ; looked as if it were blown-
up with good humor and exuberance.
Archie was nervous. He had borrowed a book-
maker’s bag from a mate in the city ; got a young man
he knew to come down and stand by as his clerk.
Archie himself held the bank ; was taking bets hand
over fist for the four-forty. That was all right. Dick
Flynn was being well backed. But Shake was getting
a bit above himself.
“God knows what’ll happen if he gets drunk,”
Archie fretted.
There were two or three other amateur book-
makers. Archie himself had paid out on a couple
of footraces, but interest and excitement were centred
on the four-forty.
Mr. Pepper was starter for the log chop, Shake
had the job of starting the footraces. Blank
cartridges ran out; somebody had to hop over
to the store and get a few charges for the last
events.
The four-forty came on at four o’clock. Shake
bustled along to start it.
“For God’s sake be careful, Shake,” Archie
whispered. “Don’t forget that thing’s loaded.”
Shake was enjoying a brief hour of glorious
authority. He swaggered out on to the ground,
brandishing his revolver.
Half a dozen punters hung round Archie to see
there was no funny business when it came to cashing
in on their bets. Young Denny, Archie’s clerk,
tumbled to what that meant. He did not like the look
of the book.
“Here,” he said to one of the men standing near
him, “hold the book a minute. I’m dry as a wooden
god.” He went over to the beer stall.
The runners lined-up, a dozen lads from round
about, sturdy, brown, lean and hard, bare but for
black or tan shorts and running shoes, though the
champions were spick and span in white singlets.
They stooped over their marks.
There was a moment of tension. The crowd of
mothers, sisters, aunts, girl friends and relations, in
their light, bright summer frocks, fluttered and gasped
along the bush fence. It was all right, Archie told
himself. Dick Flynn and Jo Cooper were there and
the kid from the Three Mile. Archie had contrived
to get a word with Jo earlier in the day. It was O.K.
for the race, as far as the boys were concerned, he
said.
“Get set,” Shake bawled —and swung his back on
the line of runners with a fine theatrical gesture. He
fired, and the lads got away with a rush. All but one,
and he lay on the ground, squirming and screeching.
Shake and the stewards ran to him. Shake’s bullet had
got him in the calf of the leg. It was the lad from
the Three Mile.
“Where’s that damned clerk of mine?” Archie
gasped to the men about him.
“It’s all right, Arch,” somebody said. “I’ve got
the book. He just went over to get a drink.”
“He did, did he?” Archie blustered. “He can
wait for his drink till we’ve paid out. Here, hang on
to this while I get him.”
He slung his bag over the shoulder of the man
nearest him and strode over to the beer stall. Every-
body was watching the race. The yelling and excite-
ment were at fever heat. Archie guessed that Dick
and Jo would not know what to do when they realised
the kid was not pulling up on them. On their second
lap round the field they would see that their dark horse
was laid out, be unable to resist the temptation to
fight out the race between themselves.
They were fighting it out, Archie guessed as he
made tracks for the cars drawn up on the road. This
was no place for him. He jumped into the car
furthest from the course and drove off as if it belonged
to him.
He knew what that cheering meant, that babble
of delirious enthusiasm. A couple of hundred men
thought they had made a few
bob on the race. The dust flew as
Archie streaked away on a road
to the hills. He swung off the
main track, intending to drop the
car not far from the railway,
jump a goods and make south
until the racket blew over.
‘‘Where’s Archie? Where’s your mate?” The
crowd was surging round Shake.
Shake, crumpled up by the misfortune that had
overtaken him, was sitting on a log. He knew he
was drunk ; too drunk to try to find Archie. He
had lost his hat, his thin grey hair lay plastered about
his head with sweat.
“Where is he? Where’s Archie?” he asked
stupidly.
“He’s lit out.”
“Done a flit!”
“The blackguard . . . the scoundrel,” Shake
blustered. “After him, boys. He’ll be half-way to
the coast if you don’t get a move on.”
Men and boys swarmed towards the cars drawn
up outside the course. There was a rattle and roar
of self-starters and engines coughing and snorting as
they moved off. The cavalcade rushed away in the
opposite direction to the one Archie had taken.
Dick came along, looking sheepish and crestfallen.
“It wasn’t my fault, Shake,” he muttered ; “when
things went wrong I thought I’d better make sure of
the prize. But old Pepper’s garnisheed that on me.
I’d been a darn sight better off sticking to you and
Archie. I’ll be handicapped out of sight after this —
and for a lousy five quid. But why in the name of
blazes did you let fly like that and cripple the kid?”
Said Shake:
“ ‘No, I’ll not weep ;
/ have full cause of weeping; but this heart
Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws
Or ere I’ll weep.’ ”
Mr. Pepper strolled up. “Who won the turkey,
Mr. Shakspeare?” he asked.
“Turkey? What turkey?” Shake had forgotten
all about that stunt to raise a bank.
“Why, the turkey you were going to raffle?”
“Oh, that one,” said Shake, as if he dealt in turkeys
by the million ; one bird more or less was difficult to
place in his memory. “That was a wild turkey, Mr.
Pepper. It hasn’t been shot yet.”
The yarn went round ; but, somehow, no one
had the heart to blame Shake. Archie had got away
with the swag. He was a bad lot, it was agreed. No
two ways about it. Shake had been taken in by him
like everybody else. The best thing they could do,
the people of Bardie Creek decided, was send round
the hat and take up a collection for Shake “as a
mark of their respect and esteem.”
Even Mrs. Strutt was sorry for him. She had
sacked twenty girls in two years, she said. They
were all lazy and incompetent; none of them as good
a cook as. Shake. She sent him word that if he could
make up his mind to have a bath now and then, swear
on his honor not to quote Shakspeare at her, his old
job was waiting for him at the Tin Mines Hotel.
“Get set,” Shake bawled —and swung
his back on the line of runners, with
a fine theatrical gesture. He fired
and the lads got away with a rush.
All but one, and he lay on the ground,
squirming and screeching.


Was it the Blonde, or —?
THE NAME’S
THE THING
BY A.R. JUDD
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
I FIRST knew Jamie when we were kids at school.
I didn’t know him very well then, because it was
a pretty big school and he was a year or so
behind me. In fact it was more or less by
accident that he ever came to my notice. He got
himself involved in some sort of fight with a chap
nearly double his size. It happened on the stairs,
and young Jamie was hit so hard he tumbled down
the stairs on to the asphalt at the bottom, dislocated
an arm and got concussion. He was in hospital for
a month. I’ve been inclined to think since that that
was what started the whole trouble.
I didn’t see anything of him after that for years.
Then I was moved to a suburban school, and there
was Jamie on the staff. He didn’t recognise me, of
course, but when I introduced myself he was as
pleased as Punch. It didn’t take me long to realise
that Jamie was having a pretty miserable existence.
The staff there was tough—nothing but a bunch of
old fogeys, a sort of backwash of loafers and incom-
petents. They rubbed it into poor Jamie. Any jobs
they could pawn off on to him they pawned. They
had bluffed him into being sportsmaster, they had
put him in charge of the lines and the library and
the duplicator. If there were extra periods to be
taken they sat tight with some cast-iron excuse and
Jamie was grabbed. The head was a dithering old
idiot, in the last stages of senile decay, and he was
quite ignorant of what was going on. As for Jamie,
he hadn’t been out long enough to know just where
he stood. But, even so, I think any ordinary man in
his position would have kicked, and kicked mighty
hard. That was where the trouble lay. Jamie wasn’t
an ordinary man.
I hadn’t been there very long before I discovered
that Jamie was the timidest man I had ever come
across. He seemed to have a sort of timidity complex.
I don’t mean to say that he was scared of mice or
spiders or anything like that, but he was afraid of
people. He talked in an apologetic kind of way, and
at the slightest opposition he would jump back into
his shell like a hermit-crab. I was travelling home in
a tram with him once when he happened to bump
some fellow who was sprawling half-drunk across the
seat. The chap leaned over and bellowed something
at him, and Jamie turned as white as paper and got
into another compartment. That’s the sort of chap
he was. Very moral, too, as pure as Sir Galahad, and
rather religious. I don’t know whether he was
religious because he was timid or timid because he
was religious or whether there was no connection
between the two. But if he was trying to live accord-
ing to Christian principles he rather overdid it.
I stood behind old Jamie as much as I could.
That bunch of hard-heads tried their little game on
me, but I let them know where they stood. Then I
tried to get them to go a bit easier on Jamie, but they
only grinned wolfishly and said it would do him good.
So I tried to stir Jamie up, but the more I said the
more scared he seemed to become. It was all pretty
hopeless. I don’t bother myself about other people’s
concerns as a rule, but I was really worried about
Jamie. He was a decent sort of chap, and it was a
shame to see him going all to pieces. And that was
what was happening. He was a big man, very broad
across the shoulders, and his weight should have been
somewhere about twelve stone. But I doubt if it was
more than ten. He was as thin as a broomstick, and
his face was all drawn and lined. But there was
nothing that could be done about it, unless Jamie
came to, and that seemed out of the question.
HE asked me to his boarding-house one evening to
have a yarn. Now, you know my opinion about
boarding-houses. I wouldn’t be seen within fifty yards
of one as a general rule. But I knew Jamie was
finding it lonely, so I said I would go along.
It was every bit as bad as I expected. Jamie
asked me whether I would prefer to talk in the
lounge-room or up in his bedroom. He
rather hinted that the landlady would
prefer that we stop in the lounge and save
another light. I took one look at the
lounge and a couple of women who were
in it and said “Lead on to the bedroom.”
We made ourselves as comfortable there as pos-
sible and began to talk. Jamie rather opened out, as
I thought he would. His people lived in the country,
he knew no one in the city, and he couldn’t make
friends with any of his fellow-boarders. He went
around on his own. Then he tried to explain about
his timidity. It was something that was quite beyond
him. He didn’t know the reason for it and he didn’t
know how he could get out of it. He had tried all
sorts of remedies, from nerve tonics to Masterman’s
Course on “How to Be Master of Yourself.” But
nothing was any good and he had given up trying.
Altogether I had a pretty morbid evening. I
thought of my cheerful little pub, the comfortable
big lounge, the companionable housemaids and the
pleasant tinkle of the glasses in the bar. Then I had
an idea—not a very hopeful one, but an idea all the
same.
“Now look here, Jamie,” I said, “there are just
three things wrong with you. You are too much of
a recluse, you are too moral, and you’re living in
a horribly depressing place. You’d better come over
and stay with me at my pub. Mix with the less
respectable strata of society for a while. Empty a
jovial glass or two with me and the lads and meet
some of the maids. We’ve got a barmaid there who’ll
do more for you than all the tonics in the world. In
other words, forget your nice moral scruples for a
brief while and take a mild fling. Wine, women and
song, you know they have been known to work
wonders. What do you say?”
He shook his head glumly. “No, Jim, I couldn’t,”
he said. “You know, I’ve thought about something
like that before, but I just couldn’t do it. I’m not
game to try it.”
“Think of the blonde barmaid, my boy.”
His interest stirred a little. “I suppose,” he began
nervously, “she’s a—er”
“Most likely. That’s for you to find out. Think
it over, my boy, at any rate. There’s nothing like
trying anything once.”
He evidently did think it over, for he drew me
aside next day and told me, with a certain amount of
gloom, that he had nerved himself for the fling.
“Good!” I said. “Bring over your things this
afternoon and we’ll weigh in straight away.”
“Oh, but I can’t come for a week,” he answered,
with something like relief in his voice. “I must give
a week’s notice.” And then he went on rather uncer-
tainly: “I don’t suppose the landlady will like it.
And she is sure to ask a lot of questions.”
“Well, tell her to go to the devil. No, you’d better
not do that. Just say you’ve been moved to another
school.”
“Oh, I wouldn’t do that. I wouldn’t tell her a lie.
No” —with a sudden burst of self-confidence —“I’ll
manage her all right. You can expect me round
to-day week.”
HE was as good as his word. A week later I had
him comfortably installed in a room not far
from mine. When he had finished unpacking it was
nearly time for dinner, so I took him down to the
saloon for an appetiser. Now, up till that time, to
the best of my knowledge, never a drop of alcohol
had passed Jamie’s lips. I confess that I had some
qualms about leading him from the straight and
narrow, but I reflected that, whatever happened, his
life couldn’t very well be any more miserable than it
had been. And at any rate he had made up his mind
to it, so there was nothing more to be done. I
ordered a couple of light ones and took the oppor-
tunity of introducing Jamie to the blonde barmaid.
I’d better tell you about her. She was not really
a barmaid at all, although she was quite often there.
She was really the landlord’s daughter, but old Logan
—that was his name —was pretty tight-fisted and saved
himself the expense of an extra girl by making his
daughter work for her keep. And she worked hard,
too. Mind you, he looked after her well. Either he
or his wife was always popping in to keep an eye on
her and see that there was no over-familiarity
attempted on the part of any of the customers.
Not that there ever was, as far as I knew. Old
Logan, for some reason or other, had everybody
scared. He was only a little chap, but solidly built,
and as quiet and inoffensive, you’d think, as a Teddy
bear. But there was something about his quietness,
and the silent way he moved around, and the cold
stare he could give you, that made you most disin-
clined to have a difference of opinion with him.
However, to get back to his daughter. There
was nothing terrifying about her ; she was a trim little
wench, a bit on the plump side, perhaps, but pleasantly
rounded in the right places. Her features tended to
the coarse, but they were attractive enough, and she
certainly had a crowning glory of wavy blonde hair.
Altogether quite up to the average in looks and figure,
though not exactly up to my tastes.
Well, I introduced her to Jamie as Nancy—that
was what everybody called her —and Jamie called her
Miss Logan. She looked at him rather suspiciously,
the “Miss” being so unusual. He had nothing more
to say to her, and, although I saw her regarding him
somewhat curiously from time to time, she said
nothing to him.
When we had finished our drink we went to
dinner. Jamie said he enjoyed that and felt much
better, and he certainly looked a little more cheerful.
So I. suggested a show, but he pleaded weariness, and
about nine o’clock he went to bed. It wasn’t what
you would call a bright beginning.
As time went on things improved a little with
Jamie, but not a great deal. I took him out to a few
parties, introduced him to a few women, and generally
tried to show him the life of the city. I think he did
his best to let himself go, but he couldn’t make a
success of it. For one thing, he wouldn’t drink enough
whisky to liven himself up, and for another I think
his conscience was pricking him all the time.
As for the women, he treated them with an
exaggerated respect and was never at his ease. How-
ever, I noticed that he was making steady progress
with Nancy. They were still Miss Logan and Mr.
Macpherson to each other, but they were on quite
friendly terms. Not that he ever had much to say to
her, but he was frequently to be found in the bar,
and she in turn showed him those little attentions and
courtesies that she never troubled herself to show me
or anyone else.
But even this modest little affair was soon in
danger. I discovered that there was another fellow
who appeared to expect great things from Nancy, and
he was as often in the bar as Jamie. That wouldn’t
have mattered as long as they were not there at the
same time, but the trouble was that they often were.
He was a big, solid lump of a chap, a bit bloated,
but dangerous-looking enough to scare a much braver
man than Jamie. Furthermore, a few inquiries on my
part brought forth the alarming fact that he had been
a fighter. Needless to say, I didn’t tell Jamie this.
He was alarmed enough as it was. His visits to the
saloon became less frequent, and he generally waited
for me to accompany him. I began to notice then that
Nancy’s attentions grew less pronounced and her
smiles fewer and fainter. Jamie saw it too, and it
worried him a lot. But he did nothing about it.
AND then came the inevitable show-down. I went
down for the usual before lunch one day and
found Jamie had got himself into the sort of pre-
dicament that he might have dreamt about in his
worst nightmares. His burly boy-friend, Butler or
Buckler or some such name, had him by the lapel of
his coat and was bellowing something into his face at
pretty short range. Jamie was looking about as happy
as a fish out of water. Nancy was standing white
and breathless behind the counter, looking helplessly
from side to side. There was no one else there. I
didn’t know what it was all about or what I could do,
so I just stayed near the door and looked on, feeling
about as useless and uncomfortable as Nancy.
The Butler fellow was not quite sober, but sober
enough to be nasty. He pushed his head forward
suddenly and said in a nice, quiet, sardonic voice:
“You don’t know what you are, eh? Dear me!
I’ll have to tell yer. You’re a twirp, that’s what you
are —just a dear little twirp.”
He leaned back again and stared at Jamie with
raised eyebrows. Then he frowned and pointed his
finger at Jamie, who was standing there dumb. “And
do you know what Ido to twirps? Well, this is what
I do.” And he shot an uppercut at Jamie’s chin.
It was a fair blow, but I don’t think his direction
was too good or he would have knocked Jamie cold.
At any rate it was good enough to lay Jamie on his
back. I collected my senses at this point and rushec
across to pick him up. But he came round prett\
quickly and got to his feet without much help from
me. He stood there for a minute, feeling his jaw
with his hand and moving it about as if he was trying
to make sure nothing was broken. And then I got


the surprise of my life. He actually looked pleased
about it all. The color came back to his face, and he
gave me a sort of grin and murmured “Not so bad,
Jim!”
Meanwhile Nancy had got over the counter or
under it and was telling the Butler fellow off in first-
rate style. Jamie interrupted in the middle.
“Excuse me, Nancy,” he said I noticed the
“Nancy”—“l’d like to have a word or two myself to
this gentleman.”
He stood square on to the gentleman and just
looked at him without moving for half a minute or
so. His fists were half-clenched by his sides and there
was a gleam in his eyes. But he just said “If you do
that again I might get rather annoyed.”
Mr. Butler was a bit shaken. He looked at
Nancy and me and gave us a sheepish sort of grin,
and then looked back at Jamie, to find Jamie still
staring at him. He began to fidget. “Do you know
what you are?” went on Jamie. “You’re just a plain
unvarnished nuisance. And do you know what I do
to nuisances? Well, just this.” And he pulled Butler’s
nose moderately hard and long. Then, before Butler
could do anything about it, he said in a sinister sort
of whisper: “You might be interested to know that I
was the middleweight champion of Queensland a
couple of years ago. Now you’d better get out and
stay out or I might lose my temper.”
I don’t know whether friend Butler believed
it or not, but he went. I shut the door quickly
before he could come back. Then I turned to rush
over and congratulate Jamie, but stopped short in my
stride. Nancy was already doing it. She was fussing
about him to see that he was all right, and she was
pretty breathless and pink about it all, too. And
then, just when it looked like a fair ending, the door
opened and old Logan materialised in front of us.
“What’s all the noise down here? What’s going
on?” he asked, in that quiet, level voice he used that
made you feel like a little boy being interviewed by
the headmaster. We all started to explain. He heard
us through without saying a word, and he kept his
eyes fixed on Jamie and Nancy. When we had
finished he said calmly: “I’m afraid you’ll have to
take yourself and your belongings somewhere else,
Mr. Macpherson. You’re leaving a week to-day.”
“You’ll have to put me out,” answered Jamie.
The old man stared at him and he stared at the
old man, and there they both stood like a couple of
cats. I wouldn’t have been surprised to see them
spit. Then Jamie continued without batting an eye-
lid: “What’s more, Mr. Logan, I’m taking your
daughter out to-night. And if you object I’ll go a
step further and marry her.”
No, he didn’t object. But he looked at Nancy for
a while and he said “Do you want to go out with
Mr. Macpherson?”
“I don’t know, Dad. That is—l”
“Well, that’s near enough.” He turned to Jamie
with the nearest approach to a smile on his face I
had ever seen. “I’m not going to fight you about it,”
he said.
ELL, that was that. Jamie took her out all right.
“ “ He came into my room when he got home again
and woke me up.
“Have a good time?” I asked.
“Oh, yes. Everything went well.” He sat on the
end of my bed and looked glum.
“What’s the matter with you, then? Not worry-
ing about the alimony already, are you?”
“Do you remember what I asked you about
Nancy once before? Do you think she’s a —well, you
know —being a barmaid and all that?”
“How do you expect me to know?”
He didn’t answer. He sat there for a minute
looking worried, and then he suddenly jumped up.
“What difference does it make, anyway?” he asked.
“I’m going to marry her, and that’s all there is to it.”
“Good man!” I said. “And if it’s any interest
to you now you can take my word for it that she isn’t
and never has been.”
I don’t think he heard me.
He was moved out to the country the next vaca-
tion, and he took his bride with him. I met him
again a couple of years ago and we had lunch together
and talked over old times. He was a changed man,
still quiet and reserved, but in good condition and
evidently moderately pleased with himself.
“It must have been that crack on the jaw that
bucked you up,” I said.
“Well, partly,” he answered. “When I found it
didn’t dislocate my arm or break my neck I wasn’t
scared any more. But that wasn’t all. Do you
remember what that fellow called me? He called
me a twirp.”
He leaned over closer to me. “Do you know
what a twirp is, Jim?”
“Well, no ; not exactly. What is it?
He looked at me in a pretty surprised sort of way.
“You don’t know! Well, fancy that! No, I don’t
know either. I just didn’t like the sound of it.”
Jamie rather opened out.
CLOTHES
BY G.C.B.
mm y m HE ’ole trouble started when them Worthing-
[ tons come to live next door. Bein’ a clerk
v v Worthington used to go to work dressed up in
a bowler ’at and shiny shoes ; and the sight of
’im made Mrs. Raggles disappointed with me.
“You ought to dress better, Ernest,” she ses. “A
ratcatcher’s just as important as a clerk, and, besides,
I don’t like the airs that Mr. Worthington puts on.”
“Don’t take no notice of ’im,” I ses. “He’s one
of them pore little blokes wot ’as to dress up to look
anything. If he walked up the street without ’is
clothes no one wouldn’t give ’im a second look.”
“All the same you could look smarter,” she ses,
so serious and thoughtful that I went off to work
feelin’ uneasy; and when I got back that evenin’ I
found that me worst fears ’ad come ’ome to roost, as
the sayin’ is. In the bedroom was a brand-new suit,
a pair of shiny shoes wot made me corns ache to
look at, and a bowler ’at.
“Well, wot do you think of ’em?” ses Mrs.
Raggles ; but she stops me before I ’ad ’arf told ’er.
“They ain’t nothin’ of the sort,” she snaps. “It’s ’igh
time you took a interest in your appearance and
went to work lookin’ like a gentleman.”
“Work!” I ses, ’orrified. “You don’t mean I
’ave to wear them things to work ?”
“You ’ave,” she ses, very firm. “And, wot’s
more, you ain’t goin’ to carry your traps in that
grubby old sugarbag no longer neither. I bought you
this instead.” And she ’olds up one of 'them little
lady’s cases.
I ’VE always been one for peace in the ’ome at any
1 price, but more than once next day I couldn’t ’elp
wonderin’ whether the price wasn’t too ’igh. Wot
with Joe Russel staggerin’ about shieldin’ ’is eyes, and
McNeil, the publican, talkin’ about payin’ me just
debts instead of buyin’ fancy-dress, I was just about
fed up by lunchtime; and in the afternoon I gets
away from ’em all by goin’ out and settin’ traps at
Gallagher’s tip.
It’s a place I ain’t fond of as a rule, bein’ muddy
and dirty and full of old tins and prickly bushes, but
once I gets interested in me work I forgets all about
things like that. I sets to work energetic, and 1
although it was a longer job than I thought on
account of the cunnin’ places rats pick to build their
’oles in I sticks to it; and when I went ’ome I knew
I ’ad done a real good day’s work. I was so tired I
could ’ardly move, but after Mrs. Raggles ’ad took
one look at me I found I ’ad to move, and pretty
quick too. I couldn’t make out wot ’ad come over
’er —that is, until things ’ad quietened down a bit and
I was able to take a look at meself in the glass.
I ’ad to sit up ’arf the night cleanin’ me new suit
with petrol, and, wot was worse, Mrs. Raggles, who
sat up mendin’ the trousers, wouldn’t let me ’ave a
smoke in case of accidents.
It was pretty near a week before she stopped
lecturin’ me, and by that time I was so used to them
clothes I ’ad forgot I’d ever wore ordinary comfort-
able ones. Matter of fact, I found meself gettin’
so fussy about clean shirts that every day seemed to
be a washin’ day. ’Owever, Mrs. Raggles didn’t seem
to mind the extra work, so just to show me gratitude
I decides to ’elp her improve her appearance by
gettin’ ’er a new dress as a little surprise.
But it wasn’t no easy job gettin’ that dress made
without ’er knowin’. I ’ad to sneak around to Miss
Fripp, the dressmaker, every chance I got, and Mrs.
Raggles ’ad a lot to say about me goin’ out night
after night, specially after the night I told ’er I was
goin’ to Joe Russel’s, forgettin’ that Joe ’ad promised
to come round ’ome for a game of crib.
Then there was the trouble of fittin’s, but I got
over that all right by gettin’ Miss Bulgin, who was
just about Mrs. Raggles’s figger, to take ’er place.
She was one of them obligin’ young wimmen, and
she was so particular about that dress bein’ made
proper, and puttin’ the dressmaker to so much trouble,
that I thought the price- might go up by the time it
was finished, so I asks for the bill a bit early just in
case. She ’ad two fittin’s, and it was when I was
takin’ ’er round for the third that a unfortunate thing
’appened.
\\J E ’ad just turned into Miss Fripp’s street when
** I ’ears gaspin’ noises behind us, and Mrs.
Raggles come runnin’ up all out of breath and ’er
face as white as chalk.
“Emma!” I ses, alarmed at the look of ’er.
“Wot’s ’appened?”
“You ’ound!” she shouts. “You ungrateful
’ound! This is wot I get for makin’ you a gentle-
man. This is where you’ve been sneakin’ to night
after night in them clothes wot I scrimped and saved
to buy you. And this is
’ow you’ve been spendin'
your money!” She waves
a bit of paper under me
nose, and when I reker-
nised it as Miss Fripp’s
bill I could ’ave kicked
meself for not hidin’ it
more careful. Then be-
fore I could open me
mouth she turns on Miss
Bulgin.
There wasn’t a soul
in sight when she starts
on pore Miss Bulgin, but
long before she ’ad
finished a couple of
traffic-cops was needed
bad. It took me all me
time to squeeze through
the crowd, but I man-
ages it at last, leavin’
them two wim m e n
screamin’ at each other
and bein’ cheered on by
the mob.
Of course I could
’ave explained later, but
as I didn’t like hurtin’
Mrs. Raggles’s feelin’s
by showin’ ’er ’ow fool-
ish she ’ad been I kept
quiet. But it was the end
of me dressin’ like a
gentleman. I ’ad to go
straight back to me old
clothes next mornin’, and
it ain’t safe for me these
days to put a bit of polish
on me boots —that is,
unless Mrs. Raggles ’ap-
pens to be cornin’ out
with me.


The age of the great eccentrics, the eighteenth cen-
tury, seems to have remained there.
Dr. Gogarty is a poet, physician and politician
who has been in the thick of the Dublin broth for
30 years. He knows everybody; he has heard all
the stories and invented others as ruthless and as gay
as any other Irishman’s. He had the gift, which is
his nation’s great redeeming attraction, of fascinating
his friends as well as his enemies.
On the political side his chief hatred and avoid-
ance is De Valera. It is all very unfair, of course,
but it would be amusing to give the list of the phrases
which hit off the Irish President: “He looks like some-
thing uncoiled from the Book of Kells,” and at best
he is “the Long Fellow.” The trouble is that Dr.
Gogarty, who played some part in the movement
which established the Irish Free State, does not like
the result. “I thought I was going towards Freedom
and breaking down a Bastille, and it was only open-
ing a lunatic asylum.” He is. for the aristocratic
virtues and the old times, and he behaves like a wild
licensed jester every time he sees the Nugget-polished
leggings of a Free State soldier. Of course, he is not
the ordinary Kildare-street club diehard, but one of
Dublin’s many spiritual inheritors of Swift’s gift of
withering invective.
George Moore, with “hair silken as. a dandelion
in summer,” is here, rattling the railings of Ely-place
with his Malacca cane to annoy the neighbors, and
there is good fooling at the expense of the Irish
Malvolio. There is Yeats being persuaded to wear a
top-hat and sit in the new Governor-General’s box
in order to “save Ireland” by ceremony. Tim Healv
himself is shown giving out that he dislikes his pas-
si bnately-loved Vice-regal Lodge, because he is afraid
he will be turned out if he shows he likes it. The
treaty-makers are here and the treaty-breakers, and
there is a dramatic moment when, in the midst of
a conspirators’ meeting, a British official from Dublin
Castle rings up and blandly asks to have a word with
Mr. de Valera. The whereabouts of De Valera were
supposed to be unknown to the British during “the
troubles”!
The book is so packed with excellent stories and
brilliant character sketches that it would be hard to
pick out one plum without tumbling out two or three
others as well. To all who like to read a provocative
book by an intelligent man and a poet, it can be
warmly recommended. But not to those who easily
disapprove of their fellow-creatures.
GASTON C. RENARD.
New Worlds for Old.
In H. G. Wells’s Star Begotten (Chatto and
Windus; 7s. 6d.) certain men of science, in the not-
strictly-scientific atmosphere of their club, are dis-
cussing evolution. Early Darwinian theory of muta-
tion of species by imperceptible gradations has given
place to a realisation of the frequency of extensive
sports which have the appearance of attempted muta-
tions. The chromosomes are not subject to the influ-
ence of parental bodies, in the sense that acquired
characteristics cannot be transmitted.
Nearly all other possible causes have been con-
sidered and eliminated. There remain only the cosmic
rays. These minute particles of energy could, without
question, affect the chromosomes. They come in an
unending stream from outer space. Is it possible
that we are being bombarded by the very advanced
and benign inhabitants of a neighboring planet who
have our speedy development in view? Is the scien-
tific advance of the last hundred years to be taken
as proof of the presence among us of these resulting
supermen? Will there be a corresponding develop-
ment in sociological thinking and human behavior?
From that point, Wells starts off. Three of the
gathering take up the idea. One sets out to collect
statistics in proof of it and the three discuss it, specu-
lating on the world which the “new” men will create
A popular science writer gets hold of the notion and
exploits it in the press. Conservatism in the shape
of vested interests is instantly up in arms and demands
a purge with full horrors; but the idea and its threat-
ened effect in a world that fears change even for the
better is sidetracked.
Humorists get hold of it. Jazz writers invent a
“Martian Newstep,” and Americans, instead of saying
“Oh, yeah,” say “It don’t appeal to my Martian
side.” This is but further proof of the pass to which
the world has come. It is a world that can and does
believe anything, everything and nothing. It could
pay a sentimental visit to the site of the Garden of
Eden in the morning and gaze with awe on the bones
of Neanderthal man in the afternoon.
But this does not mean that the idea is not to
be taken seriously, even if somewhat tentatively, and
the three continue a discussion which is really, under
Wells’s guidance, a discussion of the world as it is.
Occasionally they get off some quite good things:
No revolution. Something better than a revolution.
A revolution is just a social turnover. A revolution
changes nothing essential. What is a revolution really?
There is an increasing disequilibrium of classes or
groups, the centre of gravity shifts, the clumsy raft turns
over, and a different side of the old stuff comes
uppermost.
At other times their remarks are not so good.
There is a disposition to forget that in human affairs
conservatism plays as useful a part as its opposite
number, radicalism. There is the feeling in this book
that Wells, no longer a young man, wants Utopia in
his time. The feeling comes from two things. First
the disproportionate value set on new ideas, the
assumption that humanity is at fault in wanting to
feel its way forward instead of jumping blindly
because he tells it to, and, secondly, the author’s
abandonment of the canons of sound art in order
to get in all he has to say.
The story element in Star Begotten is below an
honest minimum, hardly more than a banging of
the drum to draw a crowd. The discursive part is
long and, except for bright flashes, drags heavily.
There is no lack of gratitude to Wells for his concern
over human welfare in the thought that if he were
to take a short holiday from heralding worlds to
come and tell a real story, like Kipps or Love and
Mr. Lewisham, the exercise would be restorative to
his artistic sense and the result agreeable to readers.
An Inventor in Distress.
E. C. Large, author of Sugar in the Air (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), is one of those people
who can write interestingly about the proverbial broom -
stick ; furthermore, he knows to a sentence just how
long interest in broomsticks can be maintained. He
can squeeze interest out of the ordinary business of
a company board meeting. He can get it out of the
quasi-scientific explanation of an industrial process,
and there is probably nothing less interesting, ordi-
narily, to the non-technical reader than that. His
long book deals with the commercial bungling of a
discovery by means of which sugar, and possibly
other basic foodstuffs, could be extracted from the
atmosphere. The process begins by looking like some-
thing that will liberate mankind from the curse of
Adam. It ends, through bungling and malevolence, in
being productive of nothing more important than pig-
feed and poultry spice. Its potentialities are dis-
regarded for commercial reasons —or lack of reason
—and so well is the story told that the reader shares
the discoverer’s exasperation as hope slowly dwindles.
There is a slackly-fitting allegory to the tale.
We have, in sharp focus, the proprietor company,
Hydro-Mechanical Constructions, grandiose but prac-
tically insolvent, reaching business decisions for
unbusinesslike reasons; behind them we have Coda,
an international combine, ominous, efficient, sinister,
watchful, not interested in scientific development, but
ready to buy and consign to oblivion any invention
threatening its existing sources of profit.
Large offers none of these things for considera-
tion in terms of themselves; he deals throughout in
personal quantities. The story of the struggle between
Pry, the young technician, discoverer and employee
of the proprietor company, and the personified forces
of greed, stupidity and indifference that encompass
him is first-rate drama. The characters, notwithstand-
ing that several of them have allegorical significance,
and notwithstanding the writer’s rather risky use of
names like Pry and Graball, are fully alive. The
allegory, though omnipresent, does not cramp the
narrative.
Large’s method of story-telling, like his method
of pointing a moral, has an air of casualness. He looks
round him and takes in all sorts of things as he goes
along. When Pry goes abroad on a sales promotion
tour we get a look at Mussolini’s fiddle, a glimpse of
young German soldiers, a description of a certain
Frenchman getting himself ready for bed, and, in
Ireland, there is a brief account of an aeroplane flight
over County Galway. None of these things seem
strictly necessary to a story of how a scientific
development was baulked, yet they fit quite comfort-
ably into the book’s loose pattern.
Here is a sample of the style of thing referred
to. Fry, who is having “Sunsap” tested, happens to
be at the Research Bureau just as afternoon-tea is
served in the rest-room:
All the university accents in the country were to be
heard in the hall. Tall young men from Cambridge
leaned spinelessly against tea-urns; middle-aged pro-
fessors, who were rather deaf, sat reposefully smoking
pipes; and mathematical-looking young women watched
Oxford versus Cambridge playing ping-pong, with an
excitement that was wholly artificial and unconvincing.
Pry, who had no small talk, and could only speak of
what interested him at the moment —“Sunsap”—soon
learned that one of the most rigorously observed con-
ventions of the place W'as that one did not talk “shop”
at teatime. One practised humor; clean, harmless,
innocent fun —like “Punch.”
It is doubtful whether dealings between the busi-
nessman and the technician are quite as Large repre-
sents them, but he knows the feelings of the tech-
nical man whose good work goes into the discard, he
appreciates the consequent general loss, and in his
leisurely, good-humored way makes it all clear to
the reader. Sugar in the Air is not a great creative
work, but it is significant, clever, amusing and some-
times exciting.
Good Work from Norway.
The theme of Johan Bojer’s By Day and By
Night (D. Appleton-Century Company ; 11s. 3d.) is
very much of to-day. Leif Sund was the son of a
factory-hand in a small Norwegian town. He was
clever and quick to learn, so his father sent him to
the non-commissioned officers’ school, because it was
free. There his teachers discovered and fostered a
mechanical genius,,
and in the end he managed to develop a new
machine-gun, which made him comfortably off in the
Balkan War and rich in the World War. The day came
when many countries tried to get hold of him, and
if armies flew at each other’s throats it was not a
question of freedom or patriotism for him but a tech-
nical problem.
For Sund the perfection of his gun has been like
any other creative effort. He has seen the whole
thing only in terms of that. Success brought happi-
ness and the pleasure of a reckless and arbitrary
generosity. Then in his happiness there began a spot
of decay. He found by chance in a hospital in
Brussels a boy from his own town, terribly muti-
lated, speechless, faceless, dying slowly through three
years. Sund’s imagination was touched at last. The
book is the story of the slow spread through his life
of that spot of decay. By day and by night in a
hundred disguises and through a myriad subterfuges
remorse ground him down. He returned to his native
town with a half-finished model of a still more deadly
gun, seeking peace. He was lionised, but
He wasn’t one of them, he was too small and he was
too big! He was the son of Rhyming Knot and he was
world-famous; he had been a sergeant he was a
millionaire. Where the devil did he fit in?
Village politics centred around him. He would
start a factory there to manufacture his new gun.
The town was suffering from a severe depression ; this
would save them all. Even the pacifist group was
drawn into the scheme.
Sund stands bewildered between good and evil.
Love is drawn across his track, but it cannot assuage
him long. His remorse and uncertainty corrode that
away, too. He tried to put the blame on humanity
and cried out to God;
You have never done me any good. You have only
tortured me. 1 want to be like the Christian officer who
drilled his men in bayonet lighting first, and then
formed them up for church parade. I want to be like
the clergyman who raises his crucifix to bless the
soldiers before they fling their hand grenades and blow
their opponents to bits. That’s how one can be useful
to humanity.
To vindicate himself he must go on. He com-
pletes his new gun and then destroys it. Now the
hope of a flourishing factory and prosperity for all
is extinguished and Sund becomes an object of hatred.
Slowly he strips himself of everything. “One has
never finished with anything.” At last he goes out
into the snow one night to lose himself in the hills.
The book ends with everyone in the town turning
out in a perfect ferment of humanitarian zeal to
search for him.
This bare outline is filled out with life ; it is alive
and convincing in every detail. It is enclosed in a
shell of apparent naivete, incident being added to
incident, simple statement to simple statement, until
a whole as complex and subtle as a living organism
is built up. There is a satiric element, but it is held
well in check. The author uses satire because it
enables him to cover a larger field. Through it he
can show the life of the town in diagram ; but it is
not allowed to dilute or mar the essential tragedy
which is a soul’s dilemma.
By Day and By Night is a black tragedy, yet it
is a comforting book, too. It is nourishing. It is
backed by a mysticism that gives it epic stature.
Above all, it has the wisdom of creative understanding.
Reviewed Briefly .
FICTION . . .
Matthew Silverman: Victor Canning (Hodder
and Stoughton; 7s. 6d.). A serious but not too
disturbing story of life in a small English town.
Silverman’s business difficulties, his domestic affairs
and his dealings with his neighbors make up the sum
of a quiet tale.
No Pasarcin : Upton Sinclair (T. Werner Laurie ;
7s. 6d.). The story of some young Americans fighting
with the International Brigade in the battle of Madrid.
Well written, but frankly and violently partisan.
Interesting chiefly for its glimpses of the city and
surroundings. The title is Spanish, meaning “They
shall not pass.”
The Unmeasured Tree: Joseph F. Dinneen
(Cassell; 7s. 6d.). Set in the slums of Boston, U.S.A.
A story of love and of rival Irish-American political
factions. Written in excellent style, but a little lack-
ing in general interest.
Men Are Like Animals: Donald Macpherson
(Faber; 7s. 6d.). A horror story in which Reggie and
his wife Mary and their friend George, one of those
smart newspaper reporters who are always cropping
up in murder fiction, are worked upon by a mysteri-
ous fourth party. The writer has a gift for the
macabre, but is inclined to be facetious, which is fatal
to the effect.
Clouds of Glory : John Moore (Dent; 7s. 6d.).
Two lovers, one a peer’s daughter and the other a
noted airman, fly round the world in the interests
of a newspaper’s circulation campaign. Australia is
their journey’s end and happy meeting-place. There
is an appreciative reference to “Melbourne Harbor.”
Light as meringue, but good in style.
The Saturday Match : Hugh de Selincourt (Dent;
55.). Another cricket yarn by the author of The Game
of the Season and The Cricket Match. This one is
written more for young people —it’s about a boy, his
dog and his chance for a game with Tillingfold. De
Selincourt knows the game and loves it, but loves it
best when played on the village green.
GENERAL . . .
Growing Pains, Basil Harvey (Hamish Hamilton ;
10s. 6d.). Autobiography of a young man whose
education as the son of a rich man proved worthless
when he was turned out on the world. It is the
candid confession of one who is endeavoring to
conquer an inferiority complex ; this book is his first
step up.
VERSE ...
Poems of Remembrance. A slim production of
24 pages only, by C. E. Carpenter, dedicated to “Our
Warriors’ Sons” and published by Arthur H. Stock-
well, Ltd., London, at the modest price of one shil-
ling. A blend of patriotism and religion in undis-
tinguished verse.
W. H. D. Giffin: I would like to express my appre-
ciation of the article on Gertrude Bell (R.P. 30/6/’37).
I met her and knew her pretty intimately from 1901
to 1903, when I was in Bagdad as a soldier and
afterwards as secretary of the Bagdad Race Club.
As Oriental Secretary to Sir Percy Cox, the High
Commissioner, who died some months ago, she was
admired and respected by English and Arab alike, and,
though somewhat of a dour personality, she had the
affection of all who knew her well. The Empire lost
two very valuable servants when she and Sir Percy
Cox passed hence.


THE ARABIAN NIGHTS
/ ' M
mm
mi
.
aN -
■■
■
m
-tt&P
m
m
m
Mm
us#
; ,;jht
s
*l mm
m
mm
II
MU
m
- /V M
1 H
o*
# Uua«
:
*?%&&}&& iwn&tx* H»; sr,',K>:>}
s ttoßsS wkkh hr»,<*>sh* ;-<?:>< >sss*
oatfe s»«':y. •>..•<•><.>. >.-ti
: to
...
1
h tatvasß** »«•>•« "vouett
&L %«*r vsmtee tods t>a»e to
~ £ toss *sd tofts f*to sffiitod
fS to «* to, tote* it
«o«to wrowfct kto to tolls
«2S -wood to asto, m 3 to .
y|t£l toto ttewj i»&." to !,:
m to to»* assort to tod
U wwto* tonto too seamed to
tog “Wto torn to toy ss«r
fj be wa* to v«srto o< to cay,
a* .feto " to fea went w to s>.ar<
* keys tor* toigto. k.< b» gtoto.
■» |oy too «w Bite to ily to
I tong yjs to to jsortab m-4s>i
Ssc belts toi tots, wtertoptm to
gj# ito to istoto itonekr by .
iw-ttetoo At to? Ik «W »at,
i ****««". Ask! to. totk ■«)■>'
saft w»to tiftony to thtobng
also «was flighted si ths
hat to to citogato «** to t ««9<>
St ifc» cries! oitt in tosyt v saying,
B toe sbal! sto be safe foavsto*
enter to sgsber half tuny ,
r& wttJs Ssalf hfe SBsa, bearing tter
to*r aorsrato iytng toy
jjj (kxiekeepeit to.towcfes to
Sntog on sstastos of »lk to at
»b on rib to? <«se to to chin
Sage. w!ast«of none overjaswd to
* oprns, with to scates towg out
I to to tasussvasswsis foil of all
,ii,»s*t tot -istt !*«*“«< , ,
stoSt it teig< »s> ktt&rc * «»*«. a ,««««!;-
? msaanK, toe foeau » rivaanw Wy\~ VS
£* toa at to **»,to to* W>» toto *m
They run the entire range, from the
pinnacle of religious fervour to the salty
depths of Rabelaisian incident.
Like the Decameron, the book is a series of tales hanging on a single
thread of story . . . the device of the Queen, Shahrazad, to save herself
from the vow of her lord the King. These tales are of all sorts. The
shortest of them are smoking-room anecdotes. The longest are thrilling
tales of adventures and intrigue. Here is a world of Jinns, Afrits and
Marids ... a world of romance as passionate as the romances of
chivalry ... a world, also, of reality ... a salty, humorous, sensual,
criminal world of the Orient. A world of harems and jealous kings, of
complacent eunuchs and daring princesses. It is a world of business
trickery and enterprise, of knaves dealing with fools.
Sir Richard Burton lived with the Moslems as one of them for so
long that he readily passed as a native. He learned twenty-eight
languages and dialects. His whole life was a preparation for its
crowning achievement ... the plain and literal translation of “The
Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night,” on which he laboured
for three decades and which is regarded as one of the most important
translations to which an English scholar has ever devoted himself.
Enjoy the full fruits of his work in this new, illustrated, complete
edition of the real “Arabian Nights.”
BURTON’S UNEXPURGATED
EDITION . . . "The only translation
worthy of the original.”
—“St. James Gazette London.
Here is the real Arabian Nights . . . the only
literally translated and fully annotated edition,
with introduction, explanatory notes on “Moslem
manners, customs, morals and social institutions
and a terminal essay on the history of the nights.”
This 16-volume edition includes Sir Richard
Burton’s original 10 volumes and his 6 volumes
of Supplemental Nights.
No other translation contains more than 75 p.c.
of the material this offers. No other translation
has more than 5 p.c. of the annotations it
contains. And no other translation has anything
comparable to Burton’s magnificent Terminal
Essay.
In the past, its exceeding rarity has placed Sir
Richard Burton’s translation beyond the reach
of most. But this new edition of the real
Arabian Nights is offered on terms which make
it easy to enjoy immediate possession of the
full set, which is well illustrated. The first ten
volumes are beautifully bound in black and
gold . . . the six volumes of supplemental nights
in black and silver.
The tales of the Arabian Nights are immortal.
They have given delight to countless millions
the world over. They have provided inspiration
and ideas for great writers of all races. In
them we find all the mysterious supernaturalism
of India, all the learning and culture of Persia,
all the vivid and picturesque social life of China,
all the uncanny terror of Africa. The grim
tragedy and pitilessness of Oriental life are
there . . . and its poetry, too.
Delivered Home for a First Payment of 16/-
A deposit of 16/- secures immediate delivery of the complete 16-volume set,
packed in a case that prevents risk of damage in transit. Each volume measures
91 x6| x 1 4 inches, and contains a detailed index. Fill in and post the form
below.
ANGUS * ROBERTSON, L
89 CASTLEREAGH ST, SYDNEY.
PUBLISHERS St BOOKSELLERS toiU UNIVERSITY
TD
ORDER FORM. ~~\
Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please forward a full set of the “Arabian Nights,” 16 volumes, |
for which I enclose 16/- deposit, and agree to make 16 further monthly
payments of £l, in all £l6/16/-. (The price for cash within 30 days is I
£l5/15/-.)
NAME
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS I
BUSINESS ADDRESS I
Delivered free in city and suburbs. Elsewhere freight is extra, but will "
be charged only at minimum rates.


ROYAL
■KDHMfIBfHHH Jfe
n
mm
■ • ' .'t-- ....
•;&* .....
. ;i
§■
«
%U
mm
ncti
llllli
#-Jsf
tfaxMkk
:, %
£2<i>
&s
S:
JuA
fev; »
m
m
sSN>
l
2*s
W«st^
■
*sX
fcv\
11
to
m
*^m§Mh
v"~>
■
£■<
H
H
8®
BB^^vSSfe^gggy-^
mm
ai
w
MwMa^
" ■ :--
i
•••••.:
mm
Sm
Si
i ■ :
m
; -V
■
K
' ELmI J
Hi
S
a
■
mm
m
m
m
■
■
:
■
<u
■
■
■
■
■
■MI
i
K
■#>*
a ■
a
a
.
H |
> ■
•■■. a
■
n
I
■
1
HHB
■
i i mm
m
■
m
* HHI
■
Some Idea of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars .
Jftfblt cftate mellcwneddmulimiq/ueb


NO DESERTER.
"Of COURSE I shall run again for Wilmot....I have never had any intention other than to stand again for my old seat, which I have represented for nearly 30 years.”
MRS. WILMOT MICAWBER: “Master Copperhill, I do not hesitate to say that our difficulties are coming to a crisis. But I never will desert my
Wilmot. No, I never will do it—it’s no use asking me.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper Home, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d. ; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE TRAGEDY OF THE ABORIGINAL.
Men and women who spend their lives in tropic
isolation slaving for the reclamation of North Aus-
tralian aborigines from savagery afford an example
of selfless devotion which commands respect. Such
men as the late J. G. Ward, killed at Mornington
Island ; his friend and successor, Robert Wilson, now
about to bring the Bentinck Islanders from the same
primeval, squalid savagery in which the Mornington
Islanders existed when Ward first landed there ; J. W.
Chapman and many others have done fine humani-
tarian work in the interests of a helpless and lovable
race. But even their most sincere admirers must
admit that they have not advanced to any practical
extent the prospects of survival for that race, or of
its ultimate integration in modern civilised life.
From the Australian aboriginal who fought at
Trafalgar 132 years ago as second captain of the
foretop on Nelson’s Victory, the race has afforded
repeated examples of its adaptability to white man’s
conditions, provided that too much is not asked at
once. There were first-rate aboriginal soldiers in the
war. Early Australian development owes a vast
unpaid debt to aboriginal help. It is not in actual
acquirement-ability, whether mental or manipulative,
that the aboriginal mind is lacking. Its main defect
lies in the practical application of the new knowledge
to the actual business of personal and racial life.
The untouched nomad, backed by the moral sup-
port of immemorial tribal law and custom, was
psychologically balanced. Educated from earliest
childhood to take his part in the world as he knew it,
he fitted his environment under all conditions. Until
the white man came, there was no new knowledge
to be applied to the business of daily life in any of
its aspects. Aboriginals knew all that was required,
and knew also how to apply that knowledge.
A mental outlook thus built up through
a long ancestry of tribal nomadism is not to be judged
by white man’s standards. Subconsciously it remains
the dominating factor with the vast majority of abori-
ginals, however “educated” or “enlightened” by white
influence and teaching. It is the reason of 'the
bitter disappointments so often experienced by those
who have striven to overcome in the short lifetime of
an aboriginal boy or girl inherited complexes, urges,
inhibitions and atavisms dating back to days when
the white man also was a savage.
Particularly is this the case v/ith aboriginal girls.
Girls are the vitally-essential factor in the problem,
as the female always is in any problem relating to
the preservation and perpetuation of a race. In the
pure racial sense the male is relatively unimportant,
except as impregnator, feeder and protector of the
breeding female. Very wisely, mission activities give
of their best to the girls and young women. Among
them, too, they find their most startling disappoint-
ments.
Not once but many times has it happened that
a young woman, the very model of what a Christian
aboriginal should be, trained in all the domestic
arts and virtues, and familiar with English litera-
ture, has married an equally exemplary young hus-
band and gone bush with him —to return a year or
two later, sick and worn, with a couple of under-
nourished piccaninnies, indistinguishable from those
of the most degraded township blacks’ camp, all her
accomplishments wiped from her mind.
It cannot be foreseen, and it cannot be prevented
until some form of communal life for aboriginals is
developed under conditions and leadership which will
regain for the aboriginal the psychological balance
necessary to subconscious contentment. In this respect
white missions have failed. The only really suc-
cessful aboriginal settlement in North Queensland,
the only one where there have, so far, been none of
these reversions, is that at Cowal Creek, on the tip
of Cape York. There the Peninsula aboriginals have
shown what they can do without white leadership.
But not with leadership from their own race.
The men who rule Cowal Creek are Seriba, the
deacon, and Jomen, the teacher, both Torres Strait
Islanders. Members of a race superior intellectually
to the mainland aboriginals and hereditarily accus-
tomed to dominating them, they are able to realise
the problems, and to see to the interests of their
parishioners, in a direct fashion which white mis-
sionaries, however good their intentions, can never
hope to acquire. More Seribas and Jomens seem to
be what is needed in Australia’s Far North if the
aboriginal race is to be preserved.
There are, too, qualified aboriginal clergymen of
more than one Christian church. These men must,
by reason of the attainments necessary for the posi-
tions they have reached, have mastered the subcon-
scious inheritances of their race sufficiently far to
qualify them as leaders of organised communal life
among people of their own blood. They should be
tried in that capacity, though not in conjunction with
Straits Islanders at the same centre. If they can do
as well as the Cowal Creek community, they will
have proved amply the capacity of the aboriginal race
for survival under self-leadership. If not, the ancient
neighbors from Torres Strait are always available.
The Queensland Government will be wise to
ensure that experimental settlement on these lines shall
form an integral part of its scheme for the rescue
of the aboriginals of the State from further degra-
dation and eventual extinction.
The S.P. Racket.
Bombarded by earnest souls who regard promiscuous
betting as a menace to the economic and social health
of the community, by wowsers and killjoys who delight
in ordering the lives of other people, by daily news-
papers concerned in the matter because their rival
broadcasting comes into it, and by others following
the lead of these, the N.S.W. Stevens Government
proposes to bring down drastic anti-s.p. legislation on
the lines of that operating in Queensland.
In this general campaign, aimed at conditioning
people’s minds so that they will be ready to accept
as a blessing on themselves what may turn out to be
a considerable encroachment on their already shame-
lessly whittled liberty of free action, a weird and
wonderful lot of propaganda is getting into N. S.
Wales papers.
West of the Blue Mountains Sunday football is
general and has been since about 1908; the s.p.
wallopers represent it as something entirely new,
and all a result of young men being too busy
betting and listening to race broadcasts on Satur-
days to play the game or watch it. From all
parts of the State came reports of horserace
clubs going broke because s.p. keeps the crowds
away. Most of these clubs always have been
broke and think it a miracle if they ever end a year
with a reduced deficit. In such places one of the
principal local pastimes is “reviving the race club.”
In one centre and another of country N. S. Wales
horseracing has been “revived” with the regularity of
a prima donna’s farewells for the past 30 years and
more.
More banking for the general blaze-up comes in
reports from Queensland asserting the benefits racing
clubs, Government and all hands are reaping through
that State’s anti-s.p. legislation. It is never mentioned
in these, glowing estimates of possible racecourse
profits that along with the anti-s.p. legislation have
gone considerable reductions in the costs of racing to
the average patron. Nor is the general improvement
in economic conditions taken into account. Simple
things like that are overlooked whenever the wowser
and his interested backers are rampant.
The Bulletin has no thought of defending s.p.
It never has held promiscuous, unlimited and un-
licensed gambling to be of any good to the com-
munity. But it does not believe one-half this propa-
ganda, and it sees clearly that most of the stuff is
merely being spouted to prepare the way for drastic
restrictions of what most people regard as their right.
Further, it has seen so much of the clumsy enactments
that are usually brought down when restrictive legis-
lation is the intention that it certainly cannot work up
any advanced faith in anything the Stevens bunch may
be expected to do.
Anyone at all acquainted with the Australian
character knows that there are few things the average
Australian enjoys more than having his mild bet on a
fancied horse. If there are fools with no restraint
in this practice their actions are scarcely a valid excuse
for taking an accepted right from the majority, how-
ever much the Stevens Government may feel that the
money should be going into its lottery.
One of the main reasons for the growth of s.p. is
the outrageous charges inflicted on the public for the
privilege of watching horseracing. On N.S.W. Gov-
ernment trams and trains there is a special rate for
punters —double the ordinary. Entrance to the pad-
dock at Randwick (and Randwick gives far better
entertainment for less money than some of the pro-
prietary courses) costs 11s. and an additional 3s. 4d.
tax; entrance to the St. Leger reserve, 3s. and Is.
tax. A racebook costs Is. Meals on the course cost
about double ruling prices. There is a 9 p.c. tax on
totalisator receipts.
Those charges are shameful. Unless they are
heavily reduced the Government’s proposed legis-
lation might make off-the-course betting a little more
difficult, but those who rely on it to send people to
the races —and join the. s.p. yelpers on that account
will, in the long run, have a sad disappointment.
Even if racecourse charges are reduced, mid-week
race-meetings will remain an inducement to s.p. bet-
ting, comparatively few being able to take the time oft
from work to go to them. Which is to say that, the
Australian temperament being what it is, s.p. will
manage to go on, legislation or no legislation. It will
go on, also, while papers publish full details of coming
meetings in advance, and it is merely snuffling humbug
to pretend that it will not.
S.p. betting could be stopped by prohibiting the
publication of “the weights” outside the racecourse,
as publication of ante-post odds is prohibited now. It
could be reduced by letting racing clubs copyright
their meetings, as they copyright handicaps, and thus
enabling them to sue persons stealing their shows. Legis-
lation that will tend merely to drive it further under-
ground will be rotten legislation. That sort of thing
has already done enough damage in bringing into
disrepute the very fine N.S.W. police force. If this
force is now to be, ranged up in phalanx against the
practice of what the majority of people regard as a
common right, enforcing laws as clumsy as those
wished on it in the past, it will come to be a detested
force. The idea that the police are there to do any
dirty work that fools wish on to them has caused
enough trouble, and cost enough money, too.
Legislation of the kind proposed amounts to the
enforcement of a prohibition to which the people have
not agreed. A liquor prohibition —which killjoys
class as a vice-suppressor even more laudable than
anti-s.p. legislation —would not be attempted without
a reference to the people. The Stevens Government
should draw up its proposed s.p. brand of prohibition
and submit it to the people, and see what happens.
Marconi.
Marconi was one of those fortunate mortals whose
careers run with almost perfect smoothness. He was
20 when he sent his first wireless signals ; 63 when
he died.
Like other great inventors, he had Scots-Irish
blood in his veins. His mother was Annie Jameson,
and he went to his mother’s country for his first wife,
the Hon. Beatrice O’Brien, one of the 11 children of
the fourteenth Baron Inchiquin, of County Clare.
She brought him a son and two daughters.
Marconi never knew want —when he came to
the stage at which his experiments called for finance,
his father, a Bologna landowner, provided it.
At 21, however, the sale of patents made the inventor
rich in his own right, and by the time he was 23
wireless telegraphy was well beyond the experimental
stage.
One of the first ships to be fitted was the royal
yacht Osborne. Messages from and to the Osborne
were sent through the ether in August, 1898. In
April, 1899, S.A. showed the way to the rest of Aus-
tralia by considering the use of wireless and sending
Dr. Cockburn, then its Agent-General, to inspect the
Marconi plant at South Foreland. In the same year
wireless was used for the first time in war —in S.
Africa. In December, 1901, came the first trans-
Atlantic message, sent from England to Newfound-
land.
After the war, most of Marconi’s work was done
on the Elettra, a 700-ton yacht, which had been built
for the Archduchess Maria Theresa of Austria. To
the inventor the yacht was home, and from her he did
most of his experiments in long-distance telephony.
It was from this vessel that the first radio telephone
conversations of any length were held with Australia
in 1930. It had been arranged that Marconi should
open a radio exhibition at the Sydney Town Hall by
sending a Morse letter on a three-quarter horse-power
plant from Genoa Harbor.
Those conversations were uncanny experiences.
Often they were clearer than suburban telephone talks.
Once we heard the captain of the yacht putting the
ship’s dog out of the cabin. Somebody condoled with
the inventor on the illness of his second wife, about
which there had been a cable. “Oh, that is all right,”
said he ; “it’s just another little Marconi.”
After the Town Hall lights had been switched
on from Genoa, an attempt was made to broadcast
a speech by Marconi. Odd sentences came through
—they were the first direct broadcast words from
Europe heard in a public hall in Australia.
A more limited audience heard him on the tele-
phone. Half an hour before he was to begin talking
I checked times with him. “You have half an hour
to wait,” I said. “Oh, dear,” said Marconi, “what
can I do with half an hour?” “You might whistle
opera,” I suggested. Immediately the notes of “Questa
o quella” from “Rigoletto” came over the air. And
for a quarter of an hour three Australian girls who
were listening-in on a panel had an exclusive concert
from Genoa.
Marconi’s is one of the few names of the cen-
tury which will be remembered in a thousand years.
Like most men who are truly great, he was a simple
fellow who lived frugally and valued his work a lot
more than he valued his titles, patriot though he was.
He was the type of Italian who gets on well with the
peoples of other nations, level-headed, capable and
considerate of others’ opinions. All his first assistants
were English, and nearly all remained with him to
the end. With some of his early employees, Aus-
tralia’s Ernest Fisk among them, he maintained life-
long friendships after they had left his service,
acknowledging generously the work they did in the
development of his great gifts to his age and ages
to come.
Marconi was to have visited Australia next year,
and no better ambassador could have been found.
The presence of this noble Italian would have helped
to scotch the anti-Italian feeling which Reds and
some newspapers have aroused, and recalled to
Australians how well they got along with Majer-
onis, Carandinis, Fiaschis, Ramaciottis and the like,
and how greatly the children of such Italians resemble
Australians of British descent, not only in thoughts,
convictions and feelings, but, in some cases, even in
appearance. Like 98 per cent, of his countrymen,
Marconi accepted the form of government they have
had since 1922—if it suits them and does not threaten
us, it is no concern of ours —and was one of his
country’s stoutest champions in 1935-36. It must
have been a bitter blow when the so-very correct, it
pinkish, B.B.C. refused him the privilege of putting
its case to the world in the language of his mother
through the medium of his own invention.
EL V.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Missing Line.
Business is not as good as it was in Sydney, and not
nearly as good as it could and should be.
In the industrial and financial situation and out-
look there is nothing to warrant a slump. Wool,
wheat and base-metal prices are very good ; companies
reporting recently, notably 8.H.P., Mort’s Dock,
Meggitts, the Metropole and Port Jackson Steam,
have shown healthy profits; bank deposits have
substantially increased; the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, after providing for what it clairhs
to be record defence expenditure, has produced
a surplus of £1,276,000 and the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment one of £135,000. They are both taxing far too
much, but the community is standing up under the
strain.
Parts of the country could do with more rain,
but there is no sign of a drought; strikes are threat-
ened by agitators who were compelled to keep then-
mouths shut for six or seven years, but no one takes
these menaces very seriously. Yet it is a general
remark when businessmen meet that things are dull,
and there is widespread concern as to the future.
What is the explanation? Scaremongering in
the public prints; an incessant parade of alarming
headlines and posters; disingenuous presentation as
ascertained fact of conjecture, exaggeration, inven-
tion ; relegation of real and significant news which
contradicts the sensationalism to the bottom of the
column or the next page; a seemingly interminable
succession of “crises” which never come to anything.
This is what is unsettling men’s minds, worrying
the sharemarket and causing employers to button up.
Wrong about Abyssinia, wrong about the Spanish
civil war, these prints have become marvels of mis-
information on foreign affairs. When one war scare has
been exhausted, a fresh one is discovered; they proceed
from one mare’s-nest to another. The latest was that
British warships exercising off Portland had discov-
ered a German submarine prowling underneath them
and brought it up with depth charges. This was
exploited in a marrow-freezing poster and caption,
and the reader had to dig deep into the narrative
before he was permitted to learn that there was
nothing in it; that it was actually a British submarine
which was brought up, by “depth charges” as innocu-
ous as crackers, because a German submarine “on
her way up the Channel” had been sighted “approach-
ing on the surface from two miles away.”
Actually, the Germans had a few days before
s jgned a renewal and amplification of their naval-
limitation agreement with the British Government.
(The Russians have also signed a naval-limitation
agreement with Britain.) But that’s back-page stuff.
To the same category as this German submarine
“sensation” belong the stories that “the Germans
have mounted heavy guns for the bombardment of
Gibraltar” ; that “the Italians are rapidly fortifying
Majorca and Iviza in the Balearics”; that both
nations have scuttled the Non-intervention Agree-
ment and are preparing to invade Spain, and that only
a miracle could avert an all-in Chino-Japanese war
(“War This Week-end?” was how one newspaper
poster read).
It has not been possible altogether to suppress
the assurance of the British Foreign Minister that the
world situation has improved, or the confirmatory
reports which Mr. Lyons has carried back to Aus-
tralia and Mr. Bennett to Canada, or the withdrawal
of troops from the scene of “fighting” round Peiping,
or the brisk advance in the market price of Chinese
and Japanese securities, or the fact that Mussolini, in
conversation, with old Lansbury, that true man of
peace, and in his directions to Italian wireless stations
forbidding invidious comments on the British plan
for Palestine, has shown himself almost painfully
anxious to conciliate British opinion. There have,
it seems, even been approaches to a renewal of
friendly relations between Moscow and Berlin. But
such things are not sensational, so they are never
starred. They have got to be searched for by the
reader and are easily missed.
Things might improve in Sydney if one line were
kept standing in newspaper offices and printed at the
beginning of every instalment of foreign news. One
line only: THE E. & O.E. SECTION.
The General Was on Holiday.
Since early last year the Japanese have refused to
discuss with the Central Chinese Government their
relations with a semi-independent Chinese area in
the northern provinces of Hopei and Chahar. When
Hopei-Chahar soldiers got into a skirmish with
Japanese soldiers (there have been foreign soldiers
in China for a century) Australian daily newspapers
prophesied that Armageddon was just round the
corner.
This story began to be ridiculous when it was
discovered that the Japanese were importing 35,000
troops to deal with the vast armies of China. Thirty-
five thousand! As many British-Indian troops were
engaged in the recent North-West Frontier campaign,
and they did a hundred times as much shooting as
took place round Peiping. Presently it transpired that
Nanking’s reply to Tokio, “while rejecting the
Japanese demands, was conciliatory in tone and offered
counter-proposals.”
It was drafted after a talk by long-distance telephone
with General Chiang Kai-shek, the leader of the
Nanking Government, who is on holiday at Kuling.
The announcement proved to be the crisis in the
newspaper delirium. Each day afterwards it became
clearer that the scrap was only local, and that Japan
and the Hopei-Chahar Government were settling
their own affairs. Gradually the public was informed
that Peiping had “become normal,” that the with-
drawal of troops had begun, and that the Nanking
Government had approved of the “local conciliatory
agreements between the Japanese and the Chinese
military forces” made under authority of the northern
political council.
It is not yet known whether General Chiang is
back from his holiday.
"Friends" of Mr. Curtin.
Mr. Curtin has some very foolish followers —if they
are his followers.
Arising out of one of those industrial arbitration
awards which nowadays seem to start more trouble
than they prevent, there was a strike in the Northern
Territory last week, and Darwin was caught short of
supplies. To ensure that they wouldn’t starve and
wouldn’t have to fall back on peashooters and cata-
pults if action were required in an emergency, R.A.N.
and C.M.F. men unloaded stores and equipment which
had been brought up from the south. Straightway
the secretary of the N.T. Workers’ Union gave Mr.
Curtin instructions by telegram.
Naval and military forces are working here as wharf-
laborers Mr. Abbott [the Administrator] is behind
this move and must be removed.
Other supporters of Mr. Curtin —if supporters
they are—have been suggesting a strike to compel the
introduction of the 40-hour week, the 40-hour week
being now regarded as a remedy for everything, and
another coal strike. The coal-strike gentry admit that
their last strike “cost a million,” and that there is
so little in the bank that the miners, if called out,
will have to exist on bread and dripping; but sym-
pathisers have assured them that another coal strike
wouldn’t affect the chances of Mr. Curtin’s party:
the coal strike which “cost a million” preceded Mr.
Lang’s Great Victory. Other millions were lost through
Mr.. Lang’s Great Victory, but this the sympathisers
don’t mention.
And an “All-Australian Trade Union Congress”
has been performing in Melbourne on the subject of
defence. After much talk of “activising the masses,”
it adopted a defence “policy” which is in opposition to
the defence policies of the British and Australian
Governments, but enthusiastically in favor of that of
Moscow since Moscow’s tail went down. Its main
point is interference in the affairs of foreign countries
of the kind that Moscow requires. For a beginning,
it would seem, Australia is to interfere in Spain by
way of checkmating Germany and Italy, and also in
China, “to stop Japanese aggression, directed against
Soviet Russia.”
Many people are inclined to vote for Mr. Curtin's
party, because they are becoming weary of the stodgi
ness and complacency and forcible-feebleness of the
other side ; but there is still time for them to change.
They will require positive guarantees from Mr. Curtin
that he won’t be dictated to by silly fellows like the
Darwin person and the coal-strike and Moscow
blatherskites before he gets their votes.
Diagnosis and Prescription.
Sentenced to two years’ transportation to Australia
by the Carnegie Trust, Mr. C. Hartley Grattan has,
he thinks, discovered what is wrong with us (all in
six months or so), and has a ready-made remedy.
Our farmers, it seems, practise “antiquated
methods,” and “are doomed unless they come into
line with world affairs,” and, for a beginning, prevent
further closer settlement. As a nation we aren’t
“facing things vitally.” We are “casual” ; we have
no cult of comfort; and there is a marked absence
of controversy with the gloves Yet we faced
the depression vitally enough, and other Americans
have been good enough to say that we came out of
it pretty well. Certainly it left us no such legacies
as sit-down strikes and factory shootings.
Other people before Mr. Grattan called us casual.
By a strange paradox, Australia was the first
Dominion to spring fully to arms during the war,
and there are no remarks in German war histories
about the Diggers’ carelessness or laxity.
It was from a casual Australian that the Wright
brothers got the theories which enabled them to make
the first aeroplane flight. The slotted wing was the
invention of another casual Australian. A third
pioneered the U.S.A.-Australia air connection; a
fourth was the first to fly from the American conti-
nent to Europe across the North Pole. Also, an
Australian invented the type of thrust-block which
makes the larger ships of Uncle Sam’s Navy a
possibility.
Mr. Hartley Grattan is something of a social
volcanist. He has divined “under the placid surface
of Australian life... .a smouldering fire which sooner
or later must find open expression and powerful sup-
port.” There is certainly a growing discontent with
the Federal system which Australia borrowed from
the U.S.A., the clumsy and costly apparatus of
State Governments, Commonwealth Government and
High Court, but Australia will evolve a better system
without a civil war.
Mr. Hartley Grattan’s ready-made remedy is Left
Wing social-democracy. v An Australian, Mr. Bridges,
is offering it in large doses to Americans, and seems
to have collected a huge number of patients. His
own countrymen reject it.
All Is Forgiven.
The glad news has rung round N. S. Wales that
Mr. R. W. D. Weaver has been chosen by his party
to succeed the late Daniel Levy as Speaker.
Mr. Weaver will be a picturesque Speaker, as
he was a picturesque Minister. He has a powerful
voice and, in a provincial way, is a master of gibes,
flouts and sneers. He was the first M.L.A. to use
loudspeakers—wharves were once equipped with
amplifiers which deafened ferry travellers with the
assurance that Weaver Wouldn’t Wobble.
Mr. Weaver’s political career has been turbulent.
He was in the thick of things—on the right side, of
course—during the 1917 strike. He was a “Progres-
sive” or something for a time, but when a Nationalist
was required to give a rowdy Labor boy a lick with
the rough side of his tongue Mr. Weaver could always
be depended upon to give it. In the Bavin Govern-
ment Mr. Weaver was Minister for Mines and Forests.
Rothbury was his monument.
Mr. Stevens gave Mr. Weaver the Health port-
folio. It takes a genius at getting into trouble to
raise a decent quarrel in the Health Department.
Mr. Weaver succeeded in doing it. He quarrelled
with hospital committees and doctors; he gave the
B.M.A. beans; finally, he fell out with the Premier.
A Hospitals Bill had been drafted; Mr. Weaver said
it would be withdrawn ; Mr. Stevens denied it.
In December, 1934, Mr. Weaver wrote a letter
to the Premier:
I find it difficult to be barely civil to anyone. I am
almost biting myself with indignation over my own
doings.
Mr. Stevens explained that Mr. Weaver had “enjoyed
bad health for some considerable time.” In February,
1935, the Ministry was reconstructed, with Mr.
Weaver left out.
Now this political impersonation of largeness of
mind and lucidity of temper is to see to the due
observance of the forms of the House and the rules
of debate and all that sort of thing. Should he
ever find it difficult to be barely civil to anyone, it
is to be hoped that he will relieve the situation by
biting himself.
Air Force Accidents.
British newspapers report that there has been an
alarming number of accidents in the Royal Air Force,
and that the British public is worried. Australians
have cause for worry at the number of R.A.A.F.
accidents.
Last year’s R.A.A.F. history opened with the
overturning of a machine at Webb’s Creek, Victoria,
during a forced landing. Then came an inquest on
two women, spectators at an aerial display in Swansea
(Tas.), at which a machine descended a few feet
too low.
In April an R.A.A.F. ’plane was lost with three
men in the Northern Territory. They were rescued
after ten days.
In June an R.A.A.F. cadet ’plane dropped into
Port Phillip ; in September a fighting machine fell into
the Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.). The year ended
with a collision between two Point Cook ’planes, one
pilot dying, and the loss of a ’plane in the Brisbane
Ranges (Vic.), the pilot being seriously injured.
Since Mav 12 this year a machine has crashed
at Mortlake (Vic.) and a pilot has been killed doing
acrobatics over Townsville (Q.).
Now an R.A.A.F. seaplane is reported missing. It
was last seen a few miles from its base at Point Cook
skimming along 40 feet above Port Phillip. Two
capable pilot officers were aboard. Afterwards some-
body reported that he had seen something like an
overturned seaplane in the water.
In the development of air defence casualties there
must be. The explanation offered in Britain is that
there have been vast additions of men and machines
to the R.A.F. in a short time. But there have been
no corresponding increases in Australia, and people
studying the records must needs wonder what is
wrong.
Lip-service and Slums.
The Duns tan Government, the Melbourne City
Council and various other metropolitan municipalities
continue to pay lip-service to the necessity for housing
reform and slum-abolition.
Last February a Victorian municipal association
deputation asked Works Minister Goudie for amend-
ments of the Local Government Act empowering
municipalities to deal with slums more effectively.
Greater powers to control subdivision of land and to
define building limitations were requested. Authority
was also sought to enable municipal councils to insist
on provision of bathroom and laundry facilities
in houses erected before 1934.
Mr. Goudie, of course, said it was a “policy”
matter. Now, as a result of “policy,” Chief Secretary
Bailey has produced a bill based on last session’s
Greater Melbourne measure then knocked back by
the Leg. Council. The bill proposes to extend the
powers of the Metropolitan Board of Works to
include, among other matters common to the muni-
cipalities, “control of housing.”
The municipal association can see no good in it,
although it has admitted the desirability of vesting
housing control in a single authority. Melbourne
cannot really tackle its slum and near-slum problems
until the present multiplicity of warring municipal
regulations, which prevent building uniformity, are
ironed out by such a body.
The housing problem is a job for some Govern-
ment-sponsored authority, and municipalities, if they
are sincere in their advocacy of slum-abolition
principles, should be glad to yield some of their
powers—even if the Government wishes to make its
central authority an extended Board of Works.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Katie Keyboard”: Gee, it makes a
girl think, reading that piece, in the paper
about the boss getting fined £2O for kiss-
ing the typist and then having it marked
down to half-price because the Judge
said it was only an affront to the girl
and not a public offence. But there’s a
girl in our office has been making goo-
goos at the manager ever since, and if
anyone gets fined here it ought to be her
not him and I’d tell any Judge that if
I’m called as a witness. And I think
there ought to be. an award rate for
girls getting kissed by the boss only if
there was then some girls I know would
think they’d lose their jobs on account
of their never having a hope of earning
the award unless they were working with
a blind boss. And my boy friend who's
in a solicitor’s office says the girl in our
office is a public offence herself and the
boss couldn’t affront her not if he tried
his hardest.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Though the language of
objurgation is always being added to,
“cow” is still regarded in this country as
almost the most insulting epithet one
bloke can hurl at another; the most
insulting where boys are concerned. I
have heard the use of “blankard” justi-
fied in a police court on the ground that
the bloke in the dock had applied it to the
other bloke “in a friendly sort of way” ;
but a hissed or shouted “cow” admits of
no such defence. The designation of the
patient beast whose milk nourishes the
babies of the world and furnishes a means
of livelihood to no small part of its in-
habitants has no opprobioua significance
in Britain. It has among the French and
Italians, but, in reversal of the Aus-
tralian custom, they reserve it exclusively
for females. Byron mentions in his
Letters that he called one. of his numer-
ous lady friends vacca, a cow. He ex-
plains that it was a “sad affront,” vacca
being to a Venetian of her type “the
equivalent of the feminine of dog, and
quotes the affronted one’s reply: “Tua
vacca, ’Celenza” (Your cow, Excellency).
His lordship thought it extremely nice
of her.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: What an advance has
taken place lately in the education of
Judges! A few years ago, if a lady had
produced some captured underclothing in
a divorce court, there would have been a
dialogue something like this:
’Sonah: But, Mr. Buzfuz, how do the
jury know this is underclothing? What is
the evidence of it?
Buzfuz (to witness): I hate to embarrass
you, madam, but you know, in fact, what
constitutes underclothing? I trust I am not
overstepping the bounds of—er —propriety
in asking you to name the garments?
’Sonah (helpfully): Perhaps she might
write it down.
(Amid universal atmosphere of
shamefaced relief the plaintiff writes,
blushing. The paper is handed to the
Bench.)
’Sonah: What’s this? What’s this?
K-n-i-c-k Um!
(Counsel crowd round blushing.
Loud laughter in court. Usher shouts
“Silence!”)
’Sonah: Tch! Tch! I think we had
better leave it as —er —underclothing, Mr.
Buzfuz. (’Sonah blushes.)
Buzfuz: As y’Onor pleases.
(The plaintiff wriggles and blushes.
Everybody blushes.)
But what happened in a Brisbane court
the other day?:
Mrs. produced several articles of
underwear and explained that the last
article was a small pair of knickers.
Upon which ’Sonah commented:
A pair of scanty scanties, I think. Were
all those things in the box when you picked
them up?
And not even a K.C. seems to have
blushed.
❖ ❖ H*
“Kwakpfak”: The daily sight of school
kids twisting their spines in carrying
heavy bags of books by a strap looped
over one shoulder makes one wonder
how much good our school hygiene ex-
perts are really doing. “Scoliosis” (it
means scholar’s stoop) is a frequent re-
sult, with a dropped shoulder, curved
“And now, my good people, what has life on this earth taught you ?”
“What a .fool a bloke is to try and farm on it!”
spine and raised hip, often for life. The
rucksack type of book-bag, with straps to
both shoulders, should be made compul-
sory. The old-fashioned pattern of desk
and seat, usually placed without the
slightest regard for the lighting of the
room, is another anti-health feature of
many Australian schools. Bad sitting
attitude is highly injurious to young
spines, and many of the eye defects of
later life are directly traceable to school
eyestrain. If half the money spent on
fancy school stunts was put into good
seating and lighting, we should be a
healthier race. r ...»
M: * * *
“Tuart”: A Victorian policeman has
been convicted of bigamy, but the Judge
is to state a case for the Court of
Criminal Appeal. A widower, the John
met and “married” a lady who told him
she was a widow. A husband turned up,
there was a divorce, and he married
her again. His defence was that, when
espousing his third, he believed that the
second had not been free to marry, No.
2 having told him (she denied it) that
the decree had not been made absolute.
One would expect guardians of the law
to be careful to ascertain their legal
standing when engaging in these romantic
contracts, but this is not always the case.
Westralia had a policeman who married
his brother’s widow. Not for years did
the parties learn that marriage with a
deceased brother’s wife was unlawful in
their State ; and then there was the devil
to pay.
* * * * _
“Bushy”: The ’plane is always making
history somewhere. At Hamilton (Vic.)
lambs were suddenly seized by a mys-
terious disease. Its deadliness was so
marked that a ’plane was chartered, and
a few carcasses sent to Melbourne for
expert diagnosis. Verdict: entero-
toxaemia, or pulpy-kidney. Back flew
the ’plane with vaccine, and into the
lambs it went, with beneficial results.
... * . r * Mr AAA -1 t-
Jamwood : Out of the fl 5 000 it got
from the Canberra Government last year,
the Australian National Travel Associa-
tion is financing a “Come to Australia ’
newspaper advertising campaign in
Britain. The advertisements are adorned
with the inevitable, illustration of a grin-
ning young woman in insufficient cloth-
ing. She is a very short young woman:
judged by Australian standards, too short
and too broad in the beam; but that is
not the point. The point is that as a
tourist attraction the grinning young
woman in insufficient clothing is sinfully
overdone. She is to be found in multi-
tudes on all British, European and Ameri-
can beaches ; her inane laughter is borne
on every sea-breeze that blows ; and her
legs are the staple of the illustrated sec-
tion in the entire newspaper press. We
are more likely to get tourists by offer-
ing them a means of escaping from these
overexposed props than by provoking
the profane inquiry “Is this all that
Australia can offer?” A picture of a
peaceful desert with no bathing beauty
anywhere in sight would have an im-
mensely greater pull.
“Bolloween”: Charged with a message
for Paddy Pugh at the Vegetable Markets
I prowled around for some time unsuc-
cessfully asking where he could be found
and at last asked an ancient Chinaman.
“Oh, yeh,” he said, “me know him,”
and, steering me to a doorway, bade me
enter. Within was a noisome den occu-
pied by a couple of whites and a number
of Chinese, all engaged in some, business
I failed to fathom, but no sign of the
man I sought. When I turned to leave
my grinning guide desired to know if I
wished to “markum ticket.” Then it
dawned on me that to Chinese ears.
Paddy Pugh sounded much the same as
pak-a-pu.
* * * *
“Siz”: Can’t make out what’s hap-
pened to journalists who ply the nib up
around my old stamping ground—there
hasn’t been a flood reported from those
parts for a month past. We used to
manage better than that. Floods drew
the “local correspondent” a regular div.
from the city papers, particularly to the
town where a fair fresh in the high-
banked river could put the main wharf-
down on the water level 40-odd feet
under water. This frequent occurrence
never once failed to induce city papers
to put up the standing headline “Flood
Menace,” and there you had a good
whack towards the rent. Another town,
lacking a low-level wharf, had some poor
weatherboard shacks in a gully the river
once cut across, and these served their
purpose passing well in enlivening a flood
story for city consumption. It must be
that the “local correspondents” are
nowadays a poor lot; absence of rain
doesn’t explain it, because a month with-
out rain is a drought thereabouts and
there has been no “Drought Menace”
recorded. Not in quite the same class as
“Flood Menace,” “Drought Menace” was
also always good for a bob or two.
Surely all the “local correspondents”
aren’t in Spain and China!
* * * *
“8.C.L.”: I note that Joe Lyons,
, th h Cambri dge Uni. made a D.C.L.
* .. 6 , , known as
hfm wili not elect to be known as
Doctor m his own country. Most
overseas notables on whom these mex-
pensive tributes of admiration are con-
ferred forbear to advertise their aca-
demic distinctions ; Bruce, for instance,
has acquired several honoris causa de-
grees, while Billy Hughes has a whole
bagful of them—Billy is a D.C.L. or
LL.D. of no fewer than five British uni-
versifies. The only notable exception I
can recall was Winthrop Hackett, pro-
prietor-editor of the “West Australian,”
who drew attention to his own altruism
for several years in Who’s Who with the
item “offered knighthood in 1902, but
declined.” In the same year Dublin made
a D.C.L. of him, and he chose to sig-
nalise that by altering his prefix from
“Mr.” to “Doctor,” furnishing a local
bard a bit later on with a rather happy
limerick:
r m Hackett, a hefty old cock,
Of ancient Hibernian stock,
M ere . kni s htho ° d 1 scorn
With pride my diploma of Doc.
Marrying late in life, however, Hackett
reconsidered his determination to despise
knighthood and, getting a second offer
of it, dropped the “Doc.” to become “Sir
Winthrop.”
$ * * *
“Adelaide”: When a policewoman
protested to a Port Adelaide magistrate
at being excluded from the court while
a girl of 14 was giving evidence of an
alleged indecent assault, and needed (the
officer said) a woman’s sustaining pres-
ence, the P.M. had the pluck to declare:
“There is an age-old tendency of women,
and especially small girls, to tell lies re-
garding incidents like this. You inter-
viewed her, it is possible that you exer-
cised some influence, and it is therefore
advisable that you should not be present
while she is being cross-examined.” But
another policewoman was allowed in
later.
❖ * * ❖
“Sabre Gore”: Inoculation against
typhoid is not compulsory in the Navy
(B. 14/7/’37). As it might be defined
as a “major” operation, the rating’s con-
sent is necessary. If a member of the
Naval Service refuses inoculation or vac-
cination he is simply not allowed to land
where an M.O. considers risk entailed.
In the Mediterranean that means pretty
well anywhere, so Jack usually changes
his mind in the long run. The stubborn
ones complete their current engagement
and are not allowed to sign on agaim
LANG ON PROSPERITY.
“Isn’t it worth a bob to get a Labor Government
in power which will give prosperity to the worker?”
— J. T. Lang, asking support for Labour’s Federal
election fund.
It’s an unquestioned verity we all desire pros-
perity, .
Whether we work with brawn or brain, with
pickaxe or with pen,
Likewise we loathe adversity. Whoever can
disperse it, he
Should be assured the gratitude of all his
fellow-men.
Still, what you apprehend upon the subject
will depend upon
Whether you’re thinking of yourself or study-
ing the mob,
And “Lang upon Prosperity” should surely
strike posterity,
If ever handed down to them, as worth —
well worth —a bob!
It sends one’s mind a-wandering through by-
gone years and pondering
What happened in his crowded hour of
power, his little day,
That time of bounce and blundering when lots
of us were wondering
If civil servants mightn’t have to whistle
for their pay.
Those shuttered banking premises one thinks
about —and Nemesis
Arriving per vice-regal boot to part him from
his job,
And all those hustings promises of poor old
Johnny Thomas’s,
Those pre-election baits that proved not to
be worth a bob.
Come, shell the nimble shilling out for words
they’ll soon be shrilling out
When in the coming faction fight ten thou-
sand tongues cut loose,
They’ll serve to heat the verbal irons for Joseph
Aloysius Lyons,
For giving beans to Paterson and cooking
Parkhill’s goose.
But “Lang upon Prosperity,” consid’ring the
celerity
With which he steered us out of it to days
of stress and sob,
Should lighten even Labor heads’ habitual
severity.
For sheer, chilled-steel temerity it’s surely
worth a bob.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bullsbrook”: The wife of a West-
ralian railway employee, travelling on
a pass, had an arm broken when she
lost her balance and fell on alight-
ing, allegedly but not admittedly
through the train moving on too
quickly. She sued the Commissioner
of Railways for £lOO. damages on
the ground of negligence. The case was
heard in the Bunbury Local Court, where
it was argued for the defence that re-
striction of liability for injuries was a
condition of the issue of railway passes.
The R.M. thought otherwise, and gave
judgment for the full amount. Presum-
ably the same situation might arise in
the case of a politician or a distinguished
visitor travelling free, though I’ve never
heard of such a happening.
“Dilrig”: Opium bootlegging in Aus-
tralia, China and elsewhere is too cleverly
organised to run more than a sectional
risk of interruption. China’s central
Government is fighting the traffic at both
ends. It tries to capture supplies at the
source, in the backblocks of Yunnan,
Jehol and other border provinces. Radio,
posters, lectures and other warning propa-
ganda media are in constant use in the
cities. Addicts are registered (nearly
2,000,000 listed to date) and compelled
to attend hospitals for periods of treat-
ment ranging up to five years. The Gov-
ernment claims to have made 150,000
cures in the past two years. Chinese
who go back to the drug after being dis-
charged as cured are executed without
the option. But registration lists still
grow; headsmen still keep busy: and
British, Chinese, Japanese, French,
"This is gorgeous! Let's go right to the summit this time, John."
American, Dutch and Italian ships still
lose nearly every game of hunt-the-
bootlegger.
* : !' * *
“Sakit Prut”: Most police departments
have completely effective toe- and sole-
prints from people without hands. An
identifiable print can be obtained from
most parts of the exposed skin—the nose
tip, for example. Most animals, as well
as humans, can be identified in this
manner. The skin patterns in man never
change from the time at which the skin
attains full surface development during
gestation to its final destruction after
death. The same thing probably occurs
in most animals.
* * * %
“Sky - high”: A fellow - passenger’s
story. She had to support and comfort
a nervous little woman on her first flight.
“I had to come this way,” said the ner-
vous little woman. “My husband’s gone
“ Now, remember, young man , not too fast and DO keep your foot on the
brake."
to Sydney by train, and I know he has
taken another woman. I must get
to Sydney ahead of him.” Meet-
ing the little woman in Adelaide
some weeks later, the f.-p. heard the
sequel. “Oh, yes, I met the train at
Sydney station and they both got out.
I rushed up and told him I’d come to
give him a lovely surprise and pretended
I didn’t see her. She slunk off, and that
was the end of her little game. I had
a splendid holiday.”
* * * *
“Morita”: If, as “Red Heckle.” states
(B. 21/7/’37), the Jocks wore no breeks
under their kilts in France, how the devil
did they get through mustard gas with-
out a wholesale exodus to hospital? I
remember in the summer days of the
Strezeele fighting, when crowds of the
A.I.F. had gone back to shorts, we were
forbidden to wear the shorts into the line.
I wore mine in under breeches before
discarding the latter, and forthwith col-
lected inflamed knees from traces of
mustard gas in the wheat crops we strode
through. I pity any Kiltie with a good
mustard burn, on all the bare skin he’d
have to suffer with. If the mud and gas
of France didn’t prove the kilt was a
ridiculous war-time uniform- —it was even
shorn of its glory in having to be cov-
ered with a khaki apron—the latest anti-
gas equipment should sound its death-
knell.
* * # *
“Gunner”: I can assure any who may
still have doubts about it that men with
German-sounding names were not rushed
for the A.I.F. I was one. My father and
mother were both Australian-born Scots.
Also my paternal grandmother. Yet I
was accepted only on changing my name
and signing papers to the effect that I was
absolutely loyal. Neither parents nor
self know one word of German.
“Ex-P.B.L”: No, the color of a
marksman’s eyes doesn’t matter a hoot.
My brother, one of the three most highly-
regarded snipers in a Canuck battalion,
had brown eyes; his offsider, an Indian
from Hudson Bay, had eyes as black as
coals; the sniper corporal, a French
Canadian, had green eyes. In my own
lot the four battalion snipers could only
muster one blue-eyed sharpshooter. Cer-
tainly many German snipers were blue-
eyed men, but I remember a Bavarian
at Messines who had caused many
casualties in our ranks. He. was at last
located, in a steel tree in no-man’s-land,
and dealt with by a field gun. That even-
ing we got his body in. His eyes were
as brown as my own.
% * * *
“Anno Dom.”: Lloyd George is the
present long-distance champion of the
House of Commons; he has put 47
years of Parliamentary life behind him,
and, with any luck, should see his half-
century on the scoring-board. Billy
Hughes is only four years behind the
“Welsh Wizard” ; William arrived in the
N.S.W. Assembly in ’94, and his Parlia-
mentary career has never been inter-
rupted since. Probably his Australian
runner-up, though I won’t be quite cer-
tain, is Harry Gregory, the Westralian
M.H.R., now in his 77th year, who has
sat in Parliaments, first State, then Fed-
eral, with one brief break between his
transition from one to the other, since
1897.
* * * ❖
“Visitor”: Two big banking changes
are planned in Adelaide. The State Sav-
ings Bank will leave the Currie-street
home it built about 30 years ago, and
erect a place, in King William-street,
near the G.P.O. and opposite the Town
Hall. The Bank of N.S.W. talks of
spending £lOO,OOO in rebuilding on its
present site, which is possibly the finest
in Adelaide, directly opposite Govern-
ment House, diagonally opposite Parlia-
ment House and next to the Adelaide
Club. Its present building, about half a
century old, was in its time one of the
city’s best; so roomy, in fact, that much
of it was let for doctors’ consulting-
rooms.
* * * *
“De. Shuff”: “Schnorrer’s” par. on the
late Dan Levy and Saturday voting by
Jewish electors (B. 14/7/’37) recalls that
in his campaign against the proposed
6 p.m. closing of booths Levy made very
effective play with the fact that in Aus-
tralia Jews had never previously been
threatened with civic disabilities. That
meant they had stood on equal terms
with the rest of the community since
1817, when they first began to congregate
in Sydney. Don’t know whether there
was a Jewish member of the ’42 Leg.
Assembly, but, at any rate, representation
was possible—which was more than it
was in Britain, for orthodox Jews, until
16 years later.
'!• -I- $
“Spare Borgia”: The self-poisoning of
a small boy in Sydney puzzled the doctors
until it was revealed that the sufferer had
been chewing the seeds of the thorn
apple, an imported plant which grows
freely on waste lands about Sydney. The
vegetable has a sinister history. It was
the favorite poison used by the Thugs in
India as an alternative to their usual
method of operating on their victims
with the sacred handkerchief. They
knew it as datura, and under that name
it is enshrined in the British pharmo-
copoeia, and is still popular in the land
of its origin for putting an adversary or
other unwanted person out of the way.
* * * * ,
“Ologist”: Several authorities could be
cited against Fowler (B. 21/7/’37) to sup-
port the contention that “try and”
is illogical and ungrammatical. The Dic-
tionary of Grammar, by James A. Hen-
nesy, gives several examples of incorrect
usage, among them the sentence “I will
try and do it.” Another American
authority, Farquson Johnson, says:
The wrong use of “and” in such cases
is very common. It is permissible only
when two distinct acts are involved by
the verbs, and should never be used as a
substitute for the infinitive.
1 submit that Fowler is hair-splitting
when he says that “try and do” has a
shade of meaning that justifies its exis-
tence.
* * -Y
“Ike Hollar”: Two shops fell vacant
in our suburb recently; both have
bloomed again as “Hamburgers,” making
seven of these establishments in the
district. In my own young days, when
pubs were open and roistering seemed
more carefree than now, a few pie-stalls
and the saveloy merchant with his port-
able stove at the street corner filled all
our needs for solid sustenance in the
pre- or post-midnight hours. But girls
did not roister in those days; ,\nd it is
when girls join in that joints li£e these
become profitable.
{Continued on page 50.)
“THAT WAS POZIERES!"
Pointing to the map, he said, "This is Pozieres.
Here’s the point where we attack. Our objec-
tive’s there!
Everybody clear on that? No more questions.
Right!
See that everything is jake! We move in to-
night!”
From a shallow trench we saw, while the sun
was high.
Dust that once was Pozieres lifting to the sky.
Many other things we saw in the days between
Then and when we came to where Pozieres had
been.
Pointing o'er the snow, he said, “That was
Pozieres!
Eighteen months ago we had an appointment
there.
We arrived a little late, owing to the fuss,
And the poor old town, it seems, couldn’t wait
for us.”
I’d have liked to see the place, even though,
maybe,
Is was, at its very best, nothing much to see.
Still and all, I would have liked to see Pozieres,
After all the trouble that we had in getting
there.
Pozieres is built again, 1 have heard it said;
Pozieres has come again, risen from the dead.
3ut to him and me it is neither here nor there
That it can again be said, “This is Pozieres!”
W.A.
OSCAR WAITERS.


*
*L
10 for 9 A
‘IQforl'O
WI883
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke—
CRAYENA
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
THE
CIGARETTE
□B
THIS
G E N E R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
Lyons denies that he is going to put
himself on the Inter-State Commission.
And Pearce? At a place called Zanthus,
reputedly the home of three railwaymen
and a lot of kangaroo-rats, the Senator
was very voluble last week, but not on
that subject.
One thing evident from the report on
banking: None of the six commissioners
agrees with the idea of Lang-planners
and some others that Australia possesses
an inexhaustible supply of untapped
credit capable of overcoming all kinds of
financial difficulties.
Page has rebuked Mclntosh, the S.A.
Lands Minister, for saying that, “despite
forecasts of the disaster that would
follow if the marketing referendum were
defeated, prices of primary produce, here
and abroad, have been more than main-
tained, and land values have gone up.”
Mclntosh was the one Country-party
politician who was against the destruc-
tion of the inter-State freetrade clause.
No amount of chiding can alter the fact
that he was right and that Page and the
rest of the Dismal Jimmies were, wrong.
Sound the. loud timbrel from Can-
berra to Sydney:—
N.S.W. officials estimate that they [they]
will have £16,000,000 of loan money to
spend this year.
That’s nearly £6 a head. Commonwealth
loan expenditure in N.S.W. will make up
the difference. There are countries that
don’t owe £6 a head.
Police court disclosures suggest that
the trade, in smuggled Chinese has been
renewed on a brisk scale ; it is alleged
that 10 were brought ashore at Geelong
in one crate and carried to N.S.W. by
tourist car. No doubt the smugglers
have been encouraged by the case of the
market gardener who evaded the immi-
gration authorities for 14 years. He was
pardoned by Tummas Paterson because
he had behaved himself, even whilst
Tummas was expelling Mrs. Freer on
undisclosed (and undiscoverable) evi-
dence that she hadn’t behaved.
Another friendly Dutchman has arrived
in Australia as “consul in charge of trade
and commerce,” and he had a, jovial
message for the reporters:
It will give me as much pleasure to
arrange to trade Australian produce in
Java as to bring out produce here. I am
just as fond of giving as I am of taking.
Still Australia has had no reason to
alter Canning’s estimate:
In matters of commerce the fault of the
Dutch
Is offering too little and asking too much.
For five years to June 30, 1936, Austra-
lian imports from the N.E.I. were valued
at £18,854,400, and Australian exports to
the N.E.I. at £6,164,800. And most of
the trade was carried in Dutch bottoms.
A lot of Sydney politicians would like
to forget all about S. A. Maddocks, but
circumstances won’t let them. Maddocks
was abroad for seven months of 1929-
1930 and six months of 1935-1936 cram-
ming his mind with the efficiency and wis-
dom alleged to be imparted by foreign
travel at the public expense. In between
he expropriated private, bus services, had
scores of lorry-drivers fined for follow-
ing the old friendly Australian custom of
giving footsloggers a lift and had lorries
seized on the King’s highway. Now
some of the dispossessed busmen are de-
manding compensation. And, although
Maddocks is in gaol and has formally re-
signed, it will require a special Act of
Parliament before he ceases to be Trans-
port Commissioner in law.
If the opportunity presented itself,
heaps of Victorians would wager a year’s
income that the Hocking-Dunstan Cocky
faction couldn’t win two Federal seats
without U.A.P. or Labor preferences.
Yet it had the effrontery to tell Page’s
Country-party conference that before it
would even consider whether it would
graciously approve of any Common-
wealth Government there would have to
be a total surrender to its terms, i.e. : —
Consent of the central council to any
proposed composite Ministry.
Cancellation of the membership of any
Federal member not observing the con-
ditions.
At least half the portfolios.
The report says “these principles were
accepted.” If they are “principles,” Ned
Kelly was a moving mass of them.
In its Parliamentary reports, Melbourne
“Age” never lets the “Conservative” dogs
get the better of it. In its account
of an Assembly debate on what it is
pleased to call the Reform Bill it asserted
that “Sir S. Argyle ignored several
pertinent questions directed at him in the
course of a long, rambling and labored
speech” ; that the Premier spoke “with
considerable vigor,” and that Mr. Cain
(“slyly”) and Mr. Tunned iffe (“ironi-
“An Unlawful Assemblies Ordinance has been proclaimed at Canberra. The object
is to prevent a repetition of the unemployed demonstrations staged near Parliament House
and led by a son of the Minister of Health, Mr. W. M. Hughes.”
The “Outski" Scene from the Canberra Version of “Orphans of the Storm.”
cally”) made interjections that seem
pointless, though friends of Mr. Cain,
Mr. Tunnecliffe and the Premier were
convulsed with laughter. It is question-
able whether one-sided reporting really
advances the cause the “Age” has at
heart, whatever it may be.
Caulfield, the Australian chiefly re-
sponsible for the great Singapore airport
job, has advised Canberra that Rose Bay
is the only suitable site for immediate
use as a Sydney flying-boat base. Rose
Bay residents, who had previously per-
mitted parochialists, provincialists and
procrastinators to have nearly all the
say, bestirred themselves last week, and
at one of two public meetings carried
a resolution in favor of the Rose Bay
site ; at the second, put in a small hall,
it was lost by a small majority. On the
first occasion W. M. Kelly, formerly
M.H.R. for Wentworth, drily disputed
“the claim that the base would spoil a
beautiful area.”
I inspected the area and found it
neglected and dirty, with a commercial
wharf, commercial baths, extensive mud
flats and a number of .not very beautiful
flats owned by the Mayor.
The Mayor is leading the agitation
against the site, and the State and Com-
monwealth Governments humbly defer
to his views.
Bridges, the Australian who has led the
Pacific Slope wharf-laborers in a succes-
sion of strikes, is now a big gun in John
L. Lewis’s Committee for Industrial
Organisation. The magazine “Time,” in
an article on his “phenomenal rise to
national fame,” predicts that he will chal-
lenge Lewis for supremacy. The man
must have parts, for he still ranks as an
unnaturalised alien. When the Republi-
cans were in power they contemplated de-
porting him, and made inquiries in Aus-
tralia to that end. The Democrats have
dropped the idea.
In England two or three months ago
the German Ambassador gave the Hitler
salute at a royal levee, and his Majesty
didn’t mind a bit. But when an Italian
tenor gave the Roman salute at Sydney
Town Hall an ill-conditioned alderman
—Grant, the former I.W.W. man —
abused him, and the Lud Mayor talked
of refusing him the use of the Town
Hall if he did it again. He did it again,
not once, but several times, first singing
“God Save the King” and kissing the
Australian flag. A fair-minded audience
cheered him, and the silly agitation
petered out.
Curtin is to get a Mayoral reception
when he goes to Brisbane ; and that is
only right. Menzies didn’t get one, which
seems churlish. However, the Attorney-
General was probably consoled by the
“Courier-Mail’s” rhapsody on his excel-
lences. The “C.-M.” found him “logical,
unimpassioned” and “full of subtle
asides,” and noticed his “jutting jaw of
burly self-reliance,” his “building up of
argument, his detachment, his purposeful-
ness.” It was even dazzled, but not
silenced, by Bob’s “Johnsonian aura of
majesty.”
From a monthly circular issued by
Tilleys, the Sydney brokers:
The conversion effected in London was
not an outstanding success. General market
conditions were not favorable, and this
handicap was increased by the action of
the N.S.W. Government in raising a
London loan of £2,000,000 on behalf of
the Water Board. A discreet lack of pub-
licity has been given to the undesirable
revival of this old habit of borrowing
abroad.
On the other hand, the papers which
have been so discreet have given the
public yards and yards of the ravings
of Lloyd George, the speculations of
“Pertinax” and Madame Two-Blues, and
the inventions of the “Cronk News” about
the Spanish war and the alleged designs
of Mussolini and Hitler.
Australians strike observant strangers
as being rather a taciturn folk. The
people who take part in royal-commis-
sion inquiries must be. a race apart. It
is the exception nowadays for one of
these jobs to be completed within a year,
and the Banking Commission just man-
aged to finish within two years. Its report
runs to 150,000 words. Nobody has suc-
ceeded in counting the number of words
given in evidence, but a member of the
commission has handsomely admitted
that it is a matter of 4,000,000 words.
A Transport Strangulation Board
having cleared 100 busy motor vehicles
off Melbourne-Riverina routes, the Vic.
Railway Department announces that a
“co-ordinated” railway and local road
transport service will “shortly” be in-
troduced to serve Riverina interests.
Meanwhile a Riverina firm has put its
own truck on the roads, and others are
to follow. .
Mr. S. H. Roberts, one of the
numerous band of cocksure professors
who give the public unasked-for advice
and prophecy on foreign affairs, has
reached the conclusion, evidently momen-
tous to Mr. Roberts, that “the dic-
tators have lost their chance.” And so “I
do not think that war is inevitable.”
The safety of the British Empire de-
pends upon the pacts between Russia and
Czechoslovakia and Russia and France.
In other words, Stalin is the master of
our fate. Rubbish, Roberts, rubbish!
The second Roosevelt has suffered his
first decided reverse —the Senate re-
jected his proposals for packing the
Supreme Court. As was shown when
it wrecked Woodrow Wilson’s League of
Nations plan, the Senate is no Presi-
dent’s tool. The Australian Senate could
be equally important, but it never will
be until it ceases to be a refuge for pre-
selected party hacks and gets real leader-
ship instead of the sorry imitation which
is all that Pearce can give.
The much-advertised efforts of the
politicians to arrive at uniformity in the
income-tax field have resulted in the
production of forms which, if anything,
are more baffling than ever. People who
can’t make head or tail of them are at
liberty to employ taxation agents, and,
in effect, pay another tax. Taxation
agents are chiefly ex-employees of taxa-
tion departments.
Tom Clarke, the London journalist,
was summoned to Sydney last year to
give Associated Newspapers some advice.
He was paid £lOOO, and the Federal and
State taxgatherers relieved him of £125
of it. In a book he has written, Clarke
is quite philosophic about it; but on the
Trans, train he met a French woolbuyer
who wasn’t a bit philosophic:
“They don’t grow tea or coffee here,”
he explained, “but they grow good wines.
I can get them in London. When I want
to drink them here, they say ‘impossible,’
and offer me tea. Incroyable!”
The politicians responsible for the inane
prohibitions are beginning another frenzy
of spending in the fatuous belief that
tourists will come here in droves—next
year especially—and put up with them.


THE SKIN GAME.
“Whether mudpacks are harmful or not is the subject of a Hollywood beauty questionnaire.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
long ENGINE LIFE
DEPENDS ON SPAR KINO PLUGS
m
a
y.
m
-YOU CAN DEPEND
as
Champions
.vlr<onr?
Hi
ion s
tn^rhamP
Experience shows that an engine kept free from faulty
ignition is sure to last longer and give better and more
economical service. Profit from the experience of
others install new Champions every year.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading .
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Like his predecessor, Philip Goldfinch,
who is a descendant of Governor King,
H. B. Turner, the young barrister who
has won the U.A.P. nomination for
North Sydney State electorate of Gor-
don, has his roots deeply set in Austra-
lian history. He is a descendant of that
Dickson (sometimes spelt Dixon) who
owned Australia’s first steam mill. Dick-
son was in the forefront of every Syd-
ney public movement, and the journals
of Macquarie’s time show “Dixon’s
Steam Engine” as a favorite rendezvous
for sales, auctions and public meetings.
The first sale of pure-bred stock recorded
in Australia was held there.
An Australian gets one of the big jobs
out of the Palestine Report: Captain
Lewis Yelland Andrews is to be District
Commissioner for Galilee, one of the
three divisions recommended in the
report. Andrews was one of those who
dehorsed themselves to serve on Gal-
lipoli ; afterwards he rejoined the Light
Horse, was grabbed for H.Q. duties, and
when the war ended was given a British
commission and duties in Palestine,
where he became military deputy-gover-
nor. His help in the work of the Pales-
tine Royal Commission gave him a first
call on a job.
Maoriland’s Finance Minister Nash
on his rush trip to- Ottawa found time
to visit compatriot Dr. Diamond Jenness,
who has been chief anthropologist of
Canada’s National Museum since 1925.
Jenness is a Wellington native who, after
student days at Wellington and Victoria
University colleges, took his M.A. at
Oxford. He put in 1911 and 1912 in
Commonwealth Rail Chief.
Papua, and then went to the North Pole
with Stefansson, returning in 1917 to
find there was a war on. He hopped
over with the Canadian forces, and
returned safely to settle down to his job.
The University of New Zealand recently
awarded him its first honorary doctorate
in literature.
“Bull-ant”: Kalgoorlie has gone dry
in its choice of a mayor in selecting
R. G. (Dick) Moore out of a field of
four. Born at Tullamore (N.S.W.) in a
family of 15, Moore built up a black-
smith and wheelwright business in 30
years of Kalgoorlie till the Legislative
Council claimed him for four years.
Narrowly defeated, he went back to his
forge till, with the death of E. E. Brim-
age, anew civic chief was needed. He
is a Sunday-school superintendent and
local preacher in his “wet” city.
Veteran Sydney artist Dattilo-Rubbo
has had cabled advice that his son Syd-
ney, at 25, has been awarded a doctorate
in philosophy at London University for
a thesis in bacteriology. Young Sydney
went to Sydney Uni. from North Sydney
High School and gained his B.Sc. there
when he was 20. At “London” he was
the first Australian to win a two-year
scholarship in his subject, and his present
degree is the culmination of his studies
under Scottish Professor Raistrick. At
the end of the month he marries Ellen
Gray, an Australian fellow-student.
Dr. J. W. H. Lugg, W.A. Uni.’s first
D.Sc., gets one of the Leverhulme re-
search scholarships, worth about £550
p.a. for two years. Graduating with
honors in chemistry in 1928, he has since
1930 done so well for the C.S. and I.R.
and the Pastoral Research Trust that they
sent him to London last year to do special
work on pasture plants. The scholar-
ship will enable him to extend this work,
which is . expected to help solve Austra-
lian pasture problems.
George Alfred Gahan, the
Commonwealth Railways
Commissioner, was on fami-
liar ground when the Port
Augusta-Red Hill railway
link was opened. For many
years he was at Port
Augusta, where, after trans-
ferring from the Vic. to the
Commonwealth railway ser-
vice, he worked up to chief
engineer before succeeding
the late N. G. Bell in 1929.
In the war he was with the
Australian Light Railways
Unit, and has since been
abroad several times on rail-
way business. In 1930 he
published a report on the
economic position of Aus-
tralian railways which is still
regarded as the standard
authority on the Australian
railway position. Gahan be-
lieves air and road transport
has come to stay, but he
doesn’t moan about it, as he
also believes the railways
will always have an import-
ant job to do.
Australian students did
well in England this year.
Beit fellowships for medical
research, usually worth £4OO
a year for three years, went
to R. P. Cook, of Mel-
bourne University, and F. C. Cour-
tice, of Sydney. Queensland Rhodes
scholar J. C. Richards (1934) won the
Telford premium, an engineering prize,
and Tasmanian Rhodes scholar D. J.
Barclay (1935) passed with final honors
in the same subject at Oxford. A. Capel,
Australian lecturer in Oriental studies
at London Uni., received a Leverhulme
grant, while scholarships went to R. D.
Hill (Melbourne) and Miss K. L. Pren-
dergast (W.A.), both at Cambridge, and
I. Lander, a Maorilander, now at Man-
chester.
The Clarke silver medal was awarded
to Vernon Cavell, of Boulder (W.A.),
who was working in the Celebra-
tion mine, Hampton Plains (W.A.),
in August, 1936, 150 ft. down, when a
mate, William Ashwood, fell on some
live charges which he had laid for blast-
ing. Cavell leaned over the winze, which
was 10ft. deep, and pulled Ashwood out
by hand at the fourth attempt. Had
Ashwood pulled him down both would
have been blown to bits.
Competitions for the creation of Mel-
bourne’s Monash and King George V.
memorials both went to W.
Leslie Bowles. Born in
Sydney in 1885, Bowles has
a soft spot for Brisbane;
while apprenticed there to
L. J. Harvey, master wood-
carver, now on the Brisbane
Tech, art staff, he won a
scholarship presented by the
late D. R. McConnel, which
took him to Bertram Mac-
kennal’s London studios. He
served four war years with
the Royal Tank Corps, and
was brought back to
Australia by Canberra
War Memorial adminis-
trators to complete work
begun by C. Web Gil-
bert. That over, he
stayed on in Melbourne.
J. A. Riley has been
farewelled in Adelaide
after close on half a
century of service to the
Chamber of Commerce.
Nearly 30 years ago, on
the death of John Cres-
well, he took over (along
with the N.Z. Insurance
Cos. local management)
this Commerce secre-
taryship ; also that of
the Royal Agricultural
Society and the Cricket Association, both
of which have long since developed into
independent full-time offices.
The Royal Humane Society made some-
thing like a record helping out of medals
following the Wonthaggi disaster. John
McLeish, the g.m., already had a silver
medal won in another blow-up in 1924,
so he gets a bar to it. Ten other silver
medals were given to Cecil Godfrey
Jackson, Mount Palmer (W.A.), miner ;
Percy Edward Hull, Hawthorn (Vic.),
accountant; Howard Michell, Adelaide,
woolbuyer; Henry Thomas Johnston,
Wonthaggi, inspecting engineer; Ronald
Speirs, Wonthaggi, assistant surveyor;
William Edward Fairless, Wonthaggi,
miner ; George Lees, Wonthaggi, under
manager; William Moore, Wonthaggi,
rope-splicer; John Carr, Wonthaggi, pit-
man ; Arthur Edward Rigby, Wonthaggi,
deputy.
Had a seventieth birthday in Adelaide,
Harold Davies, Prof, of Music at the
University, head of the Elder Conser-
vatorium and a noted organist. His
Doctor of Music degree is said to have
been the first (1902) earned in Australia.
He was one of the founders of the Music
Examinations Board, which tries to con-
vince sundry British examining bodies
that they are not really needed here, any
more than Oxford and Cambridge now
need to come here—as of old—to
examine for our universities.
A picture of Marconi:
Marconi in appearance was the most con-
ventional of great inventors. A bit over middle
height and lean of form, he dressed well and
without eccentricity. He spoke English as
fluently as French or Italian, and with only
the slightest trace of an accent in moments of
excitement. Anyone unaware of his nationality
would not have guessed him Italian; his whole
make-up rather suggested the Scandinavian —
except on the hunting field. The Irish strain
which came in on his mother’s side gave him
an inborn passion for following the hounds,
equalled only by his weakness for the sea. He
was fond of a joke, was musical and deeply
religious, and had a great capacity for making
friends, who were mostly British. After he had
become a hereditary marchese, somebody
asked him how he should be addressed. With
a twinkle in his eye, he replied that he “still
answered to mister.” He was one of the
youngest men in history to win the Nobel Prize,
getting it at 35 in a pre-war age when grey
hair was an almost essential qualification.
N. S. Wales Chairman of Committees
Bill Hedges took the chair at the valedic-
tory to Alec McLeish, Parliamentary'
messenger for a score of years. McLeish
was a member of Kitchener’s scouts in
the Boer War and linked up in 1914 for
Gallipoli and France. His burr-r-r was as
pronounced with members as his cour-
tesy. McCourt, Assembly Clerk, just
back from the Coronation, placed the
Sculptor BOWLES.
coping stone on the eulogium. McLeish
will be particularly missed by Country
party members, whose interests he
watched over with the one eye the war
left him.
Some August birthdays:
Q’land’s Gov. Wilson, 61, Justice Halse
Rogers (N.S.W.), 54, Coadjutor-Bishop Dixon
(Bris.), 68, and Prof. Robt. Wallace (Vice-Chan-
cellor, Syd. Uni.), 55, on Ist; S. H. Smith
(formerly N.S.W. Director of Educ.), 72, on
2nd; merchant-knight Wallace Bruce (Adel.),
59, Air Vice-Marshal Williams (Vic.), 47, on
3rd; Rev. Dr. Dey (“Christian World”), 89,
on 4th; H. E. Holt, M.H.R. (Fawkner), 29,
on sth; former Gov.-Gen. Isaacs, 82, knight
Robert M. M. Anderson (Syd.), 70, E. A.
Southee (Hawkesbury Agric. Coll.), 47, S.A.
Senator George McLeay, 44, and poetess Marie
E. J. Pitt, on 6th; poet E. J. Brady, 68, and
knight Lennon Raws (Melb.), 59, on 7th; E. T.
Fisk (A.W.A.), 51, Fed. Commerce Minister
Earle Page, 57, and H. W. Champion (Papua),
57, on Bth; N.S.W. Lieut.-Gov. Philip Street,
74, W.A. Premier John Willcock, 58, on 9th;
Speck’s C.J. Nicholls, 69, and Hugh McConaghy
(C’wealth Tariff Board), 60, on 11th; knight
Keith Murdoch (Melbourne “Herald”), 51, on
12th; Jock Garden, M.H.R. (Cook), 55, on
13th; Prof. Morris Miller (Speck), 56, and
knight Fred Stewart, M.H.R., 53, on 14th;
Bishop Baker (Bendigo), 55, and novelist Erie
Cox, 64, on 15th; poetess Mary Gilmore, on
16th; Speck Senator Payne, 71, on 17th; Frank
Anstey (former M.H.R. for Bourke), 72, Prof.
J. D. Stewart (Syd.), 68, on 18th; Prof. Laver
(Melb.), 71, and John Garlick (Syd.), 62, on
20th; poet Will Ogilvie, 68, and W. B. Geddes
(N.S.W. Justice Dept.), 57, on 21st; Judge Cur-
lewis (N.S.W.), 68, and N.S.W. Min. of Agric.
Hugh Main, 54, on 22nd; Lieut.-Gen. knight
J. T. Hobbs (W.A.), 73, and Prof. F. A. Bland
(Syd. Uni.), 55, on 24th; Fed. Chief Justice
Latham, 60, Prof. F. R. Beasley (Perth), 40,
and W.A. Senator A. N. MacDonald, 45, on
25th; Bishop Ash (Rockhampton), 55, knight
Prof. T. R. Lyle, F.R.S. (Melb.), 77, and Prof.
W. A. Osborne (Melb.), 64, on 26th; Justice
Dwyer (W.A.), 62, Prof. Angus (St. Andrew’s
Coll., Sydney), 56, and Min. for Defence Arch-
dale Parkhill, 58, on 27th; Vance Palmer, 52,
on 28th; J. Spencer Brunton (Syd.), 76, and
Fed. Treasurer Casey, 47, on 29th; ex-Principal
Ronald Macintyre, 74, on 30th; R. Ewing (Fed.
Taxation Com.), 66, and Ambrose Pratt, 63,
on 31st.


The RUBAIYAT of
OMAR CAPSTAN
Awake! for Morning in
I the Bowl of Night
Has flung the Stone that
[puts the Stars to Flight:
Awake/ For'tis the Morning, and the Night
Has starved my Palate of its one Delight:
But Lo/ A CAPSTAN by my Bedside Rests,
And now, with one swift Match it is Alight/
r=j >
Here with a Cork-tipped CAPSTAN 'neath the Bough,
A Slice of Bread, a Slab of Ham _ and Thou
Beside me Smoking in the Wilderness
And Wilderness is Paradise enow/
Ch , COME WITH GOOD C AP-STAN , AND LEAVE THE WISE (?J
To Talk; one thing is Certain . that Life flies ;
One thing is Certain and the Rest is Lies :
That CAPSTAN “satisfaction'' never Dies/
Alas/ This Smoke offends,indeed, my Nose /
That Touth> Sweet-scented Cigarette justshows
Flow LITTLE SOME OF GOOD TOBACCO KNOW :
For Lo/ Tis CAPSTAN only gives Repose/
The Moving Finger Writes, and having Writ
Moves on ; and once thy'Smoke'' is Lit
How Futile To bemoan thy Faulty Choice : ✓
Thy Tears cant make a CAPSTAN our of IT/
f C\ - *f)
Come fill the Cup, and in the Fire of Spring
Thy Winter Garment of Repentance fling , *
Amo if thou wouldst all Worries put to flight
A CAPSTAN is indeed the Only Thing/
The Cigarette some set their Hea&ts upon
Turns Ashes e'er it Pleases and anon
The Smoker turns to CAPSTANS,"ti pped”or "Plain"
And Lo/ His Worries in a trice are G-one/
Myself when Young did eagerly Frequent
Tobacco Shops an d heard great Argument
About this"smoke"and that •• Bur Evermore
Found CAPSTAN ,“tipped"or”Plain"gave host Content/
Ah, leave the Wise to wrangle, and with Me
The Quarrel of the Universe let be :
For in this Corner, Lo/ there is a Couch,
And CAPSTANS, “tipped"or "plain" forMe and Thee/
Ah, Moon of my Delight who knowst no Wane,
The Moon of Heaven is Rising once Again
To Light our Steps through this SweErGAROEN-siDE_
As with ourCAPSTANS, Love,dullGloom is Slain /
Now Come with CAPSTAN ' plain" and leave the lot
Who smoke a Cigarette Twere best Forgot ,
And let them Smoke and Smoke them as they will.
Not heeding CAPSTAN— HEED them Not /
I SOMETIMES THINK THAT EVERT JOY HAS FLED,
When, sans a''Smoke"i through the Garden tread
Then comes an Ansel softly to my Side
And with a CAPSTAN 'tween her Lips soßed/
There is a Door to which I Find no Key-.
There is a Veil past which 1 cannot see :
How can these perfect Capstans e'er be solo
At such a Price,Beloved, for Thee and Me f
Now, to the Rolling Heaven itself r CR'ied
Asking "What Lamp has Destiny to Guide”
Her Children seeking ber a Perfect 'Smoke ?
And “Naught but CAPSTANS, Brother '"Heavn replied.
Ah .with a Smoke"my fading Life provide;
And wrap my Body whence the Life has Died
In those Sweet Golden Leaves by Morpheus Blest
And place,Beloved, a CAPSTAN by my Side /
Tis Capstan Time! What boots it to repeat how Time is slipping underneath our feet:
Unborn tomorrow and dead yesterday, /why fret about it when thy Capstan 's sweet!


ABORIGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITEWHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Molar”: Steve was reminding us that
y’ wanter be careful when y’r selectin’
a new pole for y’r bullick-wagon. ’E
wunce ’ad an experience what showed
y’. ’E’d put a new pole on ’er, an’ not
long after ’e was drivin’ erlong an’ ’e
come to a crook turn in th’ road. Th’
bullicks took it a bit sharp, an’ snap
she went. It must’ve been a crook pole,
an’ ’oiler at that, coz when she snapped
there was five possums jumped out of ’er.
$ 4 $ $
“Mandipa”: Do human hands contain
some power which can be sensed by
animals? All the dinkum Australian out-
side the dictionary won’t make our team
shift when I am driving, but when my
father takes the reins they’ll go like a
house on fire —this without a word being
spoken or the change visible to the
horses. With cows the reverse is the case
—every one he tries to milk, even down
to the quietest old cud-chewer, kicks.
* * H= *
“J.E.L.”: I’ve met a man who seemed
astounded because he had killed a rabbit
with a blank cartridge. But, as anyone
with military training knows, the blank
cartridge, generally regarded as the most
harmless of missiles, can be really dan-
gerous if proper care is not exercised.
My instructor’s warning on the subject
still lingers in my memory: “And don’t
forget, boys, up to 10 yards they’re
danger-oose.”
* * * *
“De Shuff”: A Philadelphia (U.S.A.)
tanning concern discovered the kangaroo
about three years ago and ever since has
pushed the distinctive features of the
leather—lightness, strength and supple-
ness —to such an extent that the present
Yankee demand for ’roo, in dress, street
and athletic shoes, calls for a factory
output of approximately 8000 pairs a
day. A folder printed by the concern
claims that 85 p.c. of the skins marketed
in Australia are bought for U.S.A. I
know of only one Sydney retail store
that regularly stocks and recommends
’roo-hide goods.
* * * *
“Dingo”: Most bushmen would as
soon come at rabbit as eel, though there
is no more delicious and nutritious food
than the slimy one. Some of the preju-
dice is due to the Mosaic tradition
against the eating of fish devoid of scales
and fins, more to its snakelike appear-
ance, but mostly to a belief that it is not
a fastidious eater. The last objection is
sound, but applies to practically every
fish except blackfish. When catching
eels avoid creeks in paddocks where
rabbits have recently been poisoned, and
skin as soon as possible by making the
head fast to a hook, running a knife
right round the throat and peeling the
hide off like a glove with a pair of pincers
or the back of a claw-hammer.
* * * *
“Heresone”: I cannot pass the state-
ment that the beautiful blue kingfisher
is dumb (B. 7/7/’37). Last year I
watched a pair build in a white-ants’
nest in a dead tree near the cowyard.
The courtship consisted of chasing each
other round the tree, uttering loud, harsh
cries, considerably lower in artistic con-
tent than the mirth of their larger
cousins. They don’t come into economic
conflict or co-operation with man, their
food being mainly the smaller water
creatures; and the green sacred king-
fisher is a useful eater of insect pests.
sj: :Jc
“Cooee-Bird”: The full-blooded dingo
can put it over the fox for brains. War-
rigal won’t get in the way of motor
vehicles, and I have never known one
"Good job We Was in dry dock. Bill can't swim."
to be killed by a train, even in heavily
dingo-infested country. Also, the howler,
when on the move solo in timbered coun-
try in daytime, can give the fox points
in keeping himself unseen by rambling
settlers. Ability to sneak on to an un-
suspecting hen, etc., has probably given
the fox credit for more brains than he
ever possessed.
“Stralia”: Whatever be Reynard’s
shortcomings, he certainly is no coward.
About-turned in a burrow he’s a match
for most dogs, and it takes a good tyke
to face him. Once a tyke gets its jaws
matted with a fox’s when the latter is in
this position, it’s in for trouble; fre-
quently it gets its nose almost ripped off.
Even when run down in the open Rey-
nard gives the pack a few lively moments
before he’s subdued.
* # * *
“Hayband”: Ever notice the extent to
which a dog becomes a canine replica
of its owner? A happy-go-lucky team-
ster, good friends with everybody, in-
variably has a similar dog. It greets
the world with an affable grin, has a joy-
ful bark and sheds it on the slightest
pretext. As consistently, the silent man
has a silent dog—a watchful brute, of
bilious aspect. Even a grown dog comes
to reflect anew owner. Human char-
acter is many-sided ; my experience is
that a dog matches its every facet.
“A.J.8.”: To the deficiencies of dogs’
eyesight (B. 7/7/’37) add color-blind-
ness. A many-tinted sunset, or even a
Scots tartan, appears to them as a dingy
grey. At coursing grounds I have heard
people wonder over dogs that became
“unsighted,” not knowing, evidently, that
in the greyhounds’ vision tawny hare and
vivid grass-green were reduced to a com-
mon color. Instead of “standing out”
Puss was merged in the general grey-
ness.
$ * *
“Naturalist”: On the Bananaland coast
the goanna’s winter snooze is ended by
the arrival of spring and not by a thun-
derstorm (B. 7/7/’37). Generally, the
waddlers will be on the move by the end
of July, but it is not extraordinary to see
them shinning up a tree as early as the
middle of that month. And once they
are about a cold snap won’t send them
into burrow again. Usually they scramble
from their hibernating quarters lean and
hungry-looking, but I’ve seen some
tumble out in quite good condition.
From one large fellow shot on the morn-
ing he left a hollow ironbark at the edge
of a scrub I took two larges pieces of
fat. It depends on the length and
severity of the winter and the condition
of the lizards at hibernating time. They
don’t always go to bye-bye bursting
with fat.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Cossack (W.A.) isn’t the
only place where underground water sup-
plies can be ruined by meddling with
them (B. 7/7/’37). The commonest is
the sand-soak. Keep it cleaned out and
it will serve you well except in time of
drought; fool with it and that’s the end
of it. The water in soaks is simply what
drains out of the soil or sand above the
water-retaining clay or rock. Knocking
a hole in the bottom is equivalent to
pulling up the plug in a bath, yet the
outback is dotted with ruined soaks.
Except during droughts one in my dis-
trict never failed ; the original survey set
it aside as a water reserve, and as many
as 5000 sheep in one mob have watered
there. A drought arrived, and a land-
owner with a pick and shovel cut through
eight feet of blue pug, then ran into dry
sand and abandoned the attempt. Now
when the rain comes it pours down the
hole and vanishes.
* * * *
“Cooee-Bird”: I’ve heard kookaburras,
not once but scores of times, shout with
laughter in the dead of night till the
entire bush was awakened. The noc-
turnal concerts seem to mark special
occasions, such as nesting-time. When
the babies are rearing Johnny will laugh
at the slightest provocation. A bright
moon suddenly smiling down after a
rainstorm, particularly a thunderstorm,
and he will send the cockies tumbling
out of bed thinking they’ve overslept. In
fact, most birds of strictly diurnal habits
occasionally let their voices go at night.
-1: * * *
“Baldy”: “Nordbo’s” orange-tree (B.
14/7/’37) is rivalled by a black water
oak, Quercus nigra , in the Melbourne
Botanic Gardens. Guilfoyle, who made
the Gardens what they are, transplanted
it from Government House grounds, a
fine specimen of a rare species. It was
30 years old, and, with infinite care, was
shifted by a team of 16 horses. Six
months later, being apparently dead, it
was cut off at ground level, and buried,
as the easiest way of disposing of it.
That caused it to sucker freely, and one
of the suckers is the present tree, seven
feet in girth.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Saw a swagman the other
day lift his billycan off the fire by simply
spanning the rim with his fingers, and
he didn’t get burnt. I’ve tried it success-
fully, too, but if the billycan isn’t quite
full or it’s too new burnt fingers are a
monte.
* * * *
“Dry Fly”: Shy trout (B. 14/7/’37)
are no myth. Unsophisticated country
trout will come at anything, but I can
assure “Harry N.” that with his methods
he could try for a year without getting
a rise out of the highly-educated trout
of some of the famous English chalk
streams. These have been fished for cen-
turies without success, though the water
may be full of the wily fish. In writer’s
experience there is only one season
when the educated trout of the. English
streams makes a beast of himself, throw-
ing decency and precaution to the winds.
That is when the spring mayfly “rise”
comes along. Then almost any mug may
fill a basket by “dapping”—that is, using
the actual fly itself instead of an imita-
tion. So deadly is this lure that it is
banned on many trout waters.
* >•! I'f $
“Cherub”: It is commonly recognised
by bee men that white garments are the
best wear for calling on their pets —par-
ticularly white socks, as the ankles seem
to invite attack. Bees are supposed to
have well-defined preferences for various
colors—in fact, to be able to discern the
ultra-violet ray which is given off by cer-
tain flowers but is invisible to man.
That seems feasible enough, seeing that
the. bee has five eyes. Three of these are
supposed to serve him for near sight
and two for distant vision. There seems
little excuse for the fellow to barge into
humans as he frequently does when in-
tent on business, and to resent the col-
lision so furiously. But they are peev-
ish insects.
* * :!= *
“Turon River”: If you want real
speed in birds go to the curlew, timed
from a given point to its feeding ground
four miles away at one minute —a speed
of 240 m.p.h.! That will beat your
swifts and falcons, though the latter in a
dive might equal it. These are. only
sprints—for sustained flying at pace I’m
a bit with the swift.
* # * *
“Sykes”: So “Cutler” (B. 23/6/’37)
never heard of bulldogs being matched
in a fight 1 Well, I don’t ask him to
accept my word for it, but has he ever
heard of Bill Day, N.S.W. bushranger
and holder-up of the Mudgee coach?
According to William’s autobiography
(in the Mitchell Library) William started
work as keeper of fighting bulldogs for
a North Country innkeeper; his kick-off
for Australia and a life of crime arose
out of the feeding of meat with a bone
in it to his boss’s super-champion, the
teeth of a fighting bully being as ten-
derly cared for as a modern tennis cham-
pion’s susceptibilities. As for “Cutler’s”
idea of putting a slipknot around the
neck of a clenched bulldog—well, that
might do with his “dancing-master” ter-
riers, but a fighting bulldog will hold
his grip till actual death relaxes his jaws.
And, even if he didn’t, the dog would
be ruined by such an ordeal. In those
days of The Fancy, bulldogs of merit
were valued at scores of pounds, and
often entered the ring with hundreds
wagered on them.
THE DAYS THAT WERE.
To differ from the doctors on a question such
as diet
Would appear to many people to be sheer
impertinence,
So, instead of contradicting, I’ll acquaint you on
the quiet
With the food men worked and thrived on
when their keep was an expense
That the stations had to bear,
And most owners thought it fair
They should toughen hands with tucker that
was solid, so to speak,
Sugar, tea, meat, bread and brownie—with a
plum duff once a week.
Though from early morn till nightfall was a
working day, men rarely
Thought the hours of light were longer than
they’d any right to be;
With a pound a week and tucker, they con-
sidered they were fairly
On the road that led to Sydney and a few
weeks’ well-earned spree.
A pound a week sounds low,
I’ll admit—but let that go—
What 1 ask is why this diet left them muscular
and sleek,
Sugar, tea, meat, bread and brownie —with a
plum duff once a week.
I recall the days when woolsheds, huts and
yards, tanks, dams and fencing
Were the jobs which owners offered as their
flocks increased in size;
They were mostly let on contract to the men
who liked commencing
On their work of earning money ere the sun
was in the skies.
And the years that came and went
Found and left them quite content
On a diet that a doctor of to-day would dub
“unique,”
Sugar, tea, meat, bread and brownie —with a
plum duff once a week.
Now these men were what you’d now describe
as “hardy pioneers”;
They were “hardy” right enough, because
they darned well had to be,
And the tucker that they lived on, not for
days or months, but years,
Was the sort that leaves the doctors and their
say-sos all at sea.
Ask an old hand “Was it rough?”
He’ll say “Yes, but that’s the stuff
That will keep you strong and healthy and
develop your physique,
Sugar, tea, meat, bread and brownie —with a
plum duff once a week.”
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


“Bufo”: Encouraged, perhaps, by re-
cent Bulletin references to its kind, a
wombat has revealed its presence at
Clermont (C.Q.), 400 miles north of the
previously-recorded northernmost range.
It was discovered by the Barnard
brothers, two well-known Queensland
naturalists after whom was named the
Bamardius group of parrots. It has not
yet been determined whether the stranger
belongs to any of the five living species
of wombat at present known, but as it
measured over 4ft. long—larger than any
other recorded living wombat —it pos-
sibly represents a hitherto undiscovered
species, surviving from ancient days and
only known by fossil remains. At one
stage of Australia’s geological history,
there were wombats the size of a small
donkey.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: The bush-made stock-
whip falls as a whip is meant to fall.
There might have been a stockwhip-
maker as good, but none was better than
the s.-w. Queenslander Charlie Gasher.
A whip made by Gasher, with more
strands than there are weeks in a year,
was sent abroad to an exhibition in
U.S.A. When told that nobody would
"Mind if I git in f'r a while, Dig., an Warm me feet ?”
be able to use the whip so that it would
fall properly, Gasher replied, “My whips
fall themselves.” And so they did ; l
had one.
* * * *
“Carapace”: “Cheladon” (B. 14/7/’37)
is apparently unaware that there are
three varieties of turtles in N.Q. waters.
The greenback (“greenie”) is the one to
which “Cheladon” refers and with which
he confuses all turtles. That is the edible
variety, a strict vegetarian. The logger-
head belongs to another family, and isn’t
a vegetarian. It isn’t considered edible,
but I have taken a snack or two without
suffering any pains. It was young log-
gers to which I referred in my par. The
third kind is the hawksbill, which gives
the tortoiseshell of commerce. It isn’t
a vegetarian, either. I have heard of
men eating the hawksbill’s flesh, but
have never tried it myself, and abos.
have warned me against it.
* * * *
“Leirum”: I can inform “F.Y.7” (B.
7/7/’37) that malaria is now becoming
rare in tropical parts, thanks to the drug
atebrin, which is displacing quinine as
prophylactic and cure. On Saibai Island
in Torres Strait, just a few miles from
the mouth of the Fly, and a hotbed of
fever, I saw the drug used in a malaria
epidemic in 1934. A Binghi village was
being decimated, but in 10 days the
attack was almost eradicated. Though
effective with whites, the drug seems to
work even better on natives.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: A valuable native tree
facing gradual extinction is the Murray
pine. Its habitat extending from Eastern
Gippsland (Vic.) to Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.), one of its virtues is its im-
munity from white-ant infestation. It
mills into a hard, durable timber, though
a plenitude of knots detracts slightly
from its appearance, but they will “stay
put,” and not work loose as knots in
Baltic pine do. Some of the thousands
of acres that are being planted with im-
ported softwoods of doubtful commer-
cial value could well be devoted to the
propagation of this native.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: Some hold to the theory
that the dingo’s high mental powers were
developed by the- struggle for existence
with the capable aboriginal hunters, but
it has now been shown that Australia’s
national dog existed at a time when the
land was stocked with vast creatures of
both vegetable- and meat-eating habits.
Its survival proves that back in prehistoric
times it maintained itself well in front of
the struggle, and its descendants are still
doing it. Competition with the bush-wise
aborigine merely kept age-old wits at
concert pitch.
* * * *
“Questo”: Brisbane’s suburb St.
Lucia as a sugargrowing area (B.
14/7/’37) reminds me that a considerable
area of what is now the Brisbane golf
links at Yeerongpilly was once under
cane. Near the western boundary the
foundations of the old mill can still be
seen, and until only a few years ago por-
tion of the solid stone walls was stand-
ing. The mill, one of the earliest in
Queensland, flourished about 70 years
ago. In a small farm near by the forma-
tion of the old tram lines is still visible.
These led to a wharf on the Moolabin
Creek, along which barges carried the
sugar to Oxley Creek and thence down
the Brisbane River. The Moolabin Creek
these days is merely a mangrove-lined
gutter, and followers of the profane sport
pass by the grass-grown ruin of the mill
without knowing it is there.
“Puffinus”: Some crabs have evolved
extraordinarily ingenious methods for
securing the perpetuation of the race. A
northern soft-shelled crab inhabits the
gills of clams and other big shellfish, mak-
ing a safe living on the food-drifts col-
lected by its host. Another kind chooses
the gill-cavities of certain fish, grabbing
its tucker from what goes by to the
gullet. The coral-reef “gall crab” fashions
a prison cell by winding
the growing coral round
itself, leaving only small
openings for water and
the microscopic food par-
ticles which it carries. An-
other lives in stinging
anemones, safe from all
enemies, and itself immune
to the stings. Males of
these species are much
smaller, free - living
creatures, and the eccen-
tric neighborhoods selected
by their lady friends are
chosen for the protection
of the young. But there
is always a way into the
dwelling for hubby at the
right season —though not
always out!
“Here she comes to powder us again, Horace! What about holding a sit-
down strike ?”
“Nordbo”: Camping on the banks of
the Barron River near Cairns (N.Q.) 1
discovered one morning that several tins
of condensed milk of my store had been
bitten into and the contents drained to
the last drop. Lying in wait the follow-
ing night I discovered that the animated
tin-opener was a white-tailed rat almost
as big as a cat.
“N7Y”: During a dry
spell on Walgra, in the
Georgina country (Q.), the
waterhole a couple of
miles from the head sta-
tion turned it in. With a
blackboy, I had to shift
the cattle from there to
Serpentine, about eight
miles away, and during
that week’s job we got on
speaking terms with 28
plain-turkeys that were
hanging on to the drying
waterhole. To save their
lives, we tried to drive
them with the cattle. We
worked them with every
care, never cracked a whip
or raised a voice, and they
used to stroll along in
front and wide out on the
wings, almost as if they
were part of the mob. But
the farthest we ever got
any of them was about a
mile. Then they’d lift and
fly back to the dry hole.
Even when the hole was
only cracked mud they
wouldn’t come any farther.
Later I counted the 28
scattered bundles of
feathers; every bird of
them had perished for a
drink with good water but
a few minutes’ flight away.
“Harry N.”: Birds are not the only
bush creatures to stick to one locality
(B. 30/ 6/ ’37). The valley of the Thom-
son River in Gippsland (Vic.) is a haunt
of the eastern water dragon, better known
as the Gippsland crocodile, but in the
Tyers River valley, less than 10 miles
away in places, not one of the reptiles
has been seen, though the two streams
are part of the one river system. Inci-
dentally, the yackle, as it is known locally,
must be the speediest of reptiles up to 100
yards. Running in a half-erect position,
front legs off the ground, it covers this
distance at an extraordinary bat, but it
tires quickly if a longer stretch has to be
covered.
* * .i= *
“Ellenvale”: Good tucker joints, is
it? My mate and I took a job with a
cocky in the Bendigo district, and after
showing us the “men’s quarters” (a dis-
used calf pen) he took us in to a tea con-
sisting of bread, rancid butter and stewed
pears. The same menu served for next
day’s breakfast and dinner, but the
butter was missing at the evening meal
and bread was displaced by a plate of
stale scones. The cocky was amazed
when we complained, but as a concession
to our epicurean tastes he told us that
if we cared to set a few traps the missus
wouldn’t mind boiling a rabbit for us
now and then. It pains me to have to
admit that when we left the following
morning our bulging tucker bags held
three of his prized Plymouth Rock
roosters.
* * * *
“Marsh”: Not only will Binghi refuse
to kill a goanna when low in condition
as a result of its winter sleep (B. 7/7/’37),
he won’t have, snake either. Riding along
the channels of the Diamantina (s.-w. Q.)
with an old blackfellow, I called his
attention to a snake lying coiled up near
a log. The old boy, who was nearly
blind, quietly dismounted and, with
visions of snake for supper, felt the rep-
tile with his hand. “Baal wamoo
pfeller,” he grunted in disgust as he
walked away. “Too long sleep; me
catchum bimeby.”
H*
“Curate’s Egg”: When a Torres Strait
trading station included a consign-
ment of small cashboxes in its merchan-
dise the childlike Binghis rushed the
novelty, as they do any new toy. Then
in this safe deposit each locked his
worldly wealth, placing it under his
sleeping blanket in the lugger—and to
a man each left the key hanging on the
string as sold with the box.
* * * *
“A.J.8.”: The other day at Dubbo
(N.S.W.) an Aborigines’ Progressive
Association was formed. The platform
is forthright—abolition of the Aborigines’
Protection Board, which allegedly treats
black natives harshly, full citizen rights
and direct representation in Parliament.
Similar organisations are likely to form
at Gulargambone, Cowra and wherever
the remnants of the race are numerous
enough. The annual membership fee
is 6d., and nothing less than half-castes
are admitted. Similar action saved the
Maoris, and in their efforts to postpone
their seemingly inevitable end our un-
fortunate natives will have the best
wishes of nearly all who know them.
THIS CULTURE STUFF.
Eliza Jane’s come back from town —she’s been
away for weeks —
An’ you should see the clothes she wears
an’ ’ear the way she speaks!
I went *to meet ’er at the train, an’ straight-
way I could see
Me alley wasn’t ’alf as good as what it used
to be.
She sorta looked me up an’ down, an’ by that
single glance
l noo i should ’ave ’ad a shave an’ worn me
Sundee pants.
But ever since it’s been the same —you oughter
seen ’er freeze
When she came over home for tea and saw me
eatin’ peas!
She’s cultured now, Eliza is, an’ culture, it
appears,
Is what you harvest when you reap a crop of
new idears.
'Er old man’s mutterin’ in ’is beard —’e
reckons it’s a cow,
For over at Eliza’s place they dress for dinner
now.
While as for me—well, after all, I’m jist a
simple cuss —
Eliza Jane ’as told me plain I’ve missed the
culture bus.
She wouldn’t ’ave me now, she ses, if I went
on me knees,
An’ all because 1 used a knife to eat me flamin’
peas!
I used to think that ’er an’ me But, well,
you know the rest —
One more romance is up the spout, another
dream gone west!
No use of moanin’. Still an’ all, it flabbergasts
a man
To know ’e’s outed jist because of ’ow ’e eats
’is scran.
Me whole career is ruined now, but what’s
annoyin’ most
Is this: for years it’s always been —still is—
me proudest boast,
There’s not another bloke around—on that
I’ll stake me life —
As good as me at balancin’ ’is tucker on a
knife.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


ķ
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available,
intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.15 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS. —Graphine, Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard 'Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
, t offices, viz.:— "
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 3GO Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
99
“PUMPMOBIL
(POKTABJLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDU-TiOi* iN PRtCES!
mm
m..
w
■ J
-As*. '■* 4
3SS-:
»§l
Extensively used ny Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. 4-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, Reserves.
£ & & &
1926.. 207,176 10 p.e. - 148,977 ) 45 6g9 721,649
Written off premises, £12,500 )
1927.. 204,702 10 p.c. = 150,000 l 202 763,851
Written off premises, £12,500 )
1928.. 211,960 10 p.c. = 172,139 1 29 g2l 793,672
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
1929.. 212,385 10 p.c. = 174,998 ) 2 7,387 821.059
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
1930.. 204,956 9p.e. - \ 37,456 858,515
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
1931.. 142,291 6i p.C.= 113,750 l lg 541 §77 056
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
1932.. 74,088 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) . rgB §73 g 44
Written off premises, £2,500 ) B ' B ’° *
1933.. 75,540 4 ,P- c -= ,? 9 > 999 l 3,040 881,684
Written off premises, £2,500 )
1934.. 09,911 4 p.c.= 70,000 | _ 879 095
Written off premises, £2,500 )
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 _ 878 7 87
Written off premises, £2500 )
1936.. 73,648 4 p.c. = 70,000 ) . , 4g 379035
Written off premises, £2500) ’
1937.. 77,320 4Jp.c. = 74,375) 445 880) 380
Written off premises, £2500 )
The Banking Commission’s report, the
kernel of which is central-bank control of
credit, has not caused much disturbance
in the market for bank shares. The idea of
nationalising the banks, of which much
was heard at the last Federal elections,
was firmly rejected. The recommenda-
tion that every trading bank should be
required to deposit portion (to be deter-
mined) of its liabilities to the public with
the central bank, and that the central
bank be empowered to vary the propor-
tion at will within limits fixed by the
Treasurer, aims at making the trading
banks amenable to central-bank policy
by giving the central institution an effec-
tive grip upon the trading banks’ basis
of credit. With the same end in view a
new exchange mobilisation agreement,
giving the central bank more control over
the trading banks’ London funds, is also
recommended.
Since the idea behind central-bank con-
trol of credit is to keep, so far as pos-
sible, economic activity (exchange of
goods and services) in Australia on an
even keel, the earnings of the trading
banks may not be much affected by these
recommendations, if put into practice.
Chief danger appears to lie in the possi-
bility of unscrupulous or ruthless use
of the central bank for political pur-
poses. It is rather surprising, therefore,
to find that the commission expresses the
view that, in the event of irreconcilable
differences of opinion on national
monetary policy, the views of the Gov-
ernment rather than those of Parliament
should prevail. The establishment of a
long-term mortgage department of the
Commonwealth Bank should not seri-
ously affect the trading banks, whose
chief function is to finance current pro-
duction and trade, etc., on overdraft or
short-term credit. It is difficult to under-
stand exactly what is meant by the sug-
gestion that the Government be given
power to regulate or limit bank profits
to a “fair return for services rendered.”
Declared bank earnings are, and have
been, moderate in relation to share-
holders’ funds. Moreover, these earn-
ings now exhibit a stubbornness long
since overcome by other traders.
The Q.N. does about nine-tenths of
its business, and is the second largest
deposit-holder, in its home State, where a
more or less continuous drought gripped
the western and nor’-western districts for
close on a decade to the close of ac-
counts in 1935. The co.’s £1,750,000 of
capital has the visible support and assist-
ance of £880,380 of reserves, and there
is £2,750,824 of 3£ p.c. interminable in-
scribed deposit stock, which is more of
a hindrance than a help so far as divi-
dends are concerned at the moment.
During the 12 months to the close of
last accounts Queensland, except the
south-east portion of the State, enjoyed
a good average season ; the price of wool,
sugar, meat and wheat strengthened, and
turnovers in the manufacturing and dis-
tributive trades continued to climb.
After making provision for taxation and
bad and doubtful debts, etc., declared
net earnings were £3672 better at
£77,320, or little more than one-third
of the profit of eight years ago. The
£77,320, most of which appears to have
come from Government securities and
rents, was a mere 2.9 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined), or 4.4 p.c. on capital alone as
against 4.2, 4.1, 4, 4.3, 4.2, 8.1, 11.7,
12.1 and 12.3 p.c. back to 1928. The
div., which had averaged a shade over
10 p.c. for the decade to the close of
accounts in 1929, was lifted from 4 p.c.
to 4} p.c., the final being at the rate of
44- p.c. p.a.
The market prices the £5-paid shares
at £5 125., as against £5 16s. in January
and £5 9s. a year ago. The return at
£5 12s. is 4.1 p.c. on a 4-V p.c. div. basis,
or 4.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution, which
would call for £lO,lBO more profit than
was claimed last year. The net tangible
cover is £7 10s. 3d. It is plain that the
market thinks that the bank is not earn-
ing even a reasonable profit on its own
funds.
Owing mainly to the rise in export
prices, the year’s growth in deposits (up
£464,726) has outstripped the growth in
advances (up £209,678), and liquids (up
£258,442) benefited, thus strengthening
the co.’s position as a lender :
1930. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid £ £ £ £
capital .. 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock . . 3,091,669 3,015,095 2,750,842 2,750,842
Bills, etc. 348,219 302,531 349,041 356,843
Deposits . . 8,657,228 7,872,214 8,646,021 9,110,747
Liquid
assets .. 3,790,277 4,612,512 4,285,001 4,543,443
Advances ..10,423,181 8,694,760 9,578,297 9,787,975
Premises .. 527,173 549,253 547,542 556,770
When the books closed, advances
amounted to 107 p.c. of deposits as
against 110 p.c. at the previous balance
and 120 p.c. at the close of accounts in
1930. Liquids were 47.9 p.c. of liabilities
to the public as against 47.6 p.c. a year
earlier, and, including the deposit stock
with the bank’s own funds, it was holding
only 355. 2d. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own. Of the £556,770
at which premises appear, £170,000 is
revenue-producing. It is a very strong
position, but it all means low earning
power.
Though lack of rain is causing con-
cern in the agricultural and dairying
districts of the south-east, the seasonal
outlook over the rest of the State is
brighter than it has been for a long
time. Wool promises to fetch a good
figure, and so do wheat and butter,
while negotiations overseas have en-
hanced the outlook in the meat and sugar
industries. Sheep properties are firm-
ing in value, meat-exporting houses are
working to capacity, and city traders re-
port expanding turnovers. At the
moment, therefore, the current term looks
like turning out better than the one on
whose heels it treads.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb., 1928..28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176.904
Aug., 1928.-26,918 12* „ „ 15,750 11_,16S 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8665 .. 196,1 37
Feb., 1929.-28,503 121 p.c. = 15,750 I.q 7C3 207,490
Staff fund, £2OOO .. • • f ’
July, 1929. .24,071 221 p.c. = 28,350 203,211
Jan., 1930..29,016 15 „ „ 18,900 1 9 il6 2 12,327
Staff fund, £lOOO ••
July, 1930..22,285 124 p.c. = 15,750 6,535 218,862
Jan., 1931..21,437 124 „ „ 15,750 5,687 224,549
Profit on resumed property, £2086 .. 226,635
Julv, 1931.-16,468 9 p.c. = 11,340 5,128 231,763
Jan., 1932..19,491 9 „ ~11,340 8,151 239,914
July, 1932. .18,490 10 „ „ 12,600 5,890 240,804
Jan., 1933..20,873 10 „ ~12,600 8,273 204,07,
July, 1933..19,281 10 „ „ 12,600 6,681 260,708
Jan., 1934. .24,326 124 „ „ 15,750 1 7 g 76 26 8,334
Staff fund, £lOOO .. • ’
July, 1934.. 25,230 124 p.c. = 15,750 ) g 4 g o 276,814
Staff fund, £lOOO .. . • )
Reserves capitalised, £63,000 . • 213,814
Jan., 1935..26,235 124 p.c. = 19,688 6,547 220,361
July, 1935..28.854 124 „ „ 19,688 9,166 229,527
Jan., 1936. .29,267 124 „ ~19,688 9,579 209,106
July, 1936.-30,117 124 „ „ 19,688 10,429 249,030
Goodwill disclosed, £2065 .. •• 247,410
Jan., 1937..32,598 124 p.c. = 19,688 12,910 260,380
Toward the close of 1936 the price of
this co.’s pound shares, of which the
market has always had a high opinion,
fell sharply from 83s. to 725. on ’Change.
That was following rumors that Boots
Pure Drug Co., the big English concern
that owns about 1200 chemists’ shops in
Britain, was about to set up here. Then
news got around that negotiations were
afoot for a merger between Boots and
this Australian co., and the shares sud-
denly rocketed to 925. The Soul Pattin-
son board announced that shareholders
would be informed of the outcome of the
negotiations, “the. objects of which might
or might not eventuate,” as soon as pos-
sible. Nothing more has been heard
from the board, but very strong opposi-
tion has arisen to any further extension
of the chain-store principle in the phar-
macy trade here. The question has been
placed before the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment, which has referred it to the Indus-
trial Commission, and there it stands for
the present. The Government does not
intend to bring down legislation to dis-
turb the rights of existing pharmaceuti-
cal stores.
Meanwhile the price of the co.’s
shares dropped to 84s. in the market and
then rose sharply to 90s. again. The
return at 90s. is 2.7 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis. The investor who looks for a
shade over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on an 18 p.c. div., or a one-for-two bonus
issue and maintenance of the div. at 12}
p.c., which would then call for £59,062,
or £3653 less profit than was claimed
last year. Visibly the cover is 365. 6d.
in net tangibles.
The £62,715 (up £4594) netted for the
12 months to the close of last accounts
was the best yet, being 19.9 p.c. on capi-
tal. The cautious board kept the div. at
124 p.c. For the 23} years to the end
of January, 1931, divs. averaged 14.4
p.c., sweetened with £102,000 of bonus
scrip, scattered during the half-dozen
years to the end of 1919. Slump brought
the rate down to 9 p.c., but 12} p.c. has
been paid with increasing comfort for the
last 3} years, and another £63,000 of re-
serves was capitalised, one for four, at
the end of 1934, making 124 p.c. worth
15.6 p.c. on capital as it stood before the
gift.
The co., which runs a chain of drug
stores, is in an unusually strong position,
financially and otherwise. Cautious man-
agement, the manufacture, of much of
its own requirements and the hoarding
of surplus earnings and other moneys,
chiefly from the sale of freeholds (many
of them picked up cheap early in the
century and sold before the boom burst)
have combined to set it there. The
hoardings have been invested largely in
Government and other securities. In-
deed, the co. has more money invested
outside the business than in it, as the
following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:
January, 1936.
Paid capital" .. £315,000
Sun. creditors* 80,996
Freeholds, stock,
plant, etc. .. 129,664
Debtors and
mortgages .. 87,140
Government
securities .. 278,425
Shares other
cos., etc. .. 158,380
Cash, etc. .. 17,180
January, 1937.
Paid capital .. £315,000
Sun. creditors* 80,960
Freeholds and
plant .. 130,707
Debtors, mort-
gages & stock 120,148
Gov. securities
and invests. 416,870
Shares in sub-
sidaries, etc. 16,00:;
Cash, etc. .. 8,305
* Including- provision for taxation.
Rearrangement of the latest accounts has
given a slightly clearer view of the posi-
tion, but makes comparison with the
previous year’s figures difficult, except
for broad groups of assets. Freeholds,
plant, stocks, debtors’ balances and
money out on mortgage have together
increased by £34,051, some of which
went into freehold and plant, but the
exact amount is not ascertainable from
the published figures. Government
securities and shares in other cos. and
in subsidiaries, etc., together decreased
by £3932. Cash, etc., was down £8875.
Appearances are that employment is
being found for a bit more money in the
business itself. There was little change
in the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, which includes an unspecified pro-
vision for taxation. A feature that
catches the eye is that at the end of
January the whole of the share capital
and £101,870 besides were represented by
Government securities and other invest-
ments.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To lie- Re -
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 53,503 10 p.c. = 41J>20 11,583 140,434
1928.. 52,032 10 ~ „ 44,370 7,062 148,090
1929.. 49,457 10 „ „ 44,370 5,087 153,183
1930.. 53,525 10 „ „ 44,370 9,155 162,338
1931.. 38,222 10 ~ ~ 44,370 156,190
1932.. 36,051 8 ~ „ 35,496 555 156,745
1938.. 35,589 8 „ „ 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ ~ 35.496 458 157,296
1935.. 40.924 8 ~ ~ 35,496 £,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8 ~ ~ 35,496 5,510 168,234
1937.. 35,911 8 ~ „ 35,496 415 168,649
Earnings depend mainly upon ship-
ment of dairy produce and the back-
loading of goods for storekeepers and
others on the fertile N. S. Wales North
Coast, where the co. enjoys a monopoly
of shipping from Newcastle to the
Queensland border, and has done so for
close on half a century. Fluctuations in
inter-State trade and the position in the
coal industry have had little effect upon
the co. Though shareholders have
never skimmed much cream from the
business, they have enjoyed a long run
of uninterrupted and satisfactory divs.,
sweetened with a small gift issue (one
for eight; the only thing of its kind in
the co.’s history) in 1926. The div. rose
from 8 p.c. early in the century to 9 p.c.
in 1913, and to 10 p.c. in 1920 ; it re-
mained steady until 1932, since when it
has been at 8 p.c. again, and the gift
just referred to makes 8 p.c. worth 9
p.c. to old holders.
During the last term an exceptionally
dry spell, covering the summer months,
affected the output of dairy produce, etc.,
and the co.’s earnings suffered. After
providing for taxation and striking off
£23,665 ( = 11.1 p.c. of the written-down
book value of ships at the end of June,
1936) for depreciation, the net result was
£5095 lighter at £35,911, or a shade over
8 p.c. on capital as against 9.2, 9.2, 8.1, 8,
8.1, 8.6, 12 and 11.1 p.c. back to 1929.
Finances are snug:
1926. 1931. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £394,714 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* .. 40,802 30,859 40,171 42,972
Ships . . . . 393,689' 298,238 212,352 251,200
Freeholds, etc. 36,487 35,859 16,920 16,710
Liquids . . 202,913 318,837 440,581 405,159
* Including tax provision.
The fleet is reported in good order and
fully insured. During the year, £38,848
more was spent on ships than was
written off, owing to the purchase of a
new motor vessel, which arrived in Port
Jackson the day the books closed. Two
old hulks, Coombar and Maianbar, were
sold. Liquids were drawn upon for
£35,422 net, and £2BOl was added to the


Fo * SUMMER
IN
Winter
starting
weather
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE ONLY SUPER
GRADE PETROL
CONTAINING BENZOL
THE BENZOL MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
Get
that
Empire Spirit
CB6/12/SP
F/hs BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
O’
o
C 3
M
Remember Orient Line Cruises
when planning your next holiday.
Full information is available at
any Branch or Agency of the Line.
Sunshine Cruise
Late in August
Within the Barrier Heef
and to
V60
w
m
NOUMEA - NEW EALEDONIA
INSTEAD of cruising to Rabaul, as arranged prior to the recent volcanic disturbances,
R.M.S. “OTRANTO” will visit Noumea (capital of the French Colony of New
Caledonia) via Brisbane, cruising for two days inside the GREAT BARRIER REEF,
visiting the lovely waters in and about WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE; and thence by
way of Lady Elliott Island to Noumea. En route for Sydney on the return voyage,
"OTRANTO” Will cruise about LORD HOWE ISLAND and BALL’S PYRAMID.
In October, ‘ORION” (25,400 tons), at Xmas, “ORFORD”
(20,000 tons), at New Year, “OTRANTO” (20,000 tons), and late
in January, ORONSAY” (20,000 tons), will cruise to NEW
ZEALAND , . . Auckland and Wellington.
ORIENTTOses
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD., INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
U
&
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
—the etcetera is an unspecified provision
for taxation. Liquids are made up of
Australian Consols, £337,440; cash,
£25,611; shares in other cos., £2100;
debtors’ balances, £33,489 ; stores, £6519.
The year’s shrinkage in the more or less
liquid surplus (£362,187) was £38,223.
The liberal allowance for depreciation
suggests that the board could have called
a bit more of the year’s takings net
profit if it had wanted to. At the
moment, the seasonal outlook favors in-
creased production of dairy produce, etc.,
and the London price for Australian
butter has strengthened. Prospects of the
co. making a better showing at next bal-
ance thus appear bright enough, notwith-
standing that costs are on the up-grade.
The market, now less inclined than it
was to back the future, prices the
fully-paid pound shares at 38s. as against
435. a little over six months ago. The
return at 38s. is 4.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, with prospects for those who care
to wait. The book value of the net tan-
gible cover is 275. lOd.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re—
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 7,553 4 p.c. = 0,000 1553 49,032
1928.. 1,843 Nil 1843 50,875
1929.. 3,145 Nil 3145 54,020
1930.. 409 Nil 409 54,429
Loss.
1931.. 29,990 Nil 24,439
1932.. 19,508 Nil 4,931
Deficit.
Assets written down, £72,431 .. 67,500
Reserves.
Capital written off, £75,000 .. 7,500
1933.. 2,324 Nil 5,176
Profit.
1934.. 2,662 3 p.c. = 2,250 . 412 5,588
1935.. 3,022 3 „ „ 2,250 772 6,360
1936.. 3,238 4 „ „ 3,000 238 6,598
1937.. 4,720 5 „ „ 3,750 970 7,568
Those who are looking for fat returns
from the milling and sale of timber
won’t find much that is encouraging in
the history of this co. over the last de-
cade. Of the timber cos. operating mainly
in N. S. Wales, Taylor’s is the best situ-
ated. Its mills are in good forest areas,
there is nothing uncomfortable about the
finances, and there is only half the
capital there used to be to feed. Still,
the management has been unable to
squeeze much in the way of profit out of
the business, despite increased turnover,
following the revival in building. Includ-
ing £662 added to contingency reserve, last
year’s £4720 of profit (up £1482) was the
best since 1927, being 6.2 p.c. on capital.
The div. was lifted a, point, making it
5 p.c. This fitted in with market antici-
pations, and the. 10s.-paid shares remained
steady around Bs. 3d. over the last 12
months. The return at Bs. 3d. is 6 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover is 11s. per share, approximately
one half in surplus liquids and the other
half in fixed assets, which are worth
what they can earn.
Last year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in an all-round improvement
in balance-sheet figures:
„ 1932. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. ..£150,000 £75,000 £75,000
Liabilities .. .. 40,482 44,940 48,969
Country mills, etc. .. 68,016 ]
City wharves, freeholds, |- 35,631 28,000
mills, plant, etc. .. 13,531 j
Vessels 12,940 10,750 11,950
Book debts, etc. .. 34,912 36,641 39,290
Stocks 22,321 33,896 34,767
Cash, investments, etc. 43,693 12,621 21,280
To add £l2OO to the book value of
vessels, £2649 to book debts, £B7l to
stocks and £8659 to cash, etc., the board
went outside for an extra £4029. On
mills, plant, etc., £7631 more was written
off than was spent. The. year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£46,368) was £Bl5O. The floating plant
and fixed assets are reported in good
order and condition, and much depends
upon that.
For 20 years after the public became
interested in 1905, it was a steady 10
p.c. proposition. Then the age of steel
and concrete and further competition
from imported timbers altered the out-
look, and net earnings averaged only 3.5
p.c. on £150,000 of share capital for the
five years to the close of accounts in
1930, as against 10.5 p.c. for the preced-
ing quinquennium. Slump worsened the
position, and in 1932 half the capital
was jettisoned, reducing it to its present
figure, in order to rub out trading losses
and bring the book value of assets more
into line with earning capacity. The
corner was turned in 1934, thanks to the
revival in building, and the physical
volume of the co.’s turnover has con-
tinued to expand since, but competition
has kept margins very slender.
After many ups and downs, Peninsula
Tin is now heading strongly in the right
direction. Early in 1936 the dredge was
reconstructed to handle 160,000 c.y.
monthly and dig to 70ft. The results,
coupled with the better-grade ground en-
countered, stand out in the following pre-
liminary statement of the year’s net
profit (Aust. currency):
t Year Ended April 30
1935. 1936. 1937.
Oub. yds 958,000 218,000 1,529,000
Tin oxide, tons .. 229.41 36.67 427.37
Per cub. yd., pound.. 0.53 0.37 0.63
Profit .. .. .. £13,693 £9,880 £50,977
An initial 9d. per share was sent out in
April, and another shilling was paid last
month, a total distribution of, roughly,
£23,300. Prospects of better are en-
couraging. Formed in 1926, the co.
owns two properties at Langsuan, South
Siam. Most of the original area (820
acres), to be rebored, has been dug, but
there is over 30,000,000 c.y. of 0.751 b.
ground available in the adjoining Nai
Hoot ground, equal to 15 years’ dredging,
working to capacity. Allowable produc-
tion for July-Dee. has been fixed at
48 tons t.o. per month, which is at the
rate of 576 tons p.a. Last year’s output
was 427 tons. There are 265,850 shares
paid to 155.,' which the market values at
345. 3d. apiece.
W * 4c *
New Broken Hill Consolidated’s No. 8
bore, on the Barrier South leases, Broken
Hill (N.S.W.), passed through country
rock, probably the footwall of the lode,
from 1716 ft. to 1741 ft., and drilling has
ceased. The objective was the southern
extension of the broad section of Zinc
Corp.’s lode in the Consolidated Co.’s
ground. The drill, put down at an angle
of 80 degrees, has been in this lode
material for an inclined depth of 484 ft.
This Consolidated Co., in which Zinc
Corp. is substantially interested, was
floated last year to develop and work the
South leases; it is expected to arrive at
the revenue-producing stage, before 1940.
o Continued on next page.)


AMP. SOCIETY
group msmAMm
m
Mi
****
mmm
mam
Of Importance to all
EMPLOYEES
UNDER the A.M.P. Group Assurance system men
and women in the same employ can obtain all
the great benefits of A.M.P. assurance at special
rates of premium by forming themselves into groups,
and arranging with their employers to deduct the
premiums in small amounts regularly from their wages
or salaries.
These are but a few of the advantages of the A.M.P.
system:—
(1) No medical examination is necessary for assurance up to
£5OO if under age 50, except in rare cases.
(2) Dependents receive the protection of the full face value
of the policy immediately it is issued.
(3) Each member of the Group has his or her own policy
under his or her own control.
(4) Should a member leave a Group in one employ, he or
she may transfer the policy to a Group operating in his
or her new employ; or
(5) The member has the option of continuing the assurance
as an ordinary policy at the usual yearly, half-yearly,
or quarterly premium.
During the last five years the A.M.P. has paid out
£31,787,817 to its members or their dependents. Its
bonus results over a long period of years have been
unexcelled anywhere.
The Society has published a book, “John Applethorn
Finds Himself,” of which there should be a copy in every
office, warehouse, and factory. It deals with Group
Assurance. A copy will be posted gladly to any address
on request.
AM P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.. A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and' Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. AdVt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B Sc (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. Advt.
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you —William Adams & Company,
Limited. 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
r per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUALITY OF SERVICE.
The quality of service rendered by an Institution may be judged very simply
the growth of its business. That of Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) has
grown consistently for over fifty years, and the amount of a ™ st
Funds now under its control is over £50.000.000. Arrangements exist for tne
economical administration of assets in other States of the Commonwealth and abro. .
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T Brunton, Herbert R. Hysagbt 0. ■
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair. M.L.C., E. K. Knox.
K. de L. Cudmore, IT. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, RECEIVER, ETC.
, , p. Cureton, Jiaiwirr.
Call or write for explanatory booklet.
The north-east extension of the sul-
phide lode at the Barrier (N.S.W.) has
been stabbed by the diamond-drill on the
Barrier Development Silver-Lead Mining
Co.’s leases, near Stephens Creek and
about seven miles north-east of the North
co.’s workings. The, drill met the lode at
a vertical depth of 270 ft., and was still in
lode material 27ft. further on. No assays
had been made last week-end, but the
formation is said to be similar to that
met with by the big Barrier cos. in their
diamond-drilling campaigns. One result
of the discovery was that Barrier De-
velopment’s £5 shares rocketed from
£l9 10s. to £97, and then dropped back
to £65, in the market in a few days. The
co. has taken a two years’ option from
Messrs. Tenable and Cox for £6OO plus
a 12 p.c. interest in any operating co.
formed to work the property. Shares in
two other concerns, Barrier Main Lode
and Broken Hill Carbonate Ridge, whose
holdings are along the line of lode, but
nearer the North co.’s workings, have
also received attention. Imperial Gold
has entered into an agreement with
Broken Hill North Blocks to purchase its
leases, 40 acres adjoining North Broken
Hill’s property to the north-east, for
£l5OO plus 100,000 fully-paid ss. shares.
# # * *
Beechworth Alluvials has proved its
Freeburgh area, comprising 195 acres
on the Ovens (Vic.), to contain 7,629,000
c.y. of wash, estimated to be worth 10.7 d.
per yard (gold at £A8); depth is
Altogether, 93 bores and two shafts were
sunk. A subsidiary is to be floated to
work the property, which is to be
equipped with a 100,000-c.y.-monthly
bucket dredge. Costs aren’t expected to ex-
ceed 3d. per yard, on which basis, assum-
ing full recovery of bore values, there
is an approx, working profit of £245,000
in the proved sector, or £40,000 p.a. over
a life of six years. The co. owns exten-
sive alluvial holdings along the Ovens and
its tributaries, on the Buckland and at
Morse’s Creek, besides which it is test-
ing a newly-acquired area at New River
(Tas.). Clutha Development, a pup of
Placer, has an option over one of the
co.’s areas at Harrietville (Vic.), esti-
mated to contain 80,000,000 c.y. of
alluviums. One of the Beechworth floats,
Reedy Creek Alluvials, has just started
to dredge its millions c.y. block.
Beechworth holds 80,000 shares fully
paid to 2s. 6d. in the Reedy Creek
venture, and if the Harrietville option
is exercised will receive £20,000 cash,
plus a tenth share interest, fully paid,
with a minimum of £200,000, in any
operating co. formed. The Beechworth
co.’s capital is £16,400-odd in 2s. 6d.
shares, valued on the market at 4s. 6d.
each.
*J* ¥ V '•*
The North Australia Geological and
Geophysical Survey, set up by the
Federal, Queensland and Westralian Gov-
ernments to examine the mineral-bearing
regions of Northern Australia, thinks
favorable opportunities of locating further
gold deposits exist in the northern por-
tion of Westralia. Referring to the
Halley’s Comet area, it says structures
similar to that in which the Halley’s
Comet mine occurs exist in the vicinity,
and that there are distinct pos-
sibilities of discovering similar rich de-
posits by systematic prospecting, particu-
larly to the west and north-west of the
mine. With the introduction of further
capital, the chances of the Ruby Creek,
Mt. Bradley and Brockman areas, Kim-
berley district, being brought to profitable
production are considered bright. In the
Bamboo Creek area it is thought that
opportunities exist for negotiations be-
tween mining investors and present
lessees. Prospecting areas mentioned as
suitable for small working parties are
various parts of the Pilbara field and
Station Peak, Yandicoogina, Tambourah,
Shark’s, Apex-Salgash, Blue Spec-Bill Jim
and Eastern, Middle, Twenty-mile and
Mosquito creeks. The survey is willing
and anxious to place, the whole of its
information at the disposal of interested
parties and to arrange interviews with
specialist officers.
* * * *
On July 31 South Kalgurli will pay a
final Is. a share, making 2s. stg. (40 p.c.
= £25,000) for the year to March last,
compared with 3s. 6d. for each of the
two previous terms. London-controlled,
the co. owns the old South Kalgurli,
Hainault and Golden Cellar leases, total-
ling 34 acres, at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), be-
sides which it works North Kal.’s Croesus
block on a profit-sharing basis. Here are
recent operating results:
Milled, Profit, Reserves, tons—^
Mar., Tons. £ Stg. Itivs. Blocked. Dwt. Prob.
1935 . . 103,291 40,359 3/6 192.100 6.1 74,900
1936 . . 120,371 41,241 3/6 198,700 5f 69,600
1937 . . 117,783 26,169 2/- 194,000 5f 84,000
1938*.. 30,434 12,100 f
* April-June, t Approx.; excludes depreciation and
taxes.
The slip of £15,072 in last year’s earn-
ings reflects a higher wage;, bill and ex-
haustion of the rich shoot between the
1600 ft. and 1700 ft. levels. According to
monthly output statements, in Australian
currency value of ore milled during the
last term amounted to £300,378 ; develop-
ment, etc., cost £22,706, capital outlay
£13,788 and working exes. £238,735, or
40s. 6d. a ton. A new £12,000 fine-
grinding unit, reported to be running
smoothly and expected to pay for itself
within three years, has lately been
brought into commission; .the results
stand out in a slight increase in through-
put, better extraction and lower costs
(38s. a ton) for the first quarter of the
current term, when mine profit, before
providing for depreciation, amounted to
£A15,160, which is at the rate of approx.
£48,000 (stg.) per year. Despite extrac-
tions, ore reserves have been maintained
at approx. 2\ years’ supply to the mill,
though values are easing; probable ton-
nage is expected to average 5.63dwt.
* * * *
Grade of ore treated at Wiluna con-
tinues to decline, 151,744 tons having
been put through the mill for the first
(June) quarter of the current term for
29,2500 z. gold, including the yield from
the smelter, an average of 3.Bsdwt. For
the full previous term 572,402 tons
yielded an average 3.94dwt. Costs are
on the up-grade, too, the quarter’s aver-
age, including development, being 235. Bd.
and that for June 245. per ton, compared
with 21s. sd. for 1936-37. Consequently,
working profit for April-June has slipped
to an estimated £75,125, which is at the
rate of £300,500 annually; in the pre-
vious term the total surplus was £369,863.
Capital expenditure, however, the official
reason for the absence of a div. last term,
has been “considerably reduced.” Last
year’s outlay, it is explained, included ex-
penditure on metallurgical research, a
lead show at Northampton and explora-
tion and development in the main and
northern leases, besides general construc-
tion and equipment.
* * * 9.:
At the end of 1936, Moonlight Wiluna
Gold Mines, Wiluna (W.A.), whose capi-
tal is all held by Gold Fields Australian
Development, figured ore reserves at
338,000 tons (it includes 33,500 tons oxi-
dised ore), averaging 6.16dwt., compared
with 130,000 tons of similar grade a year
earlier. For the 8+ months to the end of
Dec. last, 65,450 tons was mined at an
average cost of 16s. 10d., including 3s.
a ton for development. The inclusive
cost had been reduced to 15s. Id. at the
end of the term. A total of 58,012 short
tons was put through the mill at an
average cost of 4s. 9.39 d. The head value
of the ore was 6.lBdwt. gold and 1.27
p.c. antimony, and the flotation recovery
88.77 p.c. gold, 92.94 p.c. antimony. When
the books closed there was 3185 tons
of concentrates in the, pile, containing
11,9900 z. fine gold, valued at £A1,01,900,
the recoverable value being £A99,900 on
98 p.c. extraction. The concentrates are
handled at the Wiluna Smelters, with the
exception of a small tonnage, high in
antimonial content, which is shipped to
Europe for treatment.
* * :!= *
Yellowdine Gold Development (W.A.),
richest of the De Bernales shows, has
come to light with a dividend of
Is. sd. a share from profits to the end of
November, 1936, plus an interim of
2s. 4d., for the current term, making
3s. 9d. a share. Through Yellowdine
Investments, which provided the work-
ing capital for the development co.,
Commonwealth Mining and Finance will
receive approximately £61,948, Anglo-
Australian and Gold Fields Australian
each £28.153, and Great Boulder M. and
F. £22,512.
* * * *
During June, four De Bernales
producers in W.A. showed exes, in ex-
cess of the value of production. Sand
Queen-Gladsome extracted 4050 z. from
1500 tons, worth £3544; exes, totalled
£4920. Riverina got 6090 z., worth £5326,
from 1745 tons, but expended £5949 in
the process. Comet Gold, from 544 tons
of ore and stored tailings, obtained
4150 z., worth £3630; expenditure was
£3970, but gold in the sands was esti-
mated at 6220 z., which, when Cyanided,
will more than balance the ledger. King
of Creation mined 1142 tons for 1930 z.,
worth £1682 ; costs were £2579.
* *
Paringa continues to shovel out high
values from its newly-discovered shoot,
which has been located on the 200 ft.,
300 ft., 400 ft. and 500 ft. levels. A com-
mencement has been made to dig it up
at the 100 ft. level. The winze on the
200 ft. level returned 2oz. over 54in.,
while 100 tons pulled up from the No. 3
level assayed 2oz. 7dwt. A rise on the
latter level yielded some 2oz. 3dwt. stuff
over sft. On the No. 4 level, 107 tons
from the leading stope gave 15dwt. This
shoot should prove a nice sweetener when
the co.’s own plant is in commission.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young; Streets, Sydney
Mini
lillll
lillii
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Is politics a full-time job?” —"Sunday Sun.”
Travelling politicians seem to regard it
as a fool-time job.
* *
“Chinese and Japanese fought a pitched battle
on a golf course.” — "Herald.”
We understand the Chinese entered
the fray yelling “Whaffore!”
•I* 4*
No doubt after their fine shooting at
Bisley the Australian rifle team will find
relaxation by taking a look over the
sights.
4* •{•
Gas.
Angus McWallop had hung on to his
tooth as long as he could. The pain be-
coming unbearable, he headed for the
dentist full of misgiving.
The dentist offered to extract it for
five shillings, including laughing gas.
“What,” roared Angus, “take five
sheelin’ out of ma pocket and make me
laugh, too! Ta heil wi’ the laughin’
gas! Take the five shillin’, ye robber,
and gi’ me tear gas!”
Me.
4*
“Landlords Raise Rents.”
Tenants having found it too difficult?
d* d* •!* d"
Fashion Item.
“ ‘Gumnut’ hats are all the rage in England.”
—lnterview in Perth "West Aust.”
The next step, of course, is obviously
Kangaroo-paw Gloves, to be followed by
Red-gum Lipstick and Wallaby-pouch
Handbags. Then for stout ladies (and
to advertise our wheatgrowing industry)
Bulk - handling Blouses. Poppet - head
Trousers (with four legs for Siamese
twins) should also be a winner. U.A.P.
Rubber Reversible Coats might be given
a trial, as might Loan Council Corsets
(guaranteed not to give). Genuine Aus-
tralian Train Jumpers in assorted colors
should be a good catch ; while Bradman-
McCabe Combinations are morally cer-
tain to run to thousands. A consistent
demand has recently been reported for
pure Canberra Woollies (made in Japan).
Dougal.
4* »!• •}•
“Few women can take a joke,” says a
psychologist.
Still, the ones that do reason that he’s
a meal-ticket, and that’s something.
.r. .r. .s.
The Wages of Skin.
“Should artists’ models be paid extra for
posing in the nude?”— "Labor Daily.”
Other females may be poorly paid, but
they’ve got nothing on artists’ models.
These girls can barely make a living.
It may be argued that novices can
keep themselves warm by blushing, but
this is cold comfort for the old hands.
And what if the model is posing for a
frieze?
The girls should certainly be paid
something extra, if only to cover their
expenses.
T. W. N.
•F *fr
“What is more attractive than winding
country lanes?” — "Sun.”
Can’t say, never having wound any.
•F *
“Mr. Price, M.H.R., says that national broad-
casters have shown a tendency to become school-
masters rather than entertainers.”
Well, their job is on A.B.C. pro-
grammes.
Clean-up of Rolls.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
Any racecourse, any raceday.
•J* 4* •b
“A 20-year-old car may still be serviceable.”
. —Motor news.
Quite passable, in fact.
•b ►!*
Greater love hath no man than this,
that he gave up golf for his wife.
❖
Affairs Matrimonial.
A woman accepts your hand in mar-
riage to allow you the privilege of foot-
ing her bills.
If you suggest that her slimming ex-
penses are a bit thick, her reply is, “A
fat lot you know about it.”
If she is a careless housekeeper, the
result is some very tidy debts.
If you agree with her, you’re a worm ;
if you disagree with her, you’re a pig;
if you say nothing, you’re a clam. Don’t
“ Yairs , but y' needn't ’a' been quite so clumsy even if it IS branded ‘ With
Care.'"
worry, you are still the same dear old
duck when you buy her a hat.
If you insist that the annual holiday
is going to be at Bowral and she says
Katoomba, it would be wise to have
your mail addressed to Katoomba.
Above all, remember that you married
her for bitter and far worse!
D. McM.
•S* 4*
“Owing to an uneven number of boxers hav-
ing entered Hardy fought a bye in the
second round.” — “Referee.”
Well, fighting a bye should be better
than buying a fight.
*•* *l*
“By his will he left his wife properly.”
—“D.T.”
Some men, of course, leave their wives
most improperly.
•£■
The man who dictates to his wife often
finds that she takes him down.
* * * *
A Snap.
“Lady, refined parentage, companionable,
wishes meet gentleman interested photography.”
—“Daily Telegraph” advt.
Dear Madam, —Your advt. printed to-
day depicts a lady of tone. If you would
dine with me I could make an intimate
study of your wishes over the plates.
The sitting should lead to a satisfactory
development.
To present myself in the proper light
and give you the right focus I must en-
large on the fact that if you come to my
studio you need have no fear of the
dark-room. Nor would I subject you
to the acid comment of the family
groups in the building, which is a minia-
ture suburbia.
Perhaps you have a snapshot in your
cabinet, either full face or in profile, for
my album?
I’m not posing when I promise there
will be no future retouching on the cir-
cumstances in which we became ac-
quainted, and if the result is negative
you need fear no exposure of your
name. Everything will be, as it were, in
camera.
I am interested in photography.—
Awaiting further developments. Yours
platonically,
F. Tripod.
Made Absolute.
She went to parties, dances, plays
With Harry, Dick or Dan,
And frequently, on Saturdays,
She surfed or sailed with Stan.
She went on hiking jaunts with Fred
And golf with Tom or Dave,
And often went to church with Ted,
But I refused to rave.
She went for moonlight drives with Tim
In his expensive car,
But when she went to Perth with Jim
She went a bit too far !
P. O. M. C.
A Blasted Job.
“Dr. Stehn, the vulcanologist of the Nether-
land East Indies Geological Survey, has donned
a gas mask on many occasions in the East
Indies and has been lowered into craters.
’Planes of the Dutch Air Force then circled
overhead and bombed the volcano.”— “Age.”
That’s the beauty about vulcanologis-
ing—it’s such a quiet, peaceful change
after the bustle and dangers of city life.
Just a matter of selecting a nice junk of
agitated earth’s crust and getting some-
one to lower you down among the boil-
ing mud and white-hot ashes. In such
circumstances, where we can calmly medi-
tate on the profound mysteries of our
terrestrial globe, the deep philosophy
which is in most of us rises to the sur-
face, and a bomb, dropping into the
crater alongside and sending a blast of
molten lava and boiling sulphur whizzing
past one s ear, makes one echo the poet’s
words, “Ain’t Nature, snifter!”
lhe trouble, these days, of course, is
that vulcanology is just another of the
overcrowded professions. It always
grieves me to see a queue of volcanolo-
gists lined up alongside a likely-looking
volcano waiting for a job. Even when a
fishgutter is wanted at the Municipal
Markets there will always be three or
tour vulcanologists to every out-of-work
barrister or doctor dwelling on the posi-
tion. The trouble is that there are insuffi-
cient live volcanoes to go round.
I became Australia’s first vulcanologist
purely by a misapprehension. I had an
easy Government job at the time, too—
Official Pigeonholer of Royal Commis-
sion Findings. But after waiting six years
tor the announcement of the finding of
the R.C. on Railway Fishplates (it tran-
spired after it had ended and cost £62,000
that the member on whose accusation in
the House it started—he said the Com-
missioners were being scaled —was only
exercising his alleged wit) I got sick of it
and answered an advertisement for a vul-
canologist. After all, I had mended one
or two bicycle punctures in my time, so I
could say I knew something about the
game.
. Apparently I was the only one in for
it, for 1 landed the job, though I was
surprised when they wanted me to go to
Borneo, for I didn’t know they rode bikes
jungle. It was not until an
official of the mining co. that I was sent
to led me to a large volcano and told me
to report on the prospects of its erupting,
as they proposed mining in the. vicinity,
that I realised something was wrong. A
Webster s Dictionary I hastily consulted
told me the worst.
However, I am not one to throw in a
thing lightly, and, anyway, as they’d
paid my fare up I couldn’t very well
dingo the job. The volcano was smoking
a bit, which, as I pointed out, was no in-
dication that it was going to erupt, as I
was doing the same without causing any
upheaval.
By the time the huge crane and the
many delicate and expensive seismo-
logical instruments I had ordered came
the co. was getting a bit restive. How-
ever, I soon got to work. With a bos’n’s
chair suspended from the crane I felt
reasonably safe. I had arranged a series
of whistles, like the dogmen use on city
buildings: one to stop, two to raise, three,
to lower, etc. But I reckoned without
the glugwonk, a Bornean bird with imita-
tive powers similar to our own butcher
bird, and which makes its nest in the lips
of craters, probably because it is trying
to make itself look like the sulphur-
crested cockatoo. After spending some
hours down the crater listening in with
my stethoscope to the surrounding lava I
gave two short blasts to come up. But
the damned bird started testing out its
powers of mimicry, and the, next thing
I knew I was dangling in liquid brimstone.
Only furious tugging on the rope saved
me, but even then I had my underpants
burnt clean off.
There was a further delay while I
ordered a celluloid suit. It was not until
the. mine fireman was putting me out that
1 remembered it should have been an
asbestos one. I have always been one for
getting names mixed up.
It was an uncanny feeling being inside
a volcano. There was a loud rumbling
going on incessantly, just like at a
women’s committee meeting. I tried talk-
ing to myself to offset the monotony, but
it was useless —I couldn’t distinguish
what I was saying.
On the strength of my favorable report
they decided to start operations near
the volcano s base. I was just packing
to leave for Sydney when the eruption
occurred.
Since then I’ve concentrated on
vulcanologising Australian volcanoes.
They’re all extinct. They’re better that
way.
S. W. K.


Davies, Coop.
The ordinary shares of Davies,
Coop and Co., listed in Melbourne,
look interesting at slightly above
par, though it must be kept in
mind that some sections of the
business are only now finding their
feet. Further reference on these
pages.
As an Investor . . .
are you up to date?
MEN and women throughout N.S.W. and every other
State have been quick to use the facilities offered to
small investors by FIRST AUSTRALIAN'; UNIT TRUST
, CERTIFICATES. TWENTY first-class Australian Securi-
ties, each one having sound financial resources and each
being a leader in its class, are grouped together to form an
investment of impregnable strength.. Participation in such
a scientific re ac/ was * formerly limited : to wealthy
folk. To-day it is available to “capitalists’ of £25 and
upwards looking for: I—High Margin of Capital Safety;
2—Liberal Income Yield; 3 —Potential Capital Appreciation.
Your securities are held in trust by the Custodian 1 rustees
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd. (Union Building.
Bond Street, Sydney)—who also collect and pay to you
without any deduction whatsoever the Income derived from
your investment. Certificates are realisable at any time.
If you don’t' wish,to be behind the times, learn all
about this solid form of investment. For investors
big and small it combines the highest degree of
simplicity and safety with liberal income yield.
Send for Descriptive Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
security
if og
DIRECTORS:
Victor G Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager, The Trustees,
Executors and Agency Co.. Ltd., Melbourne; Norman- L.-'-Cowper, Esq.,
Solicitor, Messrs. Allen. Allen and Hcmsley, Sydney; John A. L. Gunn,
Esq. F.C.A. (Aust.), Chartered Accountant (Aust.); Palmer Kent, Esq.,
Retired Chief Inspector, The Bank of Australasia.
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone : 85284.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office;
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Report on Banking
The mountain has labored and brought
forth a —'what? It runs out at 7s. 6d. a
copy; cost to prepare, about £20,000.
Appointed in October, 1935, the Banking
Commission had its first public sitting
in Melbourne on January 15, 1936.
The commissioners listened with patience
to all sorts of people with all sorts
of theories and grievances. Twenty-
one months after their appointment, a
summary of their report was issued by
the Federal Treasury last week. That is
a month or two longer than the Mac-
Millan committee took to make its in-
vestigations and present its historic
recommendations, which covered British
banking policy and international finance
and economics.
The form of the Australian commis-
sion’s recommendations differs most vitally
from the shape of what the MacMillan
contingent advised in that further legis-
lative control and restrictions are gener-
ally suggested as regards trading banks.
Practically the whole remedy for de-
fects in the Australian banking system,
it would seem, is to be found in legisla-
tive measures. Possibly the fact that
the Commonwealth Bank Act is a more
hard-and-fast and detailed piece of law
than the Bank Charter Act, which partly
governs the Bank of England, has some-
thing to do with the leaning towards
legal “remedies.”
The recommendations concerning a re-
vised scale of gold and sterling backing
for the Commonwealth note issue, limi-
tation of the note issue, the vesting of
the chairmanship of the Commonwealth
Bank with the governor of that institu-
tion, and the widening of the field of
selection of the central bank’s directors
are some of the things that may be car-
ried out by amendment of existing legis-
lation. But suggestions that the Com-
monwealth Bank should be given power
to demand deposits from trading banks
would represent a new branch of banking
law, as would an obligation imposed on
private banks to disclose in detail the
measure of their profits and their mode
of dealing with secret reserves.
Other statutory measures proposed are
the granting of powers to the Auditor-
General to investigate batiks’ affairs, and
a right to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to “regulate” bank profits where
these are considered excessive. Another
suggestion of the same class is that all
banks should be compelled to take out
licenses, especially as regards new
branches.
Recommendations more in the spirit of
iaissez faire include (1) that the state of
our London funds should be published
regularly, but not until six months after
the date of the statement(2) the estab-
lishment of mortgage banks to finance
long-term loans; (3) that the Common-
wealth Bank should extend its economic
advisory branch, both at home and
abroad, and (4) that Governments and
the Commonwealth Bank should study
the possibility of establishing an open
market for Treasury bills. -
The commission advocates a system
of decimal coinage, which is a worth-while
suggestion. Only Mr. Chifley was in
favor of nationalised banks ; the majority
voted for
(a) a strong central bank regulating the
volume of credit and paying some atten-
tion to its distribution;-
( b ) the distribution of credit to be left
to the private; banks,-working for profit,
but regulated.
The following opinions and recommen-
dations offered by the commission are
taken from the full report:
The Commonwealth Bank should en-
deavor to regulate the volume of credit
to the banks,, so that the latter will be
induced to maintain a level of advances
and deposits which will best serve the
general objective of the Australian eco-
nomy. Moreover, it is the duty of the
bank to see that the credit provided is
made available at appropriate rates of
interest.... We think it desirable that the
bank should pay some regard to the distri-
bution by the banks of the volume of
credit amongst different industries.
A caution:
Too much should not be expected even
from the most enlightened policy of an
all-powerful central bank.
In the case of an irreconcilable vari-
ance of opinion between the bank board
and the Commonwealth Government-
The Government should give the bank
an assurance that it accepts full responsi-
bility for the proposed policy It is
then the duty of the bank to accept this
assurance and to carry out the policy of the
Government.
The chairman (Napier, J.) expresses dis-
sent, and says the policy of the bank
board should be outside the sphere of
party politics.
As to controlling the credit policy of
the trading banks by the Commonwealth
Bank:
By increasing the issue of Treasury bills
on the one hand, or funding them by public
loan on the other hand, the cash reserves
of the trading banks can be increased or
decreased, but, although the Commonwealth
Bank has some control over an increase
in the issue of Treasury bills, it cannot
determine when -or-'by how much that
volume shall be decreased by funding.
By the use of ..its trading-bank powers
the Commonwealth Bank can decrease the
cash reserves of the trading banks if, for
example, it'can attract deposits from them.
On the other hand, it can increase their
cash reserves, for example, by expanding
its own advances.
Some words of real wisdom:
In these circumstances the success attend-
ing the attempts of the Commonwealth
Bank to regulate credit ultimately depends
mainly upon the extent to which the
trading banks conform to its policy. One
way in which this conformity may be
achieved is by co-operation. This requires
wise leadership on the part of the Com-
monwealth Bank and its acceptance by
the trading banks... .1f... .the Common-
wealth Bank could be certain of the com-
plete co-operation of the trading banks in
carrying out its policy there would be no
need for any compulsory powers over
trading banks.
Because of keen competition among
Australian banks, often the good cus-
tomer has the last say as to what a
bank’s policy shall be. That seems to be
one reason why the commissioners lean
towards compulsory remedies. But legis-
lation won’t always attain desired ends
or improve banking and financial condi-
tions. If illwill arose between any of the
larger institutions, aims and objects might
easily be defeated. The MacMillan
report got down to root causes ; many of
its recommendations were put into effect,
and are still being put into effect; the
recent attempt by the British Government
and banks to “level-off” climbing com-
modity prices was in keeping with the
counsel given six years ago. There was
no legislation on the point, however.
The Bulletin's estimate early in the
year that Broken Hill Prop, would show
over £1,000,000 profit from its Newcastle
steelworks for 1936-37 got pretty near
the mark. Net earnings from all sources
were £1,183,170, up £332,810, and equal
to 22.6 p.c. on the present paid-up capi-
tal, though all of it was not at work
for the full term. It is a result that com-
pletely justifies the consistent advocacy
here of the stock as an investment.
* * * *
Shares in Henry Jones went rattling
up to 50s. 6d. last week, with buyers
still unsatisfied. It represents a new high
level for the scrip, though accounts do
not close until Oct. 31, and the final div.
won’t be due until December. The
reason for this between-seasons popu-
larity is hard to trace to any special
cause ; all that can be said definitely is
that the immediate yield is still above 4
p.c., and that Melbourne shareholders
aren’t selling, most dealings being in
Sydney. Last year’s disclosed earnings
were 13.7 p.c. on capital. But the IXL
Jones Co. is a holding concern, and what
its precise equity in the earnings of the
jam-making, etc., subsidiaries amounts
to each year outsiders don’t know. Dis-
tributions by the parent over the last 10
years, however, have averaged 8.6 p.c.,
which is a shade better than British
Tobacco’s experience. Henry Jones's
div. is now 10 p.c., B.T.’s 8 p.c.
=i= * * *
The movement from Consols to indus-
trial shares became stronger last week.
Loans were marked down consistently,
particularly the 1944 and 1957 issues.
There was a slackening-off in the demand
for industrials, it is true, towards the end
of the week, but the tone generally was
interesting.
■** * *
Rothsay’s reconstruction has gone
through, and those shareholders who like
to put up 3d. immediately may get 2s.
scri P P aid to Is. 3d. in return for their
Present holdings. Debenture-holders are
accepting an IOU for £35,000 in place
that now standing at £32,500, plus
premium ; due date is being pushed on
a y ear > to Nov., 1938, the co. being
allowed the right to withhold payment
of half the principal until Nov., 1939,
providing repayment of the other half
and payment of 8 p.c. p.a. half-yearly is
carried out to schedule. The first plant,
a cyanide outfit, didn’t give satisfactory
extraction ; new machinery and systems
were designed to overcome copper diffi-
f ultie A s > and a fresh staJ T was *******
last A P, nL Hnaiice troubles held things
up and now November is about the
earliest shareholders can expect to hear
extra( - tlo n lesults. A call ot 3d. a share
ma V b ! necessary before then.
The fact that City Council loan flota-
tions in London were handled from this
enc j by Melbourne brokers has helped to
influence Sydney Stock Exchange in spon-
soring an underwriting corporation. Apart
from public-body business, a host of
N. S. Wales cos. have gone to Melbourne
f rom t j m e to time to have their finances
“serviced.” It remains to be seen, how-
ever, whether Sydney ’Change’s present
sc h e me works with the success antici-
pate(j. The idea of an underwriting con-
cem j s gooj, but many would like to see
a b nanc j a i house established that was
mor£ catholic jn its constitution than the
_ n _
P * P ‘ * * *
Electrolytic Zinc ords., after lifting to
over 605., following the div. announce-
ment, were quietly dealt in at 595. later on.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Carlton Brewery showed signs of steadying
at 675. 6d. after the strong rise a week earlier,
® a j^ A a^ T s | bares were sou s ht at ~ 7s - 6d -’ after
Australian Cement £1 shares kept around
325. 6d. (following an unchanged interim of 10
p.c. p.a.), as against 255. 9d. for Kandos 16s-
P aids in Sydney.
Emperor gold shares were passed over on
two days without dealings, nominal quotes
being about 14s. 6d. The market is disap-
pointed in that the initial share capital (£750,000
P aid U P> though only £150,000 of it in cash)
has not proved sufficient to develop the mine
and the p]ant .
Myer shares were a shade weaker at 375. 6d.


Book of the Month!
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.), in one handy and com-
prehensive volume.
This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £1 /l/-
Order now from the publishers—
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
/ y
-^at,
;-;>'
/
«o
*■£-4,
-><v,. ■>-
<v
.His
ST^sassp
F‘ N^i;:
"W'
iiij
N::^t|||?^P^
;
yyt^yy
_ <r y+. *. *" x
‘*~~ r
IS *" **-. »/<
•Tv?
.<fa
★ The original from
which this genuine
letter was photo-
graphed may be seen
at the city office of
the Clyde Engineer-
ing Co., Ltd., 61-65
Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
The genuine experiences of Clyde battery owners are the best
advertisement for the superior qualities of Clyde batteries. Clyde
Master' Batteries alluded to in the above letter are unconditionally
guaranteed for two years. Dual separators of Clyde ‘Master'
Batteries, and superior quality of the plates ensures low mileage
cost and longer life. All Clyde Batteries are fully guaranteed.
tJ
BATTERIES
Used by the Royal Australian Navy, the various State
and Federal Governments and by car owners who
want value and service.
CLYDE dealers are in your district.
C. 8.2.
Since 1863 William Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith, have
been famous distillers. And from their vats comes “Vat 69 ’
a Scotch Liqueur Whisky mellowed with age and
unvarying in flavour.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles, and Flasks.
VAT GS)
.... LIQUEUR SCUTCH WHISKY
LUstributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
There were further sales of ord. shares
in Davies, Coop and Co. last week in
Melbourne, and the price kept above par.
Ten months ago there were sales at 15s.
9d., shortly after the 1935-36 accounts
were published. The 1936-37 figures will
be out about the end of August, and by
all indications they should be better. 1 he
co. started off in 1925 as a mercery manu-
facturer and knitter, later adding a
cotton-spinning and -weaving section.
Capital was increased (it is now £401,125,
£lOO,OOO of it in 6 p.c. prefs.), and the
shares were listed in 1935. Protective
duties put on to help the co.’s new weav-
ing business brought howls of protest
from Lancashire, and they were deferred
for a year, eventually becoming effective
in May, 1936. The term that closed on
June 30, therefore, will show the results
of a year of protected manufacturing,
and a profit better than the £21,443
earned in 1935-36 should result. In that
term all the earnings were handed out in
distribution of 6 p.c. to the prefs. and
5 p.c. to the ords. A year ago it was
stated that cloth which cost 19d. duty-
paid to land in Australia was being sold
by the co. at Though it has the
largest spinning mill in the Common-
wealth, only about 5 p.c. of the country’s
cotton-piecegoods requirements are sup-
plied by the co. Weekly output is about
35,000 yards of woven cloth and 100,000
yards of knitted cotton, woollen and art.
silk goods, together with 5200 dozen
articles of underwear. Plant stands in
the books at £201,000 ; finances were in
fair enough condition a year ago, though
with a better trading experience this year
improvement will be one of the things
looked for by shareholders. The co. has
promise.
* * * *
The Banking Commission agrees with
The Bulletin on at least one point:
The London funds of the banks form practi-
cally the whole of Australia’s international
reserves available to meet adverse conditions,
such as those arising from a heavy fall in
export prices or a severe drought. Since 1929
most of the monetary gold has left the Aus-
tralian system, and this loss has not been
made good by an increase in London funds.
For these reasons it is desirable that London
funds should be built up.
And one for the Treasurers:
It should be pointed out that a loan lloated
in London and used to finance Government
expenditure in Australia would be unlikely to
serve the purpose of accumulating and main-
taining London funds.
Activity in Briseis Tin shares (B.
21/7/”37) tapered off toward the latter
end of last week, the price dropping from
a peak of Bs. 6d. to Bs. Over 30
tons of tin is expected to be won this
month, and full production is anticipated
to be reached shortly. The co. is at
present working on the richer gravels ;
fluctuations in grade can be looked for
over a lengthy period. Mining authori-
ties seem settled on the point that
1.71 b. is a fair average to expect from
at least a large portion of the ore
reserves, proved and probable. The
strain on finances caused by the damage
following the flood in August last year
may defer dividends for some months
longer than the prospectus contemplated.
When production is in full swing a more
precise idea of the practicable profit-
earning capacity of the mine should be
gathered.
* * ■ * «
The profit announcement by Meggitt,
Ltd. —earnings showed an increase, of
£1541 to £45,020 —was largely anticipated
by the sharemarket. The ord. div., as
predicted here (B. 7/7/’37), was kept at
10 p.c. There was a slight weakening in
quotations a day or two after the ac-
counts came out.
* ❖ *
Following announcement of the new
share issue, one for two at par, Olympic
Tyres old ords. sold at 60s. 6d. last week
in Melbourne. If the increased div. rate
(12£ p.c.) is maintained on all shares in
the future, yield at the present price,
allowing for new issue and div. accrued,
would be about £5 Bs. 6d. per cent.
Under present trading conditions that
much seems assured.
* * * *
Paper board to the extent of 10 p.c.
of the consumption by users during the
year 1936 will be allowed into Australia
at tariff concession rates up to March 1,
1938. Australian Paper Manufacturers,
in which Australasian Paper and Cum-
berland have the controlling interest, is
at present unable to* meet full demand.
When the co.’s new mill comes into
operation, however, there should be no
further shortages for several years at
least.
The second annual report of Car-
penters Investment Co. (Sydney) shows
earnings of 10 p.c. on average capital
employed during the year. An 8 p.c. div.
goes out, after providing for taxation and
eliminating intangibles. The £lO,OOO capi-
tal is mostly represented by shares in div.-
paying industrial cos. “at cost or less”—
at balance day they could be sold for
more than their book value. There are
no liabilities. It has been a successful
enterprise to date, and is keenly and
economically managed.
* * * *
Two books of particular use to the
accountancy and similar professions have
recently been published. Practical Com-
pany Law, by Julius Hogben, LL.B.
(Angus and Robertson ; 10s. 6d.), deals
clearly and competently with the new
N. S. Wales Companies Act, which is
similar to the British and Maoriland law,
Mr. Hogben is already an acknowledged
authority in the Shivery Isles. The
Income Tax Acts, 1936-37, by H. Raw-
son Stevenson (The Bulletin ; 215.), col-
lates and summarises the income-tax laws
of all Australian States except Westralia.
Each State Act is compared with the
Federal law, and variations and incon-
sistencies are explained. The book runs
into 500 pages;.and there is a 45-page
index. Mr. Stevenson was for some time
with the Victorian Taxation Department,
and is now a chartered accountant.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
On Moonee Valley running, King’s
Game, a stable-mate of the promising
young ’chaser Jehu, can have little
chance in the Australian Hurdle, for
which he has been specked. He was
saddled-up for the Seafield Trial Hurdle,
but could only finish third to David Quex
(11 to 2) and Tern. David Quex, who
won handsomely, is partly owned by W.
Burke, his trainer. Jack Thrice was a
3-to-l favorite. As with King’s Game,
his prospects for the big race at Caul-
field are not alluring.
Burke’s good luck extended into the
next event, the St. Mongo Handicap, for
two-year-olds. He trains Hautboy, a colt
by Manfred from Oboe, for W. P. Mein,
the Riverina pastoralist, and Hautboy
(5 to 1) was next in demand to the 10-to-9
favorite, Othello. Riding tactics largely
influenced the result. Cooper refrained
from challenging Othello until well into
the straight. They had a great set-to,
and Hautboy scored by a half-head.
Othello brought 1700 guineas at the
1936 yearling sales; he is by Heroic
from Desdemona, by All Black from
Dame Lybia, a sister to the 1908 Mel-
bourne Cup winner Lord Nolan. He
comes from the same family as Lord
Cardigan, Dividend and other great per-
formers, and may live up to his attrac-
tive pedigree.
Because of the danger of incurring a
penalty in the Australian Steeple, Sey-
mour was withdrawn from the cross-
country event, which went to Montargis,
a cast-iron type of jumper. Montargis
ran third in the Great Eastern at Oak-
bank (S.A.) on Easter Monday, and in
the following month was unlucky to lose
the Grand Annual at Warrnambool. He
subsequently competed in the V.R.C.
Grand National and other Melbourne
events over fences.
Montargis, who had a strong follow-
ing at 7 to 2, was followed home by
Philax. A protest for interference at the
home turn was dismissed by the stewards.
Unless penalised, Montargis will have
only 9st. 71b. to carry in the Australian
Steeple, and, being a safe conveyance
with plenty of stamina, he may have to
be reckoned with. He reads better than
Monkey Tricks, who finished third on
Saturday. At his previous two Valley
outings, Monkey Tricks fell with Fullar-
ton. He got round safely with J. Maher,
but didn’t fence well.
Skidmore had to put forth all his
powers to get Tapestry home in the Com-
pensation Handicap, for which the Syd-
ney gelding was a 5-to-2 favorite. Con
Devon, a maiden three-year-old, put up
a great fight with the older horse. Der-
mid was third. His display was so re-
markable that the stewards immediately
opened an inquiry, which did not reach
finality until the close of the day’s racing.
After passing the mile post Dermid
dropped from second-last to the rear of
the field. Along the back stretch he
was 10 lengths behind the nearest horse.
With four furlongs to go Dermid’sposition
had not improved. As at Caulfield on
the previous Saturday, when he scored
so brilliantly in the mile Malvina Welter,
he “flew’! in the straight. The Valley
journey was 1| miles and 10 yards. The
stewards censured Macpherson for hav-
ing, in their opinion, ridden a very “ill-
judged race.”
“Horses for courses!” Frilvian regis-
tered his third successive win at Moonee
Valley by taking the Phoenix Handicap.
His backers secured the nice odds of
7 to 1. Minor places went to Conchita.
(6 to 1) and the rank outsider Ngapuna.
The favorite, Jolly Boy, was a mere
head behind Ngapuna. He had none
too good a passage.
Elliot, who weighed out for Frilvian,
also was associated with the Northwood
Handicap success of Cackle. The latter,
a Windbag three-year-old, atoned for
her failure at Caulfield on the previous
Saturday. She shared favoritism with
Erua, who had been runner-up to Der-
mid at Caulfield. Although Erua finished
outside the money, he . came home
strongly, and will not be neglected in
future outings.
Sold cheap for stud purposes and
brought back to the turf, Buonarroti and
Milantheon have been raced successfully
in N. S. Wales of late. Now Deputy
Ruler, after serving a number of mares,
seems to have recaptured some of his
three-year-old form, which was good.
Pearson, the bookmaker, who owned
Amounis, paid a high price for Deputy
Ruler. The Maoriland nag ran second
in the 1933 A.J.C. Derby to Hall Mark,
but was a failure afterwards, and Pear-
son sold him for 170 guineas to a Young
pastoralist, H. E. Rudd. Rudd must
have won a lot more than that on the
second division of the Welter at Rose-
bery. Heavily backed at 4 to 1 and
better, Deputy Ruler won in a canter
from The Freak and Berkeley.
Former studmaster Harry Taylor was
another pleased man at Rosebery. He
saw his colt Tonga win the Cape Sol-
ander Handicap in dashing style. Tonga,
who has Bst. 21b. in the Epsom, was a
brilliant two-year-old, but he has doubt-
ful legs, and was put aside for a long
term. Though it was his first appearance
after his holiday, he looked trained to
the minute. Over the last furlong
McCarten cleverly manoeuvred him
through a cavalcade of horses, and Tonga
beat the pacemaker, Fanciful, by a
neck, with The Caliph a close third.
Tonga was backed from 7 to 4 to evens.
The runnermp is from South Australia,
and pretty smart.
Vaalmore (5 to 2), expertly ridden by
Andy Knox, gave Confab a long start
and a beating in the Sir Joseph Banks
Handicap. Jeanne D’Arc was third.
Monogram disappointed, and Cid, when
tailed off seven furlongs from home,
switched his tail, bucked and defied all
McMenamin’s efforts to make him
gallop.
The Rosehill-trained Trick (5 to 2),
a daughter of Magpie, held off Bull-
dozer and Orelton when whips were
cracking in a division of the Welter. She
followed Orelton and One More into
the straight and took the lead in the last
furlong. Gay Blonde was fourth, and will
be improved by the run. Speardale, a sad
disappointment at Canterbury, took the
Eastlake Mile. Owner-trainer Rex Smart
told his friends that Canterbury form
was wrong, and engaged Bartle for Rose-
bery, with instructions to make every post
a winner. Bartle complied, and Spear-
dale won by lengths from Fireman and
Poponaise. He started at fives.
“0.G.”: “Retired Urger,” ridiculing
my remarks on s.p. betting (B. 21/7/’37),
reveals that he must have retired in the
’nineties. I was speaking of Sydney to-
day. The bulk of s.p. betting is done
exactly as I recorded: agents take the
bets and pass them on to their principals,
and —a qualification I made —except with
very small fish, no money changes hands
until the settling. On settling day the
agents collect from losers, use what’s
needed to pay winners and pass the
balance to the principal. This is not
hearsay or romance, but common prac-
tice. By designating it “too ridiculous
to need confuting,” “Retired Urger”
qualifies for the next vacant lay-preacher-
ship. A point he and others who believe
it can be readily stopped by legislation
overlook is that it’s a purely personal
business. Another Bulletin paragraphist
was right when he said that a total
stranger would find it next to impossible
to get a bet on at s.p. in Sydney. Each
agent has his own personal following
and restricts his business to these or to
those they recommend. It & simply an
extension of the time-honored practice of
“betting on the nod” on the course.
“Retired Urger’s” main delusion is that
s.p. is restricted to punters making bets
between drinks in pubs. The whole of
this —and good riddance! —can be wiped
out and the bulk of s.p. betting in Sydney
won’t be touched.
* * * *
Oro and Babili, who were rivals of
Peter Pan—Babili dead-heated with Peter
in the latter’s first race as a three-year-old
and Oro chased him in many races—were
in action a week ago, Oro at Rosehill and
Babili at Grafton. Oro was third in the
Rosehill Handicap to that very consistent
three-year-old Bobby (6 to 4), and Babili
first in the Clarence River Jockey Club
Handicap, for which he was favorite at
sto 4. Babili met with a mishap on the
journey from Sydney, and “arrived with
wounds on near fore and hind legs,” but
the hardy old customer made light of his
injuries. After the Grafton Cup race,
however, he broke down.
The Grafton Cup went to Milantheon
(8 to 1), with Osculum second and Eva
Dee third. Improvement and Friar’s
Switch, the favorite, ran poorly.
* * * *
“Old Steve”: Milantheon’s success in
the Grafton Cup is interesting, consider-
ing that he is an eight-year-old stallion
and has some promising progeny at Cess-
nock. Since resuming racing, Pantheon’s
son has not been out of a place; his
record shows three wins, a second and
two thirds. He is trained on the Cess-
nock racecourse.
Battle of the Bigger Beef
In this engagement Mr. Don Noland
(16st. 51b.) assaults Mr. Vic Christie
(16st. 31b.) with a towel, a peanut and
a cigar-butt at the Sydney Stadium.
Their robes Off, : they are enormous
gleaming pillars of men, Mr. Christie
the pinker of the two. The bell. They
go into action. Pandemonium. Mr.
Christie quickly entraps Mr. Noland in
a locked hold about the head, and by
that appendage lifts and hurls him to
the canvas. Mr. Noland leaps to his
feet, snarls, lays the same hold on Mr.
Christie and down both of them go, Mr.
Noland on top, his thighs squeezing Mr.
Christie in a body-press. Has Mr.
Christie a counter for this? He has. He
tickles Mr. Noland up the middle of
the back. A look of surprise, wonder,
dismay overspreads Mr. Noland’s coun-
tenance. With a yell of anguish he lets
go and leaps to his feet, rubbing his
back, glaring daggers at Mr. Christie.
The crowd goes wild. It yells its head
off, egging them both on.
Now they’re into it! Rushing round
the ring, flying at each other, a tornado
of beef. In the onslaught Mr. Noland
lets Mr. Christie have a forearm jolt,
knocking him off his feet. Mr. Christie
rises and staggers down from another.
Mr. Noland gloats. The crowd howls.
Mr. Christie pulls himself together, floors
Mr. Noland. The crowd bawls approval.
Mr. Noland leaps up again with a look
of having been unpardonably insulted.
He takes a head-hold on Mr. Christie,
brings Mr. Christie between him and
the ref. and drives fist punches into Mr.
Christie’s belly. Round races the ref.,
suspicious. Assuming an expression that
might pass for innocence in Sheol, Mr.
Noland pats Mr. Christie gently on the
tummy with his palm. Thus engaged, he
is caught unawares by Mr. Christie’s move.
It breaks the hold, turns to a similar
one on Mr. Noland, lifts him and hurls
him over the top rope down into the
ringsiders. Very deliberately Mr. Noland
clambers back in again, looking intensely
indignant. It bodes something no good
for Mr. Christie.
And here it is—an assault that would
have carried Messines, without the mine.
It carries Mr. Christie violently to the
floor, leaves him not only embraced
around the middle between .Mr. Noland’s
thighs, but with a leg bent up his back,
the foot in Mr. Noland’s hands, twisting
it unmercifully. Under this treatment
Mr. Christie writhes and threshes.
i And there goes the bell! Mr. Noland,
increasing the pressure, ignores it. The
crowd shatters the air. After several
attempts the ref. forces Mr. Noland to
let go. Contemptuously, Mr. Noland
kicks Mr. Christie in the back. They go
to their corners; Mr. Christie looking
nonchalant, Mr. Noland wearing the
expression of a sealed volcano.
Round two is mostly like, round one.
Shortly in the third, culminating an
assault that would crumple Madrid, Mr.
Christie pins Mr. Noland for a fall. Back
to his corner goes Mr. Noland, fairly
ropeable. His second swings the seat in ;
Mr. Noland kicks it out again. Rebound-
ing, it swings back in and catches him on
the knee. Mr. Noland boots it bitterly.
The next round is brisk, but, though
Mr. Noland takes his shoulder towel
with him and opens by getting it round
Mr. Christie’s neck and trying to garrotte
him, it scarcely comes up to the promise,
of the interval. Honors in crabs, splits,
scissors, nelsons, crocodiles, headlocks,
chanceries, forearm jolts and face-bars
are about 50-50, and after it Mr. Noland
sits like the future sullenly thinking up
what it will do to Rabaul. And in the
ensuing melee, what does he not do to
Mr. Christie! Anyway, he pins him, re-
leases the hold at the ref.’s forceful inter-
vention, threatens to swipe the ref. and
retires, puffing with pride, to his corner.
Mr. Dent climbs into the ring and
calls the fall, what time Mr. Noland,
rising, inflates his chest imperiously, pats
it vigorously and looks expectantly to
the crowd. Whatever thunders of
applause he expected, what he gets is a
burst of boos and catcalls and a barrage
of peanuts, Minties, cardboard drink-
containers and a cigar butt. Mr. Noland
thoughtfully slips a peanut or two in the
shell into his trunks, and when the bell
sounds rushes Mr. Christie, gets a head-
lock on him, floors him, gets on top and
fetching out a peanut rubs it expertly
into Mr. Christie’s face. The crowd goes
frantic. The ref., leaping in where angels
would have flown backwards, breaks the
hold and admonishes Mr. Noland.
A rush and Rugby tackle, by Mr.
Christie now floors Mr. Noland, who
bounces to his feet and goes frenziedly
after Mr. Christie, armed, as Mr.
Christie Will soon discover, with the
cigar butt. Pinned against the ropes,
Mr. Christie now suffers the indignity, if
not worse, of this rubbed into his
cherubic face. It has been rubbed to a
tatter before the ref. succeeds in parting
’em, talking to Mr. Noland, while the
crowd yells like a. Siamese choir.
And here is where the ref. meets
Nemesis. Mr. Noland, driven there by a
battery of jolts, is clinging with both
hands to the top rope. The ref. is trying
to make him let go. Mr. Christie at the
back on the other side from the ref. is
thumping down forearm jolts on Mr.
Noland’s substantial neck. Sensing one
pf these jolts on the way Mr. Noland falls
forward and Mr. Christie’s fist, continu-
ing over, takes the ref. clean on the point.
Down goes the ref. Up leaps the crowd.
Round swings Mr. Noland and over he
goes, Mr. Christie on top. The ref.
rises, falls over beside them and sub-
consciously gives the wrestling count-out.
Then, staggering to his feet he holds
aloft (and supportingly on to) in token
of the victor the identical fist that felled
him.
Footbrawl
Carlton’s surprise victory over Mel-
bourne in Saturday’s V.F.L. series en-
abled Collingwood and Geelong to be-
come joint leaders with Melbourne.
Carlton scored 16-24 to 16-8. Geelong
beat Essendon, 13-22 to 9-12, and Col-
lingwood, 24-20, took no chances with
North Melbourne, 7-9.
St. Kilda, which defeated Footscray,
17-10 to 13-15, is the other team in “the
four.” Richmond outstayed South Mel-
bourne, 16-23 to 13-11, and is only a
couple of premiership points behind St.
Kilda. Hawthorn, 10-11, won the other
game against Fitzroy, 6-13. Carlton’s
success plates this team six premiership
points behind Richmond.
r *" ■ * *
The Springboks won their first match
in Maoriland—against Auckland —19-5 ;
five tries to two. Thirty-eight thousand
people saw them do it, first-comers
reaching the ground at three in the
morning.
.$ * *
West is going ahead in the Sydney
Rugby Union competition; three points
now in front of Uni. West easily ac-
counted for Gordon on Saturday, 22-12,
though the Gordonites scored three tries
to the leaders’ four. University was
beaten by Manly, third on the list, 17-16
—again four tries to three—in a scratchy
game made interesting by the way the
scores see-sawed. Fourth are Drum-
moyne and East together. Both won pn
Saturday : Drummoyne 20-11 (three tries
each) against St. George; East 19-3
(three tries to one) against Parramatta.
The others, North and Randwick, played
an eight-all draw.
(Continued on page 30.)
“Bow-wow”: What sort of hound is
a greyhound? Judging by his name, he
is two hounds in one, for greyhound
means hound-hound, the first syllable
representing Icelandic grey, a dog. This
puts the hare-chaser, as a canine hyphen-
ate, in the same tony class as the Fitz-
noodle-Fitznoodles of the human species.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Aberfeldie Hurdle: Dakwood;
next, David Quex.
Lindsay Gordon Steeple:
Philax; next, Montargis.
Glen Orla Handicap: Desert
Chief; next, Con Devon.
Derrimut Handicap: Aurie’s
Star; next, Great Feast.
Sunset Welter: Bustard; next,
Gilt.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Flying Welter: Tuckerbox ; next,
Trick.
Rockdale Mile: Fireman or
Jovial Son; next, Lolorua.
Moorefield Handicap: Fireman
or Grand Warbler; next, Bulldozer.


aid
to sparkling
HEALTH t and FITNESS
‘Pep’ in a Few Minutes
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting momentsl
m,
%
m
t,
m
m
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick- i
me-up! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFEr
. -
* it nas
done
lot
good’
m
m
,0m
m
ONE
User says
m
s
Sani-
“I find great
relief in Cream
of Yeast; it has
lone me good
in several
ways. Had
teen in *• Hospital’ and
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
— A.E., Young, N.S.W.
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP 9
TO-DAY—
%
Fa moust
A thletcs
train on
Cream of Yeast.
A
a re-
Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
■vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
| est tonic pick-
fme-up known.”
Amazing Vitality To-morrou)!
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to be thin, nervous and lacking in “pep ”
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained 3lbs. to 15lbs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES:
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in I[ minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 8 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep'' in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11. 3/6 and 6/9.


SILVER EDGE
BRAKE LINING!
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to pool biakt
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poo..
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot Je uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING -
the quality lining.
raybestos-beeaco, ltd.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.f’.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic
LONGEST USEFUL LIFE
The life of a tyre gauge ends when its accuracy ss
gone. Comparing useful life with cost, a Kismet
Tyre gauge gives you best value. It is made with
precision—tested repeatedly during manufac-
ture, to give exact readings every time
and for always.
Get a Kismet —the extra cost
comes back to you in longer
useful service.
w
m
Calibrated
0-50 pounds,
clearly marked
on wide flat sur -
faces in single
pounds; in neat leather
wallet.
Tr
D
UCE
TYR
The De Luxe Model
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOIjD, r.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
liNK; 'it' HR 1 *.. I.TO Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Fred Henneberry outboxed and out-
fought Tommy Vaughan at Newtown on
Thursday night. The Queenslander, an-
nounced to weigh list. 101 b., looked at
least half a stone heavier than Henne-
berry (list. 81b.). His strength and per-
sistence bothered the Australian ex-
champion middleweight for a time, but
Henneberry ladled out plenty of pun-
ishment, and won by a wide margin of
points.
* * * *
Dead Hughie Mehegan’s son, also
Hughie Mehegan, and a lightweight, was
stopped by Filipino Clever Henry in 14
rounds at Leichhardt last week. He
lacks his father’s purposeful punching
and effective smother, but has inherited
Dad’s gameness.
footbrawl
“Stand Off”: In a parting message to
Australian Rugby players Springbok
skipper Nel noted that the standard of
the game is much higher in Sydney than
elsewhere ; but when he reached Maori-
land he said that there had been a great
falling-off in Australian form since Dr.
Ross’s team visited Africa. In those days
Queensland football could fairly be called
equal to the best in other States and
Victorian was improving. During the past
season or two Sydney officialdom has
been definitely discouraging not only the
Queensland and Victorian Unions one
Sydney official said that the Queensland
connection was not in his opinion worth
bothering about —but the development of
the game in its own country districts
where it was once so strong..
The N.S.W. Union is repeating the
story of pre-war years. On the return of
the Wallabies it was a comparatively
wealthy organisation with a fine record
in Britain to build on for the future. In-
eptitude found it before the war almost
penniless, and with its public and most
of its best players gone over to the
League.
* * *
“Stand Off”: The final Rugby Test
between the Springboks and Australia
in Sydney seems to those who have only
read of it either to have been just hard
and rough or an orgy of foul play and
bash. “S. M. Herald’ says that, with
spots of scrap, it was merely extra hard
and willing. Other journals of known
League sympathies gave accounts so reso-
nant with shocked horror as to lead one
to suppose they have forgotten at least
one Sydney meeting last year between
the English and Australian professionals.
The “Labor Daily” reminded them of it
by republishing a photo, in which a
bunch of English forwards are shown
manhandling an Australian. One is
apparently trying to pull the nose off his
face ; the others are seemingly endeavor-
ing to dismember him.
* * * *
“Toot, Toot”: It is evident that an in-
experienced referee was to blame for the
disorder in the game between South
Africa and Australia. The official took
the place of an experienced arbitrator at
the last minute, and failed to stand up
to the test of his first international game.
If he had sent off the first pair of
offenders at once there would have been
no more trouble. Union and League
alike suffer from this failure of umpires
to measure up to requirements. Both
codes could do with another lim Mac-
manamy and another Tom McMahon.
“Stoush”: South African papers are
keyed up with the accounts of the Aus-
tralia-Springbok Test, so the cablemen
must have made their messages extra-
ferocious. The “Cape Argus” anticipates
plenty of trouble in Maoriland if the
players are not kept well in hand. M.L.
referees, however, have seldom been ac-
cused of handing over control of a game
to the players.
“Der Jong”: An excellent instance of
how enthusiasts will rush in where better
informed folk fear to tread can be seen
in a circular letter sent to each member
of the Springbok team by Harry Sunder-
land, who has been for years secretary
of the Queensland League. Sunderland
sets out the advantages and profit of pro-
fessional sport, and urges the ’Boks to
band together after their tour and form
a South African Rugby League. Sunder-
land has no experience of the Afrikander
attitude towards professional sport, or he
would have not ventured on such a step.
Frankly, speaking as one who knows the
South Africans at first-hand, I can assure
the Queensland official that they would
rather admit Kaffirs to the circle of South
African sport than any concern playing
games for the money to be got out of
them. The ’Boks, while philosophic
about the bit of scrapping that went on
in the last Test, resented Sunderland’s
impertinence bitterly, and returned his
letter to him.
sfc ❖ *
“Xo”: Victoria’s Rugby Union has
lost the playing support of several of the
stalwarts who have lent experience and
stability to young Vic. sides in recent
years. Jessep, the Kiwis’ skipper, a
former All-Black and Australian hooker,
is retiring, although he still turns out to
give his team moral and tactical sup-
“I don't feel too confident to-night , Charley!"
port in the harder club games. Laurie,
Old Boys’ skipper and one of Vic.’s lead-
ing full-backs for several years, 'suffered
a recent shoulder injury that looks like
putting him permanently on the side-
line. Norman Wilson and Dr. E. E.
Dunlop, both Old Boys and inter-State
forwards of solid type, have not played
since the Springbok clash, and are not
expected to turn out next season.
* * - * * ■*
“Outside Right”: Australia won the
third and deciding Soccer Test with Eng-
land at Newcastle, by four goals to three,
before a record crowd for the coalfields.
The home side raced away from the
start and had two goals up before Eng-
land, playing without Joy, got a move
on. The first half was all Australia, but
the Englishmen went for the gloves in
the second, and in the closing stages of
the game continually stormed the Aus-
tralian defence.
“Brass Addle'r”: Though they played
only two games in Sydney, as opposed
to three by the Union, the Soccer people
scored far more heavily in cash than
their handling cobbers. The three Union
games returned £9OO, £2200 and £l6OO ;
the two Soccer events £3lOO and £3425.
At the same time it must be remembered
that the first two Union games had to
be played in teeming wet weather, while
the Soccer games were blessed with
clear sunshine. Still, it is a great lecoid
for the round-ball game, and it is up to
the people running the code m this coun-
try to show more initiative and lore-
sight than they have done in the past
and work to hoist the game to the popu-
larity it deserves.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The great success of
the English amateur Soccer visit moves
me to point out out that it is high time
the round-ball game, the only true foot-
ball played, was introduced to the uni-
versifies, Sydney especially. There
should be more than room in Sydney, for
it is practically certain that the Univer-
sity Rugby League team will have its
inglorious career ended with the axe at
the League’s next annual meeting.
Nineteenth Hole
, rv ». calpp.
Divot Digger .
tors are to pick the team ot tour ama
tember. It seems a foregone conclusion
that Williams, Ferrier, Ryan and Hat-
play 6 a “Asocial” programmers Opposed
to an “official” one, so a manager is
not counted on, though Ryan will prob-
ably manage as well as skip. Since the tour
is not official, many would like to see
South Australia and Queensland repre-
sented. Money to finance the extra two
players could be raised in their own
States.
. If Von Nida wins the Australian'open
jf is probable he will undertake an Eng-
'f h tour, with a subsequent trip to US.A.
As a professional h.s prestige would be
™s*ly enhanced by the Australian title,
but n is probable that the youngster may
i° an yway, winor lose, m September.
Melbourne golfers are mourning the
p ass j n g of Thomas Brentnall, known in
yj ctor j a as q le father of Australian golf,
Among his luggage when he reached Mel-
bourne in 1878 was a set of clubs which
nQW repose . s j n ffi e Royal Melbourne
c ffibhouse. He was the last survivor of
dl£ meedn g called by him in 1891 which
f ounded Royal Melbourne. The old
gentleman was a devotee of music as
well as golf. He was 91 at the end.
* * *
Sydney professional W. J. Bolger won
bis £5O challenge match with Von Nida,
5 and 4 They were all square at the
end G f ffi e ffi jg holes,
=l= * * *
“Divot Digger”: Money matches be-
tween Australian professional golfers are
becoming quite common. Lou Kelly has
hurled defiance at the winner of the Von
Nida-Bolger match in Sydney, the terms
being the same, £5O a side and 36 holes
of match play. Kelly came from nowhere
in 1933 to take the Australian open
championship, and followed that up with
the professional title the following year.
He is confident he is back to his best
form, and is already considering a suit-
able investment for his £5O when he col-
lects it.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: American golfers stirred
up a hornets’ nest on their return to the


Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
K
*smn
v.
:r
JVJ
PYHOX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
5/- Each.
BRANDALEKS
t*" 4
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUER * CO.. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
Tenders.
Motor Yacht “Sunbeam Q.”
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of the
M.Y. “Sunbeam Q.” The boat, built in 1927
by J. H. Whereat and formerly known as
“Troubadour,” tonnage 2.38, has length 66 feet,
beam 14 feet, draught 5 feet, with 60-h.p.
Fairbanks Morse semi-Diesel engine. Inspec-
tion by arrangement with A. BADDILEY, Mc-
Connell Street, Bulimba, ’Phone JYIU6.
Equipped to Marine Board requirements, Cer-
tificate 2452 in force to 24th May, 1938.
Tenders must be lodged with the undersigned
before 21st August, 1937, and must state terms
offered and delivery date. Highest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
For and on behalf of Hugo Brassey,
LANCE JONES & CO.,
Estates Chambers,.
100-108 Creek Street, Brisbane.
tm
m
til
r js*§
s
i A Typical
Diesel Motor.
TRAINING
IN
DIESEL ENGINEERING
STUDY AT HOME IN YOUR SPARE TIME
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE has prepared a comprehensive
course in the theory of Diesel Engines. The lessons are set in simple
manner, with all necessary illustrations, diagrams, etc., and the answers to the
questions in the lessons are checked and commented upon by qualified experts.
The Course is conducted by Home Study, which means that the Student can do
the technical lessons in his own spare time.
EARNING POWER SENT TO YOU BY POST
The Course covers the two main sections of Diesel Engineering, either or both of which may be selected for study:—
TRACTION DlESEL—(Tractors, Lorries, Motor Buses, etc.)
STATIONARY DIESEL—(Power and Electric Plants).
PRACTICAL TRAINING
All students in Sydney and Suburbs can obtain practical experience on a working
Diesel motor at night or Saturdays to qualify for a Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate.
Extract from a recent speech by the Principal of the Diesel Engineering College:—
I do not think that Dr. Rudolph Diesel realised in his wildest dreams that the
heavy Compression Ignition engines bearing his name would be driving aeroplanes,
motor-cars, farm tractors, etc. His engines were confined to heavy stationary types,
and in those days they caused considerable trouble in operation. The problem of
making the engine lighter without loss of power seemed insurmountable. However,
CC c 1 ' ~“i esv s difficulties have been overcome by ceaseless experiments.
Die first Diead truck appeared in 1924, just 13 years ago, and in 1930 a six-cylinder
100-hjP. Diesel truck was on the market. Since 1930 rail cars, six-wheeled trucks,
etc., have been completed, and now to-day we have Diesels in tractors, lorries,
motor-cars, buses and other vehicles running on heavy oil fuel with no more vibration
than the average car. From ceaseless experiments over years of practice a commercial
power unit has now been evolved which solves many of the uneconomic problems
facing car and tractor power, and I can honestly state that the Diesel is gradually
replacing all forms of locomotion. In all forms of stationary power, the same thing
can be said about Diesels—cheapness of operation. Long distances and high
cost of transport in Australia are a large feature in favor of the Diesel. A truck
recently travelled from Sydney to Brisbane, a distance, I believe, of about 600 miles,
at a fuel cost of £l/0/6! Isn’t that marvellous? We can therefore see the enormous
saving to those who use this modern type of motor. I am making these statements
to impress upon you all the fact that the Diesel is here, and with the continued
success of experiments of Diesels in motor-cars and aeroplanes this vast land ol
ours can soon be opened up by cheap and safe transport.”
IVrite for free booklet, which shows fullest information and the moderate fees payable, to the
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, Kembla Building, Margaret St.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
U.S.A. by complaining of the unfairness
of British crowds. The chief complain-
ant was young Guldahl, the American
open champion, who said that onlookers
had deliberately kicked short balls be-
longing to their side towards the holes,
while crowding the Americans so that
they had hardly room for a clean swing.
Worth noting that old hands like Hagen,
Sarazen and others took no part in the
squeal.
Racquet and Bawl
The Germans very nearly beat the
Yanks for the right to challenge the Eng-
lish for the Davis Cup. It was level
pegging at the beginning of the fifth
match ; then Budge lost two sets to Von
Cramm. He won the other three, the
last going 8-6. A close shave.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Australia was soundly
walloped by the English Davis Cup team,
going down by four matches to two.
Quist made an unexpected appearance,
and with McGrath beat Tuckey and
Wilde in the doubles.
:{: % * *
“Cash Amateur”: The A.L.T.A. is so
determined to lose as little, brass as pos-
sible on our disastrous Davis Cup team
that it is dragging them about Europe,
picking up chicken-feed. The team went
to Germany for the championships
there, and was to finish with a couple of
tournaments in Italy. The men sail from
Naples on August 22, again without
Quist.
* * * *
“Heil”: After all the backing and fill-
ing (B. 21/7/’37), Von Cramm and
Henkel will play in Australia. It is
officially announced that the pair will
arrive from Japan at the end of De-
cember —there is room for a hitch here,
but let us hope for the best —and will
begin their tour at Brisbane. Sydney
will get one game, against Australia on
December 27 and 28 ; Melbourne, Adel-
aide and Perth will see them in turn.
Before starting on the long trip the Ger-
mans will play in the German and Ameri-
can championships, and so to Japan and
China. After Australia they show in
India.
Miscellaneous
“Vernier”: At Bisley during the rifle-
shooting competitions, the Australian
rifle with the heavy Lithgow barrel won
general approval. It is regarded as
superior to the British service, arm. An-
other matter for congratulation is the
excellent shooting of the Australians at
targets with smaller bull’s-eyes than those
used in their native land. The team took
the. Empire match by 17 points from
Canada with an aggregate of 2222 for
the six ranges. Britain was third.
* ;j; $ *
“Kingsland”: Latest news of the
visitors for the Empire Games in Sydney
is that England will be represented by
the eight from Jesus College, Cambridge.
It was at Jesus that an Australian, then
an undergraduate there, introduced the
Fairbairn style of rowing. At this year’s
Henley, Jesus was second in the Grand
Challenge to the Vikings, the German-
crew which filled third place at the
Olympiad.
* * * *
E. A. McDonald, the greatest of post-
war fast bowlers, was killed in a car
accident on a Bolton (Lancashire) road
last week. A Tasmanian who crossed
Bass Strait and played for Victoria,
McDonald had a beautiful delivery and,
like Spofforth, could mix ’em. He went
to England with the 1920-21 Australian
XI, returned there to play with a Lanca-
shire League club, qualified for the
county, and helped it to win the cham-
pionship again and again. When his
cricketing days were done, he settled in
Lancashire, managed a pub, and did a
bit of writing for “News of the World.”
McDonald, a really good fellow, was as
popular with the Lancashiremen as he
was with his own countrymen.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The programme for the
Sheffield season has been settled at last.
Though the other States have no objec-
tion—the South Australia-Queensland
match in Adelaide is a case in point—
N.S.W. declines to play on Christmas
Day. The result is that the N.S.W. team
on tour wilt spend another day in Mel-
bourne.
*' * * *
“Aigburth”: G. O. Allen has revived
the familiar wail about overprepared
wickets. He says, very truly, that on many
grounds a bowler goes on well aware
that he has no hope of attacking with
success, and must just bowl defensively,
hoping the batsman will get himself out.
The trouble is a very old one. When
I was a small boy in England Notts
started a practice which is now general
by using a special marl dressing on the
Trent Bridge pitch, which rolled out like
a glass sheet. There was much recrimina-
tion, and then all hands took to faking
their pitches. As far as writer knows
only one club in England, the Liverpool
club, with ground and H.Q. at Aigburth,
has always insisted on natural pitches.
It is a fine ground, but only once in a
blue moon does it get a big match.
* * * *
“Spike”: The success of the British
amateur team in the U.S.A. has been
followed by substantial British triumphs
in the national athletic championships.
Only two of the 10 events —the long jump
and the 440 hurdles —went to Continental
competitors. British records were plenti-
ful, and evens were broken in the 100
and 220. Evidently John Bull has taken
some of the lessons of the last Olympiad
to heart, as we may find out for our-
selves at the Empire Games in Sydney
next year.
* * #
“Picket Fence”: A quaint hockey rule
is that the home. State at all-Australia
tourneys may not select more players
than are available to the largest visiting
side. N.S.W. has chosen 17 men as pos-
sible players in the tourney at Sydney
from August 6-16, but, as none of the
other States has picked more than 16, it
will have to kick one choice out. The
reason for so many spares is that each
side will have to play seven matches in
the tournament proper, apart from any
games with the All-Blacks, so that re-
placements are sure to be wanted.
JjC ijc $
“Puck”: The series of ice-hockey
games in Sydney between Victoria and
the Jvla State went to the home players,
the N.S.W. men taking the third and
deciding game by 10 goals to 1. N.S.W.
thus continues to hang on to the Good-
all Cup, which has been in the State’s
possession since 1922 The skaters are
to make another effort to have ice-hockey
included in the Empire Games pro-
gramme in Sydney next February, and
are confident that if this is done the
Canadians will invade us.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Go-getter.”
CAPPY RICKS Charles Winninger
SUPER SALESMAN .. George Brent
CAPPY’S DAUGHTER, Anita Louise
SKINNER John Eldredge
Charles Winninger manages a first-class
portrayal of Peter B. Kyne’s fiery, hard-
headed, soft-hearted little old tyrant.
Brent, the headliner, never gets within
coo-ee of the acting honors, though his
performance is reasonably good.
The book has been tinkered with,
mainly with the object of giving it an in-
jection of heart interest, but the mush
has been kept from boiling over. For the
rest, the multitude of snags with which
Cappy tries to tangle up his star sales-
man when he sets him searching for the
blue vase, his severest test of go-getsman-
ship, provide an extra good ration of
fun.
Anita Louise acts with naturalness and
charm, and John Eldredge is adequate.
The only one miscast is Willard Robert-
son as Matt Peasley. At Sydney Capitol.
“Marry the Girl.”
HALF-WITS ... Frank HcHugh, Carol
Hughes
QUARTER-WITS, Mary Boland, Hugh
Herbert, Mischa Auer
Has to do with an artist, a tempera-
mental Rooshian, who wants to marry a
wealthy eccentric’s niece, most of the
“action” taking place in a sanitarium
where they cater for eccentrics. Herbert
hits off some original comedy by saying
“hoo! hoo!” 178 times in a slightly
higher-pitched voice than usual. Mary
Boland strikes a new note when she says
“Oh yeah!” out of the corner of a hard
mouth. The rest of the cast get fun out
of tearing around every quarter of an
hour and throwing things through
windows. It’s at Sydney Capitol.
“Secret Lives.”
BEAUTIFUL SPY .... Brigitte Horney
HER EMERGENCY HUSBAND,
Neil Hamilton
SINISTER LITTLE BALD
MAN Ivor Barnard
An old plot is given a different twist
in this excellently produced, photo-
graphed and acted English film. A Ger-
Lionel Stander in “A Star Is Born,”
at Sydney Regent.
man girl who has lived all her life in
Paris is interned on outbreak of the
Great War, is released, trained as a spy,
and set up in elegant apartments in a
Swiss town. Because of her success the
German Government pulls strings to
have her sent to Berlin. To save her a
young French officer volunteers, without
seeing her, to give her French citizenship
by marrying her. Of course they fall in
love. The Armistice comes, and it seems
their happiness is assured. But Germany
can still strike. Forged proofs that she
served the Bosches are sent to the French
War Ministry, and the girl goes off to
a military prison to be shot. That’s all.
Mile. Horney, who is credited with a
Continental stage reputation, makes a
wonderful impression, though her acting
is almost always passive. There is re-
markably little dialogue throughout the
film ; events are made to speak for them-
selves as far as possible, and (in this Qase
at all events) the experiment is highly
successful. Hamilton plays up well, and
Barnard manages to express vindictive,
gloating cruelty under a mask of indiffer-
ence. At Sydney Lyric.
“Legion of Terror.”
POSTAL INSPECTOR .. Bruce Cabot
VICTIM OF LEGION ., Ward Bond
GOIL Margaret Churchill
A fast-moving thriller showing one of
Uncle Sam’s daring young postal inspec-
tors at work on the trail of a sort of
Ku-Klux-Klan organisation that sends
bombs through the mails. At the climax
the Governor of the State is induced to
order out the State militia, who round up
the hooded hoodlums just as they are
about to murder the goil.
Ward Bond gives a good picture of an
excitable, talkative man whose resent-
ment against the secret organisation leads
to his assassination; Cabot is as sound
as ever, and other roles are capably filled.
At Sydney Lyric.
“The Girl from Scotland Yard.”
FEMALE SLEUTH .. Karen Morley
AMURRICAN REPORTER,
Robert Baldwin
MASTER-CRIMINAL, Eduardo Cianelli
So many improbable and impossible
things happen in this opus, apparently a
product of Paramount’s English studio,
that it cannot be taken seriously. Scot-
land Yard doesn’t employ beautiful
young girls to track down international
pests, and if it did it would employ one
with more sense than to call at a danger-
ous madman’s house alone and attempt
to shoot him there. The heroic young
Amurrican newspaper man also figures in
a thriller cliche that was worn-out before
the silents had finished with it. He’s
decoyed to a waxworks museum in
which the criminal organisation has just
committed a murder with his stolen
revolver. The police are planted there to
arrest the Amurrican, which they do,
though they must have known the shoot-
ing occurred before he arrived. Escap-
ing from the gendarmes (oh, yes, these
things happen in Paris), the young hero
borrows a uniform and takes the place
of a double bass player in an orchestra.
Though knowing nothing of fiddles, he
escapes detection till he has been play-
ing for teii minutes. Like the police in
the earlier sequence, the conductor must
have been stone-deaf. The grand finale
is the shooting down of the arch-
criminal’s ’plane by the hero and heroine,
just as his death-ray is commencing to
mow down the R.A.F. machines flying
over the Coronation procession in Lon-
don. At the Civic, Sydney.
“Clarence.”
VAGUE DERELICT .. Roscoe Karns
HEAD OF UNHAPPY HOUSE-
HOLD Eugene Pallette
HIS WIFE Spring Byington
HIS SON Johnny Downs
HIS DAUGHTER .. Eleanore Whitney
DAUGHTER’S COMPANION,
Charlotte Winters
Booth Tarkington wrote the yarn,
which lends itself well to screen treat-
ment. Theme is of “The Passing of the
Third Floor Back” and “My Man God-
frey” genus. Clarence, a derelict in an
old army uniform, is picked up by pa
Pallette, who mistakes him for a taxi-
driver. He proves to be a handyman
can repair the heating system, tune the
piano, prune roses and play the saxo-
phone —and joins the household, the
members of which, very democrati-
cally, accept him as of their own social
class. They don’t know it, but
he’s a scientific bigwig —botany and
beetles —who assumes that everyone must
have heard of him. He finds pa and
ma at outs because of jealousy (quite un-
founded) over the daughter’s companion.
Daughter is on a hunger strike because
pa objects to her fortune-hunting middle-
aged suitor. Son has jilted housemaid
and is now casting calf’s eyes at com-
panion. All these troubles are unobtru-
sively patched up by Clarence, who at
the fadeout is off to Florida and a highly-
paid scientific post with the companion,
whom he has wooed and won. Pleasant
entertainment with few dull moments.
At the Civic, Sydney.
“Radio Lover.”
SILVER-VOICED TENOR,
Wylie Watson
HIS HANDSOME PARTNER,
Jack Melford
SOCIETY GIRL Cynthia Stock
GOOD-HEARTED SECRETARY,
Betty-Ann Davies
The tenor (or so it is purported) has a
voice that can charm birds off boughs
and send flappers into swoons of ecstasy,
but (as those who remember Mr.
Memory in “The Clairvoyant” will appre-
ciate) he is scarcely a romantic figure.
So his engagement by the B.B.C. as “The
Radio Lover” can only be wangled by
pretending that he’s just the manager for
his more presentable-looking pal Jack
May Robson in “A Star Is Born.”
Melford. For a little while the fraud is
successful, but complications ensue when
the sister of the studio director falls in
love with the handsome partner’s face
and deludes herself into believing that it
is the voice that charmed her. Further
troubles arrive when there are demands
that the Radio Lover shall be televised
and shall make stage appearances. In
some cases this difficulty is got over by
the handsome partner moving his lips
while the other sings ; in others by the
use of recordings, but, of course, at last
the cat comes out of the bag. Just
before a concert in aid of the League
to Suppress Alcohol the singer gets ex-
tremely tight, and his perfectly sober
partner’s supposed outpourings are punc-
tuated by hiccups. To put a cap on the
proceedings the dishevelled little tenor
bursts out of the basket in which he was
concealed, and blows the gaff to the
audience. That ends their 8.8. C. career,
but a music-hall proprietor reckons their
last turn was so funny that he engages
the pair at £2OO a week on a three years’
contract, and they are able to marry
their respective sweethearts. Not very
wonderful comedy, but better hung to-
gether and more snappily presented than
the average run of English funny films.
Watson’s honest northern burr and his
complete naturalness in all circumstances
also help to lift the piece out of the rut.
At Sydney Mayfair.
“The Dominant Sex.”
UNCONVENTIONAL COUPLE,
Phillips Holmes and Diana Churchill
THEIR FRIENDS,
Romney Brent and Carol Goodner
The English stage play (which Aus-
tralia saw a couple of years ago) done
into a talkie in an English studio, the
Edgar Kennedy in “A Star Is Born.”
English cast reinforced with the Ameri-
cans, Holmes and Miss Goodner. In
condensing the serio-comedy for film pur-
poses most of the laughs seem to have
been excised and an attempt has been
made to work up heavy drama. Despite
this handicap the principals manage to
hold interest and win sympathy, and the
interplay of character is cleverly pre-
sented. But the last act, with its vague,
indefinite ending, is no stronger on the
screen than on the stage. American
scenarists carpenter some sort of a climax
into that sort of play. At Sydney May-
fair.
“The March of Time.”
Sydney Regent has the latest issue of
this commentary on contemporary world
affairs as its chief supporting item.
What may be termed Britain’s “food
defences” come under the spotlight in a
survey of the malnutrition problems
which are troubling Army authorities in
their search for recruits, with the impli-
cation that the Government is side-step-
ping the question by attempting to whip
up physical-culture enthusiasm. Scenes of
poverty in the distressed areas are
appalling.
President Roosevelt’s Supreme Court
reform proposals form the basis of an-
other part; another pictures amateur de-
tection societies, which have sprung up
all over the United States, co-operating
with the police to solve crimes.
STAGE SHOWS.
Schneevoigt in Sydney.
Though undoubtedly a very able con-
ductor of all classes of music the princi-
pal claim to fame of Georg Schneevoight,
brought to Australia by the A.B.C., is
that he is the authoritative exponent of
the symphonic works of Sibelius. The
most important, the most interesting and
certainly the best-performed number of
the Finlander’s opening Sydney concert
was Sibelius’s Third Symphony —pre-
sented for the first time in Australia.
This is less experimental than the First
and the Second ; more approaching the
classical in structure, and the strings
play the most important part. The
romanticism of the earlier works is. re-
strained, but the melodic treatment is
still characteristically Sibelian. Schnee-
voight, who seems to prize vigor and
vitality above refinements, inspired the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra to a really
strong performance. There were little
rough edges here and there for the per-
nickety to cavil at, but the outline was
firm and clear. After the Brahms Fourth,
which came earlier in the evening, the
Sibelius was like champagne and sand-
wiches on a mountaintop as compared


■
wtmm
mm
mi
m
m
cup of Health
and Sweet Repose
IF you would know just how health-giving and refresh-
ing a night of perfect sleep can be, drink a cupful of
delicious “Ovaltine” just before you go to bed. Let its rich,
soothing nourishment calm your restless nerves and pro-
mote that physical repose which quickly leads to deep,
natural sleep.
Then see how you awake in the morning gloriously alive
and completely refreshed, with strength and energy
renewed to make light of the day’s work.
You will realise, like countless thousands of others, why
“Ovaltine” is acknowledged to be the world’s best night-
cap. You will discover, too, that “Ovaltine”—even when
you make it entirely with milk—is the most economical
tonic food beverage. This is due to the exceptionally high
quality of its ingredients and the small quantity you need
to use. Quality always tells—insist on “Ovaltine”.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of “Ovaltine”,
sufficient to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in
stamps to cover cost of packing and postage. See address below.
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. At all Chemists and Stores.
OVA LTIN E'
A. WANDER LTD., 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
033 18 37
Listen in to the Ovaltiney Concert Party from
Station 2GB, 5.30 p.m. every Sunday.
Glorious
Inviforafin$
m $unshin^«t
Vo,/ :, FIJ I
Across the sparkling waters of the
Pacific, Sunny Fiji - less than a
week’s journey from Sydney - bids
you welcome.
Step out of winter into the Sunshine
and Colour of the Tropics - For two
weeks or longer - a complete change
For full information and all literature on
Fiji write >
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOMAS COOK & SON, UNION
S.S CO. LTD., MATSON NAVIGA-
TION CO., Sydney & Melbourne
PICKFORDS TRAVEL SERVICE C!o.
Da gety & Co. MR. F.W. HENNINGS;
Master Builders' Exchange; 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Australian Representative
of the Fiji Tourist Bureau.
in the tropic isles of the South Seas.
Picturesque island and Indian races
in the winding streets of Suva.
Mountain scenery and fascinating
Fijian villages along the 250 mile
motor road on lovely Viti Levu.
See, NOW, Sunny Fiji at her best.
ISLMIDS 0
You can revel in a month of roman-
tic glamour at surprisingly low cost.
Get full particulars and
plan your holiday now.
with a twelve-course dinner in a stuffy
banqueting-hall.
Another notable performance was
“The Dance of the Seven Veils” from
Strauss’s “Salome”-dramatic, sensuous,
co ° r U -li i • r j ~. •
Possibly, because it feared to prejudice
box-office business the A.B.C. broadcast
only one of these items—the Brahms—
which could have been done as well by
any Sydney conductor.
... v . „ „
Huberman in Melbourne.
After a magnificent exposition of the,
monumental Brahms Concerto in D
Major, Op. 7, Huberman and the A.B.C.
Symphony Orchestra turned their atten-
tion to the Delius concerto at the Town
Hall, Melbourne, on Saturday. Com-
pared with the massive, architecture of its
predecessor, the Delius was slight and
immaterial, but Huberman’s violin can
sing as engagingly in simple numbers as
in great ones, and the last section was of
surpassing beauty. The Tschaikowsky
concerto, which followed the interval,
was dedicated to Leopold Auer, who is
said to have found its technical prob-
lems beyond his powers of solution, and
left it to Brodsky, who saw it and played
it in Vienna several years later. Huber-
man mastered its difficulties with ease,
The final movement develops an amaz-
ing turn of speed, but even in its fastest
scamper after the violin the orchestra,
under Bernard Heinze’s baton, retained a
reasonable degree of accuracy of tempo.
Three elaborate concertos in one even-
mg was a solid meal for a local audi-
ence, but the enthusiasm at the finish was
a sufficient indication that the A.B.C.
need not fear overtaxing its box-office
public with programmes of the highest
quality.
Huberman gave two more solo con-
certs last week, and could give a couple
more without outstaying his welcome.
“ Pride and Preiudice.”
Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre
now posts its billboard outside the Syd-
ney Con., where on Saturday night it
staged “Pride and Prejudice,” dramatised
by Australia’s Helen Jerome from the
novel. The playwright successfully repro-
duces the spirit of the book, the play moves
smoothly and the principal characters are
well drawn. The Independent players,
at their usual ease in period pieces, gave
a lively, gracious performance. Chief
defects were a tendency to drag in the
early Longbourn scenes, overplaying by
a few of the players and failure of others
to adjust their voices to the acoustics of
the new hall.
John Alden as Mr. Darcy gave the
most telling performance. Running him
close was Jane Conolly, who, after some
early indecisiveness, revealed the strength
and sweetness of Elizabeth. Gwenda
Moverley pleased as the, dainty and senti-
mental Jane Bennet. As Lydia Shirley
Donald had a less sympathetic role and
began with more confidence and bright-
ness than she ended. Robert Montgom-
ery, Agnes Cullen, John Stacy and
Ronald Folkard were others in the cast.
Ethelwyn Kirk, who designed the cos-
tumes, deserves praise, as does the anony-
mous scene-painter.
* * * *
Melbourne’s Free Concerts.
Large audiences continue to flow into
Melbourne Town Hall for the free musi-
cal snacks provided by William McKie
and the local virtuosi. On Friday ’cellist
Gwen Prockter was added to the organ
selections, which included Bach’s Prelude
and Fugue in D, three of that master’s
chorales and Cesar Franck’s third
Chorale in A Minor. Max Bruch’s “Kol
Nidrei” and an Introduction and Allegro
of Boccherini were Miss Prockter’s con-
tributions, played with her usual elegance.
“Twelfth Night.”
Sydney University Dramatic Society
put on “Twelfth Night” in the Uni.’s
great hall last Wednesday. Costumes,
excellent; scenic effects cleverly obtained
from a book set at the back of the stage,
the pages of which, turned by Feste the
Clown, contained pictures that suggested
rather- than illustrated the various settings.
As Viola, Miss Barbour gave a pleasing
performance. Miss Johns portrayed a
frolicsome but too skittish Maria, Jack
Needham as Malvolio resembled a taran-
tula with cramp, and Peter Leslie as Sir
Toby Belch boozed, belched and bellowed
successfully through his role.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
The Art of Grace Cossington Smith.
That Grace Cossington Smith is com-
petent in draughtsmanship is proved by
many of her drawings now on show at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, and
that she has a delightful taste, in color is
evident in at least a score of her 25
canvases. Why in what, presumably,
must be considered her most seriously-
intended work she draws and paints in
a childish fashion is one of those things
no feller can be expected to understand.
There is not a subject among this
painter’s nicely-composed and harmoni-
ously-colored sketches—landscapes, sea-
scapes, flower pieces and one or two
figure drawings—that could not have
been better represented in the way adults
see and draw such things.
•I* •£• »J«
George Benson’s Water-colors.
An unusual show is that of George
Benson in Adelaide. The artist is an ex-
Victorian, showing pictures entirely West-
ralian in S.A., and in a hospitable pri-
vate house. As McCubbin said in open-
ing it, Benson is notable for having used
aboriginal art as a basis for mural deco-
ration at Perth University. The present
show, however, is all water-color land-
scape, mainly broad, restful woodland or
valley. One could swear to the Mel-
bourne influence ; possibly that of Her-
bert, probably some source common to
both of them. Sales are (for the present
period, astonishingly) frequent.
Charles Wheeler’s Show.
Figures, portraits and landscapes vary
the collection of canvases Charles
Wheeler has at the Athenaeum, Mel-
bourne. On the opening day Jimmie
MacDonald, director of Melbourne’s Gal-
lery, visited the show to see himself as the
artist pictured him in a relaxed mood
lounging on the arm of an easy-chair—a
fine portrait. Wheeler has discovered
some paintable bits in the old diggings
about Castlemaine and Ballarat.
Sydney’s Showboat.
Fluttering flags, band playing, ships’
sirens tooting, the s.s. Koondooloo (1000
tons) sailed last Wednesday afternoon
from No. 8a jetty, Circular Quay, for a
short cruise of Sydney Harbor. Captain
Richard Weldon had aboard a crowd of
the city’s somebodies who had assembled
to give the old vehicular ferry a stylish
kick-off on its maiden trip as a show-
boat. The Koondooloo, now a beautiful,
streamlined affair, will perform service
as a floating ballroom. It is designed to
accommodate 500 dancers, and Sydney
Ferries, Ltd., has kept the comfort of
passengers well in mind. The ship car-
ries a concert stage and cafeteria, with
spacious promenade decks for sitting-
out between dances.
N.S.W. Minister Dunningham was the
life of Wednesday afternoon’s cruise. He
took the wheel as the vessel left the Quay,
kept up a prolonged noise on the whistle
and tootled a few notes on a saxophone
borrowed from the orchestra. He scored
his biggest hit when he suggested at after-
noon-tea that the Koondooloo ought to
have a liquor license.


M a W
+ Vie
wehtwomh
Your Home
hil
S Y 0
W
H E Y
You’ll enjoy a stay at the Went-
worth. Whether your trip be busi-
ness or social, the Wentworth is
ideal. Close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is yet noted
for its restful comfort, its service
and cuisine. Wire or write for
reservations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
CD. MACLURCAN MN6. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you— now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns-a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience
Coras are killed while you sleep-a .°
n few hours. Chemists sell A CORN SILK at
6d per packet. Packed by Felton, Gnmwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Slop that
cold with
A
/inhalant\
Vapex gives instant relief.
It clears the head and kills
the germs at their source...
in the warm recesses of
nose and throat. Vapex
on your handkerchief is
the safest, surest and most
rapid remedy for colds, for
the relief of catarrh and
hay fever.
Over twenty years of world-
wide use have proved the
worth of Vapex.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BV
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD.
and sold throughout the world
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
It may have been the whiff of boronia
and daphne in the air, but there was
a decided feeling of uplift about the Vic-
toria League annual meeting last Friday.
This brought nearly 200 to the Women s
Club. Lady Wakehurst, making her first
visit, was on the little dais where also
sat Miss Fairfax, taking the meeting in-
stead of Miss Macarthur Onslow.
Beulah Bolton, too, was there, reading
reports and balance sheets, and at least
one person present thought how blessed
the V.L. was to have a secretary who
had made herself so much one with the
movement. Donald Cameron made a
rousing speech about the friendly acts
that are the strongest links of the
League. He also threw a bouquet to
assembled womanhood by pointing out
that outshining among the glorious
reigns of English history were those of
Victoria and Elizabeth.
On that note the meeting was purry
enough to do justice to the club’s famous
home-made seedcake. This cake is
worthy its renown, and deserves as ac-
companiment something special in
sherry. However, it goes well with tea.
Prior to the cake interlude Mrs. Jimmy
Ashton made a speech, and Philip
Street’s wife, over a posy of lily-of-the-
valley, murmured a vote of thanks. Mrs.
Roystone Davey was a front-seater and
clapped impeccably gloved hands. Not
far away Mrs. Waugh sat, her lively
looks denying the years on which she
was still being congratulated. The Mark
Sheldon lady, Mrs. Vernon Coles, Stella
George, Dr. Mary Booth and Lady
Wakehurst’s secretary, Hermione Llewel-
lyn, were among the many.
On Friday people interested in the
drama met at the Lyceum Club lunch-
table and listened to the wife of ex-
Justice Alexander Gordon discourse' on
the British Drama league. She thinks
there is every chance of Sydney seeing
its little theatre, built to hold a thousand
or so, before very long. There is no
reason why such a theatre should not
be a financial success. It is almost im-
possible to rent the tiniest cupboard of
a hall in the city without applying
months ahead. President Mrs. A. G.
Thomas was in the chair, and Dame
Mary Gilmore, very erect in cinnamon
browns, listened attentively. An unusual
bit of entertainment was supplied by Mr.
Bissett, who read light verse by A. P.
Herbert, W. S. Gilbert and old friend
Anon. These raised polite laughter
rather than hilarious mirth. That doesn’t
reflect on Mr. Bissett’s reading, which
seemed the right calibre, but just suggests
that midday and a woman’s club lunch
don’t supply the right background.
The Town Hall abounded with youth
and energy one morning last week, and
it looks as though this 12 centuries’
cavalcade for the St. John Ambulance is
going to make the running for any his-
toric pageant the centenary people may
have in view. Everybody from young
Robin Eakin to Mrs. Sep Levy has been
cleverly mustered by Mrs. Bertie Kelly
and the Kelso King lady. The musicians,
too, and the artists are to contribute sets.
The artists are tackling the period when
Rubens was in flower. That gives them
a chance to coquette not only with Flem-
ish of the sixteenth century, but with the
costumes of the reign of Charles L and with
those of the Paris of Marie de Medici.
A visitor to Sydney who has not seen
Australia since childhood arrives by the
Aorangi. She is the daughter of Will
Kelly, and will stay with the Bertie Kellys
while in Sydney. A Sunday-morning
cocktail party is already listed for her
entertainment, and old friends of her
parents are already thinking up ways of
making her holiday pleasant.
On his way to the Northern Rivers
Elioth Gruner visited the Armidale
Teachers’ College, and spent a happy
time among the collection of paintings
presented by Howard Hinton Norman
Carter’s two stained-glass windows (also
given by this patron of art) came in for
warm eulogy from Gruner The artist
reports glorious weather and a feast ot
good landscapes.
Gwen Manchester really belongs to
Sydney, though she is now living with
her parents, Colonel and Mrs. G. E.
Manchester, in Melbourne. Gwen was
one of the best-looking dancing partneis
the Duke of Gloucester had when he was
in this city. Her father was then stationed
here. She has just become engaged to
Lieutenant A. S. Anderson, Australian
Staff Corps, son of Captain and Mrs.
C. O. Anderson, of Samarai, Papua.
Photo, from Spencer Shier.
A note from Mrs. Greg McGirr tells
of a whirl of London happenings. On
her arrival she was the guest for a week
or so of Lady Game at her London
home. She received her 0.8. E. at a re-
ception at Buckingham Palace, and after-
wards was entertained at a reception
given by the Duchess of Marlborough,
also one given by the University Women’s
Federation. Other functions she found
interesting, and at which she met Sydney
friends, were the Overseas League party
and the garden party at Buckingham
Palace. Mrs. McGirr visited Ireland, and
was the guest of Lady Broderick for a
few weeks. When writing she was off to
France, and then on to Rome. After
that follows a visit to Oxford and then
home in time for Christmas.
Sydney still remembers Major Boyle
and his attractive wife, who are now sta-
tioned in Hobart. Their last letter re-
ports a Hobart freezing under the influ-
ence of the snowfield on Mount Welling-
ton. Winds and snow take the place of
the recent rainy season in Sydney. The
Major reports a much more busy life
than when he was in Sydney. He does a
great deal of travelling, and publicity is
one of his activities. One of the excite-
ments in military circles was the arrival
from Melbourne of the new Comman-
dant’s wife, Mrs. J. M. A. Durrant. The
Durrants will occupy quarters at Angle-
sea Barracks —solid stone and cedar that
have stood up to the snows of 120 years.
Ex-A.I.F. men know him as commanding
officer 13 th Battalion. The Tasmanian
Club party (same as Union Club here),
the third of its kind in many years, was
the Boyles’s gayest do of the season.
By the time 1100 or more had passed
between the red pillars with their silver
laurel wreaths on to the ballroom floor,
the Sydney University Medical Society’s
dance felt it could justly claim to be a
successful operation. Grisly reminders
of the future were immense dangling
skeletons, in their bony fingers clusters
of brilliant balloons. The air was
fragrant with flowers —every table had
its sweet cargo —and around the low
bowls flowers and leaves were scattered
over the faintly-checked tablecloths. At
the beginning tiny mortar boards
crowned the base of the upturned wine-
glasses on every table. Later the minia-
ture headgear found anchorage, on
learned heads.
President Mrs. Harold Dew wore a
redingote of stiffened net over her pink
and green flowered crepes. Her presen-
tation flowers were a basket, whose
petals ran from palest lilac to deepest
purple. On her wrist was a flower brace-
let in the same tones. Net and tulle
were very popular at this dance, and Dr.
Dora MacMahon won early attention
with her frock of black net. The skirt
was of a graceful fullness, and above
the waistline sparkling opalescent em-
broideries ran up to the puffed sleeves
that were almost entirely composed of
flowers. Esmey Burfitt’s satins were
alternate panels of black and white —very
striking. The green fire of her opal
necklace was repeated in Mrs. Lambie’s
crepe frock. The fair-haired Mrs. S. H.
Lovell’s beflowered chiffon redingote
was gay as spring, and had an unusual
silver ornament at the neckline.
Mrs. J. C. Windeyer wore a cloak of
ermine over a glittering whitje dress.
Kathleen MacMahon brought a breath
of Paris with her berry-red laces. This
struck the newest note in paillette em-
broidery. The Garnet Hallorans (her
blonde prettiness in black satin) brought
a party which included Sadie Budge and
sister Mrs. Harold Cribb and her hus-
band. Top marks to Beatrice McGirr for
her coat of thick white silk embroidered
in silver dragons. Barbara Lotherington
was up-to-the-minute with her candy-
striped chiffons, and a girl who looked
nice enough to be everybody’s sweetheart
raised her ash blonde head above taffeta
that was all blurred blues and pinks. Her
flowers were violets. Mrs. Harlock’s table
won the prize for the best decorations.
Pictured here, Deborah Mackay Sim
(daughter of the P. and O. Mackay Sims)
is taking up a job new to Australia. It
is that of travel chaperon to a group of
girls whose ages range from 18 to 24.
These tours are being arranged by a
widely-known agency as a sort of fin-
ishing-off course for girls whose parents
wish them to have, the advantages of
travel in Europe, but who find them-
selves unable to accompany their chicks.
The journey seems to be a nice blend of
visits to fashionable resorts, churches and
galleries. The opera, and even a few
mannequin parades in Paris, will be
arranged. Deborah, who is young and
much travelled, should be capable of
dealing with such a bunch of budding in-
telligence. Valerie Purves, well-known in
Sydney, will be in charge of the Mel-
bourne group. Raymond Sawyer photo.
The A.B.C. orchestra, directed by
Georg Schneevoigt, went blithely through
a programme that started with Brahms
and ended with Strauss’s “Dance of the
Seven Veils.” Sibelius and Mozart were
tucked in between, the latter’s “Dove
Sono” being sung by Stella Power of
the impeccable note. Stella, a noted
good dresser, wore a sheath of black
beads and a coronet of pearls. Everybody
was at this concert, including Mrs.
George White, who had just been mar-
ried that afternoon. Naturally she was
there to applaud an orchestra in which
her brand-new husband was playing.
Premier Stevens’s wife and daughter were
in the audience. The Consul for Fin-
land was there with his wife. Black
velvet and silver fox were worn by
Nora Lang (“Miss Austria”). Mrs. W. J.
Cleary brought a posy of young daugh-
ters. Trix Tange’s red-gold hair showed
up well against a pale-mauve orchid.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s wrap was of beaten
silver. Mrs. Swinson and son Ryder
were applauders. Mrs. Harold Bott, Mrs.
Claude Plowman, the Kelso Kings,
Miriam Hyde, Mrs. Talbot, Mrs. Lash-
mar, Constance Burt and Agnes Caspers
were other regulars.
Staff of the Commercial Banking Co.
and their friends made a night of it at
the Blaxland Galleries last Thursday.
This was a small tributary flowing into
that grand stream of the Bankers Ball,
the yearly flutter in aid of Prince Alfred’s.
General-manager C. Darvall, his wife,
and daughter Dorothea entertained a
party. Altogether there were nearly 800
dancers. Secretary Ruth Wilkinson,
wearing pearly satins, was hostess to a
happy group.
The dark blue and the paler blue of
the uniforms showed up to advantage
under the bright lights of David Jones’s
ballroom when the Australian Air League
held its ball. There were junior cadets,
and there were officers ; one of the latter
to partner each of the 18 debs. These
walked single file through the long blue
avenue. They were all dressed in white
and carried silver Directoire canes which
burgeoned into white posies at the top.
The Governor and Lady Wakehurst re-
ceived the girls, who were presented to
them by Mrs. Bertie Kelly. A front
panel thick with crystal embroideries was
an added richness to her hyacinth-pink
satin frock.
The wife of novelist Frank Dalby
Davison rounded up a cheery crowd of
artists and writers for the picnic dance
that was one of the financial aids to the
Artists’ Ball. The National Club in Ash-
street rang with laughter and cheers, and
handclaps that for once were untinged
with political sentiment. Percy Lindsay
took a night among the fleet of foot;
so did the Jimmy Jacksons. There was
a graceful girl who is a champion ball-
room dancer, and her steps were worth
watching. Arthur Mailey was there ; so
were the Stan Crosses. Frank Dalby
Davison and Dulcie Deamer represented
the pen. As everyone brought his (or
her) own supper as well as paying, there’s
a neat little sum left over for the ball
expenses. The three Orlandos supplied
their Rag-doll turn.
It’s no use winter slipping a cold
finger down the spine ; the head simply
has to jerk up from the fur collar when
the windows spread fluttersome lengths
of candy-striped tissuey stuff for spring
evenings, and when alongside, buoyant
as a September breeze, is unfurled linen,
its white ground patterned with curling
blue wave and navy blue yacht. The
women who like lace are going to have a
three-course meal. There’s practically
no time of the day when you can’t sneak
it in somewhere, as blouse or cravat.
Then, of course, in the evening you can
have it from shoulder strap to train.
A woman just back across the Pacific
has unpacked a dress of heavy pale-
gold curtain lace. This is ankle-length.
She says a lot of the evening-dresses
abroad show the legs in the front and
touch the floor at the back, a rather
draggle-tailish effect. Spangles and
sequins glitter on everything, and, if you
have that sort of chest, the news that
evening-dresses are cut lower in front will
be good. And dresses are to be fitted tightly
through the waistline. But these go with
a sash, run to a rather high back and front
neckline, and often have long, fitting
sleeves. Sydney hasn’t yet seen those
dancer-like skirts, very fitting over the
hips and then tangoing oitt to very flouncy
effect. If you have a leaning to period
frocks, you must seek the age of Eliza-
beth. Pale Parma violet and pastelish greens
are high notes in fashion’s spring song.
Joan Nobbs, of Norfolk Island, was a
pretty bride in a Lido-blue ensemble
when she became Mrs. Richard Ash-
burner last week. Joan is a daughter of
the C. R. Nobbs couple, of the Island,
and a great granddaughter of that Rev.
George Nobbs who was the first clergy-
man from England at Pitcairn. Richard
is a barrister, and one of the State s
Rhodes scholars. The reception was held
at the home of the bride’s sister, Mrs.
H. J. Brown, of Clifton Gardens.


Famous V.C. praises
the Wonderful Money-saving
family remedy for quickly curing
COUGHS—COLDS
CROUP, BRONCHITIS and ’FLU
Mr. G. J. (“Snowy”) HOWELL, V.C., M.M., is
one of over 15,000 citizens who have written
letters expressing gratitude for the benefits they
have derived from using HEENZO, the famous
money-saving family cough and influenza remedy.
Read Mr. Howell’s eulogy of HEENZO:—
/ first learnt the value of Heenzo, as a cough remedy,
when my relatives sent me a supply overseas during
the war.
"Ever since, I have been glad to recommend Heenzo to
my friends, and it is equally popular with all members of
our household . The excellence and economy of Heenzo as
a cough and influenza remedy make it an absolute boon to
all families, 1 '
Yours faithfully,
G. J. l"Snowy"I Howell, V.C., M.M.
HEENZO COSTS 2!-and SAVES £’s
Wise folk save money by making their own family
cough and influenza remedy with HEENZO. A
bottle of HEENZO costs two shillings, and, when
added to sweetened water, makes a supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-
sized bottles of the best ready-mixed remedies for
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza and
whooping cough. Order HEENZO to-day from
your nearest chemist or store.
■
I
■
V
" x
Mr. G. J. ("Snowy") HOWELL, V.C., M.M.
HEENZO SHOULD BE USED IN EVERY HOME
When you are feeling run down or nervy, and in need of a good TONIC, take
HEAN’S TONIC NER VE NUTS


HOW WOULD YOU LUKE
TO DO OUR LAUNDRY,
MRS. HOUSEWIFE?
Over one and a quarter million articles go
through the washing each year You’d hardly
believe it • But the Victoria Palace is the biggest,
most modern hotel in Australia Last year we
turned a quarter of a million mattresses! Tariffs
are moderate too—4/- to 7/6 Single room ,
8/- to 16/- Double room
201-229 Lit. COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE, C.l (Next Town Hell)
VICTORIA PALACE
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS: .
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E.. M.L.C. (\ice-Chamnan) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; .Tames Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresfoid Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(i WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
n
WAKE UP ! !
BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief. but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidney, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- & 2/- JARS
Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
IDA CHARLOTTE ODGERS (nee McKay),
formerly of Curzon Street, North Melbourne,
and Albert Park, in Victoria, but now believed
to be in Sydney, N.S.W., kindly communicate
with MESSRS. W. H. JONES & KENNEDY,
Solicitors, 327 Collins Street, Melbourne?
WILL V.V.V. (Bill) communicate with sister
Dorothy, “Bendemere,” Yeulba, Queensland.
Urgent.
Melbourne
Chatter
Horses counted more than fashion at
the Valley on Saturday. Styles were go-
as-you-please. Some women got about
in bright-colored rainproof capes ; others
in topcoats or costumes. The grass was
too damp for lawn promenading, and the
wily ones made for the sheltered grand-
stand in the cosy right-hand corner. Here
was Mrs. E. A. Callanan, coated in
mustard color. Next month this cheery
little American will say au revoir. With
her young sons Eddie and Bill in tow,
she will leave for the Land of the Stars
and Stripes, to place the boys at Prince-
ton and Harvard. These youths have
sampled schools in Europe, England and
Australia. Another of Uncle Sam’s
daughters, Mrs. Singer, had her ears
studded with pearls as big as a shilling,
peeping above a high collar of black Per-
sian lamb. In a jaunty suit of Lincoln
green, with a quill thrust through her
Robin Hood hat, Marjorie Clarke was
sighted watching the horses parade and
chatting with Mrs. Bill Seymour, a sporty
figure in a brown-and beige checked suit,
gloved informally in brick-red hand-knit-
casings. A necklace of three strands of
pearls brightened the all-black outfit of
Mavis Curtis. Mrs. E. M. Pearce was
cosily coated in rough-surfaced grey
tweed. The brightest thing about the
place was a rainbow velvet turban made
up of orange, mauve, red, jade-green and
black velvet pieces.
.Seldom these days is a party given with-
out a charity objective, but the 200 guests
invited by the Knox lady to Green-
knowe, Toorak, were asked neither to
give nor to do. Everybody was surprised.
They made sure there would be a catch.
To their amazement they had only been
asked to come along and enjoy them-
selves. Fogs and frosts have played havoc
with Victorian gardens, but the hostess
managed to make a lavish floral display.
The Knox lady is not a bridge fiend,
so the guests chatted to their heart’s con-
tent. Afternoon-tea was served in the
ballroom with its elegant hangings of
shot green silk. The chatelaine of Green-
knowe wore one of those black frocks
which are the last word in expensive
simplicity. Diamente sparkled at the
waistline, and her black hat was one
of those new line Bretons.
The first tinkle of Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell’s Joy Bells Ball has been
sounded. For the last five years Mrs.
Mitchell has run this annual event to
raise money for the Children’s Ortho-
pedic Hospital at Frankston. She be-
lieves in giving people something for
their money, and never makes the mistake
of running a charity dance on cheese-
paring lines. She can always depend
upon her husband and his sporting friends
delving deep into their pockets to assist
her in giving the dance a gala character.
This year the affair will have a new loca-
tion ; it will be the official opening of
Palm Court, a social rendezvous in
Alexandra-avenue, having part of its
ballroom walled with plate glass, so that
the dancers have for their outlook a
glimpse, of river and the city’s skyline.
Daughter Jean, flaxen-haired and blue-
eyed, will give mother a hand this year.
Another who will show her pretty face
for the first time in this role will be
Pamela Fleming-Dunstan, whose, mother
and sisters, Lesly and Valerie, are in
Italy. She hopes to have a holiday trip
there next year. At the moment the
travellers are settled in a flat on the Isle
of Capri.
Swedish folk last week held a ball of
national character at Grosvenor. Eight
bright-cheeked girls, decked in the gay
costumes of various Swedish provinces,
danced the mountain polka, with Vanda
and Lorraine Stenborg setting the pace.
Before the night was out folk-dancing
became a communal affair. Even those
who had never heard of the Hambo and
Finger Polka found themselves moving
to the tempo set by the merry figures in
their full skirts, embroidered aprons, flut-
tering ribbons and scarlet stockings. So
high-spirited was the natural gaiety that
no cocktails were needed to give a fillip
to the fun. Looking like a picture out
of a Swedish story-book was Mrs. Esther
Haysom, wearing a genuine folk dress
from the province of Rattvik, with long
fair plaits falling to her waistline. Ten
debs, in pastel-tinted georgette, with
heads shingled or curled, who danced
the minuet, were merely masquerading.
Those 10 nice girls turned out to be
boys, and some of them old boys. Thora
Anderson, in national dress, with her
hair in a coronet plait, and Ingrid Wik
put in some good team work on the
executive side. The blue and yellow
national banner was brought out of the
flag box at the International Club in
honor of the event, and the. Swedish greet-
ing “skaal” passed freely over the supper
table, with its blue candles and yellow
flowers.
Here is a photographic impression by
Broothorn of Valda Mackenzie, a Syd-
ney girl who has been made a fuss of
in social circles here during a six weeks’
stay with her fiance’s mother, Mrs.
Alfred Bright, at Cliveden Mansions.
Valda is a good-looker, tall and fair
with hazel eyes, the. color combination
giving her distinctive attraction. She
also knows what to wear and how to
wear it. Her engagement to George.
Alfred, second son of the Alfred Bright
couple, was announced recently. The
name of Bright has been associated with
shipping in Australia for years and years.
Valda is the youngest daughter of the
Norman Mackenzies, who make their
home at the Wentworth, Sydney.
The skirl of the pipes and the. swing
of the kilts set the patriotic flame alight
for the Scottish clans that mustered in
the St. Kilda Town Hall on a frosty
moonlight night last week. The folk who
hie from the land of the heather like
plenty of life in their dances, and no
weaklings took the floor when the pipes
struck up the music for Highland fling or
Scottish reel. The Royal Caledonian
Society was responsible for this gather-
ing of the clans. As a sequel to the
frivolling the Scotsmen hope to hand over
a wee bit siller to the Anti-Cancer Fund.
St. George’s-road was like a parking
area the day Mrs. Ivan Gutmann sold
her household treasures. The auctioneer
faced a fashionable audience, and bidding
ran high. Women wrapped to the ears
in fur dropped in to see if they could
pick up a bit of rosewood for a song,
but, alas for them, even the kitchen
utensils and garden tools brought their
full price. The fair hostess of the
Toorak mansion shed a few tears at the
parting, but since her husband’s death the
place has been a lonely spot, and she
could not bear it any longer. Now she
is building a smaller nest for herself at
22 Verdant-avenue, South Yarra, one of
those quaint new streets that are giving the
suburb an ultra-modern touch. The
maisonette has an old colonial staircase
which is the pride and joy of its new
owner, and the dining-room furniture
will be in keeping with the period of the
stairway.
At Saturday night’s premiere of '"This
Year of Carnival,” a musical revue, the
Princess Theatre recaptured some of the
social glamor of its early days. Dressing
was very first-nightish, and during the
interval many charming frocks and deco-
rative wraps introduced a festive note to
the foyer. The comely Mrs. Gordon
Chirnside made a decorative figure sweep-
ing down the marble staircase in a trail-
ing robe of turquoise-blue velvet, closely
followed by Mrs. Simon Fraser in Per-
sian-blue satin with a fluted cavalier cape
hanging from her slim shoulders. Mrs.
T. Allan McKay floated about in a gos-
samery frock of billowy tulle which
started out pink and took on an orchid
mauve color with its last layer of tulle.
The snowy white of Mrs. Fred Dennett’s
ermine coat draped with white fox was
repeated in the. small dot of her figured
black satin frock.
Against the pink upholstering of a
circle box Mrs. Ivor Manton showed up
effectively in a snowdrop-white georgette
frock with her well-groomed head topped
with white gardenias. In the opposite box
in azure blue sat Mrs. Barry Thomson
with Mrs. George Smith and daughter
Linda. The managerial box was a study
in black and white through the colors
favored by the Fuller lady and Mrs.
Garnet Carroll. Moira Kernan, who
dabfiles in play-acting occasionally,
sported the latest —an evening frock with
a transparent cowl-hooded cape. Freda
Connolly swathed her slim figure in silver
lame. Leila Pirani brought a bit of old
China with her blue Mandarin coat. Mrs.
E. L. Kiernan, frilled to the waist in
black taffetas, twisted a Madonna-blue
georgette scarf' round her neck just in
case her squirrel coat was not warm
enough. Mrs. Laurie Abrahams, whose
husband spent a fortune, on Australian
paintings when this country was younger,
was glimpsed in the stalls.
With a cast of girls all under 18 Louie
Dunn will stage “The Merchant of
Venice” in the Central Hall on August 7.
The Portia and Antonio of this produc-
tion made their debut a few nights ago
at a Mayoral Ball, and put more time, in
rehearsing their Shakspearean lines than
in practising lootwork for their coming
out. Although Louie Dunn scored a
success in the role of Shylock last year,
she doffs her hat to the new Shylock,
Miriam Heath, many years her junior.
A pair of expressive grey eyes is one of
Miriam’s assets. She walked off with the
championship at the Bendigo competi-
tions. in June. A fellow-student, Joyce
Unkles, who just missed the aggregate
trophy through an entry blunder, has
been given the part of the Venetian
gentleman who makes love to Portia’s
fair attendant. The scarlet robe of Portia
will be flaunted by Beryl Cooke, who has
the vital-spark brand of temperament.
The stars of last year’s production will
help the youngsters behind the scenes.
Looking at this photograph of Miriam
Heath by Ruskin one wonders how so
youthful a player will manage to make
herself look as old as Shylock ought to
look.
Mrs. Len Buxton (whose racing colors
have often been carried to victory), in
company with Mrs. Keith Aikman,
daughter of the Charles Russell Gabbs,
figured among the Australians who were
in the royal enclosure at Ascot. Their
husbands set such little store on social
uplift that they were reluctant to go to
the expense of dressing the part. Instead
of donning the traditional outfit, they
attended Ascot as they would a race
meeting in Australia, not caring a hang
whether they were wearing the right coat
or the wrong hat. This ruled them out
of making an appearance in the royal
enclosure.
After a severe bout of influenza which
upset her wedding plans on the eve of
the ceremony Elizabeth Dutton Green
is gathering up the broken theads and
tying them together, so that she will be
able to get into her bridal robe very
soon. The date of the ceremony has not
been fixed, but it will take place before
August 17, as the Orford sails that day,
and George Draffin has booked a pas-
sage for himself and bride Elizabeth.
Dr. Eileen Fitzgerald, appointed Chief
Medical Officer in the Victorian Educa-
tion Department, has been second in
command for 10 years. She will step
into the shoes of Dr. Jean Grieg, who
has proved that a woman is as good as
a man for this job. Dr. Jean got her
chance when Dr. Harvey Sutton answered
the call to the colors in the war. The
new chief’s experience in hospital work
will stand her in good stead. At various
times she has been attached to the medical
staff of the Queen Victoria, the Eye and
Ear and the Infectious Diseases hospitals.
Dr, Eileen’s main duty now will be the
medical examination of children attend-
ing State schools, and keeping a watchful
eye on teachers’ health as well. Among
those who will assist her in the colossal
task are seven physicians and 10 den-
tists. About 32,000 children receive free
dental care through her department every
year. The new Medical Officer-in-Chief
is an Australian, but she took her degree
in Edinburgh.
The young Tom Luxtons, with two-
year-old daughter Jane, have vacated
Poona Lodge at Dandenong, in prepara-
tion for the return of Harold Luxton and
his lady, who leave England for Aus-
tralia early in August. Since they have
been away a new wing has been added to
their country home. Although the
Luxton lady took this trip to bring her
only daughter Mary home —she had been
getting an extra polish to her education
at Malvern —her husband and she man-
aged to squeeze in a few weeks of gaiety
during the Coronation festivities. She
would probably have been happier among
her dachshunds, scotties, turkeys and
horses than in London’s social whirl.
Mary Luxton, who at the age of six car-
ried off a riding prize at the Melbourne
Show, should ride better than ever, for
since she has been abroad she has had
lessons from Jackie Hanse, a notable
figure at all the big horsemanship shows
in Britain. Mary’s horse Black Watch,
stabled at Dandenong, was a champion
at the last Sydney Show.
Before Tom Webb-Ware left on his
return to Westralia he slipped a sapphire-
and-diamond ring on the finger of Ivah
Perry. Although the engagement was
only announced last week, the proposal
was made during Melbourne’s racing car-
nival in November. Young Webb-Ware
has a property at Broome Hill, about 100
miles from Albany. Ivah, who is the
elder daughter of Doctor and Mrs.
Charles Perry, has never been a social
butterfly. She took to a business life like
duck to water, and has been putting Mel-
bourne women’s heads into smart hats
for a number of years.
Melbourne’s cultural circle is the
poorer by the death of Mrs. J. Woolf,
wife of one of our best-known legal men.
She will be remembered for the hospi-
tality she dispensed at her beautiful home
in Canterbury, where the daffodils and
snowdrops grow wild about the lawns.
Although Mrs. Woolf was not in the
public eye, her home was a meeting
place for those interested in music, art
and literature. She was a gifted musician.


f
f
f
NO WHISKERS
ON THIS JOB NOW!
Once a hobby for the wealthy,
Art is now a well-paid profes-
sion in which any with the
necessary talent may engage.
If YOU have latent drawing
ability we can bring you happi-
ness and affluence.
TEST
FREE
ft,
WE OFFER YOU
simple scientifically-prepared Test
Sketches and Questionnaire to try out
your natural sense of form, proportion
and color.
We will then analyse your efforts and
frankly inform you whether it would
be worth while your taking up Com-
mercial Art.
This service is valued at one guinea, but
for a limited period it may be availed of
FREE and WITHOUT OBLIGATION.
POST THIS COUPON
tntm*
fa
80 Swanston Sr Meibourni?
Please send me your Art Ability Test
and the free 65-page book—“The New
Era in Commercial Art.” I enclose 8d.
for registered postage.
Name
Address
State
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Gain”: Who says education doesn’t
get the New Guinea native anywhere?
Not long ago the Administrator found
a menu on his table. The first item,
“Liklik kaekae log taem belog dirig,”
was deciphered as “Little kai kai along
time belong drink” —savories and cock-
tails. Next came “Suv belong balus” —•
pigeon soup. “Kindam na i gat pis tu”
proved to be “Kindam now he got fish
too”—crayfish cooked with other fish.
“Balus i paraim” pigeon fried
(roasted). “Me. Na potete na kapis na
kokonas, na milsos” sounds an exotic
and attractive bit of native provender,
but it turned out to be only “meat [goat,
of course], now potato, now cabbage,
now coconut-palm top, now mint sauce.”
“Sis na loli” —cheese and sweets. “Kopi”
for coffee was an easy one.
* * * *
“Sakit Prut”: Few people would care
to take on the job of Dr. Stehn, Dutch
vulcanologist from Java, now in Rabaul
to advise on its prospects as a capital site
for the future. In the last 16 years he
has made over 1000 descents on the end
of ropes into volcanic craters in the Dutch
Indies, and has investigated scores of
erupting volcanoes. For most of the last
few years he has lived with a gas mask
strapped to his face. The Netherlands
East Indies has about 150 active vol-
canoes, averaging among them an erup-
tion every two or three weeks, so that Dr.
Stehn and his assistants get plenty of
practice. After he has finished his Rabaul
investigation, Father, Mother and Daugh-
ters will not have a family secret left to
rumble about. Dr. Woolnough, Com-
monwealth Geologist, accompanies him
in the venture.
* * s
“Nagheer”: The allegedly appalling
climate of Rockhampton (Q.) must have
lost its punch during the last half-century
or so, if the appearance and activities of
Don Frazer, one of the city’s leading
mining men, can be taken as any cri-
terion. His actual years may be inferred
from the fact that he was one of the
original Klondyke pioneers in Alaska, but
they do not prevent him from doing
days on end in hard mountain and scrub
footslogging in the extremely rough
Bartle Frere country. He took the war
in his stride as an officer of Light Horse,
but regarded it as no hardship, the regu-
lar meals and more or less warm, dry
sleeping affording a pleasantly different
contrast to much of his previous outdoor
life.
*=!-:**
“Kaloa”: In Mandated New Guinea
the Asiatic who keeps an unregistered
dog or owns a savage dog is guilty of
a criminal offence and is tried in the
Criminal Court. If he runs a lottery,
like Mr. Forgan Smith or Mr. Stevens,
he is again a “criminal”; ditto if he
drives a car without a license or has
inefficient brakes or sells goods on credit.
And the native is a criminal if he col-
lects firewood in a botanical reserve,
smokes on a wharf, fails to stop a car
when required or rides a bicycle without
a light. Even as one who believes in
keeping the nigger in his place, it seems
to me that there might be more distinc-
tions in New Guinea between crimes
and offences which are mere mis-
demeanors.
»!» H*
“X.T.”: Labor was inclined to take
Administrator C. L. A. Abbott to its
bosom when he arrived in Darwin. In-
stead of almost completely ignoring him,
as had been the habit with past Admin-
istrators for some time, the Darwin paper
—Labor—has reported his speeches at
length, and Mr. Abbott repaid in kind
when he sang the praises of ex-member
“Bob” Nelson at Tennant Creek. But
now, having called on volunteers to un-
load ships at Darwin which unionists
refuse tc unload, Mr. Abbott has
achieved the dinkum hall-mark of a
Northern Territory Administrator: the
N.A.W.U. has asked Canberra to recall
him.
❖ :Jc * Hs
“M. Turlutu”: Townsvale House, on
the Logan River (S.Q.), runs a good
second to Newstead House as an old-time
centre of social life and gaiety. Built in
1863 by Captain “Bobby” Towns, it was
the manor house of an 8000-acre cotton
plantation employing some 400 Kanakas.
Towns’s partner, W. T. Walker, took over
management in 1865. In the Paris
Exhibition of 1867 Townsvale cotton
won the championship gold medal
against world competition. Now, in place
of cotton fields and cotton presses,
Townsvale has dairy feed and cream
separators, and only faint tradition con-
nects it with peppery old “Bobby” of the
nankeen pantaloons.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Along Bananaland’s Inky
Way, from the Gulf to the Border, are
“A pair of stockings! What ever for?”
“Missionary tell me to put more clothes on.”
scattered the graves of innumerable Labor
papers—dailies, tri-weeklies and week-
lies. The verdict at each post-mortem
was “Feeble circulation.” Queenslanders
vote Labor, but buy “Tory” newspapers.
The only three Labor journals to keep
going are the “Queensland Worker,”
owned by the powerful A.W.U., Gympie
“Truth,” a tri-weekly, owned by T. Dun-
stan, M.L.A., which started as a weekly
40 years ago with H. E. Boote as editor,
and the Maryborough “Alert,” a 37-year-
old weekly wholly handset, as it was at
birth. The “Alert” is owned by W. H.
Demaine, M.L.A., and has been helped
materially to keep going by its smartly-
written sporting and social columns.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Brisbane City Council Staff Ball in the
City Hall had a lovely floral setting.
Poinsettia, bougainvillaea, roses and
sweet-peas filled the big hall with color
and fragrance. President E. S. Travill
and his wife, the lady in black lacquered
satin, welcomed the guests, and the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, the N. F.
Hetheringtons, Aid. and Mrs. A. Laurie,
the S. L. Quinns and a group of aider-
men and their wives occupied the official
alcove, the Lady Mayoress adding a
lovely coat of cerise velvet to her frock
of black lace.
The Anglo-Scottish hockey team had
a busy first week. With the inter-State
teams, the girls were whirled hither
and yon, drinking billy-tea beside a
campfire at Tarragindi, taking tea deco-
rously from teapots at Parliament House
and motoring up to Mount Coot-tha and
the dams, with another tea-drinking to
round off the outing. Final flutter of a
busy week was “Stunt Night” at the
Brisbane Women’s Club, when members
of the visiting teams took it in turns to
provide items of entertainment.
For the second week of the Hockey
Carnival motor runs to Beechmont and
Surfers’ Paradise, theatre parties, the
hockey ball, a trip to Redland Bay, a
supper party hostessed by Mrs, .Harry
Hansford at the Brisbane Women’s Club
and a week-end at Toowoomba for the
Anglo-Scottish team have been arranged.
The British visitors go to Cairns after
that, as guests of the, Government, The
trip will occupy 10 days. The Narkunda,
which sails for London on August 10, will
bear them back to England.
A swimming pool is to be made at the
Crippled Children’s Home, at Corinda,
and the wives of Brisbane Rotarians have
engaged to help along the good work
done by their husbands —the Crippled
Children’s Home is Rotary’s baby—and
each raise £lO for the work. Mrs. H. W.
Broad and Mrs. T. Clouston organised a
dance in the Corinda School of Arts in
order to amass their quota. A host of
entertainments are being planned for the
future.
The University Faculty of Science held
its first dance at the Blue Moon Palais.
Professor L. G. Bagster and Mrs. Bagster
welcomed the guests, and a good sprink-
ling of profs, and their wives lent their
countenances to the proceedings.
Slade School Old Boys’ Association
held its dance at Lennon’s. Head-
master Rev. A. E. N. Hughes was official
host, and a bevy of old boys helped him
to do his job. Lots of country visitors
came along, as well as representatives
from Queensland’s best-known girls’
schools.
Lady Gowrie was among the wedding
guests at the Alan Blomfield-Patricia
Joyce wedding at All Saints’. Patricia is
the fifth daughter of Edgar Joyce, The
Overflow, Beaudesert, and Alan Blom-
field son of the A. L. Blomfields, of
Ontario, Canada. The bride, in mag-
nolia satin, was given away by her father,
and had Molly Joyce, her sister, Nancy
Weaver and Tony Borthwick as brides-
maids, all wearing dusty pink. Rose-
mary Nivison was flower girl. The recep-
tion was at Rowe’s, and Lady Gowrie
was in an ensemble of dove-grey satin,
with bands of darker fur on the coat.
Shevauneen Joyce, the bride’s sister, was
hostess.
Same day, at Southport, Helen
Crombie, daughter of D. W. A. Crombie,
Warwick, and a member of one of
Queensland’s oldest families, married J.
Robert Boadle at St. Peter’s Church.
Bridegroom is the son of the J. F.
Boadles, Mornington (Vic.). There, was a
reception at the home of the bride’s
grandmother, Mrs. Hugh Milman.
Lady Gowrie was met by Major A. V.
Stark, A.D.C., representing the Deputy-
Governor and Acting Chief Justice
Macrossan, and a group of De Burgh
Persse and Delpratt relatives when she
arrived at South Brisbane station. She
found time to attend a Girl Guides’ rally
before boarding H.M.A.S. Australia for
Dunk Island, en route to New Guinea.
Acting Justice A. D. Graham and Mrs.
Amie Huey Lamond were quietly married
at All Saints’ Church. Only the clergyman
and the two witnesses —stepson H. G.
Lamond, who gave the bride away, and
Mrs. Carew Smyth—knew about the
wedding date, which was decided on
barely 24 hours beforehand.
There was a gathering of the King
clan at the dinner given by the Edward
Kings at the Club Hotel, Toowoomba,
in honor of sister Jessie King, who has
been overseas for nine years, and who is
doing some broadcasting for the A.B.C.
during her Queensland visit. Mrs. A.
Bernays came, up from Sydney for it,
Mrs. John Hardie from Brisbane, Mrs.
Grigson left her station home, Quinenbar,
and Amy and Ken King also were there.
Very newest engagement is that of
Edna Keane and Dr. Lionel Atkinson, of
the Brisbane General Hospital. He hails
from Melbourne, and got his degrees at
Cambridge.
There was a thoroughly sporting touch
about the decorations at the first annual
ball held by the Great Public Schools
Old Boys’ Association at the Carlton
Cabaret. An archway of crossed oars
and pennants at the entrance, and a fine
collection of young athletes for partners.
Official hostesses were Evelyn Bashford
and Dorothy Simon, and each member
of the girls’ committee wore a wristlet of
real flowers to harmonise with her frock.
The official party included Pat O’Shea
and his sister Ella, the Alan Jeffrays and
the A. Finlays.


The New PEPSODENT
alone contains BRIUM which
thrillingly steps-up lustre on teeth
*
B *C4U
Of
wum
B *Ca
USB
cs;
OF
WUM
ep ‘Oc/
a/ 0
c °n*
ai/>»
DOUBLE THE THRILL
w DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK
If Pepsodent doesn’t show up any other tooth paste you ever used... bar none!
The new Pepsodent alone con-
tains IRIUM, the spectacular new
lustre discovery. It works on a
totally new principle. It FLOATS-
AWAY film on teeth with a won-
derfully swift and gentle action.
The new Pepsodent, because it con-
tains IRIUM, thrillingly steps-up
lustre on teeth, yet is doubly safe
because it contains no pumice, no
grit! Doubly delightful because it
contains no chalk,' no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM is the secret of its amazing
polishing power, its phenomenal
cleansing action, and the reason why
it gives teeth double lustre with
double safety.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any . tooth paste you ever
used —bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
PEPSODENT
•The Special Film-Removing Toofh Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSOOENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA!
&
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Dept. No. 4, , Box
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
Name
Add ress..
City
AU7B74D
State.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1023 of 1937.
BETWEEN VIOLET MURIEL DAVIS Peti-
tioner
And WILLIAM THOMAS DAVIS Re-
spondent.
TO WILLIAM THOMAS DAVIS late of Wel-
lington New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIOLET
MURIEL DAVIS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Fourteenth day of
October One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
seven and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or of obtaining further
time, the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of July, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
J. H. FISHER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Manchester Unity Building, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1604 of 1936.
BETWEEN ADELINE JOYCE HARRIS Peti-
tioner
And CHARLES THOMAS HARRIS Re-
spondent.
TO CHARLES THOMAS HARRIS late of
Francis Street Earlwood N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ADELINE
JOYCE HARRIS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse and also bigamy with adultery AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Fourteenth day of October One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-seven and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence withwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 15th day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS.
Clerk in Divorce.
JAMES W. YOUNG, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner. 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTFI WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN HELEN COURTIER BRASIER
Petitioner
And CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE
BRASIER (also known as JAMES CECIL
ROWLAND and JAMES CECIL BRAS-
SIER) Respondent.
TO CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE BRASIER
(also known as JAMES CECIL ROW-
LAND and JAMES CECIL BRASSIER).
TAKE NOTICE that in pursuance of an
Order made herein on the Fourteenth day ot
July a.d 1937 your wife HELEN COURTIER
BRASIER posted to you on the Seventeenth
day of July a.d. 1937 a written demand for
cohabitation and restitution of conjugal rights
the said written demand being posted under
cover of an envelope addressed to you C/o
Leslie Brasier of 15 Valda Avenue Arnclifte.
DATED this Twenty-second day of July,
a.d. 1937.
R C TISDALE,
Solicitor for Helen Courtier Brasier,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing Friend.
TO ROY ST. CLAIR HARVEY formerly of
the General Post Office Sydney in the State
of New South Wales but now of parts un-
known Salesman. T rAxnuAH.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife JEAN MAK
GUERITE HARVEY has instituted proceedings
against you for a divorce on the ground
desertion during three years and upwa
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the ornct
of the Prothonotary in the Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the Twelfth day ot Aug
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
case may proceed in your absence aim you m
be ordered to pay the costs AND FURfHWj
TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy petition
and citation herein may be inspected at
office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor.
JOAN ROSANOVE,
440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The success of the Kindergarten Ball at
Government House was the result of the
Junior Auxiliary’s labors. Lieut.-Gov-
ernor Mitchell and his lady were there,
she resplendent in tea-rose embossed
satin. Mrs. R. Goyne-Miller, who has
the cares of the Kindergarten activities
for the year on her shoulders, wore, black
velvet; Mrs. Robert Jacka’s flared silver
nets were fairylike, and Mrs. Ken
Cameron set off her fairness with
sheathed turquoise-blue satin. Autumn
leaves tumbled riotously on Marjorie
Southwood’s ninons, and on Cathleen
Atkinson’s white taffeta was traced a
gold-thread pattern. Dulcie Allen, young
chairwoman of the affair danced in tiers
of magenta chtffon, and Eula ReuU
brown satms were patterned with
geometiical resigns.
The French-speaking tongues of Perth
wagged brightly at the Alliance Fran<?aise
dinner at the Palace. The president, Dr.
L. E. Gelle, and his gold-satin-clad spouse
greeted the guests, with Mrs. Croyle (her
chiffon velvets were, burgundy) helping
with the welcoming words. The Dr. Max
Kreitmeyers and Dr and-Mrs. Rosen-
burg, all newcomeis to Perth, were of the
dining company.
At the Guilford Grammar School
dance flocking was particularly bright,
with debs, and the very young airing
new plumage. Elizabeth Freeth, daughter
of the headmaster, had diamente trim-
ming glistening on sapphire-blue velvet;
Pam Gregory’s startling cherry-lacquered
satins were engirdled with green velvet,
and Nancy Clement pinned an orchid
spray to her tailored black velvets. Jean
Boyd’s old-world white organdie boasted
a vivid emerald-green posy, and silver
lame encircled Norma Borwick’s mist-
blue matelasse. Joy Medcalf sported
dazzling red-and-white squares on her
organza, and Betty Bird’s georgettes were
Venetian-red.
Furs enwrapped most of the feminine
audience at the Kurtz orchestral concert,
though Nancy Forbes’s sapphire velvets
stood out in the rows of various pelts, as
did the diamond clip she popped in her
Titian tresses. Greta Cockram’s taste also
ran to the glittering, with long drop ear-
rings, and Joyce Burridge had a cyclamen
topknot in perfectly-coiffed hair and a
spray on her ice-blue lace. In the Con-
rad Charltons’ party were the Dr.
Maurice Johnsons and the Dr. Bruce
Hunts.
Agent-General Hal Colebatch gave
away Bette Halbert, of Perth, when at
Holy Trinity, Brompton-road, London,
s he wedded Robert Linton, son of Vic-
toria’s Agent-General and his lady. Six
mauve-chiffon-clad ’maids (Margaret
Warner, Nola Nicholas, Hersey Brookes,
Hazel Draffon, Elizabeth Edlund and
Dorothy Thomson) followed the bride’s
silver lame and tulle,
Ano(h ]ocal lass t 0 wed abroad was
Kath , daughter 0 f the A. J. Scan-
dretts> c £ ttesloC; who chose SL
Andrew’s Cathedral, Singapore, for her
we dding with Herbert Fancott, of Car-
cliff. Delphinium-blue patterned taffeta
sheathed her tall svelteness, and her out-
sjze crinoline picture hat had entwinings
G f na vy-blue velvet. Mrs. F. T. S. Newell,
her Paisley gown in shades of brown,
C ame in her wake as matron of honor.
Congratulations have come the way of
Dr and Mfs> D D Paton on daughter
Anne’s success at Oxford, where Lady
Margaret Wall is her college. With
honors in French, she has bagged her
h a., while in sport she has a couple of
p irs t s to her credit; she showed her
prowess swimming against Cambridge,
home town will see Anne later in
q-, e year, when coming-of-age festivities
w jq h e afoot.
SOOTH AUSTRALIA,
Five debs, were presented to Lady
Dugan at the St. Peter’s College Mission
g a q held in the Memorial Hall at the
college. Lady Dugan’s black ensemble
was relieved by a bunch of pink French
roses worn on the corsage. Her cloak
was of gold lame. Others in the official
box were the Ritchie and Bonython
ladies, Mrs. Guy Pentreath (wife of the
headmaster) and Mrs. Keith C. Wilson
(organiser). Mrs. K. C. Wilson presented
the buds—Erica Blackman, Dorothy
Hoffman, Lorna Mutton, Marjorie
Eglinton and Brenda Parsons.
The King's Cup Victory Ball in the
Palais Royal, organised by the rowing
clubs, was an immense success. In the
official box R. T. Wallman (president of
the Rowing Association) and his wife
received the official guests, who included
Chief Secretary Ritchie and his lady,
Lord Mayor and Mayoress Barrett and
Miss Morgan. A member of the com-
mittee, Morva Dunn, presented bouquets
to the Ritchie lady and the Mayoress.
Scotch College Old Collegians’ dance
was held at the college, Torrens Park,
the old home of the Barr Smiths, which
boasts a ballroom with a properly sprung
floor and two huge fireplaces, where
log fires are a boon to the backless
dressers on cold nights. Headmaster
Gratton and his wife and the president
of the Old Scholars’ Association, A. M.
Brice, and his wife received the guests.
Mrs. L. C. Holland was responsible for
the decorations, in which mimosa, mauve
irises and pink sweet-peas figures pleas-
antly. Several of the old boys gave
dinner parties prior to the dance.
More than 250 attended the smart
charity dance held in the Glenelg Maison
de Danse. Mrs. Baden Pattinson, presi-
dent of the local branch of the M.8.H.A.,
whose funds benefited, earlier entertained
about 40 guests at a coctkail party.
The Bookmakers’ Assoc, rallied a
goodly crowd for its ball at the Palais
Royal to raise funds for the Children’s
Hospital. The bookies are gay dogs, and
they pranced the Canadian barn dance
with more pep than many younger people
could put into it.
Elder, Smith’s staff held a dance the
same night at Birks’s Piccadilly. The
T. E. Barr Smiths attended. Mrs. Smith
has been in poor health for some time,
but rallied for this occasion. Bridge was
played by the older guests.
The F. Villeneuve Smiths gave a party
at their Medindie home to celebrate the
birthday of Basil Buffer Murphy, who
arrived by ’plane from Melbourne ac-
companied by his wife. Bowls of lovely
mixed flowers decorated the reception-
rooms. Mrs. Villeneuve Smith received
wearing a charming toilette of ivory
georgette shirred to the knees, thence in
knife pleats to the ground, with cape en
suite.
Jack Rymill, elder son of the late F. W.
Rymill and of Mrs. Rymill, of Leabrook
(who is in England at present with her
daughter Madge), married Lucie, daugh-
ter of Mrs. and the late C. W. Walker, of
Jamestown, at St. Peter’s College chapel.
The bride wore a tailored toilette of gold
satin, the fitting skirt merging into a
slight train, the bodice buttoning up to
the throat, and worn with a long-sleevecl
coatee with Medici collar. In place of
a veil she wore a close-fitting Juliet cap
of the gold satin, and she carried a large
sheaf of yellow roses. Mrs. P. J. Christie
was matron of honor.
Phyllis Bray gave a coctkail party at
her home at Glenelg for about 80 guests,
to say farewell to her cousins, the. John
Bonythons, and Dr. John Bray and his
sister Rowena, who are off to London.
Peg, daughter of the Carlyle Marshalls,
is travelling with Rowena Bray. Mrs.
K. C. Wilson, another cousin of the
travellers, gave an afternoon party for
Mrs. John Bonython and Miss Bray, and
the Bonython lady entertained them all
at a dance at St. Corantyn just prior to
their departure. The John Bonythons
will arrive in London in time for the
marriage of Mrs. Bonython’s sister,
Ngaroma Rutherford, and Rendel
Kyffin Thomas in September.
TASMANIA.
The Governor put in an appearance
at the big charity ball organised by
T.H.O. and the Continental in the City
Hall. This was one of the “queen”
shows being run in aid of the Blind,
Deaf and Dumb Institution. It was a
pretty sight, with hundreds of kiddies
parading in fancy dress.
Betty Viney and Basil Jones were mar-
ried at the Cathedral, where the Derwent
Rowing Club made an arch of oars for
them to walk under as they left the
building. The bride’s dress of heavy
magnolia satin had a swallow-tail effect
as the lines passed into the train. Two
veils were worn, one of tulle, very fuff,
and the other of old Limerick lace, com-
ing from under a little pearl Juliet cap.
Doreen Cotton and Margaret Pringle fol-
lowed in trained frocks of dark gold
blistered taffeta. After the ceremony Mr.
and Mrs. Viney held a reception at the
Continental.
Dr. and Mrs. Frank Fay welcomed the
McMinns with sherry and savories at
their home at Sandy Bay. The McMinns
had an enjoyable trip abroad, spending
a lot of time on the Continent, and going
to the winter sports carnival in Switzei-
land. Mrs. Fay’s frock of navy georg-
ette had a shirred bodice, and Mrs. Mc-
Minn's smart black frock was touched
with green and topped by a black felt
halo hat.
Mrs. Walter Gellibrand was hostess
at Charles Benson’s song recital at Had-
ley’s. The hostess’s black lace frock had
a smart cape of black ostrich feathers.
Granville Lyons brought his bride to
the Speck to make the acquaintance of
some of her in-laws. Mrs. Lyons and
Sybil are still in England, but they stayed
with papa-in-law and brother Rupert at
Lyndfield.
Friends of L. M. Shoobridge congratu-
late him on his permanent title of “Hon-
orable” conferred upon him by the King.
He has had a long record of Parlia-
mentary and civic activities in the Speck.
Nancy, daughter of the Vincent Shoo-
bridges, and Archie Downie, Glen Der-
went, announce their engagement.


‘Let Atlas carry the burden.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000
Fire—Accident—Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY 11. HEATH, Manager.
Ihe basis or
Perfect Cocktails
(PRE-WAR STRENGTH)
Agents:
John Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons
Ltd.,
Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada.
Since 1858.
The Cocktail Recipe that won the
prize in a competition open to the
World had as its main ingredient
Canadian Club Whisky.
This Whisky, bottled in bond at pre-
war strength, costs no more than
standard Scotch brands, yet it has
won and retains International repute.
Write for a free Cocktail Recipe
Book to the Agents.
The Long White Cloud
Telling Us!
The union case presented at the recent
Australian basic-wage inquiry was
assisted by a cable from a member of
Maoriland’s Labor Cabinet to the effect
that increased wages had definitely im-
proved internal trading conditions in
Maoriland. There has been criticism of
that cable in Maoriland on the ground
that' it represented intrusion into the
domestic politics of another country and
that it set out only portion of the Maori-
land position.
The Maoriland Federation of Labor
has since had a man at the Melbourne
sessions of the All-Australian Trade
Union Congress. He is reputedly in Aus-
tralia to “gather information about indus-
trial organisation.” But, at the opening
session of the Melbourne conference, he
told Australian delegates how the Savage
Government introduced its 40-hour
week. He added that there would be a
future “interchange of delegates” at simi-
lar conferences in both countries.
There’s nothing wrong with that idea
—but Mr. L. Glover went further still.
“Speakers from the Dominion,” he said,
“will assist Labor candidates in the
Federal election campaign.” That will
be “intrusion into the domestic politics
of another country.” It would be in-
teresting to know if it is the Maoriland
Labor Federation’s idea, the Maoriland
Labor Government’s or just Mr. Glover’s.
The recent show-the-world attitude of
Maoriland delegates to London and
Geneva reveals a measure of Labor Gov-
ernment complacency quite in accord
with the Glover revelation. But there
are still irritating trade differences with
Australia more worthy of Maoriland
Labor’s attention than Australia’s internal
politics, in spite of the airy manner in
which Canberra Minister for Customs
White dismissed them as “fruit-and-vege-
table matters of no real importance” at
the opening of the M.L. Government’s
new Melbourne offices.
“D.N.”: The Savage Government’s
record-breaking rash has spread from the
passing of legislation and the hammer-
ing of Public Works Department rivets to
private industry. An Auckland construc-
tion company has just entered into the
largest timber contract ever made on this
side of the Tasman ; it has signed a con-
tract to take between 3,000,000 and
4,000,000 superficial feet of sawn timber
every year for five years from one cen-
tral North Island mill. Reason for the
mammoth order is Labor’s housing
scheme.
“M.”: Those Australian sheepmen per-
turbed by news of large Maoriland sheep
sales to overseas buyers must be un-
familiar with the Maoriland position.
Merino flocks over here are extremely
small, and the number of sheep suitable
for export is negligible. But for years
Maoriland has bred mutton types which
have been bought by growers in most
parts of the Southern Hemisphere ; South
America and Australia have been among
the heaviest buyers of breeds like Corrie-
dales. Japan and U.S.S.R. have, recently
patronised the same Maoriland market,
and export of these types of sheep has
steadily expanded. Over most of Maori-
land, soil and climate suit the raising of
mutton breeds, but Maoriland’s few
merino flocks are mostly confined to
“Oooh, you fast thing!”
parts of the South Island. The Austra-
lian merinos imported by Maoriland
sheepmen remain in Maoriland ; they are
needed to strengthen the blood of the
local flocks.
* * * *
“Ticker”: Minister Semple’s Austra-
lian visit isn’t only for health or senti-
mental reasons. In November he told
Maoriland he intended to look into the,
administration of Australia’s different
electric-power systems. “The Govern-
ment has £30,000,000 invested in hydro-
electric undertakings, a big load for a
million and a half people to shoulder,
and I’m not at all sure they are. getting
the best service from it,” he said then. At
present Maoriland has more than 40 in-
dependent power authorities, each with
its own set of charges, its own cost basis
and its special objects in making and
allocating profits.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Although Australia and
Maoriland prohibit the destruction or ex-
port of certain protected native birds,
experts say it is possible to buy protected
Australian birds in Maoriland, and vice
versa. M.L.’s Forest and Bird Protection
Society is casting a suspicious eye on the
collector’s permit, which, by giving limited
legal exemption, is felt to be a loophole
in the Government cordon of absolute
bird protection. It says oddly that “no
collector should be turned loose with a
permit in the haunts of the, rarest bird
species and still be treated as an honor-
able man!”
* -f * *
“Xo”: While Melbourne appears to
have forgotten the agitation it conducted
so vigorously for a near-city airport,
Auckland (M.L.) has just started its cam-
paign. Only three aeroplane hours and
£6 are required to cover the 470-odd
miles from Wellington, but Aucklanders
are, piqued to learn that it takes an addi-
tional 50 minutes by car to get from the
Mangere ’drome into the heart of the
city. One of the Union Airways pilots
on the Wellington-Auckland run started
the controversy by pointing out that the
company would need machines capable of
cruising at 230 miles an hour to chop 50
minutes off the air trip. He suggested
that Auckland should establish its com-
mercial airport on reclaimed waterfront
land near Devonport, which is across the
harbor from the city proper and within
easy reach of the probably Pan-American
Airways Pacific clipper base. Mangere
is ideal for club flying, but its surface and
its distance from the city make it the
worst ’drome used by Union Airways
machines in the North or South Island.
*
“Korero”: Inside 18 months more
than 800 new farm tractors have been
sold in Canterbury. Good salesmen turn
to the Labor Government for their sales
talk. They quote compulsory increases
in farm wages and sympathise over the
farmers’ difficulty of getting workers
likely to remain for the season; then
they ponder gloomily on the possibilities
of further legislative changes interfering
with teamsters’ hours —an important con-
sideration for farmers working to
seasonal limits. Finally, of course, comes
mention of the fact that the tractor
doesn’t cost anything to keep when it
isn’t in use ; there are neither horses nor
teamsters to feed. Result? About 400
tractors have replaced teams previously
engaged on farms, and the Canterbury
farmer is just about as advanced as the
reorganised Public Works Department in
his use of modern mechanical units.
“C.McD.”: Scene: The Empire
Society’s London hall on the night of the
Empire Forestry Association’s annual
meeting. Characters: The Duke of Kent,
Lord Bledisloe and a stiff-shirt mob. The
D. of K. has just declared the motion for
the adoption of the report to have been
moved and seconded when Lord 8., wear-
ing an anxiously grim expression, leaps
to his feet. “I should not venture to
speak had not there been an entire omis-
sion of any reference to New Zealand,”
says B. stoutly. And someone respon-
sible for that report doubtless remem-
bered with sinking feelings his diplo-
matic references to afforestation in
Britain, Canada, Australia, India, South
Africa —to every British country, in fact,
except Maoriland. But 8., warming to
his pet subject, made up for that; he told
of Maoriland’s leading tree-planting ac-
tivities, the nobility of its native trunks,
the decorative qualities of its native
woods and the grandeur of its bush
scenery, winding up with the plea to “re-
member New Zealand when such reports
are drawn up.” How’s that for a pub-
licity man?
* # * *
“Athanasius”: Maoriland’s compulsory
inspection of cars for roadworthiness (B.
23 /6 / ’37) has certainly removed some
potential death-traps from the roads, but
it raises the interesting question of
whether the modern car, in the wrong
hands, is not a greater killer than the
decrepit has-been. High maximum speed,
terrific acceleration and brakes whose
efficiency gives overconfidence all help
the inexperienced or reckless driver into
the police court, the hospital or the
morgue. A certificate of fitness for
drivers would do more good than
Semple’s certificate for cars.
“Kohi”: With its mountains, lakes,
harbor-arms, forests and islands, Maori-
land offers peculiar
difficulties for its
mailmen, and it
takes 1670 internal
services in addition
to railways to serve
its million and a half
people. Road trans-
port of inland mails
involves an annual
subsidy total of
£150,000, which goes
mostly to existing
services successful
when tenders are
called for mail-deliv-
ery contracts. Motors
have almost elimi-
nated the horse in
the last 12 years, but
down in southern
Westland packhorses
. still carry mailbags
—brought from more
populated northern centres by aeroplanes
—over the final delivery miles. News-
paper delivery contractors, cream-lorry
drivers, passenger-bus operators and
country tradesmen all get a cut, while
regular rural mail delivery contractors
attend to 26,700 boxes in taking post-
office service to the gates of the farmers.
Public Works Department men pushing
roads through isolated areas like the
Hollyford Pass, where avalanches stop
work during the winter, have their regu-
lar maildays. And the whole postal busi-
ness shows a good profit at Id. a letter!


Amplion
HENEMOTOR
For every requirement where it is
desired to convert low tension D.C.
to high tension D.C. They can be
supplied with inputs from 6, 12,
32 volts, etc., having outputs from
135 volts up to 1000 volts. Practi-
tically any type of special gene-
motor can be made as required.
Prices from £6/10/-.
Special Filters are available for
each type of Genemotor. Prices
from 30/-.
Write for comprehensive bulletin giving
full details of all models.
AMPLION (A/SIA) PTY. LTD.
66 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and’ experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and beep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Radio Equipment of the
Mackay Expedition.
Donald Mackay, who is conducting
another aerial reconnaisance in Cen-
tral ia, is again using both aeroplanes and
radio. For the latest expedition the
writer was honored with the job of de-
signing radio equipment. Constructional
work was undertaken very ably by
Nat Buchanan, the Sydney radio
engineer. Two stations were called for:
one for two-way radio-telephone and
-telegraph working from the air and the
other, of higher power, for work from
the expedition base.
In any radio installation intended for
use in isolated areas, power supply is
naturally the major problem. The
ground station was first considered, and
advantage was taken of modern high-
efficiency valves to ensure economical
working. The station was designed with
transmitter and receiver in the one case,
the transmitter being crystal-controlled
Captain Frank Neale (pilot), Donald
Mackay (leader) and Commander Ben-
nett discussing maps just before leaving
Sydney.
from a Radiotron 6L6G tritet oscillator,
driving two Radiotron 802’s in push-pull.
Suppressor modulation is provided by
means of a 6C6. The aerial system is a
twisted pair doublet, cut to resonate at
the exact frequency in the allotted com-
mercial aircraft channel.
Station call is VLU, but provision has
been made for co-operation with ama-
teurs under the call VKSNO. When the
operator wishes to use such communi-
cation, the commercial frequency
crystal is changed for one putting the
doubled frequency in the amateur 40-
metre band, and a separate doublet
aerial is employed.
The receiver is a three-valve T.R.F.
type, using a Philips KF3 as R.F. ampli-
fier, 15 detector and IK4 pentode audio
to headphones. Ever-Ready light-duty
B batteries are used for receiver plate
and transmitter bias supplies, and fila-
ment current is taken from an Ever-
Ready Air Cell for the receiver and six-
volt accumulator for the transmitter. A
two-volt accumulator is also provided for
the receiver. The transmitter plate
power supply is derived from a specially
Showing the junction of the twisted pair doublet
aerial at the tail-fin of the D.H. Dragonfly, VHUXA.
made 600-volt, 200-watt D.C. generator,
driven from a Baby Jumbo petrol engine
with push-button starter. This engine, in
addition to driving the H.T. generator,
drives a six-volt generator for battery
charging and also for lighting the camp.
The installation for the D.H. Dragon-
fly aeroplane with which the actual sur-
vey work will be carried out is a dupli-
cate on a smaller scale of the ground
station. Here a 6L6G tritet is again
used, but with two 6P6 Radiotrons in
parallel as the power amplifier. If one
valve should go the other is available
to carry on. Suppressor modulation is
again derived from a 6C6, and the re-
ceiver is exactly as in the ground station.
The transmitter and receiver are contained
in the one case, slung in shock-absorber
supports, and carried in a light steel
tubing cradle.
This ’plane installation, with the regis-
tration callsign VHUXA, is the first to
the writer’s knowledge to leave Sydney
fitted with a twisted pair doublet aerial.
Most aeroplane installations use trail-
ing aerials, but the efficiency of the
doublet was amply proved in tests dur-
ing the initial stage of the flight, en
route to Broken Hill, N.S.W.
The power supply for the VHUXA
transmitter is taken from a 350-volt,
lOOma. Carter Genemotor running from
the accumulator supplying current for
instrument board and landing lights.
When in flight the accumulator is con-
stantly charged at eight amperes by a
wind-driven generator. The transmitter
has an output of about 15 watts on tele-
graphy and five on telephony. With
this small power the writer’s station
VK2NO at Waverley, Sydney, was able
to keep in direct two-way key and tele-
phony communication with the ’plane
throughout the whole of the flight from
Sydney to Broken Hill. The crystal-
controlled signal remained rock-steady
despite bumpy weather reported at inter-
vals by the operator. It was convincing
The radio installation in position in the
cabin of the D.H. Dragonfly.
proof of the efficiency of the doublet
aerial system.
This aerial called for a length each
side of the feeders of 35ft. for the 45.9-
metres wave-length. To get this in on
the Dragonfly it was necessary to start
from the feeders at the tail-fin, run each
side out to the rear outer wing struts
and then continue in to the fuselage
under the top-wing trailing edges. In
this shape, the aerial became almost a
closed loop, in the form of a triangle,
with only the width of the fuselage and
cabin between. In spite of this, radia-
tion is remarkably efficient. An aerial
of this kind is well worth while where
a fixed frequency is neces-
sary on short waves, but
where aircraft must work
alternatively on the longer
wave-lengths around 900
metres the trailing aerial is
practically essential.
The operator with the
expedition is Eric B. Fer-
guson, an experienced
amateur operator and
radio engineer, well known
for his five-metre experi-
ments between Hazel-
brook, Blue. Mountains,
and Sydney. He will be
responsible for mainten-
ance of equipment and
operation of the ground
station. On survey the
’plane installation will be
operated by Commander
H. T. Bennett, navigator and mapper. It
is expected that the expedition will be
out for six weeks, and during that period
radio communication will be of vital
importance. In case of mishap to the
Dragonfly a Puss Moth is to stand by at
the base.
DON B. KNOCK.
Good-bye to Marconi.
Marconi, the genius of the older gen-
eration of radio enthusiasts, has passed
on at the age of 63. Probably nothing
in the history of the world has fired the
The VHUXA transmitter and receiver
complete in cradle before installation.
imagination more than the science of
which the practical foundations were laid
by this man. Those who have watched
the development of wireless telegraphy
and telephony from the beginning of the
century realise fully the significance of
his work. The man has gone, but his
name will live for ever in radio history.
It was in 1901 that the world first
heard of Marconi, when his station at
Poldhu ifl Cornwall put the now famous
“S” signals across the Atlantic to New-
foundland. He and his assistants had
weary days of waiting. Reception was
carried out with aerials supported by
kites, and with what to-day would be con-
sidered the crudest of apparatus. Suc-
cess crowned their efforts ; the Atlantic
was spanned, and Marconi was
acclaimed. The foundations of the great
Marconi organisation were laid then,
and to-day most of the basic wireless
patents are controlled by the Marconi
interests.
Many of the original patents are due
to Marconi himself. For many years
before his death he had virtually lived
on his yacht Elettra, which was fitted
up as a radio laboratory. In recent years
he was investigating phenomena con-
nected mainly with ultra-short and
micro-wave propagation. He believed in
the ultimate future of television and the
possibility of the transmission of power
by radio.
As a member of the old Sterling Co.
in London, I saw Marconi at close quar-
ters once, in the company of his friend
Marquis Solari, and was impressed by
his personality. He was no dreamer,
but a man of unbounded energy. Next
year Australia was to have seen him: he
had accepted the invitation of the Insti-
tution of Radio Engineers to visit here
during the 1938 celebrations.
D. B. KNOCK.
All Round the Dial.
Callsigns of the former Abyssinian
transmitters at Addis Ababa have been
altered, and new equipment installed.
They are now lUD (formerly ETA) 16.40
metres, lUG 19.40 metres, lUC (for-
merly ETB) 25.1 metres, lUB (formerly
ETC) 39.35 metres, lUF 43.30 metres
and lUA (formerly ETG) 50.99 metres.
lUF and lUG have been heard testing
on radio-telephone with Rome.
* * * *
“C.G.F.”: Who were the first Austra-
lian wireless experimenters? When
The Civil Aviation Department checks
up. Mr. Hedgecock (with specifications)
confers with Commander Bennett, whilst
Major Marray-Jones (De Havilland Co.)
has a final look over the cabin.
Ernest Fisk came here in 1910 a few
enthusiasts, including A. D. Olle, now
chairman of the industrial section of the
Royal Society of N.S.W., Father Pigot,
Prof. Vonwiller and Frank Leverrier,
used to meet at Leverrier’s chambers.
They got more thrills out of a few faint
signals in Morse than present-day
listeners do from the broadcast of a
grand opera from Berlin.
*** „ *
In England, the De Havilland Aviation
Co. has specified broadcast receivers of
the car-radio type as standard equipment
in their machines.
Radio Comment.
There were 940,068 radio license-
holders in Australia at the end of June.
Experimental licenses numbered 1737.
* * * *
A B-class broadcasting station with
the callsign 6GN is to be established at
Geraldton (W.A.). A.W.A. is to design
modern transmitting equipment, and the
station is expected to come into opera-
tion next October. It will have a power
of 500 watts unmodulated in the aerial.
* * * *
Despite reports appearing in the
American press, the 8.8. C. does not issue
cards or letters verifying the reception of
its Daventry short-wave transmissions.
Cards bearing the signatures “Carroll H.
Weyrich” and “Bernard L. Ahman, Jr.,’
and worded so as to give the impression
that they come from the 8.8. C., have
been brought to its attention. These
cards are issued without the authority or
approval of the Corporation.
* ;jc $ *
“W 2”: One of the best radio yarns
has to do with the 1928 Byrd Antarctic
expedition. The New York “Times” kept
in direct communication with the expedi-
tion, and F. E. Meinholtz, head of the


%
m
To
o
RADIOTRONS
it are sold in sealed cartons for your protection. Each valve is
thoroughly tested before leaving the factory and comes to
you in perfect condition. Always insist on Radiotrons.
VIS-7
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA)
LIMITED
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen St, Melbourne
National Electrical and
Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Wellington, N. 2.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL m HLECTRICS
LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Adelaide, Hobart
(Advertisements of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Limited.)
“Times” radio room, spent much of his
spare time when at home listening to
Byrd’s transmission. One evening a
reporter wanted Meinholtz to verify
details about the radio equipment carried
by Byrd, but telephone calls failed to raise
him—Meinholtz’s young son (it was
learned later) had unhooked the receiver.
A “Times” radio operator, in touch with
one of the Byrd ships, passed on a mes-
sage, and Meinholtz heard his own name
spelled out from the Byrd station, fol-
lowed by the words “Please replace your
telephone receiver. The ‘Times’ is trying
to reach you.” The message travelled
18,000 miles.
* * * *
“Walliew”: Let me in for a word on
the A.B.C. news services. Having just
come, in from a trip round Western
Queensland I can vouch for the keen-
ness of western people for news bulletins.
The official wireless news is usually all
right, but the same cannot be said for
those broadcasts supplied by courtesy of
newspapers. In a dozen news items one
evening, half that number consisted of
details of city accidents. Country listeners
are keen on keeping in touch with news
of the world, and, as mails are often re-
stricted to at most one a week, they
would welcome a news service directed
to that end.
❖ 'A* #
“J.0.L.”: Television as used by the
8.8. C. for home entertainment has not
been able to show a picture much bigger
than 10in. by Bin, However, two young
Englishmen, G. W. Walton and J. H.
Jeffree, have discovered a process that
gives on the receiving screen a picture sft.
by 4ft. ; large enough for an audience of
300. The projection is as clear and
contains as much detail as an ordinary
movie of the same size. It looks as
though the future will see strong com-
petition between the motion-picture and
broadcasting interests. The broadcasters
should be able to feed any number of re-
ceivers with actual stage plays and per-
formances of all kinds given from some
central theatre or studio. But develop-
ments will be gradual.
V H*
“Mac”: I was recently asked to pre-
scribe for a set which had failed to func-
tion after the owner had had a go at it.
Having lost two valve cans, he econo-
mised by shielding the valves with silver
paper, earthing the foil with a piece of
coil-wire. The idea would have worked
all right if it had not been that the foil
was in contact with the grid-cap at the
top and “earthed” to a filament termi-
nal at the bottom.
❖ t- X
“Cluny”: When a valve develops
crackles, hitting the cabinet lustily on
the side will certainly effect temporary
relief, but it is a much better plan to go
over the valves. Wind a little insulation-
tape tightly round any glass envelopes
that are loose in their bases, and try
again. If the crackle persists, remove
valves, then chassis, and turn it carefully
upside down. Working from below,
bend all spring contacts in the valve-
seatings slightly outward from the centre.
Do not crimp the edges of the contacts
together unless they’re separated very
widely. Tight contact is then assured for
years to come. Anyone can do it pro-
vided the main switch is left off before
starting.
*** * •
“Norwood”: The 52 guineas “Gramo”
(B. 14/7/’37) mentions are probably the
first 52 reasons why people do not go
in more for phono-radio combinations.
Here are a few more. I bought one five
years ago, and have probably played it
30 or 40 times altogether. Unless there
are visitors, the temptation is to sit back
and listen to the radio instead of fiddling
with record-changing. Again, it takes
a fair amount of maintenance work to
keep a pickup running at full efficiency
owing to the perishing of rubber washers
and other faults difficult for non-experts
to. juggle with. What’s more, the scratch
level is fairly high, except with a speci-
ally-built studio pickup, so that the lid
of the machine must be raised and low-
ered at every changing of a record.
Amateur Chatter.
The A.R.R.L. is asking for co-opera-
tion from amateurs all over the world in
the building up of an Amateur Emer-
gency Corps. The main qualification for
membership is possession of transmitting
apparatus capable of being operated en-
tirely from battery supply when regular
power supplies may be for some reason
not available. Such an occasion arose
recently in the case of Mrs. Putnam’s
’plane, but the possibility of amateur co-
operation beforehand was apparently not
considered.
It would be a good plan for the ama-
teur organisation in any particular coun-
try to notify organisations overseas,
well in advance, where a ’plane carrying
The rotating Bruce 56mc. array of
experimental station VK2EM, referred
to in “Amateur Chatter” recently.
Previously this station was in a badly-
screened position on water level well
inside Sydney Harbor, yet this beam
array did wonders in working distant
stations.
radio equipment is likely to be in the
line of flight or within short-wave radio
range. There have been a few occa-
sions when American fliers have visited
here and Australian amateurs haven’t
known a thing about the frequencies used
or callsigns until the information has
appeared in “QST” two months later.
Experienced amateur telegraphists can
copy and verify weak and fading key
signals, whereas S.W.Ls. and others with
only a check on telephony, unless blessed
with an understandable speech signal,
are likely to draw on the imagination,
with resultant confusion, as in the case of
the Putnam ’plane. There are hundreds
of amateur telegraphists in Australia
willing to help in any emergency.
Those who have received the A.R.R.L.
request and are capable of fulfilling the
requirements should be glad to co-
operate.
Preparations are well in Mnd for an
extensive series of monthly ultra-short-
wave DX tests, with several Sydney sta-
tions working with beam arrays in pre-
arranged directions for the benefit of
observers in country and possibly inter-
state locations. In Queensland a party
of experimenters will be working dur-
ing a week-end in August, day and
night, in an endeavor to deter-
mine what, if any, are the periods at
which five-metre DX may be possible.
A number of stations about 100 miles
apart will be established on mountain
locations, and Sydney stations will be on
the lookout.
An interesting article in “Radio” on
“Push-button Aerial Directivity” should
form the basis of some good five-metre
ideas. The scheme as outlined by
W6DHG would be simple enough applied
to five metres, and should be superior to
the twin dipole end-fire array. There are
three radiators. Two are always in phase
and one out of phase. The effect is thus
broadside directivity plus the influence of
and end-fire radiator. Directivity is
changed by switching connections to Q
bars by means of relays. The whole out-
fit could be easily arranged for rotation
and the relays dispensed with. It was the
twin dipole at VK2NO that was respon-
sible for the Newcastle and Deniliquin
work, and three radiators are better than
two. Then, again, the Bruce has four
half-waves in phase.
An example of co-operation between
amateurs was afforded when the Mackay
Aerial Survey Expedition left Sydney on
July 19. The D.H. Dragonfly ’plane
carries Eric Ferguson (ex-VK2BP) as
operator. Throughout the trip to Broken
Hill (N.S.W.) VHUXA and VK2NO were
in constant communication for test
purposes, the signal from the 10-watt
transmitter on the ’plane reaching
Sydney mostly at R 7-8 on key and
’phone. After VHUXA landed at
Broken Hill, the writer called
VK2DQ on the off chance and
raised him. He was notified of
the arrival of the ’planes and asked
to try to get in touch with the
operator. Shortly afterwards Fer-
guson was at the key at VK2DQ
and was able to check up on
results with VK2NO. With a base
at Tanami or Roy Hill in the in-
terior, the expedition’s alternative
call and frequency will shortly be
heard signing VKSNO.
VK2NO.
Coil-winder.
Winding valve-base coils or formers
fitted with valve pins by hand can present
difficulties regarding the spacing of turns.
“Short-wave and Television” (U.S.A.)
suggests using a small hand-winder made
from brackets with a crank-handle, and
a valve socket fitted to two extensions.
The valve socket, if of the wafer type
with standardised holes, can be quickly
changed for different pin combinations
as required. Such a gadget takes no
time at all to make, and is certainly
handy.
Secrecy in Radio-telephony.
A.W.A. research workers have recently
developed a new radio-telephone priv-
acy device which is used on the trans-
Tasman liner Awatea. Any listener tun-
ing his receiver upon the frequency em-
ployed by the Awatea would hear only
a strange jumble of noises. The equip-
ment inverts the speech, distorts it by
transmitting the low tones as high tones
and the high as low. At the receiving
station a special type of modulator is
used to bring it back to normal.
The device is known as a four-wire
system. It occupies only about 3ft. 6in.
of standard panels. Highly-selective filters
aie included, using low-loss iron-dust
coies. The modulator is a development of
the well-known suppressed-carrier modu-
lator with an addition for accurately
balancing out applied modulation volt-
ages.
Televiewing Wimbledon.
An important step forward in tele-
vision was the successful transmission
this year by the 8.8. C. of the Austin-
Bromwich tennis match at Wimbledon.
The “viewer” which picked up the
game looks for all the world like an im-
mense pair of race glasses with a thick
cable trailing away at the back. Innu-
merable finer cables entwine over it. The
operator twiddles screws and turntables
all the time. What the machine “sees”
is taken through the cable to Alexandra
Palace, thence over the air to the 8000
subscriber sets in London. Further than
that it may not go—2s miles is the radial
limit of the broadcast television at
present.
I was among the privileged half-dozen
ill the receiving studio, and, as there were
four different types of television sets in
the room, we had a selection of direct
or reflected vision. In the former the
view is looked at on the frosted big end
of the cathode tube ; in the latter it is
reflected on to a mirror.
The view measures about lOin. by Bin.,
small but intensely sharp; black and
white. Wearing ordinary spectacles made
for reading, I found a degree of magnifi-
cation which brought out the minutest
detail, and, though the “viewer” was
close to Austin as he served, Bromwich
could be easily recognised at the other
end of the court. The general effect,
however, was more wavy than the movie
picture I saw later in the evening, which
had been electrically recorded and then
televised.
Things are moving in television. The
M.C. is being asked for permission to
televise at Lord’s and the Eton-Harrow
and Oxford-Cambridge games next season
will be attempted with telephoto lenses.
The great aim is someday to televise Test
matches to Australia.
J.S.C.
The Question Box.
(1) I have built a four-valve T.R.F. re-
ceiver on the lines of the Sargent model
described some months ago. The R.F.
stage is connected as shown in the enclosed
sketch. Does this stage amplify in the same
way as a resistance-coupled audio stage ?
(2) Does the plate resistor act as an R.F.
choke? (3) Checking the voltages on the
R.F. valve, these show 100 on the plate and 30
on the screen with the R.F. gain control fully
advanced. Various resistance values have been
tried, but the detector is then damped too
much and needs a smaller coupling condenser.
What can be done to improve things? —s7l.
(1) No. (2) Yes, but it calls for a somewhat
higher maximum voltage supply owing to the
inevitable drop. (3) Use a multi-section honey-
comb R.F. choke in place of the 50,000-ohm
resistor, decoupled by a 5000-ohm resistor and
a .lmfd. condenser. This will give better gain.
Use a 100,000-ohm resistor in place of the
250,000-ohm one now supplying the screen grid.
* * *
(1) I am taking a course at a private school
of radio which undertakes to train me as a
radio mechanic within seven weeks. Is such
training possible in the time? (2) What are
the prospects of securing a position in Queens-
land or N.S.W. on completion of the course?
(3) Would this school’s certificate carry any
weight? —s72.
(1) If you have a good grounding in electrical
and magnetical theory it might be possible
with constant application. Otherwise, no. (2)
Not very encouraging. (3) As the name of
school is not stated in the syllabus, it would
not appear likely. Many students are placed
at intervals on the recommendation of widely-
known schools.


MTS
LYS
Jfe
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
W'wr ■ u
i»f*;
m
a* S' > ' jvW 1 * ¥M JR
W/Mbtk.l-' **A^*'®' , Wi£ > - ■ ~ . *, >,r "‘*••*.-
8#
.» ’‘'.■yj-.’^bJg
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents. ,
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Oats and Sheep in the Riverina.
“Tryit”: Pity the poor farmer? Last
year we produced 1000 bags of oats off
50 acres in a 24in. rainfall area, and
about five tons of hay from the outsides.
A measured 14-acre block stripped 322
bags.
The ground was ploughed sin. deep—
almost to the subsoil —in July, and left
open to the frosts and weather to sweeten
the soil. In September, it was spring-
toothed from north to south.
During November, sheep were put on
to keep weed growth in check and to
aid in compressing the soil again. After
the first rain in December a further
spring-toothing was given from east to
west. The usual summer rains brought
further weed growth, which was always
eaten off quickly, and the cultivator was
put in from north to south again. There
was only one further working in Febru-
ary after 27 points rain before a dry
autumn set in.
In the middle of March came sowing
with Newt, super, and a bushel of graded
seed oats per acre. Within 10 days the
oats were up lin. above the ground,
although dust would still blow off the
surface. On rooting the dust away, mois-
ture was found approx, fin. below the
surface level. A fortnight later 20 points
of rain helped rapid plant growth.
In a month the oats were topped off
quickly to give the roots a chance. A
dry month followed, but the oats kept
growing fast. They were fed off again as
soon as 3in. high, lasting over 14 days
for 500 ewes with lambs.
Fifty points of rain in June allowed a
third feeding. Later, heavy rain set in
and prevented further use of the pad-
dock. By now each plant had anything
up to 10 shoots, each productive of a
heavy grain head.
The third week in November we
started stripping over an averages of 60
bushels per acre. The whole crop only
varied between 55 and 65 bushels per
acre., In many places, the straw was too
high—oyer six feet —owing to lack of
feeding-off. .
When' stripped the stubble left would
have produced approx, two tons per acre
in stacks; but 700 sheep were put on,
and turned off fat in two months. We
replaced with 400 fresh sheep. Two
months later the stubble was fairly well
eaten out. It was then spelled until 180
points rain fell in the middle of March.
Within 17 days we had a heavy coating
of green oats over 4in. high. These were
eaten off by 800 sheep in 10 days to beat
the ’hoppers; but the paddock was still
kept stocked with 300 sheep. It has just
had a six weeks’ spell, and is now carry-
ing 250 sheep.
It would be difficult to calculate the
value of the returns from that 50-acre
block. The green feed saved many lambs
when urgently needed, and the heavy
stubble allowed a quicker fattening of a
larger number of stock.
St. John’s Wort and Lamb-raising.
“J.W.”: C. J. Daley, of the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, has come to
the conclusion, after four years’ experi-
ment, that fat lambs can be raised on
land heavily infested with St. John’s
wort, so long as there is enough pasture
or fodder to give rotation with the
wort; if the paddocks are properly
shaded, the sheep blade-shorn apd if. for
preference, autumn earmarking is prac-
tised.
Daley recommends sheep bred from
Suffolk rams on dark-muzzled Romney-
cross ewes. Trials with Southdown sires
proved a failure, the lambs being so
badly affected with dermatitis that they
had to be placed in sheds and hand-fed.
Machine-shearing completed the disaster,
and hoggets produced were sold for
9s. 6d. a head at the end of 1935.
When the Suffolks were used, their
black points came out consistently in the
offspring, which showed only a slight scal-
ing of the ears. An August-Sept, drop of
183 lambs from 210 ewes was sold in
Sydney up to Dec. 16, no lamb being
more than four months old. After a
400-mile journey, they brought an aver-
age of 20s. Id., top price being 225. Id
The animals were on wort, with 42 acres
of sub. clover and 40 acres of oats for
change of diet.
Later experiments on a farm of 560
acres (Morey’s) near. Tumbarumba
“Much farther to go?”
“Wy, We aint came t’ the crick yet!”
(N.S.W.) proved Border Leicester ewes
of little use' compared with Romneys. -
About 25 p.c. showed "photo-sensitisa-
tion effects, and a few Corriedale come-
backs were even less successful.
Shearing-shed Yards.
“Murrawong”: The shearing season is
under way again. Overhaul the
yards the rush begins. . Inspect
fences first, making, sure that all wires,
are strained tight .and netting is free
from holes. Give the shorn-sheep pens
special attention. • ' “ ,
Test gates and see that they swing.'
They should open flat back against the
fence. Fix a loop of wire on the fence
to hold the gate open and it won't shut
by the press of sheep behind it just
when the mob is starting to run.
Cut out sharp-angled corners in the
yards where sheep may get smothered—
particularly the back corners of forcing
pens—by a panel of stout netting or a
few strong rails.
Fill in all worn patches that a shower
of rain will turn into puddles. The floor
of the drafting race should be concreted
—dust in a fleece costs money—and if
it is at all possible do the forcing pens
also. You’ll get improved wool prices
and working conditions will be easier.
One method of keeping down dust has
proved successful on several properties.
Rake the surface of the yard level and
take off all loose stones; heat old sump
oil to a thin consistency and spray the
ground freely ; leave for a few days until
it sets. This binds the surface firmly and
will stand any amount of trampling with-
out breaking up into dust. It is also
claimed that the oil-treated surface acts
as a fly repellent.
The Up-and-coming Polwarth.
J. F. Jelbart, Stony Park; Albury
(N.S.W.): But the Polwarth (B. 30/6/’37)
is making great strides. They are being
established in the colder eastern districts
of N.S.W., and on wool prices the Pols,
have many times beaten the merinos at
Victorian sales. ; They [.will beat the
merino any time: on carcass in, say, the-
Rivefina, by from '3s. to ;4s. ;
' The Polwarth does even the most in-
dustrious blowfly, out of a living./ In our,
experience of 20 years near Albury, we
have had not "more than 3 p.c. strike.
There are 235,000 Polwarths in Vic-,
toria—-they rank next to- merinos—and,
though Victorian sheep totals, declined
412,000 in 1934-35, Polwarths increased
by 36,354. I- \ : -
I- sent - a shipment .toi Maoriland re-
cently for trial on the Canterbury Plains,
and I predict that irb a. few: years Pol-
warths. will'be as popular in some dis-
tricts as-Illawairra milking Shorthorns dre
in the dairying industry.
The Mules Operation.
“Narooma'’: “Wally D.” (B. 14/7/’37)
accuses me of saying that certain
Queensland graziers believe the Mules
method a good way of getting rid of
wrinkled sheep. What I said was that
the operation removes dangerous breech
wrinkles and so minimises fly-strike. 1
specifically mentioned that “the wrinkly
type should be no longer used for
breeding.”
Removing wrinkles from a ewe can
have no influence on the characteristics
of her progeny, although it may mean
that the ewe will be spared longer to
breed more lambs. One might equally
expect the children of a one-legged man
to come into the world equipped with an
artificial limb.
Wool Bins.
“Bungaree”: “C.V.S.” is wrong when
he says that wool bins (B. 14/7 /’37)
should be built against a wall. Bins
should be built for two-way traffic. The
classer or piece-pickers should be able to
deliver the wool from one end, and the
other should be open for the presser to
remove the wool without interfering with
the work of others.
There are already too many sheds with
the bins draped round the walls. The
result is that, every time a bale of pieces
is pressed, the piece-pickers have to
knock off, remove their table and sweep
up the locks before the presser can get
at the wool.
Unless there are
plenty of shed room
and spare baskets they
have to hang about
until the press is
tramped full. To
make up for that lost
time they would either
have to work through
“smoke-oh” or an
extra man would be
needed.
If the woolroom is
narrow it is better to
build long, narrow
double-ended bins for
the main fleece lines
and pieces. Then, if
extra bins are neces-
. sary, they may be
built against a wall
and used for the
slower lines of fleece
or . for bellies, locks,
-etc.; ;
Bush-mutton
“Bacon.”
“Porky”: The best
method is dead easy.
It used to be common
among old boundary-
jerkers-when I was a
youngster.
•- The sheep must be
killed away from
home. After cutting
up and salting, the
meal should be stowed in bags on a pack-
horse and taken to the hut. Six or eight
miles of that jogging rubs the salt well
in better than any manipulation by hand.
: Then hang the titbit in the fireplace
for'a month or so. Smouldering fires
and steady' smoke will work through
every, bit of meat, curing it, drying it,
making it look like a bit of blackened
boot, as'hard and as dry. The surprise
is that when it is properly cooked it opens
up juicy, perfectly preserved, with a tang
of the gidya. It will keep indefinitely.
Their Favorite Tipples.
“Aqua”: Generally speaking, bush
cattle will drink water at which horses
cock a derisive lip. Sheep will take water
at which cattle sniff. Animals are
creatures of habit, and a man must bear
(Continued on page 44.)


t
1
mm
S»S
mi
vm
mm
ma
i W
These cold days your Oil adopts stay-in methods, stays in the sump, heavy
and slow, instead of circulating freely through your engine, causing exces-
sive and costly wear to engine parts —unless you use a free-flowing lubricant
such as the new temperature-proof Atlantic Motor Oil.
Costing you no more than ordinary Oils, this New Atlantic Motor Oil brings the superior
lubricating properties of the world’s costliest pure paraffin base crude. Refined by an
exclusive new process, it contains nothing but rich full-bodied lubricant. It won’t form
carbon, sludge or gum and, for this reason, in addition to its all-weather lubrication, is
particularly essential in modern closer-fitted, hotter-operating engines.
Ask for the New Atlantic Motor Oil—make it your Oil, accept no substitute.
For instant IFinter starting in high compression cars, the perfect running mate to
Atlantic Motor Oil is Atlantic Ethyl, the high anti-knock fuel which guarantees full
poiver output, pai ticularly in cars built since 1934,
THE NEW ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
PURE PARAFFIN BASE
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD. AMO 5-48-37


AN ABBEY MODEL, made on
a comfortable Riding Boot Last.
Obtainable in both Black and
Brown Calf with strong Welted
Soles.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
Black Calf 27/6
Brown Calf 27/6
IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE, IT’S A GOOD SHOE
w DON'T HAVE TO BREAK-IN
AN ABBEY RIDING BOOT
or Any Other ABBEY Boot
You just pull them on gently,
feel your foot slip into them
easily and stand up ready to
begin your day’s work, knowing
that you’ll have foot comfort.
There’s no secret in Abbey
comfort; it’s just produced by
good leathers and good work-
manship.
In wearing Abbey Shoes you
wear an article into which has
been put the benefit of nearly
100 years of shoe-making
experience.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA” and “AORANGI,
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
First Class £72. Cabin Class £52.
(From Sydney)
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
(inc. in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Or 59 William Street,
Sydney Melbourne
Land Men
1
Don’t be worried
about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled,
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—W ages
Rations
Sheep bought ..
Wire netting
and so on.
Page
»
99
99
39
15
20
61
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street .(Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book w'll be forwarded to you.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
that in mind when putting any class of
stock on doubtful water. An analyst’s
report isn’t any good to stock. They
have last say about what they’ll drink
and what they’ll discard.
It’s well to form good habits early.
Once animals start to do a thing they’ll
be inclined to keep on doing it. If stock
turn up their nose at the local snifter
try brigading them with stock of the
same class used to the drink.
The main thing is to have cattle thirsty
and quiet—all animals are particularly
timid when drinking for the first time at
a new water.
Fine Texture in Udders.
“Silky Bag”: The traditional idea that
the cow’s bag should milk out to some-
thing like a wrung-cloth may have to be
modified. It is believed now that this
type of bag is prone to mastitis.
Blood vessels from which milk-form-
ing materials are derived run in a fibrous
tissue framework which encloses all the
secreting glands. The only difference
between a leathery udder and a fine-
textured one is in the size of this frame-
work.
Towards the end of each lactation
period, a high internal pressure is de-
veloped by the milk secreted in the
udder, which may prevent adequate blood
circulation in the fine-textured bag.
Oxygen shortage and accumulation of
waste tissue products soon occur, and
there may be two periods of \\ to 2
hours each day in which there is no
change of blood in the udder at all.
Mastitis germs find such udders easy
prey, and this is one reason why the
high-producing cow —always associated
with the fine vessel —is more subject to
disease than a low-producer. The remedy
seems to lie in breeding a little more
robustness into the high-producing bag.
Carrying Dennis.
“Pappamosca”: Among animals which
need careful transport to market, the pig
comes first and the fat lamb a close
second.
The Victorian Pig Industry Committee
has advices from “practically all” plants
which treat pigs either for export or
local use that carcasses show fresh
wounds and marks from sticks and whips.
The Railway Department, livestock
agents and farmers are to be tackled and
told that it is not uncommon, after a
pig carcass has been cleaned, to find a
large bruise on the most expensive part
of the corpse, the ham, the result of the
loader’s farewell kick. There may be
marks too from a drover’s dog, and
especially from the stags which some
breeders load in trucks with bacon pigs.
There is no need to manhandle pigs.
They can be driven comfortably without
dogs and trucked without kicks when the
ramps are of the right kind. Loading
calls for slow motion, which is cheaper
than ham bruises at ten bob a time.
Getting Rid of Rabbits.
“Beesknees”: Despite “Trapper” (B.
23/6/’37) steel traps have proved suc-
cessful in exterminating rabbits in the
Warialda (N.S.W.) district.
Begin with at least 80 to 100 traps
and set them right at the mouth of the
burrows. Put a trap at every likely-
looking hole, and fill every other hole
with a little earth.
It is persistence that counts. Begin
work on paddocks at one end and cover
the ground systematically. Leave the
traps three nights before moving them.
When moving on fill every hole that has
had a trap at it.
The catch will be small the first night,
but it is amazing the extra rabbits caught
on the second and third nights. Go back
over the paddock a second time, dealing
only with those holes which have been
reopened, and you will soon make a
complete clean-up.
Inoculating Clover Seed.
“Bogaduck”: I disagree with “Thor-
ley” (B. 9/ 6 / ’37). There are no clovers
on “virgin” soil—soil from which scrub
has recently been cleared and the man
who plants uninoculated clover seed on
newly-cleared land is giving the stuff a
heavy handicap.
Second-grade clover seed usually con-
tains a fair amount of earthy dust, which
will carry some nitrogen-fixing bacteria
to inoculate the soil. But it is a slow
process; three or lour years usually
before the clover roots carry enough
nitrogen wogs to improve fertility.
Enough culture to inoculate 151 b. of
sub. clover seed can be had from the
W.A. Department of Agriculture, Perth,
by sending a p.n. for Is. 6d. The cul-
ture is stirred with a little fresh, clean
skim-milk, then poured over the heap of
seed and mixed in until the whole heap
is evenly damp. The seed must be sown
at once —on a dull day, for direct sun-
light kills the culture. For the same
reason, the seed must not be allowed to
come into direct contact with super.
The inoculated seed gives the clover
a flying start and enables the same build-
ing-up of soil fertility to take place in
the first season as would be achieved in
three or four by sowing untreated seed.
Good results can be obtained on pas-
ture which has been down a year or two
by inoculating a batch of seed and then
walking or driving across the paddock
at intervals a chain or so apart and
lightly broadcasting the seed. Nearly all
the scattered seeds will germinate, and
from their roots the bacteria will soon
spread. Next season results should con-
vince the most sceptical.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bushy Park”: A fox may ignore a
poisoned rabbit (B. 14/7/’37), but he can
never resist a fresh fish. Put the strych-
nine in the gills, drop the bait beside two
other fish half-buried in the ground and
your fox-skin is practically pegged out.
“Tockilly”: To get rid of big fig-trees
it’s best to leave them standing deeply
ringbarked ; when dead they, burn much
better than on the ground.
“Sandy”: Sorrel can be eradicated
(in Victoria, at least) only by drainage.
Agricultural pipes are unnecessary, but
a deep, open drain must be dug to carry
excess “foreign” water. Though sorrel
thrives in acid soils, lime will not kill it.
“Sandy”: Apple orchardists should
delay their spring ploughing till Cape
weed is in flower. The plant louse aphis
prefers Cape weed to blossom. Though
a pest in grassland, Cape weed is invalu-
able as green manure in the orchard.
When it is established there is always a
good crop ready to be ploughed under.
“Silky Bag”: A small plot of berseem
clover will feed that odd cow that calves
in winter. Sow in the early autumn and
there’ll be enough green feed to main-
tain a good flush.
“A.K.”: Toxaemic jaundice is caused
by ergot in the pastures. It acts on the
red corpuscles of the blood. This germ
is secondary ; the poison primary. If the
poison was not in the blood, the germ
would not exist. Copper poisoning is
only secondary. But when ergot is in the
blood the copper poisoning seems pri-
mary, since the symptoms are obvious
before those of ergot poisoning, which is
not noticed until the animal staggers.
“Corriedale” (B. 23/6/’37) is right when
he says there are two causes of the
disease, one of them copper poisoning.
It’s the other which must be found. His
theory fits in with the fact that t.j. seldom
occurs here in M.L. outside the ergot
season —late spring and early summer.
“D.A.H.”: Is fallowed land (B.
30/6/’37) discernible after many years?
At Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) on Wind-
mill Hill, where, about 1834, farmers
carted their maize to be ground, the
track their drays made is quite easily
followed. It runs through what is now
the golf links, and has a deal of traffic
over it every day.
“W.D.Mc.”: Lungworm (B. 14/7/’37)
can be cured by drenching. During the
last 40-odd years I have cured thousands
by drenching, and I have letters from
sheepmen all over the Commonwealth
thanking me for the formula I gave on
this page (B. 4/1/’33).
“Sheepo”: The South Australian
Dorset Horn breeder, J. W. Dawkins,
has been successful with his rams in Eng-
land. He took first prize at the Wolver-
hampton R.A.S., and afterwards sold the
winner to a buyer from Chicago.
America may be too far away to buy
large numbers of Australian sheep of
English breeds, but markets are avail-
able in S. Africa and S. America. There
is no reason why Australia should not
share more widely in the fat-lamb trade.


GREATEST OFFER EVER MADE TO NERVE SUFFERERS
Bp Discovery of Amazing Modern Tonic for
NO BENEFIT-
NO PAY
GUARANTEE
Simply go to any Chemist or Store
and buy a bottle of-
Lack of Confidence . . . Headaches . . .
Nervous Indigestion . . . Sleepless-
ness . . . Listlessness . . . Anaemia . . .
Nerve Pains and other similar nervous
and constitutional weaknesses.
The Tonic of the Century
NERVY WOMEN !
MEN HATE THEM . . . HERE’S WHAT TO DO.
Thousands of women are blessing
BIDOMAK to-day, where once they
were going about “nervy,” listless,
tired, run-down, never feeling really
well, but always half-sick. These
nervous disorders robbed them of
popularity, because even a beautiful
face and figure can’t make up for
nerviness and that awful “depressed
feeling.” The best thing to do is to
take BIDOMAK, as thousands are
doing. BIDOMAK will put roses in
your cheeks, a sparkle in your eyes,
give you new life, energy and
vitality; all the things you need to
make life worth while. Get a bottle
—Get it to-day. It’s only 3/- at
your chemist or store.
M
RUN-DOWN, GROUCHY HEN
MISS OUT IN LIFE.
BIDOMAK BUILDS NERVE FORCE AND
VITALITY.
You can’t win in business, in games
or in love if you’re not always fit,
vigorous and well. BIDOMAK will
build you up and give you a new
meaning to life. If it fails to do you
good it costs you nothing; but
dozens have written to say that
BIDOMAK has revitalised them and
restored nerve force when they really
felt down and out to life. Don’t
put up with the everyday humdrum
of life as it is. Get a bottle of
BIDO.MAK —onIy 3/ —and start tak-
ing it to-day. BIDOMAK builds
you up, permanently. It’s not a
drug, but a vital cell-food remedy.
BIDOMAK will never let you down.
CRANKY CHILDREN
DRIVE PARENTS CRAZY.
FAIL AT SCHOOL AND PLAY.
You know those poor children who
always seem cranky, who won’t eat
—can't sleep or, if they do, wake
up screaming with night terrors.
Do you know that a basic cause of
all these troubles is a deficiency of
vital food minerals in the nerve
tissues and blood-stream? This
deficiency is caused by too hard
study, over-active play and emotions.
BIDOMAK corrects it. Cranky
children calm down. They ask for
more, don’t just pick at their food.
They sleep well, too. Children’s
stored-up nervous energy is limited,
particularly at this time of the year.
Get a bottle of BIDO3IAK. The
results will amaze you. BIDOMAK
is safe because it contains no
alcohol, narcotics, drugs. It tastes good, and children like it.
It is sold under the money-back guarantee to provide real benefit,
or costs you nothing.
Use this as directed and if you have not begun to feel
the benefit within 14 days return the nearly empty
bottle to the Douglas Drug Co., and your money will
be refunded without question.
This amazing guarantee of Benefit or Money Back is
given by the discoverer of Bidomak because he knows
that Bidomak will give you real benefit if you take it
in accordance with his simple directions.
Bidomak provides a method of supplying energy to
the cells of the body wherever the natural supply of
vitality is insufficient to maintain the normal activity
of glands and organs. It provides vital mineral
elements. It is a scientific compound of certain vital
mineral elements which are lacking in the average
modern diet, and which include ferrum, calcium,
sodium, potassium, phosphates, glycerophosphates,
sucrose, as well as other necessary elements.
These are the cell foods which are vitally necessary
for the blood to build up and maintain the cells and
tissues of the body by activating and rejuvenating the
cells—which banish the infirmities due to nerves and
constitutional weaknesses. BIDOMAK restores vital
energy and gives back youthful enthusiasm to those
who have been ill. It makes old arteries young again
—it tones up vital organs which have become sluggish
—it is winning back for thousands the zest for life,
the thrill of popularity and the enthusiasm of wonder-
ful health and good spirits.
Blessing of Vigorous Health.
For men, women and children of naturally weak
constitution BIDOMAK gives the chance of revitalised
vigorous health, whilst those who are obliged by their
work to be keyed up always have found in BIDOMAK
a most certain way of keeping always thrillingly fit.
BIDOMAK increases Oxygen in the Blood
Stream
and thus it increases the supply of red corpuscles and
charges the blood and tissues with an increased supply
of revitalising life-giving oxygen.
BIDOMAK creates New Healthy Nerve Cells
and provides a full supply of healthy nerve fluid, at
the' same time removing poisons and wastes from the
system. BIDOMAK creates a storage of energy and
nerve force—overcomes every run-down condition,
every disorder not due to germ attack but just to
lack of energy and drive. It gives that vitality so
essential to full recovery from illness—that tonic
stimulation without' which convalescence is a long-
drawn-out agony of depression. It improves the
activity of every gland and organ in the system, and
supplements the driving force of the complicated
machinery housed in the human body whenever that
force falls below the requirements of the individual.
Take a course of BIDOMAK and your whole attitude
towards life will be changed.
Rejuvenation.
You will feel rejuvenated—re-made—you will dis-
cover this inner consciousness of well-being will create
for you a popularity you never knew before. What
a glorious satisfaction it will be for
you to enjoy the thrill of perfect health
without the aid of powders, tablets or
drugs—for this is just the enjoyment
which will be yours when you take a
course of BIDOMAK. Go right down
to your chemist this very night and
get yourself a bottle of BIDOMAK—
it will do you good from the very
first dose.
Benefit or Your Money Back
So many nerve sufferers have obtain-
ed immediate relief from BIDOMAK
that it you do not benefit by taking
it we will refund your money within
14 days of purchase on return of the
nearly empty bottle to the Douglas
Drug Co. Thus we guarantee you
positive relief or you pay nothing.
LARGE SIZE
BOTTLE
3/-
New Z’land
3/6
m
i
Mils
Wo*
it#*
mm
Bidomak is a product of the Douglas Drug Co.,
Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane arid Perth.
Wholesale Agents for Tasmania:
L. Fairthorne & Son Pty., Ltd.,
42-48 St. John Street, Launceston.
New Zealand Distributors:
Fluenzol Pty., Ltd., Wellington.


V kort Story
Qy f Writing
tyree (Lance
(journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written 1
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL SANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married man (45), Vic., lifetime among sheep
and cattle, understands windmills, gate-making
and pasture improvement, wants job as work-
ing manager anywhere.—6484.
Chauffeur-mechanic, six years’ driving city
and country, wants position on country pro-
perty as driver and general mechanic. Refs.
—6451.
Carpenter-builder (31), N.S.W., exp. every
branch of trade, able to take control of any
job, seeks position as builder. —6486.
To exchange Outline of Wireless, by
Stranger, for The Book of Practical Radio, by
John Scott-Taggart.—6507.
To buy books on citrus cultivation. —6487.
To buy bound “Illustrated London News,”
old copies.—6467.
To buy The Gas Turbine, by Davey. —6461.
Information Sought.
(1) Match results of Australian Rugby
League teams visiting England? (2) Captains
of those teams ? —6466.
-—Points —-
Matches. Won. Lost. Drawn. For.Against.
1908-09 45 18 21 6 561 467
1911-12 36 29 5 2 673 287
1921-22 36 27 9 0 763 248
1929-30 35 24 9 2 717 340
1933-34 37 27 10 0 756 295
(2) D. Lutge in 1908-09, Chris McKivatt in
1911-12, L. A. Cubitt in 1921-22, Tom Gorman
in 1929-30 and F. McMillan in 1933-34.
(1) What Test match did Australia win by
three runs, and the innings totals? (2) Who
were the captains of the teams? —6470.
(1) The 65th Test, played at Manchester
(Eng.) on July 24-26, 1902. The totals were:
Australia 299 and 86, England 262 and 120.
(2) Joe Darling captained Australia, and Archie
MacLaren skippered England.
* * * *
Classes of boxers and their respective
weights ? —6452.
Flyweight 8st., bantamweight 8st. 61b., feather-
weight 9st., lightweight 9st. 91b., welterweight
lOst. 71b., middleweight list. 61b., light-heavy-
weight 12st. 71b., heavyweight, all over.
$ * * $
(1) What are the odds given at Monte Carlo
in roulette ? (2) What margin is retained by
the bank ? (3) Are all odds given calculated
mathematically? For instance, is the 4-/o-l
chance a true 4-io-l chance? (4) Particu-
lars of company owing the casino ? —6437.
(1) On any single number (en plein), 35 to 1;
two numbers ( a cheval ), 17 to 1; three numbers
in horizontal position ( transversale ), 11 to 1;
four numbers ( un carre), 8 to 1; six numbers,
being two sets in horizontal positions (transver-
sale six), 5 to 1. Premier, milieu and dernier
denote the three columns of 12 numbers (from
1 to 12, 13 to 24 and 25 to 36), the odds
of which are 2 to 1; if two are backed, 1 to 1.
Red, black, odd and even numbers, manque
(1 to 18) and passe (19 to 36), are even
chances. (2) and (3) The bank retains 1 1-3 p.c.
brokerage; apart from this, which would have
to be taken into account to obtain an exact
calculation, the odds as given are mathemati-
cally correct. (4) It is a joint-stock company,
formed in 1863 by Frangois Blanc, and called
the Societe Anonyme des Bains de Mer et du
Cercle des Etrangers a Monaco —colloquially
the Societe Anonyme. The present concession
expires in 1948.
* h= * *
Recently the newspapers gave an account of
a party in Queenscliff (Vic.) searching for
private treasure estimated to be worth between
£10,000,000 and £20,000,000. If they found this
treasure what royalties would they have to
pay the State and Federal Governments and to
what extent would their own share be taxable ?
If they pegged the area on which the treasure
was found under a miner’s right, how would
that affect the legal position ? —6446.
If there is no legitimate claimant for the
“private treasure” it would appear to be in the
nature of “treasure trove,” which is defined
to be “money or coin, gold, silver, plate or
bullion found hidden in the earth or other
private place the owner therof being unknown
or unfound.” In such case the property be-
longs absolutely to the Crown. Concealing
“treasure trove” is punishable by fine or im-
prisonment. What, if any, reward the Crown
would make to the finder is a matter wholly
within its discretion.
* * * *
What were the shearing figures made by a
team of eight who achieved celebrity in Westralia
about 15 years ago? —6479.
In 1923 at Wiiliamsbury (W.A.), the team,
consisting of A. Williams, R. Sawallish, V.
Day, F. Leaman, L. Saltmarsh, George Bence,
C. Fleming and H. Munro shore 9167 in the
first week and 8770 in the second week (losing
one hour through engine trouble). The highest
day’s tally was 1806 on September 14, Sawal-
lish and Day each doing 242, but on another
day the same two shearers reached 250. The
sheep shorn averaged 111b. wool.
* * * *
(1) Would a bullet removed from a body be
likely to have different markings from one
fired from the same rifle into open water? (2)
Would it be possible for a person unskilled in
ballistics, with the aid of a powerful microscope,
to state whether the bullets had been fired from
the same rifle? (3) Briefly, what are the
methods used by ballistic experts for identifying
bullets discharged from the same firearm ? (4)
Any book on the subject ? Could a person of
average intelligence master the subject by
studying books ? —6129.
(1) The bullets should bear identical mark-
ings, provided the one recovered from the body
has not been mutilated by its passage through
cloth or other external equipment or by strik-
ing hard bone. With lead bullets identification
is frequently difficult owing to the softness of
the metal. Metal-jacketed bullets resist defor-
mation and mutilation to a much greater extent,
but even these are likely to receive additional
marks. (2) Considerable skill, experience and
equipment is definitely necessary. A high-power
microscope is unsuitable for the identification
of bullets; a low-power instrument is used by
all experienced investigators. (3) An instrument
known as a “comparison microscope” is neces-
sary for the positive identification of bullets.
Briefly, it consists of an arrangement of twin
low-power microscopes so designed that the
dual field is viewed through a single prismatic
eyepiece. Provision is made for mounting the
bullets or cartridge cases to be examined in
holders, which may be rotated or traversed.
Thus the two bullets may be brought into
exact alignment one with the other, and the
identity of markings peculiar to the barrel from
which they were discharged ascertained. (4)
Several excellent works have been published.
One of the best is Hatcher’s Text-Book of Fire-
arms Investigation, which would cost about
£3 3s. to import from the U.S.A. Angus and
Robertson could obtain it. It is strongly recom-
mended because it incorporates valuable obser-
vations on pistols and revolvers. The study of
bullet investigation, while absorbingly interest-
ing, is not one to be lightly undertaken. The
identification of cartridge cases fired in the
same arm is comparatively simple with the aid
of a lens such as a 10X aplanatic triplet, but
the bullet presents a more complicated problem.
* * * *
(1) / deserted from the French Foreign Legion
in 1925. Am I still liable to arrest if I am
caught in French territory? (2) What is the
penalty ? —6378.
(1) You are liable to arrest for about an-
other 10 years. (2) Depends upon the judges’
view of the circumstances under which desertion
occurred.
sjc jjc ij:
(1) Where can china suitable for hand-paint-
ing be obtained ? (2) What paints are used ?
(3) How is the work baked ? (4) How glazed ?
—6198.
(1) Any good fine white English porcelain
may be used. Obtainable at any shop handling
good china. (2) Metal paints are made for the
purpose; write for list to Miss A. I. Newman,
147 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (3) The painted
china is placed in a kiln, raised to the required
heat and kept at that temperature for a suitable
time. Highly-skilled knowledge is required for
this part of the work, as well as a proper kiln.
(4) Glazing is not necessary, and practically no
under-glaze painting is done by amateurs. The
right kind of paints fuse with the glaze already
on the china and become part of it.
* * * *
Who was “Ouida,” the novelist ? —6321.
Marie Louise de la Ramee, born at Bury St.
Edmunds (Eng.), Jan. 1,1839. She wrote some
forty novels, and died at Viareggio (Italy), Jan.
25, 1908.
5{C ifc i*C jfc
(1) Unmarried sovereigns of England? (2)
Those who married after their accession ?
6499.
(1) William 11., Edward V., Edward VI., Eliza-
beth and Edward VIII. (2) Richard 1., Henry
111., Edward 111., Richard 11., Henry V., Henry
VI., Edward IV., Henry VII., Henry VIII.,
Charles 11., George 111., Mary and Victoria,
fe. * * $
Particulars of the works of Robert Buchanan,
with value, if any ? —6382.
Robert Williams Buchanan, born 1841, was
educated at Glasgow University, and in 1860
went to London. His first work, Undertones
(verse), was published 1863; then followed
Idylls and Legends of Inverburn (1865) and
London Poems, his first distinct success (1866).
Some translations of Danish ballads and Way-
side Posies appeared in 1866; North Coast
Poems (1867), Napoleon Fallen: a Lyrical
Drama (1871); The Drama of Kings (1871);
Ballads of Love, Life and Humor (1882);
and The City of Dream (1888). He wrote
many novels which attained a considerable
vogue, also plays, including some adaptations.
The Outcast (poems) was published in 1893,
and the collected edition of his poems in 1885.
His books have no collector’s value. He died
1901. His Life, by his sister-in-law, Harriet Jay,
was published in 1903.
* * * *
Who were the Seven Sages? —6297.
The term is applied to the chief Greek philo-
sophers of the age before Socrates: Solon of
Athens, Thales of Miletus, Pittaccus of Mity-
lene, Bias of Priene, Chilo of Sparta, Cleobu-
lus of Lindus and Periander of Corinth.
* * * *
Can you tell me anything about Hugh
Ramsay, an Australian artist, a portrait by
whom hangs in the Castlemaine {Vic.) gallery ?
—6366.
He was born at sea in 1877 on a vessel
bound for Australia, studied at the Melbourne
gallery under Bernard Hall, and in 1900 went
to Paris. In 1902 he had four works hung in
the New Salon, where they attracted much
attention, and were reproduced in the official
catalogue. Comyns Carr invited him to send
pictures to a special exhibition at the Grafton
Galleries, and Melba commissioned him to
paint her portrait. 111-health brought him back
to Australia, and in the four years before his
death he worked with a feverish activity and
painted 20 full-length portraits, including “The
Sisters” (in the Sydney gallery), a self-portrait
in the Melbourne gallery, and a portrait of
David Mitchell (father of Melba) in the Castle-
maine gallery. He died at Essendon (Vic.) in
1906.
* * * *
(1) In what part of N.S.W. is the Burrago-
rang Valley ? (2) What town is it nearest, and
what is the average rainfall? (3) Chief indus-
tries of the district and other details ? —6458.
South-west of Sydney. The train service from
Sydney to Camden connects with a car service
to Burragorang Valley. (2) Nearest towns are
Camden, 24 miles from Sydney, The Oaks,
population 300, 13 miles from Camden, and
20 miles farther on Nattai, situated on the Wol-
londilly River. Twenty miles distant is Yer-
randerie. Average annual rainfall of Camden
is 29 inches. (3) The Burragorang Valley
is well known as a tourist and health resort.
Camden is noted for dairying, fruit- and vege-
table-growing and poultry-farming. On the
route from Camden to the Burragorang Valley
there are a number of mixed farms, and this
district is also well known for its orchards.
Westward and beyond the Wollondilly River
the country is wild and rugged. There are
silver mines at Yerranderie.
$ * :|s
Particulars of the Bratt system of liquor re-
striction ? —6443.
The system of Dr. Ivan Bratt, a Stockholm
physician, is a development of the Gothenburg
system. Its most striking feature is the mot-
bok (passbook) method of regulating “off”
sales of spirits which represent 90 p.c. of the
total spirit sales in Sweden. Mot-boks are
granted only to adults of a specified age, fixed
by district control authorities. Spirits can be
bought for “off” consumption only on the pro-
duction of the mot-bok, which is valid only for
use by the owner. Since the introduction of
this method of sale in 1916 convictions for
drunkenness have declined considerably.
* * * *
Procedure necessary to obtain a marriage
license in N. S. Wales? —6385.
The law of N. S. Wales does not require
parties to an intended marriage to obtain a
license, nor does it impose any conditions re-
garding residence, excepting that, where the
marriage is celebrated by a District Registrar
of Births, Deaths and Marriages, the intended
bride must reside in the Registrar’s district.
Sji ijC ifc
How should concrete be mixed for a fire-
place ? —6337.
One part cement to three or four parts sand
or stone; this mixture is dampened and well
rammed into moulds either as blocks or as an
in situ construction. Care should be taken in
the curing to ensure that this mortar is kept
damp for at least seven days. When the mortar
has dried out the surface is treated with a
10 p.c. solution of silicate of soda. One or
more coats of this may be applied, each coat
being allowed to dry before the next is added.
# * * *
(1) What are the duties of sleeping-car con-
ductors on N.S.W. railways? (2) Pay and
hours worked? (3) May they take tips? (4)
From what branch of the department do they
graduate ? (5) How often are the coarse rugs
used as blankets in sleeping carriages cleaned
or washed, and are they ever disinfected ?
6255.
(1) They see that the rail and sleeping-berth
tickets of passengers are in order, and attend
to the comfort and requirements of sleeping-cai
passengers. (2) Current award daily rates are
13s. lOd. per day first year and 14s. 4d. there-
after. A normal fortnight’s work is 112 hours
(12 days of 9 hours 20 minutes). (3) No. (4)
Conductors are selected from applicants in the
traffic branch. Porters are also worked as
conductors when required. (5) Rugs are washed
every six weeks. Sleeping cars and all equip-
ment therein are deodorised with Thymol at the
termination of each journey, either in Sydney
or the country. The rug room at Sydney is
fumigated with formalin every night.
* * * *
(1) Is there a profitable market for song lyrics
in Australia? (2) What procedure should I
adopt to have my efforts placed overseas ?
6398.
(1) There is not a market in Australia for
song lyrics. Music publishers have discon-
tinued publishing new local works. It is neces-
sary to sell a few thousand copies of any one
number to make any money, and this, a leading
music dealer states, is impossible owing to the
majority of people relying on the radio for their
musical entertainment. (2) See article in The
Australian Authors and Artists’ Handbook,
1937.
* * * *
(1) Which of the two stations, Flinders-street,
Melbourne, or Waterloo Bridge, London,
carries the most passengers per year ? (2)
Which carries most passengers in proportion
to population ? (3) Area of these two stations ?
(1) No figures available for Waterloo station.
According to a tally which was taken over four
days in February-March, 1934, the average
daily number of passengers who passed through
the barriers at Flinders-street and Princes
Bridge (which are connected and may be re-
garded as one station) was 282,426. The
highest number on any one of the four days
of the tally was 306,871. (2) Only information
available on this point is that the population
of Greater Melbourne at December 31, 1936,
was 1.016,500, and the population of Greater
London was, at latest estimate, 8,401,000. (3)
Area of Flinders-street station, including Princes
Bridge, is 4.7 acres.
* * * *
Some particulars of yerba mate? —6329.
Yerba mate, or Paraguay tea, is made from
the leaves of the mate, a small evergreen shrub
of the same family as the holly. It grows
abundantly in Brazil and Paraguay. The leaves
are dried and crushed to a coarse powder and
brewed similarly to tea. It acts as restorative
after great fatigue and contains less caffeine
than tea or coffee.
Origin and meaning of the expression “having
passed the Rubicon ”? —6374.
The Rubicon is a small river flowing into the
Adriatic Sea and forming one of the Italian
boundaries, the crossing of which anciently con-
stituted a declaration of war. The phrase
denotes an act from which there is no retreat.
Brief Answers.
T.R.D.: Poem is entitled “Nine Miles from
Gundagai,” and is published in Jack Moses’s
book Beyond the City Gates, obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney; price about
4s. 6d Gumsucker (M.L.): Old-age pen-
sions are paid only to residents of Australia,
qualification being 20 years’ continuous resi-
dence within the Commonwealth. While you
are resident in M.L. you are not eligible to re-
ceive a pension, but should you return to Aus-
tralia you will be eligible if, during any period
of your lifetime, you have completed 20 years’
continuous residence within the Commonwealth.
... .C.W.H.: In the light of present knowledge,
yes....E.H.: Noel Coward’s play “Cavalcade”
is obtainable from Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, in the 7s. 6d. edition,
and from Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney,
in a collection of seven of his plays (The Play
Parade); 10s. 6d C.W.: The Panama Canal
was opened for navigation on August 15, 1914.
Passage through the canal takes about eight
hours, four of which are occupied passing
through the 12 locks,.. .H.C.: Alcohol should
remove the carbon... .N.A.F.: (1) Ice-skating
is the faster. (2) World speed record for ice-
skating, 1 mile, 2min. 38 2-5sec. No record
known for roller-skating... .C.H.: Full list is
printed in The Australian Authors and Artists’
Handbook.... E.B.: Write Sydney Chamber of
Commerce, Grosvenor-street, Sydney... .S.K.:
Inquiries through wholesale chemists’ suppliers
and individual chemists in Sydney regarding the
depilatory plaster you mention were unsuccess-
ful.... A.W.: Write S. E. Pratt, secretary Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Assoc., T. and G. Building,
145 Collins-street, Melbourne A.H.M.D.:
In addition to the committeemen elected the
president, vice-presidents, secretary and treas-
urer are members of the committee by virtue
of their office... .N.W.: Unable to give the
date of publication. Copy could be imported
from U.S.A.; price about 36s D.M.B.:
David Jones, Ltd., Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
will probably be able to supply the information.
. ...T.F.L.: Particulars not readily accessible.
Write to the Under-Secretary, the Treasury, in
each of the State capitals. .. .M.D.G.: Egol-
wah is not in aboriginal word-lists... .G.E.B.:
Thp opening ceremony and track and field
events of the British Empire Games, 1938, will
be held on the Sydney Cricket Ground on
February 5, 10 and 12... .A.S.C.: (1) Yes. (2)
Heir presumptive is his brother, Ernest Edward
Dowling Clarke, and second heir is their uncle,
William Leonard Russel Clarke W.W.:
Carbon bisulphide and carbon tetrachloride
are recognised drugs for the treatment of worm
and bot parasitism in horses, but, being poisons,
should not be administered save on a vet.’s
prescription. A useful simple mixture for treat-
ment of worm parasites in horses is raw lin-
seed oil 1| pints, oil of turpentine 2 fl. oz.,
thoroughly shaken with the white of an egg.
The mixture should be administered after starv-
ing the horse for at least 12 hours. After
treatment the horse should be exercised, but
should not be worked until all scouring has
ceased... .R.B.: The man is looking at his
son’s portrait.... .H.E.P.: Vulcanite disks can
replace the lenses; the eye cups at the sides
should also be made of vulcanite and specially
fitted and shaped to exclude all light. These
goggles, correctly fitted, should give the result
required... .L.P.: A bite from a venomous
snake may be distinguished by the presence
of two punctures over a quarter of an inch
apart; a bite from a harmless snake would
show two curved rows of toothmarks
G.G.: Name does not appear on the list of
successful ticketholders of lottery No. 421.
. ...C.N.: W. H. Traill represented South
Sydney in the N.S.W. Leg: Assembly from
1889 to 1894....T.F.: “The Maid of the
Mountains” was written by Frederick Lons-
dale; music by Harold Fraser-Simson and
J. W. Tate... .P.N.: Lieut. Joe Maxwell served
with the 18th Batt., A.I.F. He was awarded
the V.C. for most conspicuous bravery and
leadership in the attack on the Beaurevoir-Fon-
somme line, October 3, 1918 J.R.L.: Dur-
rant’s Press Cuttings, 32 Holborn Viaduct,
London, E.C.l... .N.W.: The Maldives, 400
miles south-west of Ceylon, are a group of
13 coral islets, richly clothed with coconut
palms, and yielding millet, fruit and edible nuts.
The population at the 1931 census was over
79,000 Moslems. The people are great navi-
gators and traders... .E.N.: Mongrel is applied
to plants, animals and humans of mixed breed,
but in reference to persons is generally used
disparagingly. (2) Cannot advise concerning
correct conduct towards lions in South Africa’s
National Park.... .M.M.: An “allergic” person
is one who inherits some peculiar constitutional
make-up which renders him “sensitive” to cer-
tain things; these things may be strongly
poisonous even in small amounts, and not only
material articles (foods) but physical agents
(cold, heat, light). Patients are commonly of
a “nervy” disposition. Try the effect of
Haliverol (any chemist) night and morning
A.B.C.: If the displacement is recurrent, as it
seems to be, no treatment other than operation
will relieve it. The operation is not dangerous
in experienced hands, and the results are ex-
cellent... .R.W.: No valid conclusions have as
yet been drawn from figures of cancer mortality
in various occupation groups. No particular
food has been implicated as a causal factor of
the disease C.W.J.: A mixture containing
five minims of tincture of belladonna and five
grains of potassium bromide in a tablespoon of
infusion of Senega is often effective D.L.:
These appearances result from the separating
out of the blood plasma and the disintegration
of the corpuscles which follow the addition of
water to blood... .A.A.: Eczema is a general
term for skin conditions caused by constitu-
tional disorders. Each case has therefore to
be investigated and treated individually. A
preparation helping to relieve itching is carbolic
acid one drachm, glycerine half an ounce, water
eight ounces... .(Many others mailed.)


COOLD NOT LIFT
ARMS ABOVE HEAD
Suffered Agonies with
Rheumatism
This woman was practically crippled with
agonising rheumatism in her back, arms and
legs. For two months she endured this pain-
ful condition, then, like many another suf-
ferer, she decided to try Kruschen Salts. Read
her letter:
“About fifteen months ago I had rheumatism
in my arms, back and legs. The pain in my
arms and legs after getting warm in bed was
excruciating, especially in my arms. Also, after
sitting for any length of time, I had to make
several tries before I could get up. I was like
that for two months, and could not reach above
my head. I read so much about Kruschen Salts
that I thought I would try them. I 'am so glad
to say that for more than a year I have not
had the slightest return of my rheumatism.” —
(Mrs.) H.E.
Do you realise what causes rheumatism?
Nothing but sharp-edged uric acid crystals
which form as the result of sluggish eliminat-
ing organs. Kruschen Salts can always be
counted upon to clear those painful crystals
from the system.
WALTHER * STEVENSON ltd
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l2/18/6
DOUBLE RIGGED.
This is a very popular line, quite
equal to Saddles of the same class
made in U.S.A. It is made of Brown
Leather, without fancy stamping, and
the seat and cantle are in one piece
of heavy leather. Weight about 281 b.
Freight Paid in N.S.W. for Cash with Order.
Cowboy Bits, Spurs, Bridles, Breast*
plates, Chaparajos, Tapaderas, etc.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Catalog.
a
&
/\\
A
1^41
wm
> >
T''
Hi
For
and
CONVENIENCE
«
Wherever you may go within Australia or abroad,
you will appreciate the safety and convenience of
Bank of New South Wales Travellers’ Cheques.
These cheques being readily convertible into
money, even after banking hours, at any place
you may visit, relieve you of the necessity of
carrying large sums iil cash.
Bank of New South Wales Travellers’ Cheques
are honoured throughout the world. They are
cashed by banks, and the principal shipping and
railway companies, hotels, stores, tourist offices,
etc., everywhere.
TRAVELLERS CHEQUES
Obtainable through any branch of the Bank •
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
D.P.: Nothing for us in that batch... .G.H.H.:
Breaks no new ground... .S.D.McK.: Just
failed to make the grade R.G.A.: Machine-
made... .0.M.K.: Couldn’t follow it....
N.C.F.: One of the few dozen borderliners
we get every week.... A.H.: That one not up.
H.S.: Didn’t raise a titter G.S.C.:
Below your usual... .A.A.V.: Can’t provide
that dog with a kennel... .J.H.S.: Don’t like
confessions of murder E.M.E.: Only sym-
pathy for the young fellow who falls in love
with a woman on another planet whom he sees
through a super-televisor arrangement....
R. : “The Triumphant Bunk” almost edged
its way in... .P.McD.: Off our beat; try it on
a magazine... .H.F.R.: Comment too slight;
also too late... .N.L.: Try it as a par... .D. 8.:
Drover failed to earn his tucker R.M.: Still
not quite what we want... .Acco: You’ve
got your wish... .1.L.M.: It doesn’t grip....
S. : “Harvest” failed to live up to promise.
E.F.: Doesn’t get past... .J.W.A.: Drasti-
cally cut it might do for Smoke-0h.... A.S.:
Not that one... .R. 8.: Nothing doing with “the
supernatural, the occult, or call it what you
wi11”... .8.5. G.: Not for us; but you should
place it... .R.F.J.: Thin... .W.F.8.: It’s
merely fine writing....J.M.H.: Stodgy....
H.R.V.: No laughs there....M.A.C.: The Irish
policeman’s been overworked.. .R.S.C.: Sorry,
we have no place for it J.W.M.: Feeble
Aitch: Must give this a run :
Noticed your sales keep up ? I take
You weekly; most for “Answers’ ” sake
And some few other features.
We’ve disagreed; but that will make
No odds: I’ll get as fair a break
As you give other creatures.
J.T.: We read them conscientiously, but
they made no impression A.M.C.: Not even
fair-to-middling doggerel... .Kip: Well, if two
ruby lips caress your ear, you ought to be
able to write something more stimulating about
the sensation than what you proffer u 5....
W.McA.: You need to express yourself more
clearly... .8.G.: One verse, if only to remind
the present generation of the debt it owes to the
first man who sowed grain in this country:
Thirty-four miles from Sydney way,
In a lonely churchyard on a hill,
Lie the last remains of old James Ruse,
Sadly neglected and strangely still.
A.J.B.: Begins promisingly enough, but it
doesn’t end tellingly, as every good parody
should... .J.H.: They all fell short. But we like
your typewriter E.J.K.: Yes, they are crude.
M.F.: The verse is as bald as the handwrit-
ing is beautiful J.W.: Thin and common-
place... .N.S.: All the rhymes would pass
muster except “riches-wishes” and “ended-remem-
bered.” Otherwise it is platitude... .Z.V.W.:
The swagman who rhapsodises about the quiver-
ing willows, the golden-brown gorse and the
sweetly-singing birds is right outside of our
experience C.M.: Sixty lines about a patch
in a traveller’s pants! Have a heart, brother
. ...P.8.: Verses for children, no more....
M.G.S.: Cannot send criticisms by post. But
there is nothing worth while in your reflec-
tions... .Gob: Your “Ode to the Sea” might
impress a shipping journal, though we doubt
it R.L.R.: What, another on the same
theme? :
Have you ever been enraptured
By league on league of rolling sea,
Stretching on and heaving ever
In its vast immensity?
A chord was touched by the heaving part....
C.A.8.: Quite a fair sonnet, technically, but
nothing in it to stir or stick... .L.R.8.: “Girls
of To-day and Yesterday,” although you con-
trast them so inflexibly, always strike us as
pretty much alike. Boys, t00....8.T.: Just
a variation of that 50-year-old vaudeville song
“He’s a Jolly Little Chap All Round.”
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.T.: Did you draw it during a black-out'
of the electric lights? C.F.: No landing-
space here for your balloonist... .C.D.:
Allegedly well-dressed flappers appear to have
been wandering about in a barbed-wire en-
tanglement S.C.: Admire your optimism,
but not your drawings... .J.F.: Your gay gon-
dolier looks more like a professional pall-
bearer W.C.M.: Take more time over draw-
ings and look for fresher gags... .H. 8.: Well,
you have profited little by your window in-
spections T.G.: Still puzzling over presence
of prehistoric monster in modern drawing-
room R.H.: Joke about the bearded lady
not to our taste H.K.: Little humor, less
artistic ability W.C.C.: Since when has a
horse a tail like a cow and feet like an ele-
phant? W.J.: Thumbs down to that effort.
S.H.: Quite promising; make them less
stiff... .A.P.J.: Picture of what looks like a
gathering of barbers’ poles firmly rejected.....
M.P.: Conserve your energy for some easier
pastime J.C.: The office boy played
the “Dead March” over its remains 5.8.:
Bathing-costume cartoon premature; hopeless,
too W.R.: Sorry, but it won’t earn you the
“price of two tickets to the Artists’ Ball.”
K.L.: Joke has been going the rounds for
the past six months... .E.M.: Get more sweep
into your lines and more sparkle into your
jokes... .A.G.8.: No promise whatever....
F.F.: Gent, looks as if dropsy had him in its
clutches D.T.N.: Your work lacks punch as
yet, but you show promise R.P.: A quick
count revealed at least 20 errors H.Y.:
The basket swallowed the whole batch
8.N.: Sketch of blackfellow playing cards
with Chinese cook needed an enlightening gag.
N.T.: Juvenile scribbles... .J.M.: You
must find the pen an unmanageable instrument.
. ...H.A.: This week’s most dreadful example.
A MIXED GRILL.
“II Vecchio”: I nominate P. A. Hal-
lett, of Port Macquarie (N.S.W.), as The
Bulletin’s oldest regular reader. He
has not missed an issue since 1895.
% '!< # *
Work on Sydney’s Circular Quay rail-
way was begun without approved plans
for the Quay railway station, maritime
building and wharves which will be its
central features. However, when visitors
step ashore for the Australian 150th anni-
versary celebration, they will not be able
to go away saying that they have not
seen typical Government loan-works in
progress. By the time the celebrations
are on, Circular Quay will look like the
world’s biggest wombat burrow.
“M.C.”: While the Melbourne fogs were
at their worst, Tarleton Rayment was
doing his best to get a new novel finished.
Ringed Trees is now on its way to the
publishers. Many of the figures flitting
through these pages are descendants of the
pioneers featured in Valley of the Sky,
which earned him a substantial prize. A
German translation of Rayment’s book
on Australian bees has just reached him.
Since the age of seven Mr. Rayment has
loved the little buzzers, but he hates
telephones and fountain pens.
* * * *
Nobody ever mentions Theodore now
when considering political possibilities.
The ex-Premier who was Federal Treas-
urer for two stormy seasons has been in
Borneo looking at “auriferous and
diamondiferous” country worked by
Chinese and Dyaks. It is understood that
the Dyaks forbore to go after his head,
being informed that Lang had already
lifted it.
* * * *
Recently retired John Maidment’s
half-century in Sydney G.P.O. included,
among other rush terms, 10 crowded
days of a Federal Convention of the
’nineties, when, though there was an im-
mense volume of telegraphy, overtime
was unpaid. Hearing of this, George
Reid decreed a month’s salary for the
staff. The branch objected. Reid’s reply,
scrawled across the face of the official
memo.: “I am the man who settles these
matters. Pay the amount from the
Treasury.” It was paid.
“Graeme”: William Henry Brockle-
bank and William Stevenson, inseparable
friends for 65 years, died within 48 hours
of each other in Brisbane this month,
both having notched 86 years. They
were boys together in the service suc-
cessively of three banks —Australasia,
N. S. Wales and Q.N. Both were deep
reading men of literary taste. W.H.B.’s
gifts in elocution were remarkable ; his
family tree took in the Brocklebank
Blue Anchor Line, whose ships under
royal charter have the privilege of flying
the house flag for’ard. Little Steve’s capa-
city for reading and quotation—“cor-
rectly or not at all”—was prodigious.
* * * *
“G.G.”: For good looks and general
attractiveness the Anglo-Scottish women’s
hockey team scores one hundred per cent.
Baby of the team, Nora Judd, and its tall-
est member, Eileen Gunnell, provide
effectively silencing replies to those who
think that efficient sportswomen are plain,
mannish creatures. The visitors, who are
paying their own expenses, are dazzled at
the hospitality offered to them. They
have late nights, but not just before
matches, and they smoke in moderation.
* * * #
“L.”: In the matter of grants and be-
quests Melbourne University has not been
treated as well as the seats of learning
in other capitals, but Dr. Priestley’s
vehemence seems at last to be bearing
fruit. He is untiring in his efforts to
obtain better facilities and more money
to relieve overworked professors who,
with their large lectureship rolls and
sometimes triplicate classes, seldom get
to know even their honors students.
Prof. Wood-Jones’s resignation might
also be a factor in pushing home the
urgency of the cause; the last few
months have certainly brought more
windfalls than usual. The generous gifts
of Broken Hill Associated Smelters, Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co. and the Victorian
Chamber of Manufactures will be divided
up among the Union House and the
Chemistry and Metallurgy buildings.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.,
donated £5OOO towards the much-needed
building and equipment of the new
Chemistry School.


m<zAe
/"■j/ ~
m b) ;
m
<ri{
'X
r
\
~JAsI Da/npjs
CD c Gxliiim’s
X C£/J)Jsfiy is-
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide
Fremantlt
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
*l*
-
LI'IMi INDUSTKX
A Nation-wide service, directed toward encouraging
the expansion of Australian industries and assisting
them to operate safely and easily, is made available
by the National Bank. The facilities it provides
cover the banking needs of Farmers and Graziers, Manu-
facturers, Merchants, Shopkeepers, and all others
engaged in carrying on the Nation’s business, facili-
ties are provided for all classes of Foreign Exchange
Business, including prompt and forward settlements.
BANK
of A UStralasia Ltd. (Incorpd. in Victoria)
13/12/37
ASSETS 3I 5T MARCH 1937 €51.000.000
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
JOHN BULL ON THE UP-GRADE
This is the third article of the Old Cricketers series.
The 1884 Australians were accom-
panied to Australia by Shaw's second
team. The. visitors were all North of
England professionals and a very warm
lot —Shrewsbury, Scotton, Ulyett, Barnes,
Flowers, Bates, Maurice Read, Peel,
Briggs, Attewell and Hunter, with Shaw
as a substitute if required, and if his
managerial duties permitted. They
toured S.A., Victoria, N.S.W. and
southern Queensland, playing at places
like Windsor, Parramatta, Wollongong,
the two Maryboroughs, Gympie and
Benalla, which nowadays never see an
English eleven. They had their great
day at Adelaide on December 16, 1884,
the fourth day of their match with Mur-
doch’s eleven, when they won by eight
wickets.
It was a memorable match for Percy
McDonnell, who made 124 out of 243 in
Australia’s first knock and 83 out of 191
in the second. For the winners Peel
took 3 for 68 and 5 for 51 ; the chief
rungetters were Barnes (134 and 28 not
out), Scotton (82) and Ulyett (68). Spof-
forth was an absentee, and the Austra-
lians missed him sorely, though Palmer
bagged six wickets—s for 81 and 1 for 23.
At Melbourne in the following month
Shaw’s team inflicted a dreadful doing
on a so-called Australian XI which con-
tained no member of Murdoch’s eleven.
It, however, included Sammy Jones and
Horan, of the 1882 XI; J. W. Trumble
and Affie Jarvis, who were to go to Eng-
land in 1886 ; Jack Worrall, the foot-
baller, cricketer and sporting writer, still
on deck in Melbourne; Dr. Rowley
Pope, friend of every Australian cricketer
going to England, and Sam Morris, the
black, who was fated to lose his sight.
The Australians shaped pretty well with
the bat, scoring 279 in reply to the Eng-
lishmen’s 401, but in the second innings
they were skittled for 126, chiefly by
Barnes (6 for 31) and Peel (2 for 45).
The Victorian Cricket Association had
invited Blackham, Bonnor, Boyle,
McDonnell, Palmer and Scott to play,
and after the match sent them each a
“please explain.” There was some dis-
pute about expenses, and a garbled ac-
count of the rumpus must have reached
London, for a cablegram from that city,
alleged to have been sent with Maryle-
bone C.C. sanction, conveyed the appal-
ling news that “if any of the Australian
team who visited England in 1884 should
be chosen in the eleven for 1886 he will
“HOP” CELEBRATES A DUAL VICTORY.
be excluded from Lord’s and the Oval.”
If such a threat was ever issued, it was
never enforced.
By the middle of February, the trouble
was overcome, and Scott, Spofforth,
Bonnor and Bannerman were in the team
that played Shaw’s eleven at Sydney that
month. Australia made 181 and 165;
Shaw’s team 133 and 207. Spofforth’s
bowling was the deciding factor in the
six-runs victory ; he took 4 for 54 and
6 for 90.
In another match at Sydney, Percy
McDonnell was put in to strengthen the
batting ; but it was Bonnor, with a mag-
nificent 128, who principally enabled the
Australians to get a lead of 40 on the
first innings (Australia 309, Shaw’s team
269); then Spofforth (5 for 30) and
Palmer (4 for 32) polished off the Eng-
lishmen for 77, and the required 38 runs
were got for the loss of two wickets. In
the Englishmen’s first innings Giffen had
taken 7 for 117.
In the last representative match of the
tour, played at Melbourne, Spofforth top-
scored for Australia with 50 out of 163.
No one else did much with the bat, the
team being without McDonnell, Bonnor
and Scott, and the side failed ingloriously.
The Englishmen scored 386, Shrewsbury
contributing a patient 105 n.o. The Aus-
tralians in their second attempt made a
poor showing against Attewell (3 for 24),
Ulyett (3 for 25) and Flowers (3 for 34).
The Englishmen had depended a lot
on Ulyett’s batting, but after his excel-
lent innings at Adelaide his scores in the
matches against Australia were 0,2, 4,
10, 2 and 1. With the frankness of the
time, a critic wrote that Ulyett had
“placed the team at a disadvantage by
his bibulous proclivities.” All the same
the burly Yorkshireman was always a
very popular figure on Australian cricket
fields, and he was far from being the
only player of his time, English or Aus-
tralian, who was fond of his beer.
This was agreeably suggested by the
“London Echo” in a paragraph on the
triumph of Shaw’s eleven over Murdoch’s.
“This,” it said, “should teach those
gentlemen who have the choosing of the
men to represent England a wholesome
lesson. It is known to all but the kid-
glove misters that professionals are at
all times better men to rely on than
gentlemen; and yet when a team has to
be selected to do duty for England against
Australia at Lord’s or the Oval we
always find a large majority of amateurs
in the eleven. The fact is that, while
professional players keep in good trim all
the time, because it is their living, gentle-
men are apt to make, too free o’ nights,
as they have nothing to lose.”
Even at this distance, of time, it would
be interesting to know whom the “Echo"
man was driving at. It could scarcely
have been A. G. Steel, already a busy
lawyer —he was to become Recorder of
Oldhafn —or Alfred Lyttleton, member
of an aristocratic family, who was never
one to hear the chimes of midnight, or
C. T. Studd, who gave up his cricket
career to become a missionary. The
devoted Studd went to China (he had an


i:\DABIIJTI
and
ADDING
IS1I1P»
eSS-.
m
m
Av\s-mm v m
4 '' < .. mm
v4g^'
M
Ni\'
SfiSSSKSM
sm
m
1
101
ilium
mt
m
k
1937
HILLMAN
> J T IIE speedy, safe, luxurious 1937 Hillman HAWK is the
choice of the Royal Air Force, the London Metropolitan
Police and the War Office.
Evenkeel Suspension, Sunshine Roof (on De Luxe Models),
cushioned power, complete box-girder chassis, 4-speed synco-
mesh gear-box, and imported all-steel coachwork (fabricated
in Australia), with chrome, liand-buffed leather upholstery,
are just a few of the HAWK’S many outstanding features.
Apart from these refinements, the Hillman HAWK offers a
performance that is really startling . . . fast, powerful, safe
and comfortable, its wonderful roadability and excellent
braking keeping it always under perfect control.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.:
John McGrath Ltd.
155 Elizabeth St., Sydney
VICTORIA:
Overseas Motors Pty. Ltd.
222 Exhibition St., Melbourne, C.l.
W. AUSTRALIA:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street, Perth.
S. AUSTRALIA:
Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd.
42 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
D. L. Hollis Motors
York Street, Launceston.
QUEENSLAND:
John McGrath Ltd.
35S Wickham Si., Valley, Brisbane
World Exporters:
n
HooteS™
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London.
Australian and N.Z. Representative:
C. E. BLAYNEY,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
JULY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
INVESTORS AND THE STOCK EXCHANGE
GOLD QUESTION
BASIC WAGE
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED .
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all Statea
appalling time there) and thence to
Africa, where, half-starved and an exile
from his family, he labored among gloat-
ing savages. He died a few years ago, a
dreadfully emaciated and unhappy-
looking prematurely-aged man.
W. G. Grace was a good man with
knife and fork, as well as with bat and
ball, and was anything but a teetotaller,
but he was never known to risk losing a
match by doing himself too well over-
night ; nor when he was captain would
he let young fellows in his team transgress.
On the rare occasions on which he caught
them at it, he inflicted drastic punish-
ment. If the offender was a bowler he
wouldn’t get an over ; if a batsman, he
would be sent in last.
One thing is certain: these repeated
tours of Australia were of the greatest
service to English cricket. They led to
improvement in all departments of the
game and to the development of young
players who, if a visit every four years
had been the rule as it has been since the
war, would never have been seen in Aus-
tralia and might never have come to
much in England. It was especially noted
in Australia in 1886 that the English
fielding, in former years a weak feature,
had improved tremendously. In short,
the Englishmen learned from these
annual tours of Australia, as well as
from the biennial Australian tours of
England, how to beat their 1882 con-
querors.
This was demonstrated when Scott’s
1886 team- went to England. In it were
included the great 1882 and 1884 trium-
virate of bowlers, Spofforth, Giffen and
Palmer, and Garrett had joined them. He
proved as good as ever with the. ball,
taking 123 wickets at 18.05, and was
often useful with the bat, his average
being 14.02 —by no means bad for those
days. But the batting was comparatively
weak. Sammy Jones had returned, to
score 1498 runs at 24.1—first in aggre-
gates and second in averages—but Mur-
doch, McDonnell and Bannerman were
absent, and their loss was severely felt.
Moses would have been a good substitute
for Bannerman and an effective foil to
England’s Scotton, but Moses, a great left-
hand batsman —certainly the equal of
Bardsley—never wanted to go to Eng-
land.
As in 1884, three Test matches were
played, and Scott’s team lost all three.
The first, at Manchester, was a close thing
(Australia 205 and 123 ; England 223
and 6 for 107); but the second, at Lord’s,
and the third, at the Oval, were hollow
victories for the home teams. At Lord’s
it was England 353 and Australia 121
and 126; at the Oval, England 434,
Australia 68 and 149.
At Manchester Jones made 87, and no
Australian got near that figure in any of
the three matches. For England Shrews-
bury notched 164 at Lord’s and Grace
170 at the Oval. In the second match
Briggs, with his left-hand slows, took 5
for 29 and 6 for 45 ; in the third match
he scored 53 and got six good wickets
cheaply—3 for 28 and 3 for 30. A little
Lancashire man and a “character,”
Briggs was a great favorite for many
years, in Australia as well as England.
It was a splendid season for George
Giffen, and his fellow-Adelaidean, Jarvis,
was sometimes serviceable with the bat,
as well as being an efficient substitute for
Blackham behind the sticks. Giffen
headed the batting and bowling lists, with
1452 runs at 26.9 and 159 wickets at
17.05. Unfortunately he did not come
off in the Test matches, his scores being
3,1, 3,1, 5 and 47 and his figures with
the ball 1 for 44, 2 for 31, 2 for 63 and
0 for 96. Spofforth did better: 4 for 82,
2 for 40, 4 for 73 and 4 for 65. At the
end of the tour, Spofforth was second in
averages, with 89 wickets at 17.1 ;
Palmer’s figures were 106 wickets at 29.9.
Unfortunately, Spofforth was disabled
in the sixth match of the tour, that
against the Gentlemen of England, at
Lord’s. The Australians, who had begun
badly, losing their first and third matches
—to Lord Sheffield’s eleven by eight
wickets and to Surrey by three wickets—
had rehabilitated themselves against the
Gents, whom they beat by seven wickets.
Scott, the captain, assisted notably with
a brilliant 67, hitting three sixes and
one four in one over; but Spofforth
meant more to the side than any of its
batsmen, and his enforced retirement was
a great blow. He had struck form early,
having bowled 663 balls for 71 maidens,
221 runs and 33 wickets; and he was
probably never quite at his top after the
accident.
On its return to Australia, Scott's
eleven was tackled by Shaw’s third
team and twice defeated —by 57
runs at Melbourne in December,
1886, and by nine wickets at Syd-
ney in the following month, an
intervening match being drawn. In
Shaw’s team were most of the profes-
sionals brought out the previous season,
newcomers being Gunn, the great Notts
batsman, and Lohmann, a very fine
bowler and slip fieldsman from Surrey.
Lohmann is only a name to the present
generation, but he is a living memory to
cricket-lovers who can remember the
’eighties and early ’nineties. The game
was never dull while he was on the field ;
he was a marvel of energy and agility, as
interesting to watch as Jack Gregory.
While he was still a young man consump-
tion got him, and he had to give up
cricket. He returned to Australia hoping
that the more congenial climate would
effect a cure ; but the disease had ad-
vanced too far.
That 1886-87 season saw the retirement
of Spofforth from Australian cricket and
the rise of Turner and Ferris. “The
Terror” and his left-handed partner
figured in an Australian eleven that
played two matches at Sydney against
Shaw’s team, and each distinguished him-
self. Turner took 6 for 15 and 2 for 53
in the first match, 5 for 41 and 4 for 52
in the second ; Ferris’s bags were 4 for
27 and 5 for 76, 5 for 71 and 4 for 69.
Moses also came off, his contributions
to scores which aggregated 450 in the two
matches being 31, 24, 28 and 33. Thanks
partly to Lohmann’s bowling (3 for 30,
3 for 20, 8 for 35 and 2 for 52), the Eng-
lishmen won both matches —by 13 and
by 71. In the meantime, however, N. S.
Wales had twice defeated them, and the
double victory inspired the ‘‘Hop” draw-
ing here reproduced.
An interesting player in the second of
these Australia v. Shaw’s team matches
was R. C. Allen, “Gubby’s” uncle. Nor
was he a passenger: going in third
wicket down, he made 14 out of 84 and
30 out of 150. Walter Giffen, George’s
brother, and Jack Lyons were also in
that side as representatives of S.A. A
few powerful hits brought Jack 11 in the
first innings, but in the second he got
a duck. So did Walter.
“E.V.” on a royal duke:
Almost forgotten by the post-war generation,
the Duke of Connaught lies ill at 87. The duke
was a godson of the Duke of Wellington.
His arrival was celebrated in Thackeray’s “Lines
on a Late Hospicious Ewent”:
Says the brave old Duke, “Come, tell
to us, '
Is it a gal or a boy?”
Says Mrs. L. to the Duke,
“Your Grace, it is a Prince,”
And at that nuss’s bold rebuke
He did both laugh and wince.
Connaught spent most of his life in the army,
rose to be a field-marshal and Inspector-Gen-
eral, opened the S’African Union Parliament
and was G.-G. of Canada. He did a great
deal to develop spit and polish and improve
the standards of sobriety of the army.
♦ * * *
The winning of a Rhodes scholarship
by lan Esplin has caused conservative
Oxford to grant senior status to gradu-
ates in economics from Sydney Univer-
sity. Sydney graduates now rank with
Oxford in all subjects but veterinary
science, dentistry and engineering.
* * * *
“Dolgelly”: Cabled that Mudie’s
famous circulating library is closing
down. Although it has been running
for nearly a century, it is certainly not
“the oldest in existence,” as claimed.
The first successful proprietary circulat-
ing library in England was started in
Liverpool in 1758 and still flourishes
there, at the Lyceum, with a collection
of about 60,000 volumes. But at least
half a dozen libraries in France are much
older than that in the circulation busi-
ness, and are still going strong. Best
known is the Bibliotheque Nationale
Off and on, it has run a circulation sec-
tion since 1691.


“Ootacarra”: The Sydney knight who
confused a Hebrew rite with the word
“circumlocution” had a predecessor in a
very similar slip of the tongue in West-
ralia. Acting as scrutineer for an Assem-
bly candidate, he eyed an elector of obvi-
ously foreign extraction who lobbed in
to record his vote. Then he sprang to
his feet. “I object,” he told the return-
ing officer; “I have reason to believe
that this man hasn’t been naturalised.
At least, that was what he meant to say
—only he didn’t. It took quite a long
time for him to live it down.
* * * *
“Qwertyuiop”: They were two neatly-
dressed young chaps, industriously lug-
ging suitcases along a dusty Queensland
road, and I offered them a lift in the
empty car. We got quite friendly on
the 80-mile run, and the spokesman ex-
plained that they had come 650 miles
in a week. “Yes,” he went on with a
grin, “lifts, of course. Y’see, if a bloke
in a car sights a swaggie with the drum
up he don’t like to risk bugs and that
sort of thing getting into the cushions,
so he just goes on. But if a man looks
clean and carries a port just as if he
thought he was in Sydney, why, the
bloke in the car feels sort of sorry for
him and tells him to hop in. We’re
goin’ to a job at Rockie, and so far
we’ve walked under 20 miles.” Perfectly
sound psychology.
* * * *
“6236”: No doubt about the efficacy
of inoculation aaainst enteric (B.
14/ 7/ ’37). In 1899 Sir Almroth Wright,
the discoverer of the anti-enteric serum,
himself inoculated about 80 per cent, of
the 2nd Gordon Highlanders at Um-
balla (India). About two ounces of the
prophylactic was pumped into our flanks,
and within an hour or two the glands
all over the body began to swell and
temperatures to soar. In two or three
days most of us were again on duty and
none the worse. A few months after-
wards we were locked up in Ladysmith,
where enteric played havoc with other
regiments, but not with the Gordons,
whose deathrate was confined to the
uninoculated.
* * * *
“Joseph”: From my own experience
in a lawyer’s office I can vouch for the
fact that stops were never used in deeds
(B. 7/7/’37), but meticulous care was
always taken with the phrasing of state-
ments of defence and answers to divorce
petitions. A typical “answer” was: “The
respondent denies that she was guilty of
misconduct at Blank or at any other
place on the umpteenth of July or on
any other date with the above-named
co-respondent or with any other person
whatsoever. But if she did commit such
misconduct which she denies such mis-
conduct was condoned by the said peti-
tioner.” The lawyer teaching me the
trade used as an example of unequivocal
denial the defence filed by a man who
denied that he was the father of the
twins or of either of them.
* * =? • *
“Brassbounder”: Years of telegraphy
convinced me that there is little profit-
able information to be gleaned by those
who handle telegrams. Because sender
and receiver know all about the business
in hand, “leading” words are hardly ever
used. A telegraphist may glean a notion
that something is about to boom —
but what? In any case, departmental
organisation is so good that anyone sus-
pected of selling a secret would soon find
himself struggling with awkward ques-
tions. Of course, on Saturday mornings
every capital-city office is inundated with
racing tips. Guinea “specials” abound,
telling of stone morals. But this is a
case of too much information, and tele-
graphists do not profit.
* # * *
“Dungeness”: There are worse kinds
of unexpected foul-fighting than that of
the lads who tear into the enemy with
their teeth (B. 14/7/’37). In the North
Queensland of a generation ago Plucker
Bill was in frequent trouble for tearing
ears off sundry unlucky opponents. He
owned a pair of hands resembling the
grubbed stumps of ironbarks, and when
the liquor was in him he sought trouble
in bars. One grip and a wrench would
shift the toughest human lug from its
foundations. Sober, he deplored his fail-
ing. “It’s the way booze takes me, yer
’Onah.” he once explained to an unsym-
pathetic magistrate. “I’d like ter use
me ’ands like other blokes, but I just
can’t keep rneself from pluckin’ ’em.
They comes orf so easy, jest like pickin’
fruit.”
* <: * #
“Sandy”: The only fault I can find in
Scorfield’s amusing cartoon on the Perth
Scottish was a very common error in
the caption. There is no such expression
as kilts or a pair of kilts; it is the kilt.
Any other wording will raise the wrath
of any porridge-fed, heather-reared
laddie.
* t- *
“Toe Emma”: There is still a hunt
club in Perth which pursues the brush
kangaroo (B. 30/ 6 / ’37), but kills are in-
frequent. Foxes are making their
appearance, in the locality, and several of
them may have had a nasty fright from
the club. The worst misadventure hap-
pened a few seasons ago. Hounds gave
tongue, the huntsman sounded his horn,
and with many a “tally-ho” the thrusters
gave chase. After a short, sharp run,
hounds ran into their quarry, and killed
in the most approved manner. The
master whipped off hounds, and held the
badly mutilated animal aloft. It was a
cat —fireside variety.
* * *
“Blurb”: Glad to note, the unhealthy
suggestion to move the ashes of Gov-
ernor Phillip to this country has been
squelched. It is clearly due to Holly-
wood influence, the maudlin Yankee
practice of returning its dead for burial
in America being responsible. Up to this
war the Yanks carried home the corpses
of all the men who had fallen in Cuba
and the Philippines. Britain, on the
other hand, has sanctified most of the
world’s outlandish places with her sol-
dier and Empire-building dead, buried
where they fell.
* s’: X- $
“Barby”: Not long ago I hazarded the
statement that Neville Chamberlain was
the first product of Rugby School to land
the blue riband of British politics, and
a school publication which has just
reached me confirms it. For all that, he
“You swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?”
wasn’t Rugby’s first Prime Minister.
That honor is claimed for. a certain Wil-
liam Waddington, who headed a French
Government in 1879. It may seem
strange that an. English public-school
boy should have risen to that position,
but France has had so many Prime Min-
isters in the last 60 or 70 years that it
would be stranger if they had all been
native-grown. J
* * * =?
“O’Jinx”: My best find in phonetic
spelling was whitewashed oil the window
of a Latin cookshop in South Brisbane:
ROST SPRINK SHIKNS 2/3.
* * *
“Nota Bene”: How the Speck’s
Seventh Day Adventists escaped fines for
not voting in the recent State elections
(B. 14/7/’37) is easily explained. The
polling hours for a State election there
are from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. As the one
referred to was in February polling
booths would not close until just about
sunset, and the tenets of the sect pre-
clude their engaging in any worldly ac-
tivities between the hours of sunrise and
sunset on their Sabbath. Their excuse
for not voting was accepted as valid by
the electoral authorities, who, however,
are considering the. issuing of postal votes
to Seventh Day Adventists and those of
strictly Jewish faith to enable them to do
their duty.
if: if if If
“McSchmidt”: There was no ban on
the enlistment of Diggers with Teutonic
names in S.A. Droves of men with
names ranging from Schultz to Saegen-
schnitter joined up from the districts
which had been pioneered by German
emigrants ; in one company 65 per cent,
had German names. But with a woman
wishing to enlist as a nurse it was a
different story. An aunt of mine was
informed that she would have to change
her name before she could be accepted.
She returned to the charge with a letter
from a leading surgeon emphasising her
capacity as a nurse, and adding that the
writer had known her and her family
all his life and could vouch for her
patriotism. The heads were adamant,
however ; their utirnatum was “Change
your name or stay at home.” My aunt
stayed.
“James W.”: The war-time prejudice
against names that looked German ex-
tended to places. For instance, Zillman-
road, Ascot, Brisbane, became Kitchener-
road, though no one did more for the
north coast between Brisbane and
Gympie than the old pioneer after
whom the road was named ; two of his
sons, accepted without question by the
A.1.F., spent four years at the war. The
Townsville town council went one worse
when it changed the. name of one of the
local parks from German Gardens to
Belgian Gardens. Actually, the park was
named after Edward German, the com-
poser.
* * if *
“Isobar”: In decrying the methods of
modern meteorological stations and prais-
ing the signs and tokens our forefathers
relied on, “Fitzroy” (B. 7/7/’37) is quot-
ing widely-held beliefs, but the people
whom the weather bureaux chiefly aid
will not agree. The modern shipmaster,
for example, knows the worth of the
weather reports he receives by. wireless.
The air pilot is another who has a high
regard for the information sent him by
the divisional meteorologist, and no faith
whatever in pet corns'and similar old-
fashioned : guides. Admittedly, weather
prophets, often slip in regard to rain, but
that is owing. to the fact that weather
systems .: can move in a bewildering
fashion at times ; it needs but a slight rise
in pressure to bring a return of showery
conditions,- and a slight drop in the. tem-
perature of moist air can cause fog
banks to form. Meteorology, can never
be an exact science, but it has made a
lot of progress lately.
“ ’Weightchaser”: Radio has invaded
the romance of gold-digging. Never
again shall we see the peg-armed diggers
standing:ready to mark out their claims
when the Warden says “Go.”, Some time
ago it was known that a reserve in the
Mt. Monger (W.A.) district would be
thrown open. When the time came
there was no wild rush to peg the ground.
An individual named Dunn established
himself near the reserve with a radio.
A message came over the air from Kal-
goorlie: “Bill arrived in Kalgoorlie
12.10.” Dunn pegged at once, and
though later arrivals challenged his
claim the Warden upheld it.
“Maranoa”: Fifteen years ago, when
on the Indian coast in the service of
the 8.1.5. N. Co., 1 noted many ingenious
ideas for dodging the Customs. Enter-
ing Rangoon it was usual to haul up the
foremast a black ball, which might con-
sist of tin disks or of canvas sewn around
a wooden frame. On one occasion I
hoisted this canvas ball, cursing it for
its weight, which seemed excessive, but
concluding that the. halyards were run-
ning stiff. Not until we berthed was this
lowered ; about an hour later the serang
appeared asking for a note to the dock-
yard store for two metal balls to be
made, the canvas one to be taken ashore
for pattern. I learned afterwards that
the ball contained some 301 b. of opium.
So, while the Customs officers were
searching the ship’s innards for the stuff,
it was hanging over their heads.
=f * S--
“Day of Rust”: Recent activities in
the interests of Sunday observance recall
that in 1906 one Ballard proceeded
against Sydney Zoo council for opening
the premises on a Sunday, contending
that because of the charge for admission
the Zoo became a “disorderly place.”
A statute of George 111. was dug up and
used in evidence. In severe and simple
language Justice Pring dealt with the
deceased monarch and his Acts ; and he
closed by nonsuiting plaintiff on the
ground that he had not legally proved
that the members of the Zoo council
had kept the Zoo open as alleged. “1
think the law has been broken,” said
his Honor, “but there is no evidence
before the Court to show who broke it.”
And with that he slung the case out.
if if * *
“The Ex-Subaltern”: Re “Hanko’s”
par. (B. 16/6/’37). Swords were carried
by officers of the 3rd Infantry Brigade
up to about a week before the Landing.
The order to wear web equipment was
issued at Lemnos, not at Mena ; but this
was more or less optional. I knew Cap-
tain Lalor, of the 12th Battalion, well.
His sword was his own property, not
an issue weapon. I saw him with it
drawn at the top of the hill soon after
the first rush of the Landing. I believe
that Lieutenant Booth, Lalor’s subaltern,
picked up the weapon when Lalor was
killed, with the intention of keeping it
for Lalor’s son. Booth was himself
killed soon after. I have heard that a
sergeant of Lalor’s company then secured
the sword and eventually got it back to
Australia for young Lalor.
•1: * * *
“De Shuff”: The brisk demand for
metals recalls the biggest salvage job
ever undertaken. In 1923 a British com-
pany started in to raise the scuttled Ger-
man Fleet lying in Scapa Flow.
Tidal whirlpools, racing cur-
rents and roaring gales ham-
pered the work and added
plenty of extra risks. In 10
years 32 ships were recovered,
but owing to a continued slump
in prices for scrap-iron and
copper the job was abandoned.
The last two vessels. raised were
the battle-cruisers Von der Tann (20,000
tons) and Printz Regent Leopold (25,000).
When they had been broken up and sold
the company’s £500,000 transaction
showed a loss of £20,000. There are still
10 ships to come up, if anybody wants to
try.
* * * *
“Minden”: In the article on Major-
General Charles Rosenthal (B. 14/7/’37)
the writer’s statement that the “7th Bat-
tery had perhaps the only field gun in
the front-line trench during the war” is
rather wide of the mark. The 2nd Bat-
tery, R.F.A., 7th Meerut Division, Im-
perial Forces, had two 18-pounders in
the front line near Stink Farm, in front
of La Bassee, on September 25, 1915.
jj, * * *
“Centurion” won't have it:
In saying “The only use for swords to-day is
on parade” (B. 14/7/’37) “Colonel Bung-
starter” suffers from the common delusion
that there is only one method of warfare—to
burrow into the ground and assail the other
fellow with rifle, m.-g. and artillery fire. In
point of fact, there are as many ways ot
conducting bloody frays as of constructing
tribal lays. “Colonel B.’s” reference to
“officer’s weapon” is misleading, too, since it
is the weapon of the rank-and-file, also, with
the mounted troops that use it. In the earlv
stages of the Great War the sword in the hands
of Allenby’s cavalry was employed with great
success in the retreat from Mons on French s
left flank. After the Fourth Brigade’s charge
on the Turkish trenches at Beersheba it was
noted that few of. the casualties were due to
the storm of shot and shell traversed by the
fast-moving troops, but nearly all occurred when
the swordless troopers were compelled to dis-
mount at the trenches for bayonet work.
Some days later when 200 Yeomanry charged
across an open plain a mile and a half at Hnj
and sabred the gunners of the Turkish rearguard,
capturing 11 guns and three machine-guns, the
fact that the sword was not outmoded was
brought home to the most stubborn. At the
first chance later mpst of the Australian
mounted troops were given I’arme blanche, in
their hands and those of the Yeomanry and
Indian cavalry the sword made such havoc
during the final Turkish debacle that even the
German machine-gunners declined to stand and
face the mounted charges after their first ex-
periences. In Mesopotamia sword and lance
also played a great part in the ultimate British
victory. The sword wiil continue to be an
effective weapon as long as war lasts.


am \JJ
4
'V2
\
a
> 7
_MCH
andPOOR.
Both Use Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills
Or. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are to-day more
extensively used by all classes of the community than
any other such remedy sold in Australasia. Male
and female, rich and poor, town and country dwellers,
all use them. The merchant, the miner, the lady
of society, and the girl in the factory—they all find
in this remedy just what is required to keep the
system in proper working order.
Sluggish Liver —Biliousness
Indigestion—Constipation
caused by improper or too much food or drink, and
Headaches, etc., arising therefrom, are quickly banished
by a dose or two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They are a safe and reliable remedy sold at a
moderate price.
Dr. Morsel
5.
Em
DANGEROUS
PARASITES
Worms Cause Havoc
in the System.
Worms are parasites. That is, they live in
the body by absorbing digested food intended
to nourish the body. The two commonest types
of worms found in human beings are Thread
Worms and Round Worms.
Thread Worms (also called Seat Worms or
Pin Worms) are most common. They are
about one-quarter of an inch long, resembling
a piece of thread. They live in the lower
bowel in considerable numbers, particularly
in children.
Round Worms (also called Stomach Worms)
are frequently found in humans, both adults
and children. They resemble earth worms in
shape and may grow to a length of twelve
inches. They inhabit the small intestines, but
may occasionally get into the stomach and be
vomited up. Sometimes numbers of them
form a tangled mass and impede the intestines.
All worms breed rapidly. Their eggs are con-
tinually discharged in the waste matter and
may infect others. These eggs may be carried
by flies, on the hair of household pets, in raw
food, in drinking water or merely by contact
with earth in which they lie.
Symptoms.—The symptoms of worm infec-
tion are many and often obscure. Itching of
the nose is the most common indication of pin
worms. Round worms may cause nausea,
upset or swollen stomach, desire to vomit,
voracious appetite and craving for strange
foods. Either type may result in diarrhoea,
restless sleep, grinding teeth, a bluish look
about the eyes, nervousness and irritability.
In children convulsions sometimes occur. The
danger to the person infected by worms is not
so much in the symptoms themselves as in
certain results which may follow. The continual
irritation of the digestive tract may cause
a number of digestive disorders. The strain
on the nervous system may also bring more
serious trouble. The general vitality is
lowered, the patient feels tired and weak,
the natural safeguards of the body against
disease are lowered and grave ailments may
be contracted.
Many physicians now believe that worms
are often a cause of appendicitis. It is
certain that worms are sometimes found in
the appendix.
Treatment. —For home treatment it is best
to use a specific medicine which will kill or
stupefy the worms and follow it with a laxa-
tive so that the worms and eggs will be ex-
pelled in the waste matter. Several treatments
should be taken to assure that any eggs which
may remain will not start the trouble anew.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
made for just one purpose—to promote the
death of round and pin worms. A Specific
Medicine, they act on the worms only, and
can be given in cases where the presence of
worms may be in doubt.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price
2/- per packet (6 packets 11/6), post free.
If writing, mention this paper.
MIRPIL
The Ideal Skin Lotion .
In addition to its excellent cooling and
soothing properties in cases of Wind bum and
Sunburn, Mirpil has many other uses.
Eases chilblains.
Relieves sore and tired feet if rubbed on the
soles.
Provides comfort if applied to the face after
shaving.
An excellent powder base if rubbed in until
dry.
All chemists and leading stores, or will be
sent post paid upon receipt of postal notes or
stamps by the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23
Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price, 2/6 per bottle.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
*°v *
(A
*
«eT'^
&S 0° >
,>^;< o e a^
o. «»
* v >’
itfV' *\P (I \’
%$y #v
V
&
\S S
4 '
•••* ..•••■ 44
• O vA v o v^V 6 ’
,A- rtnC e .\c^° V


0
i
§
t
r '
m
sgss
ill
Ril
II
Mode! 6505
—l6 GUINEAS
*
I
■
HHH
LARGE
LEGIBLE
TWILIGHT
v DIAL y
FULL SIZED
BINCH
SPEAKER
K
k
5
□HZ
ASK your local Philips Radio-
” player Retailer to introduce to
you this remarkable new Radio-
player— you’ll be sure to make it
your iriend and philosopher.
It’s your ‘‘personal” radio ... with
it you can enjoy whatever pro-
grammes you wish . . . whenever
you wish ... and wherever you
may be.
No other small set offers you
all of these console features:
large, legible “Twilight” dial, 8"
console type loudspeaker, full
delayed Automatic Volume Control
and Philips famous Metal Clad
Valves.
Ask to hear the new Philips 6505
vour PERSONAL radio.
Console Models from 19 Gns.
TERMS AVAILABLE.
PHILIPS
