

liilS#
mßmm
MM
mm
PH
;
. ft- '
g|
*■l
KODAK
FILM
tfiat TflakeS
c piMiVie
Jm
,
ft
■
WUI:
MM
■Hn
ft
pi
ft
.
■
H ill
W :i %
There’s a Kodak Film ready to give
you better results with every picture
opportunity. You just can’t help
getting wonderful snaps!
Ml
ticular purpose.
11
?« aljrs and KODAK (Aust.) PTY., Ltd. 379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block ” 28’, Collin « X'\
Toowoomba • 2 '£s.f Q“ ee P. Stre . et - Brisbane; 37 Randle Street, Adelaide; Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 //ay «iwi Perth • s ., r \-C \
/n n • y Lost Sheet, Rockhampton ,* Flinders Street. Townsville Also slocked bv KODAK NKW yfaiand itd ir<* 9 Ruthven Street^ V V>t\ \
40 Princes Street, Dunedin; 29i Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street. Christchurch! ™ LTD - m Queen Street, Auckland}
ftt.c
W&i
Kodak Film is made in Australia to suit
Australian conditions and requirements—
manufactured in accord with the world’s
latest advances in photographic research and
practice. Always fresh and dependable!
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3006.
Wednesday, September 22, 1937
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Latest Pictures by leading Aus-
tralian Artists. Gallery now
reopened after renovations and
rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
outstanding the success ful work in book form,
_j i n S erial form any they may deem worthy. .If published as a
the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
pS-mSiey Any “ton! s usc d as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates. .. .
Any bona fide Australian resident or
Australia, New Zealand or British South P
eligible to enter for the competition works
original-work of the entrants, and previous!
wholly or in part, in book or serial form, fllanuscnpis
cnhmitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and addre
the author must accompany each entry i/ a sealed envelop,
which will not be opened until the judges have- made their declsl ° '
h The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize lf n 0 J° d
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an awa
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the rrize wm
added to the following year’s Prize.
my person born m
:ific islands will be
vhich must be the
unpublished, either
[anuscripts must be
The Red Page
SCREEN STORY COMPETITION.
The BuLLETiN-Cinesound screen-story competition
has been designed to open a market for the story-
writer who can contribute new themes, distinctively
Australian, for presentation on the films. The moving-
picture world is constantly looking for something
new ; the old conventional plots have been rehashed
ad nauseam, and the studio people need no help in
rehashing them.
It is expected that an Australian picture will
show to audiences in the rest of the world something
they have never seen before ; more than that, Australia
is so wide that an Australian-produced picture can
show to Australians themselves aspects of life, scene
and event that are strange and interesting.
While there is more in the making of a film than
theme and plot, the adaptation and treatment can be
left to the technicians of the studio, who have become
fitted for this task by years of experience. The main
thing is to have a beginning, a middle and an end to
the story ; to arrest attention immediately with the
opening scene and the introduction of the characters,
with some indication of what to expect in the first
situation. The end may be unexpected, but it. must
be logical.
The story must have continuity ; it must progress
naturally from beginning to end. The element of
suspense is vital to hold the interest of the audience;
the element of surprise is necessary so that the audi-
ence will not always know exactly what is coming next.
Films are created on movement —it is more important
that the actors should be doing things than saying
them. Limit the number of your characters and give
each a part in the play.
The prizes are:
Best Screen Story, Cinesound Prize £lOO
Best Short Story—
First Prize £3O
Second Prize . . . £l5
Third Prize . £5
Best Brief Short Story . . £5
Closing date of the competition is Jan. 31, 1938.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words.
The prize for the best brief story is for 1500
words or less.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “THE BULLETIN,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
"Australia's Story."
Proof copies of Australia’s Story, a pictorial his-
tory constructed in a simple form for children, have
been distributed to “educationalists and editors, who
will disclose by their comments any serious discrep-
ancies.” It is a wise precaution. The publication,
even to the lettering on the cover, is modelled on the
lines of a series, Britain’s Story and six other titles,
compiled by C. W. Airne, M.A., and issued by Sankey
Hudson and Co., Manchester, in 1934.
Though the illustrations are crude, as compared
with the English cuts, it would still be as interesting
as its English prototype were it not that errors of fact,
date and spelling call for revision.
The illustrations commence with “1606. Torres
Sailing Through Torres Straits.” There is only one
Torres Strait, though there are several passages
through it. The second picture is “The Duifhen in
the Gulf of Carpentaria.” The order of these pictures
should be reversed. The Duifhen (there are several
different spellings of this name) was in the Gulf of
Carpentaria about six months before Torres sailed along
the southern coast of New Guinea, and its crew did
actually land on Australian soil, while the best authori-
ties agree that Torres did not even sail within sight
of Australia. The voyage of the Duifhen begins our
recorded history.
The next picture to which attention should be
drawn is “Sydney Cove, Aug. 20, 1788. Drawn from
a Sketch by Governor Hunter.” The drawing is from
an engraving in Hunter’s Journal. The sketches by
Governor Hunter, if any, have never been discovered,
and in this case it seems certain that the engraving
was really made from a water-color sketch by Lieut.
William Bradley, the original of which is in the
Mitchell Library. Bradley’s journal ends with the date
1792. Hunter’s Journal was published in 1795. As
Hunter and Bradley travelled to England together,
it would appear that Bradley permitted the use of
his sketch while Hunter directed the engraver to
copy it.
On the same page (4) we have the “grave of
M. Raceveur, the French naturalist, buried at La
Perouse.” The name should read Louis Receveur.
On page 5 appears “First Government House
erected in Australia. Pitt-street, May 15, 1788.” The
illustration shows a slab or wattle-and-dab house,
whereas Governor Phillip’s first shelter was a framed
canvas house which he brought with him from Eng-
land and used until the first “Government House”
was built near the intersection of the present Phillip
and Bridge streets. Pitt-street was not in existence
in 1788. . , . . ....... , ,
Governor King s picture is given (1800), and he
is credited with having “stamped out the rum traffic.”
If he had done so there would have been no “Rum
Rebellion,” and Captain Bligh would have been saved
a lot of trouble. King’s efforts to suppress the rum
traffic led to his recall.
The illustration for 1809 and the chronology:
“Hobart Town opens first post office, April 25.” The
first post office was opened at Sydney by an order
of Lieut.-Gov. Paterson of that date, and Isaac Nichols
was the first postmaster. The date of the opening of
the first post office at Hobart is not definitely known.
“1814 —Flinders proposes the name Australia
instead of New Holland.” Flinders had been using
the name Australia, as applied to the continent, at
least 10 years before 1814, the year in which he died,
and in which his A Voyage to Terra Australis was
published. But the name Australia applied to the con-
tinent was also employed in 1785 by a French writer,
Nicolas Restif, and in 1793 by G. Shaw and J. E.
Smith, the British writers of a Zoology and Botany
of New Holland, of which only the Zoology was pub-
lished. Flinders used the name in a footnote in his
Voyage; it was Governor Macquarie who officially
adopted it.
On page 27 appears “1858. Sir Charles Augustus
Gregory, K.C.M.G., explorer, traverses Central Aus-
tralia in attempting to trace the missing explorer
Leichhardt.” Gregory was not knighted until 1903,
and his first expedition to trace Leichhardt was in
1855; the expedition of 1858 was his second. Inci-
dentally, “1834. Leichhardt reaches the Gulf of
Carpentaria,” should read 1845.
The inscription given for the Burke and Wills
tree at Cooper’s Creek—“DlG 3 feet westward”—is
not correctly given. Explorers and surveyors do not
carve the compass direction in full. The inscription
should read DIG 3ft NW.
The first artesian bore in Australia (1879) was
put down not at Killara, a Sydney suburb, but at
Kallara, a station on the Darling River.
Bruce’s designation in London is not “Minister”
but “High Commissioner.”
The spelling of proper names reveals numerous
errors—Strezlecki for Strzelecki, Fitzroy for Fitz Roy,
Van Dieman, for Van Diemen, Torren’s for Torrens’s,
Ferguson for Fergusson, Majoribanks for Mar-
joribanks, McGowan for McGowen, Marshall for
Marshal, Elliott for Elliot and so on.
The chronology commences with 1770 —the arri-
val of Captain Cook—but Australian history com-
mences much earlier than that.
* These are some of the errors noticed in this
publication, which, as suggested, needs close revision
before being distributed to the schoolchildren of the
Commonwealth.
T. D. M.
Old Bush Track—New Version.
Twenty years ago, except for a stretch from Mel-
bourne to Geelong, there was not a yard of tarred
country, road in Australia. Even at the end of the
war, the Sydney-Parramatta road, a main thorough-
fare, was notorious with motor-drivers as a breaker
of axles and mechanical hearts, and overland motor-
ists regarded the Blue Mountain crossing with terror.
Outside the cities there was not a yard of rein-
forced liquid-laid highway, leaving out the stretch
from Melbourne to Geelong. Even 12 years ago,
Neville Howse, V.C., was regarded as a virile curiosity
because he was in the habit of leaving Melbourne on
a Friday morning in his big Vauxhall and arriving at
his home in Orange (N.S.W.) regularly on Saturday
night.
An older generation remembers well with linger-
ing affection a dozen spots on the highways between
capitals—spots in which they often lingered but with-
out affection in the halcyon days when there was no
petrol tax and a motorist could be identified by the
abnormal development of his cranking arm. The
Glue Pot on the Victorian border was one; Bargo
crossing (N.S.W.) was another.
There were no bowsers in those days. Country
roads were strewn with tins and rabbits and marked
out with dust clouds. On sections of the main north
road, Sydney to Brisbane, blue metal used to be piled
in winter, and some shire councils made a practice ot
maintaining a steep “V” gutter every hundred yards or
so, to “keep down speed.”
In 1917, I was once compelled to run into Bris-
bane smoking like an Oriental destroyer because
petrol was not buyable 10 miles from town on a main
road and kerosene had to be substituted to get us
home. , . , . ~
The first bit of real cement highway was laid
down at Homebush (Sydney) five or six years after
that, and it was regarded as an experiment. In 1926,
an English motor-car firm was still advertising our
tractive services in full pages in British magazines:
“Through mud and flood from Sydney to Melbourne
the British Blowhard Four triumphs.”
Things have changed so much since then that
broad racetracks run between every capital and
wind over every hill around the main towns. The
bowser has penetrated the bush.
It needs a 365. textbook of 778 pages, magnifi-
cently printed and illustrated and now in its fifth
edition, to limn the technique of Australasian Roads.
The authors of this monumental work are J. M. and
H. E. Coane and J. M. Coane, jun., and the last
edition, published by Robertson and Mullens, has been
revised by B. M. Coutie, M.C.E., engineer to Mal-
vern Council (Vic.), and W. G. McCowan, 8.C.E.,
his assistant
It is a complete epitome of the subject—of road
economics, location, mechanics and mathematics, of
highway location and wearability. It deals with the
making of road materials —concrete, coal tar, bitumen
sealing and mixed earth and light metals —of footway
construction and drainage ; of contracts and specifi-
cations. New chapters have been added on traffic,
town-planning and park lands. The illustrations
number over 500, and there are large numbers of
tables, graphs and diagrams.
The volume is as complete a technical handbook
for roadmakers as is published anywhere in the world,
and it is difficult to imagine any road engineer or road-
making authority resisting the temptation to buy a
copy.
GHANAM.
The Jew and His Homeland.
Many of the greatest of modern Jews hailed
from Germany. They “conquered the world from
Frankfurt-am-Main.” Thence came the Roths-
childs, the Monds and Weiszmann, who invented the
modern fermentation processes which gave Britain
most of its acetone for shell-making during the war
and whose technique revolutionised the manufacture
of commercial alcohol. The Monds dominate the
dye and alkali and many similar industries.
Weiszmann was able to ask and obtain as his
reward for his war work a gift of freedom for Pales-
tine and to start the emigration of the tribes back to
the Promised Land. A Mond, Lord Melchett, has
just written a book on the problems of his race (Thy
Neighbour, Frederick Muller, 7s. 6d.), one of the first
illustrations in which is of an educated Jew being
paraded by Nazi guards in a cart.
Lord Melchett’s conception of the Jewish outlook
is interesting. He pictures Jews as the fountain of
modern tolerance, the parents of the injunction in
Leviticus xix to “love thy neighbor as thyself.” He
quotes Tolstoy as saying that the Mosaic injunction
to neighborly love for the stranger was “born in
remote and savage times when the principal ambition
of nations and races consisted in crushing and en-
slaving one another.” He declares that Christianity
has adopted the Jewish ethics and outlook, but always
to the exclusion of the Jews.
One hears devout Christians speak of Jews, and
more particularly Eastern Jews, as the “scum of the
earth,” and this without thinking that they offend
against the spirit of their own religion. The teaching
to “love thy neighbor” is not furthered by abuse,
contempt or bloodshed.
The tendency of the Jew is to be a middleman,
not a maker.
But the development of modem economics in
Europe has rendered the middleman a far less impor-
tant factor in the life of the country than he used to
be. Large corporations under national direction are
being set up to take his place and the small Jewish
shopkeeper and pedlar is being squeezed out of the
economic life of his native country, not by any con-
scious anti-Semitic act of his, of the people or the
Government, but by the purely natural development
of modem tendencies.... His despair gives him greater
energy Jewish youths are gifted with brains which
have been sharpened by centuries of adversity. They
tend to outstrip their non-Jewish competitors, who
have a more normal and leisurely view of their educa-
tional obligations. The result may possibly be foreseen;
intelligence, energy and enterprise are opposed by
safety-razor blades fixed in bamboo sticks. In fact,
scarcely a day passes on which one does not learn
that Jewish students of some university have been
driven out by non-Jews in turmoil and bloodshed.
He instances not only Germany, but other
European countries, and says that it is hard to de-
scribe to the English mind, for instance, thfe fearrul
{Continued on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
THE SENIOR STORE .
f
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
m
1!
m
m
m
wm
m
■m.
M
■
I :;i I
I?
1/ ,
llill
iiSls;
' m
:4'
H >
■
H
m 3
7
■■iii■
m
; m
Wm
English Tweed SPORTS GOATS
Comfortable Sports Coat of English Tweed, in the
colours of Grey, Fawn, Blue Grey, Lovat. Tailored
in our best manner, with action backs
and pleated pockets. At Anthony
Horderns’ 49/6
496
Worsted Sports Trousers
Self-supporting “Slaks” in
new shades of Worsted
Flannels, Light or Mid Grey,
30 1-
with slanting sides, fob and two hip pockets.
Extension waistband and cuff bottoms.
At Anthony Horderns’ 30/-
9 Men's Clothing —
Ground. Floor, George
Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations in
N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
Hordura Regd. Flannel Blazers
All Wool Blazers, trimmed with
fancy braid on sleeves and pockets.
In Navy, Black, Royal and Nigger.
18/6
At Anthony Horderns’
18/6
English Made Sac Suits London tailored f
r o m
All Wool English Suitings. In fancy Blues and Greys.
At Anthony Horderns' ’ ; 168/-
168/-
Motor Dust Coats
Made from Cesarine, and available in
Grey, Fawn or Navy. Well cut and made. Raglan style
with round belt. At Anthony Horderns’ 12/6
12/6
Men’s Khaki Drill Jodhpurs
Strong and service-
able for saddle wear. With cross pockets, belt loops and
cuff bottoms. At Anthony Horderns’ 13 /6
13/6
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
Thone: M 2401, D,ay and Night Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
222 Work Trousers
Double warp and
Double weft give
double wear.
13/9
Extra strong Cotton Tweed.
Neat dark patterns. Khaki
pockets, lining, etc. Satisfac-
tory wear guaranteed. At
Anthony Horderns’ .... 13/9
Use the D.P.S.
Our handy D.P.S. (Deposit Purchase System) will be found to be of great value
to you, for by payment of a deposit of not less than one-fifth of the purchase
price of any article you can reserve it for yourself, and continue to pay for it
in easy weekly or monthly instalments. This will assist you to purchase goods
which are marked at reduced prices, without necessarily paying for them
outright. Why not make a Deposit next time you are in the Store?


A Light-Hearted New Serial
NO TRAIN ON TUESDAY
By J.B.BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
AUTHOR’S NOTE:
As far as I am aware there is no town
of Terrigan either inside or outside N.S.W.
If there is a hillygoat named Baldy I have
never met him, and any resemblance which
he or any other persons may find in the story
to himself or themselves is entirely fortuitous.
CHAPTER VII.
HEN Sir Hamish McTaggart, late Laird
w \ I nvei 'bannock, was conveyed, after
i M w § his i nau § ura h° n as Governor and Com-
I | « [ mander in Chief of Terrigan, to his
5K Ah*. >4® new v i ce_re g a l residence, he straight-
way appointed Angus to a position
resembling that of a major-domo, butler and factor
rolled into one, with complete charge over the domestic
staff.
Angus quickly proceeded to arrange things in
accordance with his own ideas of w{iat was required
of his master’s new-found dignity. He piped the staff
up first thing in the morning ; he piped them in proces-
sion with Sir Hamish’s breakfast and stood by while
it was eaten. He piped them out with the dishes, and
at subsequent meals the same procedure was followed.
Visitors were greeted with the pipes—the length and
strength of the welcome varying with Angus’s opinion
of the importance of the caller. The morning and
afternoon recitals for the benefit of the Laird were, of
course, continued as usual. As a result, on a busy
day the pipes were skirling from morning till night.
It was only with great difficulty and with the
exercise of a considerable amount of tact that Jerry
was able to persuade Angus to stay at home when he
took the Governor for a quiet stroll through the town.
Angus’s idea had been to precede his master, playing
Scottish airs and turning the stroll into a kind of
triumphal progress.
When the pair reached Terrigan all eyes were
upon them. It was the first time the townsfolk had
seen the Laird since his inauguration as Governor,
and they were not sure of the correct procedure.
There were many diverse opinions—varying from the
school of thought which gave the Laird three cheers
as he passed, through the gradations of those who
curtsied or raised their hats respectfully, to those timid
souls who, not being sure that any procedure was
quite correct, dodged the issue by crossing to the other
side of the street when they saw him approaching.
The youth of Terrigan had no qualms at all about
etiquette, but were absorbingly interested in the new
Governor, and before the Laird and Jerry had gone
far they had accumulated a retinue of small boys who
followed closely at their heels, discussing the vice-regal
novelty in unhushed tones.
“Where’s he’s crown?” came to Jerry’s ears.
“Garn! ’E’s not a king. Only kings wear crowns.
’E’s only a Governor.”
“Well, where’s his uniform?”
“What’s ’e want a uniform for?”
“Governors wear uniforms. I seen one up in
Sydney once, and he had a uniform —a sailor’s uni-
form.”
“A sailor?”
“Yes. A nadmiral I reckon ’e was.”
They approached the post office. Mr. Mutton,
Postmaster-General of Terrigan, was standing admir-
ing the pillar-box, which was gleaming red with new
paint. One of the post-office clerks stood by with a
paint-pot and brush in his hands. He had apparently
just completed a job and was awaiting his chief s
approval.
“Good day, Mr. Mutton,” greeted Jerry.
“Hullo, Jerry,” replied Mutton, turning round.
Then, “Good morning, your Excellency.”
“Guid day to ye,” said Sir Hamish.
“I’m just doing a bit of renovating, your Excel-
lency,” explained Mutton. “The old pillar-box cer-
tainly needed a new coat. It hadn’t been altered since
Queen Victoria’s time.”
“A braw coat, too,” commented the Laird. Then
he scowled. “We’ll be movin’ on,” he said to Jerry.
When they were out of earshot he burst out:
“He's painted G.R. on th’ postie-box. He shouldna
done it. Ah willna have it!"
Jerry had been doing some quick thinking. “Why,
Sir Hamish,” he replied, “can’t you see the cunning-
ness of it? G.R. may mean Georgius Rex to the out-
side world, but to those who have the wit to under-
stand it means Glorious Rupert!”
“Och, lad! Weel, so it does. Weel, weel! So
that’s auld Mutton’s game, is it? G.R. We’ll have
it everywhere, Jerry. We’ll laugh up our sleeves at
the usurper, and honor the King-ower-the-water.”
He looked back. Mr. Mutton was still admiring
the pillar-box. Sir Hamish began to retrace his steps.
Jerry hurried after him. “Be careful,” he hissed.
“Don’t mention names.”
“Congr-ratulations, Meester Mutton,” said the
Laird, “on being the first tae honor the new King.”
The Postmaster-General blushed. “Oh, it was
just an idea,” he protested modestly.
“A verra guid idea, too,” said the Laird with a
wink. “He’s a braw laddie, isna he?” he continued,
lowering his voice.
Mr. Mutton was puzzled a moment, then: “Oh,
Jerry! Yes, your Excellency! He’s a fine young
chap.”
“Na, na, na! I dinna mean Bannister. I mean
his Majesty.”
A broad wink accompanied this remark.
Mr. Mutton could not see its import, but to be on
the safe side he winked back as he replied. Oh,
King George? Of course, your He’s the
finest man in the Empire. God bless him!
“Aye, indeed!” Another substantial wink and
the Governor seized Jerry by the arm and they walked
off again.
“He’s a deep one, yon Mutton,” he confided to
Jerry when they were once more out of earshot.
“Wouldna risk a wor-rd, though there was no one
about but th’ bairns. But did ye see his wink though?
He’s a deep one, a’ richt.”
Jerry made no reply. He had abandoned his origi-
nal plan of telling the committee of the Laird’s poli-
tical leanings. Pettigrew, for one, he realised, would
insist on a genuine English Governor or none, and
it was probable that Peperell and others would also
object to paying homage to a renegade. In the
circumstances he foresaw quite a lot of trouble if
the old Jacobite did not manage to keep his enthusiasm
for “The Cause” within bounds.
They were passing the Federal, on the opposite
side of the street.
“Gosh!” said Jerry suddenfy. “I never thought
of that.”
“Of what?”
Jerry pointed across the road to the hotel.
“Federal'! ” he said. “We can’t allow that. We’ll
have to change it. That’s a relic of the Common-
wealth. It’s out of place in-the new Terrigan. What’ll
we call it?”
“The Blessed Martyr,” suggested Sir Hamish.
“Or the Royal Oak.”
Jerry compromised on “The Royal,” and made
up his mind to see Bert Milligan about it later in the
“An’ talking o’ names,” said Sir Hamish. Ah 11
no’ ha’ ma hoose called Trevallyn. Inverbannock s
guid enow for ma forebears, an’ it’s guid enow for
me-” . „
“All right, Sir Hamish. We’ll get it altered, too.
Terrigan had become quite a changed town dur-
ing his short absence in Scotland, the difference being
mainly due to the liberal use of paint in the main
street. Shops which had been innocent of paint
for years now gleamed spick and span. Veran-
dah posts and fences which had been in disrepair
almost as far back as living memory went had been
attended to, and untidy gardens had been weeded.
The railway station was resplendent with new
paint, and the words “Station Master” had been
expunged from the door of Mr. Buckenara s office
and “Railways Commissioner” proudly displayed in
their stead.
Mr. Buckenara’s position caused him considerable
worry and concern. Despite his new title he still
carried out his old duties, and for the life of him
couldn’t think of any new ones that might be called
for. He shepherded his trains in and out as formerly
(except on Tuesday), signed waybills, sold occasional
tickets, and answered queries and correspondence from
Sydney as though he were still a faithful servant of
the New South Wales Government.
The committee had made him Railways Commis-
sioner, but had not troubled to define his duties or to
offer him any salary, and he was still drawing pay
from the State despite his town’s secession. Mr.
Buckenara was certainly worried when Jerry
and Sir Hamish were ushered in by Tom, the
porter. Tom’s status had so far not been affected by
the change in his superior officer’s rank.
After Buckenara had made his obeisance to the
Governor and the latter had told him not to “fash
himself over formality,” Jerry inquired how things
were going. .
“Well, Jerry,” said Buckenara, “I’m worried—it
you’ll excuse my saying so, your Excellency but
where’s it all leading us? The trains come in and
they go out, and Sydney says nothing.”
“Don’t worry about that. It’s when they start
saying things that you’ll need to worry.”
“Yes, but” he paused.
“But what?”
“The fellows on the train. The guard and the
driver. They’re giving me a hell of a time excuse
me, your Excellency. Why, yesterday, do you know
what they asked me?”
“No.” . .
“Whether it was true that I was building a couple
of streamlined engines in the toolshed!”
“And what did you say?”
“I told them no. I’m not either. And they
wanted to know when I was going tb air-condition the
guard’s van, and the fireman told me he was going
to serve a new log of wages on me. Next thing Tom 11
be turning me down.”
“Buck up!” encouraged Jerry. Thats one or
the worries of high office. You must expect that sort
of thing. Isn’t it worth it? You wouldn tgo back:
to the old days when you were only a stationmaster,
would you?” . -,
The Commissioner was reifiarking that he couiun t
see much difference except fdr the abuse when the
Laird of Inverbannock struck in with: ‘ Dinna tret,
mon. Bide a wee and ye’ll hafe your reward. Atoie
long the whole country v/ill be acknowledgi g
King”
THE BEGINNINGS OF THE REVOLT.
Terrigan, a small N.S.W. South Coast town,
has had its Tuesday train service discontinued.
At the meeting of protest Jerry Bannister, a
young lawyer, hoping for some excitement,
arranges with a friend to propose that the dis-
trict secede from New South Wales and the
Commonwealth.
The meeting is wildly enthusiastic. Hiram
Pettigrew, an American millionaire pickle-
manufacturer with a grievance against the
Sydney traffic laws, staying in Terrigan, offers
to guarantee its share of the national debt.
The motion is agreed to.
Jerry flics to London to bring bock MR
Hamish McTaggart, a staunch Jacobite, who,
persuaded that the appointment comes from
Rupert (“the King-over-the-water ), agrees to
act as Governor of the Dominion of Terrigan.
When Jerry returns the revolt is m full
swing, a Parliament has been formed, and
Pettigrew’s daughter Sally has arrived.
Prominent among the Ministers of the new
Dominion are : , .
Mr. Napper, the schoolmaster, Mr.
Peperell, the shire president (now Chief Man),
the postmaster, Mr. Mutton; Bannister,
senior, the bank manager; and the station-
master, Mr. Buckenara.


He broke off suddenly at a warning glance from
Jerry, who interrupted with: “What Sir Hamish
means is that we have only to stick to our guns and
we’ll have recognition and respect from all Australia.”
“That fireman’s not the man to have any respect
for anybody,” said Buckenara dolefully.
“ A LL right, I’ll change it to Royal,” agreed Bert
Milligan when the matter of the name of the
hotel was raised by Jerry, “though I’ve always had
a soft spot in me heart for Federal. The first team
I ever played with was called the Federals. That was
before I joined up with Carlton. Did I ever tell you
about the match we played with’’
“Let’s christen the Royal,” suggested the Post-
master-General.
And so the Federal Hotel became one with the
things which Terrigan knew no more, and, phoenix-
like, amid the haze of tobacco smoke, the Hotel
Royal arose in its stead. Later in the day a paint-
brush completed the transformation.
In one corner of the bar Jerry noticed Mr. Napper
and Mr. Bowden in solemn conclave. One institution
which had been affected more than anything else by
the (so far) bloodless revolution was that enlightened
organ of public opinion the “Terrigan Times,” and
its editor and sole proprietor found himself hard put
to turn out the daily issue which Mr. Napper’s pres-
sure on the committee had convinced that body was
necessary for the upholding of the dignity of the town.
JTe had doubled his mechanical staff by engaging an-
other boy, and the few shops in the town had been
talked into unnecessary advertisements. He and the
Minister for Education between them managed to turn
out sufficient copy to fill, with the aid of sundry pro-
clamations of the new Parliament and other papers’
comments on the new Dominion, four pages daily,
but Mr. Bowden was feeling the strain.
Further along the bar Dick Taylor was standing
alone. Jerry had scarcely had a word alone with
Dick since his trip to Scotland, so he crossed the
room and spoke to him.
“Have a cigarette,” said the lanky teller.
“Thanks. What’s new?”
Taylor looked around cautiously and lowered his
voice.
“Look here, Jerry,” he said anxiously. “What’s
going to come of all this?”
“Not getting worried, are you?”
“Don’t forget I was the one that moved the seces-
sion motion that night.”
“I haven’t forgotten. Jolly decent of you, Dick.”
“Decent! That’s what you think! But what’ll
the Government think?”
*‘The Government thinks the same as I do. We’re
all proud of you.”
“Rot! I don’t mean this comic-opera Govern-
ment. Why, I’m part of it! I mean Sydney and Can-
berra. This nonsense of playing at revolutions can ;
go on for ever. Where’s it leading us to?”
Jerry looked around to make sure they were not
being overheard. Then, “To tell you the plain truth,
Dick, I’ve not the foggiest idea.”
“Then why on earth”
“It seemed a good idea at first. A bit of fun,
you know. Cash in on popular indignation and put
a bit of life into the joint. But I didn’t foresee they’d
catch on like this. And old McTaggart. He seemed
a good idea, too ; but now I shouldn’t have gone
away. They’ve taken things too seriously, and Lord
only knows what’ll happen. We’ve got to keep it
going now and hope for the best.”
“Gaol’s all we’ve got to hope for,” said Dick
despondently.
“Gaol! Jove, you’re an optimist! Who told
you they’d cut out the death penalty for treason? But
cheer up, man. I don’t think it’ll come to that. In
fact, I’ve a hunch that we’ll come through with flying
colors.”
Taylor shook his head. “I can’t see a chance.”
“No? Well, listen to this. We’re in rebellion
against the State and Commonwealth, and the proper
way to treat a rebellion is to stamp it out. Now
none of our Governments has had any experience
at stamping out rebellions. They’ve no precedent to go
by, and they’ll have to think it out for themselves.
They’ll shilly-shally and procrastinate and try to pass
the buck from one to the other. Canberra will say
it’s a State matter, and New South Wales should
discipline us. New South Wales will say that the
Commonwealth controls the army, and alone has the
power to act.”
“Gee! D’you reckon they’ll send troops down
here?”
“I do not. But there’s bound to be talk about
it. And that’ll put the people more than ever on our
side. Have you seen the press notices? Scarcely a
word against us. They all blame one Government
or the other, or both, and you can bet that feeling
will grow if the Government threatens force.
“There’s another point, too,” he added. “Treason
is an act against the King. We’re not in rebellion
against the King at all. We’re merely asking him
m allow us to govern ourselves under him. I doubt
whether legally we are in rebellion at all. It’ll give
the constitutional lawyers something to chew over
anyway.”
“That’s all very well, but where’s it getting us?”
“Well, as Hiram Pettigrew would say, it’s getting
us some place. We’ve already had more space in
the papers than the town had in all its history before.”
“Yes, that’s so, but”
“We’re news. Terrigan’s getting known! They
took away our Tuesday train because it wasn’t needed.
And they were quite right. It wasn’t needed. But it’ll
be needed all right before we’re through with this.
Everyone’ll be wanting to see the town that’s defying
the whole of Australia. The roads won’t be able to
carry ’em. The trains won’t be able to hold ’em. We
won’t be able to accommodate ’em. Can’t you see
them crowding down here in their hundreds .and
thousands?”
In his enthusiasm Bannister had raised his voice,
and instead of having Taylor as his sole auditor he
now had the whole bar listening to him. “And once
they start to come they’ll keep coming. After all,
Terrigan has its attractions. It’s a picturesque town.
We’ve got the bay and the beach. We can offer tour-
ists swimming, fishing, boating ; then there’s the farms,
fresh country air, riding, shooting. Give ’em a golf
course and so on. Once we get them we’ll hold them ”
Jerry’s enthusiasm was infectious, and the whole
company was already envisaging Terrigan as Aus-
tralia’s premier tourist resort.
“Where’ll we put ’em all?” asked Bert Milligan
doubtfully.
“You’ll have to extend the Federal—l mean, the
Royal,” said Jerry. “Run up an up-to-date residential
hotel.”
“The Royal’s up to date,” replied Milligan sul-
lenly.
“Of course, but not big enough. You’ll have to
extend.”
“Who’s going to put up the money?”
“Oh, we’ll have to go into that. And then there’s
the Eden. That’ll have to be bigger—a lot bigger.
“Don’t ‘Sally’ me. And I haven’t
got it wrong. Pop came out
here to start a pickle factory,
not a tinpot republic.”
I’ll see Mrs. Melhuish about it. And we’ll have to
have a chalet. And everyone with a spare room will
have to fix it up to accommodate tourists. Home com-
forts —that’s the line we’ll take. We’ll have to arrange
with the farmers for more supplies. Fresh cream, eggs
and all that sort of thing. Give ’em good food and
treat them well, so they’ll come again.”
And so Terrigan’s rebuilding plan and campaign
for tourists began.
* ‘CT O you’ve got him in again?” said Sally accusingly,
coming upon Jerry in the lounge of the Royal.
“Meaning?”
“Meaning pop. The old dear won’t have a dime
left by the time you’ve finished with him.”
“Now, look here, Sally. You’ve got it all wrong.”
“Don’t ‘Sally’ me. And I haven’t got it wrong.
Pop came out here to start a pickle factory, not a
tinpot republic. You’ve got him down for a couple
of million dollars—sunk in cold blood —and you’re
bleeding him for more. New hotels, new guest-homes!
Who do you think’s going to live in them? It’s a
crazy scheme, and you know it. Those other poor
ginks might think it’s all right, but you know better.”
“When the tourist rush sets in your dad will get
back every penny he’s put into these renovations,
while, as for the money he’s lent us—the town’ll pay
the interest on that as easy as winking.”
Miss Pettigrew looked at him in astonishment.
“I do believe the poor sap believes it himself,”
she remarked to the piano.
“Of course I believe it,” retorted Jerry. “That
is, assuming I’m the poor sap referred to.”
“Assumption correct.”
“Well, I’d rather you thought that of me than
the other.”
“What other?”
“That I was trying to swindle your father.”
“Most men would rather be thought a rogue
than a fool.”
“Perhaps I would too by most people, but not
by you, Sally.”
“The class will now take arithmetic,” said Miss
Pettigrew, turning to leave.
CHAPTER VIII.
NO time was wasted in putting the building plan
into effect. Workmen were imported from
Sydney, special lorries brought down building
material, and Sir Hamish was kept busy laying
foundation stones.
The transformed Hotel Royal brought pride and
pleasure to the hearts of a’l Terrigans. Bert Milligan
(“Business as usual during alterations —temporary bar
round corner”) took on quite a new importance in
the eyes of the townsfolk, and bar patrons listened
with patience bordering almost on respect to the oft-
heard stories of his football days.
Eden, too, presented a transformed appearance,
and Mrs. Melhuish—she whose cooking had so long
been the standard by which Terrigan husbands had
measured the culinary failings of their wives—was
confidently expected to bring fresh fame to the town
as soon as the tourist rush should begin.
Those were great days for the small boys of
Terrigan. A foundation stone meant the marshalling
of the whole strength of the school as a guard of
honor for the Governor, and the Laird, who insisted
on wearing his national costume when performing
public official duties, was accepted by the children
with a delight which was only exceeded by that dis-
played towards his faithful henchman Angus, whose
bagpipes, of course, swung the balance in his favor.
That his pieces were almost invariably utterly
inappropriate to the occasion mattered not at all to
the children—or, for that matter, to their parents—
and no foundation stone was considered well and truly
laid unless it had been subjected to ten minutes of
"Bonnie Dundee” and “The Campbells Are Coming,”
with “Blue Bells of Scotland” and “Caller Herrin’ ”
thrown in for good measure.
Angus was fast becoming a law unto himself, and
iv one of the speakers chanced to become a little
long-winded he would as likely as not find his perora-
tion proceeding to the accompaniment of a low but
mournful skirling of the pipes, which, if he didn’t


take the hint, would probably develop into “Blue
Bonnets Over the Border” or even “Lochaber No
More” and drown his effort completely.
The inappropriateness of the selections had one
advantage—it hid the significance of the tune with
which, by the Laird’s instructions, Angus always con-
cluded the programme, “Will Ye No’ Come Back
Again?” Jerry had had some misgivings about this
piece, but, realising that the tune conveyed nothing
to the townspeople, he thought it best to let the
Governor have his own way. With some difficulty
he persuaded Sir Hamish to get Angus to include "‘God
Save the King” somewhere in his repertoire—pointing
out that no king was definitely mentioned by name,
and that it would be understood that “the King over
the water” was meant.
The Laird gave doubtful consent and passed the
necessary instructions on to Angus. Angus complied,
in his own way—which was to play the National
Anthem when and where the spirit moved him.
Accordingly, Mr. Napper or Mr. Peperell would some-
times find himself suddenly compelled to break off
in the middle of a sentence, in order to stand at
reverent attention in honor of the King, or Sir Hamish
would be similarly caught, trowel in hand, about to
mutter the magic word that would make an honest
citizen out of another foundation stone. Still, on the
whole, the functions were a great success.
Sally Pettigrew, despite her objections to the whole
scheme, found a niche for herself in the wholesale
rebuilding plan. Jerry suggested to her that the fur-
nishing and interior decorating of the Royal and the
Eden required someone of more modern tastes and
wider experience than could be found among the
women of Terrigan.
“After all,” he pointed out, “it’s your father’s
money that’s being spent, and, whether you like it or
not, you might as well see that he gets value for his
money.”
Sally admitted the commonsense of the argument,
and threw herself wholeheartedly into the job.
“Not that I think any the more of your crazy
scheme,” she told Jerry ; “it’ll land pop in the poor-
house before it’s finished, and me behind the counter
in Woolworth’s. Still, as long as it lands you in gaol
I won’t grumble about my lot.”
“What I like about you,” replied Jerry, “is that
fine strain of sympathetic understanding that runs
through you. A kind of natural charity.”
| ERRY’S forecast about the tourist value of the
rebellion was soon proved correct. Motorists
travelling along the Princes Highway began to turn
aside to Terrigan to see for themselves what manner
of town was this that defied the whole of Australia.
If they were fortunate they attended a sitting of Parlia-
ment while there. In any case, they were almost
certain to see Sir Hamish laying a foundation stone,
and they left the town well satisfied with their visit
and passed the news on to their friends.
The next step was an influx of week-end visitors
who made the trip for the special purpose of seeing
the town. Jerry influenced Parliament to arrange some-
thing for their benefit. Accordingly, the House always
sat on Saturday afternoons, and every Sunday a
solemn meeting was held at the Sports Ground at
which the Governor and Angus turned out in full
splendor. At this meeting the new Dominion re-
affirmed its loyalty to the Throne and its inde-
pendence of New South Wales and the Commonwealth.
When this became a regular Sunday afternoon
occurrence, 2KN, a Sydney broadcasting station,
arranged to put it on the air, and Australia thus had
the opportunity of listening in to the ceremony in all
its glory. A special commentator came down to Terri-
gan for the occasion. He made Sir Hamish appear to
his listeners-in as a combination of all the kingly
personages of history, while Angus sounded like all
the claps of the Highlands, with the Western Isles
thrown in for good measure.
The effect of the broadcast on the tourist traffic
was tremendous. The following week-end Terrigan
was virtually overwhelmed with visitors. The Royal
and the Eden were crammed to overflowing, every
house in the town with a spare room or space to fit
a spare bed in helped to relieve the pressure. Every
farm within ten miles of the town had its two or three
paying guests, and scores were forced to spend Satur-
day night in their cars or in improvised tents.
From then on the town was always full. People
who had week-ended there spread the news among
their friends —so quaint and mediaeval, you know ,
pageantry and all that; and the people so delightfully
naive and enthusiastic ; they say the fishing is good
there ; the beach certainly looks all right.
And so the tide rolled in.
Terrigan could hardly believe it at first, but soon
became alive to the possibilities. Paying guests
were, of course, the chief industry, but all sorts of side-
lines soon sprang up.
Boats which had been little used for years were
patched up and pressed into service ; every farm horse
in the district that could possibly be called a hack found
itself condemned to carrying inexperienced riders on
excursions which it enjoyed as little as they, and pad-
docks near the town were cleared and laid out in an
attempt to provide a golf course. The egg, butter,
cream and fruit industry found itself enjoying unpre-
cedented prosperity without the trouble of having to
send its produce to Sydney, and the few shops in
the town sold their stocks as fast as they could
replenish them.
Self-appointed guides began to earn a com-
fortable living by conducting tourists around the
historic spots of Terrigan. Visitors were asked to
gaze with awe at the School of Arts, wherein the
famous secession meeting had been held. It was on
this very spot that Dick Taylor stood when he rose to
propose the motion. This is the bell that Mr. Peperell
used to call for order at the meeting. This is the
chair that Hiram Pettigrew sat in” . . . and so on.
The railway station was another place of pilgrim-
age, and was much photographed by visitors, as was
the Hotel Royal, for it had become a legend that the
first seeds of the insurrection had been sown in the
old parlor.
It wasn’t long before these guides were marshalled
by the committee, put into uniforms and schooled up
in an official version of Terrigan’s story by Mr.
Napper.
Inverbannock, Government House, was thrown
open to inspection at certain hours, with Angus, of
course, in attendance. Angus had become Terrigan’s
proudest possession, and it is doubtful whether the
town would have been prepared to exchange him even
for the Tuesday train. Of all the photographs which
sold like hot cakes in Terrigan shops, Angus’s was
by far the most popular, surpassing even that of the
railway station.
The “Terrigan Times” circulation touched new
peak figures every few days, while countless reprints
of the famous issues containing the announcement of
“The Meeting,” as it had come to be called, and the
report of the secession motion were sold.
Police Commissioner Dansie was becoming an
important figure in the town. With the large increase
in motor traffic it was decided to authorise Dansie to
increase the personnel of the force. Two new recruits
were signed on —husky farm youths who filled their
uniforms well and became the object of much admira-
tion from the Terrigan girls.
The Postmaster-General, too, was feeling that the
size of his staff was scarcely in keeping with the
dignity of his position and the increase of his business.
He was granted a couple of extra juniors, and his
self-esteem increased accordingly.
Nor was the Minister for Education and Propa-
ganda forgotten—Mr. Napper saw to that. His duties
as a member of the Cabinet and one of the important
speakers at all public ceremonies interfered in a large
degree with his more orthodox task of leading the
youth of Terrigan along the paths of learning. He
was allowed to engage a deputy and was thus able
to give more time to what he now considered the
more important part of his life’s work.
Mr. Buckenara alone of the newly-promoted
officials did not claim the aggrandisement of an in-
creased staff. More than that, when he was offered
the opportunity he turned it down.
“Tom and I managed when we had two trains
a day,” he said, “and we managed when they cut us
down to one train a day. Surely we can manage now
they’ve even taken the Tuesday train away.”
Mr. Napper was not satisfied.
“That’s not the point,” he said ; “the dignity of
your position as Railways Commissioner demands
that your staff be augmented.”
“Steady on,” protested Jerry. “It’s Buckenara’s
own business. If he prefers to do the work himself,
more power to him. This is a free dominion, and
we’re not going to compel any man to act against
his will.”
“Very well, then; but I still think you’re wrong,
Buckenara^
As they walked away from the station Jerry felt
a little disturbed. He had been noticing with dismay
a subtle change coming over many of the people in
the town, particularly those in official positions. The
schoolmaster seemed to have altered considerably
since he had become Minister for Education, and even
Mr. Mutton, who as postmaster had been one of
the most popular men in the town, seemed to be
taking his new appointment a trifle too seriously.
Napper, with all his talk of “the dignity of the
town,” was beginning to annoy Jerry. That sort of
thing' was necessary on the platform, but there was
no need to bring it into private conversation as
though one really meant it.
CHAPTER IX.
AS the newspaper reports previously quoted indi-
cated, Canberra and Sydney were not at first
disposed to take a very serious view of the
Terrigan rebellion. The idea seemed too foolish
to be possible —and, besides, there was no precedent
for such a thing and therefore it could not happen.
Furthermore, no official notification had been received
by either the State or Federal Governments, and a
Government couldn’t be expected to act upon news-
paper rumors.
In Sydney the Ministers for Railways and Edu-
cation and the Commissioner of Police reported that,
to the best of their knowledge, the business of then-
respective departments was being carried on as usual
in Terrigan.
The Premier wasn’t quite satisfied and looked for
further information to the member for the district to
secure contradiction or confirmation of the rumors.
“Terrigan,” he mused. “Let’s see, that’s in
Halley’s electorate. Get hold of Halley.”
’Phone wires hummed, taxi-cabs sped, and Halley
arrived clad in plus-fours, having been five down at
the twelfth green at Rose Bay. Assuming that a
summons on such a day could only be upon a matter
of nation-shaking importance, he had forfeited the
match and hastened to Parliament House.
“All this business at Terrigan,” began the Premier.
“What’s it all about?”
“Well, the papers say”
“Yes, I know what the papers say, but what’s
behind it?”
“Well, it seems their train service has been
reduced.” .
“I know that, but what about this secession talk?
“Well, the papers say”
“Never mind about the papers. Ive read them.
What do you say?” ,
Halley was getting rather nettled. “Well, I don t
see why you should ask me, but”
“Don’t see why I should ask you? Don’t you
keep an eye on what’s going on in your electorate?
“Certainly, but you see”
“Then why can’t you tell us what’s going on in
Terrigan?”
“Because Terrigan’s not in my electorate.
“What! Whose is it in then?”
“Ask me another! I’d never heard of it till the
papers started to talk about it. P’raps you’re thinking
of Berrigan. That’s mine.”
“Well, why didn’t you say so at first?” said the
Premier testily. He rang for his secretary.
“Who’s district is Terrigan in?” he asked.
“Mr. Lovat’s, sir,” replied that efficient servant.
“Get him—oh, Lord, he’s in England, isn’t he?”
sir.”
“Then that settles that!” said the Premier.
“And it settled my game of golf, too,” grumbled
Halley. ~
The Premier was shocked. Golf! fie said.
“You’re worrying about golf at a time like this in
almost a time of national emergency.”
“National emergency!” snorted Halley. “A tin-
pot town nobody’s ever heard of passes a few reso-
lutions and you talk about a national emergency! I
had Adams practically beaten, and you interrupted me
on a tiddley-winking matter like this.”
And he withdrew from the presence.
“I’ll ring Canberra,” decided the Premier, “and
see what Bengers is doing about it. No good trying
to get hold of Gage—he’s electioneering up in
Gwydir.”
Bengers was Attorney-General, and, as his Chief
was in England and the Acting Prime Minister was
rallying his forces in a by-election in northern New
South Wales, he was acting head of the Government
in Canberra. He proved to be doing very little, indeed,
and seemed disinclined to take a serious view of the
affair and was for letting things take their course.
“Nothing to worry about,” he told the Premier.
“Just a small town looking for publicity. Give them
their heads for a week or so and we 11 hear no more
about it.”
The Premier remarked that he thought it was more
serious than that and he thought some steps ought
to be taken.
“What steps d’you expect me to take?” retorted
the Attorney-General. “Shall I send a bombing
squadron down there or would you prefer the Fleet
to blockade the port? There is a port, I suppose?”
The Premier wasn’t sure, so he left the question
unanswered and took the offensive. Now look here,
Reg, it’s all very well for you to sit back there in
Canberra and be sarcastic, but I tell you this is pretty
serious. We’ve got to do something. What’s the
P.M.G. say?”
“Well, Mac’s had no complaints from his man
there. What about your fellows?”
“That’s the funny part about it. The Railways
Commissioner says everything is going along according
to schedule, and the Commissioner for Police hasn’t
received any complaints, either. But, at the same
time, the papers are full of it, and everyone s talking
about it.”
“We can’t take any notice of the papers.”
“Anyhow, I think we”
“Well, look here. I’m coming up to Sydney next
week and McDonald’ll be with me. We’ll have a
yarn over it then. Tuesday, eh?
“Good.”
ON the following Tuesday a momentous meeting
took place in the Premier’s office. Bengers and
the Postmaster-General were there, as well as the
heads of the State Government departments most
concerned in the matter. The Acting Prime Minister
had also been invited, but, for reasons best known
to himself, preferred not to be present. “My presence
urgently required in Gwydir,” was the apology
advanced to the Premier. “You look after it. 1 d
rather keep out,” was his private message to Bengers.
The Attorney-General was still against drastic
action. “I had a radiophone talk with Joe last night,
he told the others.
“What’s he say?”
“It’s been raining for a week, and he’s been given
the freedom of Bristol.”
“Not that. About Terrigan?” .
“He agrees with me that nothing drastic should
be done yet. He was quite emphatic.”
Bengers did not add the reasons the Prime
Minister had given for being so emphatic.
“We’ve got to be careful,” he had said. lne
elections are getting near, and we’re not so popular
as I’d like. That Japanese business didn’t turn out so
well, and then there was the mess Mattison got us
into over Mrs. Creer. And they turned us down on


the referendum. And that by-election’s on, too, isn’t
it? We’ve got to be careful, Reg.”
Bengers had agreed and the Prime Minister con-
tinued: “This Terrigan may be only a small joint,
but it might get us into a lot of trouble. Go steady,
Reg. Gosh, you should have seen me to-day in
Bristol, Reg. Turtle soup and all. Marvellous thing,
this radiophone. I haven’t got used to it yet. Fancy
me being in England and you in Australia, and talking
to each other as if we were in the same room. That’s
a good idea for my next speech. The ‘Dominions just
various rooms in one big mansion’ ”
“Good-bye,” Bengers had said finally, ringing off.
“If I might make a suggestion,” said the Minister
for Education diffidently.
“Go ahead,” asserted the Premier as one who
receives an offer of help from an unexpected quarter.
“Well, I was discussing this business with my
director last night, and he mentioned that Napper—
he’s our teacher down there —has been asking for a
shift for years.”
“What of that?”
“Well, according to the papers, he’s one of the
ringleaders.”
“What name did you say?”
“Napper.”
“Napper? Why, of course. He seems to be
running the show there. But what’s your idea?”
“I thought if we transferred him it might ease
matters a little. Take a dangerous influence out of
the town.”
“Yes, there’s something in that. But you don’t
think taking one man away’s going to solve the
problem, do you?”
“No, but supposing the Postmaster-General and
the Minister for Railways shifted their men, too, it
should do some good. Those chaps are sure to be
mixed up in it.”
“By Jove, you’ve struck it! And the policeman,
too. And, and”—seizing a newspaper—“this bank-
manager, Bannister. We’ll get the bank to shift him.
That’ll fix it. Get all the ringleaders out of the place
and the whole thing’ll just fall through.”
The others warmly approved the suggestion, and
promised co-operation.
But what about this old Scotch Governor they
talk about?” asked the Premier. “He’d still be left.
What are we going to do about him?”
Bengers spoke up.
I had a talk with Joe about him,” he announced.
I asked him to see what he could find out about him
in London. He’s going to cable me here to-day.”
That’s what this must be,” said the Premier,
picking up an envelope from the table. “Came just
before you got here. I forgot it for the moment.”
Bengers opened the envelope.
It’s from Joe, all right,” he said. Then reading
aloud:
Sir Hamish McTaggart well-known Recha-
bite stop don’t forget what I told you stop
received freedom of Leeds stop intend try rush
elections September stop.
“That’s sixteen ‘freedoms’ he’s
got now,” remarked the Minister for
Education. “He must be a couple up
on Billy Hughes.”
“Leeds,” said the Railways Com-
missioner. “I remember the Test
match there in”
“Thought it was the Davis Cup
you went home to see,” interrupted
the Police Chief.
The reminiscence was cut short by
the arrival of a hurricane —the person
of the Minister for Education and
Propaganda in a highly excited state.
revolution, there are certainly brains behind it. Who’s
this Pettigrew?”
“An American pickle manufacturer. Seems a bit
of a mystery man,” remarked the Postmaster-General.
What on earth he should be doing in a small town-
ship like Terrigan beats me.”
A Scotsman and an American,” wailed the
Premier. “The place is getting as bad as Spain.”
There s no doubt about that heap of money in
the Agricultural Bank,” said Bengers. “I checked up
on that. I tell you they’ve got us tied hand and foot.
We ve got to be very careful. The least mistake and
we’ll look the biggest fools ever.”
I still think we ought to go on with the transfer
idea,” defended the Premier.
There sno harm in that. If they’ve really been
anxious to get out of Terrigan they won’t be able to
refuse the chance when it’s offered to them.”
It was decided then to arrange the necessary trans-
fers for Messrs. Napper, Mutton, Buckenara, Dansie
and Bannister, and to time things so that the five would
receive the notifications the same day.
And I’ll see if the Rechabites can help us with
old McTaggart,” promised the Premier.
“Can’t very well ask them to help,” objected
Bengers, “it’s too much like getting them mixed up
in politics.”
But the Premier’s scheme was more subtle than
that.
“It’s their annual conference shortly,” he ex-
plained, “and I’m invited. If they find out that a
prominent Scottish Rechabite is in Terrigan, isn’t it
likely they’ll try to get him to attend the conference?”
“I get it.”
“And while he’s there I’ll make it my business
to study him.”
CHAPTER X .
F\ COUPLE of days after the conference
/ 1 recorded in the last chapter, Gerald Bannister
v I and his father were crossing Commercial-road
in the direction of the post office. The evening
train had arrived a short time previously, and the usual
crowd, mostly tourists, were waiting for the sorting of
the mail to be completed.
“Where’s this business going to lead us, Jerry?”
asked the bank manager.
“Lord knows,” replied Jerry, “but don’t worry.
Things are running well for the present, aren’t they?”
“There’s certainly plenty of business coming to the
town, if that’s what you mean. At the bank we’ve
never been so busy before. And old Pettigrew’s
account —I suppose that puts a feather in my cap with
head office.”
At the post office Jerry entered into conversation
with some of the crowd, while Bannister senior went
inside to collect his mail. A few minutes later he
came out again and joined the chatting group. After
a short while the two moved off again, this time
towards the bank.
“I’ll just pop into the office and get rid of these
letters,” said the elder man. “Not likely to be much
of importance among them.”
“I’ll come in and wait,” replied his son dutifully.
Inside the bank, with Jerry idly reading a week-
old paper he had picked up, the manager went quickly
“Not that time, the time before. Gee, it was a
great game.”
“Rechabite,” murmured the Premier. “That com-
plicates things a bit.”
“Can’t make out what Joe’s thinking of,” said
Bengers. “I ask him to find out something about a
dangerous revolutionary and he cables that he’s a
Rechabite. He might just as well have told us that
he’s fond of steak and onions.”
“It isn’t as bad as that,” objected the Premier.
“The information might come in quite handy.”
“How?”
“Suppose we get the local Rechabites to invite
him up to Sydney to address a gathering? That’d
give us a chance to look him over; and there must
be some way of getting a man out of the country.”
“You can’t very Well deport a man for being a
Rechabite.” This from the Attorney-General.
“What about a dictation test?” asked the Minister
for Education with a sly smile.
“Good Lord! Don’t give him Gaelic,” broke in
the Police Chief.
“I’m not too keen on dictation tests,” replied
the Attorney-General. “You know what the press is.”
“But hang it all. The man’s a revolutionary!”
“Against what?”
“Against everything. He should be charged with
treason.”
“Treason,” said Bengers, “is a crime against the
King. According to all reports, no one in Terrigan
has said one word that could be construed as disloyal
to the King. At every meeting they proclaim their un-
swerving loyalty to the Throne.”
“But what about their loyalty to New South
Wales and the Commonwealth?”
“Well, McTaggart himself owes no loyalty to
either. He’s just arrived. As to the others, getting
down to brass tacks, what have they done? Have
they refused to pay their taxes?”
“I spoke to the Taxation Department yesterday.
They report that all assessments sent to Terrigan resi-
dents have been paid. A cheque signed by Hiram
Pettigrew settled a whole batch of them.”
“Have they tried to hold up trains or withhold
railway departmental cash?”
The Railways Commissioner answered this one.
“No. The service is being maintained as usual, returns
are coming in, and the money is being remitted regu-
larly.”
“What about your department?” This to the
Police Chief. “Has anyone tried to obstruct the police
in the execution of their duty?”
“No. That boneheaded fool we’ve got down
there hasn’t said a word about it. Sends in his weekly
reports as though nothing had ever happened. The
papers say he’s in it, too.”
The Postmaster-General reluctantly testified that
he, too, had nothing he could conscientiously complain
about in Terrigan’s conduct of postal affairs.
“There you are,” said Bengers triumphantly. “We
haven’t got a leg to stand on. If this is really a
(Continued on page 50.)


conditions in which the Jews of Warsaw exist. There
is a corner of the city where they are regularly blud-
geoned and knifed and the best help they can expect
from the police is a sneer and a laugh, at worst a kick;
It is pointed out that one school of thought aims
at assimilation of Jews into the races among whom
they live, so that nothing remains of their traditional
beliefs except their religion. Another school aims at
their isolation in their own ancient land, which is in
keeping with the age-old toast drunk at the Passover,
the anniversary of the liberation from Egypt: “Next
year in Jerusalem!”
Unfortunately, the task of return to Judea is less
easy than it might have been a few centuries ago.
The ancient cities have mainly vanished. The land
has largely been ruined by overcropping or neglect.
The Arab remains in a degenerated region in which
the cedars of Lebanon have been cut down and
swamp and scrub replace tilled fields, and thorn and
weed the roses of Sharon and the lilies-of-the-valley.
Still, a great deal has been done.
Since 1920, the Jewish population of Palestine
has increased from 84,000 to over 400,000. Factory
production has increased from £1,000,000 worth to
£8,000,000 worth. Tel Aviv, a new city with a
population of over 100,000, stands on a site which
was virtually empty before the war. Shipping ton-
nage entering Haifa is 10 times what it was a year
or so after the war, and Palestine has bought
£20,000,000 worth of British goods in less than a
decade and a half, the trade balance being well in
British favor.
And yet, what with the Arab revolt of 1936 and
the persecutions of continental Europe, Lord Melchett
writes that:
The Psalmist when he cried aloud, exclaiming on the
bitterness of his lot, was faced by just such a situation
as the Jews to-day, harassed in Europe, attacked in
Palestine.
He says the world will have to face the “festering
sore of anti-Semitism” and he does not believe that
his “ancient people will cry in vain for justice and a
land of their own.”
Zionism may solve the problem, but it is unlikely.
Too many Jews prefer Park-lane to Tel Aviv and
Fifth-avenue and Beverley Hills to the street called
‘’‘might.
ENTE MARID.
The Impersonation of Nero.
No one to-day can reconstruct history more bril-
liantly and more convincingly than Lion Feucht-
wanger. In his latest book, The False Nero, trans-
lated by Edwin and Willa Muir (Hutchinson ; Moore s
Bookshop ; Bs. 6d.), he has taken an obscure incident
in the history of the Roman province of Syria and
given it body and life. Thirteen years after the
murder of the Emperor Nero in Rome there arose
at Edessa in Mesopotamia a man who proclaimed
himself Nero. For 13 years he had been known as
the potter Terence, and no one knew anything of his
past except that he was a Roman. He bore a striking
resemblance to the dead emperor, and had been in
the past a subject of some of Nero's cruel jests, had
deputised for him and had nearly suffered death in
his place. When a wave of hostility toward the
Emperor Titus and his Governor in Syria was sweep-
ing the East, and men’s minds were harking back to
the good and generous days of Nero, this man, well
known to everyone, assumed the imperial mien and
allowed himself to be recognised and acclaimed as
Nero.
Behind him was the disgraced Roman Senator
Varro. Varro was rich and powerful. He had quar-
relled with the Governor about a lax of 6000 sesterces,
a small sum which the Governor forced him to pay,
as he felt, unfairly. On the tiny basis of this grudge
the whole mass of the story rests. With money,
patience and address Varro built up the legend of
Nero’s escape from his murderers, and at a well-
chosen moment produced his puppet with dramatic
skill.
Nero-Terence had immediate success. The allied
kingdoms of Edessa and Commagene rose for him,
the Roman general Trebonius deserted to him. He
invaded Syria, and the king of Parthia, with his Eastern
hordes and fabulous wealth, became his ally. Begun
jn vanity, the rising became something more. Even
Varro was taken in by his own device. The impostor
stood for a great idea, for a not ignoble policy.
I am no idealist, but without the great idea of Nero
I .would not have done what I did. 1 was a servant of
the idea, half unwillingly, half willingly. Someone had
to come and create the empire of Nero anew.
But Terence had the heart of an impostor.
The whole business of ruling did not interest him;
all that interested him was playing at being an emperor.
It was on this deficiency in himself, not on the
initial imposture, that the issue hinged on a real.
not on a formal, reason. He failed, not because he
was not Nero, but because he was not man enough
for the work.
Varro had set something in motion that he could
not control; it got beyond the scope of his common-
sense and sanity. Nero-Terence’s sly and clever slave
Knops and his blustering and rapacious general Tre-
bonius substituted violence and greed for reasoned
policy. The life that had inspired the whole sorry
edifice from without slowly ebbed from it.
Step by step we follow the terrible disintegration
of a cause and of a man. Terence at last fled from
Edessa to the king of Parthia, to find the happiest
months of his life in gilded captivity, with all the
ritual and none of the responsibility of an empire.
But policy drove the king of Parthia to hand him over
to Roman justice, to die in the Roman way upon a
cross between two thieves, Knops and Trebonius. The
death scene, which is reminiscent of the execution of
Jew Suss, is magnificently done, at once harshly real
and deeply moving. It is human folly upon the cross.
Perhaps this is not the true story of that obscure
rising against Rome which is lost in time beyond
finding, but it has the weight and feeling of truth.
As a story it is full and deep ; the subtle and intricate
pattern is completed to the last thread. It is anti-
romantic, but in its steady realism there is a touch
of mysticism, a rhythm of life that lifts it toward
simplicity.
The numerous characters (there are only three
women among them) are full human beings. There
are no stencils from beginning to end. In all its
phases the book is a development. It is never still.
It is sombre in its pictures of cruelty, callousness,
greed and folly, but it is never morbid. The feverish-
ness of the tale, “the faint aura of madness,” is shown
against a solid implicit sanity. There is behind it
the faith that in the end life rejects shams. The living
interest in the universal problem of good and evii
makes of it an eternal story.
Eleanor Dark's New Novel.
The setting of Eleanor Dark’s fourth novel, Sun
Across the Sky (Collins; Angus and Robertson;
7s. 6d.), is “Thalassa,” a model seaside resort near
Sydney. The time span of the book, as the title indi-
cates, is one day. Events leading to situations existing
on that day have necessarily to be told in retrospect,
and this seems to have put the writer in difficulties.
These events are not communicated directly to the
reader but through what purport to be the reflections
of the characters. The ruse is common enough in
novels, but is rarely carried so far as in Sun Across
the Sky, where the effect, beside slowing the action
appreciably, is to postulate several characters with
equal introspective powers exercising them at great
length and on the same day with extraordinary aptness
to the author’s need—a not very natural proceeding.
Young Dr. Oliver, on waking, on going to his
surgery, and on stopping his car to light a cigarette
while on his round of visits, gives himself up to
thought. He thinks of Herb Sayers, the ailing
vegetable-hawker; of Maeve Kavanagh, the flappei
who goes swimming naked and who —says gossip-
will be “getting into trouble” if she is not restrained ;
of Maeve’s poet father ; of Sir Frederick Gormley ;
of many things the reader needs to know ; and he
also thinks, loosely and at inordinate length, about life
in general.
Lois, the widowed artist in whom he is interested,
strays about her garden informing the reader about her
unhappy past through thinking about it. Helen, the
gentle and neurotic woman to whom Oliver is
unhappily married, stands over the mixing-bowl in
her kitchen and thinks about herself, her dead sister
and how she and Oliver came to marry. At the end
of several pages she calls to her maid: “Don’t open
the back door, North. There’s a cake in the oven.”
And the effect of this moment of naturalness is almost
startling.
The main theme, or at any rate that to which
the author gives attention at beginning and end, is
the antagonism between Sir Frederick Gormley and
Kavanagh. The former, an inveterate woman-chaser
and unscrupulous man of business, is the founder and
owner of Thalassa. Kavanagh has a ramshackle prop-
erty on the outskirts of Thalassa where he lives in
picturesque nobility among the riff-raff. Sir Frederick
wishes to buy him out and include the area in his
local-improvement scheme. Kavanagh refuses to sell.
The knight, through his tool and agent, Strom, sets fire
to the near-by blackberry scrub. The little houses are
destroyed. Kavanagh collapses and dies while help-
ing the poor folk salvage their goods. Sir Frederick,
hastening in last-minute panic toward the scene in his
car, collides with Strom hastening from it. Both are
killed.
There is very little development leading to this
conclusion. It is a summary solution after much
attention has been given to other matters. It is as
summary as the end of Sayers, who simply dies, and
as summary as the fate of Maeve, who, is discovered to
be pregnant to a youth whose leg has been injured
by a shark and is forthwith married to him. What
happens between Oliver, Helen and Lois is not told.
Myra, Sir Frederick’s youthful mistress, with a
nobility of heart hitherto unsuspected, helps Oliver
rescue Kavanagh’s manuscript poems from his burn-
ing house—which suggests that a new factor may have
come into the situation. Oliver goes to hospital to be
healed of his burns, and the book ends with the reader
feeling that important fish have escaped the net.
In all its interior detail Sun Across the Sky
written with Eleanor Dark’s customary firmness and
clarity ; the fault is in exterior management, where it is
clear that it has been found impossible to fit the
content to the form. This is remarkable, because the
one-day book has previously been carried out success-
fully and because, if there is one quality for which
Miss Dark’s other books are outstanding, it is their
neat construction.
Reviewed Briefly .
FICTION . . .
Uncommon Danger: Eric Ambler (Hodder and
Stoughton ; 7s. 6d.). An international squabble over
an oil concession. Secret service plot and counter-
plot, murders and running fights are the ingredients
of a tale that moves in top gear from first to last.
A dash of humor helps things along.
You Can’t Kill the Dead : Ernest Bowen-Row-
lands (Philip Allan ; 7s. 6d.). In 1886 Jabez Doust
was convicted of an outrage on Mrs. Allyne. In
1907 Edward Allyne, her son, was convicted of the
murder of Doust and imprisoned. Released in 1929
he discovered that Doust was not really dead, so he
took another crack at him. The book deals with
the three trials and draws a lot of loose ends to a
firm knot in the finish.
Spanish Pesos: Colt Macdonald (Wild West
Club ; 7s. 6d.). Mexican setting. In a desert saloon
Andy Farlow is told an amazing story of buried
Spanish gold. The man who told him is soon after-
wards shot by toughs, and the race, search and battle
for the treasure commence. Andy wins.- A good
light yarn with convincing local color.
Jane’s Parlour: O. Douglas (Hodder and Stough-
ton ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). Moves between London
and Tweedside and tells of the anxieties of a mother,
herself a woman of charm, who is trying to guide
the destinies of her attractive but rather wayward
children, who are each, in the modern manner, stalking
life with a double-barrelled gun. A thoroughly pleas-
ant and well-written domestic tale. ■
Summons to , Adventure: Anthony Pelham
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). There
is trouble on the North-West Frontier from mysterious
causes. Involved are Political Officer Oliver’s Eurasian
servant, an eccentric traveller who has penetrated to
forbidden territory, and Ahmed Shah, ruler of Persian
Baluchistan. Oliver ferrets everything out at risk of
life and limb and wins the love of the Resident’s
niece. Well written and apparently well-informed.
Red Earth : Tom Gill (Wild West Club ; 7s. 6d.).
Cowmen and copperminers in a hand-to-hand grapple
over water rights, with a band of nocturnal raiders
spreading death and terror through the countryside.
Young rancher Jack Douglas with a Colt and a
Kodak —the latter for securing evidence —straightens
the matter out, and finishes with a bride on his arm.
Tucker Sees India : M. L. Skinner (Seeker and
Warburg ; 7s. 6d.). Extravagant adventures of an
Australian soldier stranded' in Bombay during the
war and sent up country on a military mission. The
author has written Black Swans, a serious novel, and
collaborated with D. H. Lawrence in A Boy in the
Bush. Her latest novel is the lightest of light reading.
Victoria Four-thirty : Cecil Roberts (Hodder and
Stoughton ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). A railway journey
across Europe with the lives of 12 of the passengers
revealed by the author. They are a famous conductor,
a newly-married woman, a man who has chucked
the daily grind, a Turk, a chauffeur who was once a
Russian general, a Swiss girl running away from
tragic happenings in Paris, a child king, a man fetch-
ing home an errant nephew, a Sister of Mercy, a film
star, a novelist in search of a plot, a Greek whose
story awaits him in Athens. What is made of such
a hand-picked lot depends wholly on the metal of
the writer. Roberts makes a harmless dish, filling
and sweet to the palate even if not very nouiishing.
GENERAL ...
Golf, by Henry Longhurst, and Lawn Tennis,
by L. A. Godfree and H. B. T. Wakelam, are the
latest additions to the Modern Sport series (Dent;
each 65.). Brightly and expertly written, they cover
the games completely without becoming too technical,
including the rules, sections on etiquette, gear, great
players and a batch of illustrations—photos, and
diagrams. They form part of one of the best libraries
of sporting books this writer has seen. Cricket, by
Jardine, and Rugby Football, by Wakelam, were out
some months ago, and others are in preparation.


HOW You Can End
and Depressed feeling
with EXTRA MINERALS
New Research Proves Blood Stream and Spine Prime
Factors in Nerve Health . . . Simple Now for ALL RUN-
DOWN PEOPLE TO BE WELL BY TAKING BIDOMAK
C VERY day the number increases. More and
Y more high-grade temperaments are falling
down helpless before the tyrant NERVES.
The food habits of childhood are asking for
redress.
To some it comes sooner, but to those of
thirty and more the tragedy stalks without
mercy in hidden, baffling symptoms of fatigue,
irritability, suspicion, sleeplessness, anaemia,
melancholy, obscure leg-aches, headaches,
backaches, fears, crying without cause, un-
reasoning touchiness and hair-trigger, jittery
NERVES.
The system starved for minerals no longer
lesponds to joy, ambition or healthy interests.
mm
Food Minerals Control Your
Fate, Say Specialists.
The world’s greatest physicians no longer
laugh at the neurasthenic patient. Nerves are
not imagination. Nerves, hysteria, that “de-
pressed feeling,” low vitality and inability to
concentrate are symptoms of one great dis-
order —MINERAL STARVATION.
Spellbound, the observer listens to what seems
magic when he sees great dietitians demon-
strating the remaking of man or woman.
YOU CAN BE WELL.
To-day nerves and constitutional disorders
of young or old are successfully met by
Mineral Therapy in a brilliant manner.
When scientists say that nerves and depres-
sion leading to business failures and unhappy
home life can vanish quickly they mean it.
When they connect the underfed nerve cells with
nervous breakdown, they know that men and
women are suffering needlessly.
The loss of courage is MINERAL STARVA-
TION. The loss of poise, charm, skin beauty,
mutual attractiveness is MINERAL STAR-
VATION.
How BIDOMAK restores the
Nervous System of
Men, Women and Children.
Strong muscles, the full enjoyment of life,
the thrill of personal magnetism and the
courage and poise necessary to win out in life
can be given again to men and women who
have lost their “pep” and attractiveness.
Sleep Comes Easily.
Again can cpme the restful sleep of healthy
nerves, the quick response to new ideas, the
bright eye, gleaming hair, normal response,
zest for life and a happier outlook for others
Mineral feeding with BIDOMAK accom-
plishes this result by feeding the spinal column
through the blood stream.
How BIDOMAK Works.
BIDOMAK carries its precious mineral foods
m liquid suspension. It is absorbed into the
blood stream—leads the standardised mineral
foods which are contained in BIDOMAK to
every cell of the body, and re-creates their
full health.
Spinal Column Benefited
Particularly.
In particular the Spinal Cord, which is the
nerve centre of the body, is benefited by
BIDOMAK. The bone marrow of the spine is
the factory where are produced the billions
of red blood corpuscles which combat anaemia
and which carry life-giving oxygen to the body
cells.
BIDOMAK provides the necessary ingredients
to build up these red blood cells and increase
their production. Thus the blood is enriched,
and because there are more carrier cells it is
able to carry more oxygen from the lungs to
every part of the body, and clears away waste
tissues and poisons from the system.
Renewed Glandular Activity.
As a result, the activity of the glands is im-
proved and increased, new life flows through the
body. Nerviness and lassitude disappear.
Quick fatigue, low vitality, mental sluggishness
and depression are banished. The activity of
the glandular system is improved, and the cells
and the tissues of the body restored to their
full health.
BIDOMAK is produced according to the very
latest scientific formulas, and its restorative and
stimulating qualities are provided without harm
to even the most delicate system.
New Way.
When other treatments have failed do not
despair. BIDOMAK has produced wonderful
results. It creates energy with a degree of
success that has been
denied to other forms of
treatments. It makes
you fitter, and helps you
to resist disease and ill-
ness. For nervous de-
bility it is unequalled.
The tonic properties of
BIDOMAK maintain and
assist Nature in many
ways, and the mental
and physical condition
begins to improve
immediately you start to
use it. Thousands of
men, women and chil-
dren all over Australia
have taken BIDOMAK,
and are now restored to
the full bloom of health.
So stop experimenting
and start taking
BIDOMAK to-day. You
will soon regain your
health and strength and
experience the thrill of
renewed vigor and
vitality.
Do You Suffer from These
Disorders?
Nerves, Listlessness, Languor, Head-
aches, Nervous Dyspepsia, Antemia, Lack
of Confidence, Tight, Screwed-up Feeling
in the Brain, Neuralgia, Nerve Pains.
A basic cause of these disorders is a
deficiency of vital mineral elements in the
nerve cells and fluid. This deficiency can
be corrected by BIDOMAK.
“A MIRACLE IN
MEDICINE.”
Mr. G. Henry, of 132 Layton Street,
Camperdown, Sydney, says:
“Words in cold ink are poor expressions of
gratification for the benefits I have derived
from the use of BIDOMAK.
“About August of 1936, I fell ill with a
severe nervous breakdown, caused through years
of political speaking and activity followed on
GIGANTIC
MONEY BACK
TRIAL OFFER
to All 111 People Who Read The Bulletin.
To-day we repeat an amazing trial offer made
to all nervy, run-down people. We want you to try
BIDOMAK under a definite trial plan which
guarantees you benefit or your money back.
If you do not benefit from the first bottle, we will
refund your money within 14 days of its purchase
upon its return, nearly empty, to the Douglas Drug
Co. Thus we GUARANTEE YOU positive relief
or you PAY NOTHING.
by worry which brought on insomnia and
other ills.
“After treatment in hospital for nearly four
months, what with rest and proper nourish-
ment 1 became well enough to be able to leave
for home.
“When I came out in December I started to
take BIDOMAK, taking in all about five
bottles, and, believe me, it is a miracle in
medicine; and any hangover I had after leav-
ing the hospital it banished like a magician’s
wand, made me a new man, built up my body,
strengthened my memory, and helped the
blood stream to function properly—in fact, it
did wonders, and I have no hesitation in broad-
casting this vital fact that it stands paramount
as a nerve, brain and body builder.
“BIDOMAK is definitely all that it is pro-
claimed to be. I have become a walking adver-
tisement for what BIDOMAK can do.”
Get a bottle from your Chemist to-day
for 3/-.
VITAL MINERALS BIDOMAK Gives to You
BIDOMAK gives them ALL to you in quick,
assimilable form. It does you good without fear
of injury, habit enslavement or later reactions.
CALCIUM: Known as the executive, strong
enduring chemical, which gives us will, long life,
strong teeth and bones.
POTASSIUM: Called the healer, pain reliever,
and the preventive of constipation.
SODIUM: The alkaliser, a digestive chemical,
also called the good nature and clear brain
chemical, which prevents catarrh, deafness,
hardening processes, moodiness, and enables the
body to take up ferrum.
FERRUM: The master chemical which keeps
the life force in harmony in the body, gives
warmth, magnetism, mental endurance and
creative ability, ambition and vitality. Builds
new, rich blood.
PHOSPHORUS: A life ehemical which is con-
sumed with every thought. Important in neuras-
thenia, and enabling other elements to create
bone, brain and red blood cells. Lessens fatigue.
Needed badly by all types who do any kind of
mental or indoor work.
your Chemist or Store to-day and get a bottle of
BIDOMAK
FOR NERVE, RRAIN AND
THAT “ DEPRESSED” FEELING
It is impossible to substitute for Bidomak
ALL
CHEMISTS N
and STORES
3/
for a Large Bottlo
New Zealand
3/6 >
m
' y >**<j: : : :•:< c*;
•£ :<> c-;
IpfjiJl ip
I*ll
m
mm&
Bidomah is a product of the Douglas
Sydney, Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane
Sole wholesale agents for Tasmania: L.
and Son Fty., Ltd., 42-48 St. John St.,
New Zealand Distributors: Pluenzol
Thorndon Quay, Wellington.
Drug Co.,
and Perth.
. Fairthorne
Launceston.
Pty., Ltd.,


ROYAL
m
Wm
Hi
■ -
Hi
i
■IB
■
a
§8 ■
H
H
Hi
S':
m
m
wm
m
■
:
H
y : <
SrSS
■ .
a a
H
■Bn
Hi
■tf
H
wm
■
HH
H|
Hi
n
m
m
m
a
s
a
i
11
M
M
H
.
■
H -
Si
m
mm
M m
m
m
■
■
H
a
H
■
■
■ m m
m
H
if
MS
I
■
;
Hi
I ■
S
■
■
11
m
m
'
a
. ■
life
MH
■
a
■
■
i! E 1
a
Hi
881
an
4 <
? Vv' •;?; % ,vA
■HE P
B—
■
v.s
Another View of Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.
tyme ofWio mellctiTicM and 1j cliquet


“TEMPORARILY DROPPED.”
“This voyage stands adjourned; sine die.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide .
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 7 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Stale cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
EASY MONEY FROM CANBERRA.
Two Australian Treasurers presented their Budgets
almost simultaneously. One, Mr. Butler, who repre-
sents 589,000 people inhabiting the least favored main-
land State, said he had had another surplus (of
£139,100) and was cutting taxes again and increasing
pay. The other, Mr. Forgan Smith, who represents
982,000 people inhabiting the most favored mainland
State, said he had had another deficit (of £280,200)
and was not cutting taxes. He added that it was “the
best budgetary result since 1928-29” ; and that the
loss for 1937-38 was expected to be £330,700. Mr.
Butler for his part anticipated another surplus—of
£3BOO.
The S.A. Treasurer is taking 3d. in the £ off
income tax on personal earnings, making the com-
mencing rate for married taxpayers and single persons
with dependants Is. Id. in the £. It is difficult to com-
pare the S.A. and Queensland income taxes, for S.A.
imposes one and Queensland two (the second is called
“unemployed-relief tax”), but seemingly the net result
of the cuts will be that most classes of S.A. taxpayers
will be better off than their opposite numbers in
Queensland. A married basic-wage man with one
child will be exempt from tax in S.A.; in Queensland
he has to pay sd. in the £ relief tax.
Beginning at Is. Id. in the £, “plus two-
thousandths of a penny for each £ of taxable income,”
the S.A. tax on personal earnings rises to 4s. 6d. in
the £ on income over £7OOO ; but that’s the lot: there
is no super tax. “Ordinary” Queensland tax on per-
sonal earnings is 6d. in the £, “plus as many times
six-thousandths of a penny as there are pounds in the
taxable income,” but on incomes exceeding £BOOO the
rate is 4s. 6d. in the £ on the first £BOOO and ss. after-
wards. And there are a super tax of 20 p.c. and an
“additional” tax of 15 p.’c. to p.c. on “the amount
of income tax, including super tax” (the 15 p.c. is on
incomes in the £779-£849 group and the 27| p.c. on
incomes exceeding £999). And relief tax begins at 2d.
in the £ on £79, rises to sd. in the £ on £lO4 to £2OB,
to Bd. in the £ on £209 to £499, and to lid. in
the £ on anything over £499. And companies have
to pay the same rates as individuals.
In respect of company taxation, Queenslanders
are decidedly worse off than South Australians. In
addition to the lid. in the £ relief tax which all
profit-making concerns have to pay, “subject to the
exclusion of any losses from previous years which
may have been allowed in the income-tax assessment,”
they are liable to “ordinary” tax of Is, 9d. in the £
to ss. 3d. in the £, according to whether their profits
fall below 6 p.c. or exceed 19 p.c., plus a 20 p.c. super
tax. Banking and certain other companies receive
“special” consideration: banks pay 4s. in the £ plus
super tax. In S.A. there is a flat rate on company
profits—2s. in the £. Shareholders in S.A. companies
have the further advantage that local-government taxa-
tion is lighter in S.A. than in Queensland, figures for
the latest recorded year being 295. per head in S.A.
and 50s. 3d. per head in Queensland.
Why is South Australia in this superior financial
position? Its Governments, like Queensland’s, have
spent loan money lavishly and wastefully; its railways,
like Queensland’s, have huge annual losses, and Mr.
Butler’s notions of reform are indistinguishable from
those of Mr. Forgan Smith. The explanation is simply
that Mr. Butler is getting huge special grants from
the Commonwealth and Mr. Forgan Smith is getting
none.
All the State Governments are receiving from the
central source of easy money annual contributions
towards interest on State debts; annual contributions
towards sinking fund on State debts; grants for
Federal-aid roads, relief works, public works,
forestry, metalliferous mining, maternal and infant
welfare ; artificial manure subsidies ; fruit bounties ;
wheatgrowers’ relief payments (or the equivalent in
Tasmania, which grows little wheat) and farmers’-
debts-adjustment money. Special grants are reserved
for S.A.. Westralia and Tasmania. They are made
on the recommendations of a Commonwealth Grants
Coihmission, whose recommendations are, in effect,
votes of public money.
In its last annual report, this non-elected govern-
ing body published a table which shows that in
1935- S.A. received in Commonwealth grants and
contributions the colossal sum of £3,590,000 —more
per head than the per capita yield of John Bull’s
income tax. In “special” grants, it received £1.400,000
in 1934-35, £1,500,000 in 1935-36 and £1,330,000 in
1936- In the same years Westralia (population,
451,000) got £600,000, £BOO,OOO and £500,000, and
little Tasmania (population, 230,000) £400,000
£450,000 and £600,000. The grants for the current
year, as recommended and submissively adopted, are:
S.A., £1,200,000; Westralia, £575,000 (£136,000 is
called advance for drought relief); Tasmania, £575,000.
With a subtle humor of which he had previously
given no indication, Mr. Butler devoted a long pas-
sage of his Budget speech to a protest against being
deprived of £130,000 of easy money. He proceeded
without a pause to the announcement that 3d. in the
£ was going off income tax, and something off
amusement tax and death duties, and something on
wages, salaries and pensions. Similar protests have been
heard from Hobart and Perth. In point of fact, since
the easy money began to roll in, two more superfluous
Cabinet Ministers have been appointed in Westralia
and two more in Tasmania, and minor politicians and
the whole body of officials have been admitted to a
share in the good things.
This special-grant business has become a gross
imposition on the people whose money is taken from
them and handed over to mendicant Governments to
be spent irresponsibly. It violates all the canons of
sound finance and the spirit, if not the letter, of Sec-
tion 99: “The Commonwealth shall not, by any law
or regulation 0f... .revenue, give preference to one
State over another.” The Grants Commission itself
says “No State ought to be placed in a better position
than other States.” But this is exactly what has been
done: S.A., as has been shown, has been placed in a
better position than Queensland, and Tasmania, which
actually received £1,118,000 from the Commonwealth
in 1935-36, has been placed in a better position than
N. S. Wales.
The Government at Canberra is to blame. Its
manifest duty is to bring about a redistribution of
functions and taxes such as would put all the States in
the way of meeting legitimate expenditure out of their
own revenue, plus the payments guaranteed to them
under the Financial Agreement. Transfer of income-
taxation and education control would be a great stride
towards this very necessary reform (in normal years
the States’ income taxes, taken together, yield just
about enough to pay their education bills), and the
Commonwealth Government is in a position to force
such a transfer. But it seems too big a job for the
polite Mr. Casey.
"Assimilation."
Few electors can look forward with any pleasure to
the Commonwealth election when appearances are
that the paramount issue will be whether people can
get more for their votes by supporting the U.A.P.-C.P.
combination or by supporting the other side. As for
the Victorian election, it is regarded not only with
apathy but with positive aversion. Three so-called
policy speeches have been delivered, and all have
fallen flat. Apparently the only speaker who can
draw a full house is a lady standing as an Independent.
The Victorian election was sprung on the people
six months before the proper time, and in utter dis-
regard of their convenience, because going to the
country before the Commonwealth Government could
go seemed the best course for an embarrassed local
Ministry. It is embarrassed because of its alliances,
the U.A.P. having been its ally at the last election (as
the Federal U.A.P. has been the ally of its Federal
opposite number since 1934) and the Labor party
since. It is Country party, and the people never
declared for nor were even consulted about the
appointment of a Country-party Ministry supported
by Labor ; and in it there has never been a represen-
tative of the city with more than half the electoral
population. Of this it is uneasily conscious now
that it has to make some appeal to the city with
more than half the electoral population; but Mr.
Dunstan, the Premier, affected to be quite chirpy
about it in his “policy” speech.
It was alleged against the Country-party Ministry
when it took office that it cared nothing for the welfare
of the metropolitan area. What have those critics to
say to-day?
And then he went into details of what he had
done for it. The principal item was “a bill authoris-
ing the expenditure of £350,000 for a modern institu-
tion to accommodate 750 patients.” He is giving
Melbourne another asylum.
The paramount issue in Victoria is alleged to be
constitutional reform. There are two Houses of
Parliament, each invested with a pomp which makes
it ridiculous, and Mr. Dunstan, who leads in the
Assembly, wants to limit the powers of the Council
“to this extent: that if the Assembly passes legislation
which is then rejected or mutilated by the Council,
the Assembly can be dissolved.”
It is definitely provided in the bill that no measure
. for the abolition of the Council can ever become law
unless the Council itself votes for it.
It is as definitely provided in the Labor platform
that the Council must go, and Mr. Tunnecliffe said
in his “policy” speech that “Labor has always strongly
advocated the abolition of the Council.” He added
that when the Constitutional issue had been disposed
of his party would “tackle the problem of electoral
reform on the basis of one vote one value.” Mr.
Dunstan regards this sort of electoral reform with
horror; he is perfectly satisfied with an arrangement
which gives a country vote twice the value of a city
vote. So the C.P.-Labor alliance is an alliance of
expediency, not an alliance of principle, and, like the
more grandiose humbug of State politics, it can’t last.
A Mr. Bussau, who is Attorney-General or some-
thing, complains in inflated language that “the instru-
ment of government which granted self-government
to Victoria has operated to prevent the assimilation
of the Government of Victoria to that of Great
Britain.” Apart from the politicians and their friends,
who wants this “assimilation,” and how can it
be brought about? Surely Mr. Bussau ought
to have learned by now that the British Parlia-
ment has supreme powers and his absurd show only
limited powers —though not limited enough. The
“assimilation” that should be striven for and that would
best serve a nation which has to carry an excessive
number of Bussaus is the assimilation of Australian
provincial government to that of the English counties,
as far as our peculiar conditions will permit.
Many of the county councils serve more people than
our State Governments misgovern, and exercise nearly
as many powers, though they cannot borrow or tax
as furiously or set up ridiculous local imitations of the
Houses at Westminster or Buckingham Palace.
The One-a-minute Boys.
This paper’s experience does not lead it to support
all of the finding of the disgusted philosopher who
held that anyone who follows horseracing for 12
months and does not show a profit ought to be in a
lunatic asylum, and if he does show a profit he ought
to be in gaol. All sorts of incalculable things can
happen in the running of any race to give color to
that finding. It is a chancey game at the best—for
those who aim at making money out of it. But taken
all along it is a good deal straighter than most people
seem to credit, and those who enter on the credit
side the entertainment value they get for their money
will agree that it can be a magnificent sport.
On all the big Australian courses it is unques-
tionably finely conducted. Those who prefer ping-
pong and croquet will be unmoved by it, but in. the
spring racing shortly to be run there is the certainty
of as picturesque a parade of exciting entertainment as
can be found in anything anywhere on earth. Wowsers
—especially visiting wowsers —find it a blot on the
Australian national character, but anyone who re-
tains some degree of his natural sporting instinct, or
is not a born killjoy, or has some sense of the
romantic might easily make out a case for it as a
pleasant patch of color .in a national life not yet
overburdened with colorfulness.
With a less grasping extortion of taxes and
reduced entrance charges that would be better appre-
ciated, because then more people would be able to
witness it personally, and it needs to be personally
witnessed. The bulk of those who can afford a day
or so at any of the coming big meetings would be
likely to agree that on these courses the sport is
uncommonly well put on and in itself has something
splendid about it.
On those terms, long live the horse!
It is off the course that the picture is not so pretty.
Anyone with a wireless set knows what use is made
of it there. A fair ration of racing twaddle is served
up in newspapers, but it is doubtful if the cheapest
twaddlers of these ever reduce a decent sport to
the level on which radio windbags operate.
The whole appeal of some of these is not to the
listener’s decent gambling instincts, but to the most
grimy sort of money-grubbing he could be led into :
not to what can be got out of it as a sport, but what
can be made out of it. He is bombarded with
specials, super-specials, extra-super-specials. There are
professional tipsters who need to be tickled with a five-
pound note to divulge the marvellous information
they possess. There are some who will do the service
for five shillings. There are some who do it by the
stars. Judged by results, there are spme who do it
with a pin.
It is necessary to listen to a few of them to
appreciate how narrowly some of them miss being
blood brothers to the gentry who still occasionally
nudge an elbow on the racecourse and buttonhole with
a tale of having just come from the trainer of Bu'lls-
eye. Even as they practise the urging art they would
not be tolerated on any decent racecourse. Some of
them are not tolerated there as it is.
Yet these one-a-minute boys rent flash offices,
hire many telephones (one practitioner claims to have
11) and foot substantial advertising bills. The
Bulletin is consumed with no burning missionary
zeal on behalf of their clients. A case might be made
out for the necessity in any society for legislation to
save fools from themselves. Indeed, that is the purpose
of a fair amount of legislation, and all that is neces-
sary is a means of preventing fools from doing the
legislating and everything would be perfect. It is
because there is no such safeguard that The Bulletin.
while it considers the tipping racket as about as sorry
a commentary on the general intelligence as any
observer of the human comedy could hope to find,
still has no hankering after additional restrictive
enactments.
After all, there is a very simple and effectiye
alternative. Everybody can legislate for himself in
this one matter, at least. He can turn the wireless off.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
One-Parliament Men Wanted.
The young Charles Dilke, visiting the U.S.A. just
after the Civil War, was impressed not only with
what he saw of the disasters which the Republic
had undergone, but with the perils to which it was
still exposed by its written Constitution. In his view,
the situation demanded “a consolidation of power,
a strengthening of the hands of the Government at
Washington,” and the resolute scrapping of State
sovereignty. But not local government.
Local government is an excellent thing; it is the
greatest of the inventions of our inventive race, the
chief security for continued freedom possessed by a
people already free. This local government is con-
sistent with a powerful executive; between the village
municipality and Congress, between the Cabinet and
the district council of select men, there can be no con-
flict ; it is State sovereignty and the pernicious heresy
of primary allegiance to the State that have already
proved as costly to the Republic as they are dangerous
to her future.
After all, where intelligence and education are uni-
versal, where a spirit of freedom has struck its roots
into the national heart of a great race, there can be
no danger in centralisation, for the power that you
strengthen is that of the whole people, and a nation
can have nothing to fear from itself.
It is very probable that Dilke’s words would be
endorsed by President Roosevelt, still struggling with
a Supreme Court which can, in effect, veto national-
emergency legislation, a thing beyond the power of
any Court in Britain, South Africa or Maoriland.
With a few minor alterations, such as the substitution
of Commonwealth for “Republic” and Commonwealth
Parliament for “Congress,” Dilke’s words are applic-
able to the situation and needs of Australia to-day.
Local government, as a rule, is well done in
Australia. Commonwealth government —partly because
of the hazy and weak points of the Constitution —is
not so well done; State government is interfering,
inefficient, wildly extravagant and, in some respects,
tyrannical. At this moment we see people living
in one State taxed on their income from another State,
though they have paid on it ample taxes to the State
of origin and to the Commonwealth. We see the
people of the Riverina whose business takes them
across the border into Victoria forbidden to bring
their children back unless they have medical certi-
ficates ; forbidden, also, on one pretext and another,
to enjoy the benefits of swift road carriage from Mel-
bourne and Sydney—and it will probably be the same
with air carriage if the freight-carrying aeroplane is
held to threaten the Government railway monopoly.
It is certain that the people of the Riverina could
manage the affairs of the Riverina far better than
they are managed from Sydney and Melbourne. This
is equally true of many other parts of Australia which
are misgoverned from the Big Cities. The probabili-
ties are that if the exorbitant States were subdivided
into provinces, each with its council or assembly, the
provinces would be administered as intelligently and
inexpensively as, generally speaking, are the municipal
councils and shires or road boards, which, of course,
would remain. It is to be hoped that candidates in
favor of these essential changes will stand for the
Commonwealth Parliament, in the Riverina especially.
It doesn’t matter much whether they call themselves
U.A.P., U.C.P., Labor, Unificaticnist or Independent,
provided they recognise that a simple and economical
scheme of government under which there can be no
conflict of powers nor any questioning of the supreme
authority of the national Parliament is of the first
importance.
A Just American Judge.
Australians get no good impression of American
justice from films, newspapers and novels written by
Reds. From time to time they are called upon by tedi-
ous persons to become indignant because it is alleged
by such persons that certain proteges of Left Wingers.
Saccos, Vanzettis, Scottsboro’ blacks and Mooneys,
have been “framed.” In the Mooney case it is on
record that a President of the U.S.A. was informed
in a cablegram sent from Sydney that Australians
were furious at the incarceration of Mooney, when
99 per cent, of them had never heard of him.
If the decision in the Brent case is a fair example
of American justice, there can’t be much wrong with
it. The parties are film actors, the woman being an
Australian. The man proposed marriage to her and
had the ceremony performed in Mexico, all the
arrangements being made by his female secretary.
Like most film “stars,” Brent is a much-married
person. After a few days he tired of his Australian
bride, cast her out, and began annulment proceedings
in a Californian court, alleging that certain features
of the Mexican marriage law had not been complied
with. At the hearing the blackguard added insult to
injury by asserting that he had married the woman
only because he had yielded to pressure.
Judge Haas heard the case, and his judgment is
worth recording.
I have decided that this marriage is valid because the
plaintiff admitted that he had suggested it should be
performed at Tijuana, Mexico, and had also asserted
that such a marriage would be good and effective.
The evidence shows that the couple lived together as
husband and wife and informed the world of the fact.
They complied with the necessities of the Mexican law
as to domicile. The fact that they were at Tijuana at
the time was sufficient. A doctor signed a certificate
that the parties were free from contagious disease [a
requirement of the Mexican marriage law]; whether he
actually examined them is immaterial.
Mr. Haas added that he had submitted his judg-
ment to two other Californian Judges with experience
in annulment cases, and that they had both concurred
in it. So will public opinion everywhere concur.
Hollywood film-colony opinion may be different.
In the film colony other standards prevail or are toler-
ated. It was said long ago that “the wrong people”
had “got hold of the film industry,” but evidently it
is still true that films are made by morons for illiter-
ates. It is periodically alleged that “the industry” has
been “cleaned up,” but a Brent can expose himself as
an unspeakable swine without losing his job.
Australia is known to be the second-best market
for Hollywood films, and in the light of what has come
out in the Brent case there is nothing to be proud
of in the fact. Australians can correct the position
by giving preference to their own films, which have
no history of blackguardism or degeneracy, and by
supporting the revival of the spoken play in theatres
employing Australians, Britons and Americans of the
stamp of Margaret Anglin and Katharine Cornell,
whose visits are all too rare.
Parliamentary Privilege.
The privileges of the British Parliament are based on
the common law and established by custom, except
the right of free speech in Parliament, without lia-
bility to action or impeachment for anything spoken
therein.
This is provided for in the Bill of Rights.
Other privileges include the right to order persons
to attend at the Bar, the right to arrest and imprison—
it is not even necessary for a House to state its ground
for the arrest or incarceration —the power to make
standing orders and to suspend members who are
disorderly. The House of Lords takes its rights for
granted ; the House of Commons, at the opening of
every Parliament, petitions the Crown for permission
to exercise its “undoubted rights and privileges.” The
Commonwealth Houses, by Section 49 of the Con-
stitution, have the powers, privileges and immunities
of the House of Commons, with power to alter them
by legislation.
Breaches of privilege include wilful obstruction
of the business of the House, and
insults, reflections, indignities and libels on the character,
conduct and proceedings of the House and of its
members.
There is no reference to “insults, reflections, indig-
nities or libels on the character or conduct” of mem-
bers of the public. A member can invent a libel on
a citizen which will ruin him ; the press can publish
it with some reservations ; “Hansard” can publish it
without reservations. Everybody is protected except
the victim.
Reflections on the Prime Minister by a noisy
Labor member led to the noisy person’s suspension
by the House, after the Speaker had ruled that it was
not offensive or disorderly to suggest repeatedly that
the P.M. had suppressed news of the “discovery” of
oil in New Guinea—there has been no discovery.
And the Attorney-General, Mr. Menzies, has come
to the conclusion that Parliamentary privilege is
increasingly abused:
In the last two days we have heard defamatory state-
ments about people inside and outside the House which
would expose their authors to proceedings in the courts
if they were not in Parliament. Freedom of speech does
not connote freedom to defame people. Parliamentary
privilege was never designed to give rise to privileged
blackguardism.
Mr. Menzies believes that defamatory statements
which are withdrawn should be debarred from publi-
cation, and that when such statements are not with-
drawn they should not be privileged. Labor politi-
cians and Great Dailies are against him. In The
Bulletin’s opinion the public is with him.
What members of Parliament say about one an-
other doesn’t matter very much. They can protect
themselves. But the citizen whose character is assailed
by some larrikin who has got into Parliament some-
how has no protection. By all means, let the legi-
timate rights of members be preserved, but what
about the citizen’s rights to his good name?
The Training of Pilots.
According to the president of the N. S. Wales Aero
Club, there is an acute shortage of commercial
pilots in Australia. The position is such that high
salaries are paid to get men, and there is a standing
temptation to competent members of the R.A.A.F.
to join the commercial concerns. These men would
still be available for defence purposes ; but intensively-
trained military airmen are apt to get out of touch
with military machines and technique when they enter
the civil profession.
Two reasons for the shortage are the high cost of
tuition and the scarcity of training machines of
modern types. While it is possible to learn to drive
a car for from £3 10s. upwards, the minimum cost of
efficient flying tuition, even for the amateur who takes
an “A” license, is about £5O. Why it should be so
it is difficult to understand, since training usually calls
for only about 21 hours in the air—lo hours’ dual
flying ; 11 hours’ solo.
The Aero Club proposes to raise a training fund,
contributors of £5O to have the right to nominate one
pupil. This does not go far enough. Civil training
might reasonably be made a national matter and
linked with R.A.A.F. training. If volunteer air squad-
rons were formed and enlisted men were trained, at
Commonwealth expense, to commercial-pilot standard,
with a good grounding in military flying in addition,
the investment involved would pay for itself as an
insurance.
The wastage of pilots in the Great War was
heavy enough in all conscience. In any subsequent
war, especially if it penetrated to Australia, where
distances are long and climatic conditions various, it
would certainly be much heavier. And, since pilots
do not grow on gum-trees, the moment might come
suddenly when the Defence Department would be
willing to give considerably more than £5O a head
for efficient fliers.
Abdulla, the Bui Bui Ameer.
“Barah Peg” parades his Bolshevism:
The latest news from Russia shows by contrast the depths
to which the friends of Imperialism can sink. The details arc
published in “Pravda,” which is Russian for “truth,” so 1
cannot doubt their veracity, especially as they are reproduced
in the Australian flapper press:
Abdulla Rakhimbaeff, til! recently Premier of Tad-
jikistan, has held high party posts for 17 years. He
kept three wives, of Usbek, Tatar and Caucasian stock
respectively. Abdulla ill-treated the ladies and their
progeny and lived in Oriental splendor. He ordered the
workers from collective farms to run a dozen miles
across country to greet him.... He is now charged with
spreading pro-Turanian [Turkish] ideas and with con-
sorting with anti-Soviet bands from Afghanistan.
“Pravda” calls him a “snake” and a “double-faced liar,” and
he appears to be headed for an appointment with a firing-squad.
Had he been under the control of the Imperialists of Downing-
street and the New Delhi this is what would have happened
to him:
First, the tyrants would have sent into his lair a quiet
young person with a wisp of a moustache, an uncanny know-
ledge of the Tadjikistan language and a flair for polo ponies.
Then, in due course, would have come the title bahadur, a
C.S.I. and a seven-gun salute.
If, after that, Abdulla’s inherited Orientalism continued
to get the better of him, the quiet person would be withdrawn.
In his place, there would arrive an equally quiet, middle-aged
person, rather bald on top, spectacled, with two sons at Clifton
or Marlborough, a salary of a thousand a year and nine
languages. Presently there would appear in the Indian papers
a two-line paragraph announcing that Abdulla had retired on
a handsome pension and that his son, aged nine, had suc-
ceeded him.
The natives of Tadjikistan would continue to walk miles
to salute the young prince because, with all their guile, the
feringhi have never succeeded in preventing Indians from using
this sort of expedition as an excuse for knocking off work
in the middle of the day.
Abdulla would recede to a large secluded palace some-
where, and be happy with his three wives, of “Usbek, Tatar
and Caucasian stock respectively,” until they reached the ripe
old age of 25 and he tired of them. Then he would probably
marry a wandering U.S.A. tourist lady and end his terrestrial
existence in a burst of good liquor and hashish.
The baldish, spectacled Englishman would continue in
unobtrusive charge of Tadjikistan until the condition of his
liver turned him a light orange color and the rest of his
hair dropped out. The new young “ruler” would go to the
Chiefs’ College at Ajmir or to Harrow, learn to play a
straight bat or stick, get a commission in an appropriate regi-
ment, marry a nice girl in a sari, drink an appropriate quantity
of simpkin, be dignified as a K.C.S.I. and return to “reign.”
A well-drilled Cabinet would govern while he devoted himself
to polo. ,
His English mentor would then heave a sigh of relief
and retire to a cottage in Torquay, where he would be seen
every morning on the golf course, blowing like a pale and
shrivelled whale, after having breakfasted on herrings and the
“Times.” Queer, ancient henchmen from Tadjikistan, would
leave their ploughs and walk for miles to stick their fore-
heads in the dust every time his sons and grandsons came
their way.
“Pravda,” of course, would say nothing abusive about any
of the dramatis personas. There is no “Pravda” in India.
Give me good old Russia and its ways!
Splendid Force, the Police!
Queensland has a new Police Act which contains
some original provisions.
For instance, any member of the force who
neglects or refuses to obey a lawful order or who
neglects his duty may be called upon to give an
account of himself at an investigation “to be con-
ducted in any way the Minister thinks fit.”
This appears to leave it entirely in the power of
the Minister to determine the procedure. As for
witnesses.
Any inspector or sub-inspector appointed by the
Commissioner, or other person appointed by the
Minister, to conduct any such investigation may....
summon any person to attend such investigation at a
time and place named in the summons, and then and
there to give evidence and to produce any books, docu-
ments or writings in his custody or control which he is
required by summons to produce.
The summoned citizen who does not attend is
liable to be haled before a P.M. and fined up to £2O.
And attendance is not enough. Woe betide
Any person appearing as a witness at any investi-
gation [who] refuses to be sworn or to make affirmation
or declaration or to answer all such question as may
be legally demanded of him.
It is graciously conceded that he need not answer
questions tending to incriminate him.
There is provision for superannuation, and that
is only right. But any deed, except a will, trans-
ferring any money to which a policeman or a police
pensioner is entitled under the superannuation pro-
visions of the Act is declared void.
Further:
No sum of money to which any such member of the
force or his personal representatives or dependent next-
of-kin may be entitled as aforesaid shali pass to the
creditors of or be in any way liable to or chargeable with
the payment of any debts, liabilities or engagements of
such member of the police force, or be levied or
attached or taken into execution by virtue of any
process.
In other words, if a retired inspector on £3OO a
year or a retired Commissioner on £4OO a year contracts
debts his pension may not be garnisheed. (Inciden-
tally, the present Commissioner is to “continue in
office till he reaches the age of 65,” a provision which
has excited remark.) No reason has been assigned
for the rash act of exempting police pensioners from
penalties to which all other departmental pensioners
are exposed.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: A Maoriland painting of the
Man with the Donkey has been bought
in London for the S.A. Government, and
a dispute has arisen as to whether it is
the original. By all accounts, there are
as many paintings of the Man as he
had names. He enlisted in Westralia as
Simpson, was known in Gallipoli as
Murphy, and was really Kirkpatrick. Nor
was he an Australian by birth: he was
a ship’s fireman from Tyneside. To me
the most remarkable thing about the
noble story, considering the profound
impressjon it produced, is that no post-
humous decoration was issued to his
mother. Before the war ended, the late
Sydney “Sunday Times” raised a sum of
money for the mother, but it occurred to
no one to bespeak for her the badge of
courage that would have delighted her
far more.
“Oxmead”: Without butting into the
controversy about the genuineness of a
certain picture of “Simpson and the
Donkey,” I can’t help recalling some of
the verses, perhaps as vivid in their line
as any painting could be, that T. H.
(“Crosscut”) Wilson wrote on the same
subject. They appeared, I think, in the
Perth “Sunday Times” some time in
1916, and there was a touch of feeling
in them seldom found in more am-
bitious war poems. The writer told in
the Simplest of words of the lives which
Simpson saved:
Day in, day out, where the red death smote
they carried their precious freight,
And the sunshine glow is in hearts to-day that
had else been desolate.
Then he went on:
And I like to think that his trusty pal will
stand for a guerdon, too,
When the Last Post blows for the silent night
and the weary day is through,
In a land where the grass is always green and
the skies are always blue.
“Crosscut,” a well-known Westralian
freelance writer in the pre-war years, and
an occasional Bulletin contributor before
that, was with the Anzacs. Though well
past military age he managed to get
accepted for service by taking a dozen
years off his tally, which also involved
concealing the fact that he had been
with the N.S.W. Sudan contingent 30
years before. He died in Westralia seven
or eight years ago.
* * , * *
“Blackadder": N.S.W. Minister Dun-
ingham, weakening slightly on his origi-
nal attitude that all references to the bad
old days of the convict system and the
bushrangers will be verboten at next
year’s celebrations, has so far relented
as to announce that these gentry will not
be entirely ignored in the pageantry,
merely restricted to minor roles. “We
all know” says the Minister, “what a
great part some of the individual bush-
rangers and convicts played in the his-
tory of the State, and these are worthy of
recognition.” Which is quite true of a
good many convicts (or ex-convicts), no
doubt, but it would be interesting to
know what notable service to their native
or adopted country was performed by
any of our local editions of Claude
Duval and Dick Turpin.
❖ Jj: jjc *
“Gamma”: At a hotel in Pinnaroo
(S.A.) the management encourages god-
liness, but takes no chances. In every
bedroom there is a Bible on the table and
a bottle-opener religiously chained to
the doorpost.
Jjs “f*
“Fiona”: At our up-country picture
show, in the midst of a scene in which
the hero was rescuing the heroine from a
kidnapping gang, film activities were sus-
pended for a moment while a written re-
quest flashed forth: “If Nurse Blank is
in the audience will she please go at
once to Mrs. Brown, 7 Willow-street.”
While we sat in silence a stout lady
scrambled out and set off with a profes-
sional tread. If we had any doubt as to
the purport of the message it was re-
moved by a voice from the back of the
hall. “Well,” it remarked, “I hope it’s a
girl this time. They’ve got four boys
already.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The Great Australian
Bluff has had another outing in Adelaide.
A woman telephoned the detective office
that her house had been burgled. They
“ Ticket, please!”
found a wire screen down and three bed-
rooms ransacked ; also £3O-oad was gone
—genuinely gone —from a tin in the shed.
However, the official mind was not con-
vinced, and pressed her to tell the truth,
which finally proved to be : “I owe £4O
which my husband does not know about.
I wanted him to think that our money
had been stolen. It is in an envelope
behind the grate.” The outraged Law
laid a charge of “representing to the
police falsely and with knowledge of the
falsity.” Verdict, £7 and costs.
♦
“Hook”: Nudism, is it? Sailors of
the R.A.N. have been enjoying the cult
for years. As soon as a ship gets north
of Brisbane it is the signal to commence
sun-bathing on a large scale in non-
working hours. I recall one medical
officer who was a devoted believer in its
hygienic properties, his only stipulation
being that a sun helmet must be worn.
I’ll never forget the day he caught a
chap disobeying orders. “Put your hat
op, at once,” he roared to the offender ;
“I won’t have you running around
naked.”
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Stay-in strikers in a
Brisbane brewery have locked themselves
up with 500 dozen bottles and 200 hogs-
heads of beer. The strikers gave their
word that they would not cause any
“injury or damage” to property on the
premises, but an internal war is raging
as to whether the mere act of imbibing
it would constitute damage to the liquid,
Authorities would be easy to cite in favor
of consumption. That, for instance, of
the New Guinea cannibal who, having
listened intently to mission-teaching and
having been accused of unlawfully killing
a white man, glibly argued that there
could be no such thing as “killing” a
human, since the turning of one of them
into a comestible merely released his
immortal soul for transfer to a happier
land where it would remain indestruc-
tible. Unfortunately, ’Sonah took the
view that, on his own showing, hanging
was a highly desirable process for the
native, since it would merely enable him
to follow his victim and bask in his per-
petual gratitude.
Jj. jJj
“Lord Nelson”: At the City Court,
Melbourne, the other day a constable
who had presented summonses to a
dozen motorists for traffic offences was
too ill to attend. The prosecuting officei
asked for an adjournment of - all cases
for a month, but the P.M. decided that
it would be unfair to bring these men
back for a second time on comparatively
trivial ofiences, and charges against seven
motorists who appeared were forthwith
dismissed. The charges against the
other five who failed to appear were ad-
journed. One of those whose case had
been struck out wore an expansive grin
as he left the court. “You were lucky,”
i said to him. “Lucky,” he agreed; “I
was only up on four charges: driving
through a safety zone, driving against a
red light, driving without a license and
failing to give my correct name and
address.” We went halves in a lottery
ticket
* * * *
Will Lawson: In his criticism of the
seamanship in my yarn “The East
Wind,” “Hook” (B. 8/9/’37) seems to
confuse tramp steamers with sensitive
craft like yachts. The steamer was in
extreme danger; her engines had been
stopped, letting her fall off into the
trough. It was necessary to get her
head-on to the seas as quickly as pos-
sible by taking a lesser risk to avoid a
major one. I’ve been in steamers “flying
light” and rolling so that nobody expected
them to return to the perpendicular, and
what was done to the helm did not seem
S" andjo on Jill she can| ™{kL In
l,J e b,e h t
that a square-on rudder - p
than one set angle.
“Sextus”: Reference to “Westralia in
the days of the Six Families” (B.
15/9/’37) reminds me tfiat nobody I ever
met in Groperland 40 years ago was at
all clear as to who precisely the Six were,
The phrase was employed by an Eastra-
lian writer who published a book or
booklet in the early ’nineties entitled, as
far as I can remember, West Australia,
or What Six Families Did. I have for-
gotten his name, and I suspect his pro-
duction has long since been unprocur-
able, but his notion was that six clans
had dominated the destiny of the Cin-
derella colony before and since it ob-
tained responsible government. He—or
it may have been she—never specified the
half-dozen to be borne in mind, how-
ever, and I became used to hearing hot
arguments raging round it at Perth, Bun-
bury, Geraldton and even on goldfields
of those early days. No finality was
ever reached, but the most popular pick
was the Leakes, the Burts, the Shentons,
the Mongers, the Hamersleys and the
Parkers. Bigjohn Forrest, as The Bul-
letin used to style him, was not among
the eminent Six of his own right; he
only married into the charmed circle.
H 5 v s "‘*
“Mayor Once”: I wonder when the
SnSZ'S”
Its correct’ meaning implies rather the
o p pos j te — t | lc w hole district comprised
w ithin a town’s jurisdiction ; my diction-
tells me that it is sometimes used to
designate the corporation, or even the
p CO pi e Q f t he town. It puzzles me what
was wr with the good G i d English
word “village” to signify something not
jte a town or “hamlet” for an even
sma u er collection of houses. Both terms
were used hy early-day writers on Aus-
raha but they have almost gone out of
u§£
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: “Ex-Mister” (B.
8/9/’37) is not quite correct when he
sa y S that Brocklebank ships fly their
house flag on the foremast to signify that
the company is the oldest in the Empire,
The distinction was conferred upon the
line by Royal Charter after the Indian
Mutiny as a recognition of its services
| n conveying refugees to places of safety,
Two brothers, T. and J. Brocklebank,
started the enterprise in 1770. The
fj rs t link was between Liverpool and
Calcutta. Nowadays the firm’s fortunes
are merged with those of the more
powerful Anchor Line,
.......
“Ex-Mister”: Many a passenger has
noticed the unusual house flag of the P.
and q ji ners? w ith its four diagonal quar-
fers blue, white, red and yellow. They
( j a j e back a century, to the Portuguese
insurrection and t he Carlist War in Spain,
%£***s£*
“"i
r j er? un der command of Captain Jenkins,
A paddle-wheel steamer, the Royal Tar.
was added later to what became a very
profitable, if risky, business. The grate-
ful Queens granted the firm valuable
trading concessions, out of which grew
the Peninsular Navigation Co and then
the Oriental addition as the Medi-
terranean and Suez Isthmus traffic de-
veloped. They also gave permission for
the national colors to be shown, blue and
white for Portugal, and red and gold tor
Spain.
KNEES.
“It is understood that Paris has decreed a return
of the short, tight, sawn-off skirts of the early
’twenties,.exposing those charmless geographic points,
the knees.” —London cable.
Down from the hair, a woman’s crowning glory,
To dainty feet of fairy-like design,
A thousand bards have sung, each suo more,
Of features they were eager to define
As matchless in the female form divine
/Esthetic eyes to fascinate and please.
But when did ever lover pen a line
Of rhapsody about his lady’s knees?
There was a face, ’tis told, in dim and hoary
Homeric times which launched upon the brine
A thousand ships, and doomed to endings gory
Dead loads of warriors, cloven to the chine.
But would CEnone have been left to pine,
Forlorn of Paris, under Ida’s trees,
Had there been only legs her own to out-
shine?
Would they have launched a dinghy, Helen’s
knees?
Eyes, lips and necks are famed in song and
story
As charms around the hearts of men to
twine;
In various raptures written con amove
Sonnets to eyebrows, odes to waists combine.
Trim ankles, shapely calves, are saccharine
To poets (and some other things than these),
But who, from Ovid’s time to yours and mine,
Has ever limned in verse his sweetheart’s
knees?
Princes, and you who in some Gallic shrine
Frame fashion’s incontestable decrees,
Unto this orison your ears incline:
Spare us more close-ups of our women's
knees!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Spare Corp”: When Army Orders in-
structed all and sundry to refrain from
disparaging remarks about the Portu-
guese, our platoon officer, a conscientious
bloke, thought it his duty to supplement
them by a reference to the great tradi-
tions of our Iberian allies and a re-
minder that the trench-warfare to which
we were becoming habituated was new
to them. “They should be excused for
their breakaway,” he declared, “bad as
it was. The Portuguese will be found
all right in the long run.” Then up and
spoke one Gill. “Too right—in the long
run!” he said. “But do they want the
—— cows in Paris?”
* $ * *
“No. 1”: I don’t know who fired the
first shot in the Great War, but the
names of the first man wounded and of
the marksman who bagged him have
been preserved. The scene was on the
River Save, where Hungarian detach-
ments were on border duty. On a raft
"Whassamatter, can't you sleep ?”
was Franz Bartha, when a Serbian bullet
struck him. The firer was Ivan Miloj-
kovitch, who, after the assassin of the
Archduke Ferdinand, must be accorded
the dubious credit of starting the ball
rolling. Milojkovitch survived the war
and died quite recently, as did his victim.
* * * *
“Macann”: Far worse than the “S. M.
Herald’s” mix-up with picture captions
(B. 15/9/’37) was one that enabled news-
boys to profiteer a trifle with an issue of
the since-defunct Melbourne afternoon
“Sun.” One of the pictures involved in
that transposition of captions was of a
Toorak deb., due to attend a ball; the
other was of an old hulk which was going
into dock to have its underside scraped.
$ * * *
“Tid’apa”: A Sydney daily records
that a local engineer is experimenting
with expanding rudder blades as a
method of stopping momentum in ships.
Many endeavors have been made to fit
effective brakes to ships, and good re-
sults have been achieved on small craft,
but with anything of size the experiment
has been unsuccessful.
The force behind even
a slow-moving vessel is
tremendous, and even
with engines reversed a
ship can do a lot of
damage in a collision. I
once saw two cargo
boats come together in
Singapore’s Keppe
Harbor. Both were
hardly moving, yet
when the crash occurred
a 3000-ton Jap boat was
driven hard alongside
the wharf while the
other ripped through
her amidships, penetrat-
ing to the engine-room.
The ramming vessel was
an island trader of a
mere 800 tons.
jJ< #
“Kerys”: The only
decent sports ground
in our up-country town belongs tc
the local council, which, after repeated
petitions, erected an inadequate, jerry-
built contraption loftily referred to as
“the pavilion.” The opening of the
structure coincided with the beginning
of the cricket season, and the public
attended in force. The Mayor did the
opening, and had managed to mention
“the pavilion” a dozen times when he
paused and made an effort to find another
word for the building. “This ’ere—this
’ere,” he mumbled, when a weary sug-
gestion came up from the outer: “Shed.
George, shed. This ’ere shed. Get on.”
His Worship got on, but the pavilion
has been “the shed” ever since.
* # # *
“Warrigal”: “Ranker” (B. 8/9/’37) is
not quite correct in his statement that
“many” A.I.F. officers rose from the
ranks. With the exception of a handful
of Duntrooners and an odd ex-imperial,
every officer had served as a private at
some stage of his career, and the same
applies in the militia forces to the present
day. Far from inspiring the promoted
one’s comrades with uneasiness, the
mounting of a pip is normally a matter
for congratulation and a direct inspira-
tion to every man in the ranks. My own
experience in the C.M.F., from lance-
jack to company commander, is that a
man is judged entirely on what he car-
ries under his tunic and cap, not on his
sleeves and shoulder-straps.
* * * #
“8.N.G.”: When I was a youngster in an
Old Country marine barracks men with
experience on the West Coast of Africa
often spoke of the “luck of a red-haired
man” who was credited with immunity
from malaria and other ills. Years after-
wards I was camped on the Buna Bay
(Papua) track when a storekeeper, travel-
ling in the opposite direction, spent the
night with me. I said I had a touch
of fever, and he remarked that it
had never bothered him. I asked him
how long he’d been in the country. “Six
years,” he told me. While brooding over
the injustice of things I happened to
“You coves Want t' be more careful with detonators. I just found one
mislaid in me pipe."
look up. He had removed his topee, re-
vealing a crop of bright red hair. He
was the only white man I ever met in
Papua who did not have his go of fever
to schedule.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: A curious waterside
feature of the U.K. to-day, even in re-
mote fishing havens of the West Country,
is the presence of piles of metal junk of
all descriptions, from doorknobs to fac-
tory smokestacks. The rearmament ac-
tivities offer a good market for any kind
of scrap metal, and some unexpected
sources have been drawn upon, even
mediaeval ironwork of great historical
value. Quaintly enough, Germany has
contributed hundreds of tons of steel, re-
smelted from the Scapa Flow sunken
warships', to the structure of the Queen
Mary, and the supply is still going into
the hull of her sister ship now building.
More of it has been, by latest advices,
shaped into British destroyers which are
about to chase some of the piratical
Mediterranean submarines.
* * * *
“Cherub’: The best ad. for honey I
have yet seen comes from a man who
doesn’t keep bees, Captain Craig, the
world’s foremost deep-sea photographer.
Craig and his men are planning
to remove the treasure lying at
the bottom of the ocean in the
strongroom of the Lusitania, a
pursuit for which a man has to
train more stringently than for any
other occupation. Breakfast con-
sists of a glass of orange juice
and l|lb. of honey in the comb,
warranted to prevent the oxygen
from burning the tissues of the
divers in the artificial atmosphere
below. When they come up they are
given half a tumbler of honey, lemon
juice and rain water. Their body tem-
peratures have generally fallen 13 degrees
(to 85deg.) when they emerge, and this
mixture warms them up, and after a
massage they retire to bed. Tobacco,
alcohol and all mixed foods are taboo.
* * * *
“K.S.”: A. J. Cronin’s attack on
Harley-street specialists in a recent novel
reminds me that the thoroughfare’s medi-
cal reputation dates only from the close
of the Victorian era. Before that it was
the haunt of artists, actors, literary
persons and politicians. Turner and
Allan Ramsay lived there. Gladstone
hung out almost opposite Turner from
1875-82 and occupied his leisure hours in
studying Homer and Horace. There,
too, Lord Walsingham was burned to
death in his sleep and his lady leapt from
an upper floor to death, watched by
thousands. It was at Cavendish House —
at the corner of the street—that the
Prince Regent set the newspapers hum-
ming by cutting dead the Lady Jersey of
his period at a soiree.
* * * *
“Porcelli”: The suggestion that a few
bullocks roasted whole would add to
the gaiety of our 150th birthday party
reminds me that the word “barbecue,”
nowadays regarded as a pure American-
ism, was Anglicised long before the U.S.
emerged from its swaddling-clothes. Not
that it is Celtic or Saxon or Norman; it
was imported apparently from Guiana,
South America, in Queen Elizabeth's
spacious days, but after being acclima-
tised and dying out in England crossed
the northern Atlantic to find a new home.
Webster defines it as “the roasting or
broiling of a hog or ox or any large
animal for a feast,” and quotes in sup-
port a line from Pope:
Send me, gods, a whole hog barbecued.
As the Twickenham bard was a con-
firmed dyspeptic the prayer hardly looks
a sincere one, but I pass on the reminder
that pork can be barbecued as well as
beef to Mr. Dunningham, whose time
appears to be largely occupied in devis-
ing new stunts for our celebrations. The
roasting whole of succulent pigs, instead
of tough bullocks, strikes me as an idea
worth consideration, as long as the
crackling isn’t too hard.
"‘Wah”: Mention of the souveniring of
cherry-stones, cigarette fags and drinking
glasses associated with royalty or with
film tin-gods (B. 8/ 9/ ’37) reminds me of
our late King’s visit to Toowoomba (Q.)
in 1920. The moment the guests had
filed out of the banquet hall, a female
attendant rushed to the table and, seizing
the glass that the Prince had used, drained
the sacred heel-taps.
$ * *
“El V.”: When Ward, M.P., charged
Joe Lyons the other day with suppressing
information about the “discovery” of oil
in New Guinea, the “punishment” was a
brief holiday, without loss of pay. How
differently they dealt with such matters
a century ago! In that stirring period
Lord Winchilsea —one of whose family
gave the name Finch-Hatton to a N.Q.
town —wrote to the press to say that the
Duke of Wellington, then Prime Min-
ister, had
been guilty of a mean subterfuge con-
trived that he might, the more effectually
under a cloak of some outward show of
zeal, carry on his insidious designs for the
infringement of our liberties and the intro-
duction of Popery into every department
of State.
Wellington asked for an apology, and
when he did not get it demanded, though
he was 60, “that satisfaction which a
gentleman has a right to require and
which a gentleman never refuses to give.”
A cold morning saw the pair ensconsed
in a quiet corner, with the Duke remark-
ing to his second: “Now, then, Hardinge.
look sharp ... no time to waste.
Dammit! Don’t stick him near the ditch.
If I hit him he might tumble in.” The
Duke hit his opponent’s coat. Winchilsea
fired in the air, then apologised in writ-
ing. The Duke rode off to breakfast
with Mrs. Arbuthnot. He afterwards
called on the King to remark “I have
been fighting a duel this morning,” and
his Majesty said he was glad of it.
THE DANCER.
•■At the close of a Labor function in the Ashfield
(Sydney) Town Hall, Mr. J. T. Lang took part
with 300 others in a barn dance.”
The hardiest spruiker wearies of expending
His force in exercises of the tongue;
The toughest bow, it’s easy comprehending,
Will snap unless it’s now and then unstrung.
Besides, it’s good to see the great unbending
And watch the old disporting with the young.
Though at most pastimes Lang may look
askance
He still, it seems, can foot it in a dance.
Some politicians like to spend their leisure
On links where golfers struggle to and fro;
Others account it for a keener pleasure
Flies that may tempt the speckled trout to
throw;
But few I’ve known were game to “tread a
measure”
Or trip it on the “light fantastic toe.”
For slowly-stiffening limbs invite mischance
When they’re participating in a dance.
But for a recipe to clear the vapors
From out a brain bemused with hustings
clang,
The drudgery of Parliamentary papers
And party strife’s incessant Sturm und Drang,
There’s nothing beats Terpsichorean capers
In the bright lexicon of Mr. Lang.
This sturdy warrior sheds his shield and lance
To find his recreation in a dance.
Could Curtin do as much (it leaves me doubt-
ing),
Scullin, or any others of the type
Who up and down the land will soon be spout-
ing
1 heir firm conviction that the time is ripe
For giving Lyons and his crowd an outing?
It’s undeniable they all can pipe
With vim and vigor and exuberance.
But is there any, barring Lang, can dance ?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
THE
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
10 for
20 for 16
D3S2
POLITICAL POINTS
In its hurry to get away from Can-
berra, the U.A.P.-U.C.P. Government
left a lot of unfinished symphonies for
the next Parliament; but the Newnes
shale-oil measure was slammed on the
Statute Book. Some Ministerialists
didn’t like it, and at present no one can
say whether the country will get value for
its money ; but the thing is good election-
eering. Indeed, the Macquarie elements
that want Government expenditure at
Newnes may, in view of Labor’s doubt-
ful attitude, be sufficient to put young
Lawson in again, especially as some of
the Labor people are not keen on the
Lang man, Luchetti.
Mr. Tunnecliffe (Labor) gives Mr.
Dunstan (Premier, C.P.) notice to quit.
As a result of the election Labor will
be the strongest party in the Assembly.
It will not be a case of the tail wagging the
dog; the dog will wag the tail.
At other moments these odd allies pro-
test that they stand four-square to all the
winds that blow, or something like that.
Anthony Eden’s international patrol
in the Mediterranean seems a character-
istic Anthony Eden improvisation. Ger-
many and Italy are out of it, and Por-
tugal received no invitation —which
seems a rather stupid slight to Britain’s
oldest ally. But the Russians are parties
to the thing, though confined to the
Black Sea; also the Gyppos and the
Greeks. It seems a somewhat hazardous
extension of “collective security.” Britain
furnishes the security ; Greeks and Rus-
sians do the collecting.
Moscow is in a great state about
“piracy in the Mediterranean.” Piracy!
It suggests Dick Turpin denouncing Cap-
tain Kidd.
Japan is not yet buying wool, and
prices are down, and “S. M. Herald” has
suffered a lapse of memory. It recalls
that “the ill-starred trade-diversion policy
caused Japan’s temporary withdrawal
from the market last year.” It wasn’t an
“ill-starred” policy then: it was one of
the noblest works of the tin gods at Can-
berra.
Disgusted with one particular result,
suspicious of others and fed up with the
whole business, the S.A. Labor confer-
ence has declared all Federal and State
pre-selection ballots null and void and
kicked pre-selection into the gutter. With
the Commonwealth election due on
October 23 the decision is heroic, but the
public appreciates this sort of heroism —
it gets so much of the other thing. Tas.
Labor long ago realised that pre-selection
is a handicap to the party, and the reali-
sation has been forced on S.A. Labor in
circumstances without precedent.
Brisbane is staging the latest stay-in
strike, the scene being a brewery. The
parties are members of the Liquor Trades
Union, who demand the 40-hour week
on the ground that “the industry is
making excess profits.” A brewery is
certainly a more comfortable place to
camp in than coalmines or gasworks, but
the strike is dashed awkward for Queens-
land Labor with an election coming on.
Especially as it is feared that Govern-
ment railwaymen, who are always dis-
satisfied, may imitate it.
Parker Moloney has done a lot of
travelling since he quitted schoolteaching
to become a politician. He first went to
Indi (Vic.), and crossed the Murray to
Albury when Hume called him. After
six years of wandering in the wilderness,
it was thought that he would settle down
at Footscray as successor to the late
Prendergast, M.L.A. “The executive”
selected him, and comrades who wanted
the seat themselves protested that
Moloney should have had to go to a
ballot. He turned in the nomination,
and “the executive” picked another man,
Mullens, who has a U.A.P. opponent.
During the roaring faction fight of
1931, when Scullin was “Radio Jimmy”
to the Beasley group, now united with
what is left of the Scullins in one grand
sweet “unity” song, the leader’s long-
distance communications to his “fol-
lowers” generally wound up with the
formula “Moloney concurs.” Sometimes
it was “Brennan and Moloney concur,”
but when Brennan was unavailable it
was “Moloney concurs.” It all came
back to memory when “Mr. Moloney
explained at length his withdrawal as a
candidate for Footscray.” The explana-
tion was merely a lot of variations on
the old theme, “Moloney concurs.”
Six or twelve months ago if it had
been necessary to collect in one place
the members of the Cabinet thrust on
Victoria Maoriland would have had to
be combed for one or more. The “Con-
“Tell me truly, Anthony, do I LOOK like a mug?”
, jj„ br ht thdm all tO .
f Ser and not aman-nor perhaps a
’ —was missing at Eaglehawk
what he was
leased to call his policy speech. The
Eaglehawk Council fed them and, per-
haps with a far-off memory of a school
poem Deputy-Premier Old mentioned
that he was born at Dingee—at Dingee
up the line. This soldier of the legion has
Cocky and U.A.P. opponents and is con-
sidered in some danger.
bas been tard j ly admitted that there
5J g 94 registe j. e d unemployed in
Ns w ’ and al f along t h er e have been
unemD j’ e d who have never registered.
And 2 4i a re not provided with
rationed 'relief work.” This when the
Sydney Government has been spending
more loan money than all the other
States put together, and raising a stiff
unemployed-relief tax—though the un-
employed see little of the proceeds. Now
even Ministerialists are wondering
whether the State wouldn’t get along
better with fewer loans and less taxation.
In the N.S.W. Industrial Commission’s
new award for shops, employment of
female labor is restricted to 50 p.c. in
certain specified departments, and “male
rates of pay” are fixed for other depart-
ments in which women may still be
employed. The sale of female finery
they are to have to themselves. Even
so, the award will mean some displace-
ment of female labor; and girls must
live.
Put it to Premier Ogilvie’s credit that
he has refused to throw up a legislative
wall round Tasmania to keep out chil-
dren from the State which has a little
infantile paralysis and a lot of scare:
Speaking as a lawyer, and on the advice
of the best constitutional authorities in
Australia, I say that even if the Parliament
of this State enacted a measure prohibiting
the entry of persons from Victoria the ban
would not hold good for five minutes.
Such a measure has been enacted and
enforced by the Parliament of the State
which itself had 463 cases in 1931-32,
chiefly at the expense of the people of
the Riverina, already plagued with Mel-
bourne and Sydney transport prohibi-
tions. Just as well for the Sydney Gov-
ernment that it hasn’t been challenged.
Perth has lost its Lord Mayor Poyn-
ton, who is g.m. of the Midland Railway
Co. and has achieved the miracle of
making it pay. Poynton is interested in
p riva te buses and has no use for the
Government trolley buses which are
taking the place of Government trams,
and he doesn’t want to be concerned in
a conflict between interests and convic-
tions. It might be thought that the Gov-
ernment would pay some heed to the
advice of a man who has made transport
show profits in adverse circumstances
the Midland railway has to compete, on
unfavorable terms, with a Government
line—but Governments are not built
tbat way -
Notwithstanding the two years’ agree-
ment signed last month, Reds in the
Miners’ Federation, with typical Red
effrontery and bad faith, tried to work
up a strike in Broken Hill Prop, pits for
a six-hour day. B.H.P. dryly replied that
the demand was really for a four-hour
day and that it would hold the Federation
to its agreement. A 10 p.c. levy on wages
was part of the plan, which was promptly
rejected by mass meetings of miners and
a delegates’ convention. A bad bump
for the Red gentlemen, but they must
be getting used to bad bumps.
Mr. Have-a-heart’s resignation has
been demanded by 8000 Albertans
gathered at a Calgary meeting. In the
last (or second-last) phase, Mr. Have-a-
heart has been carrying out the instruc-
tions of Douglas, issued from some funk-
hole in Britain, and that has infuriated
many Canadians even more than the non-
delivery of the “national dividend.” To
them it is British dictation in a new and
insufferable form.
Roosevelt’s Supreme Court troubles
did not end with the failure of his attempt
to pack the Bench. There being a vacant
Judgeship, he decided to appoint Senator
Robinson, but Senator Robinson died.
Another gentleman was substituted, and
he lost no time in getting himself sworn
in. Now it has been discovered that the
other gentleman belonged to or was at
least an active supporter of the Ku-Klux-
Klan.
Dunstan has had a lot to say about
the “unprecedented fact in Victorian
politics” of 11 of the 20 C.P. Leg. Assem-
bly members being unopposed. The
proportion wouldn’t be nearly so high
but for (1) Dunstan’s “conditiohdl”
agreement with Labor (he shouldn’t
flaunt that in the faces of too many
country electors), and (2) his appeal to
Cockies in general not to come out
against Cocky members. The Country
party used to stand for the open go ;
Dunstan and Hocking have introduced
pre-selection.
The Valencia Government and the
Sydney “D.T.” have sunk a pirate sub-
marine. They had it “lying on the sea-
floor of Cartagena” with the crew “tap-
ping on the hull for assistance,” and the
“D.T.” has recalled “other cases in which
members of submarine crews have
rescued themselves or been rescued after
having spent some time on the bottom.”
In this case there has been no rescue, and
“other quarters report” that the whole
thing was a furphy ; but if furphies were
vetoed, what would the papers do for
foreign “news”?
One rotten feature of the chaos of
income-taxes is the arbitrary taxation it
leads to. For example, this is an Adel-
aide “ruling” (the “system” spawns “rul-
ings”) regarding taxation of profits
earned, or supposed to be earned, in the
inter-State transport trade:
The amount attributable to S.A. derived
from transactions in this class of business
is to be determined in accordance with
' regulations, or, if there be no regulation,
by the Commissioner in such manner as
he deems just.
In other words, “if there be no regula-
tion” the Commissioner (there are seven
Commissioners) makes one to suit the
case. And if his arbitrary assessment is
unjust, the victim has no redress.
Prof. Mauldon, State Labor’s Eco-
nomic Adviser, reports that “Tasmania
has reached a stage of prosperity com-
parable with, if not better than, that of
the best years between the war and the
depression.” In some of those years it
got no special grant from the Common-
wealth ; last year it got £600,000, and this
year it is getting £575,000. Not far short
of £3 a head. British income tax, high
as it is, yields only about £6 a head.
Bishop Burgmann, that very effusive
Friend of the Soviet, has been taken to
task by a church paper. All the cocksure-
ness oozed out of him when he was
placed on the defensive ; he was reduced
to pleading that he had “never been a
Communist, although I regard the Rus-
sian revolution as a very important
event,” and that he had a devouring “de-
sire for friendship with the Russian
people (and with all peoples).” Nations
mentioned in brackets will please accept
this (the only) intimation.


ALL IN THE DAZE WORK.
“Girls passing through the adolescent stage should be allowed periods for daydreaming, said Dr. Boyd, of Glasgow, at the New Education Conference.”— Sydney “D.T.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 18« A
1 licorporatGd in South Australia, with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, VV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. •. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. • •
Reserve Fund .. • • • • • •
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in S'outh Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
SAFETY DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
Champions
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
¥
m
t*£b
*&
vvV
|fP
cn a
ft
n
<°Vy
An Empire product-
made in Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
SAFETY experts say that the
car that can dart out of the
way of another is able to
avoid many accidents. This
calls for quick acceleration.
Keep your car alert. Install
new Champions every year.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Randolph Bedford has ended a 20
years’ association with the Queensland
Parliament, first as M.L.C. and the last
14 as member for Warrego, to contest
the Maranoa seat in the Federal House.
Randolph’s advent into the House of
Greybeards 20 years ago was never for-
given by the diehards. “You might
show me round,” he whispered to the
least humorous-looking of the lot;
“where is the bribery department?”
Consul-General for Japan T. Waka-
matsu graduated in law at the Tokio
University in 1914, and entered business
before joining up with the Foreign Office
in J 921 as Commercial Secretary to the
The Japanese Consul-General.
Japanese Embassy in London. Returning
to Japan three years later he became
secretary to the Bureau of Commercial
Affairs, and remained there until he came
to Australia last year.
H.M.A.S. Moresby is to bring Dr.
Donald Thomson south in a few weeks’
time after 18 months’ work as an anthro-
pologist among the Arnhem Land abos.
His luggage is in a suitcase and a brown-
paper parcel ; his exhibits will weigh
four tons. What he will have to say to
the Government on abo. policy in the
North will weigh a lot more.
Thomas Somerville has just been
elected president of Strathfieldsaye (Vic.)
Shire Council for the seventh time.
Somerville —he’s 86 —has been in the
council for 49 years. When he had been
there 30 years he was opposed for the
first time ; no one has tried it on since.
Latest to join in the migration of Aus-
tralian scientists is Dr. F. G. Holdaway,
who goes to the University of Hawaii as
entomologist. Holdaway got his science
degree at Queensland Uni. in 1925, and
was appointed as lecturer in zoology at
Adelaide. A few years ago he made a
trip to the United States and Europe for
the C.S. and I.R.
Bill Holmesby, who prospected S. Aus.
from Cape Jervis to Angaston has passed
on at 88. Holmesby was one of a party
of four who met with disaster during the
Tanami boom 28 years ago. They set
out with camels from Oodnadatta and
got to within 170 miles of their objective,
when water gave out. The leader, W.
Frayne, perished ; the remainder of the
party staggered back to the overland
telegraph line, where they were rescued.
Official recorder of the Queensland
Cricket Association since 1914 Herbert
Wetzig was responsible for the statistical
side of a history of Queensland cricket
which he was compiliiig with E. N.
Hutcheon. Neither of them lived to see
it published. Ten years ago, when
Queensland entered the Sheffield Shield
competitions, Wetzig edited a record of
Queensland cricket from 1857. He had
been in the accounts branch of Brisbane
G.P.O. all his life, and the end came
at 50.
“Sailor Once”: Admiral C. G. Dicken,
who has passed on in England at 83,
was Lewis A. Beaumont’s flag-captain
in 1901. In the flagship Royal Arthur
Dicken picked up Lord Hopetoun, Aus-
tralia’s first Governor-General, from a
P. and O. ship at Albany (W.A.), and
brought him across for the opening of
the first Commonwealth Parliament.
Tom Roberts’s painting of the opening
ceremony contains a speaking likeness of
Dicken, as it also does of Admiral Beau-
mont and lately-dead Hamnet Share.
The death, at 60, of Keegan, N.S.W.
M. for 23 years, recalls Lang’s first
Cabinet smash in 1927. The party
seemed safe for recess when Lang de-
termined on lifting Tom Treble to the
Endowment Commission at £l9OO a
year. Cabinet objecting, Lang secured
a commission from Governor De Chair
and selected a new team, Keegan being
placed in charge of Local Government.
This Cabinet was the only one in the
history of N.S.W. that never met Parlia-
ment. Of its new members only Davies
and Horsington are still in the Assembly.
Stokes and Gosling met defeat, while
death has claimed Cruickshank, Stuart
Robertson, Lysaght, Ratcliffe and now
Keegan.
Tom Sheehan, Labor-elect for Cook,
N. is an engine-driver who has had
some experience in municipal politics.
Cook is a safe Labor seat, and Sheehan,
carrying the ticket, looks like
replacing Jock Garden. J. H.
Catts held Cook for 15 years,
giving way to young Ned Riley,
who in turn was supplanted by
Garden. Labor factionalism
effected the change on each oc-
casion, and Cook will be run-
ning true to form next month.
Colin Stephen, 18 years chairman of
the A.J.C., has run his own last race.
His greatest work was to codify the
rules of racing so that they would apply
throughout Australia; he completed it
about three years ago. His greatest in-
terest off the turf was the Canonbury
home, established by the A.J.C. at
Darling Point, Sydney, first for returned
men and later for children. He was a
member of the Sydney legal firm
Stephen, Jaques and Stephen, in which
his eldest son, A.E., will carry on the
family traditions.
A Papuan prospector:
Frank Pryke, who has just panned his last
prospect in Sydney, could fairly claim to have
made digging history. The Yodda and Gira,
Papua’s two most noted alluvial fields, had
been located before he came on the scene,
but his discovery of the Lakekamu on the
opposite side of the Main Range put the dying
industry on its feet again for some years.
After the Lakekamu, Pryke and his two
brothers, Dan and Jim, combed the country
behind it up to the New Guinea border. He
led the so-called Rupert Clarke expedition up
the Fly, and, with another Papuan old-timer,
Leslie Joubert, pegged out a sluicing claim on
Koranga Creek which put both on Easy-street.
Pryke eventually sold out, but could never
keep long away from the old game, continu-
ally revisiting the field from Sydney until ill-
health anchored him. A man of commanding
personality and spotless integrity, Pryke looked
with horror on the newspaper advertisement so
often lavished on alleged pioneers and explorers
from Pitt-street.
The Rev. D. Morgan Jones, dead at
74, was a well-known figure from Thurs-
day Island, where he was a tutor at the
Bishop’s College, to Goondiwindi on the
Q.-N.S.W. border. He was one of the
few Anglican clergymen in Australia who
could preach a fluent sermon in Welsh.
His son Claude served with the A.1.F.,
as did both his daughters, one of whom
married H. H. Dixon, now coadjutor-
bishop of Brisbane.
Tall, dark, spare Val McNally recently
went behind the final curtain in Rock-
hampton General Hospital. A versatile
character actor, scenic artist, lightning-
landscape-act man, his Rickards circuit
eight-minute turn at £4O a week was the
best seen of its kind. When t.b. got him
he turned to newspaper and screen ad.
illustrating and artistic signwriting. Mac
was barely 50 at the end.
Cyril Ward, second baronet of the
line founded by Joseph Ward, twice
Maoriland’s Prime Minister, at present
visiting Sydney, went into his father’s
business at Invercargill when he finished
his schooling at St. Pat.’s College, Wel-
lington, and Lincoln Agricultural College.
After some business experience he went
to England to join the staff of the Man-
chester Ship Canal Co., and returned to
M.L. as that concern’s representative.
Later he joined up with the Federal S.S.
line, Wellington, and is now a partner
in J. J. Kinsey and Co., Christchurch,
shipping agents. He has served as Vice-
CYRIL, the Son of Joseph.
Consul for Belgium at Christchurch for
many years, and is a Chevalier of the
Order of Leopold 11. Unlike his father
and his brother Vincent, he has never
dabbed in politics.
Six years ago R. M. Ansett started out
with a partly-paid-for motor-car and lots
of ambition ; now he runs a Hamilton
(Vic.) garage, operates a Western District
transport service, and is head of a com-
pany that has just acquired three Lock-
heed ’planes for its Melbourne-Sydney,
Broken Hill-Melbourne and Melbourne-
Mildura-Adelaide air services. Ansett’s
first venture was a road service from
From the Road to the Air.
Melbourne to Hamilton. Later he ex-
tended into the Western District, and was
going strong when Vic.’s Traffic Strangu-
lation Board interfered and gave him the
idea of going into the air business. He’s
28, and a pilot himself.
“El V.” on a cheerful scientist:
A. J. Ewart, dead at 65 in Melbourne, was
Australia’s most adventurous teacher of botany,
a Liverpudlian who worked himself via a free
scholarship and half a dozen universities to the
position of deputy-professor at Birmingham
(Eng.), and then to the Chair of Botany at Mel-
bourne University, which he filled for 32 years.
I first saw him in Central Australia and gave
him a lift. As he mounted at Alice Springs the
professor began to sing. He sang as we charged
sandhills, carolled as he helped to pump tyres
four or five times a day, raised a madrigal
when we got stuck on a S. Australian railway
bridge, sent up pasans of praise every morning
as he had a full bath in a regulation half-pint
of half-frozen water. The last we saw of him at
Hawker (S.A.) he was still in tune. In civilisa-
tion he looked like a sedate, prosperous solici-
tor, and nobody would have recognised him as
one of the best mates a man could have on a
long, rough lead.
While M. T. Lloyd, managing director
of C.0.R., is in England his job will fall
to R. R. Pugh. Pugh first had a Colonial
Office appointment to the staff of the
High Commissioner for the Western
Pacific in Fiji, and then went to the
British Solomons as collector of customs.
For more than 80 years the name of
Holyman has meant something in the
Australian shipping world ; it now enjoys
the same significance in the field of air
transport. Ivan Holyman is a grandson
of the William Holyman who founded
the Launceston shipping firm that still
works Tasmanian and southern mainland
ports. When Ivan’s brother, the late
Captain B. C. Holyman, returned from
the war as an Air Force officer, the firm
started Tasmanian Aerial Services, which
became Holyman’s Airways Pty. and
last year was absorbed by Australian
National Airways. A.N.A. has now com-
bined with Airlines of Australia to run
the one-day Adelaide-Brisbane service.
Ivan is not a pilot himself, but he knows
airline organisation.


£8!
m
m
m
m
m
m
%
u
mm
m
m
m
<? ***m
%
*fis
mm
STATE EXPRESS
333
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
W<
■Ki
'</
9 Bd. : 18 !/■ : 27 1/6. Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties.
6158-5.7


ABORIGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Old-timer”: The congregation in the
little church of a small sou’-west N.S.W.
town raised its eyebrows and exchanged
glances full of strange conjecture when,
lor the first time in history, old Battler
Rogers was noticed among them. After
church the parson was at the door
to greet each one as he or she came put.
He seized Battler’s horny fist enthusiasti-
cally, and expressed gratification at see-
ing him there. Battler mumbled some-
thing, but kept his shrewd old eyes on
one person. “Awfully glad,” babbled
the parson, “some latent awakening
some inner prompting —brought you
here?” “Maybe,” stammered the Battler,
“but you’ll have t’ excuse me. Got fi
catch him [he indicated a man near by] :
cow owes me seven quid f’r a horse.
Been trying t’ catch him f’r weeks ; knew
the blanky wowser’d be here.”
* * * *
“Lunar”: I had to work on the
Mackay Harbor (Q.) job to learn that
their evil appearance is not the worst
feature of mangrove-trees. A large gang
was employed in clearing the scrub, and
frequently men were taken off to hos-
pital blind and in great suffering. The
sap of the mangrove was the cause, the
tiniest drop in the eye being enough.
When I left two of the gang were still
drawing compensation six months aftei
they had first become victims.
* * * *
“Terrinjal”: A shot in the knee of
each forefoot from a revolver would
have immobilised the elephant that
killed his trainer in Parkes (N.S.W.) re-
cently. He could have been destroyed
afterwards. This method was commonly
employed by the Boers when elephant-
shooting. Apparently no one concerned
knew that the first bump in the fore-
head above the trunk covers the brain of
an elephant. A shot from a .303 through
this would be fatal.
* * * *
“Bundeena”: It would be more of a
mystery if the kookaburra did damage
his beak during his transit through glass
(B. 8/9/’37). Jack’s beak is built for
heavy work. Nothing delights the female
of the species more than to set Jacky
on the job of bashing out a desirable
egg-repository in a white-ants’ nest on a
limb. She perches on a near-by limb
and chortles encouragement as the boss
makes the initial dash, his hefty beak
thudding hard on the- nest. Time after
time Jacky flies full speed at the selected
spot, the force of the impact at times
almost causing him to come to earth in
a forced landing. One bird I watched
put in a week’s solid work before the
cavity met with the approval of his
missus.
* $ * *
“Stralia”: I’d like to see an Austra-
lian snake putting over the hypnotic
powers generally conceded him. Cer-
tain foreign ones may, but our Joe has
no idea of the art. The immovable and
transparent scale over the eye is prob-
ably responsible for the origin of the
yarn. It gives him the glassy stare which
appeals to the imagination as being hyp-
notic. Other than being interested in the
forked tongue which Joe keeps flicker-
ing when stalking, the intended prey
takes no notice whatsoever of the
wriggler. I’ve known a sparrow to preen
its feathers on the back of a three-foot
tiger-snake, and apparently enjoy the
ride when the wriggler started to move.
* * * *
“No. 1”: Almost every type of bed-
ding is seen in the gear of swagmen,
motorists, hikers and drovers, but not
one in a thousand ever thinks of carting
around a string hammock. Nothing is
more portable on the track, easier to
erect or more comfortable to sleep in.
A ground-sheet over the top on the wet-
test night gives far better protection from
rain than on the ground, and nothing
is required underneath. Even elderly
“ ’Ands up all in favor of 'andin' the dough to a couple o' blokes Wot needs it."
female relatives have been able to crawl
into my camping equipment when the
"hammock was swung with a couple of
feet clearance from the ground, a point
itself often overlooked. In a permanent
canvas camp hammocks can be folded up
neatly out of the way during the day-
time and quickly re-erected at dusk, still
giving traffic clearance underneath. Even
sailors don’t seem to bring the idea
ashore with them.
* * * *
“Baldy”: “Tadron” (B. 8/9/’37) could
cramp his bull’s style by hanging a bit of
leather belting down his forehead from
the horns to cover his eyes. Bashan
could then still see to graze, but would
have to lift his head right up to see out
under the visor. As he has to have his
head down to charge, he won’t charge
at all; and he’ll be easier on gates and
fences, because he can’t superintend the
destruction personally. Sound in theory
and proved in practice.
!|! * * *
“Mulgo”: Among the most ancient
beer shrines of the inland, I nominate
the old pub at Menindie (N.S.W.), which
was dispensing refreshments when the
north-west corner of the Ma State was
the Never Never and peopled only by
blacks. In its bar-room Burke and Wills
drank success to their exploring venture,
and there Brahe lingered for months and
wrecked the expedition. It was the step-
ping-off place of pioneer squatters when
going into the unknown to take up runs.
It was Sid Kidman’s headquarters when
he was bullock-driving on the Darling,
and from there, when Mount Browne
broke out, he took a load of diggers’
swags—at £2 a swag —to the thirsty
corner. Once there gathered under its
roof three offshoots of famous Old-World
writers—Ted Dickens (son of Charles),
Fred Trollope (son of Anthony) and a
descendant of Francis Bacon. The peak
times of the old pub were in the boom
davs of the Darling River shipping.
* * *
“Maryborough”: Regarding Mags
Maryborough Show Jiorsemanship (B.
1/9/’37), he forgot to mention another
thrilling exhibition given by the young
lad, Mac Blackley—a round over the
hurdles at full gallop on a blood mare
(by Bill Kelso’s old galloper Matouree)
without bridle or saddle, dismounting
and mounting after every jump. Black-
ley and a lad named Noakes were en-
gaged by the Brisbane Show people to
give trick riding both day and night. It
needs only a little encouragement by
agricultural societies, and Australian
boys will easily excel the highly-paid
Yanks and Cossacks.
* * * *
“Unity”: The wagtail doesn’t stop at
discarded feathers in his building opera-
tions ; a few bunches of fur make a
really comfortable interior. Cats are the
handiest source, and as puss doesn’t shed
her coat copiously enough he assists by
removing a tuft or so as required. Puss
bears the removal as she does all Willie’s
attacks with a mixture of rage and
resignation.
*** - *
“Werrimee”: Can’t follow “Upsan
Downs’s” theory that trees in jungles are
never struck by lightning because the
electricity is broken up by numerous
watervines (B. 1/9/’37). There are hun-
dreds of acres of jungle with not a water-
vine in them, and many a wide patch
with no vines of any kind. The safety
trees in an open forest are the soft-
woods with dense tops and the bush
apple-tree ( Angophora ), which has a
broad leafy top-—that seems to explain
the immunity of jungle trees. Every
patch of dense scrub has a thick canopy
of green leaves, and lightning is not
attracted by a carpet of leaves any more
than it is by green grass. There are
records of dry grass being fired by light-
ning, but the dazzler first struck a forest
tree.
S|! £ -f ! * !
“Warren”: Britain is still battling with
the rabbit problem. Someone has just
discovered that contractors —some of
whom undertake to deliver as much as
four or five tons to market weekly—have
long been surreptitiously restocking
trapped country with does before pass-
ing on, a familiar enough trick with Aus-
tralian trappers these many years past.
Attempts to abate the nuisance are
greatly hampered by anti-cruelty societies,
which object to steel traps and other
appliances that do not slay the pest out-
right. Then there is the champion of the
proletariat who refers to bunny as the
poor man’s venison, and raises Cain at
the prospect of cheap food rising in price
as the rabbo grows scarcer.
* * * *
“Nark”: It irks me to dispel the inno-
cent illusions of “Nikko (B. 8/9/ 37)
when he tells of his adventures with the
pretty baby quails and their doting
mother. The quail matron, I regret to
sav, is an abandoned hussy far worse
than one would think possible. As soon
as she has laid a quota of eggs she flies
with the first available co-re. and leaves
the hapless papa to hatch the eggs and
bring up the family. She repeats the
dose several times during the season,
until the countryside is dotted with dis-
illusioned husbands dragging hungry and
insistent offspring after them.
* * * *
“Dingo”: Dogs do seem to have a
derry on uniforms (B. 8/9/’37). My own
tyke flies at my throat as soon as he sees
me in a kilt, and what should be a
peaceful progress to the railway station
on drill nights invariably degenerates into
heading a lengthy procession of hostile
mongs which always pass the time of
day with a friendly lick at other times.
Other wearers of military kit have men-
tioned the same experience. Probably
the heavy smell of wool in the gear
drowns the personal aroma to a large
extent and makes a soldier an object of
canine suspicion.
* * *
“Bogantungan”: A recent press yarn
of a cattle-pup being carried off by a
Queensland kangaroo reminds me of an
incident of my youth. A beautiful
creature from Brisbane was visiting us
and brought with her the first Peke seen
on the countryside. It was a surly little
brute, hated by everyone, and when she
came back from a walk one day and
said a kangaroo had jumped out of the
bush, stuffed the Peke in its pouch and
made off with it no one shed tears. A
perfunctory search was made without
success, and the general belief was that a
dingo had snapped it up. The lady
departed in tears, convinced we had mur-
dered her darling. Six months later I
and two brothers were out one Sunday
morning with a couple of deerhounds
when we put up a blue doe carrying a
heavy joey. As the dogs pressed her
she did the usual thing and hurled hei
offspring to one side while she went on
at an increased pace. We. noticed the
dogs did not ignore the youngster as
usual, but had stopped short in then-
tracks with backs bristling and tails well
down. Riding up we found them con-
fronted by the lost Peke shrieking defi-
ance and inviting them to come on and
take a hiding. A brother jumped off and
grabbed the Peke, only to have a hand
bitten to the bone. With a curse he
hurled the brute into a bush, under which
it lay still uttering insults. We retired
to a near-by patch of scrub to await
developments. As expected, the doe
came hopping slowly back, looking. to
left and right and making little grunting
noises. When it heard her the Peke
rushed out, yapping joyously. The doe
picked him up and an affecting reunion
took place, the tyke licking her face and
the doe making a noise like Bing Crosby.
Suddenly recollecting herself, she
rammed her adopted child into her pouch
and departed for the horizon, the defiant
yelpings of the Peke gradually fading m
the distance.
♦ * * *
“P.D.”: Agree with “Scrib” (B.
15/9/’37)" regarding Westralian black-
and-yellow cockatoos’ partiality for
grubs, etc., but can any Aboliar explain
these birds’ habit of lopping gumnuts? I
have often noticed large flocks land in
a gum-tree and bring down so many nuts
that the sound of them falling to the
around was like hail on an iron roof.
ROADS OF BUSHLAND
The ribbon roads go winding
By hill and vale and farm,
The long white roads of Bush land
That hold a magic charm.
Oh, what a wondrous story.
If magic gave you speech,
Of vanished old-time figures
You’d tell us, all and each!
There are lone graves in places,
Sun-scorched or tempest-tossed,
Where pioneers are sleeping
Whose very names are lost;
You hold their stories secret
Where by your side they rest,
O magic roads of Bushland
That lead for ever west!
You knew the teams of bullocks
That bore those mighty loads;
To-day ’planes whir above you
And motors sweep the roads.
Swagmen by thousands trod you
With weary steps and slow,
Their shoulders l bowed and aching,
In days of long ago.
And sometimes in the darkness
I seem to see a throng
Of stockmen and of diggers
Passing your miles along,
The pioneers of Bushland
Who sleep their last long sleep,
They join the spectral army,
Their lonely watch to keep.
The coaches and the drovers,
The miners with their gold.
The escorts —and the outlaws —
Are there, as once of old;
But when the dawn comes ghostlike
They fade forlorn away,
And only empty stretches
Are there to greet the day.
O winding roads of Bushland,
North, south and west you go;
Where shadows deep are falling
Or where fierce heat-waves glow.
By plain and lake and mountain
You know of mateship’s test
O magic roads of Bushland.
That wind away out west!
N.S.W.
R. L. JAMIESON.


• Mat’s Mate”: Me an’ big Mat had
picked up with a drover in the Wim-
mera (Vic.). One night we camped near
a paddock of lucerne, and the drover
decided that after dark all three of us
should hop the fence and cut a supply
* “What if the cocky catches yer?”
Mat asked. “Never mind about him,”
answered the drover truculently, “if he
comes near I’ll knock him cold.” As we
cut the hay and stuffed it into chaffbags
we worked slightly away from each
other. Suddenly a form loomed up near
me and yelled “Wotcha doin’ there?”
I broke evens for the fence, with the
drover racing just behind and Mat some-
where in the rear. I fell through the
wires, the drover dropped on top of me ;
we sorted ourselves out and got up. Big
Mat hung on the fence, howling with
laughter. “Migord,” he burbled, “I never
see two coves run like that!” It was his
joke, and we let him enjoy it; neither of
us had the heart to tell him of the cocky-
standing just behind him —and Mat was
still inside the fence.
* * * *
“Boysey”: Going off to Shepparton
from Albury in answer to an urgent tele-
gram, Neil Campbell, a drover, had to
leave his kelpie dog with friends. The
dog was chained and well fed till the
next night, when he was allowed off for
a run. Approximately 60 hours later he
turned up to greet his master at Shep-
parton, which is over 140 miles from
the blackie’s starting-point. The tyke
had only once previously been over the
track. His feet were terribly worn, and
it will be a long time before sheep will
be his charge again.
* * * *
“Ga-ga”: “R.W.D.’s” reference to an
unattractive jimjam (B. 15/9/’37) sounds
identical with a whatchacallit I noticed
“ Let's try another place , 'Arry — they're gettin' a bit small now."
one evening on the banks of the Upper
Swan River (W.A.), where I had been a
guest at the brewers’ picnic. On first
observation its furry body and head
seemed to indicate a young possum, but
this notion was dispelled by a long hair-
less tail, suggesting a monkey. Curious,
I aimed a. light piece of bark at the thing
aud it flew away. The wings appeared
leathery, but with stiff quills protruding,
and in flight it seemed to fall slightly
when taking off from the bough. Bush-
“f" doubted me, but “ILW.D.”
seems to bear me out. Any other Abohar
assist?
$ * * *
“Questo” : White rainbows seen re-
cently on the Darling Downs and New
England country (B. 8/9/’37) may not
be common, but a midnight rainbow is
a distinctl >' rare Phenomenon. I saw one
“Ugh, fiction !”
a few years ago near Mount Isa (n.-w.
Q.). A light drizzle was falling at the
time, and a full, bright moon was shin-
ing. The bow was quite clear, but the
colors were not as bright as those seen
in the daytime, being more diffused, like
the rings of color around the moon
before showery weather.
* * * *
“Scotia”: Melbourne Zoo is under fire
again from sentimental animal-lovers
who won’t be told that when bears stand
for hours lifting one paw after the other
they are merely following an instinctive
desire to pad down snow. Monkeys
don’t scour each other for fleas: it is
from a passion for salt, which they get
from scaly skin, plus a vanity for groom-
ing. Caged birds live longer than their
free kindred, and there is a danger of
breaking their wings if the cages are too
large. Elephants like to be chained ; it
makes them feel secure, and inhibits
their night-long trumpeting in fear.
Often a chimpanzee becomes listless be-
cause it is bossed by other apes who
grab the favorite food and leave the
potatoes to the weaker ones —and the
keeper stops this bullying. Lions bred
in captivity are handsomer and healthier
than the jungle fellows ; they live longer,
grow bigger and have better coats. v In
freedom the lion lives about 10 years;
in captivity from 25-30 years. And the
polar bear, pacing up and down within
a self-imposed limit of a few feet, is
neither restless nor fretful; he thinks he’s
on a slippery icefloe, and is being careful
not to go too near the edge.
* . „ *
Ellenvale : 1 was gratified to learn
from Albarmount that wild cattle will
back away from a “cool nonchalant
bushie” (B. 25/8/’37). We have 100
Herefords in the home paddock that have
spent their steerhood on the slopes of
Mount Wellington (Vic.), and so far none
of us has been game enough to go among
them on foot. I can see now that our
methods of handling them are all wrong.
The next time one of them charges me
I’m not going to leap for a top-rail as I
generally do ; I’ll stand my ground like
a true-blue cool and nonchalant bushie
and watch the abashed animal slink back
to its mates. On second thoughts, it
might be as well to let some other bushie
test “A.’s” recipe while I sit coolly and
nonchalantly on top of the highest post
I can find.
* H= * *
“Buzfuz”: If “Hanko” (B. 8/9/’37)
wants butcher-birds that are not mute —
and magpies, too, for that matter —he
will get them in Gippsland (Vic.). The
grey butcher-bird, known locally as Der-
went Jack, is a willing and mellow-
voiced singer, while the maggies—parti-
cularly those around Bindi —warble morn
and night without fail.
* * * *
“Bert”: A long-used private track ran
through old Irish Jimmy’s western
N.S.W. property and was a useful short
cut to many travellers. Jimmy was a
hospitable soul, but many travellers
weren’t particular about closing gates
and others with their dogs dis-
turbed the serenity of Jimmy’s breed-
ing ewes; so at last a fiat went forth
that travellers must in future keep to
the main road, and any that didn’t usually
found themselves spotted, stopped and
shepherded back out again. Then Mickv
Murphy, of Gilgandra, while yet barely
half a mile on to the run, observed Jimmy
coming. Quickly he swung the sulky
round and started back ; then the crack
of his whip attracted Jimmy’s notice.
“Come on now, me boy,” he said. “Ye
know very well this is a private road ;
back ye go.” “What,” said Micky, “and
me so nearly through the place, with the
gate not half a mile before me? Ye’re
a hard man.” But it was of no avail,
and back he had to go, his short cut
accomplished.
* * * *
“Coral”: Another enemy of the
dugong not mentioned by “Badak” (B.
4/8/’37) is the crocodile. In N.T. waters
the cetacean is a regular item on the
saurian’s menu, but this scribe knows
of one case where the diner came off
second-best. One day in Blue Mud Bay,
near Cape Don, we heard a loud com-
motion. My head boy, Tim Finnigen,
went out in a canoe with two natives to
investigate. As they neared the point
where water was being churned up a bull
dugong, fully 20ft. in length, made off,
leaving behind the body of an over-
rash croc. The loser’s tail furnished the
piece de resistance on the nigs.’ menu
that night.
* * * *
“Sheep-ho”: Two good sheep-dogs
known to me provided snags for “hered-
ity” theorists. One was pure dingo,
caught still blind, and trained. His
owner said that he was a trifle severe,
but claimed that even the hottest days
didn’t affect him. The other was a
thoroughbred greyhound. He had grown
up with a litter of sheep-pups and knew
nothing but sheep. For 40 Australian
dog-generations his ancestors had coursed
hares ; but so completely had environ-
ment beaten heredity that a rabbit could
get up under his nose without attracting
a second glance. In my opinion instinct
has to do only with safety. An animal’s
later education is guided by its surround-
ings.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: Tell “Dingo” (B.
28/7/’37) to try this method next time
he has to skin an eel. Put Slimy on a
patch of hard, bare ground, and with the
sole of the boot scruffle the tail vigor-
ously for half a minute. This causes the
skin to split on both sides of the tail
fin, and it can then be peeled off easily
with the fingers. And if you want to
taste eel at its best, first be sure that it
is thoroughly cleaned. Right against
the backbone lies a black-looking de-
posit that is often overlooked, and it is
this that imparts the muddy flavor many
people complain of. Cut into conveni-
ent pieces, parboiled to remove the ex-
cessive oiliness and fried with a coating
of batter, the eel is a real delicacy.
TRUE HARBINGER.
Old Mallee Mick put down his pot. “Talkin’,
v r?, e sai< ?> “about the spring,
ou “ alwiz ’ear a lot o’ rot these knowalls
. , round the joint’ll sling
About when it’s supposed to start. One poet
joker said it’s when
young cove moons about a tart an’ mopes
round like a broody ’en.
The city cove can’t tell, o’ course, except 'e
that it’s begun
because ’e’s backed some flamin’ ’orse that in
the Metrop.’s bein’ run,
Ur drawn the fav’rite in a sweep, or ’eard some
politician spout
On wakin’ from ’is winter sleep, or maybe seen
a Scotchman shout.
There’s others think they know the signs
T , l " at Nature splashes round the place:
I ne young leaves cornin’ on the vines; the
pimples on a schoolkid’s face;
ine seedlin’s eaten orf by slugs; the blossoms
T , ° n . me plum an’ peach;
Jne grins on everybody’s mugs; the flappers
makin for the beach.
The weather bloke ’e gives a date, an’ might
be right, for all I know,
out you can take it from me, mate”—Mick
Wl Ped the froth from off his mo. —
t ve proved my way, time an’ again, of tellin’
when the spring is ’ere.
It never fails; an’ that is when that real cold
bites gone from the beer!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


y OTHER tORDtAtS-
ADAMS’ (TAiTERSALL’S) HOTIIL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d'llote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or. Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-81.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates. Silver, Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS q OF gllver nnd Copper> « E SA” brand of Copper Sulphate (BluestoneL
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formula? or Buyers own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype. Monotype and other Printers Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company 3
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne ®fl‘* t c: K 3 ®® b f_ oUinB
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or I ort. liembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (Insured) to either our Sydney or " r J Ol J v prU>el4
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account “**“{£*"* p | Keinhla.
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, rori n-e.
MINERAL DEVELOPMENTS
(FIJI), LTD.
Assayers, Mine Managers and Geologists:
Mining properties reported upon.
Diamond Drilling Contracts Undertaken,
’Phones: 8W5260. 19 O’Connell Street,
84439. SYDNEY.
bkandaijers
m
Qt*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRA.NDA.CKR * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
6<T.V
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net f Dividends : — N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
41,388
1929.. 10 p.e. 10 p.e.= 443,322*106,609 147,997
Share premiums, £376 .. .. .. 148.373
1930.. 10 p.c. 6 p.c.= 318,939 1,761 150,134
1931.. 10 „ 21 „„ 187,141 138,312
1932.. 10 „ 3 ~,,205.970 1,370 139.682
1933.. 10 „ 4 „ ~ 243.626 137.975
1934.-287,929 10 „ 5 ~,,281.283 6,646 144.621
Unexplained reductions, £37,392 ..107,229
1935.. 120.016 10 p.c. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
1936.. 307.183 10 „ 5 p.c. - 281,283 25,900 160,145
1937.. 410.409 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,595 53,814 213,959
- Includes £138,301 paid on old Perdriau eo.’s
shares, f Goodwill (£354,377) not treated as an
asset herein.
In a big organisation such as this one,
which buys its raw materials, or most
of them, outside Australia, earnings are
subject to the interplay of a wide range
of factors. Tyres account for about
half the co.’s turnover, rubber footwear
comes next, and a large variety of
rubber goods makes up the balance. For
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the spring in gross earnings
(£999,135) was £120,387. Including an
unspecified provision for depreciation,
taxation, etc., exes. (£589,374) took only
£16,306 of the increase. Taking minor
reserve adjustments into the reckoning,
the net result was £103,226 better at
£410,409, or enough to pay the prefs.
their 10 p.c. (£93,000) and show 8.4 p.c.
on the £3,765,655 of ord. capital as
against 5.6 p.c. for the previous term. A
couple of points were added to the div.,
making it 7 p.c., the final being at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
The slip in declared net earnings for
1935 was more apparent than real. Actu-
ally the co. earned enough that year to
pay the pref. div. and 5 p.c. to the ords.
Instead, a substantial part of the year’s
takings, together with a windfall of
£147,576 from Barnet Glass, and more
besides, was used to write down the book
value of plant and to recondition equip-
ment. At the same time a complete over-
haul of the buying, manufacturing and
selling sections of the business was put
in hand. The task fell largely to W. A.
Bartlett, who came from the English
Dunlop Co. as g.m. of this Australian
business at the end of 1935, and, judg-
ing from the figures, he has done good
work.
The heartening improvement in last
year’s result was due partly to larger
trading and partly to savings following
reorganisation of the business. The
number of cars and commercial vehicles
on the roads in Australia increased, and
there was a “gratifying” improvement in
turnover in tractor tyres, etc. The ster-
ling price of raw rubber, which rose from
7.75 d. per pound in July, 1936, to 13.47 d.
at the end of March last, was 9.56 d. when
the books closed ; the cost of other
materials and labor increased, too. The
effects were partly offset by a rise of 1\
p.c. in the selling price of tyres, by
growth of turnover and by elimination
of waste, due to overlapping and
duplication, following replanning of
manufacturing units. The making of
tyres and other rubber goods by the
parent and its chief subsidiary, Barnet
Glass, is now concentrated in the Mon-
tague (Melb.) and Drummoyne (Syd.)
mills. Reclaimed rubber manufacture is
conducted at the Abbotsford (Vic.) fac-
tory, which used to turn out shoes. The
Footscray (Vic.) mill is being made ready
for production of new lines, motor-
vehicle wheels and rims, for which a
ready and growing market exists; and the
manufacture and sale of sports goods, in-
cluding tennis rackets, are to be extended,
another subsidiary, Dunlop Sports Co.,
Ltd., being formed for the purpose.
Latex Products Pty., the offshoot which
turns out rubber upholstery, etc., reports
considerable expansion of turnover.
At June 30 reorganisation had cost
£54,525, of which £10,905 was written off
out of earnings, leaving £43,619, which,
together with any further expenditure on
this account, is to be written off from re-
sultant savings within the next five years.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances, as the following table, which
consolidates the figures of the parent and
its subsidiaries, shows:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
Paid capital— 1935. 1936. 1937.
Dunlop interest £4,695,555 £4,695,555 £4,695,555
Outside interest* 198,314 198,315 222,478
Reserves! . . • ■ 490,661 519 277 572,284
Liabilities.. .. 239,467 114,188 139,277
Freeholds, ote. .. 1,297,271 1,286,589 1,259,342
Plant, etc. . . 1,147,825 1,116,084 1,073,383
Stocks .. .. 2,032,486 1,686,087 1,681,165
Debtors . . . . 616,696 596,342 736,352
Investments, etc... 22,946 8,249 30,114
Cash, etc. . . 20,178 537,775 453,691
Rationalisation acc. 43,619
Goodwill .. 601,477 613,761 635,096
* Includes undistributed profits, t subject to goodwill.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded the outside debt by
£?,762,045, up £47,780 over the twelve-
month. Encouraging movements are the
expansion of £140,010 in debtors’ bal-
ances and the contraction of £4922 in
stocks. Owing to the uncertain inter-
national outlook, the parent built up sup-
plies of raw rubber, so the drop in the
stock of manufactured goods was much
more substantial than the £4922 suggests.
As for the current term, production
and merchandising units are reported in
good shape, further savings in costs are
expected, and the co. has budgeted for
an increased volume of business.
At 225. lid. (18s. 3d. a year ago) the
ords. return an attractive 6.1 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 38s. 6d.
yield 5.1 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£4 18s. Bd. prefs. and 19s. sd. ords.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends, serves. serves.
1927.. 230,901 8 p.c. = 186,011 44,890 350,762
1928.. 182.836 7 „ „ 162,759 20,077 370.839
1929.. 149,755 5$ „ „ 127.882 21,873 392,712
1930.. 162,726 6 „ „ 139.508 23,218 415,930
1931.. 112,756 4 „ „ 93,005 19,751 435,681
1932.. 119,427 41 „ ~ 104,631 14,796 450,477
1933.. 126.243 5 „ „ 116.257 9,986 460.463
1934.. 149,489 6 „ „ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 „ ~139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ ~ 139.503 9,804 400.9.91
1937.. 173,003 7 „ „ 162,759 10,244 500,635
At June 30 the co. had a fleet of 28
vessels, aggregate tonnage 62,858 gross,
engaged in the Australian coastal trade.
Two of them, Manoora and Manunda,
cater for inter-State passenger service,
and three others also carry passen-
gers, two on Spencer’s Gulf and one on
Port Phillip. The balance handle cargo,
including sugar under contract with the
C.S.R. The earnings of the fleet are
supplemented by takings from tugs,
lighters, etc., and by pickings from a
number of other sources, chief of which
at the moment is the return from
£1,068,534 invested in Government securi-
ties, debentures, bank deposits, etc. The
remaining interests include 526,784 £1
shares in J. and A. Brown and Aber-
main Seaham Collieries (paid capital
£1,900,007), which paid its last div. (2|
p.c.) in 1934, a controlling interest in
Waratah Tug and Salvage Co., operating
at Sydney and Newcastle, an unstated
holding with Birt and Co. in the New-
stead Wharves and Stevedoring Co.,
which has just built new wharves, etc.,
at Brisbane, and an equal interest (49,998
shares) with Huddart Parker, Union
Steam, Orient Steam and Holyman Bros,
in Australian National Airways Pty,, to-
gether with a number of minor activities.
Free from the forays of the seamen,
which spoiled results for the 1936 term,
all the co.’s ships were kept busy
handling an increased volume of pas-
senger and cargo trade during the 12
months covered by the latest accounts.
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for contingencies the
board called £163,003 (up £23,691) of
the year’s takings net profit, which was
only £244 more than the 7 p.c. div.
called for. That was after £lO,OOO (same
as in the previous year) dropped from
somewhere into the insurance account
(£300,000); the repairs, renewals and re-
placement reserve has remained un-
altered at £200,000 since 1932. Taking
the unexplained addition into the reckon-
ing as genuine profit, the year’s net re-
sult was 7.4 p.c. on capital as against
6.4, 6.4, 6.3, 5.4, 5.1, 4.8, 7 and 6.4 p.c.
back t0’1929. The div. was lifted a point,
making it 7 p.c., the final being at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
Subject to industrial developments,
prospects of a still better showing at next
balance are encouraging, though costs are
on the up-grade. Since the close of
accounts a new 3000-ton cargo vessel,
Bungaree, has been placed on the inter-
state run, and a similar new vessel, the
Beltana, has sailed from Dundee (Scot-
land) for Poland to load coke for Port
Pirie. Also two more 5500-ton cargo
steamers are on order. It is difficult to
say when the co.’s coal interests are
likely to contribute to the pool again.
The market prices the pound shares at
31s. as against 295. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 4.4 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis, or 5.1 p.c. on an
8 p.c. distribution, which would call for
£186,011. Visibly the cover is 245. 3d.
in net tangibles.
Finances are very snug, as the follow-
ing table shows:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors* 74,236 54,857 97,781
Steamers, properties,
etc. .. . . 1,322,532 1,266,111 1,409,618
Shares in subsidiaries 136,600 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 42,729 51,679 48,782
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 408,520 467,236 577,856
Consols, cash, etc. 1,279,089 1,277,614 1,068,534
* Not including provident fund, £239,656, 1935 ;
£247,377, 1936; £224,734, 1937.
To meet the year’s net growth of
£143,507 in the book value of steamers,
etc., and add £110,620 to debtors’
balances and investments (an untidy
entry), Consols and cash were drawn
upon for £209,080 and the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors was increased by
£42,924. When the books closed, Gov-
ernment securities and cash alone were
equal to 9s. 2d. per share. What the
board ultimately intends to do with this
money remains to be seen.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane) .
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, & & £>
1&27. . 42,678 8 p.c. = 29,212 13,466 58,983
1928.. 48,741 10 ~ „ 37;396 ( o.c 60
. Provident fund, . £lOOO 1 10 ’ 345 . 69 ’ 328
Perkins’s business absorbed; added
reserves, £20,000 / .. .. ; 89,328*
1929.. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59,934 1 18 859 108,187*
Provident fund, £l5OO )
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,341 ) 6 993 n 4) iBo*
Provident fund, £l5OO )
1931.. 59,007 8 p.c.= 49 958 1 8 049 122,229*
Provident fund, £lOOO )
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 . * 90,129
1932.. 62,242 8 p.c. = 50,000 ( iqq gyj
Provident fund, £2OOO S
1933. . 71-575 8 P- c - = JjO.OOO } 18,575 118,946
Provident fund. £3OOO )
1934. - 69,255 8 p ; c ’ = 99 ’ 000 } 16,765 135,701
Provident fund, £2ooo \
1935.. 83,539 8 p.c. = 57,115 ( 23 924 159)625
Provident fund, £2500 \
1936.. 93,739 8 p.c. = 67,415 ) 23,824 183,449
Provident fund, £2500 (
1937. . 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 1 27 451 2 10,900
Provident fund. £2500 ) ’ ’
*Subject to an unspecified amount of intangibles.
The 10 p.c., a comfortable matter, in-
cluded a 2 p.c. bonus sent out with the
8 p.c. div. to celebrate the co.’s jubilee ;
and never had the outlook for share-
holders more stiffening in it, though many
will feel more comfortable when the out-
side debt is a less prominent feature of
the financial structure.
Not long after the Castlemaine and
Quinlan-Gray cos. amalgamated in 1887,
and after a guarantee by the vendor had
run out, shareholders went hungry for
many years. Half the capital was jetti-
soned in 1902, and there was a run of
small divs. to 1912. A regular 10 p.c. was
paid for the next eight years ; two gift
issues lifted paid capital, which had stuck
the £78,000 mark since the writ-
i down, to £186,896 by 1921, and the
div. was lowered to 8 p.c. After that
the management took off its coat, and the
story for the decade to the close of last
accounts has been one of rapid expan-
sion and the anchoring of turnover by
the purchase of hotel freeholds, etc.
In 1929 Perkins’s Toowoomba brewery,
part of its Brisbane plant and the trade
of some 70 hotels were bought, and the
co. changed its name to the present
title. Later the rest of Perkins’s assets,
chiefly hotel freeholds and leaseholds
and the old Mary-street, Brisbane,
brewery premises, together with a lot
of other hotel properties, were bought.
Since 1927 no less than £1,203,884 has
been added to the book value of hotel
properties, £239,720 to the brewery and
plant and only £18,164 to stock;
debtors’ balances are down £17,625. To
meet the outlay shareholders put up an
extra £668,972 of capital, and the board
went outside for an additional £535,338:
1927. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid
capital £372,694 £781,250 £1,041,666 £1,041,666
Liabilities* 69,361 251,984 433,389 604,699
Brewery,
pbrnt.etc. 159.029 | 329 732 4 i 8 , 8 15 422,359
Warehouse 23,580 ) ’
Hotels .. 151,095 774,170 1,141,547 1,354,979
Stocks . . 66,516 74,244 79,754 84,680
Debtors . . 107,269 64,710 84,326 89,644
Cash, etc. 8,429 13,715 22,727 20,602
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
Chief movement last year was the addi-
tion of £213,432 to hotels and of
£171,310 to the debt, of which £436,317
(up £152,363) is secured. The excess of
liabilities over more or less liquids in-
creased by £163,191, reaching £409,773.
More or less liquids exceeded the float-
ing debt by £26,544.
There is no price-cutting in the trade,
and, together with the Queensland
Brewery, the co. supplies most of the
beer consumed in the northern State,
where both payrolls and thirsts length-
ened during the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts. After setting aside
£50,000 for taxation (same as in the
previous term) and striking off £16,194
(down £3555) for depreciation, the net
result was £40,379 better at £134,118, or
12.7 p.c. on capital as against 11.1, 11.7,
11, 11.4, 9.9, 9.4, 11.1 and 13.4 p.c. back
to 1929.
Whether the distribution to share-
holders will be maintained at 10 p.c. de-
pends partly upon the extent to which
costs continue to rise. On top of the
recent lift in the basic wage, the co.’s
employees now claim a 40-hour week,
and they are holding the pistol of a
“stay-in” strike at the management’s
head in the hope of enforcing their
demands. Much depends upon the out-
come of the strike and its duration.
Up till, last week-end the market for
the co.’s scrip had not been affected. At
265. 6d. (235. 7d. a year ago) the fully-
paid 12s. 6d. shares return 4.6 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 15s. in
net tangibles.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 133,246 10 p.c. = 84,232 49,014 185,908
Written off shares in other cos., £25,380. . 160,528
1927.. 138,204 10 p.c. = 84,232 58.972 214,500
Written off shares in other cos., £35,000.. 179,500
1928.. 174,645 10 p.c. = 84,232 90,413 269,913
1929.. 137,898 10 „ „ 84,232 53,666 323,579
1930.. 118.349 10 „ „ 84,232 34,117 357,696
1931.. 43,762 5 „ ~42,116 1,646 359,342
Written off shares in other cos., £10,000.. 349,342
1932.. 14,820 24 p.c. =21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5„ „ 42,116 342.025
Profit on sale of Consols, £B5Bl . • 350,606
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 350,658
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549.. 363,202
From doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 363,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 366,696
1935.. 76,471 7J p.c. = 50,540 25,931 383,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c. = 07,386 10,629 393,449
Surplus on investment, £4044 .. • • 397,493
1937. . 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 413,210
At June 30 this holding co.’s £673,862
of share capital, together with the re-
serves and £15,743 coming to sundry
creditors, etc., was represented by shares


NO BEL-GLASGOW
EX PLOSIVE S
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AOU VTS :
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SY DNEY, N.S.W.: It. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.YV.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, liimited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEIIAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstroni, Limited.
THE IDEAL PUMP
For a Moderate
WATER SUPPLY
This splendid little pump has been specially
designed for services where a small amount of
water is wanted at moderate pressure.
The “Triton” works smoothly and silently,
delivering about 6 gallons per minute at
300 r.p.m.
It gives long, trouble-free service, and requires
practically no attention.
The “Triton” is supplied in three
styles: (above) with fast and
loose pulleys lOin. diameter x
face; (centre) direct
coupled to electric motor with
chain drive; (below) direct
coupled to electric motor with
vee-belt drive.
When ordering a
pump direct-coupled
to electric motor,
please advise voltage
and type of electric
current available.
Write for a copy
of our new com-
plete Catalogue
No. 37.
sdgdgdfg
TRITON
VERTICAL
Single-Acting
PLUNGER
PUMP
Overall height, 19in.
Diameter of cylinder, 2gin.
Length of stroke, ljin.
Fitted for lin. suction and delivery
pipes.
Normal speed, 300 r.p.m.
Capacity, 6 galls, per minute.
Renewable gunmetal ring-oil bear-
ings.
Brass piston valve seats, stems,
plates and springs.
All parts easily accessible without
disconnecting piping.
Price, with fast and loose pulleys,
£9/10/-.
For Other Styles, Prices on Application.
c
Proprietary Limited
546 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
and at
Adelaide,
Perth.
m
m
m
m
m
-
CERTIFICATES
of Good Character
SOMETIMES a plain, family man will coin a phrase
so full of meaning that it deserves headlines in the
newspapers: a phrase worthy to serve as a beacon
light to others.
This is just what James Ayer Bradley did one
morning as he opened his mail at breakfast. A daughter
asked him why he sat smiling at some documents he had
taken from an envelope.
“These are my certificates of good character,” he
said.
Excellent. They were four A.M.P. policies in his
name. Certificates of good character; evidence that he
had made provision for the future; proof that he had
been wise and provident; signs that he had faced up
to his duty to his wife and family.
Mr. Bradley became a member of the Society when
he was 19, when he took out his first policy for £2OO.
If he were to die to-morrow his family would receive £5l 6
from that policy alone. Mr. Bradley took out a policy
for £6OO at 29 (it has now grown to £1,31.5) ; another
for £5OO at 40 (it has now grown to £849) ; and a
fourth for £l,OOO at 42 (now grown to £1,679). A
total of £2,300 has grown to £4,359. Certificates of his
good character, as he says; and certificates of the great
usefulness of his A.M.P. membership.
The Society will be glad to send an experienced
adviser to talk this matter over with you if you say the
word. It is for you to become as happy about your
A.M.P. policies as is Mr. Bradley.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. , General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for'New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart. , i
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
in Australian Portland Cement Pty.,
£1,000,000 ; cash and debtors’ balances,
£132,513; freehold, £4OOO. The pro-
prietary, in which the co. is an equal part-
ner with Australian Cement, operates
works at Kandos (N.S.W.) and Geelong
(Vic,). The Geelong plant (present capa-
city 220,000 tons p.a., and the only pro-
ducer in Vic.) is being enlarged by con-
slruction of a new £lOO,OOO-kiln with a
rated capacity of 2000 tons of clinker per
week. The one at Kandos (capacity
200,000 tons p.a.) shares the N. S. Wales
market with four other producers, plant
capacity for the State being 720,000 tons,
The curtain is kept drawn over the
proprietary’s figures. However, for the
year to June 30, consumption of cement
reached the highest level since the peak
of 1927-28, when the figure for the whole
of Australia was over 776,000 tons. Kan-
dos showed £4093 more profit, making
£83,103, equal to 12.3 p.c. on capital, as
against 11.5, 11.3, 4.8, 4.9 and 1.6 p.c.
back to 1932. The div. was kept at 10
p.c. That leaves out of the reckoning
a capital profit of £4044 arising out of
liquidation of the Newcastle Slag Cement
Co.
On the market the fully-paid 16s. shares
fetch 255. 9d. as against 225. 4d. a year
ago and 265. 12 months before that. The
return at 255. 9d. is 6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. On the same basis Bs.-paid
contribs. at 12s. 3d. yield 6.5 p.c. The
backing per £1 of capital is 325. 2d. in
net tangibles, subject to any adjustment
on account of the operating co.’s figures.
As for the current term, the outlook
for cement sales was never better, and
the new plant at Geelong, claimed to be
the largest and most efficient cement-
producing unit in the Commonwealth, to-
gether with improvements to equipment
at Kandos, should do much to offset the
effects of rising costs. Still, owing to
abolition of the duty on British cement
in December last, the future of the in-
dustry from the Australian manufac-
turer’s point of view is full of uncertainty,
To meet demand in their home market
at higher prices than could be obtained
for export to Australia, British plants
have been taxed almost to capacity; so
the abolition of duty just referred to has
not yet affected Australian producers.
When the pressure on British plants, due
largely to private and Government build-
ing activity, including the defence pro-
gramme, is relieved, “we can expect that
heavy dumping will be attempted on the
Australian market,” the chairman of
Kandos says. The Federal Government,
however, has agreed to impose a dump-
ing duty if the imported article is landed
~, . ■ f
at less than 51s. 6d. (stg.) a ton, c.i.t.
N. S, Wales manufacturers’ Sydney sell-
■ T _• „ • nn„
ing price is 90s. per ton.
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Owing to the low bored value of the
. • r ... ,
property, earnings of this member of
Anglo-Oriental s Malay team are parti-
cularly susceptible to metal-price move-
ments and costs. When dredging com-
menced in 1929, 71,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing 0.751 b., was said to be available;
latest estimate, following checkboring, is
84,000,000 c.y., averaging only 0.261 b. At
last year’s rate of turnover that is about
15 years’ work for the two dredges,
The property adjoins Kuala Kampar’s
holding at Mukum Kampar, Perak. For
the last term, owing to a lift in the
domestic quota from 51.5 p.c. to 68.7
p.c. of assessment (1482 tons t. 0.) and the
richer-than-average ground dug, net
earnings were the best yet, and the div.
was raised to 2s. 6d. (12| p.c.) per share:
Year to / Dividends x
Mar > Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Share. Amt.
iQfjs f £42,958 £33,972 £8,986 1/- £15,000
j New bucket—band written off, £9796.
1936. { 95,537 54,994 40,543 1/6 22,500
I Re“” ° buck°t-band renewal, £6500.
19S7 _ y 145,246 83,440 6i,80e 2/6 37,500
" ” iiivov-i.t buckec-oand renewal. £5500.
* Including depreciation—
£l.3,7s4, 1935; £13,433. 1936; £26,575, 1937.
With c ? sts , and metal P rices around
present levels, appearances are that the
board may be able to maintain that fate
of distribution even when average ground
is being dredged.
Costs, already moderate, should show
further reduction when No. 1 dredge
( Continued on next page.)


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney*,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLUSON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
nr nnrl rinllisnn and Co. ( Molb. 1. —AdVT.
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN tirnberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* . * * *
Wasted lieat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes "lagged” by William Adams and
Company Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
tt
“PUMPMOBIL
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES!
. ' j
ns
) » m
' 8$
MM
? '
•<e*.. .
J*Kj
mm
9sMmss&M
: ; < - 5H - • ■
Extensively used tiy inul
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. l-010.
ranacitv .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. *-gallon Benaine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street. Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
'F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. 8. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all generaljiankir^busings^
QUALITY OF SERVICE.
The quality of service rendered by an Institution may be judged very simply by
the growth of its business. That of Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) has
Sowm consistently for over fifty years, and the amount of Trust and Agency
■ Funds now under its control is oyer £50,000,000. Arrangements exist for the
economical administration of assets in other States of the Commonwealth and abroa .
Directors:
T H Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght 0.8. E.,
' Lieut -Col. the Hon. T. A. ,T. Playfair. M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, RECEIVER, ETC.
Call or write for explanatory booklet P. Cureton, Manager.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
r ner bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
VISIT
the exhibition
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
is converted from steam to electric
power:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cub. yards dredged 2,223,000 4,646,000 6,119,000
T. 0.. tons.. .. 224.1 672.4 1074.1
Itecoverv per c.y., lb. 0.28 0.32 0.39
Assay, p.c. .. 75.3 75.8 76.8
Working costs, c.y. 1.92 d. 2.03 d. 2.05 d.
Net ore real’n, ton £l3B/11/10 £135/6/9 £134/13/4
Singapore av. metallic
tin. ton .. £229/9/4 £213/3/9 £209/18/4
Both plants were in similar-grade ground
last term. No. 2 unit turned over
3,553,000 c.y. at an average cost of
1.85 d.; No. 1, 2,566,000 c.y. at 2.34 d.
With tin prices as they are, record profits
appear within sight for 1937-38. At the
end of July, 1,949,000 c.y. had been dug
for 446 tons t. 0., an average recovery of
0.511 b.
The 300,000 £1 shares are valued at
33 s. 6d. apiece in the sharemarket. At
balance date liquids (£95,088) were equal
to 6s. 4d. per share. Leases then stood
in the books at £122,000, plant £120,000,
other assets £36,005. There was £6436
coming to outsiders.
Rawang Concessions, Ltd.
Operating in Ulor Selangor, F.M.S.,
net earnings of this offshoot of Rawang
Tin Fields, after providing £10,982 for
depreciation and paying £11,977 in
royalties, etc., sprang £20,983 for the
year to March last:
Year to /—Dividends—,
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Share. Amt.
IM , f £79,178 £37,002 £42,176 3/6 £35,000
1935.. ew bucket-band written off, £6344.
1936.. 69,268 31,424 27,844 1/- 10,000
f 88,733 39,908 46,825 2/6 20,W0
1937.. t Reserve bucket-band. £2OOO.
I Reserve road deviation, £lO,OOO.
* Including depreciation—
-1935. £9353; 1936, £7967; 1937, £10,982.
Div. was raised to 2s. 6d. per share,
requiring £25,000, and of the balance
£2OOO was earmarked for bucket-line
renewal and £lO,OOO for the proposed
deviation of the main trunk road in
order to bring the ground it covers into
dredging reserves. The matter has yet
to receive Governmental sanction.
Richer ground, increased turnover,
better tin prices and a slight reduction in
costs all contributed to the lift in last
term’s earnings:-
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cub. yds. dug. .. 2,265,000 2,103,000 2,852,000
T. 0., tons.. .. 644.3 359.2 595.8
Av. psr c.y., pound 0.64 0.38 0.46
Assay, ip.c. .. 76.0 75.7 76.5
Working costs per c.y. 2.35 d. 2.06 d. 2.03 d.
Net ore real’n, ton £l3B/8/10 £132/3/1 £135/12/10
Av. Singapore metallic
tin, ton .. £226/6/10 £213/14/4 £219/2/2
During the year ore reserves were aug-
mented by the acquisition of 3,500,000
c.y. of contiguous ground. Including
tailings, that lifted the area to be worked
at March 31 to 25,000,000 c.y., contain-
ing approx. 5030 tons t. 0., an average of
0.451 b years’ digging for the
dredge at last year’s rate of working.
The current term has opened prom-
isingly. Up till the end of July the plant
had been in ground well above average
—943,000 c.y. had been turned over for
an average recovery of 0.751 b. t.o. —and
3s. per share has thus far been distributed.
Latest Malayan domestic quota release
(80 p.c. of assessment) means a per-
missible annual output of 886 tons t.o.
for this Concessions co.
At balance date, the £200,000 of capi-
tal, together with general and specific
reserves of £84,819 and £4677 coming to
outsiders, was represented by liquids,
£86,291, leases £145,404, dredge £50,000,
other assets £7BOO. The £1 shares had
sellers at 475. last week-end.
“Old-timer”: The Bulletin's tribute
to the late D. G. Lumsden, of the Mt.
Lyell Co., recalls the fact that in Block
10 Misima Lumsden once backed what
for the time turned out to be a bad loser.
But it wasn’t the mine that went phut.
Lumsden had tickets on O. B. Ward,
who, ere passing out, made Misima,
a big low-grade show, pay for a
few brief moments with gold at £4 4s.
per ounce. It was Lumsden’s word
to Frank Hambridge which caused
the latter to spend some Christmas holi-
days at Misima. Subsequently, Ham-
bridge closely watched the behavior of
the ore-body for two years, and he ulti-
mately persuaded his friends to join him
in paying £lOO,OOO for the property, upon
which Block 10 Misima had lost
£250,000. Of £150,000 capital, Cuthbert’s
Misima (Hambridge’s co.) has already
declared £45,000 in dividends, and at
present rate of progress profits should
aggregate £150,000 in approximately two
years. Hambridge will then step in and
collect the reward he bargained for with
his friends. Lumsden lived long enough
to see the beginning of the vindication
of his judgment.
* $ * *
Activity is quickening on the Bartle
Frere field, discovered by Kraft and
Wilkie, on the slopes of Bellenden Ker
and about eight miles from Babinda
(N.Q.). Mount Morgan and its asso-
ciate, Mount Morgan Developments, are
already on the job, having taken options
over the Kraft group. No work at depth
has yet been done, but surface indications
are encouraging. The Weston Syndicate
has opened up a sft.-6ft. reef, gold well
distributed, for a considerable distance
by trenching on its Pardon lease, while
the Key of the Hills-Ajay line has
been uncovered by another party for
almost a mile. Transport to the field,
which in many ways resembles the
Mount Peter district, Edmonton, is the
chief problem. Air transport, so success-
ful in New Guinea, is favored. A natural
’drome site exists, cost of preparing which
would be a mere bagatelle compared
with the expense of making an all-
weather, circuitous road from the coast.
Flying-foxes have been suggested for
transport of ore from the mines to the
proposed battery and township site.
Reporting on the new copper find at
Paradise Valley (N.Q.), J. G. Beck,
Inspector of Mines at Cloncurry, says
there are several outcrops up to 300 ft. in
length and 40ft. to 60ft. wide. Assays
of parcels up to 50 tons ranged from 11
p.c. to 36 p.c. copper, the average being
about 20 p.c. To what extent the rich
oxides and carbonates live down has yet
to be proved ; the deepest pit on the field
is only 20ft. or so.
* * * *
Dr. Loftus Hills and R. J. Winters
have both reported very favorably on
Forest Reefs Development’s property,
about six miles from Millthorpe
(N.S.W.). In the past some rich returns
were obtained from the oxidised por-
tion of the lodes (down to 130 ft.), but
metallurgical difficulties stood in the way
of successfully handling the sulphides,
which remained neglected until the lodes
were recently tested by diamond-drilling
—Mineral Developments (Fiji), Ltd.,
carried out the work. Sixteen bores were
put down, fourteen on the main lode
and two on the Ironclad lode. Eight
bores proved the main lode at the 250 ft.
to 300 ft. levels for a length of 800 ft.,
width 17ft., average core assays 4.75dwt.
Two other holes, 300 ft. apart, cut the
lode at a depth of 500 ft., width 50ft., but
values did not exceed more than 2dwt.
sgr. per ton. The main lode has been
traced for 2000 ft. There are no definite
walls, width being determined by assay
values. These vary both along and across
the lode, with enrichments where the coun-
ter lodes intersect the main lode. In the
800 ft. section tested, there is reckoned to
be over 400,000 tons, averaging 6dwt.,
available above the 300 ft. level, with the
possibility of more pay-ore being dis-
closed at depth and along the line of
lode. Fine grinding followed by flota-
tion is the treatment recommended. Costs
are not expected to exceed 20s. per ton.
With an 85 p.c. recovery, and gold at
£8 10s. an ounce, the profit would be
23.35. per ton.
Despite a lift in the price of tin, Car-
pathia, the Ardlethan (N.S.W.) producer,
made a net loss of £696 for the six
months to July 31, compared with a
profit of £1790 for the previous half-
year. In all, 1198 tons ore was crushed
for tons tin concentrates, most of the
mill feed coming from winzes No. 44,
where pinching of the ore-body (now
lift, x 9ft.) has been accompanied by
diminishing values, and No. 202, where
the lode measures 20ft. x 16ft. and assays
3 p.c. tin. A borehole sunk to 200 ft.
north-east of the main underlie shaft
following a geophysical survey proved
barren, but a prospecting drive put west
in 202 winze passed through a low-grade
ore-body, and hopes are that richer lodes
will be met further on. On July 31
the co. held £5583 in liquids and owed
£l2Ol. Recent rains have eased the
water problem somewhat.
* * * *
Rutherglen Dumps, Ltd., in which
Placer Development has a 64 p.c. inter-
est, has just paid 20 p.c., thus demon-
strating the ability of the management to
profitably handle what was regarded as a
difficult proposition. The co. is oper-
ating on the deep lead slime dumps of
the old Great Southern No. 1 mine at
Rutherglen (Vic.). Briefly the process
consists of cyanidation, by agitation, of
slimes carrying only about 22gr. gold
per ton. The value of the residues is as
low as one grain per ton. Outstanding
features are no mining, low handling
costs, large daily throughput' and high
percentage extraction of gold. Inciden-
tally, Placer is considering the treatment
of a number of dumps in Ballarat East
district, including the Llanberris, Last
Chance and Britannia.
Hs t- * *
Marvel Loch, s.-e. of Southern Cross
(W.A.), has met with a crop of troubles.
There is nothing like the quantity of ore
originally reported in the oxidised zone,
and the mill, designed to treat only soft
ore, proved to be unsatisfactory in several
respects. It was estimated that 200,000
tons, averaging 4.5dwt., was available,
mostly by opencutting. Now it is found
that the payable stuff occurs in kidneys,
or lenses, with long, barren patches in
between, and values are erratic. Atten-
tion has, therefore, been turned to the
lower levels, where values are claimed
to be more consistent and the lodes better
defined. At the beginning of August
payable ore reserves, average value not
stated, were put at 21,650 tons proved
and broken, and 24,866 tons probable;
total 46,516 tons, mostly on the 300 ft.
level. From the time it started up in
March, 1936, to the end of July last, the
mill (rated capacity 4000 tons a month)
treated 60,232 tons for 8789.6 loz.
gold (average 2.9dwt.), which fetched
£A68,896. Over the same period mine
operating exes, amounted to £59,283 ;
development, £26,216 ; capital expendi-
ture, £39,346. In July 2665 tons, averag-
ing 3.3dwt., was treated, as against 4250
tons, average 2.6dwt., for May. Changes
and additions to the mill, and loss of
time and solutions, etc., have cost the co.
over £32,700, and another £5OOO was
spent on reconstructing the powerhouse.
Now the fine grinding and crushing sec-
tions have to be increased, because, with-
out these additions, the mill is unable
to treat efficiently the hard ores from
the lower levels. Capacity is to be lifted
to 5000 tons a month. Developments on
the 300 ft. level suggest that the co. might
be leaving its troubles behind ; everything
will depend upon the extent to which the
ore and values live down. At the end of
May there was £6460 in the till, and
there was £24,445 coming to sundry
creditors, including a disputed £20,802
to the Kalgoorlie foundry. The co. has
given H. T. Price, now on his way to
London, an option over its Great Vic-
toria lease, at which English interests
had nibbled last year.
United Westralian Gold, formed in
Sydney in 1934 to work leases at
Kunanalling (W.A.), takes a long time to
tell its shareholders less than it ought to.
The second annual report and accounts,
covering the 12 months of 1936, are to
be presented on Sept. 29. The recovery
for the year was 943.90 z. gold, which
realised £8216, of which £899 (a wink
over a penny per share) was called profit.
The quantity and head value of ore
treated —it was drawn from the 120 ft.
level —is not stated. Recent develop-
ments suggest that values are petering
out and the character of the ore. is
changing. When the books closed, the
vendor held a debenture for £4248 over
the property, there was £609 coming to
sundry creditors and £353 to the direc-
tors in accrued fees. Bullion and cash
totalled £774. There are 208,500 shares
out, fully paid to 2s. each.
Another 3d. dividend (about £1700)
before Christmas is a likely possibility,
says the chairman of Swan Bitter (W.A.),
who reckons the mine has a more rosy
future than many other local shows.
Now that better-grade ore is available,
money might be spent on prospecting
the co.’s seven or eight near-by leases.
There is about £lOOO in kitty.
* * * *
Blue asbestos deposits have been
found in the Hamersley Ranges, about
240 miles south of Roebourne (W.A.),
where 25 men are already at work. The
stuff occurs in horizontal seams in a
hard herratite formation in high cliff
walls of gorges. Owing to difficulties of
mining and transport, the ore is being
hand-dressed on the spot.
* * * *
After a second unsuccessful dip in the
bag at Leonora (W.A.), Gambier Lass is
shutting down, the cupboard being bare.
Some 15dwt. stuff was met with in the
north end of the Anglo-Saxon lode, but
average values over 70ft. weren’t good
enough, and water was a problem.
* * * *
At July 31 First Hit (W.A.) had £4077
in the till, compared with £2225 three
months earlier. Revenue for the quarter
was £10,488, expenditure £8636. Credi-
tors figure for £797, and accrued charges
totalled £565.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.W.: At the moment appearances are that
you will lose much less by taking up the new
scrip than by forfeiting the 01d.... M.C.: (1)
Quite genuine. (2) The bonds are a long-term
speculation, and guesses as to what profits are
likely to be realised aren’t worth much
Subscriber: (1) Difficult to catch a ray ol
brightness in the outlook for this venture. (2)
H01d... .Worried: Fall has been due mainly to
a general decline in the market, following shake-
out of the speculative element. It is a sound
stock in its class H.W.: Values are improv-
ing. but it is a small show with a doubtful
future See B. 16/6/’36 M.D.:
Hold.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, PhSllip and Youn* Streets, Sydney
I
I
m
11
m
Hill
iitm
111
HHill;
illy
til
«fc!
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 linen >
SMOKE-OH!
“With all this sitting down I suppose the legs
of the human being will ultimately atrophy
and drop off.” — Judge Perdriau.
More than that :
For policemen marching on their beat
We’ll only see a pair of feet;
For pressing buttons, just a thumb ;
A set of teeth for chewing gum;
Our wives will only need their tongues,
And politicians just their lungs.
•b *b *b *b
“True friendship between a man and a
woman is impossible,” says a writer.
Particularly if they happen to be mar-
ried to one another.
•b *b *b *b
“A magistrate has ruled that it is quite
legal to play bridge for money in a friendly
game.”
Bridge—a friendly game?
*b *b *b *b
Strange that the man with the true
literary bent is usually broke!
*b -I* *b *b
“Many an eloquent appeal has been made
at the Bar.”—“S. M. Herald.”
But the retort is still “Six o’clock,
gentlemen, please!”
•b *b *b *b
“A man called Nugget was buying drinks
for all hands.” — “Sunday Sun.”
A Welcome Nugget.
•b- *b *b *b
“It is especially foolhardy for women to go
outside the line of breakers when surfing.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Especially for those women who can’t
get a man to save their lives.
“Dearer gas in Sydney.”— News item.
So politicians’ salaries are to be in-
creased !
•b *b *b *b
“Attractive looking undies made from cellu-
lose are a feature of the big Italian stores.”
—Returning lady traveller.
This confirms previous opinions that
artificial wool is making great strides.
War clouds in Asia have resulted in a
rain of bullets.
•b *b *b *b
“Unknown disease blamed for crime out-
breaks.”
A symptom is itchiness in the fingers.
•b *b *b *b
“Skirts are to be shorter and will be slit at
the sides.”—Fashion note.
Making sure that the women have a
free leg.
“Here, try THESE on!"
“Mrs. wore one of the smartest dinner
gowns—beige splashed with peach.”
—Social note.
And didn’t she glare at the clumsy
fellow sitting alongside her!
•b *b *b *b
“He has retired now, after having made a
fortune out of mining.”
Resting on his ores.
“It is dangerous to arouse a man too quickly
from a state of intoxication,” says a doctor.
Particularly if he happens to be a big
man.
•J*
“Petitioner denied that he used to stay out
all night. He sometimes came home late, and
one time he came home in the early hours his
wife hit him with an iron bar. He was uncon-
scious for hours.”
Then he did stay “out” all night!
•b *b *b *b
“Inquiries had revealed the fact that the
man, who had been several times married, had
once been an Imperial barmy officer." — “Sun.”
He must have been.
The Government at the elections will
no doubt point with pride to the many
tirade agreements it has negotiated.
4* 4 • 4* 4*
“A good meal,” says a doctor, “helps a man
to face any ordeal.”
Thus the term “after- dinner speakers.”
*** *!*
“The racing was tarred by a considerable
amount of interference.” — “Sun.”
No wonder it was a black day for
punters.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
One phase of outback activity which
maintains a big population on the very
rim of our continent is the pearling in-
dustry. Though it is in the hands of
white Australians, the gathering of pearls
would be impossible without the co-
operation—gladly given—of the abo-
riginals.
Just before the open season for oysters
is declared (pearlers found taking any
during a month with a “k” in it are
liable to a heavy fine), scouts from the
various pearling companies set out from
their palatial quarters at Darwin. Some
go by rowing-boat around the coastal
inlets picking up those nomadic tribes
which eke out an existence on mangrove
berries and yabbies’ fins ; the rest set out
by charabanc to the haunts of the fierce
Caledon Bay and Myall tribes. These
charabancs are specially built am-
phibians, fitted with auxiliary outboard
motors for use when the “wet” season
overtakes the expedition and the roads
become inundated to a great depth (as is
, , , ~ A . r
commonly known as much as 24,n. of
ram falls in one day in the tropics).
Actually, these recruiting trips are
timed to coincide With the breaking of
the “dry.” The torrential rains wake
the tribes up after their annual gorge
on those delicacies which can be ob-
tained only at this time of the year,
dugongs’ eggs and kidney fat from the
stonefish. By this time their staple
foods (geebungs, bindi-eyes, three-
corners, dried dock and sweet seaweed)
are under several feet of water. As they
tramp along up to their necks in the
rain, their only food an occasional death-
adder or bull buffalo that they may
capture as it swims past, the appearance
of the recruiting charabanc is vocifer-
ously welcomed, and it is an easy matter
for the scouts to get them to sign on
the dotted line for pearling service.
The work of the natives on the pearl-
ing grounds is both easy and congenial.
They are grouped into various classes,
e.g., divers, openers, “separators,” “back-
slappers,” “scoopers” and “tippers.” The
term “divers” needs no explanation, nor
does “openers.”
The “separator’s” job is to masticate
the oyster, but so expert is he that never
once do his teeth bite on the pearl. He
"feels” for it with his sensitive tonsils
(only natives with enlarged tonsils are
selected for this delicate work), and as
soon as both pearl and oyster are in the
right position he gives the “office” to the
“Sack-slapper,” who takes up a position
immediately behind him. His duty it is
to bang the “separator” sharply between
the shoulder blades at the right moment,
so as to ensure the ejection of the pearl
on to the deck. The separator is then at
liberty to swallow the oyster. A good
“separator” can ingurgitate as many as
300 oysters a day.
So that pearls ejected by the “sepa-
rators” do not run overboard, the decks
of luggers are sloped inward, instead of
to the scuppers as in ordinary vessels. The
“scooper’s” job is to scoop up all the
pearls, and, as there are as many as two
dozen “separators” at work at the one
time, he is usually the busiest man on
board. The “tipper” gathers up the
buckets of pearls as they are filled by the
“scooper,” and tips them into the false
bottom with which all luggers are
equipped. These buckets are carefully
counted by the skipper to ensure that no
pilfering takes place.
The lugger itself is
a small scow with a
spinnaker as its
motive power. When
its complement is
complete it sets out
and anchors over a
likely oyster bed.
The lubras are sent
overboard first to
make sure that the
locality is free from
reef eels, sharks,
crocodiles, giant
’rays, gropers, sea-
snakes and tortoises.
As these are only
maneaters, the lubras
are, of course, im-
mune from their
attacks.
The buck, the real
skin-diver, then goes
down. The big ad-
vantage in this
method of diving is
that, being in the
nude, he enjoys
greater freedom of
movement. All he
takes down with him
are a sledge-
hammer, cold chisel,
brace-and-bit, knife,
bucket, grappling
iron (to help him withstand the upward
pressure) and his stethoscope.
Immediately he hits bottom the abo.
dons the latter and, so as not to alarm
the oysters, cautiously approaches a
bunch. Putting the stethoscope quietly
against each bivalve he selects only those
the stertorous breathing of which denotes
that the presence of pearls is hampering
their respiratory organs. He then care-
fully removes the oyster with his instru-
ments, taking care first of all to clamp a
rubber band over it. This is to prevent
any spiteful oyster on being caught from
spitting the pearl out.
No abo. skin-diver ever stays under
more than a quarter of an hour at a
time. When he feels he is nearing the
limit of his endurance he unhooks his
iron and shoots to the surface. There
he stops only to dump his bucket of
oysters on the deck, takes two deep
breaths and then goes down for more.
S. W. K.
A Matter of Relativity.
“It says here,” said Mrs. Squelch,
looking up from the evening paper, “that
since the beginning of the civil war a
quarter of a million Spaniards have been
killed! ”
“Uh-huh,” grunted her spouse.
“And that the casualties in the war
between Japan and China so far total
more than 100,000.”
“Yair.”
“And listen to this. I think it’s dread-
ful. Three hundred people were drowned
when a tourist boat in the Black Sea
struck a derelict and sank in seven
minutes! ”
“ ’Mm.”
“And there’s been a terrible earth-
quake followed by awful floods in Tibet.
Seven thousand dead and missing ; and
now cholera has broken out, with hun-
dreds dving every day.”
“Huh.”
“Ana there’s a peculiar outbreak of
mass suicide in Siberia. Four hundred
people have thrown themselves under
trains in one week.”
“Ah?”
“And did you see this about Deadlegs,
the Cup favorite, injuring his fetlock dur-
ing a trial spr”
With a yell of horror Mr. Squelch
sprang almost vertically from the
lounge and nearly knocked his wife off
the chair as he feverishly grabbed the
paper.
“No! Where?” he gasped hoarsely.
Bo.
Perfectly Reasonable.
“What I want,” said my neighbor, Mr.
Yezso, “is a fundamental settlement.”
I had found him in the front garden
of his other neighbor, Mr. Wat Foh.
He had Wat Foh on the ground and
was pummelling him ; but he paused
to answer my concerned question, then
resumed his pounding.
“But I say, Mr. Yezso!” I protested.
“Here you are on his own premises,
whacking into him. Is it fair?”
“What I want is a certainty of peace,”
said the assailer, pausing again for a
moment. “My actions are entirely for
the benefit of peace ; the hostile attitude
he has shown to me must cease. Every
time I come into his-syard to help myself
to some of his fruit or flowers he looks
at me as if he would like to punch my
head.”
“But, I say, it is his place you know!”
I protested. “How’d you like”——— .
Before Mr. Yezso said anything more
he landed a fist in Mr. Wat Foh’s eye,
knocked out two teeth and, springing
up, planted a heavy boot in his jaw.
Then he dropped on the unfortunate
fellow again before he could rise.
“My actions,” he declared, “are in the
interests of peace. A permanent peace
is the ormciple for which I and my
whole family have always stood.”
1 passed on deeply impressed by his
high-mindedness.
H. M.
Mealtime.
“Mrs. Bavin, in advocating open-air cafes in
parks where liquor might be sold, said that
‘drink supplied only with meals, as in Sweden,
must be better for the people than the present
method.’ ”
“But, old chap, I don’t feel hungry,”
I objected.
“Nonsense, old man!” said Bloggs.
He turned to the waitress. “Bring a
penn’orth of cheese and biscuits and a
gallon of beer and two glasses.”
“These meals are first-class,” I com-
mented as we waded into them.
“Another little meal wouldn’t do us
any harm,” murmured Bloggs as we
drained the last drop.
“Certainly it wouldn’t,” I agreed.
The only catch was that Maria would
not believe my story about being de-
tained in town having a few meals with
Bloggs.
H. M.


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND •• 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. .. •• 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman); Edward R. Knox; Owen F r * en< * :
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E.; Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Canberra, r.C. 1.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
“KING toe ROAD”
BATTERIES
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Mixed Feelings
War possibilities, which caused the
armaments boom and sent most shares
soaring early this year, are now having
something to do with a reaction the
other way in shares. Again the bottom
seems to have dropped out of things so
far as nervous speculators are concerned.
The bottom is always liable to fall out
of things where emotions are given free
play. The old order of financial experi-
ence appears to have changed a lot in
many eyes, and to the susceptible an
existing boom is always a better kind of
boom than has ever occurred in the
past, and a prevailing slump is the worst
ever—outlook positively black as pitch,
with no ray of hope anywhere.
So jitters are the fashion just now,
Australian sharemarkets taking their cue
from New York and London. World
affairs at the moment are undoubtedly
confusing, and most cable news is de-
pressing. Wars here, prospective wats
there, threatening conflicts of purely
newspaper creation somewhere else.
There is a dearth of other news, and, just
as “prosperity” was boomed and blared
for a couple of years, the other side is
now being done to death.
It is difficult to get down to the real
position, but matters of fact will eventu-
ally govern the industrial and economic
position. From the outset it is best to
acknowledge that Australian recovery has
been more marked than in most coun-
tries ; the position here has been per-
haps most closely paralleled by S’Africa,
which has had the rather fortuitous help
of an enormous gold production. In
the U.S.A. the position is hard to judge,
so much artifice and experiment hay-
ing entered into recovery there; in
Britain, though volume of production is
at a record level, there is an element of
capital-asset replacement and installation
that won’t last,for ever. On the Con-
tinent the position is really difficult in
some countries, France particularly. In
lapan trade-expansion has been won at
the expense of some sacrifices. “Re-
covery,” it is plain, has been rather
lacking in uniformity when the whole
world is considered.
Australia is in the fortunate position
of having a first-class export in its wool,
a strong market for most of its other
products, including wheat and metals, a
record amount of factory activity and a
trade-union unemployment ratio of below
10 p.c. A few months ago it had the
added advantage of a stable level of costs
arid prices, with money, wages low and
real wages comparatively high. Its cur-
rency, though devalued over 50 p.c. in
terms of gold, had a much higher in-
ternal buying power than in 1929.
In the past few months meddling and
muddling have made the outlook less
clear. Money wages have been ad-
vanced considerably, with further lifts
to come, and the Federal Government
is foolishly going back to the London
borrowing market—“for defence pur-
poses,” to start with. Besides adding
difficulties to Budget-balancing and pay-
ing our external liabilities this sort of
thing doesn’t help Australian factories, a
most fruitful source of employment up
to now.
It is likely that the relapse in wool
prices evident soon after the opening of
the sales (caused largely by Japans
absence from the market) will be a pass-
ing disturbance, and that average prices
for the year will be as good as, or better
than, those for 1936-37. The future of
our land industries is really encouraging,
all things considered. Provided public
finance is sanely administered —and here
most doubts arise—the general outlook
for this country is as promising as it has
been for some years. We are much more
self-supporting as regards manufactured
articles, and so long as wages and costs
don’t run riot our factories in the long
run promise to do us credit.
Good investments within the Common-
wealth look as sound a means of employ-
ing savings as anything offering at the
moment.
For the past quarter B.H.P.’s monthly
production of pig-iron has been over
51,000 tons, and ingot-steel above 61,000
tons. Steel production for the first three
months of the new term is up 15 p.c. In
the last term, when steel production rose
18 p.c., net earnings mounted nearly
39 p.c.
*** ■ *
For the eight months to the end of
August, North Kalgurli’s surplus
(£173,408) of revenue over working exes,
is £lO,OOO up on the figure for the whole
of 1936, though tonnage treated for the
eight months has been 90,032, compared
with 112,338 in the preceding twelve.
Improved recoveries and costs will assist
larger monthly millings,in producing a
record profit for 1937.
North Kalgurli has held its price well
in the swooning market; Melbourne and
Adelaide have been cheerfully paying
205., and London 16s. 3d. sterling.
* * * * j'
One of the roughest things put over
payers of Federal income-tax was the
repealing in the new “uniform” Act of
the averaging provisions. Under Section
157, in the period to June 30, 1938, and
subsequent. years, averaging will apply
only to primary producers. Which means
that architects, for instance, whose in-
come was cut to the bone during the
depression and who had to pay rates of
tax inflated by the bringing of boom-
time income , into the average, will now
lose any reciprocal advantage they might
have expected from the system working
in the opposite direction. Great work
indeed. Heads, the department wins ;
tails, the taxpayer loses.
*.,* • * *
Again reports have come to hand that
shares in Go-Getters, Ltd., or some co.
have “the entire approval of The Bul-
letin,” according to the say-so of a man
trying to sell the scrip. Again it is
repeated that The Bulletin’s expressions
of approval or otherwise concerning new
share issues are confined to the editorial,
section of its financial pages and to the
columns and correspondence of the
Service Department —which are available
to all readers.
Selling pressure brought a further
decline in the market for Montana
Western Extended (Tas.) scrip last week
in Melbourne. On Thursday there was
a drop to Bs., as against a highest
price to date of 12s. 9d. Recently man-
ager T. I. Dyson said that on the Zeehan
field in the past the richest ore was won
between 100 ft. and 400 ft.; on the co.'s
property there are a series of lodes, but
work done to date does not permit a
determination of the quantity or value of
galena. Zeehan lodes, as mentioned in
B. 8/9/’37, in their heyday were some-
thing of a pig-in-a-poke. Rich finds were
often found to be patchy, and none of the
shows was a really big producer in the
aggregate; values often diminished
rapidly with depth. Returns to share-
holders were low when compared with
capital invested. Of course, as in the
past, good returns on small capitals
are quite possible where a fair block of
high-grade galena is in sight. The danger
arises when speculators start to count on
Zeehan richness and Broken Hill quan-
tities.
* * * *
Those copper-mines of the world that
can be worked at low cost are having a
wonderful spin at present. Roan Ante-
lope, the big Rhodesian show, more than
trebled its 1935-36 showing in 1936-37.
Result was above 100 p.c. on capital,
before allowing for taxation. Mufulira
Copper Mines, in which Rhodesian
Anglo-American has a 64 p.c. interest
and which in 1935-36 earned £142,189
sterling, in 1936-37 showed £649,000.
Both these cos., of course, were assisted
by much-improved prices and increased
production. In Australia Mt. Lyell gets
full benefit of higher prices, but output
for the year which ends on the 30th of
this month will be up only a few hundred
tons. Nevertheless, profits should be in
the vicinity of £500,000, easily a record,
and a final div. of 2s. or 2s. 6d. (interim
was Is. 6d.) is a possibility. At any rate,
if earnings keep at their estimated present
level for three years, they will aggre-
gate about 20s. a share. There is already
over 255. 6d. a share in investments and
surplus liquids. A London opinion on
copper shares is that, in view of the un-
certainty shrouding the future of metal
prices, the scrip carries an obvious specu-
lative risk. “Those who can afford to
take such risks, however, may well find
their temerity justified.”
Fluctuations in the London price of
two large African copper stocks com-
pared with the ups-and-downs in our
own Mt. Lyell on Melbourne ’Change:
July 19. Aug. 7. Sept. 13.
Rhodesian A n g 1 o- '
American .. 28s. 9d. 355. 3d,. 30s. Od.
Rhodesian Selection
Trust . . • • 225. Bd. 275. Od. 235. 9d.
Mt. Lyell ..' .. 43s.'0d. 465. Od. 425. 6d.
Lyell shares look a good risk at the
price, even taking a cautious view.
* • * * *
The new low-grade treatment plant of
Loloma (Fiji)—E. G. Theodore is man-
aging director —started up last week.
Capacity is expected to be reached in
about another seven days’ time. The
shares have been lower lately, in sym-
pathy with the general market; 21s. 6d.
was taken last week.
v * * * *
Tableland Tin,. N.L., which made its
first call a fortnight ago (scrip is now
paid to 55.), is pushing ahead with re-
conditioning of the old Return Creek
dredge and is making preparations for
the building of its large new dredge, as
well as an adequate dam near the prop-
erty (Mt. Garnet, Q.). The old Return
Creek co. dug about 1,000,000 yards for
0.61 b. recoveries; its dredge was too
small to deal with the job properly. Mal-
colm Newman estimates above 70,000,000
c.y. to be available, values over half a
pound. Scrip is not yet listed, but is
dealt in unofficially on Sydney ’Change.
* * * ... *
Last Wednesday Minerva Centre, Ltd.,
which is to erect two new stage-p/ws-talkie
theatres near King's Cross, Sydney, went
to allotment on the subscription of'over
25,000 shares. The whole of the ords.
(50,000) were underwritten by Lamplough
and Wharton, sharebrokers.
* * * *
Koitaki Rubber, Papua, produced
441,7311 b. of the stuff in its last term,
which it sold in the Commonwealth.
Profits rose by £2461 to £10,425, and the
div. from 7± p.c. to 10 p.c.; shares lifted
from 275. lid, to 28s. 9d. The current
year’s crop looks like being slightly
bigger, and further plantings are con-
templated.
Sellers were last week offering con-
tributing scrip in Comet Deeps, one of
the Marshall cos. (formerly North
Gympie Gold Deposits), at Is. a share,
no takers about (the f.-ps. sold down to
Is. 3d.); there were nominal quotes for
Mt. Marshall, same stable (B. 11 /8 / ’37),
at 6d. sellers, 3d. buyers. Both cos. at
present are interested in areas at Marble
Bar (W.A.), Comet Deeps in the Venus
lease, alongside De Bernales’s Comet
area. Much has been promised but little
has been proved up to date.,
* * * *
In Melbourne last week: .
Yarra Falls was one of the most stable
stocks, the price keeping steady above 40s. and
showing a yield of 5 p.c. Australian Cement
was also firm at 325. 6d.
Herald ords. receded to 665., the lowest
quote for some time.
Adelaide Steam changed hands at 30s. 9d.,
and at that figure represented good buying.
Huddart, Parker ords. could be got at 435.
6d., to yield 4.6 p.c.
Myer ords. slipped down to 355. 3d. towards
the week-end, yielding over 5 p.c.
B.H.P. at 77s.
At 775. B.H.P. scrip is being sold
on a 655. ex rights basis, offering a
yield of £3 17s. per cent, when the
new scrip is fully paid. Although
previous share prices anticipated
benefits, the present return offering
is the best that has been obtainable
from this stock over a period of
15 months —the shares, even be-
fore the new issue was announced,
have not been lower this year. The
market at the moment values the
B.H.P. undertaking at the same
figure as British Tobacco. B.H.P.’s
earnings last year were 77 p.c.
greater than B.T.’s, and, though the
steelworks are dependent to a great
extent on the construction trades,
the co. now has the market largely
to itself, and it has several pots on
the fire which haven’t yet come to
the boil properly.


df
Stevens’ accuracy has stood unsur-
passed as long as rifle firearms have
been in existence!
Mick Simmons, Ltd., have just re-
ceived the last of their quota of
STEVENS-
SPRINGFIELD
Model 52 Single-
SH OT RIFLE
Price 50/-
(Postage 2j-; Other States 3/6 )
And when the present stocks are
exhausted;no more can come into
the country.
The Model 52 has a 22in. steel
barrel and up-to-date bolt action,
and is fully up to the standard of
accuracy for which the name of
>Stevens has always been famous.
f Before the Federal Government’s
embargo on the importation of
American firearms and am-
munitions Mick Simmons,
Ltd., sold many thousands of
Stevens 52’s, and can state
without fear of contradiction
that no rifle, price considered,
has given Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
or their clients such fault-
less satisfaction There are
only a few left ... so do
not delay too long in
placing your order.
Write for Mick Simmons’ comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and post free
on request.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
712-22 George St., Haymarket, Sydney.
Branches: City. Suburbs nud Newcastle.
World-Famous
for LONG-LIFE
and ECONOMY
0
0
0
i-mf.
I •«
wmmm
mm
m
=sz
*es
OMMER
wm\i
m
THE HALLMARK OF RELIABILITY
World-famous for long life, tyre, petrol
and oil-economy and low maintenance
costs, COMMER BRITISH TRUCKS offer
for ■ every business the most efficient
transportation service for the least ex-
pense.
Their, amazing stamina and ruggedness
enables them to stand up under the
most' gruelling conditions, giving un-
interrupted, trouble-free service with a
minimum of attention.
Designed by a company with over 30
years' specialised experience of truck
manufacture, and built by engineers
with a mature knowledge of transporta-
tion users' needs, the COMMER range
has been perfected to meet every
individual haulage problem fully and
economically.
VICTORIA:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD
222 Exhibition St., Melbourne, C.l
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
Vork Street, Launceston.
W. AUSTRALIA:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street, Perth.
N.S.W.:
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
155 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
358 Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA:
WAYMOUTH MOTOR CO. LTD.
42 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
World Exporters:
K:
UooteS™
Devonshire House', Pictadiliy, London
Australian and N.Z. Representative:
C. E. BLAYNEY
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Metals and Shares
Metals generally weakened towards
the end of last week, lead slipping to
around £2O 55., spelter to near £2l,
and electrolytic copper to £59 in Lon-
don. These are the lowest quotes for
a considerable time. Gold, in spite of
further slips in the franc, has been kept
above £7 an ounce.
In most cases metals are still highly
remunerative, but, of course, not nearly
so profitable as they were when the
boom was on seven or eight months ago,
and lead went to over £35. During the
year to June 30 last, however, when
Barrier mines showed such big profits,
the average over the 12 months was £23
2s. Bd. for lead, £2O 2s. lid. for zinc.
During the first three months of the cur-
rent year those averages have been
approximately maintained.
So far as copper is concerned, elec-
trolytic averaged under £4l London in
Mt. Lyell’s 1935-36 year. Present quotes
are £lB a ton above that figure, and, of
course, for the greater part of Lyell’s
present term they have been consider-
ably higher.
Tin keeps at a high level, £263 being
paid during last week’s depression. This
metal, from a commercial standpoint,
exists in limited quantities so far as is
known ; the bugbear so far as copper
prices are concerned is the almost un-
limited nature of the ore deposits, es-
pecially in Africa and America. How-
ever, the chief producers come under a
comparatively concentrated control, and
cutthroat competition isn’t likely.
In spite of scares and alarms, the
future of metals is bright enough to in-
dicate at least present quotes being aver-
aged over a period of years. That, of
course, may not be good enough to
satisfy speculators who have paid top
prices for metal shares.
Drug Houses scrip lifted sharply to
265. 6d. a fortnight ago, after having
been down to 255. a few days
earlier ; buyers now offer 255. 6d. The
Boots bogy was the chief factor in de-
pressing the scrip, but as div.-time
(October) approaches the market is in-
clined to sit up and take a little more
hopeful notice. In 1935-36 Drug
Houses’ subsidiaries earned 7 p.c. on the
parent’s capital, and 6 p.c. was paid in
divs. In 1936-37 the co. should show
the best profit since its rather optimis-
tically-regarded inception in 1929. In-
terim div. declared in April was un-
changed at 6 p.c. p.a. Finances of the
undertaking have greatly improved.
Australian Drug, a holding co. (129,626
shares) in D.H.A., has paid a 4 p.c.
ord. div. for its last year, as indicated
inß. 30/6/’37. That represents a lift of \\
p.c. With the ords. at 14s. the market pays
for little more than the present valuation
of the holding in D.H.A.; there is
£229,365 (cost, boom-time) in freeholds,
against which must be offset £105,632
of liabilities. Income from the property
was last year £2820 greater than all the
co.’s expenses, including service charges
on the debt. Immediate yield on a 4 p.c.
div. basis is 6 p.c., allowing for div.
accrued. Return from Drug Houses at
265. 6d. is 4.6 p.c. (6 p.c. div. basis);
5.6 p.c. (7 p.c. basis).
* * * *
Buckley and Nunn’s 2\ p.c. distribu-
tion to the ords. satisfied Melbourne
market expectations, and the scrip has
kept steady around 17s. 6d. The Mutual
Store’s return to the div. list with the
payment of two years’ arrears. on the
prefs., though a highly commendable
performance, seems to have disappointed
ord. holders ; the scrip has dropped from
above 11s. to Bs. 6d. The prefs., how-
ever, are well supported at 285., ex div.,
and carry 36 p.c. arrears (just, over 7s. a
share). Paying 8 p.c., the yield offering,
assuming that the, 7s. is soon worked
off, is about £7 12s. p.c.
Kandos Cement (Sydney) shares have
been keenly bought again lately, 265.
being paid last week, and it isn’t so
long since the scrip was cum div. Yield
offering at the! current. market is.f 6 3s
per cent., and despite the trials and
tabulations of the industry, the return is
good enough to warrant inclusion ° a
parcel of the scrip in a well-sprea
holding.
*
A stock which has taken a fairly steep
dip over the past troubled Couple of
weeks has been Holeproof Hosiery ; 275.
6d. was accepted for a small parcel of
ords. last week. On a 10 p.c. divi basis
the yield offering is £7 ss. per cent. The
co. has a widespread business; its last
trading results and possible future diffi-
ciilties were mentioned here last week.
* * * *
With the market down to a new low
level of‘l7s. 9d., there has been some
speculative buying of the 12s. ords. in
Cash Orders (Amalg.) in Sydney. Yield
at current div. and market is just over
10 p.c. Net tangible backing was 13s.
Id. per shape on book values last balance
day.
* * * *
Goliath Portland Cement (Tas.) is
going to restore the 6s. Bd. per ord.
share written off in 1933. Some writing-
up of assets may be necessary in order
to balance the accounts; last accounting
day visible reserves amounted to 4s. 3d.
per ord. share, and, with a 15 p.c. div.
indicated for the current term, surplus
earnings may not run to another 2s. sd. a
share. Pref. shareholders, who suffered
a cut of 1 p.c. in their div. rate when
the ords. were written down, are wonder-
ing what restitution they are going to get.
* * * *
In May this year motor-car manufac-
ture in the United States touched average
1929 level for the first time in about
eight years. Canada still lags well below
peak-year standard. So far for 1937
Great Britain has been turning out about
twice the monthly average of 1929, and
Germany’s output of cars is well up.


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
SPRING MEETING 1937
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2nd.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, of £2600, ONE MILE.
THE SPRING STAKES, of £l5OO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
(Standard weight for age.)
SECOND DAY, MONDAY, OCTOBER 4th.
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
THE METROPOLITAN, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
THIRD DAY, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6th.
THE CRAVEN PLATE, of £l5OO, ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
(Standard weight for age.)
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9th.
THE RAND WICK PLATE, of £lOOO, TWO MILES.
(Standard weight for age.)
COMBINATION TOTALISATOR TICKETS (5/- WIN AND 5/- PLACE)
AVAILABLE AT MAIN TOTE BUILDING AND SEMAPHORE SUB-STATION
IN SADDLING PADDOCK. SPECIAL TRAMS DIRECT TO RACECOURSE.
GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary. 6 Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
A very wild west wind blew at Rose-
hill on Saturday, whirling newspapers
among startled horses and distributing
dust all over the place. Conditions as
bad or worse prevailed at Mentone
(Vic.); indeed the wind swept right across
the southern part of the continent, and
they couldn’t race at Broken Hill. It
might be as well to make allowances for
incommoded steeds and jockeys—some
of the latter complained at Rosehill that
they were riding blind part of the time,
the dust being so dense.
Gold Rod won the Camellia Stakes at
Rosehill, and Talking the Hill Stakes,
and both are back in the boom again,
especially Talking. The latter’s victory
inspired his owner, Cooper, to indulge
in another immensely gratified mono-
logue on his horses and the campaign
he has mapped out for them ; and the
racing columns of the Sunday news-
papers seemed to be 50 per cent. Cooper.
All the same, discerning judges were more
impressed with what they saw of Ajax,
Avenger and Hua.
Hua did not race, but had a gallop
with the colors up, Silver Standard being
his companion. They traversed a mile
and a quarter in 2min. 6isec., finishing
level; but the jockeys, McCarten (Hua)
and Munro, saw to that. Ajax (3 to 1 on)
made his own running in the Guineas
and, when Cassar ran up to him at the
Leger, forthwith demonstrated that it
was merely on sufferance ; he beat the
late A.J.C. chairman’s colt by a couple
of lengths, Bourbon cutting Birthday
Boy out of third place in the last stride
or so. The time was lmin. s lfsec.
Avenger was much the worst sufferer
in a scrimmage at the start of the Hill
Stakes. He was last at the half-mile. At
that point he must have been giving the
leader, Talking, a dozen lengths. He
was second, 2{ lengths away, at the
finish, and was travelling faster than any-
thing else in the race.
Ajax, Avenger and Hua look good
colts, and evidently they are good. The
Bulletin never advises people to back
horses, but if back horses they must
three-year-olds are well worthy of their
attention this year. This paper hasn’t
seen a better lot since 1924, the season of
Heroic, Spearfelt, Windbag and Nigger
Minstrel; and it is quite on the cards
that they will rival the achievements of
those great horses. With all respect for
the opinions of scribes whose pens drip
superlatives when they have occasion to
mention Talking, Mala and Gold Rod,
this Page considers present w.f.a. form
anything but great and present handicap
form rather indifferent. The fact that
Sir Grey and St. Constant, by no means
reckoned in the first class of three-year-
olds, won in open company on Satur-
day is very significant.
Allunga, Lough Neagh and Sarcherie
suffered in that mix-up at the barrier in
the Hill Stakes, but not nearly so much
as Avenger. Talking escaped, and
McCarten shrewdly drove him to the
front, with the result that at the three-
furlongs post the favorite (7 to 4 was
the closing price) was in no danger of
being overtaken by any of the mob that
might emerge from the dust. All the
same, it took him lmin. 39£sec. to run
the mile, and it didn’t look as if he could
have gone more than a shade faster.
Lough Neagh just beat the fast-finishing
Allunga for third, half a length behind
Avenger.
With 51b. less than his Epsom weight,
9st. 31b., and a weaker and smaller field
than in the Tramway Handicap at Rand-
wick, Gold Rod was favorite, at 5 to 2,
for the Camellia Stakes. Racing on the
outside and always in a good position,
the chestnut beat Hamurah and Arabia
handily, but seemed travelling rather
awkwardly at times. King’s Head had
the run of the race on the rails, but
showed no dash when Gold Rod chal-
lenged him at the Leger. The favorite
lugged in and King’s Head was squeezed,
but it made no difference to the result.
Black Laughter came home very well in
fourth place, and from twelfth most of
the way Panax moved into seventh place.
Gold Rod ran his seven furlongs in
lmin. 25sec.; better time to the fur-
long than Talking made. One or other
will be favorite for the Epsom, probably
Talking. In a really good year neither
would be in that position.
Gay Knight (3 to 1), a plain-looking
chestnut by The Buzzard-Maid of Scots,
beat Old another son of
The Buzzard, by half a Jength in
the Spring Handicap. Billy Cook waited
for the last run on him, and that
settled the issue ; Old Rowley had been
brought out a bit too soon. Third was
Tapestry, a length back. Curator dis-
appointed ; El Senorita was last. Gay
Knight has 7st. 71b. in the Metropolitan.
He is a stablemate of Fireman, who is
considered a bit the better, but The
Buzzard’s progeny, both chestnuts,
should run decently in the Metrop.
Beaupre runs his best races at Rose-
hill. He was backed solidly at fives for
the first division of the Highweight Han-
dicap, and little Max Papworth rode
him a clever race. In the end Beaupre
held off Shakespeare and Fakenham. The
bold front Shakespeare showed must
have astonished some people; others
remembered his success in the 1936
Rosehill Guineas.
Royal Step was backed as if unbeat-
able in the second division. “He’ll have
to fall down to lose,” it was said at
Parramatta. He didn’t fall down, but
he lost, coming third to St. Constant (10
to 1) and Mohican. Mohican was slow
to leave the barrier ; all the §ame, St.
Constant beat him so comfortably that
the result might have been the same had
Mohican got away well. St. Constant
(Constant Son-Nyamba) is the colt that
Talking’s owner sold to Joe Cook for £l.
It says little for his judgment, but per-
haps it was a case of pure philanthropy.
* *
Though Jack Holt had Avenger en-
gaged at Rosehill he remained in Mel-
bourne to saddle up Balkan Prince for
the Mentone Jubilee Cup, worth £3OO
and a £2O trophy to the winner. Backed
from fives down to 3 to 1, the Gay
Lothario stallion registered a most im-
pressive victory.
Terrific gusts of wind blew from left
to right at Mentone, lifting the top
stratum of the sand track and creating the
impression of a smoke screen over the
whole course. Cup competitors weie
hidden from view for a large part of the
journey.
Donaster, next in demand to Balkan
Prince, beat only two rivals. This is
explained by Lady Kooringal, the pace-
maker, having been blown out of align-
ment near the half-mile. She fell back
on Manolive, who in turn caused inter-
ference to Donaster. Last-named was
the chief sufferer, but Lilirene also fared
badly.
Taken to the outside of a number of
horses, Manolive did well' to finish
second. In any circumstances he
wouldn’t have beaten Balkan Prince, who
had 2j lengths to spare and bowled down
the straight with the brilliance of a class
galloper.
Twelve months ago Balkan Prince ran
third in the Melbourne Cup with Bst. He
has been weighted this year at Bst. 61b. —
four pounds less than in the Caulfield
Cup. Holt chose Panto as his represen-
tative in the 1936 Caulfield Cup, reserv-
ing Balkan Prince for Flemington.
If Balkan Prince is produced for the
Caulfield Cup he will meet Manolive on
71b. and Donaster on 31b. worse terms
than in the Mentone Jubilee Cup. Per-
haps Balkan Prince is more susceptible
of improvement in condition than Man-
olive, the latter having had sevea outings
on Melbourne courses during the past
few weeks.
Taking one.consideration with another.
Valiant Chief didn’t do badly when he
ran third to Sir Grey (Cimbrian-Carissa)
and Conchita in the Newry Plate.
Weighted at just under 10st., Archie
Crofts’s chestnut had to fight a gale of
wind for the first three furlongs. He
could not stall off Sir Grey (5 to 1)
when that smart colt came through on
the rails. Valiant Chief was narrowly
beaten for second by Conchita. He may
stage a comeback presently. Great
Legend did not start.
The galloping display given by Ros-
trim in the first division of the Dande-
nong Welter was reminiscent of the
recent Caulfield victories of Black Mac
and Avenger, who scored after being to
all intents and purposes hopelessly tailed
off. Rostrim didn’t win, but any horse
than can finish “in the money” when he
sacrifices ten or a dozen lengths at the
start deserves commendation.
Backed from fours to 11 to 4, Rostrim
was next in demand to the 5-to-4 favorite,
Parodier, in whom Jim Hackett, of Syd-
ney, has a half-interest. Parodier let
his backers down, but too much
notice cannot be taken of windy-weather
form. The winner, Skram, a 15-to-l
chance, gave bookmakers their only real
turn-up in eight races.
El Goiea may not be up to Derby
standard, but he is a useful three-year-
old. Against horses of his own age, and
at the head of the weights, he was sent
out favorite for the Yarraman Handicap,
closing at 9 to 2 after fives had been laid.
Immediately El Goiea saw daylight at
the straight entrance he smothered the
opposition. Almost knocked down at
the bend, he returned to scale with his
near ribs covered by white paint.
Harry Freedman, who trains El Goiea,
landed the second division of the Dande-
nong Welter with his own horse, Dazzling
Star, by Gay Lothario from a half-sister
to Bronze Eagle. Quoted at fours,
Dazzling Star scored by a big margin
from Streamline, who arrived too late
on the scene.
Dick O’Donnell, who prepared Bal-
loon King for a Victoria Derby triumph
in 1930, credited the Tyson brothers with
the Banyan Hurdle through the agency
of Roger’s Hope, a gelding by Rogilla’s
sire. A protest for interference at the
secpnd to last hurdle was dismissed.
Divisions of the Newry Purse went to
Hartigan (7 to 1) and Imitari (5-to-2
favorite). Hartigan romped home, but
Imitari was all out to beat Balmarest,
whose sire, Balmerino, annexed the Caul-
field Guineas of 1928. Few of the
progeny of Balmerino have come under
prominent notice.
H! * * *
The Hawkesbury people are to hold
their pre-Randwick meeting at Rosehill.
The old club has received a great
number of entries, Avenger being
among them. The Pantheon colt is in
the' Hawkesbury Grand and Three- and
Four-year-old Handicaps and is good
enough to win either, but he may not
appear.
* * * *
From the seclusion of a car, Colin
Stephen, the ailing chairman of the A.J.C.,
saw his colt Caesar run in the Chelms-
ford Stakes at Randwick on Satur-
day week. It was his last glimpse of the
sport and course he loved ; he was taken
home to bed, and was fated not to leave it
—he died on the Tuesday morning. He
had been chairman for 18 years, and his
interest in the club began in boyhood.
Long ago he was a very fine amateur
horseman and polo-player. He generally
had a horse in training, and he was never
more successful than in the last year or
two, when Fidelity, Sal Volatile and
Caesar —all of his own breeding, being
descendants of his mare Elvo —won good
races for him. Colin Stephen was a
member of one of the oldest and most
distinguished Australian families, and was
as straight as they make them—a cour-
teous gentleman. The only criticism ever
heard of his A.J.C. chairmanship was
that he was conservative to a fault.
The new chairman is George Main,
who has been a member of the committee
since 1921. Like his predecessor, an
owner and breeder, Mr. Main belongs
to an old N.S.W. pastoralist family. Hugh
Main, the Minister of Agriculture, is a
brother.
* * * *
Caesar, Sydney’s hope for the Derbies,
met with a nasty accident while being
exercised at Randwick on Monday.
Frightened because a horse in front of
him had pulled up, the colt threw his
rider and scrambled over a rail, knocking
himself about rather badly. He is now
labelled an unlikely starter at Randwick.
Footbrawl
Displaying better teamwork and more
speed, Collingwood never looked like
losing to Melbourne in the V.F.L. final.
Nearly 55,000 people saw the Magpies
pile on 16-11 to Melbourne’s 7-10, and
thus qualify for the right to meet Gee-
long in next Saturday’s “grand” final.
Gusty wind and showers of rain created
unfavorable football conditions and
frayed the tempers of the players; there
were numerous “incidents” in the first
half, and play became rough again near
the end. It was seldom spectacular.
$ * sj:
The University team, with a fine pack
which had learned a lot from the
Springboks, beat Western Suburbs, 14-3,
for the Sydney Rugby Union premier-
ship. The Students had led by a penalty
goal to nil at lemons. Barnes, the West
centre, who this year has put up a
goal-kicking record, made it three all.
Then the ’Varsity forwards took com-
mand.
Their last try went to the captain, a
son of Defence Minister Parkhill, a six-
foot forward and one of the best of the
bunch. Had the West full-back, Pauling,
been among the three-quarters it may
have been different: three times Pauling
got within yards of the line before he
was pulled down. The Students won
in reserve grade, too —14-9 against
Manly ; and took the club champion-
ship.
S
The Australian Rugby Leaguers beat
Leigh 11-9 in the first match of their
English tour. They’d got off the boat
late on the previous afternoon.
(Continued on page 30.)
FOR NEWCASTLE.
James Cameron Handicap: Red
Thespian or Bundar; next, Ver-
berry.
Newcastle Cup: Bradford ; next,
Mestoravon.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
Avenger, first choice, if started.
Novice Handicap: Aladdin
next, Bengal Lancer.
Quality Handicap: Lynch Law
or Courtcraft; next, Prittle Prattle
or Black Laughter.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Arabia or Ramdin ; next, St.
Constant.
Grand Handicap: Old Rowley ;
next, Osculum.
Rowley Mile: Black Laughte:
or Ramdin; next, Royal Step. r
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Tullamarine Handicap: Steven-
age ; next, Rostrim. .
Trial Handicap: Chu Chin
Chow ; next, Campaspe.
Quality Handicap: Sweet Memo-
ries ; next, Sir Grey.
Ailsa Handicap: Rostrim or
Desert Chief; next, Conandale.


1
i
&
V" .
7 can tell
White
Horse
0
There is only one whisky with just
this aroma. Only one whisky has just this silk-
smoothness. Only one whisky produces precisely
this glorious glow. It does not require great
experience to say, White Horse, of course!”
EQUAL TO A FINE LIQUEUR
WHI3.
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes
sale everywhere at popular prices
o n


Canadian Pacific mak: a
fetish of service and com-
fort on their Trains and
Steamers. That’s why so
many people travel this
wav to and from Europe.
247 George Street, Sydney w
59 William Street, Melbourne
r«,,ndin„ Pacific B/y. Co., Inc, in Canada
"silver edge'”
BRAKE LINING
TRADE MARK, ff REGISTERED THE RAVBESTOS CO. A
MON EY /
MOTOR! 5}U
SAVE
There is never any true economy in cheap, articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
l Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twent> years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper, m the long ru
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOb.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory’ Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD. G.F.O. Box 71, Melbourne. Vie.
Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Victorian League football
has suffered a felon blow. Bunton, one
of the curled darlings of the League, has
been cozened, chatted and wangled into
signing a contract to play with Westralia’s
Subiaco club. The smouldering indigna-
tion of the V.F.L. is too deep for words,
and not even the fact that it has poached
dozens of Westralian champions and
even sneaked Bunton himself from one
of the Victorian country leagues can
soften the blow.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: The meeting of Geelong
and Melbourne in one of the V.F.L.
semi-finals has set the historians yap-
ping. The two are the senior clubs of
Australian football, Melbourne having
been born in 1858 and Geelong a year
later —long before the Rugby Union or
the British Association came into being.
Some of the ancient history is particu-
larly up to date, one newspaper of 1869
commenting gravely on the “increasing
tendency on the part of some of the
young players to confound plucky play
with brutal savageness.”
# * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.A. season
has not been brilliant financially. After
paying club dividends, £43 Is. 7d. each,
there is a credit balance of £577. Last
year the clubs got £54 each.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. Rugby Union,
which ran the Springbok tour of Aus-
tralia, announces a net profit of £1615.
This is good, and if the first two matches
against N.S.W. and Australia had not
been drowned out by torrential rain the
sum would have been much larger. N. S.
Wales will send delegates to South
Africa next year to powwow with the
English, M.L. and South African Unions.
w ** * *
Hawke’s Bay (M.L.) has always been
noted for its hefty forwards, and there
was no departure from tradition in the
match against the Springboks, the Bay
pack, one man short after the first
quarter, playing over the visitors in the
first half, when H.B. led 9-8. In the
second spell, with a heavy wind behind,
the ’Bok steam-roller proved irresistible,
and the tourists won by 21-12.
Taking Poverty Bay in their stride the
Afrikanders settled down to a week’s
preparation for the final Test at Auck-
land on Saturday. All M.L. is moving
northward from The Bluff up, and a
tremendous horde will see the game.
M.L. has had 21 men in training camp,
including Caughey, the star of the last
All-Black team in Europe, who has
played little since coming back from
England. In form he should shake up
the Bok inside backs, their weak spot, if
they have any.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Though aware that a trot-
ting meeting put down for the day of the
Maoriland v. Africa match at Christ-
church was held in the morning to allow
everybody to see the leather-chasers, I
scarcely realised the importance of foot-
ball in Maoriland till I picked up Labor s
official organ and saw a review of a book
on Smuts. Splashed across two columns
is the title “The Land of the Springbok.”
He * * *
“Lond.”: An odd radio grumble has
come before the Rugby Union of Eng-
land. The Bristol Club asked that broad-
casting of international matches should
be stopped. The idea is that the thing
is so well done, by an old international
player, that on those afternoons clubs
get no “gate,” their supporters preferring
to sit by the fire and hear a great game
instead of shivering while they see a
pretty good one.
H< 3 s Hs
“Gate”: The Sydney Rugby League
has tentatively decided, though with evi-
dent misgivings, to hold a 1938 tourna-
ment in which teams from Maoriland
and France will clash with the local
heroes. It is expected that the usual
inter-State and club programme can be
squeezed in, but delegates did not hesi-
tate to declare that interest in club
matches and those with Queensland was
at a low ebb. The past season has been
one of the worst in the League’s history.
Hence the proposed introduction of new
sensations.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Big cricket starts for
Australia with the match between
N.S.W. and Queensland which begins in
Brisbane on November 5. The testi-
monial game to Vic Richardson and
Grimmett begins in Adelaide on
November 26 ; it is to be a trial for
selection in the Australian team for
England.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The Maoriland cricketers
finished their British tour by beating the
Gentlemen of Ireland by eight wickets.
Before that they met what was practi-
cally a Test side collected by Leveson-
Gower at Scarborough and were beaten
by 145 runs. They will open the Vic-
torian season on November 12 with a
match against the Cabbage Gardeners in
Melbourne, after meeting South Aus-
tralia at Adelaide.
Hi ifc $
“Bramall Lane”: Yorkshire, the cham-
pion county, downed Middlesex in a
"Shsh, you'll spoil ’ees break."
challenge match by an innings and 115
runs. Yorkshire got a flying start, with
401 up when rain stopped play. Middle-
sex batted on a wicket getting worse every
minute; it was dismissed for 185 and
101, Verity bagging 8 for 43 in the second
Middlesex knock and, incidentally, tak-
ing his 200th wicket for the season.
* * * *
“Kennington”: Sandham, who has re-
tired from the Surrey eleven at 47, is
one of the many English cricketers who
piled up oodles of runs in county cricket
and consistently failed in the inter-
national arena. Sandham opened many
a profitable innings for Surrey with
Hobbs as partner, and for long was near
the top in the county averages at the
end of each season. In Australia with
Gilligan in 1924-25 he was fourth in the
all-match averages, but could do no good
in the international fixtures. Yet he was
capable of 325 against the West Indians
and a splendid 219 against the bowling
of Grimmett and O’Reilly for Surrey in
1934.
* * * *
“Substitute”: Someone has suggested
that the next Australian Eleven in Eng-
land should enlist the services of Kimp-
ton, the Melbourne and Oxford bats-
man-wicketkeeper, at present playing for
Worcestershire. Australian teams have
always been chary of inviting help from
Australians in England, possibly because
in pre-board days, when a coterie of
players ran the teams, it meant smaller
dividends to the regulars. Sammy Woods
was the most notable instance of an out-
sider being enlisted, aPd Samivel was a
failure.
Nineteenth Hole
Young fellows were conspicuous in
the play for the amateur and professional
championships. Only the leaders in the
open qualified. Among the professionals
George Naismith, the open champion,
was outed in the first round by a com-
parative unknown, Booth, and Von Nida,
from whom great things were expected,
got little further. He was beaten 4 and
3 in the second round by Cremin
(N.S.W.), a 22-year-old assistant at Ken-
sington—the matches were played on his
home course.
Cremin went right through. He ac-
counted for the Queenslander O. V.
Walker in another round, and was 4 and
2 ahead of V. S. Richardson at the end
of the final. His putting was excellent,
and in the last round he had an approxi-
mate 68, three under par.
The Victorian H. L. Williams took the
amateur event. Ferrier was outed by a
youngster, D. J. Davies, who afterwards
went down to Williams; and McKay,
M. J. Ryan and A. V. Rae didn’t show
up. Tanner, a N. S. Welshman having
his first shot at an Australian meeting,
got through to the final. He led in the
morning round, but Williams had too
much experience and finished one up.
It was Williams’s second win, the first in
1931 when he was 16.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Young Ferrier, billed as “Aus-
tralian and New South Wales Amateur
Champion,” has been writing a lot for
“S. M. Herald,” mostly about “Gems of
Sydney,” the “gems” being golf holes
and the landscape, as illustrated, dashed
uninteresting. The youth had an un-
happy meeting at Kensington, and the
words in which he is presented have had
to be altered ; but that is only part of the
painful story. His paper felt constrained
to mention an incident that occurred in
its contributor’s match with Davies:
The ball effectively stymied Ferrier, and
he lost the hole, to be 1 down with two
holes to play. It was unfortunate for
Ferrier to be stymied at such a stage, and
he showed his annoyance by hitting
Davies’s ball away, causing the crowd to
murmur.
Also a scene of emotion which would
have done credit to any girls’ school:
As soon as it was seen that Ferrier had
failed in his attempt to hole a putt which
would have kept the match alive, the ex-
cited supporters of Davies rushed on the
green to congratulate him. His father, who
had caddied for him, ran across and kissed
his son, amid hearty applause. It was an
emotional scene, and it was some time
before a greenkeeper could move the ex-
cited crowd. Ferrier meanwhile walked off
the green in lonely grandeur, and moved
across to his fiancde, who had burst into
tears and was being consoled by Mr. Fer-
rier, senior. The three of them walked
quietly to the clubhouse.
It is unusual for a newspaper to leap
on one of its idols, but I suspect that
journalists who have lost their jobs
through amalgamations, burials and radio
competition, and who have to stand by
and see acres of space reserved for
archbishops as well as athletes, also well-
paid professors and politicians, read that
issue of the “Herald” with fierce exul-
tation.
“Divot Digger”: George Naismith,
winner of the Australian open champion-
ship in Sydney, has
probably benefited
more by his trip to
America with the
Australian profes-
sionals’ team than
any of his mates. He
returned convinced
that the American
restricted back swing
was the correct one,
and this stood him
in good stead in the
blustery conditions in
which most of the
tourney was played.
This is his first Aus-
tralian title, though
he has been well to
the front in the event
several times.
#
“W oogaro o”:
Queensland G.C. s
chairman Fitzgerald
has been in Sydney
seeing what can be
done about getting a
national champion-
ship meeting for
Brisbane. He re-
turned with the news
that the Golf Union
has consented to
stage meetings at Brisbane in 1941,
Hobart in 1942 and Perth in 1943, “pro-
vided”—and here is the catch —local
courses are approved. Bananalanders
will do well to avoid overconfidence.
Tentative promises have been made
before.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Melbourne has insti-
tuted a boys’ championship which has
already produced some likely talent. This
year’s event was won by W. G. Camp-
bell, who is at Melbourne Grammar and
is on the 10 mark with the Common-
wealth Club. Runner-up Ray Smith
plays for Northern with a handicap of 3,
and has three brothers in the club pen-
nant team.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: All the mem-
bers of the Davis Cup team have now
returned, and the silence of their recep-
tion was in strong contrast to the press
bellowings which heralded their going.
There can be little chance of a team
going abroad next year. The thing that


m
tven
met
sort'
«®t*
•jSSS '° v ” s
nW
no
tV\® 7 e a
*•* >*> J
*coppf r
* w ° • *g.
\<jc*® ,s * " 0
Wr s oOts®«- v a *aV
S * 0 V> te '... .• •
* cV ??W*!3£<**?
'* o0 »«
rt'° n ® lo \n*
m°° n
•*° r> e
see *•$ 0 \ c*»'
*® . *> en '
iSfe
M
° U Ae V o * •
V«* *°
site
o»rt*
°' S oi. «*\
v^ w '''' :: : 'f
-sv*: i* *3 *■ ,to
r
9°
n®rt
fi\'
Weo
M
**??&**
tnot'®'*
V%W *° V ® e l' 1 ''®
■f* i«»
on° \»nsOV® Xe°'
5W*»
«
lot P‘lu e ,
\ort
JIC»*
v\o*
lot
\totq®
e n\or
no
tnot®
rt \n9
-llxere
u o \'° 0 .
cot
■ t tes«'- rt Vj O o' ,v ;
°U rt ' e,S ; r W<i <o# 1° *'°
V* P aVeS
i 9S
V® 'f°. UT
sM
''° y ® «
u T
°"°T r ove tntnen !
Wnd Ko V' 6 ' 9 'V
® eS 1 V.nY\<i a 'K. AelO''*
S oXi [
\oO»-
c
* s a\
* *P
■a \s P T o A\l
>■>' ■>
,bt- 'V’U** >„«• «' fte
,« w °.„ „arti« to,S
pot
,\tort® ;
\\ o'
M
?V\on®
_ rO^
t o '”'
ip!
jmA
mm
V
MOW, Elasta-Strap
Trousers PLUS l
JUDGED by the openly expressed approval of scores
of thousands of players from the Champions down to
the men who just “potter about,” there did not seem any
point on which Elasta-Strap Self-Supporting Trousers
could be improved. But, there was, and the makers of
Elasta-Straps have made the improvement—in the New
Plus Models!
What was this important point ? The bulging shirt!
And the remedy ? The New Tauttex Feature which is
Exclusive to Elasta-Straps.
The Tauttex Feature keeps even a silk shirt in place
and, if the shirt is pulled out by violent, extended action,
it is worked back into position—quite efficiently, quite
comfortably. As well, Tauttex is an additional assurance
that the trousers will keep exactly in place. Examine
the New Plus Models and be convinced. They are the
greatest ‘non-slip’ trousers ever made.
PSSICES:
Elasta-Strap Sports Trousers
PLUS MODELS—
from 17/6 to 55/-
REGULAR MODELS-
from 14/6 to 28/6
(according to type and quality of
materials).
Available in GREYS, CREAMS.
FANCIES, etc. (the largest range
ever offered in Australia).
The Elasta-Strap Patent is obtain-
able also in Shorts and Suits.
sdfsdf
fi
wmm
should be done is to build up a new
side from young material.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Sydney “Herald” pub-
lishes a ranking list of the world’s 10
best tennis-players for what it is worth.
Budge, Von Cramm and Henkel pick
themselves in that order, and then come
Austin, Parker and Grant, with McGrath
and Rigg next and Bromwich and
Menzel tying for tenth place. It is a
fair assessment, but many will disagree
with the inclusion of McGrath and
Bromwich —Quist’s illness, of course,
ruled him out.
* ❖ * *
"Milton”: Finding, after a long
wrangle, that the Queensland Summer
1 ennis Association was determined to
cut its fees below those fixed by the
Q.L.T.A., the governing body has
thrown the Summerites out on their col-
lective pink ear without resorting to arbi-
tration courts. The Summer chaps had
sent in a letter resigning their affiliation
with the Q.L.T.A., but that body chose
not to read it.
Jjc ;J: sj<
“Chain Gang”: The Victorian L.T.A.
considered a letter from N.S.W. asking if
it had any objection to Misses Wynne
and Blick playing exhibition matches at
Orange and Newcastle. As these ama-
teurs have just finished a long tour which
included North Queensland, the Vic-
torians audibly wondered, and .postponed
sending an answer.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
L.T.A. has really made up its mind to
send a women’s tennis team abroad next
year. The details are to be settled at the
meeting of the Australian body in Mel-
bourne on September 27, and it is to be
hoped that there will be no repetition of
the unholy mess-up of last season.
Miscellaneous
“Hawthorn”: Complaints from other
States will probably compel Victoria to
change the date of the King’s Cup race
on the Yarra from April 23, May 7 being
now the date suggested. It is more than
likely that this will be the last King’s
Cup race rowed on the Yarra. The
stream is too narrow for a full muster
of crews and it is impossible to get the
full three-mile run.
* * * *
“Dagger”: Queensland open-boat sail-
ing men are fussing over the proposed in-
troduction of an outrigger for 12ft. skiffs.
In one form or another the idea has been
introduced before, but has eventually
been ruled out by the authorities. In
Melbourne a sliding plank on which a
member of 'the crew perched was tried,
and Perth experimented with a rope fast-
ened to the mast on to which one of
the crew hung as far as possible out to
windward. In Brisbane long ago, when
the long-vanished flat-bottomed sailing
punts were the vogue, it was the practice
for someone to climb out and squat on
the iron dagger fin when the tremen-
dously over-canvassed craft fairly laid
down to a stiff breeze.
* * * *
“Slalom”: The American ski team
left for home last week, taking with it
the Australian slalom, jump and lang-
lauf championships. The downhill title
also goes out of the country with the
Austrian Von Glaserfeld. The Ameri-
cans in the international match scored
400 points. Australia 316.09 and M.L.
284.83.
“Sprocket”: Amateur cyclist Winter-
bottom, of N.S.W., has broken the
Dubbo-Sydney record hoisted last year
by Opperman, doing miles in 13
hours 36min. 36 2-ssec. —an hour and
23 3-ssec. better than the standing
figures. Winterbottom intends to go
after other “Oppy” records.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Another dubious world
record is reported: a 100 metres sprint
in 10.2 sec. The runner was a Japanese,
Takayoshi Yoshioka by name, but as
there is talk of a following wind it is
not likely his figures will be accepted.
Yoshioka ran in the 100 metres at the
Berlin Olympiad, but didn’t reach the
final. The standing record went up as
long ago as 1930, and has been equalled
five times since, if the books are to be
believed.
’** * *
“Blue Chalk”: The Australian billiards
championship in Melbourne proved only
an exercise gallop for the Empire cham-
pion, Westralian Marshall, who won the
final from Victorian T. Cleary by 2000
to 1024, and a highest break of 254.
Marshall and Cleary will represent Aus-
tralia in the Empire championship at
Melbourne in June, when players from
England, South Africa, India, Canada
and Maoriland will compete.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: Britain is picking
youngsters for the rifle team to visit us
for the 1938 season, average age being
26. Selection was restricted by the fact
that only men able to get six months’
leave were considered, but the team has
a formidable list of individual successes
to the credit of its members. It is ex-
plained that youngsters are considered
as better able to stand long journeys and
atmospheric conditions than the old ’uns.
Also, it might be added, they are not so
likely to be as obsessed with the quality
of Australian beer.
* * * *
“Splash”: The chronic disinclination
of swimming clubs to pay their trifling
affiliation fees to the governing body has
been again advertised in Queensland,
where 11 clubs have been put on the
peg until their dues to the Olympic
Federation have been paid. These amount
to only about 6d. per member yearly,
but sturdy athletes who would not
boggle at doing in that sum half a dozen
times a day on pots of beer seem to be
unable to bring themselves to part with
good money for the furtherance of their
pet sport.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Jean Harlow’s Last Picture.
Apart from the sentimental interest
evoked by its being the picture Jean
Harlow had acted half-way through when
she died, the most notable thing about
M.-G.-M.’s “Saratoga” is its realistic
depiction of American horseracing.
Everything hinges on horse. It opens
at a famous American stud that has
fallen on tougher times, with Lionel
Barrymore limning a neat study of the
old owner and the average American’s
keenness on pedigree and tradition given
a little airing. On horse depends the win-
ning of the heroine—Jean Harlow, a
figure of frozen white fragility, for the
half-way; then her stand-in, a shade
shorter, slightly lacking the exquisite
Harlow form and acting like a No. 1
chorus girl, for the rest. The stand-in
has the merit of being more animated in
herself,' but the part soon loses interest.
Clark Gable as a bookie —American
pattern, including heart of gold and
simulated-casual love for the heroine —
holds the show together throughout.
Frank Morgan, as a jealous husband, is
his usual stout self as Frank Morgan.
He sneezes royally. He’s there, of course,
for humor’s sake, and provides the major
part of the picture’s fair quota of it, but
it’s possibly his intrusion more than any-
thing else which tends to make things
drag in the long run.
The story is of no consequence. It is
a semi-serious romantic comedy of love
at cross-purposes which, as acted, slides
over the mind, and when it has gone
leaves standing out merely a few impres-
sions of shots that are only incidental to
it. In a race train, heading for the
Florida meeting, and in the train again
to finish with, after the big race has
saved the future of the famous stud by
a nose and cleared up the cross-pur-
poses of the lovers, will be better re-
called afterwards than anything in the
plot. These couple of passages provide
excuse for a peculiarly American brand
of lively jollification; funny and inter-
esting.
But the best of the film is where the
camera is turned on to an American
racetrack. A film-taster who prefers
Randwick to most addresses around Syd-
ney may be biased about this, but to
him, at least, the horseracing—a good
issue of it, uncommonly effectively photo-
graphed—infused the chief strength he
was able to find in an otherwise not
remarkable film.
With “Saratoga” at Sydney St. James
a capital lot of M.-G.-M. brevities make
up a tiptop first half. Among these
“Golf Mistakes” is an exposition of
golf strokes so engagingly put over that
it interested a confirmed non-golfer.
“Rocky Mountain Grandeur” is an out-
standing technicolor scenic.
“Knight Without Armor .”
Robert Donat and Marlene Dietrich.
The many minor roles are also notably
presented in this cleverly-directed British
film. It is a story of the adventures of
a young Englishman in Russia between
1913 and 1917. Expelled from Petro-
grad, where he’d been correspondent
of a London newspaper, he joined
the British secret service, changed his
identity, and joined an anarchist organi-
sation. For his activities in that sphere
he was exiled to Siberia. Released after
the Revolution of 1917 he became an
Assistant Commissar; in that capacity
befriended a beautiful Russian countess,
and after a long series of vicissitudes suc-
ceeded in escaping with her to a less
distressful country.
Particularly in the early sequences there
are terseness and crispness. The story
is so packed with incident that the fore-
going brief outline won’t interfere
with anyone’s enjoyment of it. It takes an
hour and three-quarters to unfold. There
are scenes in the Imperial Court at Petro-
grad, in the Arctic night of northern
Siberia, of revolutionary and “White
Army” tribunals and the massacres that r
were their sequel, of peasants crouching 1
by scores across a railway line to stop r
a train. The characters include a crazy v
stationmaster, a temperamental revolu-
tionary who committed suicide after
weeping into his ninth vodka, commis- i
sars coarse and cultured, genial and \
embittered, military men from generals t
down to orderlies. t
The atmosphere of the country and |
the time is realistically achieved. It
is not just a translation of the Bolshevik
upheaval in terms of the French Revolu- >
tion. Peculiarities of the Russian tern- <
perament and outlook are taken into
account. A synthetic reproduction, of
course —for one thing all the characters
speak English—but the synthesis carries
conviction.
As to the acting, Donat is at all times
adequate to his role. Dietrich, though
always graceful, has no great variety of
expression, and continual close-ups of
her number three, which registers re-
signed martyrdom, become a bit weari-
some. It must be admitted, however,
that the poor countess had little to be
cheerful about. At Sydney State.
“You Can’t Beat Love.”
At Sydney Regent this pleasant little
comedy sets out to prove that even poli-
tics can yield romance.
The quixotic action of a wealthy play-
boy in assisting (whilst clad in full even-
ing dress complete with belltopper), a
gang of workmen to dig a trench leads
to a publicity stunt in which he finds
himself nominated for mayoral honors,
in opposition to the father of a girl with
whom he has just struck up a friendship.
With a vice racket to clean up, he is
determined, from at first regarding it as
a joke, to go ahead with his campaign,
despite that it will jeopardise his chances
with the lady. The rest of the opus is
devoted to his ingenious method of
pinning the villain of the piece and vindi-
cating his future pa-in-law.
Preston Foster has a genial role well
within his capacity, and Joan Fontaine
plays up to him with spirit. Herbert
Mundin, of the agitated eyebrows and
flexible face, buttles with his customary
comical gravity. At Sydney Regent.
“Public Wedding.”
Waal, Moloch the stuffed whale is sure
a dud flop. The on’y gink that’s looked
in on the show since the fair got goin’
is the bailiff. An’ now what? Hey, folks,
I gotta swell idea. There’s gonna be a
: public weddin’ in that thar minnow’s
mouth. Swell? I’ll say it’s swell. But
lissen, sister —yare can’t pull that stuff on
me! What’s bitin’ you, big boy? This
weddin’s goin’ on! I say it’s goin’ on!
Yes, folks, that’s the big idea in
“Public Wedding” at Sydney Capitol.
And does it rope in the great American
public? We’ll say it does. But what if
the guys at the box-office do a bunk with
the jink? And the young sand-modeller
brought in to be bridegroom and the
beauteous goil of the sideshow who’s the
bride find they’ve been properly legally
hitched by mistake? Waal, folks, you
can find out for yourself by goin’ along,
though maybe you won’t be missin’ a
helluvalot if you don’t.
“New Faces of 1937,” principal offer-
ing at Sydney Capitol, is musicomedy
hotchpotch —as these things mostly are,
jumbled, but with some fair laughs and
a neat bit of fluff in pyjamas in a lively
spot of tap-dancing. One splash—skit on
sharedealing in a broker’s office—is a
roar.
4*
Dance, Charlie, Dance, support at
Sydney State, exhibits the adventures of
a hick from the sticks (Stuart Erwin)
who put his money into the show busi-
ness on Broadway. A 1 Jenkins as a
theatrical agent and Glenda Farrell as
his wife contribute some quickfire
dialogue, and the effort is faintly amusing.
v *!• »!« 4*
North of Rio Grande, at Sydney Civic,
latest Hopalong Cassidy, opens with Cas-
sidy (Bill Boyd) masquerading as a rip-
snortin’ bad man, and his beavered
henchman Windy (George Hayes) ticklin'
the ivories in a dance hall. Their task
is to bring to justice the gang which
controls the town of Sagebrush and
under official cover holds up trains, robs
banks and murders inconvenient citizens.
Hoppy’s young brother was a victim,
hence triple vim in the final pay-off.
* * * *
“It Happened Out West” —Paul Kelly
is dgent of a Trust Co. which is anxious
to persuade a client, a wealthy young
miss (Judith Allen), to give up her Arizona
cattle ranch, which is losing money. Agent
discovers in nick of time that the prop-
erty is thick with silver, and that wealthy
miss’s employees are all heelers of a
scoundrel who wants to buy it cheap.
Spots of humor enliven it. Previewed at
Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
4* 4* 4*
“A Night of Mystery” deals with the
assassination, by revolver or poison, of
various members of a millionaire family.
Not a bad thriller in its way, but the
CARCASS SHOW
j N a manner of speaking the Marcus
I Show is on its last legs in Sydney—
several score of them, and not so dusty
either, particularly the set with a mole
“To the South Pole."
just above the left kneecap, slightly to
starboard looking up from the stalls.
These Peaches and Lovelies and the
odds and ends that go with them will
next visit Newcastle, Brisbane, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and, unless the S.P-C.A.
steps in, perhaps the South Pole. Per-
haps. If they do it’s on the cards that
the Antarctic area taken over by Aus-
tralia a few years ago will be lost to us.
And good riddance. What’s the use of
150,000 square miles of ice? And when
it’s all thawed out there’ll be more room
for the whales to escape, and all the
Japanese whalers will then be compelled
to go home again to China and grow
rice.
The visit of the show to the several
named parts of Australia should do some
good also. It should put a stop to any
stay-in strikes they happen to be enjoy-
ing around Newcastle. ‘ln Brisbane, a
month or so hence, the scene set in the
vicinity of the First Politician’s constitu-
ency—it should be
good news to all
that he has become
corpulent and a bit
thick in the tail for
active scampering
over the hobs —this
scene (suitable
enough in a place
like Sydney and a
theatre so near the
law courts) might be
cut in favor of the
bathroom scene
from “The Young
Ladi e s’ Finishing
School” operetta.
This suggestion
should appeal
“Lovelies and Peaches .”
strongly to the management, involving,
as it would, a minimum of readjustment
in the dressing. Unless Brisbane has
slipped it should also appeal to Brisbane.
Of course, if the stay-in strike were
still on at the brewery in Brisbane that
would be a severe test, if the beer is
anything like XXXX used to be. Still,
these Loyelies and Peaches are well
enough equipped as to chassis to give
even beer a good go for it. .
“The First Politician."
Melbourne should
have fewer fogs this
summer as a lasting
result of the visit
there, and Adelaide
should have less
trouble in forgetting
that it’s 100 years
old. If the show
should also have the
generosity to drop
in on Murrabelar it
would take what is,
after all; an easily
assimilated line of
education as well as
entertainment to the
inhabitants. At any
rate, this showman
saw nothing like it
all the years he lived there, except the
night the pub was burnt down.
Even then the lighting was not so
effective as at the Royal. Here it is
green, yellow, blue and one or two other
colors, and strong enough for all prac-
tical purposes.
Frith complained afterwards that he’s
not so shook on green ones. Artists
seem to get like that —blase. After all,
why not green ones? It’s all a matter
of taste. Look at Hottentots! They
don’t seem to mind. Or, to change the
subject, take the blue ones. A bit of
color about the home seems a nice idea.
It could make a bridge evening seem
less like a sit-down strike in the frigi-
daire. Or, to get back to the green ones,
if the management borrowed an idea
from the talkie “Wings of the Morning
and had John McCormack come in and
sing “Believe Me If All Those Endear-
ing Young Charms,” especially if he was
dressed to suit the company- he should
be able to get away with it in a banana
leaf Well, it’s an idea, and a critic
is expected to be constructive.
And now what, insists that fatuous
companion the show-critic s conscience,
just what is the show really like? This
is getting people nowhere. It isn t descrip-
tive. It’s too
restricted to
the one
aspect. Here’s
a show that’s
been packing
’em in for
months and
still as good
a drawcard
in Sydney
last week as
anything on
offer, except,
perhaps, the
Mun r o
divorce case.
Come now,
give Bulle-
tin readers
your com-
plete impres-
“Versus beer
sions. |
Calling Norman Lindsay!
Calling Norman Lindsay!
Calling Norman Lindsay!
Listen, Norman. When you were over
in America that time, did you sell any
of your pictures to a guy called Marcus?
You did, eh? Well, he's brought ’em
back alive.
“Calling Norman Lindsay."


44
I knew_youd
like them
99
“ The first time I smoked
di Maurier, I knew you’d
like them you’re such
a critical smoker
“And you’re certainly
right! I’ve never tasted
a richer , more satisfying
smoke. The filter tip’s
a grand idea.”
f “It is, but there are filter tips and
filter tips. This one actually improves
the flavour of the smoke.”
“ You don 9 t have to tell me l I can
taste what I’ve been missing all
these years.”
a i
a
teas
c
Before the du Maurier filter tip, the
true taste of Virginia smoke was unknown.
No one, in forty years of experiment, had
ever succeeded in cleansing smoke whilst
leaving the natural flavour alone. Now
du Maurier has done it—and more than
that. The du Maurier tip has unveiled
a richness hitherto undreamed. It has
given to the world nothing less than a
new, more luxurious Virginia.
du MAURIER
THE EXCLUSIVE FILTER TIP CIGARETTES
20 for ifb
Also obtainable: 10 for 9d, 50 for 3^9,100 for G.c .22
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland: St. Janies Tobacco Distributors, 185 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTUKERS OF DU MAUKIER CIGARETTES, 217 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.I.
icting suffers from blatant insincerity.
Mo detective-sergeant who behaved as
Roscoe Karns does could escape deten-
tion in a mental hospital ; no sleuth of
any sort was ever so dandiacal and
precious as Grant Richards makes Philo
Vance appear. The girls do much better,
but at that they don’t give an impression
that they believe what they say. At
Sydney Civic.
Rubinstein in Melbourne .
Arthur Rubinstein danced, pranced,
heaved, surged and galloped on the
piano-stool at Melbourne Town Hall on
Saturday through three concertos, and at
one time he seemed as if he were driving
a four-in-hand and at others riding a
trotter. He seemed not only to be hurling
himself through the scores but urging
director Heinze and the orchestra along
in front of him. In one of his encores
he appeared from the elevation of the
balcony to be hammering his fists pas-
sionately, though rhythmically, on a
counter, and in another he appeared to
be swimming.
But these effects were visual only:
they were not reflected in the music.
The maestoso of the Brahms concerto,
which initiated the proceedings, rose
through the orchestral tutti, passed into
the second subsidiary theme, glided into
the lovely second subject and then col-
lected all the forces of piano and orches-
tral instruments for the final outburst
in a perfectly orderly manner. The en-
chanting melody of the second move-
ment and the intricate decoration of the
rondo were just as well considered.
The pianist has stated in the press that
when he feels he hasn’t got his audience
vith him he gets a pain in the neck—physi-
cally, not metaphorically. There was no
need for it on Saturday, except, perhaps,
during the performance of the long and
boring “Night” spent in the gardens of
Spain with De Falla, but if that were so
it was the fault of the composer rather
than the executant. The present com-
mentator found the De Falla opus ram-
bling and disconnected, but the Saint-
Saens Concerto in G Minor, which
rounded off the evening, restored the bal-
ance.
Rubinstein’s neck was not in jeopardy
at his first Melbourne solo concert either.
When the Cesar Franck prelude, chorale
and fugue was finished he hadn’t an
enemy in the audience. The friendliness
increased with his free and vigorous ren-
dering of a Brahms panel. Concerning
Chopin, Rubinstein has other things to
say than the usual run of virtuosi. He
gives him a ruggedness which suited the
Town Hall auditorium, even if it would
have sounded a trifle shocking in the
drawing-room. Ravel’s “Forlana” and
his “Alborada del Garcioso” followed,
and the evening concluded with Stravin-
sky’s “Petrouchka,” which the composer
dedicated to the pianist. Rubinstein was
faced with the problem of transporting
three ballets on to the piano. He did it
in such masterly fashion that the non-
attendance of the ballerinas wasn’t
noticed, and the absence of gimcrack
stage scenery was a blessing.
4* •b
RUBINSTEIN’S SYDNEY FAREWELL.
Save for a leonine performance of
Liszt’s B Minor Sonata, with emphasis
on the iron framework rather than the
silver filigree, Rubinstein’s farewell recital
at Sydney Town Hall came rather as an
anticlimax. Other items were Schumann’s
“Carnaval,” played with what seemed
cynical detachment, and Beethoven’s
Sonata, Op. 31, No. 3, which, while a
very sound and capable rendition, was
interesting rather than inspiring. How-
ever, the encore numbers, selected with
Rubinstein’s usual astute showmanship,
gave the audience its meed of those elec-
trifying effects of which the Polish
pianist is peculiarly the master.
*I' *1* 4* 4*
SYDNEY CON. ORCHESTRA.
The purple patch of Sydney Con.
Orchestra’s concert last week was the re-
markably fine solo playing of Nora Wil-
liamson in the Tschaikowsky Violin Con-
certo. Her tone is bright and suave, and
she has acquired in recent years the
ability to impart life and sparkle into her
playing, and to express feeling, without
which Tschaikowsky is but as brass and
tinkling cymbals. She was a little over-
weighted by the orchestra, but that was
the fault of the other instrumentalists,
not of the soloist, who has adequate
volume for concerto-solo playing.
Dvorak s Fourth Concerto, Goossens’s
“Tam o’ Shanter” (a lively work that the
audience thoroughly enjoyed), Schu-
mann’s “Manfred” overture and Vaughan
Williams’s “Fantasia on a Theme of
Tallis” were other items of the pro-
gramme. Dr. Bainton conducted.
•J* ■i*
COMEDY HARMONISTS.
The Comedy Harmonists have been
enchanting packed houses at the Town
Hall and the Princess Theatre, Mel-
bourne, on alternate evenings with a kind
of singing which is new to local music-
lovers. The five vocalists of assorted
shapes and sizes and their accompanist
from Austria sing Schubert, Brahms and
Mozart magnificently, and as far as could
be ascertained two or three of them at
least have really first-class voices. But
the thing they like to do is to imitate the
overture to “The Barber of Seville” or
some such orchestral item. In the kind
of mimicry they fancy the Harmonists are
experts, and they can make noises like a
dozen instruments. They have a reper-
toire of gestures and facial expressions
which they place at the service of the
composers, and some of the compose-s
deserve it more than others. Ketelbey’s
“In a Persian Market” becomes a one-
act comic opera in which they paint the
scenery, so to speak, with their voices.
4* + 4* 4 1
MARJORIE SUMMERS’S RECITAL.
One of the most promising pro-
ducts of Melbourne University Con. of
late years, Marjorie Summers, turned up
at the Assembly Hall and surprised a
large audience with the maturity of her
playing. She crouched over her instru-
ment in an apparently awkward fashion
and she was nervous, but she played a
a Scarlatti sonata and the Sonata quasi
una Fantasia of Beethoven with the finesse
and feeling of an accomplished virtuoso.
The remarkable thing about her was the
balance between the powerful passages
and the delicate nuances of the Beethoven
opus. In her Chopin panel everything
was considered, and there was so little
of the beginner about her that it was
possible to enjoy her playing without
making the usual allowances for musical
prodigies.
■f 4* 4* 4*
CHILDREN’S ART IN ADELAIDE.
Adelaide “News” and “Mail” have pro-
moted an art show which is at the Public
Library lecture-room; nobody over 13.
Taking the immature efforts very seri-
ously, they induced Heysen, McCubbin
and McNally to do the judging. The
result is interesting, and sometimes
a surprise. The great men have turned
from the conventional landscape or still-
life to anything showing imagination and
preferably great splashes of color:
gloomy mountains in a dark dawning or
a volcanic eruption of the nightmare type.
Of some 2000 entries, only 300 are
shown, and the most interesting are in
the Infant Class, the really Primitive.
Naturally, the wail of disappointed
mothers is loud in the land. This critic
wails only about a dog’s head, passed
oyer, yet so good that it. looks quite out
of place in this juvenile show
** * *
W. HAYWARD VEAL—MELDRUMITE.
Considerable promise is evident in the
exhibits of W. Hayward Veal, whose first
show of Meldrum-school paintings
is put on at Hogan’s Melbourne gallery.
Flower studies and country sketches re-
veal a fine sense of color and balance.
‘ Frost, Sun and Fire,” limning the
stark trunks of young gums against a
fire-glare background, is one of the most
ambitious studies anil one of the best.
‘‘Gisborne,” a view of a tree-lined street
with telegraph-poles in acute perspective
and a car approaching, is an excellently
designed little sketch. “Keiseisan and
Bamboo,” a rich gladioli study, and an
unusually “thin” vase of daffodils with
effective background shadows, are among
the best of his indoor paintings.


20 Investments In One!
That’s what you get by becoming a Certificate Holder in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST. Spreading your
funds over the shares of 20 first-class companies, these Certifi-
cates provide also a yield of approx. 5% p.a., and potential
capital appreciation. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:—
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
IW9W
"COLOUR LINE TOURS"
enable you to see Tasmania
in comfort. Ask for booklet.
The usual holiday recreations
become unusual in Tasmania
amid scenes of marvellous riches
and variety. Historic buildings
of amazing interest. Sporting
facilities including trout fish-
ing incomparable .... and
the bracing, sunny days (so
health-giving and invigorating)
add to the enjoyment of your
stay.
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings and fares on application
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
m"e VQIIpVfSERVfITIOH now!
HOBART - - - Macquarie and Murray Streets
MELBOURNE - - • The Block, Collins Street
ADELAIDE . . . |2 Pirie Street
PERTH - - - A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE 196 Adelaide Street
JT
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
No. 4 wharf, Circular Quay, might
have been called Botany Bay last Thurs-
day, such loot of garden and bushland
splendor had been brought to' it by the
Mooltan. The liner was all dolled up for
the party her owners were giving to cele-
brate the P. and O. centenary. Waratahs,
scarlet and erect, were magnificence in the
verandah lounge. In contrast were gigan-
tic lily leaves, alternately green and
silvered. Gold, of course, was much
used in the decorations. The lounge,
where it wasn’t a whirligig of cocktails
and their consumers, was given over to
tall gilded standards overflowing with
yellow iris, daffodils, rock-lily and Can-
terbury bells. Two enormous baskets of
mixed fruits and flowers caught the light.
In the late spring afternoon the bunt-
ing-draped buffets on deck were a bright
touch. The decks, too, were lined with
small tables carrying enough food to
provision an army. Sandwich and savory
in red-gold shells of scooped-out pump-
kin, marrow, grape-fruit and pome-
granate were tempting. Coolness was
suggested by halved cabbages, also used
as food-holders. Over a thousand guests
climbed the gangway, and P. and O.
heads W. A. Mackay and G. R. Rickards
couples and Captain C. B. Roche must
have had a busy time doing the recep-
tion politenesses. Wherever the eye
turned it caught something to sparkle
over. The golden galleon with its
swelling sails and beflowered prow
seemed ready for any seas of romance.
This was over the mantel in the
lounge, and directly opposite was a
rising sun, all marigolds and nasturtiums
and 1837-1937 very glitteringly displayed
across it.
There was a band, but to the dis-
appointment of many a woman in a new
spring dress there was no dancing. It
would have been such an excuse to dis-
card the redingote that threatens to be
almost uniform this summer, and step
out in the short, rather swinging flowered
silk of the moment. Patricia Case, tall
and dark, wore her Breton sailor well
back on her head. It was navy ; so was
her frock, which had an unusual sash of
blue-and-white silk. Ebba de Dardel, in
green, wore a halo hat in exotic straw.
Mrs. Alan McGregor showed a touch
of cherry velvet on the upstanding collar
of her black frock and on her shiny
straw hat. But vanished are the glories
of that afternoon, just as the ice-cream
models of the William Fawcett and the
Strathmore that were two of its features.
Now everybody is looking forward to
the Chitral “do.”
The ball given by the commandant and
officers of the 2nd District Base was a
happy and colorful affair, from the greet-
ing by the Brigadier Hardie couple in
the azalea-decked drawing-room to the
rose-red camellias amidst their deep
blue lacquered leaves on the supper-
tables. This flower arrangement brought
out the colors of the regiment, and grace-
ful compliments were the silver branched
candlesticks with their red candles. Mrs.
Hardie’s frock of amethyst lace was pat-
terned in gold. Major-General Laverack
(Melbourne) was there; so were Sydney’s
old friends Major-General and Mrs. O.
F. Phillips, who have come from Vic-
toria for a holiday, Mrs. Phillips very
glittersome in a frock of silver sequins.
The Major Boyle couple, now in Tas-
mania, were missed from the Colonel
Lorenzo, Major P. Manley and Captain
Keith Morris group. Mrs. Lorenzo’s
black frock had diamente shoulder
straps; Mrs. Manley’s sky-blue satins
were silver-beaded ; Mrs. Morris’s black
crepes were patterned in red and green
flowers, and green orchids from her own
garden added an exotic touch. Major
and Mrs. McCall were among the night’s
dancers. Her deep blue crepe frock had
red and blue roses at its waistline. Aider-
man G. Parkes accompanied the Lady
Mayoress. Captain G. A. Scott’s wife
was graceful in cruiser-grey laces, and
Captain A. G. Wilson’s wife’s frock of
pomegranate satin was worn under a
richly embroidered Chinese coat of the
same shade.
If you are an attendant at amateur
dramatic performances you have noted
the looks and works of Sylvia Parish,
whose real name is Sylvie Byrnes. This
teen-old is adopting the style of having
one plume of hair above her brow a
silvery blonde. She is a pupil of Mollie
Kirwan. Monte Luke photograph.
Above her small pointed face Mrs. L.
E. Gielgud wore a snug little toque of
forage-cap descent at the Red Cross re-
ception in honor of her husband and
herself. The front of the hat was em-
blazoned with her initials in gold. Her
black suit was trigness itself, and femini-
nity was stressed in its foam of lacy
jabot. Mr. Gielgud labors for the Red
Cross under the cumbersome title of
Under-Secretary-General of the League of
Red Cross Societies, and he and his wife
are making, very appropriately now that
war-guns are booming, a round-the-world
pilgrimage in the interests of this great
work of mercy. Quite stirring was the
huge red cross that dominated the stage
at the back of the speakers at the official
welcome. But the most striking decora-
tion the Town Hall could have was sup-
plied by the army of 600 Junior Red-
Crossers, eager and alert in their crisp
whiteness, smilingly conscious of the
glowing symbol on their caps.
The flowers at the reception given to
the Gielguds by Mayor Howie and
Mayoress Parkes were a blaze of color.
There were white and rose clouds of
azaleas and great bowls of cinerarias.
Fifty-two suburban branches were repre-
sented at this party, and Waverley’s presi-
dent handed Mrs. Gielgud a bunch of
Australia’s own flowers. The big corrob-
oree of the evening was the dinner given
by the Red Cross Headquarters Younger
Set. This brought all the im-
portants to David Jones’s, in addition to
the great army of teen-olds and just-
twenties who make up the juvenile mem-
bership. Consuls occurred with great
frequency, including the C.-G. for
Switzerland, to which land Henri
Dunant, founder of Red Cross, belonged.
When the Segaerts go to Siam they
will not live in a gold temple or a
lacquer pavilion, but in a much more
comfortable, entirely-meshed-in house.
The idea of this is, of course, to keep
the fly and the mosquito away. In addi-
tion to the wire-netting, says Mrs. Nor-
man Lowe, who has lived in Siam, there
are one or two houseboys whose job it
is to patrol and slay on sight any insect
marauder they may meet. Sydney has,
during the past week, almost devoted
itself to farewelling the Belgian C.-G.
and his smiling wife. Cocktails, dinners,
lunches, teas have been dispensed in their
honor. One of the largest afternoon
receptions was staged by Mayoress
Parkes in her own fastness.
This commenced with the gift of an
unusual flower composition to Mrs.
Segaert. It was a triple boomerang
woven of pansies and held by a ribbon.
The guest carried this as she and the
hostess stood greeting all-comers before
a display of azaleas and cinerarias that
would have done credit to any horticul-
tural show. Very slim and tender looked
the stems of white and rosy peach-blos-
som that brightened many a niche. Fine
white muslin frilling was a feature of
the guest’s ensemble. This was black, as
was her hat of fine straw, its only trim-
ming a white bow across the front of
the crown. Little white daisies twinkled
down the front of the Mayoress’s navy-
blue marocains. The petunia shades of
Mrs. Wakamatsu’s national dress, the
burgundy ensemble worn by Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy, the furs and millinery
of Mrs. S. H. Buchanan, the soft, white
plumage outlining the upturned brim of
Mrs. A. E. Grace’s hat, Mrs. Roy
Hendy’s orchid, the silver fox worn by
the Premier’s wife, Mrs. Frank Crane’s
profile, Mrs. Norman Macleod’s black
suit with its primrose vest, Mrs. Harold
Bott’s severely-cut little hat and Mrs. E.
Meyer’s fur-edged suit are among remem-
bered things.
Iris Burns, the pretty niece of Mrs,
Norman Lowe, goes off to Italy to study
singing. Iris, whose father is one of
the company of young soldiers who lie
buried in Francs, has already gained
recognition as the owner of a rich mezzo-
soprano. Her old home, incidentally,
is featured in the film “Rangle River. ’
She will live with an Italian family in
Milan during her student period, and
so that she will be fairly fluent in the
language she travels by an Italian ship.
Raymond Sawyer photograph.
Saturday’s gale cut out the races of
the speedboats and outboards at the
opening of the Royal Motor Yacht Club’s
Rose Bay, but the cruisers, all
gleaming white paint and polished brass-
work, raced through the choppy waters
disdainful of the spray that dashed over
their bows. The sun streamed through
the open windows of the clubhouse on to
the fluttering blue and gold pennants and
streamers, and on to the daffodils and
blue delphiniums that decked the tea-
tables. Here commodore W. D.
Lawson and Mrs. Lawson received the
300 guests, Mrs. Lawson wearing a two-
piece black ensemble. Its long coat was
edged with white, and a white bird was
perched on the brim of her black hat.
The Mayoress, who was accompanied
by Alderman Parkes, also wore black ;
so did the wife of vice-commodore J. S.
Bruce, but she added crisp white lace
ruffles at neck and wrists. The Keith
Morris couple brought a party from
Middle Harbor in their Cravena, and
reported a rough passage. Colonel and
Mrs. Lorenzo were in this group. Mrs.
H. S. Phillips, of Broken Bay, cut a dash-
ing figure in navy slacks and a white coat
embellished with anchors and flags. Vera
Andrews, who took an afternoon oft
from her nursing duties at the South
Coast Hospital, spent much of her time
showing friends over her father’s new
boat, the Swerdna. Its glass and chro-
mium kitchen and its glass cupboards,
whose doors slide open and then can be
pushed out of sight, were displayed with
pride. White yachts in full sail were
embroidered on Vera’s black crepes.
Flight-Lieut. Mulroney’s wife wore a
white felt with her sage-green frock, and
Mrs. C. P. White, wife of the ex-com-
modore, wore brown.
A traveller the Pacific Ocean must
have been glad to waft on his way is
Arthur Henderson, who comes to preach
peace between the nations. Arthur has
a trig, rather dapper figure that suggests
something to be thankful for in the
military training that made him a soldier
in the war. If appearances count he must
have stuck quite a lot on to his age when
he “chatted” the recruiting sergeant. He
talked to the Kretschmann Club, not very
well or very fluently, because he was a
tired man when he started somewhere
about 10 o’clock. He urged that the Muses
should hymn the glory of peace rather
than war. He pointed out the influence
poetry and song had on the mind, and
instanced how at the end of a day’s route
march soldiers would throw out their
chests and step briskly to the strains of
“Tipperary!” Oh, Mr. Shakspeare!
Japan’s Consul-General and Mrs.
Wakamatsu gave a reception at their
Point Piper home last Thursday in honor
of Mr. Tsurumi, one of Japan’s Ms.P.,
who came to Australia as a delegate to
the New Education Conference. Travel-
ling with him is his graceful and pic-
turesque daughter, and the highlight of
the party was her presentation of the
classical dances of her country. Min-
ister for Defence Archdale Parkhill and
Mrs. Parkhill were among those who
listened to the story of the dances told
by Mr. Tsurumi. Mrs. Alan Potter
brought the family’s good profile above
soft grey satins. The Mark Sheldons
came to the party. Mayoress Parkes was
squired by her husband. The Francis
Andersons, the Bertie Kellys, the Hugh
Poynters and the Hugh Mains were
others.
St. James’s Hall resounded with the
rhythm and cadence of verse and plays
by Australian writers when Grace Staf-
ford’s pupils made a night of it last week.
Many of the authors had come to hear
their pieces said, and the atmosphere of
the little hall was quite matey. Grace
spoke a few words in her soft voice, ask-
ing the co-operation of the authors. This
writer, who was represented on the bill
by one small item, would like to suggest
just one thing, and that is that the per-
formers might speak a little louder.
When Chief Little Wolf —the visiting
wrestler who is said to be a full-blooded
Indian chief —visited the deaf, dumb and
blind children last week, the atmosphere
was electric with excitement, admiration
and affection. Both sides radiated these
feelings, for the massive - shouldered
wrestler had the same admiration for the
children in their fortitude as they had
for his strength. Spurred by distin-
guished presence and the urges and
plaudits of the girls, 20-odd boys of all
sizes and ages gave impromptu wrestling
demonstrations, and the chief kindly cor-
rected faults, explained grips and falls,
and briefly lectured them on ancient
Indian lore.


\
iiiii
50 a
STAY AT
SYDNEY’S
Finest HOTEL
When you visit Sydney— stay at the
Wentworth. At the Wentworth you
will get everything you desire; a
homely atmosphere, perfect service
and convenience to business and
social centres.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
’PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
C-D. MACLURCAN MRS. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
Notice.
H. A. & W. GOODE, PORT PIRIE.
A. H. L. GOODE & CO., PT. AUGUSTA.
ALFRED HENRY LANCELOT GOODE,
PORT PIRIE.
ALL persons having claims against either of the
abovementioned firms or the abovementioned
Alfred Henry Lancelot Goode are requested to
forward in writing on or before the 21st day of
October 1937 full particulars and proof of their
claims addressed to the particular firm or person
abovementioned against whom the claim is
made c/o the Mercantile Trade Protection
Association of S.A. Ltd., Chamber of Manufac-
tures Building, Pirie Street, Adelaide, South
Australia.
DATED this 18th day of September, 1937.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1128 of 1937.
BETWEEN MIRIAM EDNA HAYES Peti-
tioner
And HUBERT THOMAS HAYES Re-
spondent.
TO HUBERT THOMAS HAYES late of Wal-
gett in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MIRIAM
EDNA HAYES has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Couit on or
before the thirteenth day of December 1937
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 16th day of September, a.d.
1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. MOFFAT NEWELL, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Breathe your
cold away
with
&
/inhalant\
soothes, cleanses
and protects the nose and
throat ... to give instant
relief, to clear the head
and stimulate the whole
respiratory system. . . and
soon your cold is gone.
The earlier you use Vapex
the sooner your cold dis-
appears. Simply put a drop
of Vapex on your hand-
kerchief and breathe the
vapour. It is a powerful,
safe and sure germicide...
pleasant and refreshing.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD.
and sold throughout the world
Melbourne
chatter
Money was made to fly when bank
managers rubbed shoulders with their
staffs at a ball with the get-together spirit
held in the Palais de Danse last week.
Dignity was thrown to the winds when
pennies attached to gay-colored balloons
came down like a shower upon the
dancers, and austere figures, never
known to bend on duty, scrambled like
schoolboys for coppers. Bags bulging
with coin figured prominently in the
decorative scheme, and tickets were made
out in the form of cheques. Just when
the fun was at its height, the men play-
ing in the orchestra gave comedy an
ironic twist by taking on the appear-
ance of worn and weary bank clerks,
wearing eye-shades as well as spectacles.
In spite of a dirty night, with grit and
dust flying and a blustering wind that
ruffled the sweetest of tempers, Rubin-
stein packed the Town Hall and drew a
crowd that put on its “pretties” in his
honor. Velvet wraps in gay colors took
the place of sombre furs, and many
smart figures were gloved to the elbows
in light-colored kid. Madame Sita Devi,
a chic personality, set off black velvet and
a Parisian toque with long suede gloves
in shell-pink color. At the close of the
concert, a steward had to be placed on
duty at the outer door to regulate callers
wishing to have a word with the artist.
Mrs. James, of the foreign accent and
pretty face, was given a long hearing.
Perhaps the pianist was fascinated with
her soft white frock, all accordion-
pleated. Some of the introducing was
done by Mrs. Bernard Heinze, whose
lacy frock of petal pink was half hidden
with white fur. Mrs. Edward Stevens
was bubbling with excitement because
the Comedy Harmonists’ pianist had
promised to play one of her composi-
tions. James Barrett and his lady were
in the Herbert Brookeses’ group. Jessie
Brookes donned a cape of claret-colored
velvet, and eau-de-nil georgette showed
beneath.
A strong friendship between the Oak-
lands Hunt Club and the Moonee Valiev
R.C. has always existed. A demon-
stration of this was given when
the luncheon-room at the Valley race-
course was made available for the hunt-
ing folk’s annual dance. J. B. McArthur,
vice-chairman of the racing club, now
81, hunted with the first pack. Alister
Clarke and J. S. Feehan had many a good
day’s sport in the old days following the
Oakland hounds. Secretary W. Cox is
also an old Oaklander, and when his
son Murray gets into hunting kit he will
be riding with this group.
Judge Magennis, Master of Oaklands,
was minus wife and daughter at the
dance, as mother and Bertie have gone
to Japan. Huntswomen Macalister and
Bucknill distributed and checked the
tickets, and so much help came from the
other side that there was really little more
than this for members of the Hunt Club
to do. This has been a bad season for
hunting, too dry underfoot for hounds
and horses, but the dances that are bring-
ing the season to a close are making up
for the poor sport in the open.
Rain sent garden-party guests scuttling
for shelter when Archbishop Head and
his good lady were about to welcome
them at the historic old home in East
Melbourne on Thursday afternoon. Per-
haps the sky was weeping for the devas-
tation that had been wrought in the
once densely-wooded garden. Instead
of gazing upon a background of tower-
ing elms more than half a century old
and luxuriant shrubberies, one gazed on
a bare fence and bricks and mortar
on a cleared block. Many aged trees
have fallen under the axe to make way
for a vegetable patch for the bishop’s
kitchen. Tree-lovers could have wept
into the teacups. The newly-formed
pansy-bed rockeries were strangely at
variance with the famous historic gum-
tree and the old bluestone house.
The best dates have been snapped up
for social doings during that period when
this city puts on its carnival cap. The
Victoria League got in early and booked
the Palais de Danse for a ball on Caul-
field Cup eve. Then came supporters
of St. Vincent’s Hospital" with the news
that plans were going ahead for a dance
in the Myer Mural Hall on Cup eve,
for which they had bagged three
vice-regals. Next came a bunch run-
ning neck to neck, with the Navy
League in the lead with notice of a hop
in Melbourne Town Hall on the eve of
the Oaks. Mrs. Harry Emmerton got
busy on Friday, and over a morning-tea
party at Raveloe arrangements were dis-
cussed for a ball to aid the Blinded Sol-
diers’ Association, to be held on Oaks
night in Melbourne Town Hall. Grand-
daughter Cynthia was roped in as hon.
organiser. Iris Connolly and Peggy
Campbell found themselves elected
ticket secs, before they had time to say
nay. The Gowrie couple have signified
their intention of being present at so
many events that it looks as if they will
be run off their feet.
Australia seems to be full of singing
birds. Another girl with a voice has
come into the public eye. This is an
Antoine . picture of Kathleen Castles —
no relation to Amy or Eileen —whom
prima donna Lehmann declares has the
“lieder voice.” Kathleen is making for
Vienna just as soon as she can raise the
money. With this idea in mind she is
giving a lieder recital in the Assembly
Hall on September 29. Pianist Edward
Goll, who also thinks a lot of the Castles
voice, is giving her musical support.
As Kathleen was a pupil at the P.L.C.
from kindergarten to debutante stage,
old collegians will be there in full force.
This young singer has done a little
warbling in Gilsullivan operas, but from
now on she intends to stick like a leech
to the classics. The Westralian girl who,
acting on the advice of Madame Lotte, is
also going abroad for further study, had
only to ask to receive. One thousand
pounds was raised for her travelling fund
without much ado. Alas for Kathleen,
money is tighter here than in the West.
The Duke of Gloucester is frightfully
mixed up with the affairs of the old
Homoeopathic Hospital. The hospital
even changed its name so that the new
building could be called the Prince
Henry, and the girls who made their
debut at the Gloucester Ball three years
ago have formed a Welfare Group which
is now attached to the youth movement
working for the needs of this institution.
The young things in the Gloucester
branch have made the girls’ ward fund
their special objective, and 50 of them
will act as hostesses to a subscription
dance in the Ormond Hall on October 1.
Flight-Lieutenant Alister Murdoch,
who left here about two years ago to
do the R.A.F. course, got off the chain
during the Coronation festivities and
found the right girl. Colonel and Mrs.
Tom Murdoch are making the acquaint-
ance of a prospective daughter-in-law
from a photograph that reached them
last week. If Florence Miller is as nice
as she looks, then young Alister is a
lucky chap. Fiancee Florence (“Bob”
for short), who is a daughter of Mrs.
C. H. Miller, of Manly, Sydney, is study-
ing interior decoration in London. Occa-
sionally she does a little magazine
scribbling about this household craft. She
is a fine horsewoman and learnt to ride
at Kiora, the family station at Scone
(N.S.W.). At the moment Alister is sta-
tioned at Hanston, Kent. This wooing
will not be a long a-doing. Alister is due
home at the end of the year, and he will
bring his bride back with him. Young
Murdoch as a flying officer shaped so
well that he was selected to go to the
Antarctic when the Discovery 11. set out
to search for the Ellsworth Expedition.
September has been remarkable for
the number of engagements that have
been announced and the marriages that
have taken place. Elvie. one of the A. E.
Prahls’ good-looking daughters, figures
in this month’s romances. Her ring
finger is flashing diamonds set in the
latest fashion s the symbol indicating that
she has said yes to Leo Curtis. A few
years back the Prahl family made a
social and financial success of one of
those small and friendly cafes which at
that time were new to this city. An
elder decorative daughter married some
time ago, and now Elvie is about to do
likewise. She is tall and fair and her
clothes are always worth the second
look. This picture of the good-looking
lass was taken at the Broothorn studio.
In clerical-grey tailorings Keith Mur-
doch’s lady gave Gwen Ballenger’s show
a gentle push-off on the opening day, in
the Venetian-shuttered salon of Margaret
Mac Lean. The dressiest figure among
the spectators was Mrs. Dolia Ribush,
wearing an ice-blue cloth coat cut on
the lines of an artist’s smock and accen-
tuating this design with a black velvet
bow in the style flaunted in the Latin
Quarter. With her were a relative from
Latvia and an American cousin, Helen
Ledenson, of Texas, setting off a black
ensemble with a nifty black velvet hat.
As the lady from Riga proved so shy
and retiring, everybody took it for
granted that she could not speak Eng-
lish. Those who chatted off their guard
received a bit of a jolt when they found
out that the visitor could speak five
languages.
Mrs. Hylton Dale dropped in late,
bubbling over with enthusiasm about her
recent visit to Italy and her stay at a
Venetian palace crowded with treasures
and pictures of early Italian art. Think
of the household dusting! There must
be times when the domestic wenches
feel like casting some of the objets d’art
into the Grand Canal.
Marjorie McLeod is up to her neck
in rehearsals for the spectacular pageant
A Hundred Years of Presbyterianism”
which she is producing at the King’s
Theatre on September 29. She and John
Ormiston Reid won the competition for
the writing of this pageant. If any player
should drop out of the cast daughter
Shirley will take up the role. With 400
in the bill, the job of understudying this
lot is enough to give a girl a nervous
headache.
Two bright young people, Yvonne and
Valerie Frankel-Cohen, are home again
after a 17 months’ travel tour. They
found fashion in New York color-crazy,
with all the smart women wearing printed
materials in a mixture of colors so bright
as to be almost garish. Floral effects in
blends of primary colors were almost
loud enough to scream. In the travellers’
opinion the New Yorkers missed the bus.
It was the women in Stockholm who
looked the loveliest—and the smartest.
They favored black, which made a per-
fect foil for their fair hair and clear,
natural complexions.
The most decorative figures the girls
saw in Paris were the widows making the
very most of fashion’s fancy for halo
hats on the back of the head and flow-
ing veils. Their widows’ weeds are a
joy to behold. Folds of soft georgette
fall from crown to waistline. One can
shop better in Melbourne than in Paris,
where things are expensive and Aus-
tralian money goes nowhere. These
wideawake lasses noted that Austria
was making itself felt in London. All
over the West End there are little shops
stocked with Austrian goods, and many
fashions bear the ornamental stamp of
that country.
Dorothy Hutchison, the petite Austra-
lian dancer with a delicate air, has not
let the grass grow under her nimble feet
since she left here two years ago. She
has had the luck to be taken into the
co. headed by Markova and Anton
Dolin which is about to tour England.
Stratford-on-Avon is on the show-town
list. Dorothy did the solo dancing in
Cochran’s last show, which featured
Richard Tauber in “Paganini.”
London has been kind to this little
Australian. Four weeks after landing,
she was dancing at a West End cabaret.
She has pirouetted before Queen Mary.
There was a command night when she
was dancing in “On Your Toes.” She
spends many happy week-ends with rela-
tives who have a lovely old place in
Surrey. About to be demolished in
Collins-street is a building where
Dorothy’s mother spent her infancy. In
those days there was enough spare land
about the place to run a few fowls and
tether a goat to provide milk for the
baby.


WORLDS RECORDS!
SIRMA ICOLM
(amjjtall
LAND
SEA
MM
SIR MALCOLM
CAMPBELL
123 mm.
A1R440
The same quality in a grade
suitable for your cans
obtainable at any garage
ON
□
WAKEFIELD
r rs
□
□
su
MOTOR OIL
A MIXED GRILL.
“Baeot”* Tides of pubs? In the
account of a murder trial in 1751, the
compilers of the Newgate Calendar
express their disgust at the name selected
by a , f .° r h ‘ “The
toil; Mine host s quain
Sot s Hole- * *
“Stralia” • That pursued hare which
sought refuge in the front seat of a car
(B 18/8/’37) was merely adopting an
aee old trick of the feathered tribe.
Numerous cases are on record where
hotlv-oursued birds have sought the pro-
tection of homo sapiens. They generally
drop at his feet and remain there until
the baffled would-be murderer-usually a
hawk—gives them best and departs.
“Antler”- One wonders why the
National Park (N.S.W.) deer have been
allowed to become a danger to the flora,
Fassifern station (Q.) has had deer on
it s domain for 50 years; yet there has
been ”o denudation of its paddocks,
Multiplication of the tribe is kept down
to a fair thing by systematic segregation
of young bucks and their conversion into
venison. * * *
“Centurion”:" The British War Office
j s considering a return to an old prin-
ciple. Special Light Infantry battalions
are to be raised, eligibles to be of short
stature and eight stone or less in weight.
These are to be used tor hasty reinforce-
ment of a threatened spot in troop-
carrying ’planes, the lower weight allow-
ing the carrying of one-third more men.
Special L.I.
Imperial army to-day, though they differ
from other line regiments in no particu-
ffie
all infantry regiments had a L.I. com-
pany for skirmishing which always pre-
ceded an attack in force- These com-
pames were supposed to carry out all
movements at the double, and were dis-
tinguished by the queer little wings
of swansdown on the shoulders of their
uniform
* « *
“Micho”: All sound and hearing is a
matter of vibrations, as witness the
gramophone, the telephone and the
“mike.” Fish have no ears yet hear
acutely. Out in our 30-footer with
angling parties, the skipper insists on
rubber shoes or stockinged feet. One
stout businessman, with a pair of hard
heels clomping on the floorboards, will
send all the fish scurrying for a mile
around. That’s why many anglers, after
first striking a good patch, find that sport
slow and anally
dwindles to nothing. It’s their moving
about shod with leather. Or, worse still,
lettine a heavv wood or cork bobbin
lhud o„ the floo y r as’they unwind a line.
* * * *
“Mariia”: Newspapermen looking for
an interesting book to while away an
evening are likely to draw a blank if
they try the book reviewer’s shelves. The
book-taster seldom leaves anything but
the “unpinchables” in his office. I moved
in while our bookman took a holiday and
found Nine Christian Virtues, Religion
of Masonry, Social Behavior in Insects
and Home Beauty Treatment. Medical
works, guide books, a half-dozen dealing
with the League of Nations, are all there,
and will probably remain; but one
would expect Pen Blossoms, The Girl
Guides’ Book of Recreation and Ihe
Poor Poet and the Beautiful Lady to
have found a welcome somewhere,
* .. T * wrm Hf>r how
Ex-Englishman - hearty
many secretly share with me a^hearty
contempt fo, .^ uss '“j in-
the clever acrobats, who are mtens y
teresting for 10 minutes or and wouU
make a first-rate ks
tempt for the sustained bluff wffich seeks
to elevate it into a kind of religion, and
forces British or tenon tom o
assume fraudulent Russian names betorc
they can be thought worth anything. Any
such cynics should read Bentley Ball -
Hoo, just published for ball
ptomaines,” as he calls the worshippe s.
It skilfully debunks b all ova „n f hp Y . eM
pushoff and Serge Pantz and all the rest
of the leaping frauds.


Make the Best Cough
Remedy and Save Money.
Wise folk save money by making their
own family cough and influenze remedy
with HEENZO: A bottle of HEENZO
costs two shillings, and, when added to
sweetened water, makes a supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best,
ready-mixed remedies for coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza, and
whooping cough. Over ONE MILLION
Australian citizens annually use HEENZO.
Order from your chemist or store now.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
are given away free for a penny
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
staprp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL S» I rtCEr - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
•J , (Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
E. Bryant (Chairman): Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E.. M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
bir Graham Waddell, Tr 13 " • T r " ~ - *- ■
Colin
(WRITE UK
K.8.E,; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay: J. Beresford Grant;
A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. -■
CALL FOR LREL EXPLAN AIOK X bUOKLET.)
n
mmo.
S3**.
S
m
m
‘Let Atlas carry the burden.”
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000.
F ire—Accident—Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“El V.”: Fifty-nine thousand Queens-
landers paid State income-tax last year.
There are only 1726 taxable companies
in the Northern State and no million-
aires. Just over 1000 merchants and
firms paid 27.6 p.c. of the whole
assessment. About 700 manufacturers
found another 13.6 p.c. Another 10 p.c.
came from the pastoral industry, and
47.4 p.c. from 28,198 employees. There
were eight incomes of more than £lO,OOO,
the State’s Croesus being an operator
whose occupations are “miscellaneous”
and who parts up £Bl3O on earnings of
£22,053. Incomes between £5OOO and
£lO,OOO numbered 41 ; but there were
2500 with between £lOOO and £5OOO.
* *
'‘Bynoe”: J. K. Davis, Antarctic
veteran and Commonwealth Director of
Navigation, who has just returned from a
tour of the North Coast from Fremantle
to Thursday Island, reinforces the plea
put forward by A. M. Blain, M.P., at
the recent Maritime Conference, for a
properly planned hydrographic survey of
the seas round North Australia. Much
of the coastline has not been recharted
since the days of Flinders, and the cap-
tain says that there is enough work to be
done to keep a vessel em-
ployed for half a century.
* * *
“J. Want”: Outback
Northerners who have
added to their vocabulary
during the past few years
in an attempt to express
themselves adequately
about radio reception have
had a pleasant surprise in
the announcement that a
new short-wave station is
to be built near Mel-
bourne to cater for their
needs. Over £6OOO will
be spent on it, and it will
have a range of 3000
miles.
“Zedo”: Ipswich (Q.), the first white
settlement in Queensland outside Brisbane,
and once determined to become the capi-
tal of the North, is still a busy and thriv-
ing city with ambition which will not
allow its victorious rival 24 miles away to
outdo it in amenities. While Brisbane
agitated for a new town hall for about
30 years, Ipswich has kept up its cam-
paign for nearly 60. Sometimes the fight
has seen the citizenry almost ready to
plunge into civil war. Once, 30 years ago,
a more than ordinarily daring council
decided to spend £6OOO on the new build-
ing, but a poll of ratepayers squashed the
project. Now it has been decided defi-
nitely to supersede the old building, which
has served for 75 years, with a new one,
which will provide a concert chamber to
seat 1800 people. And it is needed in a
town where everybody sings like a thrush
and where the talkies have not put big
choirs out of existence.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The North holds records' in
the size of electorates and the distances
which need to be travelled by harassed
Federal candidates to cover them. Kal-
goorlie, represented by Labor’s “Texas”
Green, is easily the biggest. It stretches
from the Kimberleys to the Great Aus-
tralian Bight, from the west coast to the
S.A. border. In fact, it takes in all of
the State except one corner where the
other four W.A. Federal constituencies
are huddled. It is over nine times the
size of the British Isles. Next comes the
Northern Territory—its member has a
“Got the makin's on y', son?”
vote on N.T. Ordinances but not on other
matters. Its area is 523,000 square
miles and it is 1400 miles long,
with only three towns which hold over
300 people each. Kennedy (Q.) starts
on an island off the Papuan coast near
the ninth degree of latitude, and runs
down to two degrees below Capricorn.
It embraces a lot of the Barrier Reef and
a good deal of Centralian desert. Mara-
noa is wider —it runs from 138 degrees
of longitude to 152, from west of Eyre
Creek to the Darling Downs near Too-
woomba, but it is not so large in area.
The four taken together cover two-thirds
of Australia, and are equal in area to
India, Burmah and the Malay States;
but if the whole of their populations were
packed on one spot they would not fill
a fourth-rate Indian town.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: One of the things which
puzzle the plain taxpaying citizen of
Queensland is that, with the highest
basic wage in the Commonwealth (£3 16s.
p.w.), the lowest percentage of unemploy-
ment and the highest unemployment-
relief taxation —able to yield large sur-
pluses for transfer to general revenue —the
Brisbane City Mission is still able to pro-
duce evidence of wide prevalence of
undernourishment arising from poverty.
A recent case quoted at the mission’s
annual meeting described the outlay of
a total weekly income of £2 14s. for the
support of a family of four. Incidentally,
£1 2s. of it went in rent, electricity and
gas, only 6d. less than the weekly food
bill for the two parents of working age,
one child of 2| and one of 14. Food,
both in quantity and choice, was obvi-
ously inadequate. Only 9s. 6d. p.w. was
left for clothing and all other necessities.
# * * #
“Dungeness”: Torres Strait history re-
peated itself recently when lona, a
Saibai boy, skin-diving at Orman Reef,
got his head into a shark’s mouth, and
gouged the creature’s eyes until it let go.
Twenty-odd years ago, Treacle, a Yorke
Islander, had the same sort of experi-
ence with a groper, which left a number
of its peglike teeth sticking in his very
solid skull until they were extracted at
Thursday Island Hospital. In his later
days as a shell porter on T.I. the groper
grew into a 20ft. shark which Treacle
killed, with clutching hands and rolling
eyes, for the benefit of wondering tour-
ists ashore from visiting steamers, pre-
paratory to making a pathetic touch for
two fella shillin’ as he showed his
healed scars. lona needed 150 stitches
to repair him, but the marvel is how he
escaped having his head bitten off, as
Billy Woodhead had at Hospital Point.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Margaret Freeman inherited her flair
as an archaeologist from her father, the
Rev. A. H. Freeman, of Clermont (C.Q.).
She has been visiting Greece, Italy and
England, and is leaving for Australia in
the Orcades. In London she taught in
L.C.C. schools.
To help the building fund of the new
Women’s College at St. Lucia within the
University, Mesdames R. A. Stanley,
C. G. Faine and J. L. Selwood arranged
a bridge party for 250 members in the
Lady Mayoress’s rooms at the City Hall.
There was a bouquet in the college colors
for the Mayoress, presented by principal
Freda Bage, who was in white with blue
embroideries.
The sports oval at St. Lawrence’s Col-
lege is much nearer to becoming an
accomplished fact since the annual ball
at the Belle Vue. There was bridge for
non-dancers, and about 300 people paid
for tickets. Brother W. M. Reidy was
president of the ball committee, and Mrs.
Morgan Lane and Mrs. A. Mullins, with
other members of the ladies’ committee,
received the guests.
Pamela, eldest daughter of the Rev.
and Mrs. J. W. Brown-Beresford, was
married in her father’s church, St.
Andrew s, Lutwyche, to George Alex-
ander Roberts, of Limestone, East
Ipswich. Great-aunt Sarah Savin sent
from England the pearl satin of which
the bridal gown was made. Alathea and
Ursula Mary Brown-Beresford were the
’maids. This is the first daughter of the
rectory to be married at St. Andrew’s.
Helen, eldest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Dolph Symons, Rockhampton, and
Dan, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Ned
Hempenstall, Rockhampton (the ’groom
has a property at Clifton), were married
at St. Stephen’s Cathedral. Lieut.-Gov-
ernor Blair gave the bride away, and he
and his lady were guests at the wedding
dinner at the Belle Vue.
Justice Gore and his wife, with son
Richard, down from Rabaul on leave,
have returned from Sydney and. gone
to Goondiwindi to pay a round of family
visits. A good slice of the Gore family
lives in that district.
Dr. F. G. Holdaway, of the C.S. and
1.R., is leaving us to go to Hawaii as
Associate Professor of Entomology and
Chief Entomologist of the Experiment
Station. Aged 34, graduate of Queens-
land Uni. with honors in zoology and
botany, M.Sc. in 1925 and afterwards lec-
turer in zoology at Adelaide Uni., he is
one of our most accomplished young
men. He went to America for advanced
graduate study, and got his doctor’s
degree at Minnesota Uni. in 1928. Mrs.
Holdaway is M.Sc. of Adelaide. F. G.
Holdaway is a son of the late Edwin
Holdaway, who was one of the most
successful teachers in the Education
Department.
Flight-Superintendent Brunckhorst and
Jean Freney have just announced their
engagement, and to celebrate Del Mullin
and J. P. Love gave a party in the Royal
Queensland Aero Club, most of Bris-
bane’s fliers being among the guests.
Two Maorilanders, Hector Allan
McDonald and Kathlyn Norma Revel,
were married at Holy Trinity, Valley, the
bride wearing her travelling frock of
navy and white, with matching hat. The
bouquet of cream roses provided a bridal
touch. Bride is the youngest daughter of
the D. R. Revels, Auckland (M.L.), and
’groom the fourth son of the L. S.
McDonalds, of Napier.
Jessie, daughter of Mrs. J. H. Munro,
formerly- of Oak Park, Charleville, and
now of Southport, was married to Robin
Vivian Walker, of Woolara, Beaudesert,
in St. Alban’s Chapel, Southport School.
Eunice Munro and Joyce Kennedy were
’maids.
Dulcie, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Vic Jensen, was married at the Method-
ist Church, Apollo Bunder, Bombay, on
August 28, to Capt. Henry Charles
Kappe, Australian Staff Corps, a student
at the Staff College, Quetta. He hails
from Ballarat. The bride wore Wallis-
blue chiffon, a blue ballibuntal hat and
matching accessories.


lilll '
f'WWwI'S^SWvA
Sji s v *• s , xi
...
8 pip)W v ' j s •■£
m
*
Start with the most successful car of its price-class *
and see what luxury you’re entitled to for just over £4OO
Pontiac's world sales. in 1937 show
a bigger percentage of increase
than any car in its price-class.
It is only logical that the FIRST car you
should see should be the most success-
ful car of its price-class. So see
Pontiac first—and learn what luxury
you are entitled to in a car of the just
over £400" group. Learn what you are
entitled to in power—in wheelbase —in
roominess—in appointments —in beauty
and distinction. Here’s what you will
find: —•
.Pontiac gives you INDEPENDENT
FRONT WHEEL SPRINGING—and once
you have driven an Independently
Sprung car you will never consent to
go back to old-type springing. The
difference in riding comfort is literally
amazing.
Pontiac gives you EXTRA ROOMI-
NESS —the roominess and riding quali-
ties of a car that is 5 inches longer in
wheelbase than one similarly priced
car—2 inches longer than another.
Pontiac gives you EXTRA POWER—
its 28 horse-power 6-cylinder Engine is
as much as 6 horse-power more power-
ful than other cars of its price . . .
giving you smoother power at lower
engine speeds, greater ease of handling.
Pontiac gives you EXTRA SAFETY—
the safety of triple sealed hydraulic
brakes which have 12-inch- drums in-
stead of the usual 10-inch size. And
Pontiac's hand-brake is close to hand
on the cowl and operates mechanically
on the rear brake drums.
Pontiac gives you a dozen ADDED
APPOINTMENTS—the complete comfort
of a luxuriously silent "Turret' Top
Body by Holden, with Multi- Adjustable
Driver's Seat, No-Draught Ventilation,
Pockets in all Doors, Straight-line
Speedometer, Tenite Interior Door
Handles, Dual Sun Visors, etc.
Come and see how easy it is to buy
a Pontiac under the convenient con-
fidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S
LIMITED
Consult your local Authorised
Pontiac Dealer
* i.
gold »«\d priced by Pontiac Dealers aty. s><sl . Australia.
"AIR CHIEF" CAR RADIO
Especially designed for Pontiac, the
1937 "Air Chief" has controls which
match the fittings on the instrument
panel and a separate speaker which
fits flush with the roof lining giving
ear-level reception. "Air Chief
performance is equal to the best
home model sets. A demonstration j
will be gladly given.
'
k
n
WAKE UP ! !
BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
S'PRxinO TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidnev bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
compia'ints etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- &2/- JARS
“CALLIDE VALLEY DISTRICT
HOSPITAL,”
BILOELA, CENTRAL QUEENSLAND.
APPLICATIONS are called for the position of
Medical Officer to thfe above Hospital.
Salary £4OO p.a., with right private practice.
Applications to be marked “Medical Officer
and be in the hands of the Secretary on or
before NOVEMBER 11. Successful applicant
lo take tip duties *“ff iDDINOTON ,
Sfir.retarv.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
All roads led to Kalgoorlie and
Boulder tor the goldfields race meetings.
The Graham Browns took Mrs. Buck
Nome along with them, Mr. and Mrs.
George Ridgway were chauffeured by niece
Marjorie Lukies, and the Eric Sandovers
travelled by moonlight to be in time for
the Hannans Handicap. Pastoral folk
who temporarily forsook the cattle-run
lor the saddling paddock were Alix
Nicholas, of Cobbanco station, and a
Sandstone contingent comprising the
Frank Morrisons, Fred Seniors and J.
Crawfords.
Boulder Cup Day’s sunshine brought
forth a crop of spring outfits. The v.-r.
lady wreathed tiny blue daisies round
her navy straw hat, and topped navy
reversible satins with fitch furs. Mrs.
Daly-Smith tucked a lime vest in her
black crepe suit, and perched a diminu-
live skullcap far back on her curls. Mrs.
R. G. Moore, Kalgoorlie Mayoress, laid
her bets in springlike floral crepes coated
with navy taffetas, and Mrs. J. F. Man-
ners collected divs. in magpie fluttering
georgette and black bonnet-shaped head-
gear.
The v.-r. party went along to the Mili-
tary Ball in Kalgoorlie’s Civic Hall, and
during a lull in the dancing his Ex. in-
vested Mrs. C. G. Elliot with the insignia
of Serving Sister of the Order of St. John
of Jerusalem. The Mitchell lady was
draped in a length of floral silver lame,
Mrs. C. G. Elliot girdled burgundy lace
with matching satins, and Mrs. Lincoln
Lacy’s sequined strappings were at-
tached to a frilled black taffeta skirt.
Before being uprooted and transferred
to military circles in Sydney Lieut.-Col.
and Mrs. G. P. Meredith are tripping to
India for the wedding of son John, of
the Northamptonshire Regiment. The
bride-to-be is Maureen Stowell, of Lon-
don co Usi n of tte Earl o£ Hddt. The
sl *. ° £ the Merediths sojourn at the
artillery barracks at Fremantle have
fade them many friends, and regret is
at their departure.
Despite raised eyebrows of male
chemists the Women Pharmacists’ Assoc,
celebrated its first birthday after a highly
successful year’s activities. A dinner at
the Adelphi marked the occasion, the
guest of honor being Mrs. Hugh How-
iing? wife of the president of the Phar-
maceutical Council. Congratulations
were received from sister organisations
in the Eastern States, and country mem-
bers of the pill-rolling fraternity swelled
the ranks of those who decipher prescrip-
tion hieroglyphs in the city,
Gladys Hadley, soon to become Mrs.
Frank Meagher, is living in a whirl of
parties. Her bridesmaid, Jean Lang,
swathed in black velvet encrusted with
cream lace, threw open the hospitable
portals of the family home at Nedlandb
f or about 100 guests to drink the health
G f the future bride and ’groom. “Bunny”
R e x, w ho i s to be the keeper of the ring,
arranged a dinner-dance at the Adelphi;
Mrs. Lou Beasley and Mrs. John Har-
grave poured cocktails and sherry at
their respective homes, and Cleve Barnett
rounded off the toastings with a six-
o’clock gathering at his Mount-street flat,
That haven of incurable invalids the
Home of Peace, after being modernised
an( j extended, was formally declared
open by Archbishop le Fanu. The Gov-
ernment, in the person of Minister of
Health S. W. Munsie, promised addi-
tional subsidies, and a State-wide appeal
for much-needed funds was launched,
Committee members and guests sipped
tea on the tree-shaded lawns after the
official doings.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Red-Crosser L. E. Gielgud and his
wife were given a civic reception in the
Town Hall banqueting apartment, which
is being used while alterations to the
Lady Mayoress’s reception-room are
proceeding. Cyclamen, sweet-peas and
daffodils decorated. Mr. Gielgud told of
amusing experiences of his tour.
Bishop Thomas and his wife held two
garden parties in Synod week, when they
entertained country and town members.
About 150 were present on each occa-
sion. The guests were received on the
lawn, and afternoon-tea was served in
the dining-room and drawing-room. The
rooms were decorated with mixed
'flowers. The Bishop’s daughter, Mrs.
Johnson, sang.
A wedding that crowded St. Augus-
tine’s Church at Unley was that of Peggy
Sarich and Howard Pfitzner (he played
a leading role in “Viktoria and Her
Hussar” at the Theatre Royal). The
bride wore white lace made in redingote
style over white taffeta. A coronet of
real orange-blossom held the tulle veil
in place and was used for the posy.
Verna and Adele Pfitzner, sisters of the
bridegroom, were bridesmaids, with
Diana Henderson as flower girl, all
frocked alike in gold satin redingotes
over pale-green sunray skirts of chiffon,
with gold-sequined haloes.
Anne, daughter of the J. D. McTag-
garts, of St. Peter’s, married cricketer H.
Nitschke at St. Peter’s College chapel.
The bride’s cream suede crepe was made
with a low neckline, and the sleeves
short and puffed. A halo of leaves of
the same material as the frock was worn
with the tulle veil. Bride’s sister, Mrs.
Norman Todd, was matron of honor, and
Gwen McTaggart and Margaret Mon-
fries ’maided in pale-pink satin.
The Lord Mayor and Mayoress gave
a reception for the delegates to the Con-
gregational Union conference in the ban-
queting room at the Town Hall on the
morning of their arrival. Sweet-peas and
daffodils were in profusion. The Aus-
tralian Congregationalists are celebrat-
ing their centenary.
A sherry party was given by the
Officers’ Mess of the 43rd-48th Battalion
at Torrens Drill Hall, friends being in-
vited to discuss arrangements for the
regimental ball to be held on September
24. Captain Bruer showed the guests the
silver urn he brought back from Eng-
land, given him for the officers’ mess by
Sir John Hanbury Williams, hon. colonel
of the Colchester 43rd Light Infantry, to
strengthen the connection between the
regiments.
William Sowden and his lady have
returned after a visit to England. In the
Old Dart the rush of social engagements
was so great that they often had as many
as four parties in a day. No doubt they
will both be glad of a rest in their beauti-
ful home, Castlemaine, at Victor Harbor.
The Licensed Victuallers’ Ball at the
Palais Royal drew a crowd of a thou-
sand. L.V.A. president A. J. Lee and
his wife entertained Mrs. R. L. Butler,
Adelaide’s Lord Mayor and Mayoress,
Mr. and Mrs. Winterbottom, P. J-
Kearne and E. W. Holden in their box.
TASMANIA.
His Ex. and Lady Clark have returned
from their Queensland trip in excellent
health. They visited the various State
Governors on the mainland, and enjoyed
the warmth in the North.
Hobart’s Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, returned from a trip along
the Queensland coast, were given a
welcome home by the Premier and Mrs.
Ogilvie, with a strong civic backing, at
the Executive Council Chambers. Mrs.
Wignall has come back feeling much im-
proved in health.
The Ellis Pixleys took advantage of
summer weather while they could get it,
and gave a garden party at Boronia, near
Brown’s River. The garden was ablaze
with early blooms, and indoors the rooms
were chiefly decorated with daffodils,
primroses and wallflowers. Isobel and
Dorothy helped mother do the honors.
Old girls to the number of about 170
turned up to the dinner of the Methodist
Ladies’ College, Launceston. This time
they had the pleasure of welcoming home
the principal, Miss Fox, just returned
from globe-trotting. Blue, gold and grey
crossed ribbons with masses of gold and
brown flowers made the table decora-
tions.
Synod week brought a flight of clerics
and their spouses to town. The Bishop
and Mrs. Hay entertained them all at a
garden party at Bishopscourt, where a
big crowd of lay guests also met, and the
weather was fine and warm enough for
tea on the lawn.
Dr. Arundel Orchard put the Hobart
Symphony Orchestra through a delight-
ful programme at the Town Hall. Each
concert seems to be an advance on the
last, and there is a keen revival of inter-
est in orchestral music.
Phyllis Rae Lyne and W. J. Brearley
(England) were married at the bride's
home, Waters Meeting, Swansea. A
family bereavement prohibited extensive
entertainment. The bride is the daughter
of the Linley Lynes, one of the numerous
clan that has made the east coast of
Tasmania its abiding-place for genera-
tions.
Jean Ewart was partied within an inch
of her life before her wedding with Merle
St. Hill. Hostesses in the last week of
her spinsterhood included Margaret and
Pat Rex (buffet tea at Hadley’s), Alison
and Carys Page, Joan Chandler, Peggy
Dick, the Alan Stumps, Marie Dakin and
Bessie Crisp in conjunction and Mrs. St.
Hill.
Joan Woods, only girl-chick of Major
and Mrs. A. N. Woods, Launceston,
went to Maoriland to meet her fiance,
V. C. Colchester. The wedding is to be
in Auckland.


f
EMIA
DEBILITY
WEAKNESS
MALNUTRITION
NERVES
Of all the ailments which affect
women and children, the worst so far
as sowing the seeds of weakness and
illhealth in later life is concerned, is
Anaemia.
Anaemia is an insidious disease in which the
blood becomes impoverished and deficient in
red corpuscles. It is associated with distressing
symptoms of weakness, depression, poor appetite
and nervous debility. In such conditions
Roboleine is the ideal preparation as in addition
to wonderful body and nerve building constitu-
ents, it contains Red and White bone marrow,
the richest blood making elements known to
Medical Science. After a few doses the red
corpuscles increase at an astonishing rate, the
appetite improves and soon all nervous fears
and depression vanish, indicating a speedy return
to normal health, and the capacity to enjoy life
to the full.
in 60z., 12oz. and 360 z. glass jars.
ROBOLEINE
(Made in England)
The best protective and
health restoring food
OUP° H „ nt street.
flew*
S.B. ™
Aiir*
Australia*s Leading Financial Journal .
SEPTEMBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
THE BUDGET.
CONSOLS.
INVESTMENT PROSPECTS.
PRODUCERS AND GENERAL FINANCE CO.
GOLD AND MALAYAN TIN NOTES.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,. 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ENDURA
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura uncon-
ditional and perpetual service
guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
... a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/- and
40/-, with Pencils to match
25/-. Complete Sets in
Presentation Case 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink the best for every
Pen—4oz. bottles in all
colours, 1/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
The Long White Cloud
More State Competition?
The newspaper-radio wrangle in
Maoriland, of particular interest to Aus-
tralian companies conducting commercial
stations since Mr. Curtin’s Federal-Labor-
policy slip at Canberra, promises to de-
velop major proportions if the Savage
Government follows up its latest hint.
From what Mr. Savage told a Dunedin
deputation, Government-owned commer-
cial stations and extended news broad-
casts are only the beginning of Labor’s
fight against a press alleged to be one-
eyed when viewing results of the Labor
“revolution.”
License figures, stated to be increasing
by 1000 a week, are a commercial-radio
argument for a share of the advertising
previously confined to newspapers. The
Maoriland newspaper proprietor, ex-
cluded from the B-class radio field, can’t
recover on the roundabouts what he loses
on the swings.
Probable advertising losses are much
more alarming to Maoriland dailies at'
present than possible effects of extended
news broadcasts. And at Dunedin Mr.
Savage said the “radio journal of our
own” may some day be issued “free to
license-holders.” This means it would
go into 72 p.c. of Maoriland’s homes, and
Labor would be unlikely to miss the
opportunity its pages afford of advancing
State competition in the advertising field
from the air to the printing press. Maori-
land’s next election should certainly be
a warm one.
“Mak”: Maori broadcasts have always
been popular with listeners at home and
overseas, but not until commercial sta-
tions came to Maoriland was any real
effort made to put live natives on the
air. Now the commercial station at Wel-
lington has two Maori men regularly
broadcasting from its studios. One is
Kingi Tahiwi, who was heard over
several Melbourne stations when he man-
aged the 1935 Maori Rugby Union foot-
ball team that toured Australia’s eastern
capitals under the captaincy of George
Nepia, and the other is Oriwa Haddon.
Latter deals in his sessions with the life,
customs and traditions of his people in
song and legend—and he uses both lan-
guages. He has written extensively on
the same subjects, and is a talented cari-
caturist into the bargain.
* * * *
“Korero”: It takes blunt words with
a flavor to impress watersiders and
miners, but, with two of the former and
five of the latter in the Savage Ministry,
Minister Webb—“ Paddy” to his old
mining pals—probably hasn’t had a
chance to get out of practice. Anyway
he was as hearty as ever when he tackled
the Dunedin watersiders the other day.
The boys knew what he was talking
about. His theme was that such veteran
unionists as miners and watersiders had
to realise they possessed what Labor
originally set out to get—a Labor Gov-
ernment ; it was time they scrapped the
old idea that part of their job was to
fight the Government, and adopted the
new one of co-operation. It is hard
work teaching old dogs new tricks, but
Minister Webb had a reason. Unionists
have increased from 60,000 to 250,000
since Mr. Savage took office, but not
very many of the new adherents know
the real meaning of industrial principles ;
and Labor would be sunk if it fell foul
of its miners and watersiders.
* * * *
“Waitot”: Union Airways, running
Maoriland’s trunk-line services from
"Blast y', Bill, I told y' not to use such a big 'ook!”
Auckland to Wellington and Palmerston
North to Dunedin, has initiated a map-
and-log idea well worth imitation by
Australian airlines. Each passenger re-
ceives a pamphlet containing route maps,
with the fair- and foul-weather courses
followed by the airliners marked in red.
Marginal notes, with progress times given
in minutes, tell what mountains, rivers,
towns, islands and so on can be seen
from the windows of the ’plane at any
particular stage of the trip, and give pas-
sengers a good idea whether or not the
’plane is on time—as it invariably is. The
marginal explanations are by no means
confined to bald geographical statements,
but include such dashes of history as “ah.
impregnable Maori stronghold of the
ruthless chief Rauparaha,” which is
Kapiti Island, on the fair-weather course
26 minutes south of Milsom ’drome at
Palmerston North.
* * * *
“Motu”: The Customs men responsible
for the application of Maoriland’s fairly
liberal censorship (B. 15/9/’37) evidently
have more commonsense than Australia’s
book-banning authorities. They have
had the gumption to check the flood of
cheap American gangster-and-sex periodi-
cals that the Australian censors seem to
regard as less harmful to the morals than
the social-problem fiction turned out in
recent years by some leading English-
language writers, or books propounding
different political theories. The Maori-
landers w.p.b. the worst of the U.S.A.
pap publications, and the milder ones,
when they do reach bookstalls, have been
operated on by razor-slashers for adver-
tisements boosting doubtful contraceptive
devices. If the whole parcel of these
magazines were dumped in mid-Pacific it
would scarcely raise a growl on this side
of the Tasman, but what about you Aus-
tralians?
* # * *
“Xo”: Vague references to the “use
of public credit” continue to come from
Maoriland’s Mr. Savage. Public credit
has already been used, he says, to pro-
mote his Government’s housing scheme,
and will be used again to develop indus-
tries and public assets. He adds:
As long as men and women are pre-
pared to work to create wealth, they are
not going to want for money; the past has
produced everything man needs except an
adequate money system, and the future
will see the establishment of a money
system that will be a true reflection of the
volume of goods and services that man is
capable of producing.
Seems to me someone else thought of
this before Mr. Savage. Tied together
by terms even more inexplicable, Major
Douglas mixes the same idea up with
algebra and calls it social credit. Or am
I wrong?
* * * *
“M.”: There is a possibility that
Katherine Cornell will be the first to
tread the boards of the municipal theatre
Napier is building to replace the one
destroyed in the 1931 earthquake. This
Hawke’s Bay centre has risen from its
ruins a much more modern town, and
its borough council has approved plans
for a spoken-drama theatre as modern
as its other new buildings. Residents
believe this playhouse, which is expected
to be ready in time for Miss Cornell’s
Tasman Sea visit next year, will be the
best Maoriland can offer producers of
flesh-and-blood shows. Every town
planner knows that there’s nothing like
a good ’quake—a few years after its
occurrence!
* * * *
D.N. : The Maori is a clannish
fellow. Although most native land de-
velopment work is being conducted on
the Public Works co-operative contract
system and paid for at the good rates re-
ceived by pakehas on those jobs, some
North Island schemes are still short of
Maori workers. This is the more sur-
prising in view of the fact that the Native
Department provides materials for erec-
tion of family hutments. But there is
a reason—a typical Maori one. Lots
of natives dislike working on land
other than that owned by the tribe to
which they belong; among Maoris more
isolated from European contacts than
their better-educated coastal brothers
there is still a feeling that if they moved
into their neighbors’ territory they might
become serfs to the owning tribe and
lose their own tribal identities. These
time-lags in tradition are problems an
understanding Native Department is
gradually overcoming.
!it * *
“Kiwit”: Nowadays newspaper pro-
prietors who are also journalists are few
and far between, but Maorilander Robert
Bell remained one until the end ; journal-
ism and his adopted province of Canter-
bury were a couple of his enthusiasms.
So it isn’t surprising to find he has left
£5OOO to help both.
Interest from the
money is to pro-
vide trave lling
scholarships for
students who. have
taken the journal-
ism degree at Can-
terbury University,
and by the wish of
the donor they
must specially
study irrigation,
tree-planting and
other agriculture
methods likely to
benefit the prov-
ince. The old
newspaperman didn’t leave it at that;
to make certain that the journalism
course would attract good talent, he left
another £lOOO to Ashburton High School
to provide scholarships to take pupils to
the university journalism school. The
name is left in good hands, as a number
of younger Maoriland journalists now in
Australia have cause to know ; Harold
Bell, a former chief-of-staff of the
“N.Z. Herald” and back there after a
spell as associated editor of Wellington’s
“Dominion,” is one of his sons.


Amplion
GINIMQIOR
For every requirement where it is
desired to convert low tension D.C.
to high tension D.C. They can be
supplied with inputs from 6, 12,
32 volts, etc., having outputs from
135 volts up to 1000 volts. Practi-
tically any type of special gene-
motor can be made as required.
Prices from £6/10/-.
Special Filters are available for
each type of Genemotor. Prices
from 30/-.
Write for comprehensive bulletin giving
full details of all models.
AMPLION (A/SIA) PTY. LTD.
66 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
foS iu July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
is the fastest selling of all
radio ° magazines—on the bookstall
io day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
TURN THE . DIAL ON
RADIO’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT—
The Mid-Season Models of
THE 1937 ULTIMATE RADIO
THE GOLDEN VOICE OF THE AIR.
Write for full particulars to
George Brown & Company Pty., Ltd.,
Electrical & Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 354 Lines.
Sole Australian Concessionaires.
Serving ALL of
4 WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Two-valve 56mc.
Transmitter.
Modern valves have made possible a
1 easonable degree of transmitter R.F. out-
put with a minimum of stages. To ob-
tain a stable R.F. output at ultra-high
frequencies used to call for an array of
doubler and buffer stages in between the
oscillator and final amplifier. Now it is
possible to make a transmitter for tele-
phony or telegraphy working on the ex-
perimental five-metre range with only
two valves in the R.F. portion. Such
valves as the 6L6 beam power type intro-
duced during the last year are eminently
suitable for use as oscillator-doublers
with sufficient harmonic content to excite
an output stage directly at the required
frequency.
The circuit diagram shows a very use-
ful type of small ultra-short-wave trans-
mitter using two of these valves, and
comprising a stable master-oscillator
power-amplifier. The circuit constants
are given in the diagram for application
in the experimental five-metre channel,
and, as these valves are readily obtain-
able to-day in both metal and glass
series, readers interested in a small trans-
mitter of this type will have no diffi-
culty in duplicating the arrangement,
The first 6L6 is used as an electron-
coupled oscillator with the grid circuit at
around 10 metres. By a suitable indue-
tance-capacity combination, the second
harmonic (five metres) is taken from the
plate circuit.
Inductive coupling is used for the
amplifier, with an untuned grid coil in
relation to the oscillator plate coil. This
method is probably more satisfactory
than capacity coupling, as the grid drive
can be more accurately adjusted by open-
ing or closing together the turns of the
coil, and also by varying the inductive
coupling to the plate coil.
The 6L6 is not an R.F. pentode or
ordinary screen-grid valve, and does not
have sufficient internal screening for use
as an R.F. amplifier without neutralisa-
tion. Therefore it must be neutralised as
the circuit indicates, and a 15mmfd.
midget variable condenser will cover the
internal capacity of the 6L6.
Although connection to the aerial
feeders is shown as being taken from
direct tappings to the amplified tank coil,
through two .002mfd. mica condensers,
inductive coupling can be used in the
usual manner.
Modulation from suitable speech equip-
rnent can be applied either from a Class-
B or Class-A system, and a sugges e
arrangement is two 6L6 s in Qass-A
driven by a 6C5 and a 6F5 as sub-modu-
lators. Resistance or transformer c p-
lin 8 can be used, but, if the la^ er ’.
transformers should be made speci y
l° r th e purpose by a reputable manu ac-
turer.
A transmitter of this type can be made
for greater output by using the heavier
duty beam power 807 in place of the
6L6’s, but even with the 6L6 s sufficient
output is obtainable to make this small
transmitter a convenient exciter unit tor
a more comprehensive final stage. If a
transmitter type R.F. pentode is used in
a following final stage, suppressor modu-
lation could be employed, thus consider-
ably simplifying speech equipment,
Power supply is also a matter tor in-
vidual choice. Ample power can be pro-
vided with an 83 mercury vapor rectifier
and a five-henry input choke, followed
by a 20- or 30-henry filter choke with
suitable Ducon filter condensers. The
power transformer will need a 6.3-volt
winding for the heaters of the 6L6s in
the transmitter and a 400-volt per .side
secondary, rated at 150 ma., in addition
to the five-volt heater winding for the 83.
The circuit diagram will give, in itself,
sufficient data for the experienced expen-
menter-constructor. The only important
thing about putting the R.F. section into
operation is to be sure that the correct
harmonic is used to excite the amplifier.
It is quite easy to go wrong here unless
a five-metre wavemeter is available. Such
a meter need only be of the humble ab-
sorption type, provided that it is checked
on a receiver known to be covering the
five-metre band accurately.
The frequency of the transmitter is con-
trolled by the grid-tuning condenser, and
that circuit covers the 10-metre range
with the inductance-capacity values speci-
fied. Provided that the power supply for
the transmitter is well filtered and hum-
free, no trouble should be experienced in
getting a good D.C. note, and a stable
M.O.P.A. of this nature opens up imme-
diate possibilities in long-distance C.W.
telegraphy tests for experimenters apart
from the vastly improved speech quality
obtainable in local telephony working.
Experimenters interested in constant
ultra-short-wave improvement will be
well advised to build a “rig” of this
nature and to scrap the old-fashioned
self-excited affairs.
VK2NO.
Carbon Microphones.
Although the transverse current Reisz
type microphone is justly popular be-
cause of its superiority in many ways
over the ordinary carbon-capsule micro-
phone, there are modern types of carbon
microphones, such as the Regal, in which
high output is obtained with a remark-
able absence of background hiss, together
with excellent quality. The carbon-
granule microphone has many uses, ex-
perimentally and otherwise.
The single-button microphone consists
of a diaphragm and a cup of carbon
grains. The diaphragm is free to vibrate
as sound waves strike it, and this vibra-
tion alternately compresses and releases
carbon grains inside the cup or button.
The resistance of the button depends
upon the pressure, and varies with the
motions of the diaphragm. If an electric
current is passed through the button, this
will also vary, and these variations will
be, within limits, the electrical equivalent
of the sound waves striking the
diaphragm. In commercial telephones,
the single-button microphone is univer-
sally used, and in recent years the type
has been considerably improved. The
frequency characteristic is good enough
for speech purposes, and this is the only
purpose for which it is required. Four
hundred to two thousand five hundred
cycles covers this range.
Although not now used very exten-
sively in broadcasting, the double-button
microphone was once very popular by
reason of its more faithful reproduction,
and the frequency response of the old
W.E. type was flat between 50 and 6000
cycles. The double-button type consists
of a similar diaphragm, but with a button
on each side. Polished carbon balls are
used instead of ordinary grains. The
diaphragm is also more tightly stretched
to eliminate resonance.
Though fidelity and frequency charac-
teristics are superior to those of the
single-button, the double-button type is
less sensitive. In commercial form, it is
generally designed to work into the pri-
mary of a 500-ohm centre-tapped trans-
former, with the secondary matched to
the first amplifier valve as shown in the
diagram. A rheostat regulates the six-
volt battery so that about 15ma. flows
through each button of the microphone.
The transverse current microphone is
also not so sensitive as a single-button
type, but it is infinitely superior in fidelity
and absence of background.
D.B.K.
Electrical Interference.
A movement in Britain to reduce in-
terference with radio reception caused.by
electrical equipment has interested < many
important organisations, the Inter-
national Special Committee of Radio
Interference, the Institute of Electrical
Engineers, the Post Office and the
8.8. C. among them. International
agreement is desirable so that domestic
apparatus may be specially stamped to
indicate that it complies with universally
accepted standards. _
A committee formed by the I.E.E.
presented a report last year recommend-
ing that the electricity commissioners
should be given powers to suppress in-
terference with radio reception- caused
by both new and existing electrical appli-
ances, plant or machinery. In : the mean-
time it is necessary to rely on the good-
will of the public to refrain from using
apparatus which causes interference. In
the majority of cases reported to and
investigated by the Post Office, owners
of equipment have willingly paid the
small cost involved in suppression.
Interference caused by motor-cars to
the reception of programmes from the
8.8. C. television station is about equally
severe on the sound and vision channels,
so that, if the interference can be re-
duced to a level which is not. audible on
the sound reproduction, it will probably
be imperceptible on the picture. Inter-
ference from motor-cars may be serious
up to a distance of 100 yards, interfer-
ence from medical apparatus up to
quarter of a mile.
A. P.
Assembling a Superhet.
Home-constructors are out of their
depth when they attempt anything in the
nature of a modern superhet. Assem-
bling is generally done fairly accurately
from a circuit or wiring diagram, bur
final results in quality leave a lot to be
desired.
The main trouble is generally a matter
of lining up the padder and trimming
condensers. Always start with the trim-
mers first (the ones on the tuning con-
densers). Use a splinter of wood 01
some non-conducing substitute for a
screwdriver, tune in to some station on
the bottom end of the band and move
the set-screws a fraction of a turn at a
time until volume is loudest. For the
padder, tune in a station on the top end
of the band and repeat the process.
When the padder is giving maximum
results, go back to the trimmers and
the former station for a final touch. After
a move or heavy jolting, it is often advis-
able to realign a set already in service.
C. M.
What's What in Radio.
Three British medicoes have an-
nounced that “Heat application by short
waves is not the same as that by hot
iron.” The properties of short waves are
such that they may provide a very effi-
cient weapon in the treatment of cancer
tumors.
* *. * *
Radiomarine Corporation of America
is to equip the Matson Pacific liners Lur-
line, Malolo, Mariposa and Monterey
with radio-telephony for the use of pas-
sengers. Ships will be in constant com-
munication, not only with other ships,
but with the North American continent,
the Hawaiian Islands and Australia.
The Mallory Co., U.S.A., has pro-
duced a new line of six-volt vibrator
units, designed for heavy duty and de-
livering 300 volts at 100 milliamperes.
They are ideal as power supply for port-
able transmitters and public-address
units. ' - -
. * *.,.*• *
“D.8.K.”: A second Westralian school
—the Christian . Brothers’ College, Kal-
goorlie—has been equipped with radio
by Musgroves, of Perth. Constructed on
the rack-and-panel principle, the equip-
ment consists of a standard Stromberg-
Carlson model 677 A.C.-D.C. dual-wave
receiver, utilising a special high-gain pen-
tode output valve of the A.C.-D.C. series
in order to increase the output to drive
the required number of speakers. Pro-
vision has been made for individual


RA
lOTRONS
it
are sold in sealed cartons tor your protection. Each valve is
thoroughly tested before leaving the factory and comes to
you in perfect condition. Always insist on Radiotrons.
VIS-7
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA)
LIMITED
47 York Street, Sydney
167*169 Queen St, Melbourne
National Electrical and
Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Wellington, N.Z.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL m ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Adelaide, Hobart
(Advertisements of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Limited.)
...
switching to each of the classrooms, and
the inclusion of a turntable and pickup
provides for the reproduction of music
and recordings of languages. The prin-
cipal is able to address each classroom
by microphone, collectively or individu-
ally. Two 70ft. aerial masts were
erected, the aerial being an inverted “L”
type with shielded lead-in. This has been
found to be effective in eliminating elec-
trical interference, and makes all broad-
cast and short-wave programmes avail-
able with excellent signal strength.
Radio Comment.
Within the last two or three years no
fewer than 65 miniature radio stations
have been established in remote places
in New Guinea, Papua, Fiji and other
Pacific Islands and in out-of-the-way
parts of Australia. These stations, known
as teleradios, were powered at first by
pedal-driven generation, but A.W.A. has
now developed a set which can be driven
tiom a small petrol engine. Two models
are in general use. One, a 501 b. port-
able, is extensively used for expedition-
ary and patrol work. The other is a
10- watt wireless telephone-telegraph
transmitter and receiver which can be
carried in five sections, the whole weigh-
ing up to 2001 b.
* * * *
Enno”: The Shanghai station
XUBMC (B. 8/9/’37) has handled a
great number of traffic messages with the
Philippines and Hong Kong recently.
After a few days’ silence the station has
reappeared with a much more powerful
signal—using large commercial gear
which was abandoned when the fracas
began.
* * * -jf.
Querex”: The quest for efficiency in
car radio aerials has led to the adoption
of the rooftop external type, fixed by
suction cups. A council tractor, seen in
the vicinity of Darlinghurst, Sydney,
sported an elaborate plated aerial.
* * * *
Recent tests with aircraft radio reveal
that interference, previously blamed on
electrical charges in clouds, is often due
to static generated by the aeroplane itself.
Discharges from the trailing edges of the
wings cause the trouble. Experiments
are being conducted to find a way of
discharging ’plane-generated static.
Amateur Chatter.
Next Sunday should be a big day in
the history of 56mc. contact between
VK States and ZL. In order to give
observers at the various positions more
signals to concentrate on the method of
transmission has been altered. Instead
of individual stations working at pre-
arranged times, all the stations will trans-
mit together during their State schedule.
Commencing at 9 a.m. Sydney time, the
ZL stations will transmit for a period of
30 minutes. During this period, VK2
and VK4 stations will listen. At 9.30
a.m., N.S.W. stations will transmit for
30 minutes with beam arrays directed
across the Tasman, and VK4 and ZL
will listen. At 10 a.m., VK4 stations
will transmit for 30 minutes, with ZL
and VK2’s listening, and at 10.30 a.m.
VK2 stations will transmit for 30 minutes
with direction to VK4. This procedure
will be repeated at three other sessions,
commencing at 11 a.m., 2 p.m. and 7
p.m., so that the day is fairly well covered.
With the advent of summer conditions,
test days such as this will be frequent,
and it is not too early to start the orga-
nisation of tests commencing late at
night and extending into the early hours
of the morning.
VK2NO will be in action on Sunday
with a completely remodelled trans-
mitter with much higher efficiency. For
the last year the transmitter has used a
6L6 e.c. oscillator doubling from ten to
five metres, capacity-coupled to an
RK2S. This exciter unit has been used
to drive two Eimac 35Ts in the final,
but 'more grid drive than is available from
the RK2S is desirable. The whole
transmitter is being remodelled to use
the same exciter, but with a push-pull
801 buffer stage to swing the final. The
final stage has also been redesigned for
higher efficiency by the use of disk-type
split-stator tuning condensers and low-
C. The aerial at present in use is the
Q bar-fed twin dipole, but a Reinartz
rotary is to be reinstalled for compari-
son. The station has been in action on
several days with auto I.C.W. for 30-
minute periods with beam in various
directions.
It is reported that a five-metre station
is at present working at Mt. Kosciusko
with the call VK2MD, but nothing has
been heard in Sydney either way. A
visitor from Canberra, VK2AFB, states
that during June and July the E layer
was much in evidence over N.S.W.,
hence the logging at Deniliquin and the
QSO between VK2ZC and VK2NO.
Listening on the 10-metre band on the
morning of 11/9/’37, a few Ws were
heard well, but the signal strength from
one ZL ’phone was phenomenal. At no
time has the writer heard an overseas
signal so strongly on any other band.
It was so powerful as to block the re-
ceiver, just as if the transmitter were
alongside.
One should never scrap radio com-
ponents ; one never knows when they
may be given a new lease of life. A
case in point is a new five-metre super-
het design in “All-Wave Radio” (U.S.A.).
This uses a 956 acorn T.R.F. stage and
autodyne detector. The I.F. channel is
made up with two General Radio iron-
core I.F. transformers of 10 years ago.
They can be got at the second-hand
stores for 6d. each. The design includes
a noise silencer and, as an autodyne de-
tector is used, there is no separate oscil-
lator to track. It should be worth a
trial. Transmitters are to-day straight-
forward in design for stable 56mc. signal
generation. More attention should be
paid to receivers. There are still too
many squeggers and indifferent super-
regenerators.
VK2NO.
Broadcasting in India.
The technical problem confronting the
Indian Broadcasting Department is to
provide a service over an area of nearly
two million square miles with a limited
Government grant. Ten transmitters
have been ordered. Four short-wave
“key” stations will be established at
Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras,
and will be of lOkw. aerial power. A
second skw. short-wave transmitter is
also to be provided at Delhi for special
purposes.
Five medium-wave stations will be
situated at Lahore, Lucknow, Trichino-
poly, Dacca and Madras. With these
stations and the existing medium-wave
stations at Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and
Peshawar, All-India Radio will have in
operation five short-wave stations and
nine medium-wave stations.
The successful development of broad-
casting in India very largely depends on
the availability of a cheap receiving set,
though there is a market for more ex-
pensive receivers. Three types are con-
sidered necessary to meet collective re-
quirements—the “local receiver,” the
“all-India receiver” and the “all-wave re-
ceiver.” Special receivers have been de-
veloped for community reception in vil-
lages. These are mounted in metal cases
and padlocked. No controls appear out-
side the box. The receiver is left tuned
to the local station, and a clockwork
time-switch mounted in the box turns
the set on and off at the correct time for
the “village hour.” Attention is needed
only once in three weeks, when the accu-
mulator is changed and the clockwork
mechanism rewound.
Briton A.C. and Vibrator
D.W. Models.
Two receivers submitted for test by
the Briton Electrical and Radio Co., 152
Parramatta-road, Petersham (N.S.W.),
reveal painstaking thoroughness in atten-
tion to detail.
A vital point in any dual-wave super-
het is the short-wave unit, and in the
Briton receivers this is a masterpiece of
accessibility and rigidity. The short-
wave coils and switching mechanism are
mounted on a strong metal frame, and
wiring is done in heavy-gauge, solid wire.
There is no part of the unit that cannot
be reached for test or service, a welcome
feature for the dealer-serviceman. Iron-
core coils on Sirufer cores are used
throughout, and the utmost care is taken
with impregnation. The impression
gained was that these receivers will stand
up against any tropical climate.
The two models for trial were the 11 and
the 21. The 11 is a 5-6 dual-waver selling
at 33 guineas and fitted with Philips valves,
EFS (R.F. amplifier), EK2 (frequency
converter), EFS (I.F. amplifier), FBC3
(duo-diode-triode demodulator, combin-
ing A.V.C. and first audio), EL3 (high-
gain pentode) and EZ3 (indirectly-heated
rectifier). The advantage of the last-
named is that until all valves have
BRITON MODEL 11.
reached operating temperature no load
is applied. The R.F. amplifier works on
the short-waves covering from 16 to 45
metres.. The audio quality and selecti-
vity satisfy critical ears. Most outstand-
ing is the sensitivity ; it was found that
changing from a small indoor to a large
outdoor aerial made very little difference
in the signal gain on London or Berlin.
Even with the small aerial background
noise was conspicuously absent.
Of primary interest to the countryman
is model 21, designed for vibrator opera-
tion. The performance is quite on a
parallel with the A.C. model, and the
vibrator cannot be heard in action It
was found that an earth connection was
necessary to ensure absolute vibrator
silence, but even minus the earth there is
only the faintest trace of the power unit
in action, even at 16 metres. Two-volt
battery valves are employed, IC4 (R.F.).
KK2 (octode frequency converter), IC4
(1.F.), IK6 (duo-diode-pentode demodu-
lator) and IF4 (pentode). The speaker
BRITON MODEL 21.
is a Magnavox 254 M of permag. type.
Power for the whole receiver is taken
from a six-volt accumulator (this being
the voltage necessary with any vibrator
unit), and the vibrator is housed in a
rubber-mounted metal box on the
bottom shelf of the cabinet away from
the chassis. Dial lamps are switched off
as required by an alternative position of
the wave-change switch, which is also
combined to switch the receiver on and
off. In action this receiver consumes
under one ampere. It sells at 36 guineas.
D. B. K.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
ciueries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
General. —Requests for comparison before
buying receivers cannot be complied with.
Products advertised in The Bulletin can be
relied upon, and frequent test reviews are given
of current productions.
* * * *
(1) What types are Osram valves marked
DHD, DSB, and VDS ? (2) / have also a
PT4 and a DG2. What types are these? —591.
(1) DHD is a duo-diode-triode, indirectly
heated, 16 volts at .25 ampere. DSB is a
screen-grid valve, indirectly heated, 16 volts at
.25 ampere, and VDS a vari-Mu screen-grid
valve, 16 volts at .25 ampere. All have the
standard five-pin base. (2) PT4 is a four-volt
indirectly-heated audio pentode giving eight
watts of audio and taking the five-pin socket.
DG2 is a double-grid valve directly heated, two
volts at .2 ampere. It is suitable for frequency
changer in battery superhets or can be used
as a single triode by connecting the two grids
together. Base is five-pin.
* * *
My set uses Philips A 442, AA\5 and £443
valves. Would the Eveready Air-Cell supply
enough power? —s92.
No, these are four-volt valves and the Air-
Cell is only for use with two-volt valves. It
would be possible to use two cells in series,
with a suitable resistor, with low-consumption
four-volt valves, but the cost would be high.
* * * *
What is the name of an ultra-short-wave
station logged on 5/ 9 / ’37 ? Frequency was
announced as 45,940 kilocycles, together with
“Pioneer short-wave station of the West,” but
as the signal did not rise above R 4 and was
surging this was all I was able to identify. —
590.
Most likely a Western U.S.A. coast station;
probably W6XS, at Bolinas, California, though
the transmission may have been from the Don
Lee ultra-short-wave television station.


LYSASHTS
¥a
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealtli
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ST~l*
* -
»»• v -i ■ 1],., ii.spff■ v.
r ■ .1 •
■c:'
m
m
.aO ft * ;
.
»?...»».., AW.*.' t-A&tfe .til ..!/',
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
' Obtainable from all the Leading
, Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"IYSAGHT'S"
ail * : • -
WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
SPECIFY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
The Future of Shearing.
“Murrawong”: N. S. Wales shearing
is now at its peak, and every district re-
ports a shortage of shearers. Every year
the shortage becomes intensified, and
unless immediate steps are taken to
train more shearers it will soon become
impossible to carry out the shearing pro-
gramme. The scarcity is due to various
causes—chiefly to failure to train learners.
Under the Federal pastoral award
every sixth shearer in a team must be
a learner, but the rule is often over-
looked.
The shortage has been augmented in
N.S.W. by the telescoping of the bulk of
the shearing into August and September.
At present, any man with a pair of bag
boots can call himself a shearer and get
a pen. And no matter how rough a
shearer may be, every boss of the board
knows that if he sacks the man he will
not be able to fill the pen.
The solution lies in training more
shearers by altering the award so that
one man in every four shearers employed
as a team shall be a bona fide learner,
altering the definition of “learner” and
rigid enforcement of award conditions.
The great majority of sheepowners in
N.S.W. and Vic. employ less than six
shearers, and the steady progress of sub-
division is yearly adding to the number
of small graziers and cutting down the
number who employ, or should legally
employ, learners.
The present definition of “learner” is
too vague. Something on the lines of
the Queensland award should be
adopted. A learner should not be re-
garded as a shearer until he has shorn
at least 5000 sheep. As things are, a
learner may shear through three small
sheds and get only 1000 sheep out of the
three. Officially, he is no longer a
learner, but no one will engage him as
a shearer, except in the rush period.
It would be in the interests of the pas-
toral industry to establish a school where
learners could be taught properly.
Beating Tetanus in Sheep.
“Corriedale”: A clean shed, scrubbed
out and sprayed before shearing, is one
of the best preventives. Handpieces must
be clean, too. See that all deeper wounds
are dressed with disinfectant at once.
Glycero-boric blowfly dressing will do.
Tetanus spores enter only through
open wounds. Otherwise, they are harm-
less and can even be eaten during graz-
ing with impunity.
If the sheep are valuable, it pays to
spend 3d. to 4d. a head on immunising
them with the antitoxic serum. The job
can be speedily done when the sheep are
yarded for shearing. The serum acts at
once, and its effects last a fortnight or
three weeks, giving complete immunity,
no matter how badly the sheep are muti-
lated.
Lately the Commonwealth serum lab.
has brought out an anatoxin which it is
hoped will confer a lifelong immunity.
The sheep builds up its own resistance
as a result of treatment.
The anatoxin is cheaper than the anti-
toxic serum. But immunity takes a
month to build up with anatoxin, against
a few hours with antiserum, so the latter
will always be used where tetanus is sus-
pected as a possibility after wounding.
Get a Good Ram.
‘Rom Ney” : Sodthdowns are getting
wide publicity for fat-lamb purposes, and
many farmers might easily be misled into
buying Southdown rams without studying
the locality. Southdowns are all right
where the climate is “safe” and where the
farm is reasonably close to rail. In hotter
districts the Southdown is a washout.
When setting a ram for lamb-raising
buy a good one, even if you have to pay
a little more. Divided over three or four
years and among the 40 or 50 ewes he
will serve each season, the cost of, say,
a 20-guinea ram is small against the
return in lambs.
If a ram is to serve 40 ewes, which
drop only 20 marked lambs, an extra
couple of pounds on the ram’s price
works out at 2s. a lamb for one year,
or 6d. a lamb for four years.
Good rams are just as essential to get
good lambs as to get good wool. Unless
“ G'day , mate —any ideer W'ere I can find the boss?"
a ram has fixed characteristics—square
and deep frame, good hams, plenty of
flesh, etc. —he can’t transmit them to
his progeny.
So far as shapeliness goes, the breeds
are Southdown, Ryeland, Dorset Horn,
Border Leicester and Romney Marsh in
that order. What applies to the South-
down as to locality applies also to the
Ryeland. Dorsets are being used success-
fully in dry country, and Romneys seem
to be. more suitable , for the high areas.
In the west, for general purposes, the
Border Leicester or merino cross leaves
everything else behind.
Corriedales and Polwarths give lambs
that mature later than the British breeds,
and consequently have to be carried
longer—not always a disadvantage.
Last Year’s Wool.
“M.”: Dalgety’s Annual for 1936-37
is the usual exhaustive compendium of
facts and figures and accurate summary.
Australian wool shipments last season —
2,787,000 bales—were with two excep-
tions, 1934-35 (2,859,000 bales) and 1932-
33 (3,043,000 bales), the_ highest on
record. Sheep numbers in 1936 are
placed at 114,210,000. This year they
should be 4,000,000 more. Despite con-
tinual harping on the menace df . rayon
and artificial fibres, last year’s exports
were 700,000 bales greater than the aver-
age of the five years ended 1924-25, when
rayon first came into prominence.
The average price per bale in the
Commonwealth last year was £2O 14s. 2d.,
or £4 10s. per bale less than the record
year, 1927-28, but the gross return of
£60,552,000 was only £300,000 less.
M.L. figures show what the Australian
embargo on Japanese trade did for the
Maorilanders. Maoriland had only
687,000 bales to sell, against 756,000 the
year before, but the wool cheque jumped
over 50 p.c.—from £10,084,000 to
£15,344,000, a record.
One heartening feature was the in-
crease in local manufacture. The year
before the war Australia bought only
96,787 bales of her own wool for manu-
facture. The last year before the depres-
sion saw this increased to 184,000 bales.
In 1936-37 it was 324,000 bales. There
are 20 woollen mills where there were
only 14 in 1930-31. The value of their
output has increased from £1,584,000 to
£4,343,000, and more than 6480 persons
are employed, against 3046 seven years
ago.
Dalgety’s figures confirm The Bulle-
tin’s views on. the good done to S’Africa
by the Japanese trade dispute. From
July to December, Japan bought
38,740,0001 b. in the Union (130,000 Aus-
tralian bales), but
Figures for the corresponding period of
the previous year are not avaifabie, be-
cause the Eastern purchases were then too
small to be given separately and
although in the New Year Japan resumed
her operations at Australian sales: her rep-
resentatives continued for a time to support
S’African auctions.
Argentinian exports to Japan increased
20 times over for the first six months
of the season.
One table shows the relative yields of
merino and crossbred wools. There is a
belief in some quarters that the merino
is waning, but this is true only of Tas-
mania, where 80 p.c. of all
now crosses, against 60 p.c. before
war. In N. S. Wales the merino has
held its own, and in Victoria increased
from 49 p.c. to 58 p.c.. of all sheep, in
S.A. W.A. and Queensland sheep are
respectively 93, 95 and 100 p.c.-merino,
and the Commonwealth average is
p.c. merino—in 1913-14 it was 79 p.c.
Crossbred prices improved' consider-
ably last-year, but for many previous
years there had been a damper on tne
market in the form of accumulated
stocks. When these were cleared up.
1937 saw the highest crossbred average
prices paid for years. Heavy military
demand throughout the world, the bunt-
ing requirements for the Coronation an .
the abnormal upward trend of merino
values helped the market.
On the figures, it looks unlikely that
Australia will need much bolstering of
her wool industry for many years to
come. ' , ~
Wool and Dust.
“C.V.S.”: Mallee wool arriving in Vic-
torian stores is a little dryer than last
year, though showing about the same
amount of dust. There is a tendency for
growers in such areas to regard dusty
wool as inevitable, but some clips open
up much cleaner than others from the
same district, indicating more careful
handling of sheep before shearing.
Some Mallee clips are so dusty that
reclassing is difficult, and to “sight” the
wool it is necessary to tear each fleece
to find a comparatively clean patch.
Other disadvantages are difficulty in
valuing, harshness and tenderness of
wool, and added cost for freight, receiv-
ing and weighing reckoned on the per
pound basis.
Sheep often show comparatively clean
wool when inspected in the paddocks,
but they pick up dust during shearing.
Shed yards should be watered where
practicable, and used as little as possible
before shearing.
Rugging is difficult in scrubby coun-
try, but much can be done by. keeping
woolled sheep off fallow during dry
weather, and loose-woolled sheep should
be avoided in dusty districts.


r *
™*| j§jjS6|jsf g^ggsa^^
■n n^ 9m \ m m& :
m:W
am mi «Btm 8 gjjjjpi
/>»1
fl
r,>
m
w up** •
INTERNATIONAL
»
/
The new International values—underneath the modern
sty ling —are of great importance to the buyer of trucks
for livestock hauling and other heavy trucking.
INTERNATIONALS
fill- (
m.
\ I,
mm
Beautiful, new U lilities are. available in the new
Inter national line. They give you at once satisfy -
ing appearance and comfort , together with useful
carrying capacity for. loads that would overtax the
strength of the ordinary motor-car utility .
INTERNATIONAL
Wa
& These new Internationals offer
to truck users the latest and finest
achievements in ALL - TRUCK
engineering and streamline design
—— trucks at the peak of today’s
efficiency, with style and beauty
that will please every owner and
driver. Trucks that offer a new
standard of performance in low-
cost upkeep and operation.
All the new Internationals are as
NEW in engine and chassis, in
structural refinement, in every
important detail, as they are NEW
in streamlined design. All are
ALL-TRUCK, and all are as modern
as today’s fine cars
New standards of utility and per-
formance are offered you in every
model of this new International
line, in sizes ranging from the
beautiful, smart Utility to the
powerful Six-Wheelers. Come in
and examine these trucks in our
showrooms. Or write us for
catalogues describing the new
Internationals designed and huilt
for the job you have to do.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA!
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD.. HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
Panel vans
in several sizes , Half-Ton up.
m
BPS
3 to 3%-ton D.-40
—one of the long; range
of new heavy-duty Internationals.
m
One of the new
International dump trucks.
9
Deaths Off-shears.
“Granova”: Losses of sheep off-shears
can be prevented by other means than
rugging (B. 1/9/’37). Our sheep are
always in reasonably good condition
when shorn. And they are always placed
in paddocks sheltered by timber belts for
a night or two.
Weak sheep will die on a cold wet
night in the best of shelter. Hand-feed
or delay shearing until there is grass,
Sheep shut in the shed for several days
have a poor chance if turned out into
cold rain late in the day. It is a big help
if the sheep can get a stomachful of
grass before night. ’
Numbers have been saved by keeping
them moving until the weather clears.
Licks for Cattle.
“Molecule”: Licks in block form for
cattle have advantages over granulated
licks, which have to be fed in covered
troughs. Blocks may be left out in the
paddocks, but the catch is that a weather-
proof block is practically pure salt. If
hone^ u J r ’ dicalcic phosphate or the like
added ’. b i° cks “ n 1 be P res f d hard ;
Where h is desired to supply calcium and
' phosphorus (the two most important
minerals generally deficient in pasture)
don 1 use b * hcks.
The proportion of salt is important in
a mineral lick. On some classes of
country 25 p.c. is ample—as a general
thing 50 p.c. may be regarded as a desir-
able maximum.
The best method of supplying the cal-
cium and phosphorus is in sterilised
boneflour. Dicalcic phosphate is also
efficient, but it is about twice as expen-
sive as boneflour and contains no pro-
tein, whereas a good sample of bone-
flour contains over 20 p.c.
Where cattle have developed the bone-
chewing habit, boneflour is the only thing
that will remedy their condition,
Most licks contain small amounts of
Epsom salts, sulphur, iron, manganese
and molasses. These minor minerals do
no harm and probably no good, except
the molasses, which acts as a binder and
appetiser. lodine is unnecessary. Cobalt
deficiency, which has serious effects, has
been proved in parts of Westralia and
S.A.
If you mix your own lick, take the
salt first and wet it thoroughly with
diluted molasses or water. Then add the
boneflour and other ingredients. Don’t
be afraid to use plenty of moistener, and
mix thoroughly.
Dairying and Pasture Improvement.
“Silky Bag”: Until something more
is done towards improving pastures
dairying in N.S.W. will continue to lan-
guish (B. 8/9/’37).
The only way to increase production
and lower costs is to let the cow get
practically all her food for most of the
year direct from pasture. And the pas-
ture must be first-class —perennial rye,
white clover, cowgrass, sub. clover,
phalaris or prairie grass. Any of these
in mixtures will grow pasture all the
year on rich coastal farms. Even where
paspalum has a hold, white clover and
perennial rye will establish after a year
or two of “supering.”
In N.S.W., top-dressing—when done at
all —is often too light. In Victoria
over 2,000,000 acres of pasture are
supered annually, with dressings of 2cwt.
to 3cwt. In the mother State a bare
half-million acres are covered, and
usually at the rate of only 1001 b. an
acre.
The Value of Rye.
“Hortus”: Rye will thrive on soils too
poor for wheat and oats, and it improves
the soil, especially if mixed with field
peas.
Rye grows quickly and matures early.
It will grow in any cool climate, and
seems to favor exposed situations. It
stands drought and winters well.
We divide the poor land into two
parts —for early winter feed and for late
{“Man on,Land” continued on page 44.)


Wm *
&
4408.
IF YOU’RE WANTING COMFORT
Not just good fitting, but soft, roomy, cushionlike comfort, try this new Abbey
capless Boot.
When you feel the soft Wallaby Skin upper mould around your foot, and your
toes spread naturally in their easy-fitting fronts, you realise what comfort
really is.
An Abbey model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in full and half sizes, and also
in wide and extra-wide fittings. Price 37/6
If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a Good Shoe.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
mm
m
aw'SEn**
m
_ ipnii
BS ii
Hl''in
A section of the
Rolling Mills
where the raw
steel is rolled into
sheets.
LYSAGHT
vByp
AUSTRALIA
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
BECAUSE only the very finest
of raw materials are used in
the manufacture of Red Orb Gal-
vanized Iron The Rigid Roofing
Sheets and because at every
stage from the rolling mills on-
wards, the utmost care and skill
is devoted to their production,
Lysaght's are able to guarantee
every sheet which bears their
brand. This confidence is reflected
by users of Red Orb Galvanized
Iron throughout Australia.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write to John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 19G D., G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
18,800
By
Comprising:—
HIGH CLASS MERINO SHEEP
“GILLENBAH STATION BRED” ,8 ’
BY PUBLIC AUCTION.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED ( Incorporated, in England) NARRANDERA
On THURSDAY, 7th OCTOBER, 1937, at 1.30 p.m.
At “Gillenbah” Station Woolshed Yards, 5 miles from Narrandera.
On Account of MESSRS. SYME BROS., “GILLENBAH,” NARRANDERA
18,800 SHEEP PURE “BUNDEMAR” BLOOD 18,800
To be shorn end July early August.
0805 CLASSED BREEDERS 6800 WETHERS
3500 LAMBS, MIXED SEXES 124 RAMS
1571 MIXED SHEEP.
EWES: 1535 one year
1116 two years
350 two years
919 three years
626 three and four years
665 four years
928 five years
666 live and six years
6805
WETHERS: 1600 one year
1350 two years
2100 three and four years
1150 five years
600 six years
6800
MIXED SHEEP: 451 ewes one year
550 ewes two years
300 wethers one year
180 weaners mixed sexes
1571
RAMS: 33 two years
56 three years
36 five years
124
The Gillenbah Merino Flock was founded by Messrs. Syrne
Bros, in 1924-25, by the purchase of high-grade Bundemar ewes
and rams. Later, ewes from the well-known flocks of Cocket-
gedong, Midgeon and Cobram were introduced, and all these
flocks are of Peppin blood. Only high-grade 15- and 20-guinea
Bundemar rams have been used as sires.
The classing, selection and mating have been under the
personal supervision of that well-known sheep expert—Mr. J.
Wrenford Mathews—and only sheep of outstanding quality
have been retained in the flock.
Messrs. Syme Bros, have spared no expense in building
up the flock to its present high standard. For many years the
Gillenbah clip has topped the Sydney market, the wool being
of high character, combined with appealing length and density.
This sale affords buyers an opportunity to obtain high-grade sheep. # Usual liberal
rebates to agents introducing cash buyers. Good drovers will be in attendance.
Messrs. Syme Bros, have sold the property, and the whole of their carefully-classed flock is offering for genuine sale.
HORSES: Also on completion of Sheep Sale: The Welsh Cob Stallion “Young Traveller,” 9 years, 14 hands, by
“Travellers Joy” (Imp.) and 11 head Station Hacks, Mares and Geldings.
LUNCHEON PROVIDED. usnasuneBi
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED ( lncorp . in England) NARRANDERA
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Position Wanted.
YOUNG MAN, 22 years, desires position on
station. No previous experience, but willing
to learn. Knowledge of wireless repairs, elec-
tricity and engines. Experienced qualified book-
keeper. —No. 283, c/o this office.
winter and early spring. Sow in autumn
—one to two bushels per acre. A good
mixture for green feed is one bushel of
rye to half a bushel of field peas. Use
super, i-cwt. to lcwt. per acre.
But don’t waste your time with rye on
soil on which wheat and oats grow well.
Native Oat Grass.
“Mulyan”: Native oat grass is gener-
ally neglected for pasture improvement.
It is quick-fattening, stands drought,
makes fine hay of which all stock are
fond, and produces a good crop of large
grain, resembling cultivated oats.
The grass grows in all the States. In
the dry central regions it attains a height
of about sft., but in the coastal districts
it reaches 9ft. Under cultivation it would
no doubt grow taller with an increase of
leafage and grain. It does best on good
soils and with seasonable rains. In the
arid parts its strong roots enable it to
resist the long, hot periods between rains.
Cutworm in Cotton.
“C.Q.”: This is the kind of season
to watch for cutworm in seedling cotton,
especially if spring rains are good.
The worm is a soft, thickset, greyish
caterpillar, larva of a dark-brown moth.
It grows up to lin. or Uin. long and
does not confine itself to cotton. Low-
growing weeds are its native lair.
Prevention lies in keeping cotton fields
clean. Weeds should be destroyed at
least a month before cotton is put in.
If the land is ploughed clean immediately
before planting, eggs and larvae on the
weeds remain on the surface ready to
eat the young cotton.
Should the pest develop and swarms
of worms have to be dealt with, bait
broadcast or laid between lines and baited
furrows round the field—solb. of bran
per acre, with 21b. Paris green, 41b.
molasses and just enough water to make
a friable mash—is the best remedy. Bait
should be laid in late afternoon and
evening.
“Karaway”: Short sections of hollow
logs, boarded at one end, make first-rate
coops for sitting hens. They can be
placed anywhere in the open. Where
there are foxes or cats, a netted or lattice
door can be hung with leather hinges in
front.
“Heresone”: Much is written of the
importance of silos, but the neglected
hayshed is equally valuable. No out-
standing skill is needed to build a stack
in a shed, as the posts are guides in keep-
ing the sides plumb, and there is no
“topping-off.” Once shedded, hay keeps
indefinitely—hay 14 years old in our
shed is still of good quality, green and
leafy.
“Zedo”: Still another unwelcome
immigrant —Hyptis capitata, sometimes
called sandfly bush—common in tropical
Asia and America, has begun to make a
nuisance of itself in North Queensland,
where it is spreading through the
Japoon sugar districts. It grows to 4ft.
high with square stems and opposite
leaves. Its seeds are blackish and small,
and all parts of the plant are rough to
the touch. It likes moist tropical con-
ditions, and has all the elements oi a
major nuisance.
“Silky Bag”: It is waste of money
hand-feeding cows with concentrates
when b.f. prices rise suddenly, if the
animals have been let go beforehand.
By stinting a month’s feed —consisting of
101 b. of home-grown chaff and 31b. of
crushed oats —in August cows can be so
knocked about that it is November
before they are into full production
again. Even then, they rarely produce as
well as when kept at a fairly high milk-
ing level by hand-feeding throughout the
winter.
“Marsh”: Shearing can be obtained in
Queensland (B. 1/9/’37) for 10 months
in the year. I knew of one depot shed
that opened in January, was kept busy
almost continuously and still had sheep
booked at the end of the year. In most
districts, however, the general shearing
season is from July to October, accord-
ing to seasonal vagaries.
“Hayband”: In 1935 a Border
Leicester ewe owned by Mrs. David
McClure, of Drummond (Vic.), gave
birth to six lambs, all of which lived.
Triplets recently brought the tally to 26
lambs in eight years.
“Yeno”: A. F. Emmott, of Bodalla
(N.S.W.), who has one of the best
Friesian herds in the State, is giving Jer-
seys a trial. For a year he has run the
two breeds under exactly similar condi-
tions, and there was nothing between
them, the whole herd averaging 3461 b.
of butterfat per cow. Improved pastures
and fodder conservation enable Emmott
to run 160 head of stock on 140 acres
throughout the year. He has divided his
farm into paddocks for rotational
grazing. Calves are fed from china
basins in miniature bails, and the basins
are kept scrupulously clean.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is it advisable to destroy Osage orange-trees
with poison ? —6740.
No, the best method is to grub them out
while they are green. If poison is used they
will remain in the ground after drying and
will be harder to cut out than when green.
Grubbing will also be cheaper in the long run.
* * * #
Names of Queensland firms supplying fer-
tilisers and super.? Prices f.o.b. Brisbane ?
56988.
Fertilisers can be obtained from the follow-
ing: ACF and Shirleys Fertilizers, Ltd., Little
Roma-street ; Fertilisers Distributors, Ltd.,
Little Roma-street General Fertilisers, Ltd.,
Adelaide-street ; • Committee of Direction of
Fruit Marketing, Turbot-street —all Brisbane.
Super, is quoted in Brisbane at £5 6s. 6d.,
f.o.r. Brisbane, in single tons ; five-fon
truck lots, £4 10s. lOd. net cash, f.o.r. Wallan-
garra; freight to Childers, 14s. 4d. per ton.
Eight-ton truck lots, £4 10s. lOd. net cash via
Kyogle at border; freight to Childers, 11s. lOd.
per ton. Rail charges to Childers are lower
than boat freights owing to a special low freight-
rate.
* * * $
(1) Any information about Polwarths as to
wool, count, character, liability to fly strike,
lambing percentage ? (2) Will ordinary six-wire
sheep fences for merino hold them ? (3) Are
Breeders in W.Q. ? (5) Would it be advisable
to purchase Polwartli rams and join with merino
for a start ? (6) Names of studs ? —57036.
(1) The Polwarth is a fixed type of comeback
(three-quarters merino, quarter Lincoln), re-
sembling in appearance a plain-bodied merino.
Rams may be horned or polled; ewes are horn-
less. Wool is 56-58’s spinning quality, and should
be slightly longer-stapled than merino, with
good, even character. On account of freedom
from wrinkles the P. should be little liable
to breech strike but not less so than plain-
bodied merinos. Ewes are slightly more pro-
lific than merinos and are better mothers.
(2) Yes. (3) No. Polwarths have given best
results in more temperate climates and on im-
proved pastures, small holdings or cultivation.
Majority of flocks are in Victoria or Vic. border
districts of N.S.W. Polwarths could not be
expected to stand up to n.-w. Q’land con-
ditions as well as merinos. Average Polwarth
fleece lacks density of merino, and backs in the
North would tend to become thin and wasty.
(4) None known. (5) No. Cannot see what
advantage, if any, would result, whereas dis-
advantages are many. (6) J. F. Jelbart and
Sons, Jindera, Albury; A. J. Kendall, Glen-
doon, Henty; or apply sec., Polwarth S.A.A.
(N.S.W. Branch), Box 105, P.O. Wagga, N.S.W.


€
/
W
o
prl
w
o
P
■
5
Si
m
s 4
Vv’v. •' • .
K
mmm
‘r ♦
.. jv-;.: :
"IT* "M'S* nv' ryrtunt nra>
uSL j&*R J*MW$ JTjL M JH St
~ ;
,• X.,
- *.
«*»
■
Mag
>
5 !
m
m
m
-T
m
m
■ . i '
fm® -
m i
111
' U
t
t
- •;•■;:
H B
K
n
ipl
.
■
m
A Present with a Future
MILS
The World’s Best Safety
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
interstate distributors.
O( B^FNS| A a ivn D J h SM £ NIA D - Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
SOUTH S AU?TR‘Ai B t , i er^ rOS ’,, Au^ t -, (Pty - ) ’ Ltd ” Monarch House, Creek Street, Brisbane.
yvpqtcd x, aTS^ 1 A , : Cornells, Coltons and Hoffnungs.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
V hort Story
Q) Writing
tyree Lance
c Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
HO Elizabeth Street, Sydney
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be cqnfined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Lc-t” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Enginedriver (40), Vic., wants job on station,
engines, windmills, etc. —7100.
Young man (28), single, steam engineer, 12
years’ practical exp., able to erect and instal
engines, wants position in Sydney.—7113.
Experienced male teacher (N.S.W.), good
record and refs., wants a good subsidised school.
—7114.
Typist, Sydney, specialising in manuscripts,
wants work. Reasonable rates. One or more
copies taken.—7144.
To exchange several hundred copies “John
o’ London’s Weekly,” “Listener,” “Times Liter-
ary Supplement,” Harmsworth’s Universal En-
cyclopcedia (12 vols.) for back numbers of
“British Printer,” “Inland Printer” and “Ameri-
can Pressman,” or will buy.—7143.
Information Sought.
Bowling averages of Bert Ironmonger and
Jack Saunders in Tests v. England and South
Africa and in Sheffield Shield matches? —7130.
Australia v. England.
Overs. Mds. Runs. Wkts. Av.
Ironmonger .. 407.4 155 712 21 33.90
Saunders .. 544.4 108 1621 64 25.32
Australia v. South Africa.
Ironmonger .. 221.5 112 300 31 9.67
Saunders .. 49.3 8 176 15 11.73
Sheffield Shield.
Ironmonger .. 1900.3 432 5320 215 24.74
Saunders .. 1609.3 348 5129 196 26.16
. # * * *
What is the wording on the Victor Trumper
memorial at Sydney Cricket Ground? —7136.
“In Memoriam, Victor Trumper. Obit
Sydney, 28th June, 1915. Erected by N.S.W.
Cricket Association.”
* * *• *
Details of Rugby Union Tests between Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, and where played ?—
7148.
1903 —at Sydney, M.L. won 22-3. 1905 —at
Dunedin, M.L. won 14-3. 1907 —at Sydney,
M.L. won 26-6; at Brisbane, M.L. won 14-5;
at Sydney, drawn, 5 all. 1910—at Sydney, M.L.
won 6-0; at Sydney, Australia won 11-0; at
Sydney, M.L. won 28-13. 1913 —at Welling-
ton, M.L. won 30-5; at Dunedin, M.L. won
25-13; at Christchurch, Australia won 16-5.
1914 —at Sydney, M.L. won 5-0; at Brisbane,
M. won 17-0; at Sydney, M.L. won 22-7.
1929 —at Sydney, Australia won 9-8; at Bris-
bane, Australia won 17-9; at Sydney, Australia
won 15-13. 1931 —at Auckland, M.L. won
20-13. 1932 —at Sydney, Australia won 22-17;
at Brisbane, M.L. won 21-3; at Sydney, M.L.
won 21-13. 1934 —at Sydney, Australia won
25-11; at Sydney, drawn, 3 all. 1936—at Wel-
lington, M.L. won 11-6; at Dunedin, M.L. won
38-13.
* * * *
What were the results of the interstate Rugby
Union matches at Sydney in July, 1936 P —7121.
July 4 —N.S.W. defeated Victoria 29-13;
N. defeated Queensland 23-11. July 8—
Queensland defeated Victoria 16-15. July 11 —
N.S.W. defeated Queensland 12-8; N.S.W. de-
feated Victoria 42-3.
* * * *
What were the weight and height of every
world’s champion heavyweight boxer from Jack
Johnson to Joe Louis, inclusive, when he
gained the title ? Also, what are the measure-
ments of Tommy Burns and Tommy Farr? —
7102.
Johnson, 15st. 101b., 6ft. 0|in.; Jess Willard,
17st. 121b., 6ft. 6in.; Jack Dempsey, 13st. 81b.,
6ft. 1in.; Gene Tunney, 13st. 131b., 6ft. lin.;
Max Schmeling, 13st. 121b., 6ft. lin.; Jack
Sharkey, 13st. 101b., 6ft. lin.; Primo Camera,
19st. 101b., 6ft. 7in.; Max Baer, 15st., 6ft. lin.;
Jim Braddock, 13st. 31b., 6ft. 2in.; and Joe
Louis, 14st., 6ft. lin. Burns weighed 12st. 71b.,
stood 5ft. 7in. and had a reach of 74in. Farr
weighs 14st. 81b., is 6ft. lin. tall and has a
reach of 70in.
* * * *
What was the wording of the “tickets-of-
leave” issued to convicts during the transporta-
tion period in Sydney? —7184.
Eris O’Brien in his The Foundation of Aus-
tralia quotes the following one: “It is his Excel-
lency the Governor’s pleasure to dispense with
the attendance at Government work of ,
tried at , convicted for ——, arrived per
ship , —— master, in the year , and
to permit to employ self (off the Gov-
ernment stores) in any lawful occupation, within
the district of , for own advantage
during good behavior or until his Excellency’s
further pleasure shall be made known.” On
March 15, 1806, Governor King amended the
above by adding: “If he demands extortionate
pay for his labor or trangresses any of the rules
or orders of the colony, he will be recalled
to Government labor, and such other punish-
ments be inflicted on him as the case shall merit
or as the magistrates shall award, and of which
all officers, settlers, cultivators and every other
individual is to take notice.”
* * * *
A few particulars about Leonard Mann, the
Australian novelist ? —7172.
Son of Samuel and Kate Louisa Mann, he
was born in Melbourne on November 15, 1895,
and was educated at Wesley College and Mel-
bourne University. Called to the Bar he was
associate to Justice Lukin when in C’wealth
Arbitration Court. He has been general
secretary of the Victorian Employers’ Federation
since 1929, and appears in industrial cases in
the Arbitration Court. He served with the
A.I.F. infantry and engineers in France during
the Great War. Publications include Flesh in
Armour (awarded Aus. Literature Soc. gold
medal for best Australian novel published in
1932), Human Drift and A Murder in Sydney.
¥ »!• H*
How did the phrase “public enemy” originate
in America ? Who were the first two holders
of the title? —7180.
Among the anti-crime laws passed by the
73rd Congress for the purpose of extending
and strengthening the Federal police power was
one which authorised the Attorney-General to
offer a reward up to 25,000 dollars for the cap-
ture of any person who had been declared a
“public enemy.” The first person to be desig-
nated “Public Enemy No. 1” was A 1 Capone.
The next holder of the title was Dillinger, who
was killed by Federal agents in Chicago in
July, 1934.
* * * *
(1) Who invented the dynamo ? (2) A few
details concerning his life? —7163.
(1) Michael Faraday (1791-1867) made the
discovery of magneto-electrical induction, upon
which principle all dynamos are based. The
unit of capacity, the “farad,” was named after
him. (2) Born at Newington Butts, London,
he was the son of a blacksmith. He assisted Sir
Humphry Davy at the Royal Institution, and
finally became director of the laboratory. In
1833 he was made Fullerian Professor of the
Institution for life. In that year he proved that
electricity from different sources was identical,
and in the following year came the discovery of
equivalents in electro-chemical decomposition.
In 1838 he announced the results of his re-
searches on electro-static induction and showed
the relation between electric and magnetic
forces. In 1845 he published a description of
the properties of diamagnetic bodies and in
1846 of magnetic rotary polarisation. Faraday
ranks among the most brilliant experimenters
known. He died at Hampton Court.
$ * * *
To what countries did Australia export furred
skins last year, and what were the values of
(1) fox, (2) kangaroo, (3) opossum, (4) rabbit
and hare and (5) wallaby? —7l66.
Figures are for 1935-36. (1) United Kingdom
£53,310, other British countries £96, France
£6OO, U.S.A. £5187, other foreign countries
£750. (2) United Kingdom £4930, New Zealand
£B, U.S.A. £224,376, others £155. (3) United
Kingdom £11,634, Germany £235, U.S.A. £7069.
(4) United Kingdom £183*501, Canada £345,
New Zealand £lll3, Belgium £164, China £2702,
France £3620, Germany £ll4, U.S.A. £1,553,063,
others £212. (5) United Kingdom £2174, U.S.A.
£10,610, others £l9.
* * * *
What was the first ship to leave England for
N.S.W. with convicts after the departure of
the First Fleet? How many convicts did she
carry ? —7192.
The transport Lady Juliana, which sailed
from Plymouth on July 29, 1789, with a load
of female convicts. She sailed with 226 women
and six children, and arrived in Port Jackson
on June 3, 1790, with 221 women and 11
children, five women and two children having
died and seven children having been born on
the voyage.
$ % * . *
Who acted for Federal Ministers Lyons,
Casey and Parkhill during their absence abroad
this year ? —7OBO.
Earle Page was Acting Prime Minister from
March 18 to July 19; R. G. Menzies was
Acting Treasurer from February 16 to July 31;
and V. C. Thorby was Acting Minister for
Defence from March 18 to July 25.
He * * *
Taxation per head of population in (1) United
Kingdom, (2) France, (3) U.S.A., (4) Italy, (5)
Commonwealth of Australia, (6) N.S.W., (7)
Vic., (8) Q’land, (9) S.A., (10) W.A., (11) Tas„
(12) C’wealth and States? —7125.
(1) £l7 14s. sd. (2) £9 2s. (3) Federal only,
£ll 2s. (4) £4 12s. (5) £9 Bs. 6d. (6) £6 2s. Bd.
(7) £5 7s. Bd. (8) £7 10s. Bd. (9) £5 11s. 6d.
(10) £6 3s. sd. (11) £6 3s. 2d. (12) £ls 9s. lid.
Figures are for 1936.
* * * *
What elements will not combine directly or
indirectly with oxygen? —7ol9.
Oxygen will not combine directly with
fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine, although
oxides of chlorine and iodine can be prepared.
Of the more stable elements, members of the
helium group will not combine directly or in-
directly with oxygen. These include helium,
neon, argon, krypton and xenon,
* * * *
(1) Who are the members of the Common-
wealth Book Censorship Board ? (2) When was
book censorship first established in Australia?
(3) Some books of literary merit which have
been banned within recent years? (4) Does this
board censor magazines and periodicals as well
as books? (5) Where can I obtain further
information regarding book censorship in Aus-
tralia?—! 109. *
(1) The present Book Censorship Board was
constituted on June 17, 1937, as follows: Appeal
Censor, Robert Garran; members of the board,
Prof. L. H. Allen (chairman), Prof. J. F. M.
Haydon and K. Binns. (2) In 1901, at the in-
ception of Federation, as a Ministerial pre-
rogative under the Customs Act. (3) Apples Be
Ripe, by Llewellyn Powys; La Bas, by J. K.
Huysmans (in French and in English trans-
lation) ; Lady Chatterley’s Lover, by D. H.
Lawrence; A Night in Kurdistan, by Jean
Richard Bloch; Nineteen Nineteen, by John
dos Passos; Reigen, by Arthur Schnitzler;
Story of Venus and Tannhduser, by Aubrey
Beardsley; Redheap, by Norman Lindsay; All
Men Are Enemies, by Richard Aldington.
(4) Yes. (5) Mr. I. K. Sampson, 36 Hunter-
street, Sydney, who has made a special study
of the subject.
* * * *
Difference between ping-pong and table
tennis? Is it necessary in table tennis to serve
from below the table ? Method of counting
in table tennis ? —7094.
Table tennis and ping-pong are the same.
It is not necessary to serve below the surface
of the table. The method adopted by most
players and the Table Tennis Association is
as follows: The server stands back from the
edge of the table, throws the ball into the air,
and hits it with the bat. The ball must strike
the table on the corner nearest the server, and
must go over the net and hit the table in
the corner diagonally opposite to the server.
There are two methods of scoring. The method
adopted .by the N.S.W. Table Tennis Associa-
tion is similar to scoring in tennis, but inter-
national rules state that 21-up is the correct
method.
* * * -•=
(1) In what way or wnyi would it be pos-
sible for a modern steam yacht to be left with
an even keel high and dry on the sandy shore
of a desert island? (2) How would a yacht
thus situated be refloated? (3) Would it be
possible for an SOS call to be received by an
ocean liner from the yacht and two-way tele-
phony established? (4) At what speed do
modern liners travel ? (5) What would con-
stitute the minimum crew of a private yacht ?
—7089.
(1) Anything is possible at sea, so a yacht
stranded on sand on an even keel and above
high-water mark is not beyond the bounds of
possibility, but it is dragging it out a bit fine.
A tidal wave or an earthquake might be in-
voked. (2) Build a cradle under it and skids
under the cradle and so launch it. (3) Yes, in
certain circumstances —power intact to supply
current to the transmitter, for one thing. (4)
The Awatea, 22 knots, is the speediest liner
in this part of the Pacific. (5) Depends on the
taste and fancy of the yacht’s owner, also its
size. Minimum crew for a 300-tonner, say,
would be 14.
* * *
Australian exports to Argentina, shown in
detail, for the past five years? —7ls3.
Australian exports to Argentina are not shown
in detail. In 1931-32 they amounted to £3919
(personal and household effects £2500, plants,
trees and bulbs £886); in 1932-33 to £14,461
(bacterioligical products and sera £11,468,
plants, trees and bulbs £2876); in 1933-34 to
£8951 (bacteriological products and sera £7614,
timber £677); in 1934-35 to £9031 (bacteriologi-
cal products and sera £3848, cotton and linen,
including canvas and duck, £lßl7, plants, seeds
and bulbs £1405, agricultural machinery £1349);
and in 1935-36 to £14,523 (plants, trees and
bulbs £1739, yarns, etc., £1874, agricultural
machinery £4664 and bacteriological products
and sera £6147).
•fc % H*
(1) Botanical name of wilga ? (2) A few
brief particulars about the tree? —7150.
(1) Geijera parviflora. (2) Its height is from
20ft. to 30ft., and it ranges across the continent
from Queensland to Western Australia. An ex-
cellent shade tree, it can withstand extreme
drought, and is highly esteemed as a fodder
plant for sheep. Its timber is pale-colored and
close-grained, but is subject to gum vein and
liable to split.
% tffi %
(1) Who may enter the literary competitions
being conducted in connection with Australia’s
150 th anniversary celebrations ? (2) How many
entries may each competitor send ? (3) Are the
competitions confined to unpublished work ?-. —
7177.
(1) Entrants must be either Australian-born
or naturalised in Australia, New Zealand or
the British South Pacific islands, or bona
fide residents of any of these places for the three
years preceding the closing date, December 31,
1937. (2) No competitor may enter more than
three works in one section, but any competitor
may enter as many sections as he or she wishes.
(3) Yes.
* * * *
(1) First preferences polled by each of the
N.S.W. Senate candidates at the last Federal
elections? (2) Who were elected? —7l7o.
(1) J. P. Dunn 416,997, A. K. Dein 388,086,
Macartney Abbott 270,787, J. B. Dooley 51,256,
S. F. Allen 44,798, G. Anderson 31,611, L. T.
Courtenay 24,165, L. L. Sharkey 21,881, Arthur
Rae 11,551, A. Hogan 4340, P. F. Mooney
4328, Lilhe Beirnie 2219, John White 1681. (2)
Dein, Courtenay and Abbott.
* * * ■■■ ♦
(1) Figures showing the decrease of aborigines
in Victoria ? (2) Amount expended on the
maintenance of aborigines during the year 1935-
36 ? —7158.
(1) At the first colonisation of Victoria the
aborigines were variously estimated to number
from 5000 to 15,000. In 1851, when the colony
was separated from N.S.W., the number was
officially stated as 2693, and at June 30, 1936,
as 641 (55 full-blood and 586 half-caste). The
numbers show a decrease of 37 in full-blood
aborigines and an increase of 76 in half-castes
since the 1933 census. (2) £6146.
* * * #
Explanation of the joint which permits nod-
ding and shaking of the head? —7155.
In nodding the head the condyles, two for-
mations at the base of the occipital bone and
situated on each side of the foramen magnum
(the aperture through which the spinal cord
passes to the brain), articulate on a thick mass
of bone on each side of the atlas, or seventh
cervical vertebra. When the head is shaken
from side to side the skull moves in unison with
the atlas vertebra, which pivots around a thick
toothlike odontoid process which surmounts
the axis, or second cervical vertebra.
Brief Answers.
M.C.: (1) Jack Howe shore 321 sheep in 7hr.
40min. at Alice Downs, near Blackall (Q-), on
Monday, October 10, 1892. (2) Not known....
H.J.H.: Write Professor H. Tasman Lovell,
Professor of Psychology, University of Sydney.
C.A.P.: The only spray that is likely to be
effective on young wattle and tea-tree growth is
an arsenical one in which the arsenic is in the
form of arsenic pentoxide. Such a spray is
very poisonous, and an area would have to be
fenced off from stock during, and for some
time after, treatment, and the dead vegetation
disposed of. Such a spray is made by Hardy,
422 Collins-street, Melbourne. Get in touch
with this firm... .W.H.8.: Use silicate of soda,
10 p.c. solution, applied to the surface of the
floor and allowed to dry. As many coats as
necessary may be applied, allowing each coat
to dry thoroughly before the next is applied.
Usually four or five coats are necessary to pro-
duce a good surface.. . .R.R.W.: While the
stewards may censure the jockey they would
have to await a protest from the owner of the
second horse before taking action along the
line indicated... .R.M.L.: Write Dept, of
Commerce, Canberra, F.C.T W.M.: Write
Apprenticeship Commissioner, Dept, of Labor
and Industry, Sydney M.M.: It is difficult
to rear successfully a joey kangaroo which has
not got to the stage where it can look after
itself. These young creatures miss the mother’s
warm pouch and need to be kept as warm and
comfortable as possible. It should have warm
milk and water, two parts milk and one water,
with a little sugar added; also chopped green
stuff, such as lettuce, green maize, green barley
or grass G.A.S.: (1) By lodging a copy of
the work with the Copyright Office, C’wealth
Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney, and
paying a registration fee of ss. (2) Yes, per-
mission to republish is readily given in such
cases. (3) Question too vague... .W.T.: The
Harness Makers’ Manual f l6s.), obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney P.K.M.: (1)
and (2) Yes, the Ibuki. (3) No, but in 1917
they did escort cargo carriers between Fre-
mantle and Colombo, and also helped to patrol
the Australian coast... .R.F.: The jug cannot
be very old. Old brown stoneware jugs of the
type were certainly made at Lambeth at .the
end of the seventeenth century, but Doultons’
connection with potteries at Lambeth began
only early in the nineteenth century, and
until about 1870 they manufactured only drain-
pipes and similar wares. About 1870 Henry
Doulton commenced a revival of decorative
wares, among which were reproductions of
seventeenth- and eighteenth-century stonewares,
which are still being made. By the mark given,
the jug is evidently one of these, and not earlier
than 1870... .J. 8.: No course of training at
Sydney University. The Public Library of
N. S. Wales trains its own officers... .WJ.S.:
Write Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney... .P.C.: Write 1.C.5., 140 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney... .S.H.D.: Get in touch with a
patent attorney... .J. 8.: (1) and (2) Write to
the Under-Secretary, Department of Labor and
Industry, 142 Phillip-street, Sydney, asking for
the information required and a copy of any
award covering such cases.' (3) and (6) Any
person who “sends, exhibits or publishes, or
causes to be sent or exhibited or published, any
letter, circular, telegram, placard, handbill or
advertisement” that he will “on application give
information or advice for the purpose of any
bet or make on his behalf any bet or invite him
to take a share in any bet” is liable to a
penalty up to £3O. (4) The matter is within the
discretion of the gatekeeper or those who con-
trol him. (5) No, if the offence is a personal
one he should lay an information or complaint.
(7) Write to the Under-Secretary, Dept, of Agri-
culture, Farrer-place, Sydney. (8) and (9)
Probably there is a local dairy inspector whose
attention could be called to the matter or the
police could be consulted. (10) You might
trace by advertisement in the newspapers. (11)
Soliciting is punishable with imprisonment for
six months. (12) No restriction if local shire re-
quirements are complied with. (13) .The occu-
pant on whose land the animals are trespassing
may drive them to the nearest pound or, if he
knows the owner, may temporarily impound
them on his own premises for a period not ex-
ceeding four days, but he must give notice to the
owner within 24 hours... .P.K.W.: W. R. Car-
penter and Cos., 19 O’Connell-street, and Burns,
Philp and Cos., 7 Bridge-street—both Sydney;
Lever Bros., Balmain (N.5.W.)... .L.F.M.:
Method too detailed to print on this page.
Write Chief C’wealth Electoral Officer, Can-
berra, F.C.T R.F.C.: Ginger Rogers and
Jean Parker, care R.K.O. Pictures, Hollywood,
Cal., U.S.A.; Betty Grable and Claudette
Colbert, care Paramount Pictures, Cal., U.S.A.;
Anna Lee, care Gaumont British Dominion
Studios, Wardour-street, London... .D.S.J.:
It is estimated that 126,000 U.S.A. troops were
killed or died in the World War, 234,300 were
wounded, and 4500 were taken prisoners or
were missing K.M.: (1) The present Duke
of Norfolk is Bernard Marmaduke Fitzalan-
Howard, born May 30, 1908, and son of the
15th Duke of Norfolk and Baroness Herries.
(2) Sisters of the present Duke are the Ladies
Mary Rachael, Katherine Mary and Winefride
Alice Fitzalan-Howard. (3) No 1.R.: Hugh
de Largie was born at Airdrie, Scotland, on
March 26, 1859 D. 5.8.: In 1911 Hamilton,
an American, first tried the aeroplane in war-
fare over Ciudad Juarez during a Mexican re-
bellion T.L.: Consult the Commonwealth
Official Year-Book, available most public
libraries G.J.; No satisfactory inexpensive
method of making it in the home G.H.:
Accepted records show descent from Charle-
magne, Emperor of the West and King of France,
who died a.d. 814, through William the Con-
queror, who died in 1087. The descent from
the Irish Enna, King of Leinster, who was
murdered in 1126, is plain, but another descent
from the Irish kings through O’Connor, King
of Connaught, relies on the marriage of the
first of the De Burghs with O’Connor, which
appears doubtful... .W.H.G.: Write secretary,
Society of Australian Genealogists, 91 Phillip-
street, Sydney L.J.: The commander of the
R.M.S. Queen Mary is Capt. J. C. Townley.
M.S.A.: There have been several painters
with the same surname, but none with that
initial K.T.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept, for pamphlet, “Mushroom Culture,” by
Dr. R. J. Noble J.W.W.: Length of Kal-
goorlie water scheme miles, length of
piping 1303 miles, size and type of pipe 30m.
steel locking bar. There are eight pumping
stations, and the approximate cost of the
scheme was £3,487,887... .(Many others
mailed.)


IN BED FOR WEEKS
WITH BACKACHE
Prostrate with
‘Terrible Pains”
It was advice from her mother that led this
woman to take Kruschen Salts for her back-
ache and before she had finished the first bottle
she was feeling better. This is the letter she
writes: —-
“About this time last year I had terrible
pains in my back and was prostrate for three
weeks. I could not even rise in bed. I tried
several well-known remedies, but to no avail.
Then I wrote to my mother telling her of my
trouble. She wrote to me by return of post
urging me to try Kruschen Salts. I immediately
bought a bottle and I can truthfully say before
I had taken the fifth dose I could sit up. I
kept on taking them and in less than two weeks
I was about again. I am never without this
wonderful medicine now.”—(Mrs.) A.G.
Unless the kidneys function properly certain
acid wastes, instead of being expelled, are
allowed to pollute the bloodstream and produce
troublesome symptoms: backache, rheumatism
and excessive fatigue. Kruschen Salts is one
of the finest diuretics or kidney aperients avail-
able for assisting the kidneys to excrete acid
impurities.
' .7
"
r *
M
1 m
The
BOULIA'
BIG DIP
STOCK
SADDLE
£l4/18/6
(MOUNTED)
Has plenty of dip in
the seat and the pads
are high. It has the
popular short panel
with leather facings
at back. Built on a
best “Fouright” Tree
and the materials are first-grade
throughout.
N.S.W. Freight paid for Cash with Order.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
PTY., LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
TRAVELLERS
by Sea, Land er .Air
The Travel Department of the Bank of New
South Wales is completely equipped to serve
the interests of Travellers and Visitors.
Local and world tours arranged, bookings and
reservations made by sea, land and air, accom-
modation secured, baggage insurance effected
and advice given regarding passports and
income tax clearance.
A Traveller utilising the services of the Bank’s
Travel Department starts out with every detail
of his tour arranged in advance. No charge
is made for the services rendered by this
Department,
'<m/c orz/ /ram.
TRAVEL DEPARTMENTS
Sydney , Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide , Perth ,
Hobart , Cairns and Townsville in Australia
Wellington , Auckland , Christchurch and Dunedin
in New Zealand Suva , Fiji and London.
E 6
288 F. 1937
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of 'communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
T.R.: Too fanciful for our taste. Why drag
cross-legged Buddhas into a poem on wheat-
fields? ... .Hawk: We couldn’t spare a column,
or half a one, for the narration of how pug-
nacious Dan Casey, homing from the pub,
met his Waterloo by scrapping with a black-
ened tree-stump... .A.J.W.: A heap of words
with no sufficiently clear sense attached to
them... .P.H.C.: Not ill-done, but it’s on the
morbid side... .G.M.8.: A “lone secluded
vale” is intelligible, but what on earth is a
“stalwart hill”? ... .M.D.M.: Even as limericks
they don’t fill the bill J.8.J.: We’re off
Chinese love-stories W.W.: “The Politician”
finished at the bottom of the poll K.A.Y.:
Nothing in them... .J.S.: To address a bishop
as Joe” would strike most people as a
breach of etiquette... .E.V.8.: Too utterly
recondite for us J.M.: Any jingler who
tn fu ri^, me “flaw” with “roar” and “awe”
witn door gets on our nerves E.E.: Your
black-coated thoroughbred with the velvety
neck tailed to clear this gate... .T.H.Y.: Clever
enough in its way, but we can’t house ten
b,r w aS T- F ;, L - M - : . Jt didn,t fl uite set past,
but we found it stimulating S.C.P.: Pity to
waste all that humor on disorderly free verse
: • y Obvious... .F.Y.: That pacer’s gait
is too stodgy for us, but you should get her
entry accepted elsewhere... .E.D.S.: An idea
nr- 6 ’. b x-f y ,° U ™ akc heay y going of it....
D.Cj. . Neatly done, but dream yarns are
Sf?/ doze " • • • -G-J-D.: Can’t give that
SSHJf* A J T ? b --" R A - s -: Not enough in
less k Hs" A ‘t' : T b e , S P ear ” was Point-
Try 3 dai y L.K.: “Tears”
railed to arouse our sympathy R.P.:
Missed. ...M.D.: Toned down it might make
a suggestion for a Parisian postcard J.K.L.:
otfa p n T g l 0 fl-.-.N.P.: The typing wasn’t bad.
F 'w bL T , : Y ° u fel l down on the j0b....
J he y- p b - swallowed “Sunday’s Joint.”
riu : v Not for us J-P-: Childish....
ur ?’ *?°‘.. .E.McL.: “The Farm-
hand was dismissed... .M.C.: Sent off... .N. 0.:
Jne chicken-chasing motorist is an old friend.
....H.A.: “Aeroplane” crashed J.V.W.:
Vague F.W.: Off our beat R.J.8.: With
practice and attention to style and detail you
should see print... .L.R.: “The Footballer”
nearly scored.... C.C.: Too slight... .P.M.:
°Fnn n k!”? ” e a yarn-4 •• A S.V.: Nothing in
bu L pfcle ;• • -D.H.C.: Just a borderliner.
trri : Back” is going back.
H.C.L.: The Magnet” failed to attract.
.".E.0.: Might make a par J.R. ; Fair
sketch, but requires more skilful treatment....
ud ir' Sharpe’s Scheme” was a failure..
H.P.K.: Armony in the ’Ome” struck a
discordant note... .F.C.: Nerve-shattering tour
in decrepit flivver is a long-overworked theme,
‘■‘i’ ■ v;, f;, Hoar y antiquities.... W.K.M. :
seeds tell on barren ground 8.L.D.:
“Music in the Bush” was very flat... .P.S.W.:
Ten pages of weird scratchings were beyond
u5....G.N.: “The Cock that Crowed” is still
searching for a roost E.A.: Weak
H.H.McC.: “The Rod” failed to divine a
cheque... .S.D.H.: Not attracted by “The
Winsome Maid”... .T.F.: With a fresh plot
and a different style it might make a yarn....
G.W.0’8.: That prospector has been killed
a thousand times J. 8.: Might find a niche
elsewhere S.C.: “The Egg” was stale five
years ag0....A.G.: “The Sleeping Beauty”
reposes in the w.p.b GJ.: “Night Light”
went out... .L.T.H.: One verse from your
seasonable if slightly phonetic lyric:
These golden hours of surf and sun
Bring reckless happiness from break of day;
The swelling tide brings further fun,
The undertoe is bearing grief away.
People in grief, too, if we are any judge.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.H.: Gags tame, drawings need more life.
T.R.: Scene of struggle between vegetable
John and Jap laundryman shifted to w.p.b.
. ...A.D.: Barmaid sent back for repairs....
C.H.W.: Out of date... .T.8.J.: Little
Jack returning to the nursery....V.M.: A
neat piece of work burdened with a heavy-
weight jest K.M.: Not for our Christ-
mas or any other number... .W.W.P.: Charac-
ters seem to have been built from a pile of
discarded concertinas J.S.: Caricatures quite
good, but the subjects too local J.P.: Mel-
bourne Cup drawing was left at the post
F.R.P.: Pay more attention to details; the
hands are dreadful C.D.G.: Noted that our
unwashed friend is still voicing his horror of
water... .L.R.: When did you last see a horse?
N.D.: You can have the octopus back;
also the two-headed giant and the deformed
bullfighter... .P.S.: Found a place for it in our
Chamber of Horrors... .H.T.: Almost reaches
publication level; poses could be better....
M. 8.: Cut of clothes and diagonal strokes sug-
gest an Alf Vincent drawing N.L.: Wheeze
has long been placed on the retired list M.C.:
No use for the lady who got her poodle back in
the form of sausages 0.F.: You go astray
the moment you attempt anything but a straight
line S.C.R.: Better if you had burned the
sketches as well as the midnight oil A.P.:
The soap-box is well enough drawn, but not
the orator... .G.M.: Linework too heavy,
drawings badly balanced, gags juvenile
L. 8.: Shows faint promise; stick to it
W.P.: Cousin Jack joke is as labored as the
drawing 8.D.5.: Draw from life... .H.N.:
Very ugly lines... .N.M.G.: Wash drawing too
indistinct for successful reproduction R.8.J.:
That globe-trotter wouldn’t get 100 yards on
those legs E.p.: The gag dates back to the
Crimea.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Fie”: Among the distinguished Eng-
lishmen who, it was suggested, might be
invited to Sydney to brighten up next
year’s celebrations ex-Dean Inge was
mentioned. From his writings (and his
sobriquet of “Gloomy”) one might con-
clude that he would be the last person
to brighten up anything, but, if a London
paper is to be believed, he has a lighter
side. The sheet in question prints the
following limerick:
There once was a person called Starkie,
Who had an affair with a darkie;
The result of his sins
Was quadruplets, not twins,
One black and one white and two khaki!
And adds that it was quoted in an article
on “Mixed Marriage” by the ex-Dean
of St. Paul’s.
* * * #
“Kerriki”: Repercussions of the war
in China are already being felt here.
Wolfram, used as tunastic acid in the
hardening of steel, has touched high
prices with the cutting-off of half the
world’s supply, which formerly came
from China. Toothbrushes are already
mounting in value since the severing of
communications with Shanghai inter-
fered with the marketing of bristles from
the famous white pigs of Szechuan. Also,
the armies of Chiang Kai-shek are lend-
ing a hand to the harassed crew of the
Larrakia, now that Japanese reservists
are fast being recalled from pearling
luggers.
* * i: *
“Oran”: Though the roasting of bul-
locks whole (B. 1/ 9 / ’37) has largely gone
out of fashion, many Aucklanders will
recall a hotelkeeper who annually
revived the ancient rite. Born in the
U.S.A., he went to M.L. as a youth, but
as his birthday came on the Glorious
Fourth he held a twofold celebration
and invited all Americans, plus a goodly
addition of local residents, to a yearly
barbecue. The bullock was roasted out-
of-doors, turning on an enormous spit,
and the crowd of uninvited guests who
assembled to witness the sight far out-
numbered those who actually went to
table.
“Havelock”: A distinguished English
scientist, Sir Leonard Hill, predicts that,
unless the steady fall in Britain’s birth-
rate can be arrested, the population of
the U.K. will be stationary three or four
years hence. After that it will decline
to 18 millions in 60 years and to a mere
five millions a century hence, by which
time England may be relegated to a place
among the small nations. Still, that
doesn’t necessarily follow, seeing that the
same process is going on in all parts of
the world, excepting Asia. France’s wor-
ries about an insufficiency of children
began a good 50 years ago ; Germany
and Italy have arrived at the point where
they are seeking to encourage child-bear-
ing by Government subsidies, with no
marked success.
* * * *
“Tiresias”: Surprised to read (B.
1/9/’37) that “Kafoosalem” was a favor-
ite song of the troops in the Great War.
I never heard it sung or met anyone
who referred to it. Anyway the tragic
ballad of the Moslem barber’s daughter
and the Jerusalem Jewboy long ante-
dates 1914. I first heard it at a school
concert in England in the mid-’eighties,
and it was supposed to be old stuff then.
The reference to “the gentleman with
three old hats” definitely assigns it to
early-Victorian days. The three hats were
the recognised hall-mark of the old-
clo’ man, and early copies of “Punch”
contain many caricatures of Disraeli in
this guise.
* * * *
“Moorcock”: The old-time English
craze for “high” game (B. l/9/’37) has
practically vanished, swift transport and
cold storage being responsible. In the
old days when grouse had to be sent in
late summer from the northern moors
to Southern England by mail coach, the
birds could not but arrive in a nifty con-
dition. On the other hand, hanging to
make tender is still applied to such meats
as mutton, and here also a touch of high-
ness in a haunch or saddle is considered
desirable. Personally I am of opinion
that prolonged hanging—given suitable
weather conditions—vastly improves the
rubber-like chilled joints Australia is
accustomed to.


m
m i
u
u
m
a
m
msm
m
■i
HHHH
Ik
< - < f -
mm
I
HH HSU
■
M
B i £
.. .
; x ■
HMißilfii
A typical Country
Seen e —a nd a
typical Hat for the
Country
In the saddle all day long-
under sweltering heat. That t
when the horseman appreciates
"good attire. An ordinary hat.
for instance, may give comfort,
but the “Track” Riding Hat
gives the ultimate in wear
appearance and comfort.
The “TRACK ”
RIDING HAT
The “Track” Riding Hat is of dashing style and
comfort. Its extremely wide leaf, measuring
ensures maximum comfort in sun and glare. The
“Track” is made of Pure Fur Felt and is
available in Fawn or Black, with Self Band.
When ordering from Pike PRICE
Brothers, Limited, Queen Street, ,
Brisbane, do not forget to state jQ/O
colour preferred and your size. %J\J\
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street - Brisbane
XMAS Fill EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful 7h weeks' trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA” and AORANGI,
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares: —
First Class. Cabin Class.
Per “NIAGARA” both ways £s7/10/.'
Per “AORANGI” „ „ £Bl/10/- £57/10/
Per “NIAGARA” one way and) £BO/10/- £57/10/-
“AORANGI” one way \
APP UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
(inc. in N.Z.)
_ c 59 William Street.
247 George Street, or Melbourne
Sydney :
No. 11 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
MacLaren was skipper of the English
team that came to Australia in the
summer of 1901. He was the Lancashire
captain, and with him were three other
county captains—Jessop (Gloucestershire),
A. O. Jones (Notts) and Robson (Hamp-
shire) and two other amateurs,
McGahey and Garnett. The profes-
sionals were Hayward, J. T. Tyldesley,
Quaife, Lilley, Braund, J. Gunn, Blythe
and Barnes.
Barnes was the team’s Great Un-
known. MacLaren had taken him from
Lancashire League cricket, in which he
played for Burnley, and only Lancas-
trians knew anything about him. He
was the biggest fellow in the team, a
six-footer, very powerfully built. It was
remarked that Jessop, Quaife, Gunn and
Tyldesley were small men, and that
Blythe was just a delicate-looking lad.
Fortune was against them in Aus-
tralia, but there were no passengers in
that team. Sometimes the batting failed,
sometimes the bowling ; the fielding was
nearly always superb.
At Adelaide the travellers met Jack
Lyons, who told them he had retired
from cricket —“dickey leg,” he explained.
Lyons took a fancy to Braund, and
showed that then-ingenuous youth the
sights of Adelaide. They were together
one day in the saloon bar of a pub
which boasted a massive chandelier.
After the fifth or sixth drink, Jack began
reciting a formula which was already
familiar to Australians, making his points
with a huge walking-stick, his insepar-
able companion. “Who built the stands
at Lord’s,” the big hitter roared. “Jack
Lyons! Who hit three sixes and
twenty fours at Lord’s? Jack Lyons!
Who drove the ball clean out of the
ground at Lord’s? Jack Lyons! Wait,
lad, and I’ll show you how I did it.”
With that he swung his walking-stick
with all his force, and brought the mas-
sive chandelier crashing down,
George Giffen, an older man than
Lyons, was still in harness. He had re-
cently been congratulated by the
s A.C.A. on having made 10,000 runs
an d taken 1000 wickets in first-class
cricket. He was to set the seal on these
performances in the Englishmen’s first
JIM KELLY.
match by bagging 13 wickets for 93 on
an indifferent pitch—7 for 46 in the first
innings, 6 for 47 in the second. Clem
Hill, for his part, came to light with
107 (out of 230) and 80 (out of 207), and
the Englishmen, who had made only 118
in their first knock, found themselves the
losers by 23 runs.
A very bad start, but against Victoria
the tourists improved. The Melbourne
pitch, like the one in Adelaide, was a bit
off, but it did not bother them as much
as it did the home team. MacLaren s
men made 166 and 107 ; the Victorians
133 and 89. Barnes mixed his pace
splendidly, and to his fast ones the Vic-
torians were all at sea. He took 7 for
38 and 5 lor ° L .
The three Sheffield Shield States were
strong all-round that year, and, going to
Sydney, the Englishmen were worsted by
runs a keenly-contested five-day
match with N.S.W. They had led on
fj rs j- j nn jings, scoring 332 (MacLaren
145) to 288 (Trumper 67). By putting
on 149 for the eighth wicket, Noble and
Dr. Poidevin virtually gave the victoi y
to N.S.W. ; Noble made 74 in 2i hours.
The Australians entered upon the first
Test match at Sydney with light hearts.
An 1899 eleven had been picked (the
omissions were Worrall, Laver and
Johns), and odds were offered against
the Englishmen, even though they had
first use of a perfect wicket. MacLaren
had suggested that in the
Test series each side should
bat first alternately, the coin
being resorted to for the last
match; but, fair as the
arrangement seemed then,
and seems still when these
matters are discussed, it was
rejected.
MacLaren and Hayward
opened for the tourists, as
they generally did throughout
the tour. They made 154 before
they were separated, Hayward (69)
being the first to go. The captain got
to 116 ; then wickets fell rapidly and
six were down for 272. The wicket-
keeper and the 'bowlers came to the
rescue ; Lilley, always trustworthy in a
pinch, contributed 84, Braund 58, and
Gunn, Barnes and Blythe got into the
twenties; all out for 464.
Then Barnes, Blythe and Braund got
among the wickets, not once but twice
Except Gregory (48), Hill (46) and Dar
BILL HOWELL.
ling (39) the batsmen failed, and the Aus-
tralians had to follow on with a leeway
of 296 to make up. This time Gregory
(43) and Trumper (34) gave them a
pretty good start, but of the others only
Bill Howell did anything noteworthy—
he hit 31 in 13 minutes-and Bill, it was
ruefully noted, had missed MacLaren
when the match was young. The total
was only four more than in the first
innings Defeat by an innings and 124.
Barnes took 5 tor 65 and 1 tor 74;
Blythe 3 for 26 and 4 tor 30 ; Braund
2 tor 4(1 and 5 for 61.
J. Pluvius took a hand in the second
Test match at Melbourne. The Austra-
lians began and the Englishmen finished
on a sodden wicket. Trumper, who
opened with Darling, was dismissed by
Barnes for a duck, and when Noble and
Gregory got ducks —M.A. was caught,
and S.E. stumped, by Lilley off Blythe
the Melbourne crowd was savage, es-
pecially at Noble’s expense. It wanted
McLeod and Laver in the team, and
Noble, as one of the selectors, had chosen
two youngsters, Duff and Armstrong.
Never was the judgment of the
selectors more amply vindicated. The for-
tune of war brought the young fellows
together when things looked desperate
for their side. Armstrong could do little
more than keep his wicket intact while
the Sydney youth went for the runs.
Duff made a plucky 32, and, with Jones
hitting out for 14, the innings closed for
112 —in the circumstances a capital
score. Barnes took 6 for 46, Blythe 4
for 64 ; they bowled unchanged.
Followed one of the grandest bits of
bowling in the history of the game.
Trumble got Hayward in his first over,
and sent MacLaren (13) and Tyldesley
to the pavilion as well. Noble was at
the other end, eight runs having been
scored off him. For another nine runs
he got rid of all the rest. Jessop (27),
crouching in his original but very ugly
style, smacked him for most of the nine,
and was very severe on Trumble (3 for
38), but the others were helpless.
“I don’t wonder
at it,” said Mac-
La re n, watching
the procession
gloomily from his
dressing-room. “A
man can’t be ex-
pected to play
jugglery.” A ball
that got rid of
Quaife went to the
leg first, curled on
to the wicket and
yorked him.
Some excellent
batting was wit-
nessed in the Aus-
tralians’ second
innings, par ticu-
larly on the part of Hill (99), Duff
(104) and Armstrong (45 not out). The
colts were associated again, and their
spirited stand practically decided the
issue ; and they had to face Barnes at
his best. On a wicket that was now
playing all right, the big Lancashireman
took 7 for 12L
While the wicket remained good, the
Englishmen did pretty well in the second
attempt, especially Tyldesley (66), Jessop
(32) and Quaife (25). It became treacher-
ous again, and Noble (6 for 60) and
Trumble (4 for 49) finished off the


NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
* I am enclosing my cheque for £ 3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book 1 had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—-H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
• • e c
a NEW
GILLETTE RAZOR
wwfmk
m
r
tm.
'.X.*
1
i
vT
OTC*>'
LESS HASTE
c *-osea\
m
MORE SPEED
mm
The man who uses a Gillette "one-piece” Aristocrat has no
need to hurry over his shaving. For this efficient razor
eliminates all waste of time, and ensures the cleanest, quickest,
smoothest shave possible. Its ingenious construction saves
fumbling with loose pieces. You merely twist the handle, the
head opens. You remove or replace the blade in a second.
Twist again, the head closes, and the razor is ready for another
perfect shave.
The GILLETTE
one-fiiece
m
ARISTOCRAT
99
Could shaving be more simple,
quicker than that? Ask your
dealer to show you the Gillette
"one-piece” Aristocrat to-day.
Perfectly balanced, heavily silver-
plated, equipped with a man-sized
handle and packed in a handsome
nickel-plated case together with
ten Blue Gillette Blades.
Price
22/6
OF ALL DEALERS—MADE IN ENGLAND.
innings—four other bowlers had been
tried —Australia winning by 229. N o ble
never excelled that performance, nor was
be ever again villain and hero to the
crowd in the same match.
It being now level pegging, both teams
went to Adelaide for the third Test with
bright hopes; but those of the English-
men vanished all of a sudden. After
bowling a few overs, Barnes wrenched a
knee and had to retire from the match.
The “novice” from Burnley had become
MacLaren’s main asset in the bowling
line, and without him the attack was ill-
balanced ; too much use had to be made
of Braund’s slow leg-breaks.
Braund had a great deal to do in that
Adelaide match. He top-scored in the
first innings with 103 not out, after
MacLaren (67) and Hayward (90) had
given the side a fine start. Both were
run out, as also was A. O. Jones (5);
nevertheless, the total reached 388 (Noble
3 for 58, Trumble 3 for 124). The Aus-
tralians replied with 321 (Hill 98,
Trumper 65 run out, Gregory 55, Duff
43 ; Gunn 5 for 76, Braund 3 for 143).
Again MacLaren (44) and Hayward
(47) began well for their side, and the
others, Gunn excepted, all made a few ;
but Trumble was deadly that day: he
bowled both the captain and the Surrey
man, and wound up with 6 for 74 out
of 247. The Australians got the required
315 for six wickets (Hill 97, Darling 69,
Trumble 62 not out; Gunn 3 for 88,
Jessop 2 for 41).
It was hard luck for Hill to miss a
brace of centuries. A critic remarked
that he was “getting stout and short-
winded” and had developed “a habit of
patting his belt after the least exertion,”
but it didn’t interfere with his sighting
the ball. Until Bradman came along,
no Australian batsman could be so con-
fidently relied upon to make a big score
against English bowling on Australian
wickets.
Darling stood out of the side chosen
for the fourth Test match at Sydney. He
had now been living for a couple of
years in Tasmania, and, though his form
was pretty good, there was some mur-
muring at his selection over the heads
of younger men playing regular club and
inter-State cricket. McLeod had been
dropped, and Hopkins and Saunders be-
came internationals for the first time.
Each justified the selectors.
Once more, MacLaren (92) and Hay-
ward (41) got going, and, with Tyldesley
—a failure in the first match and in the
third —reinforcing their efforts with a
fine 79, prospects for the Englishmen
looked excellent. But Saunders, who had
tricked Hayward and MacLaren, dis-
missed Quaife for 4 and Jessop for a
duck. He got no other wicket that in-
nings, but he had done his job (4 for
119) ; the others gave little trouble to
Trumble (3 for 65) and Noble (3 for 78),
the total being 317.
Barnes’s accident compelled MacLaren
to bring in Jessop as a bowler. The
little smiter rocked them in fast on the
off, and with four spry men in the slips
he was at first brilliantly successful,
Trumper, Trumble, Hill and Gregory
being snapped up there for 39 among
them. But Noble (56), Duff (39), Arm-
strong (55), Hopkins (43), Kelly (24 not
out) and Howell (35) restored the situa-
tion, and the Englishmen began the third
innings only 18 ahead. A batting collapse
followed, Saunders (5 for 43) and Noble
(5 for 54) going through the side for a
miserable 99. That the bowling and not
the wicket was responsible was soon
demonstrated by the Australians, who
lost only three wickets in getting the 121
they needed (Hill 30, Trumper 25, Duff
51 n.o. ; Gunn 2 for 17).
IF MARSH HAD BEEN PICKED.
The English batting failure was a tre-
mendous surprise, for in the same month
(February) against N.S.W. (they won by
an innings and 128) they had given one
of the finest exhibitions of batting ever
seen in Australia. N.S.W. commenced
with 432. The first English partnership
yielded 314, of which MacLaren’s share
was 167, made in 3i hours. Hayward
made 174 in just under five hours ; he
hit thirty fours and one five. Tyldesley
was faster still: 142 in 2| hours. But it
was reserved for Jessop to give the
crowd the greatest thrill; of 103 put on
the board in 57 minutes Jessop made 87,
hitting 18 off one six-ball over. It was the
Gloucestershire man’s most dashing
innings in Australia and his team’s great-
est score (769).
There had also been some unpleasant-
ness. Jack Marsh, the aboriginal ex-
press, was included in an “18 of Western
District” team to be encountered at
Bathurst. MacLaren said there would
be no match if Marsh were played, and
Marsh had to stand down. What pre-
cisely was objected to, his color, his
speed or his delivery—that questioned,
the abo. had bowled in a club match with
his arm in splints—the Englishman did
not explain. Marsh was a rather sophis-
ticated native, but he dressed nattily, was
intelligent for an abo., and was unques-
tionablv a great bowler. He was vards
faster than any white man in the busi-
ness, but did most damage with a
medium-paced ball. He had a splendid
season in Sydney club cricket, taking
58 wickets at 9.35.
The rubber won, and Barnes still out
of action, the Australian selectors tried
pther experiments in the last match at
Melbourne, putting in Eady and Travers,
Saunders and Howell were the absen-
tees ; it was agreed that both were cer-
tainties for the team about to be picked
for England. Travers was a failure, but
Eady got 3 for 30 in the Englishmen’s
first innings.
The Australians had first use of the
wicket at last. It wasn’t much of a
wicket, and they were disposed of for
144 (Hill 28, Trumper 27 ; Hayward 4
G unn f° r 38). Thanks to Lilley
(41), Jessop (35) and Braund (32), the
Englishmen got a first-innings lead of
45 ; but Hill (87) and Gregory (41) re-
stored the balance in favor of the Aus-
trahans. Set 210 to win, the Englishmen
were disposed of for 178 (MacLaren 49,
Tyldesley 36). Noble, who had been ex-
pensive in the first innings (1 for 80),
made amends the second time (6 for 98).
Trumbie’s share m the victory was 5 for
6- and 3 for 64.
Then to Adelaide for the closing match
of the tour. The Englishmen won by
six wickets, and Clem Hill topped 1000
for the season.
Two great English bowlers died while
the MacLarens were in Australia—Loh-
mann, of consumption in South Africa,
and Briggs from the effects of the seizure
which had compelled him to retire from
the third Test match at Leeds in 1899
and which developed into a mental ail-
ment. “The English bowler must be born
under an unlucky star,” a member of the
team commented ruefully. Had Barnes
been able to play in all five matches the
result might have been different. As it
was, he headed the averages with 41
wickets at 16.48, but he bowled only 285
overs. Braund bowled 623, getting 62
wickets at 28.69.
But the tour was a financial success,
a nd the professionals were not forgotten
w h en the fruits were handed out. Hay-
ward and Lilley had agreed to come for
£4OO apiece and the others for £3OO
ap i eC e; in addition, they all got a bonus
0 f £25 a man and divided £250 “talent-
money. 59 The “everything found’ 5 for the
amateurs included £lOO cheques for “pin-
money and other calls.” “Pin-money,
e h?” said a rough-cut sleeper among their
opponents. “I know these English blokes
are chased by the girls, but it seems a
devil of a lot of dough for pins.”


through his mail, thrusting most of the letters aside
after a mere glance. Presently he slit open a small
envelope marked “Personal” which had been enclosed
in a large official envelope containing routine matter
from head office.
Its contents were apparently outside the usual run
of banking routine as they drew from him the heart-
felt remark, “Well, I’m damned! I’ve got a transfer!
A shift from Terrigan!”
“A transfer! Where to?”
“Bathurst. By Jove, that’s something like a move.
After all these years, too. Pettigrew’s account must
certainly have made an impression.”
“Read it.”
He handed his son the letter, scarcely able to
contain his excitement. Jerry had never seen him so
moved, and he was genuinely pleased at the old man’s
glee.
“Good man,” he congratulated as he passed it
back. “Bathurst, eh? That’ll be a bit of a change
from Terrigan. When will you be leaving?”
The manager put the letter into his pocket and
looked important.
“Well, of course,” he replied, “I haven’t decided
yet whether I’ll accept the offer. There are lots of
things to be thought of. Terrigan has a great future,
you know.”
Jerry smothered a groan. This, coming from a
man who had been trying for twenty years to get
away from Terrigan, was too rich, even though the
man was his own father.
“Cut it out, dad,” he objected. “You know darn
well you’ll jump at the chance, and good luck to
you, too.”
His father had the grace to smile sheepishly.
“Yes. I’ll take it all right, son. Though, now the
chance has come, it’ll be quite a wrench leaving the
old town. What about yourself? Bathurst’s a big
place, you know. Ought to be room for another
solicitor there.”
Jerry shook his head. “Not just now, thanks. I’m
staying here to see this business through. Later, per-
haps.”
“Just as you like. Anyhow, let’s get back to the
Federal. This calls for a drink.”
“The Hotel Royal, I presume you mean,”
corrected his son slyly.
“Call it what you like. I want a drink,” returned
Bannister senior blithely, and he led the way out
of the bank, walking on air.
Five minutes later they were seated with Mr.
Pettigrew in the lounge at the Royal, when Peter
Dansie came in.
“Sit down and have a drink with us,” urged
Bannister.
Peter walked across to their corner and sat down.
“Thanks, I will,” he replied. “I won’t have the
chance much longer.”
“So you’ve heard about my transfer?”
The Police Commissioner stared. “Your transfer?
No, mine.”
“What! Are you leaving the town, too?”
“Yes. Notified to-day. Going to Newcastle.”
Dansie divulged the information in between gulps at
his beer.
“I’m going to Bathurst.” Mr. Bannister supplied
details of his own projected move, and Hiram Petti-
grew offered his congratulations to Dansie,
“I’m sure glad, Dansie. Good luck to you.”
“Thanks, Mr. Pettigrew. Sorry if I caused any
unpleasantness a while back, but you know how it is.”
“That’s 0.K., boy. Forget it. Where’s Bert?
Another bottle, Bert.”
Bert Milligan complied and the American con-
tinued: “Don’t leave us, Bert. Join in the toast —
to our departing friends.”
Bannister and Dansie endeavored to look unself-
conscious while the other three drank.
“Reminds me,” said Bert Milligan, “of the time
Mulcahy, our champeen goal-sneak, left for the West.
We was all gathered in the parlor at Young and
Jackson’s, and”—
The reminiscence was cut short by the arrival of
a hurricane or cyclone of the first magnitude, which
resolved itself, upon closer inspection, into the person
of the Minister for Education and Propaganda in a
highly excited state.
“Oh, there you are, Jerry,” he began. “Look,
they can’t do this! They’re trying to get rid of me!”
“Who?” asked Jerry, with visions of Black Hand
gangs, bombs and sawn-off shotguns.
“Sydney! The department! They’ve transferred
me to Dubbo. I won’t go, I tell you. .They’re not
going to take me away like that. A bribe —that’s
what it is.” ,
Bannister senior broke in. “But, Napper, you’ve
always wanted a transfer. Surely you’re not going
to turn it down now it’s come! ”
“I certainly am! And wouldn’t you, too, if they
shifted you in similar circumstances?”
“Well, as a matter of fact”
“Just a minute, Dad,” Jerry interrupted his father.
“It seems to me that Napper’s right and there’s some-
thing behind these moves.”
He told the schoolmaster about the transfers of
the bank manager and Dansie.
“There you are. It’s a plot. I saw through it
at once.” Napper was crowing with triumph. “Mark
my words, you’ll have Mutton along next saying he’s
been transferred to Timbuctoo or somewhere.”
“Well, not quite as far as that,” said a voice from
the door as the Postmaster-General entered. “It’s
Kalgoorlie I’m going to, and what about it?”
“It’s Kalgoorlie you’re not going to, and every-
thing about it,” returned Napper heatedly. “If you’re
going to let them put this over you, I’m not !”
The bewildered Mr. Mutton was in his turn
apprised of the nefarious plot which had apparently
been hatched in order to get Terrigan’s leaders out
of the town. A moment later he was every bit as
indignant as Napper.
“I certainly won’t go,” he vowed. “My place is
here in Terrigan.”
“That’s the spirit,” commended the schoolmaster.
“And what about you, Peter?”
The policeman had privately been quite delighted
over his transfer. He had never been happy since the
inception of the rebellion, and he was overjoyed at
the prospect of an honorable retreat from it.
However, now that he found things weren’t quite
so simple as they had at first appeared, his stolid old
brain was not able to work quickly enough to keep up
with events. Moreover, as yet his wife was unaware
of the news, and he was not sure how she would take
it, particularly when she heard of the other transfers.
Jerry’s enthusiasm was infectious....
He began to stammer some reply, but Jerry saved
him the trouble by saying “Of-'course Peter’ll put
Terrigan’s interests first—won’t you,-Peter?”
Dansie mumbled what was taken for an affirm-
ative answer and the others looked questioningly at
the bank manager.
“I’m going to Bathurst,” said Bannister shortly.
“I’ve always wanted to get out of this town, the same
as the rest of you, and now the chance has come I’m
not going to turn it down.”
Napper and Mutton pleaded patriotism to Terri-
gan, but without effect. Jerry remained silent; he had
no wish to influence his father’s decision.
Hiram Pettigrew had not contributed to the con-
versation for some time. He now decided that the
time had come for him to speak.
“See here, Bannister,” he began, “you and me’s
been pretty good pals since I struck this town. There’s
some people in this burg I don’t see eye to eye with” —
his glance, which rested momentarily on the school-
master and postmaster, may or may not have been
significant—“but you and me hit it off pretty well.
If you skin out I’m not sure I’ll be finding this joint
so congenial. Seems as though I might go back to
the States, maybe.”
This speech was not without its effect on Bannister.
He and the American had quite a lot in common, and
he thought it quite possible Pettigrew might mean what
he was saying. If so, it would mean the withdrawal
of his financial support and the collapse of the rebel-
lion. Bannister knew, or thought he knew, that this
would mean a lot to Jerry. Furthermore, Mr. Petti-
grew’s return to America would mean the closing of
his bank account, which Bannister still felt, however
much political pressure might be responsible for the
other transfers, was the reason for his own.
“I’ll think it over,” he said.
“Good man,” applauded Napper.
The group then began a discussion of steps to be
adopted to meet this fresh interference with Terrigan’s
liberties. Mr. Napper advocated not only refusing
the transfers, but also definite resignations all round ;
but the others refused to support him.
Jerry, at any rate, realised that although they
might claim nominal independence, it was best for
the present, at any rate, to maintain a legal nexus
with the State and Federal departments. Moreover, a
resignation certainly wouldn’t meet the case as far as
his father was concerned —he couldn’t very well start
a bank of his own. He advanced this argument and
also pointed out that an independent Terrigan post
office could not operate until it had secured recognition
from the International Postal Congress.
Pettigrew thoroughly agreed with Jerry and was
strongly against any talk of resignations. As a result
of continual bombardments from his daughter, he was
becoming less and less willing to finance further erri-
ganian ventures, and he realised that if salaries cheques
ceased to flutter down from Sydney his own cheque-
book would be looked to for assistance.
“What’s the use of merely refusing the transfers?’
complained the Minister for Education and Propa-
ganda. “They’ll just make that an excuse for dis-
missing us altogether. Why not resign and be done
with it? What about our dignity? Isn’t it better to
resign gracefully than to be kicked out?
The Postmaster-General was of the same mind.
The mention of dignity had a magic effect on him.
“Yes,” he agreed. “Far better. Fancy the insult
to the town if the four of us were dismissed!
“You won’t be dismissed, and there’s no need to
resign,” Jerry'told him.
“I wish I thought so, but”
“Now listen a moment. You’ve read all the
Sydney and Melbourne papers. What’s their attitude
towards us?”
. “Er —rather favorable on the whole, I sup-
pose.” ,
“Exactly.. And the tourists who come here don’t
seem very antagonistic, do they?”
• “No.”
“Well, this is my point. The public is on our side.
Some of them—probably a lot of them—are amused
at us, but no one is angry with us. And because of
that the Government don’t know what to do. Until
to-day they’ve done nothing at all, and now when
they decide on action the most they can manage is
a little half-hearted stab in the back in the shape of
this transfer business.” •
“That’s all .very, well,” replied Napper, “and 1
quite agree with you ; but 'I still don’t see why they
can’t follow it up with dismissals if we refuse the
moves.” 5 ,
“It’s like this,” continued Jerry patiently. “What
do you think the Press is going to say if it learns that
one Federal and two State Government departments,
and one private bank have simultaneously attempted
to transfer their representativesfrom Terrigan, and have
dismissed them for refusing to be so transferred?”
“By Jove, I see. what you mean!”
“And what do you think the public is going to
say about it? . You’re not forgetting there’s a Federal
election this year and the Government will need every
vote it can get?”, .
“You’re right, Jerry,” agreed Mr. Mutton. “They
wouldn’t dare sack us.”
Agreement being once more established and an-
other round of drinks consumed, discussion turned to
the best terms in which the refusals could be couched.
Mr. Pettigrew first made a suggestion which was
regretfully turned down by the meeting as being apt
but not courteous.
“Courteous!” snorted Hiram. “Didn’t you say
one of ’em was the police department? Catch me
being courteous to the gang that gave me five blisters
—five, mind you! And all for nothing. I’d give
’em courtesy!”
Mr. Napper took the floor. “I’m going to explain
clearly that I can see. through the whole scheme and
that I refuse to accept a bribe to leave the town. My
duty is here and I am going to do it.”
“I think that would be rather unwise,” intervened
Jerry. “The letters are separate communications, and
they should be treated as such. In your reply there
should be. no reference to the letters the others have
received, or any mention of a plot.”
“But surely we ought to let them know we’ve
tumbled to their scheme?”
“That can be done without mentioning or even
hinting at it in your replies.”
“How?”
“Well, the letters were clearly sent in collusion, so
presumably when they get their replies they will
report back to each other.”
“Yes, I suppose so.”
“And suppose they receive replies expressed in
identical terms. Won’t that show them that the replies
were written after consultation by the four of you,
and that you are obviously awake to their little trick?”
“Jerry, you’re a genius.”
At this moment Dick Taylor entered the lounge.
“Did you know old Buckenara was going away?”
he asked, barely waiting to greet anyone.
The others showed no sign of surprise.
“They’d hardly forget him,” said Mutton.
“No,” agreed the others.
Dick looked disappointed. “So you know
already?”
“Know what?”
“That Buckenara’s leaving Terrigan.”
“Oh, no, he’s not!” This from Jerry in deter-
mined tones.
“Yes, he is. He told me just now. He’s been
transferred to Wollongong.”
“Dick, my boy, you’re mistaken. Buckenara hasn t
been transferred and he isn’t going to Wollongong.
He’s staying right here in Terrigan.”
“But he told me”
“And I’m telling you now. If you like to come
with us you’ll hear Buckenara tell you the same.”
{To be continued next week.)


Jreat CAUSE
hot
■ ' o
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
is still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsion.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
‘steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found the
remedy tnat gets at the cause. They give you clean Bowels,
a healthy Stomach, and stimulate the Liver and Kidneys. For
Biliousness, Dizziness, Constipation, Sick Headaches, and such
complaints, arising from Imperfect Digestion, Sluggish Liver,
and Inactive Kidneys, they are unexcelled.
Dr. Morses
9
1
A
Grille Liver
PILLS
The Standard Family Remedy
CONSTIPATION
Relief Obtained
Mrs. P. Daniels, 48 Fleming St.,
Wickham, N.S.W., writes:—
Having suffered from Constipation
for a number of years and having
tried other remedies which gave me
no relief whatever I made up my mind
to try your Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. I did so and am pleased to
say that they gave me immediate relief
and they also tone up the system.
I always keep a bottle in the house
and would not be without them. I
can honestly recommend them to
other sufferers from Constipation.”
WORMS
THEIR SYMPTOMS
AND TREATMENT.
Worms, by their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer t® the contents of th*
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasiness
in the Abdomen, sometimes spasmodic, some-
times gnawing and biting, and not infrequently
of a vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this is a
sensation of itching at the Nostrils, producing
a disposition to pick the Nose, which is charac-
teristic of the affection. The Bowels are often
disordered, sometimes relaxed, as in Dysentery.
The appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved, one condition not infrequently alter-
nating with another. The abdomen is often
hard, swollen and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the sleep
are other characteristic symptoms. The effects,
however, often extend beyond the Alimentary
Canal, and various derangements of health are
experienced in consequence, either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Amongst the
most common of these are nervous affections,
such as fretfulness, irritation of temper, wake-
fulness or disposition to excessive sleep, dis-
turbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic movements
of the eyelids.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their little ones are suffering
intense pain and distress, and are practically
irresponsible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and until some more
serious symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of this
disease are somewhat variable, but generally
they are so characteristic that no mother need
have any doubts. The best proof of worms
is worms, and if the general conduct of the
child is such as to give the slightest suspicion
a careful watch will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an indif-
ferent state of health It becomes peevish and
irritable in its temper. Another point to
which the attention of mothers should be
specially directed is that the child is apt to start
in its sleep, its repose being in the way of a
disturbed nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
I a purely vegetable medicinal preparation com-
pounded on a scientific principle ijpr the
; eradication of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms, but cause no injury to
the Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in the
form of a confection or lolly, have no dis-
agreeable taste or smell, but, on the contrary,
inspire children to take them as they would
an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, or 6
Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per packet (6 packets 11/6), post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
sdfdsf
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
" <l A
e
j? .&>
<
, v .;<x%i^ c '
V #*' -d °V t fr £' ' e
o°'
10 »
\j&
>x »\e* „«\9'
~ 41
•si
# s ’
($ e ‘
' >V**
, x (> V
A * C V«O VV 0t
■\ </s< pi
x o


THERE IS A RATIONAL RADIO
for every Purse and every Purpose !
Rational Radio is built up to a quality. The
high standard of Rational Radio demands
components which will give the brilliance of
performance and clarity of tone which a
fastidious public demands.
The range of Rational Radio comprises out-
standing examples of what modern manufac-
turing methods can obtain in the production
of a receiver at a rational price.
Wherever you live —whatever your require-
men t s ___there is a Rational Radio at the Price
you wish to pay, that will give you greater
performance and unsurpassed entertainment.
Following on the phenomenal success of the
Battery Models 5 and 6, we introduce two
additional receivers for the country listener,
in Models 20 and 21, that are the finest
vibrator receivers yet produced in Australia,
offering as they do maximum economy and
unexcelled performance.
ITIONAL radios by
Model 1: “The Buccaneer,” 4/5
Dual Wave A.C. Receiver, in
Mantel Cabinet.
List Price, 18 Guineas.
Model 9: 4/5 Broadcast A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C., complete
in Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price, 23 Guineas.
Model 10: 4/5 Dual Wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C., complete
in Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price, 25 Guineas.
Model 11: 5/6 Dual Wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C. and 12in.
Speaker, complete in Console
Cabinet.
List Price, 33 Guineas.
Model 12: A.C./D.C.-Dual Wave,
6 Valve and Baretter, Receiver,
with A.V.C., complete in Con-
sole Cabinet.
List Price, 34 Guineas.
Model 13: A.C./D.C. Broadcast
Receiver, 5 Valve and Baretter,
with A.V.C., complete in Lough-
boy Cabinet.
List Price, 25 Guineas.
Model 15: 4 Valve Broadcast
Battery Receiver, with full A.V.
control, 6in. Permag. Speaker,
complete in Mantel Cabinet. Low
battery consumption of lima.
List Price, 21 Guineas.
Model 16: 5 Valve Battery
Broadcast Receiver, with large
dial and complete in Loughboy
Cabinet. Low battery consump-
tion of 12ma.
List Price, 28 Guineas.
Model 17: 5 Valve Dual Wave
Battery-operated Receiver, com-
plete in Console Cabinet. Low
battery consumption of 12ma.
List Price, 33 Guineas.
Model 18: 7 Valve Dual Wave
Battery-operated' Receiver, com-
plete in De Luxe Console Cabinet,
with 4 B Batteries and one (1)
145 amp. A Battery. (Static
current, 12ma. Current gain in
operation depends on the volume
level at which the receiver is set
—at peak volume this value will
rise to 25ma., but the average is
16ma.)
List Price, 40 Guineas.
Model 19: 6/7 A.C. Dual Wave
Receiver, with 12m. imported
Magnavox Speaker, ELS output
tube, built in line filter, complete
in De Luxe Console Cabinet.
List Price, 39 Guineas.
Model 20: 5 Valve Broadcast
Vibrator Receiver, with 6-volt
Accumulator, A.V.C., complete in
Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price, 34 Guineas.
Model 21: 5 Valve Dual Wave
Vibrator Receiver, with 6-volt
Accumulator, A.V.C., complete
in Console Cabinet.
List Price, 36 Guineas.
w&
■ ■
i: ms
mm.
>
i
I|«:i
All Rational Radio Receivers are avail-
able on Rational Hire Purchase Terms,
with a Rational guarantee.
RATIONAL RADIO
1 L BRITON
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO Pty.Ltd.
1K9.158 PARRAMATTA RD.. PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Metropolitan Distributors:
Harris Radio, Ltd., 10th Floor, Grace Building,
Corner York and King Streets, Sydney.
Telephone:
L 3621 (3 lines).
Queensland Distributors:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co.,
11l Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
