

From All Over Australia Come Reports:
HUDSONS andTERRAFLANES
ARE THE
wmz
i mi
m s
jpROM Terraplane and Hudson owners
everywhere comes this report: "What
you told us about these cars is more than
truel We have proved for ourselves that
they certainly are No. I 'm everything we
want!"
No. 1 IN POWER! Increased to 96 and 101 horse-
power in Terraplane ... to 122 in Hudson 1 Far more'
power per pound of car weight than any other automo-
biles! Dual carburetion in Hudson.
No. 1 IN PERFORMANCE! in the most
punishing endurance test of all time, recently Terraplane
and Hudson captured 40 official stock, car records, under
the supervision of The American Automobile Association.
No. 1 IN ECONOMY! In the world-famous Los
Angeles - Yosemite Economy Run, Hudson achieved 25.72
miles per Imperial gallon—beating all competing Eights
by more than two miles per gallon 1 Terraplane put up
an official record, of 24.91 miles per Imperial gallon!
No, 1 IN ROOMINESS! 55 inches in the front
seat . , . solid comfort for three grown-ups in front and
back compartments. Longer wheelbases 117 inches in
Terraplane, 122 and 129 inches in Hudson. More room
than in any other popular car.
No. 1 IN SAFETY! Bodies all of steel, with roofs
of solid steel. Safest stopping, with exclusive Duo-
Automatic jdydraulic Brakes. Radial Safety Control and
Tru-Line Steering also exclusive.
C. 11.48
Ml
TERRAPLANE ■sSSSR
OF THE
10W PRICE FIELD
HUOSOAf N°.ICAR(, frw
* * W MODERATE PRICE
N.S.W. Distributors:
PALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
136 Phillip Street, Sydney
Queensland Distributors:
MeINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
Western Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, Perth
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
Hobart Launceston
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY CENTRES
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.— N0. 2993.
Wednesday, June 23, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission hv Post a \ T P w?r>ar»pr


LIBRARIANS. Partly-used Library
Books, reconditioned and attractive, at very low
prices from Robertson & Mullens, Ltd.,
107-1 09-111-113 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C. 1.
Write for lists to the Chief Librarians of
Mullens Library or of the Readwell Rental
Libraries.
Some as low priced as £7/10/- for a hundred,
i.e., 1/6 each, freight extra.
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Hffigmpram
fs
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please Send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
s-*- I **
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work-
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
TUSITALA'S HOUSEHOLD.
The white household at Vailima, on Opolu, during
R. L. S. Stevenson’s occupancy, consisted of Steven-
son, his mother (known to all the others as “Aunt
Maggie”), his wife Fanny (previously married to
Captain Osbourne, whom she divorced), Fanny’s son
Lloyd and daughter Belle (Mrs. Strong, later Mrs.
Field), and Belle’s little son Austin Strong.
Lloyd’s work as a collaborator with his step-
father is well known. Aunt Maggie knew almost by
heart the poems of Burns, Byron, Shelley, Keats and
Scott, and taught them to young Austin. Isobel
(“Belle”) had a flair as a writer, as this paper well
knows. The Bulletin accepted articles from her in
the days when R.L.S. and his entourage were first
visiting this hemisphere, and she records that she was
offered a steady job to write “a theatrical column.”
Even young Austin felt the urge. His first story had
as its villain a Mr. Morgan, who, as all the world
could see, was his Uncle Lloyd, who the day before
the epic was penned had refused a loan of ten cents.
“Though very handsome,” stated the young author,
“Mr. Morgan was a miser.” Austin Strong later
made a niche for himself as a playwright, and his
name is flickering on the screens in Australian picture
palaces as these words are being written.
In This Life I’ve Loved (Michael Joseph ; 155.),
Isobel Field, among other reminiscences, gives a spark-
ling, humorous account of the Stevensons’ sojourns in
Hawaii, Samoa and Sydney. She was with R.L.S.
most of the time. Stevenson, in addition to a steadily-
increasing income from his pen, had private means
and the instincts of a Scottish laird. He liked a
family around him, old and young, and as it was
never difficult for him to win affection and devotion
he bound Lloyd and the Strongs to his chariot wheel.
They had other ideas, but he overruled them.
Joe Strong, Belle’s artist husband, drifted back
into the world after a while, and a divorce followed
(grounds not given). With less reticence Mrs. Field
writes of the life at Vailima. All the family had reason
to love their Samoan friends. R.L.S. called them
“the gentlefolk of the Pacific.” The household staff
was not a staff of servants. They were members of
the Stevenson clan and delighted to serve so wealthy
a chief and one, moreover, whose manners were so
charming, and who could tell such delightful stories.
Young Talolo became a chef, losing no opportunity
to add to his repertoire. It was he who took in
Louis’s morning cup of tea. (Louis pronounced his
name Lewis, by the way, Scotch fashion, not Louie.)
One day Talolo was away, and his small duties
devolved on young Sosimo, his houseboy, groom and
valet. Sosimo added to the tea an excellent omelette
and a plate of hot buttered toast. “Louis was sur-
prised. ‘Who did this?’ he asked in Samoan. ‘I did,’
said Sosimo. ‘Great is your wisdom!’ ‘No,’ said
Sosimo. ‘Great is my love.’ ” It was Sosimo into
whose arms Louis fell. on the day when death sud-
denly struck him down.
The Samoan sense of humor has a pawkiness
about it that strongly commended itself to R.L.S.
Tupua, one of the chief’s sons who paid social calls
at Vailima, had, according to rumor, been in a spot
of bother over a girl with whom he eloped to another
island. Her family pursued them and took the girl
back. Belle chaffed him about this, and he got very
huffy. “It is not true,” he declared. “All gossip. The
young lady was my sister from Savaii.” The subject
was hastily changed. A little later a small statuary
group given by Rodin to Fanny Stevenson was under
discussion. It represented the nude figures of a
young man and woman embracing. Tupua and his
Samoan friend looked at it thoughtfully. “It is very
beautiful,” said Tupua, “but I do not understand it.
What is the meaning?” Tupua’s friend, with a small
sweet smile, supplied the explanation: “It is his sister
from Savaii.”
Sometimes the humor was less conscious, as in
the case of the young Samoan lady who wrote a long
and beautiful poem about her brother who was lost
at sea. Louis asked for a translation, which she
furnished, the title being “Deportation and Total Loss
of My Brother Johnny Upolu.”
But the occasions for laughter in that.household
were not confined to the Samoans. Old Mrs. Steven-
son, though she was unconscious of it, had a strong
Doric flavor in her speech. One day when young
Austin, reciting the latest poem his “Aunt Maggie”
had taught him, declaimed “Scoatland, Boaney Scoat-
land!” the old lady exclaimed “Hoots, mon! Whaur
did ye get the accent?”
Belle Field was Stevenson’s amanuensis. For a
while he was too weak to write, and later still even
speech was forbidden him. Belle taught him the deaf
and dumb language, and they carried on with such
classics as Weir of Hermiston, which R.L.S. considered
his best work. It certainly has a strength of feeling
and a dramatic intensity equalled in but few of the
other stories. Mrs. Field recalls that the short story
“The Sieur de Maletroit’s Door” arose out of a game
between Louis and herself, when she was little, of
making up stories out of pictures seen in the fire.
This is a sincere, well-written book, with a knack
of being always interesting.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
Of Burke and Wills.
All the levity with which Frank Clune relieves
his tragic story of the expedition of Burke and Wills
cannot cajole one into acceptance of Burke as a hero
nor to regard the exploit as a Great Event in Aus-
tralian history. Clune himself supplies the evidence
in what he rightly claims is the first complete story
of Burke and Wills within the covers of one book —
DIG: A Drama of Central Australia (Angus and
Robertson; 65.).
With one exception—that of Leichhardt’s last
journey—the expedition of Burke and Wills was the
most ghastly failure in the history of Australian
exploration, and for the money expended (estimated
by John Forrest some years later as totalling £57,000)
added less to our knowledge of the Australian interior
than that of any exploring journey worthy of being
incorporated in the records.
Robert O’Hara Burke was a brave man, as no
one will deny, but he was no judge of men, however
gallant with the ladies; he had no knowledge of
bushcraft; he was reckless and impetuous—qualities
that would have made him die gloriously on the field
of battle, but which led him to perish miserably in
the lonely bush and bring death to others; and as
an organiser he was the last word in ineptitude.
No greater reflection on Burke’s ability as an
explorer could be made than by the success of each
of the four land expeditions that set out in search of
him —Howitt’s, Walker’s, McKinlay’s and Lands-
borough’s— not one of which lost a man. The
“grumblers who whispered” before the expedition
started “that Burke used to lose his way in the bush
a few miles from Beechworth” were evidently right.
Ten thousand people saw Burke lead his caval-
cade out of Melbourne seated on a grey charger to
make his first camp in the wilds of Essendon, and it
took him a month to reach the junction of the Murray
and the Murrumbidgee, through settled country. Here
he lost the first man of the party, his foreman, who
returned disgruntled to Melbourne, Burke replacing
him with an ex-sailor, Charley Gray, he had picked
up at Swan Hill (Gray was to die wretchedly on the
dash back from the Gulf). At Menindie Burke sacked
Landells, his second in command, put Wills in his
place and engaged Wright third in charge.
Becker the naturalist and Beckler the surgeon
were left behind at Menindie. They were not much
loss anyway. Ten days later, after escorting the party
northwards, Wright was on his way back to the com-
forts of Menindie, and there he stayed for months
instead of taking on the stores that would have saved
the lives of the whole of the party. Wright is the
villain of the piece.
In three months Burke and Wills were at Cooper’s
Creek, and there they waited for a month for the
perfidious Wright and the stores, until Burke, his
limited stock of patience exhausted, made his fatal
decision to dash to the north with half his party. The
rest of the story is a series of awful blunders that
made it not an epic of heroism so much as a pitiful
tragedy.
Frank Clune has put in a vast amount of research
work to make his story approximate as closely to the
facts as possible, and, on the basis that history cannot
be written convincingly without visiting the scenes
described, has followed the explorers’ tracks him-
self with a camera.
He has left unsolved, though, the mystery of
Lake Massacre. Whose were the two graves dis-
covered together by McKinlay? He says it has been
proved that one of them was the grave of Gray (p.
227) but offers no explanation of the other. Mc-
Kinlay, an experienced bushman, says they were dug
with a spade (p. 173), and found evidences of human
occupation in both of them; but Burke, Wills and
King had no spade; they “spent an entire day digging
a grave [for Gray] with their bare hands” (p. 98).
Clune has made of his drama something of melo-
drama, but it is an absorbing narrative, nevertheless,
illuminated by those touches of humorous devilment
that Clune injects into all his work. He merits thanks
for everything except for printing Gordon’s banal
verses at the end.
T. D. M.
Profanity in Parentheses.
When we filled our canteens from Furphy’s water-
wagons and pitched into battle in 1915,1 little dreamed
that over a score of years later I’d be filling my
fountain-pen and pitching into another battle on
behalf of Furphy, but “such is life.” “A wiser world
grows sick of strife,” said Joe Furphy—Tom Collins
himself.
Fiction I leave to the fictioneers, but Tomjoe has
grown into history, and his (ensanguined) good classic
of Riverina rovings with the (complicated expletive)
bullockies rolls within the orbit of my Rolling down
the Murrumbidgee book.
“I do not think,” said that brilliant bloke Ber-
nard O’Dowd when prefacing Tomjoe’s poems in 1916.
“I am doing injustice to anyone in saying that on the
whole our finest production of prose literature up to
the present is Such Is Life.” Well, why the (ensan-
guined sheol) don’t we get the whole?
In pursuit of historical accuracy I parted with
a whole twelve bob for Tomjoe’s classic, and am
narked to get only a portion of it. Concentrating
on the portion, the evidence open to me so far is
ragged from a historical standpoint.
On May 26 Miles Franklin Red Paged and red
raged against editor Vance Palmer’s interference with
the text. Frank Davison Red Paged (but did not
rage) on June 9 that A. G. Stephens lauded Kate
Baker as Tomjoe’s “gallant standard-bearer.” Miss
Baker, on the same page, rages because the editor
“has written a plain, unvarnished tale that will no
doubt be pleasing to the British public, but it is not
Joe Furphy’s Such Is Life” She nevertheless hopes
the book “will sell well in England.” Why?
Wouldn’t it save a (adj.) lot of bother to his-
torians by placing Vance Palmer’s version of Tomjoe
on the Index Expurgatorius and resuscitating Tomjoe
unedited? '
In 1917 Vance pontificated, “In Australia our
literary achievement is so small that we must guard
it jealously.” Then why the (ensanguined sheol) didn’t
he practise this noble sentiment in 1937 instead of
rewriting Tomjoe in such a manner that it raises a
howl from those of whom he says, “The people who
care passionately for literature are in any country
small in number, yet any achievement of value is in
their keeping.”
Any country bloke like myself can jampack his
pages (if the printer will let him) with hells, bloodies
and lousies, but it took a shrewdie like Tomjoe to
outsmart the printer with camouflaged profanity.
If the publisher went cold on Tomjoe’s discursive-
ness I would prefer retaining Tomjoe’s (complicated
expletive) Aussieisms and deleting foreign dialects, of
which this, on page 359 (twelve-bob version) is a
choice example:—
A’ maun inform ye A’ ken naethin’ bit guid o’
Andraw, an’ A’ hae workit wi’ him mair nir fowr minth.
’Deed, the puir body taks owre muckle thocht fir
ithers, an’ disna’ spare himself ava. A’ ken naethin’
aboot yon three minth, bit as lang’s A’ hae a pickle
siller, Andrew’ll no want.
Only a Gaelictician could translate this or be
likely to bemoan its absence.
Frank Dalby Davison skilfully skedaddled from
the polemics of the case in his Red Paging of June 9,
but his howls would have been heard from Man-Shy
to Beersheha if a (adj.) editor had tinkered with
these two gems. V :
FRANK CLUNE.
West Australian Saga.
Up to a point the story of Younger Sons, by H.
Drake-Brockman (Angus and Robertson ; 65.), hangs
in very natural lines. In the early chapters there is
an artificiality about the behavior of the characters —
as distinct from the reality of their motives—but it
diminishes as the tale progresses.
The story—not new in our literature, but open
to being interestingly restated —deals with British
early-day pioneers and their Australian descendants.
Andrew Rae gave up his judicial appointment in the
tiny Swan River settlement to establish a colonial
family based on rural property. In lack of means of
legal entail he imposed on his heir and his heir’s
presumed successors a “moral entail” —the eldest son
on reaching his majority to take an oath binding him
to bequeath the property to his own eldest son, and
so on. As the writer infers, it was an attempt to put
an Old-World yoke on generations who had yet to
formulate social customs for their own environment.
Contemporary with Andrew Rae was Charles Went-
worth, of the Guards, who scandalised his aristocratic
o Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act
‘THE SENIOR STORE:
ANTHONY HOHDERNS
SA
E
CARPETS AND FLOOR RUGS GENEROUSLY REDUCED
••• ;
JL
U
S 3
Whatever your needs may
be . . . you can rest' assured
that it will pay to come to
Anthony Horderns*. It
means better values! For,
during the Sale, merchan-
dise of all descriptions is
offered at prices lower than
our “Famous Low Prices”
—and early enough in the
winter for you to obtain
longer use from what you
need. Use our DJP.S. during
the Sale. A deposit of
one-fifth of the purchase
price suffices and the goods
can be paid for in monthly
instalments.
£3/19/6 BRITISH AXMINSTER SQUARES, NOW
For real service, for real month-after-month wear, for beauty of color and
pattern we recommend these British Axminster Seamless Squares. Latestj
colourings. Medium quality.
Sizes 7ft. 6in. x 6ft. 9ft. x 6ft. 9ft. x 7ft. 6in. 9ft. x 9ft.
Prices £3/19/6 £4/17/6 £6/2/6 £7/2/6
Sale Prices £3/12/6 £4/9/6 £5/12/6 £6/12/6
Sizes 10ft. 6in. x 9ft. 12ft. x 9ft. 12ft. x 10ft. 6in. 13ft. 6in. x 10ft. 6in.
Prices £B/7/6 £9/12/6 £ll/5/- £l2/12/6
Sale Prices .. £7/12/6 £B/17/6 £lO/10/ £ll/10/-
72e
10ft. 6in. x 9ft.
£l2/19/6
£l2/7/6
15ft. x 12ft.
£24/15/-
£23/7/6
CARPET,
# SUPERFINE QUALITY.
Sizes ' 7ft.6in.x6ft. 9ft. x 6ft, 9ft. x 7ft. 6in. 9ft. x 9ft.
Prices £6/2/6 £7/7/6 £9/5/- £ll/.2/6
Sale Prices £5/15/- £6/19/6 £B/15/- £ 10/1-/6
Sizes 12ft. x 9ft. 12ft. x 10ft. 6in. 13ft. X 10ft. 6in.
Prices £l4/17/6 £l7/5/-
16/9 BRITISH IMPERIAL AXMINSTER
Made to stand many years of hard wear. Buy at this genuine Sale saying.
British Imperial Axminster Carpet, in a range of specially selected designs.
Widths 27in. Body. 18in. Border. •
Prices, yd 16/9 13/3
Sale Prices, yd 12/9 10/6
16/9 BRITISH IMPERIAL AXMINSTER CARPET,
You will be delighted when you see the effect of this British Imperial
Axminster Carpet in your home Offering in a splendid range of popular
designs.
Widths' 27in. 18in. 27in. 36in. 45in. 54in.
Body. Border. Stair. Stair. Stair. Stair.
Prices, yd. ... 16/9 13/3 16/9 25/6 32/6 38/6
Sale Prices, yd. 14/9 11/6 14/9 22/9 29/6 34/6
32/6 EXTRA FINE WILTON CARPET,
This is the Carpet for those who want something rich and beautiful at an
economy price. .Extra fine Wilton Carpet at generous reductions.
Widths .. 27in. Body. 18in. Border. 27in. Stair. 36in. Stair.
Prices, yd. 32/6 24/-. 32/6 ' 47/6
Sale Prices, yd 28/6 21/ 28/6 42/6
286
• FINE QUALITY.
Sizes V 7ft. x 6ft. 9ft. x 6ft. 9ft. x 7ft. 6in. 9ft. x 9ft. lOit. 6in. x 9ft.
Prices £4/19/6 £5/19/6 £7/10/- £B/49/6
Sale-Prices. £4/15/- £5/10/- £6/19/6 £B/10/-
Sizes 12ft. x 9ft. 12ft. x 10ft. 6in. 13ft. 6m. x 10ft. 6in. 15ft. x 12ft.
Prices £ll/19/6 £l4/2/6 }}2l}V 6 SSI9 6
10/9 BRITISH STIPPLE WILTON CARPET
For durability and service this is the Carpet. Buy at this generous Sale
reduction. British Stipple Wilton Carpet, in shades of Blue, Brown, Fawn,
Green and Rust. 27in. body. Price, yd., 10/9. Sale Price, yd., 9/11.
911
2/3 REVERSIBLE INDIAN CARPET,
This Carpet is inexpensive, yet it will give long, satisfactory weai. Can
be used on either side and is suitable for both hall and stairs.
Widths, ins 18 22£ 27 36
Prices, yd 2/3 2/9 3/3 /
Sale Prices, yd. 1/8 2/2 2/8 3/6
YARD AT
Vs
5/11 “ HORDURA ” MOHAIR MATS,
Buy these while you can at this saving! They make ideal
door slips. “Hordura” Mohair Mats, in all popular shades.
Size 28in. x llin. Price 5/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 4/11
NOW
411
s'n
USUALLY
Wl-
W ll
■
■
m
M
%
n'A
m
%
k
5 .■
AXMINSTER RUGS AND MATS
British Axminster Rugs and Mats. Designs suitable for
almost every room in your home. Finished fringed ends.
No. 1 quality.
Sizes ........ 27in. x 12in. 30in. x 15in. 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 3in.
Prices -6/9 - - 9/6 . 27/9
Sale Prices .... 5/11 8/6 25/6
Sizes .. sft. 4in. x 2ft. Bin. 6ft. x 3ft.
Prices 39/6 50/6
Sale Prices ~ 35/9 46/
u PALACE ” REVERSIBLE RUGS
Add a cosy appearance to bedroom or dining-room with
these “Palace” Rugs. They are reversible. Being made of
All Wool ensures maximum of wear. Made for Anthony
Horderns’.
Sizes . 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. sft. 6in. x 2ft. 9in.
Prices •••• 16/11 32/6
Sale Prices 13/11 26/6
“PALACE” Mohair MATS & RUGS
Big value because of the high quality in every detail. Buy
the Rugs and Mats you need at Sale prices . . . these are
made expressely lor Anthony Horderns’. Popular colours.
Sizes, ins 30 xl2 46 x 23 54 x 27 69 x 36
Prices 11/3 27/6 37/6 62/6
Sale Prices 9/6 22/6 31/6 52/6
Carpets and Rugs —Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
’Phone: M 2401.
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Truly, God is Good
MONEY
BY LOIS
DUPP
ILLUSTRATED BY
TOWNSHEND.
NINETY-TWO of us there were on board —
that is, not counting the saloon passengers,
none of whom we saw except as they occa-
sionally looked from the remote heaven of
their decks on us in the Hades of the well-deck,
Perhaps life was pleasant up there ; luxurious it most
certainly would be; orderly, too, it seemed. But
of all that I knew nothing: I was among the ninety-
and-two souls whose names did not figure in the ship s
passenger-list in the Sydney papers on the day of
sailing. men and four women, we were
merely ninety-two souls in the steerage.
While we were steaming round the coast, as if
in deference to the country we were leaving, we still
usually greeted one another with a “Good morning”
° r ’ kj* once the rooftops of Fre-
mantle had faded to a dim outline and the ship was
fairly out into the Indian Ocean one said insteaa
Buon giorno or Buona sera Also one did
not rush to dinner or to tea but to mangiare
when the thin voice of the bell called us at 7
11 *3a i t c- -i
and 11 a.m. and at 3.30 p.m., this last our final
meal for the day; and what a meal! On Sundays
there would be the outer leaves from a heart of
lettuce, dripping with oil, and a piece of tunny fish
or a little herring, all sleek and oily, too. Beside
each plate was a brass fork and spoon, an un-
believably blunt knife and a mug of sour wine,
portion of the pint which every day was allotted to
each of us. On days other than Sundays we ate
quantities of macaroni in one or other of its ninety-
six varieties, slippery with oil as it always was.
After the last meal of the day there were still
some two hours or more of hot, sweltering, tropical
daylight to be got through. One could go and view
the two English stowaways who had crept out of their
hiding-place after we had left Fremantle; or one
could walk along the narrow deck from the well-
deck aft to the one for’ard, the while skilfully avoid-
ing the carefree spitting of those one passed and to
whom one formally bowed a greeting; also passing
and exchanging a word with the chef or with “Omar
Khayyam,” he who had charge of the vats of wine
and round whose doorway hung the basket-covered
bottles of Chianti marked 15 lire.
If one were affluent one could, in the early night,
buy from the chef for a small sum a thin piece of
steak oiled and seared on the hotplate of the stove; but
mostly we were not affluent. There were, of course,
exceptions, and one of these was Bruno Pizarro, he
who swaggered about, his hands thrust deep into the
pockets of his trousers, which consequently dragged
up at the ankles, displaying his grey flannel under-
pants tied neatly above his boot-tops with tape. He
spoke in English whenever he found one to whom
it was easily intelligible, partly in vanity at his ability
to converse in a language other than his own, partly
because he had lived for ten years in an English-
speaking house, but chiefly when he talked to me
that he might not be so readily understood by the
ninety others who, of necessity, were never far away.
One there was, too, who was attempting to master
the intricacies of the English tongue. He would
approach me with a leer, and, as one who should say
“Contradict me if you dare,” would announce “Ghod
iss guid” or even perhaps “I loaf yew” or some other
pleasantry. One day I ventured to ask him why he
made such statements at random ; he bowed and
disappeared to his cabin,
returning shortly with a large
book which he opened at the
first page. The opening sen-
tence was “God is good” ; the
phonetic pronunciation fol-
lowed : “Ghod iss guid.”
Giuseppe Pinato became
voluble in his mother tongue.
He had not made so good in
that Australia, chiefly, he
felt, because he had not been
able to master the English
language, and, too (this with
a prolonged shrug of the
shoulders), he had been given a weak stomach
by his mother at birth or soon after, owing to
her unnatural aversion to feeding him in the proper
manner ; this affliction had made it almost impossible
for him to work regularly, and he had thought it
wiser for Giuseppe to return to Roma,
What occupation had he followed in Rome? I
asked somewhat diffidently. Ah, Signor, he had been
a gas-meter reader and a good one, for they had
offered him his old position on his returning to his
own country. So much for the country he had
thought of adopting, he spat contemptuously on to
the deck beside my feet, thus combining the afore-
said country’s inhabitants with the country itself in
his contempt.
His stomach, even at sea where there was no work
td upset did not behave in the best manner , and
it needed but the suspicion of a roll of the ship to
precipitate him on to his back in his cabin, there to
He groaning until we were on an even keel again .
A , A , T * „ ,■>
And others there were to whom I talked from
x , T
tim f to many there were to whom I never
s P oke m all the five and a hal£ weeks we were on
£ e vo - a S e -
T° Pizarro l talked most of all; or, to be more
exact, I listened to him, for he singled me out
durin S ,he first week we werc at sea while we were
bem S rolled about m a Ion S southerly swell in the
Great Australian Bight. Walking, you must under-
stand > under those conditions in a confined space
was not altogether agreeable; and the eternal card-
P 18 ?" 1 * £or n 0 s,akcs : which usually went on on the
decks was impossible as the decks were now awash ;
so onc drl£ted ‘ nto conversation, and of what would
one s P eak which could be of such absorbing interest
as onesel£? S °. o£ h,msel£ th 's Bruno Pizarro spoke
P™ctuatmg his sentences with adroitly - placed
s P lttln S s -
He spoke in English to a continuous accompani-
ment of the staccato patois which is the coastal Italian.
He told me he was thirty-five, and for ten long years
he had been parted from his signora, his little wife
to whom he had been married only three months
w hen he left to make his fortune. She would have
come ou t to him with their son, but each year he
had expected to return to Messina ; and, too, it would
have cost money for her to come so far, and each
pound he had saved had meant greater wealth for
them all when he returned to his own land. “Why,
si Snor, if one should have but five hundred Eengleesh
P oun s m Messina he ees reech reech.
Each day that he talked to me he showed me with
infinite pride his wife’s picture and that of his son
as a toddler, then as a little schoolboy. “Mine, mio
figlio. Ah, Signor, I am going home to them ; and
we are still not old, and I shall see Messina”—he
looked reminiscent—“Messina so lovelya nights, so
warm and the moon shining on Etna. Ah, mister,
Y ou know one can love in that moonlight, spec’ly
when no money to make any more ; just live with
plenty for us all.” He put back his head and laughed,
and his strong white teeth gleamed.
When we were four days out from Fremantle
gliding through smooth green waters, he came as he
had done each day and talked to me, but this day
he said, “Come, Signor, come to my cabina. 1 will
showa you why I no more
needa to work, how reech
my Nina and I will be
and my leetle son.”
He took me down a
companion and along an
alleyway to his cabin and
shut the door, and there,
in a suffocating atmo-
sphere by comparison with which hell
would have seemed pleasant, and with the
engines throbbing immediately beneath our
feet, he hastily untied the tapes which held
his flannel underpants close to his ankles
and shook himself. Notes fell on to
the deck ; he picked one up and handed it to me
to see. It was moist with sweat and hung limply from
my fingers. It was a £lOO note, and there were many
others. I looked incredulously at him as he began
thrusting them back into their hiding place again.
“But,” I protested, “you should not have all that
money on you ; it is not safe to carry it about with
you. Why not give it to the purser to mind?”
He winked knowingly and shook his forefinger
at me. “No, Signor, it is not so safe witha anyone
else as with me, Pizarro, who owns it.”
He retied the tapes, tested them, then, standing
erect again, he said: “See, Signor, lam reech ; there
are free t’ousand of them poun’s, free fousand.”
He laughed excitedly. “How I worka to get them!
For ten monf I worka up to my armpits in water in
a mine for money, much money, then I get too seek”
—he shrugged expressively—“my heart it pain me ;
so then I cuta the cane in Queensland, and I save
nearly all I make, and then I still send some to my
little Nina; and at last I have more than fifteen
hundred poun’s, and I take one only teekit in the
lottaree, and see, I wina.” Here he laughed and
slapped my back. “Then I have twenty more hun-
dreds.” He shrugged again, and his face assumed a
mournful expression. “I get ill and make no more
money for a long time, and doctor say ‘go you home
to Eetaly to your woman,’ so here I am, and reech.”
ON the fifth day out I did not speak to him. The
heat was unbearable ; we waited with sweating,
fevered bodies and bloodshot eyes for the sun to
set in the oily waters, and when at length it sank
suddenly below the rim of the world we wondered
if the sickening stillness of the air and the darkness
were less oppressive than the withering heat of the
day had been.
On the sixth day I saw him walking restlessly
across the deck between the hatch and the railings.
Bruno Pizarro was a fine-looking fellow, I decided ;
lucky, too, and still in his thirties, a wife and a son,
and soon his beloved Messina. As I watched him he
turned in at the open doorway and disappeared. Some
two hours later a little man came running to me.
“Signor, that Pizarro who spik much wit’ you, he is
eel, verra eel; he no spika anymore.”
The doctor was summoned. Later I saw two
sailors carrying Pizarro on a stretcher across the well-
deck and along past where the chef stood in his door-
way and out of sight. The chef shrugged twice and
pointed significantly over the side, spat contemptu-
ously and said to the keeper of the vats of wine, who
lounged just outside his own doorway, “One day,
maybe two,” and “Omar” shrugged and spat in the
direction of the retreating stretcher.
Later in the day I inquired of the doctor how
Pizarro was; he made a long mouth, and said in his
soft, flowing Florentine, “He is unconscious and will
die when the sun goes down.”
“Die?” I asked. “But he looked so strong.”
“His heart is worn out, so he must die,” he said
with the finality of tone which a god might use.
“Where did they put all his money?”
“Money? He is a poor man ; he was a cutter
of cane. He has no money.”
“I saw it; he has hundreds of pounds, three
thousand, he told me.” I went on to tell what I knew.
At first the doctor looked tolerantly amused, then
incredulous and lastly convinced. There was much
talking; I was interviewed by the commandante, the
officers and both doctors. His cabin mates were
brought up and questioned exhaustively; they
shrugged, denied any knowledge of money, pleased
to let any search be made. They were obsequious,
extending helpless empty palms before their inquisitors.
Their cabins, their meagre possessions, were searched,
with no result whatever.
As the sun sank into the sea Bruno Pizarro’s soul
slipped out over the darkening waters. Till midnight
two Greek priests prayed beside his body, and then
for a brief moment the engines stopped. I and others
lay in the unaccustomed stillness, listening. Above,
on the deck, there were measured footfalls, two quick
words of command, and the sound of something heavy
striking the water; retreating footsteps, and again
the rhythmic pulsing of the engines.
AT the midday meal on the seventh day the first
officer, immaculate in white uniform and resplen-
dent with quantities of gold braid, came to our dining-
saloon. He harangued us for twenty minutes, firstly
on the solemnity of death, then on the sin of theft


and lastly on- the futility of attempting to leave the
ship with that stolen money in our possession. He
held a bundle of ninety-one envelopes, and to each
of us he gave one. They were large, commodious
envelopes, but it would have taken a number of them
to have held the wealth I had seen being thrust back
into Pizarro’s underwear. We were told to go to
our cabins, and the one who had committed the theft
was to place the money in the envelope. Ten minutes
later, when a bell would be rung, we were to return
to the dining-saloon and each of us, innocent or
guilty, was to place our envelope, sealed, in a box
near the doorway waiting there to receive it.
I knew that my cabin had been searched, and
all my belongings, and that I too would have to
undergo a personal inspection. In the meantime we
ate without much talk, got up and left the saloon,
returning at the appointed time, each of us dropping
the thin and now sealed envelope into the box.
A fever broke out on board, and the two doctors
worked tirelessly and incessantly. We reached Alex-
andria a sickly lot, some recovering, others still ill.
None of the ninety-one was allowed ashore there, and
so we stood about and lay about watching the strange-
masted craft which passed endlessly up and down past
our ship; and for the two days while our ship was coal-
ing we endured the sickening simoom which blew off
Africa, smothering our bodies with coaldust from
the barges. This filty blackness was on everything;
life was just something to be endured until at length
we were putting out into the Mediterranean, first
having seen the Greeks away in peculiarly unsafe-
looking sailing-boats which were to take them to their
ship which plied between Alexandria and Paereus.
Genoa was the last port; many of us disembarked
at Naples, and after an exhaustive search of all our
belongings by Customs officials, supervised by the
soldiery, we went our several ways. I was cross-
examined at great length about the wealth which I
had said Pizarro had possessed. My word was
doubted. After all, the English signor was the only
one who had seen it. I had caused much trouble by
my senseless fabrication. The great ship-
ping company of which the Lucia Christina
was a unit resented the implication that so
much money, that any money, could dis-
appear on one of their ships and not be
traced by one of their astute officers. I was
frankly dismissed in disgrace, with a warn-
ing to curb my imagination in future; at all
events, during that part of it which was to
be spent in Italy. I was, however, to be in-
formed if Signora Pizarro. made any inquiry
for this fabulous wealth of which I had said
so much.
| STARTED on a leisurely tour of Italy.
* Naples, with its beauty and its ugliness
cheek by jowl, and then some weeks later
to Rome ; and there I waited a long time.
I saw again the old grandeur and the new
flamboyance of the “Eternal City,” the
vastness of the great cathedral of St. Peter,
the ancient and magnificent church of S.
Maria Maggiore. I filled my eyes with the
exquisite beauty of the Michelangelo frescoes
in the Sistine Chapel, and with much more
that was magnificent; and, too, I wandered
down the old ways and among the people.
And so it was that one day I came on Giu-
seppe Pinato, resplendent in the uniform of
a gas-meter reader. He carried an official-
looking book.
“Ah, God is good,” I said, and Giuseppe
rushed to embrace me.
“Ghod iss guid,” he returned.
The password having been given, he
told me how he had prayed that help of
some kind would come to him. He had
offered a candle at the altar of this saint and
of that, and now at last I had been sent to
him. Now his soul would soon be free again
of sin. We went to a little cafe and drank
coffee, and he talked, having first extracted
a promise of help and silence from me.
“I, Signor,” he said, “I robbed tjhat
man Pizarro. Let me tell you of it.”
He went on to tell me all that had
happened. Having had very little food on
the first part of the voyage owing to the
rough weather we had endured, he had, on
the second day out from Fremantle, begun
to eat very heartily, and each night had in-
dulged himself to the extent of purchasing
from the chef a piece of the thin, oiled and
seared steak, delicious luxury. He looked
reminiscent. On the night before Pizarro
died, Pinato had again been tempted to buy
himself a “bistecca.” Unfortunately for him
the weather had upset the beefsteak, which,
in turn, had upset him, and consequently on
the following day he had been forced to
lie in his bunk, leaving it only to make
trips to the toiletta. He had felt so faint
after one of these enforced walks that he
had unknowingly wandered along a wrong alleyway,
finding himself about to enter someone else’s cabin,
the door of which was on the hook, thus giving him
a small view of the interior and of a man who was
in there.
Pinato was amazed to see the man take quantities
of banknotes from the legs of his underwear, and
had continued watching while the man rearranged
them and began to retie the tapes which held the
legs c f underpants close above his ankles. Pinato,
with the customary curiosity of his class, unhooked
the door and began to walk in, merely, and in spite
of hj s o wn debilitated condition, to have a chat with
a man so wealthy. Pizarro, startled by the sound
of someone so near, had wheeled suddenly round
and, before Pinato had had time to utter a reassuring
word, had changed color, clutched at his breast in
evident agony and collapsed before the horrified
eyes of the, until then, innocent Pinato. He had
struggled to lift Pizarro on to the bunk before going
“P i had tried to force some water between the
man ’ s blue “P - ,
SiKk eniy, w lie he was trying to rouse some
spark of life m him, Pizarro s wealth seemed to spread
~. , F .
itself before his eyes. The temptation was as strong as it
was suc j c ] en . was as someone were forcing him
to stea j mone y • anc j before he was hardly able
to rea ij se ft he was untying the tapes and taking the
banknotes from their hiding place and thrusting them
j nto the legs of his own underwear, and, as he had
so recently seen Pizarro doing, securely tying the
tapes above his own ankles. It was then only the
m atter of a moment to be out of the strange cabin,
a i o ng the alleyway and into his own, there flinging
himself on to his bunk. He lay there for a long time
before he heard someone tun along to the companion-
way; then soon after several people passed along the
alleyway in the direction of Pizarro’s cabin, then
again in the direction of the companion-way. Soon
was quiet once more in the thick atmosphere of
his deck.
Next morning he had got up and gone on deck
among the subdued men and women. He had felt
He had collapsed before the horrified eyes of the,
until then, innocent Pinato.
that surely some would look at him suspiciously, but
none did. None seemed to believe the tale which
had been circulated by the Englishman from Aus-
tralia of the riches of poor Bruno Pizarro, so they
had all shrugged their shoulders and tried to forget
so unpleasant an incident as the death of one of
their shipmates.
Pinato had gone to his cabin with the empty
envelope at the midday meal hour, as had each other
one of us, and had, as we all had done, returned with
the envelope still empty and sealed. His one bag
had been searched, as had those of his cabin-mates,
albeit in a somewhat cursory fashion as befitted so
highly incredible a matter, and of course nothing
incriminating was to be found. On arrival at Naples,
where he had disembarked, he had been met by his
brother, with whom he had spent two nights before
coming on to Rome. He had planned to spend the
money to ensure a happy and peaceful old age, and
so one day he had gone to consult a friend of his
who, through the goodness of God, was the possessor
of his own home a short distance out of the city of
Rome.
How much money did Giuseppe have? this man
inquired. For, unless he had several thousand lira
he could not hope to live in the luxury and affluence
in which he himself lived. He had been only too
anxious to give advice, but he must know how much
Giuseppe was prepared to spend. Giuseppe had pro-
duced one of the Australian banknotes for £lOO, and
had begun to tell of the number of others he had,
but his friend had interrupted—what use that foreign
money until it had been converted into real lira?
Let Giuseppe take it at once to a bank where they
would give him its value in negotiable money, then
let Giuseppe return to his friend, who would be
pleased to advise him as to the best way to spend it
so as to make it of use in the days to come when
Giuseppe would no longer be young and able to
work.
The terrible truth of the uselessness of the money
as it was was borne in on Pinato’s heart, causing him
great sadness ; for to keep it hidden for ever away
was certainly of no use, and to take
it to a bank he realised was to court
almost certain discovery. This useless
sin had blackened his soul. Destroy the
money, useless as it was to him, his parsi-
monious peasant soul refused to permit him
to do, and so the tangible evidence of his
fall from the path of virtue continued to
hamper his return to that desirable highway.
Would the good signor do something? And
what would he, what could he do?
I went with him to his home, and to-
gether we made the banknotes up into a
convenient parcel, which his sister addressed
in careful writing under my instructions to
the manager of the shipping company to
which the Lucia Christina belonged, and
soon it was in the post. All that was written
on the slip of paper which we enclosed were
the words: Bruno Pizarro.
'T' HE following day I left Rome. Giuseppe
* Pinato came to the station to see me off.
I left with his blessing, tears ran down his
cheeks, and as the train moved out he said
“Ghod iss guid”; and as it gathered pace
he ran for a few yards beside it, and as I
leaned from the window he shouted trium-
phantly “I loaf yew,” and then was lost for
ever to my sight.
Through the ingenious system which the
Italian Government employs of keeping even
the most insignificant of its tourists under its
vigilant official eye, the shipping company
had no trouble in locating me the following
month in Bologna. I received a courteous
note informing me that Australian banknotes
with Bruno Pizarro’s name also enclosed in
the package had been received by them and
had been handed over to his widow, who
had, soon after the arrival of the Lucia Chris-
tina in Naples, made inquiries for a con-
siderable sum of money which she had in-
sisted had been in her husband’s possession
when he had left Australia. They also
begged to enclose a personal note from the
aforesaid widow.
She felt that in some way it was be-
cause of me that the company had been able
to give her the money which her brave, her
beloved husband had worked so hard to get;
for, she said, had I not seen it in his posses-
sion, perhaps even when the money had been
returned to the company, they would not
have believed it had belonged to her Bruno.
And how could the good signor ever know
how happy it had made her to get it. for
now she would be able to marry her be-
loved but, ah! so poor Tino, with whom she
and her son were to be eternally happy.
“Truly,” she said in a postscript, “God
is good.”


Dramatic Brevity
The SAFETY
BELT
BY ROGER WALFORD
ILLUSTRATED BY BECK.
HE’S right; you c’n pull the saw out now.”
Jim eased back in his safety-belt, shifted
J straddling legs on the flimsy platform,
watched with satisfaction the widening saw-
cut. Wider . . . wider ... a volley of cracks, a
whoosh of rushing treetop, and the great tree hurtled
down.
Young Fred rolled a cigarette, grinned at his
mate across the level stump. “Wish I could get to
the ground as quick as that. It’s a blackfeller’s
game crawlin’ up and down these flamin’ trees a
couple of inches at a time.” He looked down, laughed
recklessly. “Only twenty feet. Say, Jim, if a man
jerked loose this buckle and dropped to the bracken
d’you reckon he’d”
“Have a funeral to himself in the mornin’,” Jim
assured him grimly. “A man doesn’t want to go
lookin’ for trouble on this timber-jerkin’ racket. I’ve
had thirty years of it, so I know it don’t pay to
take risks.”
“I’ll bet you don’t take any risks. ‘Safe! Course
it’s safe. Why, ain’t that the way Old Jim does it!’
That’s what comes of havin’ a reputation.”
Jim lowered the tools carefully at the rope’s end,
prepared to descend, checked sharply.
“You don’t need to jump to qualify for that
there funeral,” he warned. “I’m tellin’ you, as I’ve
told you fer the last week, you ought to get that
safety-belt fixed. ’Tisn’t good enough as it is: the
stitchin’s loose, the leather’s frayed where she grips
the trunk. One o’ these days, me lad, you’ll fall
and”
Young Fred’s derisive laughter fluttered from the
heights as Jim stalked away towards the camp. Darned
fool! A man didn’t mind being jeered at —it’s one
of the responsibilities of age—but it was hard to see
a promisin’ young tree-faller playin’ the goat with
Providence. There’d come a time when he’d put too
much strain on that rotten safety-belt... He boiled
the billy and stretched out on
his bunk for the midday lay-
off. Fred whistled his way
into camp, whoopeed around
the tents.
A CAR jerked into hear-
ing, stopped. Only that
stickybeakin’ Rid i n’ Boss
from the mill, Jim yawned ;
or maybe a fault-finding fores-
try inspector. Anyways, no con-
cern of his. Presently the tent-flap
flipped back, a stranger peered in.
“You Old Jim?” he breezed.
Pussyfooting forward, he kicked over the
r billy of cold tea, bunted his head on the ridge-
pole, slid to the bunk. “I’m a traveller. Carry
a range of saws, broad-axes, wedges, safety-
belts.”
He snapped open a bulging bag, dragged
up for inspection a coil of thick leather, looped
and broadened to hand’s width at one end,
fastening with gleaming nickel buckles. “Our
new line of safety-belt. Tested to stand a
strain of three hundredweight; guaranteed for
two years ; made from specially selected”
Jim took it, turned it about, examined it
critically, handed it back.
“No good to me,” he said with finality.
“Have a wongi with that young bloke in the
end tent: he’s game to try anything once...
What’s wrong with it? Well, for one thing,
I don’t know the brand.”
“Don’t know the brand! You can learn,
can’t you?”
“No fear! I’ve seen too many widows
and orphans of breadwinners who reckoned
they c’d break-in new brands. Anyways, why
pick on me? There’s hundreds of young fel-
lows about lookin’ for a bit of novelty like.”
The salesman sagged close. “Everyone
said the same thing. ‘Take yer newfangled
safety-belt to Old Jim,’ they told me. ‘Get
’im to give it the once-over, and if it’s O.K.
by Jim—well, it’s O.K. by me.’ Now do you savvy?”
Old Jim’s faded eyes glowed with pride. “Aye,
I remember I set the fashion in crosscut saws ; and
maybe you’ll recollect the time as diamond-headed
wedges” He shook his head. “Sorry, Dig., but
I couldn’t recommend this ’ere safety-belt. You
see, I”
The other addressed the ridgepole. “Course the
firm would do the real handsome thing by the bloke
who sponsored it,” he murmured. “Shouldn’t be
surprised if it was worth”—little eyes slid round
suddenly—“twenty quid.”
He jerked down, picked up Jim’s discarded belt,
laid it alongside the new one. “See, it’s the dead ring
of your own, except for the buckles ; a man couldn’t
tell the difference unless he looked real close. I
reckon I’d take the risk for a matter of—say thirty
quid.”
Old Jim bit his nails, slowly unravelled a blanket
thread. Thirty quid’d go a long way towards pulling
the missus out of the wet. And yet—it’d mean
blazin’ his reputation to something he didn’t believe
in, hadn’t the guts to try himself; supposin’ one day
there was an accident, someone was killed... No,
by God, it’d be—it’d be like selling his soul. Angrily
he came to his feet, sank back with a groan. The
missus. After all, a man ought to His voice
was unsteady: “Gimme that thirty quid”...
Came a pound of feet, and a white, scared face
blocked the opening. “Jim, come quick! Young
Fred’s climbed the hundred-foot stem, and his safety-
belt’s broke. He’s hangin’ ”
OLD JIM kangarooed for the open.
“Here!” The salesman ducked, snatched from
the bunk the discarded safety-belts, thrust them at
him.
Jim buckled one on as he ran, arrived tight-lipped
at the foot of the huge tree. ’Way up Young Fred
sprawled like a sack of spuds across a branch ; on the
trampled scrub lay the broken safety-belt. Jim kicked
it aside, jittered as they strapped the climbing-irons to
his boots, flung the leather rope high around the bole,
buckled it tight. Jambing in the spikes, he leapt
up, hung in his belt waist-high above the ground : a
forward sway, a quick quirt upwards of the slackened
rope, a shower of bark as the spikes came out,
viciously in ; a fling back . . . forward . . . up . . . out
. . . in... He raced up the tree like a goanna, a yard
at a time. Forty feet . . . fifty . . . sixty...
Suddenly he stopped ; his cheeks went cold. The
safety-belt. Supposin’ he was wearin’ the untested
safety-belt! Supposin’ the salesman’d chucked him
the wrong one and this spare rope dangling loosely
from his shoulder was A newchum windup
weakened his knees, prickled his scalp. He looked
beyond his feet, looked up into Young Fred’s wide-
pupilled stare and shaking limbs. Slowly he climbed
on, clambering awkwardly like an uncertain old
man.
Reaching the branch he straddled it, motioned
young Fred. But the other’s nerve was gone ; he
glanced down, shuddered like a frightened colt,
wriggled closer to his swaying refuge. Old Jim cursed
anxiously as he flung the rope around the trunk,
fastened it to the rigid body, wrestled with the
scrabbling hands. At last he was launched on the
long descent, tight-eyed, to inch safety wards, Old Jim
a foot below. Down . . . down... All at once
Young Fred shouted shrilly, fumbled with panicky
fingers at his safety-buckle, swayed. Wildly Jim
clutched, lost his grip, clamped on the slithering
body, braced. God! the belt couldn’t hold!
Couldn’t: no untested leather’d stand this double
weight. Panic palsied him as he waited for the
sudden snap, the headlong fall through space. Came
a cascade of broken bark as the rope bit deep,
a mighty wrench of stitching the belt held.
Jim’s hat-lining was wet as he strapped the unconscious
youngster’s hands and feet, slung him swagwise across
his back, jerked loose a toe-hold, crept down through
a dry-mouthed stillness.
Feet in the bracken again, Jim plucked at the
belt-buckle with awe-fumbling fingers. This was a
real belt. It’d carry Old Jim’s brand from now on.
Too right it would!
“You’re a bloomin’ hero, Dig.” The salesman
shoved through the clamor, lowered his voice as
deploring eyes dropped to the other’s waist. “But it’s
a pity you passed the new belt to the youngster —
wasn’t wearin’ it yourself.”
Hymn to 10.
lo the Giver, send us rain;
Not the fair maid of the freshet face,
But rain as plumage, as torch and spears,
Marching down to the council-place;
Rain as the runner who holds the race ;
All that is rife and flagrant and hot,
All that is heavy and hard of birth,
Streaming forth from the unsealed womb,
Steaming rank from the sides of eatth.
lo the Giver, lo the Breath,
Be in our nostril the death of Death.
Half of her brown flank turned to the sun,
Half made tall by columns of rain;
Over her plains the waterspouts wheel,
Over her crashes the giant grain.
(This be my portent, O thunder-rain .)
Rain that is massy and bound in sheaves,
Rain as the veil on a flowing face,
Rain made large on her sky like leaves,
Breasts its way to the council-place.
lo the Giver, lo the Breath,
Be in our nostril the death of Death.
MAORILAND.
ROBIN HYDE.


Blarney Did It
Triba l
Charms
by
Margard
Fane
Hilary
Lotting
OLD DENNY RIORDAN was used to finding
it hard going, but this stretch was a bit too
hard. The plain was dancing before his eyes ;
it was on fire, like his leg. His poisoned leg,
he reminded himself with heavy deliberation, the
poisoned leg he’d picked up in the Territory two
years ago. It went back on him every now and again,
he told the dancing sand and rocks, and it was back
on him now. And he with his bit o’ luck in his
knapsack, all set to give his brother Connor the
surprise of his life.
The rocks burst into flame and reeled away into
the sky. Denny eased his swag and sat down. Light-
headed, that’s what he was; light-headed with the
pain and the hard going. His head sank forward
out of the livid glare of the sunshine. It was a hard
go, and he getting on in years.
No matter. There was Connor to be thought
of, and his young growing family. The bit o’ luck
in his knapsack would set them all on their feet, if
he could get it to them. On their feet. Yes.
The Jallands. It would take him an hour in
an ordinary way to reach their place from here—
say, two hours to-day. And the Jallands were a
hundred and twenty miles from Connor’s place at
Valley Hills, and no place, no living soul, between.
And the Jallands would thieve the steam off your
tea ... His trembling hand felt the bulge of his knap-
sack a moment before he hitched it slowly over his
shoulders again. If he went back he’d have forty
miles to travel to the Dickensons’. It was a lonely
stretch, this, and he an old man dying in it, with his
first bit o’ luck, his only bit o’ luck, in thirty years
lying snug across his shoulders. And Connor down
there with his children.
Denny stumbled out into the livid glare again.
Even the Jallands was better than dying here with
nothing done.
MRS. JALLAND, shading her eyes from the brazen
glare, thought she saw a movement in the plain’s
middle distance. It became a man stumbling, stag-
gering, sometimes falling ...
“Hey, Bobby! ” she called, grabbed her sun-
bonnet and ran out into the glare. A twelve-year-old
boy dodged swiftly from behind the bark hut and
followed her. Between them they got old Denny on
the stretcher in the kitchen, the main room.
“Why, it’s old Denny Riordan!”
But they had to wait till he came out of his
faint, and then he could only point to his swollen
leg before he fainted again.
Mrs. Jalland’s hard, weather-beaten face became
intent and almost compassionate when she saw the
blackened, poisoned leg, the angry break in the skin.
“Poultices,” she muttered, “and hot compresses. It’ll
be a week or two before he’s able to move on —
wonder if he’s broke, as usual... How’s the kettle,
Bobby? He’s pretty bad ; a leg like that at his age,
and swagging it in this heat —it’ll be touch-and-go.”
'T' HE mailman and supplies came every fortnight.
I If he sent a letter or a message by him it was
a certainty that every syllable of it would be known
by the Jallands —and bang went the bit o’ luck. If
he sent the bit o’ luck itself
There was no way he could work it out. And
him so good at working things out. If he sent for
Connor they’d hear every word ... The heat boiled
over in his head again, and he forgot everything.
There was a feeling he had that these half-good
days were only paving the way for a crash. That
meant that Connor’d never get his bit o’ luck ; the
Jallands’d get it...
The woman was kind, but she was hard. too.
If he didn’t die he’d see that she
didn’t lose by it; if the crash
came she’d see to that for herself.
The boy was the best of the lot —
he had a smile, anyhow.
“Will ye reach me me knap-
sack from under me bed,
Bobby?” Denny said on a good
day. “I think I have a” —he groped
in the knapsack. “Yes, here it
is” —he handed the boy the stone
head of a blackfellow axe —“ye
see where it’s sharpened and the
little notches for the thongs.
Take it as a remembrance of
your kindness to an old fellow.”
“Ta,” Bobby said. “What’s
those, Mr. Riordan?”
Denny looked at the two red
seeds his further thoughtful grop-
ing in the knapsack had pro-
duced. His eyes flickered, gleamed,
became very thoughtful. After
a pause he looked sadly up at
Bobby. He could feel himself
pushing the crash forward for a
space.
“I wonder now if you could help me, son,” he
murmured. “It’s a long story.”
Mrs. Jalland came into the kitchen and paused,
listening. Old Denny put his back into it, his Irish
cadences rising and falling in their impressive, sorrow-
ful music. He’d get this done ...
“These”—he held out the two gleaming red seeds
—“are the seeds of a small tree used to grow in a
misty village across the world. In me mother’s bit
of a garden it grew, far away in Galway.” He stared
down at the little red things as if they bewitched him.
“The times I’ve seen the small tree,” he murmured
low, “when 1 was a lad fifty years ago.”
Mrs. Jalland drew nearer, watched him in silence.
This was a new Old Denny.
“When me brother Connor (he has a small place
at Valley Hills, ye may know) and meself were settled
here, our mother came out to us and lived with us,
kept house for us, God rest her, until she died. On
her deathbed she laid the charge on me as the elder:
‘Get me,’ she whispered, ‘some seed of the little bush
grows by me doorway in Galway, where ye both
were born. And plant it on me grave that I can
feel at home when I’m dead.’ ”
Old Denny let the last cadence fade in musical
sorrow into the shadows of the kitchen. Mrs.
Jalland listened to the echoes.
“But bad times came on us, and it was years
before we could send for the seeds. When we got
them they wouldn’t grow here. It wasn’t until last
year, when Casey (he keeps the pub at Tarleton in
the Territory) was going home for a trip, that we felt
we could be sure of the
seeds. He promised to get
them from the very bush
by the old doorway”...
Denny held out the two red
seeds again. “I have them
now,” he concluded the
music.
But the good patch
was now running to its
end ; he could feel it.
“Bobby, could you
fetch me an empty jam-
tin? Get some earth —take
it. from the undergrowth
behind there”—he waved
feebly towards the window
over his stretcher —“and a
handful of pebbles to put
in the bottom to drain it.
And we’ll plant them for
me mother’s grave—punch a few holes in the bottom
of the tin, and if I die ye can give the tin to me
brother Connor, and tell him”
The crash was coming swiftly. The heat was
driving into his head once more. But somehow he
held on until Bob brought the tin and the earth, the
handful of pebbles ; held on until the two precious
seeds were planted. He even held on until, in a
moment of solitude, he was able to drop the handful
of pebbles out of the window above his stretcher.
But that was his last effort before the crash came
murdering on him. High fever made all the patches
alike, and all dangerous and critical in his weakened
condition. So much so that Mrs. Jalland sent an
urgent message by the mailman somehow to get in
touch with Mr. Connor Riordan at Valley Hills and
tell him that his brother Denis was dying at Jallands’
place.
/"*\LD Denny knew nothing of this, nor of Connor’s
arriving in the Dickensons’ car and taking him
away, and not much of a long stretch in the Valley
Hills hospital. Indeed, his true appreciation of these
events dated from the moment when he sat in Con-
nor’s living-room, a rusty jam-tin on the table between
them.
“This woman” Connor
glanced uncertainly at the half-
smile touching Denny’s pale lips
—“had a long story, as I’ve just
told ye, Denis. And what’s the
reason of it all—what made ye
give her a monstrous yarn the
like o’ that? Ye know that we
were born over the shop in
Dublin, that we never saw Gal-
way in our lives, that mother
never came to Australia”
He paused to watch Denis
pull the earth out of the jam-tin,
scatter it and two little red seeds
over the living-room table and
grope for the draining-pebbles at
the bottom of the tin. Instead of
pebbles he put a handful of small
nuggets on the table. Old Denny
laughed triumphantly.
“That’s the reason of it,
Connor, me boy!” he cried. “I
was in the gold country, and I
had me bit o’ luck —I picked up
these in less than a week! There’ll be two hundred
pounds there, maybe more, for you and the children.”
Connor stared at the wealth.
Old Denny laughed again. “You know the Jal-
lands would thieve the edge off yer razor. I thought
I was due to die. And where would your bit o’ luck
be then? So I pitched such a yarn that I knew the
jam-tin would get to you.”
“But it’s yours, Denis!”
“No. I’m alone and can work —and pitch a yarn.
You have all the family”—he paused, and picked up
the little red seeds. “But I’ll take these,” he added.
“Why?”
“Well, ye see” —that murmuring cadence crept
half-apologetical 1 y into old Denny’s voice—“they are
tribal charms.”
“They’re what?”
Denny looked at his brother. His pale face
flushed suddenly, but he recovered and laughed com-
fortably. “Tribal charms. Full of mystery. In the
aboriginal secret rites” —the cadence was rising and
falling distinctly now —“in these strange secret rites
these tribal charms can work wonders, do anything”
—he paused, glanced at Connor, and flushed again.
“I won’t bother ye with the rest of it. Tribal charms
is their name.”
“But what are they?” Connor insisted.
“A couple of haricot beans soaked in red ink—
they’re often good for a drink or two when times
are bad.” Denny slipped them into his pocket


THIRD YEAR’S ENTRIES FOR THE S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Following
are the titles of MSS. and pen-names of authors competing for the third (193 7) years award of the Prize
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
After All This Struggle .... Three Plus Eight
And Yet Nemo
Arnhem Trails Leo
Attack, The Pickles
Beneath the Shadow of Four Flags
Homeward Bound
Blands in the Bush, The • Monica
Blue Poppies Errol Marie
Blue Valley Maluda
Bring Another Glass Tian Laga-laga
By Whose Hand Faith Fieldflowers
Captain Pagan, Bushranger Warrigal
Charlotte Armitage Ann Williams
Chiltern Road Kurragundi Joe
Churning Paddles Atlanta
Creeping City, The Sunderland
Demigods and Demons Number Nine
Fatal Fragments Conrad
Faust D.M.
Fear Not the Future Shelley
For Better, for Worse Vanetta
Gay Impostors, The Hagan O’Shea
Galaxy Clio
Gem of the Watercourse Rob Roy
Good Governor, The Pauncet Box
title. nom de plume.
Green Tea Margaret Rose Maeda
Grey Shadows Brutus
Hail and Farewell , Comique
Half-bred Cracksman, The.,.:'. Godfrey Gaunt
Her Lover's Legacy lago
llis Inspiration Pauline
High Mettle Margaret Bruce
High Walls Johanna Harwood
In Review Order Robert Eric Sutton
In the Days of Yore Overlander
Interrupted Play, The Pertinax
Joan Solves Lebatanooc Doad Lyle
John Rule’s Son Russell
John Scorley Bunda
Judge Not Rebecca
Kong Goliahs Platypus
Leaves Turned Back Felix
Leuvwe Daly River
Life’s Falling Shadows Lai Kara
Life’s Issues Phyllis McFadden
Little Prospector, The Nancy Holt
Littoral Sarn
Maids, Morals and Medicos .... J. S. Pratt
Man of Straw, A E. Somerset
Masqued Hearts E.D.
NOM DE PLUME.
Miraee Seven-two-four
Mixed Blood •• Sampson
Muffled Drums Locksley Hall
Nancy and Billy F- J- Y. Doom
New World Symphony Leo Chanel
No Retreat M»J m
No Train on Tuesday . ■ • • George Washington
Northern Boundary, The H.J.S.
Not of Her Generation ... sanara
Pnls lor Ever Omikron
Papermakers Limited John Quill
Pebble Stream
Pioneering Fanulies ■ • D ori ta Hume
Pnliip Vendetta Wendell Chnron
PollfJofLucy Phillip Hawtebury
Prelude to Content vLwin?
The P^tor
.■■■•• • • • • • ■ Mary Crofton
Shadowof a Dream,' The 7.7.7. .7 Waradgery
She Proved Her Case Martha^Staples
Sheep
Sins
Spaudfish
of ’ Omission''.'.'.'.'. '■ ■ ■.... Wynne Stanley
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Skirted Abyss Jonvin Clay
Sons of the Valley Vina
Stephana of Riverside Farm Storyteller
Strange Destinies Devon
Supreme Test, The Mungabareena
That Other Sin Maranuku
They Find Their Feet Catherine Fisher
This Is the Place Jungle
Three Generations Shandon Dale
Thus We March Vanguard
Time Is Now, The Heure
To Bury Ccescir Gilbert Anstruther
T o Cashel I’m Going : John Dorrington
To Let Lamb Chop
Top House, The . Millis Fearnley
Trees Marsh
Trees and Parasites Delta
Twin Star, The Rob Roy
Ultimate Conquest, The Dell
Understanding Werteloona
Variations on the Theme of Death . . Francisco
Waiata Moana
Warriors Hope de Ferred
Where Is This Man? Pennib
Yesterday Reborn The Singer
family by marrying a girl of the stage, Lucretia
Milano, an Italian opera-singer. He migrated to West
Australia, settled on the land and begot descendants,
among whom were individuals who inherited both his
independent spirit and his wife’s musical gifts. Andrew
Rae’s “moral entail” holds good for one generation
after the two families become linked by marriage. It
is broken just after the Great War by young Gavan
Rae, son of Angus Rae and Alys Wentworth, both
deceased, in order to give his violinist brother Theo
opportunity to study and seek fame in Europe.
The author doesn’t seem to be on easy terms
with her characters of the early generations. They
are rather “stagy.” Her depiction of the Rae-Went-
worth household, whose affairs occupy the greater
part of the book, is better. The relationship of the
sons to their father, to the mother and to each other
is convincing. Particularly good is the sympathetic
treatment of Gavan, big enough, eager and almost
old enough to go to war, but restrained by his father,
who tears his death and the falling of the property
into the hands of the unstable Theo.
The. author does some dexterous scene-shifting
in showing Perth developing from a few huts into
the city of to-day, and also indicates successfully the
change in outlook from that of the pioneers to that
of the present generation. Her incidental characters,
particularly those who are bush folk, are good, and
her interpretation of different types of Westralian
la-ndscape is sensitively done.
The story destroys its natural fall by over-
running itself. After Theo’s departure the reader is
asked to follow for about 100 pages the impoverished
Gavan’s adventures pearling off Broome, prospecting
in the interior and apple-farming in the south until
Theo returns from Europe triumphant and publicly
acclaimed. On the story’s own premises the end came
when Gavan, nerved by the Wentworth-Milano strain
in him, dared to remove the tyranny of the dead
hand.
Pre-Vicforian England.
And So — Victoria, by Vaughan Wilkins (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson; 9s. 6d.), is a romance in the
spacious tradition of last century. The author of
The Count of Monte Cristo might not have been
ashamed to set his name to it. The setting is England
—with excursions to the Continent and America —
in William IV.’s reign, just after the birth of Victoria.
Its 570 fairly-close-packed pages give pictures of the
social order of the period, from highest to lowest,
although which is which it is at times difficult to
decide, for members of the houses of Hanover and
Brunswick were not celebrated for the agreeableness
of their persons, morals or habits, and the author is
not sparing in details.
The main thread of the book is the romantic
life of young Christopher Harnish, product of a mar-
riage between a natural son of George IV. and
George’s sister, a union of whose incestuous nature
the woman was not aware. True to the tradition
from which the book springs, Christopher does not
learn until late of his royal birth —though the reader
soon suspects that he is no ordinary person—and his
life lacks nothing in hair-raising incident. In child-
hood he is the stool pigeon of a plot on the life of
the infant Victoria by one of the King’s scheming
brothers. He runs away from his captors, is taken
by one of the child-dealers of the period who supplied
child labor to the then expanding Midland industries,
is involved in a murder, condemned, reprieved, kid-
napped, rescued and taken under the wing of Queen
Caroline. In manhood he frequents a royal European
Court, is involved in love intrigues—his own honor
remaining unbesmirched —fights a duel, is captured by
his enemies and achieves a miraculous escape.
The story lacks none of the old ingredients. Even
the woman Christopher marries on the last page is
the little girl whom he met in the hands of the child-
dealer and who appeared again in the middle of the
book as a famous actress. The second thread of the
story is provided by the actions of Madame de
Boucher, whose young husband was guillotined in
France as a result of the perfidy of William’s brothers,
and whose existence is thenceforward dedicated to
r-revenge. She marries the Duke of Cumberland, who
aspires to the throne, and her machinations provide
some of the incidents that keep life from boring
Christopher.
The book has its serious side. The promise of
its title is fulfilled in the period pictures and the por-
traits of a thoroughly degenerate royalty. Sometimes
these things come in a thicket; at others they are
spaced like telegraph poles, with Christopher’s story
looping between. The Duke of Brunswick, who in-
forms Christopher of his royal parentage, gives an
effective resume of the house of Hanover when he
tells him how every king from George I. had loathed
his father and been loathed by his sons.
How brother had fought brother, and mothers had
unnaturally hated their sons; of miserable Caroline’s
wedding to the “first gentleman of Europe”; how she
had been given as bridal attendant his favorite concu-
bine; how the bridegroom had lain drunk in the grate
on his bridal night. He told of the brothers: of York,
whose mistress, with his knowledge and participation,
trafficked in honors and army promotion; of whining
Kent, with his twelve bastards; of half-crazed Clarence,
who spoke violently against adultery in the House of
Lords, although he had a play actress from whom he
borrowed money. It was strange, was it not, that when
Princess Charlotte died, to all the family of George
lll.—twelve princes and princesses—there was not one
single legal child that could be heir to England. He
spoke of Caroline’s husband: his debauchery and crazed
treachery; his ignoble shifts to obtain money; the
murder—that was the word he used—of a dozen debtors
who had trusted to his honor; his hatred for his mother,
for his wife; his vile jealousy of his daughter and,
later, of Victoria, the little princess who would eventu-
ally succeed him.
Of matters such as these, together with the plots
of the Regent and his brothers, is the solider part of
the book compounded. It is well written. Those who
can give themselves to the somewhat improbable
adventures of Christopher Harnish will find it enthral-
ling. Others, in parts where the narrative thins down
to his private adventures, may be inclined to practise
the gentle art of skipping. There may be some who
will find a little amusement in the accuracy with which
the story treads in the footsteps of much that went
before it. The pictures of the harassed poor and the
dissolute Court will have a peculiar interest for Aus-
tralians —remembering that this was the tail-end of
the regime that established a penal settlement on the
shores of Port Jackson.
People in on Office.
Marjorie Booth’s Monday’s a Long Day (Duck-
worth ; 7s. 6d.) is her sixth novel, and she knows how
to go about it. It is one of those group designs that
have been fashionable since Grand Hotel.
Eighty-year-old Mr Green died on the Riviera, and
the firm of theatre furnishers of which he was nomi-
nal head closed its London office on the Monday of
the funeral as a mark of respect. The unexpected
holiday proved crucial in the life of each member of
the office staff of eight. They are: Owen Buffery,
the manager, not very scrupulous, who is having, or
hopes to have, an affair with the svelte and apparently
sophisticated typist, Lena Kirkwood; Dick Forrest,
the advertising man, 24 and deeply in love with the
17-year-old junior, Pauline Moore ; Hillier, the vague
and gentle accountant, who longs for his freedom and
fears his dismissal; Dodson, the old man whom the
business has outgrown, only kept in his place by
sentiment; Herbert Stubb, the office boy ; and Gladys
Gibb, the middle-aged telephonist with an appetite
for gossip.
Each of these people has a story, and each has
a junction in the pattern. Forrest and Pauline are
Young Romance; Stubb is Comic Relief; Buffery
is the Successful Businessman ; Hillier is the Unsuc-
cessful Businessman; Miss Gibb is the Onlooker,
the Co-ordinating Element.
The problem of each is resolved with almost
mathematical precision. The good are rewarded —
Forrest and Pauline with each other, Hillier with a
rise—and the bad are punished, particularly Buffery,
who loses Lena by his own crassness and finds his
future activities in the office threatened.
The design of the novel is in cast iron. Its very
compactness and completeness require an evenness
of treatment that the author is unable to give it. The
characters and the incidents vary greatly in interest,
while the inelasticity of the scheme reduces all to a
dead level. Stubb and his affairs have a great air of
unreality, and Buffery also is more of a type than
a man. The others are more convincing.
Marjorie Booth is at her best in the middle regis-
ter, handling commonplace lives, their small incidents
and homely decor. (She has a feminine knack for
describing a house.) Pauline and Forrest are very
well drawn. Pauline, particularly, has a delicate, warm
reality, and is wrapped in a genuine tender youthful-
ness. This is a passage describing how she hid from
Dick in the black misery of their first quarrel:
The door of a bedroom stood open. It was un-
occupied, and it had that look of patient readiness,
peculiar to hotel bedrooms, to provide within its strict
limitations for any person in any mood. Pauline
shut herself in. Respect for the clean counterpane pre-
vented her from throwing herself on the bed. There
were two wicker chairs: one by the window; the other
in a shadowed corner. She sat in the corner, with her
hat and her bag and her gloves in her lap, feeling
vaguely through her misery that she ought to efface
herself as much as possible because the room had not
been paid for. She let the tears run down her face into
the collar of Henrietta’s coat.
Miss Gibb, the telephonist, is also very natural.
She was good-natured apart from the little bits of
malice in her, hard and numerous as the pips in a
raspberry.
She lives, fortified by her pathetically brave “free-
dom,” in a bed-sitting-room that expresses her per-
sonality in warring shades of blue and the souvenirs
of many wholly inconspicuous occasions.
There is much that is attractive in this novel,
and yet it leaves its reader strengthened in the view
that books should be grown, not manufactured.
Reviewed Briefly .
FICTION ...
Day Star: Peter Benedict (Lovat Dickson ; 7s.
6d.). A light romance with a film-colony background.
The characters are a trifle wooden, but there is plenty
of action, and the writer convinces that he is familiar
with the private lives of studio folk.
The Door in the Wall: Laurence W. Meynell
(Ivor Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.). Plotting in
Central Europe. Phillip Markham sets out from the
little town of Charnek for a fortnight’s quiet holiday
and becomes involved in a series of adventures by
which he is reminded of Sarajevo and August, 1914.
A case in which the nations labor and bring forth
a romance. Neat of its kind.
Cuckoo Narrow: T. Thompson (Allen and
Unwin ; 7s. 6d.). Set in Lancashire. A study of
working-class life and the story of a woman who
brings up with her own child the illegitimate child of
her daughter. The pattern is repeated through the
illegitimate dying, like her mother, in childbirth. Well
written, although the dialect makes the going rather
heavy at times.
GENERAL . . .
Sunwise: Sidney F. Wicks (Muller; ss. net).
Author, a Manchester man, founded the Rostrum
Club in Australia. Pleasant philosophic essays —one
for every week in the year, with Faith as the keynote.
Injustice Within the Law : H. V. Evatt (Law Book
Co.; 2s. 6d.). Justice Evatt has written a brief but
cogent review of the case of the six Dorchester
laborers (the “Tolpuddle Martyrs”) who in 1834 were
sentenced to seven years’ transportation for unlaw-
fully administering an oath in the formation of an
agricultural trade union. He shows that, while the
purpose of the union was lawful, the administration
of an oath, in the circumstances, was unlawful and
was the pretext used to crush the union ; that while
the conviction was sound it was the “coronation of
injustice.” ♦
Australian Fantasy : Dudley Glass (Hutchinson ;
Robertson and Mullins; 12s. 6d.). The compiler has
here assembled a gallery of excellent but untitled
photographs of Australia, upon each of which he
writes a page of ecstatic prose. The pictures, which
make it a desirable gift book, are better than the
pen-pictures.
VERSE . . .
Thronging Feet: Robert Farren (Sheed and
Ward ; ss. 3d.). Fifty-four Irish poems. The author
is a young Irishman —a Gaelic scholar, the introduc-
tion assures us, whose name in his native land is
Roibeard O Farachain —and the contents are evidence
that he has a strong religious bent. It is claimed
for him that he has “caught the Gaelic influence,”
and when to this is added the quaint modernism or
mannerism of beginning lines without capital letters
and ignoring the laws of rhyme and metre at will
the result is a little bewildering. Yet he has a fine
flow of language and he can be musical.


The Announcer who hadn’t taken HEENZO.


ROYAL
PURPLE.
■m «■»>
’lsBW£2 'jtW^wtmim
mm
■
■■l
WmMm
m
wmm
.:...
4&.asP*
Mgy
V->'*;
mm
jam i
Ml
.
J?I
•: ' • •
wmmm
mm
mm
m •-&' *sr
* i . -
■ ,
M
mmmmm
Ilf®
. ■
IS
I
«* t m m «r #^ r
|gg|
w mst m
■ H
■
g:«
mmmmmm
.
I
Hm
■ h
;
gH
1 H
I
H
ISKi
■
i
f *'> ;
■ a
- •■
ISII
. i
V
i
1
- -.v
H
M 1
■
m
■
:
I m
■
I
wm
mm
mm
- 11
.
Hi
v wm.
Hi
im
■ .. m
H
.■ v . ■- ■
■
i m
«8i»
11
■ i 7 mmm m
■ r i -x
Interior View of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars •
&


THE PROCONSULS DEPART.
“Splendid conference, Malcolm—most successful. Nothing done, of course; but there wasn’t one free fight.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
REVOLT AGAINST PRE-SELECTION.
Generally speaking, Australian Labor and the U.A.P.
choose their candidates by primary ballot, voting being
restricted to small minorities of the electors. Country
parties have had a let-’em-all-come rule.
In Tasmania, however, the Labor and Nationalist
(or U.A.P.) parties—there is no Country group—have
departed from mainland practice. Labor has had no
reason to regret it. Without pre-selection it has won
the last two State elections. In 1934, with one of five
candidates, it wrested the Denison Federal seat from
a Nationalist who had taken it from a Labor member
standing alone —when he got in there was another
Laborite in the field.
To Country parties everywhere “the open go”
has been a source of strength. Throughout Australia
country electorates are made up of many settlements,
and in these, as a rule, local patriotism is strong. Recog-
nition of the fact that a man in a small place has as
much right to stand as a Country-party candidate as
a man in a subdivision with perhaps 10 to 20 times
the population has had a great deal to do with the
party’s success at the polls—and, in proportion to
number of seats contested, it has over the years been
more successful than either of the other parties. Cer-
tainly it has been free from the wild rows which have
frequently followed Labor and U.A.P. ballots and
head-office selections, and that must be accounted a
decided advantage. Nor has “the open go,” on the
whole, bred personal jealousies or factious disloyalty.
When a Country-party constituency gets hold of what
it considers a suitable member, it sticks to him.
Unfortunately, short-sighted Agrarians are turn-
ing on the system which their parties have found so
useful. In N. S. Wales they blame it for the loss
of Gwydir, though Gwydir would assuredly have
been lost, and probably by a greater majority, if one
Country-party man had stood, instead of three. After
the trade war with the Japanese, the Mrs. Freer case,
the marketing referendum result (16,000 for and 29,000
against in Gwydir), and the appointment of the
previous member to a post for which he had no known
qualifications other than dutiful —in the Japanese
business, obsequious—support for the Ministry,
Gwydir was “gone” before nominations closed.
In the Victorian C.P. pre-selectionists have
been trying to force their nostrum down their party’s
throat for years. Since it became so strangely asso-
ciated with Victorian Labor, their influence has grown,
and at the Legislative Council elections there was
only one C.P. man in each of the picked electorates
contested —seven altogether. The result of the experi-
ment was unsatisfactory. True, the pre-selectionists
can point to four seats won, but they owed Western
to U.A.P. preferences and Gippsland and Bendigo
to Labor support. Only in Northern, where Mr.
Tuckett stood again, was there a really independent
C.P. majority. Not much of a result for a party
which had—or could have had —all its supporters
enrolled, and which had been boasting that the U.A.P.
was dead beyond Melbourne.
Oddly enough, while Cockies are moving towards
pre-selection, the U.A.P. is turning away from it.
There is a real U.A.P. revolt against it in N. S. Wales.
It began when a young lawyer, Murray Robson, came
out against the branded candidate who had won a
bob-a-nob ballot in Vaucluse, ordinarily the safest
of U.A.P. electorates, and beat him hands down.
Learning nothing from that experience, the party
bosses advertised a bob-a-nob ballot in Woollahra,
also safe for the U.A.P., having been held securely
for years by the late Speaker, Daniel Levy. Sixteen
aspiring U.A.P. gentlemen, half of them young profes-
sional men, gave in their names. When the result
was announced there were roars of fury, mingled with
shouts of derision. Victory went to a young man
who polled a whole 130 first preferences (there are
about 20,000 electors in Woollahra). Ten candidates
got fewer than 80 votes apiece ; three, when counted
out, had 34 among them. At least a dozen of the
16 would have remained in had the constituency been
left to do its own picking, and one of the rejects
whose votes in the bob-a-nob ballot did not equal the
number of branch-member meetings they addressed
might have been elected. As things are, two anti-
machine U.A.P. men have come out against the
branded candidate, and “an organisation to combat
pre-selection within the party” is being formed.
Where the electoral law provides for effective
voting, pre-selection is an undemocratic anachronism.
It makes for dull elections and subservient members.
A public man who strove against it until he wearied
of the paltry contentions of machine politicians —he
is now on the High Court Bench —suggested that a
logical addition to an effective-voting enactment would
be a clause forbidding it. This may be too much
to expect from the present breed of politicians, but
until the thing is outlawed or banished by public
opinion Australia is unlikely to get more intelligent
and more responsible members. And three or four
hours’ reading of “Hansards,” Budgets and schedules
of taxes is enough to show how much Australia
needs them.
The Luckner Hullabaloo.
There would be something wrong with the national
sense of humor if Australians were not getting an
extra-good laugh out of the efforts of sundry solemn
people to prevent Count Felix von Luckner from
landing in this country.
These people must be under the delusion that
Australia has suddenly adopted the “freedom” of dear
Russia. There is a singularly naive quality about their
fuss over the Count. It is quite evident that they
fear him ; otherwise, why the fuss? Their quaint
representation is that our whole happy future depends
on our now preventing the shadow of that sinister
figure from darkening these fair shores.
One hour in the Count’s company and there will
go even Mr. Lang goose-stepping, /lei/ing and arm-
stretching down King-street. Let the Count in, and
next we shall see Mr. Garden with a dandruff-roost
on his top lip and Mr. Beasley bursting out in a rash
of swastikas. Unless we can dig up a counterpart
of Speed Gordon, this Emperor Ming disguised as a
count in seaboots is going to work into the body
politic of this democracy a virus so malignant that
the rabbits will be a blessing to it.
Fussy little gossips, the lot of them —on a par
as “Comic Cuts” characters with the antics of stadium
wrestlers, cabletrammers’ feeble fabrications and the
bellowings of bigots bent on enforcing upon life their
interpretation of it as a funeral procession stretching
out from the cradle to the grave.
Considering the average Australian’s love of free-
dom, his detestation of dictatorship from anybody or
any clique, his appreciation of his generous portion
of open air and sunshine, his preference for laughter
against maudlin gloom, it is surprising how prolific
Australia seems to be of these vessels that make most
sound. That their empty noises do get such a patient
hearing must surely be put down to a rich supply of
tolerance in the Australian character.
Who and what is this Count Felix von Luckner?
An adventurer by the best standards of flapper-press
romance. He followed the tradition of Captain Cook
and Nelson by being at sea in a sailing ship at 13.
Australia is an old stamping-ground of his: as a
youth he was in Westralia, where he committed the
sinister deed of joining the Salvation Army. A
romantic of the romantics, and not without a sense
of humor, he did that “in order to fulfil a promise
to his father that he would become a lieutenant.”
Then he was a lighthouse-keeper’s assistant on some
Australian outpost, and, conclusive proof of his
sinister character, he also travelled Australia as bill-
poster to a Hindu magician.
He left Australia for America because, character-
istically, he wanted to meet Buffalo Bill. In U.S.A.
he hoofed, with irregular spasms of work, from San
Francisco to New York.
Still hungry for adventure, he next got himself
into the German Navy, and there had a lieutenant’s
commission handed to him for life-saving. In 1916
he volunteered to take command of a raiding expedi-
tion, and fitted up his ship Seeadler so thoroughly as
a Norwegian timber vessel that when a British cruiser
stopped him in the Atlantic he was, after the Seeadler
had been searched, allowed to go on. So he came
again to the Pacific, adventuring, and did some
damage, too, until the wrecking of his ship led up
to his being captured as a prisoner of war. ,
He was a gallant enemy ; and, whatever some
people who stayed in Australia during the war may
think about his present proposed visit, it is certain
that Diggers will like to meet him and shake hands
with him. Reference to any Digger who was in the
fighting in France will readily establish that by the
time it was all over no warrior stood higher in the
Digger estimation than the German. If another war
happened the Digger would prefer to be on Fritz’s
side than against him.
On this ground alone the Count should be let
in, and welcome. It is not the only reason why the
noisy little groups opposing him should be told to
shut up.
Australia, despite individual abuses of the prin-
ciple, is a democracy. It has shown no sign that it
wants to change to any brand of dictator rule what-
ever. Not having known such poverty-stricken and
demoralised conditions as existed in Germany and
Italy when their present dictators took charge of
them, Australia never has had any wish or need for
such drastic remedies. It would be an utter waste
of time for anybody to come here with representa-
tions that people in Germany, Italy and Russia are
better off than Australians. The most Australians
will accept is that those people may be better off than
those people were. But Australians want none of their
political expedients, and anybody in his senses knows
that ten thousand Count Von Luckners could not
alter that.
The fact that this is a democratic country, with
the main virtue of democracy, free thought and free
speech, and not in any degree a Fascist or a Com-
munist State, is the unanswerable reason why the
people who are trying to have Luckner shut out should
be told to export themselves to the particular dictator-
ship with which they are confusing Australia.
Three Dictatorships.
In the “Near East” and its vast neighbor which is
half-Asian and half-European there are three dic-
tators. Two of them mind their own business and
are little heard of.
Except in one respect —the solid quality of
the Anatolian peasant —Kemal Pasha found poor
material to work on when he set out for Angora in
1920. It took two years and the defeat of the Greeks
to put him in command of Turkey, and even then
his prospects did not look hopeful. Turkey had been
on the decline for half a century. The suzerainty
over Egypt, Cyprus and Crete had slipped out of
its hands. After the war with Italy in 1911, the war
with the Balkan States in 1913 and the Great War,
the Turkey that stretched from Albania to beyond
the Persian Gulf and held 24,000,000 people had
shrunk to 294,000 sq. miles, carrying 10,000,000. The
troubles of the next three years saw another million
people off the lists, and the survivors were impover-
ished. Law scarcely existed.
Kemal has altered all that. He has introduced
Western European legal codes and open courts. The
authority of his civil police, helped by good roads,
runs right through the country. Mohammedan
dominance, polygamy, enslavement of women and
the purdah have been abolished. Education is free
and compulsory. Everyone has the vote. There is a
reasonably efficient civil service. Best test of all, the
population has grown from the meagre 9,000,000 of
the immediate post-war years to 16,800,000 last year.
Nationals of countries which fought against Turkey
have been allowed to return and are well treated.
The changes have been wrought with little blood-
shed or bludgeoning. In the early days most of the
members of one Ministry were hanged; but 15 years'
executions in Turkey would scarcely make a decent
evening’s work in the Lubianka at Moscow.
Kemal has made money during the period of his
rule, but he has not kept it. The other day he handed
over his private fortune of £1,000,000 to the State.
A second hitherto unstable country which has
become stable is Persia —now Iran once more. The
man who broke the spell of the ancient proverb
Iran hamin ast —“Persia is always the same” —had
once stood on guard outside the Belgian legation, a
common soldier in a sheepskin. Rising to be a colonel,
he mildly led his regiment into Teheran in 1923 and
took possession. Two years later, he became heredi-
tary Shah, vice Sultan Ahmad, deposed.
The condition of Persia when Reza Shah took
control had improved, thanks to Dunsterforce, in
which self-reliant Australians served ; but its towns
were still medieval huddles of lanes enclosed inside
high walls. The custom of the country only 15 years
before was to place robbers in a setting of gypsum
by the roadside,’ to lop hands and cut throats of
mornings in the streets of Ispahan, to shoot women
taken in adultery. It was not safe to venture outside
towns without a blunderbuss for robbers and a
Spanish windlass for negotiation of the impossible
tracks which ran between cities.
There are now good roads everywhere. The
whole country hums with motor traffic. Cities have
been rebuilt. Schools, European clothes, freedom,
education for women and a self-reliance which has
put concession-holders and -hunters in the oil- and
air-fields in their proper places have taken the place of
the old atmosphere in which Iran was a helpless lump
of barbarism, anybody’s plaything. And, like Kemal,
Reza Shah does not advertise.
The third dictator is Stalin. He advertises. But
although he and his predecessor had a country as rich
as the U.S.A. to operate on, and no national debt —
they repudiated that—their material achievements are
certainly no greater than those effected in Turkey
and Iran; in proportion they are inferior.
People everywhere were told that in Lenin, Trot-
sky and their followers New Messiahs had been
found; self-sacrificing idealists sworn to poverty and
devoted to the rescue of “the workers of the world”
from capitalist tyranny. Except Stalin and Litvinoff,
none of the New Messiahs now remains. Branded as
thieves, traitors, murderers, they are in exile or in
their graves, along with millions of victims of their
war to win the peasants to collectivism.
For years “the workers of the world” were
assured that the Red Army was their bulwark against
capitalism and imperialism. Now it has suddenly
been discovered that eight Red Army generals have
been so deeply in the pay of capitalist countries that
it was necessary to take them out hurriedly and shoot
the lot.
Previous results of Moscow’s attempts to commu-
nise the world were the creation of Fascism in Italy
and Germany, civil wars in Hungary, China and Spain
and strikes everywhere. Almost every industrial
disturbance on any scale which the Anglo-Saxon
world has seen in the last 20 years has had Com-
munist backing or blessing. And strikes, civil wars
and revolutionary plots have all crashed.
Iran and Turkey are good examples for Stalin
to follow. There seems some reason to believe that
he has it in his mind to follow them. But the obstacles
are great, and it may be too late.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Loans and Losses.
In the current number of the Australian Abstract of
Statistics it is shown that in 1935-36 loan expenditures
of State Governments amounted to £23,202,278. The
outlay would have been larger had funds been
available, but investors had grown rather shy, realis-
ing, no doubt, that the more borrowed money Gov-
ernments spend the more they lose. The allocation
of 1935-36 loan expenditure is worth noting:
Spent on “works” £17,493,826
Spent on deficits, loan raisings, exchange,
etc 5,708,452
£23,202,278
Thus, out of every £1 of loan expenditure, “works”
got 15s. Id. and shortages 4s. lid.
So much for 1935-36. From the beginning of
their respective careers the States had spent to June
of 1936:
On works , £842,019,000
On deficits, loan raisings, etc 96,425,000
£938,444,000
Of every £lOO passed through the loan accounts of
all the States, the disbursements were:
On works £B9 14 6
On shortages 10 5 6
At June 30, 1936, the States owed £864,742,000,
which is £22,728,000 more than they had spent on
works since the beginning of Time —or of Tick.
Seeing that the making of losses on the public
debt, though an old habit, has been greater in recent
years than before, it might be advisable for the Loan
Council to open each meeting with a certain brief
recital, just as sittings of Parliament are opened
with prayer. The chairman might read to his
assembled brother-borrowers (and himself) the reso-
lution passed at a conference of Premier-Treasurers
as a prelude to the making and adoption of the
Premiers’ Plan:
That it is resolved by the several Governments, as
regards such public works as it may be possible to
finance by loans raised in the internal market, that
approval will not be given to the undertaking of any
new works which are not reproductive in the sense of
yielding to the Treasury concerned, within a reasonable
period, a revenue at least equal to the service of the
debt (interest and sinking fund).
That resolution was never rescinded. It also was
never honored. Not one of the subscribing politicians
has been in the smallest degree faithful to his bond
and undertaking. The one burning, dominating
question at every meeting of the Loan Council —and
the one question on which there is complete unanimity
—is, “How much can we get?”
Bilbao Taken.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” was recently assured by
a young gentleman from Spain, a Maorilander, that
“the Spanish Government must win the civil war,
because it has nearly all the Spanish people on its
side.” On the other hand, “Franco has mostly Ger-
mans and Italians, who are frequently deserting.”
The newspaper hastened to convey the glad intel-
ligence to its readers, together with other information
from the same source. The young gentleman, it
seems, was paid a large salary and a bonus (he collected
£800) for shooting down “rebel” ’planes—presumably
in Russian machines, “the best in the world.” Within
a week the “rebels” had taken Bilbao.
The young gentleman went to the right shop.
His information was of a piece with the stuff Aus-
tralian newspapers have been retailing to the public
ever since the civil war broke out. These newspapers
have been as wildly wrong about Spain as they were
about Abyssinia.
The news from Bilbao so staggered Granny
“Herald,” already perhaps shaken by the epidemic of
arrests, suicides and shootings in Russia, that the old
girl could scarcely believe it. She found material
for rage in the “fact” that “German ’planes” were
“reported to have machine-gunned the families of
peasants fleeing along the roads from Bilbao” (another
report said that the families of peasants couldn’t do
any such fleeing, the roads being impassable), and
that “German pilots and ’planes appear to have played
the decisive role on the side of the attacking force,
offering another satirical instance of the failure of
foreign non-intervention.”
Granny must be very sour when she attacks
British Government policy. That is what “foreign non-
intervention” is, and the British Foreign Office main-
tains that it has been as successful as any reasonable
person could expect, considering Spain’s long sea
coasts and land frontiers. The Foreign Office has
induced the German and Italian Governments to send
their patrol ships .back to Spanish waters on the under-
standing that, if any German, Italian, British or French
warship is attacked by either of the Spanish factions,
counter-measures will be taken in concert.
The Foreign Office has had long experience of
Spanish civil wars. This experience has taught it
that the only sane and humane British policy when
such a conflict arises is to localise it so that it
may burn itself out without involving other countries.
It is impossible wholly to prevent freelances and
adventurous asses like the young gentleman from
Maoriland from joining one side or the other, bm
their numbers can be restricted by agreement among
the nations interested, and such an agreement is in
operation. It was technically strained when masses
of Bilbao fugitives were removed by the Royal Navy,
but when the civil war is over no Spanish group wih
harbor resentment against the nation responsible tot
this practical humanity.
Nor, if the rebels win, as seems highly probable
(they now show a significant tendency to become
“insurgents,” even “Nationalists ), will Britain
have to reckon with a “puppet Spain, dominated by
some hostile dictatorship.” Those who write in this
fashion have small knowledge of Spanish history
and less of the Spanish character. Grandee or mule-
teer, White or Red, in victory or defeat, the Snaniard
has always been as proud as Lucifer.
Parkhill Picks an Admiral.
While the Larrakia, that perfect symbol of the Lyons
Government, was “arresting” Japanese luggers, and
while the Flying Doctor, whose consulting-rooms must
be papered with Administration summonses, was
speeding in search of the Larrakia, Mr. Parkhill was
busy choosing an admiral in London to succeed
Admiral Hyde, the First Member of our Naval Board.
It will soon be necessary for Mr. Parkhill to choose
another English admiral to succeed the commander
of the Australian squadron Admiral Lane-Poole’s
term will expire next year.
One of the reasons advanced in favor of supplant-
ing. or superseding Admiral Hyde is that he is now
60. He has had a long run, and has been very suc-
cessful. It was while he was a lieutenant in the Naval
Reserve that Hyde came under the eye of Charles
Beresford, who persuaded the Admiralty to give him
a permanent commission in the Royal Navy.
But Hyde was handicapped from the outset by
the fact that he had not come through the Britannia.
So when the R.A.N. was founded in 1912 and a few
experienced officers were required to give it a start,
Hyde applied for a transfer. Neither he nor Aus-
tralia has had reason to regret it. Hyde has risen to
the highest rank; he has governed the R.A.N. for
six years, and, in a sense, he shares with old Admiral
Creswell the honor of being the “father” of the
Australian Navy. He is liked and respected in the
service, which he knows through and through, and
he is still very much “on deck,” alive and energetic.
It is true to say that his job is his sole interest in life.
But Mr. Parkhill had decided that he must be
replaced. And there being no other Australian admiral
in sight, Mr. Parkhill has been sizing-up the avail-
able admirals in the R.N.
It must be a source of pride to the ladies of
the Liberal and Nationalist Leagues that the gentle-
man who was at their service, as general secretary,
for 24 years (1903-1927) should have become the
arbiter in such matters as these.
--
These Clever Men!
What stupid things clever men say and do!
In England the Archbishop of Canterbury likens
the perfectly decent abdication of mild little Edward
to the disorderly flight of the second James during
the Great Rebellion, and cuts out of the Coronation
film the one human touch that would have redeemed
it from stagy dullness the picture of the Queen
Mother shedding tears. Sir Stafford Cripps advises
the British workers to gain all power for themselves
by refusing to make armaments and munitions. Earl
Russell recommends English-speaking people to estab-
lish peace, with safety, by refusing in any circum-
stances to fight. If Britain and Australia or any
other Dominion took either prescription it would
have a sudden and sticky finish.
Now comes our clever Mr. Menzies with the
discovery that “we have organs of public opinion in
Australia which live entirely by attacking the per-
sonal reputations of leading men,” and that defama-
tion of “leading men” is a conversational habit. The
result is that our institutions are in peril.
If we have a system of government which allows
criticism to degenerate into slander we will drift into
a dictatorship.
There are doubtless Britons in Australia who
can remember the “Times’s” “Parnellism and Crime”
articles, and some of the observations of British jour-
nalists on Bradlaugh, Dilke, “Bloody” Balfour and
the “traitors” Gladstone and Lloyd George. These
Britons must have been horrified at the depravity of
the Australian rags referred to by Mr. Menzies,
though he did not sully his lips by naming them ;
and the same applies to French residents conversant
with the journalistic history of their Third Republic.
Their Parisian press has accused “leading men” of
every crime in the calendar from malversation to
murder. Grevy, Clemenceau, Faure, Caillaux, Malvy.
Briand —scarcely any “leading man” has escaped.
Says the author of Destiny of France : —
“Humanite” treated the Daladier Cabinet as “a Gov-
ernment of murderers” “Echo de Paris” called
Doumergue “this little white Landru [the murderer]”
“Gringoire” alleged that Salengro had deserted to the
enemy in 1915, that Chautemps engineered the murder
of Prince, and that President Lebrun was a half-wit
in a state of senile decay Barthou was accused of
having practised flagellation. “Action Francaise” and
“Solidarite Fran?aise” did not hesitate to advocate the
murder of Blum.
Ferocious as this journalism is, Republican France
has not had a dictator, nor does it seem in danger
of being saddled with one.
There are no “organs of public opinion in Aus-
tralia which live entirely by attacking the personal
reputations of public men,” and no newspapermen
out of Kew or Callan Park would try to live in such
a way. If they made the attempt, libel actions would
soon wipe them out.
Australian libel laws are the most reactionary
in the Empire, as Mr. Menzies should know. West-
ralia has the libel law least unfavorable to news-
papers ; but even in Westralia a politician has recov-
ered substantial damages from a newspaper merely
for saying that he made a “personal” attack on a
suspended official in a platform speech. The poli-
tician was Attorney-General Nanson ; the suspended
official —whom he notoriously hated —was the Police
Commissioner; the newspaper was the Perth “Daily
News” ; the damages were £275.
And in Queensland last year another politician,
Baker, M.H.R., got a verdict for £lOOO against the
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” because it had published a
contributed report of a speech in which he was said
to have criticised the State Labor Government on
the score of its unemployed-relief measures. He
admitted that the newspaper had acted in good faith,
but contended that the bogus report would have done
him harm with his party.
Mr. Menzies is the Attorney-General who sud-
denly abandoned the attempt to have the Communist
party and the Friends of the Soviet declared unlawful
associations. He was the plaintiff, and his party has
done a lot of bragging about the actions and presum-
ably got votes on the strength of them. And they must
have cost a pretty penny, for the preliminaries dragged
on for two years. All of a sudden they are dropped,
and this coincidently with the Imperial Conference and
with the amazing eruption of arrests, shootings and
suicides in Russia; yet there is no uproar in any
quarter. Criticism of the dropper there has been
none. It doesn’t fit in with his picture of Australians
as a people who nourish “organs of public opinion
which live entirely by attacking the personal repu-
tations of leading men,” and circulate slanders on
their own account.
Towards a Transport Monopoly.
The latest move in the unceasing effort to establish
a Government transport monopoly in N. S. Wales
is a threat to boycott country shopkeepers who get
goods from the city by rpad. Possibly they patronise
road-carriers because they never know when their
parcels will arrive by rail.
A lordly contempt for the convenience of cus-
tomers seems to have become a departmental char-
acteristic. The Blue Mountains railway is N. S.
Wales’s main tourist line, and Sunday is the day on
which most mountaineering tourists, hikers and week-
enders return to the city. The return train that should
deposit them at Central station at 6.15 p.m. —which
would give them time to catch ferryboats and subur-
ban trains around 6.30 —has on five consecutive
Sundays been 20 to 28 minutes late.
A fettler was killed recently in the Casino
district —“run down by an engine while riding a rail-
way tricycle” —and the coroner said: “I consider that
public safety has been sacrificed by the department
in the interests of speed.” A bus-driver was killed
on a level crossing at Clarendon, and the coroner said:
“The cause was the gross negligence of the depart-
ment in endeavoring to run the business of Clarendon
station with an inadequate staff.”
Can’t these coroners realise that the department
—which starts with £BOO,OOO of tax-money, and pays
neither rates nor taxes, and is getting the use of
millions of borrowed money free of interest —is pre-
paring to announce a surplus?
Local Color.
“X.T.”: Some months ago somebody had a few words
to say about the efforts of Mr. Albert Wetjen to
paint in fiction the Australian scene for the benefit
of 3,000,000 readers of the “Saturday Evening Post.”
The effect on Mr. Wetjen seems to have been like
feeding liver extract to some bacteria. His wonders
have increased and multiplied.
In his latest yarn he makes —in post-war years —
the king of a tribe 1000 strong near Alice Springs
do a little killing. (Any Australian tribe 1000 strong
would get a chapter to itself in the Commonwealth
Year-Book .) After the killing the dear old fellow sets
out with his tribe to walk 700 miles through red and
waterless desert to hold a man-making corroboree.
There are Commonwealth police, but they sit down
and wait for the redoubtable Sergeant Rainse, of
Marree (S.A.), to arrest the king without a Common-
wealth warrant for a crime committed out of the
S.A. police jurisdiction.
The sergeant takes some trackers into the sand
country, in which a Cockney tourist could follow
the spoor of a mosquito. With great exertion and
after devastating effort, they succeed in finding the
tribe by following the trail of lubras who have been
sent 50 miles or so for water. After more adventures
the sergeant arrests his black majesty in the middle of
the man-making—which is being held out of season,
off the tribal grounds by several hundred miles, in
a place where there certainly would not be a bora
ring, and with ceremonies which are not associated
with man-making. So one feels that the sovereign
deserves it.
Natives of S.A. and the Northern Territory now
appear to speak New Guinea royal, not Australian,
pidgin. But as the illustrations show them to be
mixed Swahili-Bantu-Hottentots, that is, perhaps, not
surprising.
Mr. Wetjen is a protege of the excrescence that
calls itself the Australian National Travel Association.
Well, the taxpayers are entitled to a little diversion
for the £15,000 that Canberra has showered on the
concern this year.
Exit the Honorary.
“Kwakprak.”: It looks as if the honorary system of
hospital medical service is to go by the board, begin-
ning with Queensland. Recent hospital legislation is
steadily cutting out the practitioner as an active factor
in hospital management in favor of lay boards and
permanent officials.
In Queensland the practising profession is not
represented on boards of management. The whole
tendency —illustrated by the recent appointment of a
clerk as Inspector of Hospitals—is to regard the
medical staff as hired help only.
Although, with the inauguration of the Medical
School, which will use the Brisbane General and other
Brisbane public hospitals for clinical and teaching
material, such a system may work well in the capital,
patients in country hospitals will not appreciate
deprivation of the services of local practitioners in
favor of whole-time resident doctors —sometimes very
young—under wholly non-medical control.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Induna” (Rabaul>: There is no doubt
that the local constabulary carried on in
the true sense of the word during
Rabaul’s Black Saturday. In the second
“black-out,” when pumice, lava dust and
dense clouds of black, sulphurous smoke
enveloped everything in Cimmerian
darkness, the strains of a police bugle
sounding olf sunset brought all those
who heard it the thought that things
were not quite as bad as they seemed.
Of the various descriptions that different
people have given of what the eruption
was like, I think perhaps the best sum-
ming up came from one of my Chinese
engineers, who on Sunday morning said
to me, “My word, Captain, there was
very danger!”
* * * *
“Double-U”: Two extracts:
Sydney Councillor Gardiner, deploring
activities of moneylenders amongst County
Council employees, said it was a great pity
that so many people were buying goods
of a luxurious type by deferred payment.
— “Sun,” June 8.
A NEW MODERN ELECTRIC RANGE
INSTALLED FREE IN YOUR KITCHEN
NO DEPOSIT . . . 5 YEARS TO PAY!
—Streamer headlines in County Councils
full-page advt., “5.M.H.,” June 9.
So what?
* * * *
“Fantimas”: The other day a letter
posted from Essex, in England, was deli-
vered to a married couple in Brisbane.
The only guide to the identity of the
consignees was a photograph of the pair,
pasted on the left-hand side of the en-
velope, which showed them standing on
the steps in front of their, house. The
words, “near Hamilton Wharf, Brisbane,
Australia,” indicated the area, and an
observant postman recognised the veran-
dah in the photo.
*** ' *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Now that
South Africa wants to get rid of the. term
“British subject,” what are we going to
call ourselves who live outside Britain?
General Hertzog’s alternative, “subject
of his Majesty,” is too long and clumsy,
also open to objection on account of
South Africa’s claim that his Majesty
functions, for such purposes, as King of
South Africa only. “Britisher” is too
reminiscent of Yankee sarcasms; nearly
as bad as “limejuicer.” “Dominioners”
is impossible. “Colonials” is no longer
correct, and also has invidious associa-
tion with the beastly colonies of past-
day English tourists and sojourners,
voluntary and otherwise. For ourselves,
“Australians” seems good enough to me,
but some comprehensive portmanteau-
word for all of the out-living family is
needed. What about it?
* * * *
“Mercury II.”: The velocity with which
news sometimes reaches Australia from
the other side of the world is breath-
taking, as witness a cable which appeared
in Australian morning papers on June
14:
London, June 13.
Dr. Norman Bethune has organised in
Madrid a service of blood donors... .The
blood is collected at base hospitals and
conveyed to first-aid stations on the
various fronts Russian experiments
have proved that the blood taken from
corpses can be used for transfusions up to
eight hours of death.
There were about another 200 words
of it. And it was only on April 10 that
the London weekly “Cavalcade” pub-
lished the following and a lot more:
In charge of blood-transfusion service in
Government Spain is Canadian specialist,
Dr. Norman Bethune. First he organised
a method of bringing blood long dis-
tances —he converted heavy lorries into
blood-carrying hospitals. This form of
transfusion was first used in Russia.
Any day now I expect to hear about
Wellington’s victory at Badajoz, if the
cables don’t break down.
: I;
“D.E.”: One of my aversions is the
word “purchase.” In my opinion it is rank
pedantry to use it in preference to “buy,”
but in four out of five newspaper para-
graphs the clumsy expression from the
French gets this preference over the
good old Saxon verb. I once declared
that nobody ever used “purchase” in
colloquial English (“Bill, purchase me a
pie” ; “Fairy has gone to town to pur-
chase a hat”); but it seems that I was
wrong. In the case in which a man is
alleged to have been shot in Queensland
and left dead in N.S.W., it is set forth
in an alleged statement, produced in evi-
dence, that “I bought two bottles of beer
for him, and the barman gave me a nip
of rum to keep him quiet.” Expressive
Saxon English that; but it goes on: “He
told me he had purchased a bottle of
whisky and a flask of rum.” Somehow it
reminds me of Dr. Johnson translating
himself, as Macaulay put it: “ ‘The Re-
hearsal’ hasn’t wit enough to keep it
sweet... .it wants sufficient vitality to
preserve it from putrefaction.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Prof. Cleland, of Adelaide
University, returning from further close
examination of natives in the heart of the
continent, challenges the popular idea
that their sight is keener than our own.
He sees no evidence of this, he says,
and errors of refraction of the eye are
not uncommon among them. The simple
fact is that, either to keep alive by hunt-
ing or to avoid surprise by enemies, they
have been forced into a keen observation
of details which white people neglect.
In our own line —as a detail of engineer-
ing, perhaps, or a snap catch in the
cricket field—we might see what they
would miss.
* * * *
“Wee”: “Wowser” never struck me as
a word that came to fill a long-felt want
in the English language —it means little
more than “Puritan” or “killjoy —but
A P. Herbert, M.P., in his latest book,
What a Word, gives it top marks among
Australian coinages. “The grand word
‘wowser,’ ” he writes, “should "be given
the freedom of Great Britain,” and there
is an elucidatory footnote to the effect
that “some brutes might say that Mr.
Isaac Foot and the Reverend Henry
Carter were ‘wowsers.’ ” The point of
the allusion will probably be missed in
this country, whither the fame of neither
gentleman has travelled, but one may
feature them without much difficulty.
The “grand word,” by the way, seems
to have crept into the language more by
accident than design. It was John Norton,
if I have the story aright, who minted it
in one of his bursts of alliterative fury
by referring to a religious-minded an-
tagonist on the Sydney City Council as
“Alderman W , the wild, whirling
wowser from Waverley.” I have for-
gotten W.’s full name, but presumably
he was the first man on whom the in-
vidious title was conferred.
* * * *
“Oliver C.”: Among the greetings and
felicitations received by King George
VI. on his coronation, surely the most
remarkable of all came from the “Society
of Colonial Wars in the State of New
York.” The “Times” (6/5/’37) pub-
lishes a copy of the document, from
which one learns that the society is
“composed of men directly descended
from soldiers and sailors who fought
under the British flag in the wars of
the American colonies and who are proud
of the military service their ancestors
“ Varlet , sharpen up these accelerators!"
rendered to the Crown and of their own
British inheritance.” A rare devotion,
verily, to have survived 154 years of
discouragement.
* * * *
“Rubezahl”: A few years ago any-
body with a German-sounding name was
liable to have his windows smashed ;
now, a lot of people named Krawwinkel
and Jungfer in S.A. have met to form a
German-Australian Historical Society,
celebrate the German-Australian ceri-
tenary and preserve the. monuments to
some early German colonists. As one
who had close contact with Australian-
Germans in the early years of the war, I
take off my hat to them. If all future
immigrants are as good as the Germans
who came out in ’4B and from the
’seventies onwards, and as law-abiding
and prolific of good Australian stock, we
shall have nothing to complain of.
* * * *
The other side 1
That was a rather unkind par. of “•Jamwood's”
about Mrs. Bonney’s flight from Queensland to
South Africa via Asia (B. 26/5/’37). It is
true that the lady has a co j!^f c a i,
fn I” nC she te is° f re n ceTving P from that quarter is
scarcely enough to buy spare parts. Her mam
expenses are being found by her hu .sband, a
a
carefully nlanned enterprise showing the possi-
bilities and advantages of the new form of
foreign travel. Mrs. Bonney has gone about it
ie»rd 0 nk m onV'oMnciden. S e of“her journey
but of facts likely to be helpful to future
travellers, and writes to her husband and to
women friends from every ner st entSam
Those who invite her to dinner entertain no
apologetic apparition in oil-smeared slacks, but
a daintily-dressed, pleasant-spoken Australian
woman, as careful of her appearance as she is
of her machine. Latest advices are that,
triumphing over many Asian obstacles, she has
reached the Sudan and is moving south.
She is not out to make time —never has been
—but she will complete her interesting adven-
ture, never fear.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Those two wireless
chaps who spend a year together on
Willis Island (B. 9/6/’37) must have
strong minds if they don’t come to dis-
like each other violently toward the end
of the period. Outback, where men are
frequently marooned together in a small
hut for months on end, it is inevitable
that they become testy to the point ot
pitching into each other. Two who thus
dwelt on Prungle (s.-w. Riverina, N.S.W.)
managed to see it through each year
without blows, but they spent their fort-
night’s holiday in the town taking it out
of each other’s hide.
**. * *
“Shack Locker”: Mock suns (B.
9/6/’37) are not uncommon in the
Northern Hemisphere. I have seen no
fewer than four suns twice, once in the
Bristol Channel and once in the Arctic
seas. Old shellbacks immediately pre-
dicted rough weather, and in both cases
if came with gales and torrential rain. I
have never seen the phenomenon in the
Southern Hemisphere.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: I can enlighten “Hanko”
(B. 16/6/’37) as to how Peter Lalor took
his sword ashore at Gallipoli. It was
simply wrapped in a piece of hessian,
a second piece of which covered the
gleaming hilt from the eyes of Turkish
snipers. Lalor lost it early on the. day of
the Landing, according to the Official
Australian History; it was found again
by a Digger and finally disappeared alto-
gether in the flurry of a repulse by the
Turks. By this time Lalor was dead.
By the way, “Hanko’s” officer who
slashed tent ropes with his sword must
have been using a private weapon, as the
infantry sword has no cutting edge and
sabres were only issued to the Light
Horse long after the day when convivial
messes had disappeared in the bustle of
Allenby’s campaign.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: It is only 26 years since
we anchored off Mornington Island, in
the Gulf of Carpentaria, with William
MacGregor, then Governor of Queens-
land, aboard. Next morning a dozen
native damsels appeared on the beach in
costumes which would shock Mr.
Spooner, making gestures of a nature
which caused the old Gov. to remark
with a twinkle: “Forrwarrd hizzies! But
yon means they’re freendly disposed
ashore.” The boy-friends were friendly,
but very dirty and none too reliable.
Toombakker and fish hooks sweetened
the meeting. Seven years later the same
crowd murdered a missionary because
he would not issue “that fella toom-
bakker” from the mission store. Now
that beach has a fine 70ft. by 10ft. stone
jetty, to which the mission school kids
voluntarily and cheerfully brought
the stones, one each daily, and from
greasy, furtive savages the islanders have
become cheerful, useful citizens.
WOMEN AT CRICKET.
“When Miss McLarty mnde a brilliant catch at
short— leg in the Test match, the whole Australian
team rushed up and hugged her.... There was a
similar exhibition of hugging when Miss Antonio
took the Englishwomen’s last wicket.” — Cable.
When centuries are scored, or stumps are shaken
Like ninepins down upon an English ground,
If it’s a pro. who’s bringing home the bacon
The hat on his behalf goes promptly round.
In India, unless I’m much mistaken,
The star performers are with garlands
crowned.
But since our women to the wickets went,
Observe a picturesque development.
They run like hares. They’re veritable daisies,
These damsels of the dinky Dian type.
Their aptitude to cut and hook amazes;
Some sit up the splice, but more can swipe
At need, and literally bang to blazes
’Most any trundling they regard as tripe.
But, howsoe’er they block or snick or slug,
It’s clear their speciality’s the hug.
Short-leg brought off a catch with rare acumen;
Swift to her side bowler and ’keeper ran.
Point, slips, mid-on, mid-off, long-leg, third
woman . , '. •
(If that is what we used to call third man),
All thrilled by that essentially human
Impulse to honor a leviathan.
In short, there was no fielder upon deck
But fell ecstatically on her neck.
And when a nimble bowler’s artifices
Finished the game and gave our girls the
Test,
Feature the phalanx of adoring Misses
Around the heroine of the hour who pressed
To fairly smother her with ardent kisses!
Sad wastd of raw material, you suggest?
And possibly it may have been, but then
What theme so gracious for a poet’s pen!
Not mine, alas! Albeit in rhymes I revel
And shape at times a happy stave or snatch,
I may not rise to the Parnassian level
Where real bards their inspiration catch . . .
But I’ve a firm conviction that Neville
Cardus upon a women’s cricket match
Might, from his purple patch of words, supply
Something the world would not let lightly die.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Curate’s Egg”: Speaking of registry-
office marriages, four couples from a far
outlying station arrived in our W.Q. town
to be united in the bonds of wedlock.
Unfortunately, the Bush Brother was
away on a three weeks’ visit to his outer
suburbs, so the Registrar—in this case,
the local C.P.S.—was sought out, and
agreed to tie the official knots, as the.
prospective Benedicts had to get back for
the mustering. After the ceremony came
the festivities. The local court was busy
next day, the duties of the magistrate
(the same C.P.S.) including the meting
out of punishment to several victims of
insobriety who had spent the night in the
lockup, among them the four bride-
grooms.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Ancient tinned tucker?
Sardines have been found quite fit for
consumption after 25 years’ storage in the
depot on the Kerguelens, and Dr. Char-
cot, the Arctic explorer, once opened
three tins of beef in the Jan Mayen
depot and found them sound and tooth-
some after 20 years’ incarceration. Of
course, even tinned food lasts better in
the frigid zones than in the tropics.
“Der Jong”: In the matter of ancient
preserved meats let me recommend the
South African biltong. In the long ago
writer often came across specimens that
looked like lichen-covered sticks, yet in-
side the crusted covering they were as
sweet and succulent as when made some
years before. So rough does old biltong
look that neophytes are apt to be de-
ceived by appearances. There was a
Boer War legend of a lost Yeomanry
“ Listen , Martha. George has brought a boy friend along and Wants me
to get another girl to make a foursome."
patrol rescued at an abandoned farm in a
starving condition. They explained that
they had also nearly perished with the
cold, the heap of sticks found in the cabin
having refused to burn and smelling hor-
ribly when attempts were made to light
it. Investigation showed that the “wood”
was well-matured biltong, while some
cakes the Yeos found to be absolutely
unsatisfactory as diet consisted of the
fuel called mest, made of mixed cowdung
and clay.
“Alpha”: “Fi. Fa.” (B. 16/6/’37) is a
bit hasty in bestowing the title of
“Doctor” indiscriminately on medical
practitioners. In most Australian uni-
versities the degrees conferred are
Bachelor of Medicine and Master of Sur-
gery, neither of which entitles its posses-
sor to be called “Doctor,” except by
courtesy. Edinburgh and other British
medical schools are more inclined to
utilise the degree of Doctor of Medicine ;
the habit of addressing medicoes in that
fashion grew up in the days when most
of our Galens were imported. America
gives a doctorate in dentistry, to acquire
which many local tooth-pullers have
found it worth while going to the States.
* * * *
“Clio”: Mention of the Adelaide
family band that sang the. Springboks a
song of home (B. 16/6/’37) recalls an ex-
pedient of two French damsels resident
in an Australian town through which
General Pau was due to pass on his post-
war tour of Australia. Knowing they
would otherwise have no chance of meet-
ing the famous soldier, the. girls, born
and bred in Noumea, collected a few
relatives, plus a half-dozen young Aus-
tralians who could speak a little French,
and rehearsed diligently an item not on
the official programme. The General and
suite arrived at the railway station, where
a huge crowd had collected to do them
honor, the usual speeches had been made
and people were preparing to move off
when from a little group outside the bar-
rier arose the strains of “La Madelon.”
It worked admirably; in less than no
time an enthusiastic General and staff
were greeting the young Noumeans in
what the local paper described next day
as “an entirely unexpected and delightful
ending to the usual staid official recep-
tion.”
“Caroo”: The song “Sarie Marais,”
said to have a strong appeal for South
Africans, tells the story of a young fight-
ing man in one of the Boer commandos
who is captured by the British and sent
to a prison camp overseas. He longs to
return to Sarie Marais “in the mealies
by the green tree” somewhere in the
Transvaal. Mrs. Ella de Wet, wife of
Justice de Wet, of the Transvaal Supreme
Court, wrote the words in 1915. She
remembered a tune she heard the com-
mandos singing round their campfires
during the Boer War, an old American
negro melody called “Ella Rhee,”
though her effort did not follow that
closely. Some music-lovers have it that
“Sarie Marais” resembles a duet in the
Mozart opera “Don Giovanni.” The first
printed copy appeared in 1920, largely as
a result of General Smuts’s appreciation.
* * * *
“Heresone”: I don’t know whether
blue eyes are a protection against sea-
sickness (B. 26/5/’37), but a rifle club
devotee and firearm expert once told me
that an aspiring marksman is simply
wasting his time unless his eyes are blue,
the paler the better. I thought he might
be merely seeking a new member or cus-
tomer, but several good shots I have
since known seem to support his state-
ment.
* * * *
“Boulevardier”: Australian press in-
accuracies regarding the Spanish trouble
are not confined to “war news.” Mel-
bourne “Sun-Pictorial” recently printed
a picture of the Avenue de l’Opera, Paris,
with the sumptuous Opera House in full
view at the end, and labelled it “one of
the. main streets in Bilbao”!
t- * ' * *
“Fillatilist”: The commercial instincts
of the Empire do seem to be slipping.
With Tristan da Cunha in the threes of
a severe depression, owing to a total lack
“You know what you have to do besides being my secretary ”-
“M-i-s-t-e-r Smithers ”-
“Feed the canary !”
of revenue, somebody might have re-
membered that South American repub-
lics obtain a heap of revenue by re-
peated new issues of stamps. A full set
of Tristans —surely the one definite
entity in the world without a post office
and a stamp —would have a rare attrac-
tion for philatelists.
* * * =f
“Say 99”: I can’t endorse ’’Wog's”
opinion that we should all be inoculated
against typhoid fever (B. 9/6/’37). I’d
much prefer an injection to protect me
against housemaid’s knee. Twenty-odd
years ago when I
was a student at a
big Sydney hospital,
and later still a resi-
dent and an honor-
ary medical officer,
the wards, round
about Christmas-
time, were always
bulging with cases of
typhoid. You could
pick them at a glance
—d u 11, babbling,
brown .- tongued,
picking at the bed-
clothes. And you
could smell a
typhoid six feet
away. We saw them
in dozens. To-day,
most students get
their degrees without
examining a single
case of the fever;
the thing has simply
faded out. Last year
only 63 people died
of typhoid and para-
typhoid (its evil
cousin) in the whole
Commonwealth. But
pneumonic ’flu was responsible for 871
deaths, and diphtheria for 412. What we.
need to get busy on is not typhoid but
diphtheria inoculation.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: After nearly 20 years
battling around the W.A. goldfields, dur-
ing which I thought that I’d seen all pos-
sible methods of stealing gold, I took a
job as furnaceman in a foundry. In
a big heap of scrap metal, brought down
from the mines, were dozens of steel
“false bottoms” out of stamper boxes.
Everyone of them carried a deep screw
hole, ostensibly for the inserting of an
eyebolt to facilitate removal and replace-
ment, and every hole of them was chock-
full of solid amalgam. Obviously a
scheme of some slick gent, who probably
planned to ultimately buy up that scrap-
heap. Just how he missed would be in-
teresting to know. The amalgam turned
up nearly £5OO worth of smelted gold.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Mr. Hanlon, Queens-
land’s Minister for Health and Home
Affairs, is proving that the old pioneer
spirit is not yet dead among Queensland
legislators. An admiring press announced
recently that he had “nearly” spent a
night in an “open boat” at the entrance
of the “isolated and crocodile-infested”
Albert River. Only Mr. Hanlon’s
prescient resourcefulness in having
bought an electric torch at Burketown,
with which he signalled to a passing
launch, saved the party from peril. I
once spent a night in an open boat on
that river with a much weightier Queens-
land politician than Mr. Hanlon, the late
“Kuropatkin” Billy Murphy ; but we had
no electric torch and no passing launched
to signal. It is croc.-infested all right
Every time one of the brutes bellowed
Billy would remark lugubriously, “It’s all
right for you herring-gutted cows, but
there’s 17 stone of good fat meat in me!”
* * * *
“Twenty-seven”: Every now and then
the East brings something out of its bag
of tricks to remind us of its ancient
glamor, and now the Mesopotamian rose
is once more entrancing horticulturists.
Resembling the hollyhock, this flower
starts the day with a virgin-white ap-
pearance ; during the afternoon it turns
pink ; when darkness comes it is a deep
crimson. Does any of our Australian
flora show this reaction to the light?
* * * *
“Carolus”: I have been reading some
interesting genealogy, for which I am
indebted to “The Legitimist Jacobite
League” (M.L.), which explains why
Prince Rupert of Bavaria is regarded bv
descendants of Stuart partisans as the
rightful King of Great Britain, even 252
years after James 11. bolted from his
throne. The direct line of succes-
sion faded out after the Old Pre-
tender and the Young Pretender had
shot their bolts and the latter’s brother,
a cardinal, had naturally died childless.
That brings us to 1807, when the Jaco-
bites had to go back a long way to find
a shoot from the defunct line. They dug
one up in Charles IV., King of Sardinia,
the great-great-great-grandson of our
Charles I. The Sardinian monarch was
succeeded by his brother Victor, and
then by his niece Mary, after which the
House of Sardinia disappears from the
record and the House of Modena comes
in. Mary’s son Francis was Duke of
Modena, and his niece Mary succeeded
him in the dukedom or duchessdom. It
is her eldest son who is now Prince
Rupert of Bavaria, though whether he
gives any encouragement to the conten-
tion that* he ought to have been crowned
in Westminster Abbey instead of George
VI. is not divulged.
(Continued on page 50.)
CANBERRA—AND THE ’LOO.
“I have been present in Parliament House, Can-
berra, when Ministers of the Crown have used
epithets which would be more in keeping with a
Woolioomooloo hotel.”. —Letter to “S. M. Herald.”
You must honor our legislative dons,
Same as your fathers have done before you,
Along with Judges and Beaks and Johns
And all those set in authority o’er you.
In a lowly and reverent frame of mind
You should always render them their due;
But such veneration comes hard, too right,
When you hear them talking as navvies might
In a third-class pub at Woolloomooloo.
They’re all our betters, the land who rule;
‘Twixt them and us is a deep abysm,
As you must have gathered in Sunday school,
Or wherever you studied your catechism.
But it well may come as a bit of a shock,
When you’re sitting a censure motion through,
To hear such adjectives, stark and sheer,
A man would hardly have thought to hear
In a rub-a-dub at Woolloomooloo.
We gibe at statesmen who strut our stage,
A national habit that wakes to frenzies,
Not old campaigners like Hughes or Page,
But passionate paladins like Menzies.
And I know our tribunes should have respect,
Whether or not they earn their screw,
But it jars when you hear in the halls of State
And the swirling maelstrom of high debate
Terms even a Bung might deprecate
In a dingy bar at Woolloomooloo.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m
K
10/w9 d
20/orl'G.
WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVENA
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
THE
CTH33
TIPPED CIGARETTE
THIS GENERATION
df
POLITICAL POINTS
A “special representative” at Can-
berra declares that Lyons will “lead the
Government at the general election, but
will retire before the term of the next
Parliament runs out.” If State-election
and marketing-referendum voting is re-
peated in Wilmot, he will retire before
the term of the next Parliament begins..
The book-censorship “problem,” which
is no problem in other countries, there
being no book censorship, has been
“solved” by the appointment of another
board. Should a hundred other prob-
lems crop up, the same “solution” is
available at the same address.
Attorney-General Menzies finds it
“curious that one should have to talk
defensively of the Government, because
it has an amazing record.” That’s just the
trouble. Kisch, Mrs. Freer, James, mar-
keting referendum, book censorship, air-
mail contract, American ’plane contract,
“sanctions,” trade wars (2), H.M.A.S.
Larrakia and the anti-Communist fiasco
—a truly amazing record.
“Archbishop Mannix will receive
warm encouragement and active support
in his campaign against Communism.”
The “Argus” published it —the “Argus,”
which 20 years ago suggested that the
Archbishop should receive warm en-
couragement to leave the country and
be actively supported into the first war-
ship bound for Cork, and which has
been at him in hundreds of articles and
paragraphs since. After this, “S. M.
Herald” may some day warmly encour-
age Stevens and Lang to form a coalition.
From Somewhere-on-the-High-Seas,
Premier Dunstan sent word that he was
gratified at the L.C. election results. Ten
to one his gratification is a pale re-
flection of the. thankfulness that suffuses
his being when he remembers that he
was going to stand for Federal Bendigo
and thought better of it. Oh L.C. voting
he would have finished a rather poor
third in a field of three.
At last, a commonsense pronounce-
ment on foreign policy by a responsible
Australian politician!
Australia has neither the capacity nor the
resources to act as a police force or a
salvage corps in Europe. The best contri-
bution Australia can render to the peace of
the world is to look after the Australian
people and give no provocation to other
countries. Australia could not save Abys-
sinia, it cannot change the situation in
Germany and Italy, and it is not in a posi-
tion now to adjust the situation in Spain.
The responsible Australian politician is
John Curtin. More will be heard of
him.
Parkhill’s newspaper friends assert,
with tedious repetition in headlines, that
he has “done everything in London that
he went to London to do.” What a
fuss about nothing!
With pre-selection’s artful aid, a queer
shuffle has been worked in S.A. At the
usual hole-and-corner ballot Senator
Badman, who received 161,688 suffrages
at the 1931 election, was voted off the
Senate ticket, and Mcßride, the member
for Grey, was voted on. When Bad-
man’s anger had spent itself he decided
that the Grey nomination was the next-
best thing, and got it at another hole-
and-corner ballot. He is known in Grey,
having been beaten there eight years ago,
by 6425 in a poll of 33,315, by Labor-
man Lacey, who was unseated by
Mcßride. He will be reminded of it
often during the next campaign.
The Inter-State Commission, when (or
if) revived, is to have a chairman at
£2500 a year and two members at
£2OOO apiece. One must be a legal man,
but the others may be politicians. It is
expected that a seat will be kept warm
for a politician who doesn’t want to stand
next October, and for another who may
fall.
Replying to a critic who had said that
the U.A.P.’s unpopularity is growing
“because it persists in adhering to
methods by which many hopeless duds
become candidates,” Russell, M.L.A.,
assured all and sundry that Queensland
is different:
Under the Queensland U.A.P. Consti-
tution the party executive is vested with
powers of veto.
In other words, the executive can turn a
man down merely because it doesn’t like
the cut of his jib.
In two years, according to Queensland
Opposition-leader Maher, taxable in-
comes of canegrowers slumped from
£1,308,000 to £534,000, and numbei
ANOTHER IMPENDING ECLIPSE.
“Exceptionally good photographs of the recent solar eclipse were taken by a scientific
expedition.”
of growers paying income tax from 3015
*? 1 . 231 .' The ? lu ™P coincided with a
steady increase in the proportion or the
sugar output exported ; during ten years
to 1936 that proportion rose from 29
p. c . to 54 p.c. Maher says the growers
will gain nothing from the new export
quota of 400,000 tons. The position is
rough on many of them, but it is idle to
talk of bumping up the retail price,
Ministry and Opposition might like to
oblige, but neither would dare.
Tummas Paterson has had to admit
that, while he was keeping Mrs. Freer
out of Australia, he was letting a Chinese
lawbreaker stay in. The Chinese sneaked
into the country in 1921, but before he
was found to be an illegal immigrant
he had made a good name at Condo-
bolin (N.S.W.), where he “at times pro-
vided poor people with free vegetables.”
There are no doubt millions of Asiatics
equally charitable who would be willing
to come to Australia on the same terms.
Tummas is a world’s wonder at estab-
lishing rotten precedents.
People who have to import raw
material are. to catch it because Westra-
lian Farmers forced a reduction of the
freight-rate on wool; carriage of their
lines is to be dearer by 10 p.c. in some
cases. Australia is alleged to derive all
manner of benefits from the annual
exodus of politicians and mandarins. The
new rates were decided upon while a
horde of these persons was in London —
evidently in utter contempt of their pres-
ence and influence.
The lost Banking Commission has been
tracked down at last, and is to report
next month —or it may be next year.
Estimated cost exceeds £19,000. Nineteen
thousand for a report that scarcely any-
body but cranks will read, and all to
keep cranks quiet and flatter a newspaper
which fondly believes that it has some
influence! It ought now to be made an
offence to appoint a royal commission;
penalty, forfeiture of a year’s salary by
every party to the crime.
H. A. Bell, chairman of the Melbourne
Tramway Board, has no use for the
trolley-bus. He calls it “a nondescript
vehicle —neither a good tram nor a good
bus: as route-bound as a tram, expensive
to buy and expensive to run.” Yet three
State Governments (S A„ N.S.W. and
W A.) are putting he things on the roads
and will multiply them unless restrained.
In every transport change defence possi-
bilities should now be considered. In
the dark days of 1918 buses carried
Diggers to where they were sorely
needed. That trolley-buses can never do.
Tired of paying a Harbor Bridge tax
from which residents without cars re-
ceive no benefit—and residents with cars
are stung for an excessive toll—people in
Sydney’s North Shore suburbs are de-
manding the right to ride across the
bridge in buses. Hitherto they have had
to struggle for room in trams which, at
peak periods, can’t carry them without
inordinate delays. Their councils and
local members have presented an ulti-
matum to Stevens, who has undertaken
to “call for a full report.” This means
that buses will be running over the bridge
in a few weeks. When a politician prom-
ises to “call for a full report,” he is
already barking his shins coming down.
U.A.P. chairman Sydney Snow has dis-
covered that “before the depression
£25,000,000 of borrowed money was re-
ceived in Australia from Britain every
year,” and hopes that “this sort of bor-
rowing will not be renewed.” Actually
goods were borrowed rather than money,
and “this sort of borrowing” has been
renewed —by the U.A.P. chairman’s tin-
god Stevens in the form of a £2,000,000
“Water Board” loan. Apparently Stevens
tells Snow no more than he considers it
good for Snow to know.
At the last U.A.P. conference Sydney
Snow said it desolated him to think there
were people so one-sided, so ulcerated
with party bias, so incapable of recog-
nising statesmanship when masses of it
loomed up before them (or words to that
effect) as to sneer “Join the U.A.P. and
see the world!”
The visits of Ministers to Britain repay
Australia a hundredfold. There is a tre-
mendous amount of work to be done at
the vitally important conferences.
Well, the conference that dwarfs all
the rest is over at last. The debates
were spread over five weeks. A London
newspaper’s verdict is “Little attempted,
nothing done.”
To make, sure of getting its ticket
printed first on Senate ballot-papers,
N.S.W. Labor picked four more or less
obscure A-men. Now the other side is
bringing in a bill to do away with the
alphabetical method. The Labs, deserve
it for being stupid enough to believe that
any considerable number of electors
would give A-men the preference
merely because they are A-men. There is
nothing in the history of Senate elections
to warrant the supposition that electors
are such imbeciles, nor in the present
composition of the Chamber, which has
only one elected A-Senator.
H. H. Mason, the K.C. who is challeng-
ing the U.A.P.’s bob-a-nob ballot system
in Woollahra (N.S.W.), says' he is making
“election or pre-selection” the one issue.
Brother K.Cs. Richard Windeyer and
P. C. Spender are helping him, and
Spender is manufacturing slogans, one
being “A bob in lets a blob in.” Granny
“Herald” views the challenge with alarm.
The whole question of party discipline,
the very theory of Parliamentary Govern-
ment, is involved.
A more frightful thought still —if pre-
selection goes what will happen to Park-
hill?
Menzies has “explained” why he
dropped his cases against the Com-
munist party and the Friends of the
Soviet. His “explanation” is that the
writs were retaliatory, the. Friends hav-
ing started the war, and that when he
looked into the Crimes Act section bear-
ing on such cases he didn’t care for it;
accordingly he arranged a settlement with
Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R. The “ex-
planation” leaves a lot of things unex-
plained—who paid the costs, for one
thing—but some people may find it
satisfactory. Some people are easy to
please.
Sydney “Worker” has some fierce con-
tributors. One, moralising on assassina-
tions, and repeating the “capitalist”-press
story that Carlo Roselli was “Mussolini’s
greatest enemy,” remarks that “in the long
run assassinations may serve to get rid of
an egotist who considers himself greater
than the whole of the people of his.
country.” Another warmly approves of
the bombing of the Deutchsland and is
positive that the Non-Intervention Com-
mittee. was set up “to strangle the demo-
cratic government”:
The war in Spain has been allowed to
drag on much too long. It is time the
murderous Fascist savages were wiped out.
Yve must get together and help to
bring a speedy victory for our heroic
brother democrats in Spain.
He “signs his name to it”—“W. Daft.”


GUARDING THE NORTHERN GATE.


5 YEARS’
GUARANTEI
“INVINCIBLE”
SINCE
1906
r?
INVINCIBLE
MARINE
ENGINES.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Kt vn Belvedere
Belvedere i>s-i Belvedere
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital • Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Playwright and novelist James Barrie
has gone on the “awfully great adven-
ture.” The original of his immortal
“Peter Pan” —Peter Davies, now a
London publisher—was at the bedside
when he died. One of the most beloved
of British men of letters, Barrie was born
at Kirriemuir, Forfarshire, 77 years ago
and he made that town immortal, too,
as “Thrums.” Knighted in 1913, he was
one of the three literary men who have
been given the exclusive Order of Merit,
Thomas Hardy and John Masefield
being the others. His passion, away from
the pen, was cricket, and he rarely failed
to entertain Australian elevens on their
tours of England. The tragedy of
Barrie’s life was the defection of his
wife, whom he long ago divorced. Some
of his characters revealed his love for her,
and there was no other woman in his life.
Though she remarried, he maintained a
friendly correspondence with her. She
journeyed to London to be near him at
the end.
Police, press, Parliament and punters
alike are awaiting with interest the
Writes S.P. Reports.
second report of Judge H. F. Markell in
the. long-distance inquiry into s.p. betting
in N.S.W., though it is hardly likely to
prove the same heavy bombshell as the
first. Markell is nothing if not forth-
right in his opinions, but divested of his
wig he placidly contents himself among
his orchids. He has been on the Bench
only two years, but served the. usual
apprenticeship as acting-J.
Colonel James Michael Semmens,
gone west at 69, went overseas in com-
mand of the 6th Batt. in 1914, and on
his return was in charge of the military
camp at Seymour (Vic.). His biggest
job was the chairmanship of the Repat.
Commission, which he took over from
its beginning in 1920 and retained for
15 years. To readjust thousands of
returned men to civilian life was one of
the most difficult tasks that could be
given to any man, but Semmens did it
well. He once took an Australian rifle
team to Bisley, and as vice-president of
the Victorian Rowing Assoc, generally
took charge of the Henley-on-Yarra
regattas.
One of the results of Lord Nuffield’s
gifts to Oxford University has been the
establishment there of a Professorship of
Anesthetics, and this has been awarded
to Dr. R. R. Macintosh, a native of
Timaru (M.L.). The job carries the tidy
salary of £2500 a year, and is another
plum to be picked from the British tree
by one from the Southern Hemisphere.
Macintosh took his F.R.C.S. at Edin-
burgh, and has specialised in anaesthetics
in London for several years.
Another Australian doing distin-
guished work overseas, at present on a
visit to his birthplace, Brisbane, is R. W.
St. G. Caulfield, designer and engineer
in charge of Singapore’s new million-
pound airport. The fact that the only
available site for the Singapore job was
a swamp full of crocodiles made it
peculiarly difficult. A hill four miles
away was cut down, seven million cubic
yards of filling dumped into 300 acres of
the quagmire, and a river diverted to
prevent flooding. Malaria-mosquito-
breeding pools had to be drained or
filled up, pythons killed and the croco-
diles fenced off from the landing-ground
with a spiked iron railing. A mile-long
channel is provided for the flying boats
to land and take off, marked off by
booms and kept permanently clear of
native craft. Another of the Caulfield
undertakings was the new Cameron
Highlands hill station for Kuala Lumpur,
costing £2,000,000.
Young Australian scientist Fred Mc-
Carthy is being sent by the Museum at
Sydney to join the expedition of Dr. P.
J. Van Stein Callenfels, a distinguished
Hollander, which will dig up remnants
of the Stone Age in the Celebes. Mc-
Carthy has spent some years studying
the early relationship between the abori-
gines of Australia, New Guinea and the
Melanesian islands, and this trip will
enable him to extend those studies west-
wards. He will then examine museum
methods in Java until the conference of
Prehistorians in Singapore next January.
Clement Hosking, Australia’s foremost
authority on folk-singing and possessor
of one of the largest repertoires in the
world of these songs, is shortly off to
the Outer Hebrides to collect folklore
on its native heath. He will also give
recitals in Britain and on the Continent.
Adelaide-born, he threw up a librarian’s)
job at Euterpe’s call. The Great War
interrupted his musical studies, and he)
returned to continue under Signor Caci-'
alii and Count Filipini. A former musi-!
cal director of 2GB, he came under the
influence of traditional music, and
founded the Sydney Folk Song Choir,
which met with instantaneous success.
This choir will give its energetic founder
a farewell at the Sydney Con. on July 1,
and musical Sydney will pay tribute to
a sound musician and a good fellow.
Melbourne Jewry has brought to the
southern city a cantor of exceptional
grade in Rev. L. Lubin, who in London
created the Hazomir Choir, a remark-
able musical organisation which he pro-
poses to copy in Melbourne. The cantor
is an important synagogue official; some
command a five-figure salary. The new-
comer is carrying on the main ministerial
duties, pending the arrival of a new
rabbi, Rabbi I. Brodie having departed
to take up duty as Chief Rabbi of
Ireland.
Tom Welsby, now of Amity Point
(Q.), doyen of Moreton Bay yachtsmen,
keen fisherman, old Rugby Union
player, historian and good fellow always,
looks good for a century. Ipswich-born,
he started at 16 in the Bank of N.S.W.
under E. Denny Day as manager, and
later became, as chairman of the Royal
Bank of Queensland, the boss of his first
chief, who had meanwhile transferred as
manager to the Royal. Welsby brought
into existence in 1882 the old Brisbane
Gym., and later formed the Amateur
Boxing Assoc, of Q. A 3000-vol. library,
including his first-bought book, saved up
for at the age of ten ( Gulliver’s Travels ),
a private museum, a boat and occasional
visits to Brisbane round off the activities
of a full life.
The death of Dudley Eglinton in Bris-
bane at 86 whittles away another of the
scholarly old Queensland scientists who
deserved a wider field. Tall, lean, upright
and absent-minded, Eglinton in his hey-
day kept a school in Brisbane and later
was secretary of the School of Arts.
Astronomy was his passion, and he be-
came one of its martyrs, as continual use
of inadequate telescopes sent him blind,
though not before his work had made
him a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical
Soc. Eglinton had close literary asso-
ciations. His second wife was the widow
of “Halek” Nicholson, and his sister
married Essex Evans.
Radio in Maoriland lost one of its
pioneers by the death of E. A: Shrimp-
ton, chief telegraph engineer of the Post
and Telegraph Department between 1918
and 1926. He framed the first set of
radio regulations in M.L, after the war —
the national broadcast regulations have
developed from them—and with his son
he operated one of the. first short-wave
transmitters in the Dominion, achieving
international reputation by his technical
brilliance. Telephone, telegraph and
cable services in Maoriland were all
greatly improved by him.
Ipswich (Q.) Show this year marked
an association with its patron, Harry
Cribb, which has existed for more than
half a century. As the boss of Cribb
and Foote, Harry Cribb may claim to be
in command of the oldest-established
firm “north of twenty-eight.” The house
throughout its history has been under the
control of the Cribb clan. In the days
before yesterday, Harry Cribb played
polo and football for his State and, wear-
ing the pink, tally-ho’d with the long-ex-
tinct Brisbane Hunt Club. He had his
threescore-and-ten party a few years ago.
When the president’s chair in the
Strathfieldsaye (Vic.) shire council be-
came vacant owing to the death of H.
Keck, M.L.C., his fellow-councillors
elected T. Somerville, who had been
there six times before. He has had 50
years’ continuous service as a councillor,
which must be close to a record.
When Vulcan and Matupi were pour-
ing their hot rain of pumice over Rabaul
G.M. of Amalgamated Wireless.
some quick thinking was called for at
the Sydney end of the wireless service,
and this was the job of Lionel Hooke,
g.m. of Amalgamated Wireless, pictured
here by Lusby. Now in the early forties,
Hooke has been South Polar-wards with
Shackleton, an officer in submarine
chasers and a pilot in the air force during
the war. He joined up with Amal-
gamated in 1913.
A big figure in N.S.W. local govern-
ment is Andrew Campbell, the genial
Aberdonian engineer who visited Aus-
tralia in boats for 10 years before he
Authority on Water.
decided in 1912 to anchor. Within a few
years he was an alderman at Leichhardt,
and has been mayor for eight years.
Elected as a metropolitan member of the
Water Board in 1930, his technical know-
ledge has been of great value; to brush
it up he undertook a world tour, from
which he recently returned with know-
ledge of the latest technique in sewerage
disposal, slum clearance, water and elec-
tricity supply and suchlike basic services.
Alfred Alexander, who passed on at
Cairns (Q.) the other day, was a teacher
of woodwork some 12 years ago at the
Launceston Technical College when a
student asked him how tennis racquets
were made. To answer the student he
studied the matter himself, and dis-
covered a method of laminating the wood
for the frames which is now covered by
world patents, his first workshop on the
corner of the verandah of his home ex-
panding into a substantial industry.
“7346” on a crisis:
Frank Young, King of the Wool Business (B.
16/6/’37), would not remember me, but I re-
member him and in a kindly way. Round about
1910 Young was g.m. of Co-operative (now
Commonwealth) Wool and Produce Co. at Syd-
ney, and I was one of his office boys at 7s. 6d.
per week —office boys were then cheap but
sincere. It happened that I knew another lan-
guage, so I got a job with a foreign wool-
buyer at a more remunerative salary. Having
been decently brought up I did the decent thing
by Frank. I took the unprecedented action of
knocking on the great man’s door and breaking
to him the dire news. He took it pretty well.
I can still remember his twinkle —then, of
course, lost upon me—and his simulated dis-
tress at the bombshell I had hurled. It seemed
that the firm might in consequence be forced
to close its doors at an early date. Well,
well ... he deeply regretted my decision . . .
its suddenness was the distressing feature. He
doubted his chance of replacing my services
at such a busy time. I, too, seriously sympa-
thised with his predicament and privately won-
dered how the firm would be able to carry on
without me. He coiild have put his head out
of the office window into Spring-street and
whistled up 50 office boys, but he was ever a
diplomat, even in such a crisis, and that is
probably why the firm still chugs along in spite
i ne fact that I left it in mid-air 27 years
ago.


TARZAN’S GRIP
THE UNIVERSAL FIXER.
'MS*"
4
MENDS
ANYTHING!
a,!*
h %
ra
1/- per tube.
Slightly higher
country
centres.
sd
THE UNIVERSAL FIXER
An adhesive compound ready for immediate use. No heat—
no flux—no soldering—no tools required. Superior to glue,
gums, pastes and cements for mending and fixing furniture,
light fixtures, picture-frames, auto parts, trunks, handbags,
jewellery, books, radios, toys, spectacles, sporting goods,
kitchenware, steam and water piping, etc., etc.
Joins together wood, ivory, bakelite, rubber,
leather, fabric, china, porcelain, glass to other
materials and a host of materials of like and
unlike composition.
Nothing holds like Tarzan’s Grip!
X
TO
V
'V
AS
TARZAN
v_
E*SHYN E
: /ll\\ s ' / 'ii\\' n' v '
POLISHING PAD
A PRODUCT OF TARZAN'S GRIP MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.
Here is a strange new chemical enclosed
for your convenience in a long-wearing
polishing pad. It cleans windows, mirrors,
sinks and baths so much easier, and
polishes any smooth surface bright as
new! No rubbing—no scrubbing—no
tired muscles.
©
1/- per pad.
Slightly higher
country
centres.
■py,
©
,j XT'. P ° U,Sl f^OpA^
■oV'* . o«l »Ho
_»<?* ‘Will
\ f tfr-du
v:
Not
? r '*Nt
«»ll
C-oata
r\ish
KoH a
"'frul!
A Tarzan Speed-E-Shyne Polishing Pad is a necessity for the
speedy and easy cleaning and polishing of silverware, porcelain,
china, enamelware, glassware, woodwork and the chromium,
nickel, aluminium and silvered parts of automobiles. Also a
wonderful time-saver ir» the cleaning of all white shoes and
sandshoes.
Obtainable at Grocers, Garages, Hardware
Stores and Leading Emporiums Everywhere.
Products of
TARZAN’S GRIP Mfg. Co. Ltd
'Phone: J 5440
449-453 Willoughby Rd., Willoughby, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Convenient and simple cleaning!—-just
damp the pad, then knead it with the
fingers until the cleansing liquid shows
through. Rub the pad over the surface
to be cleaned. Before the preparation has
time to dry rub it off with a clean, d r y
cloth.
SnONOSIOd'ftIONj
li/V
DURALASTIC
ZINC PAINT
Non-poisonous Made in 26 Durable Colors .
This household paint is manufactured by
modern methods, finely ground in powerful mills to
perfect smoothness, giving maximum covering power and
an evenness of color —flowing freely from the brush, it is
a pleasure to work with.
NO BETTER PAINT
IS MADE AT
THIS PRICE
Sold by all Paint Dealers in
City and Suburbs.
Queensland:
Crouch, Connah & Gordon Pty.,
Ltd., Brisbane.
A genuine Zinc Paint made with Pure
Linseed Oil and Specially-tested Pigments,
suitable for interior or exterior use.
Harbutt
Paint
Pty., Ltd.
18'-
PER GALLON
Godfrey and O’Riordan Streets,
Alexandria, Sydney.
Western Australia:
J. H. Wilberforce & Co., Perth.


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Gambrel”: To the collection of odd-
ments found inside slaughtered cattle,
Nambour(Q.) contributes an 18-carat
gold ring set with stones. Nambour
cattle seem to run to jewellery, as
brooches, earrings and a silver watch are
already recorded from the same
slaughterhouse. One ambitious cow was
found to contain the head and neck of
a broken beer bottle, but the effort of
digestion had placed her under suspicion
of being a t.b. victim. Shoe-buckles,
spoons, a wedding ring, a pipe, two
metal matchboxes, a baby’s coral, the
head of a hammer and a tin-opener are
among my own discoveries in this
hitherto neglected field of industrial re-
search. A friend of mine has a Japanese
stone god of good luck similarly re-
covered. Yet they tell us that cattle are
purely herbivorous animals.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad, driving home from the
township, saw his young hopeful Bill and
Jimmy Lynch fighting in a corner of
Hogan’s bull paddock. He pulled up
and watched the contest interestedly until
the young horse he was driving became
fidgety and he decided to drive on. At
tea that evening he remarked to young
Bill, “I seen you and young Jimmy Lynch
at it this afternoon. Who won?”
“Neither of us,” said Bill. “We called
it a draw.” “Yorter had a referee,” sug-
gested Dad, “or a coupla seconds t’ see
fair play.” Bill grinned through his
bruises. “We had a coupla seconds, all
right, Dad,” he said. “Hogan’s bull saw
to that. One t’ Jim t’ git over th’ fence,
an’ one t’ me t’ get under it.”
* * * *
“Spare Izaac”: At South Molle Island
(N.Q.) one night I thought I’d try an-
other kind of fishing: I was sick of sit-
ting with a vacant look on my face and
a bit of string in my fingers. It was
glass-calm, not a breath of wind, and the
bay was full of mullet. I took the dinghy
out to the edge of the reef, rigged a bit
of a tripod about three feet high in it,
hung a lighted hurricane lamp from that
tower, anchored the dinghy, rowed ashore
in another and waited till an hour or
two after sunset. I could hear con-
tinuous splashing out where the boat lay,
and I knew the mullet were playing the
part of moths about a light. It was just
as well I rowed out when I did or I
wouldn’t have got a fish —the weight of
those that had jumped at the light would
have swamped the boat.
* * *
“Dungeness”: Quite right (B. 2/6/’37)
about the manly virtues and entire de-
cency of that half-caste family on Yorke
Island, but the founder was neither a
Yankee —although his nickname was
Yankee Ned —nor a deserter. Nor did he
take “many wives of the people.” Nor
did he die of a stonefish sting. A Cana-
dian by birth, he served in many British
ships, came to Thursday Island from
Brisbane as mate of a new schooner,
and settled on .Yorke as a pearler. His
wife was a Yorke Island woman of
strong character —not the sort to stand
anything in the way of harem member-
ship ; and, anyhow, her lord was an
excellent husband and father. He made
thousands a year for a long time, spend-
ing it largely on his island dependants
and family, with occasional royal
benders in Thursday Island. A coral
cut led to the amputation of one of his
legs, and, although he lived for years
later, the injured limb was the eventual
cause of his ending.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: I’ll back wombat skin to
outlast anything in the. leather line. A
timber-worker mate of mine has been
using a wombat-skin apron for 15 years.
Despite the rough work it gets, there’s
not a mark on it, and constant use has
given it a polish that would delight the
heart of a guardsman. It’s as hard as
a sheet of boiler-plate, and only slightly
more pliable. That’s the catch with
Wombat’s overcoat —there seems to be
no really efficient method of tanning it.
* * * *
“Palencia Creek”: While on the sub-
ject of rattler-jumpers, I’d nominate
those of N.Q. as the most adept at the
art. In summer many of them adopt
one of the large towns as a temporary
homeland they think nothing of jump-
ing a goods train to a town a couple of
hundred miles away just to attend some
picture show where the manager is
lenient to deadheads. One rattler expert,
who had chosen the Mackay relief shed
as his summer quarters, complained bit-
terly to me about the accommodation
provided on the northern railroads. “I
jumped the ten-thirty goods to Rocky
the other night to see me sheilah,” he
said, “an’ I had to park meself in a
truckful of greasy sheepskins. Bit over
the odds that is, specially when they
tell you that the railways belong to the
travelling public.”
$ if:
“Duggai”: Where is the world’s larg-
est shearing shed? I’ll plump for Tinen-
burra shed, near Cunnamulla (W.Q.). It
is T-shaped, 365 ft. long and 235 ft. across.
Built by James Tyson, it was planned for
100 shearers. Its great roof, standing
out in the open plain, makes it a land-
mark on the air route between Charle-
ville and Cootamundra.
“Saltwater Fellah”: Every large estu-
ary crocodile I have captured has had a
forearm missing. Crocs, have a habit
when fighting of rolling over on to their
backs and grasping an opponent in a
hugging grip. Contests with sharks are
the probable cause of this. A similar
grip is used when attacking horses or
cattle standing in water. When on land
the crocs, use their fangs and hang on
with a bulldog hold, the powerful tail
being used as a lever to drag the victim
alooig. The corpse is towed to deep
water and shoved into the larder. Not
in the bottom of the water, though, for
the carcass would float away; it is
parked in a shelf which has been
scratched out of a steep bank beneath
the surface. For hundreds of years these
must have been used, judging by the
excavations built inwards for as much
as 20 feet.
* * * *
“Cudgerie”: “Jackass” applied to our
kookaburra is misleading to overseas
visitors, to whom the word signifies a
laughing donkey, and the kookaburra did
not get its name because its laugh re-
sembled the shriek of that maligned
quadruped. The bird was first seen in
Port Jackson in 1788 by a member of
La Perouse’s crew, who aptly christened
it “jacasse,” that word being derived
from the French verb “jacasser,” mean-
ing “to gabble.” Strange that Captain
Cook did not record having seen a
kookaburra during his voyages along
these shores.
* #
“Zaroo”: “Flight” (B. 19/5/’37) must
have found only a brolgas’ nest in W.Q.
when he counted 92 on the wing. If he
wants to see their real home he should
go up around Cromarty, on the Towns-
ville-Ayr line. When they take the wing
there they cast a shadow over the land.
* * *
“Walkabout”: “Ellenvale’s” dog (B.
2/6/’37) was only in the novice class
compared with Bullocky Bill’s Bluey. On
delivering a load of wire to a cattle
station on the Flinders (n.-w. Q.) Bill
accepted as part payment a couple of
unbroken steers. Three days after leav-
ing the station on his journey home the
two steers were missing, so, letting Bluey
smell the bows and yokes worn by the
pair, Bill patted him on the head and
said, “Go, fetch ’em! ” Having no time
"Carn, you oughter be driwin' a pram!”
“And you ought to be in it!”
to waste, Bill then yoked up the rest and
went on. Just as he began to make
camp two nights later, Bill heard a yelp
in the distance. It was Bluey all right,
mounted on one of the steers and urging
the other along by twisting its tail in his
teeth. But, as Bullocky Bill often said,
“Bluey was a dawg in a million.”
“H.A.L.”: A* farmer’in the Tatiara
(S.A.) district noticed that one of his
rams was on the warpath, and stopped
to watch. The first object upon which
the ram fixed his attention was the Jersey
bull, grazing quietly with the cows. A
short rush was followed by a resounding
bump, and the bull staggered back, won-
dering what on earth had hit him. The
next charge got the bull fair on the nose,
and with a loud bellow he lumbered off
with his head on one side. The ram
then spotted one of his own kind ; the
other ram seemed willing to make a
scrap of it, and backed off. They both
charged, met squarely and rolled over on
their sides, with legs kicking spasmodi-
cally. By the time the cocky got to them
they were both mutton, each with a
broken neck.
.*' * * *
“Ophir”: Even though snakes aren’t
as thick as they used to be in W.Q.
downs country, a man can find more
than he needs to make him comfortable,
The best time to see them is after a good
rain: if a man then pitches his camp
on a high spot he can depend on sharing
it with a few Blakes. My idea is that
sheep are wiping out the scaled blokes,
There is a noticeable difference between
the snake population on cattle and sheep
stations in the same district. As a snake
Can’t strike through wool, the jumbuck
has them at his mercy. Cattle, having
no such advantage, give Joe a wide berth.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: When referring to the
mopoke as a careless nest-builder (B.
26/5/’37), I take it that “W.P.T.” alludes
to the tawny frogmouth. Actually, the
frogmouth is not the originator of the
well-known cry, which belongs to one of
the owls. The only sound I have heard
from the frogmouth is a low humming
noise very like the human voice, re-
peated monotonously at intervals of
about half a second, and rising slightly
at the end of each note.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: The male koala is cer-
tainly a good scrapper (B. 2/6/’37), but
I can’t have it that he’s a match for the
experienced bush tyke. Only once have
I known an experienced killer to baulk
at attacking a bear. It was a battle-
scarred buck that had been camping in
an ironbark felled for sleepers. When
Bonny gave chase the koala reared up
on his haunches and invited the enemy
to come one. But Bonny wasn’t having
any, and seemed pleased when told to
come behind. Usually the tyke has the
koala by the neck before he has time to
show fight.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: Tell “Hanko” that his
theory that cold-blooded animals are
immune from snake poison (B. 9/6/’37)
had whiskers before he was born. No
snake at present known is immune from
the poison of any of his kind, and this is
true of the goanna referred to and all
other lizards. In the go.’s case his horny
hide is often a protection against the
small fangs of the Australian colubrines,
so it is possible for him to be struck
again and again without harm. Frogs
and other amphibians which are much
more “cold-blooded” than any snake or
lizard are easy victims to snake venom.
* * * *
“Porosus”: Naturalists are agreed
nowadays that the crocodile carries a
tummy fu l of stones (B 2/6/ 37) to help
h ™ digest his tucker. The saurian can-
not chew his food ; that is why he always
buries it m the river mud until t i
rot j en ,. enouBh „ *° P ull t 0 P‘ eces ' Fl f
f“d other small deer are of course, swal-
! owed whole. The flesh of bigger prey
swallowed m large lumps, and the
s tones, combined with the muscular
act > on of the stomach walls, grind it up.
* * * *
“Cutler”: “Sykes’s ’ account of the
two special lads told off at bulldog fights
to make the belligerents part by pinch-
ing a tender part of • their anatomy
(B. 9/6/’37) “gars me gash,” as they
used to say in Yorkshire. In the first
place, I never heard of bulldogs being
matched in a fight. The tyke specially
bred for that purpose and affectionately
known as the “Sheffield poodle” by the
men who evolved the breed is the bull-
terrier. No need for a retinue of pinchers
to separate the fiercest of the breed,
Make a slipknot of your neckerchief
or your belt, throw it over Holdfast’s
head and tighten. The stoutest dog will
relax his hold before actual death by
strangulation takes place.
CLEARING SALE.
The light spring breezes, passing by, trail faint
blue streamers down the sky,
Where round a wire-and-sapling ring a hundred
pipes are smouldering.
Whips crack, dogs bark, the shouts begin, as
beast by beast is hurried in
And pauses at the crowded rail, wild-eyed
before a clearing sale.
The auctioneer, with brazen voice, stirs sluggish
bidders to their choice:
“A fiver for this well-bred cow! Five-ten!
Six pounds! Don’t lose her now!
Against you, sir! Six —six pound ten!” and
down the hammer falls again.
A daub of red across the tail —another cow’s
gone through the sale.
Upon a trestle in the shed the piles of sand-
wiches are spread;
No matter how the sale may drag, demands on
these will never flag;
For all the pretty girls about have come to help
the neighbor out!
And, somehow, almost every male needs tea
when at a clearing sale.
The cows are sold, the horses done, and now
the crowd can have its fun;
From barn and shed, from house and store,
come tools and odds and ends galore;
No matter if the cows were dear—why, every-
one can come in here.
You’ll never see the bidding fail on “sundries”
at a clearing sale.
The last cow’s marked with blue or red, the
last lot sold, the last man fed,
The whips are cracking, heelers bark, and cars
drone off into the dark.
A clearing sale —a good one, too; but we’ve
still got our cows to do;
And as we milk we seldom fail to wish we’d
had the clearing sale.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“Bull-ant Bill”: There is still some big
timber in Queensland, in spite of the
savage destruction of valuable forests in
the past. A lioop pine felled at the head
of Emu Creek in the Warwick district
was 120 feet high, of which 93ft. cut
into seven logs. The butt log measured
14ft. llin. in circumference, the fourth
13ft. 4in., and the seventh, 10ft. 2in. The
super, content was over 11,000 ft. Ring-
markings on the butt gave the tree an
estimated age of between 400 and 500
years. The height was not remarkable,
but girths of these figures are rare among
hoop pines.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Isisford, on the Barcoo
River in western N.Q., boasts a dog—
nobody’s dog—who lives well on his wits.
With wagging tail and licking tongue he.
makes friends with drover or station-
stand lobbing in town with a cheque.
While the money lasts the dog lives high ;
the benefactor’s cheque cut out, the tyke
immediately looks about for another pro-
vider. He never makes the mistake of
chumming up with a new arrival who is
hroke.
* * * *
“Felis”: Can’t stomach the yarn of
“Buzfuz” (B. 9/6/’37) about fishing cats
carrying off native babies. This breed
of puss is common in parts of Africa
as well as India and Malaya, and lives
entirely on fish, living in reed swamps
“Take a tip from me an buy y'r summer things at the winter sales.”
“Not me. Y' cant do that an keep fash'nable.”
for the purpose of catching them. None
the writer ever saw was bigger than
the ordinary well-developed domestic
Thomas, though there is no doubt about
their ferocity.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The male regent bird stands
high in the beauty class (B. 2/ 6 / ’37), but
hardly equals the golden glory of the
regent honey-eater, which has won itself
a place in English books as one of the
most beautiful of the feathered tribe.
Many colors are mingled in its gorgeous
coat, yellow and black predominating.
From this and its name the lovely nomad
is sometimes confused with the regent
bird, which is a bower-builder and a
scrub-dweller. The honey-eater revels
among the eucalypts. It is also known
as the “flying coachman,” from its ring-
ing note, as it flashes through the
timber. The male is pugnacious, an active
busybody who seems to think that the
bush belongs to him.
* * * *
“Gamma”: Another of those trees
whose roots travel great distances seek-
ing moisture is the thirs-
tree. It is found only in
droughty districts, for it
died out in swamps long
ago through lack of
exercise. Nobody with
a billy of water is safe
half a mile from one,
for the chances are that
it will be. snatched from
him by a sinuous, fero-
cious root; as for water-
carts, the roots follow
them for miles. They
even take the corks out
of waterbags. One night
I put four bottles of beer
that I hadn’t been able
to finish outside the
tent. In the early hours
I was awakened by the
sound of clinking bottles.
I was horror-stricken at
what I saw. There was
a huge root rearing up
out of the ground, its
tentacles around a bottle
which it was trying to
divest of the cap by banging it against
a tentpeg.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: That bad-tempered,
lumbering, cowardly, cow-hocked fraud
the St. Bernard is coming out in his true
colors, according to a recent cable which
related how one had fatally savaged a
small girl and badly bitten her mother
near to the brute’s native Alpine monas-
tery. I’ve seen several cases of unpro-
voked attack by St. Bernards, all on
children, and, notwithstanding the pic-
tures of the brandy-laden, hirsute canine
hero salvaging the frozen wayfarer, I
have my own ideas as to why he did it.
If he ever did, that is. Probably he
tracked him until he was helpless, ate
the poor devil, drank the brandy, slept
the debauch off in the snow, and was
wagging an untruthful tail to the admir-
ing monks next morning. Should any
of the remains be discovered he would
bark at an eagle or chase a chamois in
order to make out that he had seen them
doing it just after the traveller had
mopped up the good brandy.
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: I was creeping on a mob
of ducks in a lagoon, when they became
suspicious and suddenly took the air,
swinging several times up and down the
lagoon. Then out of the. blue shot a
speck which became a falcon, straight
as a bullet into the midst of the mob.
Instantly one of the ducks hurtled earth-
wards. Examining the corpse, I found
“Seein' as you re retirin', Paddy, the boys'd like y' t’ accept a sootable
present .”
that the.skull had been neatly fractured,
apparently by the falcon’s deadly wing-
tip.
* * * *
“Tockilly”: For casual mothercraft the
curlew has the mopoke (B. 26/5/’37)
beaten at the post. She merely lays her
eggs on the ground, usually under a ring-
barked tree from which all the bark has
fallen, and trusts to luck that similarity
of coloring with the bark will keep the
eggs out of the limelight.
* * * *
“Cooie-Bird”: I’ve tried ’roo meat all
ways except raw, but I could never go
it with relish. Apart
from its leanness, there
is a peculiar sweetish
odor about it that I
found nauseous, even
chopped and curried or
in the guise of well-
seasoned mince. I could
manage a helping when
meat - hungry ; but
there was always that
unpleasant odor to
spoil my dinner or
supper. Of the hop-
ping’ family I would
place the handsome
flyer or whiptail first as
tucker. The meat of
this species (it does not
grow to a large size)
has not the objection-
able odor of the grey
or red kangaroo, and
when minced is palat-
able enough to be
eaten by most with a
degree of relish. A
shooter I used to know
would touch no part of
the kangaroo but the
tongue, which he main-
tained was equal to
sheep’s.
“M 8”: Sydney Tech. Museum has at
last got something to replace the anti-
quated jumbuck that served to show what
a merino ram looked like, Old Strath-
aird, one of Dalkeith’s most attractive
sires, having been presented to it. O.S. is
a compeer of the. famous David of Dal-
keith (bought by Austin-Wanganella for
5000 guineas), and will enable students
and others to observe the noble carriage
and rich fleece of a true Australian aris-
tocrat. By the way, it is strange that a
country that could mount a Phar Lap
hasn’t a figure in its national museum to
represent its greatest industry.
* * * *
“Col. B.”: That snake-proofing herb
which “Koolpinyah” (B. 26/ 5/ ’37) seeks
is Jimjamsia bungstarteri, first recorded
by myself. As “K.” mentions, when the
snake bit the goanna both disappeared
instantly, the goanna returning in a short
space of time, the snake remaining in a
disappeared condition. This result was
due to the potent drug contained in Jim-
jamsia. Brought into contact with snake
venom, it disintegrates all neighboring
animal tissues into their ultimate atoms.
The snake, being full of venom, thus dis-
appeared for good and all; the goanna’s
atoms recombined as soon as the dose
of venom was neutralised, and the
creature reappeared. Goannas train their
young on Jimjamsia from birth, and often
bring home venomous snakes for them
to practise on. It is a diverting sight to
watch the little beggars dashing headlong
to the attack, getting bitten and swal-
lowed one after another, and reappear-
ing from nowhere with a cheery grin at
the dirty one they've put over Mr. Blake.
* * * *
“Twenty-seven”: It is a pity that
the dachshund’s useful form should oc-
casion so much ridicule. The only other
animal that fits so easily into a burrow
is its usual possessor. Besides, the
badger dog makes an ideal pet for chil-
dren. There are now three varieties-
smooth, wire-haired and long-haired;
until we get curly sausages cartoonists
will have to keep to the first named.
* * * *
“K.K.”: At our local show the tour-
ing boxing troupe of all nationalities and
colors was lined up on the “boards.” In
the crowd gathered round was an old
abo., a bit under the weather, and he
became interested in a colored man on
the platform. Staggering up to him,
Jacky said: “That’s the stuff —show ’em
how abos. can fight.” The nig. on the
platform sneered. “Abo.! Get away
with you! I’m an Afghan.” Jacky
looked hard at him. “Af-can, eh?” he
bawled. “Black enough to be a plurry
billycan! ”
* * * *
“Cactacete”: In asking for the true
story of the introduction of prickly-pear
to Australia, “Atrax” (B. 26/5/’37)
speaks of “both species.” There are six
established in this country. The first to
arrive was the smooth tree-pear ( Opuntia
monacanthd), the introduction of which,
according to Alan P. Dodd, head of the
Prickly Pear Board’s scientific staff, “can
be definitely ascribed to Governor Phillip
and the earliest colonists in 1788.” The
next to arrive was the main pest pear ( O .
inermis), which, according to the same
authority, was “conveyed in a flower-
pot to Scone (N.S.W.) about 1839. Plants
or cuttings were transported at intervals
to the pastoral areas, where they were
grown as hedges around the homesteads.”
This pear began to get beyond control
about 1870 ; 50 years later it had cov-
ered 60,000,000 acres, and was spreading
at the rate of 1,000,000 acres a year.
Nothing is known about the introduction
of the four other species. These are the
spiny pest pear ( O. stricta), a native of
Florida and the West Indies, found in
Central Queensland ; the tiger-pear (O.
aurantiaca), of Uruguay, confined to parts
of southern Queensland ; the velvety tree-
pear {O. tomentosa ), a Mexican plant,
dense forests of which are found in
Central Queensland; and the white-
spined or Westwood pear (0. strepta-
cantha), another Mexican plant, also
established in Central Queensland.
THE UTILITY TRUCK.
We made an arrangement with Johnston
(He took us for five bob a head),
And set off on a cold, breezy morning
When most folk were still warm in bed.
We sang in the wide, open spaces,
Front-seaters and those in the ruck,
As we swung to the Kittiwake races
In Johnston’s utility truck.
And what uproar there was on arrival!
Old pals we unearthed by the score;
Of tips they had plenty to give us,
Dead certs, and stone morals galore.
We bet like possessors of plenty,
We shouted for all whom we struck,
And we lunched them, a muster of twenty,
In the shade of the handy old truck.
Then, after all favorites were beaten,
And we to the wide world were broke,
We started for home in a riot,
All voting the outing a joke,
Till we came to the swamp, of all places,
And Johnson said, “Dammit, we’re stuck”;
And we slept, with the rain in our faces,
On the cold, flinty floor of the truck.
We shoved her out somehow next morning;
She showered us with gallons of mud,
But she rattled us home in the forenoon
And stopped with a splintering thud.
And with grins on our mire-covered faces
We promised each other, with luck,
We’d be off to next Kittiwake races
In the same old utility truck.
N.S.W.
MING.


executorship
demands sacrifice !
The demands of knowledge and sacrifice
which a private individual is asked to face
as an Executor or Trustee are such that he is
rarely, if ever, able to completely fulfil them.
Moreover, the intricacies of estate adminis-
tration often lead to the neglect of the
trustee’s own affairs.
But while the private individual may find
his appointment an intolerable burden, the
functions he has been asked to fulfil are the
everyday work of corporate trustees. If you
wish to surrender a trusteeship or act in an
advisory capacity only, consult us—-an inter-
view can be arranged at any time. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited has had nearly 60 years’ experience
in the administration of Estates.
Pr
rival c
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
(• 4H.M Y COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria in 1818.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £10,009 with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman),
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.;
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.iS.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
tM6
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone. M 4601. .
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
, -Dividends——^
Pref. To Rc- Re-
Mur., Profit. 9 p.c. Old. Total, serves, serves.
1927.. 16,049 544 15 p.c. = 6,548 8957 25,042
Reserves capitalised, £1209.. .. 23,833
Share premiums, £4935 .. .. 28,768
Specific reserves disclosed, £4471 .. 24,297
Pref. Ord.
1928.. 21,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,439 9,668 33,965
Share premiums, £5407 .. .. 39,372
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52,446
Share premiums, £14,033 .. .. 66,479
1930.. 30,600 8-p.c. 15 p.c. = 16,754 13,846 80,325
Share premiums, £7199 ... .. 87,524
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,210 2,559 90,083
Share premiums, £2234 .. .. 92,317
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £6725 .. .. 101,432
1933.. 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 16,556 2,711 104,143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ „ 19,465 331 104,474
1935.. 21,807 8 „ 10 „ ~ 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 „ 12£ „ ~ 22,270 3,270 110,080
1937.. 25,291 8 „ 10 „ „ 19,465 5,826 115,912
This 15-year-old Australian manufac-
turer of hosiery and lingerie has given a
very good account of itself, largely be-
cause it has an enterprising management,
which has combined imagination with
practical care for detail and sound
finance. From the beginning, when it
was almost exclusively hosiery, the co.
concentrated upon costs and the quality
of its products, which, despite competi-
tion, local and overseas, have won it a
wide goodwill, of which no account is
taken in the books. A few years back
high-grade lingerie became part of the
output, and the co. has had to spend a
lot of money on plant and in otherwise
establishing this section of the business.
Expansion was most rapid between
1925 and 1933, during which time paid
capital advanced from £33,181 to
£215,259. A lot of the new money went
into plant, which was more expensive
then that it is to-day. This and the
growth of mill competition have
prompted a conservative financial policy,
and liberal allowances have been made
for depreciation of fixed assets. In Aus-
tralia aggregate hosiery plant capacity
has recently run ahead of demand. A
sound solution of this and some asso-
ciated problems would be the develop-
ment of an export market, which in turn
is largely wrapped up with the question
of costs. Meanwhile, those cos. best
equipped, technically and financially, will
make the best showing. This one’s div.,
which reached 20 p.c. in 1929, dropped
to 15 p.c. in 1930, followed by a steady
10 p.c. since, with an extra 2j p.c. in
1936.
During the last term demand for the
co.’s products continued to expand, but
competition weighed prices down, while
labor and raw material costs rose. Gross
earnings were figured £16,157 short of
the previous year’s at £121,289. Exes.
(£95,998) were pulled back £15,908, leav-
ing the net result only £249 lighter at
£25,219, which was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 15.1 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 15.4, 12, 10.2, 12.4,
13, 12.3 and 37.7 p.c. back to 1930. The
cautious board clipped 2} p.c. off the
distribution, reducing it to 10 p.c., of
which 2\ p.c. is labelled bonus.
To meet the growing demand for the
co.’s products and keep abreast of
modern developments in production,
more plant was installed during the term,
the net growth in the book value of the
item being £15,455, and in freeholds
£4316:
1925. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £33,181 £215,259 £215,259 £215,259
Debentures .. 9,568
Overdraft .. 7,460 2,709 2,871 1,176
Sundry creditors 3,948 69,152 46,206 44,274
Freeholds . . 15,126 75,815 75,467 79,783
Plant, etc. . . 15,059 115,870 80,133 95,588
Shares in other cos. 52,546 72,546 72,546
Stocks . . 16,646 125,043 105,512 89,240
Book debts, etc. 9,669 24,875 47,995 44,639
Cash, etc. .. 6,679 14,573 16,111 11,963
Stocks were reduced by £16,272, debtors’
balances by £3356, and cash, ' etc., by
£4148. The year’s contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£100,392, in-
cluding stocks but not shareholdings) was
£20,149, owing to the outlay on fixed
assets.
At 275. the pound prefs. return ,5.9
p.c.; their annual requirements were more
than three times covered by last year’s
net earnings. The lOs.-paid ords. at
21s. 9d. return 4.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible cover is £3 4s. 3d.
prefs. and 20s. 4d. ords.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Net Towards
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1935. . 352 Nil 352 6,688
Added intangibles, £3343 .. .. 10,031
1936.. 5,623 Nil 5623 4,408
Reserves.
Share reserve, £27,250 . . .. 22,842
Net adVb' w nn intangibles. "'c<Bo 16,362
1937.. 10,887 6 p.c. = 9000 1 7 „ 6gg
\vntten on intaugiuics, a. o ou j lo °' i ‘ ,Doa
This variety chain-store co. was regis*-
tered at Sydney in November, 1932, and
commenced trading in April, 1933. It
thus entered a field in which competition
had already got an edge on it, and, as
was to be expected in the circumstances,
has had to fight to build up turnover.
Chief pillar on which the system rests
is quick sales for cash, the aim being to
turn capital over five or six times a year,
thus reducing the risk of loss arising from
price fluctuations, and keeping capital
investment in the chief earning asset
(stocks) relatively low. It means, among
other things, good buying if slow-moving
lines and mark-downs are to be kept at
a minimum and best results obtained.
Small personal service—salesmanship is
reduced to a minimum, there are no de-
liveries and few book debts —makes for
a low selling expense rate, which be-
comes relatively lighter as turnover ex-
pands, to the benefit of net earnings, etc.
The first store was opened in Pitt-
street, Sydney, opposite Coles, and by the
end of January, 1935, there were three
units in the chain—one at Parramatta
and another at Hurstville had been added.
Four more (Auburn, Wollongong, Chats-
wood, Newtown) were welded into the
organisation during the following year,
and a further three (Newcastle, Padding-
ton, Lithgow) during the last term, mak-
ing a total of 10 stores. As turnover
(not disclosed) has expanded, net earnings
have stepped up, and the process prom-
ises to continue for a while, at any rate.
After striking off £5647 for deprecia-
tion, and setting aside £2400 for the tax-
gatherer, last year’s net result sprang
£5264, reaching £10,887, equal to 7.2 p.c.
on average capital. That was after exes,
totalling £6480 net in connection with
the issue of fresh capital and establish-
ment of new branches, etc., had been
charged to capital. A 6 p.c. div. (the
first) was paid, and £560 was struck off
intangibles, reducing them to £17,623,
not treated as an asset herein.
In October last Selfridges (N.Z.), Ltd.,
was formed with an issued capital of
£150,000 in £1 shares, of which the parent
took 47,850 for cash and 27,250 paids
for goodwill, etc. At the end of January,
the parent had paid 2s. a share on the
cash issue, leaving £43,065 still to come ;
the consideration for goodwill, etc.
(£27,250), was added to reserves, lifting
them £17,589 (book value) in excess of
intangibles. Since then Selfridges (W.A.),
Ltd., has been formed with an issued
capital of £125,000 in £1 shares, of which
the parent takes 15,000 paids for good-
will, etc., and 30,000 for cash. Also, the
parent is adding four more stores (Camp-
sie, Burwood, Goulburn, corner of
Liverpool and George streets, Sydney)
to its chain, making the total 14. When
these and the two subsidiaries get fully
into their stride, the parent’s net earnings
should look more attractive ; meanwhile,
there will be a lot of money not turning
in much, if anything, in the way of
profits.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. .. £56,067 £96,713 £178,340
Sundry creditors, etc... 26,252 36,942 *44,536
Leaseholds .. .. 8,969 24,690 44,681
Plant, etc 21,441 32,733 56,232
Stock 38,789 66,645 104,227
Debtors, etc. .. .. 5,724 3.987 10,549
Cash 708 1,191 1,799
Shares in subsidiary .'. 32,077
The £81,627 of fresh capital gathered
during the year (there was £11,660 still
to come when the books closed), together
with an extra £7594 from sundry credi-
tors, went mainly into leaseholds (up
£19,991), plant, etc. (up £23,499), and
stock (up £37,582). Debtors’ balances
were up £6562, and £4827 of the £32,077
at which shares in subsidiaries appear
represents cash payment. Excluding the
shareholding, more or less liquids ex-
ceeded liabilities by £72,039 when the
books closed. No hint is given as to how
the board proposes to finance the cur-
rent year’s outlay.
The market, with one eye on the per-
formances of Woolworths and Coles, two
early birds in the field which have built
up very large turnovers, has expected
too much of this youngster (Selfridges),
whose pound shares touched 425. 6d. in
January. The figure dropped sharply
following publication of accounts, and is
now around 30s. The return at 30s. is
4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Including
uncalled capital, and taking shares in the
Maoriland subsidiary at their face, value,
the net tangible cover is 21s. lOd.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 30,484 15 p.c. = 22,500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares, £75,000 . . 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 230,141
1929.. 52,141 15 „ 37,500 14,641 244,782
1930.. 29,064 12J „ ~31,250 242.596
1931.. ■ 1,181 7 i „ „ 18,750 225,027
1932.'. 19,177 6 ~ .. 15,000 4,177 229,204
1933.. 10,081 5 „ „ 12,500 226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 „ „ 17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 „ ~ 15,000 225,911
1936.. 26,969 8 „ ~ 20,000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums, £75,000 .. .. 307,880
1937.. 32,389 10 p.c. = 25,000 7,389 315,269
For the dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1930 divs. averaged a shade
under 14 p.c. Meanwhile, the business
—the co. has been in the wool, grain,
produce and livestock trade in Vic. and
southern N. S. Wales for nearly half a
century—had expanded considerably,
and so had the risks. Slump and its
concomitants brought the div. down
to 5 p.c. in 1933 ; it has advanced
since by irregular steps to. 10 p.c. for
the last term.
The spring in the latest figures was
due largely to the rise in the price of
wool and partly to all-round expansion
-of the business. The Australian average
for the 11 months to the end of May
was £2O 17s. Id. per bale, compared with
£l7 12s. 3d. and £l2 13s. sd. for the
two preceding seasons, and sheep, grain
and produce values strengthened, too.
The drop of 12,869 bales in the quantity
of wool put under the hammer was be-
cause of the heavy carry-over at the close
of accounts in 1935:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 „
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76,838 98.4 „
'032.. 75.464 92.315 73,138 79.2 ~
1933.. 90,068 84,598 • 74,517 88.0 „
1934.. 79,286 95,323 76,031 79.6 „
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79,898 86.6 „
1936.. 94,719 113,443 86,474 76.2 „
1937.. 81,850 122,821 90,432 73.6 „
The spring in gross earnings was £9378.
Though exes, took £3958 of the increase
they made off with £2 12s. less of each
£lOO of gross earnings. The net result
(up £5420) was 12.9 p.c. on capital as
against 10.7, 4.9, 7.7, 4, 7.6, 0.4, 11.6
and 20.8 p.c. back to 1929, when the
Australian clip averaged over £2l per
bale. The div. was lifted from 8 p.c. to
10 p.c.
The year’s larger trading is further
reflected in the expansion of balance-
sheet figures:—
1930. 1935.' 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities ~ 364,582 329,371 356,203 368,96 S
Premises and
plant .. 141,235 162,298 163,471 179,877
Book debts, etc. 722,077 638,262 674,145 756,316
Investments,
cash, etc. .. 9,005 9,005 9,005 9,005
Merchandise .. 3,610 3,217 2,463 4,039
To carry £82,171 more debtors’ balances
and add £16,406 net to the book value
of fixed assets, the board went outside
for an extra £12,765. The year’s growth
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£400,392) was £70,980, owing to the
receipt of £75,000 of share premiums
just before the books closed. Excluding
these premiums, there was then approxi-
mately 15s. of outside money at work
in the business for every pound belong-
ing to shareholders.
To relieve the pressure and provide for
further expansion of the undertaking,
150,000 new £1 ords. were issued, three
for five, at a premium of 10s. each shortly
before the close of accounts. When all
the money is in paid capital will be
£400,000, on which 10 p.c. will call for
£7611 more profit than was claimed last
term. Still, the share premiums, which
have been added to reserves, make 10
p.c. on the new capital equal to only
6.6 p.c. on the two combined.
At 375. (345. a year ago) the fully-
paids return 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis the contribs.
(paid to 10s.) at 255. give an immediate
return of 4 p.c., or 5.7 p.c. when fully
paid. The net tangible backing will then
be 255. 9d. per share.
(Continued on page 24.)


AND
HOW TO
STOP THEM !
m
1
m
If You Do Catch
Cold or
’FLU
If you do happen to catch a cold or
’flu whilst taking Bidomak, the attack
will be much milder than usual, and
Bidomak will build you up quickly
afterwards, and guard against a
relapse.
Bidomak is the most wonderful restora-
tive known to science, and everyone
should take it during convalescence.
It’s amazing how quickly it brings you
back to full health and strength.
AMAZING CASES!
(Original letters on our file)
GASTRIC 'FLU
Waratah, 29th January, 1936.
The Douglas Drug Co.
Dear Sirs, —A few months ago l had
gastric ’flu, which pulled my weight down
and left me suffering from loss of appetite
and weakness.
I grew tired of trying other tonics, which
had no effect, so taking my friend’s advice,
and as a last resource, 1 tried “Bidomak.”
1 have only taken one bottle and it is
hard to realise the difference that one has
made in me. lam beginning to put on
weight, and to eat the nteals set before me.
The signs of weakness I had have completely
left me, thanks to “Bidomak.”
I cannot speak too highly of your won-
derful tonic, and I am sure all “Bidomak”
users will agree with me.
Miss C. C.
Drummoyne, 25th July, 1935.
Dear Sir, —/ can confidently recommend
your “Bidomak” to anyone suffering from
weakness and nervous debility, or in a run-
down condition of health after ’flu.
Its effects, even after the first few doses,
are really magical.
The many friends to whom l have recom-
mended it are equally enthusiastic about it,
and I consider that in placing so splendid a
tonic on the market at so reasonable a price,
you are conferring a benefit on the public
that they will need to try but once to
appreciate.
Wishing it the success it deserves.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Mrs. A. Q.
Run Down, Nervy
Men, Women and
Children
Should take Bidomak regu-
larly. It reinvigorates,
charges the whole body
with living vital force. It
changes depression, irrita-
bility, chronic tiredness to
bright, happy, bubbling
health.
GET A BOTTLE TO-DAY!
Your Money Back
Guarantee
If you do not benefit by
taking Bidomak we will
refund your money within
14 days of purchase on
return of the nearly empty
Bidomak bottle to the
Douglas Drug Co.
Important Statement by Discoverer of BIDOMAK
Colds and influenza are caused by germs and no completely
successful treatment for them has been discovered. A perfectly
healthy body, however, will not let cold or ’flu germs take hold.
It kills them off by dissolving them in the blood-stream, and
throws them out of the system.
Colds More Prevalent
in Winter
During winter, however, bodily resistance is
lowered for three main reasons.
(1) There is less sunlight.
(2) We spend more time indoors.
(3) And expose ourselves in the course of
our daily life to many considerable varia-
tions of temperature.
The difference between a warm room and
cold outdoors relaxes the membranes of the
nose and throat and leaves them more suscep-
tible to attack by bacteria.
Need for a Tonic
It is therefore absolutely necessary to take a
good tonic through the late autumn and winter
months, so that the resistance to infection is
well built up and the system rendered com-
paratively immune to attack by infection.
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
No Tonic So Good As
BIDOMAK
Bidomak is an ideal tonic for such a purpose because it provides all
the valuable health-guarding mineral foods in a pleasant, easily-
assimilable liquid form, and thus it feeds the system with ferrum,
calcium, potash, sodium, phosphates, glycerophosphates and sucrose.
Remarkable Twin Benefits
Bidomak cleans the body of waste products by increasing the supply
of oxygen in the blood-stream.
Then it stimulates every cell of nerves, stomach, liver and kidneys.
It makes it easier to digest your regular food, and to take advantage
of the health-giving vitamins which this contains.
You Feel WONDERFUL
#.
No other preparation provides so many protective foods in such a
pleasant form. No other preparation does you good so quickly, or
guards you so well from illness. Bidomak makes you well and keeps
you well. Take it yourself and give it to your family regularly all
through the winter. You’ll all feel better for it.
BIDOMAK
44 The Tonic of the Century 99
GET A BOTTLE OF BIOOMAK TO-D


' s y' -A a•' AS *• *’
’ ;-5 vv fv vi v v
fliS SUSIESt SIMdWO
\ MOTOR SPIWf
WORLD .
IN
UPER
Plus
ETHYL
i&st ■'
Get
that
Empire Spirit
C87.125P.
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE ONLY SUPER
GRADE PETROL
CONTAINING BENZOL
THE BENZOL MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
', BENZOL; (tinted Bl ue) iS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
i per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACR, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
mi
mmrw
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you. s Q i e Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W. _
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends- N
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927 73,020 4325 10 p.c. = 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 77,120 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 363 269,406
1931 39,172 4325 54 „ „ 34,743 103 269,009
1932 39,393 4325 5J ~ „ 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 —6„ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 61 ~ ~ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ „ 25,780 5,100 282,194
1936 31,295 8f „ „ 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 . • • • 295,44 a
1937 33,005 9j p.e. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
This old- and strongly-established im-
porter of paper and printers’ requisites,
which has been, and still is, a stout prop
for many in the printing trade, looks
like developing into a steady 10 p.c.
proposition again, subject, of course, to
economic and other developments. Few
have been able to adjust their capital
structure so satisfactorily to altered con-
ditions. Between 1915, when the public
first became interested, and 1928, capital
was more than doubled by par issues,
raising it to £690,740 ; and, since the scrip
stood at a substantial premium in the
market, the new issues were in the nature
of bonuses to shareholders. Little of
the extra money was invested in fixed
assets; so, when slump reduced the co.’s
capital requirements, the management
was able to work down stocks and
debtors’ balances (they were reduced
without visible mishap), lower the out-
side debt and build up cash and invest-
ments. Then, in July, 1932, £207,355
(the whole of the pref. and one-fifth of
the ord. capital) was returned to share-
holders, who received a further £161,128
(6s. Bd. per share) in the following term,
reducing paid capital to £322,256.
There has since been steady and
marked expansion in the printing trade,
and E., D. and Co. has been called upon
to provide its full share of the equip-
ment and finance required, to the benefit
of turnover and net earnings. Shortly
before the close of last accounts 53,709
new £1 shares were issued at a premium
of 10s. each. When the books closed
£29,538, of the money (£19,787 capital
and £9751 share premiums) had been re-
ceived, leaving £51,025 (£33,922 capital
and £17,103 share premiums) still to
come. Here are balance-sheet figures:
1930. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £690,740 £483,384 £322,256 £342,043
Liabilities* .. 106,094 53,180 77,923 109',954
Freeholds .. 110,319 110,319 120,565 120,565
Stocks, . • • 216,163 125,418 149,427 155,167
Sundry debtors 456,252 279,310 335,9Q9 409,705
Cash and in- - -
vestments .. 308,471 298,802 87,223 # f 3,207
* Including 1 provident account and tax provision.
The new capital and share premiums,
together with £32,031 added to liabilities
(they include an unspecified provident
account and provision for taxation), and
more besides, were used to finance
clients; debtors’ balances were up
£73,796 net, and cash and investments
were drawn upon for £13,966. The year s
growth in the more or less liquid surplus
was £33,539, raising it to £528,175. All
assets are conservatively valued in the
books. , ,
After providing for taxation and con-
Pn g enc i eS) an( J writing off the year’s total
outlay (£2648) on fixtures, motor vehicles,
etc., declared net earnings were £l7lO
better at £33,005, or 10.2 p.c. on capital
a§ aga i nst 9>7 9.5 an d 9 p.C. for the three
preceding terms. The div. for the final
q'u a rter was lifted from the rate of 9 p.c.
p.a. to 9+ p.c. p.a., making 9| p.c for the
year. When all the money on the new
issue is in paid capital will be £375,965,
which 9+ p.c. will call for £35,717,
or £2 7iq more than last year’s declared
net p ro fi £
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 5 0s . as against 435. 6d. a
y ear agQ> re t urn a t 50s. is 3.8
pcona 91 p c d iv. basis, or 4.1 p.c. on
a jq p c distribution. Including the new
j S sue, t h e cover is visibly 355. lOd. in net
tang jbi es .
, f ,
T,, 7 glia u Sou ‘ h ’ d \ _, _ . .
Lingha South is a Sydney float 111
400,000 shares of ss. each, of which one *
half (underwritten by C. B. Quinan and
Cox at 3d. a share) has been taken ,
the other half is in pickle. Excluding
roads, etc., the co. has taken up some ,
acres of tin-bearing alluvial in the Cope s
Creek area, about four miles from Tingha
(N.S.W.). Max E. Bedford figures that
the co. s ground contains 1,557,500 c.y.
(tested by 396 bores and pits), averag-
ing 2.11 b. t. 0., and 1,150,000 c.y. of partly-
proved dirt, expected to average approxi-
mately the same as the proved area The
deposit consists chiefly of two old stream
channels, depth from 17ft to 27ft., with
a so . ft granite bottom. The wash, which
)° is Overlaid bTfree
dXKhTand and then loam to the
surface. It is proposed to instal two 10m.
1 P w P ich wju , 0 ther treat
nnn mnntuiv nn whirh hasis there
a tad on the
proved area nearly five years’ on the
partly-proved ground. The first plant is
to be installed within the next three
months, and the second within three
months’after that. On a throughput of
20 0()() yardg montWy and a9O p . c . re-
coveryj the prospectus figures an annual
production of 180 tOTIS t. 0., which IS
reckoned to be worth £39,690 with tin at
P ef , to . n L° ndo (h to £A3OO.
On this basis the oxide assays approxi-
niately 75 p.c. tin. Costs are figured at
Is. 3d. _per yard, or £15,000 p.a , leaving
a working profit of £24,690, Or 49 p.C. On
a paid capital of £50,000, and 40 p.c.
divs. are spoken of. _ •
The purchase consideration is £21,150
—£2300 to Zarda Alluvial Tin (in liq.) and
£18,850 to Mines Investigation Pty.,
which has agreed to subscribe for 60,000
shares. Preliminary exes, and brokerage
are put at £4250.. On. that basis, and
when the present issue is fully paid, the
co. will have £39,600 with which to buy
sluicing plants and provide working capi-
tal.
On the board are J. Tomlinson, R.
Dugan and C. M. Cox.
Upper Watut Gold Alluvials, of which
much was expected at flotation early in
1935, is to go into liquidation because
results have failed to live up to anything
approaching prospectus estimates. Writs
approximating £13,000 have been taken
out against the co. by Guinea Airways
and Bums Philp. The co.’s total in-
debtedness is over £66,000, of which
£47,000 is owing to E. J. Morgan and
Co., Melbourne sharebrokers, under-
writers of the initial issue; it has
little in the way of liquids, assets (mainly
plant, buildings, etc.), apart from leases,
being valued at £20,000. The co. took
over from Mount Lawson Prospecting
and Options Syndicate, for 200,000 ss.
fully-paids and £8625 cash, three leases
containing 16,000,000 c.y. on the Upper
Watut River. Testing of about 2,000,000
c.y. had given values averaging 3s. 7d.;
the whole area was expected to be worth
3s. a yard (gold at £8 Aust.). With costs
at Is. 3d. an annual working profit of
£80,500 was reckoned on over 17 years.
Thus far 149,000 c.y. has been sluiced
■f'ns.73B soent in winning 13850 z.
gold. Paid capital is £200,000 in ss. shares,
Winch tne market valued at Bs. 3d. in
Feb., 1936. Later Bulolo Gold Dredging
tested the property at its own expense
in return for an option over 400,000
fully-paids at par, which it later aban-
doned. Plant includes two gravel pumps
and a small elevator ; the second pon-
toon was only recently put into opera-
tion.
* * * #
In the Charters Towers district (N.Q.),
the New Venture (formerly Blue Peter,
where water beat miners of 30 years
ago) has been unwatered. Three verti-
cal shafts are down 81ft., 90ft. and 160 ft.
respectively. The last 45} tons yielded
of gold. Another profitable little
show is the Kroko, on the outcrop at the
eastern end of the Just-in-Time reef,
which has been worked for 60 years. Here
the last 20 tons returned 260 z. 2dwt.,
with the sands assaying loz. 18dwt. to
the ton. The best crushing the Towers
has known for many years was 341 tons
from the Swedenborg, put through the
Venus mill during May for 2280 z. 15dwt.
of gold, valued at £1444; 31} tons con-
centrates, valued at £3157 ; and sands at
£5 6s. 3d. per ton, valued at £1612;
total value £6213, equal to £lB 4s. sd.
per ton. Another 300 tons is now being
milled.
* * * *
During the last four months, mills on
the Herberton (N.Q.) tinfields crushed
1264 tons of ore for 72 tons 16cwt. t. 0.,
valued at £11,983. Over the same period,
stream-tinners obtained 110 J tons t. 0.,
worth £21,472. At the Canberra, the
best producer, the winze at the 300 ft.
level has been sunk 88ft., and 15 p.c. ore
is being stoped from the 250 ft. level. A
good body of ore is also being worked
in the Rainbow, near Irvinebank, and at
the Omeo 11 tons recently yielded 2 tons
7cwt. t. 0., valued at £521. At Stannary
Hills, the Amy has put through 21 tons
for 6 tons 9cwt., worth £1296, while a
local syndicate has taken up the You
and Me and is installing machinery to
treat the low-grade, ore there.
* * *
At Mt. Stewart (N.Q.), the scene of a
mild rush some months back, reefs from
18in. to 4ft. in thickness are being
worked. The Brilliant Brumby, Cam-
paspe River, which got 290 z. of gold
from the first 15 tons, has put through
another 51 tons for 41|oz. of retorted
gold. From the Brumby No. 2 six tons
has yielded 190 z.; the Surprise crushed
30£ tons for 260 z. Sundown, Early Bird,
Golden Spur and Moonlight are all on
reefs carrying loz. to 2oz. stone. Situ-
ated some 17 miles from the nearest bat-
tery (the Pioneer, at Lolworth Creek)
the field is in rough country, and access
roads are badly needed.
sfc $
Wiluna Gold Corp., the London hold-
ing co. which owns all the shares in
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.), will pass its
div. for the year to the end of March,
1937. It paid 10, 20 and 22|- p.c. for the
three preceding terms. Heavy capital
expenditure (amount not stated) by the
operating co. on development and plant
is the stated reason for absence of a
distribution. There has also been a
steady decrease in the grade of ore in
the east lode of the co.’s main workings.
Crushings over the last three years com-
pare as follows:
Year to , Crushings Average Yield,
March 31, Tons. Oz. Gold. dwt.
1934 469,362 for 124,531 5.30
1935 439,395 „ 108,373 4.94
1936 537,954 „ 123,953 4.00
1937* 572,402 „ 112,755 3.94
* Aggregate of monthly returns.
In Australian currency, the estimated
value of last year’s recoveries, which in-
clude something from the cyaniding of
residues, was £982,576, approximately
345. 4d. per ton. Working exes, were
£612,713, or 21s. sd. per ton, leaving a
working profit of £369,863. Expenditure
on construction and equipment totalled
£193,056. Out of the remaining £203,807
has to come administrative exes., taxation,
depreciation and any special charges.
After smelting was introduced, the man-
agement figured that, on a treatment basis
of 50,000 tons a month, an 88 p.c. re-
covery, gold at £AB 13s. per ounce and
with costs as they are, the working profit
from the mine would be £500,400 annu-
ally. Another £40,000 p.a. was expected
from the treatment of residues, of which
145,000 tons will be available, for smelt-
ing. In March last the co. treated 50,240
tons for 10,0260 z. fine gold, valued at
£A88,135. Working exes, were £57,440,
or 225. lOd. per ton, leaving a working
surplus of £30,695, which was at the rate
of £368,340 per annum. On ’Change
(Adelaide) the co.’s pound shares fell
from 38s. at the end of April to 345.
early in June. Last week-end there were
sellers at 295., but no buyers. There were
sales in London at 20s. 3d. on lune 18.
* * *
Paringa (W.A.) has struck a rich
patch at the 300 ft. level, where soz.
values are showing at one spot over a
width of 66in. This is considered to be
the upward continuation of the rich
shoot on the 400 ft. level. Telluride is
showing freely ; hopes are that the make
will continue to the 200 ft. level. Toward
the end of last year the co. reckoned it
had 179,000 tons of proved and partly-
developed ore, worth in the aggregate
£354,000 on the basis of a 90 p.c. gold
extraction. Nothing definite has yet been
announced concerning the new plant.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* 4= * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods' they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENS'OMETER,” a portable testing machine—in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
4: * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
“Mr. Lyons has had a haircut in London.”
Is this a portent of a close shave in
Wilmot?
•J* 4* *l*
“An Austrian musician can play tunes on
the piano with his tongue.”
He evidently has a taste for music.
4* 'l* V
Things that are not: Civil wars, peace
pacts, natural blondes.
•h 4* *h
“An island off N.Q. is ruled by goats,” says
a naturalist.
And why only mention an island off
N.Q.?
.j. a >!«
“I found my wife sitting on the lounge and
the co-respondent hiding between some cur-
tains.”^ —Divorce Court.
Seems to have been a game of hidin’
sheik.
4* 4 1
Face powder may catch a man, but
baking powder is' the stuff to hold him.
•h •b 4* '
“To most men, women are the ultimate
answer to life’s meaning,” says a writer.
But apparently nobody can explain the
meaning of the answer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
What’s the use of the Scots claiming
to be a sober race when so many of
them are always tight?
4* 4* 4*
In Concert.
“It is realised in London that the Dominions
are fully aware of the difficulties of diplomacy
in the Pacific, but it is believed that Mr. Lyons
has sounded the first note of what ultimately
may become a concert in the Far East.”
— “D.T.”
At such a concert we could expect the
United States to play the heavy brass.
Japan’s song might be that successful
number “Every Little Bit Added to What
You Have Makes Just a Little Bit More.”
China would make a song about lost
Manchukuo, and the Soviet chorus would
come in with “The Red Front.” As
for Australia’s contribution, any poli-
tician could be relied on to blow his own
trumpet.
Joseph.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Worsted man wanted. Used mill work.”
— Advt.
Should suit any married man.
4* *!* 4* 4*
“Artificial blood has just been invented by a
Viennese doctor.”
Having been scientifically “bled” for
nany years, taxpayers will feel like order-
ing large supplies of this fluid.
4* .T. 4«
Bird Mimics.
“The Judge dismissed the appeal of the
prisoner, who said that he was a well-known
bird mimic.” —News item.
This bird mimicry is a queer business,
especially for those who indulge in a
too realistic imitation of the gaolbird.
The most successful bird-imitators can
be grouped as follows:
Birds of passage: Australian poli-
ticians.
Birds of ill omen: Debt collectors.
Swallows: All of us.
Lyrebirds: Racing tipsters.
Parrots: No need to tell married men
this one.
Homing pigeons: Husbands on pay-
day.
Humming birds: Nearly every third
person you meet.
D. Me.
“Men do not wear anything to show they
are married.”- — Feminist.
What about the suits they bought four
years ago?
■!• 4* *l* 4*
“Hats should match the face.” —Fashion note.
Rather awkward for anyone who
would need two.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Joseph.
And one day Joseph of the coat of
many colors came unto the people, say-
ing : “Give me that portion of the
revenue which is not mine and let me
away to the country of England, where
there are high goings on and so forth.”
And the people gave, saying: “Good
riddance be unto thee.”
And Joseph went, and for the space
of many months stood before kings and
sat before many press interviewers.
And it came to pass, after the. doings
were over and the Coronation honors
distributed, that Joseph became very sad
and depressed, and spake unto Stanley
of the High Commission, saying: “Woe
is me, for I must hie me. to the land of
my constituents.”
And Stanley of the High Commission
responded kindly, saying: “Fear not, for
I say unto ye, in the day thou returnest
thou shalt get the Order of the 8.0.0. T.”
But Joseph was not comforted, and
arose, saying: “I will return to my people
—that is, if they’ll have me.” And he got
up and went.
And the people saw him coming from
afar and rushed out to meet him, and
threw their arms around his neck and
tried to strangle him ; but the police inter-
vened, saying: “Bring forth the fatted
calf, for, behold! the prodigal awaiteth
without.”
And the people arose wrathfully, say-
ing: “Without what? You’re not going
to kid us he left Starchy behind!”
Dougal.
+ + 4*
“A motorist has a magpie which guards his
car.”
Others have one which gives instruc-
tions from the back seat'.
+
“Using a new high-speed gas, a two-ton
lorry was driven from London to Glasgow at a
cost of Is.”
No doubt driven by a Scotsman taking
home some souvenirs of the Coronation.
4*
“When arrested, the burglar showed no signs
of agitation.” s>
He was used to taking things quietly.
•h
“English editors now are insisting that mem-
bers of their staff shall have some experience
abroad.” — “S. M. Herald.”
What do they know in Inkland who
only England know?
d- *j*
Mr. Phite-Phan Goes on the Air.
Mr. Howie Gabs: “This radio sports
interview is brought to you by the mar-
keters of O’Brien’s Odorless Onions.
To-night, Mr. Polar Slexus, leading box-
ing authority, will interview boxing’s
greatest paytron, Mr. Jay Phite-Phan.
Here they are, and we hope you can
take it.”
Mr. P.S.: “As a keen follower of the
boxing game, Mr. Phite-Phan, what, ih
all your years of watching fights, struck
you most forcibly?”
Mr. P.-P.: “A bottle thrown from the
bleachers and aimed at the referee.”
“I suppose you consider Jack Dempsey
one of the greatest of all hitters?”
“No, the P.M.G. He hits the radio-
listening public a guinea a year for free
air.”
“Whom do you consider to be the
cleverest maqager in the boxing busi-
ness?”
“The fellow who gets threepence in
the stadiums for a penny bag of peanuts.”
“Among defensive boxers, who was
the greatest blocker you recall seeing?”
“Jess Willard, the day he lost his title
to Dempsey. He blocked everything
Dempsey threw at him —with his chin.”
“And the greatest knockdown you
ever saw?”
“I once gave a travelling showman a
knockdown to my mother-in-law. He
married her, and they have been travel-
ling ever since.”
“What is your opinion of the British
National Sporting Club’s custom of hav-
ing the referee operate from outside of
the ring? Do you think a referee’s
proper place is inside or outside of the
ring?”
“As any man who bets on fights will
tell you, a referee’s proper place is out-
side of anywhere except a Home for the
Blind.”
“And now, Mr. Phite-Phan, one final
question. After years of watching fights,
whom in the game do you consider to be
possessed of the greatest ability to take
punishment?”
Mr. P.-P.: “I’ll plump hands down for
the fellow who, after paying good money
to see a dud fight one week, is back
again in his usual place in the bleachers
the next.”
G. F. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some men spend a lifetime behind bars,”
says a prison official.
Others before them.
“HONEST, mister, I didn't know it Was loaded."
“Bertha Windmill has been appointed Teacher
men?” 8 '” 8 under the Vic ‘ Education Depart '
She should be able to get any air going.
* * * *
“Boxers are often very nice people.”
—Boxing promoter.
Of course, it all depends how they
strike you.
•5* * * *
“On two occasions her husband knocked
her down and jumped upon her She was
genuine in her desire that he should make a
home for her.”— Court report.
With all his vaults, she loves him still,
•b -b * *l*
“After marrying many film stars, a noted
American Judge has turned divorce lawyer.”
_ t , . ... , —“Sun.”
There s nothing like doubling your
P r °fi ts -
* * * *
' “Some men have a different tie for every day
° \/r C rV f\ S A° H n ° e '-f +
Most of us find one wife sufficient.
Tempted.
Two loves have I —an old love,
An old love and a new.
The new love is a bold love,
The old love tried and true :
The old allegiance lingers,
And it were hard to part;
But, ah ! the new love’s fingers
Are stealing round my heart.
The new love smiles serenely,
For she is fair to see.,
And tall is she, and queenly;
Her eyes hold mystery.
Ye gods, I’m apprehensive !
But, all in all, it’s clear
The old love’s less expensive —
I think I’ll stick to beer.
ABIE.
Some Little-known Facts About
Alaska.
I. General Knowledge.
Alaska is a vast area of gambling
saloons, miners’ rights and igloos sur-
rounded by glaciers, snowdrifts and herds
of reindeer, and inhabited by Eskimos
and white gold-diggers of both sexes. It
is joined to Siberia by a submarine
plateau, but as no Alaskan would be
idiot enough to want to walk under the
sea to get to the U.S.S.R. that facility is
of no use.
The chief industries are the disen-
tangling of reindeers’ antlers, wrangling
about staked claims, de-icing frozen
totem poles and pulling the teeth out of
sea-horses. Sea-horse teeth are bought
in enormous quantities by the Chinese,
who use them to give their bird’s-nest
soup a real “bite.”
Prospecting for gold is also carried out,
and sometimes miners have even been
known to find it. As it is never found
under less than 20ft. of snow, however,
the miners have to be continually plied
with rum. The metal won is thus termed
“frozen gold,” of which America has
cornered such a lot in recent years.
Just as Norway is warmed by the Gulf
Stream, so Alaska is warmed by the
Japanese Current, which can be pro-
duced at about one-third the cost of the
home article. Japan also supplies the
necessary lamps, but as soon as the cur-
rent goes up to 240 j volts the lamps blow
out. This is what makes the Alaskan
miners such a wild crowd.
When indiscriminate destruction of
seals threatened to wipe out the industry
the U.S.A. placed severe restrictions on
seal-hunting. Now they are slaughtered
more scientifically, and this has earned
the gratitude of the intelligent animals.
The reindeer provides the Eskimo with
meat, milk, clothing, the means of trans-
port and warmth at night. Those antlers
which are not sold to visiting sportsmen
who wish to take home trophies of the
chase are used as fuel. Antler pruning
fully occupies the Eskimo throughout the
winter months (from October to Sep-
tember), as during that time there is no
sap in the upper branches.
This task used to be performed by the
light of whale-oil candles at midday
until “Dangerous Dan” McGrew drew
their attention to the unnecessary waste
of good oil. Now they get up at mid-
night and do it by the strong sunlight.
This accounts for the. haggard look on
the faces of Eskimos in winter. They
also suffer considerable discomfort,
owing to the fact that, though it is hard
work at which they can even get warm,
they cannot divest themselves of their
heavy furs because they would get sun-
burned.
The pruning of reindeers’ antlers was
found necessary following the unfortunate
experience of Uh-huh, a bachelor Eskimo
chieftain who hit upon the idea of filling
his igloo with reindeers, and sleeping
among them so as to keep warm. They
found him next morning all punctured
and entirely useless.
Eskimo's always wear a worried look,
owing to the eternal problem they face of
whether to kill a reindeer, thereby de-
priving themselves of its milk, warmth
and speed, or to keep it and chop them-
selves out of the benefit of its hide, hair
and meat.
Alaska is the home of the world’s
greatest salmon fisheries, and this is owing
in no small measure to the unique powers
of mimicry possessed by the Eskimos.
The method of landing the catch is
simple. When the salmon start to swarm
in the mating season (an agonised cry
from the hen salmon is the signal) they
commence to make upstream, heedless
of rapids, bridges or even canyons. A
sentimental desire to lay their eggs where
they themselves were hatched is the
reason for this. The Eskimos lie on the
banks with their ears to the water ; as
soon as the familiar sound is heard they
get into boats strung across the river and
make a noise like a new salmon-tin. The
fish, urged by instinct to push up the
river, yet reminded by the Eskimos’
mimicry of the awful fate awaiting them
if they go on, hover with fatal inde-
cision, in which state they fall easy prey
to the waiting fishermen.
S. W. K.


Associated Pulp.
Associated Pulp and Paper, the
Burnie (Tas.) venture backed by
Broken Hill and public money,
will have its plant ready before the
end of 1937, but will have to wait
a short while until the Govern-
ment power-line comes through.
It is already prepared to accept
large, orders for delivery in June,
1938, however. The prospectus
estimated profits on sales of 15,000
tons of paper a year (£2B a ton) at
11.8 p.c. on capital. If the pro-
ducts are right—the experts asso-
ciated with the co. are confident—
£2B a ton should be averaged
easily. At 16s. 9d. the 155.-paids
look well worth buying in view of
the rapidly-approaching produc-
tion stage.
ypR SEC unify
SECURITY to a thoughtful person means a permanent
income sufficient for present and future needs.
SECURITY to a prudent Company means the steady
expansion of its business by which large
reserves of capital may be built. up without
sacrifice of regular and adequate dividends to
shareholders.
SECURITY in an investment means safety of an investor’s
capital, plus a satisfactorily high income.
Such an investment is
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
since the purchaser’s risk is spread over no less than 20 of
Australia’s foremost industrial and commercial undertakings.
Custodian Trustees: UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF
CANTON, LTD. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney).
Write for descriptive booklet No. 1 to the Managers
of the Trust :
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP. . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager;
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Business, Robbery, Etc.
North Kalgurli
The 1,100,000 shares in North Kal-
gurli (1912), Ltd., of 2s. sterling each,
were around 17s. 6d. last week in Mel-
bourne and Adelaide. The scrip has
seen 245. on occasions, mostly at times
when the mining and milling operations
were considerably smaller and less profit-
able than they are at the moment.
The co. owns 147 acres on the Golden
Mile. The Croesus leases, separated from
the co.’s main workings by the North
Kalgurli United areas, bring in some
revenue from tributors; but the main
ore-producers at present are the North
Kalgurli, Genevieve, Union Jack and
Kalgurli leases, which adjoin each other.
There is a shaft on each, though most
of the Genevieve ore is worked from the
North Kalgurli shaft. The Oroya North
lease is not being developed at present.
The co. was formed in 1912, and took
over what were then derelict mines;
later additions were also derelicts. Three
well-equipped mines are now being
worked, and the whole job has been
done on a paid capital of £llO,OOO.
Positive ore reserves developed at Jan.
31, 1936, amounted to 460,000 tons assay-
ing 7.7dwt. Probable and possible ore
was about that time put, “at ,a very con-
servative estimate,” at 200,000 tons; it
had been partly opened up, but not
blocked out, such work being estimated
to take two years. “There is very little
doubt but that it will average out a
satisfactory grade,” the chairman has
reported.
These ore estimates exclude any ton-
nages that have not been reasonably well
exposed, and any which have since been
discovered by exploration or which may
be discovered in the future. Since mill-
ing commenced in earnest a few years
ago, each year’s development has re-
vealed more ore than has gone through
the mill for the period. Recent explora-
tion indicates that the co. still ; has sub-
stantial undeveloped ore oil its property.
The mill is owned by the Kalgurli
Ore Treatment Co., and is worked for
the joint benefit of North Kalgurli and
Boulder Perseverance, monthly through-
put in respect of each interest now being
about 12,000 tons and 9000 tons respec-
tively. The arrangement has worked
satisfactorily so far, and extraction has
improved to over 90 p.c.
North Kalgurli’s accounts are made
up to Dec. 31 each year and presented
in London in July. They reach Aus-
tralia late, as in the case of most
London-controlled Westralian shows.
Last accounts are those to Dec., 1935.
In that term 70,624 tons was treated for
a return of £167,223 sterling—about
£210,000 Australian. Net profit, allow-
ing for development relevant to the ore
treated, taxation and depreciation, was
£57,303 sterling—£7l,629 Australian. Net
profit was thus equal to slightly more
than £1 (Aust.) for every ton of ore
treated. Recoveries were worth 595.
(Aust.) per ton, and working costs came
to 325. Divs. were 62| p.c. for the year.
In 1936, though accounts for that
period have not yet been presented,
112,338 tons was milled for a return of
£325,333 in Australian currency. Recov-
eries were worth 58s. a ton, and working
exes, amounted to 28s. lOd. There are
indications that on a throughput 41,714
tons higher than in 1935, net profit per
ton will be 2s. or 3s. better, and total
profit available for dividends and de-
velopment in the vicinity of £125,000.
As for the 1937 term, up to the end
of May 55,340 tons had been milled for
an anticipated return of £185,256. Thanks
largely to improved milling results,
returns have jumped to 675. per ton,
while published working costs have
fallen a few pence to 28s. 3d. a ton. The
margin of working profit per ton is
almost 10s. better than the averages for
1936 and 12s. better than for 1935 ; as
throughput is now at the rate of 11,000
tons a month, a net profit of over £200,00C
for 1937 is on the cards if recoveries and
costs are maintained for the next seven
months. At the moment there is nothing
to suggest that they will not be.
The div. for 1936 was unchanged at
Is. 3d. sterling (62| p.c.). It is likely
that in the near future 2s. sterling per
share (100 p.c. p.a.) will go out to
shareholders.
Last week’s market valuation of the
mine was £962,500 Australian. At the
rate of ’ earning oyer the past five months
net profits, allowing for taxation, depre-
ciation and administration exes, on twice
the scale of 1935, would aggregate more
than the present market capitalisation in
five years’ time. Just now development
expenditure charged to capital is an
item ; for the first five months of 1937
it was £15,874, and for the whole of
1936 £33,462. : Notwithstanding this out-
lay, which has had the practical result
of opening up a high-grade ore-shoot at
the south end of the mine and the dis-
covery of an extension of the Union Jack
calc-schist lode, divs. of 100 p.c. p.a.
should leave the co. with ample resources,
and they would return shareholders the
market price in full within seven years.
Goldmines are tricky investments, but
North Kalgurli’s management has done
excellent work underground, and the
plant has been highly successful. The
gold in the ore (proved and probable) in
sight, less present cost of extraction, more
than covers the market price of the
shares. Development continues to expose
large bodies of good-grade ore. This
page doesn’t recommend gold-share in-
vestments except where a goldmining
interest is wanted particularly, so it will
say no more, except to add that North
Kalgurli looks as good a buy as any
gold or base-metal mine offering in Aus-
tralia to-day.
Eleven months’ sales at Australian
wool auctions have realised £56,058,000,
which compares with £49,100,000 for the
whole 1935-36 season. Prices from
month to month this season compare as
follows:
Greasy and
Greasy. Scoured. Scoured,
d. d. d.
July 11.5 23.7 15.3
August 12.4 24.5 15.2
September .. 12.4 20.7 12.7
October .... 14.0 20,0 14.2
November .. 16.7 24.0 16.9
December .. 17.1 24.9 17.3
January .... 19.4 27.0 19.5
February .. 18.2 26.0 18.3
March .... 18.3 27.9 18.6
April 17.5 29.6 17.9
May 11.4 30.2 19.5
Eleven months 16.6 24.9 16.8
The full clip has been estimated at
3,140,000 bales, value, including London
sales, over £62,000,000. Turnover for
May was mostly of a clearing-up
nature, and that for June will be
the same. Prices in those months, and
in July and August of the new season,
are hardly representative of wool-
market cbnditions. The Australian selling
period is September-April, both months
inclusive.
The 1937-38 clip is forecast at
3,146,000 bales ; sales will open in Syd-
ney on August 30.
v*' * * *
The fact that settlement-day in Lon-
don following the big, market shake-out
of about six weeks ago passed without
any failures on the part of London
brokers doesn’t mean that forced liquida-
tion is not still going on. There is reason
to believe financial support was made
available to some caught in the specula-
tive whirlpool on condition that they
started promptly to put their house in
order. That, anyway, is put forward by
some who seem to know as one reason
why overseas sharemarkets still keep de-
pressed. A pool was certainly established
to support some gold stocks, and reports
are current that pools were created to
support firms which had become in-
volved in the various markets. It seems
likely, and suggests that overseas market
conditions will not stabilise until over-
bought shares and metals find them-
selves in the keeping of people who can
afford to pay for them without being
“carried.” >
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of pig-iron
for the year ended June 6 (the financial
year closed six days earlier) was 669,904
tons, up 63,901 tons (10.5 p.c.). Ingot-
steel production was 735,038 tons, up
111,559 tons (17.9 p.c.). Practically all
the pig-iron produced is turned into steel,
which is the indicator of profit-earning
capacity. If B.H.P.’s net earnings in-
crease in proportion to the year’s produc-
tion of steel, they should be slightly over
the £1,000,000 mark, excluding any pro-
fit from the Barrier mine. Of course,
there may be special writing-down of
some assets to be taken into account —
Australian Iron and Steel shares, for in-
stance —but the increased margin of pro-
fit on a larger production should provide
a substantial contingency reserve in' it-
self. A preliminary announcement of the
year’s profit should be available shortly.
* =!: * *
In Melbourne last week:
. The Court of Mines granted a petition (un-
opposed) for the winding-up of Upper Watut
Gold Alluvials, which started off early in 1935
to work alluvial claims in New Guinea. The
ss. shares rose to 10s. in April last year, when
Bulolo was reported to be interested. Soon
after flotation the scrip, then paid to 25., went
to over 6s. The proposition looked all right on
paper. At the finish expenditure had exceeded
money received from shareholders by £66,043.
Guinea Airways and Burns Philp had both
issued writs for debt against the co. Eric J.
Morgan and Co., sharebrokers, were creditors
for £47,524.
Profits of Robert Harper and Co., foodstuff
wholesalers, were disclosed at £3565 better for
the year—£4o,B3s was the net figure. Div. on the
ords. was unchanged at 8 p.c. The co. is
fighting a lot of competition.


Positions Vacant.
SALES MANAGER.
APPLICATIONS are invited by Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills Limited for the above
position. The appointee will be in charge of
the Company’s sales organisation for the Com-
monwealth.
Applicants should write the Company, Box
856-K, G.P.0., Melbourne, C.l, stating their
age, credentials and experience, and the names
of personal referees.
Applications, which should be in the Com-
pany’s hands by 24th July, will be treated confi-
dentially, if so desired.
1937 BELONGS TO
sd
m
s»
Mi
a
of
(4)
INBUILT SAFETY
This year’s Oldsmobile has an array of safety-features ensuring an ease of mind
for both driver and passengers which would not be possible in any car without
them all.
Perhaps the greatest single additional safety-factor in the 1937 Oldsmobile is the
All-Steel Turret-Top Body by Holden. Add to this “Armourplate” Safety Glass
in the V windscreen and all side windows ; an I-beam X-type frame giving
80% increased torsional strength; the newly designed 7-bearing Rear Axle,
the strongest in proportion to load ever built into a motor car; self-equalising
Super Hydraulic Brakes for straight-line stops, triple sealed against dirt and
moisture; Independent Mechanical Pistol Grip Hand Brake mounted on the
dash; Independent Front Wheel Springing for better cornering and road
holding; Cross Centre Control Self Centering Steering, bringing finger-tip
response; all-silent Synchro-Mesh Gears for instant clashless changes; no-
draught Ventilation to prevent fogging in bad weather.
These are some of the safety features you get with Oldsmobile—the car that
gives you EVERYTHING.
Take the car on the road, and it will convince you beyond doubt that '*1937
belongs to Oldsmobile.”
OLDSMOBILE
Consult Your Local Authorised Oldsmobile Dealer.
Instal an “AIR-CHIEF” two-unit Car Radio, especially designed for the 1937 Oldsmobile,
featuring exclusive speaker and control unit to match instrument panel; separate 8-in!
In the last month of the 52-week period
B.H.P.’s output of steel was another
record at 61,272 tons. There has been
no slackening whatever in demand for
the co.’s products, and its works are hard
put to cope with orders. How long this
state of affairs will continue it is hard to
say, but there is definitely a wave of
prosperity affecting steelworks in almost
every country at the moment. All that
can be said of B.H.P. is that present pro-
fits are excellent, and the long view is
attractive.
The metal market was depressed again
last week, and all concerns with interests
at the Barrier had the value of their
shares marked down. There was a small
recovery on Thursday, then a weakening,
especially in Broken Hill Props., on
Friday. B.H.P. contribs. slipped to below
735. They have seen 84s. 6d. this year,
and the drop in the price of the shares
is not justified by the fall in base metals.
From the peak prices of this year Broken
Hill Prop ’s share values had been marked
down £3,300,000 last Friday as against
£3,000,000 in the case of Norths,
£2,000,000 Souths. B.H.P.’s production
of concentrates at the Barrier is on the
scale of about a sixth of South’s. In
Britain Vickers shares are being bought
to return 3.2 p.c., the same yield as that
now offering on B.H.P. scrip {\2\ p.c.
div. basis), though Vickers’ profit-earning
position is not as good as that of B.H.P.
Baldwins (Eng.) handed out most of its
profit in a 10 p.c. div. last year, and on
this basis of distribution the return is
3.8 p.c. It is only recently, of course,
that the British steel industry has got on
its feet again. The United States Steel
Corp. in 1936 operated at only 59.3 p.c.
of capacity. B.H.P. has been going flat-
out for two or three years.
* * * *
The demand for consumers’ goods in
Britain by the end of 1935 taxed the
capacity of many factories, and resulted
in increased outlay on plant and
machinery in 1936. Some hold that the
great home demand for British products
is responsible for the lagging export
trade ; but this certainly does not seem
to apply to the textile industry, which,
taken by and large, is in a poor way.
* * * *
Edwards, Dunlop and Co. has come
up to this page’s expectations with an in-
creased final div. —at the rate of 9}
p.c. p.a. It was undoubtedly earned. Not
so long ago this paper-merchant’s repre-
sentatives used to journey around Syd-
ney in stately horse-drawn vehicles. If
such conservatism was rare in the gay
nineteen-twenties, so were quarterly ord.
dividends. Blit, though Edwards, Dun-
lop’s ord. rate got down to 5f p.c. in the
1931 and 1932 terms, divs. still went
out quarterly. A lot of capital was re-
turned to shareholders during the slump ;
now business is so brisk that they have
been asked for some of it back. Dis-
closed earnings were equal to 10.2 p.c.
on capital during the term to April 30.
* * * *
Is it conceivable that gold should be-
come overplentiful and prices of commo-
dities and industrial equities in terms of
such gold suffer a calamitous fall as a
result? Or that commodities and shares
should fall in terms of gold-backed cur-
rency? Such a state of affairs seems
almost too foolish to contemplate, yet
fears of world overproduction of gold
are having a lot to do with the present
depressed overseas commodity markets.
Reference to past financial history shows
that when a boom in gold production has
occurred prices of goods and services
have risen sharply—to a point where
low-grade goldmining became unprofit-
able ; and gold output waned. Fears
that gold may be demonetised—that is,
that it may be abandoned as a world-cur-
rency medium —are really theoretical,
and if the metal were in free circulation
such fears would scarcely exist. It is
only because the general public in nearly
every country has little or no gold in its
pockets that demonetisation fears carry
any weight at all.
It seems almost a certainty that, in
spite of Britain’s much-vaunted pros-
perity, any substantial premium placed
on sterling by revaluing gold would re-
sult in a flight of capital from the Old
Country. Bad money drives out good,
and overvalued money almost always
leaves a country in large quantities when
it can be converted into another cur-
rency at a premium corresponding to its
overvaluation. It is the traditional
honesty and stability of Britain, as much
as its trading position, that have made
Britain a receptacle for so much inter-
national money. Certainly British heavy
industries have been having, a great run
of prosperity just lately ; but such pros-
perity would be short-lived if the pound
sterling became further overvalued—
there are some who contend that the
price of gold in Britain is still too low—
and if the exchanges were freed the posi-
tion would soon be demonstrated in such
a case by depreciation of sterling and a
lift in the price of the yellow metal.
At the first hint of the present uncer-
tainty about gold this page said that there
was far too much slummocky thinking in
matters relating to gold, especially in
regarding the metal as a commodity only.
It is a very special commodity, and one
which is able to exert strong influences
to bring back equilibrium when it is
undervalued on the one hand (often the
case when trade is depressed) or over-
valued on the other (when inflation is
rife).
* * * *
Gold shares took a further battering
on all Australian ’Changes last week. Mt.
Morgans dropped to 11s. 6d., Golden
Plateaus to 13s. 9d., New Occidentals to
Bs. 5d., Emperors to 15s. 6d., Lolomas to
17s. Id., Deborahs to 225. and Chewtons
to 15s. lOd. The Westralian group also
suffered; North Kals. sold at 16s. lid.
in Adelaide, Lake Views at 225., Lance-
fields at 10s. Bd., and Tritons at Bs. 7d.
Among issues to hold their price fairly
well were Boulder Perseverance, Cuth-
bert’s Misima and Mt. Kasi (Fiji).
# * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords. last
sold in Sydney at 685., after 755.
some few weeks previously. The general
tendency to mark down leading stocks is
noticeable here ; but on last year’s (15
p.c.) div. basis the immediate yield is
£4 6s. p.c.—a good one, considering that
in 1935-36 26 p.c. was earned on ord.
capital. The accounts are made up at
the end of this month, and there is every
indication that it will be a bumper year.
The co. and its subsidiaries handle Crown
seals, corks, vinegar, malt, yeast, shop-
keepers’, butchers’ and bakers’ plant,
Amat-ice (shop and hotel) refrigerators,
etc. It is a prosperous business with
strong finances.
* * * *
Exports of tin from the Federated
Malay States in 1936 totalled 64,719 tons,
the highest figure since 1920. The aver-
age international quota for the year was
92} p.c. of 1929 output. At the end of
1936 there were 90 dredges out of a total
of 120 in operation, compared with 70
dredges working 12 months earlier. Last
week the metal was down in London, but
was still above £240 a ton.
* * * *
Australian Glass’s record profit and
steady div. (15 p.c.) put some life into the
market for the scrip, sales of the ords.
being recorded at 935., after 91s. Imme-
diate return is 3.2 p.c. The prefs. changed
hands in Melbourne at 395., yielding 4.6
p.c. “Glass” is the fourth or fifth big
concern to show record profits over the
past two months.
* * * *
Yarra Falls ords. could again be got
below 40s. last week —at 395. 9d. some
changed hands in Melbourne. The im-
mediate return is a shade above 5 p.c.,
and it is as secure as most returns from
ord. shares these days. The rights could
be had at Bs. 6d. Yarra Falls isn’t inter-
ested in the hosiery industry, which, ac-
cording to the chairman of Prestige, Ltd.,
may suffer from overproduction and a
higher cost of raw materials and labor.
Holeproof ords. were on offer at
30s. 6d. last week, no buyers. Lustre ords.
were fairly firm in Sydney at 225. 9d.
* *
Cement shares continued to hold their
price well last week. Standard lifted to
17s. 2d. in Sydney, and Kandos paids
kept within 3d. of the 255. 6d. asked re-
cently. Australian Cement was firm
around 31s. 6d. in Melbourne. Last sale
of Goliath ords. was at 345. 6d.
* * * *
Bank shares, after a run of popularity
on ’Change that took them to a post-
depression peak a few weeks ago, were
down to a 1937 “low” in some cases last
week. Bank of N. S. Wales, which went
to £3B 7s. 6d. in Sydney a while back,
are weak at £36 2s. 6d.; National £5-
paids are selling at £7 ss. (after £8), and
Commercial of Aust. ords. could be got
at 18s. 6d. last week, compared with
this year’s highest price of 20s. All other
banking issues are down. Commercial
of Sydney is returning £3 10s. per cent,
on a 6 p.c. div. basis, the ’Wales £3 6s.
6d. p.c., and the National £4 3s. 4d. p.c.
(on the final div. rate, which was also
6 p.c.).
❖ ❖ A' Jje
With electrolytic copper at £6l a ton
last week in London, Mt. Lyell shares
changed hands at prices from 40s. 6d. to
425. Highest quote this year was 58s.
Present price of the red metal is £2O
sterling a ton better than that averaged
for the 1935-36 term* when 12 p.c. on
capital was earned from mining opera-
tions and investments. At the moment
earning rate is something better than
32 p.c. p.a. on capital. If the now ruling
metal prices were maintained during the
life of the mine (12 years’ ore in sight)
and costs didn’t rise, present buyers
would see their purchase price back,
about 2s. 9d. a share a year surplus, and
a residue of investments and later-
developed ore reserves at the end of the
period.
4 - * $ $
Three directors of Mt. Morgan, Ltd.,
visited the mine last week, and chairman
Eric Campbell announced on his return
that the whole position was satisfactory.
Possibilities of a drop in the price of
gold didn’t disturb the directors, he said ;
expanding production and satisfactory
costs would offset anything of that nature.
The shares firmed to 12s. 6d. towards
the end of the week.


IN STEP WITH
MODERN BUSINESS
1
Illustrating Ford V'B Coupe Utility Model 303.
Tlte ■S>maited Utilities ot ilie Year
A COMPLETE RANGE OF MODELS
AND BODY TYPES WHICH INCLUDES:
V-8 Panel Van
fs
V-8 3-Ton Truck
df
Ton Truck, of composite construction, has closed cab
and is available with Platform, stake-side, well-type and
flare-side bodies.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
and of All Steel Construction
A superb range of new models designed and built for today’s
transportation needs. Coupe Utilities and Van have steel roof,
steel sides and floor. Wooden floor with steel skid strips optional.
New mechanical refinements provide even greater economy
of operation. Ask your Ford Dealer to demonstrate the model
suited to your job in actual operation with your own loads over
your own routes. Easy and convenient purchase terms arranged.
NOTE THESE VALUE-FEATURES OF V-8 UTILITIES:
ALL-STEEL CONSTRUCTION STEEL ROOF, SIDES AND FLOOR IN
COUPE UTILITIES AND PANEL VAN. FRONT BUMPER AND 4 ADJUST-
ABLE DOUBLE-ACTING HYDRAULIC SHOCK ABSORBERS. SAFETY
GLASS ALL ROUND (Except Van Rear Door Windows). GREATER
OPERATING ECONOMY. LARGE LOADING SPACE. NEW
EASY-ACTION SAFETY BRAKES. VENTILATING V - TYPE WIND-
SCREEN IN CLOSED MODELS. NEW QUIETNESS IN OPERATION.
and remember standard equipment includes: Front bumper and
4 adjustable double-acting Hydraulic shock absorbers. Oil-bath air
cleaner. Adjustable seat. Genuine leather trim on seat and seat
back. Closed models have ventilating V-type windscreen and clear vision
ventilation door windows. Enclosed despatch box. Utilities have ash-
tray and cigar lighter. Coupe models have, in addition, dual sun visors, dome
light arm rest, large package tray behind driver's seat and rear window blind.
FORD
■ TIUIIIJ
FOR
1937
t
d
t
PTY. LTD. (In corpora
in Vic
o r i a)
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF A USTRALIA
F1G0.480
A MIXED GRILL.
“H.A.L.”: A word in praise of the
speedy and sensible, little utility truck.
Here’s what mine did in one day: Ran
a load of super, out to a paddock and
brought home a half-ton of firewood,
then ran a couple of rams out to an-
other paddock and brought home a
ration sheep. After dinner it took three
people, and a bale of skins to the town ;
coming home it carried nearly a ton of
goods, ranging from a bag of flour to a
windmill part, from coils of fencing wire
to a drum of petrol. That evening it took
us out again to pay a visit. At recent
race-meetings in this corner of S.A. the
utilities parked on the course have out-
numbered the ordinary cars.
* * * *
“Mulyan”: “Myall,” which has come
into general use as meaning wild or un-
tamed, was originally the name of a
fierce tribe on the Bogan River (N.S.W.),
who kept more aloof and were wilder
than any others encountered by early
settlers, and whose unfriendliness and
ferocity caused much trouble with neigh-
boring tribes. Many white men were
killed by them, including Richard Cun-
ningham, the botanist, and two bullock-
drivers who accompanied Mitchell. The
wild mob was unstintedly hated; to
other blacks it was an infuriating insult
to be called myalls,
* * * *
Jemel : Faintly 1 heard my nam
called and jumped out of bed, thinking
/ was rising time. But there was no
familiar boss holding the hurricane lamp,
Soon I recognised the far-away voice o
my bunk mate, which I traced to the
well What are you doing down there •
1 asked, realising that a cold bath at
that time wouldn’t do “stiff” hips
much good. “That damn’ idiot a
boss,” he called out of the depths, gave
me horse blister instead of liniment and
I came down here to get rid of the
blasted stuff! I have, me toes on a knot,
but me hands are too cold to climb, so
give us a haul up.”
s * * *
.... T
“B- : u Tn 1908 George ,
first Methodist missionary in what i
now Mandated New Gum ,p
his memoirs. An 18/8 no .
When we saw the volcano [Matupi] it
flame were shot out with great force and
formed a very high column, which towered
up far above the surrounding mountains.
Brown was the first to land on Vulcan
Island when it appeared above the sea.
The island (miscalled Vulcan from a
mistranslation of the German Vulkan =
volcano) was considered so safe by 1922
that it was made a quarantine station.
* * * *
“X.T.”: That there is still a good deal
of exploring to be done in Australia is
shown by the fact that Mt. Bartle Frere,
which for a century travellers have seen
from afar in North Queensland, was
crossed for the first time a few days ago.
The hardy explorer was Jim Burton, who
started from Peeramon, on the Cairns
Atherton railway, without a swag and
with little food and reached Lower Mus-
grave fi ve days later. As the mountain
Qf talkj&t in the Common-
wealth, and the gorges are deep and diffi-
cuit an d the vegetation so tropical as to
ma ]£ e the country round the Lamington
Plateau country seem a little like a lawn,
the performance of the. casual bushman
is something of &n outstanding teat, par-
ticularly considering the kind of weather
likely to be met with at over 5000 feet,
even in the North, at the end of May.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: “These tattoo artists can
be too dever,” old Tom remarked, hold-
j ng b is hand up to his head. “I had a
red-backed spider tattooed on th’ top
of me head to keep th’ flies away, an’
ever since then I have to keep me hat
on all th’ time. That flamin spider looks
so reel that every time I took me hat oft
some silly cow’d clout me on top of th
head to save me life.”


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Deep Creek Handicap: Alaric
next, Prince Sion.
Greenvale Welter: Humorist
next, Dermid.
Chandos Handicap: Reguk
Bachelor; next, Ogwell.
FOR RANDWICK.
June Plate: Duke Caledon or
Lolorua; next, Might Not.
Novice Handicap: Maid of
Peru ; next, Linklet.
Winter Plate: Fair Diana ; next,
Curator.
Exeter Handicap: Lolorua or
Dutiful; next, High.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Pooley Bridge deservedly continues to
dominate the discussions on the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdle, but Tapageur’s
win over the battens at Williamstown on
June 12 and the equally unexpected suc-
cess of Dakwood in the V.A.T.C. Tool-
ambool Hurdle last Saturday have bright-
ened the situation to some extent.
So impressed by the style of Dak-
wood’s Caulfield victory was a shrewd
racing judge that he picked the Paken-
ham-owned prad out as the probable
winner of the big race on July 3. Dak-
wood certainly downed Triteleia like a
coming star of the jumping field. Yet
how did he come to finish nearly last
when Tapageur scored on the seaside
course, a week before?
On paper no horse that finished be-
hind Dakwood at Caulfield should turn
the tables on him in the National. Some
improvement on his Williamstown effort
was shown by the Adelaide candidate,
Highland Fling, and old Fulham was
far from disgraced in being fourth.
Jupiter was third, after running down
many of the obstacles ; but in the three-
miler at headquarters his stable-com-
panion, Isle of Astur, should be a better
proposition.
• • . . . 9
T. S. Ryder, of S.A., was present to
see how Dress Suit shaped. Two years
ago this Stand By gelding ran second to
Fulham in the National. He was injured
through a fall in the, Australian Hurdle.
Now trained by Fitzroy, the compactly-
built bay was unmarketable on Saturday.
He showed up in the early stages, but
finished far back.
Dakwood is by the 1924 Melbourne
Cup winner, Backwood, who sired a
National Steeple winner in Woodlace
and a more-than-useful hurdler in Way-
back. His trainer, Ray Webster, owned
Rose Valais, the juvenile that caused
Duncan’s retirement from the saddle by
falling at Williamstown many moons
ago. On his recent visit to Queensland
for the Doomben Cup meeting Duncan
rode exercise gallops.
Joe Mulcahy did not strip Tapageur
at Caulfield, but took him to the course
for experience in racing environment.
He states that Tapageur, like Cockcrow,
with whom he. landed the National
Hurdle of 1931, received jumping lessons
early in his career. The Rosewing geld-
ing now is nearing seven years of age.
His sire’s best galloping representative,
was Whittingham.
The Wanda Steeple at Caulfield went
to Reciprocal, who is not in the cross-
country classic. This daughter of Devizes
hails from the Western District. At her
first metropolitan outing she ran last at
Williamstown on June 12, but was in
control at the final obstacle, where she
blundered. Reciprocal is fast. She
equalled the course record for “about
two miles and three furlongs,” estab-
lished by Bonnie. Rollux.
Top odds against Reciprocal in the
ring were 16 to 1, but she paid nearly
40 to 1 on the s.o. tote, and her place-
backers collected £2 7s. for a “dollar.”
Ranging alongside Seymour at the last
fence Reciprocal beat Alick Fullarton’s
mount with comfort. The, favorite,
Wakerife, finished third, and, as usual,
was doing his best work at the end.
Elegance, after chasing Seymour for
most of the journey, tired into fourth
place. Three miles and a furlong at
Flemington may be beyond him. Ber-
muda was a rank disappointment, and
his mentor, G. A. Allesio, fears that the
Lanius four-year-old may not be
seasoned enough for the National. Dur-
ing the week he had a “school” at Caul-
field. The morning was foggy, and he
simply bucked over the fences.
Tindall pulled off the Minook Two-
year-old with Sun Beau, a Gay Lothario
colt that Andy Morrow bought from
G. H. Cann, of Tasmania, in the spring.
Never at a longer price than 7 to 4,
Sun Beau took charge at the three-fur-
longs pole and toyed with Great Eastern
in the run down the straight. Third
money went to Avenger (Pantheon-
Chatterbox), a very promising colt that
Jack Holt trains for Percy Miller, the
breeder.
With Harold Badger substituted for the
apprentice jockey that rode him at Wil-
liamstown a week before, Windmar
(Windbag-Marcigny’s Daughter) was
backed from “fours” down to 5 to 2 for
the Richmond Handicap. She scored
with a lot in hand from the Kalgoorlie
Cup winner Vital, a 20-to-l chance.
Finishing with an amazing burst of
speed, Prince Sion was only half a head
behind Vital.
Studio gave Wilson his second win-
ning mount for the afternoon by taking
the Rosny Plate. Wilson thus shared
riding honors with the former Sydney
horseman Douglas, who was successful
in both jumping events. Studio (5 to 4)
led Regular Bachelor into the straight by
nearly three lengths, but tired in the last
50 yards, and had only a length and a
quarter to spare on the post. She re-
ceived a mere pound from the Queens-
lander.
All the flat races at Caulfield went to
favorites —a very unusual experience
with Melbourne punters. Opening at
7 to 2, Humorist (Brazen-Medmenham)
shorted to 9 to 4 for the Cambria Welter.
He gave Cox an armchair ride, romp-
ing home in advance of Alerta and
Suliman.
George Delaney, who was associated
with De Gama in years gone, and
won three races at a V.R.C. spring meet-
ing with that M.L. thoroughbred, has
placed Les Kennedy on the map as an
owner through the agency of Demotic
and Humorist. These are the first horses
to carry the Kennedy colors.
* * * *
It raixied ah uie time at Rosehill o:i
Saturday, and some of the starters were
all at sea in the going. Dutiful (fourth
in the Parramatta Mile) was one. Thh:
Page had a notion that Dutiful was an
Epsom horse, but Epsom horses re-
quire to be good in all conditions. How-
ever, the chestnut should not be despaired
of; he may rehabilitate himself when it
is solid underfoot.
Tapestry gets plenty of racing and
travelling, and it obviously agrees with
him. This plain-looking chestnut ran
second in the Brisbane Cup and missed
a place in the Moreton Handicap. The
going at Rosehill' suited him, and he
won the June Handicap— at sevens. Cid
and Fair Diana followed him home.
Both finished well, and Cid would have
been closer had he got the clear run on
the rails for which McMenamin tried.
Moreover, Curby, Fair Diana’s rider,
could not get her away from Irish Morn,
who has the bad habit of lugging out.
However, excuses are of no avail when
the numbers go up.
Gay Knight had an eventful day. In
the morning he fell on the track ; and,
taken to Rosehill for the June Handicap,
he had to be pulled up five furlongs from
home. The stewards, accepting the
jockey’s theory, reported that he had bled,
but Dan Lewis, the trainer, could find
no blood, and thought it was rather a
case of the nag getting a clod in his
mouth.
Improving on recent showings,
Beaupre (6 to 1) won the Dundas Handi-
cap. He began smartly, and young Max
Papworth let him settle down in fourth
place until the Leger came in sight;
then he shot Beaupre to the front. High
and the pony Might Not challenged
strongly, but they could not get up.
Aureus, in the leading division for
over six furlongs, finished fourth. He,
looks an early winner. Rosmead began
badly, but got a run on the rails t 6 the
turn. Commencing the last furlong he
was squeezed when High made a for-
ward move on the outside. Hastate was
another that came home well. Deputy
Ruler surprised by making the pace for
five furlongs or so.
Water Waggon (2 to 1) was the good
thing of the day. His race was the
Three-year-old Handicap; he jumped
away well, and the rest was easy for him.
Sweet Brigade finished fast and cut
Dubonnet out of second prize. Zulu
Maid, one of Dick Wootton’s team,
showed pace. Water Waggon ran out
the seven furlongs in such good style
that a mile should be within his com-
pass. He is now a very fit horse.
George Phillips, who “strapped” Peter
Pan and Amounis, led in his first winner
when Manilla’s Pride (10 to 1) took the
first division of the Maiden Juvenile.
Rudyard made Manilla’s Pride gallop all
the way. Bangate was third. The second
division proved a soft snap for Aero
King (6 to 4), a half-brother (by The
Ace) to Capris, who carries the colors of
Dominion sportsman C. M. Emanuel.
Silorest and Pat, second and third, ran
useful races.
For the Parramatta Mile Dutiful,
Buonarotti and New Tip were all at 7
to 2. They couldn’t pace it with Bull-
dozer (8 to 1), who won in good style
from New Tip and Buonarroti, Stan
Jones dashing him away half a mile from
home. Bulldozer is by Bullhead, sire of
Pamelus and King’s Head.
* * * *
A Sydney-owned horse, Gay Chou,
won the Doomben Newmarket, but the
greatly-fancied Sydney pair, Osculum
and Friar’s Switch, failed in the Doom-
ben Cup. Lord Bine—a winner at Rand-
wick, but Queensland-bred and -owned—
tried to make a one-horse race of it, but
at the home turn he was passed by Black
Laughter (16 to 1), who has done his
recent racing in Sydney. Just when the
bookmakers were feeling on the best of
terms with themselves, merchants of
doubles particularly, First Buzzard (10
to 1) came on the scene, very wide. In a
few strides he cut Black Laughter down,
and —kept going, but by no means ail
out —he beat Black Laughter by a length,
old Brown Force being third, Brownfeit
fourth, Spearlensis and Osculum next.
First Buzzard is a four-year-old chest-
nut gelding by The Buzzard —Early Girl.
He is owned and trained by W. A.
Tucker, and was ridden —in very confi-
dent style—by Conquest. His time for
the 10 furlongs was 2min. 4£sec., and
he shaped like a stayer, as a descendant
of Carbine should.
{Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Sydney people have rarely seen a foot-
ball match played under the conditions
the Springboks struck for their match
against N.S.W. Part of the Cricket
Ground was a pool of water ankle-deep,
and the game was played in a downpour
swept across the field by a driving wind.
Midway through a photographer was re-
duced to taking his pictures by flashlight.
The ’Boks fielded what was considered
their strongest team. From the kick-off
their forwards drove down to the N.S.W.
twenty-five and kept the ball there for
10 minutes, although the home team
wasn’t really troubled. The ’Bok backs
couldn’t handle the wet ball, and were
slow to move ; nor were the forwards
living up to their reputation. N.S.W.
began to throw the ball about. From
one scrum it went to McShane. and
travelled along the line, each man mak-
ing ground, to Kelaher, who ran in past
the full-back. A real dry-day try. So
was the one Towers got a few minutes
later. Three points went to the Afri-
kanders for a penalty right under the
posts, then Kelaher crossed for another
try. Before half-time the visitors had
one on the board, too —luckily, when the
ball curled back over the goal-line from
a kick by the N.S.W. full-back. Some-
where hereabouts the ’Boks lost a for-
ward, but they were already subdued.
At lemons it was 11-6 (the first N.S.W.
try was converted). For the greater part
of the second half the ball was in ’Bok
territory, and the other N.S.W. winger,
O’Brien, added two more tries. That
finished the scoring—17-6. It was the
first match an African team has lost in
this country.
No excuses were made for or by the
Springboks. On the day, they were
fairly and squarely beaten in all depart-
ments. Scrum-half Craven did well
enough. Bester, at outside centre—he
suffered a knock and went off in the
second half —showed up in attack, but
couldn’t handle Towers and Pauling.
Every N.S.W. player justified his pres-
ence in the side. The XV had been
coached by Johnnie Wallace for a fort-
night, and finer football has not been
seen from a Sydney team for many
seasons. Most pleasing was the solid
packing of the forwards. For once they
gave us real forward work instead of an
exhibition of hunting as offsiders to a
fast set of three-quarters.
The first Test match is down for next
Saturday. Wilson, Bermingham and
Bonis, all forwards from Queensland,
go in, and the Victorian winger Dorr gets
O Brien’s place. Bonis is a resurrection
—he wasn’t chosen for Queensland —and
Dorr will have to do something out of
the box to hold his position.
* * * *
Melbourne has suffered its first defeat
this V.F.L. season, and to the general
surprise Geelong administered it. And the
thing was most decisive—ls-14 to 9-17.
As a result of North Melbourne’s
equally-unexpected win against Rich-
mond, 12-16 to 11-11, and St. Kilda’s
13-19 to 11-14 margin against Essendon,
St. Kilda is back in “the” (very open)
“four.” Melbourne (32 points) is still on
top, with Collingwood (28) next and Gee-
long and St. Kilda (24) within handy
distance. Richmond is only a couple of
points on the wrong side of the fence.
In the other V.F.L. games, South Mel-
bourne, 18-11, again improved its ladder
position, this time at the expense of
Footscray, 10-8 ; Collingwood, 16-9, kept
out Fitzroy, 12-12 ; and Carlton. 15-24,
was too strong for Hawthorn, 8-11.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: The great Diggins saga
(B. 16/6/’37) has ended. Diggins is
returning from Perth to the Melbourne
whence he fled in an aeroplane. Vic-
torian and Westralian papers are making
the last ounce of copy out of it,
but none can offer a satisfactory explana-
tion of what one of the W.A. journals
calls “a tragical development.” To the
outsider the reason of the return of the
wanderer is that he is sewed up in a con-
tract which cannot be avoided without
“Sowth’s” consent.
(Continued on next page.)
The Ashton polo-playing brothers put
up one of their best shows to date in
England by beating the Army team 6-5
after an extra chukka. The game was
played at Aldershot, and the. skipper of
the Army side was Captain Prior-Palmer,
here with the Army-in-India team some
years back. And in the first round of
the Champion Cup competition at Hur-
lingham three Ashtons and Skene (he
as a substitute for P. S. K. Ashton)
beat The. Knaves 10-6.
* * * #
Track cycling is experiencing a great
revival; is professional sculling to have
a second innings also? No sport had a
greater vogue in Australia half a century
ago. A crowd estimated at 8000 to
10,000 saw Evans Paddon beat Burns
for the Australian championship and
£lOO a side on the Richmond River
(N.S.W.). Paddon, who is 23, led all
the. way.
* . # * *
“Hotham”: The V.C.A. announces
its assets at £38,000 in buildings and
£15,000 in Commonwealth stock and
bank deposits—a nice little stack to sit
behind. This season’s handout includes
£5OO to charities, £250 to each district
club, and £ll6 to sub-district clubs.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The September meet-
ing of the Board of Control is to discuss
alterations in Sheffield Shield rules. One
is the substitution of the umpires for
the captains in deciding the fitness of the
wicket or the ground for play (Rule 20).
This change, proposed by Victoria, has
been long overdue, and should go through
without criticism. An effort will also
be made to settle the long-standing barge
between N.S.W. and Victoria as to
whether the teams shall play on Christ-
mas Day in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Norwood”: S.A. is making an effort
to brighten up club cricket. In future a
time-limit of sorts will be. imposed—
clubs batting all the first day will not
be allowed to carry on the next, unless
rain has interfered with the first day’s
play. Hours will now be from 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m., with—blessed change!—no
tea interval. The idea is to avoid drawn
matches as much as possible, and the
move is in the right direction. While on
the job, the Adelaideans might try limit-
ing the time of any individual innings
to half an hour, taking care at the same
time that deliberate delay on the part
of the bowlers and fieldsmen is guarded
against.


"silver
EDGE".
TRADE VMARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
p.\
ies
L'
sd
fs
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with “RAYBESTOS BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Under the Whip
Rosebery running indicated that
Heroina must have been very unlucky
at Canterbury Park. In her division of
the Flying Welter, her jockey tried to
rush her up on the rails, but she couldn’t
get through. In the Flying Handicap at
Rosebery, for which the chestnut mare
was backed from tens to sixes, the same
expedient was tried by another jockey.
On this occasion it was successful, and
Heroina got clear in time to beat a pretty
good field—much better than at Canter-
bury Park—by lengths. Bim Boy was
second and Anchor third. Heroina is by
Heroic-Bimbil. It should not be for-
gotten that she was a good third to
Silver Rose (afterwards unluckily beaten
in the Doncaster) and Tuckiar in a seven-
furlongs race at Randwick in January.
At four years she is still young enough
to improve.
4= * 4= *
“Crack o’ Doom”: Pamelus has been
sent back to Melbourne. Racing re-
porters now suggest that he has been
overrated ; but there is not a trainer at
Randwick or Flemington who wouldn’t
be immensely gratified to have Pamelus
in his stable. His owner-trainer’s
methods, which are somewhat original,
may suit the horse, but the consensus
of opinion at Randwick and Warwick
Farm seems to be that, if the animal had
been directed and worked and “placed” as
King’s Head has been, his record would
be distinctly better than the book shows.
Pamelus decisively defeated Gold Rod
at w.f.a. over the three-year-old’s pet dis-
tance—a mile. King’s Head could never
do that, unless he caught Gold Rod half-
fit. Yet in prize-money and wagers King’s
Head has been a far more profitable
proposition than Pamelus in the season
now drawing to a close.
* * 4! *
“Hungry Hugh”: There was another
American win in the English Derby be-
sides those of Iroquois and Durbar 11.
(B. 26/5/’37), namely that of Volodyov-
sky in 1901. As a matter of fact Durbar
ll.’s win was not wholly an American
one. He was American-owned and
-ridden, but was trained in France.
4= 4: * 4=
“Thormanby”: Three of the four Eng-
lish classics were completed when Exhi-
bitionnist —note the
double “n” won
the Oaks at Epsom.
The filly had previ-
ously won the Thou-
sand Guineas at
Newmarket. She is
owned by Sir Victor
Sassoon, is by
Solario (sire of the
Derby winner),
started at threes and
was ridden by vet-
eran Steve Donog-
hue —his fourteenth
classic.
* *
“Retired Gun”:
One apparent result
of the new Queens-
land betting legisla-
tion (B. 16/6/’37)
has been a tremen-
dous increase of flat
patrons. Some of
the courses, like Doomben-, had no flat
accommodation until recently; on June
12 there were 3000 there. The same
thing has been evident on other courses.
There is evidence that these patrons of
the cheapest course accommodation are
punters who used to dash their bobs and
half-dollars in the pubs and the barbers’
shops in the city on racing afternoons.
* * * *
“E.D.”: Some Melbourne punters are
beginning to grumble at the high cost of
racing. Compared with Sydney charges
and exactions they are well off. Take
Williamstown, which gives bigger prizes
than any of the Sydney proprietary con-
cerns, and Rosehill, about the same dis-
tance from the city. First-class return
and grandstand ticket, Government tax
included, cost 13s. at Williamstown, 16s.
9d. at Rosehill.
4c * * *
“Psitticus”: An unusual “obstructing-
the-police” case cropped up in a Mel-
bourne police court. Police, witnesses
told how they were approaching a sus-
pected laneway in a patrol car when a
gentleman who had been leaning negli-
gently against a near-by fence put his
hand over it for a moment. While one
Hop went to investigate other officers
entered the laneway, only to be trodden
underfoot by a rush of citizens. Some,
were grabbed, and when the scout re-
turned and reported that he had found an
electric lead with a push-button on the.
other side of the fence where his quarry
had been leaning it was thought a fair
thing to charge him with obstructing
the law in its effort to grab an s.p. school
at work. “Ten pounds” was the verdict.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Out of a Welsh coalpit has come the
best heavyweight Britain has produced
since Charlie Mitchell, that wildest (and
gamest) of night-hawks —and Mitchell,
though he probably would have lifted
the crown from John L. Sullivan’s beetle
brows had their fight in France gone on
to a conclusion, was, strictly speaking, a
middleweight. Tommy Farr is the ex-
coalminer’s name, and last week he
knocked out Neusel, the second-best
German heavyweight, in three rounds.
Neusel had twice defeated the former
English champion, Petersen. Farr’s pre-
vious victories were gained over Lough-
ran and Olin, former cruiserweight
champions, and Baer, heavyweight cham-
pion till he was outpointed by the present
holder, Braddock. If Braddock got away
with Louis in the fight for which both
“Tony, you were WONDERFUL!”
“Aw, don't grab me like that—l've been getting it all night!”
were about to step into the ring when this
issue of The Bulletin was rushing to the
printer, he will be matched with Farr,
and may go under. Time is on the
Briton’s side.
* * * *
Boxing like a pug of the ’nineties
Harry Summers outpointed Frank Far-
rington in 15 fast rounds at Leichhardt.
Not many spectators would have been
surprised had the contest been called a
draw, as was their first fight a fortnight
earlier, but the Melburnian’s cleaner
punching earned the decision for him.
Good lads, these featherweights.
Footbraw!
“Fitzcray”: Foul work has become so
prevalent in Melbourne League football
that the League has “taken action”
of the sort to which President
Wilson was addicted. It has pub-
lished Fourteen Points to which the
attention of umpires is called, with
instructions to report a player in-
fringing any of them. Reporting, as um-
pires have long realised, is as worthless
as a League of Nations “sanction” ; when
a reported man appears before the
League his club rallies to his support.
The simple remedy of sending an
offender off the ground, in addition to
reporting him, is effective in other codes
of football.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland’s Rugby Union
has put up a record by admitting an entire
Australian-rules club, all three grades, to
the Union. The club is Mayne, whose
star player was recently disqualified for
stoushing the umpire. None of its lads
has ever played Union football. Mayne
was not unanimously welcomed, one
delegate objecting to the Union being
made a dump for disgruntled players of
other clubs. It will be interesting to see
how Mayne will take to R.U. discipline,
with its practice of ordering rough-stuff
purveyors off the ground instanter instead
of reporting them to the authorities later.
Possibly the Union will have cause to
“Remember the Mayne.”
* * 4= *
Playing Western N.S.W. at Orange the
Springboks won by 63-0. They scored 13
tries, and full-back Brand kicked 11
goals. Once more the touring forwards
annihilated the opposition with scrum
tactics.
“Hotham”: If the Springboks treated
the Victorian R.U. to a father of a
hiding, they made up for it by drawing a
record gate for Rugby in Melbourne.
According to the “Age,” 12,000 people
paid £9OO to see the tourists, and press
accounts of the game show appreciation
and understanding, which was far from
being the case when Rugby was the sub-
ject a few years ago.
$ * * *
“Old Hooker”: The everlasting ball-
in-the-scrum trouble cropped up again in
the Springbok-Victoria match. The
visitors say they were unduly penalised
for getting the ball under their feet at
the moment it was put in. They claim
that their scrummagers do not put in
their concerted heave until the ball is in
the pack, but it is difficult to judge the
exact moment which makes all the dif-
ference between fair tactics and infringe-
ments. The concerted heave is as old as
the hills. Put in a second too soon, it
means that the opposition hookers never
get a chance at the ball.
* * * *
“Red Mud”: Horan, of Toowoomba,
who plays scrum-half for the Queens-
land State Union team at 9st. 51b., was
unable to figure in the recent meeting
between Toowoomba and Brisbane, and
his place behind the Toowoomba scrum
was taken by another hulking wight
named Caldwell, who crashes the scale
up with Bst. 101 b. The ’Boks are to play
Toowoomba. I pity the ten-to-a-ton
visitors if this giant-killer is let loose
at ’em.
“The Dyke”: Newcastle (N.S.W.)
made a bad break when it invited
Towers and Hodgson to “strengthen” its
team against the ’Boks on June 30. Apart
from the fact that these Sydney players
can make no difference to the strength
of the locals, to whose methods they
will be complete strangers, the action ot
the Newcastle Union is ill-advised from
all points. It has succeeded in re-estab-
lishing the code in Newcastle, and the
way to strengthen it is not by importing
chaps from Sydney, but by giving local
talent every chance to pick up experi-
ence.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: Lieutenant Dewar, who
lately basked in a good deal of unwel-
come limelight, lost no time in getting
into football togs after his transfer to
Perth. He played for Victoria in 1932-
33, and was selected to go to South
Africa with the Wallabies, military, duties
standing in his way.
=i= * * *
“Stand Off”: Sydney’s Western Suburbs
R.U. club is sending a team to Tassie
for a short tour. Last year the young
Gordon club set the example and found
the standard of play in the young T.R.U.
quite good and keenness indisputable.
That trip was a pleasant affair, and W.S.
should have the same experience. Not
the least likeable feature of such tours
is that they are in the best amateur spirit,
players finding their own expenses.
* * * *
“Gate”: The Australian Rugby
Leaguers leave Sydney on July 27, and
are to reach England on September 15
and play their first match against Leigh,
a Lancashire club, on September 18 —
quick work. There will be three Test
matches —the first at Leeds on October
16, the second at Swinton on November
13 and the third at Huddersfield on
December 18 —and the usual matches
with county teams, largely composed of
hardy Britons from Australia, M.L. and
Wales. The joke of the “county” series
is “Cumberland,” represented by one
solitary League club which exists at
Barrow.
Nineteenth Hole
“Village”: Mrs. Tregloan, for long
one of Australia’s best associate golfers,
played in her 28th final of the Manly
(N.S.W.) club championship, carrying the
winner, Mrs. Clements, the lowest handi-
capped associate in Australia, to the 36th
hole. Out of her 28 finishes Mrs. Tre-
gloan has emerged the winner 21 times,
an extraordinary record of consistency.
She has been a member of Manly for 35
years, and in the last 30 years has only
missed two finals.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Like the N.S.W. girls
the Queensland women golfers run their
show in a fashion which is the envy and
admiration of the ineffective male. The
number of women players is increasing
as the kangaroo traverses the great open
spaces, by leaps and bounds. The
women are building up a fund to help
players desirous of playing in big events,
and particular attention is being paid to
the formation of a junior championship.
So far the numbers of promising juniors
is not large, but it is expected that propa-
ganda and organisation will produce
results.
* * * =l=
“Baffy”: Recent experiments show the
pace of a hard-driven golf ball to be
over 146 in.p.h. The result is said to
have been obtained with a specially-in-
vented machine, but, like other figures
of the sort, should be taken with a
tablespoonful of salt. Larwood is
credited —on what grounds has never
been made public—with 90 m.p.h. In
his book on cricket published in the
’nineties, the late Ranji says he watched
an experiment at Woolwich where
C. T. B. Turner was asked to bow)
through the electric screens used to test
projectile velocities. C.T.B.’s best was
80 m.p.h. and his fast yorker was gener-
ally acknowledged to be about the swift-
est thing of its kind seen up to those days.
* * * *
' “Lakeside”: Guldahl won the Ameri-
can open championship at Birmingham
(Alabam.) with 281 strokes, a record for
the event. Familiar names like Shute
and Sarazen appear well down the finish-
ing list, with cards of 292. , Gulfahl,
Dudley and Snead, who were fifth and
second respectively, have been added to
the Yankee Ryder Cup team. After the
Ryder Cup, Densmore Shute and Cotton
have been matched over 72 holes on two
courses for the world’s match-play cham-
pionship. London “News of the World”
is putting up £5OO prize-money.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: Entries for the
Wimbledon singles totalled 128, the list
in alphabetical order beginning with
Anderson and ending with Zarifi —cap-
tains of Oxford and Cambridge respec-


mx
•
» - I |
wm
n
H
A REAL OLYMPIAN!
JESSE OWENS the world’s
champion sprint runner and
one of the sensations of the
XI Olympic Games.
Years of arduous training and
brilliant competitive perform-
ances have, as yet, failed to
fault this great athlete whose
versatility enabled him to win
three Olympic championships
at Berlin.
Similarly, inbuilt qualities of
speed, strength, and stamina are
possessed by the Champion
Australian-made—
Olympic tyres
for Cars, Trucks and Cycles !
ANNOUNCING
NEW ENERGY
0
•I'ViiS
P“
RH
~,,/-,r
„, „i/A
§
3i*
§
Comfortable to wear, easy
to adjust, the Charnaux
Man’s Belt in no way con-
stricts the movement of the
body. Does its essential
work imperceptibly.
liflimain
a belt for men who realise
the need for support and internal balance bringing
with them increased energy and fitness. The
Charnaux Man’s Belt, whilst it holds the body
firmly, and prevents strain, compels you to exercise
your abdominal muscles because bands of force are
formed by its graduated perforations. The belt is
made of Latex by electricity—a material which has
a greater capacity of stretch with a greater resistance
to stretch than any other known material. The
Charnaux Man’s Belt is obtainable at all leading
stores. Write for free descriptive booklet to
Charnaux, 55 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
tively. There are 59 pairs in the men s
doubles, 43 in the women’s and 75 in the
mixed. Notable in the doubles that an
old and honorable partnership has been
broken, Borotra pairing with Bernard
and Brugnon with Stedman, of Maori-
land. Allison and Van Ryn, holders of
the doubles title, are not showing this
year, and Austin plays only in the singles.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The seeding of the
Wimbledon draw has caused some heart-
burning in Australia, because Crawford
was dropped from the sacred circle for
the first time since 1930, McGrath
being substituted. Australians were also
surprised to see their old pal “Canni-
bals” Menzel included in the. seeding.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The European-zone final
for the Davis Cup will be played between
Germany and the Czechs. The surprise
of the semi-finals was the easy defeat of
the Yugs by the Czechs. The. Yugs have
probably overdone it; ever since last
year their team has been playing regular
tennis, their tours including India and
South Africa. Whether the poor devils
are driven to it to earn money for their
bosses or whether they were actuated by
just plain damphoolishness doesn’t
matter.
* * * #
“Centre Court”: Australia’s Davis Cup
remnant, being obliged to earn some
extra oats to make up for losses in the
U.S.A., hhs been matched to chase the
fleeting shekel on the Continent after
Wimbledon. France is to be tackled on
July 9 and after, Britain on July 15 and
Germany on July 31 and following days.
McGrath has had a recurrence of that
septic throat which has troubled him so
often, and Australia may have to depend
on Bromwich, Crawford and Sproule.
* * »!• *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Cabled that
Tuckey, the gunner player who has
appeared for England in the Davis Cup
doubles, is leaving the army and will
devote himself to “business.” Writer
will risk a little on a wager that the
“business” will consist in hooking up
with some leading firm dealing in tennis
goods. It is about the only course open
to Tuckey. To continue his military
career, with all its limitations as to leave
and service abroad, would entail his
neglecting his tennis, and that is not to
be thought of.
* * * *
“Forest Hills”: One of the surprises
of the U.S.A. tennis season is the in-
clusion of Helen Wills-Moody among
the women invited to practise for the
Wightman Cup tourney with England
in August. Helen has retired as many
times as a ptrima donna. Recently, after
saying she would show at Wimbledon,
she announced her withdrawal.
Miscellaneous
“Nahin”: India cannot send a full
team to the Empire Games in Sydney,
but would like to enter some swimmers
through the Australian S.U. The Aus-
tralian authorities, while welcoming the
suggestion, advised that the endorse-
ment of the Indian Olympic Council and
the British Empire Games Association
must first be given.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Cherub”: Betting was brisk in
Queenstown (Tas.) when a young long-
distance runner, Ernie Coleman, started
off to try to run from Queenstown to
Strahan and back, 53£ miles, in eight
hours. He failed after a great effort, but
set 3hr. 12min. for the outward journey
of 26f miles, and, with 40 minutes’ rest,
ran home in 4hr. 21min. On the following
day Coleman made his usual week-end
trip of running home to Zeehan from
Queenstown, 21 miles, “just to take the
stiffness off,” he explained.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Our girl cricketers
covered themselves with glory by win-
ning their first match with All-England
at Northants. They ran up 300 in their
first try, Miss Smith (88) and Miss
Pritchard (87) rattling on the runs in
rare style. England replied with 204,
(Miss Maclagan 89 n. 0.). Skittled for 102
in their second knock, the Australiennes
polished off the stubborn English resis-
tance in the closing innings for 167, Miss
Snowball piling up 72. Miss Antonio, as
expected, proved a great success with the
ball for Australia, her curly ones credit-
ing her with nine wickets for 91. Leveson
Gower, one of the most authoritative
critics in Britain, saw women’s cricket
for the first time, and was enthusiastic
over the style and stroke-making ability
of both sides.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Provisional dates for the
Test matches on the next Australian
tour of England have been announced.
The first begins at Notts on June 10
and the second at Lord’s on June 24.
Manchester is the scene of the third,
which starts on July 8, and the fourth
is down for Leeds, commencing on July
22. The fifth and final will be played at
the Oval, August 30 ; if no decision has
been reached in the earlier matches it
will continue to a finish. The English
will make a return visit to Australia in
1940-41. In between they will be en-
gaged with India, the West Indies and
South Africa, at home and abroad.
if K= * #
“Five Ways”: Queensland cricketers
are properly wrathful over the hint that
impoverished English counties may, at
the Imperial cricket conference, object
to Test matches in Brisbane on account
of the alleged smaller takings. As the
Bananalanders say, if such a suggestion
is made our representatives should point
out that Tests at Nottingham and Leeds
are notoriously small money-takers, and
for that reason should be cut out and
two matches each played at Lord’s and
the Oval.
“Aigburth”: Cabled that Pataudi will
start cricket again with Worcester later
in the season, after nearly three years
away from the game. Pataudi says his
absence was due to nerve, trouble, but
there are grounds for suspecting that the
Indian Government suggested that a year
or two on his job as Nawab after years
in England was about due. Pat will be
remembered here as the compiler of prob-
ably the worst Test century ever put to-
gether. How he lasted long enough to
make it was a source of wonder to all
who saw his “perhapser” knock.
“Aigburth”: Australia’s old friend
Robins has been chosen to captain Eng-
land against Maoriland in the first Test
match, starting June 26. He should be a
success, for he is very popular and a
fine tactician. An injured bowling hand
prevented Australians from seeing him
in his most dangerous aspect. Press
selections for the English team include
Hammond and Leyland, with bowler
Verity “in case.” Other picks are
Gover, the bowler, who is in great fettle,
Barnett, Hutton, the, young Yorkshire
hope, and Gimblett, of Somerset. Edrich,
a Middlesex all-rounder, is also a popu-
lar tip. No one seems to want Paynter,
though that redoubtable bat, who should
have been with Allen, is making boggins
of runs for Lancashire.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: At long last the Eng-
lish definition of “amateur oarsman” has
been brought into line with that prevail-
ing elsewhere. For many years no per-
son coming within the category of work-
ing man could row as an amateur. After
the war feeling against this was so strong
that the Amateur Rowing Association
lifted the ban for all rowing within its
jurisdiction. Only Oxford and Cam-
bridge-ridden Henley stuck to the snob-
bish ruling. Now the Henley committee
has surrendered. In future anyone en-
gaged in manual labor may rank as an
amateur unless he is a professional in
other sports or is employed in or about
boats.
‘ v - * * *
“Puck”: Ice-hockey, which is for the
time being putting The Dogs in the shade
as an evening entertainment for the Brit-
ish proletariat, has been the subject of
some stinging comment from the press.
Dirty play seems to be the rule rather
than otherwise, and promoters seem to
have little control over their players.
The majority of these are Canadians,
technically amateurs and paid thumping
“expenses” ; the teams are more or less
owned by the rinks. We are to have a
visit from an overseas team, and it is to
be hoped they will not bring unpleasant
mannerisms with them.
* * * *
“Shinty”: Arthur Mahoney, skipper
of the M.L. hockey team, is the only one
of the side to have played in Australia
before—he came with the 1927, 1929
and 1932 teams. There have been seven
Tests between Maorilanders and Aus-
tralians, only one being played on each
tour of Australia and M.L. M.L. has
won all, save one. drawn at Brisbane in
1927.


Patents.
ROSIN GORE SOLDER.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
20858/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting ot
a license to make, use and vend the invention
within the Commonwealth of Australia. Pa r '
ticulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“History Is Made at Night.”
WORLD’S GREATEST HEAD
WAITER Charles Boyer
WORLD’S GREATEST CHEF,
Leo Carrillo
INSANELY JEALOUS HUSBAND,
Colin Clive
HIS PERSECUTED WIFE, Jean Arthur
Opens promisingly. Millionaire ship-
owner, whose wife is divorcing him be-
cause his groundless jealousy and espion-
age make life intolerable, is to be framed
by husband in compromising situation
with chauffeur, so that decree cannot be
made absolute. But when husband and
detective break in they find two men
in the room—one a burglar, who takes
the lady’s jewels and then kidnaps her.
The chauffeur is lying on the floor,
Alfred Drayton in “Aren’t Men Beasts?”
Sydney Mayfair.
knocked out. Of course the burglar is
the chivalrous head waiter. To frame
him, husband assassinates chauffeur with
poker, then calls in police and accuses
burglar.
Subsequent proceedings include flir-
tation between lady and head waiter,
abetted by head waiter’s chef partner;
the collision of a great ocean liner with
an iceberg (insane owner ordered cap-
tain to break record in fog because his
wife was on board), and a dramatic
rescue.
Casting is admirable. Carrillo’s im-
perfect English idiom again gets laughs
-—“The femmale of the spices is more
dead than the male” —Miss Arthur de-
monstrates her versatility by quitting
hard-boiledness and becoming a clinger,
and Colin Clive pursues villainy to re-
lentless extremes.
Action is fast, dialogue clever, faking
of sea scenes extraordinarily convincing.
Excellent entertainment. At Sydney
Plaza.
“The Luckiest Girl in the World.”
INCOG. HEIRESS Jane Wyatt
STRUGGLING YOUNG MAN,
Louis Hayward
One of the stock set-ups for the Holly-
wood potboiler is that of the wealthy goil
who, determined to show her sarcastic
old man that she can keep herself for
a given time in N’Yark on what nor-
mally she would unconcernedly spend on
a few sets of undies, meets in her modest
diggings a young man strong in virtue
but weak in pelf. Immediately this
occurs the end of the film is in sight,
but in this instance fresh treatment and
vimful interpretation palliate the fore-
gone conclusion.
Eugene Pallette is the bull-necked and
heavy-voiced father whose shafts of
authority fall blunted from his daugh-
ter’s determination. Catherine Doucet
is the flustering mother, and Nat Pendle-
ton a slow-thinking private detective torn
between a desire to ‘‘do the fights” and
the necessity of keeping the wilful young
lady under constant surveillance, him-
self unobserved. Such is the sleuth’s
passionate fondness for a good punch
that when he himself stops a flooring
right cross which the virtuous young
man hands him for snooping around
his admiration leads him to range him-
self on the young man’s side and assist
in speeding on the happy ending. At
Sydney Plaza.
“Call It a Day.”
RESPECTABLE ACCOUNTANT,
lan Hunter
HIS WIFE Frieda Inescourt
DAUGHTERS .... Olivia de Haviland,
Bonita Granville
FAMILY FRIENDS .... Alice Brady,
Roland Young
Cleverly-contrived situations, witty
dialogue, faithfully portrayed family
scenes and sprightly acting by the whole
cast make this hilarious comedy a film
above the average.
After morning rows between brother
and sisters over bathroom-hogging and
other domestic irritations, each member
of a comfortably-off family is caught up
in the throes of spring fever. Father,
married for 20 years, finds unexpected
romance in the income-tax assessment of
a beautiful client; mother, still attractive,
becomes the unwilling object of a
bachelor’s infatuation ; flapper daughter
falls in love with a married artist who re-
gards her as a pest; schoolgirl daughter
wanders around dreamily worshipping
Shelley and Rossetti; the son makes a
romantic attachment next door. None
of the affairs becomes serious; in fact,
Mum and Dad are brought closer to-
gether as the result. At Sydney Capitol
“Park Avenue Logger.”
SOCIETY LUMBERJACK,
George O’Brien
LUMBER GOIL .... Beatrice Roberts
GEORGE’S PUNCHING-
BAG Ward Bond
Hollywood has an inflexible rule in
lumber-camp films that the hero must be
the owner’s son, in the camp under an
assumed name to get the corners knocked
off him; also that the rival company
must be run by a young woman whose
woods boss is trying to ruin her, so that
he’ll be out of a job. But with the stout-
hearted and iron-fisted George to aid her
she’s a cinch to stop among the big
money. The process involves the skin-
ning of the outsize hero’s knuckles
against the bony jaw of the woods boss,
and it is really wonderful how Mr.
O’Brien can send the largest of villains
to bye-bye with one biff. Beatrice Roberts
has little to do but alternately register
loathing and adoration, and Ward Bond
stands up to the chopping-block stuff
well. At Sydney Capitol.
“Old Hutch.”
HUTCHINS, BORN TIRED,
Wallace Beery
HIS WIFE Elizabeth Patterson
LOVE’S YOUNG DREAMERS,
Cecilia Parker and Eric Linden
NEIGHBORS Robert McWade
and Donald Meek
Old Hutch, who hasn’t done a stroke
of work for 20 years, and lets his wife
support him and six kids, finds a hun-
Robertson Hare in “Aren’t Men Beasts ?”
dred 1000-dollar bills in a buried cash-
box —proceeds of a bank robbery, though
he doesn’t know it. Thenceforward his
ambition in life is to possess, honestly
gained, 1000 dollars, so that he may
establish unsuspiciously a habit of using
greenbacks of that high value. So he
goes working on a farm, on shares, and
a new era of comfort and respectability
sets in for his family. At this stage it
looks as if it were intended that Hutch
shall be. permanently reformed (for it is
obvious that when he goes to lift his
cached fortune;, it won’t be there). But
no such violent assault on the probabili-
ties is made. After many more or less
exciting adventures Hutch is back on the
river bank, fishin’, with no disturbing
thoughts of pending toil.
Beery makes a good job of the ne'er-
do-well, Miss Patterson excels as his
spouse, and the youngsters, Miss Parker
and Linden, transact their little romance
very pleasantly and naturally. McWade
has more genial moments than usual.
Good entertainment. At Sydney Civic.
“Aren’t Men Beasts?”
DENTIST IN TROUBLE,
Robertson Hare
HIS SON Billy Morton
HIS SON’S FRIEND, Alfred Drayton
One of those ultra-English comedies
that take a long, long while to pass a
given point. Precise and blameless den-
tist is accused of assault by female
patient whose object is to prevent den-
tist’s son marrying another gal. Son’s
prospective ma-in-law, a regular dragon,
makes so much bother that dentist, his
son and his son’s friend are soon in-
volved in'a tangled web of deception. It
is to be doubted whether there were ever
born any human beings so inept at lying
as the characters in an English comedy,
stage or screen, and in this case the
efforts in that direction are more than
ordinarily piffling. But the piece is saved
from utter dullness by Robertson Hare’s
characterisation of the much-persecuted
dentist, whose habits of correctness and
precision do not desert him even in
moments of panic. Mr. Drayton, usually
much better cast as a police inspector,
emits an epigram—“ The only way to de-
ceive a woman is to tell her the truth”
which if acted upon would have saved
about an hour of wasted time. At Syd-
ney Mayfair.
“Sensation.”
SNOOTY CRIME REPORTER,
John Lodge
HOMICIDAL COMMERCIAL
TRAVELLER Francis Lister
IRRELEVANT GIRL, Margaret Vyner
CLAIRVOYANT Athene Seyier
A very rummy collection of simple-
minded eccentrics must inhabit Fleet-
street and New Scotland Yard these days
if this screen picture of newspaper and
police life holds the mirror up to nature.
The supernally gifted young man repre-
sented by Mr. Lodge, whose best girl
tails after him on all his assignments,
solves a mystery by ransacking a mur-
dered girl’s bedroom and pocketing her
letters, a line of research which, it is sug-
gested, the representatives of Scotland
Yard never even thought of. The crime,
reporter’s manner to everybody, the
police included, is that of a Russif n
Grand Duke to his serfs. Australia’s old
friend Athene Seyier puts in the best spot
of character-acting. Her gin-loving
“medium” rings true, but the rest of the
fantasia is as false as a pewter florin. At
Sydney Mayfair.
“Panic on the Air.”
SLEUTHING ANNOUNCER,
Lew Ayres
HIS CLUE SUPPLIER .. Florence Rice
Concerns a sporting announcer who
stumbles on a murder mystery which is
bound up with proceeds of a kidnapping
case, the kidnapper having died in gaol
and written on a five-dollar bill instruc-
tions as to the whereabouts of the money.
As the mike-agoniser’s jahb seems to be
contingent on his solving moiders be-
tween spahnsored sessions, he speeds
from clue to clue between broadcasts,
dashing back to the studio to serve up his
murder solution hot to a palpitating
public. The police chief, of course,
almost tearfully implores him to let the
cops in on it, but, no—this is his scoop.
So the cops have to be content with sup-
plying the sub-machine-gun accompani-
ment.
Lew Ayres averages 300 w.p.m. and
acts and looks like a smart young man.
Florence Rice is there because there has
to be someone for him to wrap his arms
around at the final fade-out. At Sydney
Lyric.
“Everything Is Rhythm.”
JAZZ HOUND Harry Roy
INFATUATED ADMIRER
Mrs. Harry Roy
There are some shapely legs in the
film and by concentrating on these to
the exclusion of all else it may be pos-
sible to work up a little enthusiasm. At
Sydney Lyric.
STAGE SHOWS.
Tito Schipa in Melbourne.
Something strange and almost undefin-
able occurred at Melbourne Town Hall
on Saturday. Tito Schipa, said to be the
greatest tenor living, strode upon the stage
and sang three magnificent songs mag-
nificently. The songs were by Pergolesi,
Le Luca and Scarlatti. The audience
warmed slowly but perceptibly. Then the
nuggety singer with the big head and the
superb technical equipment sang two
songs of his own composition, and they
were so typically Neapolitan and so re-
dolent of realms of music far removed
from the Town Hall concert platform that
his hearers were immediately transported
to the atmosphere of the State Theatre.
It may have been imagination, but Tito
appeared to be agitated by his reception,
and he endeavored to regain the ground
he had lost with the lovely “Where’er You
Walk” of Handel, the “Du Bist Die Ruh”
of Schubert and other numbers of the
same exquisite texture, and he placed his
hand on his heart and smiled and bowed
incessantly, but the glory had departed.
It seemed he had miscalculated the psy-
chology of the kind of Australian audi-
ence that was before him. An Australian
which pays to be flattered intellectually
expects to get what it pays for.
Yet Schipa’s competence is undoubted.
It would be difficult to imagine a more
delicate rendering of Massenet’s “Le
Rive” from “Manon,” and the operatic
encores revealed fresh vocal splendors.
But there it was. The audience remained
uncaptured, and it will be interesting to
see what tactics Schipa will use to regain
Melbourne’s allegiance.
The accompanist, Federico Longas,
did not seem to be completely in the
confidence of his illustrious associate.
Among his solo numbers was one of his
own composition, and it was of the same
slightly commonplace order as the songs
invented by Tito. A musical joke in
Leo Carrillo in “History Is Made at
Night,” Sydney Plaza.
English concluded Schipa’s programme,
and it was taken in good part by the
audience.
4*
Huberman in Sydney.
Mellowness is the word that suggests
itself as soon as Huberman picks- up a
bow. Not only because his tone is rich,
strong and well-rounded, but because his
acquaintance with Beethoven and Bach
is so obviously old and comfortable. No
frigid high-priest of technique, this, but
a genial, well-matured musician, a lot
more concerned with the purport of the
works he plays than with his own clever-
ness as an instrumentalist.
Before he had got half-way through
the first movement of the “Kreutzer” at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night,
Huberman had won the full confidence
of his audience. He plays Beethoven
warmly, affectionately, with relish.
Equally he relishes the masculinity and
strength of Bach, the massive richness
of Brahms, the serene eloquence of Men-
delssohn, and the fire and steel that
underlie the elegancies of Chopin.
Schubert, Sarasate and Szymanowski also
figured on his first programme, and jus-
tice was done to them.
Jacob Gimpel, the accompanist, is
Huberman’s other self in musical com-
petence and appreciation, and contri-
butes much to the feeling of contented


sd
fsd
199 Young Street,
ANNANDALE.
Dear Sirs,
I am enclosing the photograph of my three children,
all of whom have been fed on your Arnott's “Milk
Arrowroot ” Biscuits from the age of six months.
You can use the photograph of the three boys if
you wish for advertising purposes.
The youngest one, in the centre, is Kevin Lindsay
Fokes, four years old, who has been reared on your
Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits from the age of six
months, and / highly recommend them.
Yours faithfully,
( Signed ) Mrs. O. Fokes.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott s Famous Milk Arowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Qmotts
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
fs
security that is the lot of listeners to
their music.
The A.B.C. apparently had something
to do with bringing Huberman to Aus-
tralia, and one of the ten numbers in
the opening recital was broadcast.
•J* 4* *J*
Ujhelyi.
Ujhelyi, Hungarian violinist, proved
himself a master of his instrument and a
very sound musician in his recital at
Sydney Con. Hall last week. He opened,
a little unsteadily, with the Bach
Chaconne, but was soon playing with full
vigor and confidence, giving a fine read-
ing of that monumental classic. The
Beethoven Romance in F and the Mozart
Rondo in G were models of what Beet-
hoven- and Mozart-playing should re-
spectively be. For fireworks and ginger-
bread there were the Paganini Concerto
in D (Wilhelmj’s edition) and Vecsey’s
“Moonlight on the Bosphorus” and
“Valse Caprice,” played brilliantly and
without any sloppiness of sentiment.
Ujhelyi talks of settling in Sydney. If
he does, he and his Strad. will appreci-
ably add to the Second City of the
Empire’s claims to be considered musical.
*s* *i* *s* *l*
“Lilac Time.”
In Sydney Royal’s latest revival of
“Lilac Time” Leo Darnton as the Schu-
bert who lost his Lilli because of his
inordinate modesty gives an even per-
formance and sings expressively and with
crystal-clear enunciation. Helen Lang-
ton as the fraulein the composer sighed
for enhances her reputation by easy act-
ing and fine singing. Richard Watson
invests the role of the Court glassmaker
with humor, and uses his rich basso well
in the “Yodel Song,” in which he is
joined by Evelyn Hall, whose deep con-
tralto is limited to this number. Gregory
Stroud doesn’t succeed in either the
“Serenade,” sung at a bolting tempo, or
“Impatience,” and his acting is largely
jerky mannerisms and thigh-slappings.
Margaret Kelly and Nina Robbins are
the brides, Vincent McMurray, Frank
Birmingham and Clifford Cowley the
composer’s cronies, and Eileen Kelly a
none-too-convincing Marini.
Settings are artistic, and the ever-
reliable Andrew MacCunn’s baton
keeps the orchestra in order.
»•«
Gregan McMahon Players.
The Gregan McMahon Players pre-
sented J. B. Priestley’s amusing “Bees
on the Boat Deck” to a crowded King’s
1 heatre, Melbourne, on Saturday night.
The acting of the girl players was hardly
up to the usual standard, but that of the
men was generally a trifle higher.
Acting honors must be assigned to
Collins Hilton, who played with admir-
able restraint the role of the research
chemist Fletherington—a star in the
laboratory but a supernumerary in his
wife’s home. He retained his meek self-
satisfaction from the time his experimen-
tal explosion introduced him to Sam
Gridley (Fred Macdonald) and Robert
Patch (Bill Lloyd) on the good ship
Gloriana. Macdonald, as the wise old
ship-loving chief engineer, was effective,
save for some overdone capering. Lloyd
was a bit too noisy, but entered with
plenty of vim into the exciting events
that ensued after Fletherington got on
board. Thomas Skewes gave a clinking
portrayal of a quietly happy drunk, and
David Reid was intentionally futile as
the Communist, Gaster. Feminine parts
were played by Patricia Chilvers, as
Gridley’s nice-girl niece, and Lucile
Douglas Stephens, as the finished type
of upper-class vamp.
*l* -I- -I-
Eliot’s Poetic Drama.
T. S. Eliot’s poetic drama “Murder in
the Cathedral” was performed at Mel-
bourne Garrick last week by the Stan-
dard Players under the direction of Eileen
O’Keefe. Creation of a general ecclesias-
tical air was achieved by adroit staging
and dressing, while Eliot’s verse, less
obscure than the general run of his
earlier work, was expressively handled.
Frank Brooks was outstanding as
Thomas Becket, a character Eliot has
made gracious and rational. The parts
of the three priests were well taken by
George Bell, John Masson and George
Baldwin. The tempters and knights were
helped along by girls who lent beauty
of diction to some lovely passages.
“As You Like It.”
“As You Like It,” produced for Mel-
bourne’s National Theatre Movement by
John Cairns, was one of the most credit-
able of the more ambitious amateur pro-
ductions for some time. Irene Mitchell’s
Rosalind (an interesting contrast to
Elisabeth Bergner’s interpretation) was
outstanding. A womanly woman in the
earlier scenes, Miss Mitchell retained the
dignity of the part throughout, cutting a
gallant figure in doublet and hose.
Douglas Kelly did well as country yokel
William and also as Adam. Frank
Jenkin’s Orlando was smooth-fitting, as
was Rod Douglas’s Jaques, and Ivy
Broadley and Bernard Lamble were at
ease in the respective roles of Celia and
Oliver. As Touchstone Alfred David-
son’s acting was superior to his diction,
at times a little too subdued in tone.
Men’s choruses were excellent, and Jean
Fraser and Bettine Heriot sang sweetly as
the pages in “A Lover and His Lass.” The
cast was word-perfect, costumes and
coloring were artistically planned and
real autumn leaves made a realistic addi-
tion to W. R. Coleman’s scenery.
■b *b *b
“Sally” in the Subbubs.
Mosman Musical Society presented
“Sally” at the Cremorne Orpheum, Syd-
ney. The cocktail of music, comedy and
romance was mixed very nicely, and the.
dance numbers, particularly the Ziegfeld
Follies and the Russian Ballet, compen-
sated for vocal shortcomings. Good per-
formances by Peggy Walker, in the title
role, and Frank Brooks and Harry
Knott, in comedy roles.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Sydney and Melbourne Through French
Spectacles.
M. Georges Rose, 66 of whose water-
colors adorn the Gloucester Room at the
Hotel Australia, Sydney, devotes 19 of
his efforts to Sydney’s streets and water-
side, three to Melbourne, two to Port
Pirie and one to Wagga Wagga. The
Pacific Islands, especially Noumea, have
also inspired him.
This artist is not afraid of color, and
his most admired achievement is a
glimpse, of Martin-place in Coronation
dress—a Brangwynesque blaze of scarlets
and blues. Brangwynesque also is the
treatment of crowds, suggested rather
than limned. Like most modern French-
men Rose carries his impressionism into
his draughtsmanship, which recks little
of proportion or detail. He gets the spirit
of a scene, as in the Darlinghurst glimpses
“Montmartre in Sydney” and “King’s
Cross” and in the dishevelled aspect of
Sydney’s sorely-wounded Circular Quay,
and he makes quite a nice decorative
pattern out of roof-top views of the city,
but he hasn’t got the coloring, and his
“Saint Ouen: Le Marche aux Puces”
looks more like Sydney than any of his
transcripts from the latter source. Mel-
bourne’s Prince’s Bridge provides a nice
romantic-looking drawing. The most
effective work is the simplest, such as
“Com de port,” two stranded fishing
boats. More complex subjects have a
tendency to look like a tangle of fish-
hooks and lines.
•J*
The O’Harris-Abbot Show.
Pixie O’Harris, who limns pixies and
all the rest of the denizens of Fairyland
very daintily and prettily, and Joyce
Abbot, who has an impartial mind about
oil, water-color, pencil, charcoal and
etching needle, have a show at the Wyn-
yard Book Club, Sydney. Some of Miss
O’Harris’s drawings are much better than
others. At her best the effect of line,
color and composition is charming. Miss
Abbot paints good honest still-lifes in
oils, can evolve a startlingly effective
poster in water-color (“Fish,” it is called),
practises economy of line very effectively
in an etching (head of a Balinese girl)
and shows that she can pose and draw a
figure most efficiently in “Rob.”
4 4* +
Industrial Arts Society’s Medley.
This uncatalogued show is chiefly
notable for an oil, “Child Study,” and
several drawings of children by the lady
who signs herself Frank Payne, and who
has long established for herself a very
high place in this field. The current
offerings in pencil are particularly grace-
ful and charming. Winifred Caddy shows
a bevy of clean but not very distinguished
water-colors; G. D. Perrottet exhibits
mastery of lino-cut technique in a series
of excellent book-plates, and C. Stanford
almost clicks with a study of poppies in
oils.
d* 4*
Lamorna Birch Says Good-bye.
Lamorna Birch left a final blessing
with Louis McCubbin and the Art Gal-
lery of Adelaide. “The work compares
most favorably with anything we have
overseas; and the fiat lighting from
above is just how I have always said a
gallery should be lit.” And Australia in
general he farewelled as “a glorious land.
Never even in my wildest dreams did 1
imagine it to be anything like this lovely
country. I will be back. I simply must
put on to canvas a few of the truly mag-
nificent vistas and panoramas.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
ill
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Personal and Missing Friends.
DOWDESWELL (or BEAUMONT)—WiII
anyone who can give information as to the
nresent whereabouts or death of JOHN JAMfcb
CARL FREDERICKER DOWDESWELL (or
BEAUMONT), who was born in Australia in
1890, lived as a boy at Dunedin, and was
last heard of in Melbourne l b^ * c
Great War, please communicate with MESSKS.
VILLENEUVE SMITH, KELLY, HAGUE &
TRAVERS, Insurance Chambers, Pirie Street,
Adelaide?
Bartz Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ.
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessivt
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, pnc.
H- and 2/-, or direct post fiee. Cheaper anc
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals Ltd.
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’.Phone: BAI C6bi
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney was blithe on Saturday in spite
of the cold water poured on its doings.
One of the brightest spots of the late
afternoon was the C.W.A. tea dance at
the Australia. This had a polo flavor,
and many of the guests had been out at
Kyeemagh all the afternoon. President
Mrs. Matt Sawyer, Mrs. Colin Venn,
Mayoress Parkes, and the C. L. Jones
couple (she, incidentally, went into St.
Vincent’s on Sunday evening for a slight
operation) were at the official table. Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax, who was staging a
buffet dinner in her own home, found
time to tuck in this dance. Mrs. Norman
Lowe brought daughter Noel. In the
evening “Lilac Time” bloomed at the
Royal in view of a crowded audience.
The wedding of Doreen Hawes, of Eng-
land, to Tom Windeyer, of Trangie, was
still another event of importance. Vows
at St. Mark’s; toasts at Elizabeth Bay
House.
Even the whips of Saturday’s wind
and rain did not prevent the music-
minded filling the Town Hall for Bronis-
law Huberman’s first concert. It was an
excited house, too. Countrymen who
had heard him in Poland when he was
beginning his career were there flower-
ing into smiles over his success. The
Zionist movement was responsible for
a laurel wreath. Poland’s Consul-General
and Mrs. de Noskowski were in the
picture. Bertie Kelly, who plays the
violin like a professional, came with Mrs.
Kelly, who wore two of the plumpest
white fox furs on her ruby velvet coat.
After the concert they gave a supper
party at their home for Huberman. The
Justice Bavins, Mrs. David Cohen and
Mrs. Sep Levy were among the guests.
Mrs. Talbot, Mrs. Faunce Allman, Mrs.
W. J. Cleary, who wore black lace and
silver-fox furs, and Gladys Marks were
among the listeners.
The Oronsay, which left on Saturday,
carried the lan Clunies Ross couple. It
also had among its many passengers Mrs.
Herbert (Paddy) Moran and son Pat.
Mrs. Moran will pick up her doctor hus-
band at Toulon, and the three will jour-
ney on to England, where Pat is to go
to Cambridge. The doctor has been
doing cancer research work in Europe
for more than a year. Lotte Lehmann
joins the ship at Fremantle, and Mrs.
Stewart Dawson has gone off to her
villa in Monte Carlo.
Mrs. W. A. Holman is very interested
in the card party at the Carlton to-
morrow (Thursday) afternoon. Its object
is the fund to help the women and chil-
dren in Spain, under the auspices of the
local Spanish Relief committee. Daugh-
ter Portia, who is in charge of the bac-
teriological department of the British hos-
pital at Valencia, has written telling her
mother how glad the doctors and nurses
of all the helping nations (English,
American, French, Belgian and Swedish)
were when the Duchess of Atholl arrived
with her fellow-members of Parliament
—Ellen Wilkinson, the ardent Labor
woman, Eleanor Rathbone, representa-
tive of the Universities, and along with
them Dame Rachel Crowdy, a sister to
Isabel, who was here with the Governor
Games. This group of women, busy on
social services of all kinds, had a narrow
escape when a shell struck the hotel at
which they were lunching.
Among the brightest dances on
Saturday night was the Fresh Food
and Ice Co.’s. The girls were fresh
as daisies, but nobody was icy, and
secretary Gladys Preston radiated the
joy of success in her red-gold
satin frock. The orange gleams of
this toned in with the decorations of
orange and green, the co.’s colors. There
were two official parties, one presided
over by Colonel Playfair and the other
by A. B. Dalton.
Mrs. Playfair and Mrs. Dalton were
the judges of table decorations. This com-
petition had proved very popular, and
the entrants showed individuality.
Enough boxes of chocolates to stock a
shop were given in prizes for spot dances
and for lucky numbers, and at this
moment some lucky couples may be
enjoying flights over the city given as
prizes by the Texaco Oil Co. Every
lady who went to the dance was pre-
sented with a flower posy. W. H.
Rayner, who designed the tickets, was
complimented on his work. Like Gladys
Preston, H. B. Gerrett, the treasurer, was
justly proud.
Captain Furneaux Mann (he’s brother
to Mrs. Walter Burfitt and Mrs. “Paddy”
Moran) recently received an appointment
on the International Non-intervention
Commission, and is now O.C. at the
French-Spanish border town Le Parthus,
which is on the main route from Paris
to Barcelona. Six others are with him,
including Irish author Saemus McCall,
who was attached previously to the Brit-
ish Consulate in Barcelona. Like the
Sydneyite, the Irishman was mentioned
in dispatches during the Great War, and
both have been decorated with the M.C.
Captain Mann started his acquaint-
ance with war’s alarums almost as soon
as he got his law degree at New Col-
lege, Oxford. He went to New by way
of Riverview and Sydney Uni., where he
plucked the Fraser scholarship. He
volunteered the day after war was de-
clared, and went to France with a com-
mission in the King’s Own Yorkshire
Light Infantry. He was wounded in
the second battle of Ypres, later trans-
ferred to the Duke of Cornwall’s Light
Infantry and sent to Italy, and was there
when the end of that war arrived. The
work of the group of men at Le Parthus
is to prevent foreign volunteers, arms
and munitions from entering Spain. Den-
mark, Sweden and Finland are repre-
sented in the group working with Cap-
tain Mann.
Those who can’t be in Sydney for The
King’s School Old Boys’ Union Ball will
feel all the more regret when they see
the Dayne picture of this year’s secretary,
Elizabeth Shelley. The Blaxland Gal-
leries on July 2 are the place and date
of this dance. Marion Riley, whose
father is president of the union, is presi-
dent of the women’s committee. An-
other deeply interested is Mrs. B. B.
O’Conor.
This Letter has been busy half the
week picking champions at the Sheep
Show. It was fun sitting on the roughly-
tiered seats about the open-air judging
space and watching the Sheep Show’s
equivalent of Paris handing out the apple.
Hovering about the enclosure, as well as
the decorated officials, was a man whose
tweeded arm hung thick with gauds and
awards. It almost looked at first glance
as if he were handing them out as gener-
ously as Coronation medals. However,
the rams and the ewes had to go through
a bit of drill, standing on their hind legs,
as though begging, and, of course, no-
body hints, let alone, begs, for a medal.
There’s no hankering for a nudist camp
among the ladies of the pastures. The
shorn ewes weren’t very pleased with
their state, and showed it by frowning
and bucking and saying their escorts nay
as they were led to the judge. They
envied their sisters who carried a full
complement of wool, while as for those
in the ranks of the rugged they got the
long, oblique look from agate eyes that
a woman in a woollen coat gives her who
is wrapped in mink. There seems to be
a fashion for ear ornaments creeping into
the folds. Several sheep with clips in the
ear were noticed. If ever Rugby is in-
troduced among the sheep-runs the Corrie-
dales will be as hard to beat as the Spring-
boks. They were a sturdy-looking crew,
and what they could do in a scrum!
That hoary old saying about Tre, Pol
and Pen being Cornishmen got a shat-
tering blow when a surprise call was
made on the PolwarJhs. These creatures
have neither kith nor kin with the
pirates of Penzance. They are bred and
b °Go,“r«he rou U „d S'the eye of the
owner was Mrs. Tony Hordern (her hus-
band is president of the society); Thelma
McMaster and brother lan sported among
the merinos. Tony and Geoffrey Prell
from Goulburn were there with mother,
Students from the Tech, were in and out
of every pen. One young philosopher
grinned as he piloted a reluctant ram:
“Well, well, the pen is mightier than
the sword in this country.” There were
students from Japan and at least one
from India. Joan Harrison, an exhibitor
in her own right, and Doone Rousch, who
manages a stud for W. J. McSweeney,
of the Rivers, Canowindra, were per-
sonalities. Maoriland was represented
by the W O Rennies. Small Jill Brown,
from Bathurst, was a keen critic.
Miriam Moxham (Mrs. Leslie Mox-
ham, of Roseville) has a very exciting
day ahead. This afternoon (Wednesday)
her first exhibition of paintings will be
opened by Public Librarian W. H. It’ould.
Mrs. Moxham has several times exhibited
with the Society of Artists, but this is
her first solo flight. She. has studied with
such masters of their craft as J. S.
Watkins, Dattilo Rubbo and Julian
Ashton. The show opens at three o’clock
at the Grosvenor Galleries.
Pretty Mary O’Neill, of Neutral Bay
(her father is law man Morgan O’Neill),
will be married to-night in her home at
68 Shell Cove-road. The gaieties are to
be limited to relations and close friends.
The young man in the case is Bruce
Moore.
Maorilanders were thick as a South-
land mist at the Australia Continental tea
last week. This turned out to be an
Island one, though, for all the artists
were from Enzed, and composer Alfred
Hill had a place of honor in the pro-
gramme. Ernest Empson was at the
piano, and Evelyn Lynch, Julie Werry and
Leo Foster were among the singers.
Maoriland’s Trade Commissioner, W.
Taylor, made the introductory remarks.
Eric Baume, editor of the “Sunday
Sun,” goes off to-morrow to the U.S.A.
by the Monterey. He will be away about
four months on business connected with
Associated Newspapers. Besides his
newspaper work Eric has three novels to
his credit. The Baumes were well known
in Maoriland, from Auckland to the
Bluff. Father practised as a solicitor in
Auckland for many years, and Mrs.
Baume (who later became Mrs. Kane)
was one of Enzed’s brilliant writers and
lecturers. Mrs. Eric, who was an Auck-
land girl, remains at their Gordon home
with the three children.
A fine, sensitive face, a direct gaze and
a habit of shaking hands with his left
are the first things that you notice when
you meet violinist Bronislaw Huberman.
The Musical Association had a party for
him on Friday, and despite the murk the
drawing-room of the Carlton was
crowded with old and new friends of the
latest A.B.C. artist. No fewer than three
of the speakers had heard him play m
the cities of Europe. President Faunce
Allman, who made the outstanding
speech of the afternoon, had heard the
violinist in Vienna, and remembered the
works even to the encores. Laurence
Godfrey Smith had heard him in student
days in Vienna, where, billed to give two
recitals, Mr. Huberman was compelled
to give 12. Cyril Monk heard him 30
years ago in London, when Cyril was a
young man and Bronislaw even younger.
Pianist Jacob Gimpel and his wife Mimi,
short, bright-cheeked, black-haired and
black-frocked, were others at the party.
That overworked word in the film ad-
vertising world “glamor” took on sem-
blance of its meaning the other night
when a group of beginning butterflies
aired themselves at Romano’s. This
Glamor Ball was to aid the children of
the Deaf, Dumb and Blind Institu-
tion at Darlington. President Joyce
Beazley and vice-president Jean Ken-
nedy brought a large party that included
Jocelyn Poynter, a swirl of pink laces ;
Sue Stogdale, the back of whose black
frock corruscated with diamente ; Alison
Grant, lan McMaster, Jock Pagan and
Cedric Hughes. Mollie Walder enter-
tained in honor of Doreen Hawes, who
married Tom Windeyer, of Trangie, last
Saturday.
The committee of the City Night
Refuge should benefit considerably as a
result of the Producers and General
Finance Corporation staff dance. This
will take place at the Blaxland Galleries
on June 24. A very wideawake com-
mittee and eager buyers of tickets ensure
a cosy cheque for the charity. Tickets
are 6s. 6d., and can be had from mem-
bers of the staff.
There is something generous and
warm-hearted about Sydney, especially
when it comes to giving a little boy or
girl a better chance than circumstances
have dealt to the youngster. Take the
case of Frederick Hawkins, aged seven.
Fred was having piano lessons when his
father died, and the economics of the
home in Annandale received a jolt. It
looked as though there would be no
more lessons for the boy. But his teacher,
seeing talent in him, decided he must
have the lessons, and forgot about the
fees. Next blow was the repossessing of
the family piano. But in the Hawkins
house there was an old organ, so this was
exchanged for an equally old piano. On
it Fred practised for his music exam,
and came top of his section in the State.
When the news got abroad, a committee
was formed to raise a fund for Fred. The
story had a human interest, and soon it
struck a chord here and there at Bellevue
Hill, Darling Point, Rose Bay, Mac-
quarie-street and in the city. At Freds
benefit concert last week some of Syd-
ney’s best-known artists sang and played,
and gave character sketches. Before the
concert started £B5 lay in the treasury.
When straw hats come spring is not
far behind. Last week this writer s
favorite bonnetry uncorked its special
vintage for a one-woman view. It
was a very heady affair. First came
a delphinium-blue straw of the tri-
corne family. Up the front and
over the top of the crown was a wide
inlet of pale-pink petals. Think of that
to greet a September lunch party!
Flowers are going to be right on every-
thing, except on the crisp little black-
and-white sailors. The milliners never
get it out of their heads that all nice
girls love a sailor. So there are Bretons
and Spanish. It was one of the second
in shiny black that had a wide white
stitched band to go under the chignon,
or the bunch of neck curls. Then there
was a demure black pedal with the head
of a red rooster peeping over its double
brim.
These sailor hats seem to come smaller
and larger. That is to say, the small
ones have shrunk to what New York
calls bambino size, and the large!
ones have added an inch or two.
The pick of the basket, to the beholder,
was a straight-brimmed sailor of alternate
bands of off-white and cyclamen. Each
band was minutely tucked underneath to
give a ribbed top surface. Turbans and
bonnets for the cocktail and the cinema
are bright with wings and tiny birds in
cornelian. Cottage-garden bunches of
flowers bloom perkily on the shallow
crowns, veils float about everything.
There are Dalmatian turbans (leave these
to the smooth of brow), and republican
turbans that have no crowns at all. Every
color is fashionable, and if you have
shares in an elastic factory stick to them.
They’ll be worth a million soon. All the
hats that will bloom in the spring will
be anchored by it.


df
sd
Everything seemed in favour of the play. The
critics had praised it deliriously. The first
night had been one of the successes of the
season. Then, slowly, Brian Fortescue began to
crack up. He couldn't get across the foot-
lights. The audiences began to dwindle and the
play seemed doomed . . .
Good, my \
?] foot It's a ’
paper house,
deadheads with
complimentaries.
They don't
programmes,
nor choclits [*
neither. JkssS-.
Doing any
good, Margie?
i*9
*
II
There’s Mr. Fortescuei
crowd of hysterical
admirers- all two
of them. I hope you
can keep 'em from
mobbing him
It beats me.
When the show
started last month |
half the citu
was jammed
round your
door.
&
stage
u
tO
o
o
Fortescue, I'm not going
to mince my words. Your
acting's gone all to blazes
- you're lifeless and you're J
flat. No wonder the
public stays away.
Oh, let me alone.
I'm tired, I tell you,
tired. I'm even
tired when l Ar,
wake
1
Paper Mr. Forte scue? ) • M
r
*
■
/A
&
wz
&
&ZL
k
v//7&
-A
.uai*
ratio
•M
•Vs*
SSP
sfv
Whar an amazing
coincidence. Why.
&
a*
this
be
might
me
Why didn't 11!
of Night-
Starvation
think
iO-j
S
%
'/-5 ;
lb
*
Joseph, you are
to get a tin of
this Horlicks.ln
future, prepare me
a hot cup immediately
I get back from the
theatre. Do this
until further orders
Mr. Forfescue.
nm
x
wp
I say. boys, have you
noticed how Fortescues
perked up. He's struck
his old form.Heis electric
W s
m
s
■
I
7\
You've said it,
Freddie. This
show’s got its
second wind. I've
a hunch it's
going to run. A
♦ i *
1
PLAY HAS RUN 100 NIGHTS
\%. y .
We've run 100 nights,
and the public are still
« i scrambling for tickets...Onlq
I J last night we turned awaq
500- For that our thanks are due.
to one man, who's carried the
show on his shoulders. And that
man's name is Brian Fortescue
n
'jks< .
-V -
!1
ALL the world’s a stage, on which each one of us
must play his part. And how can we play that
part when we are depressed, muddled, and even
wake up tired? We are doing nothing to replace
our energy used up during sleep, and then comes
Night-Starvation.
A regular cup of Horlicks at bedtime can create
the new energy you need. Horlicks makes sure you
are fresh and ready to play your part in life, and
guards you against Night-Starvation.
Prices from 1/6 economy size, 2/9. Special
Horlick’s Mixer, 1/-.
30H7
SPECIAL OFFER ! lb. tin Horlick's Mixer Measuring Spoon all for 2/-.
HORLIGKS GUARDS
NIGHT
THIS MEANS YOU SLEEP SOUNDLY,
WAKE REFRESHED, AND HAVE
EXTRA ENERGY ALL DAY.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
No. 898 of 1937.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN MICHAEL JOHN JOSEPH
O’CONNOR Petitioner
And ALICE MAUDE O’CONNOR Re-
spondent.
TO ALICE MAUDE O’CONNOR.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MICHAEL
JOHN JOSEPH O’CONNOR has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court
on the ground of desertion without any just
cause or excuse for a period of three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Eleventh day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven and in
the event of your not doing so in the limited
time or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of June, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street. Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 140 of 1937.
BETWEEN ARTHUR CHARLES DAVIS
Petitioner
And DORIS DAVIS Respondent.
TO DORIS DAVIS late of Stuart Town in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ARTHUR
CHARLES DAVIS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Third
day of September One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven and in the event of your not
so doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A certified copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of June, a.d. 1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
W. C. DICKIE, Solicitor for Petitioner, 121
Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 858 of 1937.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH ADA WALKER
also known as ELIZABETH WALKER
Petitioner.
And HERBERT WALKER Respondent.
TO HERBERT WALKER.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
ADA WALKER also known as ELIZABETH
WALKER has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on.the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Eighth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of June, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
M. G. TILBURY & COOP, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 28 Martin Place" Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Last week hosts and hostesses seemed
to be all of one mind about the date of
parties. On Friday night the Frank
Scotts gave a dance at Grosvenor for Pat
and Francis. For the same evening Mrs.
Curteis Crawford and Olive Rosenthal
arranged a buffet dinner at Mrs. Craw-
ford’s home in honor of engaged pair
Phyllis Mein and Maurice Nicholas, after
which they all went on to Binbinette
for the celebratory dance given by the
parents of the bride-to-be. It was on
Friday, also, that a party of visiting
Americans was entertained at an im-
promptu dinner at Navaretti’s; after-
wards, doing the rounds looking for
Melbourne’s night life, the visitors found
Queen’s College Ball in progress at Earl’s
Court, a well-known cheese co.’s festive
evening at the Palais and the Old Girls’
School Tie Gloucester Ball at the Town
Hall.
The same sort of double-banking hap-
pened among the shows on Saturday,
when Melbourne had to choose among
the Russian Ballet, the buzzing of Gregan
McMahon’s “Bees on the Boat Deck” at
the King’s, aural apperception of Tito
Schipa in the Town Hall or the elevated
plane of “As You Like It.”
The return of the Russian Ballet was
a reminder of Derby Night last Novem-
ber, the opening of Melbourne’s first
season. Then clothes and jewellery were
more lavish but opinions were unformed,
for the dancers were an unknown quan-
tity and the intervals between the ballets
were a dazed rush of race talk, argu-
ments on ballet technique and trying to
find out who was who among the Monte
Carlo principals. On Saturday it was
a friendly, appreciative and knowledge-
able -audience that picked up the threads
of the ballets and their friends and
favorites among the dancers without hav-
ing to read programmes in the dark.
Sitting with her parents, the J. B. Bel-
lairs, and wearing a black gown with
narrow jewel-green pipings and shoulder
straps was Mrs. Edmund Kurtz, who will
spend only about three months here be-
fore returning with her ’cellist husband
to America. Peggy Green wore velvet
to match her name, and Marjorie Gibson
wrapped a fur cape over a black frock.
An alliance of primrose and green
looked well in the vicinity of Helen Rus-
sell’s auburn head. Mrs. James Watt
combined hothouse orchids with summer
ermine, Mrs. Raynes Dickson, jnr., a
mulberry wrap, pink hyacinths and a
halo coiffure of “snail-shell” curls,
and Mrs. Ken Hadley lily-of-the-
valley and a long fur coat. (Dr.
and Mrs. Hadley are excited about their
purchase of Mrs. Ivan Gutmann’s house
in St. George’s-road.) Long velvet even-
ing wraps were seen quite often. Pat
Newbigin’s was of toffee-colored velvet,
Mrs. Len Voss Smith’s made a vivid shade
of geranium, Margaret Raws wore hers of
black with a gold belt, and her sister
Dorothy followed in the wake of the
Edwardians with a backward pleat
emerging from a nipped-in waist. Ink-
blue spangles were protection for most
of Mrs. Bryan Page’s buttercup moire,
which swept behind her in several feet
of train.
Tito Schipa was greeted by an audience
containing a goodly percentage of his
countrymen, and within half an hour
he had sung in five languages. He was
generous with his encores, gallant with
his bows, always with hand pressed upon
heart, and so appreciative of his laurel
wreath that he bent a kiss upon it. In
the fur- or velvet-coated audience were
noticed the Moiseiwitsches, sitting in the
front row with Valerie Purves, swathed
in wine-red cloak. Present also were the
T. Alan McKays with their son, Dr.
and Mrs. Harry Shannon, Mrs. Shannon
wearing a grey squirrel coat, the Ross
Grey Smiths, Peggy Finkelstein and Mrs.
Frank Russell, whose beautifully waved
coiffure rose above a swing-back coat of
white fur. Betty Tait was in black velvet,
and her cousin, Joan Tait, had the
responsibility of a long train as part of
her high-necked, full-skirted cloak of blue
and gold lame.
There were cars to the right and cars
to the left all along the crescent of St.
George’s-road while a bridge party in
aid of St. Vincent’s Green Shop was in
progress at Mrs. Leslie Kimpton’s home,
Navoli. The 80 tables barely held out,
and a few late folk who rang up in the
morning to make bookings were dis-
appointed. In several rooms downstairs
brains worked and fingers shuffled. From
upstairs also there came the sort of soft-
pedalled thunder which means that a large
feminine gathering is enjoying itself. Tea
was served by Mrs. Kimpton’s maids in
their quaint Old English uniform of
berry-brown frocks to their ankles, worn
with organdie caps and aprons. The
party fare was garnished with silver
baskets alternately filled with sweet-peas
and violets, with the morning’s dew still
on their petals. On the window ledges
were the reward of early planting of
hyacinths, thrusting mauve and pink
heads above bowls filled with fibre.
Mrs. Kimpton wore a robe of mul-
berry crepe and chiffon and a tiny feather
hat, and her daughter Prue, who is doing
her first-year science at the University,
was in green. Mrs. John Gray, who was
co-hostess with Mrs. Kimpton, had lily-
of-the-valley clinging to her summer
ermine cape. Mrs. W. R. Burston and
Miss Griffin were busy with the respon-
sibilities of organising and bookkeeping,
and other committee members assisted in
the disposal of a delectable night robe, a
glittersome bracelet and water-lilies made
from paper and carrying in their calyxes
chocolates and lucky numbers.
Among the players were Mrs. Ralph
Candy, wearing a black coat with dyed
ermine collar, Mrs. Frank Carolan and
Pat, Mrs. L. Linblade, Mrs. Frank Foley
and Mrs. Jim Dwyer. Mrs. E. McGrath,
Mrs. M. Verge and Betty Considine were
persuasive for the sales of cakes, flowers
and fruit. Marjorie Foley and Lorna
Lewin, who had both spent a busy morn-
ing on “shop duty” at the hospital, push-
ing trays round the wards, were present,
Marjorie playing bridge and Lorna doing
the rounds with cigarettes. During tea
the rippling notes of a harp crept out-
wards from the Chinese room upstairs.
The musician was Signor Cerbasi ; the
harp was Mrs. Kimpton’s. She is very
musical and plays both harp and piano.
Irene Mitchell, who has had extensive
stage experience in all types of parts, is
finding that the gay Rosalind has com-
pletely stolen her affections. Among
Miss Mitchell’s other Shakspearean suc-
cesses were Lady Macbeth, Romeo and
Gratiano, the two last-named interpreta-
tions being part of Louis Dunn’s produc-
tions with all-feminine casts of “Romeo
and Juliet” and “The Merchant of
Venice.” The National Theatre’s am-
bitious production of “As You Like It”
opened at the Princess on Saturday
(19th) with a well-booked house. Miss
Mitchell’s portrait by Broothorn.
It’s all a matter of taste whether bridge
players prefer to manipulate their game
with conventional linen-faced cards or
with a dancing variety dressed in white
satin. At the Gloucester Ball Eileen
Mussen and Mrs. J. L. Thwaites played
two hands against W. Noall and M. M.
Phillips. Their cards and table were
set on the stage, and as they played the
“living cards,” who had rehearsed the
deal for the problem hands, sorted them-
selves on four sides of the ballroom and
danced to the middle of the floor to
make up tricks as their names were
called. Spectators remained in the gal-
lery after the conclusion of play to
watch the presentation of 40 debs., a
charming batch in their frocks made to
individual taste, but all of white net
over pale pink.
Melbourne Grammar and St. Michael’s
had the greatest number of representa-
tives among the debs., all of whom came
from Melbourne public schools. Among
them were Nancy Sutcliffe, who was at
Grammar since babyhood in the kinder-
garten, tall, slim Peggy Odium and Jean
Wallace Mitchell, who is the owner of
a pair of captivating dimples. Among
other dancers were Joan Clarke, in white
satin, and Peg and Jack Harrison-owen,
who are Mrs. Harold Kerr’s 21-year-old
twins. Peg was in the card dance, as
was Barbara Kitchen, who made a little
spade spot with neat ankles. Mrs. Bill
Noail wore white satin and a skunk cape.
Mrs. John Arnold (who had been out
in the cold morning mist of Victoria
Dock to meet the Aagtekerk and the
Reg Ellerys) wore a gown in two shades
of cyclamen which she recently brought
back from abroad. Pat Wenzel’s cape
was of ink-blue feathers, and her coiffuie
made an unbroken halo roll round her
head.
The round dozen of modern painters
who call themselves Group Twelve are
holding at the Athenaeum a show which
is a distinct advance on their last year’s
exuberance. James Quinn opened the
exhibition by saying that his speech
would not assist his popularity with the
conservatives, for he painted a gloomy
word-picture of the death-in-life feeling
of the National and Tate Galleries in
London, filled with masters who have
been dead for such a very long time.
Among spectators on the first afternoon
were Dr. and Mrs. Clive Stephen (Dr.
Stephen showed drawings and water-
colors). Mrs. C. H. Noble, wearing an
unusual black coat with a glimpse of
emerald-green lining under the cape
collar, took her small son John on a
cruise round the room to see the pictures
of his uncle, Bob Pulleine. A Queens-
land visitor was Daphne Mayo, and a
Tasmanian was Mrs. Geoffrey Chap-
man, wearing a suit of black-and-white
checks. Mrs. J. F. Chambers, who sus-
tains a modern atmosphere in the archi-
tecture and furnishings of her own home,
did the rounds in a navy-blue suit with
ice-blue gloves and knitted blouse. A
tall exhibitor in dark brown was Mrs.
Chrisma Wahlers. Ina Morris, who also
exhibited, was in grey astrakhan with a
cap of the same curly inclination. Joyce
Hammond, Mary Wren and Yvonne
Atkinson were also among spectators.
Lucille Stephens, second daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Douglas Stephens, is mak-
ing her theatrical debut as sophisticated
and blase Ursula in Gregan McMahon’s
production of “Bees on the Boat Deck.”
Lucille went to school at St. Catherine’s,
and is in the midst of an arts course at
the University. Spencer Shier photo-
graph.
The Jack Kemelfields (before her mar-
riage Mrs. Kemelfield was well known
in Adelaide as Dolly Solomon) have
returned from yet another trip to Eng-
land and America with masses of new
impressions of the swiftness of life over-
seas and secret information about the
way the wind will blow in millinery one
year from now. They went to several
important fashion shows and ate a party
meal or two with Howard Hodge,
America’s most revered hat-designer.
One of his beautiful models, known in
the fashion world as “Hodge’s Girl,” is
now being tested in Hollywood among
scores of experienced actresses, includ-
ing Norma Shearer, for the part of Scar-
let in the filming of Margaret Mitchell’s
“Gone with the Wind.” One of Mrs,
Kemelfield’s most vivid memories is of
the planetarium attached to the Museum
of History in New York. She was so
fascinated with it that she paid several
visits to this ingeniously designed,
dome-roofed building, which by light-
ing, pictures and projection cameras
seems to bring the science of astronomy
within a pictorial handgrasp of the lay-
man.
With suggested glamor of curled white
wigs and lace cravats, of one’s hot-
headedly stepping into the York mail
with one’s dancing master, of gentlemen
courteously insincere with low bows and
muttered “Your most obedient,” Sheri-
dan’s “School for Scandal” spent an
appreciated season at the King’s. It was
Gregan McMahon’s most ambitious and
costly production, and ranked among his
greatest successes. It was also a triumph
for Lynette Dickenson, her best work
since “Tudor Wench.” She and Nor-
man Shepherd (the wicked Joseph Sur-
face) have a flair for costume pieces.
Lynette as Lady Teazle had several
changes of beautiful panniered costumes.
The male cast, strong dramatically, was
also strong on the turn of its legs in knee-
breeches and silk hose, and its hands,
which gently waved lace handkerchiefs
and flicked snuff. The minuet was Per-
formed as Espinosa would have wished
he directed its earlier rehearsals.
In the audience were Colonel and Mrs.
Blake, Colonel Blake the envy of his
friends for his beautifully hand-knitted
white silk scarf. Mrs. Austin Embling
wore black velvet and pearls; Mrs.
Harold Boase was also in black. J. W.
Elischer, who had seen the play many
times in Germany, seemed to translate
it successfully, for he laughed in all the
right places. Orchids provided the
glamor of Mrs. F. W. Thring’s mulberry
cape and mignonette, and cornflowers
were the floral accessory chosen by Mrs.
Alan Nathan, whom everybody calls
“Mary Lou.” Margaret Wright’s sap-
phire-blue velvet coat had shirring upon
its elaborate sleeves, frog fastenings down
the front and fat round roses of the
velvet about the neck.
Perhaps London is not as big as it
sounds. Mrs. Philip Hudson, Mrs. H.
McL. Duigan and Kathleen Sproule
came face to face in Marshall and Snel-
grove’s one morning, and afterwards cele-
brated the occasion by lunching at
Harrod’s. Miss Sproule, who is sister
of Mrs. Philip Hamer, of Melbourne,
is a teacher, and because she has lived
in England for some years did not
accompany the others on their two-block
walk to gaze with awe on beans at 2s. 6d.
and 3s. 6d. per pound, and strawberries
at 17 for 7s. 6d.


ML
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal •
JUNE ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
IS BRITAIN A DECLINING MARKET?
WORLD POPULATION TRENDS
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED .
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
COME TO THE
LEIPZIG
TfIADE FAIR
(GERMANY).
fs
Plan your seasonal buying profit-
ably at this world-famous market.
Thousands of exhibitors from 23
different countries offer the newest
and best merchandise at prices that
allow most favourable resale margins.
AUTUMN FAIR Commences AUG. 29
Comprising General Samples Fairs, Textiles,
Sports Goods, Engineering and Great Building
Fairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks)
available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia
for the Leipzig International Industries Fair, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL,
Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, G.P.O. Box 20245, Mel-
bourne; H. C. I’ ITERS HAGEN, Shenton Park, W. Australia.
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
“Elcho”: While the Larrakia is put-
ting up the slowest shipping performance
round Darwin since the Huddersfield
failed to manage a knot an hour in get-
ting out of the local harbor to search
for the Douglas Mawson women, a wail
has gone up from Thursday Island that
Japanese are not only taking all the
trochus from the reefs, but anything else
movable with it. According to D. B.
Farquhar, who has spent his life at the
game, an average trochus haul on a reef
10 years ago was 14 to 15 tons. Many Aus-
tralian boats are now getting only one
and a half to two tons. This is said to
be largely owing to the Jap habit of tak-
ing away chicken shell, thus spoiling next
year’s crop. But Canberra just sleeps on.
*** ■ *
“Ex-Mister”: There, is some queer
shaky country in the N.G. Mandated Ter-
ritory. Manam (Vulcan Island), 90 miles
n.-w. of Madang and 12 miles offshore,
possesses a very healthy volcano which
fires off red-hot stones and ashes, now
and then reaching
as far as the main-
land. The local
coons pitch the roofs
of their houses
steeply, in order to
ensure that they will
shed the dangerous
load before it sets
fire to the thatch.
Also, they wrap
their mops of hair
in banana leaves at
eruption time, for
like reason. Garua,
in the Talasea dis-
trict, not far from
the Father volcano
on New Britain, can
show some peculiar
thermal effects with
geysers, boiling sea
and hot ground. The
bush turkeys, hav-
ing discovered that
it is much easier to
hatch out their eggs
by scratching a little
of the warm soil
over them than by
laboriously building
a mound of leaves,
provide a local ex-
port industry in eggs
with the mainlanders
across Dampier
Strait. Anchored off
Garua I’ve been kept awake half the
night by boomings and roarings trans-
mitted from the sea-bottom.
H* H*
“Zedo”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment Committee dealing with aerial bases
has chosen two —one on Groote Eylandt,
where a lagoon has been “discovered”
with many of the characteristics of Syd-
ney Harbor, and the other at Karumba,
near the mouth of the Norman. Both
are good choices. Groote Eylandt is a
picturesque spot in which a mission
keeps the benighted nigger in clean pina-
fores, and it is thrillingly adjacent to
Blue Mud Bay, where the wild Booloo-
mooloo tribe rages for the benefit of the
flapper press. Karumba is a dreary spot,
but the Australian Travel Association
will be able to boast the 27-foot tide
that runs into the Norman, the local
crocs, and the mosquitoes, which are
about the size of a seasoned politician’s
promise but far less innocuous.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: If, as is reported by a lady
missionary, there has been a heavy sub-
sidence of the New Britain Ranges
behind the Bainings, which lie about 50
miles from Rabaul, the loss of life
through the earthquake is almost certain
to have been heavier than the 300 natives
reported from Vunapope mission. The
Baining folk are the lowest type of race
in the Bismarcks, with a distinct physical
make-up and language. Some of their
country is high enough to be cold, and
it is almost always dripping, but the
local dress consists of about half a lady’s
pocket handkerchief. Somebody might
give a thought to the poor devils during
the cleaning-up.
* # ' * Hi
“Nagneer”: Eighty-seven years ago,
before Ballarat or the Turon had been
discovered, a litle girl arrived in a bul-
lock wagon at Warwick (Q.) with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Locke. On
June 10, as Mrs. R. F. Stidolph, but still
“Where's y’r manners? Stickin a dirty knife in the butter!”
of Warwick, she had a party to celebrate
her 94th birthday, and entertained her
many visitors with a cake which she had
made, herself. Her eight surviving chil-
dren, ranging from 48 to 74—the ninth
died at 62 —spoke or sent birthday greet-
ings, as did 27 grandchildren, 17 great-
grandchildren and two great-greats. The
oldest living pioneer resident, she has
seen Warwick’s whole development from
a straggling township to a flourishing city.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Newstead House, on the
southern point at the junction of Break-
fast Creek and the Brisbane River, em-
bodies more of Brisbane’s social history
than any other building in Queensland’s
capital. Appropriately, it is nowadays
the home of the Queensland Historical
Society. Built in 1843 for the accom-
modation of Captain Wickham, newly-
appointed police magistrate for the
Moreton Bay district —his first wife was
a niece of John Macarthur —it was sold,
after his retirement with the advent of
Separation in 1859, to Patrick Leslie, one
of the first pioneers of the Darling
Downs. From Leslie it passed to George
Harris, a leading Brisbane merchant,
thence to the Perry family. After a
narrow escape from becoming an iron
foundry, the. property was acquired by
the Brisbane City Council and converted
into Newstead Park. Captain Wickham
commanded the exploring ship Beagle,
and named Darwin Harbor after
Charles Darwin, who then was natural-
ist on board.
“J.G.8.”: “S.K.T.” (B. 26/5/’36)
picked one of the worst iron-ore deposits
in Queensland. The eleven million tons
of ore in the Black Mountain, Cloncurry,
contains only 58 p.c. of metallic iron,
and it is not even a good flux. Mount
Isa Mines turned it down long ago. Tax-
payers would have to put their hands
deeper in their pockets to help transport
the ore 480 miles to the coast at a com-
petitive figure with other deposits much
closer to industrial centres. Black Moun-
tain will have to wait until every pound
of available iron along the coast has
been scrapped before it is worth talking
about.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Montrose, given by G. Marchant as
a crippled children’s home, has proved
too small for the purpose, but ideal for
the suggested home for “burnt-out”
and prematurely-aged Diggers. The
R.S.S.I.L.A. raised, among its own sub-
branches and without public subscrip-
tion, the £l5OO spent on improvements
on Montrose, which Mr. Marchant now
has handed over to it. So pleased
was he that he is giving the full amount
of money raised back to the League.
Gwen Belson did a good job when
she wrote “An Old World Love Song,”
a play with an excellent mixture of
drama, comedy and romance, and she
did an even better job in the chief role
of Lucidora. The Gwen Belson players
produced the play at the Princess
Theatre for the building fund of Holy
Name Cathedral. A number of well-
known Brisbane amateurs were in the
cast. The dressing was mid-Victorian,
and a gavotte, arranged by the Halliday
sisters, Jean and Monica, was a feature.
Archbishop Duhig said a few appre-
ciative words, and prophesied a future
for the gifted girl writer, who is still in
her teens.
The Old Girls’ Association of St. Mar-
garet’s School held its annual reunion
at the Belle Vue. Mrs. E. A. Hartland
was official hostess, and vice-presidents
Mrs. P. V. O. Flemming and Mrs. G. G.
Annand, together with secretary Jean
Morgan and her assistant, Phyllis Drew,
helped to look after the guests.
President and members of the Staff
Corps officers’ mess and their wives gave
the final farewell party in honor of
Brigadier and Mrs. J. L. Withan before
they left for Victoria. Colonel Hoad
and his wife received.
Four worthy organisations raked in
£5O apiece as a result of the Lady
Mayoress’s Charity Ball the Play-
grounds Assoc., Creche and Kinder-
garten Assoc., the District Nurses and
the Queensland Social Service League.
The cheques were handed over at a
meeting in the Lady Mayoress’s room.
Acting-Governor Blair and his lady
are being kept busy. In one day they
had a luncheon and a dinner party, and
in the afternoon the lady presented
the prizes at a bridge party to help along
the women’s section of the Social Service
League, which is trying to gather up
sufficient winter clothing before the
really icy blasts of winter strike us. Mrs.
Forgan Smith, Mrs. Percy Pease and
Mrs. Henry Robertson were the
hostesses.
For 30 years Mrs. W. S. Anderson has
been treasurer of the Brisbane Bene-
volent Society, and Diggers and their
families have not forgotten the work she
did for the Red Cross Society for many
years. There was a party at the home
of Mrs. G. E. Grimes to celebrate the
thirtieth anniversary.
The assembly-room of the Girls’
Grammar School was packed for the
annual dance of the Old Girls’ Assoc.
Supper was served in the boarders’
dining-room, which was gay with poin-
settia. President Mrs. R. J. Risson, in
black velvet, and headmistress Kathleen
Lilley, in midnight blue, were hostesses.
June 23 is the date chosen for the
marriage of Margaret Henry and Glen-
ville Massy at St. John’s Cathedral. Mrs.
A. D. Henry gave a trousseau-viewing
party at her flat, with her sister, Mrs. H.
S. Cusack, to help entertain. Bride-
groom-elect hails from Collinsville.
Mary Wedgwood and R. J. Willcocks
were married in Sydney a few days ago,
and after a short motor tour of N.S.W.
will leave for England. Bob Willcocks
has a station property at Longreach. He
was one of the best all-round athletes
Brisbane Grammar School produced and
an inter-State Rugby man. The family
home in Brisbane was Wynberg, now
Archbishop Duhig’s residence.
The wedding of Ivy Pearce and Jason
Hassard was very air-minded. Both
bride and ’groom are pilots, and Captain
Hassard was his wife’s first instructor.
Both of them took part in the centenary
air race to Adelaide. After the wedding
at St. John’s Cathedral three girl pilots
—Betty Wilson, Del Mullin and Esther
Tully, all of whom were school friends
of the bride —flew over the cathedral and
scattered the wedding party with con-
fetti. The bride, who is the eldest daugh-
ter of the George Pearces, of Mt.
Gravatt, wore a classical gown of ivory,
beautifully hand-embroidered. Gloria
Osborne and Pearl Pearce were the
’maids, and wore cloth of gold.


<xA CLUSTER of BEES
by
TARLTON RAYMENT, F.E.S.
With Introduction by Professor E. F. Phillips, D.Ph.,
Cornell. University, U.S.A.
A remarkable monograph of 750 pages in which
every genus of Australian Bee is delineated in a
manner never before attempted. The book contains
65 plates, which have necessitated hundreds of
microscopical dissections, and 150 text figures. Over
130 new species are described.
Specimen Plate from “A Cluster of Bees.”
STRUCTURAL DETAILS OF MEROGLOSSA.
X.C.GO
u
Cri
j 3
s
vs«
8 Vf S
rj^
iToni-TONi Paymekit
An authoritative work on the many hundreds of
bees indigenous to Australia which no library,
museum or nature-lover can afford to overlook.
Only a limited edition, beautifully bound.
PRICE, £l/1/-; plus 6d. postage.
Post This Order Form To-day.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward to me cop of A Cluster of
Bees,” by Tarlton Ray meat, for which l enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
“The Lost Horizon,” as the title for
a dance in aid of the Grey Ward Nur-
sery School and the Lavis Free Kinder-
garten, held in the Embassy ballroom,
brought financial assistance from a pic-
ture theatre and decorations depicting
film stars. In the official party were the
Bonython lady (president of the Kinder-
garten Union) and Mrs. W. T. Rowe
(chairwoman of the Lavis Free Kinder-
garten).
Members of three musical organisa-
tions —Adelaide Music Salon, Corin-
thian Club and Musical Association
combined in giving Lotte Lehmann a
reception at the South Australian Hotel.
Madame was smartly gowned in satin
duvetyn, the long sleeves and cowl collar
edged with sable fur. Over it she wore
a handsome three-quarter-length cape of
ermine. Husband Major Krause and
pianist Paul Ulanowsky were with her.
Speeches of welcome were made by
C. H. A. Lienau (president of the Salon),
Arthur Williamson (president of the
Musical Association), John Dempster
(president of the Corinthian Club) and
Dr. Harold Davies (director of the Elder
Conservatorium). Vina Barnden played
pianoforte numbers.
An inspection by the Governor, with
investures, of the St. John Ambulance
Brigade at the Parade Ground drew a
large Sunday crowd. His Ex. was in
full military rig with plumes. The Chief
Justice presented Lady Dugan for investi-
ture as Commander (Sister) of the Vener-
able Order, and she curtsied to her hus-
band after he had pinned on the decora-
tion. Langdon Bonython was another to
receive recognition.
Llandovery, Robe-terrace, the home of
the W. F. O. Grotes at Medindie, was
massed with Lorraine Lee roses in every
room when the couple entertained
Madame Sylvia Bernita and her hus-
band, Baron Patti, at an informal even-
ing party. Madame sang several operatic
numbers, the Baron playing her accom-
paniments. Sheila and Fay Grote
assisted their mother in entertaining.
The Ladies’ Harbor Light Guild’s gift-
tea afternoon happened in the lounge of
the South Australian. Small tea-tables
were set round the dance-room and
lounge, which were decorated with pink
roses. Lady Dugan, accompanied by
Sybil Roberts, was received by the presi-
dent of the Guild (Miss Waite) and Mrs.
Eversley Thomas, Lucy Ayres and the
secretary, Monica Jessop. About 200
were present, and as everyone brought
a gift of something for the canteen of
the Missions to Seamen there was quite
a cartload of goods to be removed at
the end of the afternoon.
The Presbyterian Girls’ College’s Old
Scholars’ Dance at the Wentworth
achieved a Highland touch with pots
filled with Scotch thistles. Heather
figured in the supper-table decorations.
The headmistress (Miss Lucy Shaw)
received the guests with the association
president (Betty Taylor). Another Old
Scholars’ Ball on the same night was that
of the Dominican Convent Old Scholars’
Assoc., held in John Martin’s dining-
hall.
WESTRALIA.
The main hall of the engineering
school at the University was transformed
into a Japanese garden for the Engineers’
Club’s revelry. Partnered by their
professor husbands were Mrs. J. S.
Battye, in coronation-blue moire taffeta ;
Mrs. C. E. Weatherburn, her black
velvets agleam; Mrs. E. de Courcy
Clarke, her black chiffons patterned with
bright flame; and Mrs. A. T. Bowden,
with gold lace topping her russet satins.
Perth College Old Girls united their
good wishes towards about-to-be-married
Alison Abbott in a late-afternoon gather-
ing at the Pleiades Club. On other occa-
sions Mrs. Ken Cameron, Mrs. Robert
Jacka and Jean Hemy each wielded a
valedictory teapot, and Verna Broadfoot
produced cocktail shakers at her home in
Mt. Lawley. Pat Flower provided lun-
cheon at the Green Gate, and Mrs. Ross
Smith’s guests shuffled their cards for
bridge. A peritifs at the Palace were Mrs.
Carl Robertson and Marjorie Tindale’s
combined compliment.
Alison chose the Perth College chapel
as her trysting-place with Donald, son
of the J. Munros, of Peppermint Grove.
From her silver filigree tiara, picked out
at the edge with diamente star design,
clouds of tulle billowed over magnolia
satin, fashioned with draped bodice, wide
mandarin sleeves and simple swathed
skirt running to a train. Pat Flower and
Verna Broadfoot followed her up the
aisle in sky-blue taffeta picture frocks
with all-over gold-thread floral pattern.
At the bidding of the A. H. Abbotts
toasts were honored afterwards at the
Karrakatta Club.
Georg Schneevoigt spent ten days
rehearsing the Perth Symphony Orches-
tra, with a result that justified his effort.
The metamorphosis he had worked was
apparent from the opening of Tschai-
kowsky’s Fifth Symphony, continued
through Sibelius’s “Rakastava” and
maintained in the Wagner finale. Lorna
Sydney-Smith, one of our own sopranos,
was the soloist of the evening.
The Macpherson Knox couple issued
invitations for morning-tea at St.
George’s College, firstly to celebrate the
christening of their new heir, Christopher
Winthrop Macpherson Knox, and sec-
ondly to enable friends and relatives to
meet Mrs. Knox’s stepfather, Basil
Murphy, of Melbourne. Dr. Buller
Murphy flew from Adelaide in the Bun-
gana to join her husband and to be there
for the sprinkling of holy water on her
grandson.
The Law Students’ Ball at the Em-
bassy had John Northmore, C.J., as
honored guest. Mrs. A. Meachem’s pea-
cock-blue taffetas and brief jacket were
tailored, black chiffon floated on Mrs.
H. D. Moseley and Mrs. R. D. Forbes’s
swathed satins were of tulip black. Two
legal young women were Molly King-
ston, her primrose crepe roubaix embel-
lished with floral splashes, and Sheila
McClemans, her black nets stiffened and
coin-spotted with silver. Gold lame en-
wrapped svelte Betty Brearley, and Pat
Hadfield flared a riot of white stiffened
net over lettuce-green taffeta. Betty Luce
pleated misty blue chiffons, and gold and
blue merged in Deborah Pearse’s taffeta.
Mrs. Theodore Ambrose, a constant
charity worker, arranged bridge at the
Karrakatta Club to provide winter com-
forts for the inmates of the Home of
Peace. Mrs. H. E. H. Ferguson lent her
a helping hand.
Before going to the Aero Club Ball,
the J. C. Wilkies entertained a number
of friends at a dinner-party at the
Adelphi. Among their guests were the
V. R. Abbotts, the A. M. Bays, the R. O.
Giles couple, the R. T. Kings, the S. G.
Brearleys, Misses Dorothy Synnot, M.
McEncroe and Roberts and Messrs. R.
Jolly, A. Greenway, C. Foreman, Major
J. L. McKinlay, K. D. Cohen and A. G.
Schoolar.
TASMANIA.
Weather conditions might have been
better for the agricultural show at Camp-
bell Town, but it passed off very success-
fully. The Governor and Lady Clark
went up to it, returning in time for the
birthday official dinner at Government
House in the evening.
Lotte Lehmann came, sang and bound
Tasmania to her chariot wheel. The
Albert Hall in Launceston and the City
Hail in Hobart were packed. Madame,
with rare good sense, sang in a fur coat.
Our unwarmed public halls are a cruel
ordeal to visiting artists at this time of
the year.
The Phil, concert in Hobart Town
Hall deserved a bigger audience than it
got. The choral singing was good, es-
pecially in Bridge’s “Flag of England,”
part of an all-English programme. Mrs.
Leo Fisher, Doreen Bidencope, Junette
Juele, Elvera Morton, R. Cooper, A. D.
Kelly and David Davies were the solo-
ists and Margaret Burcham and A. C.
Paton played accompaniments.
Mrs. J. G. Mitchell’s drawing-room
was crowded for the Charles Benson re-
cital. Lady Clark was among the guests.
Late autumn blossoms reinforced by
bunches of early violets made the room
gay, and tea was served in the dining-
room.
Margaret Hutchens had no time to call
her own before her marriage to Gerard
Webb, so many parties were given in her
honor. During the last week or so
before the wedding, hostesses were Mrs.
Hodgkinson and daughter Mary, Mrs.
Norman Skeels, Mrs. Mott (with whom
Ruth Chesterman and Tessie Sharp com-
bined forces), Mrs. Angus Shoobridge,
June Gibson, nine members of the bride-
to-be’s tennis club, Molly and Peggy
Magrath and Helen Lord.
Mrs. Finlaison and Mrs. Nares, who
came from London on a visit to the
Speck some months ago, have been freely
entertained by old friends ever since. The
other night they joined forces in a big
progressive bridge party at the Queen
Mary Club by way of returning hospi-
tality. Mrs. Finlaison’s long black frock
had a shot effect in moonlight blue, and
the flowing sleeves were of black georg-
ette. Mrs. Nares wore a red-and-green
floral crepe with a little shoulder cape
of black ring-velvet. Lady Clark was
among the guests.


The Long White Cloud
Wages, Worth and Wind
Solution of world economic problems
lies in “increasing trade by increasing
wages and therefore the purchasing
power of the people.” So Prime Min-
ister Savage, who must be a delight to
English Leftists, is reported to have said
at the Imperial Conference.
Mr. Savage’s Government seems to
believe that, while factory workers and
manual laborers deserve higher wages,
practical scientists are worth less pay
than a traffic cop.
The comparison comes from recent
Government advertisements for a traffic
inspector and for a “laboratory assistant,
science degree essential.” The traffic in-
spector was offered £3OO a year; the
research worker £250.
When Olympic winner Lovelock was
in Maoriland Mr. Savage said that efforts
would be made to keep the Dominion’s
brilliant sons from migrating to other
shores. He won’t do it that way.
“M.”: The old Tinakori-road home in
Wellington, known for 53 years as the
session-residence of Maoriland’s Prime
Minister, has been turned into a school
dental clinic (Mr. Savage is a bachelor).
So, from hearing debates on methods of
extracting taxes, its renovated walls will
now hear the results of less-painful ex-
tractions. Establishment of this clinic,
incidentally, is part of Labor’s school
clinic expansion scheme. A full school
service was promised within five years
of Labor’s first general-election win ; the
half-way mark is now claimed to have
been reached.
* * * *
“Xo”: There are Maorilanders who
know just how helpless the Rabaul
people felt during the eruption. It is
just 51 years since Mt. Tarawera, in the
North Island hot-lakes district, threw an
estimated 12,000,000 tons of mud and
scoria on to surrounding districts and
completely buried two small Maori vil-
lages—which could easily have happened
to larger Rabaul when its harbor island
blew up. There was a howling gale the
night Tarawera erupted, and fierce elec-
trical disturbances over many North
Island towns kept residents awake to
hear the rumblings and see the flames
that accompanied the blow-up. For days
ash-laden clouds dropped pumice-dust
over the 5000-odd square miles between
Coramandel and Gisborne, which was in
comparative darkness the next day. The
death-roll was 101. Property dam-
age was heavy. Tarawera itself changed
shape, and its Pink and White terraces
—a thermal-spring color creation ex-
tending over shelves of rock —were lost
to tourists.
'i- *
“D.N.”: “Uncle Scrim,” Maoriland’s
£l5OO-a-year commercial radio chief,
must have started hunting up Biblical
texts applicable to the inconsistencies of
human nature when W. R. Fee, presi-
dent of the Auckland Chamber of Com-
merce, stated that Maorilanders would be
relieved “if the Government would give
a definite assurance that the rights of
free speech over the air” would be safe-
guarded. It is only a few weeks since
“Uncle” was attacked by Chambers of
Commerce for rocking it into newspapers
and their methods.
* * * *
“Ticker”: In Maoriland over the last
year and a half two commercial stations,
modelled on Australian examples, have
gone on the air; Parliament has been
broadcast to an unenthusiastic popu-
lace ; directors of national and com-
mercial broadcasting services have been
appointed, and the national service’s
culture-chief has promised a conserva-
torium of music and the spoken arts.
Above all, an improved national service
has been established. According to
rumor, Maoriland’s commercial stations
are making complete and quite enterpris-
ing arrangements for the broadcast of
matches with the Springboks. This pro-
ject illustrates the only good that can
result from the dual system of radio
broadcasting. Competition breeds enter-
prise.
* * * *
“Xo”: Doctors, medical students,
undertakers and members of hospital
“Yes, he's very proud of his light skin. Reckons he's got a touch of the
whitewash brush."
~ - t u
WdS?
Deceased having no Maori-
land rel / tives and apparently no friends, it
was coffined for d i spa tch to Dunedin and
the o tago Medical School. It had started
the sou thern journey before a friend
reac hed hospital to arrange its burial;
the hospital board retrieved the corpse,
but still had to answer a public state-
ment that “it made a habit of sending
bodies to Dunedin.” It is a human
enough peculiarity that most people dis-
like contemplating the possibilities of
their bodies being made students’ play-
grounds. But the Wellington Hospital
Board was able to show that its average
annual Dunedin consignment was on y
one body! Now there is some bother
about funeral expenses. One can on y
hope that deceased still preserves his
sense of humor,
* * * *
“Waitot”: The daily Auckland-Wel-
lington air service begins on Sunday
(June 27) when one new Union Airways
10-passenger Lockheed Electra will in-
augurate the north-south run and an-
other the Wellington-Auckland jaunt.
Both cities will be cleared at noon, and
regular 10-minute stops are scheduled for
New Plymouth and Palmerston North,
terminal ’dromes each being reached at
3 p.m. Thus, for a single fare of £6, an
all-night railway journey can be swapped
for three aeroplane hours. This fare
approximates the, cost of the Sydney-
Melbourne air trip, and the distance is
almost the same; the 478-mile Welling-
ton-New Plymouth-Auckland road jour-
ney takes two days by service car, and the
fastest main trunk express needs 14}
hours to cover 426 miles of rails. With
the operation of this North Island main
trunk air service, Maorilanders and tour-
ists will be able to travel from Auckland
to Dunedin in the south by regular air-
line connections.
* $ * *
“Mak”: There is still the romance pf
pioneering days and ways for Maoriland
writers with enough imagination to
utilise real settings for their stories.
Down about South Westland trails are
being blazed in a modern way. Muscles
and machines are pushing roads through
bush and mountain; square miles of
standing and millable forest are being
surveyed; farm paddocks are appear-
ing on bush flats; and further north old
prospectors and young ones fresh from
university science laboratories are chas-
ing lost gold reefs. The most isolated
sawmilling camp in Maoriland is cutting
rimu and white pine in the far south,
where small coastal vessels nose into
Bruce Bay and load from slings at a
rock face jutting into the sea ; its em-
ployees arrive and depart by ’planes,
which also bring their mail. Big pro-
jects, high hopes, lots of sweat and action
and 1937 gadgets—a short-story writer’s
paradise.
* * * *
“Motu”: To prevent wind-driven
coastal sand-dunes from encroaching on
good pasture country in the Auckland
district, Maoriland’s Public Works De-
partment is planting marram grass, then
lupins, and, when these have enriched
the surface soil, shelter belts of trees. This
sand-check method is a good one, but
it isn’t new. Years ago acres of marram
were planted between Wanganui and
New Plymouth; where the work was
carefully done, and, in some instances,
frequently repeated, good pastures
gradually replaced sandhills and contri-
buted their bit to the fortunes of many
old coastal families.
**#:(!
“Korero”: In addition to co-opting
selected aero clubs for the preliminary
training of 50 N.Z.R.A.F. cadets every
year (B. 16/6/’37), the M.L. Defence
Department is forming a civil reserve of
pilots which will be strengthened annu-
ally by 100 lads between 18 and 25 who,
if educationally and physically qualified,
will receive 40 hours’ supervised club
flying tuition at the expense of the Gov-
ernment as well as two later 10-houf
refresher courses. The only obligation
is an undertaking to serve in the
N.Z.R.A.F. if called upon before they
are 38. Overseas defence trends are all
towards increased air strength, and this
scheme —which should make interested
but unfinancial Maoriland youth as air-
minded as any in the world —is a progres-
sive step towards building up a near-
trained reserve of fighting pilots. Aus-
tralia is more in need of such an air
force emergency than Maoriland, having
greater distances to cover and longer
coastlines to guard. There would be no
dearth of applicants.
“Kiwit”: Contrary
to the curious duck-
shooting restriction
suggested by that
South Island society
(B. 16/6/’37) most
ideas advanced by
Maoriland’s accli-
matisation enthusi-
asts have been wel-
comed by sports-
men and, in at least
one instance, by the
Dominion’s Tourist
Department as well.
Fresh-water fish re-
search, until recently
carried on by a
national committee
of experts and now
the responsibility of
the Marine Depart-
ment, was begun
by acclimatisation
societies in Welling-
ton and Canterbury.
They concentrated
on study of the
natural regeneration of brown and rain-
bow trout and of quinnat salmon —fight-
ing fish boosted in Maoriland propa-
ganda sent overseas —and for years they
have successfully restocked rivers and
lakes with fry nurtured in their own
hatcheries. Government hatcheries were
established and researches begun after
this initiative proved that the trout popu-
lation of Maoriland streams could be
kept sufficiently high to satisfy local rods
and also tickle the imagination of over-
seas fishermen. Indirectly, acclimatisa-
tion society ideas have paid regular and
handsome tourist dividends.
HC * * *
“Brix”: In M.L., at all events, no
more cars are likely to be. seen on the
roads in a condition dangerous to the
public if the new regulations are strictly
enforced. These provide that every
motor vehicle shall obtain a certificate
of fitness, and the. driver’s plea that he
was unaware that his brakes wouldn’t
work or his steering-wheel answer will
avail him nothing if he chances to get
mixed up in an accident, the onus now
being on him to see that his car is kept in
good running order. The new law has
sent batches of unsafe vehicles off the
road, and the wreckers are having a busy
time coping with the cast-offs.
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


You can use the
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
with ANY Battery Set!
Think of the money you save in replacements—
order this Radiokes Vibrator to-day—instal it
yourself—full instructions with each unit.
Shielded INSIDE and so eliminates “hash” —
silent in operation—fitted with extra-heavy
power equipment to stand overload.
The main Vibrator unit is for sets already
designed for vibrator operation, but with the
easy addition of the Special Voltage Divider
Unit, the Radiokes Vibrator can be used with
ANY BATTERY RECEIVER.
It’s the PERFECTED Vibrator—absolutely
foolproof in installation, marvellously econo-
mical in operation and 100 per cent, satisfactory
and reliable in service.
Vibrator, £7/7/-.
Voltage Divider Unit, 17/6.
Order from your nearest Radio Dealer.
FREE FOLDERS!
Radiokes, Ltd., Box 10, P. 0., Redfern.
Please send me free details of your
Vibrator.
Name
Address
Bui. 23/6/’37.
RADIO NEWS.
Pentode High Fidelity
Amplifier.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
The amplifier outlined here is a British
design by Ken lowers (GSZJ), of the
staff of “Television and Short-wave
World.” Some, of the valve types are
not customarily available in Australia,
but substitutes can be fitted.
The old-time assumption that good
quality cannot be obtained from pen-
todes has long been exploded. The
average radio receiver of to-day uses a
single, audio pentode in the output stage,
and although the audio fidelity natur-
ally does not compare with an audio
channel of special design it is so good
that there is very little to complain of.
Push-pull pentodes are even better, and
with some types in Class A it is possible
to get up to an audio output of around
30 watts, with only about 3 p.c. total
distortion.
The circuit diagram and illustrations
show the design of the original amplifier.
The valves are Mullard and Tungsram
types, with an SP4B at the input, 354 V
driver and two PEN42B’s in push-pull in
the output. The rectifier is of a type
known as the IW4. It was realised that
it would be of little use to give details of
this amplifier if it were not possible to
duplicate or approximate the valve types
locally, so the Mullard Radio Co. (Aust.),
Ltd., was consulted for information on
the valves.
The IW4 is an indirectly-heated full-
wave rectifier, taking up to 500 volts on
each plate at 120 milliamperes. There is
no European type of valve, available in
Australia rated for such a high plate
voltage, but the. American 83V (Radio-
tron) is quite suitable. This has a five-
volt filament at two amperes.
The manufacturers’ rating for the new
PEN42B for Class-AB operation is 28
watts output, with 375 volts on the plates
and 275 on the screens. The ELS is a
similar valve to this, except that it has a
6.3-volt heater. It is rated for 17 watts
output in Class AB, with 250 volts on
both plates and screens. The PEN42B
Fig. 2. —Showing the chassis layout.
appears to be a modification of the ELS
to permit higher voltages and therefore
higher output.
354 V is an indirectly-heated triode with
a four-volt heater, with an amplification
factor of approximately 35. This is
Fig. 1.—The circuit of the pentode amplifier, as designed by G5ZJ.
available in both UY and English five-
pin bases on the Australian market. If
a 6.3-volt valve is required, as is prob-
able, the triode portion of the EBC3 may
be used. In common with the ELS, the
EBC3 uses a “P” base.
No data are available on the Tungsram
SP4B, but it is believed to be identical
with the Mullard SP4B. This is a four-
volt indirectly-heated straight R.F. pen-
tode with grid to the top cap. It takes
up to 250 volts on both plate and screen.
As no valves of this kind requiring such
a high screen voltage are obtainable
locally, the AF7 and EF6 could be
applied provided the screen voltage is
reduced to the maximum value required
on these types, which is 100 volts. Both
types use a “P” base, the AF7 being a
four-volt heater, and the EF6 6.3 volts.
To make this amplifier with the necessary
substitutions means somewhat less output,
but the output from Class-A ELs’s would
satisfy most.
In the diagram the necessary values
are indicated, with the exception of the
transformer types, and for these the
writer suggests the use of either Glad-
stone or Ferranti makes. The use of an
R.F. pentode, at the input means that
enough gain is available to operate a
microphone of the. Reisz type without any
pre-amplification. Such a microphone
should be coupled to the grid circuit
through a one-to-twenty step-up trans-
former. A pick-up giving an output of
0.5 volt can be fed into the input without
any step-up transformer. Note that the
control grid is tied to earth by a o.smeg.
resistor and the grid lead is shielded, as
indicated by the dotted lines. The input
and driver stages have their plate circuits
well decoupled, and the plate circuit of
the SP4B is shielded and filtered. A
notable point is the use of a high value
of coupling condenser between first and
driver stages. This is lmfd., and gives
a slight bass boost. The .000lmfd. con-
denser between the grid of the driver
stage and the top end of the volume,
potentiometer gives considerable top-note
boost. The driver grid circuit is also well
shielded. All heaters are inter-connected
by twin shielded wires earthed at both
ends, and, according to the designer, this
gives complete absence of hum, even at
full gain.
D. B. K.
200- to 600-Metre DX.
That overseas stations on the broad-
cast band could be heard clearly on
crude single-valvers in 1923 while it is
now almost impossible to get a clear hear-
ing of them, despite technical advances,
may be accounted for on the theory that
each receiver absorbs a minute amount of
energy from the transmitter to which
it is tuned. Also, it must be remembered
that in 1923 aerials were generally
more efficient than they are to-day. They
were mostly of the “L” type, 150 ft. long,
very high and well-insulated. The earth
was direct and short, and really was an
“earth.” Those 150 ft. aerials would now
fig. 3. —The amplifier seen from another angle.
cause station overlapping in many loca-
tions. Headphones of earlier days (at
least in Australia) were really good. They
were sensitive. With the exception of
iron-core coils, most coils to-day are
the one-inch variety, and cannot be com-
pared with even the old large-sized honey-
combs. About the only components
making for better sensitivity are the
valves, and they are badly hampered y
inferior aerial systems and other handi-
caps. Also, the search for possible broad-
cast band DX is likely to suffer owing
to the presence on the air, after oroad-
cast hours, of many amateur stations.
Between 200 and 250 metres particu-
larly, the band is often congested. Never-
theless, a friend of the writer recently
built up an imposing log with a one-
valver, using a PMIHL valve. His aerial
is a very good one.
D.C.N.JNR.
Radio and Peace.
A reader of “Radio” (U.S.A.), in reply
to a letter from the writer urging that
amateur radio can be made a fine instru-
ment for world peace, says:
Unfortunately we are not making the
best use of our art towards this end.
Our average long-distance contact these
days sounds something like this: “R R
TNX RPT—UR RST 579 HR LOS
ANGELES—WX FB—PSE QSL —QRU
73 ES DX AR SK” [which, interpreted
for the lay-reader, means “Received; thanks
for your report; your signals are quite
strong here in Los Angeles. The weather is
fine. Please send me your QSL card.
Greetings and good long-distance hunting
I have nothing further for you; end of
transmission”]. This, unfortunately, is not
especially conducive to international under-
standing. For some time I have been
anxious to organise an international con-
tact party, scheduled to take place during
the last week-end of every second month.
During this prearranged time, all interested
amateurs, the world over, will go on the
air to meet new friends in foreign countries.
During the party they will learn each other’s
names, arrange to send photographs, have
friendly chats, and then look forward to
meeting soon again. Not only will new
friends be made, but old friendships re-
newed. It is the latter which leads to real
understanding and cordial feeling. The
organisation (we could call it the Inter-
national QSO Society) fould be abso-
lutely without any “club politics”; the
only person necessary to the organisation
being a secretary to arrange dates of parties
and pass these schedules to the various
radio magazines and societies that would
be on the mailing list. 1 would be only
too glad to undertake these responsibilities.
The reason I write you is that I wish to
have some idea of the attitude from ama-
teurs overseas. Comments, criticisms and
suggestions will be welcome. The possi-
bilities of this idea are too great to allow
a course of idleness. Let’s do something
about it. — J. Hudson Poole, W6LWP.
It would be a good idea for Austra-
lian amateurs interested in this proposal
to get in touch with the writer of that
letter. It is an idea likely to have far-
reaching effects.
D. B. K. (VK2NO).
All Round the Dial.
“Callboy”: Albert Whelan is to be heard
from the Empire stations in an all-Aus-
tralian variety programme. Whelan was
probably the first artist to use a signa-
ture tune; it was in 1901 when he
adopted the whistling solo that opens his
turn. As to his first professional ap-
pearance, he says: “One day in the
’nineties I took a boat from Melbourne
and sailed for nine days to Fremantle,
West Australia ; then a train to a place
called Southern Cross, and walked front
there for eight days and nights to Cool-
gardie. We lived on tinned foods and
condensed water ; it was usually about
120 degrees in the shade. I was there
three years. My first professional ap-
pearance was in a large tent on Sunday
nights, playing the violin in the band
of three. Then I’d run round to the back
and appear with a red nose and sing
comic songs. Later I was in the theatres
with J. C. Williamson. I played all kinds
of parts and finally produced shows. In
the same bill will be heard Patricia Leon-
ard, whose light songs and monologues
have previously entertained Empire list-
eners. Patricia, who left Sydney at the age
of 16 to join Andre Chariot, of whose


"RADI O”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and‘ experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “fbe Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (TJ.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
company she is still a member. Jean
Melville and Albert Arlen, natives of
Sydney and Melbourne respectively, will
present their two-piano act.
* # * *
Paul Schramm, the Viennese pianist,
here on an A.B.C. engagement, has
drawn up 30 programmes which in-
clude all the partitas and sonatas of
Bach, the Bach-Busoni arrangements,
including the organ preludes, the cha-
conne and the toccatas. Of Beethoven
he proposes to play half of the sonatas,
a few of the variations and several
rondos. Chopin will also be well repre-
sented.
Stromberg-Carlson School
Address System.
A Stromberg-Carlson broadcasting set
and public-address system now form
part of the equipment of Kalgoorlie
Central School. Cost was defrayed by
public subscription.
A big transmitting set in the head-
master’s office is connected with loud-
speakers in each classroom, and pro-
grammes from any station can be relayed
to any or all rooms. Also, gramophone
records can be broadcast from the h.m.’s
office or addresses delivered.
The output of a standard Model 837
Stromberg-Carlson receiver is fed to a
special 500-ohm line transformer, carry-
ing the signal to the power amplifier
stage.
The output from the amplifier is ad-
justed so that sufficient volume is ob-
The Stromberg-Carlson combined re-
ceiver and public-address system recently
installed in Kalgoorlie (W.A.) central
school.
tained to fill the Assembly Hall when
600 children are assembled. This volume
level is indicated on the output meter,
and all incoming programmes are brought
up to this pre-determined level by means
of the normal volume control on the 837
chassis. Each classroom is able to adjust
the volume to suit requirements.
Owing to the bad electrical interfer-
ence in the locality special attention to
the aerial system was necessary. Two
70ft. poles have been erected, with a
span of 70ft. between poles. The single
flat-top aerial is employed, with a trans-
posed lead-in. So efficient is this aerial
that all national stations can be received
in daylight, and no difficulty is being ex-
perienced in the reception of short-wave
stations.
Amateur Chatter.
An Australian amateur working 20-
metre ’phone with an American com-
plained that another Australian station
was causing interference by being inside
the American 14,150 to 14,250 kc. ’phone
band. He must have been unaware that
no special ’phone band is allotted in
Australian regulations. The regulations
Mrs. E. Monroe, Burketown (N.Q.), sends this photo, of
Maurice Anderson, operator of the A.I.M. wireless station
at Cloncurry. He is seen here overhauling one of the
pedal transmitting sets, of which there are 50 or more
installed in lonely inland positions. Instead of telegraphing
messages, ’phone conversations can now be held with
neighbors even hundreds of miles distant.
permit ’phone and key operation any-
where between 14,400 and 14,100 kc., and
the other bands are wide open similarly.
VKs were given the opportunity, on the
invitation of the P.M.G., to vote for a
’phone band two years ago and rejected
it.
A VK2 informed the writer that upon
applying for an increased-power permit
he was informed that in future such ap-
plicants must pass an examination in
Morse code at 16 words per minute. If
correct, quite logical. It should be . real-
ised by now that proficiency in Morse
code working is imperative.
It is incongruous in these days of
high efficiency crystal-controlled trans-
mitters to find a self-excited trans-
mitter swishing across a band in search
of an adjustment that will wrap the R F.
meter needle round the stop. With valves
as they are and crystals by no means
expensive, there is no excuse for the
S.E. rig in normal amateur work, save
on the extreme ultra-shorts. An S.E.
rig might be in order on 80, 40 or 20
metres in a serious emergency when a
transmitter of some kind must be hur-
riedly made out of odds and ends. These
occasions are rare, however. Unless it
is very high C and loosely coupled to an
aerial system, with a resultant stable sig-
nal, the S.E. oscillator transmitter should
be regarded as taboo.
Some stations are transmitting music
after the prescribed hours, making no
station-call announcement, and then
switching off. The proceeding is very
risky. Accurate frequency meters are
used by official observers, and, if an
offending station’s frequency is noted
with the character of the carrier, its
return on the air at some time or other
will show who was responsible. Of
course, two stations can be on exactly the
same frequency, but this rarely happens.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: Latest in curious radio
gadgets is an “interphone” between the
car dashboard and the trailer-caravan.
While the man of the house drives
along the better half can prepare the
meals in the caravan kitchenette, and
tell him when to pull up.
* * * *
“Querex”: Television engineers in
London, hunting down sources of inter-
ference, have found that when an aero-
plane passes over or along the line be-
tween transmitting and receiving loca-
tions the picture slides all over the place.
Even with the aeroplane a mile away
the interference can be serious, and a
flight of ’planes will affect the picture
from five miles away. The interference
does not arise from the ignition system,
but appears to be due to the aeroplane’s
acting as a reflecting medium and put-
ting the sky wave back to the receiver.
Normally, only the ground wave is used
in ultra-short-wave television, and the
sudden appearance of a reflected wave,
out of phase, displaces the picture on
the screen.
* * * *
“M.F.”: Tenders have been called in
the “Commonwealth Gazette” for the es-
tablishment of a new regional national
station at Dalby (Q.). The station will
be of 10kw., similar to 4QN Townsville.
The service should thus be immensely
improved for listeners throughout western
Queensland.
* * * *
“Mac”: What has become of the
crystal listener? I suspect that the row
from the standard radio set in most
homes makes it impossible for the soli-
tary fanatic to stand the jars while he is
juggling his cat’s-whisker. There is still
a place for the crystal
in any home where
sickness or study in-
sists on restriction of
noise, and no purer
method of reception
has so far been de-
vised—nor cheaper,
for that matter. A
difficulty is providing
an efficient earth and
aerial, though it is
surprising what make-
shifts will do under
city conditions; I
have had considerable
enjoyment out of my
ancient crystal with
an ordinary indoor
aerial and the. mat-
tress of a bed for an
earth. The inexpen-
sive crystal is es-
pecially handy where
diversity of opinion
on what programme
should be tuned in makes a couple of
sets desirable.
What's What in Radio.
The ideas of the amateur are often
given commercial application. In 1936
John Reinartz, an American, published
details of his “Reinartz Rotary” beam
aerial, designed for ultra-shorts. Now,
American Airlines have installed a huge
Reinartz type loop at Glendale, Cali-
fornia, for work on lower frequencies.
% ❖
Saturation point in radio seems yet a
long way off. In U.S.A. there are, ac-
cording to “Radio Craft,” 250,000 motor
caravan-trailers waiting to be fitted with
receivers.
* * * *
The short-wave broadcasting station
VK6ME, recently established by A.W.A.
at Perth, is making friends overseas. A
listener at Rock Island, Illinois (U.S.A.),
writes: “Reception of your broadcast
of March 26 was clear, even though a
blizzard was raging over central U.S.A.
when I tuned you in.” A listener at Gis-
borne (M.L.) reports that fading of the
RADIO FOR ARMY USE.
Brigadier-General J. L. Hardie inspecting field radio telephone-
telegraph receiving equipment at the Radio-Electric Works of
Amalgamated Wireless ( Australasia ), Limited. Colonel F. M.
Lorenzo at right and Mr. L. A. Hooke, general manager of
A.W.A., centre.
new station is not noticeable. A listener
at Proctorville, Ohio (U.S.A.), said the
station came in with good volume and
very little fading, although the recent
floods on the Ohio River covered all the
power lines as well as all houses in the
town and everything was leaking out
electrical power. From Agra (India)
comes a report that reception is strong
enough for all the programmes of
VK6ME to be heard on loudspeakers.
Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News"
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
In these days when the use of high
R.F. insulation material is so necessary
in valve sockets it is poor economy to
use those made of inferior or doubtful
“rag bakelite.” The modern ceramic in-
sulated socket may cost a little more,
but the outcome is the elimination of
R.F. leakage trouble, which can be very
serious. International Radio Co., Syd-
ney, now carries a complete stock of all
types of American valve sockets in the
Amphenol range. These have a particu-
larly refined form of insulation with
which losses are very low even at ultra-
high frequencies.
* * * *
The Ever-Ready battery laboratories of
U.S.A. have produced what’s claimed to
be the world’s smallest 45-volt B battery.
It weighs only 1.90 z. and is 2in. high
by Uin. in diameter. The layer-built
form of construction makes the design
possible ; there are 30 disc-shaped cells.
Main uses will be for special portable
equipment, such as the radio-meteoro-
The final stage of the modulator unit at
the Empire short-wave station at
Daventry, England.
graph; a balloon takes a small trans-
mitter into the stratosphere, and when
the balloon bursts a parachute lets the
equipment down, a receiver below re-
cording tape signals for interpretation in
terms of air pressure, temperature and
humidity.
The octal valve
socket standardised
with the American
metal valve is
making friends
everywhere. Eng-
land likes this
socket so much
that some English
radio magazines
show in all circuit
diagrams the num-
bered octal con-
nections. One
magazine says “the
time is coming
when all valves
will have a stan-
dard eight - pin
base, as indicated
by the introduc-
tion of inter-
national valves by
two of our lead-
ing makers.” Ger-
man y, Holland,
France and other
European countries
seem to have practically standardised the
familiar Philips “P” base. The adoption
of a universal socket will be one of the
best things that ever happened in radio.
The Question Box.
(1) In the case of a Browning Drake receiver,
with four-volt valves, running from a Phillips
3002 8 eliminator for plate voltage, would it be
practicable to dispense with A battery and light
the filaments from the eliminator? (2) What
types of valves would improve sensitivity ?
Types now in use are A 415, A 409, A 409 and
8409 ?— 545.
(1) No. An eliminator is designed to deliver
milliamperes only at high voltage, not amperes
at low voltage. The rectifier would not pass
the current, nor is the transformer designed
for such a purpose. A special A eliminator
could be made up from a dry rectifier. The
Westinghouse is suitable. Particulars can be
obtained from Amplion (A’sia), Ltd., 66
Clarence-street, Sydney. Alternative would be
two-volt valves and an Eveready' Air-Cell. (2)
You could try types 30, 30, 30 and 31 in the two-
volt Radiotron series or PM4DX, PM3, PM3
and PM254 in the Mullard four-volt range.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
u
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
1:}, pints of. kerosene.
Three'times the life W
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted ..with.
PYREX .. Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4' All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 47/6
Complete.
Write jor Catalogue oj
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bringing On Young Stock.
. “Tri-calv: Those) yearlings that took
your fancy have been getting Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour since they ;were 6 weeks old.
They have been on free agistment—and
you must admit my pasture is good—but
I thought a calcium phosphate supple-
ment should be useful and so put- a
trough of Tri-cal-os 40, salt 60 beside one
of grain. Well, the calves always went
straight to the Tri-cal-os first. That con-
vinced me that the pasture wasn’t good
enough. Now I’m proud of those little
chaps—l think they are in better con-
dition than yours, and I know Tri-cal-os
is responsible. Goodness, it’s economi-
cal enough, and I’m Scotch, at least on
one side!
Write to Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
details.
G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, for
Old Farmer.
: I
■
r 1 r
-ic
CONSTANT USE OF
VITA-LICK
MINIMISES BLOWFLY
STRIKE.
Mr. R. M. Bell, Eskdale South,
Esk, Q., writes, 14/21’33: —
“We originally used Vita-Lick,
and the sheep progressed splen-
didly, but for the sake of economy
we gave up using Vita-Lick, but we
soon discovered that flies became
very troublesome, which, notwith-
standing several wet summers pre-
viously, had never troubled us.
Within a few weeks of again
using Vita-Lick the fly trouble
practically disappeared.”
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Clean Cut-outs.
“Murrawong”: . “C.V.S.’s” plan for
timing the cut-out of a flock and arrang-
ing bins to cut out at the same time
works well as a rule, but there will often
occur circumstances or exceptional cases
like those quoted by “Dead Finish” (B.
2/6/’37).. . ■
Only experience will enable a classer
to cope with these, but, speaking gener-
ally, he should get into the habit, par-
ticularly in a small shed or where cut-
outs are frequent, .of timing his bins
from the start, until the practice becomes
automatic. ........
Don’t wait until a cut-out is in sight.
It may still be possible to square off the
main lines, but the slower lines which
may yield only a bale a day or less should
be organised early.
The heavier the average weight of the
bales the easier it should be to avoid
butts and bar bales. It is light-cutting,
high-yielding wool that gives the classer
headaches. If the average bale weight of
fleece wool is 2701 b. and there happens
to be 3701 b. left in a bin at the cut-out,
that represents more than can be put
into one bale yet not enough for two.
Short, heavy-conditioned or dusty wools
are different; a bale of dusty backs, for
instance, can gener-
ally be split and
made into two full-
weight bales.
Keep in touch
with the tally book
and find out how
many bellies went to
make the first bale
pressed. Get a list
of all sheep to be
shorn number in
each flock or pad-
dock, age, sex, etc.
—and map out the
programme accord-
ingly.
A mob of 2500 big ewes may give five
bales of bellies, but it may take a thou-.'
sand bellies from small, cold-country :
sheep to make a bale, so the problem
of matching one lot with another to
make a five-bale line has to be tackled
well in advance.
As a rule, the classer can expect few
of the last three or four sheep in a pen to
provide AAA fleeces, but sometimes he
falls in. In filling up some sheds the
leaders may go right past the catching
pens and be held until they are actually
shorn last of the mob.
One thing that invariably causes mis-
calculation is the appearance of a mob
of culls. If they are brought in before
the sheep they were culled from, the
classer is unable to set his lines, as they
are not representative of the main mob.
If the culls follow the mob, there is un-
certainty as to how the bins are going
to pan out, and the pressers have to be
held back almost until the last sheep is
on the board.
Where flocks are small and mixed, it
is next to impossible to cut out without
a few armfuls being left in the bins. But,
while the classer should try to cut out
cleanly, the grazier. can.help, as much
by putting aside all oddments and left-
overs and consigning to a. wool-pooler
anything that cannot be worked in.
Dual-purpose Sheep.
“B-gar”: In commenting on Lincoln
and Downs crosses, “C.V.S.” (B.
26/ 5 / '37) says “it is doubtful whether
mutton excellence and wool quality can
be bred together.” They can, but not if
any of the Downs breeds are used as'
sires.
Both Corriedales and Polwarths can be
depended upon to produce quality wool
and mutton above the average, and in
MaOriland purebred lambs of the
former take a high place in the export
trade. In Victoria comebacks haVe for
years been noted as dual-purpose sheep.
The Polwarth breed owes its genesis to
the comeback.
I have handled some splendidly-
woolled first-cross sheep from merino
ewes by Romney Marsh rams and by
English Leicester rams. Some of the
same drops were sold as lambs for export.
With few exceptions, most of the Eng-
lish breeds when mated with merinos
will produce sheep with fair to good
wool. It is when they are mated with
ewes further removed than the first cross
that inferior wool is produced. The ideal
dual-purpose sheep cannot be produced
unless both sires and dams are purebreds.
" Tell th' cook t' mind 'ow 'e 'andles that frewood It's chock-full o'
sanlypedes."
Toxemic Jaundice,
, .
“Corriedale”: “B-gar” (B. 2/6/ 37) >s
writing of the common non-toxaemic
jaundice when he criticises my sugges-
tion on copper poisoning. The jaundice
he refers to is not caused by any toxin/
but is the. aftermath of several condi-
tions, such as fluke or gallstones. I was
discussing the jaundice that causes heavy
losses in the .Riverina and Victoria,
This trouble is not accompanied by
an y sign of obstruction of the bile duct
w fih gallstones or fluke. It is entirely
the result of a toxin which is freed in
the blood, destroying the red corpuscles
and so causing the yellow staining of
tissues. Where this toxin comes from is
a question of the moment,
. At Gi en fi e ld (N.S.W.) a getm (01'.
we lchii,, type A) has been connected with
cases from the Riverina. This germ
frees a powerful toxin, and is a close
relative of type D, the cause of entero-
toxaemia. Unfortunately, experimental
work is not completed, and results re-
main uncertain.
In Victoria, however, cases of toxaemic
jaundice identical with those observed in
the Riverina have been found to be the
result of a high copper intake from blue-
stone footbaths or drenches, or blue-
stoning of fluke-infested creeks, springs
and dams. From personal knowledge of
the research going on I can assure
“B-gar” that copper poisoning is one
certain cause of toxamiic jaundice.
Not all cases result from it; many
occur on properties where bluestone in
any form is not used. Apparently there
are two causes of the same disease, only
one of which —copper poisoning—is
known with certainty at present.
“A.H.M.”: Various M.O.L. writers
hold that the main cause is liver rot or
flilke. My experience as a meat inspector
shows me that , fluke is frequently not
present in the liver of affected carcasses.
Some other' cause must be looked for —
probably a pasture weed. T.j. seldom
occurs except in the late spring and early
summer months.
Save the Sparrowhawk.
■“P.O.M.”: Those who look on the
sparrowliawk as an enemy seem to over-,
look its slaughter' of destructive vermin,
such as mice; around haystacks and
sheds, which far outweighs any depreda-
tions on the fowlrun. The kookaburra
is generally considered the leading ver-
min-catcher,-but I have known sparrow-
hawk mice-catchers, concentrating on a.
stackyard near Kaniva (Vic.), to win by
a mile from the .kookas.- ..Though the
fowlyard was close to the stackyard
those hawks were never known to inter-
fere with any chickens during the season
they hunted there,' but the kookaburras
launched several attacks on the chooks.
Rabbits Again.
“Trapper” : There’s a lot v of truth in
what “Salmon Gums” (B.: 2/6/’37) says
about trapping increasing instead of
exterminating rabbits. Under the Rodier
system all bucks caught are released, only
the does being killed. The motive is
that mentioned by “Salmon Gums,” and
from all. accounts it is an effective help
in getting rid of rabbits.
“Salmon Gums” is. a. little out in his
statement that .“85. ppr cent, of rabbits
caught irt' traps are bucks.”. During
spring arid spmmer the big "majority; of.
rabbits caught .will be' do.es. ‘ln auturnh
and .early winter, with traps set aWay
from burrows, the majority caught will
be bucks.
I know of two trappers who during the
latter part of last year and the early
months of this accounted for over 8000
rabbits, and 90 per cent, of the catch
were does. In districts where trapping
is now taking place most of the rabbits
caught are bucks, but within a few weeks
does will be caught in the majority.
From an extensive experience among
the bunnies I should say that trapping in
most cases is a poor method of wiping
them out. It thins paddocks to a certain
extent, but bunny presently gets trap-shy.
Paddocks need a spell from traps for a
few weeks every now and then to allow
the rabbits to settle down again. Where
paddocks are not, netted the job is hope-
less, and £ know of netted areas that,
unless subdivided by netting fences,
would take a dozen men a lifetime to
clear.. <
The only-' means of keeping rabbits
within reasonable-bounds, is to dig them
out where possible, fumigate where
rocks prevail,' lay poison baits and keep
the traps going as well. To have success
in dealing with rabbits it must be a
continuous job. Working in the winter
months alone only prolongs the agony.
Mules.
“Bullocky”: Jack donkeys having been
imported from ■ U.S.A. last year, an
attempt is being made to breed mules
for . work, in the canefields in N.Q. It’s
a wonder they have not been exploited
more in other industries. ■ •
The chief objection to a mule is pre-
sumed stubbornness, but if broken-in
well and treated right a mule becomes
just as tractable as any horse, and will
pull the head off horses bigger and
heavier.
As hacks mules fall into disfavor, but
as coachers or buggy-pullers they’re all
there. During one drought in south-
western Queensland a coach drawn by
mules always turned up on time; the
horse-drawn coach doing the other half
of the run got there, but often a couple
of days late. And it cost twice as much
to feed the horses as the mules. During
the Sinai campaign mules put it all over
horses in the transport service.
Kurrajong Plantations.
“Mulyan”: The kurrajong is one of
the best fodder trees in Australia. It
resists drought and stands severe lop-
ping. Some graziers, instead of lopping,
flail the leaves off. On two or three
places, notably Mungeribar (N.S.W.),
there are extensive kurrajong plantations,
which are a standby for dry times. They
carry through several successive dry
seasons when no hay can be stored.
On Green Hill, near Duri, Tamworth
(N.S.W.), there is a plantation that pre-
sents a novel sight. Green Hill was
rather bare of trees, and. the kurrajong
was chosen because it is handsome as
well as useful. The owner, Albert
Haskins, soon discovered that 1 in plant-
ing the trees without protection he was
only, providing fopd for rabbits. He cut
hollow logs into suitable lengths, and
sank them 18iri. in the ground. Three
hundred and sixty of these tree-pots
were set up in long rows, then partly
filled with soil, and a baby tree was
planted in each.
The trees are now tall, and have good
tops, but still stand in the stumps. These
can be left till they rot away, or may
be split and removed. Standing, they
serve in drought to prevent rabbits eat-
ing the bark from the butts of the trees.
The kurrajongs are widely spaced, so
that they preserve rather than diminish
the growth of grass, and at the same time
provide shade in summer. The owner
{Continued on page 44.)


Manual Testing of Oats
fov OATMEAL STOUT
w-
II *
M
jjj id!/ifoo^So^^
• % .//* / </ % /' h 4l %t L
tv ft *y < fruMf*
G •T» ? 1 ' * 1 -.'' i
*■ JS*' 'JiKV;
' i» t* * 1 *4 *
i£4 Jm? 3 |
fiitti
r<: - „.
s§§
-c
'?S
&
"W
L
S*W
v-ssts
rNftU
j. n
ssw
mmm
, Va\
km
l&
\'"NKV
<%
cSvViv
NH&SE
nVt—r-o—nl
{il\W-u\^V
m.
mm
■m
WM
lUu
&
»aaM >H\i' wT' 1 '! 1
Hi,
/' 'A'-- r
' J,"/?
p/m
jiif
'!>
M
mmmzm
mm
mmmm
m
%
I
&XX«ZVJ>KS*
:; TdoHevs
The wholesome glory of the sun-
ripened Oats is concentrated into
each health-bringing glass of
OATMEAL STOUT.
STOUT
Here’s To’ee
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


The Aristocrat of
Working 800t5 ...
Truly an Aristocrat in
Working Boots is this
Abbey Cossack.
Made from the highest-
grade Brown Willow Calf
obtainable, and leather-
lined throughout, it is built
to stand the strain of hard
country wear.
A heavy double sole and
bellowed tongue make it
perfectly waterproof.
You’ll work in comfort in
an Abbey Cossack.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
df
1328
Made in highest-grade Brown Willow
Calf in full sizes. Price .... 45/-
Also in Black Box Calf. Price, 3 7/6.
Be sure to ask for No. 1328.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish fo succeed
—THINK OF
IDMWb
. '"gtttf
• :>.T
mi
>
M
■ -AS
ip
!F
1
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
a
a
(pre-war strength)
THE PERFECT
WHISKY .....
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents.
w
"*t»muen**if*
«*v7"V
By Appointment
Agents: John Woods & Co. Ltd., 388 Sussex St., Sydney
Distilled by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada. Since 1858.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ffuT&ullefon.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
keeps a well-stocked seedbed, from
which plants are taken as required.
The kurrajong is easily propagated,
and is a fairly quick grower.
Dealing with Ragwort.
“Agamemnon”: Ragwort, spreading in
N. S. Wales and seriously in Victoria,
affects all classes of stock, and in Maori-
land has ruined large tracts of sheep
country.
In horses and cattle the first symptoms
of poisoning by it are colic, with
diarrhoea or constipation. The. gums are
yellowish and the urine dark brown.
Acute cerebral symptoms follow, ren-
dering the animal dangerous to approach.
Finally the animal falls unconscious and
dies.
In sheep the disease is much more
chronic and there are no cerebral symp-
toms. Jaundice and darkening of the
urine alone are noticed, but after death
most of the serous membranes and the
gut are inflamed, and there is a clear,
thick liquid in the body cavities.
Treatment in the later stages is practi-
cally hopeless for horses, but sheep may
respond to large doses (up to ilb.) of
Glauber salts in water and treacle.
The most rational plan is to wipe out
the ragwort as soon as it appears.
Isolated plants are easily killed by dig-
ging out or by spraying with sodium
chlorate (lib. to lgal. of water).
As old sheep are not so susceptible it
is a good control measure to allow them
to graze over infested land for several
spring seasons.
Anti-pest Rugs.
“Nothung”: A lot of faith is pinned
these days on the working of the various
bugs, after the success of the Cacto-
blastis. Current experiments include the
liberation of the lantana bug, the
Noogoora burr seed-fly ( Euaresta cequalis)
and various weevils, beetles and moths.
It is to be hoped the cockleberry can
thus be wiped out. Its total effect on the
wool clip runs into thousands of pounds
annually. The seed-fly, however, will be
able to kill off only 50 p.c. of the seeds,
because of Nature’s strange provision for
the second seed in the burr to germinate
before the insect can escape from where
it has destroyed one seed.
If the fly can destroy even half the
20,000 seeds one fair-sized plant is said
to bear, it will be doing a good work.
Still, I recall the result of releasing the
cochineal insect on the Atherton Table-
land (N.Q.) to wipe out nutgrass. The
j insect found that the grass spread too
I quickly for it; so it took a liking to
Kikuyu grass.
Date-growing in Queensland.
“Duggai”: Ever since 1897 Barcaldine
(C.Q.) has been growing 14 different
varieties of dates (B. 12/5/’37), and the
fruit is bigger than that imported. A
few days ago a bunch weighing 1501 b.
was taken from a palm there. One resi-
dent has 60 palms growing on \\ acres.
Date suckers bear in three years at
Barcaldine; palms grown from seeds
take about six years to bear fruit. The
fruit sells locally at 4d. per pound ; the
rest is preserved and sent to southern
markets.
The red, sandy soil is so suitable that
Queensland Agriculture Dept, has set
aside an area on the Alice River as an
experimental farm. There are now
about 190 palms on two acres, spaced
20ft. apart and watered by a windmill
pumping from the river.
Cultivation of Pines.
“Nothung”: With better prospects in
the canning industry, more Queensland
acreage is being set aside for the culti-
vation of smooth-leaf pines. Local
conditions will affect planting, but Nov.
and March are good months.
Prepare the land carefully; plough
deeply, but do not turn up the sub-soil.
Friable soil with good humus content is
best. An acid soil is essential. If in
doubt, send a specimen of the soil to the
State Agricultural Department for exam-
ination and report. It will be found ad-
visable in most cases to add ground
sulphur.
Lay out the rows to suit the slopes
and consequent drainage—straight up
and down rows on gentle slopes, herring-
bone rows where there is likelihood of
wash. Good drainage is essential. Pines
do not like wet conditions. Short rows
enable the grower to avoid overmuch
carrying of fruit.
Plant smooth-leaf pines in double rows
of 18in. space, with Min. between plants.
Allow 6ft. space between centres to give
ample space between outside plants of
the various rows. This method gives
about 12,000 plants to the acre. Rough-
leaf plants are best planted in single rows,
as they sucker so thickly.
Plant pines shallow —the pine is essen-
tially surface-rooted —and cultivation
must be shallow. Use a Dutch hoe ;
scarifying with a horse-drawn implement
may cause damage to the roots. It’s a
good plan to plant a green crop, such as
Crotalaria goreensis, between the rows to
minimise erosion and to maintain sur-
face moisture.
Peanut Industry Grows.
“H.L.0.”: The 1935 crop handled by
the Queensland Peanut Board, chiefly per
medium of its £60,000 treatment and stor-
age plant at Kingaroy (South Burnett),
aggregated 9,629,6391 b. of nuts.
The growth of the industry is illus-
trated by the board’s incomings, which
in 1926 aggregated 1,852,7521 b. For the
1935 crop growers received £101,385 14s.
Id. The total turnover was £138,901 175.,
and wages and salaries paid by the board
aggregated £14,647.
Many growers in the South Burnett
annually harvest upwards of 100 acres
of the crop, which is also grown in
Rockhampton (C.Q.) and Atherton
(N.Q.) districts.
Hints for the Farm.
“Dimon”: To keep stored skins free
of pests, paint the pelts with lib. of soda
arsenate to four gallons of water, boiled
together and applied cold. The skins
should be treated when fresh.
“Wandi”: I notice that several N.S.W.
orchardists have to hire bees in the
flowering season to fertilise their fruit-
trees. Every man on the land should be
able to keep bees. Flowering shrubs and
trees along the boundaries and creeks,
trees in the grass paddocks, a patch of
lucerne, a flower garden and so forth
will fill the hives. If the bees are wanted
only for fertilising, the honey they gather
in spring and summer will keep them
through the winter.
“Sandy”: A good axle-grease is made
from one part finely-sifted blacklead to
five parts lard by weight. Melt the
lard and add the blacklead. Heat slowly
and stir vigorously till it becomes liquid.
Remove to a cool place and stir till cold.
Apply with a brush. If used in exposed
places a little beeswax should be added
to prevent waste by dripping.
“Sandy”: Tell “Johnop” (B. 26/5/’37)
that reasons why pigs should be pastured
are health, economy and cleanliness.
Baconers should be allowed to graze
(plus other food) until four months and
then drafted to the fattening pens to be
topped off in six or eight weeks. Boars
and dry sows need very little extra if
they have a large run. A patch of arti-
chokes saves a lot of hand-feeding.
“Rom Ney”: This week the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association stages its
forty-second sheep show and dog trials.
Entries total 1000, against 918 last year.
There are 351 merinos, and such house-
hold names as Bundemar, Boonoke, Wan-
ganella, Buckinbah, Merryville, Munga-
dal, Egelabra, Weemabung, Dalkeith,
etc., show against the younger stud-
masters of Eshcol, Bibbenluke, etc.
Corriedales number 161 —31 more than
last year. Polwarths register 19 entries.
Border-Leicesters have increased to 82,
and there are slight increases in all other
British breeds except Romney Marsh,
which shows a slight falling off.
“Dungeness”: The long droving trek
from the N.T. to markets of the south
has begun for the year with arrival of
the first consignments on the Diaman-
tina (s.-w. Q.). Bob Watkins has 1400
bullocks from Barclay Downs; Stan
Neville, 1250 from Headingly (n.-w. Q.)
for N.S.W.; Charlie Elliott, another 1250
from Lake Nash (on the N.T. border)
and the Barclay; Claude Oldfield brings
500 from Marian Downs over the Georg-
ina route. They have faced and over-
come waterless stretches, flooded creeks
and rivers, rough routes, mosquitoes,
hard tucker, hard sleeping and the eter-


HER HANDS WERE ALL
OUT OF SHAPE
In Grip of Rheumatism
for 15 Years
No matter how long you have suffered with
rheumatism there is always hope for you if
you persevere with Kruschen, as the following
letter proves:
“For about 2 years I hardly went out, it
was such a painful effort to walk owing to
rheumatism. My hands and feet were the worst
affected. I was unable to walk without a stick.
1 tried everything I saw advertised, but I got
no better. I said I would not bother again, but
1 read so much about Kruschen I decided to
try it. I was three months before I felt any
better, but I kept on, and since then I have been
line and never used the stick. My hands were
all out of shape, but they are almost normal
now. Of course I could not expect to get
better all at once, as I had suffered for 15 years
before I started on Kruschen.” —(Miss) A.L.
Rheumatism cannot resist the action of
Kruschen Salts, which dissolve the painful
crystals of uric acid —the cause of those aches
and pains—and assist the kidneys to eliminate
this poison through the natural channels.
Does YOUR smile
radiate charm ?
msm
■
n
mm s
■Hit
Life can be all
smiles the
woman with perfect teeth —if she cleans
them with Powder.
Why powder ? Because all dentifrices
contain some powder, that’s what does the
cleaning. But Calvert’s is ALL POWDER,
that’s why it cleans teeth better and more
quickly.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
V. 0. Calvert & Co., Idd., England.
sd
ENDURA
UnccmdUitmaHy Perpetually Guarantied
Mm
i
Conklin Endura
Pens and Pencils.
Many things bloom and look
well when first brought into
contact with everyday affairs,
but fade and droop after the
first encounter with Life. The
Conklin “Endura” Fountain
Pen is not one of these —no
wilting or turning back for it.
Handsome and beautifully
symmetrical, it enjoys the
“ups and downs” because the
ordinary ones —the everyday
trials —leave it unharmed.
Some disasters are, however,
too great for it to resist.
Against these, and accidents of
any kind, the Conklin “En-
dura” owner is protected by
an unconditional guarantee of
free repairs.
Conklin Endura Pens
and Pencils
are dedicated to never-ending
service and are unconditionally
guaranteed against accidents
or breakages of any kind.
The Pens are priced at
30/- and 40/- each.
Pencils to match at' 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presen-
tation Case, 55/- and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen Ink
—the best for every Pen —4oz.
bottles in all colours, 1/- per
bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewellers
and Departmental Stores.
The
en
is
fs
Again wins the
Shearing Championship
of Central Queensland!
m
m
The Final of the Contest: A. Urquhart, on No. 4 Stand.
T
*
*
mm*
~\
Alex. (“Sandy”) Urquhart, 1937 Shearing Champion of
Central Queensland.
i
* «
m
« * a
>■ '<■;
•Ys&
Cis» <» 5?
From left to right: T. Moran and A. Howell (tied for 3rd),
S. Newman (2nd) and A. Urquhart (the winner). All are
holding the Lister “Aces” they used.
Last year the Shearing Championship of Central Queens-
land was won by Ivan Orchard, using a Lister “Ace.”
In this year’s Championship ALL FOUR FINALISTS
used “Aces” —proof positive of the shearer’s confidence in
their reliability. Mr. Urquhart, the winner, says: “I
consider, from the shearer’s point of view, the ‘Ace’ has all
the good points of the best Handpieces and.... is without
any of the drawbacks. I have used ‘Ace’ Handpieces for
12 months, and think the ‘Ace’ is the best machine on the
market to-day, and one which I can strongly recommend.”
Trade in your old handpieces for Lister “Aces.” Send us
your old machines, together with your order for an equiva-
lent number of “Aces,” and we will make you the
MAXIMUM POSSIBLE ALLOWANCE OF 10/-
EACH on them.
Dan car, G edye & M alloch Ltd.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
nal inherent stupidity of bullocks. These
navigators of the great inland spaces,
well known all of them on the track,
are unknown to the city millions who
will eat the rump and roast which they
have risked their lives to bring to city
tables. A fine hardy breed, Australia’s
real drovers.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Many a farmer spends
unnecessary money and labor on timber
when he has unlimited first-rate construc-
tion material near by in creek- or river-
beds at the cost of a few bags of cement.
Fireproof, insect-proof, rotproof, im-
perishable under sun or rain, concrete
can be turned to innumerable uses about
a farm. Troughs, dips, silos, fence-posts,
chimneys, washtubs, baths, floors, build-
ing blocks, roof tiles and steps are only
a few of its uses by an amateur. Cement
manufacturers issue free handbooks giv-
ing all details of mixing, curing and con-
struction. Where reinforcing is neces-
sary, fencing wire or wire netting stands
up to most farm needs. Take a look
round and see if there is any clean, sharp
sand and clean gravel about the place.
If there is, it will save you a lot of
money and time.
“S.T.S.”: The official announcement
of last season’s wheat harvest in S.A. at
under 9} bushels to the acre (one worse
than the previous year, but one better
than the year before that) is misleading
owing to the plucky but futile attempts
at wheatgrowing made by settlers well
outside the rainfall line cannily drawn
by Goyder long ago. S.A.’s bulk yield
is in country averaging from 12 to 15,
with this season’s best in the moist
south-east. But the heart-breaking ones
and twos of the far north kill the aver-
age. Total crop is under 29,000,000
bushels; available for export, about
22,000,000, of which 12,000,000 have
already gone. Britain is by far the best
customer, but Italy is a heavy buyer.
Barley and hay both seem to be losing
favor in S.A.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How can scab, black scurf and Irish blight
in potatoes be prevented? —6ls7.
Seed dips are recommended for the preven-
tion of scab and black scurf, but it is not con-
sidered worth while to use them as a control
for Irish blight, as the organism is so very
deep-seated in the tuber. Control of this disease
is usually attempted by using a 4-4-40 Bor-
deaux spray four or five times during the growth
of the crop. Approved seed dips are: (1)
Acid corrosive sublimate —jib. corrosive sub-
limate, Hlb. hydrochloric acid, 121 gallons
water. Soak for five minutes in a wooden tub
or barrel. (Corrosive sublimate is a deadly
poison.) Use a fresh solution after every 10
lots of potatoes; preferably the tubers should
be free from clinging soil. After soaking spread
them out to dry. (2) Hot formalin—one pint
commercial formalin to 15 gallons of water.
Heat to 125 deg. F. and soak potatoes 2|min.,
then drain and cover with bag or canvas for
one hour. Spread out to dry before planting.
* * * *
(1) Is there any way of eradicating hore-
hound on a Tasmanian farm ? Grubbing seems
to cultivate it. (2) Would a flame-thrower do
the job? (3) Cost of same, and where obtain-
able?—s9ll.
Any of the common weedicides, particularly
sodium chlorate, should be effective on this
weed. A flame-thrower would quite probably
burn the top of the weed, and subsequent treat-
ment would clean it up ultimately. The cost of
a flame-thrower is about £l4. Tasmanian agents
are Barnett Bros., Hobart.
* * * *
What variety of giant toad has been imported,
and from where, to deal with cane insects ?
Could they be obtained from Australia, and
would, they be likely to survive a journey to
Tahiti A—6030.
A colony of the giant toads ( Bufo marinus)
was imported to Queensland about two years
ago. The toad comes originally from Central
America, but was introduced to Queensland
from Hawaii. No doubt you could obtain sup-
plies from that source also. To date, some
millions of eggs have been laid, and the first
Australian-born generation is also breeding.
All cane areas in Queensland have been stocked,
but it is yet too early to state what the probable
results in insect control will be. Information
on this point should be obtainable about a
year hence. The toads are readily transported,
and would survive a journey of several days
packed in wood straw.
* * * *
What is the best and quickest way to ripen
bananas? —5972.
For ripening on a large scale, a properly-
constructed room is necessary—loo-case capa-
city is about 12ft. x Bft. x 7ft. 6in. high, with
insulated walls. Insulation, air circulation, ven-
tilation, cooling, heating and humidity control
must be considered. Definite instructions could
be obtained from the Agricultural Department,
Brisbane. To ripen bananas for home con-
sumption or a small local trade, allow the fruit
to become fully matured prior to cutting.
After harvesting, cut the hands off and allow
to drain for one hour. Obtain a 501 b. tea chest
or similar box, stand it on two pieces of 3ft.
x 2in. timber to permit a current of air to pass
between it and the floor. Pack the hands of
bananas carefully round the inside of the chest,
being sure to leave the centre open. Next place
a small handful of carbide in the centre of the
chest and cover so as to make the inside
of the chest or box as nearly airtight as pos-
sible (two or three thicknesses of canvas or
four thicknesses of corn sacks are usually satis-
factory). Take the covering off after 16 hours
and recharge by placing another small handful
of carbide on the floor of the chest. Re-cover,
and allow to stand for a further 12 to 16 hours.
The fruit should then be almost ready for sale.
If not quite ready, re-cover, but without car-
bide. In very warm weather, only one applica-
tion of carbide may be necessary. It is essential
to ventilate the chest after 16 hours.


df
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling list Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL SANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
braflches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Disabled soldier, Q’land, with family, wants
financial aid to buy car so that he may earn
a living. Repayment from earnings.—6loo.
Dental mechanic, 19, served apprenticeship
Melbourne, desires employment with oppor-
tunity expand knowledge. Refs.—6l22.
To buy Early Australian History, by C.
White, and other books on the early days.—
6133.
To buy Poems of the Sunny South, by W. J.
Wye.—6l43.
Information Sought.
(1) What three-figure first-wicket partnerships
were made in Test cricket by V. Trumper and
R. Duff ( Australia ), J. Hobbs and H. Sutcliffe
( England) and W. Woodfull and W. Ponsford
(Australia ) ? (2) What were the first partner-
ships of over 100 runs for the first wicket made
in Tests by England and Australian players ?
6110.
(1) Trumper and Duff: 135 at Manchester
(Eng.), 1902; 129 at Adelaide, 1904. Hobbs
and Sutcliffe: 157 and 110 at Sydney, 1924;
283 and 126 at Melbourne, 1925; 182 at Lord’s
(Eng.), 1926; 156 at Leeds (Eng.), 1926; 172
at Kennington Oval (Eng.), 1926; 105 at Mel-
bourne, 1929; 143 at Adelaide, 1929; 125 at
Nottingham (Eng.), 1930; 108 at Manchester
(Eng.), 1930. Woodfull and Ponsford: 162
at Lord’s (Eng.), 1930; 106 at Manchester
(Eng.), 1930; 159 at Kennington Oval (Eng.),
1930. (2) 122 by G. Ulyett and R. G. Barlow
(Eng.) at Sydney, February 17-20, 1882; 110
by A. Bannerman and W. Murdoch at Mel-
bourne, March 10-14, 1882.
* h= * *
(1) What was the batting average of C. S.
Dempster (at present with an English county
XI) in the 1931 M.L. tour of England? (2)
His centuries on that tour? (3) His batting
figures in Plunket Shield matches in M.L. ?
6138.
(1) 36 innings, 1778 runs, 212 highest score,
six not outs, average 59.26. (2) 212 v. Essex,
167 v. Sussex, 129 not out v. Glamorgan, 122 v.
H. D. Leveson-Gower’s XI, 120 v. England,
106 not out v. Hampshire, 101 v. Cambridge
University. (3) 55 innings, 1940 runs, 154
highest score, three not outs, average 37.307.
H= * H: H«
What was the result of (1) N.S.W. v. South
Africa football matches in Sydney in 1921 ?
(2) Record of Australian Rugby Union team in
South Africa in 1933, with the scores in the
Test matches ? —6117.
(7) South Africa won all three—the first by
25-10, the second by 16-11, the third by
28-9. (2) Played 23, won 12, lost 10, drew
one; points for 299, against 195. South
Africa won the first Test at Cape Town 17-3;
Australia the second at Durban 21-6, South
Africa the third at Johannesburg 12-3, and
the fourth at Port Elizabeth 11-0, Australia
the fifth at Bloemfontein 15-4.
* * H= *
(1) What are the Rugby Union and Rugby
League methods in kicking for goal after a
try has been scored ? (2) How many points are
allowed by each code for a goal from (a) con-
verted try, (b) penalty kick and (c) dropped
g0a1? —6145.
(1) Rugby Union: The ball is placed on the
ground by one player and kicked by another
player, and a “charge” is allowed to the de-
fending side after the ball has touched the
ground. Rugby League: The kicker places the
ball and kicks it; no charge is allowed. (2)
Two points are awarded in each code for a con-
verted try; from penalty, Union three points,
League two points; dropped goal, Union four
points, League two points.
* H= * *
In a Bulletin story J. H. M. Abbott says:
“He walked... .until he came to the great open
pits of the Brickfields beyond the cemetery at
the top of the Georgc-street hill”; and again,
“Past the cemetery where St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral and the Town Hall stand to-day.” (1)
Was this the old Devonshire-street cemetery?
(2) When was the cemetery removed and the
Town Hall built? (3) Was there once a ceme-
tery where the Central railway station now is?
—6016.
(1) No. (2) There was a cemetery on the
site of the Town Hall. It was closed in 1819
when the Devonshire-street cemetery was
opened. (This latter cemetery was then known
as the Sandhills.) The foundation-stone of the
Town Hall was laid on April 4, 1868. (3) The
Devonshire-street cemetery is covered by the
Central railway station and environs
* h= * *
(1) Cost of the construction of the Gillies
Highway, N. Queensland? (2) Date of open-
ing? (3) Height climbed from bottom to top
gate ? —5728.
(1) £136,220. (2) Opened to traffic July 10,
1926. (3) 2368 ft.
* * * *
Names and annual production of the six
leading wool-producing countries? —6l39.
Australia 420,000 tons, U.S.A. 200,000 tons,
Argentina 160,000 tons, M.L. 120,000 tons, S.
Africa 111,000 tons, U.K. 49,000 tons.
* * * *
What are the four longest rivers of the world 9
—6059.
Mississippi-Missouri, 4502 miles; Amazon,
4000 miles; Nile, 4000 miles; Yangtze-kiang,
3400 miles.
(1) Brief synopsis of the fishery industry in
Australia ? (2) Reasons for its limitation ? (3)
Steps taken to encourage the industry ? —5995.
(1) In 1934-35 it engaged 4272 boats and em-
ployed 8151 men, who obtained 557,214 cwt.
of fish, valued at £1,159,808. N.S.W. had the
largest production, 195,552 cwt., valued at
£538,580, S.A. coming second with 119,740 cwt.,
valued at £lBO,OOO. (2) Generally attributed
to Australians not being a fish-eating people—
their annual consumption is 131 b. per head, as
compared with Great Britain’s 421 b.—but it is
more probable that lack of transport and mar-
keting facilities are responsible. (3) Commit-
tees formed to deal with fish-industry problems
submitted reports to a conference in July, 1929,
where representatives of the Commonwealth
and State Governments agreed that research
work should be undertaken by the Common-
wealth Government, which is providing £BO,OOO
to be expended over five years.
* * * *
Should cousins marry if hereditary defect is
present on either side ? —6107.
In general, inbred stock tends to degenerate.
This fact is due to the presence of certain
characters (called recessives) not usually ap-
parent. If they are harmful recessives, inbreed-
ing will be bad and outbreeding good; if they
are desirable recessives, the reverse will be
true. In the case of the human stock tainted
with a concealed hereditary defect, any form of
inbreeding is to be avoided.
H= H= H= =H
In “The Doughman,” by R. D. Tate, tragic
importance is given to the appearance of “rope”
in flour. What is “rope” in flour? Is it as
important as the author makes out? —6089.
It was dreaded by all bakers for the loss it
caused and the difficulty of eradicating it; bread
made from ropy flour was unfit for food. It is
a bacterial infection largely caused by dirty
premises, filthy methods and unclean workers,
and flourishes in dark, damp places. Since the
introduction of Pure Food Acts, rigid factory
inspection and insistence on proper places in
which food may be prepared, it has practically
disappeared. It still breaks out in camps and
places where ignorance and dirt prevail. When
such places become infected, the rough-and-
ready cure is to burn everything connected
with the bakehouse and start afresh.
Particulars of the Presidents of U.S.A. who
have been assassinated? —6085.
Abraham Lincoln, born 1809, elected Presi-
dent 1861, was assassinated on April 15, 1865,
in Ford’s Theatre, Washington, by John Wilkes
Booth, an actor, who was shot dead by pur-
suers. James Garfield, born 1831, elected Presi-
dent in 1881, was shot in July, 1881, at Washing-
ton, by Charles Guiteau. Garfield died as a
result of the wound on September 19, 1881;
Guiteau was hanged. William McKinley, born
1843, elected President in 1896 and again in
1900, was shot at the Pan-American Exposition,
Buffalo, on September 6, 1901, by Leon Csol-
gosz. He died eight days later. Csolgosz was
electrocuted.
* * * *
(1) What is the age of the earth, and how is
it calculated? (2) When did signs of human life
first appear? (3) What are (a) the Neanderthal
Man and (b) Java Man? —6112.
(1) The age of the earth has been deduced
from the eccentricity of Mercury’s orbit and
from the tidal theory of the origin of the moon,
geologically by various methods, and from the
ratio of the quantities of lead and of radio-
active elements in the earth’s surface, which
are held to result from the transmutation of
uranium. All the evidence, more or less con-
sistent, indicates that the earth has existed as a
planet for a period between 1500 and 3000 mil-
lion years. (2) Earliest traces of human existence
are those of the Pliocene age of the Cainozoic
period. (3) (a) Remains of a skull and parts
of a skeleton found in the Neanderthal Ravine,
near Dusseldorf, Rhenish Prussia, and held to
represent the oldest known dolichocephalic
(long-headed) race in Europe, about 50,000
b.c. ( b ) Remains of a skull and thigh bone
found at Trinil, Java. These are considered to
be the remains of a creature of the Pleistocene
age, and are held to represent a stage mjuway
between the orang-outang and man in develop-
ment.
* * H= *
Is an old-age pensioner who signed the
property card allowed to sell her only property,
which she has lived in for 30 years, without
obligation to repay the amount received in
pension since the introduction of the Act? —
6024.
There is no objection to a pensioner selling
property, and no refund of any amount legally
paid by way of invalid or old-age pension is
demanded, though the rate of pension received
may be affected. That section of the Act deal-
ing with the recovery of moneys paid to an
invalid or old-age pensioner on the sale of her
property or from her estate on her death has
now been repealed. There is an obligation,
however, on the pensioner to advise the In-
valid and Old-age Pensions Department of the
sale within 30 days of the transaction.
* H= * H=
Is it correct to use a singular or plural verb
after collective nouns or is it optional ? For
instance, should one say a number of people is
or are? —6097.
Properly such collective nouns as “number,”
“committee,” “group,” “company” and so
forth are singular, and should carry a verb
in singular form, though such phrases as “a
number of people is” are so uncouth that most
writers take pains to avoid them.
* * * *
(1) Is either of these phrases correct: “I
waked up,” “I woke up” ? (2) Is it more cor-
rect to sav “/ lighted the fire” or “I Jit the
fire” ?— 6135.
(1) “I woke up” is correct. (2) Both permis-
sible.
* * * *
Is it necessary for an applicant for admis-
sion to the N.S.W. mounted police to be a
resident of N.S.W. ? If so, what is the required
period of residence ?— 6031.
In view of the large number of qualified can-
didates awaiting appointment to the N.S.W.
police force, applications are being accepted
only from residents of that State. There is no
specified period of residence in the State before
a person is eligible for appointment to the
force, but applications are not desired from per-
sons who move from another State for the pur-
pose of being accepted as candidates for police
employment.
* * * *
(1) Names of books dealing with the internal-
combustion turbine ? (2) Has this engine yet
passed the experimental stage? —5951.
(1) Davey’s The Gas Turbine (Constable and
Co., 1914). The subject is mentioned in Kempe’s
Engineer’s Year-Book (1937). (2) No.
* * * *
Gibraltar’s history, and how did it come into
British possession ? —6084.
The rock was known in ancient times as
Mons Calpe, and was one of the famous pillars
of Hercules. First to recognise it as a
strategic position were the Carthaginians, from
whom it fell into the hands of the Romans.
In the fifth century the Goths held it. In 711
the first Moorish invader of Spain, Tarik-Ibn-
Zeyad, fortified it, and it was then known as
Gebel-Tarik (Mountain of Tarik), from which
its present name is derived. From 1463 to
1704 it was under Spanish rule; then a British
squadron took it. It was formally ceded to
Britain by the Treaty of Utrecht (1713).
* * * *
(1) How can petrol be ignited other than by
a flame or spark ? (2) Does a Diesel engine
employ a spark for ignition purposes ? —6073.
(1) By bringing the petrol up to its self-
ignition temperature, when it will ignite spon-
taneously. This temperature is usually between
480 deg. and 500 deg. Cent., but there is con-
siderable variation. (3) No; the temperature
of the air is raised sufficiently by compression
to ignite the oil fuel injected into the cylinder.
»i»
What are the words of the rhyme entitled
“The Rule of the Road” ? —6lOB.
The Rule of the Road is a paradox quite,
For, in driving your carriage along,
If you bear to the left you are sure to go right,
If you bear to the right you go wrong.
But in walking the streets ’tis a different case,
To the right it is right you should steer;
On the left should be left enough of clear space
For the people who wish to walk there.
* * * *
(1) Pronunciation of (a) column, (b) quart
and (c) film? (2) When should enunciation of
h be omitted? —6118.
(1) (a) “Kol-um”; o as in got, and u as in
gun. ( b ) In fencing “kart,” as in cart; as a
measure of capacity “kwort,” as in hawk, (c)
In one syllable, not fill-um. (2) In such
words as heir and hour. Fowler’s Modern Eng-
lish Usage says: “A is used before all con-
sonants except silent h (a history, an hour );
an was formerly usual before an unaccentuated
syllable beginning with h (an historical work),
but now that the h in such words is pro-
nounced the distinction has become pedantic,
and a historical should be said and written;
similarly an humble is now meaningless and un-
desirable.”
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to fit extension bellows in an
ordinary camera (folding)? (2) Is special gear
necessary to develop and print natural-color
films? (3) How is the positive made from the
negative ? —6035.
(1) Yes. Kodak (A’sia) or any other big
photographic warehouse could undertake the
work. (2) No. Development is carried out in
total darkness for the first stage, and then by
ordinary electric light. (3) Positive is made by
the reversal process, fully described in' the
manufacturers’ leaflets issued with each make
of natural-color film.
* * * *
What is the correct way of refilling a high-
level town dam, approximately half-mile in
diameter, with depth of 80 ft. at bywash ? Water
is pumped from river bed about a mile distant.
Should water enter dam at bottom or be pumped
through large pipes over bywash ? Explain dif-
ference ? —6002.
In pumping water there are two main con-
siderations: the difference in elevation of the
pump intake (river in this case) and the level
of the water surface at the discharge; the length
of main between these points. The latter affects
the discharge owing to the resistance to flow of
the pipe per unit of its length, which varies
with the rate of flow. If the pumping into the
dam is done through a pipe into the bottom
of the reservoir the total head on the pump will
be the difference in level between the water
surface in the dam and the water surface in
the river at the point of intake, plus the head
lost in overcoming the friction of the pipe. If
the pumping is done through a pipe with outlet
over the by wash then the total head on the
pump will be the difference in elevation be-
tween the bywash and the river surface at the
intake, plus the friction loss in the pipes. If the
length of main is the same in both cases, the
difference between the heads on the pump will
be the difference between the bywash level and
the level of the water behind the dam. This
explanation assumes that the pipeline rises
gradually from the river to the dam; that is,
that there are no intermediate points on the
line at a higher elevation than the outlet at
the reservoir. There would be a saving in
power consumption by pumping the water
through the bottom of the dam, but, owing to
the variation in head due to the fluctuating
water level in the dam, the quantity pumped
would vary. This would not be harmful if the
head variation is confined to within a few p.c.
of the total lift, but with certain types of
pump, notably the centrifugal, may produce
overloading of the engine where a large varia-
tion in head is present owing to large decreases
in pump efficiency at certain heads.
Brief Answers.
A.A.: The Bank of England, founded in 1694
by charter of William 111. from the plan of
William Paterson, a Scotsman, operated until
1732 at Grocers’ Hall, Poultry, in which year
it was moved to its present island site bounded
by Threadneedle-street, Princes-street and Loth-
bury-lane, where formerly were the house and
grounds of Sir John Houblon, the bank’s first
governor... .M.J.M.: The general rule is that
the studio pays for the stars’ frocks, in which
case they remain the property of the studio.
Special arrangements are sometimes entered
into, an actress being permitted to buy the
dresses she has worn in a picture... .N.M.P.:
Write Dangar, Gedye and Malloch, 10 Young-
street, Sydney... .G.G.K.: Metal Detectors,
Ltd., 80 Bathurst-street, Sydney... .J.8.C.: (1)
(«) Queensland 50 million acres, (b) N. S. Wales
five million acres. (2) Estimated at one mil-
lion acres. (3) Information not available. (4)
About 18 million acres in Queensland and rela-
tively small areas in N. S. Wales.. ..J.M.: Mix
together equal parts of neatsfoot oil, cottonseed
oil and petroleum oil; also equal parts of raw
linseed oil, vinegar and methylated spirit....
WJ.C.: Jersey-road, Woollahra, Sydney, was
formerly known as Point Piper-road, the name
being changed in 1900. There was never a tram-
line on the street, but at one time a steam tram
ran along Ocean-street and terminated at the
junction of the two streets. This service was dis-
continued about 1898... .A.G.: Nina Mae Mc-
Kinney is of negro descent A.F.S.: “Act of
God” in a bill of lading or insurance clause
signifies perils or disasters beyond human power
to control. Instances are the foundering of a
vessel in a storm or damage due to lightning
or earthquake E.F.R.: John Broughton,
called the “father of English boxing,” was born
1704. The first real champion of England, he
fought many ring battles, remaining unde-
feated until 1750, when, at the age of 46, he
was defeated by Jack Slack, a London butcher.
He died 1789... .E.F.: (1) A petard or petar
was a military engine used for producing ex-
plosions. “Hoist with his own petard” means
blown up with his own contrivance. (2)
Fardel means burden or pack... .K.L.M.: See
Historical Records of Australia, Series 111,
Vol. IV, page 876 H.A.S.: (1) Try Frank
Hambridge, ore buyer; also O. T. Lempriere
and Co. —both Sydney. (2) No chance of com-
peting in overseas markets from Australia against
cheap overseas fluorspar. (3) England, France.
Germany and South Africa. Sale price about
£3 per ton... .S.E.D.: Book has not been re-
viewed F.A.P.: Can find no trace of an
artist of that name. Should say that the paint-
ing was not valuable W.C.: Tableware,
chinaware, kitchen utensils, Juichiya and
Co., I Ginza, 5-chome, Kyobashiku, Tokio,
Japan; aluminium kitchenware, Ikeda Alumi-
nium Works, 993 Inaricho, 1-chome, Nani-
waku, Osaka, Japan F.H.: Money, by R. C.
Mills and E. Ronald Walker, from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney. Annual Report of H.M.
Trade Commissioner in Australia to October,
1936, 55., is not available in Australia, but
could be ordered from London J.S.: Many
varieties of wattles grow wild in the bush around
Sydney, and there are several which could
answer to the description given. The name
quoted (Acacia delabeta) does not apply to any
N. S. Wales wattle. The two species most
likely to be the ones referred to are Acacia
linearis and Acacia suaveolens, both of which
are shrubby plants with a fairly wide distribu-
tion in coastal areas M.W.: The White
Horse Hotel was situated between the present
Dymock’s Building and the Strand Arcade in
George-street, Sydney. Larry Foley’s boxing
saloon formed part of the hotel R.J.L.:
Chequers has been the residence of British Prime
Ministers since January 1, 1921. It was pre-
sented to the nation by Lord Lee of Fareham,
together with an estate of 700 acres and an
endowment for upkeep. A Tudor mansion
in the Chilterns, Buckinghamshire, it contains
a valuable collection of Cromwellian portraits
and relics... .J.H.: A legal separation does
not annul marriage. If the husband dies intes-
tate one-third of his estate goes to his wife, the
remainder being divisible among his children, if
any, in equal portions 8.M.H.: (1) The
Bloodstock Breeders’ Review, published an-
nually in January, is obtainable through Gordon
and Gotch, Barrack-street, Sydney, £2 15s.
(2) Address of publishers is the British Blood-
stock Agency, Ltd., 26 Charing Cross-road,
W.C.2, London... .P.J.P.: The architect is en-
titled to his fees for drawing the five plans,
irrespective of the fact that the work was not
carried out D.S.: The word dollar is a
corruption of the German thaler, an abbreviated
form of Joachimsthaler, a piece of money
coined in the thal or valley of St. Joachim,
Bohemia, in the sixteenth century L.M.D.:
A knot or nautical mile contains 6080 ft. and
is 800 ft. longer than a land mile J.T.R.:
(1) Old-age pension age is 65 male, 60 female.
(2) Commonwealth. (3) Forms obtainable at
any post office, and should be lodged at the
Pensions Office, 52 Carrington-street, Sydney.
. ...C.L.: Returned soldiers do not receive
old-age pensions at 60, but are eligible in cer-
tain cases to receive service pensions. In-
quiries should be addressed to the Repatriation
Commissioner, Chalmers-street, Sydney
T.H.H.: Write Mines Department, Sydney....
G.F.S.: (1) Dry-cleaning usually means clean-
ing by immersion in petrol or benzine. Large
revolving drums are used for containing the
clothing and one or more of these would be
required as well as power, drying rooms, pos-
sibly a hydro extractor, electric irons, chemi-
cals and various small items in the way of ordi-
nary washing gear. (2) Depends on the size
of the plant to be installed; full information
and prices obtainable from Mackenzie Bros.,
221 Bridge-road, Glebe, Sydney. (3) A matter
of bargaining, but probably up to £6 or £7 a
week; experience is most important in this
business (Many others mailed.)


Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. ITD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
m
m
w.
J
s
312 Collins Street, Melbourne
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
0
*
uX/
\
l
ft
*
LEARN
COMMERCIAL ART!
If you can draw, secure first-class training immediately
and enter this fascinating and well-paid profession.
Art Training Institute graduates are the most proficient
and therefore most sought by employers.
OuA, j&facfacfo &cau6e,—
(1) We give all intending students an Ability Test
(FREE) and train only those who show definite talent.
(2) Our Course teaches every remunerative branch of Art
in the most efficient way—AT HOME—IN YOUR
SPARE TIME.
(3) Our 16 Instructors have the highest qualifications and
the greatest practical experience in designing Advert-
isements, Posters, Cartoons, Fashions, etc.
Tit-’Ute. Hews
for our beautifully illustrated 65-page prospectus, entitled “The New Era in
Commercial Art,” which includes Ability Tests. It is FREE, but send Bd. for reg.
postage and mention “The Bulletin.”
Art Training Institute
80Swmstwi Sr. Melbourne
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character') will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
Voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
TX,: Nothing for us in that lot. And
It’s no use sending a stamp in the hope of get-
ting a detailed criticism C.W.L.: It sad-
dened us so much that we had to go out for
a drink... .P.C.C.: Bedtime stuff at best....
A.V.N.: Tolerable verse, but we don’t like wet
streets any better than muddy roads... .J.W.G.:
Has some merit, but the images are too stereo-
typed... .J.L.: Better leave the pair to their
conjugal felicity W.P.8.: Sinister initials,
surely! Neither gets past....J.V.S.: Not too
bad for a first attempt, but that’s the best we
can say of it... .Z.V.W.: On the prosaic side.
.... 8.W.: English Court dress may be pre-
posterous, but 50 disorderly lines on the sub-
ject are a bit too much.... J.H.S.: No payable
ore in that mine... .J.O’C.: Hardly enough meat
in it D.D.: As depressing as the ringbarked
trees it moans over... .G. 5.8.: Good lines in
them, but you’re too given to moralising
J.D.W,: Too slight for this market... .C.W.P.:
You should have done better with “The
Waiter’s Lament.” Other no good K.E.J.C.:
Not quite; but there’s feeling in it, at least....
G.R.: You’ve discovered nothing new about
“The Night” A.J.M.: Here and there it is
good, but as a whole it gets monotonous....
G. You don’t make it stick... .J.H.S.:
Not up to the usual... .P.McD.: Not for The
Bulletin, but it ought to get by elsewhere
D.A.: Neither of them makes the grade
H. Can’t use your parable... .E.D.: No-
thing new in that “dealin’ woman”... .J.8.L.:
Very nearly gave “The Coward” a corner
N.P.: Why is it that the only salesmen we hear
about deal in vacuum cleaners? ... .H.E.L.J.:
Try it on a magazine J.K.: Sorry you
lost the girl, but we can’t do anything about
it J.M.-M.: No place here for an essay on
cats R.N.: Yes, we buy short stories and
verse... .J.E.K.: Can’t immortalise your police-
man G.L.8.: We’ve nothing but sym-
pathy for the parson whose twin brother went
on the bust K.M.: That swaggie’s well
known here... .S.E.: More suitable for the
children’s column of a movie magazine
S.J.S.: That’s an old trick M.B-H.:
Tumbled to it after the first page... .E.L.8.:
One death (natural causes), two murders and a
suicide—too thick for us H.V.: Might make
a P ar ‘» s a stor y-
ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPOND
J.L.8.: Leason thought of the homecoming-
fisherman-and-the-scarecrow gag years ag0....
D.W.: Lady with the goitre and hungry-look-
ing infant declined... .S.R.: Too many others
hav f jolted that subject AMJG : Mere
portraits of cats and dogs, however well drawn,
of nQ use ... .s.T.M.: Did you do it with
a toothbrush dipped in boot polish? ... .K. 8.:
Not yet> but look us up after you have had
those lessons W.J.W.: Consigned to the
deepest dungeon A.M.: Jacky’s comment on
the chastity of his lubra is not even the shadow
of a joke L.F.: If you take more pains you
should hit the mark... .N.C.M.: Three-fourt s
of the figures seem to be throwing fits ...
G.R.8.: Still wondering as to the meaning of
icture jn which L yons appears in a diving
suit... .P.S.K.: The sort of drawing which
necessitates a visit to our optician C. 8.:
Can’t accept the dusky fellow in the foreground
as an Australian abo R.M.: Still among the
also-rans... .J.D.L.: Not so bad, but George
VI. was crowned on May 12....E.N.8.: It’s
a boomerang... .W.S.: A co action °' T
nu * s P OOl *ly illustrated... .A.P.S.: First m the
fi M with a «f oot ball on Sunday” cartoon.
Alas , - t is a tenth-rater... .W.W.: The gent.
is b i esse d with two right hands H.D.M.:
Drawings are neat, but the humor is musty
T.L.S.: Sketches show distinct promise, but
gags more suitable for a child’s comic....
F.D. • Wheelbarrow pushers didn t reac t e
finish ng post G.M.8.: Thumbs down to the
r g d P brawlers .... j. H .: Why build all your
figur es to resemble telegraph poles? ... .F.M.C.:
Badly balanced, and gag was a favorite with
long-dead barbers... .H.S.: No use trying to
use charcoal on that sort of surface.... V. • •
Send frenzied pictorial attack on Bung to a
f ance jour P na i... . D .P.: You haven’t im-
proved it by adding a few more wooden lines.
A.S.G.: Hopeless is a mild term for that
effort.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
In Defence of the Board
Most of the activities of Queensland’s
Traffic Strangulation Board might lead
to the conclusion that it is out against
the convenience and wishes of country
dwellers only. I hasten to its defence
against such a charge.
The Traffic Strangulation Board refuses
to allow buses to run between Brisbane
and southern bayside resorts on Satur-
day afternoons or late at night. It reso-
lutely declines to allow any alterations
or additions to suburban services whose
license-limitations were fixed by it years
ago. To the best of its ability it prevents
and hampers attempts at road-trans-
port to suburban sporting events. Resi-
dents and passengers may complain their
loudest about inconvenience, property-
owners may rave at the way in which
suburban development is being kept back,
but it makes no impression on the board.
The board’s motto is: If people don’t
like, what they get, then let ’em trudge
it. —M. Turlutu (Q.).
New Reader
My assets having vanished, and being
well-nigh convinced of the murderous
intentions of Italy and Germany and the
democratic aims of France and Russia, I
borrowed sixpence and bought my first
copy of The Bulletin.
Well, my doubts were unnecessary and
my sixpence well spent, as, after much
searching, I have discovered a paper not
prepared to digest imported fairy-tales.
Any sane person should find it easier
to construct a wharf with toothpicks as
piles than to believe the rubbish served
up with regard to the Spanish war. After
the capture of Malaga by the Nationalists
we were told “the civilian population
met the conquerors and thanked them
for their deliverance from a Marxist hell.”
On the following day, however, “as the
civilian population fled from the Nation-
alists they were machine-gunned from the
air.” Well, well!
If you continue to present a broad-
minded review of the news the. intelli-
gentsia of our district will read The
Bulletin. I have read my first issue, and
I am sure the other five will commence
reading it also.—A. J. W. (Q.).
On the Carpet
The president of the Victorian
Teachers’ Union has been carpeted and
sternly bidden to remember that “no
person employed in any capacity in the
public service shall publicly comment
upon the administration of any depart-
ment,” and that any person found guilty
of criticism, wise or otherwise, “may be
fined any sum not exceeding 10 pounds,
may be reduced in class, subdivision,
grade or status and salary, or may be
dismissed.”
The union president’s offence was that
he had written a letter to Melbourne
dailies about the non-representation of
Victoria at the Federal Convention on
Education.
The regulation quoted and the appli-
cation thereof are, no doubt, another of
those landmarks on the “path of pro-
gress” so often referred to in the Vic.
Education Department textbooks. The
department announces through its official
voices that the “new curriculum” is to
be marked by a spirit of freedom, and
that teachers are expected to encourage
the children to develop their individuality.
The privilege of developing one’s indi-
viduality is extended to the child and for-
bidden to the teacher.— Arc (Vic.).
Something Like a Coincidence
A class at Unley High School (S.A.)
was invited to write, with help, a short
story for publication in the school maga-
zine. My lad —hobby, gliders and aero-
planes—agreed with me that an aeroplane
story would be suitable. His story, bear-
ing the title “The Crash,” was about an
aeroplane on its maiden flight. Every-
thing seemed to point to success when
suddenly there were cries of alarm from
the onlookers, and the ’plane crashed to
the ground; but when rescuers reached
the spot they found just a model ’plane.
The story was passed by the teacher
for publication, but when the editor saw
it he marked it “Copied from The Bulle-
tin” and returned it to the teacher. The
latter came to see me —to my utter
astonishment he brought a Bulletin in
which t\ as “our story” almost word for
word.
I forgave him for his suspicions.
Whether he believed me I don’t know,
but I do know that as far as we were
concerned it was absolutely original.
I had never seen or heard of a similar
story from anywhere or anybody, and
am now rather thrilled that our story
“idea” was good enough to find a place
in The Bulletin. —A. G. L. (S.A.).
“Rabaul—and After”
Perusal of that article (B. 9/6/’37)
forces one to the conclusion that, whilst
it may be a short but comprehensive sur-
vey, it is unfair to many of the people
who have labored and given their best
to make New Guinea what The Bulletin
should know it to be.
In spite of the depression and of
Australia’s lack of interest, New Guinea
has made considerable progress, and
annual trade turnover is now in the
vicinity of £4,000,000. Australia’s share
of imports into the country last financial
year was near the half-million mark.
Gold royalty is only 5 p.c.; copra ex-
port tax is on a commensurate sliding
scale; import duties are 10 p.c. ad val.
almost all round ; agricultural leases cost
6d. per acre per annum; and there is no
income tax or public debt. A fair criti-
cism might be that building in Rabaul
has often been at the expense, of opening
up and developing the country.
The great distances and lack of com-
munications make the amalgamation of
the two Territories out of the question.
It is hard to see what good can possibly
come, of hitching a young and progres-
sive country to a more backward one like
Papua or the Solomons, even supposing
it were possible for Australia to do as
Japan did, and tell the League that the
mandate is a possession.
W. M. Hughes had foresight when he
demanded the New Guinea mandate for
Australia. The Germans apparently did
not have foresight when they laid out
Rabaul in a region of volcanic activity,
although they probably reckoned that the
wonderful harbor offset the. risk of
eruptions. Who could foretell the San
Francisco earthquake?
In the circumstances it may be advis-
able to shift the capital to Madang, but
this cannot be done overnight and some-
one has to pay. If it is done gradually
over a period of five to ten years, the
cost could probably be met by a slight
increase in taxation. Meantime, if no
further eruptions take place, Rabaul
can be used. The sooner it is cleaned up
the better, which is just what the authori-
ties are doing.
When one considers some of the other
mandates, one has every reason to be
proud of the management of New
Guinea, from practically every aspect,
especially considering the lack of skilled
personnel in the first place ; but it should
be realised that what has been done is
mainly owing to the men on the spot,
and not to Australian politicians or
the League.— Scup G. (N.S.W.).


sd
From the famous vats of Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith,
Scotland distillers of fine whisky since 1863, “Vat 69”
possesses the rare character of an old Scotch Liqueur
Whisky mellowed with age and unvarying in flavour.
The discriminating host expects the request . . . “Vat 69”
Please!
“Vat 69” in the original Dump Bottle, Half Bottles and
Flasks.
»Y APPOINTMENT
llyk*i
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
I
P:
. ■
■ \
m
mmm
.
s€ MM
'. ■ ■ .
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada-
Calls are made at
AiTf KT AND NZ. SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.l
AUCKLAND, » ' an(l VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from:—
run parniruiuio
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
INC.
IN N.Z
Honor-and-Glory Boys
No. 22 of a series of articles on Australian boxers. The next article will be the last. An Old Cricketer series will follow.
“Don’t talk to me about amateur box-
ing,” said the ex-champion. “There’s
nothing in it except hard knocks; and
what’s a title worth if you win one?
You get a fifty-bob trophy at the most.
“At first you’re dead enthusiastic, and
you go to the best instructor money—
your money —can buy. He treats you
gently for a while, and then he cuffs you
solidly lesson after lesson —to make you
tough, he explains. ‘How about feeding
me on raw beef to make me fight
savage?’ I asked sarcastic-like, after one
of these sessions—they were sessions for
me.
“He soothed me that time and sent
me away. But when I came again he
let his pet pupil—a professional who
finds it hard to get sparring partners —
make a chopping block of me.
“But I stick it and enter for the middle-
weight competition. As the comps, are
only three weeks off, a man must look
after his wind and weight; so I go for
long walks wrapped up in half a dozen
sweaters and several yards of blankets,
finishing with a hot sea-bath. Then I
have to pay strict attention to diet—no
greasy meat, puddings or pastry. When
you pass a tea- and cake-shop, your
mouth waters for a tart or a cream puff ;
but it’s self-denial week for you, and the
championship is always in your mind.
It dominates you, working, walking, eat-
ing ; even when you go to bye-bye you
dream of biff.
“The night arrives. It’s your first
appearance in public. The hall’s half-
full and you’re stiff with stage fright.
You recognise no one, not even your
second. All is a confused mist as you
sit in your corner and smile a sickly
smile at the. dim shape in the other
corner.
“The referee treats you like a father.
‘Now, boys,’ he says, ‘break clean. Don't
hold and hit. Shake hands.’ The gong
strikes terror into your heart. ‘Box on.’
“Looking as ferocious as you can, you
make towards the other fellow, throwing
yourself into the correct attitude as far
as your nerves will let you. You spar
and dance. Then you stop a solid straight
left with your face, and away goes your
science and your plan of campaign. One
thought travels through your dazed
brain: ‘He hit me ; I’ll have a piece of
him’; and in you go for the piece.
“The other fellow’s phiz looks as big
as a giant’s. At intervals you see stars
and comets. Three wild and awful
rounds ; the sound of the gong, now very
faint, and subdued applause—you don’t
know what for. A fog-enveloped man in
a boiled shirt declares you the winner,
and you retire, more or less resembling
a Yarra suicide.
“Several similar contests, and you
qualify for the final. This time you enter
the. ring the worse for wear, but not
excited —resigned to the worst. You
have now learned to ‘take it’ —anyway,
you have to ‘take it.’
“The other chap lands some heavy
clouts. You wait and watch for an open-
ing. At last he overreaches, and you
send in your best right swing. It seems
to bury itself in his jaw, and he hits the
floor with a thud that reminds you of
when you were at the butcher’s and heard
the carcass of a hog fall off the hooks.
“Instead of sympathising, you want to
jump on him. The referee sends you to
your corner. Ten seconds are counted ;
the man in the boiled shirt declares you
champion, and you make your exit feel-
ing like a piece of chewed string.
“The other fellow goes away feet first.
You visit him in his dressing-room when
you learn they have brought him round,
and after the proceedings are over he
shows you his medal. It costs quite a
pound and he had paid his trainer a
tenner. You find yourself wishing you
could have done it for a tenner. You
take, yourself home to rest your aching
body and bind up your wounds, and all
you have to show for your agony is that
fifty-bob trophy.”
Sandal! v. Valentine.
All the same Australia has had ama-
teurs who put up wonderful fights for
honor and glory, and never regretted the
sacrifice. Seale v. Sandall was described
in an early article of this series. Sandall
v. Valentine, mentioned by Tremayne
Rodd (B. 16/6/’37), was every bit as
thrilling.
Valentine was a blacksmith, Sandall a
butcher; both were Maorilanders and
11-stoners. They fought at the Sydney
Gymnastic Club’s rooms on March 3,
1890, and when they ducked through the
ropes there was not a seat to be. had for
love or money.
Broad-shouldered, full-chested and
muscular, Sandall was the first to appear.
VAL QUIRK.
“That’s the chap who fought Seale,”
Sydneysiders whispered to strangers, “and
made that long Fitzsimmons curl up in
a spar they had at Foley’s. Sandall gave
Fitz such a daisy on the breadbasket that
the long-’un turned green.” Valentine,
less broad in the shoulder, was long and
light in the arms and legs; more active
than Sandall, but so nervous that at the
beginning he scarcely knew what he was
doing.
As they came together, Sandall lashed
out with his terrific left, which just
missed. He let fly again with great
force ; the blacksmith gave ground, and
as they moved about the ring he had his
work cut out to keep Sandall at his dis-
tance.
In the second round, they sparred and
slogged away merrily. Suddenly Sandall
landed a terrible blow on the jaw which
dropped Valentine in his tracks. He half-
raised himself and stared about him
stupidly; at nine seconds he just
scrambled to his feet. He was nearly
settled ; he rolled and staggered about the
ring, making no attempt to hit —simply
keeping away from the blows which
Sandall aimed at him.
There was a few moments’ delay owing
to the cheering and whooping of Sandall s
friends. Their hero thought the order
for corners had been given and stopped ;
and this gave Valentine a chance to pull
himself together. The blacksmith man-
aged to last the round out, though fright-
fully groggy.
His seconds got him right again and
sent him out for the next round almost
as good as new. He had entered the ring
in superb condition, and his work now
showed that he had learned to keep out
of the way of Sandall’s swings. “Dick’ll
get another one like that on him in a
minute,” said Sandall’s friends but they
reckoned without Valentine’s cleverness
with his head. He began ducking in
towards Sandall instead of jumping back,
and Sandall only belted the empty air.
Taking advantage of these misses,
Valentine got home with cleverly-placed
punches. Once his opponent slipped and
half fell, and Valentine gave him a ring-
ing blow. Jack made up for his hardly
chivalrous action by boxing with scrupu-
lous fairness for the rest of the fight.
And what a fight it was! No walking
about the stage, no grunting, no spar-
ring for wind, no in-and-out dancing,
one-hit-and-run-away, but sheer savage
slogging. Both men were very strong,
and they fought with the tenacity of
bulldogs.
There was not a single round that
could be called slow or tedious. Sandall
kept his powerful hits going, and when-
ever he got one home the other’s head
flew back. But Valentine contrived to
let most of Sandall’s blows go over his
shoulders; and in the long run his con-
dition and footwork told.
Sandall commenced to get weaker and
weaker on his pins. Valentine began
to force matters. His strength was in his
legs; and the butcher’s legs were the
butcher’s weakness.
Sandall was knocked down three times,
and on each occasion he took all the
time the rules allowed. In his exhausted
condition the third punch settled the argu-
ment. That, at any rate, was the opinion
of Larry Foley, his principal second.
Jumping into the ring, Foley took the
game fellow away. So Valentine won the
fight, after having been so nearly
knocked out in the second round that no
one but the wildest of gamblers would
have taken 50 to 1 about his chance.
Amateurs Who Turned Pros.
Valentine, Sandall and Tremayne
Rodd were good middleweights, tried by
the high professional standards of their
age, the age of Fitzsimmons, Hall, Cree-
don, McCarthy and Mick Dunn. Seale;
as Tremayne Rodd has testified, was one
of the greatest middleweights of all time.


n
mw.
VN
mmwm
y-a
*
Stl«
*<
- .-j-
-__ . -
m
m
\owl follow the
Junte FIJI
Leave the grip of winter and come
now to the genial warmth of Fiji’s
sunshine. Enjoy a memorable month
'mid palm fringed islands where a
wealth of attractions await you.
Visit these islands of enchantment.
Motor through 250 miles of tropic
grandeur - tramp, fish, swim, golf -
enjoy every moment in a never to
be forgotten holiday.
At surprisingly low cost you can
spend a month in Fiji - less than a
week’s journey from Sydney. Give
yourself a holiday away from winter
- and come now to fascinating Fiji.
For full information and all literature on
Fiji write :•
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOMAS COOK & SON, UNION
S.S CO. LTD., MATSON NAVIGA*
TION CO., Sydney & Melbourne
PICKFORDS TRAVEL SERVICE Clo.
Da'gety & Co. MR.F.W. HENNINGS;
Master Builders'Exchange; 12 Castlcreagh
Street, Sydney, Australian Representative
of the Fiji Tourist Bureau.
iSLflnos o
HOW OFTEN DO , ,
YOU NEED A JpftP* 1
mm
i »
m
A trusty Ever
Ready Torch
costs only a
few shillings, but
it comes in handy
on countless oc-
casions . . . for
seeing friends to
the gate late at
night changing
a tyre or mending
a wire when
motoring—spotting the dastardly snail and other hungry garden
pests ...
If you have a torch now, or if you buy one, see that it’s an Ever
Ready Torch. Ever Ready Torch Refills, too, are the most de-
pendable, and the biggest selling battery. They are made in
Australia—last longer and are always “fresh” wherever you buy
them—it pays to buy Ever Ready.
VER
TORCHES and TORCH
REFILLS
THE EVER READY CO. (Aust.) LTD., SYDNEY x. 3.
And Australia has had many fine pro-
fessional boxers who graduated among
the amateurs.
For example, George Dawson was
amateur featherweight champion of
Queensland in 1885. Arthur Cripps was
amateur middleweight champion of
the same State in 1901. Dave Smith’s
amateur record has been mentioned (B.
16/6/’37). Jack Read, now a boxing
writer in Sydney, fought for years as
an amateur, winning in 1908 the ban-
tam and featherweight championships of
his native Tasmania, and in 1910 the
featherweight championships of N. S.
Wales and Australia. He was destined
tc become the continent’s professional
champion lightweight in pre-war years
when lightweight form, Australian and
imported, was very good.
Other noted professionals who distin-
guished themselves as amateurs have
been Ambrose Palmer (welterweight
champion of Victoria and runner-up
for the Australian championship at
the weight in 1927); Harold Hard-
wick, who as a professional fought
Darcy and gave him one of the hardest
punches the marvellous boy ever re-
ceived ; Dick Humphreys (successively
featherweight and lightweight champion
of N. S. Wales) and Joe Hall.
Val Quirk.
Victoria had an excellent amateur —
the equal of Palmer, old-timers aver —-
in Val Quirk. In 1894, boxing at Mel-
bourne for Victoria’s amateur middle-
weight title, Quirk beat Tim Murphy,
who some years later was challenging for
the professional championship of the
world, and later still could actually claim
to have whipped the heavyweight cham-
pions of Honolulu, South Africa and
Australia. Quirk never turned profes-
sional, but, loving the game, he taught
a number of good boxers and became a
noted referee.
"Snowy" Baker.
In 1882 Arthur Somerset, a pupil of
Larry Foley’s, went to London and won
the competition for the Queensberry
Cup, which carried with it the heavy-
J. W. H. T. DOUGLAS.
weight championship of England. The
Aldershot instructors and the celebrated
Bat Mullins liked his style and asked him
where he got it. “I told them,” he wrote,
“that Larry Foley taught me, that he
could lick me one-handed and that be
could smash any of them.”
Twenty-five years later “Snowy”
Baker tried to emulate Somerset’s
achievement by going in quest of the
English middleweight title. “Snowy” was
a gifted all-round athlete, and in Aus-
tralia he had met no middleweight in his
class. But in London he was outpointed
by Douglas, the cricketer (“Johnny Won’t
Hit To-day”). The decision was dis-
puted, but not by Tommy Burns, who saw
the fight, and subsequently put on the
gloves with both amateurs. Baker’s
stocky build and perhaps his diversity
of athletic interests placed him at a dis-
advantage opposed to Douglas, a rangy
fellow with a long reach.
Years afterwards when Baker con-
trolled the Sydney Stadium, he momen-
tarily thought of becoming a profes-
sional for one contest. He had quar-
relled with Jimmy Clabby, and Clabby
challenged him to have it out in his own
ring. Though a good-natured fellow,
“Snowy” had a fiery streak in him, and
if he had consulted his own inclination
the meeting would have been arranged ;
but other influences prevailed.
In 1920, Baker, Clabby (the hatchet
long before buried) and Douglas were
together in Sydney. “Snowy” had be-
come, a moving-picture actor of sorts,
one of his efforts being “The Shadow of
Lightning Ridge” “That’s what it
amounts to,” an old pug murmured ; “he’s
only the shadow of an actor.” Clabby
had gone broke owning and backing slow
horses, and the hat was being sent round
for him, the once-brilliant boxer having
become a chopping-block for second-
raters. Douglas was captain of the Eng-
lish team that lost all the Test matches,
and was not only being skittled but
caricatured by Mailey—the drawing here
reprinted was done by the bowler after
he had taken Johnny’s wicket in each
innings of a match. It was a trying
year for Johnny, and on at least one oc-
casion he must have found it difficult to
restrain himself from presenting one of
the victorious Australians (not Mailey)
with a sample of the punch he had
landed on “Snowy” 13 years before ; but
he was too good a fellow to let temper
get the better of him.
Fate was kind to Baker and cruel to
the others. “Snowy” went to Cali-
fornia, where he runs a flourishing
country club and polo-pony ranch.
Clabby returned to the U.S.A. with his
passage-money paid and £5OO, raised for
him by the “sports” of Sydney. He
soon went through it, and the good-
hearted prodigal who had delighted so
many Australians with his boxing became
a homeless vagrant. He died a few
years ago—of exposure, the newspaper
said. Douglas and his father, who made
periodical visits to Australia for the
cricket, were drowned when a passenger
steamer in which they were travelling
went down in the Baltic.
Old Fighters.
A par. from a faded scrapbook: “John
L. Sullivan has been engaged at $7OO a
week to appear with a company of
minstrels. He is to forfeit $2OO every
night he is drunk. At this rate the
management will make $l4OO a week
out of Mr. Sullivan.”
* * * *
“E.J.”: George Powell, who has been
mentioned in some of The Bulletin’s
articles on boxing, died in the Balmain
(N.S.W.) Hospital the other day in his
79th year. One of the earliest of Foley’s
pupils, Powell was boxing before Jack-
son, Fitzsimmons, Jim Hall, Goddard
and the rest became eminent, and he
outlived them all except Billy Murphy.
When the ’eighties were young he be-
came lightweight champion of Victoria
and Queensland, but for the lightweight
championship of the continent he was
beaten by the Englishman Jack Hall.
Years later he gave the. much-younger
Griffo, then a “fedder,” a hard fight,
losing on a foul in the twentieth round.
About 1894 Powell heard the call of
Coolgardie, and he was for half his life
in Westralia, returning only to spend
his last days in Sydney, the scene of
most of his exploits in the ring. A nicer
little fellow never cut the writer’s hair,
and he never interrupted the course of
the scissors with unsolicited discourse
about horses. George Powell’s size must
have been against him in the ring, but
his record shows that he was right in the
first class as a boxer in the Great Days
of the Australian Ring.
* * * *
“Shenstone”: Of all the old fighters
discussed in The Bulletin’s articles,
George Dawson prospered most. When
instructor at the Chicago Athletic Club,
he made influential friends, among them
the Wrigley who founded the chewing-
gum business ; and, thanks to Wrigley,
the thrifty Australian invested his savings
shrewdly. He married a nice American
woman who brought him a son and a
daughter. The son went to the Harvard
Law School and is now a successful prac-
titioner in Los Angeles. The daughter
has had a rather distinguished university
career. They are very proud of their
Australian father, and well they might
be, for George Dawson is a splendid
fellow. He has never touched drink or
smoked in his life; and, believe it or
not, he has never been known to swear.
* * =l= *
“0.T.”: A 1 Neill, mentioned as hav-
ing licked Tim Murphy in America, had
a frugal mind. During his visit to Aus-
tralia, he settled for a time at Black
Rock (Vic.), and there he had for neigh-
bor a wild fellow whose only known
name was Mike. Mike would fight any-
one or anything, for any reason or no
reason. Billy Williams had arranged a
match for Neill with Ruenalf, the Maori.
“You’ll be wanting a sparring partner,
Al,” he suggested. “Not me!” replied
the Californian. “When I’m in need of
exercise, I’ll just pick a quarrel with
Mike.” And he did. Al was very fit
when he met Ruenalf,


“D.8.K.”: Potent beer? I’ve tasted
a home brew in the north-west of N.S.W.
which had a hefty kick, but for sheer
dynamite it wasn’t in it with the alleged
beer sold in bottles to British troops in
Baku, Southern Russia, in 1919. The
local topers wisely stuck to their vodka
and wines, but Tommy naturally seized
anything in a bottle that looked like
beer. The concoction sported the Rus-
sian word pivo, and after wading through
two bottles of it one evening I awoke’ in
the cold hours on a seat in a local park
with cap, belt, tunic buttons and every-
thing in my pockets missing. They could
have pinched my false teeth if I’d had
any ; I wouldn’t have known. It tasted
something like beer, but vodka was milk
in comparison.
* * * sH -
“R.P.”: As no one out here (C.Q.)
knows anything about the Statute' of
Westminster, I asked a visitor from Lon-
don if he could throw any light on it.
His reply’was: “Yes, I know it quite
well. I’ve passed it hundreds of times!”
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Honi asked our
storekeeper if he could supply some per-
forated zinc like that used in making
meatsafes. “I tried ’skeeter netting over
my head,” he explained, “but te Dig
brutes chewed holes in it.” “Surely you
are not troubled with mosquitoes that
size in this cold weather,” smiled the
storekeeper. Honi shook his head. “It
not for ’skeeters,” he explained. “I want
it to stop te prurry rats chewing hair out
of my head when I’m having te forty-
wink dreams.”
* * * *
“Binduli”: Bishop Elsey, of Kal-
goorlie, has been incisively condemning
the goldfields public’s attitude, towards
gold-stealing.
After a man has been convicted and
served a term of imprisonment he comes
back to the town without a stain on his
character.... Ordinary people do not know
the ramifications of gold-stealing or who is
in it. When two detectives were murdered
some years ago, a number of men took the
opportunity of taking an extended holi-
day from Kalgoorlie.
Doubtless, and exactly the same thing
happened in 1906 when it was known
that the Government had appointed the
“Great Gold Leak Commission” to inves-
tigate the robberies by which the big
mines were said to be losing half a mil-
lion a year. Not that the commis-
sion found out much or made things
particularly unpleasant for anybody.
“0.W.W.”: Wild West films have lost
much of their appeal for Henare. I well
remember the thunderous cheering that
greeted one of these in Bluck’s Hall,
Nuhaka, in the old pre-talkie days—even
the native who supplied the mouth-
organ music joined in with the rest of
a 90 p.c. Maori audience. Nowadays
these patrons of the drama reserve their
joyful whoops for Tarzan (Johnny Weiss-
muller) films, which are certainly first
favorites with Henare, whatever bored
pakehas may think about them.
* * =:= * v ;
“Wandana”: A friend recently re-
turned from Japan assures me that
the “English-language” signs exhibited
outside business places there still make
good reading. One, displayed out-
side a dressmaking establishment, inti-
mated that “Respectable ladies may have
fits upstairs.” Another, above a baggage
agency, read: “Give your luggage to us,
and we will send it in every direction.”
* * * *
“7346”: Berets may be a new vogue
for Sydney workers (B. 9/6/’37), but ever
since the beginning of the depression
they have been affected by those who
tramp the bush and jump the rattler from
ration depot to ration depot. In the
Riverina, at all events, the beret is the
badge of travelling unemployed youths,
many of whom have never had a steady
job since they left school. While their
numbers, thanks to better times, are on
the decrease, the hiking millinery persists,
however unsuitable it may be for a blaz-
ing midsummer sun. As might be ex-
pected, red is a favored color.
“Roisel”: At the request of the ratings
on R.A.N. ships berets were provided
for stokers working on oil-fired furnaces.
Later the privilege was extended to
turret-sweepers’, whose duties bring them
into contact with considerable quantities
of oil.
* Sjs * *
“F.Y.7”: Townsville runs a coursing
club, but finds hares a difficulty. They
have to be brought from the south,
declining to flourish to make a N.Q.
holiday. Townsvilleans found substitutes
in wallabies and : kangaroo-rats. At
Northampton Downs, on the Barcoo, in
the early ’eighties, coursing kangaroo-
rats with greyhounds in the open was
a regular sport on Sunday morn-
ings in the winter season, when work
was not pressing, and visitors from
Blackall came along for the week-end.
Rats could be kicked up in the grass
tussocks anywhere within quarter of a
mile of the head statiqn and gave the
dogs a splendid go, sometimes on a warm
morning running them to a deadbeat
conditionin'thing few hares are capable
of. In addition to his' speed, the little
marsupial is a past master at jinking and
sidestepping when going at his top. Wal-
labies, scrub-dwellers in a wild state,
were never attempted, since dogs could
not take them on in the timber.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Brisbane, recalling the plague
outbreaks of former years, pays particu-
larly hostile attention to its rat popula-
tion. A trained staff of 47 men average
nearly 50,000 rats p.a. actually caught
and examined for plague; 1,318,126
poisoned baits are laid yearly, mostly
about wharves and river fronts, and an-
other 358,000 distributed for private use.
Rat-killing gas from gas-guns is used
under concrete floors and other inacces-
sible places, and a, corps of trained dogs
deals with rodents driven i out froth
shelter by smoke or the moving of stock
in produce stores and other haunfs.
Every rat caught is overhauled for signs
of plague and stripped of its fleas; which
are sent in for laboratory examination.
About 420 plague fleas were identified
last year, but unless the. rats are infected
the fleas are harmless.
« * * *
“Storm”: At the “Congress of Peace and
Friendship with Soviet Russia,” a ques-
tioner, after Professor Priestley’s address
on the wonders of nutrition in the
U.S.S.R., pointed out that in Man-
chester, England, free meals are given to
children if the family income after pay-
ment of rent is below 28s. a month,
whereas in Moscow free meals are given
to children if the family income after pay-
ment oLrent is below 10s. a month. He
gave as authority for his statement a
book published in 1936, Moscow in the
Making, with two English- university
professors as part authors, and wound
up with the question: “Is it not a fact
that Manchester is giving free meals to
children on a far more generous scale
than Moscow?” Professor Priestley
replied, “I don’t know.”
* X * *
“123”: N.S.W. Minister for Justice
Martin has been citing as conclusive
first-hand evidence that the Brisbane
police have the s.p. betting evil well in
hand the fact that he tramped all over
the city on a wet Saturday unsuccessfully
attempting to break Queensland’s anti-
gambling laws. He visited side streets,
laneways and dingy pubs trying to get a
bet on the Newmarket, but it was all in
vain. Still, he might have had a similar
experience in Sydney. It is very difficult
for a stranger to place a bet with a s.p.
bookmaker in Sydney.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I lack sympathy for this
anti-Sunday-sport agitation, promoted by
certain worthy and well-meaning Sydney
clerics, for the simple reason that the
Sabbath, even if I live to a hundred, will
always be a Day of Gloom for me —the
result of early upbringing, of course. Not
that my family were Scotch or Calvin-
istic, but I got such a dose of churches in
my adolesc'ent and early-manhood years
that I could never since go voluntarily,
“ 'Op it, son; I Wont be finished with this pitch fr another two hours."
even to a cathedral. It began at home as
soon as I can remember ; it went on to
six years at a public school (chapel every
morning, three on Sundays, with heavy
penalties for missing any), to four years
at a university, where 40 chapels a term
was the irreducible, minimum for keeping
terms and acquiring a degree. And
oh! the bleakness and dismalness of
those Sundays, especially at home, with
all secular literature frowned on, guns
and fishing-rods and cricket bats taboo,
when even the swish of a tennis racquet
would have outraged the susceptibilities
of half the parish! There isn’t much I
envy modern, youth, but in “the day that
comes between the Saturday and Mon-
day” he certainly is luckier than his dads
and granddads.
■ ' * , * ... * * \ *
“J.0.F.”: According to a . contem-
porary writer who was among those be-
sieged in the Alcazar recently, the,
Spanish war will be won partly on, olive
oil, and Franco’s forces have most of
it. Spaniards are as fond Of olive oil
as the Chinese are of rice. In the areas
held by the Reds it is used over and over
again until rancid enough to ruin any
dish prepared with it. On the other
hand, the so-called “rebel” centres
seemed to have much more and better
oil. In fact, food of every sort was
better, probably because the insurgents
control 80 per cent, of the cultivated area
of Spain.
:J: * * *
“7346”: “Shep’s” story of champagne
at Meteren in 1918 (B. 9/6/’37) recalls
that a pldtooh of a* First Divvy batt. in
reserve camped in a cellar thereabouts
were enjoying a tremendous binge on the
bubbly water when one of their number,
an Anzac, came up for air. A G.S.
wagon approached, driven by a war baby
whom the old hand recognised as a young
cousin hardly past school age. After
swapping the time of day the Anzac
inquired rather patronisingly if the kid
would like a bottle of “real” champagne.
“What year is it?” inquired the young-
ster, unimpressed. “Cripes! I don’t
know. Hey, boys,” yelled the old-timer
down the cellar, “what year is that cham-
pagne?” “Nineteen hundred and
fifteen,” roared the chorus from below.
“Better keep it,” said the wagon-driver.
“I’ve got a case of ’O5 on board.”
* * * *
“J.W.”: In a recent Bulletin I saw
an inquiry as to who were Poinsett and
Bouvard, whose names are pinned on to
certain flowers. Poinsett was an Ameri-
can politician (1779-1851) who was given
a diplomatic mission in 1822 and
meandered through Mexico. Later, he
was U.S. Minister for Mexico. The
plant Poinsettia pulcherrima is a native
of Mexico. Poinsett apparently made it
known to the world. 1 am in the dark as
to bouvardia. The only name approach-
ing Bouvard that I can discover is
Bouvart, a French astronomer (1767-
1843).
$ * * *
“R.W.D.”: Though transference of
100 Irish families (B. 2/6/’37) to almost
anywhere from Connemara should seem
to them like enter-
ing an agricultural
heaven, I’m willing
to bet that no little
persuasion was
necessary before it
was effected. The in-
habitants of rocky
Connemara have
starved happily in
their uninviting sur-
roundings for cen-
turies, piling up the
boulders into walls,
and carting on their
backs earth and sea-
weed in which to
coax along a few
potatoes. Yet, de-
spite their hardships,
they loved their
home with something
almost akin to fana-
ticism. Every year
tearful good - byes
would be said to
hundreds of sons
and daughters setting
out for America
and elsewhere ; their
earnings contribute
largely to the upkeep
of the folks at home.
H. V. Morton, writ-
ing of Connemara in
his In Search of
Ireland, advanced
the opinion that if
any attempt were
made to remove the
people to more fer-
tile surroundings it
would be resisted to
the last breath.
“Nomen”: There seems to be a ten-
dency to bestow fewer Christian names
at royal baptismal fonts. Crown Prince
Olav of Norway’s son and heir (grand-
son of Edward Vll.’s daughter Maud)
has just been started in life with the
single moniker Harald. The Duke of
Windsor has seven Christian names, but
George VI. rules an Empire with four.
His daughters have but two apiece.
H*
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Mention was re-
cently made of a ’plane which flew for
35 minutes without a pilot; an even
more remarkable flight is recorded of an
Australian machine during the war. Both
pilot and observer were shot by German
airmen aloft, just as the pilot had de-
cided to veer a shade to port. For two
or three hours the masterless machine
described circles on a 30-mile radius, until
its petrol ran out and it descended to
make a perfect three-point landing behind
.the French lines.
* * * *
“Pat McGinty”: The draft Constitu-
tion of the new Irish Free State (Eire)
is an interesting document. Among
other things it provides a Constitution for
a united Ireland, and begins and ends
on a note which would appear almost unin-
telligible to modern Constitution-makers.
It begins: “In the Name of the Most
Holy Trinity, from which all Authority
comes, and with which all human actions
must be related, and in honor of Out
Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.” I|
ends with the words “For the glory ot
God and the honor of Ireland,” and
promises religious liberty to all.
CONVERSATION PIECE.
T called out gaily: “Winter’s here!”
He nodded: “It comes every year.”
I smiled: “It’s very dry again.”
“It always is, when it don’t rain!”
I said: “The weeks soon slip away,
And here’s another Monday, eh?”
He grinned, and nodded his fat head.
“Monday all day to-day,” he said.
“How nice your house looks now, since you
Resolved to paint it all anew!”
He eyed me with a feigned surprise:
“I’d hardly paint it otherwise!”
I murmured: “I’ll be going. How
Early the darkness sets in now!”
“Too right,” I heard his mild retort;
“It always does when days are short!”
I bolted, very red and hot,
Lest I should slay him on the spot!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


“Take up Pelmanism and give
your life a new beginning” — Sir Herbert Barker ,
mm
11
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
.directions given in
the Course. It is
impossible to speak
too highly of it.”
sd
fs
The Baroness Orczy.
df
m
i
(G,
Canon Hannay.
. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
sdf
Dr F. W. Nt»rwoad,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
sd
fsd
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
fs
df
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly v
sd
fsd
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
Pelmanism trains you
to distinguish be-
tween the essential
and the trivial, be-
tween what is urgent
and what can wait,
between what mat-
ters and what does
not matter.
Pelmanism is a train-
ing. This cannot be said
too often. It removes
bad, careless and slovenly
habits of mind and
memory, and substitutes
for them good, reliable
and exact habits.
Pelmanism makes work
easier and life pleasanter.
It makes the individual
more capable—it makes
him extremely capable.
It trains him to distinguish
immediately the essential
things and to dismiss the
trivialities. This not only
gives him time for more
work, or leisure for more
enjoyment, but it also in-
duces a freedom of mind
that makes all his work
good and productive,
and all his pleasure real
and unhampered.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
—lnitiative
—Will Powei
—Decision
—Originality
—Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—-Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-C ontrol
—Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect —it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 35,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
390 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy— 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.)» Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin’' a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives
To tbe Pel man Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
465.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- f plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
,C#
. *iC *
• ••#*
,^> v
s s
9®P
.\\ e
ap
0°
\o e
«<^ e ,
<^ 6 ..••■■'
o'
•o vl
N u
,»VM
o, ~*s*s
’ *-0 v


“I*
Let winters winds
blow ever so CO LD
(}
V
\ \
all's well if Health is right i/ 7
If you have the glow of health you can laugh at Winter s wind and rain;
otherwise, it is a dangerous season fo r our human-kind
And the rule that all can follow is this: “Drink Wolfe's Schnapps every day
for your health s sake. Take it. hot with lemon at bedtime. For Wolfe s
Schnapps is the purest of all gin spirits No other spirit has its remarkable
medicinal properties. It cleanses the bloodstream, tones up the system and
guards you as nothing else can against the ills and chills that come in
\Vinter s train. Wolfe s Schnapps, too. is as good for women as for men.
ALWAYS KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOME
\\\ v-
WOLFE’S
TAKE IT HOT WITH LEMON AT BEDTIME
SCHNAPPS
