

i
m
..v
sshs
X.
M'i ■
%
msi
: ■
There’s a young lady in England who persists in
playing courses with a putter; she achieves
some notoriety but her scores make sorry
reading.
Champions are more particular; they have to
be They carry a special club for every shot
on the golf course— 15 or more is not unusual
—they have learned the value of specialisation.
In the investment and finance field the House of
Hamiltons too. has learned the value of
specialisation and has reduced the . difficult
problems of investment to something very close
to an exact science.
No investor, whether large or small, should r -
gleet the opportunities offered by this special-
ised service now rendered by the House of
Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd.
Investors are assured of the guidance of
specialists to secure returns in the shape of
capital appreciation plus regular dividends,
and at the same time eliminate risks.
Ask for particulars of Hamilton's offerings
of shares in established dividend-paying
companies.
jHamiltOnS (Australasia) limited
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capital £250,000
Head Office, KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY
’Phones: BW 1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: - Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale. N.S.W. 'Phone, Armidale 150. Box No. 123 Armidale
Union Bank Chambers, Cnr. of Hunter and Bolton Streets, Newcastle. 'Phone: Newcastle 1942.
w
H
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.PO Box 520 J
QUEENSLAND:
Commonwealth Bank Building,
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
G P.O. Box 1017 N
Bank of N..S.W. Chambers*
Flinders Street,
1 ownsville.
G.PO Box 280
SOUTH AUSTRALIAI
C.M.L. Building.
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G P.O Box 650 F.
NEW ZEALAND:
National Bank of N.Z Chambers
Featherston Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
G P.O Box 562, Wellington
The Bulletin
“Give Em New Guinea!”
fal. 58.—N0. 2970.
Wednesday, January 13, 1937*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
tiui
Lilia!
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ _ CUT HERE AND MAIE
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name •
My Address • •
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plun’ie, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
To Bring the Dead to Life.
To bring the dead to life
Is no great magic.
Few are wholly dead:
Blow on a dead man’s embers
And a live flame will start.
Let his forgotten griefs be now,
And now his withered hopes;
Subject your pen to his handwriting
Until it prove as natural
To sign his name as yours.
Limp as he limped,
Swear by the oaths he swore;
If he wore black, affect the same;
If he had gouty fingers,
Be yours gouty too.
Assemble tokens intimate of him—
A ring, a purse, a chair:
Around these elements then build
A home familiar to
The greedy revenant.
So grant him life, but reckon
That the grave which housed him
May not be empty now:
You in his spotted garments
Must yourself lie wrapped.
—Robert Graves ; "The Faber Book of Modem Verse.”
Maoriland's "Best Poems."
For several reasons New Zealand Best Poems of
1936 merits the heartiest of welcomes. One
sufficient in itself—is that there’s capital work in it.
Another is that it gives the represented poets the
encouragement of seeing themselves in a book: when
even the best of them—Douglas Stewart, for instance
—can’t get between book-covers, other than in this
general-assembly way, unless they foot the bill them-
selves, this reason is also sufficient ground for loud
cheers. Welcome is further extended on the ground
that the anthology enables everybody who wishes it
to see representation of the work of a country’s poets ;
also because the editor of such a selection deserves
applause on general principle as well as revealed ability
(that is for C. A. Marris); again, because the pub-
lishers Harry H. Tombs, Ltd., Wellington have
done their part with taste, clean type and good white
paper, all of which is as it should be in the presentation
of poetry.
Nineteen poets are represented: in a phrase that
will make the shade of George Robertson extremely
annoyed, they are “of uneven merit.” It could be
said with equal truth, though with somewhat more
purpose, that they are a bushful of birds all singing
different songs: that is the general effect; no common
tone rises robust enough to mark them distinctively
Maoriland birds. The full-throated, laughing bari-
tone of Arnold Wall and J. R. Hervey, companioned
by the contralto of Robin Hyde and Eve Langley,
the soprano of Dora Hagemeyer and Gloria Rawlin-
son, with various other generally light voices clutter-
ing away, and from somewhere in the dark heart of
the foliage, somehow alone, beholden to none, Douglas
Stewart’s silvery tenor flooding out about the purest
music at present being sung hereabouts. That is how
they sound in the aggregate. Listen a little closer,
and you can hear notes common to many of them, and
certainly to the best of them. Not very insistently—
not blatantly as Australia has most loudly forced
herself into expression in ballad gaucheries but
clearly, nevertheless, Maoriland is compelling them.
Stewart begins a poem:
The creamy frost of toi-toi plumes
Above the rushes’ blue-green 'shrilling
Forewarns the farm that winter comes
and it is quite obviously Maoriland of which he
speaks ; and Maoriland it remains though the scene
holds haystack, fieldmouse, hawk, buttercup, lark,
hare and purple flames of clover: he translates them
to belong, and that is something that it takes a poet
to do. Maoriland has accepted these things ; Stewart
accepts them. Those who have read much of this young
poet’s already generous output will know that his
vision of Maoriland needs no toi-toi, tui and suchlike
signposts. The vision floods his work. There are no
signposts in this gem he called “To Be Cut in Stone”
(it appeared in The Bulletin’s “Various Verse”):
This lady carried a moon within her breast,
And the white dreaming holiness of waters
Sighed in toward her out of all men’s hearts.
When she grew old her hands and hair were moonlight,
And, like her undying sister of the sky,
Through cloud and wind she shone the tenderer,
Silvering with beauty the dark tide of the world.
Therefore, when the moon rises, remember her.
There is place in that, and it is Maoriland, according
to Stewart’s vision. Maoriland should be kind to
Stewart, for there is nothing surer than that it will
lose one of its finest poets if it loses him.
Eve Langley has as yet made only one appear-
ance in The Bulletin— on the last Christmas Page of
Verse. She is represented in the collection by that
poem and another. She is unquestionably a poet:
In this breast
Breathe ecstasies which wrench our fires apart.
These arms you kiss were made to clothe my guest.
Let me, in courtesy, with him depart.
The “guest,” Death; the speaker, King Magyarudas ;
the audience, his women. And that indicates whereon
her mind is set in the two poems given—on a distant,
Oriental world, loud with barbaric color and trap-
pings. It has a splendid sound, and Kublai Khan
lived thereabout; but even Coleridge saw it best with
opium, and lesser poets have been drowned there, in
syrup.
Robin Hyde is another voice of value in this bush,
also hunting legendry for inspiration, but brought back
sharply by black cricket’s cheep and cicada
Merry and fierce beyond belief
His symphony below the leaf,
inclining a little to be thought-conditioned by such
exigencies of rhyme.
None in the bush has a surer opening note than
Dora Hagemeyer: two of her opening lines are
“Again as Spring comes singing across the land” and
“O world, I am bewildered by your giving!” Not
many, either, have her freshness, though the content
may be slight:
The day falls open like a flower in bloom
Laying its wide blue petals gently over.
The breath of summer lingers through the room
With all the indolence of weed and clover.
The bud of time has thrown its sheath away,
The old brown yesterdays no longer bind it;
And Heaven is mirrored in this perfect day,
O God! let me be still enough to find it!
Arnold Wall’s “Overture,” which has had an
airing in The Bulletin, sounds better than ever
booming forth from where the collection opens flat
out in the middle: —-
The mighty sun this empty earth bestrode,
A million million dawns and sunsets threw
Their gaudy flares, unseen of men, abroad,
And the sun shone, and the rain rained, and the wind blew.
There are poets here more concerned with losing
punctuation and capital letters than finding anything
to say. who could profitably absorb this abiding
doctrine from Wall: that the shape of the vessel’s of
no account, but what is there in it? At least, that
doctrine seems implicit in all his work. Also, he can
laugh, which is something mighty few poets can do.
J. R. Hervey is another with a laugh, and a bit
more, in him (this Page will make space a week hence
for a complete poem of his, so that he can establish
that himself). They are kin, these two, and happy
company to end with, before reaching (as one of the
represented poets does) for “a hempen rope,” with
its fierce temptation to strangle somebody.
Australian Writers Abroad (1).
Henry James, looking back upon America, asked
Howells: “What is there left to write about in a
country where there are no ancient churches, no
ivied ruins, no country houses, no Horse Guards,
no Eton, no Ascot, no throne, no Westminster, no
tradition?”
“What is there left to write about?” retorted
Howells drily. “Why, simply all the rest of life.”
Helen Simpson and Jack Lindsay must have had
something the same feeling as Henry James when
they were young people in Australia. What was
there in this dusty country, where the chief events
were cricket matches and elections, for an imaginative
writer to take seriously? Was it worth bringing one’s
art to a subtle perfection for a people mainly
interested in the personalities of third-rate politicians,
tennis-players, successful real-estate salesmen?
Helen Simpson, I believe, set out with the idea
of ignoring her Australian origins and becoming a
correct English novelist. She wrote several novels
with the conventional background of country houses
and flats in Jermyn-street, and, since she has distinct
competence and a style, they were as successful as
most novels of the same kind. Miss Simpson
confesses that, from her point of view, they were
failures. “It wasn’t till I wrote Boomerang that I
found my feet,” she says.
Boomerang was an adventure away from the
conventional country-house background, a return, in
part, to the land of Miss Simpson’s girlhood. Perhaps
she wouldn’t have made it if Henry Handel Richard-
son hadn’t shown in Richard Mahony that there were
materials in Australian life to provide the substance
.of a great work of art. At any rate, Boomerang
separated Helen Simpson from the crowd of com-
petent novelists,. gave her a position in the public eye,
and she has maintained it ever since.
Miss Simpson can’t be discussed on the same
plane as Henry Handel Richardson. I have heard
her say seriously that if she were to begin her career
over again she wouldn’t write novels at all; she
would concentrate on radio and moving-pictures.
That statement seems to show an impatience with
the deep and complex processes of literature, a liking
for easy contacts and immediate effects. Undoubtedly
she can write. She has a robust, witty style, consider-
able scholarship, and a mental clarity that is perhaps
due to her French ancestry. But she is essentially a
commentator, particularly happy as a broadcaster
about books for the 8.8. C.
Perhaps one of the most interesting things about
Miss Simpson’s development is her increasing absorp-
tion in social problems and the preservation of intel-
lectual freedom. She has become a well-known figure
on public platforms, an energetic fighter against
Fascism in all its forms.
Jack Lindsay’s development has been, in a sense,
similar to Miss Simpson’s. As a young man in Bris-
bane and Sydney he was a romantic “escapist” pouring
out his contempt -on the life about him. A brilliant
classical scholar, he had had a vision of the Greek
world —at least as it is revealed in literature —and it
made him very dissatisfied with his surroundings.
After some encounters with local Philistinism he set
out to look for a place where art and ideas were taken
more seriously, and naturally found it in London.
But to bring classical scholarship to London is
like bringing coals to Newcastle, and criticism has
largely degenerated into reviewing. Most young men
with a natural talent for writing are driven inevitably
towards the novel, even if their inclinations don't
quite lie that way. And then comes the problem of
subject. What is an Australian to do who has
renounced his own country and yet doesn’t know
enough of contemporary European life to treat it
significantly? For the nerves of literary, creation go
so deeply into what one has thought and experienced
in childhood that it is almost impossible to deal with
an unfamiliar landscape, different social groupings.
Jack Lindsay retreated to that classical and his-
torical world that is more or less common to all of
us. He was able to do -so naturally because of his
early preoccupations and his great knowledge, and
his novels of Roman life have a reality that most such
novels lack, for he doesn’t imagine that because
Romans wore togas and sandals they talked in heavy
periods and never made jokes. His Romans, indeed,
are almost too modern and colloquial.
But his interest in the reality—the economic back-
ground of Roman life has led him to a closer
examination of the world about him. He is no longer
an “escapist”; he has become involved in social prob-
lems. And in his personal, intensive way he has
moved further to the Left than Miss Simpson. Recently
in demonstrating the new path by which, after some
years, he had come back to poetry (one can’t write
without having a faith, he says) he sent me a set of
verses based on an incident in the Spanish revolution
when the soldiers had, gone over to the people.
“These verses,” he commented, “are a sufficient
change from ‘Vision’-ary days.”'
It is interesting to find that, with this new spring
of social feeling in him, he has been finding his way
back, in spirit, to his own country. When I last heard
from him he was busy on an anthology, The Spirit
of Australia.
The career of most artists—that is, if their talent
is really creative—is much the same. At first there
is a romantic nostalgia for another world more sym-
pathetic to them than the one they have been born
into. They are young: their talent is only in the bud:
they feel desperately in need of a congenial atmosphere
for it. There is no such atmosphere to be found by
travel, though. They have to accept the real world
and try to remould it nearer to their hearts’ desire.
VANCE PALMER.
A South Sea Pioneer.
The face of the world changes rapidly in these
days, and change has not missed the Pacific. In the
memory of men now only middle-aged it was a place
merely of romance, hula maidens and buried treasure.
There are now 125,000 Indians in Fiji, the Japanese
have populated the Marshall and Gilbert Islands,
mining machinery is lifted by aeroplane in New
Guinea, the Powers, it seems probable, are to have
fortified bases in the South Sea Islands and surveys
have been made for trans-Pacific air services.
Adventuring in Coral Seas, by Albert F. Ellis
(Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), is one of the books
to which the future historian of the Pacific will prob-
ably turn for data concerning the days between the
rule of untutored savage and the modernity that is
now dawning. The book is lacking a little in that vivid-
ness of image that gives the impression of events being
relived rather than remembered, but it is not lacking
in interior evidence of its own authenticity. Ellis, who
wrote Ocean Island and Nauru: Their Story, has
personal recollections of the South Seas that go back
to 1887. As prospector and worker of phosphate
(Continued on page 9.)


‘TRUTH *v ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
HALF
YEARLY
w
a min:
V'
ir
Zs'
%
i i I
\
V v a
M
8
2'9 STILLSON
PATTERN
WRENCHES
One of the most' reliable
Pipe Wrenches made. Still-
son pattern in all steel or
with wood handle.
Sizes, inches. .6 8 10)4
Prices, each.. 2/9 3/- 3/6 5/-
Sale Prices .. 2/4 2/6 2/9 4/-
Sizes, inches. 18 24 36
Prices, each .. 7/6 11/- 18/6
Sale Prices.. 6/6 10/- 17/-
%
'T'
!L.
0
V lit V
r v
! t-v.
14'- SILVER STEEL
SKEW - BACK
HAND SAWS
12/6
Here’s your chance to
obtain a thoroughly de-
} pendable Hand Saw at a
worthwhile saving. Atkin’s
Silver Steel Skew-back
Hand Saws. No. 53,
26in. x 6, 7 and 8 point.
Made to give long service.
Price, each 147-
Sale Price, each ... 12/6
ŵ
ẁ
5'6 RATCHET BRACES
Carpenters and handymen
will welcome this oppor-
tunity to save on a new
Ratchet Brace. Sturdily
4/9
made and smooth and easy
to operate. With 1 Oin. sweep.
Price, each
Sale Price, each
5/6
4/9
31- MARPLE’S AUGER BITS
Marples Cox’s Patent Double-
twist Auger Bits at practically
half price. These auger bits
are made for hardwood with
m
/ fk
g /
'
double-thread points. They
bore clean and fast with little effort.
Size |in. Price, each 37-
Sale Price, each . 1/9
m
10/6 2|in. “DAWN”
BENCH VICES at
“Dawn” Parallel Jaw Bench
Vices, designed specially for
engineers’ use. Exceptionally
well made to ensure years of
9/6
service.
Sizes of jaws, inches
Prices, each
Sale Prices, each ...
Sizes bf jaws, inches
Prices, each i ..
Sale Prices, each ..
Sizes of jaws, inches
Prices, each
Sale Prices, each
2* 2* 3
10/6 11/6 13/6
9/6 10/6 12/6
31 4L 4S
18/9 20/- 25/-
17/- 18/- 23/-
4i 5 6
31/- 40/- 50/-
28/6 36/6 47/6
SALE CATALOGUE
Further Sale Values in
Builders’ needs and equip-
ment appear in our Sale
Catalogue, which is now
ready for distribution. A
copy will be sent post free
on application.
29
/
HATCHETS
A Hatchet is a necessary
item for every builder’s kit.
Don’t miss this opportunity
to save on one. Kelly
“Reliable” Hunter Hatchets.
Nos 1 2
Prices, each . . 3/6 3/9
Sale Prices, ea. 2/9 3/3
TURNSCREWS
“Yankee” Ratchet Turn-
screws. Well made and
thoroughly dependable. It
will pay you to buy several
at these saving prices.;
Sizes, inches ... 10 12
Prices, each . . 6/6 7/6
Sale Prices, ea. 5/9 6/6
9
BUILDERS
MATERIALS
• DOOR BELLS
Nickelplated Rotary Front Door Bells. No. 1.
Price 2/6. Sale Price, each 2/3
Florentine Bronzed Rotary Front Door Bells.
No. 2. Price, ea. . . 3/-. Sale Price, ea. . . 2/9
• BOLTS
Polished Brass Barrel Bolts, 9595.
Sizes, inches 2 2\ 3 4
Prices! each -/7 -/8 ~/9 -/II
Sale Prices, each -/5 -/6 -/7 -/9
Antique Coppered Steel Barrel Bolts, 25 38, 3in.
Price, each . . lid. Sale Price, each . . Bd.
Antique Coppered Iron Chain Bolts, 700.
Price 4/6. Sale Price, each 4/-
Polished Brass Flush Bolts, 241, 3in. x fin.
Price 4-id. Sale Price, each 3d.
Galvanised Steel Padbolts, 4in. x fin.
Price Bd. Sale Price, each 6d.
6in. x fin. Price, ea., 1 Od. Sale Price, ea., Bd.
6in. x iin. Price, ea., 1/-. Sale Price, ea., 1 Od.
Bin. x iin. Price, ea., 1/3. Sale Price, ea., 1/-.
Japanned Monkey Tail Bolts, 30in. x fin.
Price 11/6. Sale Price, each 9/6
Japanned Steel Barrel Bolts, 4in.
Price, each .... 6fd. Sale Price, each .... sd.
Japanned Steel Barrel Bolts, 6in.
Price, each . . . 9id. Sale Price, each . . . 7fd.
Galvanised Steel Barrel Bolts, 4in.
Price, each .. . 9id. Sale Price, each .. . 7fd.
Japanned Steel Barrel Bolts, 2562, 3in.
Price, each . . . s id. Sale Price, each . . . 3id.
Japanned Steel Barrel Bolts, 2562, 4in.
Price, each .. . 6d. Sale Price, each .. . 4d.
• CASTORS
Nickelplated Steel Rubber-tyred Tea Waggon
Castors, 2 fin. Price, set of 4 2/6
Sale Price, set of 4 2/3
Antique Coppered Steel Rubber-tyred Tea
Waggon Castors, 2fin. Price, set of 4 ... 2/6
Sale Price, set of 4 2/3
Brassed Steel Gripneck Castors, No. 7.
Price, set of 4 . . 1 /8. Sale Price, set of 4 . . 1/6
Bright Steel Plate Castors, 535.
Price, set .. . 1/2. Sale Price, set of 4 ... 1 Od.
Ball Castors, 460, 1 fin. Price, set 2/8
Sale Price, set of 4 2/3
0 Builders’ Hardware —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN
SONS Ltd.. SYDNEY


FOR SHORT STORIES
jiuilACci
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition;
January 31 , 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
A Racing Yarn That Rigs True
THE LOSING STREAK
BY
C.W. JUDD
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
JUST for a fraction of a second a familiar face
showed up in the passing crowd. Solo Spears
glanced away quickly and lengthened his stride a
trifle. Before he had gone three paces a heavy
hand fell on his shoulder and dragged him to a stand-
still. He swung round and faced a very large man clad
in a light grey suit, who stood with a beaming smile
on his face.
“It is Solo, then,” said the stranger incredulously.
“Oh, hullo, Burton! ” —casually. “It’s me all
right or I’d slay you—if you weren’t so damn’ big.”
Burton dropped his hand to his side. “That’s a
fine way to greet a pal after ten years, you old
sinner,” he grinned.
“Eleven years,” Solo told him mechanically.
“Armistice Day, ’25.” Burton looked at him strangely,
started to speak and changed his mind.
“Well, what’s it matter?” he said at last. “It’s
a hell of a long time past, anyway.” He glanced down
at his watch. “You’ve just got half an hour to tell
me all about it; I’m flying through to Brisbane at 11;
better come and have a drink.”
They turned and walked down Pitt-street
together. Burton, tall, broad and fair, his face brick-
red below his light grey hat; Solo Spears, dapper and
dark, his eyes on a level with Burton’s shoulder.
Later, as they sat over a pint of beer, talking as
men do who have only minutes to pick'up the threads
of an ancient friendship, Solo found his mind wan-
dering off at a tangent. He realised that Burton
knew he had passed him deliberately and was fishing
round to find the reason for it. The devil of it was
that he could give no reason for it, even to himself.
Burton had been his best friend, and now his only
friend —the only man in Sydney who would have
bailed him up in the street to have a drink.
A question cut sharp across his thoughts.
“What are you doing now?”
Solo flipped a cigarette from his case and spun
it across the marble tabletop. He snapped a light for
Burton and lit up himself before he answered. “Same
old game—chasing the ponies.”
Burton grinned. “Owner, trainer or jockey?” he
inquired.
“Punter,” said Solo laconically.
Burton’s eyebrows jumped upwards. “Hell’s
bells, man! You can’t make money at that unless
you’ve got a damn’ sight more capital than I’ve ever
suspected.”
“Oh, I get by,” Solo told him tonelessly. “It’s
just a matter of having the guts to stick to a plan.”
“How are you doing lately?” Burton put the
question casually— too casually.
“Fair enough,” Solo shot back instantly. “I’ve
had my runs of outs, of course; there’d be nothing
to the game if I didn’t, but I’m doing well enough.”
He flicked his cigarette in an accurate arc to the
spittoon and watched the smoke wreathing lazily up.
They sat in an awkward silence. With a sudden
vicious movement, Burton jabbed his butt into the
ashtray.
“I’ve got to go now, old man,” he said. His tone
was quieter, and for the first time he sounded serious.
“There’s just this—the show I’m running in New
Guinea has a job waiting for you if you come back
with me.” He held up a big, capable hand as Solo
started to speak. “Meet me in Brisbane on Tuesday
and we’ll go back together. It’s hard work, maybe,
but good money; enough money for a decent stake
at the end of your three years.” He pulled an
envelope out of his wallet and scribbled a few words
across the front. “There’s the Brisbane address,” he
finished, weighing the envelope in his hand. “Don’t
say anything now; think it over and I’ll see you up
North next week.” He dropped the envelope on the
table face down and stood up, holding out his hand.
“So long, Solo,” he said.
“Cheer-oh, Burton!”
A quick, hard shake and Burton swung towards
the door.
Solo Spears sat at the table. It was typical of
Burton, he thought, that he hadn’t asked him to go
out to Mascot. Must have known damn’ well that
he didn’t want to go. With a quick tilt Solo sank
the rest of his beer and picked up the envelope from
the table. Across the front in Burton’s virile scrawi
was his Brisbane address, and underneath a few words.
“Don’t worry about finance —I’ll fix it.” The envelope
looked a little bulky. He glanced inside and picked
out three new ten-pound notes.
Solo picked up the notes and thrust them into his
wallet. Fifty quid, with his own twenty; that gave
him a second-to-none chance of picking up his losses.
One more bet and he had it all taped out. If it came
off he was right again and he could forget the losing
streak that wrecked his bank balance and broke his
nerve.
That had been the trouble. He had never been
much good, but he had been a good gambler. He
had taken all the knocks that came along and bobbed
up for more. But somehow that last run of outs had
beaten him, warped his judgment, forced him to
plunge at the wrong times and hold off when he should
have thrown in for a real win.
That was past now. Fifty pounds he had and
the one horse that couldn’t lose. If it did —but, hold
on a minute! He hadn’t really thought of going to
New Guinea but he’d make it a gamble. A tenner
would get him to Brisbane —£40 running for him, and
he’d take to the goldfields if it lost.
That was on the Friday.
WITH his fifty pounds tucked safely away in his
wallet Solo strolled on to the lawn at Randwick
just before the fifth race. His race was the last on
the card, and in the back of his mind he knew that
he hadn’t dared to trust himself to see the programme
through. His newly-won confidence was his worst
enemy; he would have tried to pick the card, relying
on his cool judgment and ability to read meanings
into movements in the ring.
He really would not have seen the fifth, but he
needed to prove to himself that he would not bet
against his judgment.
Down behind the members’ stand a hundred
brazen throats howled the odds, and Solo turned afid
pushed his way through the battling crowd. Once
inside that pulsating billow of sound broke up into
its component parts.
Close by his side a quietly-dressed fellow who
might have passed for a young legal light let out a
sudden bellow that would have done credit to a bucko
mate on a limejuicer. “Here, six to four the field.
Six to four the field I’ll lay. Five to one bar one.
Eight to one Caesar’s Ghost, ten to one Gridiron.
Here twenty to one Saintly. Give it a name!”
Solo smiled faintly and moved on. He didn’t
even know what was favorite, he thought, and what
was more he didn’t care. He felt his wallet snug
beneath his arm. The crowd surged past him as a
triumphant howl came from the back of the ring.
“Two to one the field. I’ll lay two to one Miracle.”
Big men, little men, flappers, matrons fought their
way past him, thrusting their money at the perspiring
bookmaker and his penciller. The rush died away
as the chorus changed to two to one all over the ring.
Two to one, nine to four, five to two. Solo had
seen it happen too often before to be more than
mildly interested. Just another favorite blown out.
He pulled his race book from his pocket and ran
through the entries. Collodium, Revoke, Merry
Widow, Vanguard, Miracle, Caesar’s Ghost, Bee Line.
He stopped suddenly. There was a horse, and the
only horse he hadn’t heard mentioned in the ring.
Solo pushed across to the nearest bookmaker.
“Bee Line?” he asked quietly.
“You’ll do better,” the bookie said curtly.
Solo paused a moment and then fought his way
round to Mason who knew his own reputation as the
biggest bettor in the ring and valued it.
“What price Bee Line?” he asked again.
Mason voiced his extreme disapproval of the
question in one word. “Laid.” Without a pause he
ran on —“Five to two Miracle here, a hundred to
three Saintly. Who wants it?”
OOLO shrugged his shoulders and lit a cigarette.
v The stable money had gone on Bee Line all right
and caught the books napping. Maybe he should be
in on it and give himself more to play up the next
race. He checked his thoughts abruptly and sought
his way out of the ring. He had come for one bet
and he would stick to it, win, lose or draw.
The horses were parading in the saddling pad-
dock, and as he stood looking for Bee Line a Voice
came from behind his shoulder. “What do you know,
Solo?” He recognised the voice of a casual race-
course acquaintance.
“Nothing,” he said curtly, not bothering to turn
round.
“Now, listen, Solo,” the other insisted, ranging
alongside him at the fence. “I haven’t taken a trick
all day. Don’t hold out on a pal.”
Solo looked at him coldly. “I know so much
I’m not betting on this one myself.”
“But suppose you were having a bet, what’d you
be on?”
Damn him, Solo thought; the easiest way to get
rid of him was to tell him some hairy goat. Aloud
he said: “Bee Line’s got the chance—you’ll have to
-tote him ; you won’t get a price from the books.”
ALONE once more, Solo was annoyed with him-
self. He felt half inclined to follow his own tip ;
instead he went up into the stand and watched the
horses line up at the milepost.
Miracle was in on the rails, with Bee Line stand-
ing quite steady in the centre of the field. Through


his glasses Solo picked out the yellow-and-white
halves, yellow cap. As they came up to face the
barrier Saintly, drawn close to the rails, began his
usual performance, backing away and lashing out
with both feet at anything in reach. Three times they
drew up and three times Saintly broke the line, until
the clerk of the course led him to the extreme outside.
They walked in; there was a sudden hush, then
a mighty bellow from the crowd, short and sharp.
They were away.
Caught nicely-balanced as he moved in, Saintly
jumped clear as the barrier rose, and within half a
furlong was in on the rails, leading a good four
lengths. Miracle, from the inside position, had got
away cleanly and was being pushed along in second
place. Solo looked for the yellow-and-white jacket,
picked it up and saw Bee Line stretching along easily
about fifth or sixth. As he watched the bay horse
slid past Caesar’s Ghost and Armistice, crossed to the
rails in third place.
Solo put his glasses down and swore beneath his
breath. More than anything at the moment he didn’t
want Bee Line to win. To pick the horse and not
back him was right enough; to give that horse to
someone else and still not back him was all wrong.
Never talk until you’re on yourself—then don’t. He’d
made that rule himself and should have stuck to it.
The horses turned into the straight. Saintly was
still in front, but a tired horse now, his jockey hard
at work with the whip. The field closed down on
him, bunched tight, and there was a sudden roar from
the crowd. Miracle had hit the front.
“Miracle’s got it,” a man next to him yelled.
“Miracle, hell!” said Solo in a sour tone. His
glasses were up to his eyes again, and he was watching
a jockey with a yellow cap sitting quite still on a bay
horse. Bee Line was still in third place, striding freely
and easily; and even as he watched the jockey swung
out from the rails and touched him with the whip.
Bee Line bounded forward; half a dozen raking
strides and he was running alongside Miracle; a
moment’s tussle and he was clear. Solo dropped his
glasses.
The judge’s verdict of six lengths, he thought
later, flattered the rest of the field. Still, he got what
he was looking for —playing round the ring before
it was time to bet.
“The judge’s placing in the Horton Handicap,”
said a voice from the broadcaster, “Bee Line first,
Caesar’s Ghost second, Miracle third.”
THE crowd, very silent now, streamed down from
the stand. Solo took his racebook and ran his
eye down the entries for the last race. With his
thumbnail he marked a line beneath his horse, Shoot-
ing Star. Mr. K. Le Strang’s blk. h., by Huntsman-
Leading Lady. This was the horse he had waited
two months for —a raking black stallion with a decep-
tive, flowing gait. He had seen the horse improve
over his last three starts, without doing anything spec-
tacular. He had even gone out to Warwick to watch
the track work, and if Shooting Star wasn’t ready to
go off he was no judge of a horse. Solo knew more
about most owners than they would have suspected.
He knew Le Strang was not a betting man. With
a big field there was no fear of not getting a price.
He took his time going down to the ring.
This was the best thing he had got on to. Solo
was convinced of that, but even the best of things go
wrong. He would keep back a tenner, just in case,
and if accidents happened he would clear for
Brisbane.
In the ring he walked straight to Mason. “What
price Shooting Star?”
“Tens,” said Mason.
Solo half-turned away.
“Come on,” Mason said. “I’ll lay you twelves.”
Solo thought. “Four hundred and eighty pound.”
He pulled out his wallet.
“I’ll take six hundred to fifty,” he said.
He walked slowly away. It was a case of swim
or drown now. Damn it, he had to throw in for a
decent win on a good thing.
He searched through his pockets, dug out four
florins and a few coppers and smiled ruefully. There
was always the dole; he could imagine himself living
on ten bob a week! Still, Shooting Star could fall
down and beat that field. He turned into the bar and
rapped the counter with a florin.
“Double whisky,” said Solo, and carried it away
to a table beneath the back wall. The air was thick
with smoke and loud with forecasts, complaints,
jubilation.
“Ran stone-cold motherless last at Moo refield on
Saturday,” a fat man at the next table moaned, “and
leads home a red-hot field to-day.” A youngster at
the counter was loudly confident Vortex had the last
race won. “It’s in his pocket!”
Solo smiled sardonically and lit a cigarette. He
had twenty minutes of this before the race started.
THE horses came out for their preliminary. Solo
watched them flash past —Howitzer, Vortex, Du
Cane, Cyclone. Then through the gate came the great
black stallion, prancing and tossing his head. With
a sudden bound he sprang into action; a few short,
powerful strides to get balance, then a low, swinging
gallop that swept the turf away beneath Aim.
Solo hearded the rustle of racebooks as Shooting
Star slipped past. He glanced at the book himself,
although he knew it all by heart. Number nine, white
sleeves, green jacket, white cap.
The horses were at the barrier now, close enough
to be seen without the glasses. A minute of backing
and wheeling, then the big field came into perfect line,
the barrier lifted and they were away. The hooves
drummed on the hard turf and died away into silence
as the field approached the first bend.
The all-red colors of Vortex showed in front
of the strung-out field. Solo’s hands were not quite
steady as he watched the jockeys urging their mounts
along the back of the course, fighting for position.
Vortex was bowling along easily, two lengths clear
of the field, with Howitzer running behind him fight-
ing for his head. Back in the middle of the field,
moving easily and well, was Shooting Star, hugging
the rails.
They ran to the six-furlong post, with Cyclone
and Du Cane ranging up alongside Howitzer and
Vortex still batting along at a fast clip in the lead.
Just behind the first four horses Shooting Star gal-
loped alone, still on the rails, and Solo saw that the
big black was holding his position with hardly an
effort. He was striding so freely and beautifully that
he seemed to have Vortex within striking distance,
though he was all of eight lengths behind.
They swung past the four with Vortex still mak-
ing the pace a cracker, and the field strung out over
half a furlong. Yard by yard Shooting Star picked
up on the leaders. Du Cane and Howitzer weakened,
were passed and left the great black stallion in third
place still sticking to the rails, a bare length behind
Cyclone.
Solo thought—he’s got it won! They swung
round the last bend ; Cyclone ran just a little wide,
and with two great strides Shooting Star flashed up
on the inside. Cyclone fought on for a split second,-
ran level with Shooting Star, right on the heels of
the tiring Vortex.
In that split second Solo saw his bet slip from
his grasp, Cyclone held out but could not catch
Vortex. There was no room to pass between them.
The stallion was boxed in on the rails. For a furlong
his rider kept him there, waiting for Vortex to leave
the rails. Tired as he was, Vortex galloped straight
as a die. Cyclone held on, jambing Shooting Star in.
Solo put down his glasses and watched the three
horses run to the last furlong. Suddenly Shooting
Star’s rider reined in his mount and swung to the out-
side. He lost a full half-dozen lengths, by some
miracle got balanced again and cut down on the two
horses in front. He gathered speed with tremendous
raking strides, flashed past Cyclone and gathered in
Vortex on the post.
Solo knew he had been beaten before the num-
bers went up, even though Shooting Star had been
in front a stride past the post.
Vortex by half a head. He did not tear his ticket
up until he heard the announcement. “The three
placed horses in the Final Handicap have weighed in
correctly.”
Slowly he , tore the pasteboard square into frag-
ments —the piece of cardboard that should have been
worth six hundred and fifty pounds, with any kind
of luck. What the hell was the use of grousing about
luck!—just another bad break in a losing streak.
He’d been the mug not to hold back that tenner.
"THE lost ten pounds seemed like a fortune to him
' now. His fare to Brisbane and the chance of
security and independence. He wasn’t even good
gambler now ; that was the part that hurt. He d lost
his judgment —just another mug punter. If only he
had that tenner he’d clear for Brisbane so fast they
wouldn’t see him go.
He climbed up the steps out of the ground and
passed the old blind beggar at the gate. With a
sudden gesture he flung one of his last florins into
the tin.
“Better luck next time, sir,” the blind man said.
Solo paused, startled, then: “There won’t be any
next time,” he said evenly.
Ahead of him a man paused and looked back.
“Cleaned out, Solo?” he asked.
Solo recognised the punter he had put on to Bee
Line.
“Did the roll on Shooting Star,” he said.
“Bad luck, old man,” said the punter; “but a
damn’ fine race. I ran my Bee Line winnings on
Vortex.”
“Big men, little men, flappers, matrons fought their way past him.”
Solo looked at him sharply. “A damn’ fine race,
he agreed, “for you.”
The punter glanced around. “Grab this, Solo,
he said, “for Bee Line.” He thrust a piece of paper
into Solo’s hand. “Good luck,” and he hurried away.
Solo looked down. He had his tenner once
more, although it didn’t seem as much now.
Ascot on Wednesday, Solo thought, and Nico-
tine looks a moral for the fifth.


Brief Drama of the Sea
SURF
BY E.T. MEREDITH.
DRAWINGS BY FRANK NORTON.
THE long-backed breakers come rushing in one
after the other. They crash against the reef and
dissolve into spray. They sing in his ears with
a sustained and angry monotone. The sun
paints rainbows on the spindrift as it hangs in the
air like a curtain of mist. He watches the sea storm-
ing against that low reef of coral and shouting, with
a sound like distant thunder, at that low line of
palm-trees.
There are four of them in the boat: Grimmett,
Dodwell, himself and a Malay. They had sailed
out of the lagoon towards the late afternoon. The
breeze was light, and where the low sun caught the
crests of the swell the water glittered like glass.
Flying-fish leaped out from under their bows and
skimmed along a foot above the surface for a hun-
dred yards or more.
Grimmett was delighted. He kept asking the
Malay name for these fish, and when he was told
he smiled and nodded his head. For him, apparently,
the * name explained the phenomenon. They flew
because they had that name. Wonderful! His eyes
grew round with pleased surprise.
He took them out of the lagoon for about a mile.
The breeze strengthened, and over the eastern horizon
appeared a little black cloud. He handed the main-
sheet to Dodwell.
“Take this,” he said. “It’s the main-sheet. I’ll
teach you to handle the boat.”
Dodwell said simply
“I’ve been in a boat before,
you know.”
These few words had
the effect of silencing the
helmsman for a little while.
Dodwell could have silenced
an ambassador. He spoke
with such dignity, such aus-
terity and finality. His
tvords suggested always the
experiences of an immemorial an-
tiquity. He had been in a boat
before. But, of course! It must
have been a historic voyage!
When they put about and
started to beat into the wind she
dipped into the swell, and very soon
they were all wave-drenched. The
Malay was shivering. He sat up for-
ward, cold and miserable. They saw
no more flying-fish, but once an
enormous shark-fin cut the surface
a few yards from them. Grimmett’s
eyes opened wide. He looked more
than ever like Alice in Wonderland.
Dodwell showed no interest. Doubt-
less, from his dim and smoky past
he could recall having seen sharks
before.
Very soon that cloud, that had
started as a small smudge in the sky,
grew large and menacing and near.
Behind it the sun took refuge, and
everything was darkened by its
shadow. Big raindrops started to
fall and the wind gathered strength,
filling the sails and blowing the rain
slantwise into the boat.
'“F HEY were all wretchedly uncom-
-1 fortable, but the man at the
helm was enjoying himself.
“Put her about,” he shouted.
“Hey, Grimmett, get up forward and
back-wind the jib. She’s a bitch in
a squall.”
Grimmett crept forward and
fumbled with the jibsheets. He let
them all go, and the jib flapped
wildly in the wind. He made a dive
to catch the sail, and the block
caught him on the kneecap. He
gave a howl of pain. From the stern came the voice
of derision. “You’re not fit to handle a go-cart!
Ahmat, look lively there and jaga that jib! Lekas
s’dikit!” The Malay crawled forward and tautened
the rope. The jib filled.
He put the helm hard over and shouted “Bali!”
The boat went up into the wind and right-about.
Dodwell was almost thrown out. Although he’d been
in a boat before, this manoeuvre surprised him. Per-
haps they only sailed free of the wind on that singular
journey of his experience! He tried to recover him-
self and collapsed like a letter S and struck his fore-
head on the centreboard well-room. A little crimson
stream started to flow down into his eye.
The man at the helm was infuriated for some
reason. He seemed to consider it a personal affront.
There’s no accounting for how men will behave in
a boat. It’s extraordinary! He said: “That’s lovely!
Beautiful! What kind of a blasted picnic do you think
this is, anyway? Well, try and stop crawling about
in the bottom. Sit up here and try and stand her up
a bit. You’re about as useful as a headache.”
They were all soaked to the skin and it was cold.
When the sun hides and the wind blows the rain
down it is very cold in the tropics. It seems to get
inside and creep out through a man’s skin, like fever-
cold. Grimmett’s teeth were chattering. He began
to wish that he’d brought some brandy in a flask.
He usually did, but to-day it had been so bright and
warm when they started. He would have liked to
ask the helmsman if he had any brandy. He always
had some, but he seemed in such a filthy temper just
now. Better wait a while, thought Grimmett, before
asking for brandy.
HE sailed them too close to the shore. He
made the mistake of letting his thoughts wander
out of the boat. The Malay suddenly shouted, and
he saw how close he was to the barrier. “Bali!” he
shouted again. “Back-wind that jib!” The Malay
loosed the sheets and held the jib out nervously.
‘‘Orang laut! Call yourself a sailor? Hang it out,
man. You’ll never do any good like that.” The
Malay stretched the sail a little more to windward.
He seemed to be politely offering it to invisible hands.
Nothing happened. The boat drifted -a little, but
she would not go about. They were in the lee of
the island, and little puffs of wind seemed to come
from all directions —now from here, now from there.
“She won’t go! Well, wait a minute. Get her
sailing again and try then.”
Grimmett and Dodwell looked up. Was there
something wrong? They were cold, and nothing had
much significance for them except brandy.
After a few minutes he put the helm over again
just as the swell lifted them a little. Nothing hap-
pened. He cursed.
Dodwell asked: “Can’t you turn round?” and
the helmsman looked at him with a sort of horror.
He answered slowly, as though he were speaking
a foreign and unfamiliar language. “She won’t—
answer the helm. There’s no wind. If I can’t—put
her nose —out of this we’ll be —on the barrier in a
few minutes.” Suddenly he shouted at them: We II
be on the blasted barrier. Do you know that ?”
He had just realised it himself, and he was fright-
ened. He saw those breakers. He imagined the raw,
jagged coral. He gave a quick glance round. Nothing
but wind and rain and sea and surf. Surf! They
would be doing some surf-riding in a little while!
They would know all about it. He thought of the
oars. Useless! These fools couldn’t row. Besides,
they’d have to get the sails down.
(Continued at foot of next page.)
Nothing but wind and rain and sea and surf.


» “7* -f'“"rig
anchor. “Get the anchor, fl UIck B The Mai y
scrambled about and got it ready. But what was the
use of that? It was getting dark now, and even if
the anchor would hold they couldn’t stay here all
night. And the anchor wouldn’t hold. Impossible!
It was never meant for anything except a second
mooring. The rope was probably rotten.
The Malay looked at him, the anchor in his
hands He shook his head. “No good,” he said in
Malay. “That rope is not strong. Do not throw the
anchor. Wait. I’ll try to go about again.”
It was the Malay who shook his head now.
“T’a boleh Ta boleh man, Habis!”
Finished? Not yet, surely. He looked again in
the fading light to the shore, and it seemed to leap
tovvards him . The creaming surf danced on the coral,
asiirtsrsrAS’Sfsa
“-»■“
T he swell
, ND then everything happened at once. The swe
caught the boat, lifted her, swung her stern rount
and held her poised broadside on He leit sick as
he saw the water pour over the lee gunwale. e
opened his mouth to s oid em r) 0 p 6
sail and throw over the anchor. e ° re ,
utter a syllable the wave seeme o
and the boat slid down into the trough.
He could see that it would happen again, it was
inevitable. They would be swamped. But when they
rose again she shipped less water, and in sliding off
the wave something turned her bows. *
It was fantastic and inexplicable, but it happened,
The boat turned. He listened, strained his eyes to
see and his nerves to feel what he anticipated then-
SSriiSiKS-
in § off a blow and shouted: “She’s sailing! Sailing!
jib _ sheet? Ahmat , Tighter! Tighter!”
- sprang forward as though alive and
her nose into the waves . He called to Grim-
and Dodwell and told them to bail. “Get busy,
Y° u loafers. She’s sailing, do you hear? We’re off!
He wanted to turn and laugh at the barrier, but
b e didn’t dare do it. To be away from it was all that
mattered.
j n abou t half an hour they entered the lagoon
a g a j n n was s flH raining. Grimmett and Dodwell
were std j bailing. He put his hand into his pocket
and pulled out a flask. They all had a drink of neat
brandy, the Malay as well,
Yes, he said, she s a bitch in a squa
Brif Study of Character:-
FREEDOM
BY MARGARET TRIST
VOU had to be
free some-
times. Mrs.
Davis felt
convinced of that as
she pushed three-
year-old Jimmy into
the already crowded
tram and hauled
Daisy, aged five, up
after herself. Then
Tom, who was
carrying the baby, a
little bag with tihe
baby’s accessories, a
suitcase with their
lunch and four
beach towels, clam-
ber e d awkwardly
up, and the tram
started with a jerk.
Things were a
little mixed for
a while, but a young
man grudgingly gave
Mrs. Davis his seat
and a sympathetic
woman took Jimmy
on her knee. Then
Mrs. Davis took
over the baby from
Tom, who fumbled
about trying to get
the bags under the
seat, and finally
clutched, self - con-
sciously, at a strap,
with Daisy standing
precariously beside
him, hanging on to
the edge of his coat.
Freedom! Mrs. Davis sighed ecstatically and
kissed the back of little Marie’s head. You just had
to have a day like this now and again to know you
were alive. It didn’t do to spend all your life qooped
within the four walls of the house. It narrowed your
outlook so. Of course it was difficult to get away
for a whole day; still it was worth the effort. It
made lines of old songs you hadn’t thought of for
years go round and round in your head, and made you
wish, too, that Tom could have a new pair of cream
pants for holidays.
Suddenly Mrs. Davis smiled at Tom, a secret,
delighted smile that she’d almost forgotten. Tom
blinked, then smiled back and said: “Did you remem-
ber to put the milk in the ice-chest?” Mrs. Davis
thought desperately for a moment, then nodded
vigorously.
The tram went jerk and bump and clatter over
the lines, swerving round corners, stopping and start-
ing, then racing along so that the wind blew in Mrs.
Davis’s face and straggled her hair from under her hat.
Freedom! Being carried along without a care
in the world, except the very minor one of wondering
whether it wouldn’t have been better to leave some-
thing cold at home for tea instead of having the chops
to cook when she got back. Still, a chop was nice
after a day in the open.
The tram hurled through a cutting, then slowed
sedately along the beach front. Such a nice beach,
with quiet, blue waves frothing on the sands and a
decorative shark-net across the calm little corner. It
gave a beach an air to have a shark-net.
THE Davis family found a sheltered spot at the
far end of the beach, and Mr. Davis spread the
rug while Mrs. Davis tipped Marie’s milk out of the
bottle into a shallow bowl and covered it carefully
with butter muslin.
They had all worn their costumes under their
clothes, and though this had been rather uncomfort-
able and prickly and hot, it had saved them eight-
pence. That wasn’t a very large sum, but Mr. Davis
said it was just as well for them to have it as anyone
else; besides, they had the exhilarating feeling of
having obtained something for nothing. Mrs. Davis
felt rather funny getting out of her clothes on the
beach, and inclined to giggle about it; but Mr. Davis
stepped out of his with a fine precision, exhibiting a
hairy chest and a pair of thin, indecently white legs.
His shoulders were stooped and his mid-portion pro-
truded; but, thought Mrs. Davis, what a fine cut
of a man he was.
She looked around to see if anyone was watch-
ing, and was annoyed to discover a bright-faced
flapper eyeing him. Girls these days were the limit,
and certainly not to be trusted when there was a man
about. It made you blush to think of the way they
chased men, and the men hadn’t a chance against the
artful minxes either. Anyhow, she was quite capable
of looking after Tom —that was one good thing. She
gave the girl what was meant to be a challenging
look, and then turned round and boxed Daisy’s ears
for throwing sand at Jimmy.
They went down to the water together, the
arrangement being that Mr. Davis was to mind the
children in the shallows while she had her swim, then
for her to return with Marie and prepare lunch while
he had his swim.
Freedom! As Mrs. Davis waded outward the
water lapped coldly against her bare, shrinking flesh,
till suddenly a large, unexpected wave flung itself
over her. She shivered at its impact, then felt, a
tingle of warmth and a rush of excitement. How
good it was in the green water ; how clean and cool
and free! A piece of seaweed tangled round her
right arm, and she flung her arm into the air and
laughed. She bobbed up and down and waited expec-
tantly for the waves to come ; she tried to swim a
few yards, and laughed again as she floundered help-
lessly. Then she remembered a story she had read
about a man at the seaside who had let two children
wander off and drown.
With a sudden, terrible frightened feeling she
stood bolt upright and began to go as quickly as she
could towards the beach. But after a few steps she
saw it was quite all right. Jimmy and Daisy were
shrieking ecstatically as the waves chased them, and
Tom was holding Marie so that now and again her
little feet were splashed by the water. With a sigh
of relief Mrs. Davis turned back.
The sun shone
through the water,
making quivering
splashes of gold
on the whiteness
of the sand, and
sometimes the dark
shadow of a bather
lay against it as its
owner floated above.
She was splashing
happily when she
saw the girl who
had previously eyed
Tom actually talking
to him. She stood
up then and floun-
dered towards them,
wringing her wet
hair and wiping the
water from her face
as she went. But
the girl slipped off
before she got there,
splashing daintily
into the water and
diving gracefully
into a wave.
“What was she
saying?” demanded
Mrs. Davis.
“Oh, nothing
much; just about
the weather and
thing s,” answered
Mr. Davis vaguely
as he handed over
Marie.
THE afternoon
was calm and
sunny. Mrs. Davis, lying on the rug with Marie
sleeping beside her, watched out over the tumbling
waters to where a white-sailed boat passed far out at
sea. She had a sudden, wild longing to be on the
boat, to skim over the water, to dip and rise with the
waves, to do something, go somewhere, anywhere at
all so long as it was with the boat ...
It was a long time since she had felt like that.
Then she wondered had she turned the back gasjet
off properly after boiling Marie’s milk. She hoped
to goodness she had. It was a difficult jet to turn
off, and if it had been leaking all day it would run
the gas bill up terribly. Well, if it was on, she
couldn’t help it now.
She settled herself comfortably and tried to
dream again, then sat upright, wondering where
Jimmy and Daisy were. They had been playing near
the rock pool and had kept on running back to tell
her things. It was quite awhile since last time they
were back. It would be so easy for them to slip into
the deep pool and lie unnoticed in the deep, still
water. But wasn’t that Daisy running along the wet
sand near the water, and, heaven be praised! Jimmy
was following her. Mrs. Davis put her hand to her
heart as if the sooner to stop its quick beating.
Children did keep you jumping so, that was why
a day of complete freedom did you so good now and
again. And where was Tom? Surely he hadn’t gone
into the deep water among the sharks after her tell-
ing him not to. Men had no sense at all. Always
showing off and making an absurd show of bravery
when it would be better for them to take less risks
and think more often of their responsibilities. And
where was that girl! Surely Tom hadn’t allowed her
to cart him off somewhere, probably to buy her ice-
creams. Mrs. Davis’s indignation rose, but subsided
again as she saw the girl lying on the sand, brown
and slender and somehow fairylike in the sunshine.
1T had been a wonderful day. That night, with
1 Marie in bed and herself bending over the griller,
Mrs. Davis thought about it all. She had been free,
so free. And then, irrelevantly, she thought of the
water and the boat that had skimmed across it, and
the girl, the bright-faced, brown-skinned girl. A
sudden queer pain gripped her, as if unseen fetters
had suddenly tightened about her and were eating into
her heart.


! Wsors’ii $ Wsss K 1 '' ■ , -X^
*. .- -V^.:f: 11;*V:.'*: : i;:6iiVrV^;*V 1 *r--J‘:<V:*:>;
7 - ■ av^v'vMV' ’i' ww v' ■: i
1 :■■’ >- ’ l ,'Xxi.• v*
ymi
fc!s&£
%
io\
x®.
1
*W-V.v,
mutual:
A remarkable record—67 years
of sound success—is reflected in
these figures:
Assurance
Fimds.
£
Assurances
in Force.
£
New Business
for Year.
£
1870
1901
1936
781
3,265,126
40,883,125
77,100
12,064,507
115,761,661
85,400
1,367,170
11,348,578
The above figures refer to ordinary Life Assurance only—
the Association does not conduct Industrial Assurance.
EVERY POLICYHOLDER IN THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL IS A PARTNER.
There are no shareholders.
Effect your assurances with this progressive Associa-
tion; it provides benefits unexcelled in Life Assurance.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869
Offices:
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements.


deposits, he followed in the footsteps of his father.
He began his adventures as a lad by sailing with his
brother James from Auckland in the schooner Olive
to establish a coconut plantation on Hull Island in
the Phoenix Group. As he put them and their three
Niue boys ashore at their destination the captain said
to James: “Now, you’re the king of the island,” and
to Albert: “And you’re the Prime Minister.” They
were the only inhabitants, not only of the island but
of the entire group. They lived for months on biscuits,
rice, fish and birds’ eggs, and fought the rats that in-
fested the island while they hacked paths through the
jungle and planted their shipment of-nuts.
Albert Ellis inclined toward laboratory work. It
was not long before he was off prospecting for a phos-
phate company. The greater part of his life has been
spent in searching for the fertiliser which was, then,
beginning to come into general use, or in helping to
work the deposits. He was on Baker and Howland
Islands and has some good tales to tell of the diffi-
culties of loading the sailing ships from lighters in
what was practically an open sea-way. Baker Island,
the tip of a submerged mountain, receded to ocean’s
bed at an angle of 45 degrees. Ships’ anchors couldn’t
catch hold of it. Vessels were wrecked while waiting
loading. They also had difficulty approaching it owing
to the thrust of the Pacific stream thereabouts. They
had to manoeuvre like a billiardist playing a shot.
These islands are among those recently surveyed for
airports.
Ellis was later on Rocky Island, Raine Island —
where a tower beacon had been built by convicts sent
from Sydney—Morninglon Island, the Bunker Group,
at the south of the Barrier Reef, and he also pros-
pected the islands of the Gulf of Carpentaria. His
book is a miscellanea of personal adventure, such as
shipwreck, encounters with semi-hostile natives, notes
on native life, flora and fauna, canoe voyages, diffi-
culties with labor—Kanaka, Chinese and Australian
aboriginal—and contacts with some of the men who
made South Sea history.
Anglo-Chinese Stories.
Pity My Simplicity, by Kathleen Wallace (Heine-
mann; 7s. 6d.), contains two short novels; a fact
worth explaining because the terms of the publisher’s
introduction—“this double-barrelled novel . . . these
two novels in one, like the prisms of a pair of binocu-
lars”—incline the reader to expect, if not a tie-up at
the end between the two tales, at least some relation-
ship in pattern. There is neither. The disappointment
in not finding what it is indicated should be sought is
also “double-barrelled,” because each of the stories
promises more than it fulfils. What carries the reader
along is the writer’s competent narrative, style, her
manifest knowledge of the Anglo-Chinese scene, and
her air of being busy about something whose signifi-
cance will shortly be revealed
Of the two stories the first is the better. It opens
with a social group in London. Present: the elderly
and charming Miss Verney Ranelow, Princess Liu
Chang, the princess’s ancient nurse Kai-damah, and
Dr. Arnold Chisholm. The second scene is on the
day of Miss Ranelow’s funeral, when her deserving
niece, Dorothy Dunbar, fails to receive the large
legacy of which she had a reasonable expectation;
the money being left to Dr. Chisholm. The story then
shifts to China and back to Miss Ranelow’s youth. It
is a tale of two loves, one Chinese and one English;
the first happily consummated and the last thwarted.
Miss Ranelow goes out' to her brother’s hospital in
Sunkaing and makes the mistake of falling in love
with a man, Sydney Chisholm, who already has a wife.
Though she is an undeserving one, and a neglectful
mother to boot, the case of the lovers is grievous,
because in the benighted days of 1900 —so the author
says—while a married woman might more or less
openly have as many affair's of the heart as she chose
and her husband permitted, a single girl’s liberty in
respect of these things was curtailed by the watchful eye
of society, particularly in an Anglo-Chinese settlement.
Verney Ranelow takes as her pupil in English the
young Princess Liu Chang, who falls in love with the
Chinese military governor of the province. He, witii
just cause according to Western ideas and very con-
veniently according to Chinese custom, puts aside his
first wife and makes Princess Liu Chang No. 2
wife. Peace reigns in their household until the
governor’s lieutenant, Yen, secretly sympathetic with
a rival household dynasty, or Tong, engineers a rebel-
lious uprising. Verney Ranelow is at the governor’s
home, and things look pretty black for the two women
when the place is rushed by an armed mob. But
Sydney Chisholm —whose worthless wife has charac-
teristically left him for another man —appears miracu-
lously and defends the two women at the cost of his
life. All of which explains why Miss Ranelow left
her money to his son, Dr. Arnold Chisholm, her
ward. The author leaves Dorothy Dunbar where she
was at the beginning—up in the air.
The second story concerns- an English girl who
went out to China to marry and reform a dissolute
lover; how she sacrificed herself for him, discovered
infidelities on his part, and died loving somebody
else. The net gain to the reader at the end of the
book is the knowledge of Chinese ways imparted by
the author. The Chinese characters are well drawn,
and the scenes, such as that describing the first social
mingling of white and high yellow when Chinese were
still abashed at the sight of bare-shouldered Western
women, are revealing. But a piece of fiction must
succeed as a work of art' before its informative con-
tent can be considered, and, in respect of that, the
effect of each of these stories is like that of a Christmas
bon-bon that tears without exploding and doesn’t
even contain the expected jazz cap.
Looking Australia Over.
Dubois is right in depicting C. Hartley Grattan
with the expression of one likely to look inside things
and see for himself what he can make of their works.
Grattan, here from U.S.A. with backing of the Car-
negie Corporation, is gathering material for a book
on Australia and its inhabitants.
However this work may turn out, it is unlikely
to be either a surface-skimmer or a back-slapper, and
Grattan looks intelligent' enough to avoid translating
singularities into generalities for the sake of being
picturesque, though the temptation for a purposeful
visitor to do this of any
country is naturally severe.
He has made an excep-
tionally sound beginning:
he was here about 10
years ago, wrote after-
wards on Australian litera-
ture, and admired the best
of it, chiefly Such Is Life
(“a trite title for a superb
book”), While the Billy
Boils (“Australian even to
the title”), We of the
Never Never (“really a
classic”), Katharine
Susannah Prichard (“Miss
Prichard is the hope of
the Australian novel, and
literally inexhaustible
material lies waiting her
hand”), Louis Esson (two
oughly Australian and thor-
of his plays “are thor-
oughly good”), and, with
some puzzlement, Vance
Palmer. He pronounced
Bernard O’Dowd “per-
haps Australia’s most con-
siderable poet,” with John
Shaw Neilson and Furn-
ley Maurice the most con-
siderable of those produc
ing poetry at the time.
A Red Page writer,
commenting on the Grat-
tan survey, did not think
much of the high exalting
of O’Dowd, but hailed the
overhaul generally as a
C. HARTLEY GRATTAN.
welcome change from “patriotically blind overrating
of mediocre work” ; looked into again now Grattan’s
brochure, Australian Literature, is still fresh, pungent
and worth reading. With the feeling for the best of
our writing therein expressed Grattan would seem to
have a good start and excellent credentials for his
present job.
In that, as it seems now, tentative piece of work
the writer was adversely dogmatic about the literary
influence of The Bulletin. About the time, he was
here The Bulletin’s Novel Competitions were begun:
with those encouragements and others since The
Bulletin has picked as winners and published serially
or as books A House Is Built, Coonardoo, The
Passage, Landtakers, Tiburon and All That Swagger.
Trespassers Will Be Assagaied.
The Western world faces its troubled present
sturdily enough, but, as if sickened by complexities
it has created but cannot master, there is a nostalgia
for simpler things, a regret for primitive peoples and
delicate cultures it has trampled. An instance was
when Hides reported finding a new tribe in high New
Guinea and the sum of public comment was: “Leave
them alone.” The latest literary expression of this
half-envious regard for folk lower on the ladder of
social evolution is Frog in the Reeds, by Kit Marshall
(Nelson ; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), a story of
a Zulu back-to-the-kraal movement.
Bridget Black, the motherless daughter of a dis-
solute storekeeper on the border of northern Zulu-
land, has been accustomed to running wild with the
natives since infancy. In her teens, her wardrobe and
luggage reduced to shorts, shirt and cosmetic com-
pact, she can keep pace with the warriors on long
forced marches. They have a legend that she was
not born but “sprang from the reeds.” Bridget’s one-
time nurse, Bamba, is a witch with ambitions for the
rehabilitation of her people. She fosters legends about
the girl, and eventually engineers a local racial revival
under her queenship.
In outline the story may sound like a flapper’s
dream after seeing a Paul Robeson film, but in Mar-
shall’s hands it has elements of both the fantastic
and realistic. There is a scene in which Bridget and
Bamba visit a mountain pool at midnight when the
wild beasts are coming in to drink that, as
well as recording semi-miraculous happenings, is
packed with honest veldt lore. The life of the kraals
stirs with a revived impulse. The question asked is:
“Are you Zulu?” Tribal dances and other ceremonies
are performed with an energy and regard for the
strict letter formerly absent. The question goes
beyond the kraals. Shopkeepers in Durban leave
their counters and students their studies. Bridget is
in the bad books of her neighbors because farmhands
and houseboys depart for the native villages. Bridget
is the most enthusiastic Zulu of them all, and at length
receives official homage from Zulu impis in the best
style of Rider Haggard.
Then comes trouble. The movement must go to
its logical end; there must be bloodletting. They
have it —Zulu against Zulu after white people have
been escorted from the locality and means of com-
munication destroyed. The quarrel is an old one,
over an inequitable distribution of cattle and harems.
The rivals advance on each other in the Zulu crescent
formation —the horns of a bull. It is a nice clean
war —the author explains—assagai to assagai, no shell-
ing of hospitals and no asphyxiating of women and
children with gas bombs. Everyone enjoys it; even
the mortally wounded seem happy.
Marshall’s object is achieved. He has recon-
structed in the present moment, with due regard to
the probabilities and with a sense of humor, the Zulu
tribal life. It is good reading.
From Slumdom to Stardom.
In Of Lena Geyer (Heinemann ; Dymock’s ; Bs.
65.) Marcia Davenport tells, with less tenderness
though more skill, the story that Willa Cather
told in her early novel, The Song of the Lark —the
story of a poor child who rose to be a great opera
singer. This is not, like the author’s first book Mozart.
an imaginative biography. Lena Geyer is a fictitious
character set in a real world and packed about so
skilfully by living names —Melba, Caruso, Heifitz, De
Pachmann —that it would take a dictionary of biog-
raphy to disprove her reality were it not that disproof
lies in the story itself. The work suffers from a surplus
of skill, a far too glossy technique, and it outlives
its theme by about two hundred pages. Both faults
are part and parcel of one an-
other ; they arise out of a con-
fusion between cleverness and
creative ability and between
quality and quantity.
The rise of the char-
woman’s daughter to be a
feted and enigmatic Queen of
Song is told in a very complex
manner. It begins with the
funeral, and the subsequent
story is told by a young pub-
lisher who has worshipped
Lena Geyer from the stalls
since childhood. He gathers
his information from docu-
ments, including the sup-
pressed memoirs of the Due
de Chartres, her lover —a long
narrative in the style of the
stage aristocrat of the ’nine-
ties—and from the memories
of her closest friends: Pizzetti,
her first teacher ; her husband ;
Elsie de Haven, an American
spinster, and her concert man-
ager, George Phillips, whose
slick Americanisms and tales
of tours provide the comic relief. Each tells his or
her story in character. The effect is not good; it
breaks the unity of the book, and when the character
is tedious, like the Due, tries the reader. The total
result is a portrait of more than life-size. The subject
has many characteristics and some character, but she
is not quite convincing.
As a singer she is extraordinary ; she sings every-
thing. She is a Wagnerian star, but famous for her
Italian and French operatic roles; she is a fine actress
and superb on the concert platform. In private life
she has, happily, a few faults; among them she is
greedy and mean to stinginess. The book comes full
circle, ending with her death. The appositeness of
this death scene to the broadcast strains of “Tristan
and Isolde” conducted by the man she secretly loved
is hard to forgive.
Naturally there is a great deal about music, and
it is reassuring to learn that the author is a distin-
guished New York music critic. There are some
interesting comments on the connection between sex
and artistic achievement, but the author does not
follow them up. Her absorption in literary technique
takes precedence over her subject matter, and much
that could have been interesting and suggestive in
the story is sacrificed to it.
These Neglectful Australians.
“Henry Handel Richardson, Miles Franklyn, Katharine
Susannah Prichard, Dal Stivens, and Vance Palmer were
almost overlooked by book-buyers, although Brian Penton’s
Landtakers and Inheritors sold well over the Christmas season.
—“Daily Telegraph,” Sydney.
This, with its implied criticism, comes particu-
larly well from the daily of a publishing house
notorious for using cheap syndicated stuff from
overseas, a practice which, of course, generously en-
courages Australian writers to write and Australian
readers to read them.
The extract, in any case, is a crude bit of literary
comment. Of the “overlooked” writers, the book of
the one least' known, Dal Stivens, arrived in Australia
barely two weeks before Christmas, and then only in
“advance copies.” Further, it is a collection of short
stories, which are things generally admitted to have
in book form fewer readers even than verse.
Of the. others, Henry Handel Richardson, Kath-
arine Susannah Prichard and Vance Palmer did not
have a new book to offer those who helped Inheritors,
a new book, to sell well over the Christmas season.
The misspelled Miles Franklin had a new book
—her first for a considerable time —and was anything
but “overlooked.” All That Swagger sold as fast as
the trade could be supplied, and continues to sell so
well that this Page is prepared to lay the odds to
all-comers that sales in Australia will eclipse the Aus-
tralian sales of any book by any author in the quoted
list.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
mm
i 3 I
■ ■m
i Immm
111
■
H
r™ < v
I . , -ggjpjgj 1 •
mi
'•/'■>
|||
VI;;
ML
.
: ■ ■
, m
mmmm
■
PIIIPWPs
m
\:
■
:■: :•.
m
iiiiiii
. iiiH
■■■
■
11
■
IS®
WmmM
*
: .' } '■ p '■' :■.'
. :
ill
lilllSlii
H
HI
:
till
fill
ill
i i
■
■I
:: -
111!
Ml
l;./;
yP .' ■<■:
■HI
tittii
ill Wmfmk
lll ■ ;
iigliffS pi i
Hi nil l
■
" ip smm 9 ■ p Wmmm
. ’■ : - •■ 1 . ... • ■
'* •- . i:
H lll
Exterior View of Huge Storage Tanks at Seppeltsfield.


“HE SAVED AUSTRALIA!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘‘All Sea Route,” 2d'. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
AN UNNECESSARY QUARREL
Trade with the Japanese has been resumed, with
immediate profit to Australia, after an insensate
wrangle that cost this country millions, and deprived
many drought-stricken pastoralists in Queensland and
Westralia of virtually the difference between depres-
sion and pre-depression prices for such wool as they
had to sell. And Australia has, in effect, become
a party to the new friendly arrangement between
Britain and Italy, which will work to the advantage
of both peoples if newspaper liars—still active in
the interests of the Reds and unwearied in the pur-
suit of inflammatory “rumors” and “reports from
a trustworthy source” —are assessed at their proper
value. But the Government at Canberra is still
involved in the third of the extraordinary quarrels
with Great Powers in which it engaged last year,
when the world seemed to be drifting into another
Armageddon, and Australia, as its Prime Minister
confessed, was utterly unprepared for it, having “no
defences at all.”
Canberra’s version is that it suggested a trade
agreement which Washington refused. Washington’s
explanation is that the proposal was made when the
President and his party were preparing for the
general election, and no arrangement was then
possible.
This seems reasonable enough, but Canberra,
which is addicted to fleeting enthusiasms and aver-
sions, was in no reasonable mood. Trade-diversion
had become the dominant craze, and the Whiskard-
Gullett tariff, sprung on members as they were about
to bolt from Canberra for the winter, contained
sections which struck at the U.S.A. as well as Japan.
Washington retaliated by wiping Australia off its
list of most-favored-nations, a course it had already
taken with Germany.
Evidence that the war was still on at the end
of the year was furnished by Australian gunsmiths,
who advertised that, “the Commonwealth Govern-
ment having prohibited the importation of Ameri-
can firearms, the only arms suitable to all Aus-
tralian conditions, Winchester standard rifles will
shortly be unprocurable.” American motor vehicles
are still coming in to the prescribed limits —“number
of units imported during the twelvemonth to April
30, 1936” —and parts on the prohibited list are
admitted by Ministerial license; but duties altered
from an ad val. to a weight basis have made cars
dearer than ever. Debating this matter in December
the leader of the Opposition suggested that “the
change from ad val. to poundage rates would
involve an increase of 113 per cent.” Mr. Gullett
hotly denied it.
Under the old duties, the average car from Canada
was subject to an impost of £l3 10s. lid., whereas the
duty payable on a car imported from the U.S.A. was
£35 13s. 6d. Under the new duties, the rates are respec-
tively £2l 14s. 2d. and £44 11s. 9d.
Mr. Gullett acknowledged that “the change to
the weight basis” had been “urged by British manu-
facturers,” whose cars were on the free list. He
argued that £5 of the increase per North American
car represented a special impost of .7d. per pound,
applicable to all cars, and designed to provide a
bounty on Australian-made car engines “at the rate
of £3O a car.” Mr. Curtin had stated that, as a
result of the Whiskard-Gullett tariff, employment in
the motor industry fell from 8993 on April 1 to
6102 on November 1. To this the Minister did
not reply.
The matter of Australian car manufacture is
now to be referred to the Tariff Board. Had U.A.P.
policy and the strict letter of the law been followed,
it would have been referred to the Tariff Board
before the additional duty was imposed. The ,7d. a
pound has been collected all along.
It is eminently desirable that cars should be
manufactured in Australia, but the Government has
gone about it in so characteristically foolish a way,
antagonising those whom it should have sought to
interest, that the. thing is more likely to be retarded
than advanced. Having ignored the Tariff Board
regarding the Whiskard-Gullett schedule and also
the Japanese settlement, the Government has now
given it full power to condemn car-manufacture,
saying, through Mr. Gullett, that “if the Board
arrives at the conclusion that this industry would be
uneconomic, the Government will be finished with
the proposal.”
One amazing, feature of the case is that the
Government aimed its clumsy blow at the U.S.A.
just when American purchases of Australian goods
were substantially increasing. For the year to June
30 they were valued at £7,465,500. Certainly this
left an adverse balance of £6,436,200, but it exceeded
the value of Australian imports from the U.S.A. in
1931-32 (£7,037,700), and was little short of the import
totals for the two succeeding years —£8,084,160 in 1932-
33 and £7,839,250 in 1933-34. Imports of American
chassis, cars and parts, valued at a mere £108,070
in 1931-32, leaped to £1,976,100 (out of a total of
£11,041,601) in 1934-35 in anticipation of better
times, and possibly the advent of “trade-diversion” ;
and doubtless in 1935-36 also, though no details
are available, these particular imports were in excess
of requirements.
And, in spite of trade-diversion, increased
American buying has been noted this year. It was
very welcome in the wool market during the long
abstention of the Japanese, and it must have been
thrice welcome to Mr. Casey, for it mitigated the
effect of Japanese retaliation on overseas funds.
According to the National Chamber of Commerce
at Washington, in the first nine months of 1936
exports to Australia were up 12.3 p.c. and imports
from Australia up 69.4 p.c. The moral seems to be
that Americans and Australians refuse to quarrel,
whatever their Governments may do. And their
Governments have no business to be quarrelling or
to let removable causes of irritation remain.
Much as their proceedings warrant the supposi-
tion, Ministers at Canberra are not children playing
at running a country, nor can they safely indulge
their propensity for falling out with peoples of whom
the march of invention has made neighbors, and who
are willing to be friends. Australia needs friends:
its associates in the British Commonwealth first and
next to them the invincible English-speaking Republic
which shares their belief in democracy and whose
greatest interest is peace.
"Give 'Em New Guinea!"
The problem of North Australia and of Papua and
New Guinea has suddenly become a major national
issue, highly embarrassing to the Commonwealth
Government.
The Bulletin pointed out three years ago that
the pearling industry of North Australia, which used
to fish 85 p.c. of the world’s shell supply, was in
danger through the inroads of Japanese luggers and
sampans. Canberra did nothing till the industry had
been almost wiped out; then —in defiance of naval
opinion it decided to order a patrol boat from
England. After a twelvemonth’s delay the vessel arrived.
It proved to be a frail harbor craft with a maximum
speed of nine knots on patrols, a single machine-gun
and accommodation for three (3) mariners. It has been
an object of derision to Darwin people, and doubtless
to those whom it is intended to warn off, being useless
for keeping strangers from descending on the coasts
of Arnhem Land and Carpentaria or poaching in
territorial waters.
A companion Japanese enterprise is the trawling
of fish off the North Westralian coast for the Singa-
pore market. Simultaneously thousands of Japanese
have settled in the Philippines, and the Japanese
colonisation of the Marshalls and the Carolines has
been intensified. There are now large Japanese
populations within 400 miles of the most northerly
New Guinea islands held by Australia under mandate.
Population pressure in Japan is such that this
southward movement is natural, and it is no use rail-
ing at it. But it introduces conditions which call for
a new administrative era in North Australia and a
firm though tactful and friendly insistence' on Aus-
tralia’s rights. At the moment the North has no
Administrator, but Canberra is trying to pluck up
courage enough to appoint a politician. Meanwhile,
there is an acting Administrator, a clerk at £565 a
year, who has taken up his quarters in an unkempt
rambling stone building, poorly and shabbily fur-
nished, humorously called Government House.
Government House is in Darwin, a tin town with a
handful of garrison troops, oil tanks but no squadron,
an aerodrome that would disgrace an outback Euro-
pean village, and no R.A.A.F. machines.
The position in New Guinea is just as unsatis-
factory. The discovery of gold and of first-class
land on the temperate highlands has revealed
New Guinea as a territory capable of carrying a white
population as large as that of Maoriland ; but this
has never been realised by Commonwealth rulers.
The first Administrator sent to Rabaul had had a
sound training as hotelkeeper in Westralia till he
became a politician. The present incumbent, also an
ex-politician, was previously “principal of the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College at Goulburn for eleven years.”
Both gentlemen reached high rank in the A.1.F., and
are doubtless well qualified to attend to matters of
defence ; but there is no provision for the defence
of the Mandate the League will not permit it.
Neither is there any for Papua. Yet in case of war
no military power bent on invading Australia would
hesitate to avail itself of the fine harbors of the Bis-
marcks and the food, mineral and timber resources
of the islands, or to recruit natives.
The problem is complicated by the campaign in
Germany for the return of the former German
colonies. There has been no formal application for
the surrender of New Guinea, but it is certain to be
made; and there are British politicians who are
willing to second it. One, Viscount Elibank, who
visited Australia a few months ago, has written in a
letter to the “Times” that “if European peace were at
stake New Zealand would not feel very strongly about
the return of Samoa, nor Australia about the return
of New Guinea.” The gentleman must have got his
notions of Australian sentiment in German clubs.
In October, General Goering said:
We want to share in the world’s raw materials, and
we shall get them. We have no colonies—they were
stolen from us. Britain owns one-third of the whole
world as colonies to feed a population which has a
density of 137 per square kilometre against our 136
per square kilometre. We cannot buy because they
have stolen our gold for reparations. If we had a small
portion of our old colonies there would be no shortage
of materials in Germany.
The last assertion is questionable, considering that
annual value of German imports from the German
colonies before the war never reached £3,000,000
sterling. Be it right or wrong, Britain has undertaken
to consider in a sympathetic spirit the cases of
countries which profess to be short of raw materials
and to lack the means of buying them. If such con-
sideration leads to the restoration of parts of Africa,
this country will offer no objection. But after what
happened in 1914 and what has happened since, Aus-
tralians can never agree to the surrender of an inch
of New Guinea, though—as with Papua and North
Australia—they must justify their right and com-
petence to hold and develop it.
The Renascence of Superstition.
Another expedition—the twentieth which has com-
municated with newspapers —set out from Brisbane
last week to find “Lasseter’s lost reef.” It travelled
by aeroplane to Central Australia and had a camel
train waiting there.
Before it departed a member of the “small limited
liability co.” financing it confided to a reporter that
he and his friends were aware that “many previous
attempts to locate the reef had failed,” and that “the
last expedition cost between £lO,OOO and £12,000” ;
but they were undiscouraged and brimful of confi-
dence. The leader said: “By this day week [i.e.,
January 12] we will be on our way home, with the
reef discovered, pegged out and secured.”
On the other side of the continent, Westralian
Mines Minister Munsie, who brought practical know-
ledge of goldmining to the administration of his
department, was heard uttering violent noises to the
effect that if the expedition applied for a lease in
country to which the last lot of searchers conducted
one of his field officers, and which was described by
that astonished person as “just barren sandhills, with
no quartz or likely-looking mineral country for a
hundred miles,” it wouldn’t get one.
The Bulletin has given the cold facts about
Lasseter and his alleged reef many times. Just on
five years ago it published a letter from a close
acquaintance who described Lasseter as “very aggres-
sive, very self-opinionated and full of large, hopeful
visions.” It is doubtful whether he was ever in
Centralia before he died there looking for the “reef”
which, in his acquaintance’s judgment, was “only one
of the many illusions and delusions which spattered
his career.”
No records of the “reef” exist in tne Westralian
Department of Mines or any other. “It must have
been only a pipe-dream,” wrote Lasseter’s first patron
in a newspaper article last year; but the search for
the unfindable goes on.
One of the perplexing things about this genera-
tion, so admirable in many respects—so superior to
past generations in the use of machines, in rational
dress and living.and frank recognition of the facts
of sex —is the renascence of credulity that has accom-
panied its performances.
One Lasseter’s-reef co. sold scores of leases to
subsidiary cos. or syndicates. In thousands of other
cases confiding people have lost their money backing
“pipe-dreams” or exchanging good shares for bad.
In almost every State Company Acts have had to be
tightened up to protect some fools and save others
from the worst consequences of their folly. Lotteries
retain their enormous vogue, and a brisk trade is done
in four-leaf shamrocks, rabbits’ feet and other “lucky
charms.”
Astrology, “to which Swift gave the death-blow
by his famous squib, ‘Prediction for the Year 1708’ ”
(. Encyclopedia Britannica ), has been revived, and con-
ductors of astrology columns are in demand. And in
the general prevalence of mugs old three-card and
thimble-and-pea men have emerged from a long
retirement to collect their share of the harvest. Nowa-
days they can be seen on almost any race train taking
in young fly-flats of the kind that flock to alleged
wrestling matches, at which their legs are pulled by
clumsy foreigners year in and year out.
Perhaps it is all traceable to the fact that reading
has gone out of fashion. Not altogether, of course,
for illustrated journals which jazz the news are in
demand, and a paper that deals wholly in slush boasts
the largest circulation in Australia —until the police
interfered, that proud eminence was claimed by a paper
that dealt wholly in smut —but the habit of reading
for information and instruction has unquestionably
declined among the generation that has grown up
since the war. It is not their fault altogether, for the
age has many distractions from which ages that read
more were free; but it is decidedly their misfortune.
Looking at the pictures and listening to the wireless
are very pleasant, but reading and reflection are still
necessary if a young fellow wants to become “a full
man.” In no way other than reading can general
knowledge be acquired.
Perhaps that Carnegie scholar spotted our weak-
ness when he pointed out that in the State with two-
fifths of the Australian population education is sup-
posed to end at “the leaving age,” and less than one-
eightieth of the cost of Government schooling is
voted for free libraries. Perhaps the most beneficial
reform that could be adopted in the Commonwealth
would be that recommended by an inter-State con-
ference of school associations in Sydney last week —
the placing of education, now altogether provincial,
under national control.
OLD-TIMER.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Threatened Revolt.
T he Queensland Premier has been mixing his holiday
doings in the south with some philosophical rumi-
nations. He said at Melbourne that if the Com-
monwealth did not adopt a “more liberal policy
towards the States they would revolt and break the
Financial Agreement.” No less than that.
Mr. Smith seems to have forgotten for the
moment that the Financial Agreement is part of the
Constitution, which no disgruntled Premier or set of
disgruntled Premiers can break. Moreover, Mr. Smith
was one of the most enthusiastic approvers and sup-
porters of the Financial Agreement in 1927. What
is bothering the good man, no doubt, is that borrow-
ing is not as easy and cheap as it was, the last two
loans having been considerably undersubscribed,
making the next one look precarious.
The Commonwealth Government has many sins
to answer for, but it has substantially increased its
grants to the States, bringing these in the present
budgetary year to close upon £15,000,000. Mr. Casey
expects to be left next June with a surplus of £45,000,
and if he gave the lot to Mr. Smith it wouldn’t help
much.
Mr. Smith says “there is no directing force in
the public policy of to-day,” and “what masquerades
as public policy would not cause even a tremor at
an elderly spinsters’ tea-party.” Very likely. But
when Mr. Theodore was on the box-seat at Canberra
the States, Queensland included, got from the Com-
monwealth Treasury nothing like what they now are
getting, and it is not easy to see how Mr. Curtin,
were he Prime Minister, could increase the disburse-
ments. Of a certainty, he would not be able to
satisfy Mr. Smith or Mr. Ogilvie.
Still, it is an old and true political axiom that
squealing pays, and no doubt Mr. Lyons would like
to placate Mr. Smith. Perhaps if the prospective
£45,000 surplus blossoms into a fatter amount the
Commonwealth will do something to avert tragedy,
so that the States may not “revolt and break the
Financial Agreement.”
Mr. Ogilvie and the Bank.
Vexed at the undersubscription of the recent loan,
Premier Ogilvie, of the Apple Island, seems to think
the Commonwealth Bank Board should be made to
“dance its way to the guillotine.” This means, of
course, that a national bank should be established
whose management would obey the Governments
and provide whatever amounts the Loan Council
might demand.
As Mr. Ogilvie has mentioned, the Bank Board
refused to underwrite a greater amount than it deter-
mined. But the bank did underwrite approximately
£2,000,000 more than the market was willing to take
on the terms arranged, and the terms exceeded those
which the Loan Council deemed sufficient. Hence
the Tasmanian Premier’s attitude is one of gross
ingratitude. It also is entirely devoid of logic.
The Loan Council is not making “puppets” of
the Governments. It is, for one thing, doing some-
thing to restrain their profligacy. This may appear
to be “bossy,” but it has at least enabled them to
spend a couple of millions more than they might
have got if left to their own resources.
The Loan Council is free to go upon the market
at any time for any amount on any terms that it may
offer—and take the consequences. Nothing in the
Financial Agreement requires the Governments to be
controlled, or even influenced, by Commonwealth
Bank or other bank directors. So long, however, as
the Governments choose to employ underwriters, so
long will the latter, as a corollary, have the inherent
right to say how much they will guarantee and at
what price.
Instead of abusing the Bank Board for having
limited the recent borrowing to £7,500,000, dis-
appointed Premiers ought to show gratitude to the
board for having made up the shortage of £2,000,000
which the public refused to subscribe. Anyhow, two
public-loan failures are among the bright spots of
1936, all things considered.
Japan Comes In.
Japan’s entry into the wool market justified all that
The Bulletin has been saying since the end of May.
Even though values had been pushed up by specu-
lators in anticipation of Japanese buying, prices at
January sales rose with a jump. Against an average
of 12.4 d. a pound during September —and at that a
heavy proportion of the wool offered was not sold —•
last week’s Sydney average was 19.6 d. a pound, or
£24 2s. 2d. per bale. And substantial increases on
December rates were recorded at Melbourne —where
sales were interrupted by cheers for the Japanese—
and Geelong.
Three days’ selling in Sydney alone gave growers
and speculators just under £1,000,000 for 40,000 bales.
In London tops jumped 4d. a pound 70’s were
at 42d., a record for many a long year.
Early results of the blundering operations of the
Government were that the whole softgoods market was
dislocated, and that the July and August sales were
failures (averages were 11.5 d. and 12.4 d. a pound
respectively). Small graziers with early wool and
those who, for financial reasons, were compelled to
sell in September (average again 12.4 d.) and early
October got 3d. to 7d. a pound less than what would
have been the true market value of their wool had
the Government left things alone. Those who least
needed the money—owners of better-class late wools
and those who could afford to hold on —are getting
the higher prices.
In October and November thousands of bales
were bought at 2fd. to 4d. a pound less than present
prices by speculators and stacked away. Those
speculators will do famously.
The excuse for the idiotic policy which bore these
fruits, among others, and led to a humiliating sur-
render, involving the acceptance of a wool quota, was
that it was necessary to save Manchester. Said Mr.
Gullett introducing the “policy”:
Owing to the extraordinary price reductions of foreign
textiles, the position is not far distant when the cottqn
trade of the United Kingdom will become practically '
insignificant.
That was at the end of May. The December
bulletin of the British Overseas Trade Department
reported:
Total export of cotton-piece goods of all sorts
increased from 161,000,000 sq. yards in October, 1935,
to 178,000,000 sq. yards in October, 1936. These figures
compare with 150,000,000 sq. yards in September, 1935,
and 153,500,000 sq. yards in September, 1936. Between
October, 1935, and October, 1936, the improvements
registered included British West Africa, from 17,000,000
to 29,000,000 sq. yards; British Malaya, from 2,400,000
to 3,600,000 sq. yards; Australia, from 10,000,000 to
11,000,000 sq. yards; N.Z., from 2,400,000 to 4,300,000
sq. yards; Canada, from 5,000,000 to 6,700,000 sq. yards.
The prohibition on Japanese cotton-piece goods
operated in October, 1936 ; and it brought less new
business to Manchester than Manchester got in Canada
and Maoriland, which did not quarrel with Japan.
But it has given Bradford heaps of cheap wool which
Bradford can now proceed to sell back to Australia
in manufactured form on a 1937 tops-price basis
several pence higher than it should be on raw cost.
The Spanish Ulcer.
The Commonwealth was recently assured by one of
the bosses of Associated Press, which controls the
supply of foreign news to Australian newspapers, that
“the service is of unquestioned veracity, completeness
and authority,” and that “in selecting news sources
only the most dependable newspapers are chosen” by
the London office. If this was meant to be a joke it
was a dashed bad one.
Much of the “news” this country is getting about
the civil war in Spain is as mendacious as was much
of the “news” from Abyssinia, and is drawn from
the same tainted sources. Lies are followed by half-
lies, and the manufacture of one class of fiction or
the other never ceases.
It was asserted, for example, that the Italians
were in control of the Balearics, those islands having
been ceded to them by General Franco as the price
of the Italian contribution to his army and air force,
which, of course, was alleged to be huge. Had there
been a shred of truth in the story there would have
been no British signature to an agreement with Italy,
for the Foreign Office is always well-informed. In
point of fact, Britain asked for and received a written
assurance that, “as far as Italy is concerned, the
integrity of the present territories of Spain shall, in
all circumstances, remain intact and unmodified.”
This lie being now exploded, another, equally
fantastic though not less dangerous, has succeeded
it —that the Germans have sent an army, supported
by destroyers and submarines, to Spanish Morocco.
It is categorically denied by the German Govern-
ment, and to be guilty of so useless a sacrifice of an
expeditionary force in what would necessarily be a
prelude to a general war the German Government
would need to be completely mad. But the story is
daily repeated, with variations.
Spanish civil wars are nothing new. In the half-
century that succeeded Wellington’s campaigns they
occurred again and again; and on every occasion
there were French and British volunteers on both
sides. The same thing has happened this time, and,
though the war of doctrines between Communists
and Fascists has introduced complications unknown
in previous civil wars, the probabilities are that there
are more Frenchmen fighting in Spain than Germans,
Italians or Russians. Both Red Government and
rebels have partisans in France, and the partisans have
only to slip over the frontier.
The obvious policy for a British Government
is to strive to localise the conflict and prevent it from
developing into a general convulsion. This the Bald-
win Government is trying to do. To become a party
to a one-sided blockade, a course being urged upon it
by putrid French politicians and newspapers (not
M. Blum or his organ) and by liars and incendiaries
in Britain, would be an act of criminal folly.
"Wanted, a Few Cranks."
Prof. Portus, of Adelaide University, who is in
London attending a conference of educationists, said
he wished he could introduce “a few educational
cranks to shake the conviction of Australians that
their schools and their educational systems are the
best in the world.”
It mightn’t be a bad thing, especially if it shook
products of the systems like Premier Stevens out of
their complacency. Mr. Stevens has been blithering
again that his police force is “the best in the world.”
This after a year in which 40 policemen were sacked
and the administration of the s.p. betting laws was
flagellated by a royal commission appointed by the
Stevens Government.
Nowadays, when N.S.W. people read the remarks
of Mr. Stevens, which are generally flabby when they
aren’t fatuous, they marvel how Mr. Stevens ever
came to be mistaken for a statesman.
Politics and Air Extensions.
Aviation should have a real meaning for internal
Maoriland before the end of the year —even the
Public Works Department is to operate a two-seater
survey ’plane. The outlook for external ocean services
is scarcely as bright.
By April the Mangere ’drome at Auckland is
to be ready to receive the big Lockheed Electras
imported for the three-hour Auckland-Wellington
service. A Cook Strait service links Palmerston North
and Dunedin ; there is a Gisborne-Napier connection,
and the Hewett-Mercer ’planes cater for isolated South
Westland. After April, only a few more feeder
services will be required to give Maoriland complete
internal air cover.
But political squirming behind the negotiations
for Pacific Ocean and Tasman Sea services has bred
an uneasy silence. Minister of Defence Jones told
M.L. the other day that “dominion over the Pacific
and Tasman hangs entirely upon reports awaited from
the British and Australian Governments.”
Pan-American Airways has already conquered
most of the Pacific, and neither Mr. Lyons nor Mr.
Baldwin can do much more than rob M.L. of a valu-
able and costless three-day San Francisco connection.
But Pan-American experts are obviously confident of
a time extension (B. 16/12/’36), and are proceeding
with their survey of the Manila-Auckland section of
the proposed Pacific extension to Maoriland.
Tasman Sea proposals seem to have gone to earth
in London or in Mr. Parkhill’s Canberra pigeonhole.
Neither Maoriland nor Australia wants a political
inanity of the orange-potato type to further delay
inauguration of the Tasman service, and no Govern-
ment can allow its enterprises to lag too far behind
mechanical and scientific progress.
The Blessings of Multiple Control.
“Slipstream”: Before long the people, few of whom
know much about the subject, will have to decide
whether supreme control in aviation matters is to
rest with the Commonwealth or the States. Thus
far the Commonwealth has managed to make a mess
of things aeronautical, and it is doubtful whether
multiple control could make it much worse. In a
sense we have multiple control —by Commonwealth
departments: Defence and the Post Office.
Defence is interested through the Air Board and
the Civil Aviation Board. The Air Board is allowed to
meddle in civil-aviation matters. It gave us the Coota-
mundra terminal for the Anglo-Australian air mail.
The route was dictated by “defence considerations,”
though the idea that any invader would follow our
line of civilian communications is fantastic. The true
function of the Air Force is to defend our air routes,
if attacked.
The Civil Aviation Board is all right as an admin-
istrative organisation. It should be employed properly
on technical and research matters (at the moment
almost completely ignored) and on the routine job
of issuing licenses and inspecting aircraft; contracts
should be none of its business. Yet we had the
spectacle of the C.A.B. telling the Post Office how-
much revenue it might expect to get from overseas
air mails at 2d. per half-ounce. When the figures
differed the Defence Minister said he would accept
his department’s figures.
The Air Board should be restricted to the Air
Force, the Civil Aviation Board to the technical and
routine sides of aviation, and the Post Office to the
letting of air-mail contracts, internal and overseas.
Before the Commonwealth Government asks the
people to give it supreme power it should undertake
to put its own house in order.
"Australia First."
Dear Bulletin, —We noted with pleasure the declara-
tion that only “the work of Australians and Maori-
landers” would appear in the Christmas Bulletin.
The real Australian character of your paper, its
consistent opposition to the printing of cheap syndi-
cated matter and its strong support of Australian
writers and artists should, despite the years The
Bulletin has been on issue, be more generally known
and appreciated by Australians.
We trust your policy of “Australia First” in all
things Australian will always remain paramount. —
P. S. Chandler, chief president, A.N.A. (Westralia).
Old let©bi for Sale.
Sydney Harbor has had an object-lesson on its waters
in the shape of a Japanese steamer loaded with old
iron. She was one of many which are leaving these
shores. And with the Japanese old iron is really
old iron: jam- and salmon-tins were not forgotten,
and ancient bedsteads were piled high on the decks.
It' is not the only type of Australian iron and
steel which Asiatics are buying. Every ship
which is discarded in Australian waters finds a ready
buyer among the Japanese or Japanese-controlled
Chinese iron firms, which are working full blast; one
employs 30,000 hands. The Yampi Sound (W.A.j
deposits have gone virtually under Japanese control.
Meanwhile, using our reconstituted materials, the
Japanese are building machines and new ships to
compete with British ships in the Pacific and to
extend their pearling, fishing and whaling trades in
Australian waters. This policy is likely to do far
more damage than the import of a few hundred
thousand yards of cottons and rayons which has
worried the Lyonses and Gulletts so much.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Wang”: Within a mile of Mel-
bourne’s G.P.O. begins the West Mel-
bourne swamp, a dreary waste on which
much of the city’s non-combustible
rubbish is dumped. In the heart of this
desolation there dwells a small com-
munity of down-and-outs, living in
humpies built of bits of tin, iron and
bags, under conditions that a self-
respecting pig would rebel against. The
other day the hospital got a case from
this salubrious locality. He was carried
into the casualty ward with both legs,
an arm and several ribs broken and his
head bashed in. The police were told
he had “gate-crashed” into a party at
one of the humpies, known as Dudley
Mansions. The swill the party was put-
ting down its collective throat was petrol
diluted with water. Meanwhile, the
Slum Abolitionists keep on talking.
* * * *
“Fisher”: At the Highland Gathering
in Sydney I saw a Cameronian in full
dress who carried a stick as well as a
claymore; lassies sporting busbies;
others in kilts and sporrans ; competitors
with the Sassenach braces holding up
their kilts; civilians with spats and glen-
garries on heads which should have been
adorned with tam-o’-shanters. But, for
the first time in history, there was a total
absence of figures in evening dress in
broad daylight. I felt this was ample
compensation till Lauder committed the
worst solecism of the day joined in
with the gurrulls in a wee bit race; and
he didn’t win.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: That yarn about the,
stone lions on the Cairo bridge roaring
(B. 30/12/’36) reminds me of a South
African version. When Rhodes, an in-
veterate leg-puller, gave Kruger those
two stone lions to ornament the steps
of his house in Pretoria, he told the Old
Man that they could be relied on to roar
if any verdamdte schelm (damned
scoundrel) passed between them. The
story goes that Oom was in town at the
Raadzall the morning they were put in
position and returned at noon. As he
passed up his steps a most fearful bel-
lowing filled the air. Everyone in the
house rushed out to find Oom Paul just
lighting his pipe on the step. Asked
what had happened he opined the noise
must have come from the oxen of an
outspanned wagon a few yards up the
street. However, after that it is said
Paul always entered the house by a side
entrance, and, when the story got about,
his example was followed by all predi-
kants, burghers, Cabinet Ministers,
iohannesburg gold magnates and others
desirous of a word with him. After all,
Africa is a land of magic and bewitch-
ment, and one never knows.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The atmosphere of the
Divorce Court is usually full of venom,
but occasionally there is a soft touch to
astound his Honor. One came the. other
day when a petitioner asked the Judge
to hurry the granting of the divorce to
enable her husband to marry the other
lady in time for the imminent infant to
be born in wedlock. She added that
she regarded the co-re. as a woman who
would be a good mother and would
make her husband happy. After that
his Honor was not surprised when costs
were not asked against the husband and
it was mentioned that the petitioner had
been helping to provide the coming
baby’s outfit. Decree nisi within 14 days.
* * * *
“Kali”: According to one who slashes
chops in the butchery I patronise, there
are very definite signs that the financial
situation is improving. The employees,
pooling everything found in the sawdust
that was sieved every week, in pre-
depresh days used to cut up in small
silver coins about 30 bob weekly.
With the depresh people searched in the
sawdust for any coins dropped and the
weekly tally seldom exceeded a few shil-
lings ; but last year there was a steady
“As I always say, Gladys, ‘ease before elegance' !”
rise in the prospecting, culminating with
a bumper harvest over Christmas shop-
ping week, when nearly 30 bob was once
more recovered.
* * * *
“Baju”: Sydney Customs officials who
complain constantly of the cunning of
the Oriental smuggler might consider the
experience of an official at Kedah, in the
F.M.S. Tin restrictions ban the market-
ing of metal produce by native workers
without license, and attempts at smug-
gling the ore into the towns from the
jungle are often spotted. The Kedah
official was surprised one morning to
observe a procession of nine Chinese
ladies, all obviously in that condition in
which ladies who truly love their lords
should be. One or two might have
passed, but nine in a row! The ladies
were searched. Each panned out a
sausage-shaped canvas bag holding close
on 501 b. of ore. This the smugglers
carried wound round their waists under
their long blouses, and one or two of
them were all but out after carrying the
awkward weight for miles through
jungles.
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: No need to go
back to William the Fourth (B.
23/12/’36) to quote instances of royal
favor to Beauty outside the pale of royal
blood. Edward the Seventh was a gour-
met, a gambler, a connoisseur of rare
wines, good horses and pretty women ;
and he didn’t care a tinker’s malediction
if the whole world knew it. His favorite
of the hour accompanied him everywhere
he went, save on the most formal occa-
sions. The late Bishop Stone-Wigg of
British New Guinea told the writer,
after he had returned from England,
where he had been received by the
King, that the spontaneous warmth with
which the sovereign was regarded by the
great mass of the people astonished him.
There was no awe about it, either. One
day the bishop waited with others out-
side Westminster Cathedral to receive
the King for some official function in
the Abbey. The usual crowd waited,
and when H.M. stepped out of the car-
riage it was seen that only two equerries
were with him. The applause died down,
and there came a querulous Cockney
voice from the back: “W’y, wot ’ave yer
done wiv Hangeline?” this referring to
the Lady of the Day, though her name
was not the least like that. There was
a ripple of laughter, but Royalty and its
entourage passed on unheeding.
* * * *
“W.H.F.”: Punters lately bit them-
selves badly at the totalisator operat-
ing at Mowbray (Tas.) on main-
land events. When Isle of Astur won
the hurdles on Boxing Day at Caulfield
race descriptions were broadcast in the
bar, but not on the course, where the
official starting time was mistaken by
ten minutes. Bar listeners trickled out
after the race to find the tote still open.
Then money poured on Isle of Astur
to such purpose that punters lost a shil-
ling on every ss. “invested.”
* * * *
“C. Mac”: The more I hear fellow-
citizens discussing sport the more con-
vinced I become of what rotten sports
people are. There isn’t a horse-race
run —including Sires’ Produce Stakes,
Derbies and Cups—without several of
the field being dead; footballers, in
season, are freely believed to pre-
arrange games to suit gates, and some
tennis champs, are held to play their best
when the money’s on. But nothing—not
even horseracing—brings out' the sport-
ing loveliness of the average mind to
the extent that big cricket does. Among
the sports I have to listen to in trams,
ferries and restaurants it is now com-
monly held that the present Test series
has all been prearranged for the gate-
money —proof: the downfall of the Eng-
lishmen in the third Test (in which the
luck was manifestly against them) and
the notable superiority of the Australians
in this Test after their dismal showing
in the first two (wherein they had foul
luck). Yet in the football I played in
my youth I never once struck an authen-
tic case of any game, played other than
on the teams’ merits, and I doubt if one
in a thousand of these voluble sports
ever had any different experience.
* # * *
“Cambuskenneth”: A press paragraph
records that midnight invaders calling
themselves Scottish patriots burgled the
alleged two-handed sword of William
Wallace from the museum in the monu-
ment to that hero on the Abbey Craig
near Stirling. One wonders what they
will do with it. The huge weapon could
only be used by a man on foot —see
Hal o’ th’ Wynd in The Fair Maid of
Perth —for it was over six feet long and
was slung over the left shoulder of a
right-handed man. Ii was so ponderous
that, even in the hands of an expert, it
often failed to arrive at its objective
before that had skipped out of the way.
The last notable alleged to have worn
the weapon habitually was that ancestor
of our present Governor-General, who
turned up to attend the obsequies of
Rizzio at Hollywood clad in complete
black mail, with his favorite persuader
hanging down his back.
* * * *
“Tikus”: Bananaland guests of His
Majesty evidently don’t loaf in the
cooler—or there must be a lot of ’em.
According to the annual report on the
State prisons the value of the work per-
formed by the confinees totalled £22,000-
odd, made up principally by tailoring
(£10,468) and bootmaking (£5417). Car-
pentering added a further couple of thou-
sand, and brush- and mat-makers, hat-
ters and bookbinders all did their bit
towards swelling the revenue.
* * * *
“Sailfish”: Astonished messages have
been arriving in Sydney to the effect that
big shoals of swordfish have appeared in
Barrier Reef waters. They have been
doing so ever since the white man came
to Australia and probably ages before
that, but the casual Australian has been
too indifferent to investigate. For years
Bulletin scribes have stressed the fact
that the game fish, so-called, appear in
great shoals annually off our coasts.
The late medico-knight Herbert Maitland
and a few cronies regularly fished for
them off Port Stephens, but shrank from
advertising in the flapper press. Every
game fish which has attracted attention
to the s.-w. coast of the U.S.A., including
the tunny or tuna, is to be found in
abundance off our eastern coasts. What’s
the matter with us that we pass by such
a chance of establishing a great national
tourist traffic and export industry?
* * * *
“Kellick”: No shipbreakers were
lucky enough to find that set of band in-
struments when they set about the old
Brisbane (B. 23/12/’36). When the
cruiser was paid off in ’29 the instru-
ments were sent to Garden Island for
safe keeping. About three years later
someone in H.M.A.S. Australia decided
that one band was not enough. The
sailors wanted a band of their own, and
they got it—with the Brisbane’s instru-
ments.
■f * * *
“Swan Shot”: The doubtful utility of
arming bank officials with pistols—
whether revolving or automatic these are
the most unreliable of weapons save in
the hands of experts—was shiown in
Melbourne the other day when a would-
be bank robber was subjected to a fusil-
lade of shots at close range by a manager
and an assistant and escaped unscathed.
The ideal arm for these occasions is a
sawn-off, 12-bore shotgun loaded with
(say) 88. As easy to conceal, produce
and fire as any pistol, with it the poor-
est marksman could hardly fail to land
on a fleeing target only a few yards from
him. Another point is that a wound
from a small-calibre bullet, if not dan-
gerous, can be concealed and treated by
amateurs, making subsequent identifica-
tion difficult. But a bandit stopping a
charge of large shot in his rear elevation
would be hard put to it to conceal the
fact, for such a wound would call for
instant medical attention.
UNNOTICED GOAT.
“Entering a suburban picture theatre, a goat stood
unnoticed in the audience.”
He thought: Now maids their pretty lips
Remake, and matrons trim the bust;
Husbands and swains suspender clips
Around their lucky shanks adjust,
And fares the suburb forth to gaze on
“Smouldering Lust.”
Alack! he thought, what cruel Fate,
For what unutterable sins,
Banished my kind degenerate
Out here, to browse on empty tins,
While beetles make a belfry of our bearded
chins?
Alas! he thought—this hapless goat—
For me no plush, no chain-store scent;
No Mighty Love whereon to dote;
No Tortured Hearts by Passion rent —
Nothing but stars and trees and earth’s old
empty tent!
Bitter, he thought, the lot of one
Denied the joys of Heroine
And Hero joined, the Villain done,
Virtue triumphant over sin:
Indeed, poor goat, he thought, you get a
rotten spin!
Such sad —and sadder —longings shook
Poor William’s heart, and gloomed his mien,
When lo! a kind Voice bid him look
Where moonbeams, flitting o’er the scene,
Made there for him a mirror of a dead
marine.
What saw he mirrored there? What made
Such confidence his face imbue?
What revelations were obeyed
As, shaking off a quart of dew,
He rose and trotted in to join the human
queue?
Who knows? But this, at least, is clear:
Sweet William came, though none knew
whence,
The talkie show to see and hear,
And —draw no nasty inference!
Entered and stood unnoticed midst the audi-
ence.
N.S.W.
MACANN.


“Wah”: One of the most effective in-
terjections I’ve come across was that
hurled at an obsequious and unpopular
chairman at a campaign meeting of the
late Littleton Groom’s father. The chair-
man declared that some people were
jealous of Mr. Groom for his having
worked himself up in the world, and
illustrated the point with the parable of
two boys who chased a cart, the one
who didn’t catch it calling out, ‘Whip
behind!” “Ned,” shouted a voice from
the hall, “didn’t you an’ me get drunk
one. night and fall out of a cart?” Leslie
Groom doubled up with mirth, and it
was minutes before the chairman could
proceed. Chipped next day about “gel-
ting drunk and falling out of carts,” the
interjector cheerfully declared that he
had never been drunk in his life and
never had been, or would be, in. a cart
with the chairman.
“Cralgie”: Can’t agree with’'“From
Over the Tweed’s” statement (B.
23 /12 / ’36) that our present Queen has
no royal blood. That Sir John Lyon,
from whom she is lineally descended,
son, also John, married the daughter of
Euphemia Countess of Strathearn, seems
to me fair enough evidence of royal
blood. I doubt if the King has any
more
* * * *
“Tui”: A possible echo of the film
revival of “Romeo and Juliet” has hap-
pened in Maoriland, where a Maori girl
of 18, prevented from marrying the
Maori lad of her choice, committed sui-
cide the other day by poison. Then the
“Great ideer, Alf —why didn' We think of it before ?”
lad, learning her fate, took his life in
the same manner. He left a note asking
that they might be buried in the same
grave.
* * * *
"Boozer”: That castor-oil cure for
, , i i t
drunkenness was old when I was young
-and that s longer ago than I like to
thmk about. One Henry J. Sealy,
manager of Barcaldme Downs, used to
employ it always, having learnt it, he
told me, from his father. “How’s the
copper?” he’d ask some poor derelict
recovering from a trip to town and a
burst cheque. “Pretty hot, eh? Well,
what’ll it be —salts or castor oil?” His
theory was that this was the only way
to “work the stuff out of ’em quick and
get them back on their jobs again.”
Whichever they chose, salts or oil, was
followed by a stiff nip. No purgative, no
nip.
* * * *
“Sassafras”: Sutherland (N.S.W.)
Shire Council is considering a sugges-
tion to erect at Kurnell, where Captain
Cook first landed in Australia,
a replica of the so-called Cap-
tain Cook’s cottage trans-
planted from Great Ayton in
Yorkshire and re-erected in
Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne.
The great seaman was born in
a “clay biggin” at Marton, and
the home of his birth was de-
molished in 1786. When Cook
was eight he went with his
family to Airy Holme farm. At
17 he went to Staithes to work
as a grocer’s assistant, and
“lived in” ; from there he went
to Whitby as apprentice to an
owner of coal-boats ; after that
he was six years at sea until
1755, when he joined the Royal
Navy at 27. He had been at
sea for 10 years when his
father built the cottage at
Great Ayton. Cook certainly
never lived there. After spend-
ing most of his time at sea, he
married in London in 1762 and
bought a house at 88 Mile
End-road. This, still standing,
is the only “Captain Cook’s
home” in existence. Here his
wife lived and his children
were born. The only con-
nection Cook had with the cottage re-
erected in Melbourne is that he visited
his aged father there before sailing on
his last voyage in the Resolution in 1772.
* * * *
“Oran”: A big fire in Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, on a Saturday night was an amaz-
ing example of everybody’s business
being nobody’s. We noticed the blaze
when boarding a tram at Gladesville,
seven miles distant; yet when we joined
the 8000 people already at the scene the
brigades were only beginning to arrive.
The explanation was simply that the
alarm had not been given, and it was
only when a fireman on duty outside a
city station saw the blaze that the en-
gines were rushed to the scene, where
the crowd had grown to 20,000. It seems
an almost unbelievable thing to happen
in a big city, but each person
naturally thought somebody had
mentioned to the fire station
that a huge city building was
going up in smoke.
“Exdig ’: “Bert the Carpenter” (B.
30/12/’36) wants to know what became
of the Jacks when the war ended. The
only two of whom I had any personal
knowledge were thrown over the bridge
at Weymouth in a riot there-probably
typical ot a score of such incidents. But
. a ,|J number took , heir discharges in Eng .
, and others
were returned among war-
workers wearing civilian clothes. An
embarkation section officer told me his
crowd’s greatest worry was in getting
members of the hated “Provost Corps”
back.
“Ekib”: The housewife at the third
Test who was shelling peas while she
watched Bradman and Fingleton -at the
, . ,
wickets attracted a lot of attention, es-
pecially from newspaper photographers.
It may have been a new one to Mel-
bourne, but in Sydney women are often
to be seen shelling peas in picture shows,
and I’ve seen them on the same job in
trams. I have even seen a woman peel-
ing potatoes on the Manly ferry.
“Sorry, Poosh — miss' shays got shtay oush."
“Cartouche”: Europe, particularly
Germany, is delighted over a French
military experience. Two large consign-
ments of high explosive were sent by
road from the great French arsenal at
Toulon to somewhere on the Franco-
German frontier. One convoy got to
the right address, but the other is a.w.l.
Suspicion is that the enterprising bird in
charge crossed the Spanish frontier and
turned a dishonest bob by selling out to
one or other of the warring factions.
“Tanta-Tyga”: I read
the other day in an old
newspaper that the M.L.
Government offered £lOO
for 200 swallows delivered
alive in the Dominion, and
wondered if it ever got
them and if the birds
stood the transfer to the
Shivery Isles. In 1863 a
consignment of 100 Eng-
lish sparrows was sent
out to Adelaide by the
s.s. Orient, but only one
survived the voyage. It
was put up to auction
and realised 11s. without
a cage ; two cock black-
birds sold for 68s. and a
goldfinch canary for 355.
A few years later some
persons at Mount Gam-
bier by subscription im-
ported about 30 sparrows
from Melbourne and set
them at liberty. The
local paper gave them its
blessing, reporting that
“the little birds have
busied themselves in ex-
ploring their new sur-
roundings, and if not
molested will make them-
selves perfectly at home
and in time become
numerous in the neigh-
borhood.” They did!
The local council spent a
lot of money trying
eradicate them, but had
to give the job best.
“Hemp Parrel”: None of our nautical
experts has referred to the drastic sea
change which took place last month.
Under the International Maritime Board
Agreement, now law, all deck seamen on
foreign-going ships of 2500 tons and
over will work three watches in the 24
hours, equivalent to an eight-hour day.
This abolishes the famous port and star-
board watches and the no less famous
dog watches of two hours each —4 p.m.
to 6 p.m. and 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.—origi-
nally intended to break the roster so that
each watch on deck might have a new
eight-hour turn. Watches are now fixed
when the ship leaves port, and for the
first time the shellback will be able to
enjoy eight hours below save in times of
special stress and emergency,
* * * *
“g.A”: The fuss in Germany about
t h e alleged insults permitted by Prince
Bernard is no result of Nazi psychology,
After the betrothal of Prince Albert
to Queen Victoria had been an-
nounced, the Prince appeared at some
function in Germany in civilian dress,
instead of in military uniform, and Bis-
marck was moved to utter a public re-
buke. “It is time,” he said, “that this
sprig of the house of Wettin was re-
minded that he is still a German prince,
and must behave as such, even though
he is going to marry an Englishwoman.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Shower-baths in dry
places? We had one at the construction
of the Babalin Dam (W.A.). The dam
was in a huge rocky outcrop of some
hundreds of acres, and the gang voted
solidly for a shower. A kerosene-tin and
a few hundred feet of piping were re-
quisitioned, and one Sunday morning
the thing materialised. A little speech
marked the opening, and amid a burst
of cheering the tap was turned on, to
eject a heavy stream of nearly-boiling
water over the unfortunate wretch wait-
ing expectantly beneath. The pipes were
laid over bare rock—it was impossible
to bury them —and the temperature was
about 110 degrees in the water-bag, but
nobody had thought of that.
* * * *
“J.P.”: Queen Mary, as “A. de G.”
mentions (B. 30/12/’36), is the first
Queen Mother to witness the proclama-
tion as King of two of her sons, but
Cicelly Neville, Duchess of York, had
an even more remarkable record.
Although never Queen herself, she wit-
nessed the accession of two sons (Edward
IV. and Richard III.), a grandson (Edward
V. and a granddaughter, crowned as
Henry Vll.’s Queen. Going back to pre-
Norman times, the wife of
Ethelred the Unready, had an even more
curious experience. She ' witnessed on
her husband’s death the accession of her
son Edmund Ironside. When he died,
she became Queen again, having mar-
ried Canute, to whom she bore another
son, Hardicanute, also to become King
later.
* * * *
“Kuaka”: An ex-Maorilander would
like to add Hamilton, the big town of
the Waikato, to Ipswich (Q.) as a place
where the most ardent swain cannot in-
vite his girl friend to sit down out-of-
doors —in the winter months anyhow. It
was in this season my friend was
attracted by the damsel, and he says his
recollection is of walking perpetually.
Both lived in boarding-houses, and a
private conversation was only possible
when they hiked round together, which
they did most evenings. It wasn’t bull-
ants or any other insect pest that kept
them on the move, but the Maoriland
winter, when no grassy plot nor park
or river seat was ever fit to sit on unless
one was prepared to risk pneumonia or
pleurisy. This couple’s marathon lasted
about nine months, at the end of which
time they were both so fed-up of walk-
ing about in the rain and mud that they
quarrelled and never spoke again.
THE FUHRER HAS DECREED.
“The Nazi determination that Germans must have
bigger families is reflected in the official displeasure
with-artists because their portraits of modern German
family groups depict only one or two children,
Painters are being requested to include at least four
You also know the Fuhrer has decreed,
As well, that every poem perpetrated
Must celebrate proficiency to breed,
Only, of course, by persons pedigreed
Pure Aryan; scientifically mated
'
And further, as, of course, you’re welt aware,
That every symphony in future swelling
Must hymn on high the most prolific pair
Doing their bit to see the Nazi air
Lacks not accredited pure Aryan yelling,
As 40 (say) young Fritzlings choir where
Sweet sauerkraut climbs o’er their honored
dwelling.
In short, whoe’er arises to address
His fellows at the instance of the Muses
In Naziland must breeding talent stress ...
What? Pre s “f ' ““ ” m
The Glorious Press that never once abuses
The truth, and is meticulous — no less —
To weigh, consider, analyse, assess
The unadulterated Facts it uses.
N.S.W.
O'G.


A
20/J?/*lfe
10 for 9 d
W 1874
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
m m
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE
THIS G E N ERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
When wool was soaring to a Sydney
average of 19.6 d. a pound as a result of
Japanese buying, Thorby gleefully pre-
dicted that it would go “still higher.”
When it was 11.5 d. a pound Thorby was
going about Australia telling everyone
who would listen to him that cessation
of. Japanese buying hadn’t made and
wouldn’t make a bit of difference.
Queensland Labor is advertising for a
Commissioner of Railways, J. W. David-
son being booked for retirement in
October. Davidson gets £lBOO a year,
which seems miserably small for a job
like his. In the advertisements applicants
are told to “state what salary they re-
quire.” A Labor Government should be
above that sort of thing.
“The Financial Agreement,” Premier
Dunstan wails, “was forced on the
States: they had no alternative but to
accept it.” True, but in the last resort
it was the people who did the forcing.
Has Dunstan never looked up the Vic-
torian figures? They were 791,425 for
the Financial Agreement and 110,143
against.
No excuse for a free holiday seems to
be too flimsy for some politicians.
Hitherto congresses of the Association
for the. Advancement of Science have
been free from such intrusions, but
McLachlan, the P.M.G., has gone to
the one being held at Auckland this
week “in his capacity of Minister of
Development.” This although Rivett, of
the C.5.1.R., is there as president.
McLachlan’s contribution to science is
the discovery that mines and schools of
doubtfully edible fish can be spotted
from aeroplanes.
In Sydney one day last week “a motion
urging Commonwealth control of educa-
tion and health was carried at the inter-
state conference of school associations,
held at the Education Department.” So
this part of the world does move.
Brisbane’s Lord Mayor Jones has gone
touring again, being after another loan
—£480,000 this time. His recent attempt
to get £400,000 at 4i p.c. resulted in the
underwriters being left with £99,000, and
two Commonwealth issues can be bought
in the sharemarket at a return of 4i p.c.,
free of State income tax and portion of
the Commonwealth impost. Unless his
Ludship offers better terms than in
November, he is in great danger of going
hungry.
Net profit of £13,800 is reported by the
g.m. of Brisbane’s municipal tramways
in his 1936 record. On a capital of
£2,334,100 it doesn’t look much, but,
considering the increasing competition
from private cars and taxis, it is no dis-
creditable result. Moreover, this Bris-
bane enterprise, unlike the Government
concern in Sydney, has penny sections
and sells concession tickets.
A Douglas air-liner is carrying mails
and passengers between Adelaide and
Perth, 1450 miles, in eight hours. People
who object to this kind of thing as new-
fangled have the grand old Government
trains to fall back on. For example,
the Kalgoorlie-Perth express, which does
375 miles in a trifle over I6j hours, and
which has been sticking to schedule time
for 40 years, with no interruptions other
than those caused by washaways and
strikes.
L. A. Boyce, the “one-Parliament-for-
Australia” man who, with four party
organisations against him, got 5800 votes
in Darling Downs, was at the declara-
tion of the poll to wish Mr. Fadden
“a useful and pleasant, though not a
prolonged, stay at Canberra.” Boyce
added that he believed in “Australian
Union and the union of Australians in
the search for higher standards of cul-
ture and material comfort, through the
greatest possible development of indi-
viduality.” He will come again.
That unquenchable optimist Page pre-
dicts that his marketing referendum “will
be carried in four out of the five major
States.” There are six States, so in
Page’s jargon the sixth must be a “minor”
State. Tasmanians readily admit that
they have no use for the doctor’s nos-
trum, while fiercely denying that there, is
anything “minor” about their island.
The ineffable Thorby was moved to
indignation by the general opposition to
the naming of a minor politician as N.T.
Administrator. He said he had travelled
widely—he has been out of Australia
once, and then the country paid the bills
—and everywhere he found politicians
head and shoulders above the represen-
“The Duke of Kent, visiting a London phrenologist incog., was told he was ‘over-diffident’
and advised to ‘choose a political career.’ Afterwards the phrenologist said H.R.H. had
‘brains of Dresden china quality.’”
"Fond of travel, very fond of children and not without brains. Of ‘Dresden china
quality’ ? — well, scarcely that. Eggshell china, perhaps.”
tatives of other interests. While he was
blithering in this fashion Canberra chose
the intellectual giants of Coronation
trippers who are to emphasise the superi-
ority of the political caste to mere scien-
tists, pastoralists, business- and writing-
men. Names? Oh, yes—Lyons, Park-
hill and Casey.
Westralian Country party politicians
who coquetted with Secesh. till it had its
shabby funeral are advising their con-
stituents to vote Yes at the referendum.
Prowse says the marketing affair “will
not give any additional power to the
Commonwealth.” Marwick avers that
“it will give the Commonwealth power
to prevent the dumping of goods from
one State into another.” There will be
nine-and-ninety other interpretations be-
fore the Noes have it.
The Wimmera is ai bright spot on the
Australian landscape. A wet season and
good farming have given it more wheat
than it has had for years, and, with the
price round ss. at siding, Dimboola alone
expects an average of 27 bushels, while
some farmers are getting 45. In politi-
cal circles it is feared that these returns
will chill local enthusiasm for wreck-
ing inter-State freetrader by way of es-
tablishing a “home consumption price. ’
A question asked at Canberra and
answered by Tummas Paterson before
members scattered:
Is it a fact that the Hon. Samuel Walder,
M.L.C., the Hon. T. G. Murray, M.L.C.,
and Mr. H. W. Lloyd, M.L.A., arc direc-
tors of mining companies in the N.T. to
which [Commonwealth] grants have been
made? —Yes.
It naturally suggested other questions:
Are the Hon. Samuel Walder, M.L.C.,
the Hon. T. G. Murray, M.L.A., and Mr.
H. W. Lloyd, M.L.A., U.A.P.?
Are their shows any worthier of grants
than those of hundreds of other mine-
owners not U.A.P. politicians who have
gone grantless?
But those questions were not asked.
A poll of poultry-farmers to decide for
or against a marketing board for eggs
and egg pulp is being taken in Victoria.
The State electoral officer proffered the
advice that “producers should not waste
time in returning their papers,” and this
seems to have been anticipated literally:
with only a week to go, a bare 25 p.c.
had voted, though non-voters can be
fined £2. “Orderly-marketing” politicians
can’t understand it.
State Governments are to get another
£600,000 a year from the proceeds of
the Commonwealth petrol duties and are
to be allowed to spend it as they please.
Former Prime Minister J. C. Watson,
now head of the N.R.M.A., has pro-
tested, and some Minister or other has
attempted a defence of the indefensible.
There is only one word for the business
of raising tax-money, far more than is
needed, from a special class for a specific
purpose and spending part of it on other
purposes ; it is dishonest.
Every U.A.P. newspaper of any note
was against the Lyons Government in
the affair of Mrs. Freer, and not one has
supported the appointment of Abbott,
M.H.R., to Darwin. “S. M. Herald” has
campaigned against it with uncommon
vehemence.
This Government has already sacrificed
principle to expediency in a way which may
prove costly at the referendum and other
polls. Surely it is not going to repeat its
mistake by appointing a politician who has
to a vital extent disqualified himself.
Repetition of the mistake is almost cer-
tain ; but unless the blunderers efface
themselves it is going to be very hard
for “S. M. Herald” to support them at
the general election.
Disturbed for a moment from his task
of getting ready for a Coronation trip,
Westralian Premier Willcock sternly re-
marked that there would “have to be
some alteration in the method of pro-
viding funds for Government works.”
If Australia cannot find the money, the
State Premier will have to look elsewhere.
Presumably “elsewhere” means London
and New York, Willcock being that sort
of provincial politician. The Financial
Agreement says:
If at any time the Loan Council by
unanimous decision so decides, a State
may... .borrow outside Australia in the
name of the State.
But
Except in cases where the Loan Council
has otherwise decided, a State shall not
have the right to invite loan subscriptions
by the issue of a public prospectus.
So, unless the Commonwealth Govern-
ment betrays the country, no provincial
Government can sell it into bondage
again.
Premier Ogilvie to Sydney “Sun”:
Litvinoff told me I would live to see the
day when Sydney and Melbourne would be
blown to pieces within 24 hours. I consider
Litvinoff the cleverest man in Europe
to-day.
Well, anyone, out of Callan Park could
say as “clever” a thing as that.
Premier Butler, looking ahead, “sees
a red light flickering from the Canberra
heights—the attempt being made to
destroy the very foundation on which
this Commonwealth was established:
free trade between the States.” Butler
can’t be going to vote “Yes” in March.
Before setting out for another place
of exile —Mexico this time—Trotsky
strafed comrade Stalin, saying that he
was deliberately destroying the communist
experiment by killing off the leaders.
While, his hymn of hate was still re-
sounding in the Baltic, Radek, “once
known as ‘Stalin’s voice,’ ” was being
dragged up for “sabotage and con-
spiracy.” Trotsky and Radek are Jews.
Apparently anti-Semitism is raising its
head again in Russia, where militarism
and imperialism have long been re-estab-
lished.
An Australian Teachers’ Federation
speaker in Melbourne has added a few
more words to the millions condemning
secret banning. A list of banned films
was asked for and refused. The Com-
monwealth censor qualified his refusal
with the information that “not even the
Minister” had seen the list.
Stevens has been picking a successor
to the late Sir Murray Anderson from a
peck of Britons. According to a U.A.P.
paper, he considered lan Hamilton,
aged 83, and two septuagenarians,
Milne, “popularly known as ‘Uncle
George,’ ” and Godley, not so popularly
known as “Make-’em-do-it-again, Alec.”
Though Westralia has a Westralian
Governor and South Africa a South
African by adoption, no Australians
need apply in N.S.W.


THEY ALL WANT TO GO WITH WILKINS.
“Hubert Wilkins, the Australian, has received thousands of applications from men desirous of joining his expedition across the Arctic in a submarine. He says he would
prefer Australians and Maorilanders.”


sB*
HOB
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
-<jomz-io>2
m
10-ir-ZQui-J"
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melboumal
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
YOB WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., I/TD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth, r. J. bmitb-
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
N. S. Wales’s new Governor, Lord
Wakehurst, has everything that tradition-
ally belongs to the English aristocrat. He
has lineage scarcely to be equalled even
among kings, for the Loders are among
the oldest families of England, going
back almost to Domesday Book days in
the records and far beyond that accord-
ing to tradition. Some of his blood is
royal. He is descended through his
mother from Charles 11. and Nell
Gwynn, and also from the De Veres,
who held the earldom of Oxford for 20
generations and produced one Eliza-
bethan poet whom some suspect of hav-
ing been the real William Shakspeare.
Lord Wakehurst is 6ft. 2in. high, has
reddish Saxon hair and is 41. He served
on Gallipoli. His business head and
politics are inherited from his father,
who was deeply in British railways and
was president of the Union of Conserva-
tive Associations. Lord Wakehurst is
married to a half-sister of Lady Oxford
and Asquith (Margot), whose family
motto “Deus dabit vela” (“God will fill
the sails”) was not adopted in vain, since
the family money earned from Tennant
and Sons, Mosul Oilfields arjd Hambro’s
Bank needs at least the Bank of England
to keep it in. There are a good many
members of the new Ex.’s family in Aus-
tralia, including the Loders of Abbey
Green (N.S.W.) and some in Queensland.
T. H. Silk is a Londoner who has
lived amid the clang of shipbuilding
yards since his boyhood. Educated at
the Dockyard School and Technical
College, Portsmouth (England), he spent
over 20 years with Thornycrofts, Arm-
strong Whitworth and Workman, Clark,
of Belfast, before he came to Australia
to join the Mort’s Dock organisation. He
is now head of the biggest dockyard
T.H. SILK, N.S. Wales Employers’
Federation.
firm in Australasia, but his responsibili-
ties do not seem to weigh heavily on
him, and he has the look of one to whom
a rich uncle has left a million —some-
body described him as being composed
half of iron and half of sunshine.
Level-headed and a fine speaker, leader
of men and manager of labor, he makes
an ideal president of the N. S. Wales
Employers’ Federation. When he has
any leisure, his recreation is a good book.
The new Bishop of New Guinea is a
cleric of 37 with a scholarly air. His
predecessor, Victorian-born Bishop New-
ton, has been in Papua and far North
New Guinea’s Bishop.
Queensland for just the length of his suc-
cessor’s life. Newton was vicar-general
in New Guinea before the war, but in
1915 became bishop of Australia’s most
picturesque diocese, Carpentaria, going
back to Moresby in 1922. The new
bish. has been rector of St. Ignatius,
Sunderland (Eng.).
After 18 years’ service as a Vic.
State Electricity Commissioner, Thomas
Ranken Lyle, now 77, is not seeking re-
appointment, and the commission loses
a member whose wide scientific and
mathematical knowledge has been of par-
ticular value. When he was its first
chairman, the commission recommended
the use for electricity purposes of brown
coal resources, and on that report was
based the present scheme. His first
report to the Vic. Government concerned
technical education and was presented in
1900. A Dublin University man, he
came to Melbourne University in 1889
as Professor of Natural Philosophy, later
becoming Emeritus Professor in the same
school. Author of several scientific
memoirs, he was knighted in 1922.
Just retiring after a 40 years’ commer-
cial career in Australia, F. A. B. Peters,
the Commonwealth’s ice-cream king, is
70. Born at Scio, Washintaw County,
Michigan (U.S.A.) —he looks and sounds
it —he began business in Sydney as
an indent agent, but saw chances in
ice-cream, and was soon the bane of the
Italian hokey-pokey merchants who held
the trade. His business, just 30 years
old, has now immense ramifications. The
movies did much to make it, but it
would not have developed without the
typically American drive of its C.-in-C.
With the passing of Sam Jacobs, at
83, Adelaide has lost one of its leading
citizens. After Geelong College, he took
a law degree at Melbourne, but in a few
years changed over to commerce, vary-
ing from S.A. salt to Mauritius sugar.
His best' work was on the S.A. (West
End) Brewing Co., where as managing
director for over 30 years he built a
doubtful concern into a solid one. With
his legal knowledge and judicial mind,
he was accepted as arbitrator by busi-
nessmen and sportsmen of Adelaide. He
was a president of the Chamber of Com-
merce, Tattersall’s Club, Bowls Associa-
tion, Billiards Association and S.P.C.A.,
chairman of the University finance com-
mittee and S.A. Jockey Club committee-
man from 1902 (he won the Adelaide
Cup in 1909).
Joe Carrodus, who has been paid the
unusual compliment for a civil servant
of being asked for by Darwin residents
as Northern Territory Administrator,
went to the war as a Digger and rose to
a captaincy. He has since had a steady
rise in the public service. In 1926 he
represented Australia before the Per-
manent Mandates Commission at
Geneva. For part of 1934 he admin-
istered the Territory, but he is not likely
to take the job again—the salary is hall
his present one. Anyway, he is already
the virtual Administrator, since N.T.
authority is jealously vested in Can-
berra.
H. E. Wimperis, the latest British Air
Ministry official to step unobtrusively
ashore in Australia, had a brilliant
career at the Imperial Institute of
Science, and topped it off with four years’
hard engineering training before being
transferred in 1915 from a Crown engi-
neering job to the committee of aero-
nautical research. He is vice-president
of the Royal Aeronautical Society, was
Wilbur Wright lecturer in 1932, and
is one of the few professional aerial
members of the stately Athenseum, which
leans rather to bishops and others who
expect to get their wings only in the
next world.
H. A. McClure Smith, who takes over
the associate editorship of Sydney's
“Herald,” is on the brighter side of 40,
and wide travel away from his native
land has given him a store of experience.
Son of the McClure Smith who is
H.A. McCLURE SMITH, “S.M.
Herald’s” new associate editor.
general manager of the Australian
Estates and Mortgage Co., the new Fair-
fax prophet left Australia to become an
Oxford undergraduate. From Oxford he
drifted into journalism on the “Times.”
He is a good linguist and has made a
study of European politics.
A. W. Lacey, pictured here by Coven-
try, is a Terowie (S.A.) native who got
into politics via an organisership of the
A.W.U. He sat in the Federal House
for nine years, and was a member of the
select committee on the Navigation Act
and chairman of the Public Works Corn-
The leader of H.M.’s Opposition,
S. Australia.
mittee for a couple of years. He passed
out of the Canberra show in the 1931
debacle, but was elected to the S.A.
House of Assembly unopposed for Port
Pirie in 1933, and became Opposition
leader. He has one particular merit—
when he speaks you can always hear
him.
Another of the old guard retires from
the Queensland Education Department
with the moving out of R. B. McNaught,
whose final nine years’ assignment was
as headmaster of the first-class Hamil-
ton State school. McNaught, who joined
the service in 1883, was in the ’nineties
a well-known figure in Central Queens-
land. Afterwards, he served at Eidsvold,
Goondiwindi, Dalby and Maryborough.
“Te Ngakara”: Fred Baxter, who still
does a bit of journalism in Auckland
(M.L.), has a record not to be beaten out-
side Paris —he has worked as a reporter
under no fewer than 30 changes of
Cabinets in the Dominion. He reported
George Grey on many memorable and
even exciting occasions for
the Auckland “Star.” Fred
was on duty the night
Aucklanders gave Grey the
greatest of all his triumphal
receptions. Grey, normally
a man of ice, was quite
overcome with that wel-
come back to the city.
When, after the close of the
official part of the pro-
gramme, a group of men
took the horses from the
shafts of the carriage that
was to carry him to the
club and took their places
as pullers, the tall bent
hero of the hour cried
vehemently: “No —no! Never let it be
said that men made slaves of themselves
to drag me in a chariot!”
Basil Brooke, Northern Ireland’s rep-
resentative at Adelaide centenary cele-
brations, is a typical Ulster landed
baronet. He retired from a career in
the Hussars to devote himself to poli-
tics, and has been Northern Ireland’s
Agricultural Minister since 1933.


Every Second.. Someone..
Somewhere... is thanking
71717
r%
r/1
LOOK FOR THE
BEFORE YOU BUY TYRES
You can't stop the everyday road hazards caused by
pedestrians, dogs, sheep, carts, cows, etc.—but you
CAN stop and stop in time with the "G-3"
Diamond Centre Grip!
Actual tests have proved that you can bring your car
to a safe, swerveless stop in a shorter distance on
"G-3's" than on any other tyre.
Run your fingers along those sharp-edged diamond
blocks. Press down on the tread with your palm
and feel the extra grip of those non-skid diamonds!
You'll see how each deep-cut block is scientifically
placed to resist all tendency to skid! Ask yourself
can you afford to drive without this "Goodyear
Margin of Safety."
/
And Supertwist Cord —an exclusive Goodyear
feature gives the "G-3" blowout-protection in
every ply!
DIAMOND CENTRE CRIP
PREVENTS
% ACCIDENTS
w,
a
A
STR ALIA
GRANVILLE,
N S. W.
5-Cl-37


Blacks White Whisky "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Tom Willie”: Have Aboliars noticed
that the ordinary domestic cat in Aus-
tralia is colored according to the city
in which it lives? • Melbourne is the
tabby city, Sydney favors the blonde
and Brisbane the brunette. I don’t know
why this is; but there is a quiet Pres-
byterian air about the tabby, and ginger
is somewhat cosmopolitan or bohemian.
Cats being black in Queensland may be
the final exertion of the aboriginal in-
fluence, and when Black Brother passes
out at last there will still be the brunette
cats to supply local color, helping the
tradition that this is no country for
whites.
* * * *
“L.”: A trolley laden with casks of
wine took the corner of Currie-street and
Bloor Court, Adelaide, a bit too sharply
and one of the casks was knocked off by
a post and burst when it hit the roadway,
emptying its fine old port to form a big
pool in the gutter. A little later a milk-
man came along, left his cart at the
corner of the lane and set off with a
can to serve the near-by houses. The
old horse sniffed the air, moved over
to the pool of wine and drank. When
he had swilled about a gallon he began
to sway about, then went down with a
wallop, and the cursing milkman had
to get help to shift him to a near-by
livery stable and borrow another neddy
to complete the round. The drunk horse
lay on the stable floor for five hours,
sleeping it off. To judge by his snuffling
and gurgling noises, his dreams were
sweet, but he was a woeful sight when
lowed home behind the cart that evening.
* * * *
“ ’Arry”: “Most honest man ever I
worked for,” said old Ned, “were a chap
out from Bourke. ’E gave me a job
shootin’ crows at a quid a week. There
wus only one crow in sight when e
started me off. ‘Foller that bird till yer
gets ’im,’ ’e tells me as ’e ’ands me a
rifle an’ a box o’ cartridges. Well, I
toilers Kelly till I’d used up the cart-
ridges ; then I got so disgusted I turns
the job in, an’ as I’m about five miles
away I just keeps goin’. Twelve munce
later I’m back in the same district, so I
thinks I’ll amble over an’ give the bloke
back ’is rifle. Just as I gets through ’is
fence I spots a dead crow, so I picks it
up casual-like an’ carts it along with me.
The bloke’s moochin’ around outside,
an’ when ’e sees me ’e’s as pleased as
a dorg with ten tails. ‘Good on yer!’ ’e
says. ’Yer got ’im. Did yer hafter go
far?’ ‘Yairs,’ I told him. ‘ ’Bout half-
way ter th’ Gulf of Carpentaria.’ ‘Good
man! ’ ’e says agen ; then ’e dives inside,
an’ presently ’e comes out with a cheque
fer 52 quid. ‘Yer’d better have a week’s
spell before yer start agen,’ ’e tells me.
Now what about ’im fer an honest man?”
* * * *
“M.L.W.”: Size considered, I vote a
charging ram first place for sheer para-
lysing striking-force. We had a cross-
bred, a wicked old beast who had been
reared a pet, and whose chief diversion
in after life was outing anyone rash
enough to approach him without a stick.
A Jersey bull, looking for trouble after
the manner of his kind, wandered across
the ram’s path one day and declared war.
“Lucky dog to have so many wives, what?"
“Ploomin' lucky, boss. Won 'em all in the Christmas raffle!"
Woolly cast a speculative eye over the
enemy and, giving a couple of battle
champs, hurtled to the fray. One hun-
dred and twenty pounds of earnest ram
landed between the bull’s eyes and jarred
him to the hoofs, and as the smaller
fellow backed off for another pop the
bull wheeled and blundered groggily
away, to receive a disparaging bump on
the hocks from the victor. Later, after
I had leaped to the sheep-yard fence two
jumps ahead and turned in time to see
the “pet” stagger back after smashing
a six-inch rail, I decided it was time to
close his innings.
* * * *
“Oronsay”: Whatever trick of evolu-
tion presented the frill lizard with its
preposterous Elizabethan collar, it is cer-
tain that the frill is used as a store-
house for food ; in the tucks and folds
grasshoppers and such are kept till re-
quired. The introduction of netted
fencing went close to wiping out this
lizard. As it pokes its head through, the
high collar flattens back, but when the
head’s in the frill becomes erect again.
Then, too fat to go forward and pre-
vented by his collar from backing out,
Frilly awaits the bnd.
* * * *
“Amity”: The wealthiest cow-cocky in
our district was marrying the daughter
of the local storekeeper, and that he ap-
preciated the girl, reputed to be quite
a good milker, was made plain to us
at the wedding breakfast. It was about
4 p.m. when the ’groom rose to speak.
After a few facetious remarks, he hit
the table emphatically and announced:
“Mind you, I’m not one to make a
woman slave on a farm. I’m tellin’ Susie
now that I’ll never expect her to milk
more than her nine night and morn-
ing. What’s more, she needn’t start
when we get home. I’ve paid a bloke
five bob to do the milkin’ to-night.” He
resumed his seat amid an impressive
silence.
* * * *
“Noel R.”: Anybody know the record
length of time resuscitation methods have
been applied to an apparently drowned
person with successful results? A young-
ster was fished out of Merewether
(N.S.W.) baths the other day apparently
well “out” to it. An hour’s resuscitation
work by a surf-club member induced
breathing. Then ambulance men applied
oxygen and consciousness returned.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: “John Dory’s” remark (B.
30/12/’36) that even the heartiest glutton
doesn’t dine on pigeon every day reminds
me that years ago, when wild pigeons
were plentiful outback and a weekly
pigeon-pie was usual, there was a com-
mon saying that it was “impossible for
anyone to eat a pigeon 13 days in suc-
cession.” It often gave rise to arguments,
but I never saw it proved, though it
would have been easy to provide the
daily bird. Does any Abo. scribe know
the origin of the saying, and why the
13? As for pigeon-pie, is there any finer
dish than a few slices of fat bacon with
the birds under a good short crust, eaten
cold, with a dash of cayenne?
* * * H«
“Groper”: It’s curious how wild
animals, even reptiles, have a perception
of the comparative helplessness of the
human female and her young. The tiger
snake wasn’t a very big one, but it clearly
showed that it wasn’t afraid as it stood
up to the woman —she with her umbrella
and the eight-year-old with a stick. None
of the trio was game to strike, though
the snake reared menacingly. Just then
the man arrived —with bare hands—and
the tiger was off like a flash.
* * * *
“Wongi”: “Chan’s” basketlike shoes,
credited in a U.S.A. museum to “Aus-
tralian bushmen” (B. 30/12/’36), are
genuine abo. all right. They are the
slippers made of emu feathers and
twisted human hair cemented with blood
worn by desert blacks for silence in
stalking, chiefly an enemy. Of most im-
portance to the wearer, they practically
leave no track, the feathery surface of
the sole brushing out any indentations
made.
“L’Oiseau Brun”: We had lost a
couple of dozen chickens,. which van-
ished in twos and threes, leaving not a
feather, when, happening to cut across
the orchard, I saw a bunch of them do-
ing a sort of dance—tripping, skipping
and fluttering, but always keeping to the
same size circle. The ballet-master was a
six-foot black snake.
* * * *
“Palmdale”: “Bambino” (B. 9/12/’36)
should go to sou’-Westralia and live
among the spud-digging, sleeper-cutting
Italians there to get an idea of how fine
things can be cut. Working with a mob
of them at Narrikup and all making
over a pound a day digging, when
dinner-time came, we would put the bil-
lies on, but Tony and his mates would
walk to the cabbage patch. Before our
billies had boiled, our friends would
have consumed a raw cabbage each and
be back at work.
* * * *
“Manah Bolek”: Concerning “Ker-
riki’s” query as to aiming in night
shooting (B. 30/12/ ’36), W. Sunter when
part-owner of Koolpinyah station in the
Territory impressed on me always to take
a full sight and then allow another slight
elevation. Two years later in a French
Cochin China forest two of us under-
took alternate treetop watches above a
bait set for a man-killing tiger that had
caused an Annamite village a lot of
worry. The moon having gone down, it
was useless waiting any longer for the
coming of Hairy-Face, and I was making
my way back along a narrow track to-
wards the quarters. Two hundred yards
from home there was a sharp turn in the
track, and rounding this I stopped dead.
Ten yards in front of me were two glow-
ing, malignant eyes. Even as I lifted the
rifle I remembered Sunter’s instructions
and acted accordingly. One. shot was
all that was necessary, and the huge beast
fell convulsively in the undergrowth. As
well as the fright of my life that shot
cost me fifty francs—l had bagged the
tame water-buffalo belonging to our sta-
tion tukang ayer.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: ‘Tver’s” 14|in. Urunga
(N.S.W.) prawn (B. 23/12/’36) is a David
compared with the Goliaths found in
North Queensland waters. Ted Searse,
on the Barron Beach, near Cairns (N.Q.),
has preserved a specimen which measures
22 inches from head to tailtip. The
feelers are as long again. He caught this
prince of prawns while dragging a net
for barramundi. The flip of its tail was
like a mule’s kick.
Hi H* *
“Enpee”: Loss of hair from parts
of the body through eating the foliage of
a particular plant is peculiar, to say the
least; yet it has been recorded that when
horses eat the foliage of vi-vi ( Leuccena
glauca ), a soft-wooded, leguminous
shrub that luxuriates in the tropics, a
loss of hair is experienced from mane
and tail only. Confirmation of this was
recently obtained at Bowen (N.Q.) when
during a very dry period a horse was
turned into a paddock where there was
little else on which to graze. Though the
horse maintained condition and apparent
good health, the hair fell out completely
from mane and tail. When he was trans-
ferred to another paddock where there
was no vi-vi, a fresh growth of hair
appeared on the denuded parts
A JOB IN TOWN.
No more our ancient caravan will creak along
the roads,
No more we’ll urge old Billy to a trot;
We’ll never camp again in lonely little bush
abodes,
Or lie beneath the gums when noon is hot.'
No more we’ll race through paddocks where
the grass is tall and brown—
Our roving days are over now . . . Dad’s got a
job in town.
It’s two years since we sold the house and
bought the caravan,
And hit the trail for “God alone knows
where,”
With Mother sitting up in front with Dad and
Little Ann
And the rest of us just poked in here and
there
With Chum the dog, and Mick the cat, and Rip
the cockatoo,
And all the world before us, from the coast to
Coompartoo.
Oh, up the hill and down the vale and through
the mountain pass,
Along the river and across the plain;
The moonlight on the water and the sunlight
on the grass;
The mountains blue between the blurs of
rain;
White gums upon a windy ridge like masts with
leafy spars;
The glory of the sunsets and the mystery of
the stars.
The dawns that broke across the hills with
flare of rose and gold,
The long white roads that lured us on and
on;
The voices of the morning when the wind was
swift and cold,
And we were eager to be up and gone!
It’s quench the fire and strike the tent and
fill the waiting pack,
When soldier-birds are whistling you to follow
down the track.
But now Dad’s got a job in town, and we
know nevermore
We’ll pitch our tent where hidden streamlets
glide,
Wi.h the blue sky for a ceiling and the green
earth for a floor,
And the she-oaks whispering by the water’s
side.
We’re going to the city, to the pavements’ rush
and glare,
Where houses face each other with a strange
and glassy stare.
But up the hill and down the hill, we’ll live it
all again;
The freedom and the friendship of the road;
We’ll hear our ancient caravan go creaking
through the rain,
We'll join the laughter of its carefree load ;
And when we dream we’ll pitch our tent where
singing waters run,
And watch above stark plains an eagle mount-
ing to the sun.
N.S.W.
TROY.


“Orford”: Surely this is the queerest
case of snakebite on record! Two
brothers were clearing dense scrub near
Monto (Q.) when suddenly a snake
reared its head. One lad with a flash of
his billhook cut the head off; the swift
blow sent it flying through the air; it
struck his brother on the bare arm, and
so savagely did the. severed head bite
that the fangs were left embedded in
the flesh. They were at once withdrawn,
and the patient was treated for snake-
bite and recovered.
* sk * ik
“Moe”: Can any Aboliar explain why
hardly any figured timber comes from
trees grown in fertile soil? Practically
all the figured and fiddleback mountain
ash I’ve handled has come from trees
grown on bare stony slopes, and I work
in a planing mill that turns out about
30,000 feet a day.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Struck a new kind of pearl-
shell diver in a story set in the “burning,
blistering tropics of Thursday Island.”
“The parsons holdin' a jumble sale, an he'd like y' t' give him
anythin' y don't want."
“Let 'im have me bed and th' Wagga rugs."
Our hero “in his eagerness to get shell
took off the helmet, and reached over to
shell that was just beyond reach, hang-
ing on to the helmet with one hand and
gathering the shell with the other.” In
10 years in luggers out of Broome, I
never came across the breed myself. Per-
haps some Thirsty Island Aboliar can
enlighten us.
“Harry N.”: This should gladden the
heart of the S.P.C.A. In Gippsland (Vic.)
the other day I met a cocky going home
from work. A hefty draught horse, in
the pink of condition, walked ahead;
then came the cocky, carrying a set of
harrows slung over his shoulders. Under
his free arm was a half-bag of
super., and hanging on the harrow tynes
were his nag’s feed-bag and harness.
“Don’t often do this,” he said in answer
to my look of surprise, “but Bloss. has
had a hard day, and, anyhow*” rather
aggressively, “one of ’er shoulders is a
bit chafed.”
sji sjc ije Jf:
“East St.”: I begin to doubt if the
platypus is as timid as it’s cracked up to
be. Here on Narracan Creek, Gippsland
(Vic.), they are fairly plentiful, and,
though I can’t claim to have tamed any,
one comes out regularly every evening
looking for the earthworms I started to
coax him with a scant 12 months ago.
When the other day I hooked a fair-
sized eel the exhibition of plain and
fancy diving Duckbill indulged in while
I was landing Slimy was remarkable.
Over and under and all round the
struggling eel he gambolled, and I’ll
swear there, was a grin on his dial when
I finally popped the catch into a sugar-
bag.
* * * *
“Western”: Leichhardt in the journal
of his travels through the Gulf country
in the ’forties gives an account of numer-
ous kites so voracious and daring as to
swoop down and snatch the meat from
a man’s plate. Exploring towards the
Barcoo at much the same period Sturt
also encountered these birds, a big flock
appearing out of an apparently empty
sky and, after examining the weakened
expedition as a possible prey, disappear-
ing again. Some 30 years’ reading of
Aboriginalities has given me no informa-
tion about these birds. Do they still
exist? The wedgetail eagle hardly fits
the description ; besides, I can’t imagine
experienced explorers describing it as a
kite.
* '\< * ik
“Kali”: Lock’s shark-handler (pic-
tured B. 30/12/’36) would have been in
her element at Cocos Islands, where
dozens of the brutes can be seen
daily sluggishly making their way through
2ft. of water across the lagoon sand-
flats towards deeper pools in which con-
gregate milling shoals of mullet. The
sharks are frequently more out of water
than in, and under this handicap it’s a
comparatively easy matter to grab one by
the tail and drag it protestingly ashore.
I have seen 15 10-footers landed in that
number of minutes by two men. Even
the dogs join in the fun ; it was not un-
usual to see one of the island mongs win-
ning his fight with a small shark and
dragging it triumphantly ashore.
* * * *
“Kolmai”: I had a mate working on a
property who had a run of luck and,
when last I heard, was in a prosperous
s.p. betting business. Being badly bent
in an outback town, I wired him: “Wire
me five of the best.” The reply came:
“Carbine, Poitrel, Wakeful, Phar Lap
and Trafalgar.”
•k H* *k
“Plankton”: From personal observa-
tion I can add to the recent lists of city-
haunting birds the following species, all
“But why don't you put the police on to Jacky if he treats you like that?"
“I did , missus , and they're at the hospital now."
observed within a mile of Brisbane
G.P.0.: White-bellied sea-eagle, eagle-
hawk, osprey, grey heron, pelican,
sparrow-hawk, nankeen kestrel, shag,
straw-necked ibis, forest kingfisher, silver-
eye, black-faced shrike, pectoral rail,
orsole, fig-bird, mangrove warbler, grey
thrush, spinebill, red-backed and blue
wrens,, owl. Around the lofty tower of
the City Hall several kestrels give a
graceful exhibition of soaring near
sunset.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: In a hollow log on the
Hodgkinson River, six miles from
Mount Mulligan (N.Q.), Eric Jenkinson
and four mates found half a dozen dingo
pups, which were
brought home, Eric
keeping one and the
rest being distributed
to other homes. That
night the dingo slut
howled disconsolately
outside Eric’s house,
and the pup answered
feebly but willingly
within. In the morning
each of the families
which had harbored a
pup had a similar tale
to tell. The slut had
visited all. I can un-
derstand the lady
reasoning that the
strange scent in the vicinity of her lair
belonged to the kidnappers and follow-
ing it, but tracing each pup to its hiding
place seems extraordinarily good track-
ing.
* * * *
“M.L.W.”: I must support “Lucullus”
in his contention that a beast’s tucker
affects the taste of its flesh, despite “Bill
O’C.” (B. 23/12/’36) to the contrary. A
grazier of my acquaintance once irri-
gated acres of onions which he hoped
to market early. A bumper crop duly
matured, but meantime the market
flopped and, being a long way from rail,
he was caught with many tons of value-
less onions on his hands. Shortly after-
wards Old Man Drought shambled
along, and in desperation the onions
were tried as fodder and relished by the
sheep. The meat from those jumbucks
was so highly flavored that very few
could stomach it.
* * * *
“Hegar”: Striking evidence of the
fertility of some of Victoria’s closer-
settlement land was given at a sitting
of the board recently. Asked by
the chairman what was the carrying capa-
city of a chunk of his land marked
“swampy” on the plan, Bill (sometime
Tpr. Bill, Bth A.L.H., A.1.F.) was stirred
to enthusiasm. “What’ll it carry?” said
he. “Why, the damn’ place ’ud carry
the flamin’ Queen Mary at present!”
* * * *
“J.A.M.”: “Painkiller Mick,” men-
tioned in recent Bulletins, lies beneath
a quandong tree about half-way between
Barringun and Goodooga, five miles in
from the border on the N. S. Wales
side. Besides a curious knowledge of
poisons, he also knew the value of water.
A boundary rider who fell from his horse
and broke a leg was out some, days, dur-
ing which time he had dragged himself
to a tank, and when found the leg was
twice normal size. “Painkiller” used
water to reduce the swelling, and then set
the leg with perfect results. Mick was
buried before my time, but his old boss,
who was later my boss, believed that if
Mick’s digestive organs could have
been sent to Sydney a poison antidote
would probably have been discovered.
Among his other singularities, Mick
handled snakes with impunity.
* * * *
“Roly”: Like fish, snakes “hear” only
by sensitiveness to vibrations. A snake
has no tympanum, tympanic cavity and
no Eustachian tubes —the outward and
inward signs of hearing in vertebrates.
Joe Blake picks up what “sounds” he
hears in air waves, which he feels in his
most sensitive parts —scales, tongue and
body generally. The human being can
feel some sounds in a similar way— e.g.,
drumbeats. That the Oriental snake-
charmer and his pipe prove a snake’s
hearing is questionable. Every “charmer”
sways with his music. It is this, rather
than the music, which catches the snake’s
attention. If a man doesn’t sway, the
snake doesn’t take much notice. This
has been actually proved in museum ex-
periments. Lizards, on the other hand,
display a lively interest in music in itself.
* * * *
“Poopoonbah”: Plough horses on our
cane farm were losing their tail hair.
Dad, stumped for an explanation, ac-
cused the new hand, lately arrived from
the Old Dart, of cobbing them a la
Rotten Row. Enlightenment came next
day when I watched the nags, on being
unharnessed, make straight for a small
lagoon at the bottom of the paddock.
Wading up to their bellies, they stood
eating a certain kind of water weed grow-
ing among the reeds and lilies. Then I
saw a swarm of water-rats put out from
the shore and, on reaching the unsus-
pecting prads, begin stripping them of
their fly-swatters, hair by hair, each rat
returning to the shore with a few hairs
in its mouth. After searching among
the shore reeds I found several water-
rat nests under construction ; each one
was furnished with genuine horsehair
upholstery.
ONCE BITTEN.
"You’d find,” said Walrus Jack, and raised his
pipe to emphasise his point,
“That this ’ere world of ours would be, there’s
not a doubt, a better joint
If blokes would trust each other more. It
always vexes me to note
Unworthy motives hinted at; in fact, it fairly
gets my goat.
“You’d hardly think you’d strike it in a little
place like Dogleg Creek,
But —spare me days!—l tell you straight, when
only just the other week
I spread a challenge round to grub more
stumps out in a day or so
Than any of the local champs., the neighbors
wouldn’t have a go!
“They got a notion it was just a stunt to clear
me land, and yet
I ’adn’t thought of that at all. And, mind
you, too, I don’t forget
These neighbors didn’t jib a bit at moppin’ up
the ‘nines’ o’ beer
I put on tap not long before. ’Struth! isn’t
’uman nature queer?
“I told you ’bout that, didn’t I? The coves
around ’ere used to mag
Of how they swung a Kelly. Well, I’m sick
o’ lis’nin’ to their brag,
So 1 announced a tenner prize I’d give the
bloke who topped the mark
An’ cut most stringybark an’ box in one day’s
work, from dawn to dark.
“When it was won they sunk the beer; the
wood they must’ve clean forgot;
I had to sell that afterwards —’twas clutterin’
up the land a lot.
Yet some of ’em went lousy; said I’d sold
’em all a blasted pup,
When, ’struth! it wasn’t till next day I took
the flamin’ option up!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ARCHIMEDES
OUTBOARDS
(Swedish
Manufacture ).
Four first places in
World’s Longest Out-
board Reliability
Races.
All Bronze Under-
water Gear,
Lightweight Utility
Engines, 4 Horse-
power and Up-
wards, at
NELSON & ROBERTSON, Ltd.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert B. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. de L. Cudmore.
H. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. P. Cureton, Manager.
THE
lIAIITCn INSURANCE
U n II b U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Cos. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends ■,
6 p.c. Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ordinary. serves.
£> £, £, £,
1926.. 783,453 89,084 12 p.c. = 692,684 43,744
1927.. 786.876 89,084 12 „ ~ 696,354 45,182
Cos. reconstructed; shares in sub-
-12 m’ths sidiaries written up £2,324,131,
to and that amount capitalised.
Oct., 6 i p.c.
1928.. 916,506 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 7,659
1929. . 1,011,307 96,507 11 „ „ 894,791 27,668
1930.. 1,074,672 96,507 12 „ „ 976,135 29,698
1931.. 747,927 96,507 8 „ „ 650,757 30,361
1932.. 585,299 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 31,085
1933.. 585,611 96,507 6 ~ ~ 488,068 32,121
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 33,396
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,761 96,507 7* „ ~569,412 36,613
* Excludes special 9d. bonus (3J p.c.) from sub-
sidiaries’ accumulated profits, paid Jan., 1937.
At the end of October this big hold-
ing co.’s £9,619,186 of paid capital, to-
gether with £36,613 of reserves and
£27,727 (down £16,372) coming to sun-
dry creditors, was invested £7,722,192 in
shares in a group of tobacco-manufac-
turing subsidiaries, etc., £1,946,595 (down
£13,995) debtors’ and debit balances
(mainly advances to the pups) and £14,784
(down £490) cash. The operating cos.
have been such a vigorous and prosper-
ous lot that, although the curtain has
remained drawn over their figures, the
business has earned for itself the reputa-
tion of being one of Australia’s most
prosperous industrial organisations ; and
the parent’s scrip is among the leaders in
the market.
The subsidiaries comprise W. D. and
H. O. Wills (paid capital, £6,112,465),
British Australian Tobacco (paid capi-
tal, £7,150,918—a combination of
Cameron and part of the Dixson busi-
nesses) and the States Tobacco Cos. (paid
capital, £303,418 —it embraced Sutton’s,
and Jacobs, Hart and Cos. and the other
part of Dixson’s business). They all
decided to go on the market together in
1903 ; later S. T. Leigh and Cos. (paid
capital, £233,985), the printers and car-
ton-makers, were sandwiched into the
team.
Briefly, the history of the holding co.’s
capital account and distributions is as
follows:
For 13 years to the close of accounts in
1927 a steady 12 p.c. div. was paid, sweet-
ened with £628,591 of bonus scrip. Then
a two-for-five gift to the ords. (£2,324,131,
provided by writing up the book value of
• shares in other cos.) lifted capital to its
present figure in 1,484,727 6i p.c. cum.
prefs. and 8,134,459 ords., and the ord. div.
dropped to 10 p.c.; it rose to 12 p.c. again
in 1930. Slump brought curtailment of
expenditure on smokes, competition in-
creased, and the spring in exchange and
income and other taxes and alterations in
the tariff swelled outgoings, and the div.
dropped to 6 p.c. in 1932 and remained
steady for four years.
During the last term, the subsidiaries’
sales again showed “satisfactory im-
provement,” and the holding co.’s net
earnings, which do not include its in-
terest in the undivided profits of the pups,
shot up £Bl,Bll, reaching £667,761, or
£1842 more than the pref. div. and 7 p.c.
to the ords. called for.
Since the close of accounts a special
cash bonus of 9d. per share (3| p.c. =
£305,042) was paid from accumulated
profits of the subsidiaries; and the ord.
div. for the first quarter of the current
term has been lifted to the rate of 8 p.c.
p.a. Also, before the next annual meet-
ing of the holding co., the board will
“consider supplying to shareholders in-
formation about the subsidiary cos.’ ac-
counts.” Abolition of the Federal special
tax on income from property will help
to reduce, outgoings, while prospects of
tuither increase in the turnover of the
group are encouraging.
The last lift in the div. sent the market
ior the pound ords. from 455. in Dec.
to 495. od. last week-end ; a year ago
the. figure was 395. 6d. ; it had fallen as
low as 225. 6d. in 1931. At 495. 6d. the
return is 3.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis ;
the investor who looks for approximately
4f p.c. on his money counts on an 11 p.c.
distribution. The pref. div. plus 11 p.c.
to the ords. would call for £991,297
(£323,536 more profit than was claimed
last year), and only twice (in ’29 and ’3O)
has more profit than that been claimed.
At 31s. 6d. the well-protected prefs. re-
turn 4.1 p.c. Until the subsidiaries’
figures are published, the “Wild Cat”
cannot say precisely what the net tan-
gible cover amounts to.
Western Australian Insurance
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 46,145 5 p.c.= 5,000 41,145 298,628
1927.. 59.821 5 „ „ 5,000 54,821 353,449
Loss.
1928.. 42,773 Nil 310,676
From Life fund, £493 .. .. 311,169
1929.. 42,752 Nil 268,417
Profit.
1930.. 13,874 Nil 13,874 282,291
1931.. 10,899 Nil 10,899 293,190
1932.. 8,890 5 p.c.= 5,000 3,890 297,080
1933.. 11,590 5 ~,, 5,000 6,590 303,670
1934.. 10,513 5 ~,, 5,000 5,513 309,183
Profit on sale investments, £4265 .. 313,448
Loss.
1935.. 5,582 5 p.c.= 5,000 302,866
1936.. 21,905 5 ~,, 5,000 275,961
f Includes reserves for unexpired risks, but not Life
fund ( £192,622 at June 30, 1936).
Under pressure, of fair trade winds and
improving economic conditions most
underwriters are recording satisfactory
and expanding surpluses these days. But
this one, which does a large reinsurance
business, has run into a patch of heavy
weather. Apart from a small Life busi-
ness, the bulk of the premiums is
gathered in marine and accident depart-
ments, wherein most of the trouble has
occurred. Here is a comparison of
underwriting performances in the fire,
accident and marine sections combined:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1918.. 1,142.001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 „
1924.. 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
1929.. 167,470 147,217 76,140 87.9 „ 45,4 „
1930.. 170,969 105,502 65,772 61.7 „ 38.4 „
1931.. 139,229 89,549 53,017 64.3 „ 38.0 „
1932.. 133,768 84,907 49,723 63.5 „ 37.1 „
1933.. 188,761 85,049 50,597 61.3 „ 36.4 „
1934.. 152,907 97,076 55,644 83.4 „ 36.3 „
1935.. 168,767 129,397 ' 54,886 76.6 „ 32.5 „
1936.. 168,460 141,743 58,266 84.1 „ 34.5 „
The loss last year was £31,549 as against
£15,516 for the previous term. Claims
were the trouble, as they usually are
where reinsurance bulks largely in pre-
mium income. Over the last five years
underwriting has resulted in a net loss
of £44,625, of which £27,807 was on
account of marine and £17,459 accident
business; the fire department showed a
small profit (£641).
Here is a more detailed analysis of
last year’s operations:
Net -(-Surplus.
Premiums. Claims. Exes. —Loss.
Fire .. £36,515 £17,799 £18,205 +£sll
Accident . . 57,977 40,760 27,274 —10,057
Marine . . 73,968 83,184 12,787 —22,003
Net underwriting loss.. .. .. £31,549
Interest, etc. . . .. .. .. 9,644
Net loss £21,905
Interest, etc., alone turned in £9644
(down £190) for the last term, making
the total for the last five years £48,031,
an average of 9.6 p.c. on capital. Allow-
ing for underwriting losses (£44,625),
and including a profit of £4265 on sale
of investments, the net gain from all
sections of the business over the last
quinquennium was £7671. The amount
paid in divs. was £25,000 ; so, at the end
of June last, shareholders were visibly
£17,329 worse off than they were at the
close of accounts in 1931.
Still, in addition to the Life fund
(£192,622), there were reserves totalling
£275,961 to support and assist £IOO,OOO
of paid capital when the books last
closed. The lot, together with £49,059
coming to outsiders, was invested in this
way:
1920. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Public securi-
ties. . . . £144,211 £159,582 £143,342 £143,342
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. 350,600 264,043 323,166 333,208
Properties . . 68,584 22,433 17,222
Book debts, etc. 230,564 47,656 63,659 55,698
Cash, etc. . . 295,808 34,556 73,881 64,492
Odds and ends 5,753 5,935 8,146 8,680
Total assets £1,026,936 £580,356 £634,627 £622,642
Liabilities* . . 141,715 72,594 46,539 49,059
£885,221 £507,762 £588,088 £573,583
* Including provision for taxation (1929-36, £2000).
Of the total assets, 53.5 p.c. is invested
in mortgages, debentures and shares in
other cos., and 23 p.c. in Government
securities, mainly British and Indian.
Apart from the Life fund, other policy-
holders could see net tangibles equal to
222 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
It was the plunge into the international
whirlpool of war-time marine business
that brought this co. into the limelight.
In its first half-dozen years —it set up in
Perth in 1912 to compete with old-
established concerns for local risks —
premium income mounted to over a
million, and reserves approaching three-
quarters of a million accumulated.
But marine underwriting is a long-
winded business, and much of what
looked like profits turned out to be
losses. These, the special demands of
the taxgatherer and adjustment of the
book value of securities swallowed over
half a million of reserves during the
five years to the close, of accounts in
1925.
J. Fielding and Cos. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 23.495 lli p.c.=13,547 9,948 92,275
Reserves capitalised, £24,500 . . 67,775
1927.. 36.354 12£ p.c.=18,375 17,979 85,754
1928.. 40.408 15 ~,, 22,425 17,983103,737
1929.. 41.050 15 ~,, 22,425 18,625122,362
Written off investments, etc., £14,000.. 108,362
1930.. 23,024 15 p.c.=22,425 599 108,961
Written off investments, £SOOO .. 103,961
1931.. 16.180 10 p.c.=14,950 1,230 105,191
1932.. 39.684 15 ~,, 22,600 17,084 122,275
1933.. 32.490 15 ~,, 27,000 5,496 127,771
1934.. 46,153 15 ~,, 27,000 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised, £IB,OOO .. 128,924
1935. . 49,425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1936.. 48.269 15 „ ~30,000 18,269 166,618
Few concerns have done better for their
shareholders than this energetic and
enterprising manufacturer of cardboard
boxes, cartons and corrugated-fibre con-
tainers. In its first eight years, to the
end of the war period, the co.’s fight was
largely one against prejudice. Since
then new uses have constantly been
found for the board and corrugated
fibre, and during the last few years
demand has kept plants working to capa-
city. Only once in the last nine years
has Fieldings distributed less than 15
p.c.; that was in ’3l, when 10 p.c. was
paid. Moreover, 15 p.c. is worth a lot
more to old holders; bonus scrip ac-
counts for more than half the £200,000
of paid capital—the last gift, one for
ten, was made in November, 1934.
Also, more than half the shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) is
invested in well-selected shareholdings,
including the Melbourne subsidiary,
which set up in 1923, and in a number
of well-let Sydney freeholds, snapped up
when the market for real-estate was at
its lowest or thereabouts. During the last
few years returns from these investments
have provided handsome and increasing
contributions to manufacturing profits,
while the rise in share prices and prop-
erty values has created a nice inner
reserve, too.
Turnover kept on expanding during
the last term. After providing for con-
tingencies, the board wrote net earnings
£1844 better at £40,769. That leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained ad-
dition of £7500 to reserves, as against
£lo,soo in 1935. Including these addi-
tions, the 1936 profit was 24.1 p.c. on
capital as against 24.7, 25.6 and 18 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. So the 15
p.c. div. was a comfortable matter, and
looks like remaining so.
The market discounts the future by
paying 82s. as against 775. a year ago
for the pound shares. The return at 82s.
is 3.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the cover is 365. Bd. in net tangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1919. 1930. 1935. 1036.
Paid capital.. £40,000 £149,500 £200,000 £200,000
Creditors . . 1 51,982 17,031 30,286 26,076
Freeholds . . 31,324 42,046 150,487 146,000
Plant, etc. . . 21,230 33,606 24,210 26,061
Stocks. . . . 42,416 26,434 24,270 25,864
Book debts, cash
and investments 19,778 185,119 187,168 202,769
Extension of the Buckingham-street, Syd-
ney, premises was completed during the
year, and additions were made to plant.
Still, the outlay on fixed assets and £2636
besides were covered by the allowance
for depreciation. Book debts, cash and
investments, an untidy entry, was up
£15,601. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£202,056)
was £20,905.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
* £/ ii £ £
1926.. 13,918 124 p.c. = 9375 4,538 43,434
1927. . 12,980 12| „ ~ 9375 3,605 47,039
Brisbane preliminary exes., £6lO 46,429
1928.. 11,376 12i p.c. = 9375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £60.. 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7710 2,727 38,717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = .4000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 „ „ 5000 1,728 43,191
1933.. 7,072 6 „ „ 6000 1,072 44,263
1934.. 9,311 7 „ „ 7000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 „ „ 8000 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525- 9 „ „ 9000 2,525 51,355
This co., which specialises in the manu-
facture of all kinds of office stationery,
etc., has developed strong connections,
spread throughout the Commonwealth,
together with a satisfactory dividend-
paying capacity. For the dozen years
to the close of accounts in 1929 the div.
was a steady 10 p.c., and a 2\ p.c. bonus
was added when things were going extra
well, making the average distribution 11
p.c. In ’2B £12,500 was transferred from
reserves to capital to pay 10s. each on
25,000 new £1 shares. Then slump
brought the 1930 profit down to 3.1 p.c.
on capital, and, for the first time since
the public became interested in 1910,
shareholders were passed by. They got
back into the picture with 4 p.c. in 1931,
and a point has been added to the div.
each year since, thanks to the manage-
ment’s tight hold upon costs and to the
steady annual improvement in the de-
mand for the co.’s dockets and other
requisites.
During the last term the improvement
in gross earnings (£47,808) was £5119.
Exes. (£36,283, including £ll4O sent to
the staff superannuation fund) took
£3850 of the increase, leaving the net
result £1269 better at 11.5 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 10.2, 9.3, 7.1, 6.7, 3.6,
3.1, 13.5 and 15.1 p.c. back to 1928. The
div. was lifted from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c.
Finances are comfortable, and move-
ments in balance-sheet figures reflect ex-
pansion of the business:
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Liabilities* . . 13,619 9,746 13,287 17,462
Premises . . 41,826 41,875 42,233 42,070
Plant, etc. . . 45,074 39,656 44,447 44,350
Stock.. .. 29,701 31,861 39,202 41,968
Book debts . . 24,734 19,861 24,687 27,654
Cash & sundries 1,565 12,184 4,423 3,644
Shares, etc. . . 17,500 17,500 21,125 24,632
* Including unspecified provision for taxation and
insurance.
The shareholding (£17,500) is in the
Westralian subsidiary, which lifted its
div. from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c. Advances to
the pup (£7132) were up £3507. To meet
the outlay, add £2967 to debtors'
balances and carry an extra £2767 of
stocks, £4175 was added to liabilities,
which include an unspecified provision
for taxation and insurance. The im-


Y"//S/'-
m
a
n li
m
w
;
/J
£ ;
TEmCO
While you wink- in 15/iooths
of a second—good petrol does
15 complete power jobs in your
modern, high-compression
engine.
If it doesn’t... you lose in power
... in performance ... in miles
per gallon.
THAT'S WHY SO MANY MOTORISTS
ARE CHANGING TO
TEXACO
PETROL
15.487
•1 /100th of a second-
We're Off/ 9,000 charges of Super Power
Chief petrol a minute ignite in your engine
at its cruising speed.
All Power —— No Waste! Super Power
Chief responds in full to each because it's
free from lazy slow-burning elements that
slow up petrol action.
V
Time's Up!! You've got FULL POWER in
I/1 00 of one second from Super Power
Chief. That's why R.A.C.A. Certificates
have proved it so economical.
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£62,936, including stocks and
the advance just referred to) was £4286.
The market, which expects earnings
to settle down around their present level,
prices the pound shares at 375. as against
275. a year ago. At the higher figure the
return is 4.8 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 30s. 3d. in net tangibles.
Queensland Cement and Lime Cos.
Net r- 1 Dividends To Re-
July, Profit, f—Pref.—Old. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 20,451 8% 6% 5% = 15,421 5,030 5,349
Reserves.
1928.. 29,885 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,385 4,034
1929.. 35,882 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 15,380 19,414
1930.. 30,064 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,562 28,976
1931.. 18,843 8 „ 6„ 6 „„ 15,601 3,242 32,218
1932.. 15,831 8 „ 6„ 6 „„ 15,601 230 32,448
1933.. 15,725 8,, 6 „ 6 „„ 15,601 124 32,572
1934.. 21,078 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ „ 18,051 3,027 35,599
1935.. 25,963 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 5,461 41,060
1936.. 20,779 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ „ 18,052 2,727 43,787
This is the only manufacturer of cement
in the northern State, where a lot of con-
crete has lately gone into new city build-
mgs, which are rapidly altering Bris-
bane’s skyline, and a lot more has gone
into the construction of roadways and
bridges, while judicious advertising has
further helped output and sales by widen-
ing the use of the co.’s product.
The plant, at Darra, which worked
intermittently during the worst of the
slump, operated at over 80 p.c. of capa-
city (60,000 tons p.a.) during the 1935
term. The 12 months covered by the
latest accounts saw further expansion of
building and construction work, and the
co.’s sales of cement were “well main-
tained.” Also, about 25,000 tons of coral
from the co.’s new leases in Moreton
Bay was used in manufacture, to the
benefit of costs. But the selling price
of cement was lowered by 155., reducing
the figure to £4 17s. per ton, thus mak-
ing the cut 20s. over the last two years.
After openly striking off £12,000
(same as in the previous term) for de-
preciation, and setting aside £21,000 (up
£1000) for the taxgatherer—yes, it’s a
Queensland co.!—the year’s net profit
was £5186 lighter at £20,779. There was
f/ 1 a i! Ur ron 1 in andl u vs ’’
hough the £20,779 was a rnfle m°re tha"
10 p.c. to the firsts andlß p.c. to the
seconds and ords. would have called for.
0-70 f « * o
The prefs.—there are £44,878 of first 8
per cents, and £182,183 of second 6 per
cents, in a capital of £245,061-rank in
the order stated for divs. and capital and
advance with the ords. after the latter
have had 6 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances: —
i92i. i93i. loss. i 9 3 6.
Paid capital.. £174,110 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Overdraft ~ 84,623
Sundry creditors 21,680 8,057 13.593 15 965
„ , , ’ ’ ’ J
Freehold, etc. 25,027 28,605 28,624 30,710
Plant, etc. .. 172,804 313,890 316,423 321 644
stocks .. 25,353 so.sie 30,248
Book debts .. n,47i 11,082 30,398 23,741
Cash, etc. .. 1,931 17,578 90,056 97,491
The depreciation reserve (£167,532, not
included with the lay-by in the introduc-
tory table) was equal to 10s. sd. per
pound of the book value of plant at
June 30. Also, plant is reported in
good order . much and ds u (hjs
xhe improvemen , in the mo re or
Übb /
less “quid surplus (£143,078) was £5969.
a„, , ,
f As fm + the current term ’ demand
en promises to exceed last year s.
Whether me abolition of duty on British
ce . ment from the end of November last
will have much, if any, effect on this
Queensland co.’s sales remains to be seen.
The market prices the firsts at 295. 6d.,
seconds 255. 9d. and ords. 255. 6d., as
against 335. 6d., 295. and 295. respectively
a year ago. At current prices, the re-
* r i xz *. c a j
turns are 6.1 p.c. firsts, 5.4 p.c. seconds
nn( 4 C C n c nr H,; T n thf> samp nrHer
P . ° rcl S. in the Same Ordei,
the cover is £6 Bs. 9d., 265. 9d. and
75s 4d in net tangibles
S
{“Wild Cat’’ continued on next page.)


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
h Hk K«<>'y'X >. ■;••>:. .;• •.•• '.>
tilfll
Hi yij i m
§0 II! !ii
V\m
t <>
mmmm
m
m
jin
Swe*;
l i ?
: V$
i < :;
s§>?ftigMgiV
EiA-t
mh| - >/ vi
ll* Mi
Can we assure the
BABY 7"
OF course they can assure the baby. They can make
his financial future secure. Absolutely secure, in
any way they wish. They can make arrange-
ments now for him to have the money to go to the
University when he grows up, even though, by that
time, they be dead and buried. It will call for extra-
ordinarily little outlay on their part; so little as to be
astonishing.
There are half a dozen ways in which any young
couple can arrange, through the A.M.P., for their baby
to profit in later years by their love and foresight, just
as there are half a d6zen ways in which a man can assure
HIS OWN FUTURE and his wife’s.
The wise man will ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
send him an experienced adviser to talk this matter over
with him. Let him tell the adviser what he has in mind
to do, and let him weigh the advice that the A.M.P. man
will offer. Let him make the plunge into adequate
A.M.P. assurance, at this beginning of a new year, and
he will never regret it.
First move: Send for an A.M.P. Adviser.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office :n the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.I.A*
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Mt. Isa
This co., whose early estimates got
badly askew, works a large silver-lead-
zinc deposit at Isa (Q.), and has gone
heavily into debt for the purpose. It has
not yet been able to earn enough to give
shareholders anything.
Without making any allowance for
depreciation or amortisation, the co. re-
corded a loss of £5542 for the year to
June 30, 1936, as against losses of £8195
and £166,315 for the two preceding
years, thus raising the p. and 1. debit
to £418,843. The London average for
lead was £l6 4s. sd. (up £4 18s. 5d.) a
ton; silver, 2s. 2.3 and. (down 1.5 and.) per
ounce; spelter, £ls 3s. lid. (up £2 7s.
4d.) a ton. Metal sales, etc., turned in
£1,244,833 (up £252,947). Including in-
terest (£222,958, down £6704), exes,
amounted to £1,250,375 (up £230,293).
Ore production totalled 628,504 tons
(up 76,326 tons), of which 616,259 tons,
assaying 6.230 z. silver, 7.85 p.c. lead and
11.1 p.c. zinc, were delivered to the
mill; the balance (12,452 tons, assaying
-17.270 z. silver and 18.35 p.c. lead) was
carbonates, sent direct to the smelter.
For the first time the mill treated
sulphides only, producing 85,181 tons of
lead concentrates, assaying 31.20 z. silver
and 41.2 p.c. lead, a recovery of 68.8
p.c. of the silver and 72.4 p.c. of the
lead in the original ore. The silver re-
covery was 3 p.c. lower, and the lead
recovery 3.1 p.c. lower than for the pre-
vious term, owing to soluble salts and
oxidation products in ore from the Black
Star, from which the bulk of the crudes
came. The zinc flotation section, which
began production in October, 1935,
turned out 46,839 tons of zinc concen-
trates, assaying 50.8 p.c. zinc and 4oz.
silver. Of the zinc concentrates only
18,010 tons had been shipped when the
books closed. The lead concentrates
are railed to Townsville and shipped to
the Britannia Refinery, on the Thames
(Eng.), for treatment.
There was little change in all-in costs,
225. 7.2 and. per ton —mining and develop-
ment (10s. 5.9 and.) was up a shilling, but
the smelting figure (4s. 5d.) was down
9.7 and., and that for milling (4s. 2.8 and.) was
1.5 and. lighter.
Ore reserves at June 30 last were put
at 13,429,800 tons, made up as follows:
Assay —\
Carbonate ore: Silver, Lead, Zinc,
Lode. Tons. Oz. p.c. P-c.
Black Star .. 13,800 4.85 8.45
Rio Grande . . 30,500 10.02 13.63
Mt. Isa .. 45,000 1.2 14.4
Sulphide ore:
Lode.
Black Star .. 13,167,000 5.41 8.22 9.41
Black Rock . . 48,800 9.22 12.47 4.19
Rio Grande . . 124,700 15.54 14.05 5.44
Of that lot 10,765,700 tons is classed as
developed ore and 2,664,100 tons as
prospective ore.
When the books closed, paid capital
stood at £1,944,202. The debenture debt
and accrued interest thereon totalled
£2,920,747 (down £57,499), and there
was £984,639 (up £224,369) coming to
sundry creditors. It is thus plain that
the co.’s friends have given it substan-
tial assistance. The mine, plant, etc.,
figured at cost, £4,693,591 (up £179,639);
stores, etc., £239,220 (up £59,859); pro-
ducts on hand, etc., £365,371 (down
£78,068); debtors,. £23,108 (up £7407);
cash, £2186 (down £5765); exchange
equalisation account, £107,269 (down
£1800).
The sharp rise in the price of lead
since the close of accounts should en-
able the co. to show a reasonable profit
on shareholders’ account at June 30 next;
but the substantial outside debt calls for
reduction.
Katu, operating at Puket, West Siam,
has decided to pass the next quarterly
dividend (last payment 6d. per share,
Nov., ’36), due this month, owing to the
necessity of renewing the bucket band
(no allowance had been made out of
earnings for this purpose), and to fixa-
tion of the Siamese quota for the current
half-year at 66.5 p.c. For the last half
of 1936 the quota was 52.7 p.c. plus two
bonuses of 15 p.c. and 17 p.c. on quota.
For 15 months to the end of June last,
the co. treated 1,343,500 c.y. of .44d.
ground for a gross return of £38,102.
Costs were 3.25 and. and the net profit
£14,175, or £3107 less than for the pre-
ceding 12 months. Divs. totalled p.c.
(= £18,750), as against 10 p.c. for the
year before. The drop in earnings was
due to the lower grade of ground
treated; still, recoveries were 110 p.c.
of bore values. The dredge worked to
about 48 p.c. of capacity. The trouble
is that the quota was assessed on 1929-30
operations, when the dredge was treat-
ing only 100,000 c.y. monthly, or about
60 p.c. of its present capacity. For the
first five, months of the current term the
dredge has been in .341 b. ground, and,
although costs have been reduced to
2.7 and., working profit totalled only £4029.
However, there is richer ground ahead
(bore average for the area to be treated
during 1937 is .551 b. per yard), and the
price of the metal is up. The co. has
over 26,000,000 c.y. of dirt remaining to
be treated.
**■ * *
Normanby Tin is a Melbourne float
with a nominal capital of £50,000 in 2s.
shares, of which 350,000 have been
offered, and underwritten at |d. per
share. The vendor, Gold Dredges, Ltd.,
takes 150,000 paids plus £SOOO. It is
proposed to equip the property, near
Mt. Poverty, about 40 miles south-west
of Cooktown (N.Q.), with plant to handle
5000 c.y. weekly, at a capital cost of
£7500. Another £IOOO is to be spent on
buildings, and £SOO on road construction.
Allowing for vendors’ cash consideration
and preliminary exes., etc., put at £2OOO,
a working capital of £ISOO remains. L. Y.
Ellis figures that portion of the area,
tested by shafting, contains 200,000 c.y.
of 41b. ground (= 800,0001 b. t. 0.). He
estimates that there is a further possible
313,000 c.y., averaging 2.221 b. t.o. On
the basis of a 90 p.c. recovery, and with
t.o. at Is. 6d. per pound, the proved
area is worth £54,000, and the possible
ground £47,000, together £IOI,OOO.
Costs are not expected to exceed Is. per
yard. For the two areas combined this
would leave a working profit of £75,350.
Outside these areas is another 24 acres,
with tin showing on the surface, yet to
be proved. Plenty of water is available
near by in the East Normanby River.
* * * *
A southern co. has taken an option
over the Duffer mine, Kelsey Creek
(N.Q.), which has yielded over £7OOO
worth of gold from sensational crush-
ings—the last 18 tons returned 98oz. of
gold, an average of over £47 a ton. The
purchase price is £27,000 cash and £3OOO
in fully-paids. Details concerning the
deposit have not yet been broadcast.
* * * *
Hubnerite (tungstate of. manganese), a
rare mineral previously unknown among
Queensland deposits, has been located on
Kildare station, 25 miles north-east of
Cracow. A sample tested by the Gov-
ernment Analyst assayed 73.4 p.c. tung-
Stic anyhydride, 20.4 p.c. manganous
oxide and 2.2 p.c. iron oxide. On the
recommendation of geologist Denmead
the new discovery is to be thoroughly
developed.
* * * *
There has been a mild “rush” to the
head of the Campaspe River, five miles
from Mount Stewart station (N.Q.),
where a reef carrying high gold values
has been located. Leases covering nearly
100 acres have been pegged. Samples of
quartz exhibited at the Towers attracted
many men to the spot.
* * * *
Westralian goldmining in 1936 was
eventful. Production (846,2080 z.) was
the best since 1918, ore reserves ex-
panded, several new mills came into
operation, important additions were
made to existing plants, anew metal-
lurgical process for smelting gold from
concentrates was applied at Wiluna,
several new cos. joined the dividend list,
Big Bell, the largest low-grade venture
in the State, was opened up by wealthy
American interests, the De Bernales
group added the rich Halley’s Comet
mine, Marble Bar, to its list of holdings,
and a number of wild cats breathed their
last to the accompaniment of public
lamentations. Dividend distributions
aggregated nearly £1,000,000. New-
comers on the list were Lancefield,
£100,000; Triton, £48,000; Ora Banda
Amalgamated, £20,000. Aggregate ore
reserves in the front row of mines ex-
panded to over 7,000,000 tons, but the
average grade was slightly lower than
at the end of 1935. Lake View’s in-
crease of 161,300 tons to 3,197,200 tons
was the largest. Wiluna’s measured
reserves jumped from 1,786,000 tons to
2,413,000 tons ; other upward movements
were Gt. Boulder, 650,784 tons to
697,394 tons; North Kalgurli, 402,685
tons to 460,000 tons. South Kalgurli at
191,000 tons shows a slight shrinkage ;
Boulder Perseverance had nothing to
say on the subject of reserves ; Sons of
Gwalia’s “five years’ supply in sight” in-
dicated little alteration. Estimates for
the first time included Triton, 157,000
tons; Yellowdine, 118,187 tons; Par-
inga, 179,000 tons; Southern Cross,
60,858 tons; Resurrected Lancefield
claimed to have 330,000 tons visible.
Members of the Norseman group in-
creased their tonnage in sight, and so did
a few of the smaller ventures, notably
Ora Banda Amalgamated and Riverina
—the last-named is operated by Murchi-
son Gold United, one of the De Ber-
nales group. An estimate of “1,000,000
tons above the 250 ft. level” issued by a
London co. in possession of Ora Banda
United leases is not taken too seriously
by local mining men.
* * * *
After an examination of the property,
Dr. F. A. Moss sums up the possibilities
of Ingliston South, Meekatharra (W.A.),
in this way:
The mine contains only one ore-body,
Duff’s shoot, which is in the southern part
of the lease. This shoot consists of a
narrow but very rich vein of quartz along
a shear. This shear ranges in dip from
75deg. west to vertical, and the ore-shoot
along it pitches about 50deg. north. Above
the top of the sulphide zone, which is at
a depth of 300 ft., secondary enrichment
formed a relatively large ore-body of
moderate grade, in which was a very rich
central part —Duff’s shoot. In the sulphide
zone, the ore-shoot decreases in size and
grade. Ore measurements, based on in-
formation obtained in stoping to a height
of 40ft. above the 398 ft. level, show that
the shoot over a stoping width of 4ft.
makes 45 tons of ore per foot of vertical
depth of a grade of lldwt. Persistence
of ore in depth is a reasonable expectation.
A winze now is being sunk from the 398 ft.
level, at the northern end of the shoot, to
explore its downward continuation. Some
of the numerous quartz leaders in the por-
phyry dyke may yield small amounts of
ore in the oxidised zone, but they are of
no interest whatever in the sulphide zone.
Better was expected when the co., an
offshoot of Australian Mining Trust, was
formed in November, 1934. Paid capital
is £45,925 in ss. shares, of which 226,000
are paid to 3s. each, and the balance
(50,500 —vendor’s) fully-paid.
* * * *
Golden Valley, N.L., floated in Perth
during October, 1934, to dig gold out of
an old show at Kanowna, is thinking of
winding up. The matter will be debated
at a meeting of shareholders this month.
ẁ


SMOKE-OH!
What happened to that 1937 diary you
started to keep?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“1936 will be remembered in history as the
year of three Kings and two Queens of Eng-
land.”
A full house!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Punters on Mark at Ascot. Leading Fielder
Forced to Borrow to Pay Out Bets.” — Big
headings in Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
When a punter bites a bookie, that's
news!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When a man contemplates marriage, he
should select a woman who will remain faith-
ful to her lover,” says a writer.
Wouldn’t he do better to choose a
woman who’d remain faithful?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Hard Diet.
“He ate many meals off a valuable old carved
oak table.”—“ Sunday Sun.”
It reminds me of one time when,
hard up, I rented a furnished flat on the
strength of my honest-looking face.
My first meal was off the front door-
mat. Although it looked fairly new, I
was glad to get eighteenpence for it. It
was just enough for fish and chips and
a schooner.
I had quite a number of really high-
class meals off the sitting-room lounge
suite. They even ran to some bubbly.
My last meal was off the kitchen sink.
I had a devil of a job disconnecting it,
too.
I almost had a meal off the electric-
light fittings, but they proved too un-
comfortable, especially the bath-heater,
which I endeavored to take off without
turning off the meter first'; 450 volts 1
think it was. It was a triumph for
modern resuscitation methods.
H. M.
• 4* 4* 4* 4*
“Water, in varying degrees, is present in
everything.”
It’s even one of the drawbacks of beer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A wowser is all right in his place.”
—Magazine item.
The trouble is that he. cannot go there
till after he dies.
4* ’ 4* 4* 4*
“He was lucky on the racecourse but un-
lucky at the gaming table.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
Even if a man wins money on the
horses, it’s on the cards that he will lose
it again.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Because her husband did not come home
until after midnight she once hit him on the
head with a length of pipe.”
Undoubtedly the dame was right —
The case demanded vim :
He kept on staying out at night
And so she outed him.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Brisbane octogenarian shoemaker puts work
before anything.’ ’ — “T el e graph. ’ ’
His last comes first.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Small gangs of women pickpockets are
active in Melbourne.” — “Argus.”
50 to 1 on the smartest isn’t single.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Paterson, of Mrs. Freer fame, may go
to the Coronation.”
British Customs officials are preparing
a dictation test in Hindustani.
SOS.
A sailor has no EC time,
When on the DP sails.
It’s RD finds aloft to climb,
Exposed to 1C gales.
Lost overboard for AD cries,
With NRG and vim,
And though of little UC tries
A vain SA to swim.
But when no LP finds is near
Nor NE one to save,
He then in an XS of fear
Must CK watery grave.
SIETE.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Housekeeping by Degrees.
“German women can graduate Master of
Housekeeping after a two years’ course.”
The pupils are first taught how to
master the nominal master of the house.
Unless they can do this the rest of the
course is useless.
Therefore, fraus are taught not only
the subtler methods of wheedling, hys-
terics, threats of mother, etc., but also
how to throw straight, kitchenette jiu-
jitsu and the right time to yell for the
police.
The rest of the curriculum deals with
such important aspects of domestic
economy as how to balance bridge losses
against the butcher’s account; relative
"Think they'd chuck a bloke a coupla bob if 'e paced 'em for a few
miles?"
advantages of t.p. and s.p. financing in
home-building; theory and practice of
tin-can cookery.
Of course the whole thing can be done
in three months, the remaining 21
months being devoted to improving the
student’s technique for poker, bridge and
getting husbands used to the idea of
paying out money for nothing without
moaning.
Angus O’Cohen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Every time I see a new picture in which
my favorite screen actress is appearing, she
wears less and less clothes.” —Movie story.
Still, luck like that can’t be expected
to last indefinitely.
*2* *2* *2* *2*
“In settlement defendant had handed him a
poet-dated cheque, which was never honored.”
— “Sun.”
Such practices should be bard.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Two cases of apples intended for patients
of a Brisbane hospital were stolen by an un- 4
known culprit.”
A doctor?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The great-great grandson of the man who
founded Brisbane is a painter in Scotland.”
—News item.
Well, he’s reasonably safe there.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Runs and Rhapsody.
“You call yourself a cricket reporter!”
yelled the “Daily Seram’s” editor at
Biffer, who, back in the days when
cricket reporters reported cricket, had
been considered a good man. “Why,
you’re not a cricket-reporter’s bootlace!
You have no soul. What do y’ mean by
piffle like ‘Voce’s bowling had the bats-
men subdued,’ when Voce was a crash-
ing crescendo on the off stump reducing
the batting to a diminuendo?”
“He just looked like a good bowler to
me,” growled Biffer.
“Bah! ” snorted the editor. “And this
tosh about McCabe making a great
stand when you knew he was a maestro
rising to the soul flights of a Bach
sonata!”
“ ’Struth! ” mumbled Biffer. “Can you
tell me,” he added sarcastically, “what
particular opus Bradman was executing
when he went to an easy catch off the
first ball?”
“Why,” snapped the editor, “any
sound cricket reporter would have seen
in that one stroke alone the whole gamut
of impressive solemnity in Tosti’s ‘Good-
bye.’ ”
“Tossed his good-bye is right,” sighed
Biffer, and tossed his.
D. McM.
♦l* 4* 4* 4-
“Lost outside Central Railway Station,
Monday, square-faced gentleman’s wristlet
watch.” — Advt.
Doubtless, if it doesn’t turn up he’ll
develop an oblong one.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Gold is so ductile that a 2900-mile wire
could be drawn from a single pound of the
metal.”
Wish someone would send us a wire
like that!
4- 4* 4* 4*
I’ve been a wasteful sort of goat,
’Micl luxuries I used to range.
Now I can’t even change a note —
Alas! I only note a change!
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Hogan said it would be ridiculous to
prosecute a person for having a drink in a
hotel a minute after 6 p.m.”— “Age.”
That’s one minute that will be con-
firmed.
“The estate agent was by no means an
invalid.”— “D.T.”
Presumably he couldn’t get used to
just lying in bed.
4* 4* 4* 4*
I can’t deny my love for her
Nor loosen passion’s fetters,
For her old man’s a barrister
And she’s kept all my letters!
Percy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Pity the Poor J.P.
“Another 1200 Justices of the Peace have
been appointed in N.S.W.”
As an unemployed J.P. of many years’
standing (I’ve never been allowed to sit
on anything officially) I must protest
against this overcrowding. It’s two years
come dole day since I had a paper to
witness.
There’s too much scab labor em-
ployed nowadays. What with parsons,
postmasters and rabbit inspectors being
allowed to witness forms, the genuine
J.P. can’t make an impression. If the
politicians who recommend us don’t find
us something to do soon, they’ll learn
that the disgruntled J.P. vote is big
enough to put them out of their jobs.
Anyway, so far as I’m concerned, I’m
no longer going to dress up in my best
suit every court day waiting for the call
that never comes. I’m resigning my
commission and cutting my losses.
Any of the 1200 new Js.P. who haven’t
yet outfitted themselves can have the
following impedimenta of office cheap:
Set of scales for weighing evidence;
fountain pen (still full); collection of
oaths ; Blackstone’s Justice as a Hobby,
and the same author’s How to Dispense
Law with Decorum.
Angus O’Cohen.
What It’s Coming To.
Late Sporting—
In the 1948 cricket series D. G. Brad-
man (Australia) and G. O. Allen (Eng-
land) played the Second Toss at the Syd-
ney Cricket Ground. Amid tremendous
excitement, Australia won by a head.
This brings the teams level, Allen having
pitched a tail at Brirbane.
Allen and Bradman then left for Mel-
bourne, where they will meet at the
M.C.C. ground to play the Third Toss.
P. C.
Evangeline.
Evangeline is literary,
As anyone who meets her knows:
Her tastes in printed matter vary
In turn from poetry to prose.
She talks of volumes past and present
In manner truly erudite,
Discussing subjects either pleasant
Or otherwise with keen delight.
Her home with shelves is decorated,
These shelves containing rows of
books :
An atmosphere is thus created,
For tomes are found where’er one
looks.
Evangeline is literary :
Much wisdom lies within her head;
But ne’er a page is scanned by Mary,
Who is the girl I mean to wed!
TRES.
Some Little-known Facts About
Switzerland.
I. —General Knowledge.
Switzerland is a small stretch of Alps,
glaciers, landslides, lakes, blizzards,
waterfalls, outcrops and snowstorms
held together by odd bits of inhabitable,
country. Herr Professor Schnitzel-
koppen, in his simply-titled work Zwie
Staatvolkswithschaft Handelspolitik und
der Schweinkummergutza, has calcu-
lated, after much painstaking research,
that if Switzerland were flattened out into
a plain it would not only overflow into
the surrounding countries but would
probably mean the ruin of the tourist
and mountain-climbing industries.
In the extreme s.-e., at Geneva,
occurs the heaviest rainfall in Europe,
caused through the tremendous volume
of hot air rising and striking the clouds
over the surrounding mountains. So
serious has the consequent problem of
the overflowing of Lake Geneva become
that the Government is considering the
dredging of the lake before the next ses-
sion of the League.
Switzerland has no standing army,
there being no place for one to stand
without having to hang on to crevasses
and snowslides.
Probably because they sound better,
and owing to their having, with the pre-
vailing winds, to put up with a lot of
blowing, mountain peaks are named
after horns. Thus: Matterhorn, Wetter-
horn, Watterhorn, Alpenhorn, Limozen-
horn, Kreemhorn, etc.
There are no wild game in Switzer-
land. They used to have the chamois,
but since the introduction of the motor-
car sportsmen have cleaned them all up.
Owing to the rigors of the climate and
the needs of the export trade, a special
breed of cow has been evolved, a cross
between a Guernsey and a mountain
goat. The touch of goat makes them
sure-footed, while Guernsey strain keeps
them from freezing. The cows are fed
on beet sugar and snow, the yield being
pure condensed milk, already frozen for
export. No other preparation is needed,
and the milk goes straight from the udder
to the tin, which is then sealed. For
ordinary milk for local consumption, the
cows are, fed on snow neat, without the
sugar. This saves the vendors watering
it.
Owing to the large number of bill
hoardings displayed and the huge quan-
tity of empty tins left around by tour-
ists goats are becoming plentiful. At the
last census there were 154,739, including
alpine climbers.
Chief industries are yodel-making,
cheese,-trapping, glacier-sliding, mineral
bath - taking, edelweiss - stalking and
Alpine-climber rescuing.
Eggs taken from the nests of fowls
in the Alpine districts are usually a
couple of hundred degrees below freez-
ing point when gathered, and have to go
through a special defreezing process
before they are fit to eat. If put into
an ice-chest immediately after laying
they will boil.
After Gruyere cheeses are made they
are put in a cave to hibernate during the
winter months, the cave being then
blocked up to prevent their escape. In
the fortnight’s interlude between winters
the cheeses are mustered, specially
trained St. Bernards assisting the cheese-
trappers. They are expert at heeling
them without actually biting through the
rind.
Trout-fishing is a unique art. First a
small hole, just big enough to let a line
down, is bored through the ice. When
a “hit” is registered the angler gauges
the size of the hooked fish and instructs
his ice-sawyer (equivalent to a Scotch
gillie) to saw a circular block out just
big enough to haul the catch through.
Afterwards the block is put back and
cemented in. By a strange coincidence
the inventor of this method, Herr Freid-
kodt Fischingkrank, lost his life when,
mistaking an old pinion wheel he had
hooked for an outsize trout, he forgot in
his excitement to get off the huge circu-
lar block his sawyer cut, and he dis-
appeared under the ice. Some months
later he came up, perfectly preserved,
half-way down the Rhine.
S.W.K.


thc famous j.s
COWBOY
saoouLmmi
i
£l6'lo/-
(COMPLETE)
—vm
==mm
Is built for roping and
is fitted with leather
breast collar. Is
double-rigged with one
cord cincha and one
leather cincha. The leather is a nice
dark brown, neatly basket stamped,
and the bastos are woolly sheepskin
lined.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with Order.
WE STAND ALONE FOR
COWBOY SADDLES
Cowboy Bridles, Breastplates, Bits, Spurs,
Chaparajos, Tapaderos, Belts, Cuffs, etc.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON its
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ONE CERTIFICATE
Covers
TWENTY COMPANIES
ynR SECURtry
By investing as little % as £25 in FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST Certificates
YOU obtain the same degree of Capital
security as does a big investor —together with
reasonable income. Your investment is always
realisable. Write for a Booklet to any
Stockbroker or direct to
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel.: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028V.V.
LIFELONG EMPLOYMENT
—AND A CAREER WITH A
FUTURE.
Here is an opportunity—in a field from which you
can never be replaced by machines —to build for
yourself a great career, with opportunity for lifelong
progressive work in Distribution.
CONSIDER THE ADVANTAGES.
The field of advertising—marketing—merchandising —
presents an opportunity to you which no other walk
of life may hold. No machine can. ever do. the work
you will be called upon to perform in this field—
and there is no limit to the. heights to which you
climb; it all depends on you.
FREE—A HANDBOOK TO GUIDE YOU.
We ‘will teach you—fit you for this career. The
new H. & It. Courses in Distribution Subjects
(Marketing and Selling—Marketing and. Advertising)
will equip you for this career. That you may
convince yourself 'that you can not.-only secure a
position, but can considerably increase your earnings
fa!r beyond present prospects, H. ? & R. have printed a
handbook to-guide you. It - will-give you, in a
simple, straightforward manner,- full . particulars of
career, possibilities in Distribution—the business
function from which machines can never displace you.
Write for this handbook to-day—“ The Guide to
Careers in Distribution.”
SOME H. & R. FEATURES
Personal-Individual, Tuition.
_ • • Open until 8 p.m.'Fridays.
Service Consultants Main Country Centres.
Department of Distribution,
Hemingway & Robertson,
Sydney: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
Newcastle: 38 A.M.P. Chambers, Hunter Street.
Offices in all Capital Cities.
POST TO DAY.
Dear . Sirs, . . . - - ■
Plfease. send me free copy of ■ t-fre- new - Guide to
Careers in Distribution.” I am interested in the
subject marked below.
. .Marketing and Selling. . .Practical Retail Selling.
. .Marketing & Advertising. ..Modern Merchandising.
Name Age
Address
38/DD2o6
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Borrowing Bug
Sightseeing Australian politicians back
from abroad during the past twelve
months or so are generally all for woo-
ing the London borrowing market again.
But because people have outraged feel-
ings about previous overseas monetary en-
tanglements the said politicians are open-
ing up their hearts gently. “Private capi-
tal” is being beckoned here from abroad
and much ado made about it; the
“cheap” market for public loans in Lon-
don has been more discreetly referred
to, though frequently enough.
When the Loan Council cut down
Premiers’ demands by 25 p.c. prior to the
last internal loan (undersubscribed by
nearly 30 p.c.) references to London
borrowing became less discreet; and there
was talk about enlarging pint-pots, etc.,
in the Commonwealth’s credit and cur-
rency department so that State Premiers
might have a better go in the local
market.
No overseas borrowing can possibly
be of lasting benefit unless it develops
the income (and taxation) resources of
the Commonwealth. But the most that
politicians are concerned about are favor-
winning and budget-wangling; loan ex-
penditure relieves Budget outgo. That
is practically all there is to it, but it
represents a sharp spur to politicians,
who behold length of days in office if
the voting majority can be lulled (long
enough) with the proceeds from the
public purse.
Actually overseas bor-
rowing is usually un-
healthy for private indus-
try, the only producer of
wealth that really counts.
Footpaths, public build-
ings and sewerage
schemes don’t increase
population or add to our
exportable prod uction.
They do increase costs
and taxation, while they
are actually paid for with
imported overseas goods
that compete with our
own factories —the. money doesn’t come
out here in gold.
In 1935-36 our surplus of exports over
imports wasn’t enough to pay interest on
previous London borrowings. For the
first half of this financial year the position
is worse than last; and there will be a
huge bill for Coronation trips to be met.
Though prices for wool, wheat and base
metals are well up, and gold production
grows more valuable each month, exces-
sive imports (which swell Common-
wealth Customs revenue) are outstrip-
ping all our efforts.
The position in London causes wonder
as to whether the idea at Canberra
is not eventually to force the coun-
try into borrowing overseas. Such a
position will arise if our London reserves
become so depleted—through further
importing excesses, drought losses or
other upsets to our trade —that they
won’t meet interest. The amount of our
present credit balance is a close secret
from the people ; but it is regarded by
the Commonwealth Bank Board as being
inadequate as a contingency reserve.
This year a decision will have to be
made about continuance of the Ottawa
agreement. During its operation we have
had floods of goods we cannot afford.
The “Ottawa spirit” also influenced the
“revision” {i.e., abolition) of duties on
Portland cement. Then came the disas-
trous “trade-diversion” policy, which
lost us the Japanese custom for
our wool for half a season. Trade
policy at Canberra under the present
Government has been truly remarkable
for its ill-conception and woeful
handling.
Commonwealth and State taxation is
now over £100,000,000 a year —it was
never higher, though the national income
in terms of the same money is still below
the 1928 level. True, Customs revenue
is the largest and most buoyant single
item. But the States, whether revenue
justifies it or not, continue their extrava-
gances and set new high standards of
expenditure each year.
For the first six months, of. 1936-37
1,373,154 bales of greasy wool were sold
in Australia for a return of £26,386,986,
“Is that you , dear? I shan't be working back at the office after all!"
averaging 15. Id. a pound. It should
now be plain even to politicians that if
Japanese had been operating all along
the return would have been a great deal
more. At the opening January sales in
Sydney prices were 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.
above closing December quotes, 96 p.c.
clearances being effected. A top-line
merino fleece fetched 35|d.; at Gee-
long, new Australian figures of 37d. and
31yd. were set for super iambs’ 1 wool
and comebacks respectively. For the
first three days of the Sydney sales
prices averaged 19.6 d. a pound.
*.* * *
At last week’s quote of 365. 9d., re-
turning 4.6 p.c., Winchcombe Carson
was the most attractive pastoral stock.
A 10 p.c. div. seems indicated. Last term
that rate could have been comfortably
paid from earnings of £57,884, equal to
11.5 p.c. on capital, the margin over the
8 p.c. handout being £17,884. The co.
has strong connections in N.S.W. and
Queensland. Goldsbrough Morts put on
Is 6d. to 385., and Commonwealth Wool
went above par for the first time for
months.
* * * *
On ’Change base-metal shows started
the New Year briskly. Barriers and Mt.
Lyell touched record levels, and sharp
rises, chiefly due to Asian buying,
occurred in the tin group, notably in
Kampong and Larut. Then prices
skidded on profit-taking following an
easing in overseas metal prices. A firmer
tendency developed at the week-end,
when metals had recovered somewhat.
* * * *
Bank stocks were strong last week.
’Wales went to £35 155., and Union, con-
sequent on an increased final div. —3 p.c.,
making 5£ p.c. (up | |>.c.) for the year —
also brought better rates. Commercial
of Australia, which has declared an in-
terim 6.6 p.c. p.a., equal to last year's
final, and Queensland National were
prominent also. With export prices as
they are, it should be a good year for
banks.
A steady demand for Anthony Hor-
derns ords. saw sales at par (205.) on Fri-
day. During the week before Christmas
they were snapped up at 19s. 3d. This
historic and well-managed Australian
business is shaping very well, and a
better return than 4 p.c. is a very reason-
able anticipation.
* * *
Meggitts’ interim div. declaration at
the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.,' as against 8y p.c.
for the full 1936 term, caught the market
napping; a 3s. 6d. rise took ords. to 355.
The co. makes linseed-cake and -oil, and
larger cake sales, owing to drought, par-
ticularly on the N.S.W. North Coast, are
chiefly responsible for the. fatter div.
Last year’s earnings were sufficient
to pay the prefs. their full contract rate
and then hand the ords. 12 p.c.
* * * *
With Tresco G. Rowe, of Linoleum
Manufacturers (Aust.), Ltd., as manag-
ing director, Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd.,
a £300,000 co., has been registered in
Sydney. It is to turn out Axminster
squares and body carpets from crossbred
wool, and, provided quality and prices
appeal, there is a future for the co. At
the moment all Australia’s requirements
are imported, last year’s bill running into
over £1,000,000. Negotiations are pro-
ceeding with overseas interests.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week, Olympic
Tyres sold at 425. 6d. to return 4.6 p.c.
It’s a robust concern, trading in rubber
manufactures in all the States and Maori-
land. Operations commenced in 1933
just when hardening capital values and
the upward movement in the motoring
and other trades began to be felt, and
turnover increased so rapidly that early
last term 70,000 new £1 shares were put
out. Last year’s 10 p.c. div. took little
more than half disclosed profits.
$ * !|<
Listed a couple of months ago, shares
in Taubmans, the paint and' varnish
people, have gone from 735. to 78s„ and
on Friday there were unsatisfied, buyers at
81s. 6d. A one-for-six bonus is announced.
Though last year the co.’s Westralian
market was upset by the shipping hold-
up, sales in other States; showed' more
than a compensating advance, and, after
“adequate” provision for depreciation
and contingencies, disclosed net earnings
moved up £11,227 to £71,3 507-equal to
23.5 p.c. on capital at work. The 17|
p.c. handout (£53,058) left a margin of
£18,292. The pups are robust young-
sters, last year netting £23,861, or 11.2
p.c. on capital as at balancing date. With
expansion under way earnings in the cur-
rent term should be more than main-
tained. A controlling interest in the
Adelaide firm of L. G. Abbott and Co.
has just been acquired. . -
* % %
In Melbourne last week:
Pastorals held the floor. Younghusband and
Squatting Investment were difficult to obtain
at 41s. 6d. and 30s. respectively; Dennys Las-
celles brought strong support at rising rates.
Ex rights, Permewan Wright spurted to
295., a 3s. rise. The business is spread through-
out the back-country of Vic. and N.S.W. Last
year, from earnings representing 10.8 p.c. on
capital, shareholders got 6 p.c., as against 5
p.c. and 4 p.c. in the preceding terms. With
the relining of wool- and wheatgrowers’ pockets
and extension of the business—£so,ooo of fresh
capital has just been gathered—something
Getter is on the cards. There was a run of
124- p.c. divs. prior to the slump.
Breweries tended to ease, Carlton, with sales
at 675. 6d. —up 7s. 6d. since mentioned as a
good buy prior to the holidays—a notable ex-
ception.
Central Nell Gwynne, ss. higher at 665.,
led the goldmining section.


Public Notice.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that- they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1936, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies, less any.part of such pre-
miums actually paid by way of reinsurance to
any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 30th January, 1937, subject
to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. Webb,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
Public Notice.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with
Any Insurance Company not
Registered in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and association's
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District, and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, has been applied, in respect of which
premiums are paid to an insurance company
not registered in the State, are hereby notified
that they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to such
insurance companies during the year 1936.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 30th January, 1937, subject
to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every
day of default.
Note: Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable in
respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the said
Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
RELAXATION! /
Modern comfort and service are assured when travelling by
vessels of the Canadian-Australasian Line (inc. in Canada).
.0 EUROPE via
NEW ZEALAND—FIJI—HONOLULU and VANCOUVER
Enjoy the wonders of the Canadian Rockies!
Fares, Itineraries and all Particulars on application to: — / inc IN \
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD., ( n.z. )
247 George Street, Sydney, 59 William Street, Melbourne.
"A welcome break /
;;y/or r yryyr r
\r;sw< — rW r"j —rr*rjifr»T"T
' I i i
Wr-’i-
M
m
ifctltfef
Uu«vl^7
■
i£
5 It*
■jifi
if#
fli
PiPf£f*i
>#•••> -—ljj.V-/—'•rk+'l'l"*
. ~5.,-
;,J
y'w4o
m
Q
T
f/l
rr.yi
Vifcji-W-
-*fc
jf£s;
if
m
V'
as
36 D
w
is—
c
(T)
I/Ad (UAisAy
IS
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son - -
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantle
- - - Hobart
fA
FAVOURABLE
FEATURES
jQefsoii&l
/
* Money placed on Fixed Deposit with the
National Bank bears interest from the
day it is lodged until the day when the
deposit matures.
2 An engraved Fixed Deposit Receipt,
signed by two officers of the Bank, and
setting out particulars of the Deposit, is
handed to each Customer when placing
money on Fixed Deposit. This keeps the
money separate from other funds.
:> The Interest does not vary during the
term of the Deposit.
On its due date the amount, plus interest,
may be withdrawn or deposited for a
further term. There is no risk of shrink-
age through changes in market values,
nor any Commission or other charges
to pay.
Rates of Interest
Allowed on Fixed Deposits
For Three Months - 2 per cent, per annum
For Six Months - - 2\ per cent, per annum
For Twelve Months - 2f per cent, per annum
For Two Years - - 3 per cent, per annum
SYDNEY BOARD OF ADVICE
Sir Colin Stephen, Chairman;
Hunter White, Esq.,
Lieut.-Colonel the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair,
D. 5.0., 0.8. E., V.D., M.L.C.
State Manager: Thos. Church
t&he
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
OFFICES AND BRANCHES IN AUSTRALIA
43 0
ASSETS EXCEED FORTY SEVEN MILLIONS
27/24/3P
Sydney Stock Exchange is establishing
a research and statistical bureau “to pro-
vide full information for brokers and
give a long-needed service to the general
public.” It is promised that the monthly
share list will be extended by the in-
clusion, among other things, of “a com-
prehensive review of all listed com-
panies.” W. Judd has been taken from
the Premier’s department to manage the
bureau; he was one of Prof. Cop-
land’s young men in Tasmania.
* 4c * *
Australian Stock Exchanges had a
buoyant reopening. Stocks like Gordon
and Gotch, Meggitts and Bankers and
Traders were in keen demand at firmer
rates. In the main, balance sheets made
up to June 30 next should show improved
results, but this the market has
anticipated, generally speaking.
# * * *
“Wodgil”: At Christmas Westralian
timber mills generally close for a fort-
night. When about to be reopened No.
1 Mornington mill, which had 175 men
on the paysheets, was totally destroyed
by fire. Very rough on Millars and the
men, for the mill had an output of 22,000
super, feet per day, and had, orders
enough to keep it going indefinitely.
Bunbury will also suffer: all the Morn-
ington timber is shipped from, the port in
which John Forrest and Newton Moore
were born.
* * * *
Producers’ and General Finance —it
used to be Cranwells, but changed its
name when the P.P. Bank’s assets were
taken over —has declared a half-year’s
div. at the rate of 20 p.c. p.a.—ls p.c.
from ordinary trading and 5 p.c. owing
to “recent purchases of certain assets
and undertakings.” A growing cash-
order business is reported, while advances
to wheat- and woolgrowers bulk large.
To finance further extensions scrip-
holders, both pref. and ord., are to be
offered one ord. at par for each two
shares held. Present paid-up capital is
around £420,129 —£97,194 pref. and
£322,935 ordinary. Recently listed, the
ords. can be had at 355., cum rights.


w
ŵ
SHEFFIELD SHIELD CRICKET
N.S.W. v. VICTORIA
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, JANUARY 22. 23, 25, 26.
Play commences 11.30 a.m.
ADMISSION—Outer Ground: Adults, 1/6; Children, 6d.
Grandstand: Adults, 2/6; Children, 1/-.
H. Heydon, Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association, 254 a George Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
During the Great War the Geelong
like that at Bendigo, was com-
mandeered for military purposes. As
a reward for its patriotic services, Gee-
ong lost its Saturday dates when posses-
ih° n A°/r th A c ? urse was ha nded back. Now
me V.R.C. is conferring the favor of
one Saturday per season on both Ben-
digo and Geelong.
Melbourne racegoers fumed furiouslv
over having to travel 100 miles to attend
the Bendigo Cup meeting at the end of
November, but they rather relished the
idea of a jaunt to Geelong ; the journey—
-45 miles—can be traversed in little more
than an hour by car or special train. So
there was a huge crowd for the Geelong
Cup Money ought to be available out
or the profits to put at least one coat of
paint on the wooden stand which fronts
the lawn and judge’s box. Members are
privileged by having a modern concrete
structure from which to view the sport.
-. Geelong committee raised the
license fee for paddock bookmakers from
I 2 guineas to double that amount. This
outraged the feelings of ringmen, who
threatened to strike. A compromise at
two guineas was reached. Two hot
favorites and three second-favorites—
longest price of the latter being 4 to 1—
caught the judge’s eye.
Aitchengee (5 to 1) was favorite for the
Geelong Cup—in a field of 14. Ridden
by “Ossie” Phillips, who landed the Mel-
bourne Cup on Wotan, he drew No. 2
berth at the post. Villius (who is banned
on metropolitan courses) and Vital
(winner of the Kalgoorlie Cup), with one
or two other runners, kept twisting
round. When the barrier rose Aitchen-
gee was pratted out and left standing.
He trailed the field to the back of the
course, and then made a hopeless effort
to remedy matters. Aitchengee beat only
one rival.
Apart from this contretemps the Gee-
long Cup was a wonderfully interesting
contest. Gilt, trained by Jim Scobie for
E. E. D. Clarke, received assistance from
Heroic Dove in setting a fast pace. They
were closely followed to the half-mile by
Villius, Nissa and Plankton. Near the
home bend Plankton shot to the front;
but he compounded in the straight, and
Orford, a Pantheon gelding from which
big things were expected two seasons
ago, momentarily took control.
Orford snuffed out and cries of “Nissa
wins!” rose on the air. However, the
situation was kaleidoscopic from that
stage. Badger brought Lord Carrington
along with a mighty rush. His Lordship
soon gained the measure of Nissa, but
had to be ridden right out to beat the
fast-finishing St. Valorey by half a head,
with Nissa three-quarters of a length
farther off.
The Cup result was a feather in the
cap of Theo Lewis as trainer. No great
time has elapsed since Lewis surrendered
his jockey’s license. He used to do a
lot of riding for the stable of Jack Holt,
winning the Williamstown Cup twice and
the King’s Cup in Tasmania on Second
Wind.
Lord Carrington, an aged gelding by
Ethiopian-Black Princess, is only one of
many Adelaide horses to succeed in Mel-
bourne during the past few months.
More notable performers were Amalia
(Williamstown Cup), Alinura (V.A.T.C.
Consolation Stakes) and Counter Patrol
(Bendigo Cup). Because of his inability
to gain a place in the Summer Handicap
at Mentone a week before, when favor-
ite, Lord Carrington was allowed to go
out at 8 to I—the longest-price winner
of the afternoon.
For the Vincent Handicap, Double
Bard was made a 5-to-4 pop. He lost to
gallant little Hostile by half a neck.
Elliot' lodged a protest for interference
rounding the home turn; it was dis-
missed. Undoubtedly Hostile and
Double Bard came together at the bend.
This may have been unavoidable, but
Double Bard must be written down as
unlucky to lose.
Hostile is owned and trained by J. E.
Smedley, who had charge of that good
Sydney mare Black Duchess in years
gone by. Smedley also carried off the
Belmont Hurdle with Boonewa (David-
Swan Song), a mare that should earn
\i/u er j^ onors in the jumping division.
When Greenoss struck his colors to
Lautus (Silvius-Lave-a-Fond) in the
Herne Hill Welter Smedley just missed
pulling off a treble.
The juvenile event at Geelong was
captured in the easiest possible fashion
by Aldershot, a Manfred colt who had
finished second at his only previous start.
More will be heard of Aldershot. The
Trial Handicap went to Harold Skid-
more’s mount Beau Roi, who is owned
in Geelong, but trained at Flemington by
B. Crocker.
* * * *
For a time the Moorefield committee
was in doubt about racing on Saturday,
the rain having been so persistent. An
inspection of the track showed that it
was not badly affected, and, once it had
been decided to hold the meeting, J.
Pluvius behaved kindly. The attendance
was good, particularly in the Leger.
Improving greatly on his display in
the Alfred Hill Handicap at Randwick —
he was fifteenth in a field of 17—
Tuckiar (14 to 1) won the Peter Moore
Gold Cup. It was an excellent betting
race. High, the, opening favorite, was
supplanted by Ramdin, who seems to be
overrated. Ramdin was going easily on
the rails in third place for half a mile,
but that was the end of him ; he was the
first candidate beaten. The Marne and
Short Wave, set too strong a pace for
him. They led into the straight; The
Marne soon settled his companion, but
once Knox let Tuckiar have his head it
was all over.
A mile seems just too far for The
Marne. He finished gamely to get'
second, while On Parade came from the
clouds to run third. Hope was fourth ;
Cherry King, who holds the course
record, was last.
As this Page anticipated, class, repre-
sented by Celebrate (sixes to fives), told
in the Moorefield Handicap. Celebrate
l e r d . early ’ k ut six furlongs from home
McMenamin saw that Perron and Sally
were anxious to get to the front, and
pulled the Magpie gelding in behind
them. At the half-mile Celebrate ran
to the leaders without being off the bit,
and he won by three lengths from The
Brewer and Jeanne D’Arc—last in the
early stages. The favorite, Fair Diana,
was disappointed several times in the
first half-mile and was knocked back at
the turn. She will perhaps do better
on a bigger track, but she has been
costly to backers of late.
Talking’s owner Alan Cooper should
have captured the Corinthian Plate on
Treasure Trove. He had E. J. Watt's
mare in a good position most of the
way, but she lost ground at the turns,
and when Miramond (8 to 1) threw out a
challenge in the last furlong Treasure
Trove’s rider was of little assistance to
her. The favorite, West Hock, was third.
Miramond was ridden by a Kensing-
ton farrier, F. Higgins, who won an
amateur race on Sped at Newcastle last
year. Higgins schools jumpers at Rand-
wick, and keeps himself in good condi-
tion by riding many track trials.
Roginer (6 to 1), a sturdy type of
Rossendale filly, showing a lot of white
on forehead and legs, finished strongly in
the Juvenile Handicap to beat Saldola
and Torch. One of the unplaced lot
was the Pantheon filly Chiffon. She does
not begin well these days, and bustling
tactics did not suit her.
Laurel G. (11 to 2) was accounted
lucky to defeat John o’ Groats and
Heroina in the first division of the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap. All the
same she is smart and, if properly
P| a ped, will score again. The second
division went to Frank McGrath’s filly
Brown Baroness (evens), who is very
speedy. She missed the jump, but got a
lucky run through on the rails, and the
rest was a procession. Her opponents
were a poor lot, but Brown Baroness will
score jn better company. She and Laurel
G. are daughters of Brazen.
Hawkesbury-trained Überous (5 to 1),
who carries the colors of Mrs. C. Gal-
braith, was ridden perfectly by Ted
Bartle in the first division of the Flying
Welter. Un Brave looked to have him
beaten at the top of the straight, but
Überous was saved for a last run. The
second division went to Herarde (2 to 1).
Herarde, —like Überous and Tuckiar, a
son of Heroic—has not done much rac-
ing. He showed gameness by worrying
Strathisla out of the prize when Strath-
isla looked a certainty. Cloudy was a
close third and may be worth following.
“Thormanby”: The fining of a
N.S.W. jockey for cutting his mount
with his spurs prompts me to say that
rowelled spurs should not be permitted
on Australian courses. If a horse is
such a slug that he will not respond to
the whip and a pair of thin-necked spurs
with the rowels taken out—and a dashed
nasty prod can be administered with
these—he is better pulling a cart than
obstructing the field on a racecourse.
Most of the high-class trainers in Eng-
land will not allow their boys to wear
hooks at all, and rowelled spurs are —or
were a few years ago—banned by the
Jockey Club.
* * * *
From W. Raymond, manager and
secretary of Automatic Totalisators:
In B. 23/12/*36 the statement is made that
the new tote board at Randwick fails to
indicate the position when a hot favorite will
return worse odds for a win than for a place.”
In reference to this, we should like to draw
your attention to the notice placed in a
prominent position in the race book:
If on any barometer the yellow ribbon
is showing only as a narrow strip on the
bottom of the black ribbon, it indicates that
at that instant that horse will pay more
for a place than for a win.
The provision of this strip is made in order
that the bottom of the yellow section of the
ribbon can be seen above the bottom of the
black ribbon when the odds for a place are
greater than the odds for a win, thus enabling
people to still see what the odds for a win are.
In addition to this notice in the race book
there are, painted on the face of the main
indicator in the paddock at Randwick, illus-
trations showing how to read the odds under
ordinary conditions, i.e., when the win odds
are greater than the place odds or—as occasion-
ally does happen—when the win odds are less
than the place odds. Every effort is made by
us to make the reading of the indicators easily
understood.
* * * *
Molly s Robe, greatest of Queensland’s
sprinters, and one of its most famous
brood mares, is dead. On the turf she
won 15 races, worth £10,435; among
them were the Newmarket Handicap and
Oakleigh Plate. At' the stud she was
the dam of Mollison (a wonderful miler
and one of the few horses that beat
Phar Lap at weight-for-age), Calmond
(still winning in Westralia), Buzzard
King (a high-class three-year-old who
unfortunately hasn’t trained on), Mary’s
Robe, High Molly, Robemond, Lady
Woo and Kitty’s Robe. She was by Syce-
Microbe. A fine colt foal—the sire is
Fox Earth, bought from the royal stud
and closely related to Flying Fox —sur-
vives.
Auto Buz has been sold for 1800
guineas to Frank McGrath, trainer of
Peter Pan and other champions. McGrath
bought him for Alick Higgins, and the
Queensland chestnut is destined for
India. He seems just the sort of horse
to win a Viceroy’s Cup.
Ins and Outs
Some of Allen’s men who had been
having a lean spin got in some useful
practice against Tasmania at Launces-
ton. Sims (four for 20), Copson (three
for 17) and Fames (two for 27) rattled
the Islanders out for 104—Morrisby,
who went to India with the Tarrantulas!
showed good form for his 14, and Put-
nam obliged with 28. The openers (Fagg
and Fishlock this time) couldn’t stay to-
gether, but Fagg (60) and Worthington
(50) made runs, as did Hardstaff (55)
and Robins (24 —in ten minutes). Wyatt,
playing his first dig since he injured a
thumb in October, was rather doubt-
fully caught for 1. At the end of the
day 283 were up for seven wickets,
and on Monday it was “all out” 317
(Ames 109). Putnam took 5 for 87.
* * * *
Tenth Slip”: The panic-stricken
Board of Control has decided that in
future all members of an Australian
Eleven must put up at the same hotel
during a match, even in their own home
town. Men who have hitherto lived in
their own homes and pocketed the 255.
a day-—as baksheesh—will not welcome
the change. The local State secretary
will manage the team while in his terri-
tory.
* * * *
Vic Richardson and Grimmett are to
have a testimonial match in Adelaide
next season, and the board has promised
not to jamb the dates.
* # * 5jC
“Tenth Slip”: There is rejoicing at
the announcement that the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment will finance the building of a
new stand to hold 10,000 at Sydney C.G.
There is no need to build costly stands
necessitating an extension of the. ground’s
area. Seating accommodation could be
found at small cost for thousands who
at present' pay seat prices for standing
room if the so-called and superfluous
lawns” were covered with seats sloping
down from the present fronts of the
stands to the pickets. In the recondi-
tioned Melbourne ground the only stand-
ing spaces are to facilitate the passage
of patrons—everywhere else there are
seats. What that means has been re-
flected in the huge attendances at the
Third Test on Melbourne C.G.
* * * *
“Icon”: Instead of giving umpires
power under the new law to stop a
bowler who persists in cutting up the
pitch with his spikes from carrying on,
why not solve the problem in one simple
hit by banning the wearing of spikes?
Makes of cricket boots are -now on the
market which have the soles inset with
specially-shaped rubber studs, and
players who have tested them tell me
that the foothold with these on the
greasiest of grass pitches is as good or
better than any spikes can give. The
studs are specially shaped so as to make
no impression on the grass whatever.
Another advantage is that they can be
worn on matting wickets as well as turf,
while spikes cannot.
* * * *
“Maidan”: Larwood has chucked his
job as coach to one of the Indian princes
and gone home. Dislike of the country
is given as the reason, but it is more
than likely he failed to hit it with his
employers.
(Continued on next page.)
With teams from America and Eng-
land in Sydney motor-cycle racing at
the Showground is booming. On Satur-
day night A. G. Wilkinson, a N. S. Wales
rider, beat all-comers in a World’s
Derby. Wilkinson won his heat in lmin.
2 4-ssec. for the mile. In the final —two
Australians and two of the Americans
were left in—he jumped out ahead at
the first turn, and stayed there, to win
by two lengths from the American Milne
and Huxley (Aus.) in lmin. lsec.
* * * *
Noel Ryan, who last year seemed to
have done his dash, is swimming as well
as ever this season. At the first of the
Australian championship carnivals in the
North Sydney pool he won the 440 yards
in smin. 0 l-ssec. Sydney youngster
Robin Biddulph was second and West-
ralian Percy Oliver third. A Queens-
lander, George Johnson, dived extremely
well to beat the Olympian Ron Masters
in the springboard event, and in the
110 yards race for juniors Newbiggen,
the Newcastle youth, did 63 2-ssec.,
3-ssec. better than his own Australian
record.


"SILVER
EDGE* 9
MARK REGIS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
MOTORISTS I SAVE MONEY!
HERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
-*■ does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON f ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
mm
m
:
i u
. :■; •: :•
im
•:;. : : : : : : :
€
ssss
FOR FAULTLESS
' 1C HIT lON
ins and Outs
Australia won the 137th Test match
at Melbourne by 365 runs after a game
which went a long way to dispel the
growing impression in this country that
Test cricket was a weariness of the flesh.
With five wickets gone for under 200
on the Monday evening, Bradman and
Fingleton set about putting Australia in
an impregnable position next morning.
The pitch had rolled out slow and easy,
and for hours the champion reeled off
runs while Fingleton presented to the
perspiring English bowlers a bat as
broad as it was long. Bradman took his
time, as he had need to do with only
McCabe, Darling and Oldfield to follow.
Showing brilliant forcing play at times,
he never lost' control of himself through-
out that day and most of the next, until
Fingleton went at last, the score having
been carried from 97 to 443.
Fingleton played patient but attractive
cricket for 136 —one of the great innings
of Test history, fpr without it the Aus-
tralians could never have been hoisted
to the commanding lead they finished
with. McCabe was l.b.w. to Allen after
a colorless 22, and Darling did not score.
Bradman’s great knock came to an end
at 270—22 fours—with a tired shot off
Verity which landed in Allen’s hands.
Then Sievers (25 n. 0.) and Oldfield
raised the total to 564. Verity did best
with the. ball, his
accuracy bringing
him 3 for 79 off 37
overs. Voce also
took three wickets,
which cost 120, and
Allen bagged a
couple for 84.
* •
England’s second
innings was a for-
lorn hope. The
pitch was perfect
from a batsman’s
viewpoint. Midday
Thursday saw the
end of a dogged
struggle when
O’Reilly and Smith
cleaned up the tail-
enders. Barnett laid
the wood on until
O’Reilly had him
l.b.w. for 23. Then
Maurice Ley land
came along to join
Hammond. The
pair made it appear
that they were pre-
pared to stay until
Easter if the luck held. It didn’t;
Hammond was clean bowled by Sievers
for 51. Ames (19), Hardstaff (17) and
Allen (11) came and departed, but the
imperturbable Leyland went on his way.
Robins gave the side a rare lift with a
dashing 61, and that was the beginning
of the end. Smith and O’Reilly gathered
up the remainder, and Leyland was left
unbeaten with 111 on his sheet. Smith
ended with 5 for 124, O’Reilly with 3
for 65.
Sievers’s dismissal of Hammonds is
about the best bit of bowling he has ever
done or will do. Smith, in spite of his
figures, did not fill one with confidence
in him as a match-winner.
The game afforded an excellent illus-
tration of what the weather can really do
in cricket if it decides to take a hand.
No more picturesque Test or one in
which fortune see-sawed more bewilder-
ingly has been played. Attendances:
79,630, 65,235, 87,798, 64,826, 45,405 and
7640 —350,534, who paid £29,169. Easily
the best ever.
❖ * * *
“Fitzcray”: The most amazing feature
of an amazing Test match was the
world’s record attendance at the Mel-
bourne ground on the third day of the
match —an ordinary working Monday.
The blanks in the offices and city busi-
ness houses must have also been a record,
while the casualties among the office
boys’ grandmammas must have been
ghastly. The New Year’s Day record
was understandable. That it should
have, been beaten, and by thousands, on
a week day has all the experts scratch-
ing.
H* *l*
“Fitzcray”: Bradman’s 270 in Mel-
bourne is his fourth three-figure innings
in Australian Tests. All his Test cen-
turies against England in this country
have been made in Melbourne. Before
this knock his best performance was 123
against Chapman’s side in 1928-29. In
England Don has passed the three-figure
mark six times. He has 10 Test cen-
turies to his credit, and has only to pass
Hobbs’s record of 12 to be left sailing
in front of them all.
“Steady”: The return of Bradman to
form in Melbourne has rather obscured
the sterling services of Fingleton. In
the three Tests to date the N.S.W. player
has scored two centuries —thus notching
five three-figure shots in six Tests. In
South Africa, Fingleton changed from a
rather stodgy defender to a dashing
stroke-maker. Here, with other star
batsmen falling down on the job, he has
gone back to the defensive for the sake
of his side.
* * * H=
“Staffs”: Claimed by the press ex-
perts that the two closures of innings on
the same day which marked Saturday’s
play in the third Test was a record in
the history of Australian Test cricket.
They have forgotten Grant and his West
Indians in 1931. In the fifth Test at
Sydney the West Indian twice applied
the closure, enabling his side to win the
match. As far as England-Australia are
concerned, there has been only one
closure in the long series of matches
played in this country. This was in the
first Test in Brisbane in 1928, when
Chapman closed and asked Australia to
make 742 to win in the fourth innings.
# * He jfc
“Fitzcray”: Newspapers which lap up
small beer report the summoning of Mc-
"I didn't see what happened, but you cant tell me a batsman like HIM
would be out first ball to a bowler like YOU!”
Cabe, O’Reilly, Fleetwood-Smith and
O’Brien before an in-camera meeting of
a Board of Control committee to explain
something which has not been made
public. Neither the committee nor the
carpeted players will tell what happened,
if anything, or what it was all about.
It doesn’t matter a dump anyway.
* * *■ h=
In the Sheffield match against N.S.W.
at Sydney, Queensland, having gained a
huge lead, gave its usual performance, of
slackness in bowling and the field. Set 462
to win, N.S.W. came within 87 runs of it
—an almost incredible fourth-innings feat.
Its second score of 342 was mostly made
up from 143 by Robinson and 59 by
Marks. Queensland bowling was tired,
and the fielding, save for Tallon’s keep-
ing, was just blanky.
Nineteenth Hole
“Glenfe.rrie”: There is talk of reviv-
ing the competition for the Leura
(N.S.W.) Pot. The pot, an outcast iron
saucepan, was discovered years ago by
Alick Watt, who set it up for competi-
tion at the Leura G.C. Entrants had to
pay ss. and a bottle of whisky ; amateur
and professional were alike, eligible.
Players complaiping or explaining during
a round were fined a ball, and the man
accompanied by a dog suffered the same
fate. Fines were also imposed for posing
for newspaper photographers or being
accompanied by a woman, this last being
held to be inimical to the exercise of
free speech.
* * X *
“Sandringham”: Our old friend Jock
McLean, winner of the Melbourne cen-
tenary amateur championship, has given
nineteenth-hole habitues something to talk
about by taking a professional job with
the Buchanan Castle club. McLean ex-
plains that the St. Andrew’s decision pre-
venting amateurs representing golf-goods
firms started him on the paid path. He
had been a whisky traveller, and also
sold clubs and balls for several leading
firms. Without the help of these last
lines he found whisky an inadequate
means of support. Outside the stars it
is doubtful whether many folk make for-
tunes at professional golf in Britain.
McLean would do well to try America,
as so many of his countrymen have done.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The recommendation of
the St. Andrew’s Rules Committee that
players be confined to 14 clubs has
raised savage yowls from the faddists,
as might have been expected. The great
players of 30 years ago rarely used more
than half a dozen clubs, and carried only
one or tWo extra for very special occa-
sions. As a matter of fact the modern
course-encumberer seldom employs
more, but he has read somewhere
that some champion or other has 42 and
sets out to emulate him in this respect
at least. Most of the dud golfers in
Sydney have not the remotest idea of
how and when to use most of the fas-
cinating gadgets under the weight of
which their caddie staggers.
Racquet and Bawi
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Perry made a
flying start in professional tennis by beat-
ing Vines at Madison Square Garden
(N.Y.) in three series of matches. At the
first nearly £12,000 was taken at the gates.
The result clinches Tilden’s reputation
as the worst tennis tipster in captivity.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: With McGrath and Craw-
ford absent, the South Australian cham-
pions had little trouble in cleaning up
the centenary championships at Adelaide,
Quist excelling himself. The champion
made. Bromwich look like change for a
piastre in the singles, and with Turnbull
he took the doubles from Bromwich and
Schwartz. The local girls were also on
the spot. The singles title went to Miss
O’Halloran, though Victoria walked off
with the doubles, thanks to the Steven-
son sisters. Mixed doubles were won
by Turnbull and Miss Griffiths from
Schwartz and Miss O’Halloran.
Miscellaneous
“Outside Left”: The Australian
Soccer conference has settled the Aus-
tralian itinerary of the English amateur
team to tour M.L. and this country this
coming season. The tourists will travel
by the North American route and put
in five weeks in M.L. before coming on
to the Commonwealth. Matches with
Australia will be played in Sydney and
Brisbane, in July and a match against
“an Australian XI” in Melbourne. There
will be other games in Queensland, New-
castle, Cessnock, Adelaide and Perth.
* sH H= *
“Chelsea”: The Australian organisers
of the 150th N.S.W. birthday spree will
have no trouble in getting attractions
if they listen to the Soccer folk. These
have proposed an all-Australia “car-
nival” for the Championship Cup left
here by the English team years ago
and/or an Egyptians’ tour of Australia, an
All-Black ditto, a South African invasion
and a comradely visit by a Russian side.
* Sit * *
“Ellis Park”: The South African selec-
tors have been toiling on the job of
selecting the Springbok footballers for
Australia and have got the mob down
to 51, though the final choice will not
be made until April. The two managers
have been picked: Percy Day and Alex,
de Villiers. Day represents Griqualand
West on the South African Board of
Control. A good player in his time, he
has also done a spell of refereeing. He
was bear-leader to the M.L. Army team
in 1919 and also the Wallabies in 1933.
De Villiers is a Free Stater and, like
his mate, an old rep. player. He also
has had much to do with tours and the
organising side of the game.
* * * *
“Newlands”: The Royal Birthday dis-
location of the calendar has got the
N.S.W.R.U. thinking. The season can-
not be spun out, and club matches, above
all, must remain untouched. This means
that the inter-State games will feel the
axe, undesirable as this will be. Full
room must be given to the Springbok
tour whatever happens. The N.S.W.R.U.
council will thrash it all out on Jan. 25.
* He * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum comes
along with a suggestion of a new game
for amateurs played with four balls—a
red, pink and two whites, colors to count
three and whites two, as in the old game.
Walter has evidently got the idea from
what he saw in the U.S.A. of pool
played with balls of many colors. The
new game has its possibilities. At
present a favorite amusement —if it can
be called that—of many elderly gentle-
men after a good dinner is a four-
handed game. Something of this sort
played by four dignified if slightly
obfuscated players with four different
colored balls would be much more, en-
tertaining than many a championship.


/ mm
■
m
m
*«? k;
r ssin
r"v
Employment
Each month one or more of the many branches of the
Bank of New South Wales outgrows the premises in
which it is housed. Moreover, new branches are con-
tinually being opened. The Bank, therefore, is always
erecting new premises in various towns. This growth
creates employment in the building and subsidiary trades.
Much more important, however, is the part played by the
Bank in stimulating employment by means of the assist-
ance it renders to producers and traders who can profit-
ably extend their activities.
A continual flow of deposits into the Bank enables it to
maintain its assistance to industry—continually expand-
ing industry means more and more employment for
Australian workers.
ft
'ms
ESTABLISHED 1817
242 A. 193 6
THE GREAT FITZSIMMONS
Just on 50 years ago a young fellow
named Bob Fitzsimmons arrived in
Sydney from Maoriland. A blacksmith
by trade, he wanted to become a pugil-
ist, and he had qualified for that profes-
sion to some extent by going through a
lot of lightweights in a tournament ar-
ranged by Jem Mace which was alleged
to involve the championship of the
colony at the weight, and by winning a
few fights—all at Timaru. Among the
men he defeated, it was said, was the
Maori Slade, who was presently to go
to the LhS.A. and be defeated by the
great John L. Sullivan and, according to
tradition, to wind up at Salt Lake City
with a plurality of wives.
A tall, freckled youth with red hair,
already thinning, enormous arms, shoul-
ders! and chest and skinny legs—that was
how Fitzsimmons impressed Sydney in
those days. His first public appearance
was made in a preliminary to a bout
between crack amateur middleweights,
George Seale and Dick Sandall.
A chronicler of the period described
him as “a long, lanky, cadaverous fel-
low,” and his opponent as “a short, fat
man.”
“They pretended to be absolute
novices,” he wrote in The Bulletin,
“and fairly brought down the house. It
was a very funny exhibition. One or
two would-be judges of boxing remarked
that they had never seen two greater
mugs in a ring.”
Fitz was to do better than that in
Sydney and to learn his new trade thor-
oughly. Larry Foley, a wonderful
teacher, became his patron, and Peter
Jackson took him up and passed on to
him the knowledge which Foley had im-
parted to Peter; but the young man
never made any money. He would have
earned more as a smith. Foley had a
virtual monopoly of match-making and
-promoting. Before the depression of
1893 he was reported to be pulling in
£7OOO a year; but his pugs’ share of the
gold and silver socked away in his safe
on fight nights was strictly limited.
Fitz fought only middleweights in
Sydney. He disposed of most of them
in a few rounds, and among those he
beat were Bill Slavin, brother to the
more famous heavyweight; Pablo
Fanque, a queer character of the time,
a Spanish-American who had graduated
to the ring from a circus ; “Starlight,”
the black ship’s cook who during the last
few months has been twice reported at
the point of death in Melbourne, and
Jim Hall. His defeat of Hall, like many
of his other performances, does not ap-
pear in the record-book, but it has had
many private historians. It happened at
Mortlake.
In the late ’eighties two representative
American boxers, Buffalo Costello, a
heavyweight, and Young Mitchell (Her-
gott), a welterweight, reached Sydney
looking for matches. They were accom-
modated, and very soon they were mar-
velling at the skill and courage of the
Australian bruisers they met and saw
and the miserable rewards received by
all hands, except Foley and his fellows,
Costello, though reckoned a good man
in his own country, could not stand up
against Australians of the Jem Mace
school. Slavin knocked him out; Jack-
son let him go six rounds, merely play-
ing with him the while, and in an exhibi-
tion match he failed to stop the much-
lighter Seale. Mitchell, who was in later
years to become a municipal politician
in San Francisco, fought a draw with
Peter Boland. He was the first to recog-
nise the fine fighting qualities of his an-
tagonist, and they struck up a great
friendship; but both Americans were
loud in their expressions of disgust at
what they regarded as the systematic
sweating of boxers, who, as they recog-
nised, from heavyweight to bantam-
weight, could hold their own with the
best in the world. It was probably they
who fired the imaginations of Jackson,
Slavin and Fitzsimmons and were in-
directly responsible for the great exodus
of Australian boxers which began about
1890 and lasted for five or six years.
Fitz was one of the first to go. He
was so hard up that he had to sell a
fight in order to raise the passage-money.
The affair occurred in February, 1890.
The other party was Jim Hall. It was
described in The Bulletin as “another
of those contests which knock spots off
the anti-pugilist preachers in crying the
death-knell of pugilism. No one thought
Fitz had a ghost of a show with the
clever middleweight; but they at least
expected a genuine go for their money.
This they did not get. The usually cool
Hall obviously gammoned, blowing like
a grampus, until the fourth round, when
Fitzsimmons received a featherweight
tap on the jaw* and fell all of a heap.”
At New Orleans on March 8, 1893,
Fitz demonstrated that he must have
done most of the gammoning. That
contest was likewise marked by a
four-round knockout, but it was Fitz
who administered it. By that time Hall
had become famous in three countries
and Fitzsimmons had won the middle-
weight championship of the world from
Jack Dempsey. Hall had been taken up
by the notorious “Squire” Abington, who
had Charley Mitchell also in his string.
They were a wild lot, and the disastrous
patronage of the “Squire” shortened the
ring career of Hall, who, at his best, was
a great boxer. He beat Pritchard, the
champion of England, and also Frank
Slavin, after the latter had been toppled
over by Jackson ; but Fitzsimmons was
his master.
In America Fitz never met a middle-
weight who could stand up against him.
It was sheer lack of opponents in his
own division—he could always go list.
41b. that forced him to box heavy-
weights. Among the heavyweights, also,
he never encountered a man who could
endure his terrible punches until Jeffries,
nearly 20 years younger and five stone
heavier and trained to the minute,
knocked him out in New York. And
then Fitzsimmons hadn’t fought for two
FITZSIMMONS, in his great days.
years and had neglected to train seri-
ously, having been told that Jeffries was
a big mug.
Middleweight champion for six years,
Fitzsimmons had become heavyweight
champion by knocking Corbett out in 14
rounds. Corbett had met him reluctantly
and there was no return fight. Maher,
Sharkey (twice) and Ruhlin were to
crumple up under Fitz’s blows. Then
came the second meeting with Jeffries
in 1902. For several rounds Fitz got
all over the big fellow, and had him in
such a bad way that it seemed probable
that he would have to stop from sheer
inability to see his opponent, even if he
were able to remain on his feet.
The eighth round, however, brought
the end. According to Bill Naughton,
son of a Maoriland police commissioner,
and boxing editor of the San Francisco
“Chronicle,” Fitz spoke to Jeffries* thrust
his jaw forward and took delivery of a
left and right which knocked him out.
Naughton in his description of the con-
test wrote: “It was a queer ending to
a most exciting fight.”
Fitzsimmons was to hold another
championship—the light-heavyweight—
before age told on him and delivered
him into the hands of younger men. Yet
when past 50, though he said he was
not 48, he gave a boxing lesson in Syd-
ney for 12 rounds to young Bill Lang.
Americans with claims to be heard
reckon him the greatest of all boxers,
the most wonderful pugilist that ever
stepped into a ring. Jim Savage, once
his sparring partner, wrote recently: “To-
day I can see in the ring, in all the divi-
sions, boxers who remind me of the
boxers I knew in my time ; but I never
see anyone who reminds me of Bob Fitz-
simmons. There was never anyone like
Fitz. He was a good fellow at heart, but
in the ring absolutely merciless—a killer.
He had to be, or he wouldn’t have been
Bob Fitzsimmons.”
Middleweight Champion.
The fight was for a wager of 2500
dollars a side and a purse of 12,000
dollars. The scene was a “club” at New
Orleans ; the time, Jan. 14, 1891. The
weights were: Fitzsimmons, lOst. ;
Dempsey, lOst. 9ylb.
It was very one-sided. Dempsey, the
hero of 50 fights, “the Nonpareil,” was
no match for the fierce Australian, who
was his superior in everything but game-
ness. Dempsey’s showing demonstrated
that he was on the down-grade when
knocked out by La Blanche with a swing-
ing blow (now everywhere barred as
foul), since called a “La Blanche” ; Fitz-
simmons, on the other hand, convinced
all observers that when he accounted for
his fellow-countryman McCarthy at San
Francisco he must have had a great
deal in reserve.
Fitz came out of his corner fighting
and landed heavily on Dempsey’s neck.
Dempsey retaliated with half-arm body
jolts, but there was no power in them
and Fitz took them grinning.
The second round was give-and-take,
with the foreigner having the better of
the exchanges.
The third round nearly saw the finish.
A right to the jaw put Dempsey down
for a long count. He got up groggy
and managed to clinch and see the round
out, but it was obviously the
beginning of the end.
The three following rounds
were comparatively quiet,
but the seventh was bad for
the American. He was
floored again with a right
body punch, and on getting up took a
dreadful battering stoically. In the eighth
and ninth also he was punched hard
and often, and his own blows, such as
he landed, were feeble.
After 20 minutes of actual boxing he
looked a beaten man, while Fitz was
not in the slightest degree distressed.
And so it went on until the tenth,
when Jack went down again. This time
it was all he could do to stagger up and
reach blindly for his opponent with out-
stretched arms. He could no longer
punch. He was felled again before the
round ended.
The eleventh, for the former “Non-
pareil,” was merely a repetition of the
previous three minutes of agony. He
spent 18 seconds on the floor. But. fast
as his powers of resistance were waning,
only complete unconsciousness
could quench his courage.
There were cries of “Stop it”
as poor Dempsey came out for
more. They swelled every time he was
knocked down. That happened four times.
Jack McAuliffe, the lightweight cham-
pion, who was one of Dempsey’s seconds,
entered the ring to implore him to give
in. That, of course, was an infraction
of the rules, and the massacre ought to
have been ended there and then, but
McAuliffe was hustled out and it went
on, though already there was a tramp-
tramp to the doors.
Round 13 was the last. The first blow
struck, a right to the head, upset the
unfortunate Dempsey again, and his
painful rising was a brief preliminary
to his being knocked kicking once more.
With a dying effort he got up and
groped blindly for his conqueror, who
was now remonstrating with the referee.
“Blime, ’e’s ’ad enough,” Fitz was heard
to say. “I don’t want to ’it ’im —
must I?” “Box on!” said the referee.
With distaste plainly showing on his
unmarked mug, Fitz threw a short right
at the unprotected jaw. Down went
Dempsey for the last time.
Carried to his corner, he was out for
many minutes, and when his poor wits
returned to him he sobbed bitterly.
Heavyweight Champion.
Carson City, Nevada, was the scene
of Fitz’s greatest fight, that with Corbett.
It took place on March 17, 1897. Green
favors were worn by most of the 15,000
spectators who thronged the great amphi-
theatre, and who had paid four dollars
to 40 dollars for their seats.
Conspicuous at the ringside was Mrs.
Fitzsimmons, better known as Rose
Julian, the actress. She was a fine figure
of a woman, and from the first round
to the last she shrieked encouragement
to her lord and objurgation at Corbett-
much to the embarrassment of an emi-
nently respectable and faultlessly-dressed
old politician who sat beside her, and
who, until the proceedings were consider-
ably advanced, had not the slightest
notion who the creature was.
Corbett weighed in at 13st. 61b. Fitz
was said to be 12st. 51b., but he was
never that in his life. The betting was
5 to 4 on Corbett.
The day was sunny, but a chill wind
blew from the Nevada desert. Corbett’s
appearance on the scene drew cheers
which might have been heard at Reno.
He was trained to the minute, and what-
ever his internal emotions may have


For
CARS OR UTILITIES
For a limited period we are making it possible for
every motorist to enjoy the ownership and luxury
of a Ford V-8. Special liberal allowances* Special
terms from as low as £lOO deposit and £lO per
month* Every possible assistance given to enable
you to take delivery of your Ford V-8 this month.
Also SPECIAL 2-CROP PAYMENT PLAN for THE MAN ON THE LAND
SEE YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER NOW!
(Announcement inserted on behalf of Australian Ford Dealers )
pi3B—3oV
been he looked a picture of calm con-
fidence. The champion walked towards
Fitz’s corner with outstretched hand.
"Don’t take it, Bob!” shouted Julian,
the challenger’s brother-in-law. Shrill
advice to the same effect came from Mrs.
Fitz, who was already going into action.
Fitz dutifully obeyed, though the im-
pression of disinterested witnesses was
that, left to himself, he would have
acknowledged the courtesy. He was
never one to show bad feeling in the
ring, though implacable in the actual
fighting.
Corbett soon showed himself the better
boxer. Feinting in his masterly way, he
got past Fitz’s guard and landed several
times on the ribs. The retaliatory blows
he ducked or evaded by neat footwork.
It was much the same in the second
round. With the left he led to Fitz’s
face; with the right he essayed rib-
benders, some of which got home. But
the lighter man, though always a slow
starter, was not idle. He held his own
in the close work, and, though Corbett
managed to keep his face out of harm’s
way, there were red patches on his body
when he danced to his corner.
The third round was nearly all Cor-
bett. A left body blow was a good one
—powerful enough to draw from Mrs.
Fitzsimmons remarks which the shrink-
ing modesty of the male forbids this
chronicler to repeat. A right to the
heart was another solid wallop. Fitz was
not visibly shaken, but it is not in human
nature to suffer no ill-effects when a 13st.
61b. man, skilled in aiming punches,
thumps you over the heart with all his
force.
Corbett continued to pile up the points.
He did not escape scot-free, for Fitz was
now getting into his stride ; but at the
end of the fifth, had the referee been
called upon to give a decision, it must
have been “Corbett, a mile ahead.”
In the sixth round Fitz was down. A
right swing found his chin, and he went
to his knees. High above the roars of
excited men came the shrill voice of
Mrs. Fitz. “Get up, Bob! Bob, you’re
only foxing—get up!”
Bob got up at nine seconds and re-
mained up. He was not so badly hurt
as to be incapable of protecting himself
when Corbett rushed in to finish it; all
the same, he must have been glad to hear
the bell.
The seventh saw two tired men
scuffling and sparring for time. Cor-
bett had wearied himself by his own
exertions; and the champion’s weight,
cunningly used in clinches, as well as his
punches, had taken toll of Fitzsimmons.
In the eighth they were at it again for
all they were worth. Fitz got home with
a hard left on the body, his best blow
thus far ; Corbett smashed his man on
the mouth, bringing the blood. Another
and another Fitz took on the mouth, and
his rush was met with a blow on the
ribs.
Now apparently rattled, he did what
was very rare for him—led a right for
the jaw. Corbett availed himself of the
opportunity to score with a straight left
on the face. Again he had much the
better of the round, but he looked none
the stronger as they retired to receive
the attentions of their seconds.
In the ninth, the Australian was
cautioned for landing rather low with
the right. It was the first breach on
either side and was obviously uninten-
tional ; bitterly as they hated one an-
other, the men had fought with perfect
fairness, and in that spirit they continued
to the end.
More blood was coming from Fitz’s
mouth. Corbett, feinting with the left,
had aimed a right uppercut at the duck-
ing head, and Fitz’s bottom teeth tore
his upper lip.
Undaunted he dashed in with a left
on the face, swung for the point of the
jaw and missed; swung again and
found only the atmosphere. But he
landed two lefts before the round closed,
and now for the first time the tide of
battle was turning his way.
Corbett played on the wounded mouth.
These punches must have stung, but it
was becoming evident that it would take
more than mere stinging to settle Fitz-
simmons, who was now making the pace
hot and strong. A fierce right on the
neck did Corbett no good.
But the American was far from done.
In the twelfth round he punched Fitz-
simmons to the ropes and had none the
worse of the in-fighting. The thirteenth
round was also his by a narrow margin.
All this time Mrs. Fitzsimmons had
kept up her running fire of endearments
for “Bob, darling,” and of imprecations
for Corbett, who looked far too decent
a fellow and too fair and clever a boxer
to deserve any of them.
The fourteenth round brought the end
—an end for which nobody in the
thrilled crowd could have been prepared.
Corbett led a left. Fitz stopped it and
countered with a left to the Califor-
nian’s face. Corbett led again for the
jaw, landed lightly and clinched. As
CORBETT, when he was champion.
they were broken by the referee, he
lowered his gloves. The movement was
imperceptible to most of the spectators,
but not to Fitzsimmons, who, with one
swift action, changed the position of his
feet and drove his left with all his weight
behind it straight to the mark.
Corbett swayed and gasped for breath,
his face a ghastly mask. Over came the
Australian’s right to the jaw and down
went the champion, never to be cham-
pion again.
He clutched at the ropes, trying to
rise, fell back and was counted out.
Fitz had brought off the manoeuvre
that was to be known as “the shift” and
got home with the blow that was re-
christened “the solar-plexus punch,”
though it is as old as pugilism itself.
The scene closed with Mrs. Fitz plant-
ing kiss after kiss on her husband’s
blood-bedabbled face,
and with Corbett dis-
tracted, hysterical,
struggling to get at his
conqueror and being
held back by the Sheriff
of Carson City and his
men. In his fury he
said mad, wild things,
which he afterwards regretted, for he
was a prince of good fellows.
His Least Fight.
Cornish by birth, Maoriland by up-
bringing, Australian by adoption, Yankee
by domicile, Fitzsimmons wandered back
to Australia after an absence of 20 years
with 320 fights, mostly victories, to his
credit. In his sparring matches, his ball
work and the rest of his training opera-
tions, he showed himself to be a wonder.
His old, old face, his strangely youthful
body, his undoubted ring generalship, his
skill as a boxer shown in a dozen
friendly sparring matches, bewildered
people generally and puzzled experts
who tried to estimate his chances.
“Youth must tell!” said some. “Much
science and some force is better than
much force and less science,” argued
others.
There was a time when, as Fitz told
an interviewer, he. used to announce with
unerring accuracy in which round he
would lay his man out. Asked to men-
tion the number of Lang’s final round,
he declined—things were changed, and
he was getting old. And when writer
had seen Fitzsimmons finally laid out in
the glaring sun of Mclntosh’s Stadium,
he had a faint recollection of having read
a description of that fight somewhere
before. And it was in the 12th chapter
of Ecclesiastes, the third verse: “In the
days when the keepers of the house shall
tremble, and the strong men shall bow
themselves, and those that look out of
the windows be darkened.” And that
was the Lang-Fitzsimmons fight.
As a boxer, there was no comparison-
between Lang and Fitzsimmons ; but as
a fighter the aged pug had no hope
against the youthful and somewhat un-
generous Australian.
It was apparent after the fourth round
that Fitz’s strength had gone. He shook
ominously when the younger man occa-
sionally landed. Then there would DC
flashes of the bygone “Freckled Freak,”
and Lang would be slapped and bashed
in a way that made him look a perfect
novice.
Clean through his guard the quick,
sudden jabs stung into his face, his head
o Continued on page 42.)


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
ẁ
With high hopes Leon Woizikowsky
marches to the “Port Said” cafe to see
the can-can.
wood than ever before. By putting on
the screen the sort of local color that
exists only in the British Isles they im-
pelled the Hollywood coves, who are
nothing if not adaptable, to search more
intelligently for provincialisms among
the 46 States of the Union and to im-
port the. best of the coming-on crop of
European actresses to keep the local
Bernhardts and Duses on their toes.
There wasn’t any best film of the year.
As an essay on a high literary plane
“Romeo and Juliet” was commendable.
M.-G.-M. mustered a cast of past-
masters and -mistresses of film technique,
and with what was evidently their whole-
hearted and joyous co-operation put on
the screen one of the most virile per-
formances living Anglo-Saxon critics
have seen. “The Tale of Two Cities”
was similarly a worthy tribute to an
author who Americans feel is as much
theirs as England’s. But almost-miracles
of casting and sound direction made of
the American stories “Mr. Deeds Goes
to Town,” “To Mary—With Love” and
“These Three” just as good screen enter-
tainment. “Professional Soldier” had
about it a Gargantuan and breezy vigor;
“Petrified Forest” the delicate spirit of a
dream tragedy.
Outside these, what stick most in the
memory are the historical efforts, chief
among them “Mutiny on the Bounty.”
“San Francisco” painted picturesquely
one of the most stirring episodes in
Uncle Sam’s chronicle of physical cala-
mities ; “Rhodes of Africa” gave a long-
deferred opportunity to that sterling
character actor Walter Huston ; “Suttor’s
Gold” (but this was more fiction than
fact) touched upon the epic story of
Californian pioneering in a baroque and
effective manner. “Mary of Scotland”
and “Tudor Rose” were good English
reproductions of their respective periods.
“White Angel” made Florence Nightin-
gale known to a generation that has for-
gotten her achievement. A little Eng-
lish period piece that got small praise
but was most gracefully enacted was
Wedding Group.” “The Story of Louis
Pasteur” had a reception that surprised
this critic. The theme was a noble one,
and it was well presented, but that
lay audiences could enter into the spirit
of a drama whose roots lay in obscure
branches of physiology seemed incred-
ible. They did. “The Prisoner of Shark
Island,” a reminiscence of the aftermath
of Lincoln’s assassination, stacked with
romance and melodrama of the sort that
picture-goers are popularly supposed to
lap up, wasn’t one-third as successful in
Australia. “The Country Doctor,” in
which Jean Hersholt played the name
role, successfully dramatised a piece of
very recent history—the arrival of the
Dionne quintuplets.
Among well-known novels picturised
during the year were “Anthony Adverse,”
‘‘Crime and Punishment,” Sabatini’s
“Captain Blood” and Farnol’s “Amateur
Gentleman.” The Dostoieffsky picture
was notable for a particularly good
characterisation by Paul Ferres; the
Sabatini affair was a triumph of clever
mechanical effects.
The year’s best comedy films in-
cluded “The Ghost Goes West” (chiefly
notable, for its introduction, which flails
Caledonians as mercilessly as T. W.
Crosland did in The Unspeakable Scot
40 years ago); “Laburnum Grove,”
which made this Page let slip a superla-
tive or two, and “Two’s Company,” in
which a Gordon Harker-Ned Sparks
combination produced unexpectedly
bright fun. In “Piccadilly Jim” M.-G.-M.
made the best shot to date at the task
of putting Wodehouse on the screen.
But it wasn’t a good year for
comedies. Tom Walls achieved his best
success in “Foreign Affairs,” in
which, for once in a while, he was his
age, and Edmund Gwenn gave an unfor-
gettable picture of a cherubic prelate in
“The Bishop Misbehaves.” It is notable
that all these fun-makers were either
entirely English in setting or were a
mingling of English and American. In
Helene Kirsova, the can-can expert in
“Port Said.”
an entirely American manner the various
adventures of the Jones Family proved
diverting, and Harold Lloyd’s one re-
appearance in “The Milky Way” remem-
bered him to the public in a very
pleasant fashion.
Best infant prodigy show of the
twelvemonth was “This Is the Life,” in
which Jane Withers sparkled tremen-
dously, Miss Temple’s “Curly-Top”
proved popular, but it wasn’t a patch on
“The Littlest Rebel,” in which Shirley
had better support.
Musicals were a strong feature —
“Metropolitan,” “I Dream Too Much,”
“The King Steps Out,” “The Gay
Desperado,” “Show Boat” and “Song of
Freedom” were all excellent. In the
songandance line “It’s Love Again” and
“Dancing Pirate,” the second-named in
Ollie, of Perry Bros’ circus, does an
acrobatic classic.
technicolor, met with much acceptance.
Some Astaire-Rogers productions were
disappointing.
Other offerings in color were “The
Trail of the Lonesome Pine” and
“Ramona*” neither very memorable.
Some mention should be made of a
new star, Brian Dunlevy, whose wise-
cracking strong-young-man impersona-
tions have enlivened the screen. His best
vehicle, perhaps, was “36 Hours to Kill.”
Outside broad classifications were
“The Voice of Bugle Ann,” a story of
the Maine foxhunters, and “The Devil
Doll,” a fantasy, both lifted out of the
ruck by Lionel Barrymore.
“Ourselves Alone,” “The Clairvoy-
ant” and “The Three Maxims” were a
trio of British films that fulfilled the
hopes of those who wish Elstree the best
of luck.
As to the Australian films, “Orphan
of the Wilderness,” “Uncivilised,” “The
Flying Doctor” and Zane Grey’s “Rangle
River” and “White Death,” the only
one that calls for a whoop of joy is the
first-named, which is not only good cine-
matography but solidly and essentially
Australian in its material.
“King of Hockey.”
ICE-HOCKEY CHAMP. .. Dick Purcell
HIS SWEETIE Ann Nagel
HIS FAITHFUL FRIEND,
Wayne Morris
CROOK GAMBLER .. George E. Stone
This, friends, is a vurry, vurry sad
story, and one which, though you may
have heard it before, still ought to pull
the heartstrings. Or does it? Bright,
beautiful, a cahledge gradooate, foiled
in his efforts to get a jahb as a bahnd
salesman, has to fall back on his
prowess as an ice-hockeyist in order to
earn the pitiable five or six hundred
dahlars a week that will enable him to
pay room-rent and chew a crust. And
no sooner does he embark on this career
than a disreputable gambler, with that
lofty disregard for the value of money
that characterises the tribe, starts sending
him thousand-dahlar bills in thin en-
velopes, so that any room-mate who
holds them up to the light can diagnose
their contents. And this, mark you,
after that gambler had been told, as
plain as plain, to lay off the siege of an
incorruptible conscience.. Bad.
But worse is to follow. The ice-hockey-
ist, donged by a brother of the craft, goes
blind, and in that condition makes a
brilliant play which lands the ball in
his own goal. Thereafter he wanders, a
poor sightless outcast, until he is recog-
nised by a boy autograph-hunter who
gets him into touch with the folk who
are just burning to clear his reputation,
pay for the operation that will restore
his sight, and put him on to the high-
road to marital happiness and —which
is not to be sneezed at, friends—an un-
sullied and immensely profitable career
as an ice-hockeyist. What would
America, what would the world, do
without its ice-hockeyists? Sydney Capi-
tol has this fountain of tears on tap.
“Laughing at Trouble.”
MOTHERLY EDITOR .. Jane Darwell
HER DARTER Delma Byron
DARTER’S YOUNG MAN, Allan Lane
VILLAIN John Carradine
The first time this critic saw Jane
Darwell in action he appreciated and
admired her picture of a respectable,
capable, bustling middle-class American
housewife. But as she appeared in fillum
after fillum, still respectable, capable,
bustling, middle-class and housewifely,
first favorable impressions were swal-
lowed up in apathy, which was turned to
positive dislike by this boresomely slow-
moving story of the young hick, un-
justly accused of murder, whose inno-
cence was established through the Sher-
lockholmesing abilities of his sweetie’s
momma. Carradine, who can villainise
in any style, selects as his model in this
opus the black-moustached gentleman
who wrought so much ruin in the melo-
dramas of the ’eighties. If the folk in
this fillum were laffing at trouble their
laughter wasn’t infectious. At Sydney
Capitol.
A Circus and a
Cynocephalus.
Circusing, like the making of watch-
springs, is a family business. Cases have
been known where a person born into
a watch-spring or circus family did not
do so (as the boy said about the ele-
phant), but these came to no good end.
Perry Bros., whose circus and menagerie
is doing well on a vacant lot at the
corner of Sydney’s Goulburn and Riley
streets, started out three generations ago
in Australia, and its backbone still has
as vertebral links James Perry, one of
the original Bros., his wife and his four
sons and two daughters. In the entour-
age is an 83-year-old Ashton who claims
to be the oldest circus-man still on the
The Mormon eats a pencil.
job in Australia. He might take in more
territory and find no rival.
Perry’s is a good all-round circus. On
a spare afternoon the Sydney Showman,
who can remember 50 years of Austra-
lasian tent shows, and Frith, whose ex-
periences in that direction have em-
braced all continents, tested it thor-
oughly. Though circuses are as old as
time, out of them, as out of Africa,
comes always something new. In this
shpw the Flying Dunbars put on a high
trapeze act that for technique and origi-
nality far outshines anything of the sort
seen on the fillums, American or English,
for the last 10 years—and there’s been
a mort of circus talkies. These lads and
lasses catch-as-catch-can in the air—
hands, ankles, knees, waist, neck, it’s all
the same to them. The Flying Winskills,
who put on a comedy act, have as a
member the clown Ollie, who adds
a stunt that has been done by only two
or three acrobats in traceable circus
history. He leaps high at a pole, seizes
it with one hand and with his body
slewed well out revolves gently down to
the ground—on a one-hand hold.
Roberdilla and his lady assistant do


tf)
Here’s a tooth powder which
really cleans your teeth, in a new
packing which is ever so much
easier to use than old-fashioned
tins and tubes. Just press the flask
and the powder is on your brush.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England. **
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC Jj
UxrthpomUt
ftt'4- IreMjzA
than aTUBE
PRESS THE FLASK
AND THE POWDER'S
ON THE BRUSH
TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ
NO. 4 OF A SERIES.
r
A
o
(T
/r
f 0
0
oo
•9
’’Poached Egg on Toast".
MARSEILLES.
somersaults, front and back, on the tight
wire.
The elephant and dog acts are not
new, but they’re well done. The lion-
cage act, conducted by a long Australian,
goes so surely, so fast and so strenu-
ously that the cats have no time to get
bored. Ten minutes later all four of
them were lying prone in their cage in
a row, a paw over the back of each
save the last lion, and they were still a
bit short of breath.
The jumping horses are a big feature.
The team includes old historic Lone
Star, still a fine lepper, and Dark Man
and Lion, who have each done over Bft.
on occasion.
As to the menagerie, the cats —lions,
tigers, leopards—are young and healthy.
But the great attraction is the mandrill.
Scientific name of this chap is Cynoce-
phalus mormon. His cavernous mouth
is that of an old-man boar, full of cruel,
curling yellow teeth; his cheeks are
blue, bright ultramarine ; his nose and
lips are pillar-box red. His dark fur
'has a smattering of yellow at the tips
>and parts of his body are a vivid purple.
He not only looks like a cross between
things hitherto forbidden in hybridisa-
tion, art and sanity, but he is cross —
and strong. Frith put his best black
pencil in reach of those prehensile
'fingers, holding tight. A second later
Frith had no pencil and the baboon
was shredding off the cedar to get at
the charcoal, or whatever the black stuff
is. This he ate, not with enjoyment, but
as one performing a duty. The splinters
he spat out like darts, hoping to impale
some member of his audience. But
what can you expect of a Mormon?
SOME FIRST NIGHTS.
The Monte Carlo Russian Ballet Co.’s
programme at Sydney Royal on Saturday
night was made up of “Petrouchka,”
“The Swan Lake,” “Port Said” and “La
Spectre de la Rose.” The most interest-
ing parts of the show to many were the
iscenes in the vestibule and the foyer and
on the stairs, where Social Sydney
enjoyed the spotlight of a theatre first-
night—quite a great occasion in a great
city that boasts only one gaff.
As to the ballets, despite the missionary
educational efforts of Mr. Haskell, “Pet-
rouchka” fell flat. Stravinsky may be
the most brilliant pupil of Rimsky-Kor-
sakoff, and may far have exceeded his
master in originality and daring, but his
music is hard to understand and the
dancing that is associated with it is
equally caviare to the general.
The piece about the lake and the swans,
one of the relics of the dear old Imperial
Russian Ballet, is, as they say nowadays,
“choreography by Petipa, music by
Tschaikowsky,” which to those who know
only Tschaikowsky is reminiscent of that
Italian opera-composer who, being told
that his score of “Romeo and Juliet”
couldn’t possibly fit the story, said “Well,
then, the librettist must alter it.”
The way in which Petipa and Tschai-
kowsky collaborated is on record. The
ballet-master handed the composer a little
specification reading something like this:
“No. 1, sad, 64 measures ; No. 2, sulky,
8 m. ; No.' 3, child dancers enter, brisk
and joyful, 24 m.,” and so on for any
given number of sections. Marius Petipa,
master of the Tsar’s Imperial Ballet, gave
the measurements and all Ilya Petrovich
had to do was to provide the cloth and
snip it to shape. Not a good way to
build high art, one would think, but the
“Lake of Swans,” which on its first pre-
sentation was an utter flop, stayed on the
repertoire and has now become to ballet
enthusiasts something as sacred as
“Hamlet” is to playgoers. Saturday
night’s production of the classic had the
charm of old lavender—but no kick.
“Port Said,” of much later vintage, is
better entertainment. This is a naughty
piece, and scenarist, costumer, scene-
designer, composer and dance-measurer
have worked together to make it a price-
less bit of pantomime. There is a gaiety
and abandon about the thing that makes
it possible for a bishop to chuckle softly
at it, and for unregenerate mortals to
applaud without restraint.
Best turn of the night, judging by the
way the audience took it, was the fanci-
ful “La Spectre de la Rose.” This is
what Percy Grainger would call a “ram-
bling transcription” on Weber’s “Invi-
tation to the Waltz,” as orchestrated by
Hector Berlioz. The music is graceful,
the dancing was equally so, and the final
leap through a window of the dream-
cavalier (though as a matter of poetic
nicety he should just have dissolved into
thin air'while walking off) was an acro-
batic feat that brought down the house.
*l* *l* 'l* "b
Sydney Independent Theatre’s latest is
“Indoor Fireworks,” a farce by Arthur
Macrae, who wrote “Flat to Let” and is
or was a protege of Noel Coward. For
sheer triviality “Indoor Fireworks”
would easily take the Thespian cake,
were it not that the West End stage
reeks with such dilettantism, the approved
diet of the white-tie class which sup-
ports that theatre, and which is conse-
quently the only class to find its view-
point reflected. Yet even in London
“Indoor Fireworks” had only a short run.
The setting (there is no plot) is an
actress’s week-end home near Cambridge,
and Doris Fitton, producing, has un-
doubtedly got the flavor of this interior,
aided by Harold Abbott’s stylish design
and a sound company. No one has the
chance to steal the show, but Molly
Brown, Leal Douglas, Brenda Dunrich,
Nellie Lamport and W. Grenville
Spencer are smoothly and intelligently
within the pattern. Macrae’s best asset
is a liquid facility for backchat, with a
few whiffs of real wit. He also knows
how to bring down a curtain. In Holly-
wood, they are saying “Odets, where is
thy sting?” since that gentleman fell for
scenario-sobstuffing, but 10 minutes of
“Awake and Sing” are worth two hours,
or even two days, of this Macraefish.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
*
George Finey, whose cartoons, bas-
reliefs and caricatures enliven the walls
of David Jones’s George-street gallery
m Sydney, started out, one might
imagine, by hating humanity, developed
from that hate a tremendous contempt,
and, after indulging the contempt a few
hundred times, came rather to like his
fellow-beings. He has, in the last two or
three years, drawn many of the citizens
of Sydney, but whether he does it with
a pencil, with pots of household lacquer
or by cutting silhouette snippets of
colored paper, he shows good humor,
He has done all the great fillum stars
by pasting together excerpts from the
more violently-colored advertising pages
of the “Saturday Evening Post,”
“Esquire” and less reputable American
publications. Analysing these composi-
tions you find a portion of Mr. George
Arliss’s brain occupied by a honey ad.,
while Warner Baxter’s lineaments include
a picture of a body in a bath. “Safety
First,” done with paints and brushes,
shows a demure little collection of
medicine bottles huddling on an island
traffic refuge. “To Each Their World,”
“The Meek Shall Inherit the Earth” and
“Cripples” are biting satires in the old
Finey manner—the meek rubbing their
noses in cactus-growing sand, the world-
bearers carrying globes that disrespect-
fully symbolise politics, mathematics and
the aesthetic arts, and the cripple hurry-
ing past trees whose boughs have been
lopped.
The bas-reliefs, such as “Madness Sets
j n ” “The Milky Way” and “All Stations
Broadcasting,” and some flamboyant pic-
tures in oils and sprays—“ Nocturne,”
which outpurples Blamire Young;
“Chemical Warfare,” an artistic arrange-
ment of blots; and “Nasturtiums” and
“Poinsettias,” still-lifes which in any
other connection would win rounds of
applause from the brave-new-arters —
seem to be thumbs-at-the-nose cocked at
certain modern tendencies in carto-
graphy. It is time those affectations were
vulgarly snooked, but Finey isn’t the
chap to do it. He’s too good an artist.


tont cioot
£°® iw yet P eace
*"■
vaUs '. w situated
ldeaU LidgePa*
iac “ g „ elevated
in a“ e «
position
< I po sition - h |
u\s/13 61
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Mothersills/
SEASICK REMEDY _ '
Guarantees A Perfect
.Voyage
Est. 1818.
THE GENUINE DANISH
HEERING’S
CHERRY
BRANDY
THE LIQUEUR FOB
THE DISCRIMINATING PALATE.
When you call for Cherry
Brandy, see that you get
Heerxng’s.
Supplied by all Hotels and Wine and
■Spirit Stores in Bottles and i Bottles,
If any difficulty in obtaining supplies, please
refer to the Sole Australian Agents,
SWIFT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
State Government House is to have
new tenants. The Governor-designate is
the second Baron Wakehurst of Ardingly.
He is 42, and as Captain de V. Loder
served on Gallipoli, in Egypt and in
Palestine. He is tall, blue-eyed, and has
an outdoors complexion. He and his
wife love sailing, so are looking forward
to the harbor. Tennis, golf, cricket and
gardening are also mentioned among the
loves of their life. He has managed,
nevertheless, to tuck in five years at the
Foreign Office, and has for 12 years been
a member of Parliament (Conservative).
He writes books, and isn’t above taking
a hand at thrillers.
Lady Wakehurst is a daughter of the
late Sir Charles Tennant, and therefore a
half-sister to Margot, Countess of
Oxford and Asquith. It’s not to be won-
dered at that she can make a good
speech, and has effectively done so dur-
ing her husband’s electioneering cam-
paigns. With the new Governor and his
wife will come their three sons (ages
three to eleven). Daughter Henriette
will wait three months in England to
gain a school certificate, and will jour-
ney to Australia later under the wing of
her grandmother. Henriette has ambi-
tions of making a career for herself.
Lady Wakehurst is said to be slim and
stylish ; so it will be easy to write about
her.
Because of the fairy-tale glamor of
a Princess riding in a gold coach and a
Queen riding in one of crystal, women
all over Australia listened-in to the
broadcast of. the marriage of Holland’s
young princess. The broadcast was the
most unthrilling this Letter has listened
to. The Dutch commentators sounded
happy and vivid, but, alas! so many of
this continent’s citizens had to depend
on the English translation or precis that
followed. The crowds in the streets could
be heard cheering and singing, and the
pale clear beams of the winter sun
(dwelt on by one commentator) could be
imagined glinting on the gold of Juliana’s
carriage, burning on the glass of Wil-
helmina’s, as daughter and mother drove
through their happy people from palace
to Town Hall, and then on to St. James
Church, where the bride and her Prince
Bernhard zur Lippe-Biesterfeld were
made man and wife.
Nobody will be plump these days, not
even royalties. The story is told that
Princess Juliana slimmed by some Ger-
man method so that she might be a
graceful bride. Unusual looking she un-
doubtedly is. Her beautiful eyes under
their heavy lids would intrigue any
artist. Under her diadem of diamonds
forming the five-petalled rose of her
Prince’s house those eyes must have been
very bright. The diamond bracelet on
her arm was worthy of it. That came
from the people of the Dutch East
Indies, and was set with a mere 1700
diamonds.
While bonfires were blazing and bells
pealing and clashing at The Hague, and
Princess Juliana, slim and glittering in
suave satin, was driving in a crystal-and-
gold coach to her wedding, Sydney was
uncorking the first of its autumn hats.
Only the models have arrived so far, and
some of them were quite worthy of in-
vitation to a royal wedding. If you have
from five and a half to ten guineas to
spend on one lid you can have a choice
that runs from Persian lamb to antelope,
from the finest velours to velvet, from
quills that are made from (it would
seem) the breast feathers of black and of
white swans to ostrich plumes, thick and
uncurled. Hats are grand and bland, de-
mure and provocative, fit the head
and are easy to wear. Gone, gone is the
elastic that always interfered with the
side fluffings of at least one woman’s
hair!
Feathers and veils. Small cap crowns
pushing themselves up higher and higher.
Some of the highest suggest ice-cream
cones. Feathers in all forms, from a
little parrot smack in the front of a
black velour to clipped feather pom-
poms and curlicues of black feather
cascading from the peaked crown into
the down over one eye-brim. The light
and the dark of fuchsias were mingled
in one trifle of velvet that hovered be-
tween a glengarry and the upturned and
feathered hats worn at proclamations.
Its light and dark feather fronds waved
above the forehead. There’s a Turkish
pillbox of Persian lamb with a narrow
tab of itself across the crown. This was
worn with a wide-mesh veil. A small
cap of antelope, ruched across the front
and there adorned with three small bows,
is sure of a welcome ; so is the Lauder-
like black felt tarn with its elegant black
quill jutting up and frontward.
Any woman who can say boo to goose
or gander will be drawn to the dashing
black corduroy, half postillion, half
topper, so sure of its worth that it relies
on a wide-mesh veil to see it through.
The woman who believes she is like Mar-
lene Dietrich will go straight as a hom-
ing dove for the soft-as-velvet black
velour that crescendoes from a visor
brim to a gushing fount of uncurled
ostrich feather. Don’t be misled by these
notes into thinking every hat is of sable
hue. There are velours of cornelian, of
wine tones ; one whose entire front was
a bow one-half petunia, the other sapphire
blue. A Breton sailor in navy, its brim
outlined in a plait of itself, gives back
to the round face that age-of-innocence
look. There are hats the green of
beetles’ wings that have their high and
lightly-tucked crowns trimmed with a
twist of ribbon brown as tree bark. But
go and see for yourself, write your own
lyric—and let your husband write the
cheque.
Sheila Gale, of the Islands (her home
is a few hours’ run from Suva), is a
lover of the sights, sounds and scents
and the softly moving days of Fiji. She
paints a graphic picture of a landscape
patterned with the green squares of
sugarcane fields, of the tropic growth,
the cold wind crossing Tai Levu. Here
the “mile a minute” vine, with its richly-
perfumed white flowers, climbs deter-
minedly. To come down to facts this
vibe actually does grow six inches in a
night. Island days, Island ways take
added lure when Sheila speaks. Spear-
ing fish out on the reefs by the light of
flares, turtle hunting, sometimes riding
to a native village in the hills, there to
be the guests of a native chief who, after
he has eaten with his visitors, blows a
mightly blast on a conch shell as a
signal to his people in the village that
they may dine, are diversions that divide
the leisure of the days. All too soon for
the subject of this Dorothy Welding
photograph, the Gale family may come
Sydney wards. It will be a day of regret
for her when she hears “Isa Lei,” the
song of farewell, as the ship pulls out.
Dutch ships in Sydney waters were
dressed in honor of the doings at The
Hague. They were bright spots of color
on a sparkling Port Jackson. Commo-
dore Hemkes, of the Nieuw Zeeland,
held informal reception. Over the home
of the Consul-General Elink Schuur-
mans the Netherlands flag flew all day,
and in the late afternoon Consuls and
churchmen, the Navy and the Army and
other importants, including the Premier,
surged into the Vaucluse home to toast
the royal pair. The decorations for the
reception featured orange flowers (a com-
pliment to the House of Orange), the
Dutch colors, red, white and blue, and
the flags of Australia and the Nether-
lands.
Mrs. Schuurman’s ivory crepes were
ankle length. Her unusual necklace was
of heavy design in gold. The Vice-Con-
sular Vigevenos, too, were in the pic-
ture. Her black satin tunic frock was
embroidered in gold about the neckline.
Her flowers were tiger-lilies. The
Governor-General was represented by
General Anderson, the Lieutenant-
Governor by Captain Lassen, while
Archdale Parkhill stood for the federal
Government. There were over 200
guests, and the gardens and lawns were
soon as animated as the reception-rooms.
Ann Lane-Poole in her blue spotted
chiffons was attractive; Mrs. Jordan,
who came with her Chief Justice, was
blue clad. The J. U. P. FitzGeralds were
there with Cecil Philippa Fitz Gerald. The
last toast of the party was drunk to the
Princess and her Prince, all gathering
with upraised glass before a large photo-
graph of the smiling two.
Music is a tradition in this attractive
girl’s family. She is Rosalind Gumpertz,
and her mother was known to this city’s
singing world as Marion Sydney. Rosa-
lind herself plays the viola in the A.B.C.
Symphony Orchestra. Picture from Des-
mond Woolley studio.
Once more on Saturday night at the
Royal lovers of the dance moved into
that world of fantasy that is the Ballet.
Here everything is unreal; even shooting
takes on a dreamlike quality. Curious
how movement can express silence and
stilly atmosphere, as in “Swan Lake” ;
how it can say things best left unsaid, as
in “Port Said.” “Petrouchka” was the
most dazzling of Saturday night’s works.
Silver, old rose, scarlet, gentian blues,
peacock greens, royal blues, saffron
burned on the animated groups. Gaudy
and gay was the background of the fair.
Before the stage brilliance the dresses
in the audience dulled, the colors were
snuffed out.
And yet the women in the audience,
except for a tendency to overdo the
flower theme, were well dressed. But
these flowers, now. They sat above the
forehead, were clamped above the ear,
outlined the frontispiece of frocks, circled
the vertebra, sprayed the shoulder. It
is a pretty fashion, the wearing of
flowers, but when a fashion becomes
overdone it is but a step to its being not
done. Ostrich-feather capes were one
of the charms of the night. One of
Nile-green fronds brushed against an-
other of the palest tea-rose pink.
Dorothea Mackellar’s cape was of black
tulL, her graceful frock of black moire.
Pale blue and silver brocade was worn
by Mrs. E. Wunderlich ; with her was
Mrs. A. E. Grace, whose cape was of
ostrich feather. Mrs. Bertie Kelly urged
the beauty of lily-white arm and shoulder
for swan maidens. Marjorie Ham-
bridge arrived swinging her long cape
of white velvet. Ermine wrapped Mrs.
Frank Albert. Lilac and gold lame in
the tunic fashion showed off Mrs. F. J.
Davy’s coloring. Ballet writer Arnold
Haskell, Basil Burdett and Sydney Ure
Smith were in one group. E. J. Tait
and Claude Kingston hovered.
Mrs. Mary Irvine, newly returned with
her friend Miss Anita Onslow from wan-
derings in England, tells of the joys of
a summer school of drama held in Bath.
Bath has still all the airs and graces of a
town built for pleasure. It has fine parks
and gardens and impressive crescents.
Its buildings are in the style of the
Regency, and the Pump Room is still,
as in the time of Beau Nash, the pivot of
social life. Every morning the visitors
assemble to drink the waters, and in the
assembly rooms concerts are given during
the summer by England’s good music-
makers. In the Little Theatre one after-
noon Laurence Housman read his “Vic-
toria Regina” in a voice very soft and
subtle.
Cecil Roberts was another writer the
Sydney woman met. She heard him
making an after-lunch speech in which
he told his listeners confidentially that
the only way he ever got any work done
was to say to his housekeeper overnight:
“Hide my trousers, and bring me a
fountain-pen with my morning-tea.”
Mrs. Irvine reports that Peter Fleming, of
News from Tartary and Brazilian Adven-
ture fame, has a small and neat blonde
head and a wife very pretty, with eyes
enormous as a Persian kitten’s. Polo at
Cowdray Park wrs another of the two
roaming Australians’ diversions. After
Mrs. Irvine had just dodged a smack on
the nose with a polo ball she almost coo-
eed with joy to find the ball being res-
cued by a player who was no one else
than old friend Phil Ashton.
The P.E.N. went dashing and held an
after-the-show rout for balletomane
Haskell. This writer about the nimblest
of the arts is a noted member of
the P.E.N. in London. His books are
being bought and sold everywhere, and
he is writing two more. He says the
only time he gets to write since coming
to Sydney is in the small hours of the
morning. He is built on small and slim
lines and has a high head. The party
got into motion about half past ten, and
the guests came along somewhere about
eleven. A breath of Barcelona and old
Madrid came in with Vance Palmer and
his daughter, the novelist being the only
one present to have glimpsed Spain since
its troubles began. Flora Eldershaw
looked surprised when someone in-
formed her that the name of a certain
ballet principal must be genuine Rus-
sian because it was the equivalent of
“pancake” in English.
Jeanie Ranken took the money at the
door of the Forum Club and discovered
the morning afte£ that one scribe had
given her a small cheque dated Decem-
ber, 1937 —altogether too long to wait
for seven shillings. Dora Payter, in
black chiffons garnished with gardenias,
circled Hebelike with lager and sherry.
Eleanor Dark arrived, and an English
visitor whose frock of white taffeta was
long and spreading. The Philipoffs were
there, and the Harald Bowdens ; also
Dr. Temple Smith, novelist Hardie and
his wife, and art-man Basil Burdett, up
from Melbourne. Tall and slight, with
a suggestion of Quixote, Robert Garran
was distinctive. Mrs. M. Irvine, whose
frock shimmered lagoon-blue and green,
was the belle of the party.


i. WONT SHRINK
It takes good trousers to stand up to the
rough jobs on the land—but INGOT
TWEEDS are doing it. In fact, you’ll
find them hard to wear out.
Soaking rains or repeated' boiling won’t
shrink them or spoil their shape.
INGOT TWEED TROUSERS are tested
in the factory for strength and wear—
and they’re tested thoroughly, under
every climatic and working condition, by
thousands of outdoor men in every
Australian State, who buy them again
and again.
Get a pair yourself and prove their value.
INGOT TWEED TROUSERS are
thoroughly shrunk by the Ingotized
Patented Process.
Ask your Storekeeper to show you a range of
Ingot Products carrying this guarantee.


s f
ft
fsl
|
■
%gm
/
1 :v ia
SHIRLEY TEMPLE
FROCKS AND FASHIONS FOR EVERY DAINTY LITTLE MISS
Fifteen fashions, ever so much Shirley Temple, are pictured in January 19
issue of the “Woman’s Mirror”; the free pattern is a Shirley Temple petticoat,
and there are 14 other delightful patterns to choose from.
READ ABOUT SHIRLEY TEMPLE AND HER METEORIC RISE IN FILMLAND.
Don’t miss this number of Australia’s most popular woman s magazine.
The children will treasure the pictures of Shirley!
On Sale Friday at the Usual Price of 3d. per Copy.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Melbourne
Chatter
The most picturesque figures present
on every day at the Test were the Khan
Sahib Nawab Siddique Ali Khan and
Dr. and Mrs. Joglekar, also from India.
The Khan Sahib, who wears his fez with
European clothes, is a supporter of
cricket in India. He is a representative
of the Indian Central Provinces, a mem-
ber of the Indian Board of Control, and
was one of the hosts to the Australian
team which ate chutney in his country.
Dr. Joglekar also wears Western attire,
but his charming little wife, who is an
artist, is always clad in her national cos-
tume. One day her sarong and sari were
palest pink ; on other occasions she was
in lilac, pale-blue or white. She brought
a wrap with her into the stand, but only
when the wind turned very cold and rain
spray reached the reserved seats did she
tuck it around her shoulders.
Optimists who imagined that week
days would thin out the immense
crowds had rude awakenings when they
strolled along about 11 o’clock, feeling
quite safe with members’ tickets. If their
luck was in they secured small portions
of steps or alleyways, or if very athletic
they climbed over the grandstand rail-
ings to sit all day on a foot-wide parapet
dangling their feet over space. Lunch
hampers were unpacked and eaten in
the same awkward position. Camp stools
were useful, and there was enormous
profiteering over soapboxes. One man
paid ss. for a piece of board and a chair
without a seat. He and his wife were
exceptions in the vast mass of picnickers.
Dizzily newly-wed, they brought all their
best china, eggshell cups and saucers,
silver cruets, crystal bottle of tomato
sauce and enough daintily-packed food
in their suitcase to have fed a hungry
dozen.
Children under 11 had to sit in a
special location where they were safeiy
out of mischief —this Melbourne C.C.
ruling being the result of past conduct
of some of its members, now high and
mighty in the men’s stand, who as juniors
used to drop lemonade-bottles from the
highest roofs they could crawl on to.
One baby in arms managed to be ad-
mitted to the members’ stand. It was a
model baby and slept all day, so that
only its mother’s immediate neighbors
knew it existed.
One wet day Peggy McComas (who is
about again after her jumping accident
at the last Royal Show) wrapped herself
up like a Christmas present in a hooded
cape of transparent white cellophane.
Her mother and Mrs. David Braham,
both in tweeds, were less comfortable
on the same rain-swept step. There was
a fair sprinkling of men in the enclos-
ures, but the majority of males prefer
their own stand, where femininity may
not intrude. It was also crowded, even
to the gangways, and its population
didn’t forget their packets of sandwiches,
bottles and bottle-openers. Among hus-
bands who had, instead of a pocketful
of food, a date with the wife’s hamper
elsewhere, was Dr. John Turner. Gil-
bert Dyett was noticed wandering about
through all the stands. Mrs. Bill Irvine
and her sister Natalie Wood (who this
week became Mrs. George Henry Den-
ton) were noticed in the same picnic
party in a sunny spot. Vaire and Dudley
Wilkinson arrived early every morning
to secure their favorite seats near the
fence, while Major Wilkinson looked
after the Khan Sahib and Dr. Joglekar,
special guests in the committee box. Mrs.
John Niall was noticed getting susten-
ance out of a thermos, and Mrs. Tom
Buxton and Joan Ranking were glimpsed
in the Grey Smith stand.
On a day of warm sunshine Mrs. Ivan
Tait and Mrs. Geoff Goods, both in sum-
mery figured frocks, made the benches
under the awnings their basis of opera-
tions. Mrs. Maurice Sloman was an
early arrival every day with thermos,
cushion and basket of food. Marion
Kettlewell took on an extra coat of tan
while Bradman made his double century,
which was also watched by Mrs. lan
Mann, the Marcus Whitings and Nel
Wimpole, whose mustard jumper and
blue glasses made a spot of color for
one day, and whose engagement to James
Reginald Toone was being saved up for
the next.
Although we are having a coldish
summer and little good swimming
weather, all seaside homes have occu-
pants. In addition to the expensive
homes there are thousands of beach cot-
tages, furnished with bare necessities
and no etceteras, which are known as
“all mod. cons.” Tin baths with the
paint peeling off, hurricane lamps and
stoves that smoke are part of the picnic,
and swarms of friends descend daily on
the inhabitants, who always manage to
find room for one or two more visitors.
Then there are the campers and cara-
vaners who delight in going bush with
flyveil, billy and frying pan. They fish
and shoot and lie in the sun, bathe in
all weathers and come back to town
covered in sunburn and full of stories
of their adventures.
For the first time in the history of
contract bridge a Maoriland team has
come to match its skill against Australian
experts. Here is one of the visitors,
Halmai Loughnan, who, like her team-
mates, comes from Christchurch and is
visiting Melbourne for the first time.
Miss Loughnan has played bridge since
she was a child. She and the team cap-
tain, Mrs. C. B. Morgan, unlike most
keen contract players, don’t despise auc-
tion and will on occasion make up a
four. Gardening ranks equally with
bridge as Mrs. Morgan’s other hobby.
The prizes she wins at flower shows are
the reward for the personal attention she
gives to her lovely garden at Opawa,
near Christchurch. Miss Loughnan also
has out-of-doors interests. Her golf han-
dicap is eight, she rides a lot, and every
winter skates on natural ice not far from
her home town. A Broothorn camera
made the portrait.
There is a fine spirit of comradeship
among these Maoriland bridge players.
They don’t take their bridge as a life-
and-death battle, but as a game; they
are keen but not grim for victories. Dur-
ing the 10 days they spent in Melbourne
the visitors were guests of A. E. Whitelaw,
patron of the Victorian Bridge League,
which extended the invitation for the
tournament. The league, which has been
in existence only a couple of months,
has now amalgamated with the Victorian
Bridge Association to form the Bridge
Union.
The visitors were met at the ship, and,
after a short break of journey to dispose
of their luggage at the hotel, were
whisked off to the Test just in time to
see Bradman walk in to start piling up
runs for his double century. There are
two men in the team, Bill Mitchell,
whose job is accountancy, and Dr. Paddy
McQuilkin, who practises in Christ-
church. is married (his wife does not
play bridge) and has a small son. Last
week the visitors had daily engagements
to play against teams from several dif-
ferent clubs. At the end of this week
they have dates with Sydney experts.
It is only natural that Don’s 270 would
induce such a smile as his wife has given
to Broothorn’s camera. Mrs. Bradman
is travelling from State to State for the
Tests ; she seldom misses any important
match in which Don is playing.
Marjorie Goodisson and Jessie
Brookes enjoyed holidays at the beach
and in the hills after the work they did
before Christmas. Miss Goodisson, who
holds a social service diploma, was com-
missioned by the Social Science Board
to deal with 400 applications for 42
houses at Fishermen’s Bend. The sug-
gestion for an inquiry came from
Cabinet through the Housing Commis-
sion. Miss Brookes, who is a student for
the same diploma, was Miss Goodisson’s
chauffeur during the inspection. The
two girls spent several weeks combing
Port Melbourne, asking questions, check-
ing information, seeking out hard-work-
ing families who hadn’t made applica-
tions and visiting all sorts of abodes,
from presentable cottages to “Dudley
Flats,” a collection of tumbledown, leaky
shacks made from kerosene-tins, junk
and rubbish. Their instructions were to
try to get the most deserving families
out of the worst environments. Tenants
are now settled in 20 of the new houses,
which have hot water, built-in baths and
glass shower-screens. Rents are a little
under £1 per week.
Owing to bad weather and wrong
winds for good surf, the back beach
at Sorrento has not been very popular
this summer, but the Bay beach at Port-
sea is a lively picture of healthy human-
ity wearing costumes that are daring
adventures in color. The younger gen-
eration can’t make up its mind which
comes first, love of design or love of
nature, but it gets a great deal of zest
out of both. At Portsea beach inspec-
tors have to be humored. Men bathers
must wear tops to their costumes or they
instantly incur the attention of the mor-
ality man.
The Paul Northeys were at Portsea
for part of their honeymoon. Mrs.
Northey, who was Mavis Ripper until
recently, astonished even hard-boiled
fashion addicts with her peppermint-
stick-striped plus-fours. The Arthur
Bells were seen around and about.
Dorothea Dixon was noticed in white
culottes and a navy shirt printed with
sorcerer’s symbols. Smooth coats of
sunburn have been acquired by Mrs.
Hugh Crawford, Moira Morell, whose
swimming suit is of blue printed linen,
and Dot Eckersall. Mrs. Geoff Grim-
wade found a yellow blouse and tailored
grey culottes very comfortable for golf
as well as beach. The Guy Pleasance
couple were callers at several houses,
and the Burdie Laycocks and Joy Witt-
man were often part of the crew of Keith
Laycock’s yacht. Tom Kerr and his
speed-boat were very popular until they
had an accident, when admiration turned
to sympathy and Tom had to lie up and
be nursed back to health.
Taking part in the social life round
about Frankston are the Jim Cooks, who
at this time of year seldom have a meal
alone in their house at Baxter. Their
small daughter Harriet is growing up in
a home surrounded by a woody garden
which Mrs. Cook has ornamented with
interesting pieces of Japanese pottery, a
present from her mother, Mrs. Leslie
Moran, who travelled in Nippon last
year. The Neville Gray couple also
have a great many visitors at Frankston,
where their house is furnished in period
style and their wedding presents, so
many of them antiques, fit smoothly
into the picture of quiet comfort. Mrs.
Gray has four large setters to groom,
feed and take for walks. Like every-
body else in the district she has had to
learn to kill snakes.
Dispensing with attendants and con-
ventional bridal raiment of satin and
tulle, Annette Powell, at her wedding
to Seton Synnot, was given away by her
mother, Mrs. Hugh Rose. The rendez-
vous was at Toorak kirk, continuing with
tea at Menzies. The ’groom is only son
of the Marcus Synnots and the bride
only daughter of the late R. V. Powell
and a granddaughter of the late
Edmund Jowett, the sheepman.
“The Silence of Dean Maitland has
nothing on you,” was the Christmas
cablegram received by Mrs. Theo Hand-
field in Melbourne from Tommy
Cochran in London. This brother and
sister are good pals, but they write to
one another only when the spirit moves
them. The Theo Handfields have let
their house in Sandringham for two
years, and are down at Airey’s Inlet
preparatory to taking off for the road
once more. They have abandoned their
caravan, and will sleep at friends’ houses
or at hotels during a motor trip due to
last for several months. Their luggage
consists of a couple of suitcases, a dilly-
bag (which seems to contain anything
and everything, including iodine and
bandages, a darning outfit, books to
read, climbing kit and tins of toffee).
There is also an old school trunk, which,
with “Muriel Cochran” painted over, will
be strapped to the back of the car.
The Frank Mallochs, of Perth, timed
their holiday to coincide with the Tests.
At the one in Sydney they met and be-
came friendly with several of the English-
men, and in Melbourne they sat in the
portion of the stand set aside for friends
of the English team. Mrs. Malloch is
a cousin of Mary and Betty Durack,
whose Chunuma was published by The
Bulletin, and who are at present enjoy-
ing every moment of their visit to
England.


Jlway with HARD CARBON r
i
W
\
t %
El
7/
H
t
CF7
—it spoils acceleration
Slow acceleration often means that hard
carbon is caked in your engine. Full, pow-
erful sparks instantly ignite and bum fuel
completely and retard the formation of car-
bon, Why drive a sluggish, noisy car? Keep
carbon at a minimum by installing new
Champions once every year.
Champion
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN WINDSOR. CANADA • - AN EMPIRE PRODUCT •
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
WHAT TO HEAD
ComiTME I/TfHAH/PiWEWS/H /
THE AUSTRALASIAN-
-0//SAL£~~jhISTAr£S~P/?/C£6®.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of Ss. each
on acceptance.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: The twentieth attempt to
find Lasseter’s “lost” reef is now being
made. The organiser says: “If we
fail, Australians may rest assured that
the gold of Lasseter’s reef is non-exis-
tent.” There is one Australian who
doesn’t need to be convinced. I heard
Lasseter tell his story of his trek, and
after the first few words I could see
that “Possum” was at' least 1000 miles
away from where he said he was.
Charles Ulm, at a meeting to discuss the
first Lasseter quest', rose and said: “Mr.
Chairman, we are now 190-odd miles out
in the Indian Ocean and appear to be
still moving.” He wanted to know if
the reef was in S’Africa or at the South
Pole. It is about time the Interior De-
partment took a hand. Somebody will
get lost on one of these futile wanders
or fall into conflict with the local blacks.
And a valuable life or two will be lost,
along with some public money, in rescu-
ing the expeditionaries.
* * * *
“Q.M.1.”: Announced that the Com-
monwealth contingent for the Coronation
will wear the emu plume which was once
the exclusive property of the Queensland
Mounted Infantry. Up to the shearers’
strike in 1891 this force wore black
rooster feathers. On the central and
north-western downs during the strike
the Q.M.I. was exercised in military
fashion over large areas of open coun-
try. ’Ninety-one was a lush season in
all respects, and emus were as thick as
the flies. When the M.I. was recalled to
headquarters in Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Townsville, etc., it took those birds’
plumes with it and, after unofficial recog-
nition, they became the characteristic
badge of Bananaland mounted troops.
The mounteds took the badge with them
to South Africa, where, as a result of
that strike-training under active service
conditions in the open spaces, they were
more efficient in war training than any
group of their contemporaries.
* * * *
“Old Boy”: So old Mick Jordan has
at last left Gatt'on College (B. 23/12/’36).
He was “old” Mick 36 years ago, and
even in those days no one ever thought
of him as having com.e to the college:
it was a tradition that he had had his
measurements taken and the college had
been built round him. He was a big
man, quiet, never speaking unless he
had something to say, never abusing his
authority. When old Mick spoke, we
students paid attention. The place
doesn’t seem the same without the
thought of him saddling his old chest-
nut horse and, under the brim of his
hat, smiling as he noticed how the stu-
dents picked up hoes and swung into it
when his eyes fell on them.
* * * *
“Daru”: The Moresby Administration
will be glad to see Ivan Champion
back with his expedition after 10 months
in the wilds, since in experience he is
now about Papua’s number one patrol
officer. His expedition with Karius a
few years ago was the first to cross from
the south into the Mandated Territory ;
his latest, which must rank as greater
than Hides’s, has proved the stuff of
which he and his companion, C. T.
Adamson, are made. For three months
the party lived on sweet potatoes, and
the trek took them up to the Bamu River
from Port Romilly to the Leonard
Murray mountains, thence across the
roaring Kikori, which took 26 days to
cross. Including this, five months were
spent covering 90 miles. From Augu the
limestone ranges were crossed into the
Wage Valley at 8000 feet, and a pass at
Giliwu was negotiated at 12,000 ft. in
bitter cold into Kagoli Valley and the
Mandated Territory near Mt. Hagen. The
rest of the journey was down the Purari.
There were no quarrels with natives;
some members of inland tribes even came
with the patrol to Moresby to join the
police.. Adamson is an expert pros-
pector, but nowhere was there any trace
of gold.
* * * #
“Rufus”: D. C. McConnell, first squat-
ter on the Brisbane side of the Main
“Think I'll send th' Wool clip down t' Brisbane now, Ma. Remember
where I put it?”
Range and founder of Cressbrook in
1842, imported some deer from one of
Queen Victoria’s estates to his property,
which seemed to suit them admirably.
The Cressbrook deer, long regarded as
one of the “sights” of Queensland, in
recent years have spread and are numer-
ous about Freestone, Maryvale and Cun-
ningham Gap. Now lack of grass has
driven them into the cultivated spots, and
farmers curse them as they ravage, maize,
potato and other crops. They’ve become
another addition to our imported pests.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Dr. D. A. Herbert is secretary to the
Queensland Science Congress delegation,
and Mrs. Herbert has gone to Auckland
with him. E. W. Bick, curator of the
Botanical Gardens, representing the
Dept, of Agriculture, has also taken his
wife, as have J. K. Murray, Prof, of
Agriculture at Queensland Uni., and the
Prof, of Veterinary Science, Dr. H. R.
Seddon. Miss Davis and Miss Trotter,
of Mackay High School, are with the
party.
The Ivan Bonds spent New Year
aboard their yacht, the Teal, with a party
of guests. They blew into Brisbane for
a day or two, reprovisioned, and left
again for the northern end of the Bay.
Phyllis Lusby left for Sydney by car
with her parents, Professor and Mrs. S.
G. Lusby. Phyllis will join the Mongolia
and be in England for the Coronation.
Nancy Ledger, aided and abetted by her
mother, Mrs. C. J. Ledger, gave a fare-
well party.
Over 6000 Queensland children take
the primary correspondence course
arranged by the Education Dept., and,
according to Under-Sec. McKenna, their
standard is just as good as that of the
children attending the State primary
schools. And they write better and use
better English.
January 11 was the date fixed for the
wedding of Helen Benwell and R. D.
Martin at All Saints’ Church. Mrs.
Colin Grant was matron-of-honor, and
Nancy Hough ’maided.
All the Frith clan are off to Sydney
for Reg Frith’s wedding. Mrs. J. O.
Frith, of Toowoomba, the Charlie
Friths, of Dalby, and the Harry Friths
all went down.
The Silas Harding pair (he judges the
blood horses at the big Queensland
shows) spent their Christmas and New
Year at Crow’s Nest with Dr. and Mrs.
L. Simmonds, and then went to Too-
woomba to spend a few days with Mrs.
J. C. Doyle. Mrs. Doyle and Mrs.
Walter Edgar have packed their suit-
cases and left for Sydney to spend some
weeks at Collaroy.
Brisbane will miss the Mulford Cole-
brooks, who are off to America in
March to have their long leave before
proceeding to London, where Poppa
has been appointed American Vice-
Consul.
Mrs. Dennis Duigan is another of the
fortunate ones. She is preparing for a
trip to Asia. February 2 will see her
afloat, en route to Japan, and she will
be away for three months.
Grace Edmonson, who has been holi-
daying in Brisbane and Woody Point
with the P. J. Symeses, left for Melbourne
by the Westralia. She will be a few
weeks in the south before returning to
England.
Mrs. W. B. Thomson, of Colombo —
she was Joan Overell, of Brisbane —is
here on a holiday visit. When she goes
home Betty Fletcher, of Bonus Downs,
Mitchell, will go with her for a look at
Asia.
Mrs. Stuart Johnson’s farewell tea for
Kath Turner at the Brisbane Women’s
Club was a delightful affair, the table
all gay with candles, bonbons, zinnias
and golden-glow. Kath is to be married
soon in Sydney to Richard Breden ; and
as her parents, the E. P. Turners, and
sister Marmie are leaving to make their
home in Sydney the tea was also a fare-
well for them.
A. E. Moore and son Euston were
at th,e Kyogle station laden with flowers
to farewell their respective wives, leaving
for Tasmania as official chaperons for
a bunch of Y.A.L. girls. Marga Har-
rold, an assistant chaperon, had her
father to see her off. This is the sixth
trip Mrs. Euston Moore (who was Eileen
Mackay, of Sydney) has had with Y.A.L.
parties, so she knows the ropes and will
be able to help her mother-in-law,
chaperon-in-chief. The W. J. Strachans,
patron and patroness of the Y.A.L.,
were also on the station saying au revoir.
Another batch of 50 girls, chaperoned by
Mrs. King, leave for Tasmania this
week.
The Governor and Lady Wilson
motored from Southport for the New
Year races at Ascot, and brought the
Jack Chandlers with them. His Ex. was
the committee’s guest at luncheon, and
Lady Wilson had a party on the com-
mittee verandah.
The bells of St. John’s Cathedral pealed
for the wedding of George Britton Hal-
ford, only son of Dr. A. C. F. Halford,
and Hilda Carfrae, previously matron of
Alexandra Private Hospital. Dr. Hal-
ford gave away the bride, who is the
daughter of the late E. A. Carfrae and
of Mrs. Carfrae, of Charleville. Navy
taffeta was worn by the bride, who had
no attendant.
When Mary Graeme Gibson and her
small son go back to Canada in Feb-
ruary to join their Captain a couple of
Mary’s old school-friends will probably
go with her, including Fifi Billington,
who went to America with Mary some
six years ago, before doing a trip through
Russia.
Another Brisbane girl who is off to
America, leaving early in March, is
pretty Poppy Irving. The J. Washington
Irvings gave her the trip as a Christmas
present. Several parties have been
arranged, one of the biggest by the Hugh
Thurlows. Poppy was Mrs. Thurlow’s
bridesmaid a few months ago.
The small reddish-brown fish known
to Queenslanders as pilchards (although
they are nothing like the edible pilchard
of the Cold Country) are swarming in
Moreton Bay, the sharks with them. It
is remarkable that there are so few shark
fatalities in Queensland waters, for
scarcely any of the beaches boast netted
enclosures. At Amity Point during the
Christmas holidays an amateur fisherman
almost stepped on an eight-footer waiting
for any unconsidered trifle right on the
edge of the deep-water channel. And
lifesavers at Burleigh a few days ago
chivvied one monster away from the
bathing area with a volley of stones.


<%o&
itrope
THE SMART WORLD SAILS
S
©/
THERE’S nothing to com-
pare with the luxury
provided by “ Empress of
Britain ” on the sheltered
St. Lawrence route to Europe.
Three whole decks for sports
... lounging . . . sunning.
Full size tennis court . . .
Olympic pool . . . ball room
. . . theatre . . . every apart-
ment with outside light and
air. And then there’s Canadian
Pacific personal service and
cuisine. No wonder the smart
world travels “Empress of
Britain ” to Europe.
Literature and all details from
Any Tourist Boohing Agency or
8.6.7
OmcStUwGLdfyc
World’s Greatest Travel System
59 William Street, Melbourne,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Canadian Pacific “Railway Company,
Incorporated in Canada.
Jl
u
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, LONDON
After the
?>,
r
V
'iinsws.
SLA
SPRING STREET, GARMISCH
THE CATHEDRAL, COLOGNI
Crown your trip with
a Holiday in
GERMANY
England !—the Coronation celebrations—then the crowning
event of your trip—a glorious holiday in Germany. Travel
by modern streamlined trains, your own car or by ’plane
in perfect comfort over Europe’s most colourful country.
Climb in the Bavarian Alps—laze on Baltic beaches—golf
on excellent courses ! Tour the romantic Rhine by steamer,
or the beautiful Neckar Valley by canoe. Living costs little
under the present special exchange system, and rail fares
are reduced 60%. Vou will be welcomed most courteously,
and when vou leave you will not say “Good-bye”, but
“ Auf Wiedersehen ” as your charming hosts always do.
For full information and free descriptive literature, apply:
GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU
(Dept. 0.V.) 19. Regent Street, London, S.W. I.
or Offices of Thos. Cook & Son, Ltd., and other recognized Travel Agencies.
“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Offices 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Perth Cup attracted a pre-depression-
sized crowd to the green swards at head-
quarters. Queues lined up at all the
tote-ticket windows, and dividends took
from one race to the next to collect.
Every scrap of shade on the grounds
was occupied ; the leafy plane trees in
front of the tote shaded hundreds;
bookmakers’ brollies were a boon to
punters and fielders ; refreshment booths
were packed and grandstands overflow-
ing. Dressing was cool and gay, but
lacked the elegance usually associated
with a Cup meeting. The v.-r. party
dressed traditionally, James Mitchell’s
lady in shaded georgettes with blue taf-
feta coat, Mrs. Terence Anketell with
yards of fluffy parchment ninon and Amy
Mitchell in floral blue chiffon. Mrs.
Douglas Gawler’s ankle-length beige
laces were split from elbow to shoulder
and shaded by a wide ballibuntal straw,
Mrs. James Monteith banded her royal
blue ripple ninon with scarlet to match
the perky quill in her upturned hat, and
Mrs. Fred Strickland’s picture hat was
in keeping with her dusty-pink lace
gown. Gwen Bickford topped slate-blue
silk crepe with shiny black straw. Mar-
jorie Du rack French-kilted her Patou-
pink ninons, and the Collister twins,
Joan and Joyce, slipped beige fisher net
over their brown taffetas’.
Weld Club Ball, the only surviving pro-
gramme dance fixture, again scored the
success of the social year. Tall hydran-
geas nodded proudly as a background
for a profusion of gay flowers coming
down to a row of diminutive pot-plants
in front. President Frank Leake stood
at the portals with his lady alongside, her
misty rose-embossed black satins caught
on the shoulders with diamente orna-
ments. Vice-president Norman Tem-
perley escorted his other half, on whose
flowing grey chiffons purple velvet
flowers trailed from shoulder to waist.
Daughter Dorothy’s white muslin was
lacquered with red and green flowers.
Mrs. R. A. Cameron was bright with
flame ninon. Mollie Learmonth’s black
floral satins were tied at the neck with
a net bow which floated off into a
appliqued scarf, and Gwenyth Ambrose
ran a spray of roses across the square
neck of her peachy-pink satins.
Scores of cars sped along the road
to Pinjarra for their passengers to wit-
ness the Bishop of Bunbury forging the
matrimonial link between Mavis, only
daughter of Canon and the late Mrs.
Burns, and John Wood, who hails from
Bristol, England. The bride’s ivory
satins shimmered through a tunic coat
of silk net and her bouquet of stephan-
otis and agapanthus were half hidden by
the long tulle veil which floated from a
silver halo plait. Kathleen Smith, in
pink, and Josephine McLarty, in blue,
lollowed in her wake, their silver-dotted
georgettes cut Grecian-wise with silver-
banded draped sleeves, silver sashes
tailing to the ground and short match-
ing tulle veils caught with tiny flowers.
Phis is to be a month of weddings.
Grace Stapledon starts the series with
her marriage to Lieut. A. R. Lawson, a
military affair with uniforms, swords
and four bridesmaids. The quartet—
Pauline Woodroffe, Joan Peed, Nancy
Ward-Hughes and Pauline Phillips—put
on sundown cocktails for the bride-elect,
with presentation shoulder posy and gift
of linen attached.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The French sloop Le Rigault de
Genouilly has arrived at Port Adelaide.
The commander and two officers lunched
with the Governor at G.H., and in the
evening French Consul Arnold Moulden
entertained the commander and officers
at dinner at the Naval and Military Club
and got up a motor picnic at Belair
National Park for the men. The Mayor
of Port Adelaide gave a dance in his
own Town Hall for 70 sailors, and sent
out an SOS for girls to help things
along. Adelaide’s Lord Mayor Cain
gave a civic welcome to the commander
and officers in the pretty room of the
Lady Mayoress, which was gay with car-
nations and zinnias. Helping her father
receive, Mrs. Dunstan wore a smart
white, brown and green flowered frock
with wide-brimmed brown ballibuntal
straw hat trimmed with brown velvet
ribbon.. At the shivoo were some of
Adelaide’s young French matrons —Mrs.
Kenneth Wills, who managed to look
cool on a hot day in tailored white silk ;
Mrs. Harry Thomson, in navy silk
spotted in white; Mrs. Harold Mc-
Gregor, always a chic frocker, in a
brown skirt and a brown tunic heavily
embossed in beige; and Mrs. Roland
Beard, in a mist-blue linen tailored suit
with white silk blouse and small white
straw hat.
The same four Frenchwomen arranged
a dinner-dance at the South Australian
the same night, when they entertained
the commander and officers, a jolly party
of about 20. Among the guests were Betty
Burston and Miss B. Magarey, both re-
cently returned from European travel,
and Helen, only daughter of Mrs. H. H.
Dutton, of Anlaby, who has just com-
pleted her studies in Paris.
Adelaide has never been in such a
whirl of warships. The captain and
officers of H.M.S. Danae, moored in the
Outer Harbor, were hosts at a cheery
dance in their ship, where they returned
the hospitality that has been showered
on them. Mrs. Barton Forster was
a striking figure in black tulle, Jean
Butler was in ice-blue satin beaute. with
draped bodice, Helen Dutton looked
pretty in white silk figured in delphinium
blue, and Jean Duncan’s black net frock
had circular bands of black velvet on
the full skirt. Betty Corbin wore a long
floral spray on the shoulder of her pale-
pink net frock, Lesley Vasey’s white
matelasse toilette was cut on princess
lines, and Anne McTaggart favored a
pale-green windswept crepe.
The S.A.J.C. “summer” meeting was
held under autumnal conditions.
Tailored tweeds were the most popular
fancy, and furs and even fur coats were
worn. The Governor and Lady Dugan
were there, the lady smart in a light navy
suit with basque effect and gilt frog
buttons, a long navy quill in her navy
velour hat and a navy-and-red chiffon
scarf tucked into her coat. They sat in
the official box with the club’s
chairman, Whitmore Carr, and his
wife. Mrs. Carr’s tailored suit was
of May-wine tone, and the modish hat
that matched it was trimmed with a bow
of stiffened net. Premier Butler’s wife
wore a navy-and-white check ensemble
and navy hat with a touch of white.
TASMANIA.
His Ex. and Lady Clark went north
during the holidays, he to open the New
Year’s Day athletic sports at Burnie and
next day the new sports ground at
Devonport.
The Midland Bachelors’ New Year
Ball gets better and brighter every year.
Powell’s Hall was decorated out of
recognition, and the supper tables
flaunted blue, gold and pink. Invitations
brought a big crowd, lured in from all
parts of the island.
The T.T.C. meeting at Mowbray had
a fine day, but so many habitual race-
goers were out of town for the holidays
that attendance was thinnish. Dr.
Clemons (chairman) and Mrs. Clemons
entertained guests, Mrs. Clemons in navy
and white with red sunshade.
At this meeting summer fashions had
their chance for once, and the little
white pique jackets which threaten to be-
come an epidemic were suitable and
smart on most of their wearers. On the
lawn were seen Mrs. L. O. Macnamara,
Mrs. Ryan, Mrs. J. Forrest, the R. C.
Fields, the Frank Browns, the Guy Mere-
diths, the Allan Stewarts, the A. E. Pep-
pers, Dr. and Mrs. Max Clemons, the
V. C. Halls, the Vranison girls, the H. P.
Harrisons, Beatrice and Muriel Fergu-
son, the Alex. Boyes pair and the C. N.
Gunns.
Newnham races also had fine weather,
and almost all the dressing was sum-
mery. Mrs. Pepper, wife of the chair-
man, wore navy and white in a pin-spot,
the redingote belted in red.
Mrs. Tom Field is one of several hom-
ing northerners. She has had a long
and interesting trip in England, Scotland,
Wales and the Continent, and spent some
weeks in Ceylon. While in London she
stayed with her sister, Mrs. Glover.
Eve Masterman is spending a few
weeks in the Speck and looking up old
friends. Mrs. J. E. Thorp gave her a
welcoming sherry party at Jutland, when
about 80 guests rolled up. Mrs. Thorp’s
floral frock in a brown-and-gold scheme
had a novel trimming of lace frills.
A few northerners drifted south for
the holidays, among them Dr. and Mrs.
A. E. Grounds (Launceston), who with
their three kiddies have fetched up at
the Australasian, Kingston Beach. Dr.
Grounds is playing in the summer tour-
nament at the Kingston Beach Golf Club.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. KAWNSLEY MOSS, Chairman. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
ttntw?
Women’s
Supplement
“The Examiner” publishes every Wednesday a Supplement
for Women containing all the social news and specialised
features concerning the woman and the home. It is the
woman’s own newspaper, and rivals Australia’s best. It not
only reaches the home, but stays there. You can reach
the women of Northern Tasmania only by advertising
in “The Examiner’s” Women’s Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
Cfiatnbt* l
•AUDIT
■BUREAU OF
.CIRCULATIONS.
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
Established
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES’ ASHTON (Chairman) ; EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E. ; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory'. Agents throughout the world.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
The Long white Cloud
“Hutiwai”: Maorilanders have more
horror of infantile-paralysis epidemics
than of the widely-publicised earth
tremors. Health authorities are receiv-
ing ready co-operation in their present
fight, and are tackling the epidemic in
thorough fashion. Not a great deal is
known of the disease, but, according to
recent medical research, it seems to be
largely spread by contacts. Children
under 16 years of age are having restricted
summer holidays: they require permits
before they can leave some centres, and
in Dunedin, where the first cases were
reported, roads, aerodromes and railway
stations are being policed to see that the
regulations are obeyed. Health camps
and all children’s gatherings have been
abandoned. There was a similar epi-
demic in the 1924-25 summer, and
schools resumed weeks late; rays of
the sun were then suspected of contri-
buting to the spread of the disease, and
nearly all children wore hats with shades
protecting the backs of their
* * * *
“Kahu”: On the register of a school
in North Auckland (M.L.) are such
Christian names as Mafeking, Pretoria,
Verdun and Messines. A child in the
same locality was labelled Jubilee during
May, 1934. On December 12 Jubilee’s
sister arrived. The teacher, a Digger
cobber of mine and an observant chap,
remarked, “I’ve had the breeze up about
this last one —she missed being Abdi-
cation by a couple of days.”
* * # *
“D.N.”: It takes a good wind to shift
a 20001 b. motor-case, but a Maoriland
truck-driver lost two of these cases some
weeks ago —and to the wind. One case
was snatched from the moving truck
and dumped on a passing pedestrian,
killing him. The driver was taken to
court on a charge of having operated a
truck without having the load “safely
contained.” The magistrate dismissed
the charge, his finding being that the
“extraordinary circumstances” made the
accident, in effect, an act of God.
Maorilanders overseas would need only
one guess as to where the wind was
blowing ; yes, it was Wellington.
* <• * *
“Fergus”: Although Otago turns out
increasing numbers of medical gradu-
ates, Maoriland is short of hospital
doctors ; like the healing youth of Tas.
and S. Australia, Otago meds. head for
foreign parts. Three years ago there
were 33 Otago medical graduates, and
now 27 of them are holding down jobs
in England. Some of the wanderers may
return, but many won’t'. The national
health and superannuation schemes
promised by Prime Minister Savage
are bound to have some effect on
Maoriland medical men and will prob-
ably mean more work for hospital
doctors. But, after gaining a degree that
costs nine years’ study and about £l5OO,
not many graduates are sufficiently keen
on improving public health to sacrifice
overseas comfort and research avenues
for comparatively small Maoriland
salaries.
“Motu”: Hawera Council in South
Taranaki has already earned a local-body
threat from Labor Minister Semple (B.
30/12/’36). Invited to provide £5O a
year for local aerodrome work, council
withheld its contribution and asked
for a promise that Hawera ’drome would
be. a stop for ’planes operating an;y
future service up the North Island’s west
coast —otherwise it could see no justifi-
cation for tossing away ratepayers’
money. Mr. Semple’s reply contained
only one promise, and council took it
as a threat; unless the grant was made
he said he would “remember” the inci-
dent when future requests reached him
from Hawera! Skilled in local-body
diplomacy of the pre-Labor day, Hawera
was staggered at the blunt reply ; it made
the contribution.
* * * *
“Mak”: Increase in Maoriland butter-
factory costs as the result of Labor legis-
“Haven't you anything a teeny bit more daring ?”
lation (B. 6/1 / ’37) stands a good chance
of being corrected by the same Govern-
ment. An Executive Commission of
Agriculture is rationalising the dairy in-
dustry, and if it does a good job manu-
facturing costs of dairy companies should
come down again. Districts are being
zoned with the object of wiping out un-
necessary and uneconomic factory com-
petition ; long-distance cream hauling
through districts well served by existing
factories is one costly practice the com-
mission has declared war upon. The
voluntary merging of overlapping fac-
tories may give way to Government com-
pulsion if the commission strikes any
heavy opposition.
* * * *
“M.”: With only nine local excep-
tions, Minister Semple has swept away
Maoriland’s bewildering list of speed
limits (B. 30/12/’36) and imposed a 30-
mile-an-hour limit in all other borough
and town districts. Motor vehicles must
also be inspected twice a year, and the
compulsory “fitness warrant” will cost
each owner 2s. 6d. at recognised garages.
This should banish dangerously decrepit
vehicles from M.L. roads, but it .means
another tax on an already overcharged
section of the community. There should
be no complaints from the garage people.
“T”: One rather staggering result of
Maoriland’s 40-hour week became evident
in Auckland when private, hotels and
boarding-houses announced that dinner
would no longer be served on Friday
nights at the old price. Guests who
couldn’t or wouldn’t pay the new tariff
had to go out and look for cafes that
would accommodate them. Such of them
as were Government supporters dined
very thoughtfully.
“Hendy”: Maoriland’s hardest-case
half-caste has just hopped out of a hos-
pital in Taranaki, minus a leg, twice
amputated. Throughout a long career
he has fought readily and happily.
Recently during his lunch-hour in the
Breakwater pub he polished off three
quarrelsome ship’s firemen. Under ten-
stone weight and over 78 years, he’s been
held back since a wharf engine and rake
of trucks fouled him. A leg was off
below the knee; doctors straightway
whipped off another length from above
the knee. Comrades were assured it
must be a hopeless case: age must tell.
Next morning they ’phoned to learn that
the patient had been playing up because
he had to wait too long for his breakfast.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Railway Department officers
planning the Wellington (M.L.) station
nursery should take a tip from Flinders-
street, Melbourne, and provide for wide
windows overlooking the platform area.
Vic. kids parked at Flinders-street get
the thrill of their young lives watching
trains moving in and out of the station
yards below.
% Jj: sfc ♦
“Oakura”: Even in good times, bad
limes are never far away. Taranaki
(M.L.) realised this over New Year week-
end, when a beer drought swept a still-
thirsty province. The succinct cable
needs sympathetic interpretation before
it can win the Australian appreciation it
deserves. Supplies of two local brew-
eries and the products of other M.L.
brewers, regularly imported in large
quantities by hotels throughout the prov-
ince, must have been quaffed before New
Plymouth publicly proclaimed the Tara-
naki thirst by radio-ing a passing vessel
for more beer. In spite of early squeals,
there must be something in the Labor
Government’s guaranteed dairy-produce
prices—for beer is Is. 6d. a bottle and
cows are the only things in the province
that have ever gone dry before. Curi-
ously enough, Taranaki was the only
Maoriland province that didn’t swing
over to Labor at the last general elec-
tions ; it was faithful to its four sitting
members.
* * :]e *
“Cluny”: Creating tall moa skeletons
from piles of bones is the specialty of the
curator at the Alexander Museum in
Wanganui (M.L.). Some months ago he
assembled a ten-and-a-half-foot giant;
he has just finished a six-foot model, and
is now working with the bones, of a
smaller bird which will be Wanganui’s
eighth moa. Most of the bones were
found in the same west coast district.
Scene of many skirmishes with the early
Maoris and still the centre of a. fairly
large native population, Wanganui also
has a splendid museum collection of
Maori relics. The village founded by
Ratana, one of the more recent native
prophets, is a few miles south of the
river city; Ratana Maoris were among
the first to develop their land on a co-
operative basis.
* * * *
“C.H.F.”: Minister Semple asserts
that M.L. “sustenance” men won’t work.
They don’t get a chance. Men eager to
earn up to the permitted £3 per week
are debarred from doing anything that
even remotely suggests canvassing. One
fellow who decided to gather bottles got
it in the neck: he couldn’t collect sus-
tenance and bottles! There are dozens
of similar cases. A man who does spas-
modic freelance journalism, more as a
hobby than anything else, was told he
would have to stop it or give up “sus-
tenance.” “Reason” in every case is the
same: “The work is competitive.”


■
m
■ K
m
mm:
tm
m
Ml
Us
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
Cnr. Wharf & Queen Sts., Brisbane.
Vs
P EX
m
&
OXYGENATED
BATTERIES,
Made by the largest
Independent Dry Bat-
tery Co. in the Com-
monwealth, have been
specially designed for
Australian conditions.
Imp e x Batteries
incorporate special
Oxygen reserve which
ensures extra life.
Buy IMPEX and you
buy satisfaction.
linpex, J,td., Abbotsford, Vic.,
and 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Xshe
IDEAL AMATEUR
SUPER-HET
We can now supply complete
Kit of Parts for this “King
of Ham” Receivers for
£B/15/-
(No ’Phones or Speaker).
EXTRA FOR POWER PACK, £2.
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
d. g. Mclntyre,
5 and 6 Angel Place, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
Performance for the first Sunday of
the. year and what’s promised for the
next six months indicate a grand spread
of first-class music from the national
stations, with Sundays feast days. The
bill for January 3 included a Beethoven
sonata for piano and violin, a Mendels-
sohn symphony, a Mozart concerto for
flute and orchestra, Haydn’s “Seasons,”
the Tschaikowsky “Romeo and Juliet”
overture, a Rachmaninoff symphony,
“Rio Grande” (Sitweil - Lambert),
Vaughan Williams’s “London Symphony”
and a Schumann concerto.
That was only some of it. There were
also Lotte Lehmann singing several
songs, pianist Vladimir Horowitz play-
ing Beethoven’s Thirty-two Variations in
C Minor, the Budapest String Quartet
playing Schubert and Hugo Wolf, and
the Leeds Festival Choir lustily choiring.
In the Haydn offering, done by the
A.B.C. (Melbourne) Concert Orchestra,
Rita Miller (soprano), Browning Mum-
mery (tenor) and Frederick Collier (bass)
helped make a show of it; other orches-
tras included the A.B.C. (Melbourne)
Symphony, Queen’s Hall, Philadelphia,
Halle, Minneapolis and London Phil-
harmonic. Enough to soak the thirstiest
addict.
Until Thor (baritone) barged unre-
hearsed into the piece that included
Mummery and co.,
and blanketed the
lot of them, this
listener heard most
of the foregoing rich
offering. Of the lot
nothing came
through better than
the elegant Beet-
hoven Sonata for
Piano and Violin in
D Major, played by
Jascha and Tossy
Spivakowsky. It was
heard early in the
evening just before
storm static made
the Symphony Hour
from Melbourne
like a not-so-quiet
interlude on the
Western Front. Both the sonata and
the playing of it were just about perfect
broadcasting, the piece because of its
beautiful clarity and simplicity and the
playing both because it was excellent
playing and because the instruments are
so entirely different' that each is per-
fectly heard though both are at it
together.
Contrast this with the confusion
Common to canned orchestra. A draw-
back to big orchestrations for broadcast-
ing is that if you turn on loud enough
for all instruments to have effect it’s
altogether too much sound for even a
large room to hold (to say nothing of
the neighbors), and if you turn down to
what a room can hold without deafening,
then much of the instrumentation is as
good as lost, and in the fainter passages
there’s an impression of the orchestra
getting huffy and removing itself half a
mile off.
It seems *to be true of broadcasting
that the simplest things broadcast best.
Among other considerations under this
head it would seem that the less accom-
panied a soloist is the better. Pieces in
which a soloist seems to be having a
contest with the accompaniment to make
himself or herself heard are poor broad-
casting stuff, and, next to plays in which
several characters speak at once, one of
the least satisfactory things for broad-
casting are choirs singing in competition
with loud and full orchestras. There is
a place for these, and that place is a large
hall or cathedral. The microphone can-
not gather in such outbursts of sound
with proper equality. What it does
gather it inevitably confuses ; and, any-
way, it’s all too much for a room.
The Spivakowskys are to be heard in
Beethoven piano and violin sonatas every
third Sunday for months to come, and
they are extra well worth listening to.
These national Sunday offerings amount
to turning every Sunday into a musical
“You have just heard a talk by the Rev. McHamish on the evils of
gambling stand by for the racing results from Randwick and
Flemington .”
festival. Arrangements are for the Spiva-
kowskys to play the complete Beethoven
and Brahms sonatas for violin and piano,
13 in all, 10 of them Beethoven. Also
spread over the Sundays of the next few
months will be the complete Beethoven,
Brahms and three Schubert symphonies,
16 altogether, nine of them Beethoven.
Additionally, a programme by Austra-
lian composers for Australia Day, and
Elgar and Delius programmes for the
dates of these composers’ deaths, Feb-
ruary 23 and June 10 respectively. Alto-
gether a very thoughtfully-arranged, pro-
gramme.
Even more crowded variety of music
—served up in fragments—in a quaint
broadcast from Germany. A swapping
of greetings among 20-odd nations, each
country answering to the German caller’s
“ ’Ullo! ” with some probably appropriate
remarks in its own tongue, followed by
a burst of national music or singing,
England being Bullishly different with
bells from a-small village church and
then those of Westminster. The broad-
cast, of course, intended as a gesture in
internationalism, a wry comment on
which doubtfully prevalent commodity
being each nation’s contribution of some-
thing peculiarly national. All of it very
interesting for its novelty, but otherwise
a poor excuse for remaining late out of
a decent bed.
Then, of course, the Test match, and
a hearty desire to strangle a ponderous
and lugubrious “commentator,” and
no hard feelings. Ball-for-ball de-
scribes, too, are becoming care-
less. Nothing now for a good ball to
come down from Fingleton to Bradman
and bounce off Verity’s pads into the
slips, where it’s picked up by Ames. It’s
a tiresome business, of course, this ball-
for-bawling, and mistakes must happen
out of sheer weariness, but there’s not
much excuse for most of the errors,
which are simply a result of wool-
gathering.
What a place in a people’s life these
broadcasts of a game have come to
occupy! Among those having a few
words to say over the air on this occa-
sion was Lord Somers, head of the
M.C.C., who admitted that while one
of these Tests is being played the con-
duct of it can seriously affect relations
between the two countries —an unin-
tended but pretty savage comment on
the low general intelligence of both.
Incidentally, the record crowds that
watched in Melbourne testify that broad-
casting doesn’t keep people away
from cricket; if anything, it excites
interest, and helps rope the crowds
in. A bit different, too, from Syd-
ney, these Melbourne crowds; in the
Harbor town, for the first time to
this listener’s knowledge, the cricket
people had to spend money in B-class
station advertising to try to get people
to attend the match. Of the “commen-
tators” from Melbourne A. E. R. Gilli-
gan was still far and away the best. He
is, what most of the “commentator”
blight is not, a pleasant entertainment in
himself. Cricket’s a cheerful game to
Gilligan. May his breath last!
Ali Round the Dio!.
“D.F.”: Radio plays an important
part in navigation when Germany’s
super-Zeppelin Hindenburg rides storm
clouds in a fog. Direction finders point
to radio stations ashore, and the ship’s
position is easily charted. For fixing
altitude compressed air is released with
a crack like a pistol shot; then an elec-
trical machine measures the time it takes
for the sound to hit the earth or ocean
surface and rebound to the ship, a kind
of air application of the marine “echo-
meter.”
* * * *
“Hattie Hop”: An ad. from London
“Daily Mail”:
Messrs. E. K. Cole, Ltd., of Southend-
on-Sea, makers of the well-known “Ekco”
radio sets, are offering up to ten shillings
per head for 50 tropical white-ants.
The reason is that where he flourishes the
white-ant eats sets to the bare wires un-
less elaborate, precautions are taken, and
so a constant search goes on for new
ant-proof materials. Ants secured by the
advertisers will live in Essex and have a
menu of various insulation materials,
with occasional treats of waxed card-
board or rubberised tape.
* * * *
In the lively day when English wickets
were falling fast at Melbourne Cricket
Ground a chap in the stand at Sydney
C.G. brought a portable set to light. His
announcements took all interest out of
the N.S.W.-Q. match, at which those
present were supposed to be spectators.
* * * *
Sydneyside author Helen Simpson, as
Vance Palmer has mentioned, is popular
with the 8.8. C. She has lately been
picked# to give a series of broadcasts on
books, keeping in mind primarily readers
in places that are “overseas” to England.
Vance Palmer in an A.B.G. broadcast
described her voice as “a deep contralto,
a particularly happy voice for the micro-
phone,” and credited her with a “capa-
city for dry asides” and “no trace of the
legendary Australian accent.”
* * * *
“Firebolt”: Mention of the fact that,
instead of being the danger some fear,
radio aerials serve to protect structures
beneath them from lightning (B.
30/12/’36) reminds me that many are
equally puzzled as to why such a huge
metal object as Germany’s airship Hin-
denburg should be immune from light-
ning. If you want to dodge lightning,
that Zeppelin is the ideal place. The
803ft'. hull is made of huge duralumin
rings, every section of which, and of the
girders, is carefully bonded, so that the
whole outer structure makes a single
conductor. Faraday proved that elec-
tricity prefers to travel on the surface of
an object. When lightning leaves a
cloud and alights on the airship, it re-
mains on the surface until it can find a
lower potential—usually another cloud.
Then it hops off again. The lightning
rides harmlessly because it hasn’t to
leap any gap from one section of the
ship to another, which would cause
sparks.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Dr. D. F. Martyn,
physicist of the Radio Research Board of
the C.S. and 1.R., has returned from con-
sultation with the International Radio
Committee. He mentioned discoveries
which, made in Sydney by merely working
on theories, solved a problem of blurred
reception which troubled British and
Continental stations. As a result of
these discoveries English authorities are
to buy replicas of instruments built at
Sydney University for radio research in
the stratosphere.
* *- * *
“Lingo”: A new development in the
nightly long-distance telephony conver-
sations of radio amateurs is the gallant
attempts of some VKs to hail the fellow
overseas in his own language. Recently
South American amateurs have been
heard strongly in Australia, and conse-
quently Spanish has been having a hard
trial. Two keen amateurs in different
countries could, if static and suchlike
were kind, swop each other’s language—
not so hard, either, with the Latin foun-
dations. It is another of the possibili-
ties that help to make amateur radio so
interesting.


ẁ
I*o YOU KNOW ?
That the tone and range of all radio sets depend
largely upon the valves used?
Radiotron valves ensure good tonal, quality and
extreme range.
Install Radiotrons and observe the difference.
ẃ
miniums
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
ẅ
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
B. Knock’s
The Ideal Amateur Superhet.
Copies of The Bulletin for 15/4/’36
and 22/4/’36, in which this receiver was
described, are no longer available, and
details are here given in response to
many requests. Of all receivers expressly
for amateurs it has proved by far the
most popular. It is easily constructed
and inexpensive, and the performance,
for four valves, is remarkable, the design
approaching the ideal in signal-to-noise
ratio. Equally good results are had
with battery or A.C. power supply.
ft is a modification of one originally
designed in U.S.A. by Frank Jones, of
the staff of “Radio.” The original was
a three-valver, with combination LF.
stage and second detector. Here a con-
ventional I.F. stage was fitted to advan-
tage, and the receiver has been in use
at the writer’s station for the best part
of a year, serving adequately for ’phone
and telegraphic working.
There are only four valves, in a special
superhet circuit, but they permit of a
better performance than most multi-valve
designs. Iron-core I.F.Ts. play a leading
part; if ordinary air-core types are sub-
stituted the same results are not obtain-
able. Six-volt indirectly-heated Radio-
trons are employed, and reference to the
circuit in Fig. 1 shows the application.
In order to get the maximum out of
the first detector, regeneration is intro-
duced. This could not be done readily
by using a pentagrid valve, so the 6C6
is used as detector with a 76 oscillator.
Since the first model of this receiver was
completed, the metal 6L7 has been found
to be an excellent performer as .first de-
tector. The 6L7 has a special injector
grid for oscillator coupling. This valve
can be used as an alternative to the 6C6.
I.F. amplification is provided by the
6D6 with two iron-core I.F.Ts., and the
79 does a multiple job in serving as
second detector with oscillation control
for C.W. and headphone audio output.
Plug-in coils are used, but switching
could be introduced by the experienced
constructor if desired, and the receiver
runs equally well from batteries or A.C.
power unit. The aerial-coupling unit in
Fig. 1 is not imperative, but is well
worth while. In ordinary use the aerial
lead can be twisted for a few turns
around the grid lead of the 6C6. Extra
Fig. 2. —The front view. Main dial is the bandspread tuning
control, with oscillator band-setter to the left and detector
band-setter to the right. The knobs below are, left to right :
Regeneration potentiometer, I.F. gain potentiometer, 8.F.0.
extra control (not essential), and second detector regeneration
potentiometer for C.W. The unusual finish on the aluminium
is obtained by ruling lines with a typewriter eraser.
audio amplification can be used, if
wanted for speaker work, and for this a
type 38, 41 or 42 can be used with appro-
priate plate supply. In the writer’s case
the 79 provides enough audio output to
work a magnetic diaphragm speaker on
DX amateur ’phones at R 6 upwards.
Constructional Points.
A heavy-gauge aluminium chassis of
the size specified in the parts list is pref-
erable, but the usual 18 gauge can be
obtained from Price’s Radio Service,
Angel-place, Sydney. Price’s have sup-
plied hundreds of chassis for this re-
ceiver, so the reader is assured of a
chassis cut to a template and ready for
assembly.
The front panel carries the dial and
band-set controls, and the potentiometers
Fig. 1. —Circuit of the Ideal Amateur Superhet. Screened leads are indicated by dotted lines. With the coil data
given, all useful amateur bands are covered. The aerial-coupling unit shown here is not essential, but has an advantage
in providing still better signal-to-noise ratio. This receiver works just as smoothly at 10 metres as at 80.
for the various circuits are mounted
below. It is important that the detector
and oscillator circuits be well screened
off, especially for 10-metre work, and the
illustrations show the vertical interstage
panel fitted between the detector and
oscillator (ganged) condenser sections.
A good general view of the layout can
be obtained from the
ill us t rations. No
me a s urement dia-
gram is given, as
various types of
iron-core I.F.Ts. can
be used, and some
of these may differ
slightly from the
original.
Looking at the re-
ceiver from the
front, the detector
band-set condenser
is the control on the
right, with the con-
denser operated by
an extension shaft.
The condenser is
mounted on the rear
side of the interstage
panel and the oscil-
lator band-set con-
denser on the front
panel. The asso-
ciated coil mount-
ings and 35mmfd.
condenser ganged
sections are arranged on the appropriate
side of the interstage panel. In action the
detector band-set condenser can be
trimmed manually for best results, but
once the oscillator condenser is set after
locating the bands this position must be
retained. If detector and oscillator coils
are made carefully and wiring is relatively
equal in each tuned circuit the main
tuning control on the bandspread con-
densers will cover each amateur band, in-
cluding 10 metres, without any necessity
for touching the detector band-setter.
Iron-core I.F.Ts.
These are the heart of this receiver,
and the original types were imported,
being Aladdin type AIOO. They are not
obtainable in Australia, but various types
of iron-core I.F.Ts. are now made in
this country. Radiokes has produced
new types recently, and these are recom-
mended. They are wound with Litz
on Crolite cores, and on test in the
original receiver in substitution for the
overseas product gave good comparative
results.
Reference to the circuit diagram
(Fig. 1) shows an important feature in
connection with iron-core I.F.Ts. The
primary circuit in each case is de-
coupled by a 10,000-ohm resistor and
.lmfd. by-pass. Modern iron-core I.F.Ts.
give high gain, and without decoupling
instability at the peak may result. It is
better to preclude this possibility by
including at little, extra expense the
resistors and condensers. In case of
instability, up to 2mfd. can be used as
by-pass with 20,000 ohms.
Coil Data.
The familiar ribbed formers (l|in.
diameter) were first used in the original,
but since construction an excellent new
short-wave plug-in former has appeared
on the Australian market, and in l|in.
size, to correspond with U.S.A. practice.
This is the new Standardised Products
former, in special low-loss moulding and
with a ring-grip for easy handling. The
American coil chart is given for the four
useful bands for Hin. formers, but if
the reader has an abundance of l|in.
formers it is only a matter of a little
cut and try, adding a turn or so to com-
pensate for the smaller-size former.
Beat Frequency Control.
Instead of using a separate BFO valve,
regeneration is included in the 79
cathode by simply fitting in series a coil
wound for the broadcast range. This
is shunted by the 10,000-ohm; potentio-
meter, and on adjustment of this the 79
will oscillate. If oscillation is sudden or
harsh, turns should be removed from the
coil until the desired smoothness is
obtained. If oscillation is not present the
coil needs more turns. Adjustment is not
critical. To change from ’phone to C.W.
reception this pot. is advanced until the
first triode of the 79 oscillates. Very
slight detuning occurs, and this is easily
corrected on the main dial.
Tuning Dial.
This must be of good quality and free
from backlash. There are now several
large drive aero, dials on the market with
sufficient reduction at the one ratio pro-
vided to make tuning easy at high fre-
quencies. Efco and Radiokes have
several good types, and the choice is left
to the reader’s fancy. An ideal dial is
the Palec laboratory type of cast
machined aluminium with friction drive
control.
Variable Condensers.
Too much stress cannot be laid upon
the necessity for good quality condensers.
The English Raymart make (Price’s
Radio) is recommended. Raymart con-
densers are ceramic insulated, and de-
signed with a single bearing of the ball
type. Two of the 20mmfd. type will serve
for the main tuning (bandspread) and
two lOOmmfd. types for bandsetters.
Other good condensers suitable are the
Eddystone.
Power Supply.
With batteries or an A.C. unit no dif-
ference in operation can be noted, but if
A.C. use is intended the heater leads
should be well screened in copper braid.
The writer enclosed these in fin. copper
tubing as an extra precaution, and the
result is a receiver without any hum,
even below 10 metres. A Philips type
3003 B eliminator and a six-volt trans-
former comprise an excellent power unit,
ŵ


mmm.
81l
s2 mm
iitil
m®. , g -.;
A 9,700 MILE JOURNEY . . . MORE GRUELLING
THAN YEARS OF ORDINARY DRIVING . .
A
•w.ww^
»
\ '
wm
«•:•:•>:■:?Ss*
TOP LEFT: The Pontiacs negotiated heavy sandhills that guard the head
of the Bight near Eucla
TOP RIGHT: The cars plough through heavy mud in the Territory.
ABQVE:. Volcanic Rocks (between Ballastonia and Norseman) make
rough, rugged 'going.
p
Imagine steering by compass over 3,000 miles of trackless
desert . ♦ ♦ fighting on over 27 mile stretches of volcanic rock
country . . . plunging down into creek beds to climb up steeply
again with wheels churning in sand, rubble and driftwood.
And—imagine doing it in a car burdened by a ton of dead-
weight (and incidentally breaking the round-Australia record)
How many years of ordinary usage would it take to make the
equivalent of that 9,700 mile journey of the recent Pontiac —
N.R.M.A. Round Australia Survey Party? Yet, in all that
journey, the two Pontiacs of the expedition met with but one
trifling mishap—a single puncture. Washed and polished, with
their mudguards replaced, you would never tell that either
Pontiac had seen harder service than week-end touring. The
doors of the all-enclosed coupe bodies close as firmly as ever.
The knee-action springing cradles you as luxuriously as before.
The engines are as smooth as i£ they had but 1,000 instead o£
10,000 miles behind them.. That’s stamina —that’s Pontiac . . .
the car that is built for more than 100,000 miles.
SIXES and EIGHTS
‘AIR CHIEF”
CAR
RADIO
“The 1937 ‘Air Chief’ car radio designed for Pontiac
includes a special remote control to match the fittings
on the instrument panel. A new 6-valve set with tone
equal to the best home radio and increased distance
reception. Speaker fits in header bar flush with roof
lining, giving ear level reception to all passengers.
Ask for a demonstration.” v ..
Consult your local Authorised Pontiac Dealer
was banged from side to side, drives
caught him in the stomach, and short-
arm jolts on the jaw made him rock
and hang on for safety. Then he, would
back away, to come again with wild
rushes which, in Fitz’s heyday, would
have caused Lang’s head to be knocked
into the middle of the fourth row of
seats.
But the flashes of the. ancient Fitz
were short-lived. He would suddenly
tire, and the venerable face would be-
come drawn and wearied, and as the
mass of youthful muscle walloped down
on to him his legs would totter pitifully.
He had shot his bolt, and, although the
shooting of it had been so pretty as to
reduce the odds on Lang from five to
one on to five to four on, there was
little doubt what the end would be.
Still, if he could weather it for 20 rounds,
Fitz would win on points, and there was,
of course, always the possibility of a
sudden knockout.
Lang said that he never doubted that
he would win, but he appeared to be,
anything but confident. Fitz, watching
him grimly, with that once terrible right
ready to swing to the jaw, was obviously
looking for the knockout. And when
the ancient eye fixed him Lang fought
wild. Several times, probably quite with-
out intention, he butted Fitz and gave
him some nasty blows with his elbow.
1 he crowd howled demands for a foul.
The end of FITZ.
Also it hooted and made insinuations,
and finally worked itself up into such a
state of excitement that it wildly
applauded every blow Fitz got home and
yelled when Lang smote beck.
Right up to the end of the 11th round
Fitzsimmons seemed to hold his own
on points. Truly, he had been knocked
down twice, and once would have gone
clean through the ropes on to the
ground but that Lang caught him by
the arm and pulled him back. But,
somehow, his wonderful skill and the
way he would make play all over Lang
for a few moments would make him
level again on points.
Lang’s offence was a sudden straight
rush with the left thrown out and the
right covering his jaw, and a heavy right
swing after getting to close quarters.
Again and again the right swing just
missed the point by what seemed a
hair’s-breadth, or went inches wide
round the old man’s neck..
When he started the 12th round Fitz's
body was quivering, and Lang rushed
him fiercely. Again Fitz was knocked
through the ropes at the n.-w. corner,
but came up again, dazed and blinded.
Lang was so excited he didn’t know what
to do, and automatically the tottering
veteran evaded, and they skirled away
round the ring till, at the opposite
corner, Lang again got him on the ropes
and bashed him with right and left.
Fitz fell back, against the ropes, and
as they tightened tottered forward and
went down to be counted out.
It was sheer exhaustion on Fitz's part
that gave Lang the victory. Never before
in Sydney Stadium has there been such
a splendid exhibition of skill, of grace-
ful glove work, of rapid evasion and
quiet, confident ducking as that put up
by Robert Fitzsimmons, the hero of 320
fights, who had come back to the scene
of his first successes to bury his fame.
Probably he would have lasted even
longer but for the heat, which half-
roasted the writer in his place at the
ringside. It was like fighting in a Turk-
ish bath, and the old man dripped as
he moved about the ring.
Apparently the only man in the Sta-
dium who was not displeased with Lang
was Fitz himself. He said that Lang
fought a most gentlemanly fight. “1
wasn’t exactly unconscious. I could see
them all, and hear Mr. Scott counting;
but for the life of me I couldn’t get up.
I tried to —no hope. Something seemed
to shout to me that time was running
out, and I would be outed, but I couldn't
get up. Then the mist cleared, I was
helped up, and found that I had been
a beaten man for the best part of two
minutes.” Apparently it was the first
time the old man had been really
knocked out; and he had found as a
new experience, what the average novice
learns at the very beginning of the game.


MTS
LYS
PROOF,
w
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
ŵ
if'M* »n m «—x»ni <•-
rtf*
x».
St
>
.• >■
Uaak
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Superfine Wool.
“K.Mc.”: Producing superfine wool
is costly, and the easing of French de-
mand a few years ago placed growers of
this type in a comparatively bad position.
Sheep growing this wool are generally
run on light-carrying, hilly country, and,
while this land costs less per acre, upkeep
is much greater than for a similar sheep-
carrying area in the heavier country.
“Super” sheep are small, and do not
require so much feed, but the carcass
value is approximately only half that of
the strong-wool types. Often this repre-
sents a loss of more than 10s. per head.
The biggest' drawbacks to growing
super wools are the lightness of the
fleeces and the small margin now obtain-
able in price over the. best sorts of
mediums and strongs. Using approxi-
mate rates for the best lines of each type
the following table would suggest that
superfines to possess similar fleece, value
need to increase considerably in price:
Wool Cut Value of Fleece
Type, per Sheep. Price per lb. per Sheep.
60's 141 b. 17d. 19s. lOd.
64’s 131 b. 18±d. 20s. Ofd.
74’s 91b. 22d. 16s. 6d.
80’s 71b. 25d. 14s. 7d.
Superfine wool should fetch Is. per
pound more than mediums and strongs.
Sheep Costs.
“Xerophyte”: If, as “Bungaree” (B.
23 /12/’36) states, the cost of running a
sheep for a year can be set down at
4s. 6d., “including crutching, etc and
interest,” this grazing game, should be
Paradise.
It is usually recognised that the capi-
tal outlay for one wool-producing unit
is in the vicinity of £5 — i.e., £4 per single
sheep area and £1 per sheep. Interest at
5 p.c. on that amount is 55., which is
more than “Bungaree’s” whole allow-
ance. Whether you are operating on bor-
rowed capital or your own, the interest
charge remains and must be debited
against the sheep.
Other costs depend largely on the
owner’s ability to run his property eco-
nomically and to a large extent on good
luck, especially when scattered storms are
about. The total —including interest —is
rarely less than 10s. per head.
Another legitimate expense is an
annual allowance for drought feeding
and agistment of at least Is. per head. In
good years, when it is not incurred, this
sum should be shown in a reserve
account.
Dipping Precautions.
“B-gar”: Some recent losses of sheep
and cattle following dipping have been
due to arsenical poisoning. It seems that
the instructions and advice always promi-
nently displayed on dip mixture con-
tainers have not always been heeded.
There are always risks attached to dip-
ping, but some owners, accustomed to
successful results, become careless.
Weather conditions, which are impor-
tant, are too often ignored.
Losses through thirsty stock drinking"
the dip solution are few. Deaths are
caused by the arsenic content entering
the pores of the skin. Dipping sheep
when the animals are heated can be
harmful. I once saw a small mob of
sheep mustered, driven eight miles to
the dip and returned late in the after-
noon. Over 100 died, and most of those
remaining showed scalds. The owner
blamed the dip mixture, not his own
methods. To get successful dipping
results use a reliable dip mixture and
follow the instructions. Don’t dip less
than six weeks off shears. Dip in mild
weather, avoiding rain and excessive heat
or cold. Water the sheep, yard over-
night and dip early next morning. Don’t
hurry or drive long distances after dip-
ping.
Abortion Immunity.
“Silky Bag”: “Agamemnon” (B.
16/12/’36) finds me guilty of a techni-
cal lapse; I should have prefaced my
remarks on antibodies by the word
“effective.” All vaccine work depends
on “effective anti-
bodies,” specific to
the bacteria, and
these are absent in
abortus cases.
As to the im-
munity “Agamem-
non” says the
agglutinins from
the dam’s milk
confer on the calf,
experience proves
that the calf drink-
ing infected milk
may become just
as diseased as a
mature cow.
Abortus does not
cause pathological
changes in the non-
pregnant animal
itself, so it affects
neither the calf
nor grown cow,
but only the foetal
membranes when
these develop.
A calf or cas-
trated male will
throw off abortus
infection fairly
rapidly—often in
six weeks or less.
The germ remains
in an animal as a
permanent infec-
tion only when
breeding organs be-
gin to function.
This occurs in
Jersey heifers
(earliest maturing
breed) at five-eight
months of age,
when they i first.
come in season.
Most females, re-
main infected, for
' life. An unused
bull whose organs
are not diseased will often throw off in-
fection, and so occasionally will a cow
during her lactating life.
There are two common types of im-
munity possessed by herd cows. In one,
although the germ may be swallowed,
the cow soon throws off infection. This
immunity is fairly rare; only one or
two animals in a herd may possess it.
In the other type the cow is infected
but never aborts. Often half the re-
actors in a herd belong to this type, and
those animals which do abort eventually
join it. Roughly 65 p.a of aborters
suffer only once and afterwards become
immune to effects, though still fully in-
fected.
Joh'ne’s Disease.
“Albarmount”: An outbreak of this
disease (B. 16/12/’36) in N. S. Wales
was notified in November. Max Henry,
chief Agricultural Department vet.,
points out that no cure is yet known
and that a beast may carry the disease
for two years before showing symptoms,
meanwhile contaminating pastures with
infected dung.
As killing affected animals is the
only known method of freeing a pro-
perty, correct' diagnosis is most important.
At first intermittent, and afterwards per-
sistent, diarrhoea and continual wasting
are the chief symptoms.
Owing to the similarity of the causing
bacillus, J.d. was at first thought to be
related to tuberculosis, but it is not.
Tuberculosis also causes wasting, and
through some other cause diarrhoea may
be present, but a tuberculin test will
settle any doubts.
Parasites in the intestines will cause
loss of condition and sometimes
diarrhoea, so if worms or worm-eggs are
found in the dung, or a recovery mani-
fest after suitable drenching, the pres-
“ Sacked? Wot for , boss ?”
ence of such parasites would appear to
be causing the symptoms. -
Of course, faulty feeding, will also
cause a falling off in) condition, and a
change, of pasture or sour grass may bring
about scouring, but' such causes usually
affect the whole herd, and calves are
rarely affected with J.d.
True diagnosis can be made by bac-
teriological examination of.faeces and pf
smears from the mucous membrane, and
also by, the Johnin test —similar in tech-
nique to the tuberculin test. It is a job
for a vet., and, as notification of J.d. is
compulsory, the district vet. or stock in-
spector should be called without delay
when a case is suspected.
Grass Hay in Australia.
“Sandy”: “Lam’s” method of making
grass hay (B. 23/12/’36) is unsuitable for
Australian conditions. Having made hay
both in Scotland and Australia, I can
testify that the British method doesn’t
do here. It is a result of a moist climate
and erratic summer weather, compelling
farmers to make sure the hay is thor-
oughly dry before stacking.
The general rule in Gippsland (Aus-
tralia’s premier grass-hay country) is to
cut only what can be carted in the same
day or the next morning. Mow in the
morning, rake into windrows, then into
bastard cocks. This leaves a green tinge
in the hay, necessary for milking-cows.
The hay is carted in the evening before
sundown. A point to be stressed is that,
if no rain has fallen during this process,
hay will not “sweat.” If, however, only
a slight shower has fallen, the cocks must
be turned over and carted next day. The
main advantage of the British system of
putting hay into large ricks is that it
can be left in the paddock for three
weeks and still retain its original good-
ness.
The hay of giant M.L. colonial cow-
grass is carted in on the third day, owing
to the “sweating” habit of the grass. It
is turned over the first and second days
to dry it properly.
One thing that should be adopted in
Australia is the mechanical hay fork. A
pole is erected beside the stack, and
from the giant grab hay fork a wire rope
is passed through the swivel arm and
through pulleys at top and bottom of
the pole and hooked via the swinglebar
to a quiet horse. The fork is then dug
into the load, and the horse pulls it to
the height of the stack, where the
builder pulls a releasing cord and the
hay falls at his feet. In a hay shed, a
centre beam is used instead of a pole.
A little coarse salt and sulphur im-
proves hay flavor.
Weatherproofed bags split open and
sewn together make an efficient cover for
the stack in less time than thatching, and
such a cover will last three years.
Lucerne or Pasture for Milkers?
“Silky Bag”: In spite of the tremen-
dous growth of pasture use in dairying,
the fact remains that some of the best
records, individual and herd, have been
established on pure grazing-lucerne plots.
P. J. Maloney’s records for the four
years 1926-29 at Tongala (Vic.), during
two of which he topped the Victorian
standard herd test, were secured on some
of the best lucerne paddocks in the State.
His farm has now been put down in
pasture, and the old figures are quite
comparable with the new ones, in spite of
the fact that his herd has been substan-
tially improved. All produce in the
region of 560-6101 b. butter-fat per cow
for 273 days.
This year R. G. Anderson’s top-grade
Victorian herd at Rochester, whose 24
animals averaged 4521 b.. a head without
age or herd allowances, has shown what
lucerne alone can do. Every paddock
on the property is under lucerne, and
each is irrigated roughly once in three
weeks. _
Undoubtedly good mixed pastures are
the ideal fodder for milkers, but they
are not always practicable, as they re-
quire certain soil and rainfall. In many
areas lucerne will grow well through-
out a summer that is too dry for pas-
ture, and there need be little fear of
production falling off because the ration
is unbalanced. Besides’ this, lucerne
properties guarantee plenty of hay—one
and a half, to twice as rich as pasture
hay—for winter-feeding. It is especially
suitable for milking cows.
It is a fallacy to regard lucerne alone
as a poor diet for milkers because it is
{Continued on page 44 .)


ẁ
Strong and serviceable
YET DEFINITELY SMART
Is the only way to describe
this square-toed Oxford,
made of genuine Scotch
Grained Zug Leather,
which is renowned for its
hard-wearing qualities.
The long, square toe is
always fashionable, especi-
ally when set off with a
wide welted sole and full
punched golosh.
Price, Brown Zug, 34/6.
Black and Brown Calf,
29/6.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
When ordering shoes, also ask for a
tin of Abbey’s Shoe Polish, made for
Black, Tan, Dark Tan and Nigger
Brown Shoes. It preserves the leather
and gives all footwear added life as
well as a brilliant polish.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE ST., 224 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
THEY ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
BRANDAUERS
O''
%
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUER * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
PUMPS
FOR ALL
PURPOSES
ẃ
"Mocson"
Double-
Acting
Piston
Pump
"Ajax"
Double-
Acting
Hand
Pump
LersoiiS
Proprietary limited
51 Bathurst Street Sydney
546 Collins Street .... Melbourne
And at Adelaide and Perth.
TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
li pints of. kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordibary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYREX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table'
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 47/6
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TTuTfyxxlleivrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/8, post free.
about two parts carbohydrate and one
part protein when the ratio should be
6 to 1. A surplus of protein above body
needs may be converted to fuel, which
is normally the function of carbo-
hydrates. The practice, however, is waste-
ful in districts where pastures grow as
well as lucerne, because protein is an
uneconomic source of carbohydrate.
This makes lucerne-grazing excusable
only in non-pasture areas.
Most lucerne-growers compensate for
the protein qualities of diet by sowing
oats into half the plots each May, with
one to two bags of super. A scarifier is
the only cultivator, and a following stroke
with harrows suffices. This allows a crop
of oats, spindly-lucerne and grass to be
cut in October, yielding a ton to 30cwt.
of hay for chaffing. Some of the latter
is fed throughout the year to balance the.
lucerne’s protein richness. An extra
ration of lucerne-chaff in winter com-
pletes the hand-feeding scheme.
Skeleton Weed Progress.
“Murrumbi”: Nobody has yet won
the N. S. Wales official reward for a
method of dealing with skeleton weed,
the progress of which continues in spite
of urgent efforts.
The best the latest N.S.W. depart-
mental report can say is that farmers in
south-west and central-west N.S.W. have
handled the problem with more confi-
dence than in 1934. But the position in
December was “acute,” and “strenuous
efforts had to be‘made to keep the weed
from getting out of control.”
While the weather remained dry, things
were not so bad, but rains of up to
soon changed the prospects. Conditions
were then ideal for the weed, which
came up thickly in ripe fields of wheat.
Harvesting became a nightmare on many
farms, where it was found almost im-
possible to separate wheat from weed
without blowing out large quantities of
grain.
Where fallows are disc-ploughed and
heavy holdings of sheep are carried
results are good, and a lot of landowners
are learning the use of lucerne in con-
trolling the weed.
Where infestation is not heavy the
Agricultural Department recommends a
not-too-early stubble burn. Next month,
when the seed begins to lay itself down
in the stubble, should be the ideal time
for this.
Coastal Fodder Trees.
“J.W.”: Queensland Agricultural De-
partment has begun a campaign for the
planting of fodder trees in coastal
regions. There are many which will
provide stock feed in emergency.
Red ash, which some people call
myrtle, is a good one. A tree with a
bright green leaf, white on the under-
side, it carries the odor of sarsaparilla,
and there is something wrong with any
farm animal that does not rush it. The
scrub variety is prolific, and that which
grows in forest areas is hardy in dry
times. Pongamia, with its pea-shaped
flowers, is another good friend to the
farmer, and even Moreton Bay fig and
white mangrove are not to be despised.
Neither is wild apple (mahogany), the
young leaves of which are highly palat-
able to cattle.
Scrub and concentrated foods —par-
ticularly molasses, which can be had
landed at the farm for about £4 per ton
in coastal regions—will take the terror
out of most droughts.
There are plenty of trees apart from
those named which are useful and on
which any Department of Agriculture
will advise. Specimens for identification
should be made up of shoots a few inches
long, if possible with flowers or shoots
attached, and it is wise to send a piece
of bark as well.
Banana Methods.
“Up North”: The drought has given
Queensland’s banana industry a bad
time, but some growers have been taught
by it the value of proper cultivation.
The best cultivating weapon is the
pronged hoe capable of working down
to seven or eight inches. With this rub-
bish can be easily buried, old stalks and
leaves being laid sideways along the hill-
sides and soil turned over them. Hoeing
is an art which takes a bit of acquir-
ing, but once the knack is learnt it is
not much heavier work than using a
scythe. The prongs are driven in with
a rhythmic swing, the handle is raised
slightly as the prongs reach bottom, the
earth is pulled, without jerking, towards
the operator, and the implement is
smoothly released. The handle of the
hoe must not be too long.
Desuckering is another job which
needs to be done carefully, the extent of
it depending on the nature of soil and
on weather conditions. One operation,
in which many growers fail, is essential
in dry weather: when the sucker has
been removed, soil must be thrown into
the hole to arrest bleeding. Suckering
should not be done before the trash of
the plantation has been placed under-
foot.
Growth on the Black Soil.
“J.S.”: In the N.S.W. black-soil coun-
try there is an unusually vigorous growth
among bush trees this summer. This is
remarkable because it follows two years
of almost record low rainfall during
which the ground has never been wet
to a depth greater than 2ft.
For the past three months the ground
has been in a state of desiccation ; yet
trees that have not flowered for years are
at the moment a mass of bloom. The
air is thick with the sickly scent of coola-
bah flowers, and even the sombre belars
have relieved their dark plumage with
tufts of brighter green.
I have heard only two suggested
reasons for this burgeoning. First, that
the trees are putting forth an abundance
of seed to catch a coming good season ;
secondly, that of a terse friend who re-
marked, “Got tired of waiting for rain
and sent their roots down to the artesian
basin!” Perhaps some other reader can
suggest a more logical cause.
Rotational Grazing.
“Stump Jump”: There are a few
weaknesses in standard intensive rota-
tion-grazing methods. One is that stock
must eat only what is offered in a plot
and graze it right down. If this feed is
not palatable or is unbalanced in pro-
tein-carbohydrate-fibre ratio, stock must
suffer. With milking cows such compul-
sion is disastrous; high production is
secured by coaxing the cow to eat, not
by arbitrarily deciding what and how
much she must consume.
Generally, extremely small plots have
fallen out of favor, and with them in-
tensive cultivation, such as harrowing the
plot every time it is grazed. Instead,
larger paddocks in which the feed is
never cropped right out are being used.
This, together with a wider variety of
introduced clovers and grasses, allows
the stock to elect just what plants they
want, and, more important still, to secure
enough of them.
Naturally, the unused feed has to be
mown occasionally to sweeten the pas-
ture. Harrowing is needed also, but fol-
lowers are not used.
It is doubtful whether the extra profit
gained from the intensive work ever
compensated for the additional expense.
If is even possible that our “lenient rota-
tional grazing,” spread over a number
of years, is more profitable.
•
Green Manuring.
“Salmon Gums”: In green manuring
maize makes an excellent catch-crop for
summer planting on almost any type of
soil. A rapid grower, it can be turned
under easily up to a height of six feet.
On ground deficient in nitrogen a
leguminous crop should be grown. Field
peas are vigorous growers, but should be
sown with barley, to plough easily.
Legumes extract nitrogen from the air
by utilising certain bacteria which form
nodules on the roots and assist the
growth of the crop. If a leguminous
crop has never previously been grown
on the land, bacteria should be obtained
and applied. (The farmer should con-
sult his State Agricultural Department
about this.)
For winter catch-crops it is essential
in heavy-rainfall districts to get the crop
started before the rains begin. Barley is
probably the best cereal to plant; tick-
beans —a type of miniature broad-bean
much favored by Westralian growers—
are good legumes. Field peas and barley
give, good results, but are inclined to
mat underneath and obstruct the plough.
They are better for summer planting.
For building up light ground or mak-
ing heavy ground friable a crop that


Z moiet fa-
THE BOSS
» - y
“ ‘Our transport costs are running up every year,’ said
the Boss.
“ ‘Do you know why?’ I asked.
“ ‘That’s what I was going to ask you,’ he said.
“And so I told him ‘This business wants a modern truck
fleet. Scrap the obsolete, fuel-eating, shabby old trucks we’ve been
running all these years. They’re a bad advertisement for the
business anyway. Put in a modern truck fleet Internationals .’
“And the Boss said, ‘Huh! What would it cost?’
“So we went into figures there and then . . .
“Now we have a truck fleet that’s the pride of our whole business
all Internationals.
“My word to the Boss proved sound so I pass it on to you
Cut out all inferior transport. Put in Internationals.”
The comprehensive International range includes the following models:
im
K
Utilities and Yi -ton vans, 113 and
125-in. wheelbases.
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
2- 160-in. wheelbase.
3- 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4- 156, 170 and 185-in. wheel-
bases.
5- 190-in. wheelbase.
Also six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton capacities in various wheelbases.
Write to us for full details and catalogues tve will be pleased to give you an
exacting on-the-job demonstration. Chassis prices from £277 up, plus tax.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
4 1
The World's Best Truck Investment
pppii ip®
„ives most bulk should be grown, such
as maize in summer and tick-beans in
winter. If a crop which is hungry for
nitroeen such as cauliflowers—is to
follow a leguminous crop should come
first. On "round infested with eel-worm
crops which will feed it, of course, need
to be avoided. Most legumes and vege-
tables do this; the right things are
,
To plough a green-manure crop under,
io piuugu a. & A. ,
attach a cutting disc t
use a skim coulter ahead of the shear.
Drag a chain from the offside swing
and the beam, leaving sufficient slack to
allow it to trail in the furrow just ahead
of the mould.
u
The Disappearing Horse.
“Bill Ding”: In a few years one of
the largest timber companies in Australia
has got rid of some 7000 draught horses,
introducing oil tractors in their place, and
such change is going on all oyer Aus-
tralia. When the war started this com-
pany travelled over 600 horses away up
to the Murchison, and country for the
most part, but then luscious with breast-
high grasses after some solid downpours,
These draught horses, mostly obtained
from Victoria, cost up to £6O per head.
Jh £ y we f e br °hght over ni°bs up to
50 at a time, and replacements were fre-
quent. They were costly adjuncts to
* timber in^ust
A horse? , needed 3cwt oatSj grain and
r wee k ; costing from 12s. 6d. to
s . j^ Qts 0 £ men f oun fl employment
mixing the feed, bagging it, dispatching
it by road and rail to camp ; other men
found mixing and feed work in the bush.
They have a fl gon e or are going. Seven
hundred horses for one company repre-
sents, comparatively, 2000 in this par-
ticular industry, and 6000 cwt. of feed per
week, at a cost of £3OOO.
Not only the horses and jobs for those
who worked them, but a heap of other
things, are disappearing. The city har-
ness-maker can testify to one.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: When making
butter by hand with cream skimmed from
a dish, a little lemon juice added to the
cream, if it is thin, will make the butter
come quicker.
“Andy”: Old rubbers off bike pedals
removed without tearing make excellent
file handles with a small, round piece of
board as a guard. If the hole is too
large a small wedge of wood will hold
the handle firm.
“T. 8.”: For mange in horses, try
this: Boil a pound each of lime and sul-
phur for two hours in a kerosene-tin of
water, and rub the mixture when cool
on the affected spots. Give two appli-
cations, then apply carron oil.
‘‘Silky Bag”: For cows with persistent
mud-sores on the udder or legs, try an
occasional dressing of the new anti-blow-
fly glycero-boric preparation. Affected
areas must be washed clean beforehand.
“Valerin”: In lightly-timbered country
a 3ft. 6in. mower is a useful implement
for dealing with weeds, especially thistles.
A man and a horse, can get over a large
area in a short time. Of course, the
work must' be done before the weeds go
to seed.
“Albarmount”: I advocated cutting
and carting lucerne on the same day
during extreme hot weather only —not in
a general sense, as “Stump Jump” (B.
23/12/’36) suggests. On such days, this
method is adopted by several Mudgee
(N.S.W.) growers to avoid leaf, weight
and hay-quality losses.


ẅ
w
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq.. G.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the .world, tms
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Jackeroo (19), N.S.W., would like position
on plantation outside Australia. —4212.
Tutor-jackeroo, sober, healthy, teach during
mornings, qualified, references, wants position
sheep-station, S. Qld. —4218.
Returned soldier pensioner, accountant with
a little station exp., would be pleased to give
light services in return for accommodation on
N.S.W. sheep station.—423B.
Man (36), Vic., with heavy-duty truck, would
like to hear of opening for self and son, or
would invest £2OO in business, carrying, cream
run, or otherwise.- —4246.
To buy, in Melbourne, 16 m/m cinema
camera and hand-cranked projector.—4272.
To purchase stamp collections or loose lots.
—4223.
To buy old American coins. Send descrip-
tion and date. —4209.
Information Sought.
When the leg-field is used in Test Cricket is
it compulsory for the umpire to cross to the
off side ? Is there any rule on the subject ?
—4234.
By the crossing over the umpire gets an
unobstructed view and the players are given a
greater chance to carry out their fielding
scheme. Crossing over is optional; there is
no rule.
(1) Is G. O. Allen the first Australian-born
cricketer to skipper England in Test cricket ?
(2) Allen’s age? (3) Names of England’s
captains since 1876-77?—4292.
(1) Yes. (2) Thirty-four; born July 31, 1902.
(3) J. Lilly white, Lord Harris, A. Shaw, A. N.
Hornby, lvo Bligh, A. Shrewsbury, A. G. Steel,
W. Read, W. G. Grace, A. E. Stoddart, A. C.
MacLaren, P. F. Warner, F. S. Jackson, J. W.
Douglas, C. B. Fry, F. L. Fane, A. O. Jones,
L. Tennyson, A. Gilligan, A. W. Carr, A. P.
Chapman, J. C. White, R. Wyatt, D. Jardine,
C. F. Walters, G. O. Allen.
(1) Were the Trotts, of Victoria, and Giffens,
of South Australia, who played for Australia
in Tests, brothers? (2) What were their aver-
ages? (3) Did all of them go to England with
Australian Elevens? —4262.
(1) Yes. (2) G. H. Trott scored 921 runs
(average 21.92) and took 29 wickets (average
35.13). A. E. Trott scored 206 runs (average
103) and took nine wickets (average 21.33). G.
Giffen scored 1238 runs (average 23.35) and
took 103 wickets (average 27.09). W. Giffen
scored 11 runs (average 1.83) and has no bowl-
ing figures. (3) George Giffen and G. H. Trott
played both in England and Australia; Walter
Giffen and Albert Trott only in Tests in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
What six bowlers who obtained over 100
wickets secured the highest bowling averages
in English cricket last season ? —4239.
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wkts. Avg.
Larwood .. 679.1 165 1544 119 12.97
Verity .. 1289.3 463 2847 216 13.18
Copson .. 946.4 239 2135 160 13.34
Bowes .. 874.4 277 1649 123 13.40
Smith .. 985.4 254 2006 133 15.08
Smailes .. 864.4 207 ’2Bl 130 17.54
* * * *
Lineage of the Duke of Cambridge, Queen
Mary’s ancestor, and line of descent ? —4119.
Adolphus Frederick, first Duke of Cam-
bridge, was born February, 1774, seventh son
of George 111. In 1818 he married Augusta,
daughter of the Landgrave of Hesse-Cassel,
their daughter, Mary Adelaide, who married the
Duke of Teck, being the mother of Queen
Mary. The Duke of Teck’s father, of the
royal house of Wurtemberg, contracted a mor-
ganatic marriage, the offspring being created
Princes of Teck.
... * * *
Some information concerning the Duke of
Kent, father of Queen Victoria ?— 4232.
Edward Augustus, Duke of Kent, was born
London, November 2, 1767, fourth son of
George 111. Educated in England, Germany
and at Geneva, he entered the British Army and
commanded the 7th Foot at Gibraltar, but was
unpopular and was sent to Canada. In 1802
he became Governor of Gibraltar, and in 1818
married Victoria Mary Louisa, widow of the
Prince of Leiningen. He died January 23, 1820.
* t- $
The Book Society’s ( London ) choice for each
of the 12 months of 1935 P—4153.
Jan., This Was Ivor Trent, Claude Hough-
ton ; Feb., A London Story, George Buchanan;
March, The Shipbuilders, George Blake ; April,
National Velvet, Enid Bagnold; May, The
Angel of the Assassination, Joseph Shearing;
June, The Jury, Gerald Bullett; July, George
the Fourth, Roger Fulford; Aug., Illyrian
Spring, Ann Bridge; Sept., Borzoi, Igor
Schwezoff; Oct., Here Lies a Most Beautiful
Lady, Richard Blaker; Nov., Gaudy Night,
Dorothy Sayers; Dec., Antony, Lord Lytton.
* * * :i:
Names and addresses of newspaper feature
services in Sydney? —4l4l.
Australian United Press, Ltd., 11c Castle-
reagh-street; Country Press, Ltd., 5 Barrack-
street; Alan ■ Foley, 169 Castlercagh-street;
General Press, Ltd., 34 Clarence-street; Kosmos
Press Bureau, 14 Martin-place; Special Press,
32 Jamieson-street; Sun Feature Bureau, 60
Elizabeth-street; and The Yaffa Syndicate, War-
wick Building, Hamilton-street.
jJ:
Is the phrase “Hobson’s choice” derived from
the play of that name by Harold Brighouse? —
4201.
No. According to Steele, Hobson, a carrier
who became wealthy and did much good for
Cambridge, would let out his horses for hire
only in rotation, refusing to allow his customers
to choose. Hobson died January 1, 1631.
* * * *
Meaning and origin of the French phrase
“A propos des bottes”? —4217.
In English it is “Talking of boots.” The
phrase is applied in France to sayings or doings
which are without motive. Said to have arisen
in the time of Francis 1., when a suitor who
had been deboute (from the Low Latin debo-
tare —to decide adversely) told the King by
mistake that he had been “debotffi.” This led
to the abolition of pleading in Latin, much to
the displeasure of barristers, who then used the
phrase to imply insufficient motive or reason.
* * * *
Source of quotation, "I have a rendezvous
with Death,” together with context? —4184.
Alan Seegar, in his poem of the same name.
The complete stanza runs:
I have a rendezvous with Death
At some disputed barricade....
At midnight in some flaming town,
When Spring trips north again this year,
And I to that pledged word am true,
I shall not fail that rendezvous.
* * * *
Explain the references “Jamshyd” and ‘‘Kai-
kobad” in Omar Khayyam ? —4OlO.
According to Persian myth, Jamshyd, fourth
king of the earliest Persian dynasty, is reputed
to have introduced the solar year; also, accord-
ing to some, to have discovered the virtues of
wine and founded Persepolis. He appears in
the Zend Avesta as one of the great national
heroes. A more fanciful report makes him
King of the Peris, in punishment for his boast
of immortality compelled to assume human
form and dwell on earth, where he became a
mighty king, reigning 700 years, 300 of which
approximated to a golden age in Persian his-
tory. Kaikobad (Kai-Kobad) was the founder
of the Kaianian dynasty, which succeeded the
mythical Peshdadians; he drove invaders, who
had slain the reigning king, from the land and
restored the realm to quiet and happiness.
* * * *
List of ships in which James Cook served? —
227.
Early experience was gained on small vessels
trading between Newcastle, Norway and the
Baltic, these being the Freelove, a full-rigged
ship of 341 tons, which he joined in February,
1747, the Three Brothers (1748) and the Mary
(1750). In 1753 he became mate of the Friend-
ship, and on the outbreak of the Seven Years’
War in 1756 volunteered for service, being
entered in H.M.S. Eagle as A. 8., but becoming
master’s mate a month later. He was then
transferred to the Solebay (July, 1757), thence
to the Pembroke (October, 1757), and in Sep-
tember, 1759, to the Northumberland. Next
engaged in survey work on the Newfoundland
coast, he was on the books of the Antelope and
Tweed. His first separate command was the
Grenville—appointed April, 1764. In 1768 he
was commissioned to command H.M.S. En-
deavour, and in 1771 to the Resolution, which
vessel he continued to command until his death
in 1779.
* * * *
Particulars of the first four importations of
sheep into Australia. Also of the first importa-
tion into W.A.? —3995.
The First Fleet in 1788 brought upwards of
70 Bengal sheep, which Phillip purchased
at the Cape of Good Hope on his way out, but
by September of the same year all had died.
In 1793 about 30 Indian sheep were imported
from Calcutta, together with a few English
sheep from Ireland. John Macarthur experi-
mented by crossing some of these, and in 1796
commissioned a ship’s captain to bring some
merinos from the Cape of Good Hope. With
eight of these pure Spanish merinos Macarthur
continued his experiments, and during his later
visit to England procured several pure merino
rams from the stud of King George 111., these
arriving in 1805. The first importation of sheep
into Western Australia was in 1829, when some
merinos arrived from Tasmania.
* * * *
Brief biographical particulars of the artists
(1) Will Ashton, (2) James Jackson and (3)
Arthur Streeton? —4233.
(1) Born York, England, 1881. Studied under
Julius Ollsson, R.A., and Algernon Talmadge,
R.A., at St. Ives School, and at Academie
Julien, Paris. Has exhibited at Royal Academy,
Royal Institute of Oil Painters, in Paris and
U.S.A. Is member of Royal Institute, London;
awarded Wynne Art Prize, Sydney, 1908; was
member of Art Advisory Board to Common-
wealth Government, 1918. Is represented in
National Galleries, Sydney, Melbourne, Perth,
Adelaide and elsewhere. At present in Sydney,
after an extended trip abroad, spent principally
in France and Spain. Recently held a success-
ful exhibition. (2) Born Palmerston North
(M.L.), and studied at Royal Art Society of
N. S. Wales, J. S. Watkins Art School, Acade-
mie Colarossi, Paris, and under Frank Brang-
wyn, London. Is represented in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Castlemaine Galleries, as
well as at Christchurch (M.L.) and in many
private collections in England. Was for some
years instructor at the Royal Art Society of
N. S. Wales, of which he was elected Fellow
in 1922. (3) Born April 8, 1867, at Mount
Duneed, near Geelong (Vic.). Won distinction
as a brilliant landscape painter, being the first
Australian to gain an Honorable Mention at
the Paris Salon (1892), also winning a gold
medal at the Salon (1907) and a diploma at
the Pittsburg International. Has exhibited at
the Royal Academy and at most important
exhibitions in Europe. Served during the war
with the R.A.M.C., and was invalided after
two years’ service. Commissioned by War
Office to paint war records.
* * * *
(1) Is air-conditioning included in the curri-
culum of any of the Vic. technical schools?
(2) If so, does the course presuppose a know-
ledge of any particular branch of science ?
(3) Names of Melbourne firms manufacturing
or installing air-conditioning apparatus? —4o46.
(1) and (2) Air-conditioning is included in
the Heating and Ventilating course at Mel-
bourne Tech. Coll. A knowledge of plumbing
and certain sections of fluid dynamics is pre-
supposed. (3) A. Atherton, Thos. Walker and
Co. and Hawkins and Wilcox.
* * * *■
(1) How can correct exposure for photo-
graphs be ascertained ? (2) Upon what factors
does correct exposure depend? (3) Can in-
stantaneous exposures be made during dull
weather? (4) Longest exposure possible while
holding the camera in the hand? —4300.
(1) Exposure tables will help, but for accurate
results an exposure meter should be used.
There are many types on the market, ranging
from a few shillings to several pounds. (2)
The actinic value of the light, the aperture of
the lens and the speed of the plate or film. (3)
Yes, if the camera is equipped with a large-
aperture lens and used in conjunction with
rapid plates or films. (4) Do not attempt any-
thing longer than l-25sec. In the old days
experts used to go through a formula of hold-
ing the camera against the breastbone, holding
the breath and counting ten slowly, but there
was usually a blur in the result.
% % % *
How to etch letters on glass? —4o2B.
Clean surface of glass thoroughly and heat
evenly until it can hardly be held. Apply
lightly a thin coat of etching-ground, making
it smooth by dabbing with a small ball of silk
filled with cotton. When dry, trace the lettering
with a sharp steel point, cutting clean through
the varnish to the glass. The varnish must be
removed from each letter, otherwise the etching
will be incomplete. When ready, apply suffi-
cient fluoric acid with a feather to fill each
letter and allow it to remain until it etches to
the required depth, then wash off with water
and remove the varnish.
* * * *
• Plants and ferns in a lattice-covered bush-
house, which is also shaded by a large tree, are
dying-off. They are regularly watered and
tended. What is the trouble and remedy? —
4271.
The plants have insufficient sunlight, and
unless the tree-shade is removed they will
perish. Avoid watering for a few days, and
mix into the pots or into the surface soil a
little fine sand and rotted cow manure. Badly-
affected plants should be stood in the sun for
a few hours. A spray with lime-sulphur will
ward off mildew.
i[> % sj: $
Is it a fact that primula plants are poisonous
when handled? —4161.
Primula obconica carries a certain danger
when handled by people susceptible to skin ail-
ments —the leaves contain poison which causes
an eruption similar to eczema. After handling
it is advisable to wash hands and arms with
medicinal soap.
* * * $
I have a large area filled with gladioli plants
just finished flowering. Will it harm the bulbs
if they are lifted now —the ground being re-
quired for other cultivation work? —4245.
Wait till tops have yellowed a trifle (this can
be helped by restricting water and lifting the
bulbs slightly with a trowel), then pack them
in dry sand for a few weeks in a shed where
the air will help to dry them quickly. When
tops have thoroughly dried, cut them from
bulbs, remove small corms and store bulbs on
dry shelves.
% * ❖
Cause of hives in an elderly woman and
treatment ? —4207.
The true cause can be determined only by a
physician skilled in such work. Irritation of
the skin may be somewhat relieved by taking
calcium lactate (ten grains three times daily
after food) and by dabbing the affected areas
with calamine lotion, containing one drachm
of carbolic acid to every six ounces of calamine.
»i* *i ; •!' v
Is cancer universal, or is it a disease affect-
ing only civilised peoples? —42s9.
Apparently universal; it is known to have
existed since the dawn of history. The more
the matter is investigated the more certain it
is that Eskimos, South and North American
Indians, African negroes and other savages are
all as liable to cancer as races that have their
root nearer to the centres of civilisation.
*4?
Have claims of Voronoff and Steinach that
man may be rejuvenated by the grafting of
glands been borne out by results?— 434l.
Hundreds of experiments have been made
by impartial investigators, and this work has
not confirmed the claims. The report of a
delegation from the British Ministry of Agri-
culture which visited Algiers to study Voron-
off’s method of gland-grafting in animals was
unfavorable, and the commission considered
that the evidence did not support Voronoff’s
contentions.
* $ * *
How to preserve prawns for bream fishing?
—3957.
Cut off the heads and wash the prawns in
fresh water. Mix together soft sugar (two
parts) and fine salt (one part) and cover the
prawns (31b. of mixture to 41b. of prawns)
Place in earthenware or glass containers, cork
and seal. Prawns preserved by this method will
keep for months. Another method is to wash
the prawns and cover with butchers’ brine
This makes them a bright red. Bream are
sometimes partial to this kind of bait.
Brief Answers.
R.L.: The nominal strength ftf the Turkish
Army is 140,000 officers and men. It is fairly
well equipped, but lacks heavy artillery and
tanks. The air strength is 370 ’planes
H.G.: Richman and Merrill flew from Floyd
Bennett Field (New York) to Llandilo (Car-
marthen) and back from Southport Sands
(Lancashire) to Musgrave Harbor (Newfound-
land). The first return North Atlantic aero-
plane flight by the same ’plane and crew, it
took 18 hours west to east, 17 hours east to
west J.W.P.: Courses in mining and metal-
lurgy are given at Sydney University, Broken
Hill Technical College and Newcastle Technical
College. Courses at the two latter institutions
may be taken while working in the local mines.
. ...H.L.: Cedilla is a mark used in French
words under letter c to indicate that it has the
sound of j LJ.J.: (1) Very little diving is
performed in connection with the maintenance
of Darwin wharf; when necessary, a car-
penter employed by the Commonwealth Rail-
ways Department is engaged. (2) This carpenter
is a member of the local branch of the Amal-
gamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners. (3)
No regulation is known, so far as the Northern
Territory is concerned, which necessitates divers
being licensed. (4) £5 per day of six hours
WJ.D.: Under the N.S.W. Fisheries and Oyster
Farms Act, 1935, every person taking salmon
or trout in any waters in New South Wales is
required to be the holder of a license. Licenses
issued under that Act are not available in the
Federal Capital Territory, which does not come
under the jurisdiction of N. S. Wales H.G.:
Income from employment up to £7B p.a. is
exempt from Q’land unemployed-relief tax;
£7B to £lO4, 2d. in £; £lO4 to £2OB, 5d.;
£2OB to £499, Bd.; exceeds £499, lid. Other
income (average rate): Up to £lO4, 2{d. in £;
£lO4 to £2OB, s|d.; £2OB to £499, B|d.; exceeds
£499, ll£d A.P.: Theodore Emile Argles
(“Harold Grey” and “The Pilgrim” of early
Bulletins) published one book of verse, The
Devil in Sydney (De Courcy, Hyde and Blake-
ney, 1878) J.P.: “A needle in a bottle of
hay” is the right wording, “bottle” being an
old word, now dialectal only, for bundle; it is
often regarded as a mistake and changed to
“bundle of hay” or “haystack” C.S.:
Physics and physiology had once the same wide
meaning as natural science or natural philo-
sophy. They have been narrowed and differ-
entiated, physics retaining only the properties
of matter and energy in inorganic nature, and
physiology only the normal functions and
phenomena of living beings J.W.: Hunne-
mannia will not stand transplanting; seed must
be sown thinly where the plants are to remain,
surplus seedlings being taken out to leave plants
about 6in. apart. Sow in good, richly-manured,
friable, loamy soil in a warm, sunny position.
P.T.: Nile lilies, first-class pot plants, do
well in a mixture of sandy loam and peat soil.
Take the dry tubers out after the plants have
died down, shake off the old soil and repot in
fresh... .K.L.D.: No right to a divorce on such
a ground in any of the British Dominions
D.M.D.: You would require the assistance of
a solicitor both in drafting the deed of gift
and in drawing up the partnership agreement
and articles. The deed would take the pro-
perty out of your hands and control absolutely,
and the partnership would embarrass you with
the necessity for the acquiescence .of your
partner in all matters affecting the property.
The simplest and cheapest course is to make a
will. The probate duty in the case of a small
property would not amount to much
A.H.L.: The P.E.N. Club is a world association
of writers, with 50 centres. President, H. G.
Wells; general secretary, Herman Ould, Albion
House, 59-61 New Oxford-street, London,
W.C.I. The secretary of the Sydney P.E.N.
Club is Miss Ruth Bedford, 316 Jersey-road,
Woollahra... .J.D.: At the 1933 census there
were 188,457 members of the Church of Eng-
land in W.A.; 74,354 Roman Catholics; 44,521
Methodists and 32,694 Presbyterians R.C.:
Full lists in The Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook, 1937 (35.), published by
Richard Geraint, Box 2455 MM, G.P.0.,
Sydney T.A.J.: It was Samuel Smiles who
wrote “No laws, however stringent, can make
the idle industrious, the thriftless provident or
the drunken sober” T.J.J.: Dr. H. B.
Goodrich, 25 Wesleyan-place, Middletown,
Conn., U.S.A., is secretary of the American
Society of Zoologists... .L.M.S.: Cannot
understand your question. Hot liquids don't
go with ice-creams K.D.F.: A pinch oi
bicarbonate of soda might be useful, but its
action would be uncertain and could not be
trusted in all conditions. The combination of
the acid soup with the milk is the cause of
curdling. The only way to get over the diffi-
culty is to combine the two liquids at the same
temperature. Preferably the milk should be
heated and then added to the slightly-warmed
soup. A line or two on the tin would explain
this... .A.C.R.: Mildew is caused by allowing
the curtain to remain hanging in damp folds,
especially during hot weather. It is difficult to
eradicate from a thick material. Take the
curtain down and launder thoroughly with
plenty of hot suds, then spread out to dry in
hot sunshine. As it dries, sprinkle it with cold
water repeatedly. If not satisfactory, send to
a professional cleaner... .1.M.: As far as the
standard card authorities go there is no “misere
in the game of five hundred J.T.: If the
liquids have not previously been mixed together
for the purpose, you could patent the mixture,
but this would involve public disclosure of the
ingredients. Consult a patent attorney—-see
advertisers at end of “Wild Cat” Column.
H.E.: The Bridle Track, by J. J. Hardie,
was published by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney; 6s F.C.: College of Heralds,
London, may be able to supply the informa-
tion W. 8.: November 29, 1868, fell on a
Sunday (Many others mailed.)


National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd,, Adelaide.
Westralia’s
Happy Station
On its new power of 1000
watts is a welcome guest
in every Western radio
home. A sales medium for
every advertiser in Aus-
tralia.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Mil'
A'
£
2
f
7}
i
‘ft
■V.L
m. 1
-I
v\ o«
V,
vr,
Symbol'
STAND on the street pavement
and look up at the new Head
Office Building of the Rural
Bank, Martin Place, and you will
observe a ram’s head carved in
granite projecting from the wall.
This sculpture is more than an
ornament in the design of a fine
new building. It is symbolic of
the importance of Wool in the
growth and prosperity of the
country, and of the part played
by the Rural Bank since its origin
in 1899, in financing both the
Wool industry and all other in-
dustries associated with primary
production.
The Bank has also been of con-
siderable assistance in financing
the building of homes.
Yet the Rural Bank is not merely
a farmers or home builders
bank. Its facilities, serving all
members of the community in
country and city, include both the
opening of Cheque Accounts and
the accepting of interest-bear-
ing Fixed Deposits. In its new
Sydney office, or any of its
branches, you will be given ex-
perienced, friendly assistance in
your banking problems.
Jhinjalßank,
OF nEUU SOUTH (DALES
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
January Issue Now on Sale.
WHAT WILL 1937 BRING?
SECURITY AND COMMODITY MARKETS
REVIEWED.
SURVEY OF BASE METALS.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped:
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
PSH • Drawn-out H.R.: Hardly a
short story JS H : Bright idea spoiled by
rambling narrative... .A.L.8.: Gets nowhere.
rdiuuiiug ud . , . , . „ .
... .D.N.: Both amateurish, but show promise,
keep to subjects and places of which you know
something M.M.W.: It may be true, but it
makes dull reading... .J.H.S.: Too much
spouting and too little action D. 8.; Foot-
ling ending C.J.R.: Remove the odoriferous
swineherd....P.M.D.: You see the character
from too far off... .D.A.! Unreal... . A.A.K.. *
Needs tightening up H.A.L.: One of the
oldest of the tricksters-tricked series....
H. 0.8.: A dreamy voyage to a tame ending.
.... D.W.: Labored.... Nomad: Whatever it
is you’re trying to say, you don’t manage to
say it A.H.; To the w.p.b. it g0e5....J.A.:
“Farewell” it i5....F.W.: Well enough of its
kind, but no place here for the kind... .R.D.:
Some good lines and thoughts in “Night,” but
misses as a whole Robin; Rhyme and bush
feeling in “The Pioneers” all right, but it’s one
of the rockiest verses even they have inspired.
....A. McD.; Might get by with a stronger
ending.... A.D.M.: “Food for the Hungry.”
We’re not that -hungry... .W.L.: Not slick
enough for a murder mystery... .M.A.: Thin.
....H.T.M.M.; Nothing new in those two
S. Heavy M.1.P.: We get that
often, and you don’t give it a new angle....
T. : Thin and obscure; needs to be more
direct C. 8.: You’re another of the many
who need the advice: stick to subjects you
know something about. . ..W.H.8.; Not
enough reader interest... .A.V.N : Neatly con-
structed plot has been overworked J.C.S.:
Finishes in the air... .E.M.M.: Immature....
J. Low-level yarn of an often-told double-
crossing... .N.S.: No more chance of its earn-
ing a cheque than its hero had of finding water,
J.H.H.: Spoilt by the sentimentality....
L.M.1.: Con Drew’s done that better
T.F.P.: Maudlin as most dog yarns
K. : Death in the desert; sands blown fit-
fully across the body till only the boots pro-
rude. No .... .T.T. : Be off M.S.T. r Un-
moved by the ghstemng tears coursing slowly
down her cheek .. ..K.H.: And by a furtive
dab with a handkerchief at her red-rimmed
eyes M.S.E.: Burglar finds safe already
burgled. You re the third this year... .T.R.:
You re the first since Christmas with the nice-
fellow-who - goes - a way-when - he-finds-his-girl-
loves-another yarn. We look forward resignedly.
••v D f : You haven’t the knack... .L.C.E.:
Animal yarns need to be extra g00d... .C.F.P.:
Not jn our paddock> NH . when did you
ever j iear a swagg j e spe ak like that? 8.V.:
H 0... .H. 0.: Unconvincing... .Dab: There’s
on ]y a par j n that L.A.P.: Abbott told the
same tale about two months back.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
• . .. t
AX.: Well-balanced drawings spoilt by too-
hnework G.R.: Tidy batch of
sketches; alas, gags are pointless... .H.S.W.:
You must have sketched that well-known poll-
f lcmn whde he J as runn ' n g for a tram on< ;
night ...EX: Surely Sarah has learned
h ? now to distinguish a kiss from a cow s lick.
• • JCP - : Noted that our friend the old-
clothes man is still doing the round of the
nudist camps... .S.C.: David Low hit on that
ldea a^out years ag0..,.H.R.: Cant you be
f rsuaded * ™>rk in Indian ink on Bristol
board?.. C.S.: You d have been better en-
gaged on Chr f mas e , ve smg.ng carols... .T.S.:
Received, one large sketch of a bath-tub minus
explanatory letterpress. Whaffor? W.W.:
In view of your age you’re let off with a
caution... .P.R.D.; Remarkable the mess
you’ve made of a % nice sheet of drawing-paper.
C. 8.: The gags sprout whiskers; the draw-
j ngs reveal an untrained hand... .M.G.:
Decrepit blacktracker turned loose to find his
home . .p.L.: Subject too stale to warrant
, . . , , c , T ■*—. \ T
cartoon; anyhow, yours is dreadful... X.F.N.:
admd woldd be hard to get a model to
P ose for such a situation, but you should have
done better with the back-to-nature crank on
the ant-heap... .A.S.W.: Made an inglorious
exit D.H.: Could make nothing of your
jafeged linework and blots N. 8.: You’re a
year too early with your 150th Anniversary
cartoon; put it away, study hard and re-submit
later E.H.: It doesn’t illustrate the gag with
suffic ient vigor... .C.F.S.: Barmaid looks like
a battered figurehead nailed to the counter
W. 8.: Helped to fill up an odd corner in the
w . p . b a.G.: Y our belated fury over the
bowling of Larwood promptly thrown 0ut....
K. 8.: Promising; practise more from life.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Old Contemptible”: The cables have
again been featuring Hubert Gough, of
the Fifth Army, his alleged ill-treatment
and his tardy rehabilitation at the hands
of Lloyd George. Diggers with first-
hand experience will remain unim-
pressed. In 1917 Gough and the Fifth
Army staff went to Flanders specially
to direct the great salient offensive.
Plumer and his staff, who knew the
salient backwards and had carried out
the, successful Messines show in June,
were packed on one side. Gough had
the weather for his scapegoat in the open-
ing fights, but when Plumer did take
over the rest of the Passchendaele fight-
ing—weather or no weather —was a com-
plete contrast. As for the Fifth Army,
it had many handicaps, but so had the
Third Army on the left. The Fifth Army
gave way ; the Third not only stood but,
what was more difficult, swung back,
created a new line and held the Arras
buttress. Without this the whole front
would have dissolved.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: “Smiler” Hales, who died
in England last month, was editing
a Westralian goldfields paper in the
roaring days when a rich strike was re-
ported—“ The universe has been en-
riched,” “Smiler” wrote. A rival editor,
Fred Vosper, as distinctive a character,
added a postscript: “Owing to the en-
richment of the universe a land boom
has broken out on Mars on the side fac-
ing the earth.”
* * * *
If Sung Tsu-Wen —better known as
T. V. Soong—succeeds Chiang Kai-shek
as executive head of the Chinese National
Government, his predecessor will have
the satisfaction of knowing that the job
has been kept' in the family. Sung is a
brother of Madame Chiang Kai-shek and
of Madame Sun Yat-sen, so it looks as
if the Chinese, with their usual racial
pertinacity, are contriving to graft a
dynasty on to the democracy which was
designed to destroy dynasties. The new
man’s specialty is finance. He has been
head of the Treasury and is president of
the Bank of China. S. M. Bruce rubbed
shoulders with him at the World Eco-
nomic Conference in 1933.
* * * *
Janet Johnson has a part in a Cecily
Courtneidge film, “Everybody Dance,”
now being shown in Australia. She is a
Victorian who studied voice production
with Beatrice Day, but made no remark-
able impression on that experienced
teacher. It was persistence and faith in
herself that did the trick, Gregan
McMahon gave her a chance about 15
months ago in “The Shining Hour” and
“Sixteen,” which led to a contract for
an M.L. tour and the adventure of a
single-ticket journey to England.
* * * *
Success is still attending Joan Ham-
mond, the golfer who turned professional
singer. She. has been engaged to sing
at a reception at the British Embassy in
Vienna. Also in her Christmas stock-
ing was a radio contract, and plans
are being made for her appearance in
Berlin during February. This is expected
to lead to an engagement for the autumn
opera season.


ft?'
4 a
*
1
l
W/
A
B
d
4IZ-
I
»
I
l •
mu
• •
11
• i
w/m
e.
//-
v \VW^
£0
America’s unique para-
dox, the blend of rural
interests with the vibrant
> streams of city life. You
will sense it at Chicago’s
Live Stock Show, where
this metropolis of rhyth-
mic stone and steel retains a genial village
sentiment—or at the great Des Moines State
Fair, where city and country are for the mo-
ment one. This is a key to America’s appeal,
an index to the contrasting variety pervading
her communities, hc*r towering mountains,
sweeping plains, and verdured countrysides
from one ocean to the other.
Rail travel helps to make this possible, just
as it enables the traveler to extract the utmost
from his visit in America. Time, distance,
climate, are no harriers. Fast, air-conditioned
trains provide the same even comfort on a
mountain pass in Colorado, a sagebrush
desert in New Mexico, along a silver strand
in Florida or the rugged New England shore.
Comfort accentuated by service. Featured by
striking economy in fares, and liberal stop-
over allowances en route.
During the 18-day voyage to America you
store many vivid memories—New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii, sunswept South Sea
sailing, and the delightful luxury of your
Matson-Oceanic liners—the “Mariposa” or
“Monterey”. Disembarking at Los Angeles
or San Francisco, you then select the trans-
continental route which most appeals to you.
There is no quicker, more enjoyable, more
economical way to reach Old England. Find
out about this modern highway by reading
“England Across America”, our illustrated
booklet sent upon request, without obligation.
sE£jr:,:_.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
(Incorporated in U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAH”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:— AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London — F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
ELEGANT EXTRACTS
From Contemporary Writings and Speeches.
"Dear Ernest,-I have just learned that
while you have been away, instead of
bemg on business as you led me to
believe, you have been staying at a
hotel at Bray with a lady. lam sure
you realise that is conduct which I
cannot possibly overlook.” — Mrs. Simp-
son to Mr. Simpson.
Hi $ Hi
King Edward will marry Mrs. Simp-
son in the private, chapel of Buckingham
Palace. The marriage, which will take
place several weeks after the King’s Coro-
nation next May, will be performed by
one of the chaplains to the King. Before.
the marriage takes place Mrs. Simpson
will be made a peeress in her own right,
—William Randolph Hearst in his
numerous newspapers.
Scores of letters, telegrams and tele-
phone calls protesting against the criti-
cism of the former King by the Arch
bishop of Canterbury have been received
by members of the House of Commons
The most usual assertion is “It isn’t
cricket.”— “S. M. Herald”
~ '
* *
To say of a man’s conduct that it is
not cric ket” is to stamp him as a base,
P ean an< J paltry fellow. — W. M. Hughes,
in same issue of “S. M. Herald.”
"Hi Hi Hi
The surgeon who operated on Ham-
mond cut away the uncertainty from his
cricket, and made him master of his
fate and captain, of his soul. — “Sun”
(Sydney).
Hammond went on his way uncertain
at odd moments, yet for the most part
captain of his soul and master of his
fate. — Sydney “Sun,” encoring itself.
*. $ *.
The honest Australian will admit that
the “cultural lag” is very marked in
Australia, and that our literature is often
bad, generally mediocre, and only rarely
of any true distinction, when judged by
international standards.— “S. M. Herald,”
which devotes a large part of its income
and influence to helping what it con-
demns.
*. '*.*.
The century-old White Hart Hotel, at
Bothwell (Tas.), was totally destroyed by
fire at an early hour on the morning of
December 31. It was a coincidence that
the premises were to be delicensed that
day.— Launceston “Examiner.”
$ $
Swordfish and sailfish have been cap-
tured of recent years in Moreton Bay.
From time to time fish of these species
are forwarded to the Brisbane market
and are sold here for food purposes to
retailers. They probably sold it as
“mackerel steaks.” — From the annual
report of the Queensland Fisheries
Department.
* * *
Tn the winter months, when the popu-
lation of Cowes, Phillip Island (Vic.),
has dwindled to its normal 300 or so, it
is by no means phenomenal to see native
bears waddling on their short fat legs
in the main streets. Now, with 300 cars
twisting and turning and hooting along
the road, and 2000 visitors peopling the
island, they have retired to comparative
seclusion inland, and one must' take an
organised tour to observe them, although
they still keep their nightly vigil from
the gum-tree tops in Lovers’ Lane
Melbourne “Age.”
* * *
More girls are rolling down their
bather tops this summer than ever before.
At City Beach it is no longer a rarity:
semi-nude, female sun-bathers dot the
quieter parts of the sands. And not all
of them stay in the secluded spots. A
young man was startled to see two girls,
with “bathers” rolled to the waist, stand-
ing on the beach only a .few paces from
where ‘he had left htf car. — “Mirror”
t Perth , W.A.).
id $5 $
Hospital boards will now be able to
gain some knowledge of the character
and record of the. medical officer they
want to appoint. One such board
appointed a carpenter as a medical
officer. He had wonderful testimonials—
he had written them himself. — Queens-
land Home Secretary Hanlon, on the
Hospitals Bill.
& $
Not only this Government, but the
Federal Government is in danger. All
our Governments are in danger. The
smell of blood in Spain is being blown
across the Channel to Kent to-day.
Before the last New Zealand election the
main street of one of the biggest cities
had all its shops smashed to pieces. The
news was not, so far as I know, pub-
lished in Australia.—C. F. J. North,
member for Claremont (Westralian
“Hansard”).
$ $
The topic was longevity. We all sub-
sided into silence when Horrie Watts,
of the Railway Hotel, produced an old
newspaper clipping concerning his
maternal grandmother. One of Queen
Adelaide’s ladies-in-waiting, she came
out' to Australia as lady-in-waiting to
the wife of Governor Hindmarsh. She
married a South Australian farmer,
Andrew Garlick, and died at Cross Roads,
near Moonta, at the age of 104! We
talked no more longevity.— “ Wanderer,”
in the Port Pirie ( S.A.) “Recorder.”
$ $ $
Out eight miles from Kurrajong
(N.S.W.), I dived down into the cool
green gully looking for local scenic
beauty. Down I went to the waters of
Boggy Creek, which lead down to Cab-
bage Tree Creek, which sneaks into the
picturesque Grose River through wild
tangles of greenery at the Vale of Avoca,
about five miles above it's junction with
the placid Nepean River, thence to flow
with many a curve and silvery reach. I
was happy amidst the. waratahs, Christ-
mas bells and flannel flowers. I heard
the lyrebird, the mimic of the glen, faith-
fully imitating his feathered glen mates,
the parrot's, butcher birds, peeweets, and
many others. I blundered on a little and
the wild trills ceased. He had heard me
and made a sudden and safe retreat. —
Will Carter in the Wagga “Advertiser .”


THE YOUTH
COMPETITIONS
< <r pHE BULLETIN” has received abundance of evidence that its competitions for
-l youths who want to get on but see no present prospect of realising their ambitions
are appreciated.
In one case the prize will amount to the sum of Fifty Pounds (£5O), which will
be paid by The Bulletin Newspaper Company at its discretion, to further the winner s
advancement in the study, business or calling of his choice.
In the other case the prize will be a literary cadetship; in other words, a job on
“The Bulletin.”
“ ‘The Bulletin’ is to be congratulated,” said Mr. A. A.
Dunstan, the Premier of Victoria.
“In addition to providing one meritorious boy with a posi-
tion and another with a cash prize, the competitions will have
the important result of helping to focus public opinion on the
parlous plight of many lads who, through no fault of their own,
have been unable to secure employment.
“At a time like the present,” Mr. Dunstan added, “move-
ments such as those initiated by “The Bulletin” deserve the
fullest appreciation of the community.”
“Cadetships on metropolitan papers are difficult to obtain,”
said Mr. S. E. Pratt, general secretary of the Australian
Journalists’ Association. “Youths seeking openings in the
profession have realised this after their names have been added
to successive waiting lists.
“ ‘The Bulletin’s’ offer provides an excellent opportunity
for the boy showing the most aptitude. He will enter the
profession through an Australian paper held in high regard by
experienced journalists.”
Competitors for the £5O prize may be any age from 1 7 to
22. They will be required to give in writing plain accounts of
themselves, their circumstances and aspirations, and the £5O
will go to the youth who, considered as a citizen in the making,
will, in the editor’s judgment, put it to the best use.
He may be a student stumped for books or fees; a budding
scientist who cannot at present buy needed apparatus; a lad
with a mechanical bent who is short of money for tools or for
a premium; an embryo flying or wireless man who cannot
finance a course; a young fellow starting in some carrying or
other business to whom £5O would be a godsend; a country lad
who with £5O could do something in the sharefarming line or
buy some implement or even pay a deposit on a bit of land,
perhaps having some friendly neighbor who may be willing to
give a lad a chance.
“The Bulletin” wants the stories of such lads, and of
hundreds of others. Not necessarily for publication in every
case —no doubt in some cases there will be written things which
should not be made public—but so that it may arrive at a
fair judgment, and also that it may collect evidence that will
second the efforts of those good people who have taken up
the cause of unemployed lads and of others whose opportunities
have been tragically restricted by the depression.
It will not be expected of any entrant for Youth Com-
petition No. 1 that he must be a practised writer. If he makes
YOUTH COMPETITION NO. 1.
WHAT I WOULD DO WITH FIFTY POUNDS.
Set out in plain language what you would do with the money.
Lead up to it by giving a short account of yourself and your
experiences, stating your age, condition, whether living at home
or out in the world; if no longer at school, how old you were
when you left it, and so forth.
There is no word-limit for your essay, but try not to make
it too long. Facts are the essential things. And write on one
side of the paper only.
Set down your name and address on this cutting in the places
specified and get one of the responsible parties mentioned below
to certify to your bona fides. Then pin the cutting to your
essay and address both to Editor, The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or minister of
religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
has written the accompanying essay without assistance and that
the facts are as he has stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS
out what is adjudged the best claim to the £5O it won’t matter
a bit if his grammar is rocky and he can t spell.
Character, courage and a clear and logical purpose—these
are the things that will tell. .
In the other competition, however, literary merit or aptitude
will necessarily be a deciding factor.
“The Bulletin” wants a lad who may be trained to become
a responsible member of its staff, and naturally preference will
go to the boy who, on the evidence of the writing submitted,
will seem most likely to supply the requirements.
Youth Competition No. 1 is open to youths in the 1 7-22
age group living anywhere in the Australian Commonwealth or
Territories or in New Zealand.
Youth Competition No. 2 is also for lads living anywhere
in Australia or its Territories or New Zealand, but they must
be aged 17, 18 or 19.
In each case youths living remote from Sydney will start
equal with residents of Sydney as regards chances of landing
the prize.
If the winner of Youth Competition No. 2 happens to be a
Victorian, a Queenslander, a South Australian, a Westralian,
a Tasmanian, a New Zealander or a resident of any of the
Australian Territories, or of N. S. Wales beyond Sydney, The
Bulletin Newspaper Co. will pay his fare to Sydney and see
that he is installed in a decent home.
If, after a fair trial, he does not like the job or the job does
not like him, he will be sent back to the place he came from at
the expense of The Bulletin Newspaper Company.
Throughout “The Bulletin’s” history many members of its
staff have been brought from parts of Australia other than
N.S.W., and from Maoriland
James Edmond came to “The Bulletin” from Queensland,
S. H. Prior from Broken Hill (then virtually part of S.A.)
and the present editor from Westralia.
A.J.A. (Australian Journalists’ Association) rates for cadets
are £2 a week the first year, £2 15s. the second year, and £3
15s. the third year; then the cadet qualifies as a junior at
£6 12s. 6d.
If the editor’s choice falls on a stranger to Sydney, the first
year’s salary will be made up to £2 10s., and the lad will have
opportunities of earning more. This will apply also to the
second and third years of his cadetship.
Entries for both competitions will be received to the end
of February.
YOUTH COMPETITION NO. 2.
WHY I WANT TO BECOME A WRITER.
Give reasons in an essay of, say, 600 to 1200 words—though
there will be no hard-and-fast rule as to length.
In writing it, state your age, the course your reading has
taken, your favorite poet (and why), the prose-writ'er you prefer
(and why), what sort of memory you possess, and whether you
have had anything printed in your school paper or in some other
publication.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Sign this cutting, get it certified by one of the responsible
persons mentioned below, pin it to your essay and post to Editor,
“The Bulletin,” 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME '
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or minister of
religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
has written the accompanying essay without assistance and that
the facts are as he has stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS


RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6; 224, 4/6-
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL, ARC ADR. SYDNEY.
Effective Coverage
. of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas,
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency
CMt. ;
i /
f A
\ Q
'•v *,
4W <»
y '
/ i\
“PALEC VALVE TESTER
A.C. PORTABLE TYPE:
Tests all standard valves, English and
Octode types. Subjects each 'element of A
HOT valve to a micro leak
test. Portable type,
as illustrated
Counter type
£ll/10/-
£l3/10/-
D.C. BATTERY MODEL
Tests all D.C. Valves, requiring only to be
connected to a 6-volt accumulator. Has
element short test. Three ranges of volts
0-3.5, 7 and 70 volts, for battery cheek-
ing; also external resistance range, 0-
250,000 ohms.
Complete with lid £.IZ/IU/-
Paton Electrical Instrument Co.,
90 Victoria Street, Ashfield.
Available at leading wholesalers,
All Prices Subject to Tax.
Write for descriptive catalogue.
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator —easy to iustal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature ROW.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
y, L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, ColliDS St.
F. RIEUSSET. Representative.
and it fs impossible to tell the difference
in action from A and B batteries.
Aerial Coupling Unit.
This is a refinement well worth while,
but normally the aerial can be connected
as in Fig. 6. The unit permits the full
benefit of a twisted pair doublet aerial.
Coil L (Fig. 1) is a two-turn coil around
the bottom end of each detector grid coil
(the reason for a five-pin base), linked ex-
ternally to a coil LX of about five turns.
Coil LA must either be changed for each
band or a tapped coil, and is fitted for
variable coupling to
LX. The Faraday
spreen shown be-
tween LA and LX is
also a refinement,
and only necessary
where severe local
interference is pres-
ent. The two
.OOOlmfd. conden-
sers in the aerial
feeders can be
ganged, and with the
.OOOlmfd. condenser
tuning LA aerial
resonance can be ob-
tained at any fre-
quency. The vari-
able coupling is use-
ful where strong in-
terference is present
from a local station.
It is quite possible
with this receiver
so fitted to work
with a telephony
station overseas with
a strong local ’phone
only a few kcs. off,
but to get the propei
benefit of a Faraday
screen the entire re-
ceiver must be com-
pletely screened.
Alternative Valves.
The possibility of
metal valves has not
been overlooked,
and the outstanding
instance of definite
advantage is the
use of a 6L7 as
first detector. This valve is par-
ticularly efficient at high frequencies, and
could easily be substituted (with the
octal socket) for the 6C6. The heater
voltage and current are the same. The
77 can be used instead of the 6C6, but
,
the 6C6 has a more suitable impedance
lor coupling to the iron-core I.F.T. As
the receiver is designed to get the best
from a minimum number of valves, the
Philips six-volt Red Coat high-gain
valves are worth consideration. Valves
of 2.5 voltage can, of course, be. utilised,
and in this case the 57, 56, 58 and 53 will
be applicable. The 53 has both triode
grids at the valve socket, whereas the
grid of the first triode of the 79, being
on the cap, permits a short lead from the
I.F.T. The shorter the grid leads with
iron-core I.F.Ts. the better,
Operation.
Lining up this receiver is like lining
up any other superhet. Choose a strong
steady signal, preferably a commercial
I.C.W. station (or use a modulated oscil-
lator) and carefully adjust the I.F.T.
trimmers for best signal strength.
Although the I.F.Ts. are lined by the
manufacturer, wiring inequalities in the
receiver are bound to offset them a little.
The regeneration feature of the first de-
tector is invaluable. With the receiver
working smoothly this control can be
Fig. 3.—Showing the layout from the power-supply connector
and headphone jack end. The grid leads to the 6D6 and 79
from the intermediate transformers may be copper braid
screened and earthed to chassis. The twisted wire from the
detector-coil socket is for connection to the aerial-coupling
unit suggested.
used to advantage. If there is too much
aerial coupling, regeneration will be
weak, and the aerial load must be re-
duced. If the detector is allowed to
oscillate, unwanted signals will appear
on the dial. A position can be found in
balance with the regeneration and de-
tector band-setter where a weak signal
can be brought up tremendously, yet, be-
cause of a minimum number of valves
and the excellent features of the iron-
core I.F.Ts., noise level is strikingly low.
The weakest of long-distance amateur
’phone stations can be heard and under-
stood with this receiver, and normally
strong stations are remarkable for clarity
and volume. The same applies to C.W.
operation. With the diagrams and
details the reader has enough informa-
tion to construct this receiver and dupli-
cate the results obtained by the writer.
The Ideal Amateur Superhet quite defi-
nitely surpasses many multi-valve over-
seas creations in performance, and, to
cap it all, it is not over-expensive to
build.
List of Components.
Chassis, aluminium, Min. by lOin. by 3in.
Front panel, Min. by 7in., with 4in. angle.
Interstage panel, Min. by 7in., with lin. angle.
Two Radiokes iron-core T.F. transformers, type
51C465 or AD465.
Four valve screens.
Three six-pin valve sockets.
One five-pin valve socket.
Coil sockets—isolantite, one four-pin, one five-
pin.
Four bakelite stand-off pillars for coil sockets.
Power supply connector, one four-pin socket
and plug.
Eight Standardised Products short-wave coil
' formers, Hin. diameter (four four-pin and
four five-pin).
Two lOOmmfd. midget variable condensers
(band-setters).
Two midget variable condensers, 20 or 33
mmfd., with brass coupling spindle to
ganging (bandspread tuning condensers.).
One good-quality vernier dial (specially recom-
mended Palec laboratory type).
Two small protractor scales for band-set indi-
cation.
One single circuit headphone jack and plug.
One 50,000-ohm potentiometer (first-detectoi
regeneration).
One 20,000-ohm potentiometer (I.F. B ain
control).
One 10,000-ohm tapered potentiometer (beat
oscillator control).
Three 50,000-ohm 1-watt resistors.
Three 10,000-ohm 1-watt resistors.
One 25,000-ohm 1-watt resistor.
One 100,000-ohm 1-watt resistor.
One 1500-ohm resistor.
One 1000-ohm‘resistor.
One .OOOlmfd. mica condenser.
Two .Olmfd. mica condensers.
One .002mfd. mica condenser.
Six .lmfd. tubular condensers.
One 25mfd. tubular electrolytic condenser.
One ,005mfd. mica condenser.
One standard broadcast coil (see text).
One 50-ohm centre-tapped heater resistor.
Aerial coupling unit (not essential, see text).
Valves —Radiotron, one 6C6, one 6D6, one
76, one 79.
Seven inches sin. insulating rod (detector band-
set condenser extension control).
Six feet copper braid.
Aerial and earth terminals (or doublet input
connections).
Power supply—six-volt storage battery and
135-volt B battery, or 6v. 3amp. trans-
former and Philips B eliminator.
Six knobs.
Wiring flex, 16-gauge tinned copper wire, and
wire for coils (see text).
D.B. KNOCK, VK2NO.
Amateur Chatter.
The Christmas holidays—Boxing Day
in particular—were remarkable for the
fierce static on all bands, from broad-
cast up; it was even noticed on five
metres. Most DX men went “DX-less”
and were confined to local contacts.
The surprising thing on such stormy
occasions is that the ultra-short-wave
bands —five metres particularly —are not
more used. Although static penetrates
wherever there are electrical discharges,
•at ho time is the intensity sufficient to
interrupt short-wave communication.
VK2AZ, of Kogarah (N.S.W.), has
taken five metres seriously, and since
hauling up his new Bruce aerial, 25ft.
high, is maximum strength with this
writer. The stations are not in visual
range, but that is no longer a fatal han-
dicap.
It was reported that a party of
Lakemba Radio Club men would have
mobile five-metre stations in action in
the Blue Mountains during Christmas,
but no signals were heard at VK2NO.
Every evening an I.C.W. five-metre har-
monic from a commercial station signing
LL4 and calling GKT (England) is
logged at R 9. VK2UC, formerly of
Sydney and now of Lismore (N.S.W.), is
reported to be ready for attempts on five-
metre communication with the south.
“T. and R. Bulletin,” the R.S.G.B.
amateur magazine, refers to the distinct
swing in existing DX conditions,* and
predicts that 10 metres will shortly be
completely dormant for DX 2 and 20
metres will be little better; 40 metres
will once again be the DX stamping
ground. That being so, 40 metres, with
the advent of many amateur stations
since 1930, is likely to be decidedly un-
comfortable, and we may be thankful
for the ultra-shorts.
Careful tests with Bruce aerials on five
metres show that the beam angle is
lOdeg., so narrow that it must be very
accurately aimed. Directivity, however,
is not the main feature. A 10-watt
station sounds like 10 kw. 30 miles away.
The writer predicts that whatever con-
sistent DX is done will be with aerials
of this nature.
VK2NO.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
The December issue of “Radio” con-
tains many articles of exceptional interest
to professional and amateur radio engi-
neers. R.C.A. describes a “transmitting
brother” to the popular 6L6 in the shape
of the 807, and this new valve is shown
applied in an “807 all-band push-pull
amplifier.” The valve is a glass version
of the 6L6, but with a plate cap on the
dome. The 6E5 “magic eye” tube is
used in a modulation monitor by
W6DHG. Articles from the pen of
Kruse, “Radio’s” technical editor, are
“Noise Reduction with Balancing Coils”
and “Curing Suppressor Quality.” Five-
metre apparatus has a good share of
space, and the familiar “long lines” oscil-
lator is shown modified for greater
power and stability. There is a com-
plete description of a “Five Metre Port-
able Mobile M.0.P.A.,” and a new prac-
tical directive antenna system is dealt
with by J. N. A. Hawkins. Not the least
interesting section is Herb Becker’s
(W6QD’s), wherein current DX is dis-
cussed and the mystery of several new
and unfamiliar stations cleared up.
“Radio” also announces a special en-
larged issue in January, 1937. This will
have 200 pages, and will be crowded
with information on new valves, circuits,
aerials, tables, etc. “Radio” is a maga-
zine no experimenter should miss.
Yearly subscriptions, now 16s. 6d., are
accepted at The Bulletin office, 252
George-street, Sydney.
“El Cee”: Those portable W.T. sets
mentioned by “Sach” (B. 23/12/’36)
must have been of ancient design.
Present army type portable is much more
efficient, though still rather bulky. Navy
type is a small compact affair, using only
two small accumulators and a diminutive
dry cell —easily carried by one man.
Using this set I have maintained excel-
lent 24-hour communication over 60
miles of water and obtained good results
over 40 miles of mountainous country,
most of which was ore-bearing. “Sach”
was correct as to “blanketing” being out
of the question ; the only thing that will
put one of these sets out of action is a
direct hit. As to the query about the
use of V.T., in the sort of fighting “Sach”
evidently had in mind—guerrilla warfare,
scouting and patrol work, etc. —it has
two serious drawbacks: operator and
gear have to be in a more or less con-
spicuous position to carry out signalling,
thus inviting a shower of lead, and it is
impossible to keep the position of a
patrol or scouting force secret while they,
to make contact with their base, have
to advertise themselves with a heliograph
or flash lamp. With W.T. the operator
and his instruments are under cover.
Also, signals can be exchanged with any
number of scouting or surprise flanking
parties without any danger of their posi-
tion, or even their presence, being dis-
closed.


Livery
W eat Her
Calls for
Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills
Does this present humid weather, with
cold snaps sandwiched in between,
make you feel washed out and devoid
of energy?
Do you go home from work with a
“liver” and perhaps find the family
similarly affected?
If so, a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will be found most
beneficial. They stir the liver to
healthy action, regulate the bowels,
and corret indigestion.
TRY THEM TO-NIGHT!
jao
m
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —-Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes I 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
J
/r
», *■*
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment,
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 50/-.)
X
.jtr
V,\ c ■
4<?» q?
0
a?
0°
&
,1*


“Mummy says —
‘What about your Wolfe’s Schnapps?’ ”
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCH NAPPS
“As good for Women as for Men”
