

a
!«
"
e
■
ear !
Ensure Rational Radio Reception for the year 1938
with a glorious Rational Radio by Briton. Rational
Radio will give you everything worth while in
modern radio —Satisfaction is built into every Rational
Model. Rational Radio is Rational in Construction, in
Performance and in Price.
Every Rational Model is available on Rational Terms.
See the glorious examples of the craftsman’s art in
Rational polished walnut Veneer Cabinets!
RATIONAL RADIO
L BRITON
m g ii
;:V:
ilf'
HI
i m fHEilll
Above—Briton Console De Luxe features:
MODEL 19.—6/7 A.C. Dual-wave
Receiver, with 12in. imported Magnavox
Speaker, ELS output tube, built-in line
filter, complete in De Luxe Co'nsole
Cabinet. List Price ...... 39 guineas
MODEL 18.—7-valve Dual-wave Battery-
operated Receiver, complete in De Luxe
Console Cabinet, with four B Batteries and
one (1) 145 amp. A Battery. List
Price 40 guineas
l
U
Uf.
I
li
■
Above—Mantel Model Cabinet features
two Models:—
MODEL I.—“ The Buccaneer,” 4/5 Dual-
wave A.C. Receiver, in Mantel Cabinet.
List Price 18 guineas
MODEL 15.—4-valve Broadcast Battery
Receiver, with full A.V. control, 6in.
Permag. Speaker, complete in Mantel
Cabinet. Low battery consumption of
lima. List Price 21 guineas
ffg
At Left—Briton Con-
sole Cabinet features:
MODEL 11.—5/6
Dual-wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C.
and 12in. Speaker.
Complete in Cabinet.
Price . . 33 guineas
Also Models 12, 17
and 21, at different
prices.
At Right —— Briton
Loughboy Cabinet
features:—
MODEL 9.—4/5
Broadcast A.C. Re-
ceiver, with A.V.C.,
complete in Cabinet.
Price ... 23 guineas
Also Models 10, 13,
16 and 20 at dif-
ferent prices.
il
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO Pty. Ltd.
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Victorian Distributor:
A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd.,
"The Brightest Spot in Melbourne.”
416 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Telephone:
L 3621 (3 lines).
Queensland Distributor:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co.,
11l Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3019.
Wednesday, December 22, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
PROFESSOR DAVID.
In Professor David: The Life of Sir Edgeworth
David, K.8.E., D. 5.0., F.R.S., M.A., D.Sc., LL.D., his
daughter, M. Edgeworth David, has told the story
of a very great learned and lovable human being.
One of the world’s most eminent geologists, a
fearless Antarctic explorer, soldier in the Great War,
discoverer early in his career of the important Greta
coal seam in the Lower Hunter Valley (N.S.W.) —it
has yielded somewhere over £50,000,000 worth of 'coal
—Tannant William Edgeworth David remained to the
end the simple, courteous, courageous gentleman.
Perhaps no story of him better illustrates what he
was than one touching on an adventure of his when
on the way to the .South Pole with Douglas Mawson
he fell into a crevasse, and just managed to hang on
to the edge. Mawson was changing photographic
plates inside his sleeping-bag when he heard the pro-
fessor calling in a gentle voice:
“Mawson, Mawsonl”
“Hullo!”
“Oh, you’re in the bag changing plates, are you?”
you?”
“Yes, professor.”
There was silence for some time. Then he heard
the professor calling in a louder tone.
“Mawson!”
Mawson replied.
“Oh, still changing plates, are you?”
“Yes.”
Another pause, and then a more insistent call.
“Hullo! What is it? What can I do?”
“Well, Mawson, I am in rather a dangerous posi-
tion. I am really hanging on by my fingers to the
edge of a crevasse, and I don’t think I can hang on
much longer. I shall have to trouble you to come
out and assist me.”
Professor David’s daughter has made of her
father’s sterling character a fine biography. Published
by Edwin Arnold, it is a worthy chronicle of a splen-
did life.
J.H.M.A.
A STRONG MAN IN IRAN.
A chattily-written travel book, Persian Pilgrimage,
by Cauntess Maud von Rosen, a Swedish journalist
(Robert Hale, Ltd.), records conversations with scores
of Persians of all classes. These people unite in
admiration and respect for their ruler, Riza Khan
Pahlevi. Not since the spacious days of Shah Abbas,
they say, has such a man controlled their destinies.
Pah certainly seems to have done a man’s job
of work. A giant with an iron jaw, he was a com-
mander of Cossacks in the Persian Army when the
Bolsheviks were harrying the land in 1920. He could
get no pay, no ammunition, no reinforcements for his
troops. Stood it for three years, then marched on
Tehran with 2500 men, and installed himself as
commander-in-chief, Minister of War and virtual
Dictator. He bundled the Bolshies out of Persia,
made them relinquish all the money they had lent
the Shah, and all their interests in the country. Inside
of two years the reigning Shah got his walking ticket
and Pahlevi reigned in his stead.
In 10 years, says the Statesman’s Year-Book , the
foreign and domestic debts of Persia —now officially
Iran have been drastically reduced; State revenue
and expenditure doubled; balance of exports over
imports multiplied threefold ; army modernised ; roads
and railways extended sixfold, and postal and tele-
graphic traffic doubled. Shah Pahlevi found the coun-
try infested with brigands and occupied mainly with
sectarian and tribal warfare. He stamped out brigand-
age and clapped all male Persians into one style of hat,
so that they couldn’t distinguish hereditary friend
from foe.
Austere, remote, humorless (he is about the only
Shah Persia has ever had who isn’t the source of
funny stories), he rises daily at five and works steadily
till ten at night. He has welded his people together
skilfully by arousing their pride and patriotism. And
he has made them work.
The Mohammedan Middle East is mending its
ways. Attaturk and Pahlevi have done two-thirds of
the job.
NEW FICTION.
David Pilgrim’s So Great a Man (Macmillan;
Dymock’s) belongs to the same great company of his-
torical reconstructions as Feuchtwanger’s The False
Nero and Oke’s Boy from Apulia. This long, closely-
packed novel, in which the author’s imagination
works within the bounds of authentic history, tells
in great detail the story of 10 months in the life of
Napoleon, from March to January, 1809.
Waterloo was still buried six years in the future,
but it was the events of these months that made
Napoleon’s fall inevitable. In committing himself to
the conquest of Spain, he had evoked something new
in Europe—the spirit of nationality as opposed to
dynastic loyalties. He could bowl the dynasties over
like ninepins, but against a people roused to defend
its homes and its traditions he was powerless. This
backward and apparently insignificant enemy released
the spirit that was to dominate nineteenth-century
Europe and lead the twentieth into much the same
impasse as the dynastic traditions had led the
eighteenth century.
During the fatal 10 months Napoleon also lost
the friendship of the vacillating and impressionable
Tsar. The logical result of this breach was the disas-
trous campaign against Russia in 1812, in which
Napoleon threw away his magnificent army. “Great
men are meteors,” said Napoleon. “They bum them-
selves out to light the world.”
This is a cold book. The reader’s sympathy is
not enlisted for Napoleon or anybody else. Event
follows event in pitiless succession. There are shown
with a sort of mathematical precision a thousand
wheels within wheels grinding out Napoleon’s destiny.
The book begins with what appears to be a romantic
statement —pomp, splendor, loyalty, love —but we are
quickly led past the shining surface to the motifs
behind —intrigues, policies, calculations, betrayals—
and behind these again to the great movements of
life and history that, in their turn, discard intrigue.
There are many memorable character studies,
Talleyrand, Fouch6, Marie Walewska, Josephine, Duroc,
Murat and others; also many historic scenes. The
action moves in short flights and covers a wide front,
in Paris, Spain, Germany, Poland, Naples, following
now the fortunes of an English private, now a French
corporal, ranging from the discontents of princes to
the hardships of peasants.
Bruno Frank, in Closed Frontiers (Macmillan),
develops his thesis at the expense of his story. The
book is a criticism of the Hitler regime, not —for a
change—from the radical viewpoint, but from that
of the man of cultural pursuits.
When it opens, Ludwig, younger son of the Duke
of Camburg, is at university. He has come under
the influence of a historian of art, a man for whom
art “is not a detached apparition, but the essence of
existence,” and, furthermore, a man whose interpre-
tations of his subject are uttered quite regardless of
their current social implications. With the rise of
Hitlerism there is no place in Germany for such a
man —or any of like mind. They are exiled or im-
prisoned, and their places filled by opportunists—the
substitution of a false for a true culture.
The story, which includes a couple of Ludwig’s
incidental love episodes, follows the adventures of a
few of these die-hards. It contains some good char-
acter work and some telling descriptions of events,
but there is a lack of consequence in the develop-
ment, and too often there is the feeling that an incident
is being exploited for its dialectical value rather than
for its relationship to the story as a whole. In this,
the sacrifice of art to doubtful expediency, the author
—besides making his book less interesting than it
might have been —has fallen into the error of which he
accuses Hitlerism.
A Date with a Duchess, by Arthur Calder-
Marshall (Cape; Angus and Robertson), should be
meat for writers as well as for readers who take a
serious interest in the short story. The author is an
experimenter. In a typical yarn he tells how a couple
of drunks break into an undertaker’s premises and
refresh themselves from a bottle of embalming fluid.
It is all done from within the minds of the characters
—and without explanations to the reader. The prose
itself is “drunk,” and what is afoot becomes clear
only gradually. The exploit results in death for one
man and blindness for the other. These facts reach
the reader’s mind through the same channels as they
reach that of the survivor, and with the same effect
of shock.
Calder-Marshall makes a study of avoiding ex-
planations. He presents just the significant scrap of
action, exactly as it might have occurred. “Terminus”
is a four-page conversation between a man and a
woman in a railway restaurant, “Bulge” is a three-
page interview between an inventor and a company
director. They seem meagre and bony in the reading,
but take on flesh through the imaginative inferences
to which the reader’s mind is forced in the backward
view.
He is also a master of the oblique statement. In
“My Brother and I Went Walking,” the narrator, a
youth, tells how he quarrelled with his brother for
every reason except the thing that mattered his
brother had a new suit. His motive —stated openly
here —is buried in the story just as it was in his mind
at the time.
There are 20 stories in the book, ranging up to
60 pages in length, all of them remarkable for some
individual quality. The prose is unconventional, some-
times awkward, but always vital and fitting the subject
of the moment as tight as a glove.
Daniele Varb has followed up the success of The
Maker of Heavenly Trousers with a sequel, The Gate
of Happy Sparrows (Methuen). It is a collection of
short pieces, half essay, half short story, set in China
before and during the war. Varb is a native of Italy
long resident in China, and he has written at least
three books in English besides a number in Italian.
There is much in the present volume that is
attractive, though its substance is slight. The jacket
assures the reader that the book is complete in itself
and that a knowledge of the earlier volume is not
needed for its complete enjoyment. There is, never-
theless, here and there, that atmosphere of a family
joke which makes the unenlightened reader feel rather
an outsider. The pieces are nicely varied a sip of
tragedy, a dash of humor, a pinch of sentiment, a
sprig of rosemary.
There is a humorous tale of a missing Turkish
destroyer accidentally discovered by an Italian captain
who put into an obscure bay to get grass for his sick
dog and so got laurels for himself ; there is the almost
dramatic narrative of how an unworldly but shrewd
priest averted a murder; extracts from the diary of
a 17-year-old girl, very bright, innocent and brave ;
anecdotes of wily servants and gilded scraps of history.
In each story, though the approach is rather long and
the point rather small, the way is at least pleasant
and the entertainment offered with cosmopolitan
urbanity—as if the author were an amateur vocalist
with a small voice that had been expensively trained
by the best masters.
In Katrina, by Sally Salimen (Butterworth;
Moore’s Bookshop), the heroine leaves the prosperous
farm of her parents in Finland to go to the Arland
Islands with Johann, a sailor. The fine home he
boasted of turns out to be a peasant’s one-room
cottage. Unwilling to have it known at home how
she has been duped, Katrina accepts the situation.
The choice of life in Arland is between the soil
and the sea, in neither case for more than a bare
subsistence. The field laborers, men, women and
children, work from dawn till dark—about 10 o’clock
on summer evenings—for their meals at the farm-
house and such gifts in the way of skim milk, potatoes
and rye as the farmer offers them. Everything
around them is covered by proprietorial rights, even to
the forest twigs they might use for fuel and the reeds
in the swamps. Happiness is estimated in terms of
how much food can be hoarded for the winter. The
sailor, if he is a sober man, returns from his voyage
with a handful of shillings.
In these circumstances Katrina rears her brood,
enduring the usual parental anxieties, pouring her
strength into her hopes for their futures. When they
have gone their ways—one having become a well-to-do
shipping master—she clings to the cottage where her
story has been enacted.
The book is a sincere and able piece of work, a
little weak in but one thing. Katrina is shown only in
her virtues —never a glimpse of the reverse side of
her nature. The life of the islands is full of interest
and the other characters are drawn with satisfying
candor.
YOUNGSTERS FARE.
John and Mary Abroad: Grace James (Muller).
Touring Europe and the Orient; nicely illustrated
Jane of Lantern Hill: L. M. Montgomery (Angus and
Robertson). Jane escapes from harsh grandmother
to foster romance between two people she likes. Girls.
.... The Family from One End Street: Eve Garnett
(Muller). “Mrs. Ruggles was a washerwoman and
her husband was a dustman,” and they and
their family are very happy and lively. Charm-
ingly illustrated by the author Billabonj ? Gold:
Mary Grant Bruce (Ward-Lock). Capital adven-
turing in the Australian bush Blinky Bill
and Nutsy: Dorothy Wall (Angus and Robert-
son). Lively and funny doings with this author’s
happy Australian animals, and, of course, her excel-
lent illustrations, this year better than ever Sabu
the Elephant Boy: Frances Flaherty and Ursula Lea-
cock (Dent). His life among the elephants in India,
admirably told and illustrated with splendid large-page
photographs. A fine book Mystery Manor: M. E.
Atkinson (The Bodley Head). Long and a thoroughly
thrilling novel for boys or girls, with a spice of humor
to keep it very easy reading... .Golden Knight: Her-
moine Ratliffe (Country Life). Typical of the pub-
lishers, and a most refreshing means of getting a
youngster on the right road about riding and liking
horses.... Palaces on Monday: Marjorie Fischer
(Seeker). Tiptop children’s novel; lots of fun, real
youngsters, and taking in a whole lot of the world. . ..
The Story of Ferdinand:. Munro Leaf (Hamish
Hamilton). Delightful nonsense, of a bull in Spain
that didn’t want to go to bullrings, got there, but sur-
vived to live happily ever after. Illustrations by
Robert Lawson are first-class and about half the fun.
....A Wonder Book of Tanglewood Tales: Haw-
thorne ; Robin Hood: Carola Oman; Tales from the,
Arabian Nights (Dent). Additions to the publishers’
excellent “classics for young people” series of finely-
made books.
“A.W.L.”: Banjo Paterson doesn’t make many
public appearances these days. I last saw him giving
a talk to some ex-soldiers on his experiences in three
campaigns. Bronzed, deeply seamed, with forehead
sloping up to a crest of white hair, he reminded me
of a Maori chief. He sat with elbows resting on a
table and his style was informal, with frequent inter-
ruptions to ask, “Do any of you fellows know any-
thing about that show?” Mostly someone did, and
the occasion took on the pleasant nature of a general
yarn —very ably led by the speaker.
“Bookshop”: Is the value of a name in author-
ship declining? In America there are drama fac-
tories where radio plays are produced anonymously
for syndication —and who notices the name of a
talkie scenarist? Book publishers tend to swamp the
scribe by specialisation. A serious novel from one
would be as unthinkable as a novel of conservative
political tint from another. There is a constant effort
to sell light fiction on the trade-mark —“The Blood-
stain Club,” etc. —and buyers, even those of discrimi-
nating taste, incline to fall into line. The inquiry
is as often for Blurb and Co.’s latest as it is for that
of a particular writer. In one of Wells’s books there
is a publisher who looks forward to dispensing with
troublesome authors and having books written to his
instructions by a female staff. The idea may not ®
as far-fetched as it sounds.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways
'‘THE SENIOR STORE
y
%
*
BRAINY BOYS^r
GIVE HIM A PRACTICAL INTRODUCTION i '
TO ENGINEERING AND MECHANICS
108H248
r
(/ < iffH
mm
z
/ 1
Bfi
1iT1108H242
WM
108H241
108H25U—Meccano Outfits.
Nos 000 00 A B
Prices, set .... 4/- 7/- 9/9 14/9
Nos C D E F G
Prices, set 19/6 29/- 39/- 58/6 107/6
Accessory Outfits—
Nos. . AA BA CA DA EA FA
Set ... 5/- 5/9 10/9 10/9 21/6 51/6
108H248—The British Model Builder, a
small Meccano Set. Parts are inter-
changeable with the larger sets. Two
sizes 1 2
Prices, set „. 1/3 2/6
9 Toys—Second Floor.
Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.
108H24X "Hornby" Aeroplane Con-
structor Outfits, beautifully enamelled
in bright colours. Each set will build
different models. Interesting and in-
structive. 00, 0,1, 2, 2 Special
Prices 7/6 9/9 16/6 27/- 45/-
MOTOR CAR OUTFITS
108H242 "Hornby" Motor Car
Outfits. A range of motor cars
can be built with these sets.
Nos. . 1 2
Prices, set ... 19/6 39/»
Fragrant Presents of
PERFUMERY
132H14 \
2H15
ms
%
02H17
IHI3
a
128H21
mm
132 H
I*
n%
V*
132 H 14 Bourjois
(Solr de Paris) Even-
ing in Paris Casket,
containing Perfume
in Horseshoe, Talc-
um Powder and Face
Powder. Price, 9/6
132 H 15 Bourjois
Soir de Paris (Even-
ing in Paris) Gift
Case, containing per-
fume, face powder,'
and toilet soap. In
pretty Blue and Sil-
ver box. Price, 12/6
132 Hl6 Bourjois
Soir de Paris (Even-
ing in Paris) Gift
Case, containing per-
fume and face pow-
der. Price 5/6
132 H 17 Bourjois
Soir de Paris (Even-
in Paris) Perfume, in
special fancy Christ-
mas packing ... 6/9
132H18-Bourjois Soir
de Paris (Evening
in Paris) Perfume.
As illustrated. Prices,
6/6. 13/6, 17/6, 25/-
Other packings.
2/6, 3/9, 6/6, 6/9
131H19 —An inex-
pensive but yet a
good gift for a man.
Faulding's Lavender
and Musk Set, con-
taining liquid brilli-
antine and shaving
stick in glass jar.
Price, set 3/6
128H20 British
Sh a v ing Brushes.
Real badger. As il-
lustrated. Price, 10/6
Others . 12/6, 13/11,
16/11. 21/11, 27/11.
34/11 and .... 42/6
128 H2l Culmak
British Shaving
Brushes, good qual-
ity. As illustrated.
Price .. 5/3. Others.
3/9. 5/9, 7/6. B^ll
132 H 22 Morny's
June Roses Complex-
ion Face Powder.
New packing. Prices,
box .. 3/6, 6/9. 10/-
132H23 Potter and
Mo o r e's Mitcham
Lavender Smelling
Salts, in fancy green
bottle with black
screw cap . 1/6, 2/6
131H24 Potter and
Moore's Lavender
De Luxe Urea Shav-
ing Soap Bowl. Col-
ours : Green, White,
Black and Green.
Price 4/-
132 H 25 Morny's
(London) June Roses
Talcum Powder,
striking new pack-
ing. Tin 2/9
Giant size tin ... 6/6
Obtainable also in
all other Morny Per-
fumes. ;
• Perfumery—New Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
\
/
\
fg
Gleaming Siherplate GIFTS
hr*
162H12 Casserole, Silverplated, A!
quality. Neat pierced design with Butter-
cup, Green or Black handles. Complete
with “Pyrex” oven-proof glass dish.
Capacity !£ pints. Price 22/6
df
gdf
162H31 — Tea Strainer, Silverplated, with
Black or White handle on drip stand. A
practical gift. Price 5/6
mm
162H28 Silverplated Teapot,
quality, plain design. Capacity 2
A useful gift. Price
A!
pints.
25/-
su ■«
<s
162H4—Cake or Sandwich Tray, A 1
quality, silverplated, plain design. Black
Pakelite handles. Length 1 width
7in. Price 21/-
0 Silverware —New Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
A Useful Gift FOR THE HOME
Watch Your Weight
DAILY
Compact weighing
machine for homes and
flats. Light in weight
and perfectly accurate.
Handsomely finished in
Green, Ivory, Blue,
White or Black Enamel,
with coloured rubber
top. Obtainable only
at Anthony Horderns’.
Price 27/6
Chromium finish, 37/6
A
BORG
AUTOMATIC
BATHROOM
SCALE
0 Household Ironmongery—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
SN MOH ANOHINV
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


Jacky’s Racehorse
PARLAP
BY
J.H. SCHMEIDER
DRAWINGS BY SCORFIELD.
PARLAP was not a handsome colt. A large
Suffolk-Punch head, big pancake feet, a hollow
back and clean muscular legs too long for the
short, strong body they supported. An irregular-
shaped star adorned a broad forehead, and a thick
curly black mane and tail indicated a strain of Clydes-
dale in his makeup. What he lacked in looks was
compensated for by a nimbleness remarkable for a
colt with such ill-shaped feet.
Jacky had claimed Parlap for his own from the
moment he first saw him, an hour-old dark-bay foal
too weak to stand securely on his long spidery legs.
Jacky had arrived just in time to save his abandoned,
hip-down dam from being overwhelmed by a smail
company of stray geldings and virgin mares detei-
mined to make the new-born foal’s acquaintance.
“Jacky little pfeller farder,” he had told the dis-
tressed mother, patting her affectionately as with hang-
ing head she stood guard over her foal. “Jacky chasum
cheeky pfeller horse away. No lettum stealum picca-
ninny.”
He fed the mare on lucerne filched from a neigh-
boring farm, and carried water for her from the
lagoon until she was strong enough to fend for herself.
Parlap was now six months old—old enough,
Jacky considered, to be broken-in and trained.
Jacky chuckled as he sat watching the well-grown
colt running races with himself round his dam on the
big camping reserve.
“By cripe, him can go!” he laughed, shifting
position on the split-rail fence enclosing the reserve
on three sides. “Win ’imself every time. Him race-
horse all right. Ole pfeller Parlap not a plurry patch
on ’im.”
He lit a bulky cigarette and smoked in thoughtful
silence, his bright black eyes glowing beneath his bat-
tered topee as he followed the antics of the colt. “Yes,
him racehorse. Have ter breakum in . . . trainum.
Winnum races at Christmas. Gettum name longa
paper.”
Jacky’s ambition to become a racing man was the
fruit of the artful suggestions of his friends, who had
named the colt and assisted Jacky at the christening.
“You ought to break him in and enter him for
the Christmas races,” they had advised. "He’s a
second Phar Lap.”
The more Jacky pondered the idea the more it
appealed to him. He had a saddle —a discarded “poly’
retrieved from the hotel rubbish dump—and girths and
bridle were soon plaited from a piece of greenhide
given him by the yardman.
“Yes, me breakum in, winnum races,” he repeated.
“Gettum lotta money. Gettum name longa paper.
Might gettum pitcher longa paper, too. Look
at meself all plurry day den.”
DARLAP made a fuss when Jacky went to
* put the saddle on. He had submitted
quietly enough to the preliminary handling and
pulling about, having long been taught to lead by
bridle ; but he would have none of the ragged, queer-
smelling saddle with its clanking stirrups and dangling
girths and crupper. He danced round and backed,
snorting furiously and making big eyes.
Jacky spoke soothingly and took a shorter hold
of the bridle. “Wot name you frighten. Saddle won’t
hurt yer. Makum look nice. Makum look pretty
pfeller. Gotter put on saddle.”
The colt continued to snort and play up. Jacky
coaxed some more, but without avail. He put down
the saddle and scratched his unkempt head.
“Silly cow,” he growled, “him frightum saddle.
Can’t breakum in wit’out saddle. Can’t ride races.
Shoulda made yard.”
He glanced round about, thinking hard. Presently
his eyes brightened. “Me know. Me puttum longa
fence tieum eye up. Can’t run away den ; can’t see.”
He backed the resisting colt into a corner formed
by the split-rail fence and two closely-growing gums,
and blindfolded him with his blue cotton shirt. Then
he saddled up without difficulty. Before uncovering
the colt’s eyes he adjusted the greenhide stirrups to
suit his length and shortened the overlong crupper.
“My word, you pretty pfeller now,” he told the
trembling colt when he had removed the shirt. “Won’t
know yerself when you look in glass. Mudder
won’t know you, too.”
Then he slapped a stirrup noisily against the
saddle as he had seen horsebreakers do preparatory to
mounting. “Soon breakum in now. Soon go like
plurry hell.”
Leading the nervous, hesitating colt clear, Jacky
attached a pair of long-necked rusty spurs to his
naked heels, hitched his baggy, cut-down corduroy
riding trousers and mounted. The colt bent and stag-
gered beneath the sudden weight, nearly unseating
Jacky. He clutched the pommel. “Hey, you mustn’t
do dat,” he protested. “Makum Jacky fall orf yet
you don’t look out. Can’t breakum in den. Have ter
keep back straight.”
Righting himself, he urged the confused colt
with rein and heel. The colt shook his head but
refused to advance. Jacky urged again, but with no
better result. The colt ran back a few paces instead.
Jacky looked round helplessly.
“Dis no plurry good,” he growled. “Can’t
breakum in if ’im won’t go. Can’t race backward.”
He urged the colt again. When he persisted in
backing, Jacky lost his temper. “By cripe, me makum
go.”
Taking off his topee, he struck the colt a sharp
blow on the rump and dug viciously with his heels.
“Come on now,” he shouted ; “no plurry non-
sense ! Gerrup! ”
With a snort of fear and pain the startled colt
bounded forward, and Jacky back-somersaulted to the
ground. Then, with stirrups noisily flogging, the colt
bolted off down the fence. When Jacky picked him-
self up Parlap, followed by his solicitous dam, was
barely visible above the tall-growing kangaroo grass.
Jacky laughed feebly as he watched the careering
colt gaining speed each moment. “By cripe, him can
go! Him racehorse all right. Mus’ be goin’ ter
breakum in ’imself. Shoulda waited till Jacky got on
agen. Might’n know when to stop an’ get lost.
Have ter go catchum.”
1 ) ARLAP had got accustomed to the
I saddle by the time Jacky had caught
him and led him back, and he followed at
a trot as Jacky led him round the short
course he had cleared and pegged out.
“Have ter showum way or ’im might
get bushed agen when we’re racin’,” he
said. “Shoulda put in more peg.”
Now completely at his ease, the coll
allowed Jacky, who had discarded his
spurs, to mount and dismount at pleasure.
In a very short while Jacky was able to
take him round the course at a trot. But,
urge as he would, the colt could not be induced to
quicken his pace.
“Have ter go harder’n dis or won’t winnum races,”
Jacky told him as he rode round the course for the
third time. “Won’t gettum broke-in . . . trained to-day,
too. Soon cowtime already. Come on. Shakum up.
Can’t win race if you only trot. Gotter canter. Gotter
go like plurry hell, like before when Jacky fall orf.
You racehorse, you know, not plurry springcart horse.”
But the winded colt would not move out of a trot.
Jacky scowled as he dismounted at the fence.
“Dis no plurry good,” he growled. “Can’t winnum
race if ’im won’t run hard. Gotter makum run hard.”
He took off his shirt again and wiped down the
colt’s dripping flanks and thighs. “Poor cow sweat.
Mus’ be bit soft. Jacky sweat, too. Plurry hot! ”
Stroking the colt’s drooping head, he stood think-
ing for a while, then readjusted the saddle and sack
saddlecloth.
“Gotter do somet’ing,” he muttered, glancing
round as if in search of inspiration. “Can’t winnum
race if ’im won’t run hard. Have ter makum.”
He stiffened as his black eyes came to rest on an
object on the far bank of the lagoon. Suddenly he
laughed. “By cripe ; me makum go now. Makum
go like plurry hell! Shoulda t’ought of it before.”
Leaving Parlap standing with bridle trailing,
Jacky went to fetch the carbide drum used as a
watering-trough for Parlap’s dam six months pre-
viously.
Having no twine or rope, he was compelled to
use a length of “borrowed” fencing-wire to connect
the drum with the colt’s bushy tail. Jacky stood back
and viewed his
handiwork with
happy satisfaction.
“Dat ough t e r
makum go,” he
grinned. “Soon
havum trained now.
Pity dis pfeller
didn’t t’ink of it be-
fore.”
He straightened
up Parlap to see
how the drum
dragged; then took
him on to the
course, himself
carrying the drum.
The colt had
watched recent pro-
c e e d i n g s with
curious interest,
and, having recovered his wind, seemed ready for
further action. Having headed him the way he should
go, Jacky patted him reassuringly and climbed into
the saddle.
“Gotter go like plurry hell,” he told Parlap,
balancing himself, “or can’t win races. Mustn’t let
tin catch yer. Tin no hurtum. Only chasum. Makum
run hard.”
He cast an anxious eye at the sun. “Come on,
Parlap. Shakum up, or won’t be home for gettum
cow. Soon cowtime now. Gotter trainum proper, you
know.”
HT HE colt moved forward haltingly. Jacky urged
* again, using hat and heel this time. The colt
quickened step, then broke into a lazy jigjog. Jacky
continued to urge and coax, but the colt moved no
faster. Jacky began to lose faith in the drum. He
looked back to see how it was behaving.
Then it happened. The drum, trailing well
behind, caught against a stone and bounded forward
with a noisy rattle. Parlap glanced at it out of the
corner of his eye. A sudden snort of fear, a kick, and
he was pounding through the thin timber at a pace
he had never equalled before. Head to one side, he
careered in a half-circle, the terrifying drum bound-
ing noisily at his heels. Then round by the lagoon
and up towards the split-rail fence, meeting the main
road at a right-angle.
Jacky, who had landed on his head, picked him-
self up slowly. Then he saw Parlap. A gleam ot
admiration lit up his deep-set dark eyes.
“By cripe, it make ’im go all right,” he laughed ;
“but ’im not on course. ’lm bushed agen. Have ter
go catchum puttum on course.”
But there was no catching Parlap. Continuing
his headlong career, he jumped the fence at a point
where several toprails were missing, and went clat-
tering up the road, pursued at a gallop by his whinny-
ing, anxious dam.
Hat in hand, Jacky stood watching till the colt
disappeared in a cloud of dust round a timbered
bend. Then he turned away.
“Tin too plurry big,” he muttered. “Makum go
too hard. Shoulda only put on little pfeller treacle-tin.
Have ter breakum in—trainum all over agen now.”


Of a Fighter’s -
COMEBACK
BY A.C. Headley
DRA WING BY JOHN MILLS.
THE room was dirty and
untidy. The breakfast
things—bread, jam and a
tin of condensed-milk —
were spread on a newspaper.
The bed, still unmade, was a
jumbled heap of old coats. A
woman, as bedraggled as the
room padded about in bare
feet. By the window her husband gazed disconso-
lately out on a panorama of backyards filled with
washing. He turned away suddenly.
“Stevenson might give me a fight.” His voice
was like himself, coarse, hard and a little self-pitying.
“An’ who’ll fight you? Who’re they gointer stick
in with an old-timer like you? They’ll just take one
look at those pieces of meat you call ears. Talk sense.”
“I’m on’y thirty-six,” he defended plaintively.
“I might pick up a quid or two. We gotter do some-
thin’, Emmy.”
“Orright, give it a go. It’s about time you
brought some money inter the ’ouse, anyway. I’m sick
to death of washin’.” Her voice rose in a thin whine.
“Yeah, Stevenson oughter gimme a fight. I was
near-champ, once.” But there were doubt and in-
decision in his voice.
It roused the woman. “For Gorsake shut up!
See Stevenson instead of talkin’ about it. Fight ’im
if you gotter. If you went through what I go through
you’d ’ave somethin’ to moan about. I ain’t ’ad a
wink of sleep for nights.”
She was going on telling him about her sleep-
less nights. Always there was something—the pains
in the back, her head on fire, her feet; always some-
thing. He picked up his cap suddenly.
“Good riddance!” ; —her thin voice followed him
out on to the landing.
He descended the stairs and reached the street,
wondering if Stevenson would be at the stadium. He
reached the building at last, and sudden indecision
mounted within him. What would he say? Would
Stevenson think he was too old? His eyes drifted
over the untidily-plastered hoardings:
Billy Dimmock v. Art Rhodes —four rounds.
Snowy Clark v. Tony Lewes—six rounds.
A dozen of them, a list plastered with cheap red-and-
blue paint. It would be good to see his name up
there again. He remembered Stevenson. It depended
on Stevenson.
The iron grille of the stadium entrance was ajar.
He pushed it back and entered, making his way
around to the office. Stevenson looked up as he
entered. He was a thin wire-streak of a man. Williams
looked at the wide spread of his thick lips and felt
uncomfortable. But Stevenson was speaking. •
“Listen, Williams,” he said, “if it’s the loan of two
bob I ain’t ’ome. You fellers ’ave gotter git used
to the idea that I ain’t a benev’lent society.”
Williams managed a grin. “It ain’t that, Stevy. I
was jist wonderin’ if you could gimme a fight. I
gotter ’ave a fight, Stevy,”
Stevenson’s eyes popped out on round, white
marbles. “What’re you talkin’ about?”
Williams breathed.
“Listen, Stevy,” he said, “you know me. I ain’t
foolin’ with you. I can still fight. I ain’t so old, an’ I’m
pretty fit. Gimme a chance, Stevy. I need it. Honest.”
Stevenson pushed his hat further back on his
head until it touched on the circle of his bald spot.
“Yeah!” he said. “Maybe I can believe some
of it, but that don’t make it three cheers for the red,
white and blue. Listen, Williams, the public don’t like
your kind of fighters any more. They don’t want class;
they want slug and blood. You never was a slugger.”
Williams felt empty inside. “But I’ll slug for them,
Stevy. I’ll do anything. You gotter gimme a fight.
I need the money bad.”
Stevenson jerked his head forward.
“Thirty bob for a six,” he announced shortly.
“One of the boys broke his hand and can’t show
up. To-night. Yes or no?”
Williams hesitated.
“Suits me, on’y”
“Only what?”
Williams looked at him sheepishly. “Orright.”
L_J E came back to tell Emmy. She was lying on the
* 1 bed, a cigarette drooping from her lips. “Well?”
He grinned. “I got it. I got a fight. To-night.”
She looked at him without interest. “About time.
’Ow much d’yer git?”
He told her.
“It ain’t much.” She flicked a cigarette-end into
the far corner of the room. “When d’yer git it?”
“After the fight.’*’ He sat heavily on the bed.
“Maybe there’ll be a few fights now I got a start. I
oughter be able to beat plenty of these boys.”
“You’ll want to. Thirty bob ain’t goin’ far.”
The matter of training was settled entirely. There
was simply no time for it. He surveyed the slight
round circle of his stomach with disfavor. He stood
suddenly and began a little dance, testing the elasticity
of his legs. They felt all right, but *
J T was raining when he left for the stadium. Rain
1 stung his face, and the wind, tearing at him, swept
back the folds of his coat, sending rain mounting
high on the legs of his trousers.
“It’s orright, Jimmy”—he nodded to the door-
keeper—“l’m fightin’ to-night.”
“Bes’ luck.”
He was stepping
inside the door, the
bag containing his
gear tucked under
his arm. It was a
long time since he
had entered a
stadium like this. He
looked down the
row of seats. The
place was half-
empty, but it was
early yet. A boy
was calling half-
heartedly that pea-
nuts were a “trey a
bag.”
He entered the
dressing-room and
his nostrils filled
with the smell of
liniment. The room
seemed to be
crowded to capacity
—trainers, seconds,
anyone with the
slightest interest in
the game. On a
rubbing-table one of
the boys was being
vigorously slapped
by his attendant. He went up and reported to Stevenson.
Stevenson nodded. “You better get stripped. The
second prelim.’s yours. And don’t forget what I said
about makin’ it willin’. Get in an’ fight. That’s
what they’re payin’ to see.”
“I won’t let you down.” But Stevenson was gone.
He sat down and began unlacing his shoes.
Already they were filing out for the first preliminary.
Suddenly he felt cold and acutely conscious of the
empty feeling in the pit of his stomach.' The crowd
in the dressing-room had thinned for the first fight,
but there were still one or two people moving around.
He wanted them to go.
Then suddenly it was his turn to go out and
fight. The first two boys had come back, and there
was blood in the dressing-room. He saw puffed eyes
and a nose that fluted two streams of red. But he
had no time to notice more. The seconds were with
him, taping his hands, lacing the gloves. He smacked
them together, moulding them to his fists.
Then he was following the seconds out along
the aisle. It was the first time in years. He felt
happy. There was sparse applause. But that, he
knew, meant less than nothing. It was a kind of ritual.
No piatter who walked out from the dressing-room,
the applause was there ready, waiting to spill itself.
He climbed into the ring and the applause re-
newed itself. He brought his hands together in
response. A pushed a resin box towards him,
and he shuffled his feet. Clark, his opponent, was
climbing into the ring.
They came together for the referee, and then they
were back in their corners, waiting for the bell. It came.
“Git in and fight,” that was what Stevenson had
said. Williams came out of his corner and plunged a
straight left. It missed, leaving his body sailing
towards a fierce jab. His arm dropped. A left hook
caught him high on the shoulder. It was old stuff, that
shoulder high up over the jaw. He grinned, and
moved back out of range, drawing the other towards
him, waiting for the distance to lessen just a fraction.
He timed it accurately, a one-two that snapped the
other’s head back. Then he was ducking and weaving
amid a flurry of fiercely-hurled punches.
A momentary dullness seized him as one smacked
home high on his jaw. He was back-moving again.
Again the slackening of distance and that one-two.
He was enjoying himself now. He knew he could
win if his condition lasted. He took a straight left
on the glove, and ripped to the body. His glove bit deep
into soft flesh. He spun away, dancing off the ropes.
They came together again warily. A movement
of his head and a rigid left passed over his shoulder.
But he was not quick enough this time. A right
smacked hard into his ribs. He felt wind in his
throat. For a moment he felt tired. He struck back
suddenly, missed, and was carried on to a propped
right. The bell.
It felt good to lean back, to feel the pressure as
a second worked air into his diaphragm. He winced
as a sponge was passed over his face. There was a
cut somewhere. He filled his mouth with water and
spat. He could remember no punch that had reached
his mouth, but there was blood in the tray. The
seconds were climbing out of the ring.
T' HE fourth round was over. Two to go. He was
1 feeling very tired now. He was still winning. He
lay back, but air was hard to force into his lungs.
A red mist of blood was over one eye, his ribs were
tight and sore, and his arms, resting on the ropes, were
heavy and tired. Again the bell was ringing. He rose.
The fight was on him. Gloves thudded on his arms.
He felt again the thud into his ribs, and winced. Now he
was in a corner, with gloves flying at him. He smoth-
ered, tucking his chin well down into his shoulders.
Gloves thudded at him. He became conscious
of a queer ache in his elbows. A fist struck his
mouth ; he tasted the heavy, salty taste of blood. He
wanted suddenly to close his eyes and sleep. He stif-
fened suddenly, urging force into his tired limbs, and
connected solidly on Clark’s jaw. There was a slacken-
ing in the flurry of gloves. He saw a white face and
struck heavily. Then there was the soft thud of a
gloved fist on his chin. His legs crumpled. He had
no desire to get up. The bell sounded.
He was still groggy when he came out for the
last round. He wiped a glove across his eyes, but
the red mist remained. He saw a moving shape. His
glove smacked without power, and he back-moved.
But the fight was on him again. His head rocked with
the punches.
Then suddenly he had to fight. His muscles tight-
ened. He hooked a left and came inside, his gloves
thudding home. He was being hit, too, but he was
almost unconscious of the punches. All he wanted
to do was hit and hit and hit. He fought against
the dead-weariness that was coming back into his
arms. His head jolted back. The red mist was filling
his eyes. How much longer?
It was over. The referee was raising his hand.
He had won. But he was conscious of no elation.
The feeling was on him that he was asleep and every-
thing was happening outside of him —the roar of the
crowd, seconds slapping him on the back, the iciness
of a sponge across his broken lips. He seemed to be
part of that heavy cloud of cigarette smoke, dull, sleepy.
O MMY was asleep when he got home. He climbed
J—' into bed beside her, but she did not stir. He
closed his eyes, but his nerves were jumping.
The room was cheerless in the dawn light, and
he was still awake. He was conscious of a drowsy
dopiness, but his nerves were madly alive. All night
he had been trying to quiet them.
Emmy woke at eight. She rolled over and saw
his battered face. Her laugh crashed into his head.
He winced and felt the dried blood over his eye.
“Where’s the money?” she wanted to know.
He nodded wearily towards the table. She
climbed out of the bed and picked it up.
“Sure you on’y got thirty bob?” She looked at
him suspiciously, but he made no answer. “When
you goin’t’ fight again?”
He swallowed, and his throat felt sore. “I ain’t
fightin’ no more, Emmy. I can’t do it. I’m too old.”
Her mouth dropped open, and her fingers twisted
the three ten-shilling notes.
“Listen,” she said, her voice rising. “You’re
fightin’. I’m seein’ to that. What’s wrong with you?
This is the firs’ money we’ve ’ad in a blue moon.
’Ave you gone mad? O’ course you’re fightin’.”
He lay back in the bed. One side of his face was
numb. He closed his eyes, but her thin voice followed.
And he knew she was right. He would keep on. After
last night Stevenson was sure to give him matches.


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for it's fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
wants stories suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both
sections. In addition to the prizes, all entries
published will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500
words is the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpub-
lished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will
attend to that.
Closing 'date is January 31, 1938. But any
entry considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
"When It Comes to Marriage I Believe in Monotony ”
THE GAY LOTTERY
BY
Harold Mercer
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA
i ‘ "T“ HE worst I ever thought of Mr. Tom Martin,
who was Number 19,” said Mrs. Parsley, “was
I that he was very fond of the flagrant weed,
as Mr. Slompack used to call it. He wasn’t
at all the type you’d take to be a gay Lottery.”
“A gay ?” I questioned.
“Lottery,” repeated Mrs. Parsley. “Having been
brought up religious, I believe, when it comes to
marriage, in monotony; not that some people haven’t
got an excuse when you think of how difficult divorces
are to get at times. As long as people live as if they’re
respectably married it’s their business what they do.
But I’ve no patience with a man who, when he’s
living happily with his own awful wife, as the saying
goes, is a gay Lottery.
“Not that giving a fastidious name might not be
worse. People who do that sort of thing are up to
no good, I says ; and I wouldn’t have them near
the place, not if I knew it.”
I allowed my pride at reaching a quick solution
of my landlady’s word-puzzle to betray me into be-
coming once again the victim of her garrulity. “And
was Mr. Tom Martin a gay Lothario?” I asked.
Mrs. Parsley parked her sweeper against the wall
and approached the table where I had been trying
to write. “I’d never ’ave thought there was anything
wrong at all with the Martins, such quiet people they
were, jest ’im and ’er and their daughter, ’oo looked
as if she might be marrying, too, soon, by the young
feller ’oo was always ’anging round. I’d thought them
such a devoted couple when they came —a reg’lar
Derby and Joint, as Mr. Slompack said; and I’d
hoped that, example being better than princes, they
would teach the couple in No. 17 not to throw my
furniture at one another so often.
“But there was that Mrs. Vingar always talking
about other people’s affairs. Not that I took much
notice of ’er; what that woman said to me went in
at one ear and off the duck’s back, as the sayin’ is.
“ ‘That Mr. Martin is living a double life,’ she
says. ‘Coming ’ome at night on the tram with that
barmaid, brazen as can be. And bringing ’is wife
’ome vi’lets. If my ’usband brought me ’ome vi’lets
I’d want to know what ’e’d been up to. “ ’Oo’s the
other woman, you liar?” I’d say, an’ ’it ’im with the
first thing that came ’andiest.’
“That was the sort of woman Mrs. Vingar was;
she seemed to think that that was what ’usbands was
made for, to be ’it with crockery; not but what it
mightn’t do some of them good sometimes. It wasn’t
until she talked about that barmaid that I really took
heed.
“Me ears, pricked up, as they say, enabled me
to see that that poor soul who’d seemed so pleasant
and smiling when she first came was all broken down
and dissolute, so to speak, if you caught ’er when she
didn’t know you wasn’t looking. When she did know
she still smiled. And she never seemed to ’ave any
words with her husband.
“ ‘l’ve no patience with ’er —letting ’im put it
orl over ’er like that, and go scot free,’ says Mrs.
Vingar.. ‘She says to me that she’s trusted ’er ’usband
all ’er life, an’ she’d be ashamed of suspectin’ ’im now.
She’s just a fool.’
“ ‘P’raps she’s right,’ I says. ‘Mr. Martin don’t
look like one of them that’d go gladding about. Not
at his age.’
“ ‘That’s just what she says ; and I tell her that
at his age a man doesn’t like to feel ’e’s growing old,
and if a woman smiles at ’im ’e’s gone.
“ ‘Why, they’ve been married nearly twenty-five
years,’ I says.
“ ‘Yes, and he seems to have forgotten all about
their silver wedding. She told me she wouldn’t remind
him.’
“IT seemed a terrible shame to me to know that
sweet old soul was having her heart broke in my
establishment. Although him and her went on just
as if there was nothing out of the way, everybody
in the flats knew about it. ‘How’s the gay Lottery
gettin’ on, Mrs. Parsley?’ asked Mr. Slompack, as
if it was a joke.
“At last poor Mrs. Martin came to me, and she
couldn’t help the tears in her eyes.
“Mrs. Parsley,’ she says, ‘I feel desperite. That
Mrs. Vingar, she’s always coming to my flat and
tellin’ me I ought to find out —about my husband,
you know, Mrs. Parsley. She wanted to come with
me to do it.’
“The poor soul was speaking as if she was com-
pressing a crime. It made me sorry for her. ‘Don’t
you take too much notice of what Mrs. Vingar says,’
I says.
“ ‘She’s a terrible woman,’ she says. ‘I wish she
wouldn’t come into my flat and talk as if it was
natural for wives to hit their husbands with the wash-
basin. I couldn't let her go with me; but if you
wouldn’t mind coming, Mrs. Parsley I feel so
ashamed. But I think I must find out, as she puts it.’
“She finished all confused ; I was so sorry, I
went with her. And she found out. That Tom Martin,
which I wouldn’t have be-
lieved it if I hadn’t seen it,
waits outside the hotel, long
after it’s closed. And then
that barmaid comes out and
joins him. They walks up
the hill together, thick as
thieves.
“It frightened me almost to see
the look on the poor soul’s face as
we stood in the doorway of the
empty shop where we’d been
watchin’. ‘What are you going to
do, Mrs. Martin?’ I says. She gave
a funny sort of hard laugh which
wasn’t at all like her.
“ ‘l’d be ashamed to let him
know I had spied. There’s always
been such confidence between us,’
she said.
“It wasn’t till she got back to
her flat that she broke down. It
was their silver wedding being only
a couple of days off that hurt her
most, and him having forgotten all
about it.
“ ‘l’ve always thought that me
and Tom was one; we always
seemed that, Mrs. Parsley,’ she
sobbed. ‘We saved and helped one
another; now it seems just a waste
of fife and hard work. I didn’t mind letting myself
grow old; it seemed to me we would just go on
like that together. But now everything is broken.
There’s nothing left.’
“She suddenly stopped.
“ ‘Don’t say a word about this to anybody,’ she
says. She had heard her daughter coming in with
that young man of hers ; and she put on a smile
almost like her usual one.
“ ‘Mum,’ says Gladys; a nice girl she was, and
she was all flushed an’ sparkling now. ‘Bob’s got his
rise ; he thinks we could be married next month. Will
you ask father?’
“ ‘No,’ she says. ‘You’re not going to marry yet.
You’re too young.’
“They stared at her like codfish out of water.
‘But, mother! You were younger when you married
dad.’
“‘I know,’ she says. ‘I made a mistake. It leads
to nothing.’
“It was tragic; interfering with them young
people, too. You could see that the whole world
had turned to girls and wormywood to that poor
woman. I left them, of course; but I hadn’t been
downstairs long before Gladys and Bob came down.
“ ‘Has anything happened to-day to upset mother,
Mrs. Parsley?’ asks Gladys. Of course, having
promised her mother, my word being my bondage,
I couldn’t say.
“ ‘l’ve never seen her like this,’ says Gladys. ‘She’s
talking of going to New Zealand. She and dad were
always talking of that; but now she says dad will
stay at home. She wants me to be her accompani-
ment. I won’t go!’
“'"THEY'D hardly left before Mrs. Vingar came
* in, all excited like.
“ ‘That Tom Martin has gone up ; carrying a big
bunch of flowers! I’d give him flowers!’ she says.
“Although she must have been curious to know
all about me and Mrs. Martin having gone out
together, me having seen her watching from behind
her curtain like a Peeping Tom that sees no good,
she didn’t stay. She was too anxious to listen near
the Martins’ door, hoping for the worst.
“Although I did think myself that Mrs. Martin
might have thrown them flowers at Tom Martin, me
having seen what I had seen, the only row in the
establishment that night was in Mrs. Vingar’s own
flat.
“ ‘What you heard breaking, Mrs. Parsley,’ she
tells me in the morning, ‘was the soap-dish. It was
the only thing I could lay me hands on as loe went
out the door. He’ll pay you for a new one when he
settles the rent on Friday.
“ ‘Him not coming home till ten o’clock an’
then dodging telling me where he’s been! He ran
out and stayed out all night. But wait until he comes
home to-night. He’ll get what’s coming to him!’
“ ‘I hope,’ I says, ‘that you’ll remember it’s my
furniture.’
“I was really too worried about that poor Mrs.
Martin, which wasn’t like one of them vigoros to
worry about Mrs. Vingar. It seemed a terrible thing
to me, the Martins’ life being all broken up, after
they’d lived so much of it together, by the poor old
fool becoming vaccinated with a barmaid.


“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mrs. Martin, ‘l’m going to
go on a trip to New Zealand ; and I’m taking Gladys
with me. My husband, I dare say, will keep the
flat on.’
“‘Oh, Mrs. Martin!’ I cries, ‘surely you ain’t
goin’ to leave the field to the enemy, as the poet says?
I’m sure Mr. Martin can’t really love this woman’
“ ‘lt doesn’t matter, Mrs. Parsley,’ she says.
‘Everything is spoiled for me now. It’s always been
love between us. I haven’t even given him a reason.
I couldn’t. I couldn’t say I had spied upon him.’
“I’d never thought there was women like that
until I met her; but there must be, jest as there are
angels in heaven.
“Tom Martin came to see me, too ; he said he
thought his wife must be ill. She seerfted different
to usual. He looked puzzled ; and, looking at him, it
didn’t seem to me as if he could be one of those
there gay Lotteries. I almost felt sorry for him, but
when I thought of his poor wife I got impatient.
“ ‘l’m going to talk to you straight, Mr. Martin,’
I says. ‘You ought to know what is the matter with
Mrs. Martin. Do you think she knows nothing of
your goings-on, you grey deceiver?’
“He looked confused, as well he might.
“ ‘I have been deceiving her, I admit,’ he says,
‘but I meant it all for the best.’
“ ‘You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Mr.
Martin,’ I says, indignantly. ‘At your age! v A bar-
maid.’
“He stared at me.
“ ‘Does she know about that?’ he asks, as if one
of them caravans had fallen down the mountain-side
upon him.
“ ‘What’s more, she saw you together,’ I says.
“That put the wind up him properly ; the way he
looked, as he went out, I was sorry for him even if
he was a gay Lottery. I thought it must be pretty
terrible being found out in his sin like that Pontius
Pirate who threw the first stone, him not being used
to it like you, if you don’t mind my saying it, and
others might be. He was a unsuffocated sort of man.
“That there barmaid joins him, and they walks off together, thick as thieves.”
“I hoped in my heart that he’d come back on his
bended knees and beg her forgiveness and all would
be right between them ; but I was dreadfully afraid
that him knowing he was Found Out would only make
it worse for both of them. And my worst chickens
came home to roost that very afternoon, when he
comes along bringing that barmaid woman with him.
It looked brazen to me.
«I T was not as if I hadn't got enough trouble on
1 my hands to make one of them saints swear,
~ - . . . I-, -r
There was a disturbance going on upstairs which 1
r , r . , _ * u •
found was in the Vingars flat, Mr. Vingar having
wunva Yinsaio i , & _
returned.
Mrs. Parsley, bring a policeman, he says. Ive
stood enough from this woman.'
“ ‘Mr. Vingar,’ I says, ‘this has always been a
respectable residential; and I try to keep it so. If
you have been and brought your wife home flowers,
be a man and admit you’re in the wrong,’ Because
that’s what I thought he must have done.
“ ‘Me bring her home flowers! ’ he says ; but
Mrs. Vingar started then, talking away, and what
she was saying wasn’t at all ladylike. He says sud-
denly, ‘l’ll go for a policeman myself.’
“It was while I was hurrying after him to ask
him what it was all about that I met the pianner
coming upstairs. The men said it was for Mrs.
Martin, so I told them where to go.
“At first I thought that Mrs. Martin, sick of the
thought of having been saving all her life with the
man who had wandered off with a barmaid, had made
up her mind to spend all the money they had saved
on planners and things, which I thought all the more
when I saw boys going up with parcels.
“Then I suddenly remembered a story I read about
a man who bought a pianner and hid his wife’s corpse
in it when he murdered her. It made my blood run
cold to think of it, although Tom Martin didn’t look
that sort of man. Still, you never know. And when
I saw him going up the stairs with that barmaid —•
well, it seemed to me that anything might happen.
“At the moment they passed I was talking to
Mr. Vingar and the policeman he had brought. What
that man was saying made my head reel; but I was so
extracted when I saw that couple going up the stairs
that I broke away from them. Vingar could do what
he liked with his policeman ; I was afraid something
terrible was going to happen in the Martin flat.
“I suppose I must have knocked at the door. When
I entered the flat you could have knocked me down
with the last feather to fly with.
“ ‘Oh, Mrs. Parsley, isn’t my husband good?’ cries
Mrs. Martin, standing beside that gay Lottery as
happy as ever I had seen her. ‘Look at all he’s got
me —presents for my silver wedding. He wanted it all
to be a surprise ; so he got Mrs. Simpson to help him
choose it all. Wasn’t it good of her, too?”
“With that there pianner standing against the wall,
and parcels all about the room, and everybody smiling,
it looked as if Father Christmas had called.
“ ‘lt wasn’t good at all. I’ve enjoyed it,’ says
that barmaid ; which it appeared as if she wasn’t a
barmaid after all as we generally know them, but a
lady bar attendant as she preferred to be called. ‘lt
was so fine to see a man so eager to give his wife a
beautiful surprise as Mr. Martin was; and when he
said that he didn’t know who else to ask without his
wife getting to know, why, I was glad to help,
“So there you are! It was just like that poor
unsuffocated Tom Martin to ask the attendant at the
place he had his drinks, which was one of the only
women he ever spoke to, to help , and he wasn t a
Lottery after all.
“Everything had come out so happily that I didn’t
mind what happened to the Vingars-which it turned
out they werent Vingars at all, having given a fast.*-
ous name. They was Tipples; at least he was.' She
, . . . f u . , .
wasn t his wife at all, and he d decided to go back to
~ . .i, , , ~ . ,
his real one. Which served her right, she going on
like that throwing things at him just as if she was
really married to him.”
Mrs. p ars , ey prepared to resume her domestic
activities. “I don’t know what good the pianner was ;
a white sepulchre I should call it. Nobody knew how
to play it. But Mrs. Martin said it was a nice thought,
and liked to tell people how her husband had given
it to her.”
THE GIFT
BY G.C.B.
WONDERFUL ’ow quick kids grows up. It seems
only yesterday since Ernest Junior was cuttin’
’is teeth, and ’ere he is now me assistant rat-
catcher and a fine, big, ’usky young feller.
As it ’appened, it was through ’is teeth that I suddenly
found out ’ow much he ’ad grown up, because I
caught ’im red-’anded one evenin’ polishin’ ’em with
a new toothbrush. And then one day when he looks
down at a dead rat I’m takin’ out of a trap and sighs
in a far-away voice “Somebody’s sweet’eart,” I see
wot ’ad ’appened, and he owns up that it’s Joe Russel’s
daughter Florfie, and starts ravin’ about ’er.
I cut ’im short and give ’im some good advice,
pointin’ out that marriage would interfere with ’is
career; but Mrs. Raggles encouraged ’im in ’is
foolishness.
Like all wimmen wot ’ave married well, she’s a
great matchmaker, and nothin’ would suit ’er but to
’ave Ernest Junior bring young Florrie around and
entertain ’er instead of gettin’ about the streets. She
said I’d ’ave to do my share of entertainin’ too—
’arf-choke meself with a collar and tie and sit listenin'
to love songs over the wireless while Ernest Junior
and young Florrie sits next to each other gigglin’ or
’oldin’ ’ands and sighin’, according to wot the song
was like. I couldn’t even get comfortable, and after
I’d been told three times that the floor was the place
for me feet I give up in disgust.
Then I wasn’t allowed to ’ave a smoke ; young
Florrie coughed and spluttered like someone drown-
in’ when I lit up a new special brand of tobacco I
was tryin’ out; and the thought of spendin’ night
after night like that, listenin’ to ridikerlous love songs
and Florrie’s gigglin’ till Ernest Junior got ’is senses
back or lost ’em altogether and got married, near
drove me crazy.
C RNEST JUNIOR couldn’t talk about nothin’ else
*— but ’is Florrie, and Christmas bein’ only a few
weeks off he spent all ’is spare time lookin’ in shop-
winders and worryin’ about a present worthy of ’er,
’lm and Mrs. Raggles talked about it so much that
I got fed up at last and ’elped ’em out; and after
tellin’ Ernest Junior, stern, that he don’t know the
girl well enough to buy ’er stockin’s, I suggests gloves.
“Gloves?” ses Ernest Junior, doubtful. “But she
don’t never wear ’em.”
“Exactly,” I ses quietly. “I noticed that meself,
and that’s just why I suggests ’em. It’s ladylike to
wear gloves, and if there’s goin’ to be a Mrs. Raggles
Junior I want ’er to be a lady, just like Mrs. Raggles
Senior.”
“Quite right, Ernest,” ses Mrs. Raggles very firm.
“Of. course,” I ses thoughtful, “some girls don’t
like wearin’ gloves, so p’raps you’d better put a little
note with ’em sayin’ that you ’ope she’ll make good
use of ’em because you want ’er to. If she loves you,
Ernest Junior, she’ll wear ’em.”
Ernest Junior gives a silly grin and thanks me,
and when Christmas Eve comes around I ’elps ’im
to write a little note to shove on Florrie’s parcel, and
then I ’ustles ’im off to bring Florrie and Joe and
Mrs. Russel around. As soon as he’d gone I brings
out the useful little present I ’ad bought for ’im, and
after me and Mrs. Raggles ’ad wrapped up all the
family’s presents in pretty ’oily-covered paper I ’ad
got special, we lays ’em out neat on the table.
We ’ad just finished arrangin’ ’em when they
comes in, young Florrie gigglin’ as usual. She gives
a little ’owl of surprise when Ernest Junior, lookin’
terrible bashful, ’ands ’er the ’oily-covered parcel.
“Now, wot can it be?” ses Florrie, readin’ the
note. “Somethin’ wot you’ve noticed I ain’t got, but
wot you ’ope I’ll make use of every time I go out
with you.”
“Guess,” ses Ernest Junior, sniggerin’.
“Somethin’ wot you’ve noticed I ain’t got,” re-
peats Florrie, puzzled. “No, I can’t guess, Ernie,”
she ses, startin’ to undo it. “Wot a lot of paper
you’ve put on it. I can ’ardly wait”
She stops, and looks into the parcel, ’er eyes
stickin’ out. Mrs. Russel, who ’ad been gazin’ at
’er fondhke, looks to see wot’s in it, and then ’er eyes
starts to stick out.
“Wot’s up?” ses Ernest Junior, starin’.
“Wot’s up!” screams Mrs. Russel at the top of
’er voice. “Wot’s up! I’ll wot’s up you, you insultin’
young raskel. ’Ow dare you?”
“But —but” ses pore Ernest Junior, backin’
away.
“Wot’s the matter?” ses Mrs. Raggles.
“Don’t you talk to me,” ’owls Joe’s missus, hop-
pin’ with temper. “Somethin’ wot you noticed Florrie
ain’t got, indeed! It’s like you, askin’ people to come
to your ’ouse —such as it is! —so you can insult their
only daughter. Never mind, dear,” she ses to Florrie,
’oo ’ad started snivellin’. “You’re too good for this
low family, anyway.”
\WELL, that started it proper. I seen wot ’ad
* * ’appened, and I tried me best to explain, but it
ain’t easy to butt in when two wimmen wot ’ave
known each other for years is diggin’ up past ’istory.
If they ’ad only listened instead of talkin’ I could
’ave smoothed things over by pointin’ out that Florrie’s
little parcel and Ernest Junior’s looked so much alike
on account of bein’ rolled up the same that it was
easy for the note to get put on the wrong one. But
no one took no notice of me; and as Florrie ain’t
took no notice of Ernest Junior ever since, the ’ard-
earned money I spent on ’is present, a nice new tooth-
brush and a tube of toothpaste, was wasted.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt 6c Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
BlL'/tO£K!. I'X: EtL\/iOEKE Wfrl BELVEDERE l>»
BlLS/iOiK! li BtLVECltta KN BtLVtDIKt
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
A
ifa 171 HP 1117 II?
A/AJ 4Ls ALs m/
V
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
Belvederes Belvedere
BtLVCOtRf BtLVfDtRC MW
ADVT
let’s all
ENJOY LIFE!
T et’s all have a
good time ALL
the time! Why not!
Whoopee! No
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets whh the best!
Paint the old town red
if we wislY*. - with never
ft
A
a bad head or a touch of indigestion
ADVT
to follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
Get ’em at any
pharmacy in 2'- or
4'6 bottles.
Y EASTON
TABLETS
ROUND ABOUT
Wishing You ...
On foot (when Sydney’s other million or so wasn’t
on ours), and travelling mostly sideways, we let our-
selves in for the experience of “doing the Christmas
shops.”
Even falling down a well is an experience.
The route was from Bridge-street, up George-
street, round Anthony Horderns’ and down Pitt-street,
Go out this week with a
periscope.
with sidetrackings to change feet and restore confi-
dence.
From an early window we learned that the in-
ventor of the first Christmas card had not been
brought to Australia in irons with the First Fleet, as
we had supposed. He was in the juvenile offenders’
class—a mere lad of 16 —and didn’t commit his
offence until 1842.
The card, it might interest students of juvenile
delinquency to know, depicted “Sir Roger de Cover-
ley, a Christmas dinner, a Punch and Judy show,
distribution of soup at a house door, skating and
waits.” It bore the since somewhat hackneyed inscrip-
tion, “A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year
to You,” but even a cursory knowledge of Freudian
psychology makes it out as a clear case of wish-fulfil-
ment. The unhappy boy only wanted a feed of soup,
and if it had been given to him in time the world
would have been spared much unnecessary brainfag
on such matters as who did and who did not send
us cards last year.
From other windows as we struggled along—as
anybody may still do who’s game enough or ass
Sydney’s leading artists have
sat up.
enough to go out this week with a periscope and take
the risk—we gathered in loads of such, no doubt sage,
advice as: “Give lampshades.” “Give him pyjamas.”
Give a gift the whole family will appreciate. ’ ‘ Give
gifts that last. Or just Give.”
In its way it was all considerably interesting, with
such rare pleasures thrown in as leaning on the same
bar as Father Christmas
himself, gathering such
useful knowledge as how
to sink a pot through a
beard, in case we ever
grow one. You have it
strained.
Even so, before the
last shop had been heroically inspected our thoughts
were already dwelling in some envy on those who
do all this sort of thing by post. •
Far from the madding crowd—which is describ-
ing it politely—the post shoppers have only to take up
their catalogues, turn over the pages, and there, set
out in handsome pictures and superb description, is
everything they or anybody else of ordinary sense is
ever likely to desire.
Fortified with an iced whisky and soda, or what-
ever is the fashionable encourager in the Outer Barcoo
these days, they simply sit back at their ease and
read: “Superior pram. Finest boo-book cane. Satin-
lined throughout. Pneumatic rubber tyres. Gondola
shape. Ornament on side colored to match lining.”
Then, if they happen to know of anyone to whom
that would be an appropriate Christmas gift, all they
have to do is scribble a few lines and put the order
out in the kero.-tin on the fence, where the camel team
will pick it up in due course, and their troubles are
over.
Many of Sydney’s leading artists have sat up
night after night just to enable such fortunates to see
at a glance what’s for, or decidedly is not for, the
particular one they happen to have in mind.
If it happens, for instance, to be old Dave
Maloney out at the Three Mile there won’t be much
time wasted over “Beautiful gift. Lace tops, panel
heels, new spring suntan tonings,” and even less on
“Peach satin, lightly boned,” or “A swim suit pat-
terned with dinky little bunnies and foxes”—-at least
not unless you’re hazardously intent on taking the
advice of one of Sydney’s shop-window commands to
“Give him a genuine surprise.”
On the other hand,
you might be helpfully
reminded that Dave has
all his life harbored an
ambition to one day be-
come the nose-flute maes-
tro of the Cooper Coun-
try. Perhaps he hasn’t
yet achieved to ownership
of one of these dainty in-
Even a frankfurt becomes
a Christmas gift.
struments, or perhaps the one he has is getting
a bit worn on the left (or tenor) side; or it
might be that his is only a simple nose-flute (4d.),
very musical in its way, but not up to managing full
orchestral effects.
Then what a Christmas it would be for Dave to
receive a “Genuine magic flute. Can be learned in a
few minutes. Enables you to imitate the squeal of
a rabbit”! And there in front of you, beautifully
drawn, is the identical thing, so that you can see at a
glance whether it would fit and how much it would
be likely to improve Dave’s appearance.
Of course, there is a chance that just what the
shopper by post might really be after might have
been left out of the catalogue: we estimated that
there’s enough in one preserved fruits and foodstuffs
window alone at A.Hs.’ to fill 15 catalogues, and every
one of them would be so succulent that you could
eat it. Wherefore we append a few suggestions we
glimpsed here and there before being hurtled onwards
with another couple of crushed ribs:
'Action Toys for Brainy Boys.—You wind them
up and they go.
Scent. —My Sin, 225. 6d.; Scandal, 235. 6d.;
Mischief, 2s. 6d. You can make your own running
commentary on that lot.
Dream Suits. —Looked remarkably like men’s
pyjamas to us, though peacock-green in color and
done in Paisley design, which some may feel leaves
them at least open to doubt.
Saxophone.—Labelled “An Xmas gift that lasts.”
All very well if you yourself last after playing it. -The
price should not be a bother to anybody—£3l. Has
the advantages {vide window-ticket) of “low pitch,”
which seems considerate, and “waterproof pads,” pos-
sibly a precaution against saxophonists drowning
themselves.
Musical Dinner-chimes.—Chromium finish ; 57s
6d. Just the thing for calling Dad in from the plough-
ing. Depends, of course, on how you perform on
dinner-chimes. Might send him out to the back pad-
dock to see what’s disturbing the cows.
Five-year Diary.—Who on earth keeps ’em that
long? Might suit someone going to gaol, perhaps.
Combined Radio-set and Drink-bar. —Should save
With dinky little bunnies
and foxes.
the lives of countless s.p. punters to have a drop so
handy. The attached mirror might be considered to
be rubbing it in a bit. After all, if we are born at
the rate of one a minute we don’t want reminding
of it all Saturday afternoon.
Refrigerator.—Labelled “From Dad to the
Family.” A most attractive gift. Would hold at least
four dozen.
Flat-irons. —Streamlined.
Mouth Organs.—“ Can be bought on terms ; 2s.
deposit and Is. weekly. ‘Make a Christmas lay-by.’ ”
Washing-tub.—“ Give Mother a surprise.”
Stockings.—“ Gay Deceiver.”
Hats.—Men’s. Label, “We do not expect you to
wear this, but we want to draw your attention to the
new shape.” Girls, don’t take a risk! Find out in
advance whether the boy friend can be made to look
like a twirt. Present him with a pork-pie lid.
Statuary.—Liszt, 565. 6d. Tennyson, 9s. 6d. Three
Great Composers, Is. 9d. each. Elephants, 2s. 6d.
Seaplanes.—Toys. Mr. Parkhill?
Something, in short, in all shops for all tastes.
In fact, we gathered that at this time of year any-
thing from a bunch of frankfurts to a baby grand is
a Christmas gift. You simply stick a sprig of holly
in it, wrap it in transparent paper and label it, with
a line for filling in “From Harry to Hazel,” “From
Father to All” or some other appropriate inscription.
As far as we could see, about the only people left
out of this pleasing seasonal metamorphosis are the
fried-fish vendors. Even a long-handled shovel, it
To see what's disturb-
ing the cows.
seems, can be becomingly elevated to the status of a
Christmas Gift, but for some reason not merely
snobbish, we hope—a length of fried mullet is still a
length of fried mullet.


V\
r
<3
<3
4
s
f*
filtltl
Give a Man a Man’s Gift
m
What better bearer of your
Christmas wishes to the
man of the house than a
bottle —or two —of Johnnie
Walker? Just write your
name on the special
Christmas package and
let the genial gentleman
do the rest! This pleasant
custom was born in 1820
... and it’s "still going
strong.”
y^2o
Still Going Stf oJl &
m
#*p
H < H
HI ■ K.
a, ,
W1
\H|
Y3fl
JH
> ;
i$2&*
*;?
;•-•>.
5v
SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHN WALKER AND SONS, LIMITED. LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
E ■
WSSm
'■ ' «swfe- \-wfe
m
■■ m
■
0
■■■■'mm;
; mm
"~WBSF
?M
.
'-* mr
■
m
*
■ >
■
m
m
wmm
S pRe
■
1
.
m
m
i
1
?3sSI
H
I X -•; : V -'
•■ K
Another Interior View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars


STALIN’S IN!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
MADNESS ALONG THE YANGTZE.
When students of cablegrams read that the Japanese
had been hurled back from Nanking with heavy losses,
they realised that the old walled city would be soon
taken. It fell on December 13, a date of which
historians will make a note, though comparisons of
the fall of Nanking with that of Constantinople seem
rather far-fetched. Incidents which accompanied the
capture of the Chiang Kai-sheks’ capital are of much
greater contemporary importance. In the disorderly
flight of shipping up the Yangtze some of the con-
querors lost their heads and fired at British and Ameri-
can vessels, sinking a United States gunboat, the
Panay, and two Standard Oil steamers, and destroy-
ing life.
The Panay, which, of course, was flying the United
States flag, and three Standard Oil steamers were
making their way up the river when they were spotted
by a squadron of Japanese ’planes, bombers and
fighters—part of a large force engaged in harassing
the retreat of the beaten Chinese soldiery in small
steamers and junks. According to the Japanese
account, visibility was bad, and the airmen attacked
under the impression that the four vessels were carry-
ing Chinese troops, being unable to identify the flag.
Survivors deny that visibility was bad, and declare
that the outrage must have been deliberate. First
reports were that loss of life had been heavy ; but it
transpires that four persons were killed and 13
wounded, 10 not seriously. The four killed were the
captain of one of the tankers, the Panay’s storekeeper
and coxswain and an Italian journalist —the gunboat,
it seems, had been used as a floating wireless station
from which newspapermen sent their dispatches.
About the same time two British gunboats, the
Scarab and the Cricket, came under fire from Japanese
’planes, and retaliated with their anti-aircraft guns.
In this case no damage seems to have been
done; but another British gunboat, the Lady-
bird, was hit four times by a Japanese shore
battery, a naval rating being ’killed and an-
other seriously wounded. On board the Lady-
bird when she was attacked were the British Consul
from Nanking, a military attache and the rear-
admiral’s flag-captain. A tug in which they had set
out from the capital was subjected to Japanese machine-
gun fire after these passengers had been transferred
to the Ladybird, and it was while the Ladybird was
trying to protect the tug that she was tackled by the
shore battery, which had already been noticed firing
on merchant ships. Another gunboat, H.M.S. Bee,
was also in the field of fire, but was not hit.
Landing to protest, the commander of the Bee
was informed by the commander of the Japanese bat-
tery that the attacks on the warships were a “mistake,”
but that his orders were to fire on every ship on the
river, and if any ship moved she would be fired on.
Official protests against these proceedings were
prompt and emphatic, and official apologies profuse;
in fact, the apologies began to arrive before the pro-
tests were delivered. Mr. Roosevelt instructed his
Secretary of State to set it on record that he was
“deeply shocked and concerned,” and took the unpre-
cedented course of “requesting that the Emperor be
so advised.” “Full expressions of regret, full com-
pensation and guarantees against repetition of a
similar attack” were demanded by the Washington
Government. The British Government, after recount-
ing the circumstances, stated that it was “glad to
receive the Note of December 14 offering the profound
apology of the Japanese Government, stating that
measures were immediately taken, and adding that
the Japanese Government will deal suitably with those
who are responsible, and pay compensation.” It
pointed out, however, that “the Note makes no men-
tion of attacks on British merchant vessels,” and asked
for an assurance that there would be no more of them,
at the same time reminding the Japanese Government
that previous expressions of regret “for attacks made
on British nationals and property” had been followed
by pledges that “adequate steps had been taken to
prevent any repetition.” It suggested “adequate
punishment” as the only method by which further
outrages could be prevented.
The firm and just language of the injured Govern-
ments reflected the sentiments of reasonable people
in all parts of the English-speaking world, and it
seems likely to achieve the results aimed at. At all
event's, the rear-admiral directing aerial operations in
China has been recalled.
American comment, in newspapers and in the
Senate alike, was noticeably sober ; not even if reckless
young fools, placed in control of terrible modern
engines of destruction —as is unfortunately the case
everywhere—let fly in a wild region, where confusion
reigns, and kill Americans engaged in a necessarily
dangerous trade will the Republic be dragged into an
Oriental war. It was reserved for the London “Daily
Herald,” organ of the rabble of Reds and Pinks who
call themselves the “advanced” section of the British
Labor party, to suggest that “Britain, France, the
United States, the Soviet Union” (of course!) “and such
other Powers as will join them” (where are they?)
should “stand side by side in an unremitting effort
to end the whole riot of barbarism, crime and cruelty
in the Far East.”
Australians, for their part, will not go to war to
pull the chestnuts out of the fire for “the Soviet Union.”
Neither will they be drawn into the boycott urged
by elderly non-fighters in comfortable circumstances,
Messrs. Einstein, Rolland, Dewey and the disarma-
ment crank Bertrand Russell. They are nevertheless
being obliged to realise that a trade agreement between
the British Empire and the United States has become
a political necessity.
Metamorphosis of a Mirage.
League of Nations enthusiasts have weathered some
fearful shocks, and there is excellent reason why they
should survive the latest.
They saw America conjure up their pretty
mirage, and they have since seen America steadfastly
decline to have anything further to do with it. They
have seen Japan, Germany and now Italy go out.
They have witnessed the repeated failure of the League
as a political instrument. To-day, except for Soviet
Russia, which finds it has its uses as a propaganda
machine, not even its remaining members hold it in
any real respect; certainly none of them takes its
political functions seriously.
The one reason why the League survives at all, and
why its supporters can look forward with confidence
to its continuance, is that it is now a colossal vested
interest. So much money has been sunk in it—and
sunk so spectacularly —that this circumstance alone
makes its immediate collapse unthinkable. It has long
been a mummy, but far too costly a mummy to bury.
Described in a current Genevan publication as
“an artificial mountain of 400,000 cubic metres of
ferro-concrete, covering an area of 18,000 square
metres of ground,” its palace at Geneva would be
just about completed in time to coincide with the latest
landmark in its unrelieved history of reversals. The
foundation-stone of the palace was laid —“on a stormy
day”—in September, 1929, and building has gone on
steadily since. To-day the vast structure —appropri-
ately white —rises amid the treetops of Ariana Park,
with a splendidly laid-out avenue leading up to it.
A model of architectural academic correctitude, it
represents an investment of upwards of £2,000,000.
Though a dead loss, considered financially—if
not in any other way—it is not entirely unproductive.
During Europe’s summer this year it has been a new
Mecca of Continental trippers, who, at a charge of
half a franc a head, are conducted throughout its
labyrinthine halls by League variants of talkie ushers,
got up in gay blue uniforms. These guides are needed,
the interior of the palace being as confusing to stran-
gers as the meanderings of the League itself. Hun-
dreds and hundreds of uniform doors on five storeys
hide the 450 offices of the Secretariat. The circumfer-
ence of the building is a route march of two kilo-
metres. In the midst of all, a special building forming
the centre of the palace structure, the tripper comes on
the Assembly Room, the Holy of Holies.
This Assembly Room alone is value for the
tripper’s half-franc. The ground floor has 240 seats
for delegates; galleries on three sides have 27.6 seats
for the delegates’ secretaries and experts; the “diplo-
matic box” above these has 179 seats ; the press gallery
438 seats; the public gallery, above all these, 408
seats. In the Council Chamber and elsewhere the
tripper can view colossal allegorical paintings and
frescoes, including one of five giant male figures repre-
senting the five continents holding out their hands to
one another in collaboration, and no irony intended.
After climbing the grand stairway, or taking any
of the many lifts, there are also to be had superb
views across the Lake of Geneva to the Alps of Savoy,
with Mont Blanc towering magnificently in the dis-
tance. But perhaps most attractive of all to the tripper
—trippers being what they are —might well be the
Film Room, to which, still getting value for the half-
franc, the visitor is conducted for a screening of the
League Film. This begins with sequences of the last
war’s graves and a voice reciting the preamble to the
Covenant of the League. More sequences show the
daily work of the Secretariat in its different sections,
with the head of the Political Section unfolding with
particular deliberation a bundle of documents labelled
“Disarmament,” “Japan and China,” “Italy and Abys-
sinia,” “Bolivia and Paraguay.”
It might be thought that nothing more comfort-
less to League addicts could well be conceived than
that reminder of the League’s most abject failures, but
the tripper might be comforted with the thought that
there must be somebody somewhere about this vast
cold white palace who has a sense of humor, even
if it is tinged with a sarcastic bitterness.
In keeping with the stupendous fantasy of all this,
and of the League itself, was the reception given by
the Aga Khan, as president of the Assembly, for the
opening of the Assembly building on September 25
this year. A magnificent affair, it might have been
inspired by the Arabian Nights pyramids of the
choicest foods, two thousand bottles of champagne,
and dancing and grand junketings. With a nice sense
of the fitness of things, the Chinese and Spanish dele-
gates begged to be excused.
Into this elaborate affair has the League changed
from the original mirage, and the more elaborate it
has become the more it has proved a washout as an
instrument in international politics. Its grand palace
is to-day a show place of Europe —one of the wonders
of the world —but countries which are rattling the
collection-boxes to provide their poor with food must
have grim thoughts regarding it and the extravagant
unreality it all represents. Still, it is now a vested
interest on a large scale, and consequently, though it
is a white elephant on a still larger scale, it will easily
survive its latest shock, if only to become more and
more famous as a museum. *
Another Plaything of Politics.
Hudson Fysh, of Qantas, to whom the Empire owed
its first aerial passenger service, is a patient man —
being a Government air-mail contractor, he has to be.
But Mr. Fysh has demonstrated that even his patience
has its limits.
It is nearly three years since Imperial Airways,
which controls the London-Australia route as far as
Singapore, decided to introduce flying-boats substan-
tially larger and 30 m.p.h. faster than the machines
then in use. About the same time the British Govern-
ment resolved to give the Empire an aerial postal
service at a minimum rate of lyd. per letter, irre-
spective of destination. This scheme was applauded
everywhere but at Canberra.
To Canberra there was nothing right with it.
Canberra didn’t want three-halfpenny postage when
it was charging tuppence for local land deliveries and
eighteenpence for air-mail letters to London. Can-
berra didn’t want to increase its air-mail subsidy ; it
didn’t care for flying-boats; it didn’t like the plan
for control of the Britain-Maoriland route.
By the beginning of 1937 Imperial Airways
had built its flying-boat fleet. By March this year it
had organised bases over long sections of the overseas
routes and was sending aerial mail abroad at much
accelerated speed, and at the new lyd. rate. By the
end of November India and the Cape had been cov-
ered under the new system. The Singapore aerodrome,
costing a couple of millions, was complete. The last
rivet had been driven in the equipment of 8000 miles
of Asiatic route.
After January 19, 1938, the service from London
will be completely on the new basis as far as Singa-
pore. It would have been in operation before, together
with the Singapore-Australian section, had it not been
for the carping and the muddling and the odd-man-
out attitude of Canberra. Canberra has not even
started on the local bases work which has been
finished everywhere else, and which other parts of the
British Commonwealth set in motion two years ago.
According to Mr. Fysh, two of the six flying-
boats ordered by his company for Singapore-Australia
have been delivered. The rest will be ready long
before the “organisation” for which Canberra is
responsible makes it possible to use them ; for “not
a tap of work has been done anywhere between Singa-
pore and Sydney.”
If someone doesn’t get a move on mighty quickly,
the flying boats will be out of date before a mile is
flown.
Mr. Fysh asks bitterly whether Germany would
waste a moment in implementing such a service.
If the Empire can do no better than this, if it is
impossible for it to galvanise its forces into action
when action has become a stark necessity, I am afraid it
is in for an exceedingly bad time in the next 10 years.
Of course, it can do better. Britain is doing im-
measurably better in the rearmament field. But in
that case the politicians are not meddling. Beyond
stating its requirements and finding the money, the
Government is leaving everything to the genius, energy
and patriotism of people with knowledge. If com-
parable methods were adopted here in the domain
of flying, our overseas air connections and air-mail
charges would soon be modernised.
Charges for the carriage of mails and parcels
should be based, not on the Postmaster-General’s will
to extort, but on the cost of the service. How they
could be reduced is illustrated by one phase of the
aerial-carrying trade. The departmental exaction for
freight from Sydney to Darwin, posted at the G.P.0.,
is 9s. 6d. per pound. When there is space available
not occupied by royal mail, the aerial companies will
carry it on private consignment at 3s. per pound.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
They Call It "Reform."
Vowing that he would never compromise on what he
and the Melbourne “Age” were pleased to call
“reform,” Premier Dunstan compromised. It was
revealed’ at the Senate election that Mr. Dunstan’s
party represents fully 66,000 Victorian electors, and
there has since been an open quarrel between the
“radicals” among the 66,000 and the “moderates,” so
preservation of the no-compromise pose became
inexpedient.
“Reform” has resolved itself into a struggle be-
tween two superfluous Houses as to whose will should
prevail when they quarrel. And, after many months,
this settlement has been arrived at and embodied in
an Act of Parliament:
If the Council rejects a bill passed by the Assembly,
the Assembly may be dissolved.
If. after the Assembly election, the bill is again
passed by the Assembly and the Council again rejects
the bill —say, 18 months after it was originally intro-
duced —the Council may be dissolved.
If, after the Council election, the Assembly a third
time passes the bill and the Council a third time rejects
it, a joint sitting of both Houses may be convened to
deal with it. .
If, upon such joint sitting, an absolute majority of
the total number of members of both Houses approves
of the bill, either as presented originally or with amend-
ments, the bill becomes law. Failing such approval by
an absolute majority, the bill is finally rejected.
The foregoing procedure is not to apply to any
amendment of the Act or any bill for Council abolition.
According to the “Argus” report, “there was a
general ‘Hear! Hear! ’ when the leader of the Council
said he was sick of the wrangling on this bill.” A
great many Victorians are sick of both their Houses.
A still greater number of Australians are sick of being
taxed up to the eyes to maintain seven Parliaments,
seven Cabinets and seven Government Houses when
one of each —with decentralised administration and
real local self-government in local matters —would do
the job far better and far cheaper.
Democracy Triumphs.
Dear Bulletin, —Well, it’s all over, and the greatest
democracy the world has ever seen has held the
greatest election the world has ever seen and secured
the greatest unanimity ever obtained at an election.
And the world’s most glorious and most progressive
Parliament has come into being to direct the activities
of the most stupendous Red Army, Navy, Air Force,
educational system, secret police, collective farms,
bread queues and execution squads the world has
known.
I am sorry I was not in Moscow for this noblest
and most inspiring of historic events, at which the
world’s greatest republic, consisting of a multitude of
races, European and Asiatic, largely illiterate, voted
100,000,000 strong, without informality, for candidates
for whom they need not have voted at all, since they
were all unopposed. But the Moscow “News” tells me
all about it, and if the Moscow “News” is defective
on any point, Walter Duranty and hordes of other
writing men will repair the omission.
First, there were open pre-selection meetings. The
voters of our only fatherland’s gigantic factories were
assembled at their workplaces. They came sometimes
ten thousand strong straight from the machines. Up
rose a foreman in the Stalin district and proposed Mr.
Stalin as the candidate, and ten thousand throats
acclaimed him. Nobody asked for anybody else. And
in the Molotov district they nominated Mr. Molotov.
There were electorates where misguided people
too freely interpreted the Constitution which gives
everybody the right to be a candidate under conditions.
But these enthusiasts were soon dealt with. A little
clause was tucked away in the electoral law which
said that all candidates must be approved by the
Communist party. The Communist party remarked
pointedly in a manifesto that it had no intention of
allowing “Trotskyists, Zinovievists and other scum to
pursue their murderous work under cover of lawful
methods conceded to them, along with all Soviet citi-
zens, through the misuse of the ballot.” Mr. Zhdanov,
who is Mr. Stalin’s assistant in the Communist party
secretariat, said kindly:
We have no experience of the secret ballot, and this
presents a certain difficulty. The real danger lies in
hostile canvassing or agitation and in hostile can-
didates whom our enemies will bring forward. We
must meet them fully armed.
He added that their treacherous designs must be
thwarted by the merciless arm of the Communist
party. They must be blown into dust and ashes.
Blown into dust and ashes they were whenever
they stuck their noses up. In one suburban Leningrad
constituency, a traitor with a name like a North
Pole influenza cough tried to defy the wishes of my
country’s saviors and stand as an Independent. The
Communist party ruled him out. An emissary of
the C.P. was soon discovered in a condition so inert
that he was beyond even making a will. Next morn-
ing the election was decided without the tedious
process of waiting for a poll. The Independent candi-
date was “shot forthwith.” —Yours etc., Tovarisch
Gosposdin.
Walloping the War Drum.
If the world manages to do without the war that
countless prophets have been predicting for it ever
since the last one, it. will be through no fault of users
of the various instruments of publicity. Through
press, radio and film, day after day, week after week,
year after year, the endless harping on imminent war
goes on.
Even in the remotest places the thumping of the
war drum is heard. It is a traffic in which each wal-
loper tries to out-thump all the rest; and film-makers
are joining in it more and more outrageously.
Film theatres throughout the land are showing
pictures which purport to reveal the horribleness of
war. In most cases the effect is not to make people
see that war is something to be avoided at almost all
cost. The commentary that accompanies the filmings
is as often as not emotional oratory stirring up
emotional reaction.
In no way is it propaganda against war. At no
time does the commentator take the line: “If you go
to war this is what will happen to you.” The appeal
is to sympathy, to pity, and for one side at that. It
is not an attack on war or a warning against war;
it is an appeal to people to do something to stop the
horrors depicted: and there can be only one meaning
to that.
It is, of course, Japan’s undeclared war on China
over which these emotional appeals are now being
made. Of course, also, the side taken is China’s. No-
body of any sensibility can help being sorry for the
Chinese in what they are being made to suffer. That
general sympathy, however, only makes these dramatic
appeals to hysteria all the more effective. In this
state the public mind is a pathetically responsive thing
for the war-drum thumpers to work on. That work-
ing is having effects that could be disastrous.
Yet in the bare record of the horrors, with the
dramatised commentary stripped away, these films
could be serving the greatest purpose that can be
served at the present time. Short of actual war itself
it would be hard to improve on their realism. They
are so realistic that if they were shown silently, with-
out the sentimental comment to otherwise occupy the
mind, their stark horror would make people sick.
Then they would be determining people to keep out,
not urging them to go in on some vague idea that in
that way they would be putting an end to war.
Underneath the hysterical propaganda the real
meaning of these films is that these horrors will be
the fate of any people who get themselves mixed up
in a war. If there is war the aerial bombings and
their results which are the staple of these films will
happen. No amount of sentimentality will make any
difference to the plain fact that aerial bombings, with
all the other atrocious things depicted, are mere com-
monplaces of war. Get into any war whatever hence-
forth, and they will be part of it.
For Australia these films have a separate and
most important lesson. China is suffering what it is
suffering because it is wretchedly defenceless and
wretchedly defended. Australia would have nothing
to fear on how it would be defended. As fighters
Australians are at the other extreme from the un-
happy Chinese, bred through centuries to a national
philosophy which almost amounts to non-resistance.
It is in the Australian national fibre and psychology
to be the fiercest of fighters.
Australia’s defence is another matter. There is
a political pretence at the moment that something is
being done about it. Some loans are being raised
and some money is going to be spent! Actually, no-
thing is being done. Adequate defence of this country
is not going to be achieved by the spending of some
money. Until the splendid man-power available is
organised and trained we will have no defence.
Our Masters Protect Themselves.
A recent Queensland case illustrates a dangerous
legislative departure from accepted principles of
British justice.
Driving a car on a Brisbane roadway a man
struck an unlighted barrier and was severely injured.
He sued the City Council and the Main Roads Com-
missioner for £5OOO damages. A jury assessed dam-
ages at £3497 18s. —£247 18s. special and £3250 general.
For the defence it was contended that, under the
Local Authorities Acts, judgment for more than
£lOOO could not be entered. After adjournment,
Webb, J., said that he had every sympathy with the
plaintiff and did not consider that the jury had over-
estimated the damages, but the statutory limitation on
the liability of the road authorities left him no other
course than to reduce the total damages to £lO4B 18s.,
the odd figures being for damage to car and clothes.
Which shows how our multitudinous rulers protect
themselves and their servants, who are, all too fre-
quently, the public’s masters.
No such protection is extended to private em-
ployers. In Sydney a few days later a wharf-laborer
sued the Mcllwraith, McEacharn shipping concern for
physical injuries received. Plaintiff was working in the
steamer Karoola, when an iron bar weighing eight
hundredweight fell on him. Evidence was given that
he would never be able to work again, and that the
spinal injury he had suffered prevented him from
straightening his back.
The jury awarded him £3500 damages—£soo more
than he had claimed. His counsel applied for an
amendment of the writ and declaration so as to bring
them into conformity with the £3500 verdict.
Defendant’s counsel protested ; but Justice David-
son said: “The jury is the proper tribunal for assessing
the amount of damages”; and he granted the
application.
In the Queensland affair also it was stated that
the plaintiff’s injuries were permanent; but because
the City Council and a Government commissioner were
the guilty parties the victim had to take £2449 less
than the jury awarded.
The Wisdom of Garvin.
For quarter of a century J. L. Garvin, of the
“Observer,” has been the foremost British newspaper
writer on foreign affairs. He was Stead’s only rival
before the icy waters of the Atlantic closed over the
editor of the “Review of Reviews” ; ever since then
Garvin’s supremacy in the foreign-affaips department
of London journalism has been unchallenged.
In the days of Joseph Chamberlain (whose bio-
graphy he has written) and Bonar Law, Garvin’s
influence on Conservative opinion was great. Because
he refused to worship the false gods of Geneva and
contemptuously rejected the League covenant as “the
cornerstone of British foreign policy,” his influence
declined, but with the advent of Joseph Chamberlain’s
second son as Prime Minister it is asserting itself again.
Recovering from an illness, Garvin was moved to
make “a true report on the state of affairs and the
state of public anxiety.” He made it in the “Observer”
of October 31, and to Australians fed with the
impertinences of the “News-Chronicle” and the “Daily
Herald” it is a revelation. “In foreign policy,” Garvin
wrote, “Britain’s characteristic tradition was sober,
sagacious and successful. There has been nothing in
our history like the present spectacle of promiscuous
complications as the result of a method fertile in
failure, but sterile for good.”
In the name of the League Limited our prancing
jingoes want universal war.
In their press and on their platform our worthy
lunatics with abuse and threats advocate a policy which,
unless it means the ignominy of vaporing, means
nothing but simultaneous war with Germany, Italy and
Japan; and not only with them, but war —while we
are at it —with the majority of the Spanish people as
well; with Portugal; witn the Arab States; and with
the whole world of Islam, including the eighty millions
of Muslims in India whose loyalty to the Crown is one
of the sheet-ancnors of Empire. Yet th'e windy apostles
of these crazy crusades have no notion of thronging the
recruiting offices in order to drill for the conflicts
they proclaim.
“Our hardshell Conservatives” as well as “our war-
dancers of the Left” are blamed for the position in
which Britain finds itself.
A more frantic medley of Left Front excitements
and Diehard delusions —a more dangerous mixture of
explosive gases —was never seen in the democratic
polities of the world.
They do not help the Chinese any more than the
Abyssinians, but they consolidate and exasperate the
Japanese, just as in the fatal ecstasy of two years ago
our new jingoes roused and drove the Duce and the
Italians to go further than Mussolini ever meant to
at the outset.
The Mediterranean was and is the vital artery of
the Empire which includes India and stretches to Aus-
tralia. We have contrived so completely to bedevil that
old and fortunate situation in the Mediterranean that
we are now embroiled in Spain at one end, with the
Arabs and Islam at the other end, and with Italy
lying right across the centre —the Italy of to-day, more
powerfully armed than ever before and led by a for-
midable man. , .
We ruin and doom Zionism by rousing against it
gradually not only all Arabs, but all Islam. In Spain
our entanglement is both foolish and unnecessary. By
working with the French Left and Moscow as in the
past against the Spanish Nationalists, we have only
shown a consistent genius for backing the wrong horse.
The interests of Portugal are identical with those of
Nationalist Spain. It is madness to strain our ancient
alliance of centuries with Portugal, and thus to jeopar-
dise our old command of the At^ an^c approaches to
the Mediterranean, for the miserable sake of that
ephemeral medley, under the patronage of Moscow,
who call themselves the Valencian Republicans.
Joseph Chamberlain’s biographer has high hopes of
Joseph Chamberlain’s son. He urges the son to
“recognise that an Anglo-German settlement on the
reasonable terms still possible is the key of the
world,” and to “grasp that key'in time.” For the
rest,
There must be a decisive change. We have to
recpgnise the diplomatic chaos and bring order into
it. We have to confess the muddle and get out of it.
We have to recover and repair some lost or shaken
friendships if we can.
The Prime Minister and his colleagues have to bring
back the counsels of Britain to those old-fashioned
virtues of cool temper, level judgment and horse-
sense to which the policy of this island through cen-
turies owed an unexampled achievement of prudence
and courage.
Australians who take the long view would like no-
thing better than such a return to the policy of Old
England.
Three Per Cent. Quotas.
Dispensing with the tedious formality of having the
thing printed and circulated among members, N.S.W.
Premier Stevens has introduced a new Film Quota Bill;
and one of his newspaper admirers called it “a reason-
able compromise which will find support among
Government and Opposition members alike.” It did.
The measure “amends” the old Quota Bill —half
the legislation put through the N.S.W. legislative
sausage machine is “amending” legislation. It was
complained that the discarded enactment was am-
biguous, but the new Act is alleged to be “definite,”
and this is adduced as evidence:
It shall be his [i.e., the distributor’s] duty to produce
or cause to be produced, and to make available for dis-
tribution in that year, a quota of Australian films.
Exactly why the words “It shall be his duty,” instead
of “must,” appear, it is difficult to understand. How-
ever, there is nothing ambiguous about the new Aus-
tralian quotas, which are reduced for distributors from
1\ p.c. and 10 p.c. for 1938 and 1939 respectively to
3 p.c. for each year.
There has been great joy among film producers
(who are mainly also film distributors) at the change,
and Hollywood has sent congratulations. Sydney
“Sun” (“Above all, for Astrology”) says:
That the overseas film, American or British, can
ever be successfully challenged by Australian pictures
is an idea that we can dismiss at once. When we have
a population equal to the 120,000,000 people of the
United States we may begin to plan in that direction.
Australia’s small population has not prevented the
building of million-pound halls for the exhibition
of gangster films and the masterpieces of Shirley
Temple. Out of it have come a fair number of
film actors and actresses ; producers and writers too.
Nor has the small population been an obstacle to the
production of all manner of manufactures. But
they grew with the aid, not of 3 p.c. quotas, but of
a protective tariff.
There is no reason to believe that an Australian
film industry would not flourish as other manufactur-
ing businesses are flourishing if the tariff wall were
high enough and had enough spikes on top of it.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ex-Mister”: The flying-boat Cen-
taurus, due at Sydney on Christmas Eve,
will give Australians a first view of
a really modern craft of the kind.
Wing-stretch 114 ft. and loaded weight
18 tons, she stands 24 feet wing-
height above water-level at moorings.
Her four engines deliver nearly 3000 h.p.
and give her 200 m.p.h. Wireless outfit
is of the latest kind, and, if our archaic
ground arrangements can do their part,
exact position can be determined within
90 seconds in thick weather. The
operator is in constant touch with ground
stations. In addition to skipper, she car-
ries a first officer, a radio operator,
flight clerk —he corresponds to purser—
and steward-cook. Accommodation is
for 24 sitting or 16 sleeping passengers.
# * *
“Cauboy”: The Manton emporium in
Melbourne now encroaches on Little
Bourke-street, making a section of that
one-time haunt of the Sentimental Bloke
look with all its plate-glass splendor as
fashionable as Collins-street. Manton’s
has obliterated another romantic land-
mark in the Theatre Royal, opened in
1855 and demolished in 1933. It was
here that Bland Holt first introduced the
Melbourne Cup to theatregoers. He had
a revolving platform on which the horses
galloped in full and continuous view. On
one occasion the favorite fell down, but
continued to keep its place at the head
of the field, winning while lying on its
side without the slightest difficulty. Inci-
dentally, the G.O.M. of the Theatre
Royal is still living in retirement. He
is 83.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: King’s Regs. (B.
(8/12/’37) do not apply inside Australia,
where the necessary by-laws under the
Defence Act are incorporated in the Aus-
tralian Military Regulations and Orders.
The provision about aping the uniform
of his Majesty’s soldiers, sailors and air-
men does apply, however, and, like
theatre commissionaires, many Highland
pipe bands are similarly infringing the
law by wearing the full-dress uniform
of Highland regiments.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: It comes as a shock to
read that Abdul Mejid, last of the Caliphs
of Islam, is being sued by his relatives
to compel him to account for the family
possessions he is supposed to control. In
the great and glorious past, if any of the
relations of the Commander of the Faith-
ful’ questioned his motives there was no
recourse to a law court. Giaffar the
executioner called on the recalcitrant one
in his own home and, spreading the his-
torical goatskin on the marble floor to
save unnecessary mess, invited his un-
willing host to kneel on it while he
stropped the heading sword. And that
was that!
* * * *
“Miro”: Over 40 years ago Onehunga,
the small town that stands at Auckland’s
back door, electrified M.L. by putting a
woman in the mayoral chair (B.
15/12/’37)). The lady, a Mrs. Yates, was
referred to as Mayoress, and in debate
became “Mrs. Mayoress.” It seemed to
get over any difficulties of address, with,
of course, “her Worship” for reference.
The only time there was an unpleasant-
ness was when one disgruntled coun-
cillor addressed the lady as “my good
woman.”
* * * *
“T.’s” hail and farewell:
Godfrey George Howy Irving, over whom
the Last Post has sounded in Melbourne, where
he was a retired C.M.F. major-general for 15
years, was a grandson of the Edward Irving
who was Carlyle’s friend and Jane Welsh’s
tutor, and the man whom, above all others,
that queer Chelsea couple loved. Edward Irving
died young and unhappy, and, though God-
frey Irving was full of years when his time
came, the fatality that dogged the grand-
father’s career descended to the grandson.
Tall, studious and intensely patriotic, Irving
took soldiering seriously. He fought in the
Boer War, did exchange service in England
"I'm president of the Road Water Sprinkler Company, boys. Get me out of this and I'll send you a 1938
model.”
and India, and was commandant in two States,
Westralia and S.A. His friends predicted that
he would make a name for himself in the Great
War, and there was universal approbation when
he left for Egypt in 1916, named “G.O.C.
Australian Details and Reinforcements,” altered
by Maxwell to “Commandant A.I.F. Forces”
(though the F. was itself a force). Birdwood
placed him in command of the 14th Infantry
Brigade. And then came the crash. He was
held responsible for the Moascar march, in
which the 14th suffered severely, and relieved of
his command by McCay, who was to become
still more unpopular with his men after
Fromelles.
Irving returned to Australia about the same
time as the old general who was blamed for the
loss of those Stokes guns in France (he died
not long ago); but that ancient warrior at
least bore back the memory of having fought
with the A.I.F. in battle.
Godfrey Irving and his brother E.H. —like
himself, a fine, tall, likeable man, a journalist,
who died in Kalgoorlie—were sons of Pro-
fessor Irving, of Melbourne University. They
were descended from the Annie Laurie.
* * * *
“Craiser”: As Melbourne’s most musi-
cal family I nominate the Bradleys. Reg,
one-time musical director of 3LO, is at
present first violin and deputy conductor
for J.C.W.; Leo has just completed a
tour of the Dutch East Indies; pianist
Eileen is a feature singer; on the radio ;
Norman is in the Street of Paris
orchestra; Kevin is annotator for the
A.B.C. classical session, and bass-player
Charles teaches in Adelaide and produces
for the Gilbert and Sullivan Society. Five
years ago the clan gave a joint family
recital at the Melba Hall (University)
which the cableman thought worth while
mentioning in his London dispatch. The
family tradition, incidentally, has been
musical for several generations. Mrs.
Bradley, mother of the brood, was one of
Melbourne’s best-known music-teachers,
and an ancestor was in the band of
Napoleon’s Fifth Army.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Another pioneer air-
man still on deck (B. 1 /12/’37) is Wally
Shiers, now on Airlines of Australia’s
ground staff in Sydney. Shiers has had
an unbroken connection with flying
since A.F.C. days in France and
Palestine. He flew as fitter with Ross
and Keith Smith in the Vickers Vimy
on the first England-Australia flight.
“H.A.L.”: S. E. Sutcliffe was one of
Qantas’s first pilots, and has been doing
commercial flying ever since. He’s never
had a crash.
* * =s *
“Dolly Pot” :■ “Empties,” which are
perplexing Darwin’s tidy mind, are a
feature of all the old W.A. pioneer camps.
The track made by the gangs which
helped old “Abe” Baxter push through
the Mullewa to Cue railway in the
’nineties was still plain to be seen a few
years ago, its length marked at intervals
by neatly stacked piles of empties, which
stood out on the level plain like minia-
ture pyramids. Perth’s bottle-o king had
no use for them owing to the expensive
freight rates, and there they seemed
doomed to remain when I saw them—
over 20 years after they had done their
duty. The few small shanties at intervals
along the lonely line had put odd
lots to use, mostly as borders to
footpaths from an imaginary gate in a
non-existent fence up to the shack’s front
door. There they made a brave but
pathetic showing on the vast spreading
plains of the Murchison.
, * ~ * .
bay 99 : The peruke and its variants
(B. 8/12/’37) owed something of their
vogue to the former ravages of syphilis.
That malady makes the hair fall out by
the handful and red spots to blossom on
the face; thus, many of Charles ll.’s
courtiers were forced to clap wigs on
their skulls and “court plaster” on their
cheeks. And artificial hair concealed the
gambols of the sportive insects which
commonly made merry in the thatch of
our ancestors, as a reading of Pepys will
prove. Now the once-necessary piece of
headgear is a useless anachronism re-
served for Judges, barristers and Clerks
of Parliaments.
* * * *
“T.”: The international lawn-tennis
season has been accompanied, as usual,
by an outburst of bad writing. The
solemnest of Australia’s dailies surren-
dered to the delirium ; witness the state-
ment that “a ‘Red Terror’ burst into
Sydney, sweeping one of Australia’s
finest players off the court in a tornado,”
when “possessed by a fury of endeavor.”
Happily “Bromwich, by means of cold,
calculating, almost cruelly consistent
play, had kept Australia’s flag on the
same level as the American” ; in short,
“Bromwich saved Australia.” Why do
lawn-tennis chroniclers perpetrate such
rubbish? Is it because they realise that
their pastime lacks the dramatic element
present in boxing and football (how well
they are reported!) and try to make up
for it by going in for “fine writing”?
* * * * '
“Sandpatch”: The Arab (B. 1 /12/’37)
never was a farmer, even though he gave
us the most valuable of all fodder crops,
alfalfa or lucerne, as well as coffee. He
has depended almost entirely on the pro-
duct of his flocks and herds and on raid-
ing. Agriculture he has utterly despised.
We see the same thing in Australia. One
can travel from Wilcannia to Burketown
without ever seeing a plough, unless it is
a stray one belonging to a shire council,
though in many places water is avail-
able for irrigation. And during each
drought millions of trees are cut down
without any attempt being made to re-
place the wastage.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: What passengers
used to suffer in the Red Sea (B.
1 /12/ ’37) was nothing to what the Black
Gang put up with firing and coal-trim-
ming in the bad old days before the in-
troduction of ventilating fans. Arabs,
Lascars and Kroomen were tried, but
only Britishers of the tough “Liverpool
Irish” type proved capable of keeping
up steam during a bad passage. Many
a time, when the wind was aft, the liner
of 40 years ago would have to put about
at intervals and steam into the wind for
a time, in order to send fresh air down
the stokehold ventilators. Almost as
important as forced ventilation was the
discovery that “stoker’s collapse” was
due as much to loss of salt from the
body through excessive sweating as to
fatigue, and now salted oatmeal in water
as a drink does away with a lot of the
collapsing.
* & * * *
, lc c „ , T • uu • u a
Qn ES ‘ : Tho^ h Leichhardt vanished
y a S°> the search for tiaces of
him stld B° es on - ® r Y ce Russell, the
latest on the hunt, now nearly three
months missing somewhere out in Simp-
son Desert, at least took the most likely
track. For years the Central blacks have
persistently reported that an iron box,
which they can’t open, and rusted bul-
lock bows and iron tyres of a dray are
lying out in the desert, intermittently
buried and exposed by the winds. The
desert country, with its hot sandstorms,
is about the only part where a party and
its equipment could disappear without
leaving a trace ; only one white man,
E. A. Colson, of Blood’s Creek (S.A.),
has crossed it. Russell was born on the
Diamantina ; in his boyhood he was told
by old blacks about the lost explorer,
and the urge was always with him to
strike out on the trail. He went alone, on
a camel.
NOT ALL.
“The idea that bookmakers were all wealthy men
was entirely wrong.”— Mr. Moverley, M.L.A. for
Hand wick.
It’s a sadly erroneous impression
That they rake in the rhino by wads,
All those whose engaging profession
Is shouting and laying the odds.
It’s a hoary old legend in turfy
Affairs that has lingered too long;
In fact, if you called it a furphy
You wouldn’t be wrong.
By fancy misled, one supposes
(And caricaturists, belike),
It’s hard to envisage a Moses
Hard up or an indigent Ike.
You think of them sticky with boodle,
The whole irrepressible lot,
Which is absolute fudge and flapdoodle.
Believe it or not.
You feature them fairly in clover,
With wealth in their satchels concealed,
When the din and the tumult are over
And the labor of “laying the field.’
And as in their motors they’re getting,
Complacently homeward to whiz,
You wonder how soon they’ll be wetting
Their whistles with fizz.
You vision the bookmaker’s missus
In raiment that’s radiant and rare,
With jewels that ladies would kiss us
For joy, could we give them to wear.
But, like pictures already presented,
These things are sheer fables, you know,
By envious punters invented
Who’ve done in their dough.
Dismiss the wild notion as skittles
That all of these makers of books
Consume the most exquisite victuals
Prepared by the choicest of cooks.
When they’ve stilled their vociferous rackets
I’ll venture there’s few that would sneer
At porterhouse, spuds in their jackets,
And pewters of beer.
Though oft of our wool they may fleece us,
There’s balm in reflecting for once
It isn’t for certain a Croesus
Who’s parting a chap from his bunce.
Not all who from pitches and niches
Boom out their stentorian call
Are really rolling in riches;
Some only—not all!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE HUNTRESSES.
“Two smart, sympathetic Sisters on the far Finland
Bay, who are dreaming of a sweet and happy little
home, wish to become acquainted with (.entlemen
who take life seriously. Mary, Erika Preeks,
Tallinn, Estonia.” — “S.M.H.” view mat. advt.
It fairly annihilates space,
It leaps across oceans and straits,
The love-call of maidens, a brace,
In the farthest of Baltic-side States
For a similar number of mates
From our own sunny beaches or creeks.
* Now who is there wishful for dates
With Mary and Erika Preeks?
There’s naught about figure and face
In the ad., or of ages and weights
“Sympathetic and smart” is the case
On which they are resting their fates.
Are they deft with the dishes and plates
In the country of snow-laden peaks
And forests, of skis and of skates,
And of Mary and Erika Preeks?
But one stipulation they place
On the beau for acceptance who waits:
The pathway of life he must pace
With sober and serious gaits.
The flaneur of polo who prates.
The seaside and tennis-court sheiks
Are wiped from the conjugal slates
Of Mary and Erika Preeks.
Blithe maids of Estonian race,
With the glow of the hunt in your cheeks
And far Finnish fiords for your base,
Flere’s luck in your ages-old chase,
Miss Mary and Erika Preeks!
n.s.w. Midford.
4c * * *
“Krill”: It was up north ; in a sugar
town at the “end-of-season” celebrations.
George marched into the bar and de-
manded a shandy—a real shandy. Bung
said that if he could drink it he could
have it for a bob. A little bit of every-
thing went into it —beer, stout, rum,
whisky, gin, a few wines and anything
else handy. George drained it at a
draught and came back for more. The
second one went the same way. He got
half-way through the third —then it took
half a dozen of us a couple of hours to
get him out of town after he had wrecked
a store and had a serious argument with
a telephone post. He was still singing
and yelling like a whole corroboree gone
mad when I last saw him.
jjt •1’
“Questo”: One remarkable feature of
the man-made Bishop Island near the
mouth of the Brisbane River (Q.) (B.
15/12/’37) is the excellent supply of
fresh water obtainable anywhere within
a foot or so of the surface. Even more
remarkable, however, is the fact that the
water in the well on the island, like that
in the Blue and White Lakes on Strad-
broke Island, rises and falls with the
tide.
* * * *
“Mak”: It takes a woman to spring
surprises. A few months ago Mel-
bourne politicians would have stuttered
at the idea of a model playground being
“Wot, no counter-lunch ?”
exhibited in the Leg. Assembly’s public
reception hall. There was one there last
week, and if any facetious remarks were
made by members they must have been
whispered. “Mrs. Weber’s playground,”
I heard one tribune explain to an aston-
ished visitor. And that day its electri-
cally-operated swings and see-saws were
receiving much more attention than a
relief model of the headwaters of the
Kiewa, where several million pounds of
the people’s money is to be spent.
* * * *
“Dolly Pot”: Most popular “lost-
mine” stories have an American back-
ground, with Mexican bad men and land-
slides added to taste. Australia hasn’t
“OK, Doc., I'll go on the Wagon as soon as I've finished this stock."
done much in that particular form of
romancing, but Fremantle long ago had
a citizen who was popularly credited with
owning a secret mine. He used to dis-
appear for long periods accompanied by
a blackboy. Every time he came back
he had gold; it is even said that he
showed good specimen-stone to a
favored few. He died suddenly without
satisfying anyone’s curiosity, and the
native who had shared his mysterious
journeys was drowned in the Canning
River at about the same time. The
source of this early-day Groper’s pros-
perity was thought to be a ‘ find” some
60 miles up-country, in the vicinity of
Newcastle (now Toodyay). Nothing of
any moment has been found in the neigh-
borhood since.
* * * *
“Audrey”: Of islands off the Austra-
lian coast, Kangaroo (S.A.) has had the
greatest number of wrecks. Its record
shows 250 lives lost in 23 pilings-up.
Although the island now boasts four
lighthouses, there have been wrecks since
hey were put there, the latest that of the
Portland Maru in 1935
Portland Maru m „
“Sandnatch”: Place-names are cer-
tainly a matter of importance (B.
1 /12/ ’37), but what is far more neces-
sary in each State is an archives depart-
ment, where all official records could be
recorded and indexed. The old land and
courthouse registers, shire and munici-
pal minute books, etc., could be properly
cared for ; at present they lie in old bins
or on dusty shelves, housing white-ants,
silverfish, cockroaches and the like.
Gathered together they would be readily
accessible to research students. Many
valuable records are fast disappearing,
especially those of defunct municipalities,
divisional boards and the like.
* * * *
“Dilrig”: What is really going on to
justify the London “Observer” saying
that “shark factories have for several
decades been profitable enterprises on all
coasts where the shark abounds, and
enormous establishments of this kind
are instituted in Australia”? America,
of course, has got- after the shark
in businesslike fashion. With den-
ticles still on, the leather is in demand
as an abrasive and for tool handles.
Oil yield, under improved ex-
traction methods, is roughly
about one-fifth of the total
carcass weight. It sells among
paint factories, steelworks
and manufacturing chemists.
Jewellery and fancy-goods
trades take the teeth. Bones
go to make fertiliser, and
dried fins are shipped to
China. Even the white man’s
prejudice against shark meat
appears to have been over-
come —it’s sold tinned.
* * *
“General Prac.”: The old
fiction persists that the hand-
writing of all doctors is illeg-
ible. The truth is, of course,
that they write a fist no worse
nor better than that of other
people ; medical students soon
learn that examiners hate un-
readable scrawls. The reason
prescriptions often look like
the meanderings of a blowfly
soaked in ink is that doctors
are forced to use a jumble of
Arabic signs, tags of dog
Latin and symbols of quan-
tity which the laity can’t de-
cipher. The sooner all these
relics go the better.
“Pancake”: The Tasmanian eccentric
who upheld the earth was flat (B.
15/12/’37) was not alone in this respect.
For many years a society of some size
existed in England—it may still be
flourishing for all I know —which spent
a good deal of money proving the theory
to its own satisfaction. And there are
numerous folk, usually found in the
ranks of the anti-vivisectionistS and anti-
inoculationists, who refuse to believe in
the germ theory. Only a couple of months
ag° a Brisbane Labor alderman opposed
a suggestion that all Brisbane school-
children be inoculated against diphtheria,
As he put it, he wasn’t going to have his
children injected with rotten horse
blood.
“Tom Willie”: The smokebox, which
has been subjected to loud guffaws all
over Australia is really an indispensable
adjunct to the railway engine. It has a
spark-arrester which catches the hot, fine
offthrow of the fire and prevents it from
escaping through the funnel. That is
why railway engines don’t start bush-
fires. And here another old belief is
given the K.O. In the bad old days
engines had the careless habit of drop-
ping hot coals from the ashpan on to the
permanent way, and a trailer of dry grass
soon set the bush alight. A stern cor-
rective was applied and the habit cured
for all time. The modern engine has
learned another politeness ;. it doesn't
throw soot and grit into the carriages
any more. A wind-deflector catches the
smoke and bends it forward as it emerges
from the funnel, so that the column of
smoke precedes the engine for a time
and then turns straight up into the sky.
Excepting when the train is passing
through a tunnel the smoke never comes
into contact with the carriages.
* * *
“Ek Dum”: The flapper press has
been enthusiastic over a red-haired Aus-
tralian lady who has been training
cheetahs in England for racing against
“t’ dawgs.” Indians would be glad to
present her with all the cheetahs in sight.
The All India States’ People’s Confer-
ence, in a paper respecting casualties in
Cutch, says the Maharao “imported
cheetahs from Africa to satisfy his lust
for shikar” —hunting. Some of the
cheetahs have got loose and taken to
the jungle. A table of village victims
shows 22 Killed and 38 injured from
1934 to Nov. 15 this year.
* * * *
“Chain Gang”: Why all this fuss about
recognising our convict beginnings? Long
before Franklin British political and other
prisoners went to Virginia. They differed
from the Australian variety in that the
cargoes were put up for sale by auction
on arrival. Transport from England to
the West Indies of political prisoners not
worth beheading or hanging began in
Cromwell’s day and continued until after
the ’45, when the second George was
king. The better class of these were
“bonded” for seven years to planters and
were free to go about their own business
when their time was up. A fore-elder of
the writer made such a trip in 1702 over
some little Jacobite fuss in the North of
England. With him went another scion
of a Yorkshire family named Lascelles,
and both eventually settled down and
amassed lands and wealth.


CRAVEN A
In seven different Christmas Packings: 50’s, 100’s, 150’s, 200’s and 500’s.
Also Bakelite Boxes of 75 and 100.
CRAVEN ‘A’ ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
L 1448
POLITICAL POINTS
Half a hundred union secretaries and
numerous other gentlemen and ladies
have issued a “personal appeal to You,
as a member of the Great Labor Move-
ment, to help us to get rid of the Lang
dictatorship and the Inner Group
regime.” Among the other gentlemen are
Dunn, who was a Senator, Garden, who
was member for Cook, Lazzarini and
Heffron, Ms.L.A., former Ms.L.A. and
Ms.L.C., and editor Boote, of the
“Worker.” The Inner Group is chuck-
ing them out at the rate of about two a
day.
Mr. Casey got the £8,000,000 for
which he asked Australian investors, and
£150,000 more. The chances are that he
could have got £10,500,000 if the
£2,500,000 had been offered as an alter-
native to the London loan which attracts
him so much. No addition to the
national debt gives any cause for joy.
The kind of borrowing which means that
£40,000 sterling p.a. has to be found, in
excess of exports over imports, for every
£1,000,000 raised is an injury to the
country and an outrage on the part of
the Government perpetrating it without
cause.
Either pre-selection is right in prin-
ciple or it is wrong. If the U.A.P. people
are satisfied that it is right they should
stick to it, whatever the consequences.
But because they are scared by recent
successes of Independents, the party
bosses in N. S. Wales have agreed that
more than one U.A.P. candidate may be
“endorsed” in “safe” electorates. It is
a feeble compromise—one more ignoble
concession to that expediency which has
been the bane of Libs., Nats, and Yaps
for quarter of a century.
S.A. Labor blames lack of organisa-
tion, not abolition of pre-selection, for
its failure on October 23, and it is to give
“the open go” another trial at the State
elections. This means, among other
things, that six Labor members will be
candidates in three electorates—Dale and
Howard in Adelaide ; Lacey, the leader,
and Threadgold in Port Pirie ; Richards,
the deputy-leader, and Pedler in Wal-
laroo. Moreover
Many State Labor candidates will run for
all safe Labor seats and for seats where
Labor prospects of success are regarded as
hopeful.
An attitude that deserves the respect of
democrats, even if it doesn’t command
success.
The Victorian Licensing Court is clos-
ing six superfluous pubs in the Mary-
borough and Daylesford districts. Out
of the compensation fund to which they
themselves have subscribed, owners are
to get up to £2735 and occupiers up to
£630. Transfer of licenses from super-
fluous pubs to flats or other joints is not
permitted in Victoria. It is in N. S.
Wales, though there is no public men-
tion of money passing, the public being
left to conclude that licenses which
should have a large transfer value are
given away in a spirit of pure philan-
thropy.
The High Court is a stout bulwark
against the insolence of taxing politicians
and taxation departments. In recent pro-
ceedings at Sydney a chartered account-
ant, technically the public officer of a
building co., was held responsible for
payment of wages tax for which the co.
had become “liable to the Commis-
sioner,” and fined £5O ; in default, 100
days’ imprisonment. The High Court
decided that under the Act a public
officer is not thus liable for a com-
pany’s default, and ordered the depart-
ment to pay all costs. The tax is the
one alleged to be levied for unemployed-
relief, though the unemployed get no
more of the fruits than a faint sniff.
An aspect of Italy’s resignation from
the League passed over in the customary
aftermath of press recriminations is that
Italy will save about £lOO,OOO on the
move. A lot of spaghetti can be bought
for £lOO,OOO.
France is trying two Australian Labor
recipes for producing general felicity—
the 40-hour week and nationalisation of
the manufacture of armaments and
munitions. Results so far are dashed
poor. There has been so serious a fall-
ing-off in production of general com-
modities, and such a fury of protests
against sky-high prices, that the harassed
Government is now trying to grapple
with the problem of getting more work
done without losing votes. And the out-
put of Flying Corps machines has been
so poor, in quantity and quality, since
A strong Bar has been engaged for the inquiry into Mr. Lang’s charges concerning
the sale of State enterprises, and it is predicted that the thing will last as long as either
of the s.p. cases.
“Why, it's Father Christmas!"
the factories were “nationalised” that
even the Chamber of Deputies has be-
come alarmed.
The State Parliament having granted
the necessary authority (State Parlia-
ments are so obliging in these matters),
the Brisbane City Council has granted
its members an increase of £lOO a year—
to £4OO. That’s what members of the
House of Commons got for many years.
The Labor aldermen are positive that
they are worth it, though one or two of
the “Tories” have their doubts. To make
it look like a real Christmas present, the
rise was dated back to November 18.
Australians have been permitted to
learn that Attlee, the British Labor leader
visited Red Spain on the cheap, all bills
being paid by the Red Government-. Also
that Attlee, Miss Wilkinson, M.P., and
Baker, the professor turned M.P., were
photographed giving the Red-Front
salute. That photograph should keep
British Labor out of office for another
10 years.
John Higgins, of “Bawra,” whose Vic-
torian estate was valued at £131,000, left
£2500 # to the P.M.’s wife “in appreciation
of the services rendered by Joseph Lyons
in a critical period of Australian history.”
The dead can do that sort of thing with
dignity and general acceptance. When
the living attempt it—as one of Joseph’s
lieutenants can testify—there is a roar
that splits the welkin.
After many years, the Citizens’ Reform
Association induced Arthur McElhone,
doyen of Sydney aldermen, to stand as
a Civic Reformer. Previously he had
come out as a party of one, and the un-
certain Fitzroy ward generally put him
at the top of the poll. On December 6
he got nearly half the primary votes, and
his preferences elected three other Civic
Reformers, thus enabling his new asso-
ciates to wirt an election that would
otherwise have been doubtful. They
were so grateful that, in secret caucus,
they decided to remove McElhone from
the so-called County Council, which con-
trols the city lighting business, and of
which he is chairman. To do him justice,
the president of tjie Citizens’ Reform
Association was the first to express the
disgust which the ratepayers feel.
Westralian Labor has been tackled
again by T. J. Hughes, the member for
East Perth, “in view of the disclosure
of the true ownership of the Captain
Stirling Hotel, Nedlands, and for other
reasons.” Hughes said that the executors
of the McCallum estate were suing
Senator Bertie Johnston for £lO,OOO,
being half the value of the pub men-
tioned, and that the transaction was
belated evidence in support of the case
he presented to a royal commissioner,
particularly on the issue that Senator
Johnston had received “remarkable pref-
erence” in the granting of hotel licenses.
McCallum was for years the No. 2 Labor
Minister. He resigned to take a State
Agricultural Bank job at £2OOO p.a., but
died before he had held it long.
Melbourne “Age” has discovered that
State Labor “is steadily compiling a
record of sound service under able leader-
ship,” that of Jack Cain, and that “the
Country Ministry need not be ashamed
of the fact that it is being influenced as
well as supported by Labor.”
The blend is wholly acceptable to the
Victorian people... .To a substantial extent
Labor has overcome the disabilities im-
posed by an electoral system that severely
handicaps the party.
But wait till Cain orders Dunstan to
“overcome the disabilities” permanently
by introducing one-vote-one-value legis-
lation. Then “the blend” will resolve
.itself into its original elements and the
“Age” will have to make an agonising
choice.
The native bear was nearly extermi-
nated in Queensland in the sacred name
of State rights, and now for the same
reason the Murray cod is vanishing. The
Victorian Government was asked to do
something to preserve for posterity the
most delicious of freshwater fish. Its
reply was that it could do nothing because
the other provincial Governments in
whose waters the cod is vanishing would
not agree. Future generations, which will
know the koala and cod only through
libraries and museums, will blasphem-
ously refuse to regard their destroyers
as pillars of State rights.
Though Westralia expects a 32,000,000-
bushel wheat harvest, farmers in mar-
ginal districts have had another bad
season, and more Agricultural Bank
settlers have walked off their properties.
On June 30 the bank had 2125 aban-
doned farms on its hands, exclusive of
612 leased; 1052 of the 2125 were
alleged dairy farms in south-west group-
settlement districts. Bad as the position
was, it would have been far worse if a
softheaded Government had been allowed
to go on with a scheme in
10-inch country at the cursed Common-
wealth’s expense.
Tasmania has been told by W. E.
Chamberlin, veterinary pathologist in the
Department of Agriculture, that “Laun-
ceston andi Canberra are the only cities
in Australia in which the milk supply is
drawn from animals tested and free from
tuberculosis.” Pleasant reading for
people in other places who pay Bd. a
quart for milk that would be dear at 6d.
N. S. Wales is to have a new party
headed by Dr. Nott, who beat Theodore
in Herbert and tried to unseat Hughes in
North Sydney. The doctor’s executive
committee is composed of men who were
associated .with existing parties till they
tired of them, as many other people have
done, and one of the points in the pro-
gramme—there are a dozen or so —is “re-
duction in the number of members of
State Parliaments, with the object of
ultimate abolition.” One point, aboli-
tion of State Parliaments, would be
enough.
Several Queensland Labor Assembly-
men were hard pressed in the party
ballots; but the only one beaten was
W. J. Copley, of Bulimba. Brother P.
K. Copley, of Kurilpa, was one of ihe
successful ones. Kurilpa and Bulimba
used to be soft snaps for Labor, but
nowadays neither can be accounted safe.
Room for the professors:
8.8. C. celebrated the Russian “election” by
heaving over the air a Soviet play which the
“Daily Mail” has denounced as Bolshie propa-
ganda. The author, it seems, is a professor of
modern history at Cambridge. Apropos, a
Sydney professor of modern history has
written a book in which he delicately suggests
that “Hitler’s mental narrowness is due to the
habit of his ancestors of inbreeding for cen-
turies,” and asserts that Hitler’s father was
illegitimate for 40 years. An Australian State
Premier was illegitimate all his days; but,
though everybody knew it, nobody denounced
him for it. Perhaps if his State had boasted a
professor of modern history things would have
been different.


THE HIGHER DIPLOMACY.


&tihsiot&MUf£au4
LARGE,
SMALL
AND
HORSESHOE
ML
We use over a quarter million
buns and rolls each year.
You like yours buttered? Well,
everyone has different ideas I don't
care for butter on mine I can recom-
mend the Victoria Palace, though, to those
who like excellent cuisine and accommoda-
tion Australia's largest, most modern hotel
There were a nuarter million satisfied guests
last year
301-229 LIT. COIIINS STREET. MELBOURNE C I (Next Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
POWER DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
Champions
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
POWER to climb hills. POWER to
cover the ground quickly. POWER to
give your car greater speed with less
effort, less vibration, less expense. Get
POWER the way racing champions
get it... with CHAMPIONS.
Empire product — made in Windsor, Canada
%
a
I
iitfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
sSS&iik
&
50
T*
M37M7JJJ.
7JTJJ7JJ
77777777
77777
77 7
7 7 jjjjy.
77 JJ*/*
JJJ*/ASk
7jJ*/‘
Kir -
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
The death, at 37, of Commander lan
Chesborough Macdonald, commander of
H.M.A.S. Sydney, was a heavy loss to
the R.A.N. Macdonald was one of the
first graduates from the Australian Naval
College, and in England, when doing his
special courses, won the Jackson Everett
prize as the outstanding officer among
students from all the British Empire
navies. He was with the Grand Fleet
during the war, passed his advanced-
signals courses in the British school, and
became flag-lieutenant and squadron
signal officer to “Teddy” Evans. After-
wards he served for a time with the R.N.
on the China station.
T.R. TOOVEY, from the Port of
London.
Sydney Lord Mayors are not often
elected unanimously, but there was no
doubt that Norman Nock would be when
his nomination became certain. Only one
younger man has held the job and none
could have been found more suited to
it in Australia’s 150th year. One of his
Labor colleagues, speaking for the party,
said that the .name of his firm, because
of its good repute, had become practi-
cally a household word in the Common-
wealth.
Lord Mayor Nock was bred in the hard-
ware business. He was a Shore Grammar
School boy, was sent to England and
U.S.A. to study his business, became
noted as a motor-driver —he won many
Australian R.A.C. trials and raced in
England dh Brooklands —and was made
managing director of the family firm at
26. Nock sits on a number of boards,
takes an active interest in the N.S.W.
Retail Traders’ Association —he has been
its president—and in other commercial
bodies, finds time for yachting, speedboat
racing and big-game fishing. And all his
busy life has been lived within 38 years,
for three of which he has been a city
alderman.
G. F. Bunbury, who came from Eng-
land as private secretary with returning
Queensland Governor Wilson, has had
an almost entirely Indian training. For
years in the Bengal Lancers, he was on
Wilson’s staff for 12 months when the
latter was Governor of Bombay, became
brigade major to the Third Indian Cav-
alry Brigade, and left the army to go to
Reading (Eng.) University and study
agriculture.
Passed on in Rosemount (Brisbane),
H. E. M. Long, from the dilatory effects
of gas. A Dookie (Vic.) College student,
Long went to Queensland not long before
the outbreak of war, promptly enlisted,
saw service on the west front, the hottest
of it in the Somme advance in 1918, and
came back to the North a year later a
captain with the M.C. and badly im-
paired lungs. He afterwards travelled over
a good deal of Queensland and New
Guinea, but his 49th year saw him com-
pletely worn out.
Out of a Victorian estate of £150,000
—he owned property in other States—
John Higgins, of Bawra, left £5OOO to
establish an old colonists’ home at Castle-
maine (Vic.), £5OOO each to four Vic-
torian hospitals, £lOOO for the benefit of
Salvation Army officers and £1375 to
Melbourne Technical College. The
balance goes to his sister for life. Two-
thirds will then be apportioned to rela-
tives and the remaining third to found
scholarships for the furtherance of pas-
toral and agricultural research. Higgins
had given generously to Melbourne Uni-
versity and charities during his lifetime.
Stenson Cooke, father of all the
world’s motor associations of the type
of Australia’s N.R.M.A., is on a quiet
visit to Australia and Maoriland. Cooke,
a dapper, military person W’ho began
active life in the Rifle Brigade, became
secretary of the British Automobile
Association at its birth in 1905. He has
seen the body grow to a membership of
millions, with ramifications which touch
every phase of European motoring. His
headquarters are in a huge building in
Leieester-square, opposite the old Em-
pire, Mecca of the naughty ’nineties.
Cooke, who was knighted in 1933, has
one hobby—he was British foils cham-
pion in 1923.
The Southwells are to hold a reunion
at Canberra next month to celebrate the
centenary of Thomas Southwell’s arrival
in Australia. There are over 1100 of
them now —in five generations.
At 45 E. A. Peverill, the Vic. Deputy-
Commissioner of Taxes, is to succeed
J. A. Norris as State Auditor-General.
His father, A.A., left the old Peverill
place in Charlton (Vic.) to join
the Lands Department, and he was de-
partmental Under-Secretary when he re-
tired. The son, by then well up in the
Taxation Department, refused several
tempting offers to carry on in the same
service. He was a Digger.
J. E. Andrews, industrial department
manager of the A.M.P. in Brisbane, has
been elected president of the Insurance
Institute of Queensland for 1938.
Andrews has held presidential office in
two States. He joined the A.M.P. in
Queensland in 1900.
The Bernard Hall portrait prize, this
year open for competition in Melbourne
for the first time, was won by Oswald
Hall. He is a son of the late director
of the Vic. National Gallery and a pro-
duct of the school his father ruled for
30 years.
T. E. Jones, retiring director of exter-
nal studies—he held the job for over a
quarter of a century since the foundation
of the Queensland University—is to be
succeeded by Tom Thatcher, whom he
taught at B.G.S. Thatcher, a long, wiry
Queenslander, won both Lilley medals
at school, and was one of the first gradu-
ates of the University with honors in
philosophy. He was private secretary
to Governor Hamilton Goold-Adams for
five years. At the same time N. M. Rich-
mond, an honors graduate of Canterbury
College (M.L.) and a Maoriland Rhodes
scholar, becomes director of tutorial
classes and lecturer in economic history.
Few teachers have their pupils so
widely scattered as M. B. Hambrook,
headmaster of the Vic. Education De-
partment’s Correspondence School. Chil-
dren sit for the exams, he sets them in
places as far apart as Malaya and British
Sudan, and one of the 2500 has been
pursued with papers from one end of
the Commonwealth to the other, owing
to the fact that his parents live perma-
nently in a motor-caravan. The foreign
pupils are children of Victorian
parents who hold jobs abroad but
still look to the Cabbage Garden for
their family’s education. Every year
numbers of Hambrook’s pupils who
have never been in a schoolroom
enter Melbourne University.
For a couple of months Victoria has
had a welfare officer to advise and help
indeterminate-sentence prisoners after
they have been, released on parole—
Richard C. Cawthorn, one-time member
of the 7th Battalion, A.I.F. His position
is believed to be the first official one of
its kind in Australia; duties parallel
those of similar Government servants in
the U.K., Maoriland and some American
States, and Cawthorn believes the way is
being paved for results as good as those
reported from these countries. For 10
years he was a penal-department worker,
first at Pentridge and later at French
Island reformatory.
Robert Winton Gillespie is little known
to the general public, but in milling
circles he is a power. Melbourne-born
and educated at Hawthorn Grammar
School under Professor Irving, he rose
to be managing director of Gillespie
Brothers Pty., flourmillers but invest-
R.W. GILLESPIE, Bank of N.S.
Wales President.
ment and his business reputation soon,
took him into other fields. He is a direc-
tor of the C.S.R. and Queensland In-
surance, and has sat on the board of
the Bank of N. S. Wales, of which he
has just become president in succession
to Thomas Buckland, for 15 years.
Besan?on is a French city which had
its cathedral as early as the fourth cen-
tury, and now packs in an army corps
head art famous sa i ine baths , a
. .. ~ , . , , .
university, world-known watchmaking
schools the city turns out three-
quarters of all the watches made in
France—and an imposing range of busy
industries. It also bred George Bader,
who for 16 years has been France . s
GEORGE BADER, Trade Commis-
sioner.
Trade Commissioner in Sydney, and who
radiates the same sort of energy as his
native place. Bader has a wide circle of
friends throughout Australia. And they
and his work are his hobbies. He has
just returned to Australia after his first
visit to France for seven years.
Brig. Bourchier, the Vic. Agent-
General, is dead at 56. When the Great
War broke out he was a grazier at N.
Katandra (Vic.), and promptly joined up
as a lieutenant. During seven months on
Gallipoli he became a captain and adju-
tant in the 4th Light Horse, and by the
time of the Palestine push in 1917 he
was in command of his regiment. He led
the charge at Beersheba, his men rush-
ing full tilt into the Turkish and Ger-
man trenches, mounted and with
bayonets, wrecking the enemy’s left wing
and making possible the march on
Damascus. For that job he got a D.S.O.
In 1919 he helped suppress the Egyp-
tian rebellion, and in 1922 he successively
commanded the sth Cavalry Brigade and
2nd Cavalry Division. Bourchier was in
the Vic. Leg. Assembly for 16 years, was
Minister for Agriculture in John Allan’s
1925 Ministry, and led the Country party
for a couple of depression years, becom-
ing Chief Secretary and Deputy-Premier
before his appointment as Agent-
General.
“El V.” on a Scottish pioneer:
A pioneer deserving of honor by the Scots
during the 150th anniversary year is Francis
Grose, whose grave is somewhere at Croydon
(N.S.W.). Grose himself was no Scot. He
was born in Surrey, fought at Bunker’s Hill,
raised the N. S. Wales Corps and saw it earn
its nickname of the Rum Corps, while he
himself became a major-general. But Grose’s
father was that antiquary of whom Burns
wrote: —•
A chiel’s amang you takin’ notes,
And, faith, he’ll prent it!
However, Grose has a monument already—the
city of Sydney. He it was who, when Acting-
Governor, threw overboard Phillip’s plans and
remodelled the settlement.


Capt. Arthur Phillip,
R.N., landing at
Sydney Cove, January
26th, 1788. t
Blazing the trail
to a great
ACHIEVEMENT
i
mm
EXIDE CAR BATTERIES provide unfailing
power for starting, lighting, ignition in fact,
for everything electrical on your car —for
years!
w
EXIDE RADIO BAT-
TERIES are built to give
you the utmost in recep-
tion of which your set is
capable. Two, four, and
six volt types.
EXIDE HOUSE-LIGHT-
ING BATTERIES. No
matter how far from the
mains, you can enjoy the
convenience of electricity
by installing Exide Bat-
teries.
EXIDE "KATHANODE" BATTERIES. Pic-
tured is a 48 cells type KA 39, having a
capacity of 608 ampere hours at the 5 hr.
rate. Made for an electric locomotive at
Elrington Colliery, N.S.W.
■
:
S
' . 7
■
1
n i
I
I
. am
■
iiii
if.
s? 88
:■ v m
Mi
■
■
ns
t;
r «-
7
.
■ SM
n
, . ' ■ '
—i
...
la
'
Mil
mg
s
n
'
Mhhni
■ ;>■
v '% ,
&
ilia
r
2
>*>
i
i£TC2O
/
■: M:7. -
■
...
I *' ' ■'
&
V
MM
Wmmi
EVERY great nation —every great enterprise—owes much to its pioneers. The
first storage battery in the world was an Exide. The first car ignition,
lighting and starting battery was an Exide. The fiist S.O.S. wireless call
was made with an Exide Battery, as was also the first ship-to-shore wireless
communication.
Exide’s record in the service of Australia is little short of illustrious. Leading Australian
hospitals rely on Exide Batteries for emergency lighting. Exide Batteries provide power
for the Bass Strait Cable and Telephone Service. Exide Batteries are used for the beacons
of the Australian East-West Air Routes. Australian Broadcasting Stations and Automatic
Telephone Exchanges are equipped with Exide Batteries. And 65% of the motor cars in
Australia are initially equipped with Exide Batteries —more than all other makes com-
bined. For future security, fit an Exide Battery.
pioneer of every worth-while development in
BATTERIES
Obtainable from dealers throughout Australia


ABORIGINALITIES
“Jayem”: Long Harry was taking de-
livery of some cattle, and had noted all
of the brands except that on a big white
bullock. On this beast it was completely
obscured by the long winter coat. Harry
jumped from the fence and started to
scratch along the bullock’s ribs with a
pencil to trace the elusive brand. The
bullock must have been ticklish, for, with
one kick, he sent Harry to the other end
of the yard. “There’s gratitude for you,”
Harry told his mate. “A man tries to
find out for him who he is, and look
what he does.”
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: The yarn of the
laconic and suspicious bushman (B.
24/11/’37) recalls one told by a relative
who is a motor-car addict. He and a
mate were sent to look over a new route
in the Blue Mountains suitable for the
club’s next reliability trial. On one
lonely road they encountered a local
citizen and vainly endeavored to get in-
formation about likely tracks, hills, etc.
He listened in glum silence for a bit and
finally spoke up. “No use yer lookin’ fer
illicit stills round here, mister. Take my
tip and have a screw round Tabletop,”
giving the name of a rival community
which I have taken the liberty of altering.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: That sea of snakes off
Papua (B. 24/11/’37) reminds me of the
time I went pioneerin’ down the Murray.
It was pretty bad snake country, but they
didn’t bother me until the night the flood
came down. It caught me asleep, but
somehow I managed to get on to some
.floating rubbish and was carried along
with the stream. What had rrie tricked
was the way that rubbish kept swirlin’
and twistin’ in the flood, and when dawn
came I found out. I was floatin’ down
the river on a flamin’ great heap of
snakes, and the turnin’ was caused by
the ones underneath tryin’ to get on top.
As it happened, me old jew’s-harp was
in me shirt pocket, and when I started
playin’ “The Wearin’ o’ the Green” them
serpents made evens to the nearest bank,
puttin’ me on dry land. Yair, they
seemed to reckon I was St. Patrick on
an antipodean reincarnation.
* * * *
“^ om Ney”: Though “Lizard” (B.
24/11/’37) seems to have got mixed be-
tween studs and the ordinary merino
that pioneered the inland in forgotten
years, I can sympathise with his charge of
pampering.” Went to a dance near
Echuca (Vic.) once, only to find it had
been postponed because the old squatter
who owned the woolshed in which it
was to be held had some stud rams in
the pens, and he wasn’t going to have
their night’s rest disturbed.
* * * *
Ornis”: Mo doubt the starling is an
unpleasant fowl in many ways (B.
24/11/’37), but “C.V.S.” libels him when
he says he is useless as a pest-exter-
minator. In the Old Country it is as
much esteemed as the rook as a destroyer
of wireworm and other pasture-spoilers.
It has the same habit in Australia, as
anyone who has seen a flock “grazing” in
formation over grassland can testify.
Also, as a grasshopper-devourer the
“chatty” bird rivals the ibis.
* * * *
“Attargul”: Take a stroll round one
or any of Sydney’s garden suburbs and
it’s odds you will come across a pair
or two of bulbuls, our latest feathered
importation from overseas. They are
handsome little fellows locally re-
christened by many “admiral birds” on
account of some fancied resemblance in
their crests to the naval article —with a
distinctive but not particularly musical
The poor beast's hungry, Basil. Throw him a sandwich .”
note or two. Some fears are expressed
that they will presently develop into an
orchard pest, but considering the preva-
lence of dingy sparrows and starlings it
will be many a year before the bulbul's
depredations count for anything. It
would be interesting to know, neverthe-
less, who brought the first pair of them
from India or Persia or Mesopotamia,
whichever it was, after the war, and how
he got them past the Customs.
* * * *
“Runa”: To a land where emus are
regarded as machine-gun fodder the pub-
licity given in Auckland (M.L.) to the
death of the only emu chick at the local
zoo will seem extraordinary. It was the
solitary one hatched from eight eggs, and
the papers recorded at intervals the de-
votion of Father Emu, who did the
hatching and was pathetically devoted to
the only child.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister” : There were some good
practical seamen in the old-day lakatoi
trading fleets of Eastern New Guinea,
judging from what they told the shore-
going population, including their own
wives. One peril of the deep would
come in handy for a shipmaster examined
in a stranding case. It was a live rock
which sprang from the sea bottom, irre-
spective of depth, at any canoe which
passed over it. If the wife of any mem-
ber of the ship’s company stepped aside
from the path of virtue during his ab-
sence at sea, it delayed the ship—a con-
vincing reply to querulous owners. There
were islands full of attractive ladies, and
with no men either. But no mariner ever
survived a call at any of them —they
ate him alive at the first suspicion of
either coyness or satiety.
1 n wire snares (B.
/ 37) may be jake for wallabies
and such small fry, but a man has to be
careful when he uses them for wombats,
1 set a couple for a brace of outsize ’bats
that visited our vegetable patch o’ nights,
and for safety s sake fastened the snares
to the beam of a heavy double-furrow
plough. Next morning the snares were
gone , so was the plough. After follow-
m§ a six-inch-deep furrow for a couple
of miles we found the implement still
going, with the wombats in their wire
traces buckling down to it like a pair of
Clydesdales and turning over a very
pretty sod. They made rather a mess of
•P a f^H re . paddock, but the dad saw
possibilities in the animals, and for years
afterwards his team of plough-bats, as
he called them, was the envy of the dis-
trict. We had to get rid of the little
chaps in the end because they insisted on
going through a hill instead of over it.
*** * .
“Sandpatch”: Skinning catfish presents
little difficulty if they are first plunged in
very hot salt water for about a minute.
In any case, there is no real necessity to
skin the brutes at all. The hot water
causes the viscous substance which covers
them to solidify like the white of a boiled
egg, and it can then be wiped off quite
easily. In fact, they are tastier not
skinned, provided the hot-water treat-
ment has been applied. Have eaten hun-
dreds, fried or made into kedgeree.
* * * *
“EUreka”: The traveller was trying to
sell Dad a pump for pumping water
from the creek to his dairy and house,
“I tell you J don’t want a pump,” Dad
told him. “I’ll just run a pipeline from
the creek to the house and let the water
run through.” “But the law of gravity
will not allow you,” the traveller told
him. “Look here, young fellow,” Dad
replied. “No blasted pqlitician can tell
me what to do. It’s my water, and I’ll
do what I like with it.”
,* „ *. ~ ,* * _
u cow-cocky (B.
10 /11/ 37) who provided his exhibit with
a false horn and carried off first prize
had nothing on one old battler I know.
He prepared his entry for the fattest
steer by carefully puncturing the hide in
selected spots and injecting warm fat
with a syringe. As the judge remarked
when he gave it the prize, “It was prac-
tically lumpy with fat.”
* m * * *
“Smoko”: Even the old sundowner
seems to have discarded the saving habit
of years back. I watched one, with
Matilda up, scrape out the heel-tap of
his clay dhab and empty it on the road-
way. Time was when the ashes of his
last smoke were carefully palmed and
used as a topdressing for the refill.
„ * ... * . *.
, and daring give me
the mullet-fishermen of the Stockton
breakwater at Newcastle (N.S.W.). Tiger-
hunting is as tame as mowing the back
lawn compared with what these fellows
do. I strolled along one morning after
having fished the beach half the night
without catching a scale. There was a
chap sitting beside a great pile of mullet
as big as salmon. To my question as to
the bait he was using he told me prawn,
The liar! I saw him in action a few
minutes later, together with half a dozen
others, who sprang to life from places
where they had apparently been snoozing,
Their equipment was a short bamboo rod,
a wooden reel and about 100 yards of
heavy cord line with the most villainous-
looking jag imaginable attached to the
end. This jag was a home-made affair
consisting of about two yards of electric-
light cable to which had been lashed at
intervals a couple of dozen large, needle-
sharp hooks. Thus armed they lay in
wait until a school of mullet passed by
the breakwater. Then the air was filled
with the hiss of those murderous hooks
and the rattle of the old reels as they
cast over the school. Unerringly the
gaffs found their marks and were jerked
back among the fish. I watched them
attack half a dozen schools of not more
than eight or nine fish, and they never
failed to hook two or three before they
got out of range. Hooks hissing past
their ears from all directions, these hardy
devils were jumping from rock to rock
to keep up with the school and running
out on to the wreck of the old Adolf by
way of the masts that have fallen across
the breakwater.
* * * *
“Western”: Roving around Eucla
(Great Australian Bight country), I got
an ancient black to show me an unques-
tionable water-mallee. A distinct species,
it stood slightly apart from the other
mallees that hedged a small natural clear-
ing. About 15 feet in height and with an
umbrella top of bushy foliage, its leaves
are shorter and broader than similar
species, also with a brighter, more shiny
appearance. Trunk and main stems clear
of all foliage and covered with snow-
white bark. To obtain water the ancient
dug down about six inches to surface
roots. Not more than the size of a man’s
thumb, these, cut through close to the
trunk, could be easily ripped up in six-
foot lengths. They were then carefully
peeled. Broken next into nine-inch
lengths they were stood on end to drain,
very soon yielding a pint into the billy,
Porous like cane, their contents could be
got quicker by blowing. Water clear and
cool, but slightly astringent in taste. In-
structor explained that without the pre-
liminary peeling it would be more so—
“Gibbum tie-up in tummy-tummy.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Dogs that puncture tins
of fish in order to lick up the gravy have
nothing on the sharks outside Fremantle,
A few years ago a consignment of canned
fish lying in bond became so “blown”
that it was taken out to sea and dumped,
For weeks after that sharks were caught
with unbroken tins in their interiors,
salmon being the favorite. Probably
under the action of the shark’s gastric
juice the tin soon dissolved, and the
swallower received the enclosed nourish-
ment. But how did the sharks know that
said nourishment was enclosed—that the
apparently-solid tin was really hollow?
More recently shark-fishers have landed
catches holding unbroken tins of con-
Sensed milk, etc., dumped overboard
f rom passenger vessels in the clean-up
before entering harbor,
**' * *
“Effayce”: “Gryllus” on flying-foxes
(B. l/12/’37) reminds me of a cocky near
Jamberoo (N.S.W.). In an effort to pro-
tect his apricot-trees from the beasts he
hit on the idea of tying some Japanese
lanterns in the branches. Meeting him
a few days later I inquired after his ex-
periment. “Well, it kept ’em away for
the first coupla nights,” he said, “but I
come out last night to see how things
was, an’, stone th’ crows, there was the
crimson blankards carrying the lamps
around looking fer the fruit.”
MONTMORENCY’S GHOST.
He rode in behind the cattle
Like a Tank Corps in a battle,
With a V 8 Ford and tractor and a lorry-load
o’ beer;
He came striding through the dry grass,
An Apollo in an eyeglass,
And his name was Montmorency Horace
Archibald de Vere.
He declared his destination
To be “just an outback station
Where a fellow can investigate the habits of
the steeah.”
He sought, in fact, “material
For the Great Australian Serial—
A novel I am writing of the Nevah Nevah
heah.”
When they tumbled to his meaning
Laughing lubras left their cleaning,
From the saddles swung the stockmen and
the swagmen dropped their gear;
Even long-established wowsers
Tucked some bottles in their trousers,
While the station staff all staggered round
the lorry-load o’ beer.
Monty rounded up the rovers
And the teamsters and the drovers,
And he listened to their whoppers with a
most attentive ear;
While they strung him, hard he typed it,
And we’ll hope the angels wiped it
From the book they keep for liars, with an
understanding tear.
Where the mercury mounts highest
And the crab-holed creeks run driest
Went the noble Montmorency Horace Archi-
bald de Vere;
And behind him, through the roughest,
Rode the Territory’s toughest*'
With a dandy lot o’ data and a lorry-load
o’ beer.
And the cattle went unmustered
Till the owners, hot and flustered,
Swore an oath they’d clean the country of
that literary smear;
Through the spinifex they tracked him,
And a speeding bullet smacked him,
While the marksman grimly muttered :
“That’s the end o’ that there ’ere!”
“That’s the end of ’im! ” they muttered,
But ’twas heresy they uttered,
For the Great Creative Artist from an older
hemisphere
Through the nameless Never Never
Wanders on, and shall for ever,
With his phantom files of data and his lorry-
load o’ beer.
When the moon is on the wattle
He will wave a ghostly bottle,
And you’ll hear the herds stampeding in an
avalanche of fear,
While he murmurs “Social strahtah
Do not mattah if you’ve dahtah
For my Great Australian Novel of the Nevah
Nevah heah!”
VICTORIA.
ERIC HAYDON.


“Skull Creek”: Bill was trying to get
his mate a grip on the construction job.
He buttonholed the boss at smoke-oh,
and after waxing lyrical over his cobber’s
qualifications ended up by saying in a
burst of candor, “Fair dinkum, he’s a
better man than I am.” The boss lifted
an inquiring eyebrow. “Too right,” Bill
went on ; “I’ll guarantee he’ll shift more
than me any day.” “All right then,” the
boss remarked as he walked off. “If
that’s the case he can start in the mom-
ing—in pl ace - You finis up
to-night.” # *
*. re, A .
“Hecate : This with an a avi .
Carrum Downs Vic r< Vcons
miles of Melbourne, but the birds f
village are quite unsophisticated. A
visitor parked his bright new car in i
open-air gaiage, an ye ow- ea e
minahs congregated on the oot oar s,
gazing at themselves in the polls e
doors. The bright nickel on e w
hubs also fascinated them to the point of
frenzy Their beaks did no damage to
the body ot the car, but since our guest
departed the house windows have been
repeatedly assailed by these vain fowl.
No other species of bird on the place
took the slightest notice of the shiny car.
**. * * _
“Polecat’: “Ermine’ (B. 8/12/ 37)
asks what became of 250 stoats and
weasels which (according to an English
newspaper) were dispatched to Australia
from the old country “for the purpose
of destroying rabbits” 50 years ago. If
they ever arrived here, I suggest that
they came into the hands of some enter-
prising Sydney or Melbourne dealer who
sold them as ferrets—to which domesti-
cated breed they are, of course, closely
allied. Weasels are by way of being
tameable ; I have read in some history
or other that the Romans of the Im-
perial era utilised them for keeping
down rats and mice until the cat arrived
from Egypt to supersede them as more
desirable (and less highly-scented) house-
hold pets. But I never heard of anyone
keeping a stoat in captivity.
* * * *
“The Bridge”: “Ploki” says (B.
8/12/’37) that after “a party of them”
had' murdered the Frasers, of Hornet
Bank, on the Dawson, the Balonne
blacks made a night attack on the town-
ship of St. George, some hundreds of
miles distant, using fire spears—it was
the Dawson blacks, of course, who com-
mitted the Fraser murders. Writer
knows the St. George country better than
most who now do their bushwhacking m
George-street, Sydney, and never heard of
the township, established years before
the Dawson tragedy, being attacked by
blacks at night or otherwise. Also in
the course of a long acquaintance with
Binghi he never heard of his making a
“You take it from me, if this Chiarig Hi-Shick bloke falls back much more 'e’ll lose Madrid !”
night attack on anyone. Certainly there
was a considerable amount of friction
between black and white on the Balonne
in the early days. The Balonne tribes
were a race of fine physique, living in a
country full of fish and game, and gave
a lot of trouble to the white invaders.
For years there was a blackfellow’s skull
over the verandah door at Doondi sta-
tion, relic of one of the old'“dispersals.”
Also in those days on Boombah station,
by the St. George road, could be seen a
sinister-looking log between the forks of
two trees. On this were hanged a number
of blacks varying from three to a dozen,
according to the imagination of the old-
time liar pointing out the thing to the
stranger.
* * * *
“Pisces”: Among the fool notions ad-
vanced for keeping sharks away from
beaches is to run a length of pipe charged
with compressed air round the bathing
area —holes every so often providing a
constant string of bubbles rising to the
surface and frightening the sharks to
blazes. Sharks are only frightened of
air-bubbles as a novelty. Once the rush
of surprise has worn off they come back
for a further look-see. And there’s
nothing more attractive to a tiger mullet
than a rush of bubbles. Start that com-
pressed air going and all the mullet within
hearing will be there, trying to eat the
bubbles. Where the tiger mullet gather
so do the sharks in mobs. If a shark
in his zeal is chasing a fat mullet, or a
dozen of ’em, and that shoal dives
through the screen of which it isn’t
afraid, will the shark sit back on his
haunches and refuse to dive in after ’em?
* * * *
“The Moucher”: I wish “Alpha”
would give me his recipe for making
solder “take” on plain iron (B. 8/12/’37).
His cockies must have been a helpless
crew, too, to let an iron tank leak away
while waiting for a bloke with a solder-
ing outfit to come along. A little red-
or white-lead would have done the trick
effectively, or, failing that, a little home-
made mortar of sand and unslaked lime.
Failing even that, a piece torn off his
shirt-tail and served round the leaky
junction of tap and tank is better than
nothing, especially if plastered with
yellow soap.
* * * *
“Tinpish”: Good to hear a N.S.W.
company is going in for canning Aus-
tralian fish on a large scale. The fish to
be treated is the salmon, so called, which
travels up the coast of eastern Australia
in millions in the breeding season, and
if the venture is successful it may be
extended to tunny and other food-fishes.
It is to be hoped the company will not
market its product under the name of
salmon, for the Australian fish is not only
of an entirely different species from the
true salmon of commerce, but does not
remotely resemble it in appearance or
flavor. There should be no trouble in
finding a name- of its own for the pro-
duct. The salmon as an eating fish
varies in popularity. In Sydney it is
never sold as such, but in Melbourne
it is a regular exhibit in the shop win-
dows, being known there as sea-trout. A
peculiarity of the lish is that it has to
be penned for some time before using
to get rid or undesirable qualities. Pens of
the kind are a familiar feature in Vic-
torian fishing centres, and the Sydney
company is building them on a large
scale.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: However much one may
dislike cormorants as fish-destroyers, it
is impossible to avoid admiration of the
way in which they go about it when a
“S’pose this is one of YOUR castoffs”
real battue is on. Recent rains and high
tides have created hundreds of acres of
lagoons in the low-lying country through
which a S.Q. coastal estuary-river runs,
and innumerable young mullet feed in
them. How the news spread I can’t
guess, but a week ago big mobs of cor-
morants assembled in a couple of days,
and by scientific teamwork must have
got tons of the fish. A strong party
would post themselves at a lagoon en-
trance just before high water. The re-
mainder flew to the lagoon head and
there divided into two sections. One
spread out to dive, covering every yard
from bank to bank; the other followed
up on the surface, taking the fish driven
up from below. Both moved steadily
down towards the guard at the entrance,
which was meanwhile reinforced by
numerous newcomers. When they had
the mob hemmed in the real slaughter
began.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Harder-headed
even than the dongal mentioned by
“Kali” (B. 1 /12/’37) is the tuffbean—
native name ardazell—oi the Arafura
Sea. These handsome fish grow to a ton
or more, and their brilliant scarlet skins,
patterned in purple swastikas, are greatly
sought after by local rajahs for the manu-
facture of mosquito-repellent pyjamas.
They live in deep perpendicular tunnels
in the sea floor, excavated by their stand-
ing on their broad round noses, which
are armed with a ring of carborundum-
like material, and revolving at terrible
speed. The ground-up rock is discharged
through the gills, and so great is the heat
developed in the operation that the sea
boils. The only method of capture is to
noose the fish while at work with a loop
of bandsaw and let it cut its own head
off. The young are largely used for the
■manufacture of colanders, ventilators for
harems and other perforated-metal work.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Since when did kite hawks
introduce variety into their repertoire by
shrieking (B. 17/11 /’37)? I have never
heard them utter any other sound than
a thin, shrill, piping whistle: an incon-
gruous call for a large bird, though
quite befitting the gregarious fowl’s
spineless, scavenging nature. But perhaps
being confronted by brass eggs endowed
them with this new vocal power.
* * *
“Cockyson”: Recent pars, anent ham-
mocks recall the experience of a new-
chum who had an unholy horror of
snakes. Caretaker of a lonely farm pend-
ing the coming of the new owner, Henry
resorted to various schemes to dodge the
tempters of Eve. Finally he thought of a
hammock. Fashioning one with a ripped
cornsack and several lengths of fencing-
wire, he swung the makeshift from the
rafters well up beneath the shingle roof
of the slab dwelling. He climbed into
it, first closing all floor and wall open-
ings and securing the flimsy doors and
shuttered windows. Hearing a scraping
sound overhead Henry struck a match,
to discover a 6ft. carpet poking its big
angular head from the tunnel beneath
the ridge-capping. Terror-stricken, Henry
ducked under the blankets, and lay lis-
tening. Then, when he heard the reptile
steadily moving, he rolled out of the
hammock, hit the floor, crashed the door
open and flew. Next day he left to look
for a job in town.
“W.G.”: Most feasible explanation of
Joe Blake’s habit of keeping his tongue
constantly flickering that I’ve come across
is that the wriggler is using it as an
aerial to listen-in to. Which would also
explain his being able to hear without
possessing outward ears as we know
them. As far as I know the theory hasn’t
yet been definitely proved, but in scien-
tific circles it’s considered to be near
enough.
* * * *
“Dolgelly”: A popular bush cure of
other days for toothache was tallow-wood
bark. The sufferer chewed it awhile to
soften it, and then kept it clamped over
the acher. It generally did the trick.
Tallow-wood liniment was another well-
known home-made remedy. Small chips
of the green wood and bits of bark were
boiled and the resultant liquor strained
and mixed with about the same quan-
tity of a thin solution of wattle-gum.
Old-timers swore by it as a liniment for
sore muscles and aching joints.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
ENJOY THIS XMAS TO THE UTMOST BY MAKING
YOUR RESERVATIONS FOR THE
12/6 SPECIAL XMAS DINNER 12/6
12.30 till 2.30 p.m.
AT
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Adams’ have been fortunate in again
securing the services of their Special
Xmas Entertainers.
Special Decorations, Delightful
Novelties and an Atmosphere of
friendliness and goodwill.
For Reservations Call, Write or
’Phone M 4601.
S. C. SHORT, Manager.
XMAS TEA—A la Carte—
-5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
P *, - 1 4*
% ■ V - ■■:
kMBBP &.<mm ammjm
rntimmmmmMßmwsawwwwWmmtimteeßimm
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
, —Dividends—Nomi-
Net Ords; To Re- nal Ite-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 338,879 134,952 60,000 143,927 408,199
1928.. 320,260 155,857 60,000 104,403 512,602
1929.. 366,261 166,406 60,000 139,855 652,457
Written oft' plant, £99,398 .. .. 553,059
1930.. 344,518 172,500 60,000 112,018 665,077
Written off plant, £20,146 .. .. 644,931
82 p.c.
1931.. 354,797 172,500 42,500 139,797 784,728
Written off plant, £67,906 .. .. 716,822
Transferred to suspense account, ]
£40,000 }■ 100,747 817,569
1932.. 355,747 172,500 42,500 J
Written off plant, £205,042 .. .. 612,527
To suspense account, £40,000 1
1933.. 374,917 172,500 42,500 J 119,917 ' 32,444
Written off plant, £22,731 .. .. 709,713
From suspense account, £41,737.. .. 751,450
10 p.c.
1934.. 355,469 172,500 50,000 132,969 884,419
Reserves capitalised, £125,000 .. .. 759,419
Suspense account transferred, £31,109 .. 790,528
Premiums on repayment deben. stock, £2145 788,383
Written off plant, £20,112 .. .. 768,271
1935.. 334,073 172,500 56,250 105,323 873,594
Underwriting, etc., exes., £2404 .. 871,190
Premium repayment debentures, £14,633 856,557
Written off plant, £20,108 .. .. 836,449
1936.. 352,929 172,500 62,500 117,929 954,378
Written off plant, £22,520 .. .. 931,858
1937.. 397,902 174,583 62,500 160,819 1,092,677
* Includes provision for debenture sinking fund.
As consumers of current the public in
S. Aus., as well as shareholders, is inter-
ested in this co.’s figures. Its charges
are governed by interest and divs. paid
on the debenture and share capital,
allowances for depreciation, etc., and
the cost of generation and distribution.
The share and debenture capital is made
up as follows:
r —Capital Stock— >, , —Debenture Stock—
Adelaide. London. Adelaide. London,
p.c. £ £ p.c. £ £
Pref. 6 .. 166,358 83,642 54 C 18,200 911,074
„ 5 A.. 250,000 6 D 250',000
„ 8B . . 249,950 50 4 E 200,000
„ 64 C 717,782 282,218 4* F 200,000
~ 5 D . . 125,000
P. Ord. 8. . 743,339 6,661
Old. 8 . . 616.573 8,427 j
Early in the term £200,000 of 4\ p.c.
debenture stock was issued, and 250,000
£1 5 p.c. D prefs. were put out at
par in April and paid to 10s. each when
the books closed, both issues being to
those on the Adelaide register. Also,
capital stock to the amount of £34,370
was transferred from the London to the
Adelaide books. The co.’s total funds
(capital, debentures and reserves com-
bined) are costing on the average approxi-
mately p.c. as against 6 p.c. three years
years ago ; it is moderate cost consider-
ing the rapid expansion of the business
during the years of dear money.
For 26 years to the close of accounts
in 1931, allowances for sinking funds,
etc., averaged 2.14 p.c. on capital. The
actual amount written off to the end of
August last was £849,245 (£22,520 of it
in respect of the last term), mostly on
account of obsolescence during the last
dozen years—no specific allowance is
made each year for depreciation, hence
the unexpired book value of plant
scrapped is written off from reserves.
The effect of improvements in plant upon
consumers’ pockets is illustrated by the
cost of burning a 50-candlepower lamp
for 100 hours. In 1904 the figure was
10s. 6d., now it is 2s. 7jd.
During the last term the co.’s mains
were extended to seven new centres, 3146
new consumers were connected, and the
sale of kelvins increased by 16.2 p.c.
The spring in gross earnings was
£85,583:
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Gross revenue £787,729 £824,344 £878,910 £964,493
Operating exes.
and taxes . . 355,309 407,329 456,198 481,540
Net revenue £432,420 £417,015 £422,712 £482,953
The growth of £25,342 in exes, was
mainly on account of wages, etc.
(£155,237, up £20,269). After deducting
debenture interest (£87,026) and includ-
ing £1975 sent direct to reserves, the net
result was £44,973 better at £397,902.
This was sufficient to cover a 2 p.c.
charge for depreciation (on written down
book value at September 30), pay the
pref. divs. and show 17.7 p.c. on ord.
capital. The ord. div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
and, considering the public nature of
the undertaking, it is doubtful whether
anything better need be looked for.
As for the efficiency of the control,
the co.’s managing director, F. W. H.
Wheadon, recently received the Kernot
medal, awarded by Melbourne Univer-
sity for distinguished work in the electri-
cal field.
The market prices all shares to yield
from 4.2 p.c. to 4.5 p.c., which is a satis-
factory return for a practically assured
income. There is, of course, always the
possibility that the Government might
take over the business.
Amalgamated Textiles (Aus.), Ltd.
To Rc— Re —
Sept., Loss. Dividends. selves, selves.
1931.. 8,968 Nil & 1,515
Unexplained reduction, £125 .. .. 1,390
1932.. 1,337 Nil 53
Profit.
1933.. 21,768 5 p.c. = 14,759 7,009 7,062
Unexplained reduction, £282 .. .. 6,780
1934.. 9,733 3J p.c. = 11,028 5,485
1935.. 17,624 5 „ „ 14,704 2,920 8,405
Unexplained reduction, £73 .. .. 8,332
1936.. 12,513 Nil 12,513 20 B'-.
1937.. 7,183 5 p.c. = 14,709 13,319
Formed in 1923, this co., which specialises
in production of medium-grade worsteds,
operates mills at Albury, Orange and
Goulburn (N.S.W.). It stepped in when
prices for plant, land and building were
very high. Because of this and a host of
other troubles, its prospects seemed
fairly hopeless for a time. However, in-
ternal differences were patched up, and
£156,105 was lopped off capital in 1929,
enabling the deadwood to be pruned
out of the accounts. Then, despite slump,
exchange and the tariff provided the in-
dustry with fresh opportunities, and,
after a 10-year wait and loss of one-
third of their capital, shareholders got
their first div. (5 p.c.) in 1933. Over the
five years to the end of September last,
divs. averaged 3.75 p.c.
Part of the co.’s present troubles is
due to heavy overhead, owing to the
situation of the mills, textile plant
capacity in Australia is capable of tak-
ing care of a larger demand than exists
at the moment, which means that com-
petition is very keen and profit margins
slender. To transfer the mills to Syd-
ney would, the board estimates, cost
about £BO,OOO, and a larger sum would
be needed to provide working capital to
render the co. more or less independent
of bank accommodation (£51,143 at
Sept. 30). The board also figures that
savings in overhead resulting from
such a change would increase the net
earnings by from £17,000 to £25,000
p.a. If a majority of shareholders
(who are asked to give their views
by letter to the board) favor the
change, an extraordinary general meet-
ing will be called to discuss the proposal
before action is taken.
Since the co.’s shares, fully-paid to
13s. 4d. each, are now priced at ss. in
the market, a new par issue ranking pari
passu with the existing scrip is out of
the question. It might, however, be pos-
sible to raise, say, £150,000 of pref. capi-
tal at 8 p.c. or more, provided existing
shareholders substantially supported the
issue. That would make paid capital
£444,179 in 150,000, say 8 p.c., cum.
prefs. and 441,269 ords. of 13s. 4d. each.
Over the last five years net earnings have
averaged £13,764 (nearly double last
year’s figure). On this basis and assum-
ing that savings in overhead amounted
to £20,000, the co. would be able to
show a profit of £33,764 p.a. That
would be sufficient to pay the prefs. 8 p.c.
(£12,000) and show 7.3 p.c. on ord.
capital. On the basis of last year’s
figures, and again assuming the saving in
overhead to be £20,000, the profit would
be £27,183, or enough to pay the prefs.
8 p.c. and show 5.1 p.c. on ord. capital.
Appearances are, therefore, that pros-
pects of existing shareholders would be
enhanced if they sanctioned the transfer
and put up, say, £150,000 of fresh capital
carrying a fixed cumulative 8 p.c., though
the move would involve some dislocation,
which would be almost certain to stand
in the way of divs. for a year or two.
During the last term, orders received
were not sufficient to keep the mills work-
ing full time on one shift. This was due
to an accumulation of distributors’ stocks.
Gross earnings (£23,878) fell away £6175.
Exes. (£16,695) were only £845 lighter,
leaving the net result (£7183, down £5330)
at 2.4 p.c. on capital as against 4.2, 5.9,
3.3 and 7.4 p.c. for the four preceding
terms. A 5 p.c. div. was paid, share-
holders having gone hungry in the
previous year.
As for the current term, orders are
coming in more freely, but, with things
as they are, prospects of the co. earning
satisfactory profits are not bright.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £293,426 £294,079 £294,179 £294,179
Overdraft .. 58,877 50,700 66,020 51,143
S’undry creditors 17,533 13,819 15,721 14,640
Freeholds . . 81,778 83,085 83,265 83,276
Plant, etc. . . 121,418 94,436 85,561 77,335
Stocks . . 143,823 158,209 187,075 187,184
Book debts . . 22,213 48,335 42,118 40,906
Cash, etc. . . 2,243 2,889 1,847 1,589
Intangibles . . 10,517 10,517 10,517 10,517
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£163,896) was £14,597.
Plant is reported in first-class order and
thoroughly efficient; much depends upon
that. Over the last 10 years £95,768
(£8557 for the last term) has been written
off for depreciation, and £61,866 has
been spent out of revenue on repairs
and maintenance.
At ss. the scrip would return 6.6 p.c.
on a 2} p.c. div. basis. The cover (book
value) is 13s. lid. in net tangibles, worth
what they can earn.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 54,548 174 p.c. = 46,294 8,254 36,868
1928.. 29,972 10 „ ~ 29,063 909 37,777
1929.. 51,511 12* „ ~ 39,488 12,023 49,800
1930.. 34,027 74 „ ~-25,397 8,630 58,430
1931.. 24,302 6 „ „ 21,000 3,302 61,731
1932.. 32,538 8 „ ~ 28,000 4,538 66,269
1933.. 26,575 7 „ „ 24,796 1,779 68.048
1934.. 35,861 8 „ „ 29,600 6,261 74.309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ ~ 33,300 6,182 80,490
1936.. 43,948 10 „ „ 37,000 6,948 87,438
Share premiums, £8692 .. .. 96,130
1937.. 47,690 10 p.c. 39,178 8,512 104,642
Since the war the history of this good
Australian manufacturer of high-grade
canned foods and condiments has been
one of steady expansion, and those on
the register have shared in the growing
harvests. During the decade to the close
of accounts in 1929, £200,000 of fresh
capital was gathered at par, £25,000 of
bonus scrip was issued, and divs. aver-
aged 13.3 p.c. Over the same period
many new lines were added to the list
of manufactures, the co.’s factories at
Richmond and Bendigo (Vic.) were en-
larged, and new factories were erected at
Rosebery and Windsor (N.S.W.), Adel-
aide (S. Aus.) and Risdon Park, near
Hobart (Tas.), and a growing trade with
Britain, Canada and Southern Asia was
opened up. Slump interfered, of course,
and so did depreciation of the U.S.A.
dollar, which further affected the co.’s
British and Canadian markets. Still, after
a temporary halt, the business kept on
expanding—a trade agreement with a
Glasgow firm strengthened the co.’s turn-
over in Britain, while locally a control-
ling interest was bought in Jonathan
Reeve Pty., Ballarat (Vic.), and another
factory, to treat berry fruits, was erected
at New Town (Tas.). The div. never
dropped below 6 p.c., and for the last
four years earnings have maintained a
steady advance.
During the last couple of years the
management has given a lot of attention
to the development of overseas markets,
local trade has improved, too, and
further extensions have been made to
most of the factories. Early in the last
term £30,000 of fresh capital was gath-
ered. It brought with it £8692 of share
premiums, which is to be whisked away
to inner reserves by writing down the
book value of premises. The new capi-
tal, etc., and more besides, was used
mainly to add £22,694 to the stocks item,
strengthen cash, etc., by £11,601 and
reduce the debt by £21,098. On fixed
assets £5143 more was written off than
was spent:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. £350,000 £370,000 £370,000 £400,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 150,187 15,878 63,555 42,457
Property, plant
and goodwill 241,039 228,153 241,424 236,271
Stock.. .. 261,088 202,254 241,055 263,749
Debtors and
bills . . 76,880 73,037 80,283 79,426
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 5,007 6,224 5,230 16,831
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£317,549) was
£54,536.
Gross earnings sprang £5182:
Manufacturing Written Off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1915 .. £44,164 £28,601 £2,246
1920 .. 65,811 44,256 5,833
1929 .. 180,982 114,990 14,625
1931 .. 133,613 99,637 10,102
1932 . . 143,322 97,686 13,067
1933 . . 132,241 93,928 12,307
1934 . . 143,134 96,209 11,528
1935 . . 155,934 105,422 11,469
1936 . . 173,390 ' 118,255 11,531
1937 .. 178,572 118,723 11,617
Including the allowance for depreciation,
shown as written off, exes, took only
£554 of the increase. Allowing for minor
reserve adjustments, the net result was
£3742 better at 12.1 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 11.8, 10.6, 9.7,
7.5, 9.2, 6.9, 10 and 16.3 p.c. back to
1929. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
The market, which expected a bit
more, shortened its bid for the fully-paid
pound shares from 48s. in September
to 445. last week-end. The return at
445. is 4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. Visibly the cover is
255. 2d. in net assets, which are subject
to an unspecified amount of goodwill.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves, f
1927.. 28,757 121 p.c. = 22,896 5,861 67.238
1928.. 32,337 12* „ „ 25,599 6,738 73,976
1929.. 32,958 121 „ „ 26,423 6,535 80,511
1930.. 27,633 121 „ ~ 26,423 1,210 81,721
1931.. 25,539 10 „ ~ 21,138 4,401 86,122
1932.. 23,125 10 „ „ 21,138 1,987 88,109
1933.. 25,320 10 „ ~ 21,138 4,182 92,291
Premiums on shares, £5250 .. .. 97,541
1934.. 25,506 10 p.c. = 21,336 4,170 101,711
1935.. 26,688 10 „ „ 22,050 4,638 106,349
1936.. 26,586 10 „ „ 22,188 4,398 110,747
1937.. 26,340 10 „ „ 22,188 4,152 114,899
t Subject to trade-marks, etc., now £72,500.
A glance at that table, which is a testi-
mony to the quality of the control, ex-
plains why the market has a high opinion
of the scrip. The co., which is in the
difficult dry-goods trade, turns out some
high-grade and well-established pro-
prietary lines, including oatmeal, corn-
flour, starch and rice, and handles tea
and. other Asiatic lines as well. Ever
since the public became interested in
1922, when Brown and Poison’s busi-
ness was absorbed, shareholders have
had a steady 10 p.c. div., despite slump.
Further, the 10 p.c. was sweetened with
a 2\ p.c. bonus for the half-dozen years
to the close of accounts in 1930, plus
some new share issues at par, which


(/? p
.(M
m
aicwi:, '(! )a
Si
to
wo
I
\*Jhe ■nwd&wi vcryaj&i. -is
y Uipnsttjf~ dis ccv&i&'L 'vi
Piavcyl/c?i' CZ&mc-^
a /Pfi& finest
ccni4>£efe' sTrt^ct'tt'is.cvii-crn'
**a
fflS!
stxsnt
SffSiS
Z7O
;:'x
K/A Si/^2
ENGLAND
ZEALAND CRUISES
TO
TASMANIA & BACK
_ _ Ii&SSS&Ii
»*£.r
The LUDOWICI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
«s:S
c
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
17 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
/WN7
%
7:
V\
firms'*
f\\i' n
t\:
.
COMMUNICATIONS
Thousands of miles away in the towns and the
outlying parts of the Mandated Territory of
Papua and New Guinea, wireless is playing a
vital part in the development of communi-
cations.
Of recent years, Amalgamated Wireless has
erected new high-powered stations at Rabaul
and Port Moresby to serve the growing com-
munication needs of the Pacific Islands.
To-day the wireless telegraphic facilities
available to island residents enable them to
communicate with Australia and, via Aus-
tralia, with overseas countries; with ships at
sea; with outlying parts of Papua and New
Guinea; and also with Fiji and other islands
of the Pacific. Further, residents may, from
Rabaul, speak over the wireless telephone
with anyone in Australia.
AMALGAMATE D WIRELESS
lAUSTRAIASIA) LTD
■f-tuttidlia 5 A/dtlonal IA/izeleli Otcj&nLb&tio*
were also in the nature of bonuses to
shareholders, because the scrip com-
manded a high premium in the market.
The fresh capital was gathered to help
pay for new plant, installed just beroie
the big break in the markets, to the bene-
fit of costs. . .
The board is not very communicative
about conditions in the trade. After set-
ting aside an extra £lOOO for the tax-
gatherer (£8000) and openly reserving the
usual £5OO for doubtful debts, there was
little change in last year’s declared net
earnings, which were 11.8 p.c. on capital
as against 11.9, 12.1, 11.8, 11.9, 10.9,
12, 13 and 15.5 p.c. back to 1929. That
leaves out of the reckoning net additions
of £960 to the insurance reserve (£12,120)
and £6370 (down £1986) to the reserve
for contingencies, depreciation, etc.
(£128,623). The portion of the year’s
earnings earmarked for depreciation was
£5952 ; so the co. appears to have done
a bit better than was claimed.
The market, which anticipates its bene-
fits, prices the pound shares at 565. as
against 535. a year ago. The return at
the higher figure is 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, or 4.2 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distri-
bution. Including the insurance but not
the contingencies and depreciation re-
serve, the net tangible cover is 245. lid.
Balance-sheet figures reflect prepara-
tion for further expansion of the busi-
npcc •
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital . . . . £221,884 £221,884 £221,884
Mortgages and overdraft 4,451 2,414 2,963
Trading debts . . .. 24,063 23,021 27,8^9
Properties . . . . 163,123 165,070' 175,675
Machinery, plant, etc... 143,913 145,999 150,568
Stocks 76,752 89,507 76,749
Book debts . . . . 32,305 30,164 36,995
Cash and sundries .. 3,984 1,376 9,377
To add £10,605 to the book value of
properties, £4569 to plant, carry an extra
£6831 of debtors’ balances and strengthen
cash, etc., by £BOOl stocks were reduced
by £12,758 and £4757 added to the debt,
The year’s contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£92,329) was £2683,
due to the outla y on fixed assets-
r . ,
Goliath Portland Cement Co., Ltd
Net , Dividends JT-
Sept> Proflt Pre f. or d . serves. Deficit,
m «, Nil * 4,m ».»74
Bpc
i 93 0.. i5,26i 5,292 Nil 9,969 7,805
1981.. 12,806 9,383 Nil 3,423 4,382
Loss on gale of assets> £28)534 .. 32 , 9 i6
1932 20 258 11447 NiX s,Bii 2 4,ior>
i 93 3.. 2 5,264 22,894 n p-c. = 6,396 25,131
Tangible Reserves.
capital written off, £85,285 .. • • 19,402
mi.. 37,5.3 /». P of» .. p.c=.7,0 5 , »,«. 33.873
1935 i _ 45)102 10,016 is „ ~25,586 9,50039,372
i 93 g.. 48,204 10,016 121 „ ~21,321 16,867 50,239
1937.. co-,063 10,016 is „ ~25,586 33,401 50, 700
This co., which is one of the lowest-
cosX producers of cement in Australia,
took over Tasmanian Cement Pty.’s busi-
ness and a i arge s b a le od deposit at
L atrobe (Tas.) in 1928, but divs. did not
b - n fl ow und i g ve y ears later. It
was in a commenda ble effort to develop
shale . oil business that the co. met
w j tb trouble. However, the deposit was
at an immediate loss of £28,534. To
rub this intangible out of the accounts
a nd adjust the book value of other assets,
£gs 286 (6s. Bd. per share) was lopped off
Old. capital. At the same time the cumu-
lative div. on £143,092 of pref. money was
reduced from 8 p.c to 7 p.c With the
deadwood out of the accounts, and the
economic barometer continuing to rise,
the co. has been able to make some very
attractive showings.
The works are at Railton, near Devon-
port (Tas.), and alongside good shale,
clay and limestone deposits, while low-
cost electrical power is drawn from the
State hydro-electric supply. Although
the co. supplies most of the expanding
cement requirements of its home State,
its chief market is in Vic., where it shares
the demand with the Australian Cement
Co., and growing connections have been
established in N. S. Wales, too. During
the 1936 term plant capacity was lifted
from approximately 85,000 tons to
100,000 tons p.a., and full employment
appears to have been promptly found ioi
the new equipment. For the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, gioss
earnings (£112,888, up £19,583) were the
best yet. Including the tax bill, over-
head (£14,084) was got back £6_6o. In-
eluding £260 dropped from somewhere
into the marine insurance reserve (£1338),
and after allowing an extra £5OOO for
depreciation (£30,000, or double the allow-
ance in’34 and equal to 11.6 p.c. of the '
book value of fixed assets at the end of
Sept.), the net result was £20,859 better
at £69,063, or sufficient to pay the pref.
div. and show 34.6 p.c. on capital as it
An jj. r wmo lifter! from
now stands. The div. was lifted from
124 D.C. to 15 p.C.
2 F y . , , , ,
The board considers the outlook good
enough to restore the capital written oft
in 1933, and a one-for-two gift issue is
to be made to the ords. This will call
for £85,286, and reduce the visible lay-
by to £4414. Liberal allowance, how-
ever, has been made for depreciation,
and plant, the chief earning asset, is
reported in first-class condition. The
gift will also lift paid capital to £398,949
1° 143,093 £1 prefs. and 383,785 ords. o
13s - 4d - eacl jL . 0n
P
sin ’ c£ prefg w£re alsQ ca]led upon
tQ j ettison x p c of the i r original eon-
tract div rate j n 1933, no mor e than
equity wou f d be done if they were now
oiyen the right to advance with the ords.
from 7 to g p c
The ar ' ket priceB t h e prefs. at 275. 4d.
ag against 2 65. a year ago. The return
at the h i g b er figure is 5.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
diy bagis The ords are pr i ce d at
365 ; 6d as against 295 . 6d. a year back,
exercising the rights to the gift
issue , the net cost is 24s 4d>> subject to
brokerage. The return at 245. 4d. would
be 5 5 p ' c on a lO p.c. div., which
appears t 0 b e easily within reach at the
momerd Including the gift issue, the net
an gjble backing is 565. 4d. prefs. and
7d ords
' * . ’ h • t .. /rirrv a hnnt in the
There tynothmg to wotry about in
finances.
Paid cap i taP , £ 3 g7,918 £295,266 £313,663 £313,663
overdraft 39 184 2jB9(J _
s-undry creditors 4,263 8,256 13,883 9,346
Freehold, leases.
plant, etc... 358,437 300,390 269,184 256, 91j
St( y: s i 5,460 22,179 19,590 23,010
Book debts .. 9,666 42,833 66,732 79,755
cash etc 145 45 59,079 83,830
gh ares i n other
cos. .. 14,000 1,900 2,000 2,000
Last year £24,751 was added to cash,
e tc., £13,023 to debtors’ balances and
£3420 to stocks. On fixed assets £12,269
mo re was written off than was spent,
The improvement in the more or less
(Continued on next page.)


•NOBEL!
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
INOBED
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
\2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company. 1
IlalKet >' & Company, Limited.
Elder > Smith & Company, Limited.
Federal Government Administrator.
E^ TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty„ Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
virtv?£ Dal & et y & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited
T^il C A^fr Z :^ leety & Company Limited.
c^vA KCA ; R T G J? J 7a V»S'?‘V?? lgety & Company, Limited.
SCIA and LAUIOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“YelgabMelbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of JL. rs. uauo,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bcfnd Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales I Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony’
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
liquid surplus (£179,249) was £45,731. The
shareholding is in Bates (Aus.) Pty., which
makes the paper bags in which this and
other cos. in the industry pack their
cement.
Hastings Deering Service, Ltd.
This one of the Hastings Deering
group, which set up in Sydney at the
beginning of August, 1935, is making
steady progress. It is in the motor
service-station business, and trades on a
semi-co-operative basis, the idea being a
satisfactory return on capital and cheap
and efficient service to shareholders.
After paying exes, and making whatever
provision for depreciation and other con-
tingencies the board considers necessary,
it is proposed to distribute surplus profits
in excess of 7 p.c. on capital among
shareholders in accordance with their
purchase from the co. during the year.
Also, for a fee of £2 10s. (£3 to out-
siders) a shareholder will*be entitled to
inspection of his or her car each 500
miles, and to lubrication and the usual
service adjustments up to 10,000 miles.
For the 12 months to the end of
August last-, turnover sprang £81,388,
reaching £83,140. Gross profit was
£10,697. Including allowance for depreci-
ation and taxation, exes, took £7677,
leaving £3020 net, or sufficient to pay
the prefs. their 7 p.c. (£735) and show
22.8 p.c. on ord. capital. No ord. div.
was paid, money being wanted to finance
further expansion of the business. It is
not stated what distribution, if any, is to
be made to purchasing shareholders.
When the books closed, paid capital
was £34,746 in 40,490 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 10,000 ords. —there was £15,744 still
to come in calls on the prefs. The ords.
are all held by Hastings Deering Pty.,
Ltd. There was £2577 coming to out-
siders. Plant and equipment figured at
£3200; stocks, £7631 ; debtors, £15,566;
loan at short call, £7000; cash, etc.,
£1947; investments (10,000 £1 shares
paid to 13s. each in Hastings Deering
Building), £6500.
Hastings Deering Building is erecting
a fine new six-floored island service
station, now nearing completion, just off
the city end of William-street, within 700
yards of the G.P.O. and on the main
traffic artery to the Eastern Suburbs. The
Service co. has taken a 10 years’ lease
of the ground floor at a rental of £2OOO
per annum (equal to Is. 6d. per square
foot).
Since the close of accounts, the balance
of the Service co.’s first issue of 45,000
prefs. have been taken, and another
45,000 are now offered. They carry a
fixed cumulative 7 p.c., and have priority
as to capital and divs., whether earned
or declared or not. They carry no voting
power, except in matters connected with
the alteration of their rights or winding
up or sale of the business. When the
present issue is and paid,
the net tangible backing (on the basis
of figures at last balance) will be 225.-odd.
The maximum holding is limited to 100
pref. shares.
J. & A. Brown and Abermain Seaham
This co. (paid capital £1,900,007)
merged the interests indicated in the title
together with those of East Greta, all on
the northern N. S. Wales coalfield. The
pits controlled are the two Abermains,
Pelaw Main, Richmond Main, Stanford
Merthyr No. 1 and No. 2 (all f on the
Greta seam), the two Seahams and
Duckenfield (on the Borehole seam) and
Stockrington colliery. The Greta seam
provides splendid gas and household coal,
while the Borehole product is good
bunker stuff.
For the six and a half years since the
merger, operating results have been as
follows:
, P rofi t ~
P.c. Re-
June, Net. Capital. Dividends. serves.
1932*. 52,743 2.72 24 p.c. = 47,500 5,243
1933.. 50,110 2.63 24 „ „ 47.500 7,853
1934.. 48,386 2.54 24 ~ „ 47,500 8.739'
1935.. 12,970 0.68 ‘ Nil 21.709
1930.. 6,168 0.32 Nil 27,877
1937.. 29,246 1.53 24 p.c. = 47,500 9,623
* 18 months.
After being held by the Brown interests
for over 30 years, a contract for the
supply of coal to the Australian Gas
Light Co. passed to Hetton Bellbird
(which hasn’t yet been able to make a
profit out of it) in 1934. The loss of
turnover was partly offset by new con-
tracts with the N. S. Wales Government
Railways. But competition is so keen
(there are still too many in the trade
for the volume of business available) and
margins so slender that net earnings in
1935 and 1936 were too small to pay a
div. During the last term, demand and
selling prices both improved, and declared
net earnings shot up £23,078, reaching
£29,246. That was after setting aside
for depreciation, for which no
allowance was made in the preceding
term; so the improvement was better
than the figures in the table suggest. A
2} p.c. div. was paid, absorbing all but
£BB4 of aggregate net earnings over the
last three years.
At the moment it is difficult to see
much brightness in the outlook for share-
holders. Certainly demand and selling
prices are better than they were ; but
costs are on the up-grade owing to the
lift in the basic wage, there has been
no improvement worth mentioning in
the export section of the trade, and
negotiations to bring about stability of
selling prices among those in the indus-
try have been unsuccessful.
When the books closed there was
£200,000 coming to debenture-holders, and
£58,821 (down £16,380) to sundry credi-
tors, etc. —the etcetera is an unspecified
provision for taxation. The mine, plant,
railway and steamers appeared at
£1,666,673 ; shares in subsidiary, £lO,OOO ;
Government securities and shares in other
cos., £290,873 ; stocks, £72,488. These
four items aggregate £68,568 less than
they did a year ago. This is due partly
to the allowance for depreciation and
partly to loss on the Minmi, one of the
co.’s colliers, which was wrecked in May.
Debtors and cash total £186,988 (up
£92,505).
At 7s. sd. the fully-paid pound shares
would return 6.7 p.c. on a 2\ p.c. div.
basis. The book value of the cover is
20s. Id. in net tangibles, worth what they
can earn.
Oil Search, Ltd.
The board reports that negotiations
with large overseas interests in connec-
tion with the co.’s operations in the Man-
dated Territory of New Guinea and
Papua have reached an advanced stage.
The board will make “a full announce-
ment as soon as possible.” During the
second quarter of 1937, the co. reported
“definite indications of a large anti-
clinal area associated with oil seepages and
oil-impregnated rocks and gas” on its
property in New Guinea, and managing
director Griffin and geologist Dale
Condit went to London on the co.’s
business. Also, 181,000 new ss. shares
were issued at par, 58,925 of them being
taken by Johannesburg interests. In
New Guinea the co. holds about 20,000
square miles under special permit, and is
now engaged in selection of suitable
drilling sites at Maimai. A more exten-
sive aerial reconnaissance of this area
will be undertaken next year. In Papua,
where the co.’s special permit over about
12,000 square miles was renewed for
another year from Nov. 1 last, 5000
square miles has been examined and
one petroliferous horizon defined. Within
a few months the essential portions of
this area will have been examined, and
localities suitable for detailed surveys
chosen, preliminary to selecting a site
for a test well.
The co.’s subsidiaries have not yet met
with much luck so far as locating oil and
gas is concerned. Drillers, Ltd., which
has received a Federal subsidy at £9336,
has not yet reached finality at Hutton
Creek and Arcadia (Q.). The drill, hired
from the Commonwealth Government,
is capable of penetrating to 7000 ft. At
Hutton Creek the hole is down 3715 ft.,
and at Arcadia 4030 ft. Kamilaroi
Oil Co., Ltd.,, has sunk a well to
5453 ft. at Kulnura (N.S.W.), and intends
to continue the hole to 7000 ft. A Federal
grant of £10,775 has been approved for
this co., which has so far received £4700
of it. Gas Drillers, Ltd., subsidy
approved £2821, of which £2155 has been
received, has stopped drilling at Mulgoa
(N.S.W.) at 3124 ft. The question of
sinking a new hole east of the existing
one is under consideration.
At June 30 the parent’s paid capital
was £316,978 in 1,329,666 shares of ss.
each. Cash, debtors and stock totalled
£43,318. There was £1257 coming to
sundry creditors. The scrip, priced on
the market at 75., is a speculation. All
that can be said definitely is that the co.
is going about things the right way very
thoroughly.
Oriomo Explorations, Ltd.
This Sydney-controlled prospecting and
investment co., registered in Papua, will
surrender its lease of the old Inglewood
reef, Gympie (Q.), at the end of this
month, having failed to induce London
to become interested. Half a dozen
prospects were investigated during the
year, but none was considered worth
while.
Interest now centres chiefly in the Hill
End (N.S.W.) property, to work which
Hill End Alluvials Pty., in which Oriomo
and the vendor (Mineral Explorations)
each have an equal interest, was formed
in May. Including a 30,000,000-gallon
dam, the maximum cost of equipping the
property with a sluicing plant and elec-
trical power was put at £28,000, of which
Oriomo is to contribute £21,000 and the
vendor the balance. Mineral Separations
will receive £15,000 in fully-paids as
vendor’s consideration. The dam has
been completed, and is already half-full
of water. Sluicing is scheduled to begin
before the end of January. On three of
the four leases 1,342,000 c.y., average
depth from a shade under 6ft. to 9ft.,
has been measured up, and the average
value is figured at 6.835. per yard with
gold at £AB per ounce. On a turnover
of 150,000 c.y., all-in costs are not ex-
pected to exceed I.Bs. per yard, leaving
a profit of a shade over 55., or approxi-
mately £335,500 for the three leases. The
remaining lease, believed to contain
several rich channels and not less than
a million c.y. of payable but deeper
ground, will be tested by the operating
company.
Oriomo’s accounts for the year to
August 31 show administrative exes, at
£2660, which, with £2OOO written off
shares in the Melawi Syndicate (Borneo
proposition) and £11,721 spent on
abandoned areas, raised the investigation
and administration account to £28,853
and made total intangibles £44,897.
The holding in Hill End Alluvials (36,000
shares of 55.. each) figures at £9000;
plant, etc., £5529; cash, debtors, etc.,
£15,520. There was £3760 coming to the
Queensland Department of Mines and
£34 to sundry creditors. Paid capital is
£74,138 in 299,418 shares of ss. each.
The market prices the scrip at 3s. 4d.
Interesting developments are reported
at the Magnet silver-lead mine, near
Waratah (Tas.). The old mine is being
reconditioned and new milling plant,
etc., installed by a co. recently formed for
the purpose. Ore is ready for stoping
at three levels underground, and a new
lode of good milling ore, 2ft. to 15ft. in
width, has been located west of the
present workings. It is intended to drive
on this lode both ways from an adit now
being put in 30ft. below the surface.
Another lode, about 45ft. wide and 500
yards further west again, was discovered
recently whilst drains were being opened
up. Here exploration will not start until
after the holidays.
* * * *
“Youanme”: Many Australian share-
holders would like to hear a lot more
from the management of Youanmi
(W.A.) about what the co. is doing.
Unlike most Westralian mining cos.,
Youanmi doesn’t publish monthly pro-
duction returns. A quarterly statement
is issued by the London board, but con-
tains little information regarding actual
milling results and costs. Recent mine
reports read well, and seem to indicate
that the property is opening up all right
and that it is ready for the additional
treatment plant now being installed. The
majority of the shares (3,500,000 2s. ord.
and 500,000 7 p.c. pref.) are held in
London, where they appear to have an
unusually strong market. In Australia,
chief market support comes from Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
Tindals, one of the oldest mines at
Coolgardie (W.A.), is officially estimated
to have 250,000 tons of 4.sdwt. ore in
sight, principally between the 200 ft. and
500 ft. levels. Following a report on the
property by the State Mining Engineer,
the Westralian Government recently
agreed to guarantee a bank overdraft of
£30,000 in order to expedite development
of further ore reserves. A condition of
the agreement is that the co. finds
£50,000 or more additional capital for
erection of a plant to treat 10,000 tons a
month. So shareholders are invited to
subscribe cheerfully to a note issue.
* * * sjs
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., prob-
ably the luckiest new concern searching
for yellow metal along the Golden Mile,
has shut down the leased Associated mill
and started its new treatment plant. The
co.’s holdings include the Iron Duke and
portions of the Oroya and Australia
groups, all old, and at one time or an-
other supposed to be worked-out prop-
erties. The enhanced price of gold did
the trick.
* * * *
Perth-controlled Mt. Ida Gold Mines,
Ltd., operating the Forest Belle at Mt.
Ida (W.A.), has bought the Timoni
property on the same field at an unstated
figure. Proceeds from a 300-ton crush-
ing of Forest Belle ore, together with
capital raised by debentures, is expected to
provide enough to pay for the deal, re-
condition mine workings and reorganise
plant. The co. can now be said to have
two promising strings to its bow.
* * * *
Tantalite. Ltd., is credited with mak-
ing money freely in an unobtrusive way.
For some years the co. has been operating
tantalite deposits at three centres on the
Pilbara field and at Greenbushes, in,
Westralia, and has been supplying a
large part of the world’s demand. The
co. has plant for the recovery of tan-
talite, but not for the extraction of tan-
talum, the pure metal from tantalite.


SMOKE-OH!
“The Premier (Mr. Dunstan) said the pro-
gramme of the State Government, speaks for
itself. It is just the old story repeated and is
too ridiculous to call for serious comment.”
—Melbourne “Age.”
Carried unanimously.
”1* *l* *l*
“The average man’s sense of smell is keener
than it was 10 years ago,” says a doctor.
It’s because he has to keep his nose to
the grindstone.
*b *b »b *b
“What is the first thing to strike a person
about the modern car?” — Dealer’s ad.
Usually the metal point of the mascot.
•b *b *b
Some people would like to make it a
scrappy New Year.
The best kind of host at a Christmas
party is a host of bottles.
“Is it too late to start learning to croon at
60?” asks a correspondent.
No —too soon!
•b *b *b b
“Vacancy for youth to learn fitting and
tuning.”— “S. M. Herald.”
My son, A. Minor, would fit this posi-
tion admirably. He is never seen to
quaver when the boss becomes a bit
crotchety, and is always jazzing around
at work. You don’t have to drum a mes-
sage into his head although he some-
times makes a note of it. However, he
is a litle bass at times, and I would
never trust him with a tenor.
A. Major.
•b t* *b b
Very Game Hunting.
“In all regulations concerning the shooting
and preservation of game in Africa lions are
classified as vermin.”
This may appear somewhat ludicrous
at first glance, but my own experience
proved that offi-
cials in the Dark
Continent certainly
know their jobs.
Accompanied by
my native beaters
I set out, my only
armament being an
atomiser and a
gallon of “Chat-
kill,” which is
guaranteed to
knock all vermin
cold within 30sec.
1 had filled the
atomiser with the
potent fluid when
my spine was
chilled by several
awful yells, fol-
lowed immediately by the most awe-
inspiring roar I had ever heard. Looking
up, I was startled to see an enormous
lion, its teeth bared in a terrible snarl.
I pressed the handle. Imagine my dis-
may when the damned thing emitted a
wheeze and jambed.
However, I wasn’t beaten —not by a
jugful. Swiftly unscrewing the cap of
the container, I took a mouthful and
blew it straight in Leo’s face as he
hurtled at me. I sidestepped, but the ter-
rific draught set up by the flying body
knocked me into some near-by bushes.
By the time the natives had assisted
me to rise the lion was stone dead!
Incredible as it may seem, the “Chat-
kill” had done its deadly work almost
instantaneously, and I take this oppor-
tunity here and now of giving my testi-
monial to the manufacturers.
Some of the niggers were excitedly
pulling spears out of the lion as I got
up. Vanity had urged them to plunge
".. .Now don't you forget to stop
at Sydney !”
their primitive weapons into its dead
body in the childish belief that they had
killed it. I was obliged to reprimand
them for spoiling the skin.
I’m only waiting now for hippopotami
to be declared bacteria and I’m going
after them with a hypodermic syringe.
Nipper.
“A good horseman can mount a horse on
either side,” says a writer.
That is where he differs from a bad
one. He can leave it oh either side!
“Women make some awful mistakes at
times,” declares a writer.
Yes, and expect their husbands to eat
’em too.
“Would y ’ mind 'aviri a stab at this 'ole in me sock, miss ?”
Baldheaded women are noted for their
punctuality.
-b *b »!* *b
“As expected, the second day’s play in the
Victorian tennis championships brought some
unexpected results.” — Sydney “D.T.”
These days we hear of things unheard;
We right wrongs uncorrected,
And in events not yet occurred
Expect the unexpected.
Omega.
•£• “b *£• *l*
Customs, Inhabitants and Industries
of Our Great Outback.
Of all our primary producers, the one
whose tasks are the most exacting and
the return for whose labors is most
microscopic is the banana-grower.
The grazier can, at a pinch, exist on
his stock-in-trade and keep the cold out
with a few sheepskins; the wheatgrower
need never go short of flour for a
damper; the cow-cocky can keep his
fibres intact by ingurgitating the lacteal
secretion of his kine and in winter
keep cosily warm by dossing between a
brace of them; the viticulturist may
forget his troubles in the Lethean juices
of his fermented fruit; even the cane-
cocky can obtain energy from the high
sugar content of his product—but who
ever heard of anyone existing solely on
bananas?
That it is possible to wring even the
smallest profit from banana-growing is
hotly refuted by these hardy producers.
When a grower sends, say, six truckloads
of bananas to market he expects, not a
cheque, but a debit note covering the
excess over sales return of freight, com-
mission charges, handling, etc. Still, some
growers have been living in modest dis-
comfort for 20 years on the accrued
interest unpaid on these debit notes.
Ohe of the grower’s chief difficulties
lies in accurately judging the type of
banana likely to be fashionable at the
time his crop will be ripe. The advent
of the bent banana would have ruined
many growers had they not already been
on the road to the poorhouse. Not only
did it revolutionise the industry, but it
threw up the most highly-paid skilled
worker in rural industry, the journeyman
banana-bender.
The earliest method of bending the
fruit was laborious and expensive. Steel
tips were inserted in the end of the
banana and a powerful magnet held either
just above or just below it, according to
whether a. right-hand or left-hand bend
was desired. The angle of the bend was
determined by the strength of the magnet.
The steam-bending process, now in
general use, was evolved by Professor
Dogg-Sbodie, the Hungarian bananaolo-
gist, who argued that, as steam is used
to bend wood, it could equally be applied
to bananas, both being of the vegetable
kingdom. Wet steam, however, was
found to have a distressing effect on the
bananas, causing them to sweat pro-
fusely, so dry steam, obtained by de-
hydrating the water before boiling it, was
used with marked success. Nowadays a
fast journeyman banana-bender with his
portable dry-steam plant can have a
whole farmful of bananas bent and the
cocky broke in less time than it once
took to do one tree.
Successful experiments have recently
been conducted for bending bananas by
radio. Loudspeakers connected with a
receiving set are hooked up at various
points on the plantation and switched on
when suitable items, such as political
speeches, weather reports, mystery plays
and community singing, are being broad-
cast. It has been found that even the
stoutest banana will droop at the corners
under this treatment.
The banana-grower always picks the
side of a hill on which to grow his crop.
The reason is obvious. Watching bananas
grow is a flat, uninteresting life without
adding to it by having to walk about on
monotonously level ground. One of the
few real kicks the grower gets out of life
is the daily speculation (gambling on it
with himself is a common pastime)
whether he will spend more working
hours climbing uphill or sliding down-
hill. On this sloping ground the value
of the bent banana 'is patent, for whereas
the old straight type which fell off the
tree rolled downhill, causing endless toil
to the farmer in retrieving it, the bent
banana revolves around on its own axis,
coming to a halt beneath the tree it falls
from.
Whilst science has done much to assist
him in other ways, the problem of count-
ing the bananas on the bunch still re-
mains unsolved. The high suicide rate
among growers has been attributed to the
state of mind induced by having to walk
round and round a bunch trying to keep
count without going over the same row
twice.
To lessen the risk of accident whilst
walking among the windfalls on his prop-
erty the grower is compelled to wear
boots fitted with special non-skid treads.
Even with these it is highly hazardous
work on the sloping ground, and many
growers, as an added precaution, work
their way from tree to tree with the aid
of an alpenstock and a pick.
Getting large bunches of bananas down
without bruising them entails the em-
ployment of a “stem-shooter” and a
“catcher.” The former, who must be a
crack shot, shoots the bunch off the stem,
whilst the “catcher” waits underneath to
deftly hold it as it falls. The ranks of
the “catchers” are drawn from Austra-
lian Rules footballers, baseballers and
sometimes even Test cricketers.
S. W. K.
Inevitable.
“Blue Predominated in Bridesmaids’ Flock-
ing.”
You’ll note the frocks the bridesmaids
wore,
Were of an azure hue,
What time the bride devoutly swore
She’d be both meek and true.
And, while I’m not a cynic or
A sage, 1 hold the view
That it won’t be so long before
The bridegroom’s looking blue!
M.C.
Explanation.
“Australia’s young women dress far better
than the young men. Heavens, how badly Aus-
tralian men dress!”
—William Pollock in “So This Is Australia.”
I give her coats of mink and silver fox,
And natty tweeds and lingerie and
slips,
And dainty shoes and printed linen
frocks,
And jewelled pins and brooches, clasps
and clips.
On suede and doeskin gloves and sheer-
silk hose
And sequin veils for her I spend my
pelf ;
And therein lies the reason, I suppose,
Why I’m so shabbily arrayed myself.
P.O.M.C.
Sesquicentenary Suggestions.
“During the coming festivities we should pro-
vide our visitors with novel forms of enter-
tainment.” — Sydney newspaper.
Definitely! To begin with, if we must
give harbor displays, let us abandon the
old idea of cruises
in favor of high-
diving exhibitions
from the bridge, per-
formed by selected
politicians.
And for the pro-
cession, what is
needed is a number
of tableaux of really
national signifi-
cance, drawn by
racehorses. The
first could represent
a typical punter
arguing with a typi-
cal s.p. bookie; the
second, a woman
abusing a man
whose pockets are
turned inside out;
the third, a man
abusing a woman who is holding upside
down an empty handbag ; and so on.
Then there could be men on horses,
then women on horses, then more men
on horses, then just horses. Pride of
place should be given to a tableau sym-
bolising our general glorification of sport.
It could be expressed by a batsman using
a tennis racquet to strike a football which
is about to be chased by a greyhound,
mounted on a pony, with a golfstick in
its mouth.
The procession should terminate with
more horses.
T.W.N.
Figures.
“Stout women are usually cheerful and
philosophic,” declares doctor.
To this I flatly give the lie!
The medico is talking rot —
No buxom ladies ever try
To make the most of what they’ve got!
T.W.N.


Arthur Cocks.
At 23s. 9d. last week the ords.
in Arthur Cocks, Sydney, seemed
well worth attention. Other men-
tion on this page.
This land of countless attractions awaits you
ancient temples—beautiful scenery —native customs
and colourful bazaars. Your luxury liner visits many
interesting ports along the smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious decks, restful
lounges, a tiled swimming pool, and talking picture
equipment.
At your request, we shall be
pleased, to forward Folder No. 61.
BUMS, PHILP
S. CD. LTD _
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 7901
tjg&B§BsB&K ;
I2S ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
31 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE 332 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
And at TOWNSVILLE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
VnR SECURES
INVEST THIS MODERN WAY
By Buying FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
you secure a “spread” for your
“money over 20 leading Companies known through-
out Australia. You also obtain a yield of over
6% p.a., potential capital appreciation and
trustee safeguards through the Union Insurance
Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 is yours on request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Doings of a Year
The year from a financial aspect is
practically at an end. Let anyone who
disbelieves this try to do concentrative
work next Friday, or to book orders dur-
ing the following week.
From the point of view of a scribe
whose job it is to record the finan-
cial developments, week by week, that
affect the public welfare generally
and the special section that represents
the sharemarket and other investors,
1937 goes out much more quietly than it
entered. This time last year things were
booming on almost every hand. At the
moment “prosperity” is creeping around
the house in its slippers, quite healthy,
perhaps, but rather nerve-racked by the
noise and bumps of a hectic 12 months.
In the Commonwealth almost all in-
vestments were lifted on a rising market
until the end of March. The banking
position became much more liquid owing
to a buoyant export income—wool,
wheat, metals and meat jumped in the
world’s markets—and a feature that
threatened optimism in 1936 disappeared
in 1937. Then, quite rightly, there were
suggestions in London and New York
that prices were going too high for good
health —war talk was largely to blame
—and a few rumors about threatened
action by Roosevelt in respect to the
price of gold started a slide in prices in
April that has only now shown signs of
pulling up. It was a great blow to opti-
mistic speculators, but good has prob-
ably been done for actual industry if a
long view is taken. Extra-high prices
are no good ; so long as they balance
■costs and show a reasonable profit, that’s
all that is necessary.
Among isolated happenings of import-
ance, in N. S. Wales in May Guy Paul
McDonald was sent to gaol for 4\ years
on a charge of conspiring to defraud by
false pretences ; this was in connection
with the Hodson’s Investments swindle,
brought to light by The Bulletin. Some
wanted men got away. About £40,000
was involved.
The new Companies Act was opera-
tive in N. S. Wales during 1937, and
many private cos. took advantage of
the “proprietary” provisions and re-
registered. “Go-getting” was curbed by a
special section of the Act.
In Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne
there were failures of Stock Exchange
members, the southernmost mainland
capital having the worst experience.
Legislation to correct and prevent is on
the way in Victoria, and similar action is
likely in other States.
Sydney investors became accustomed
to ticker-machines in brokers’ offices.
Melbourne has next year and all the
years thereafter to become accustomed
to stamp-duty on share transfers. Syd-
ney has been used to it for ages.
Sydney ’Change greatly improved its
service to members and investors. The
monthly share statistics represent a valu-
able reference.
The greatest sharemarket crash was
probably Wiluna, the big Westralian low-
grade gold show turning out lower-grade
than expected. Lancefield’s future, on the
last annual report, is more obscure than
it seemed 12 months earlier, and the scrip
has flopped to less than half.
The biggest Fiji mines, Emperor and
Loloma, have begun large-scale produc-
tion. Scrip in both cos. has weakened,
the ore position not now seeming so
bright as was thought by the market in
the early stages.
Barrier mines showed record profits,
Mt. Lyell a near-record. Mt. Isa (Q.)
disclosed its first profit, but at present
must be losing money because of slumped
metal prices.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) struck mining diffi-
culties in the opencut that rapidly
changed the complexion of the market.
Rearrangement and re-equipment are
now going on.
The Federal basic wage was lifted by
from ss. to 6s. a week following recom-
mendations on the part of economist
Reddaway in the Arbitration Court.
The old-established Marshall Shoe Co.
went into voluntary liquidation towards
the end of the year.
A £1,000,000 6 p.c. pref. issue was
made by Australian Paper Manufac-
turers at par, of which only half was
reserved for shareholders in the holding
cos. The scrip is now at a premium of
ss. 3d.
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of steel
for the year just closing has been an-
other record. Commonwealth gold pro-
duction has beaten the 1936 figure. The
wool clip and wheat crop for 1937-38
will be higher than for 1936-37. But
prices are likely to be lower.
If £1 a ton net profit (which is some-
where near last year’s average) could be
netted by Lancefield (W.A.) over the next
four years from the proved (182,000 tons
last balance) and probable (400,000 tons
suggested by boring) ore reserves, the
co.’s scrip, which was down to ss. 3d. last
week, should turn out trumps for present
buyers. Trouble is that “probable ore”
estimates of 15 months ago were slashed
by more than half in the last report—
diamond-drilling blew out a lot of hopes
—and some wonder whether the 400.000
tons now anticipated is there, whether
values hold, and whether mining from
the incline shaft, necessary because of
the lodes’ northerly pitch, will prove
more costly than present experience. At
last week’s price for shares the market
valued the undertaking at around
£260,000, and seemed almost certain of
getting that much back. A report from
a Bulletin man in Perth is to the effect
that even those closely in touch don’t
known whether to buy or to sell.
* * * *
Sydney wool prices strengthened
slightly, to 13.2 d. per pound, during the
week ended Dec. 11, and there has been
further betterment. Up to the end of
November the average Commonwealth
price was 14.1 d., as against 14.8 d. in the
same period of the preceding season.
Quantity sold was more than 10 p.c.
lower, and the cheque at £17,434,000 was
down £3,888,000.
* * * *
Emperor’s new plant has started. The
first run is to be from Dec. 10 to Jan.
29. About 3000 tons ore a week is the
expected throughput from the mine.
* * * *
Holeproof (Melb.) ords. were bought
at increasing prices last week. That they
have been undervalued for two or three
months has been the opinion several
times expressed here, and 28s. 6d. was
the last recorded sale, after a drop to
below 275. a few weeks before.
. * * * *
With a third div. of 6d. a share coming
on Jan. 22, New Occidental ss. ords.
keep above 10s. Manager Blackett’s
work appears to have improved the mine
outlook. Market valuation of the show
is now between £550,000 and £600,000.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan has deferred its quarterly
div. because of the “uncertainty of ship-
ping arrangements for the conveyance of
concentrates to U.S.A.” The last few
monthly crushings have been better than
usual, and shareholders were expectant,
but as the last shipment of concentrates
was made in October, and the next likely
to be no earlier than the end of March
—about a six months’ break —the direc-
tors may be excused for “conserving cash
resources” to finance the “programme of
development and equipment” that is pro-
ceeding. Still, they can hardly be ex-
cused for deferring much longer the
erection of smelters near the mine. If
smelters were included in the “equip-
ment” programme, troubles like the
present wouldn’t arise *in the future.
Treatment in the Commonwealth must
come eventually; why not now?
Realisation charges at present amount to
about ss. 6d. a ton of sulphide ore.
* * * *
Arthur Cocks (Sydney) ords. and prefs.
still look attractive to people desiring an
income from their investments above the
average with reasonable security at the
same time. Optical goods, watches,
jewellery and fancy goods are among
the lines handled ; some might say there
is more than ordinary risk in the trade,
but experience indicates otherwise. The
ords. missed a div. in only one year dur-
ing the depression ; average over the past
decade has been 6 p.c. Present rate is 8
p.c. (paid for two years now), and with
the shares at 235. 9d. a return of £6 13s.
4d. per cent, is obtainable. The 7 p.c.
and 8 p.c. prefs. are less actively dealt
in, but may sometimes be picked up at
slightly below the ords.’ price.
* * * *
, Australian Cement supporters last week
in Melbourne seemed suddenly to notice
that Kandos scrip in Sydney was much
better buying; anyway, towards the
middle of the week A.C. £1 shares
dropped sharply to 335. (after 345. 9d.),
while Kandos 16s. scrip sold up to 255.
6d., buyers later offering that price,
sellers asking 255. 9d. Even at the
higher quote Kandos was better buying
than A.C. shares, which sold at 345. and
335. 6d. towards the week-end.
* * * *
For the 11 months to Nov. 30 North
Kalgurli’s figures now read: Tonnage
crushed, 122,656; estimated revenue,
£413,843 ; working exes., £173,682 ; esti-
mated working profit, £240,161. The
last item is up £73,000 on the figure for
the whole of 1936. Capital outlay in the
later period has amounted to £38,236,
as against £33,462 for 1936.
* * * *
Carlton and United Breweries, Mel-
bourne (B. 15/12/’37), has disclosed a
record profit of £454,000 (up £BO/00) for
• the year to June 30, and the div. has
gone up to 12j p.c., against 10 p.c. The
showing amounted to 15.5 p.c. on
C.U.B.’s capital, so there was a fair mar-
gin over distributions. The Carlton hold-
ing co.’s scrip kept steady around 645.
last week.
* * * *
Australasian Paper ords. firmed to
31s. in Melbourne last week, after
30s. a few days earlier. The scrip still
looks attractive, yielding over 5.1 p.c.
* * * *
There has been further upward move-
ment in Davies, Coop ords., Melbourne
last week paying 245. Next div. is due in
March. The co. started off in 1925 as a
mercery manufacturer and knitter, later
adding a cotton-spinning and -weaving
section. Capital has grown to £401,125
(£lOO,OOO of it in 6 p.c. prefs.), and in
1936-37 9.8 p.c. was earned on the ord.
portion, allowing for the prefs., as against
5 p.c. or thereabouts in 1935-36. Brisk-
ness in trade prompted the management
to set about doubling the plant. The
spinning mill has been very active, and
the weaving mill also. Over 2,000,000
yards of woven goods was sold last
term. Denims, cotton tweeds and other
women’s dress materials figure in the
output of the weaving department. Men’s
shirts, pyjamas, etc., and knitted goods
were what the business was mainly built
up on originally. Last year’s ord. div.
was 6 p.c., and a higher rate is likely
this term.
* * * *
Cocks Eldorado, Vic., is a gold-and-
tin show doing well at the moment. Re-
coveries have been improving almost
steadily for some time, and during 10
weeks after the accounts closed on Sept.
30 471,000 c.y. was treated for 27360 z.
gold and 49.7 tons tin concentrates. Com-
bined values were £31,985, which works
out at I6}d. a yard. Net profit aver-
aged £2380 a week, as against £1172 a
week during the period covered by the
accounts, when values panned out at
lOd. a yard. There are 275,000 shares of
10s. each issued, priced at 16s. Bd. last
week in Melbourne. At present rate of
dredging a six-year life is said by the
chairman to be ahead; the manager
thinks more like a 10- or 12-year life.
If values, metal prices and costs keep
steady at latest figures, more than
£600,000 net profit would seem to be
promised on the chairman’s figures.
However, three years is considered to
be the life of the area where present,
good values are being won, and
the market, remembering the uncertainty
of mining enterprises, bases its valuations
on this part of the property, and leaves
the other section more or less as a reserve
for contingencies.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Australian Paper Manufacturers 6 p.c.
prefs. confirmed to command a price of 255.
3d., yielding about 4.8 p.c. The strong security
in both assets and earning power has made
this £1,000,000 issue very popular, representing
as it does also one of the largest pref. issues
on the market.
Adelaide Brewery ss. shares were stronger
at above 25.; there have been rumors of a
merger with another S.A. beer-manufacturing
enterprise.
King Island Scheelite scrip had a market
around Is. 3d. Wolfram is somewhat firmer
in London. Development is still going ahead
on the Bass Strait island.


e.
S
MW;
W^<
m
m
msm*
0<
„
HENERV
sSf»
O
o
to*
**
A*
\^
v>e
A*
*<*
o v
to®
lV>« r
to®'
tfc®
l«*
o®


FOR RANDWICK.
Summer Cup: Cathartes ; next,
Billy Boy.
Christmas Trial: Tuckerbox ;
next, Golden Karru.
December Stakes: Kooba ; next,
Loombah.
Chisholm Handicap: Bodley
Head ; next, St. Constant.
A.J.C. Handicap: Sal Volatile ;
next, Brazeno.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Hopetoun Handicap : Gay
Circle ; next, Elanage.
Malvern Handicap: Dark Sky ;
next, Somerset.
Christmas Handicap: Beech-
wood ; next, Amiable.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
For many of those who go racing for
the fun of it, Villiers Day at Randwick
was spoilt by the sickening accident that
took place in the first division of the
Novice Handicap. There were 25 starters
—not too many, even in a six-furlong
race, when the track is in first-class
order and jockeys are all experienced—
but on Saturday the thunder of hooves
raised clouds of dust—rather astonish-
ing considering that there has been a lot
of rain this summer —and 10 of the
riders were apprentices, while some of
the horses were painfully green.
A bunched field rushed into the
straight. Opposite the Leger a horse came
down, and four others fell over him. The
five jockeys were hurt, though none
seriously; of the horses, Sweet Brigade
broke her neck and Glenman had to be
destroyed.
There were protests from the crowd
when the authorities allowed 25 horses
to start in the second division, which
followed immediately. In this case, how-
ever, no harm was done. There was no
bunching, and entering the straight
nearly half the field ran wide, some of
the boys overdoing their safety-first
tactics.
There has been a great deal of talk
among Sydney racing men about rough
riding, and one particular horseman has
been the subject of bitter comments. It
would be a good thing if the stewards
expanded their investigation of the
Novice Handicap affair into a general
inquiry.
Valcello (20 to 1), who escaped inter-
ference when Slanchivar, Normandy,
Sweet Brigade, Glenman and Bronze
Tulip fell, got the race, Mort and Pala-
rang filling the places. The second divi-
sion proved a soft snap for Jovial Son’s
stablemate Salonaise, who started at 16
to 1 ; she led throughout. Golden
Karru, a Magpie gelding from New-
castle, was second and Gangway third.
Ramdin (10 to 1) won the Villiers be-
cause he was the fittest horse in the field.
His trainer, Brown, had raced the son of
Rampion and Dinette into excellent
form, and the good-looking brown did
his job so thoroughly that he equalled the
Australian record for a mile, lmin.
35|sec. Had the bookmakers had their
way, Silver Standard would have been
favorite ; but punters refused to regard
the chestnut stallion as being well treated
with 9st. 51b. or as likely to run a fast
mile after his severe spring campaign. A
few credulous people did back him at
tens, only to see him finish last.
A hot pace was set by Valbeau, his
Bst. 121 b. notwithstanding. It suited
Ramdin, but it settled Arabia, Might Not
and the Queenslanders Klemm Eagle and
Lord Bine, who were beaten three fur-
longs from home. It was a cleanly-run
race. Valbeau struggled on well when
passed by Ramdin, and got second. Sal
Volatile rattled into third place, ahead of
Prittle Prattle, who put in his customary
grandstand finish. Silver Standard’s
stablemate Sidcup was also doing his best
work in the closing stages.
Fred Shean won the Holiday Handicap
on Billy Boy (15 to 1) by taking him to
the front. Ridden in a different fashion
at Rosebery, the Pantheon horse had
failed badly. Shean slowed the field
down until Country Party ran to him
along the back. The latter dropped back,
and Billy Boy shot away at the top of
the straight with a good break. He held
off Country Party, who ran his race in
patches; Cathartes, badly placed at the
turn, ran on gamely to secure third prize.
He looks a real Summer Cup proposi-
tion. Fireman, the favorite, was never
dangerous.
As Coolspell had run a close second
to Ramdin at Rosehill he was voted a
racecourse certainty for the Highweight,
and supported from fours to 5 to 2.
Mananui, who looked burly, also met
with solid backing. Mananui was never
in the picture, but Coolspell, after hav-
ing been prominent to the Leger, ran past
Kinsfolk and won easily. Brazeno —an-
other who looked rather big—was third.
Interference cost Sedunum whatever
chance he had, but Mordent and Troy
ran useful races.
Creditor (15 to 1) showed plenty of
pace and determination in the first divi-
sion of the December Nursery. Royal
Prince bucked and switched his tail when
hit with the whip, but would probably
have been second in any event. Senora
ran on to beat the favorite Princess, a
daughter of Valicare, for third prize.
Princess was eased in the last few yards.
Had she been ridden out her tote
punters would have collected, and they
were justly annoyed with Shean.
Loombah (7 to 4 on) and Bonheur de
Pere (7 to 1) could not be separated in
the second division. The former looked
lucky to get so close ; Darby Munro had
the whip on him for nearly a furlong.
He is certainly plucky. Kuttabul was
third. The Squire did not gallop as
generously as at Warwick Farm.
* * * *
Improving out of all knowledge on his
running at Ascot a week before when
unplaced in the race which Elanage won,
Gay Circle won the Fund Handicap at
Williamstown on Saturday. The M.L.
stallion put in a most brilliant finishing
effort to beat Dunloe, the favorite, after
that mare had rushed past the pace-
makers and appeared to have the race
in her keeping.
The Ascot s.p. of Gay Circle was 5 to
1. Double those odds could be obtained
without difficulty on the seaside course.
Princess Pam had disorganised the Ascot
field by drawing out for a 12 lengths’
lead at the half-way stage. Her rider
tried to repeat those tactics on Saturday,
but the greatest break she obtained was
three lengths. Tiring when collared, the
Salmagundi mare faded into sixth place.
Harold Skidmore rode Gay Circle at
Ascot; the Williamstown mount was en-
trusted to Ray Wilson, who won the Vic -
toria Derby on Hua and has been on the
crest of the wave in Melbourne ever
since. Wilson’s judgment of pace had
enabled Elanage to squeeze home on the
V.T. and R.A. course, and it largely con-
tributed to the success of Gay Circle.
Third money went to Lilirene, but she
finished three lengths behind Dunloe.
By covering the miles in 2min.
4-|;sec., Gay Circle put up a new Williams-
town record for the distance. The previ-
ous best was 2min. ssec., established by
Kenney nine years ago. Gay Circle be-
longs to G. J. Barton, who has been a
leading owner of trotters in M.L. for
many seasons. Barton, like W. R. Kem-
ball, is a consistent patron of Melbourne
galloping meetings,
Ray Wilson has ridden a double at
four successive meetings in the Vic. capi-
tal. His Fund Handicap triumph was
preceded by an even more decisive win
on Barham (Equator-Lady Swinton) in
the Three-year-old Handicap. On the
previous Wednesday this colt was un-
sighted in a division of the Cotham Trial
a: Epsom. It did not prevent Williams-
town punters from “following the
money” and sending Barham out favorite
at 5 to 2.
Silver Bond, a stable-companion of
Gay Circle, opened in most demand for
the Three-year-old Handicap. Last at
the half-way stage, he made up little lee-
way thereafter. Barham was followed
home by Gay Heiress (sevens) and Elm-
dale (14 to 1), who had a great tussle
for second honors. Elmdale, a gelding
by Rossendale, owned by Bill Burke,
should win in moderate company.
Keen on winning a race with The
Egotist, C. T. Godby withdrew Harold
Cohen’s colt from * the Three-year-old
Handicap and produced him for the
Maiden Plate. Though there were 17
runners the best available price was 11
to 8 on. It really was a 100-to-l-on
proposition. The Egotist left his rivals
standing and scored by seven lengths
from the Pantheon filly Drosera, who
reached the judge only half a head in
advance of Queen Esther.
Chief sensation of the afternoon was
the disqualification of Lord Jevington for
interference after beating Palatinate by a
head in the Welter Handicap. There were
only five runners, and additional gallop-
ing room was afforded by The Grape
being left at the post. Quoted at 7 to 4
and always favorite, Lord Jevington set
the pace and led round the home bend,
where he started to hang out.
Palatinate (9 to 2) had just begun to
unwind a splendid run when this oc-
curred. Going on the whip hand of
Lord Jevington, he was shoved over to
the outer rails. Though Palatinate lost
by a head the interference was so pal-
pable that the stewards upheld the protest
that was lodged as soon as Dewhurst re-
turned to scale. Inspected after the race,
Palatinate bore the mark of having been
struck over the near eye by Skidmore’s
whip. The optic was closed.
Ogwell, a Standish Handicap winner
and one of the best Vic. sprinters at
present in training, shaped miserably in
the Flying Welter, for which he started
a slightly better favorite than Silent
Sentry. Making every allowance for
Ogwell having 10st., the form was too
bad to be true.
Silent Sentry, a three-year-old colt by
The Night Patrol, exhibited fine speed to
lead by six lengths at the half-mile. He
looked like being overhauled by both
Conchita and Great Feast after entering
the straight, but fought on to score by
half a neck, Conchita being a neck in
front of Great Feast.
Sea King, trained by Stan Reed, who
enjoyed such marked success with The
Trump at the spring meetings, was
backed like a certainty for the Trial
Hurdle, but over the last furlong he
couldn’t make a race of it with Tern
(Drake-Greenella), a half-brother to
Herbor, an A.R.C. Fulham Park winner.
At 10’s Tern met with merely mild sup-
port.
('Continued on page 30.)
Ins and Outs
Grimmett bowled well for S.A. v.
N.S.W. at Adelaide (5 for 103, the total
being 337), but not so well as O’Reilly
for the visitors. Badcock was out to
O’Brien for 2, but Bradman was there
at lunch on Saturday, and 9000 Adel-
aideans came to see him. O’Reilly got
him for 91, and Whitington for 54. At
stumps six were down for 163 ; O’Reilly
five for 18.
O’Reilly got the other four also, giving
him nine for 41 ; the total 217.
* * * V
In Melbourne during Victoria y_.
Queensland Jupiter P. also had a dig,
batting most of the first day and carry-
ing over to Saturday. Still by stumps
then the Vies, had 302 on the board for
four wickets, Lee contributing a steady
122, Gregory 71 and Hassett an un-
finished 63.
Monday it was closed at 461 for six,
Hassett (90), Sides (61) and Pearson
(63 n.o.) having boosted it along.
(Continued on page 30.)
Racquet and Bawl
Bromwich beat Budge in the last
singles of the Sydney “test.” The young
fellow demonstrated that he has improved
greatly as a result of his overseas
trip, and he is a player of the never-say-
die order —a Jack Carroll with a racquet.
One thing only he lacks—a telling ser-
vice, though on Saturday Budge found
the youngster difficult enough even in
that department. Bromwich excels in
passing shots—Budge soon discovered that
it was suicidal to go to the net —and he
can return apparent winners better than
• any other Australian in recent memory.
The first set went to 2 all, then
Bromwich broke through to run to 5-2 ;
Budge won the next, then Bromwich the
set, 6-3. The second set was much the
same —Bromwich 6-2. Budge didn’t ap-
pear to be all out. The rubber was
already lost —Quist had beaten Mako
6-0, 6-4, 6-4 —and Australia led three
matches to one.
But in the third set Budge produced
everything he had on the day. He ran
to 3 -nil; but after that he couldn’t
hold the youngster, who took five games
to lead 5-3 ; it went to 8-8. Budge took
the next two games and the set, 10-8,
but it was a near thing.
Budge led 4-1 in the fourth set, but
couldn’t take another game—Bromwich
6- 6-2, 8-10, 6-4. A splendid win;
Budge hadn’t been beaten since March.
* * * He
In Australia v. Germany at Brisbane
Von Cramm beat Crawford and Mc-
Grath in singles, but both Australians
accounted for Henkel. The Australians
won the first doubles by three sets to
one ; scores in the second doubles were
7- 3-6, 1-6, 12-10 when the match was
abandoned. The local authorities coolly
awarded it to the home side.
(Continued on page 30.)
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida has de-
parted for Manila to have a shy at the
richly-endowed tournament to be staged
there next month. The money is good,
first prize for the principal event being
£500, with £312 for second and £185 for
third. There are other events carrying
good dough for the winners, and the ex-
Queenslander should come back with
something worth while if he can repro-
duce his recent Australian form. It was
expected that the prizes would attract
most of the leading U.S.A. professionals,
but it is stated that the profitable winter
golf season in the Southern States and
Mexico will keep many of these at home.
* * * *
Elanora Country Club, one of Syd-
ney’s prettiest golf courses, on Narra-
been Heights, will soon have a fine new
clubhouse to replace the one destroyed
by fire. The £50 debentures (the posses-
sion of one is essential for membership)
are now at a premium ; during the slump
they could be picked up for a fraction
of their face-value. Johnny Broadbent,
stepfather of the aviator and at one time
in charge of the Imperial Service Club,
has taken on the job of secretary.
(Continued on page 30.)
There was a promising roll-up at the
opening of Sydney’s still incomplete
Arena. The cycle track was ready and
proved a good one, but there looked to
be about a month’s work ahead before
the spectators’ accommodation would be
right for the estimated 60,000. All the
seating that was ready was filled, and
the crowd saw a long and remarkably
well-conducted bill of topnotch cycling
for its money. Francis Faure (France),
Heino Dissing (Denmark), Syd Cozens
(Britain), Nino Borsari (Italy) and
Harris Horder (born Australian but now
a naturalised American) gave inter-
national color to the proceedings, and
there was solid local backing in ex-
amateur Stan Parsons, Moritz, Keith
Oliver and others representing Australia
and M.L.
* * * *
The Kangaroos won the third and last
Test match with England • at Hudders-
field by 13 to 3. Of the 24 games played
the tourists have won 13, lost 10 and
drawn 1, scoring 293 points to 219.
* - * * *
“Old Q.”: The Brisbane Rugby League
has been shaken to its Prince Alberts on
discovering that the Rugby Union code
is to be introduced to the State schools.
The League has announced that the duty
of all professional sports is to keep the
canker of amateurism from the innocent
nippers, and has called on the State
League to help in the fight. Also it says
that the Union game was never played
in the State schools. That is nonsense,
for long before the League was heard of
the larger schools ran Union teams.
* * * *
The race between Turner and Pearce
on the Nepean to settle the question of
Australia’s sculling representation at the
Empire Games went to Turner, who
covered the mile and a quarter in 7min.
32sec., to win by two-thirds of a length.
4* «l*
The close of the N.S.W. swimming
championships saw young Biddulph win
the 440 by 15 yards in 5min. 44 l-5sec., a
record for an Australian. Ryan was
second.


H
r",?
m
'///
■
" .:■ ■■ y/^^y^y^M
WM
m
m.
3£
i
sgsT
mr^mm
w/
W%i
m
m.
SSs.l
r / ;>
s-'KA >■ *:
7. Am
O^^yySSi
'mf.
m
fr*S ■<
XOF\
m
M
m
WV
\ f
m
x
•vr
£$
Wi*
m
m*
mm/iw*
m
m
M?
5" ' fk
I
ft. mmm
?4W;L|j
IS
in
\
7~
m
s
I *
Xl-X
p$
*©\J
■ ■/
Ah
66
one can
“Equal to
a fine
liqueur”
White Horse
CARTON
t
ft*
CO
\Vi
1
k
cs-
For Christmas
and New Year
White Horse is
packed in attrac-
tive cartons at no
extra cost
blindfold ! 9 9
Why, I knew it the moment I tasted
it... there’s no mistaking White
Horse... a subtle aroma, an ex-
clusive heather and peat flavour,
are qualities that make White
Horse so easily recognised.”
Give your friends this real old
Scotch...it will carry a practical
message of goodwill, and increase
the good cheer of all who partake
of it.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dihectors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
M
ft
dfg
Choose a convenient,
lightweight Globite
Case. Globites are smart
. . . and extra strong.
They’re lower-priced
than leather, Ail sizes.
At Local Stores
GLOBITE
(ZTstoAsex Cu6e4>
£l
«
m
of
A cheap tyre gauge is seldom accurate after the newness has
worn off. But a Kismet Gauge, being scrupulously
manufactured to the finest limits of accuracy, guaran-
tees years Pf reliable service. Although it is priced
a shilling or two more than an ordinary gauge, it
costs less in the long run, because it keeps
its accuracy and neat finish all the time.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia
TYRE
STANDARD
GAUGES
CADE T
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
Under the Whip
Klemm Eagle and Lord Bine, those
two nice young horses from Brisbane,
gave an interesting touch to a division
of the Flying Handicap at Rosebery on
Wednesday. In view of the fact that
racing-reform legislation had been intro-
duced in the State Parliament and that
the poor prize-money offered by pro-
prietary concerns had been challenged by
the Minister, Dunningham, it would have
been politic to make some addition, if
for that occasion only, but the club held
that £66 13s. 4d., divisible among the
owners of first, second and third, was
sufficient.
Lord Bine is no stranger to Sydney
courses, having won at Randwick last
season when he was a three-year-old;
and even Queenslanders voted him the
better of the pair. But though he ran
fairly well, finishing fourth, he had no
chance with the other Queenslander.
Klemm Eagle went to the front when
half the distance of six furlongs had been
traversed, and hadn’t to be pushed to
beat Duke Caledon by a length and a
half, Roley’s Choice being another couple
of lengths away third. Bartle rode
Klemm Eagle, who went out favorite at
9 to 4, Duke Caledon being at 5 to 2,
Bodley Head at 7 to 2 and Lord Bine at
4to 1. Bookmakers rarely take chances
at these mid-week meetings.
If Heritor has come good again, as
was declared when he won at Warwick
Farm, Wayside, a five-year-old sprinter
from Newcastle, by Diacquenod-Maid of
Troy, must be pretty good. Heritor was
a 9-to-4 favorite for the second division
of that Flying Handicap at Rosebery, and
for nearly five furlongs he had things
nearly all his own way, but when tackled
by Wayside (6 to 1) he turned it up
quickly. Wayside went on to win easily
from Brown Betty and Some Boy —both
a bit above the ordinary in the sprinting
line. Wayside, who was ridden by little
Neale,- was receiving a fair amount of
weight from Brown Betty, Some Boy and
Heritor. His fast finish made it appear
that he could have given them weight.
Wayside’s capital form interested the
Newcastle stipendiary stewards, and they
entered upon a retrospective inquiry into
the nag’s running in their bailiwick.
* * * H=
“Retired Urger”: Brisbane has had an
interesting crop of s.p. cases. For the
first time a previously-convicted offender
was sent behind the flyscreens at Boggo-
road without the option, his poultice
being six weeks. A milk-carter who had
been running a flourishing business on
the move was fined £lO or a month,
in addition to a month’s jug without the
option for having gambling implements
in his possession. Finally, the State’s
first lady s.p. merchant was presented at
court. Hers seems to be a sporting
family. The old man held a bookie’s
license, a son had a clerk’s and an 11-
year-old son wrote up the betting records.
Twenty-five quid or two moons was her
issue.
Ins and Outs
Far and away the most interesting
batsman this season has been McCabe.
He led N.S.W. against the South Aus-
tralians in Adelaide last week, and—his
men batting first —himself went to the
wickets when one was down for 19. Till
then it had been deadly dull, the 19
taking almost an hour. In the next two
hours before McCabe left the score went
to 182. The skipper’s contribution was
106, made without a chance. Fingleton
(81) stayed with him. Fingleton is rafeiy
interesting, but that doesn’t matter when
the fellow at the other end is knocking
them all over the place.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. Sheffield
team on its way south sharpened its teeth
on the cricketers of Broken Hill. The
Hill made 126 and 104 for five. N.S.W.
replied with 496, McCabe topping with
a fast century. Among the other big
scores a bright 70 by the new hand,
Crossan, deserves special mention.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: The barge over webbed
wicketkeeping gloves found utterance
again at the last meeting of the Vic-
torian C.A. Referring to letters saying
that N.S.W. and Queensland had banned
the mitts in question, the Cabbage Gar-
deners announced they didn’t care a hoot,
and would allow their ’keepers to use
them. As South Australia is of the same
mind the matter is to stand over to the
annual conference. These webbed gloves
have been in use in Australia, England
and South Africa for some years with-
out any talk of unfairness, and it is
evident the complaints of Ma and
Bananaland are as the wailing of the
“ Certainly , I'll make a fourth if the ladies don't object to my playing in shirtsleeves!"
night winds in the chimney of an aban-
doned pub.
s}: ❖ * *
“Der Jong”: Retiring from big cricket
are H. F. Wade, South Africa’s skipper
against England and the Australians, and
I. J. Siedle, second in the Afrikander
Test averages during the 1935-36 tour of
the Australians. Cricket pundits will
always remember Wade as having ap-
pealed successfully against the light when
his opponents were batting.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: Add to the ways in
which a batsman may be given “out”
(B. 8/12/’37) handling the ball, as de-
fined in No. 29 of the Laws of
Cricket: “Either batsman is out if he
touch with his hands or take up the ball
while in play, unless at the request of
the opposite side.”
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: The Victorian caddies’
golf championship, played at the Com-
monwealth course, was won by Chrimes,
ft , j * v
of Batman, from Clarendon, of Yarra
Yarra. The pair tied with cards of 158
for the two rounds, but in the nine-hole
play-off Chrimes prevailed, with scores
46-47. By way of keeping the amateur
status of the caddies unimpaired, the
prizes were given in the shape of open
orders instead of cash. Under the rules
of golf a caddie may take money for
his work up to the age of 18 without
losing status, so the precaution seems
superfluous.
* * * *
Some coming golf events. The Aus-
.. . , . u •
tralian open championships begin on the
Royal Adelaide course at Seaton on
August 13 and finish on the 25th. The
N.S.W. amateur title will be contested
on the N.S.W. club’s course at La Perouse
from September 10 to 24. The Aus-
tralian amateur team to tour Britain de-
parts on the Narkundah, leaving Sydney
on March 31.
“Woogaroo”: Queensland’s open and
amateur championships will be played at
the Royal Queensland Club course from
May 16 to 21. As was the case last
season, the prize-money for the profes-
sional element will be worthy of the occa-
sion, and the amateurs will have no
reason to complain of the trophies. A
special effort to make the show an out-
size one this year will be made with a
view to strengthening Queensland’s claim
for an Australian championship meeting.
** t y &
* £ _ . ~
Sandy Gallop : The Courier-Mail
Caddies’ Cup was won this year by an
eight-stone pony named Len Gillander.
The winner, who beat White, of the
Brisbane club, by two and one, caddies
for Victoria Park, the Brisbane municipal
course. He acquired additional merit
from the fact that the final was his first
appearance on the Yeerongpilly course.
Racquet and Bawl
The tennis heads know how to rake in
the boodle. Last week they had the
newly-arrived Germans, Von Cramm and
Henkel, showing against Crawford and
McGrath in Brisbane, and Budge and
Mako doing their stuff in Sydney opposed
to Bromwich and Quist. Prices ran
high. Qn one of Sydney’s three days—
(he internationals were showing only in a
doubles match—the best seats were going
a t 15 5 ., though admittedly there was a
bank Q f benches where the really keen
could look on for 2s.
......
With the last day’s play, two singles
matches, to go the Australians had a lead
in both “tests.” Bromwich accounted for
Mako 6-3, 6-3, 6-1; but Budge, doubled
at first, soon left Quist floundering—
-4_6)_6) ?6 6 _ Q doubles put the
i oca i s we u ab ead. They dropped the first
S et bld grabbed the next three 6-4,
6-3, 6-2.
......
In Brisbane the singles were of three
sets. Crawford began with a 6-2, 7-5
win over Henkel; Von Cramm tied up
McGrath 6-2, 6-4; then Crawford and
McGrath took the doubles 6-4, 9-11,
6-2, 11-9. Rather trying for foreigners
having their first experience of a Bris-
bane summer, but the Germans stuck it
out grimly.
* .„ * XT * 7 . ~ „ ,
u Top Spin : The N.S.W. tennis heads
have been given an extra day for the
Germany-Austraha match in Sydney,
t> e Played on Decern er
28, 29. Also Budge will meet Von
£ r amm an exhibition game on Decem-
ber 27. All this is subject to the consent
of the visitors involved, who originally
asked for as light a programme as pos-
sible.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: According to Norman
Brookes, the International Tennis
Federation, which meets in Paris in
March, is certain to agree to the holding
of the Davis Cup clash every two years
instead of annually as at present. In the


ppp
iili
111
„ «SS^^^^ftB6KBgil»^^B»«a
Kill
Ifc
Wm
■ifcSfftWSS
W®!B&S®i
fflSSivfi
| X i 1
\ m
tillttj
m
M&B&
ili
sss?
g&xl
« ' % •■ ,
\ • .s'.'
C-T; 5
iff! I
B
- w
I £i* P E &
»«;;
MijMi ET »VI
m*2z~m 9- 1 OIUIHUHf **
tVEHVWHfRE
/
liPPsss
P|:|:
£§§§SSS
SKS®:
mm
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government & Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.), Incorporated
with Branches at Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
in Victoria,
CKH/30/SP
years between it is proposed to hold an
international women’s tourney on the
lines of the Wightman Cup contest be-
tween American and English women.
Most people will welcome the two-year
plan for the Davis Cup, which is becom-
ing a weariness of the flesh. It is doubt-
ful if great enthusiasm will be found for
the women’s event as suggested. Here
again that fed-up feeling is in evidence.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: English amateurs
have held a meeting to consider their
hard lot. Some time ago the authorities
passed a rule not only limiting the time
to be spent by amateurs on tours but
exercising a rigid supervision oyer “ex-
penses.” Players have thought it worth
while to ask the committee of the Eng-
lish L.T.A. to have the expenses rule
varied. The only remedy for a ridicu-
lous situation would be to make tennis
an “open” game like golf. People living
on it with the assistance of racquet-and-
ball-making firms could rate as profes-
sionals and the few who derive nothing
but pleasure from the game as amateurs,
both meeting in competition without
question.
Miscellaneous
“Brass Addler”: The Empire Games
crowd are asking stiff prices—for Aus-
tralia—for admission to most of their
shows—2s. to 6s. 6d. The cycling will
come a bit cheaper, seats ranging from
3s. to a bob. Foregoing prices are for
adults only. The Australian public pays
less to watch its sports than any other
country writer knows of. Whether it
will think the Games worth the money
asked remains to be seen.
* * * *
“Blade”: The coxswains for the Aus-
tralian eights and fours at the Empire
Games regatta on the Nepean are Bow-
man and Kerr respectively. Bowman
has been the N.S.W. cox in King’s Cup
races for three years ; he coaches and
coxes North Shore club’s senior crews.
Kerr holds the lines for Sydney club, and
for three years coxed Scots College in
the Head-of-the-River races.
* * *
“Splash”: The outstanding turns of
the N.S.W. swimming championships
were the performances of Ryan and
Biddulph. Ryan silenced those who
claimed he had done his dash by taking
the half-mile, but only by a split second.
His time was lOmin. 31 l-ssec., Biddulph
being a fifth of a second behind him. In
the 220 Biddulph waltzed away from
the field, to win by 10 yards in 2min.
15 2-ssec. ; Newbiggin was second and
Ryan third. Biddulph equalled the record
for an Australian, and had he been
pressed would have hoisted new figures.
Later, in the course of the 880 teams
championship, Biddulph covered his
allotment of 220 yards in 2min. 14 2-ssec.
This beat the Australian record
(Medica’s) by three-fifths of a second.
Though it was known Biddulph would
try for new figures, because of neglect
to observe championship-record require-
ments the new time will not be officially
recognised.
“Sprocket”: Duncan Gray, hero of
three Olympiads, has still a kick in him.
In the Australian amateur cycling cham-
pionships in Melbourne he won the 1000-
metres sprint from the Victorian lad
Guyatt by two heats to one in the final,
and seems to have made his marble good
for inclusion in the Australian cycling
team for the Empire Games.
* * * *
For a man in the thirties who fights
seldom, Schmeling keeps his form amaz-
ingly. At New York last week the
German knocked out Thomas, a highly-
thought-of American, in the eighth
round. He had the loser down six times
in that round, and Thomas was coming
up for more when the referee stopped it.
•k ¥ *!*
“Blade”: For years it was a re-
proach to N.S.W. rowing that it was
practically confined to the metropolis,
whereas in Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia and Tassie country clubs were
plentiful. There was a change for the
better when the Nepean club was formed
a few years ago at Penrith. Now the
N.S.W.R.A. has accepted the affiliation
of the Lismore R.C., and it is expected
that the Grafton and other clubs will
follow. The Northern Rivers have pro-
duced many great scullers, but the rowing
standard is an unknown quality as far
as the association is concerned. Visits
of Sydney clubs to the Rivers, with the
northern clubs returning the call, should
change all that.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum an-
nounces an ambitious programme for
next winter. It is probable that Joe
Davis and a mate will come from Eng-
land for a tour of the States, and an
extra attraction will be two American
cueists equally slick at English billiards,
snooker and their own cannon game.
This last should make unsophisticated
Australians sit up, for its professors bring
off cushion cannons in a manner un-
believable to those who have not seen
them, while they are past masters of all
the other tricks of the game.
* * ❖ >K
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
has had some trouble fitting in inter-
state dates for 1938. It was at first pro-
posed to jettison the Queenslanders’
visit to Sydney, N.S.W. being already
committed to Victoria; but if, as is
likely, June 6 is gazetted a public holi-
day, the Bananalanders will get their trip.
* * * *
“Centurion”: While rescinding its reso-
lution not to send a team to Aus-
tralia next season the M.L. Rugby Union
is still showing a preference for 1939.
The N.S.W.R.U. has pointed out that
1939 is out of the question, since the
Australian team for Britain must be
selected in June of that year and will
leave Australia in July. If the All-Blacks
were to come then there would be little
time for their fixtures, let alone club and
inter-State games. It is to be hoped
that when they do come along both
sides will agree to abolish the League
rules which have, according to Spring-
bok critics, weakened the standard of
real Rugby. This is particularly desir-
able since Australia will have to play in
Britain under international rules, and so
will the All-Blacks in South Africa in
1940.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Footballers are an effete
lot nowadays. Hull Rovers, a North of
England professional football team,
talked of cancelling its fixture with the
Kangaroos because the Rugby League
reproved it for permitting barrackers to
throw stones at visiting teams. Long ago
in the days of the Rugby Union’s golden
prime in Queensland, Ipswich barrackers
were noted for their habit of pelting
opposing players with lumps of coal, sup-
plied by sympathetic drivers and firemen
from the trains that ran close by the
ground. The most enthusiastic sup-
porters of the home team were young
ladies who worked in the local woollen
mills. I can testify that the generally-
accepted theory that women cannot
throw straight did not apply in their
case.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: One of the prob 1 ns of
the Victorian Football League is how to
temper the wind of competition with
much stronger clubs to the division
which draws poor “gates” and ends up
each season with an increased over-
draft. A scheme to remedy this, now
being considered, is the abolition of
home-and-home matches for some of the
clubs, only the stronger combinations
meeting each other twice. To a club
with indifferent drawing powers two
matches against the same overwhelming
rival in a season come' expensive.
Whether pride may not prevent distressed
sisters from accepting the suggested lift
over the stile remains to be • seen.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Australia is shortly to
see one of the demigods of English
Soccer in the last century —Steve
Bloomer, of Derby County, rated by old-
timers the greatest of all inside rights.
Bloomer, who is 64, began with Derby
County before he was 20, and played the
first of his 23 international games for
England in 1895. In 1914, he was coach-
ing in Berlin, and had the bad luck to
spend the “duration” in an internment
camp. It was in connection with Bloomer
that “Come on, Steve,” generally sup-
posed to have been first applied to jockey
Steve Donoghue, originated. It was the
war cry of Derby County barrackers the
moment their idol was seen streaking
down the line toward the opposition goal
with the ball at foot.
* * * *
“Shikari”: Cabled that in a trial run
on a dog track in London, an African
cheetah ran 365 yards in 15.86 seconds,
a little faster than the existing greyhound
record. The cheetah has been used for
hunting in Egypt and India since the
dawn of history, but in modern India at
least has never been known to do more
than a lightning dash of 100 yards or so.
The quarry is the black buck, a plains-
dwelling antelope. The cheetah, hooded
like a hawk, is brought as near the buck
as possible in a native cart, of which the
buck takes little heed, and then slipped.
If he does not catch his prey at the first
dash he pulls up in disgust and is re-
hooded for another try later.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Souls at Sea.”
Gary Cooper.
Easily the best picture screened at
Sydney Prince Edward for at least the
past three months.
That might strike cynical-minded
people, remembering Bing and so forth,
as not being extravagantly high praise,
but this marine drama is good film.
Gary Cooper, capital actor at pretty
well all times, has a part he fits
splendidly. He has scope for vigorous
physical action of the bareheaded, salt-
sea sort, and for acting of some subtlety
as well. It is a long—indeed, almost a
continuous —part, and he carries it
through with convincing naturalness. He
has the natural advantages for a part
such as he plays in this film of a superb
physique for the strong-man stuff and a
fine-looking, vital manliness for the
romantic side.
The story, too, has some body to it. It
follows the switch-back pattern, opening
in an American law court at the time
slave-trading was taking the knock, and
then going back to give an account of
happenings that make clear how the
prisoner came to be in the dock and
why an English diplomatic agent should
make a dramatic entry after the prisoner
has been found guilty and beg leave to
make an explanation on his behalf.
The prisoner is being tried for what
prosecuting counsel describes as mass
murder. Of the survivors of a ship lost
at sea some 18 or so have testified that
the prisoner saved their lives, but as
many have given evidence that in saving
those lives he personally killed as many
again. Moreover, he saved his own life
in doing so.
In the switch-back the prisoner is an
officer aboard a slaver, and therefore an
outlaw to begin with. A rough outline of
the ensuing narrative is that, the skipper
being killed, prisoner-to-be and his mate
are left in charge of the slave-ship, are
chased by a British patrol ship, outsail
it the first day, but next day allow them-
selves to* be captured, though now with
no slaves aboard. Strung up by the
thumbs, they at last consent to talk, and
tell a tale of having put the slaves ashore
during the night.
With extraordinary perspicacity the
high English diplomatic agent to whom
this yarn is related recognises it as The
truth, and, by’ a process of deduction
that makes Sherlock Holmes look like a
novice, recognises the prisoner-to-be as
one who has for some time been attach-
ing himself to slavers and carrying on a
private war against slaving by running
the ships ashore and otherwise destroy-
ing them. Realising this, Sherlockian
agent thereupon entrusts him with de-
livering in America a document that
will lead to the capture of numerous
slavers and the final wiping out of slav-
ing. He is on this mission when fire
aboard ship leads to the rescuing and
murdering and ultimately to the dock.
In retrospect the narrative has some
whopping improbabilities, and the film’s
makers have not been above the cheap
device of putting the audience on false
scents for the sake of keying up sus-
pense, but thanks to Cooper’s fine act-
ing these are minor matters detracting
scarcely at all from the film’s effective-
ness.
Cooper is, of course, the prisoner, so
the scope the film provides for his vigor
will be apparent, with, to give him a fair
testing in that line, such all-in scenes of
violence and catastrophe'—magnificently
photographed and projected —as the
burning of the ship at sea and those
aboard struggling and fighting in the
half-submerged rigging and the only life-
boat as the ship goes down.
The romantic interest develops on
that last voyage, and is the least inter-
esting matter about the film. It is
dragged in for little more than box-
office reasons, and Cooper’s acting of
his part in it is occasionally almost re-
sentful. Heroine is the sister of the vil-
lain, a confirmed slaver, though, of
course, she doesn’t suspect him.
For the sake of dragging in “feminine
interest” also George Raft has to turn
from the part of Cooper’s loyal offsider
to manage a love affair. He does the
first part admirably, and the other pro-
vides light comedy relief before Raft
and girl friend (a notable piece of fine
acting by Olympa Bradna) go to an un-
deserved doom.
There is other good support, particu-
larly a polished period character repre-
sentation by George Zucco as the British
agent.
“Stand In.”
Leslie Howard, Humphrey Bogart, Alan
Mowbray, Joan Blondell.
This current offering at Sydney State
isn’t exactly another “Petrified Forest,”
but with the male stars of that fine pic-
ture Howard and Bogart together
again it is a cut above being merely
pleasing entertainment.
Under its apparently light and arti-
ficial surface runs a stretch of genuine
satire. Hollywood picture production is
the mark, Howard having the very diffi-
cult role of a mathematical-minded ad-
Gaston Mervale, Sidney Wheeler, Robert Halliday and (with bomb ) Clifford
Cowley in “Balalaika” the colorful new show at Sydney Royal.
viser to a big city banking firm which
counters his opposition to selling out its
five-million dollar interest in a picture-
producing show by sending him to in-
vestigate why the show’s failing and make
it succeed if he can, his job to be for-
feit if he can’t.
It must be one of the most unsatisfac-
tory parts Howard has ever been called
on to play, especially as his ultimate
success is made to depend on a “stand-
in” girl teaching him, through falling in
love with and so humanising him, that
the 3000 employees of the show are not
mathematical units but human beings.
Naturally Howard’s fine talents often
look wasted, though he sustains the part
with all his customary integrity. It is
not his work but the farcical plot which
lets him down.
Bogart has a much easier part in
which to look natural; one that quite
suits the cold voice and deliberate ges-
ture that did so much for “Petrified
Forest.” He is, indeed, so much better
suited that he overpowers Howard more
than once. It should be added that it is
not, however, a villainous role.
Mowbray adds a good thing to his
record of gross objectionableness; an
even neater job than he managed in
“Vogues of 1938.” Miss Blondell fails
to be anything resembling an adequate
excuse for Mr. Howard’s falling in love
with her.
The satire on Hollywood production
methods and extravagances, with some
reference to Hollywood itself, is the best
of the film, and it is keen enough to com-
pensate those who might otherwise not
care for the sight of Mr. Howard wasted
on froth. An additional attraction is
that there is uproarious comedy to offset
the general sentimentality.
“A Romance in Flanders.”
Paul Cavanagh.
Supporting item in the all-British bill
at Sydney Lyceum, and suggesting that
another thing for which most English-
made films deserve credit is that, even
when they turn out failures, there is usu-
ally evidence of some thought in them.
Not that this one is a failure. It may
not be a notable success, either, but it
is competently acted, very natural in its
happenings, strong in plot and with sus-
pense well sustained. This last is man-
aged by taking the audience so far and
no farther at several vital points of the
narrative, and as its entertainment value
depends a good deal on this deliberate
puzzlement it would be damaging to
give away too much of the story.
Enough that it relates a well-plotted
yarn of a Belgian girl’s romance with a
British Army sergeant, and explains why
she came to marry another non-com.
instead. Returning to the girl’s home
town in the present year, the married
pair meet the man whom the girl, at least,
had long since thought dead.
Then, with the aid of the useful and
somewhat heavily-used switch-back de-
vice, the film reveals what happened in
a tank during the war and other matters
that occurred shortly afterwards to pre-
vent the course of true love from run-
ning smoothly.
Cavanagh manages a sound stretch of
acting as the reported-missing soldier, and
Marcelle Chambers is very effective as
the wife.
“Smash and Grab ”
Jack Buchanan, Elsie Randolph.
Quite a fair ration of agreeable enter-
tainment goes with this English-made
amateur - sleuthing effort at Sydney
Lyceum.
Although it has to do with gangsters
(on a small scale), a smash-and-grab
theft of £20,000 worth of diamonds and
a couple of purposeful murders, it main-
tains a leisurely bat, the director appar-
ently deliberately putting the brake on
whenever it tended to get up speed.
In that it contrasts remarkably with
American crime pictures, in all of which
hellfire pace is the essence of the con-
tract. Perhaps many will find the more
natural English movement a pleasant
relief.
Also, pretty well all of it—except a
model-train service with which Mr.
Buchanan recreates his mind when not
working and the jiu-jitsu with his valet
with which he toughens his muscles—
has something to do with the job in
hand, which keeps Mr. Buchanan, Miss
Randolph and maybe the audience lightly
amused while the slight mystery of the
diamond thievery and the murders is
being cleaned up.
Buchanan makes a highly incredible
d., even for a fictional yarn, and the
assumption that first the head of the big
jewellery firm and then a Greekish-look-
ing barber would fall instantly* and
heavily for Miss Randolph’s brand of
allure seems rather far-fetched. Still,
both are pleasant personalities and en-
tertaining, though those to whom they
are favorites might feel inclined to wish
them a speedy return to musicomedy.
One thing that must be said in the
film’s favor is that the criminal happen-
ings are unusually natural. The wildest
matter the film asks you to swallow is
the first murder, done with a knife-
throw. Pretty well everything else —
except, of course, Mr. Buchanan’s de-
tecting and Miss Randolph’s vamping—
is in the it-might-have-happened class.
That is at least a change from the bulk
of crime pictures, the nature of which is
that nothing whatever in them could pos-
sibly have happened.
“Western Gold.”
Included in the amusing satire of
Hollywood in the State’s “Stand-in” is
a depiction of a prospective Abe Lincoln
who has been wearing his make-up and
practising a sentence for 20 years, hoping
still.
When “Western Gold,” at the Capitol,
kicks off it seems that he’s got the job at
last. Apparently the identical Abe —just
as overacted —enters a camp of soldiers
who are engaged in winning the Civil
War by soulfully singing a song about
peace at the campfire.
Thus the film looks like being an
American Civil War drama ; but it was
a very short part that was waiting for
Abe after all. He merely calls a ser-
geant —a fine, upstanding young fellow
—and, explaining that the gold on which
they depend is not coming through from
California, because of holdups, com-
missions the young man to go west and
see what he can do about it.
From then on the film turns out to be
another gold-coach-robbing Western,
with whips of bang-bang-bang to pro-
vide a lively finish. It’s f.a.q. of its
now shopworn kind.
“Wild and Woolly.”
Wherein lane Withers goes the way of
all screen juveniles. She came to the
screen as a scatterbrained youngster and
made a hit with filmgoers who liked such
stuff, so the powers that be promptly
filled her mouth with a dictionary and
heaped on to her all the sob stuff they
could find.
Time and place of this opus are the
anniversary of a pioneer western town, so
everyone can wear cowpunching get-up
and swing a gun at the hip. In a boil-
over between Jane Withers’s grand-
father, a one-time bandit and sheriff, and
the local mayor, grandpa crawls down
to save the cheild or something, but the
staging of a bank holdup of earlier days
turns out to be the real thing, and the
old-timer saves his face with some hard-
ridin’ and shootin’.
The whole film is made for the Withers
kid to emulate Fairbanks Sen. and go
Garboish when occasion permits. As a
dinkum kid, Carl Switzer, of Our Gang,
walks off with the show.
Best bit of acting comes from Walter
Brennan. The cowpunchers of the ’seven-
ties as dished out by Hollywood might
be overdrawn, but, apart from that, Bren-
nan’s is a masterly piece of characterisa-
tion. Pauline Moore and Robert Wilcox
supply the lurv interest and Berton
Churchill makes a bland old villain.
There’s an occasional laugh, but it
could have been a better show with some
more character work by Brennan and
Churchill and the kids left out altogether.
“The Life of the Party.”
Songandances of the past few years
have set a pretty lavish standard, and an
ordinary musicomedy needs a solid plot
to carry it.
“The Life of the Party,” at Sydney
Plaza, falls short in story and the frothy
material is just so-so. It’s a light-hearted
affair wherein Gene Raymond, a young
Park-avenue gent., has to stay single
until 30 to inherit a million or so. He
mixes in with Harriet Hilliard, who
aspires to crooning, and after a spot of
bother they have to pass themselves off
as married.
With wedding bells approaching the
promise of the oof fades, but the young
gent.’s mother arrives with a weak ex-
planation and saves the day.
Most of the situations are improbable
and' the explanations more so, but it’s a
happy show with a laugh here and there.


oß m° tt ' s living pictures
BaSa
mm
:
m
MM
■
■
mm
m
Roy Edward
Gardiner.
Age
1 6 months.
Me * rs -Willi am
H omeb Usk Arnotl Ply., Ltd.,
Poor Sirs,
a Mob of nJin ? "nder sen
who lhtle boy 'cover
Milk L eCn M o n , njEd Ward,
l"*: S7?\ M.tZ’r-
(%«7 l'f'O',
J ’ ar diner.
H Urin S the n
t nott '° fZ tie i°" g 'o f v%o - O - r c^ 00 °
ers * *ith t S f Arro »roo t o" °«
° r °nia/s bv iSCUit «
° tf Limited, Srate ful
(t This Way Please.”
■* *
Ned Sparks, Buddy Rogers, Betty Grab e.
Ned is the bright spark in this boo-
boop-a-boop brand of “musical” at Syd-
ney Prince Edward. But for his tomb-
like voice, enunciating his philosophy of
matrimony—which is that he’s against it
the film would be merely a race be-
tween plot and incidental ditties for the
booby prize.
As publicity agent for a stage show,
Ned is pestered by the attentions of an
usherette who alternately patterns her
characterisation on Cookie Allen and
Patsy Kelly. She wants to bag him at
any cost; he wants to postpone the noose
as long as possible.
As for the “main story,” it recounts
the love affair of a crooner and an usher-
ette, modern equivalent of King Cophe-
tua and the beggar maiden. Usherettes
in black tights are a skittish corps, evi-
dently there to provide leg interest, but
the affair doesn’t get down to business
till the ex-Mrs. Fairbanks’s new husband
starts to make those mooing sounds
through the nose which fascinate Ameri-
cans (in films) and all hands stand round
simply petrified with reverence and admi-
ration.
Take Ned out and the rest wouldn’t
be worth a line. His sepulchral
asides—such as his comment on a double
wedding, “Shoot ’em in squads”—make
of the most chaotic and otherwise un-
promising film quite a fair comedy.
“Balalaika” in Sydney.
Brought to Sydney Royal by the old
Firm and an excellent company, this
romantic musical play should have no
trouble giving- the talkies a run for the
money, unless people have been so be-
mused by their almost unrelieved fare of
shadows that the color and living per-
sonality of the stage no longer appeal
to them.
In addition to being the brightest show
for about the length of an elephant’s
memory, it has the extraordinary merit
of originality. To see it is to see some-
thing new, and there must have been a
tidy few tusks heaped up in the elephants’
Valhalla since anything like that hap-
pened in musicomedy.
There are 11 scenes, and most of them
are large and colorful. They open with
a Parisian street scene outside the Bala-
laika restaurant or night club, 1924.
Then there’s a switch-back to St. Peters-
burg, 1914, and before returning to
p a ris 10 years later the audience absorbs
a light but comprehensive impression of
the fall of the Tsarist regime and the
triumph of the revolutionaries, these
matters explaining why the aristocratic
exiles are running the Russian-named
place in Montmartre.
The whole matter naturally permits
lavish picturesqueness, apart from what
can be, and imaginatively has been, added
by letting a loose rein run under musi-
comedy license, beside which poetic
license is merely a pair of handcuffs,
So there are such gorgeously-dressed
crowded scenes as that depicting the Bala-
laika island restaurant at St. Petersburg,
run by gipsies for the entertainment of
the old Russian aristocracy. The Marin-
sky Theatre, with gaudy Cossack officers
invading among the ballet members
backstage, performances of the ballet, a
fete in the palace interrupted by revolu-
tionaries and, to wind up, a reunion
night in former costumes at the Balalaika
in Paris are other scenes indicating the
natural scope for color and gaiety,
There are rousing songs with a fine
power of masculine voices to render
t hem > airy tunes and some de-
lightful dancmg by a quaint little ballet
and other members of the cast, includ-
ing, as leader, a good male dancer from
t^ e r . e cent Russian Ballet. A ballet scene
of little colored devils stealing into a
boudoir and putting the influence over its
occupant is a particularly charming
moment among the many incidental hap-
penings that help a lot to make the show.
j c.W. dressing at its best is also a top
note? as are Mr Blackman’s excellent
pro ducing and Mr. MacCunn’s orchestral
contributions.
0 f the new people the handsome play
brings to Sydney, the American leading
j a dy Margret Adams is graceful in looks,
prettily constructed and histrionically
capable. Robert Halliday is a good
a ctor as well as possessing the ordinary
requisites for romantic lead, and Mar-
jorie Gordon, comedienne, is one of
those very rare occurrences, a fallabout
girl with the natural gift of doing the
mo st outrageous things without looking
common.
There’s topnotch support, including
such items as Arthur Clarke’s voice to
swell the more robust singing, Don
Nicol’s foolery with Miss Gordon as his
offsider—or he as hers—Gaston Mervale,
and other names too plentiful to men-
tion. Two who must have a mention are
Clifford Cowley, for perhaps the finest
piece of acting of all and Yvonne Ban-
yard, who does .a
woman in the Parisian Balalaika wmcn
is, next to Miss Gordon’s efforts, the
comedy item of the piece.
Fay Compton in Coward’s
One-acters.
For weeks Fay Compton showed Mel-
bourne the character-development of
Queen Victoria as pictured in the cinema-
like scenes of Housman’s “Victoria
Regina” ; if any further proof of her
versatility were required, playgoers re-
ceived it at Melbourne King’s oh Satur-
day night when the English actress rep-
resented three entirely different charac-
ters in Noel Coward’s “To-night at
8 30 ” a set of three one-act plays.
In the first she is a frivolous, feather-
brained chatterbox of a London
“society” hostess; next she is the
deadly-serious married woman caught in
the emotional crises of an illicit love-
affair ; then she is the feminine half of
a man-and-wife team which vaudevilles
on the Saturday-night stage of a provin-
rial English town and quarrels uproar-
lously in the dressing-room.
‘‘Hands Across the Sea won chuckles,
laughs The to and lasfare Coward
comedy-wrappers for the more solid fare
of “Still Life,” in which Laura (Fay
Compton) and Dr. Alex. (Bruno Barnabe)
meet, fall in love, commit off-stage adul-
tery by innuendo and share an emotional
farewell, all in five scenes set in a rail-
way refreshment-room. The one jar in
Fay Compton’s three portrayals came in
this one-acter; it may have been a script
fault, or perhaps it was only an Australian
reaction to dwelling on an emotional
note already achieved—but would Laura,
with a gossiping neighbor watching from
the door, wave good-bye to Alex.’s vacant
chair after having already regarded its
empty state in silent sorrow?
“Red Peppers,” with Fay Compton
and Jack McNaughton singing, dancing,
joking and fighting, was just the thing
to stress the gaiety of Miss Compton’s
comedy sense.
Ann Cbdrington, Stafford Hilliard,
Michael Wilding, Mary Charles, Hayley
Bell, George Blackwood, Yvette Anning,
£) orodl y Barclay and Peter Dearing took
contrastj m during the night . The
first toa r and Peter Dearing and Jack
, f , • th
McNaughton did excellent jobs in the
farcic al Hands Across the Sea.
All told, it was a good night s enter-
tainment, well produced and well played.
“Messiah” in Melbourne.
. r , •„ „ nr i
The Presbyterian Cent l ™%jChoir uid
Zelman Memorial Symp J,*
chestra concluded the church s celebra-
tions of its 100th birthday m Victoria
with a performance of Handels Mes-
siatl in entirety betcue _ a pc
house at Melbourne Town Hall,
The visibly impressed audience rose at
them, not only, according to the ancient
tradition, during the “Hallelujah” chorus,
but after every item, except those of the
famous fourth section, to which tradition
demands that listeners should pay their
tribute by their silence,
There was not a dull moment in the
choruses, sung by 100 young men and
W omen drawn from the denomination’s
c burches a p over the State and conducted
vo j untar jiy by Herbert Davis, whose in-
terpretation of Handel’s majestic oratorio
wag restrained rat h er than fiery, and in
the glorious “Unto Us a Child Is Born”
a trifle too reticent. ,
The solo singing was less attractive than
the choruses. Helen Bromley, a visitor
from abroad, has a nice soprano with a
powerful top note, but she seemed to get
herself into difficulties from which the
orchestra was unable to rescue her.
Dorothy Crawford hasn’t the volume of
a Clara Butt, but there may be several
more Presbyterian centenaries before
there is another Clara. Miss Crawford’s
contralto was on a par with the bass
c f Alfredo Luizzi—musically quite pleas-
j ng> but not sufficiently in character,
Lennox Brewer’s tenor was sweet, but
lacked expression. Claude Monteith
operated at the organ, and the orchestra
strung the singing together with ropes of
pearls of first-rate quality.


iiaj&nri} (grammar
Ifatrar
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927, conducted
under the direction of the Trustees by a School House Board.
Early application for 1938 is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sunshine ruffled through by a cool
breeze made Randwick a pleasant play-
ground on Saturday. Frocking was a
summer rhythm white, flowered,
diaphanous, sleek and silk or crisply
cotton. Handbags, belts or two-toned
sashes provided color notes as gay as
the jockeys’ colors. Hats mostly had
brims, though some of these soared to
heaven, providing no shade to eyes or
nose. Small hats and glare glasses
coquetted with one another. The stands
were not so crowded as usual. Tennis
was a counter-atraction, but perhaps
the meeting was all the more matey for
that. It gave you a chance to see your
friends and have a word without having
your hat jambed over your eyes or your
lungs poked into the region of your
heart. Navy shoes were worn by many
of the smartest women.
The Maher family gathered in force,
and being keen racegoers and horse-lovers
were really moved over the accident in the
Novice Handicap. Dr. Weston Maher,
sister Mrs. Forrest Hughes, her cool silks
a blurred pattern of black-and-white,
another sister, Miss Eve Maher, her white
crepes patterned with petunia, and niece
Mrs. Hugh Foster, in black sheer, made
up a tea party. The John McKelvey
lady showed the perfection of detail. Her
frock of white crepe flowered here and
there with the greens, blues and pinks of
hydrangea. Her hat was of white felt,
its crown slightly dented. She was one
of the wearers of dark-blue shoes.
Nobody was nicer than Mrs. Alan
McGregor in her candy-pink-and-white
striped frock. Her white hat was worn
at a slant. Joan Peacock was one of
the day’s young, and wore the ribbons
of her navy hat drooping towards the
right shoulder. The dark-haired Myrine
Collins, who goes off to Europe early
in February with a packet of letters to
celebrities, brought grass-green to vie
with the lawns, which in spite of the heat
spread refreshingly. Mrs. W. Parsons
was another wearer of the green. Bar-
bara Knox was distinctive in black and
white; her small black hat wore a white
gardenia. The Ernest' Watts were there,
and Mrs. Leonard Dare brought pretty
daughter Barbara. Mrs. Jim Kendall’s
black frock had been caught in a shower
of petunias. Marcelle Bishop and Amba
Jacobs were an attractive pair of younger
ones. Refreshing as an ice-cream sundae
was Joyce Beazley in her anemone-pink
frock and wide white hat. Jocelyn
Poynter was in black from head to toe.
Mrs. M. Salenger and daughter Patricia
were among the notable ; so was Philippa
Stephen, who wore all white.
Shortly after the curtain fell on
“Balalaika” on Saturday night it rose
again on a scene in which half the stalls
and circle audience were putting up an
animated performance. And why
shouldn’t they? The stage was set with
small tables, very much as in Nicki’s
restaurant, and every table had its gold-
topped bottle, as well as bottles of more
proletarian beer. The cast of the play
mingled with the company, and all went
merry as a marriage bell. Over it all
E. J. Tait beamed. Jimmy Bancks added
his smile and the Ernest Lashmars and
F. J. Davys were other cheerful guests.
The Bertie Kellys and the Hugh Poynters
shared a table centre stage. Marjorie
Green danced untiringly, and Don
Nicol talked galleons and ships, for
the making of which he has a passion.
Margret Adams was all glitter and
white chiffons. Mrs. Wunderlich, Mrs.
Farley and J. J. Mulligan were among
the noted. Mrs. C. V. Walker was pretty
in black gay with sequins, soft-pink laces
were worn by Mrs. Baume and beige
laces by the tall Dorothy Dunckley. In
between drinks and chatter there were
dances and songs from “Balalaika” and
“White Horse Inn” and numbers by
Tivoli vaudevillians.
Hilda Mulligan, in a holly-red silk
frock, crinolined, did much to bring back
the Dickens Christmas spirit when she
officiated over an enormous punch bowl
at the party she and the opera school of
the Con. gave last week. This was in
the Little Theatre, and everybody, from
Minister for Education Drummond, was
remembered on the shining Christmas-
tree that arose on the stage. Conser-
vatorium heads came in force. Dr. Bain-
ton was with daughters Guenda and
Helen. Roland Foster was among the
glass-twirlers ; so was Margaret Chalmers.
Hilda’s sister, just recovered from an
illness, brought a bevy of nurses from
Lister. Brothers Jack and Harold helped
pass ginger-pop, punch, plum cake and
presents off the tree with complete im-
partiality.
The end of the year brings us another
hostess for the Town Hall. She is Mrs.
Norman Nock, young, good-looking,
graceful. Her husband, who will have
the distinction of being the city’s civic
host during the sesquicentenary celebra-
tions, is managing director of Nock and
Kirby. He is the second-youngest Mayor
Sydney has known; Alderman Mostyn,
who held office during the visit of the
King and Queen, then Duke and Duchess
of York, was the youngest. Mrs. Nock
was president of the junior committee of
the Mayoress’s clothing fund last winter,
and she is deputy-president of the junior
committee of the Sydney Industrial Blind
Institution. Gardening, golf and swim-
ming are her hobbies. Dorothy Welding
photograph.
The Dr. George Duncan couple gave
a five-to-seven on Saturday in the new
home they have just built at Clovelly.
All the guests had come on from other
parties, the races or tennis, and the re-
ception-rooms were a spirited babel as
afternoon experiences were exchanged.
On the verandah overlooking the cool-
ness of the garden which, as in London
stretches at the back of the house,
Mrs. Brown Craig, Mrs. Herbert
Odillo Maher and Mrs. Joseph Coen
conferred on how to grow the best del-
phiniums. The John Tanseys came, she
very smart in black relieved with white.
The Warks from Pymble were among the
tennis fans.
Oswald Cheeke, obeying the spirit as
well as the letter of his epistle from Lord
Richard Neville telling him to welcome
the Montague Marks couple, gave a cock-
tail party for them midway through last
week. This Letter then discovered that
Mr. Marks as well as his wife is an Aus-
tralian, that starting to make pictures in
Australia is not merely a matter of pick-
ing your location and putting up your
sign, that Merle Oberon’s world renown
was built up on the line she says in the
“Private Lives of Henry the Eighth”:
“But I have such a little neck.” Beside
Mrs. Marks sat Sydney Ure Smith, who
is enthusiastic over that lady’s miniatures.
He says that they are masterly, and ex-
quisitely delicate in toning. Mrs.
Theophilus and her Commander husband
were of the party ; so was Mrs. De Lissa.
Ruby Adams and Lach Beaton were
others. Mrs. Pat Taylor, who sailed
in the Tarifa the following day for Eng-
land, was a late arrival.
While you and I think of Cessnock,
Bellbird, Kurri-Kurri and Weston as so
many veins and arteries of coal stretch-
ing from the heart of Newcastle, Jean
Ross Scott sees these mining districts as
adventure in social service. Jean is
attached to the Y.W.C.A., which has
splendid buildings and equipment at
Newcastle. She felt, however, that she
would like to make a study of the coal-
fields area in its work, its unemployment
(quite a bit of that, alas!) and its play,
and then work out a scheme of welfare
activities to meet the special conditions
and wishes of the miners and their fami-
lies. Independence and a faith that
work will soon be found for all, either
by the opening of a new mine or by
development of coal by-products, are two
characteristics of the population. They
have an affection for their homes, and
they don’t want to move away. Satur-
day afternoon sport for girls does not
flourish in these districts, but hikes are
popular. Tennis, too, and dancing are
among the popular diversions. What
with the Y.W.C.A. Auxiliary Groups, the
Senior Girls’ Clubs, the Girl Citizens’
Groups and the Girl Reserves, Jean is
getting a very intimate glimpse of the
problems of the girl of the industrial
areas from nine years upwards.
Canonbury, the A.J.C. convalescent
home for children, was very festive last
Thursday. Balloons and streamers and
flowers had been used with lavish effect,
and the rooms looked worthy of the great
visitor. Santa Claus (Colonel Farr) duly
arrived. He didn’t ring the front-door
bell; he climbed in the window at the
back of the Christmas-tree. Every-
body grew pink with excitement,
from the small girl who has been there
six years to the little boy whose
bed had been wheeled to the scene of
the fun. “You haven’t shaken hands
with me, Santa Claus!” came breathless
voices. One very little chap drew the
great visitor’s face down and kissed him.
The clown (and was there ever such a
funmaker?) paused while the Tree was
being plucked, and sat on the floor beside
the wheeled bed.
The clown was one of the A.J.C.
workmen who had been at Canonbury
the day before. He had proved such a
success with the youngsters that matron
(and you can tell how pleasant and smil-
ing she is when you hear the children
call her “matey”) had roped him in to
help with the amusement. The A.J.C.’s
chairman, Mr. Main, and secretary Mr.
Rowe were among the grown-ups; so
was Dr. Archie Aspinall. Canonbury is
one of the lovely bits of Sydney. Not
only has it a swimming-pool at the foot
of the garden, it has a warm salt-water
pool within doors. This is for the treat-
ment of patients with muscular trouble.
Miss Nellie Veitch gave a party of
great size at the Forum Club last week.
There were nearly 50 guests, and many
of them came from the North Side of
the Harbor. The reason, if any were
needed, for the merry affair was that it
was the birthday of the hostess’s sister,
Mrs. Searight, and of her niece, Ella
Veitch, a visitor from Perth. Miss
Veitch wore a graceful frock of
deep ivory lace, its full skirt banded in
brown satin. Her earrings and necklet
were of amber. Mrs. Searight was in
black moire, made redingote style. Niece
Ella brought dusky-pink crepe to the
colorful afternoon. Sarah Hynes made a
speech, at once pretty and witty, ana
then the polished decorum of the dining-
room echoed with for “They Are Jolly
Good Fellows” and “Auld Lang Syne.”
There was great excitement in the Aus-
tralia ballroom when the Queen Victoria
Music Club presented vice-president
Mrs. Harry Twigden, who was for
several years treasurer, with two glitter-
ing silver entree dishes. Mrs. Percy
White did the deed while 300 or more
Queen Victorians cheered happily. The
inscription has a happy opening: “From
her friends of the Queen Victoria Club.”
A frock of flowered-pink sheer topped by
a large Leghorn hat sustained Mrs.
Twigden during her moment of surprise
and her speech of thanks. Then Mrs.
Percy White, the president, had her
moment. The wife of Premier Stevens
stepped forward and asked her to accept
a tall crystal vase from the members.
The Parker and Parkhill ladies and Miss
Irvine Scott were the afternoon’s host-
esses.
Glitter and color, laughter and tears,
and the “was it a dream?” ending will
make every woman eager to see “Bala-
laika” over and over again. This story
of Russia when Leningrad was St.
Petersburg and there was a population
entirely made up (at least for the purpose
of musical plays) of dashing Cossacks
and exquisite creatures who danced in
the Imperial ballet opened at the Royal
on Thursday night. The week-night open-
ing proved popular. There wasn’t an
empty seat in the house. , The frocking
was the best since Russian Ballet first
nights. Blue, greens, reds and lucent
white that caught up as though they were
a reflection the colors massed on the
stage flashed in dress circle and stalls.
White, long and graceful, suited Gladys
Moncrieff. Lilac in its many shades
appeared again and again. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s sweeping chiffons were in this
color, and one of the deeper tones in
tulle and satin suited the fairness of
Mrs. Herbert Douglass. Mrs'. Douglas
Levy, Mrs. Talbot, Mrs. F. J. Davy and
Kathleen Morgan O’Neill had come
under the “Lilac Time” influence. Sleek
ruby satin suited Mrs. E. Baume ; Mrs.
Alexis Albert’s passing was a flash of
silver sequins. Mrs. Ken Hall’s cape of
gossamer grey was worn over amethys-
tine crepes. Mrs. Dan Carroll’s laces
were softly mauve. Dahlia-red were Mrs.
Wilfred Fairfax’s crepes. Robin Eakin
brought cherry-red to the color cocktail.
Mrs. E. Wunderlich wore platinum-grey
lace and all-white suited Mrs. Crawford
Robertson.
Radio knight Ernest Fisk seems to
think that the perfection or near perfec-
tion of television will be the beginning
of the end for newspapers. He said, at
the Institute of Journalists’ lunch to him
last week, that television, the headline of
to-day, may mean the newspaperman’s
headache of to-morrow. Only it’s a to-
morrow so far distant, the speaker con-
siders, that his listeners went on consum-
ing ices and smoking cigarettes in an en-
tirely carefree manner. In fact, their
nonchalance could not have been ex-
celled by the French monarch who
shrugged away the future with the re-
mark: “After me, the deluge!” The
Fisk lady, cool-looking in spite of the
heat of the day, sat at the top table with
her husband. The Spencers, just back
from months of travel, were there, too.
and with them their doctor son, who
has plucked his F.R.C.S.
Westralians held their Christmas Wongi
in the Lyceum Club. Attendance was
large, but there were only three grown-
up males and two small boys. One of
the men was Fred Johnson, who led a
burst of community singing after the pro-
gramme of music arranged by Mrs.
Stephen Herford and Miss Amy Browne
had sparkled to its close. President Mrs.
Carroll cut the Christmas cake, on which
a white swan proudly sailed. This had
been baked by treasurer Mrs. Robins,
and the only bit of it left was the swan,
which went home to not-well-enough-to-
come secretary Mrs. Mattei by the hands
of her small granddaughter. Mrs. Bur-
leigh, Mrs. Goodisson and Mrs. Parsons
were some of the well-known Westralians
present.
Among the week’s outsize parties were
the garden cocktail party given by the
Mark Sheldons and the Claude Plow-
mans’ late-afternoon affair. The Harry
Julius couple gave a Christmas tea-party,
and guests interested in art had a chance
to see son Rex’s Centralian paintings.
The Milton Chicks mixed sherry and
song. The Seviers celebrated Saturday
with a cocktail party in the gardens of
their home at Collaroy.


IB
Waarom u niet iedereh
DAG LEKKER VOELEN ?'
amd fain
■I
rrA
\ v'iX
»
r^s
■i*=o\
K
>
%C>
ck=
w//#.
\
\
/to Didd) fjur
a
Why not feel fit every day?
Women everywhere have found that Wolfe’s Schnapps enables them to
feel fit every day throughout the year. This purest of all gin spirits,
distilled in Holland, contains unique medicinal properties which invigorate
the whole system.
Wolfe’s Schnapps eliminates many distressing disorders by cleansing the
kidneys and purifying the blood stream. Start taking a glass of Wolfe’s
Schnapps each day, you’ll notice the improvement in your general health.
Get a bottle to-day there are three sizes, large, half and quarter bottles,
at prices to suit your purse.
WOLFE'S
/} 0 fi f t
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
"For your health’s sake ”
WS-6-60
m
OLFES
iiini
CHIEDAM 1
ESSS"-
Wt£>>
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS is
obtainable in large, half and
quarter size bottles at all hotels


WUWDOTWNSWtIN
■'-V
'
gents for N.S.W. GOLDSBROUCH MORT C, CO. LTD.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
SW
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Melbourne
Chatter
Christmas is upon us, but the real spirit
of the festive season is missing, for it’s
the children’s time, and they have lost
their freedom in the paralysis epidemic.
There are no Father Christmases in the
shops, very few children are allowed by
their parents to go into the city, and
though they are getting their presents
they miss the thrill of the excited crowds
in the toy departments, the shoots, swings
and miniature train rides, with every-
body blowing whistles, eating sweets and
rubbing grimy hands on damp, sticky
faces. Some mothers are trying to ar-
range Christmas-trees for children who
have been kept home from school dur-
ing the last few months. But the guest-
lists are the difficulty, for only other
“isolations” are asked. Gatherings of
three, four or six youngsters round the
spangled fir are the best that can be done.
In a few cases an only child will have a
lonely tree all to itself.
The Ernest Joneses’ party was made
merrier by the warmth of Christmas
greetings and the warmth of a fire in the
lounge, smouldering just sufficiently to
take the chill out of the air. Mrs. Jones,
who wore white organdie and a butterfly
bow in her hair, had among her guests
quite a number of people who had met
in disguise on the previous night, when
the George Taylors had a fancy-dress
party. At this hilarious function Mrs.
H. Schrader looked fine in the first
dinner-suit made for her eldest son Eric,
who, at 16, has grown out of it. Mrs.
Taylor went as Shanghai Lil, a very
tough lady, who lost much of her con-
fidence, nevertheless, when persistently
pursued by one of the nigger minstrels,
under her war paint Mrs. Charles Adey.
She and Dr. Adey were the coal-black
twins. At first no one knew who they
were, and when they did find out their
name there was still doubt about which
was which.
The Mephan Ferguson couple gave a
housewarming last week with sherry and
cocktails within doors and without, for
there were chairs and tables in the garden
for guests who liked to wander among
lawns and flower beds. Mrs. Ferguson
is interested in antique furniture ; some
pieces which used to belong to her she
rebought when she and her husband de-
cided to purchase the home of their
choice next to the kirk.in Toorak-road.
For the party Mrs. Ferguson wore a
gown of patterned georgette in greys
and blues ; daughter Helen (who is doing
Science at the University) chose a floral
frock with winged sleeves and low decol-
letage. Among guests who lingered
round the beautiful china cabinet in the
hall were the Stanley Lewis and Bremner
Lewis couples, E. H. Collis and the
Walter Leitches.
A large laundry basket filled with
parcels that squeaked and rattled or
bulged in unexpected places, promising
excitement for small fingers and a thrill
to young hearts, was the result of the
Austral Salon’s afternoon party held to
collect toys for Christmas in the Chil-
dren’s Hospital. Alba Zacutti did the
organising, and contributed a “Peter Pan”
excerpt to the entertainment programme.
Mrs. Tom White, who is president of
the Children’s Hospital Auxiliary, was to
have been guest of honor, but her hus-
band’s political engagements took her
elsewhere and Mrs. Stanley Elder came
as deputy. Up till the time of the arrival
of musicians Elliott Wells, Charles Lillis
and Ray Trewearn, Mr. W. Dyring was
the only man present, but he never feels
nervous in all-feminine company, which
fact he’s proved many times by never
missing the Salon’s weekly afternoon.
Among others who took tea and a earful
of music were Mrs. Roy Ashton, whose
gift was a bracket of songs, president
Mrs. J. L. Stein, vice-president Mrs. J. N.
McNicol, Mrs. H. Webb, Mrs. C. E.
Vandeleau, Mrs. Rudolph Long and
Miss Billinghurst.
Mrs. Tom Parrington was fortunate in
having warm sunny weather on the day
of her luncheon party at her mother’s
home —for Mrs. F. E. Bellmaine’s
garden, with its lovely English trees, is
a very tempting place in which to walk.
Sunshine and blue skies also pleased the
canary, who sang so loudly that he
drowned conversation while cocktails
were being served on the verandah. A
special guest was Mrs. Leo Little, who
recently returned from a holiday to Eng-
land to see her relatives. She travelled
both ways by German cargo ship and the
Cape, found the voyage neither too long
nor too monotonous, but was pleased
that engine trouble necessitated a week’s
delay at Durban.
While travelling by train in Belgium
Mrs. Little was left behind at a station
with bags of buns and oranges, but no
money nor handbag. It was eight hours
before she caught up with her mother
in Cologne, having negotiated the no-
passport difficulty at the frontier with the
aid of telegrams. Among others present
at the party were Mrs. Jim Buchanan,
very slim in a black suit, and Mrs. Nevil
Mader, who is finding her new home at
Macedon not at all too far from Mel-
bourne. She drives herself to town
several times a week.
This is Mary Patterson, who has re-
cently become engaged to Ronald Black-
well, son of the late Mr. and Mrs. T.
Blackwell, formerly of Adelaide. Mary,
who is the younger daughter of the late
T. A. Patterson and Mrs. Patterson, of
Mayfield, Murphy-street, South Yarra,
and a niece of Melba, shares the family
talent for art and music. She plays and
sings and speaks French and Italian.
After several years at Melbourne
Grammar School she went to a finishing
school in Switzerland, and later lived for
a time in Italy. Broothorn photograph.
Among passengers in the Stratheden,
which commences her maiden voyage
from England on Christmas Eve, are
Captain and Mrs. Russell Sheppard.
Mrs. Sheppard, who visited Australia a
couple of years ago, is a daughter of
Mrs. S. H. Hall, who died recently, and
a granddaughter of the late J. B. Wat-
son, well-known mining man, who made
a fortune at Bendigo. She is very petite,
with golden hair and a flair for interest-
ing clothes. During her girlhood in Mel-
bourne, she was well known for her
ballet technique and for her confidence
and skill on ice skates.
Discussions have taken place in the
Legislative Assembly about increasing
the number of members of the Housing
Commission from four to five so that
a woman may be included. The fact that
the N.C.W. was the only women’s organ-
isation invited to submit nominees is not
being received with approbation by the
Federation of Mothers’ Clubs. At the
quarterly meeting Mrs. M. G. McNaugh-
ton was the spokeswoman who suggested
that the federation should be asked to
nominate, if for one reason only, that it
has 13,000 members and has been in
active existence for 20 years.
The streamlined railway train Spirit
of Progress has its points of retrogres-
sion. All its thoughts (or the thoughts of
its owners) are for passengers. Freighted
cargoes have to come by the second divi-
sion of the train until round about Feb-
ruary when a new van is built. This
lack of freight accommodation affects
second-class mail matter and explains
The Bulletin’s late Wednesday appear-
ance on Melbourne bookstalls.
Two sisters now meeting in Melbourne
after having been as far apart as the
ends of the earth are Mrs. Sverre Lie
and Mrs. J. C. Thomson. Mrs. Lie, who
has been abroad with her husband,
travelled across Siberia by train and spent
some months of summer in Norway,
where the weather was beautifully warm
and so reliable that lightweight frocks
could always be worn with safety. The
“Tommy” Thomsons have come from
New Guinea and are leaving for a holi-
day in Java and Singapore on January
19 in the Nieuw Zeeland. Their luggage
included a totem pole as large as a
canoe. It is supposed to be Mr. Thom-
son’s portrait, and is not flattering, for
it features an enormous mouth, pen-
dulous ears and four ribs just under the
neck, but it was intended as a compli-
ment by the native “boys” who worked
for him and who autographed the mon-
ster with their scratched signatures.
A heavier bundle is a 141 b. rock which
Mrs. Thomson calls her brush with death
and means to have made into a door
stop. During blasting operations on the
mine it came through the grass roof of
her house, missing her by a few feet.
Mr. Thomson has been managing one of
Ray Parer’s claims on the Watul.
Although the house was six miles’ walk
from the nearest ’drome, Mrs. Thomson
got fresh meat regularly, and her butter
was always hard in her kerosene re-
frigerator filled with home-made ice.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Mrs. Lucius Conolly, who with her hus-
band recently returned from 21 months’
travelling around and about the world,
across oceans by ships, across continents
usually by car, the trans-Siberian train
journey being an uncomfortable excep-
tion. In Europe Mrs. Conolly found a
smattering of German very useful, and
her husband helped by soon picking up
a working vocabulary in various lan-
guages. The couple enjoyed driving
through the Balkans to Athens, where
they shipped their car over to Syria. In
that country the motorist who cannot
understand the weird curly script of
Arabic on maps and signposts finds a
knowledge of French very useful. There
was a mixture of East and West at a
dinner party given in honor of the
travellers in Syria. Queer Arabic foods
were served, but there was beer to drink
and the music was provided by radio.
Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Kent, whose
presentation to the National Gallery of
their valuable collection of Chinese art
treasures was made unconditionally, give
nevertheless some helpful suggestions
regarding displays. Rather than over-
crowd showcases, they advise changing
from time to time the pieces on view.
Exceptions are the ancient Han and
T’ang mortuary ware, which should not
be handled more than is necessary. An-
other suggestion is the publication of an
illustrated guidebook similar to that
used by the British Museum. Students
or mere spectators can learn a lot with
the help of such informative pamphlets.
Mr. Kent and his wife have spent 30
years collecting the treasures which they
now mean to share with the people of
their native State. As genuine connois-
seurs they feel that the influences that
come with an understanding of art and
beauty should be stimulating to the
young people of this country.
Mrs. H. McL. Duigan, who has great
capacity for enjoyment and is interested
in practically everything, had a wonder-
ful time while she was abroad. Among
friends who entertained her in England
was Mrs. John Dane, daughter of Mrs.
Robert Hunter, of Bendigo, and a sister
of Alec Hunter, the racing man. In
Edinburgh Mrs. Duigan was the guest
of Mrs. Harold Scott (Freda Douglass,
of Geelong, before she married a master
at Geelong Grammar School who is now
on the staff of the Edinburgh Academy).
Mrs. Duigan went to Holland to visit
Mrs. Arthur Goossens, born Annette
Lawers, whose father was Belgian Con-
sul in Melbourne soon after the war.
Mrs. Goossens speaks four languages,
and her small boy, aged five, is fluent in
both English and Dutch, but for some
reason of his own refused to speak any-
thing but the latter language to an Aus-
tralian visitor.
Mrs. Duigan visited Paris with Kath-
leen Sproule, who also has friends in
Melbourne. Miss Sproule was on the
teaching staff at The Hermitage, and gave
up the directorship at Burnley Free Kin-
dergarten when she left for abroad a few
years ago. The travellers had great diffi-
culty in getting accommodation in Paris.
One hotel gave them a drawing-room
with shakedown, but only for a few days,
for even this makeshift had been booked
in advance. On a launch excursion on
the Seine to watch the lights of the Ex-
position they had an adventure in get-
ting tangled up among the fireworks, with
rockets going off all around them and
language just as fiery bandied between
the captain of the craft and the safety
patrols on the river.
Saturday night’s audience at the King’s
had a couple of complaints which even
the artistic achievement of “To-night at
8.30” could not quite wipe off the slate.
Lament No. 1 is of the posts at the
King’s Theatre. There are 12 of them,
and they loom large in the range of
vision for at least half the spectators.
No. 2 is of the lack of policemen to
help the one officer keep the traffic mov-
ing in Russell-street, which after a first-
night show is a wedged mass of cars.
The plays chosen were among the
favorites of the “8.30” group of nine—
the hilarious comedy “Hands Across the
Sea,” the poignant “Still Life” and the
quarrelsome “Red Peppers.” In the first
piece the setting is in tune with Peggy’s
rattle-brained world, a color cocktail of
white walls, green doors and telephone,
deep-red carpet, furniture and parlor-
maid, a couple of modern pictures, a
conventional flower piece and something
“picked up at a dealer’s” in the way of
a red lacquer cabinet. A couple of in-
triguing dress notions were Miss Comp-
ton’s blue chiffon gown with its lapels
of artificial flowers and the sports suit
worn by Mary Charles. Its white linen
skirt, yellow waistcoat and air-force-blue
Norfolk coat went with a white, hat
banded in the same blue.
Noticed in the audience which arrived
just as twilight was being swept away by
darkness, which comes late now that we
are close to the longest day of the year,
were Mrs. Charlie Lyon, distinctive in
ice-blue gown and silver-fox furs, Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald wearing a swathed
headpiece of emerald-green taffeta, the
E. Kennons, Mrs. Kennon in black frock
and an ermine collar to her black coat,
and the Fred Bishops, Mrs. Bishop in a
lame wrap shot with black, rose and
gold. Others there were Mrs. Harry
Rosenthal looking her very best all in
white and ospreys, Mrs. George Steven-
son in pastel-blue gloves to match her
ospreys, Mrs. Edric Henty with a tall
ornament like fern fronds in her hair, and
Mrs. Jim Paxton in cream satin a-twinkle
with beads upon corsage and shoulder
straps.
Why not give a plant for Christmas?
Hydrangeas may be had with four or
five blooms and a bud or two (promis-
ing a surprise in color) all in a pot for
as little as Is. At the plantgrowers’ ex-
hibition held recently in the lower Town
Hall many people got well ahead with
their Christmas shopping by buying
young maples and beeches all ready to
be planted in the garden, hanging baskets
of ferns, small holly-trees and a varied
choice of cacti from Tom Thumbs in
their tiny pots to hoary old men with
wrinkled skins and tough whiskers.


A GIFT OF GOOD CHEER
THAT WILL BE APPRECIATED
Inserted by
The Viticultural Society of Victoria.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: Mandated New Guinea ac-
quires a new dignity with the issue of
its first official year-book, published
under the authority of the Prime Min-
ister. Statistics show the growth of popu-
lation from 1026 whites in 1917 to 4310
last year, besides whom there are 1523
Chinese. Only 3332 out of a total non-
indigenous population of 5881 are Brit-
ish subjects, and there are 477 Germans
against the 780 who were there in 1914,
apart from troops. Natives are estimated
at 500,000, of whom 37,000 are inden-
tured laborers. Exports in 1936 were
valued at £2,573,000, of which £1,704,000
came from gold and £761,000 from
copra. Gold-production since 1926 has
been £7,150,000. The handbook covers
every phase of Territory life and activity,
and is well illustrated with maps and
photographs.
“Mataranka”: Dar-
win is to have such a
doing-over at Govern-
ment expense that it
will not be long be-
fore its own grand-
mother won’t know it
for the slatternly old
village it use(i to be
in the dear, dead
days when Adminis-
trators knocked round
in their shirtsleeves
and Chinese gutted
fish on their front
pavements. Silent-
cops, sanitary regula-
tions, the installation
of an Australian army
150 strong and the
coming of air-liner
traffic have raised a
sense of civic pride in
the breasts of the
Minister for the In-
terior and his officers,-
and they now propose
to reconstruct Dar-
win into a “modern
tropical town” at a
cost “exceeding
£100,000,” which is to
cover new quarters
for the garrison, an
“efficient water
supply,” a “base for
Empire flying-boats,” a naval dock and
coastal fortifications. The new Minister
may not be experienced, but he cer-
tainly is an optimist.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Nobody can say that Bris-
bane is not becoming a city of garden
homes. It has less slum area than
any other town of its size that I
know. And this year’s home-building
alone cost £1,000,000.
* * * *
“X.T.”: There are at least two literary
memorials in the N.T. which are worth
official preservation, both associated with
Mrs. /Eneas Gunn’s We of the Never
Never. One is the great banyan on the
Elsey,
away from the world, with its soft shade,
sweeping curves and feathery undergrowth
making a world of its own.
It was lost to sight for many years, but
the other day Harold Giles discovered it
with the Maluka’s toast to his wife still
carved on its bole: “Nice girl, Jeanie
Gunn.” The usual couple of tourists
had added their initials. The other shrine
is the Maluka’s grave near the site of the
old Elsey homestead. When I last saw
this in 1924, weather had played havoc
with it, and some vandal had removed
one of the metal rails. I painted it and
arranged for some friends to put it in
order again a few years later. Especially
as it lies on a main route, it should be
easy for the Government to keep it in
permanent order.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane can no longer
boast of a million-pound City Hall. The
city’s latest annual statement of accounts
admits that, apart from damage by white-
ants and borers, its value has dropped to
£917,968, even with the big organ thrown
in. Some other valuations read a trifle
strangely. The Ludmayoral gold chain
stands at a mere £250, although it can
surround the massive “Alfie” Jones and
present gold values are high. But the
ancient and wheezy Bulimba ferryboat is
alleged to be worth £8703. The most
valuable single item of real estate is Cen-
tenary Place, on the way to the Valley,
at £85,810; the cheapest, Boondall Park,
near Sandgate, at a solitary quid. Dutton
Park stands at £19,648. Anyhow, it is
nice to know that the city has assets
amounting to 6s. Bd. in the £ to set
against its £18,429,873 debt.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Ten decorations go to
Rabaul citizens, ranging from Adminis-
trator W. R. McNicol, who gets a
K.8.E., and Acting-Chief Judge Phillips
(C.8.E.), who was in charge during the
first 48 hours of the trouble, to the local
“But I MUST ’ave a sock somewhere , Ma —I 'ung one up LAST Chris’ mas."
lady hotel licensee, for services in con-
nection with the Rabaul earthquake and
eruptions. Presumably decorations for
the Canberra politicians who, while they
decide where the new capital is to be, are
keeping the unstable town with its large
population sitting on terrestrial dyna-
mite, will be delivered later.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Brisbane struck an unusual
workers’ compensation case the other
day. A blacksmith working on a job
was struck by a piece of steel. A few
days later he contracted pneumonia and
died. A compensation claim was made
by a son, aged 31. The Court decided
that he was not entitled to it, but awarded
his mother £6OO. But as she died
six days after her husband, and the son
will have the right to seek letters of ad-
ministration, he will benefit. And, of
course, the Taxation Departments. Cir-
cumlocution means money to them.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Lady Gowrie’s brother, A. D. Poliak,
and his wife, who have been at Dunk
Island for two years, are returning to
England in the Sydney Star. Hugo
Brassey intends to sell his interest in
Dunk Island, where he has spent £20,000.
Since the University instituted a
course in agriculture, no fewer than 50
women have been enrolled as students
at Gatton College. At present 26 gradu-
ates of Sydney Uni., including eight
women, are taking courses at Gatton.
The girls turn their hands to everything,
including ploughing and a bit of tin-
smithery. And here’s another feather
for the feminine bonnet —Prof. J. K.
Murray says that some of our best work
in agricultural research has been done
by Queensland women.
One of our clever young men, Dr.
Ross Smith, who went to England to
practise after collecting a bagful of aca-
demic honors, runs a free clinic for the
poor at Bournemouth, and employs a
staff of Australian nurses and doctors to
help him. Rev. Norman Millar, of Bris-
bane, is an uncle.
Punch and Judy, quarrelling as usual,
went along to the Christmas party held
at the Trocadero for 500 children whose
fathers are members of the Wounded
Sailors and Soldiers’ Association. Mrs.
Edgar Robinson was president of the
ladies’ committee which gathered up the
cash to pay for the party and provide
a well-stocked tree. A ventriloquist
amused the small people, and the Cilento
lady handed toys down from the tree
while Santa Claus was busy taking toys
from his pack. Official guests were given
supper by the committee.
F. R. Lloyd, who plays bowls with
the South Brisbane club, is ' off to
Europe with his wife. The club gave
a farewell card party, and handed over
a travelling rug. J. Robinson, president,
and his wife, the lady in black and silver,
greeted the 80 guests. Several other par-
ties in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd
were held the week they departed.
The Returned Sisters’ sub-branch of
the R.S.S.I.L.A. held its reunion at
Finney’s, Sister E. M. Paten hostess for
the afternoon. She gave a racy account
of her visit to England with the Corona-
tion contingent.
The Orford, held up in Sydney last
week, brought back the L. A. Pooles and
daughter Thea, who have been abroad
for about 18 months; also the Francis
Bigges and Mrs. Phillip Bigge, likewise
fresh from a Continental tour.
Martyn Roberts, director of the art
department of the Central Technical Col-
lege, who has been friend and father con-
fessor to hosts of young ambitious artists,
and who can point to Doug Annand,
now of Sydney, Travis McKee and Miss
Arundel—both the latter are now in
London —as successful pupils, is retiring
from his job ; L. J. Harvey, who guided
the young in the art of pottery at the
Tech., also withdraws. The students
made presentations to both.
If you ask a housewife if she can feed
a large, hefty man for 6s. Bd. a week, the
lady probably will hit you with a sauce-
pan before heatedly explaining why it
can’t be done. But they manage it at St.
Oswald’s Hostel, run for unemployed
men by the C. of E. Men’s Society. A
good clean bed and three meals a day
are provided there for 150 men at a
cost of £5O per week. Literally thou-
sands of jobless men pass through the
hostel. The social committee is asking
for help, and points out that the pluto-
crat with a spare fiver can provide 15
men with food and bed for a week, a
decent Christmas gesture.
E. W. Bick, Curator of Brisbane
Botanical Gardens, has every right to be
a proud parent. Not only is daughter
Una the first Queensland girl to pass her
law examinations and qualify as a full-
fledged barrister, but son lan Ralph col-
lected so many awards at the Uni. this
year that precious little was left for other
aspirants. lan won the Queensland Free-
masons’ scholarship for 1937, the Priest
Memorial Prize and the Duncan Mc-
Naughton scholarship.
Brisbane Ladies’ Fishing Club char-
tered a boat to carry members over to
that they could enjoy
a little angling in
comparatively undis-
turbed waters. A
choppy sea that would
have been enough to
discourage most ama-
teurs and a violent
thunderstorm at night
(the disturbance put
out the light at Cape
Moreton) failed to
damp their enthusiasm
or to interfere with
the catch, which was
better than anything
the mere males
brought home after
their week-end.
Mrs. Stanley Roe,
who went to England
eight months ago with
her sister Nell Hay-
men, who married
Captain T. P. Honnor,
formerly private sec.
to Governor Leslie
Wilson, came home
by the Jervis Bay. She chose that
boat because it stopped at Malta for a
day and so gave her a chance to visit the
Honnor home, which is on that historic
island.
Leon Trevor, a Canadian visitor, took
a party of guests to Sandgate for a swim
party and a real American “sea-food”
supper. Two American girls who are on
a world tour, Kay Owens and Keane
Warner, were among the guests. They
have been in the North, spending some
weeks on Dunk Island.


ecrel
of G ordoit's
' Quality
44 La co sfly
process of
distillation c-
rectification
other Gin
655*
no
possesses
*9| |
If or dons
GENUINE
LONDON GIN
imported'
Gin
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
THOMAS FIELD deceased (died January 4
1935).
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated October 29 1937
made in suit No. 994 of 1937 intituled “In
the matter of the estate of THOMAS FIELD
late of Coolah in the State of New South
Wales Grazier deceased intestate between THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE in and for the State of
New South Wales Plaintiff and JOSHUA
FIELD and JOHN THOMAS FIELD De-
fendants” whereby the following inquiries were
directed viz.: Who were the persons entitled
according to the Statutes for the Distribution
of Intestates’ Estates to the estate of the above-
named Thomas Field deceased living at his
death whether any of them are since dead and
if so who are their respective legal representa-
tives? NOTICE is hereby given that all per-
sons claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiries are to send by post prepaid to THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE 14 Castlereagh Street
Sydney so as to reach him on or before the
16th February 1938 their full Christian and
surnames addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims or in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit of the
said Decretal Order unless the Court or a
Judge thereof or the Master in Equity on appli-
cation otherwise orders Claimants are to
attend personally or by their solicitor before
the Master in Equity at the Supreme Court
Elizabeth Street Sydney on Wednesday Febru-
ary 23 1938 at 11 a.m. being the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims Claimants
not residing in New South Wales must send
with particulars of their claim the name and
address of a person in New South Wales to
whom notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this 13th day of December, 1937.
C. M. MARSH & HARVEY, Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney; Agents for J. J. DOWD,
Solicitor, Dunedoo.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL MARY KATHLEEN BAKER (pos-
sibly living under the surname of Beaton),
wife of ARTHUR LEONARD BAKER, late
of Manilla Road, Tamworth, New South Wales,
last heard of at the Melbourne Coffee. Palace,
Melbourne, Victoria, in January, 1929, or any-
one knowing her whereabouts, please com-
municate with the New South Wales PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, St. James Building, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales? Mrs.
Baker would be now about 46 years of age, is
sft. sin. in height, of medium build, brown
hair and eyes and has three small moles on
back of neck. It is the intention of thft New
South Wales Public Trustee (the Executor ot
her will) to make application to the New South
Wales Probate Court for leave to distribute
her estate in accordance with her will unless
he receives any information as to her where-
abouts by 27th January, 1938. The said Mary
Kathleen Baker was born at Euroa, in the
State of Victoria, and may have friends in that
district.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Legacy Club’s Christmas party at
its rooms in Adelaide railway station
was enlivened with humorous posters in
charcoal recalling Digger days. Each of
the hosts, members of the Comradeship
Committee of the club, wore a red sash
and a fez. Cabaret items were given be-
,
ween ances.
Lucy Daw, matron of Adela.de Hos-
pital, on behalf of Maigaret ra am,
who is in England, piesented a si ver tea-
and-coffee service to the Roya 1 itis 1
Nurses Association s Home, Kent Town.
The service had been a gilt to Miss
Graham by the nursing staff when she
retired as matron of Adelaide Hospital
15 years ago. Since then she has made
her home in England. Miss Graham was
the first South Australian nurse to go to
the war and the first Lady Consul of
the association. Matron Daw, who has
recently returned from a trip overseas,
was welcomed by Dr. H. H. E. Russell
at supper held after the executive meet-
ing of the R.B.N.A.
Marjorie Barnes was guest at the
graduates' luncheon in the Uni. refec-
tory at Ip.m., a graduate receiving her
. V j * \ A „ KriHo
LL.B. degree at 3 p m and a bride
promising to honor and obey J. E. Wight
at 7.30 p.m. After a honeymoon in the
Eastern States Mrs. Wight will return
u ■ ttr. Fp
to her office in January in order to be
admitted as a barrister.
The A. M. Bonythons entertained the
Loveday Bonython prizewinners of
Girton School at their home Aldore at
Beaumont. The party is an institution
of 16 years’ standing. Barbara Wagner
was this year’s winner of the prize, a
memorial to the A. M. Bonythons 7
daughter. Blue, gold and white flowers
decorated the dining-room, where supper
was served and the college colors were
also featured in the cake, which was cut
b y the prizewinner,
An old Nordic custom was followed at
the wedding of Margaret Lucy, only
daughter of Principal and Mrs. E. S.
Kiek, of Parkin College, to Oscar Carl,
son of Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Knauerhase,
at Stow Memorial Church. The bride
and bridegroom drove to church to-
gether and walked down the aisle side
by followed by their attendants . T he
br j de wore stiffened white Continental
] ac£ oyer ma g no ij a sa fi nj a f u n skirt with
tra j n adacbed and a girdle of real flowers.
y be br j da f ved was 0 f ma gnolia-toned
j^ ce< g be carr j ed a p OS y Q f sma fi white
dowers Principal Kiek officiated. The
br jfi esma jfi s? Lillemor Anderson and
j S obel Hynd, were frocked in bronze
] am e, made with full skirts, and tight-
fitting bodices. A reception was held
afterwards at Parkin College.
Mrs. Efi mun fi Doerr, one of Mrs.
h. r. Corpe’s pretty daughters, has
a rrived from Germany on a visit to rela-
fives in Adelaide. When on an overseas
trip with her mother and sisters a couple
of years ago, Mrs Doerr met her
Edmund and married, and has since re-
sldfd >" Saarbrucken Her mother gave
a large cocktail party in her honor at
Me(jindje
No Adelaide wedding, say the grey-
beards, ever took place in such awful
weather as was experienced at the Gosse-
a, St p eter , s College
chapel. The rain came down apparently
in solid masses . By a merciful coinci-
fiance it eased up for a moment as the
bridal party arrived. Only relatives were
present at the ceremony, but over 200
guests were entertained afterwards at the
home of the bride’s uncle and aunt, Mr.
and Mrs. Lance Lewis, at Benacre, Glen
Osmond. The bride wore a trained gown
of ivory satin with a silver hair stripe,
the sleeves short and puffed and the neck-
line a V. The tulle veil was lent by the
bride’s great-aunt, Mrs. H. Ferguson.
Bride’s sister Eleanor looked charming
in a frock of pale-pink organdie, the
redingote effect appliqued in flowers.
Bridegroom James is the second son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Gosse, of Parkside.
The bride, Yvonne, is the elder daughter
of A. J. Melrose, of Kadlunga station,
Mintaro.
The last soiree of the season held by
the Adelaide Music Salon at Birk’s Picca-
dilly was a Christmas cabaret. Only 180
were expected, but over 300 turned up,
and it was fortunate that the restaurant
was able to cope with it. Novelties in-
troduced included two ballets by pupils
of Dorothy Slane, two Neapolitan songs
by Maude Clayton in national costume and
an excerpt from H. Davies’s “Romance”
by Shirley Worthley as Rita Cavallini
in the crinoline toilette of the period. The
last item was quite original. The room
was darkened, and a party of “waits” ar-
rived. Led by Clifford Lathlean they
sang carols, and the guests joined in the
chorus. Ballet girls scattered snow over
the company, and it was most realistic.
President C. H. A. Lienau entertained
the official party, which included the
Ritchie lady and Isobel, German Consul
Seger and Mrs. Seger and Colonel and
Mrs. V. Stantke. Mrs. Lienau, who is
ill, was sent a Christmas-tree and gifts
from the committee.
At the dinner of the Adelaide Uni. Law
Students’ Society, at the Lyceum Club,
there were three guests of honor, Jessie
Badger and Marjorie Barnes, who had
both just received their LL.B., and Helen
Solomon, a graduate in law who will be
married early next year.
Nora Stewart’s annual charity enter-
tainment in the Tivoli was attended with
complete success. The first part of the
programme was the infant performers,
who were delightful in a Christmas Eve
scene dancing round a tree, followed by
n Jrsery rhymes. The second part of the
programme included a well-staged
Oriental scene, with Margaret Morris
dancing. There was a flower stall in
charge of the Bonython lady. A sweet
stall was run by Mrs. K. C. Wilson with
Mesdames Mudge, C. I. Wald and the
committee of St. Mary’s Mission of
Hope.
WESTRALIA.
James MacCallum Smith, who has been
M.L.A. for West Perth since 1914, and
has been associated with the “Sunday
Times” since the beginning of the cen-
tury, though he no longer has a con-
trolling interest, was married the other
day to Aileen, daughter of Mr. T. S.
Healey, of Nedlands. The bride was in
blue floral marocain with blue net over-
dress and trimmings of taffeta and hat
of matching blue. She carried a bouquet
of pink gladioli. She was attended by
Marjorie O’Neill, who wore flowered
georgette in autumn tonings, with hat to
match, and carried a bouquet of autumn-
shaded gladioli. Banker Charlie Diamond
was best man. The ceremony was per-
formed by Father Bronsen. Mr. Smith,
who was the Caledonians’ chief for many
years, wore a kilt of the Mackenzie
tartan. A
The MacCallum Smiths are off to Eng-
land on their honeymoon, travelling by
the Orcades. The bridegroom is, of
course, no stranger to the Old Country ;
he last visited it as a member of the
Secession party. All going well, he will
celebrate his 70th birthday there on the
present occasion.
TASMANIA.
Hadley’s Hotel hummed like a beehive
at Mrs. Godfrey Rivers’s party of wel-
come for Mary Sharland. Isabelle Sim-
mons and her niece Dorothy also shared
in the honors, having only just got back
from a world tour. The hostess’s floral
georgette frock had a big shady hat to
top it. Mary Sharland was in floral and
navy, and her hat and lapel posies
matched. Isabelle Simmons was in pale
beige with a big hat. About 100 guests
enjoyed the doings.
Joi Chapman’s party at the Queen
Mary Club was for the Barclay girls on
their return from abroad. Six tables
were filled. Irises were used in decora-
tion in the drawing-room, and the bridge-
room was odorous with pink roses.
Mrs. J. G. Mitchell gave a very cheery
party at her home Etham, Sandy Bay,
by way of entertaining her two nieces,
Mrs. Gregory (Cambridge, Eng.) and
Mrs. Eric Garsia (N.S.W.). Mrs. Gregory
enjoyed renewing many old acquaint-
ances —she was Joan Bisdee before her
marriage. A few days later Mrs. Mit-
chell entertained again at her country
home Ellesmere, when about 30 guests
from town and the surrounding district
played bridge.
Vice-Admiral and Mrs. Beal are in the
Speck on a visit to Mrs. Beal’s father,
C. A. H. Youl, Symmon’s Plains. Mrs.
Beal is a sister of the Lewis lady. The
Beals mean to return to England in the
Orcades next March.
Ninie Gibson is home again after a
trip which included the Norwegian
fiords and Vienna, .as well as the Coro-
nation and a long motor tour of the
English country. She also put in some
time in Paris.
Margaret Lewis (Milford, Cambridge)
is another returnee from abroad. She
went to England via the U.S.A., and also
spent a good deal of time on the “Conti-
nong,” in Austria, Hungary and Germany.
Launceston’s new Mayor is Alderman
A. E. Wyett, who wears the chain after
F. Warland Browne, retired. Daughter
Joan will act as Mayoress, as her mother’s
health doesn’t permit of public service.
Prof, and Mrs. C. S. King have a nice
holiday ahead of them. They start on
Dec. 26 in the Strathaird for a 12 months’
sojourn abroad. The professor also in-
tends to visit Germany, Italy and Central
Europe, and will make a special point of
getting into touch with Rhodes scholars
when in Oxford.
Betty, elder of the two W. P. Hood
girls, Sandy Bay, and Douglas, son of
Dr. and the late Mrs. G. M. Anderson,
New Town, announce their engagement.


House For Sale.
PYMBLE, SYDNEY’S SELECT SUBURB.
TWO STOREY BRICK RESIDENCE.
Containing 'wide entrance hall,- 8 fine rooms,
billiard or ballroom, tennis court, sewered, all
offices,
2 GARAGES. 3 ROOSE BOXES.
PRICE, £5OOO.
Standing in 2 acres of land, with two frontages
and commanding excellent views, this property
should appeal to the Country Gentleman or
horse-lover, being only 12 minutes to Pymble
Station and within |-hour of City. Inspection
by appointment with O’SULLIVAN & CO.,
PYMBLE—JX2422.
Books, Publications, etc.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
MAP OF AUSTRALIA—I 937 New Edition.
Includes Air Service Routes. Single Coloured
Sheet (40in. x 30in.) folded in envelope ready
for posting. FOR SALE, Price 1/-. Apply
Works Director, Department of the Interior,
4th Floor, Customs House, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN’S MIRROR
—— A “Bulletin ” production ———
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and' Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Colling Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your Taney, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The Long Cloud
Electioneering Already
With an election on the calendar, 1938
promises to be a year of propaganda
cross-currents in Maoriland.
Adam Hamilton’s Nationalists, at
present in Opposition, aren’t losing an
opportunity of slating Labor’s general
policy and condemning its individual
planks. Certain of the more conserva-
tive National organisations have already
lined up with the Hamilton party, and
most of the daily newspapers, now com-
peting against Labor-sponsored commer-
cial radio stations for advertising
revenue, are acid in their comments on
things like waterfront strikes.
On the other hand, Labor leaders are
continuously congratulating themselves
on the manner in which the Savage Gov-
ernment has “pulled the country through
one of the most disastrous economic crises
the world has ever witnessed.” By radio,
party press and public platform, Labor
has started banging its own drum in the
all-embracing fashion of Mr. Semple,
who happily overlooks what Australia’s
Mr. Menzies has described as the “natural
and special variations in world economic
conditions” which have contributed so
much to Maoriland’s better times.
Caught up in a propagandists’ picnic,
Maorilanders who wish to vote intelli-
gently will have to do their own thinking.
“Motu”: Pilot of the Empire flying-
boat Centaurus, now pioneering the
regular service route from England to
Maoriland, is 29-year-old John Burgess,
who left Maoriland seven years ago and
worked his way to England to secure an
R.A.F. short-service commission; Aus-
tralia should remember him as second-
in-command of the R.A.F. flying-boats
which made the England-Australia flight
for Melbourne’s centenary in 1934. He
is now an Imperial Airways captain, but
is only the third of the Burgess family to
earn that form of address. His father,
Captain I. W. Burgess, is master of the
Maoriland Government’s lighthouse ship
Matai, and a brother, Captain D.
Burgess, skippers the Auckland Harbor
Board tug, William C. Daldy. From
sea boats to sky-boats —you’re right, the
family reunion in Auckland should be
salty enough for anyone.
t- * * *
“Korero”: Erosion in Canterbury hills
was investigated during the year by offi-
cials who recommended that the Savage
Government cancel high-country graz-
ing leases as they become due for re-
newal ; sheep, they declared, were eat-
ing off shingle-holding grasses and caus-
ing more erosion damage than rabbits or
deer. Now 58,000 acres worked by the
Mcßae family, of Glens of Tekoa
station, will go out of production in
February. Although the Mcßaes have
held the lease since 1849 and it has car-
ried an average of about 4000 dry sheep
a year, the present Mcßae says grazing
costs have become so high he isn’t sorry
he’s losing it. His son and manager, a
great-grandson of the original Tekoa Mc-
Rae, has one worry ; unless wild sheep
are kept down on the new forestry re-
serve, he fears it will be impossible to
run ewes in adjoining freehold paddocks.
And wild sheep multiply as industriously
as deer; in a leasehold drive eight years
ago over a thousand were shot. Looks
as though sheep will still be causing
erosion damage—and unchecked, unless
more subsidised Government shooting
parties are engaged.
* * * *
“Xo”: In 27 ML. towns more than
2000 State houses are going up, and the
Government will soon be Maoriland’s
biggest landlord, subject to the same law
as private landlords. The protection-of-
tenants clauses (B. 8/12/’37) are more
likely to be used by State-house tenants
“Slip ’ome an tell mum We'll be Working hack to-night.
than those paying rent to the chap across
the street; he’s easily cornered when im-
provements are necessary, but, with a
service-bound department, these requests
will have the “usual channels” to pass
through. Moreover, State-house tenants
must 4 agree to so many occupancy condi-
tions that they can’t even bang in a pic-
ture nail without official approval, so it
shouldn’t be difficult to get themselves
evicted.
* * * *
“F.1.N.”: Reference to the thousands
of Public Works Department tents now
dotting Semple’s highways (B. 15/12/’37)
reminds me that farmers over there can
be just as tersely descriptive as their
Australian counterparts. “Why all the
tents?” a visiting Australian recently
asked his Maoriland host. “Need ’em
to house the Government guests,” was
this farmer’s explanation. “You didn’t
say ‘jests’!” asked the grinning Aussie.
“No, but it is the same thing,” returned
the Maorilander ; “they are on us, too.”
No doubt about where his next vote is
going!
* * * *
“M.”: Aucklanders are getting the
best of material reasons why the Waite-
mata should become the terminal for
trans-Tasman and trans-Pacific air ser-
vices (B. 5/12/’37). It was used by the
first Pan-American clipper which sur-
veyed the southern route early in the
year ; and it was good enough for the
establishment of a harbor-base that is
now the objective of the second Ameri-
can flight. From the other side of the
world, an Imperial Airways flying-boat is
heading for the same base, via Darwin
and Sydney ; Harold Gatty, Tasmanian-
born Maoriland and Australian Pan-
American rep., has placed his company’s
Auckland airport facilities at the dis-
posal of the Empire flying-boat Cen-
taurus, which plans to clear Sydney for
Auckland on December 27 on a Tasman
service-survey hop. Airminded Maori-
landers hope the U.S. clipper and the
Empire flying-boat will be moored on
the Waitemata at the same time, and are
hopeful that such a sight would mean
that Maoriland may soon figure on the
world’s air maps as an international air
junction.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Organised Labor has little
love for “the wool kings.” On occasion
shearers have helped a reasonable boss
by working through a Sunday if rain is
on the way and only a few hundred
sheep remain to be shorn. This conces-
sion to good-fellowship has resulted in a
Workers’ Union ukase:
All organisers, union reps, and agents
are specially requested to report
any man known to have shorn sheep on a
Sunddy and to take immediate legal
action against employers and workers.
Few sheepmen have ever suggested
Sunday shearing for the fun of it.
* * * *
“Mak”: Mines Minister Webb needed
a legal point as well as a shrewd tongue
to coincide the provisions of Labor’s
oil-search bill with the Waitangi guaran-
tee to the Maori people of
....the full; exclusive and undisturbed
possession of their lands and estates,
forests, fisheries and other properties which
they may collectively or individually
possess so long as it is their wish and
desire to retain the same in their posses-
sion.
To avoid the delay entailed in separate
negotiations with numerous private land-
owners, the oil bill gives the Govern
ment power to issue prospecting licenses
for areas 200 miles square , you see, an
obscure English law says oil is not pri-
vate property until it is taken from t e
ground. The chief objection raised by
Maori spokesman Apirana Ngata was not
to this as much as to a revenue-grabbing
Savage Government addition which pro-
poses an oil-flow royalty of at least 5 p.c.
for the Crown. “The rights dealt with
are vested in the owners of the land,
Sir Apirana did observe. righis
have been sacred to us since 1840. An
not even Mr. Webb can blame the
Maoris for their desire to retain the
property-owners’ right to say who shall
trespass on their land, and for what.


Five Metres—Australia
to England Again.
The whole world of radio now
knows of the reception in North
Wales by C. Mellanby of Sydney
station VK2NO. Such reception
would be of no account on ordi-
nary short waves, but when the
reception is of a u.-s.-w. five-metre
signal it is outstanding.
Mellanby has done the trick
again by receiving C.W. signals
from VK2NO on five metres on
31/10 / ’37 at 14.20 G.M.T., at
which time VK2NO was calling
ON4AU in Belgium on pre-
arranged schedule. Signal strength
is reported as Q3 R5/6, showing
an increase on the previous recep-
tion of a year ago.
Thus for the second verified
period, Australian u.-s.-w. transmis-
sions have reached Europe. The
transmitter at VK2NO is the one
pictured in B. 8/12/’37, with an
input of 150 watts.
D. B. K.
r
Somebody's getting
a Better Radio now/
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Prices frit at CH'IU'G.
THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
are given away free for a
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK’S PAGES.
Handicapping the
Experimenter.
The 1800 or so Australian amateur
transmitters get a good deal from the
P.M.G. in the matter of regulations, but
a severe handicap is the absence of im-
portant radio material from overseas
sources, either because of total prohibi-
tion of import or excessive customs
duties.
The work of the radio experimenter
can be of immense value to radio science
generally. The experimenter develops
ideas and the radio manufacturer gives
him the components he needs to improve
his work. To-day the U.S.A. is foremost
in the production of special receivers de-
signed for high efficiency on short waves,
but revenue duties put them beyond the
pocket of Austra-
lian experimenters.
Recently for a
well - known U.S.
receiver designed
for experimental
reception only, a
Sydney amateur
had to pay, on top
of the factory price
of 151 dollars, a
duty of £2l 18s.,
and had the utmost
difficulty in even
securing permis-
sion to obtain the
receiver at all.
Goods of this
description are not
made in Australia,
and are not likely
to be owing to
high production
costs, and there is
no rhyme nor
reason in debarring
a mere handful of
keen radio experi-
menters from keep-
ing abreast with overseas progress.
Receivers are only one side of the
question. There are many other things
in radio that Australians can only read
about in overseas magazines and adver-
tisements. The Australian experimenter
is well catered for in respect of valves
certainly, but in designing a transmitter,
especially for the important business of
ultra-short-wave investigation, he has to
hunt in junk-shops and make shift with
what oddments he can get for good
high-frequency insulation, tuning con-
densers and the like.
Mostly of American origin, these com-
ponents are conspicuous by their absence
on the local market, and those that are
available are so costly that the average
experimenter has to go without. A com-
ponent selling in U.S.A. for a dollar or
two may cost £5 in Australia, if it is
available at all.
If there were 50,000 amateurs in Aus-
tralia as in U.S.A. there would be some
ground for the departmental attitude, but
with fewer than 2000 to consider, and
only a percentage of that number who
would wish to import special items, there
is every reason for a more liberal policy.
Early in 1937, the Wireless Institute of
Australia, the mouthpiece of the experi-
menter, had on the Federal Convention
agenda an item calling for such con-
sideration by the Government. The item
was passed, and has probably reached
the pigeonhole stage in Canberra. No-
thing more has been heard of it. Whilst
the question is to some extent a trade
matter, the Australian manufacturer can
surely suffer no loss if a small number of
experimenters are permitted to obtain
material they so badly need. If the ex-
perimenter is called upon to sign a
declaration that an importation is ex-
pressly for his own experimental investi-
gation, and not for resale, that should be
enough for the Customs Department.
D.B.K.
Radio Comment.
“Cluny”: Daventry has an interesting
„ ■ f , . .. . ...
°? enn S for short-wave listeners th.s
Ghristmas. A special broadcast from
Bethlehem will be relayed by land-line
to Cairo, then by Beam radio to London
and to the world from the Daventry
transmitters. There will be a description
of the Holy Places and choral numbers
from the Church of the Nativity, con-
Noel Ashbridge, B.B.C. Controller of Engineering, who will
attend the World Radio Convention in Sydney during the
150th anniversary celebrations.
eluding with the ringing of the bells from
Bethlehem.
* * * *
“No Clue”: Not everybody realised
that the stations used during the first
national field day were portable, for there
was nothing to give such indication from
the callsigns. In earlier days it was the
practice to use an X before the call,
showing that the station operating was a
portable one. In England a P is tacked
on at the end for the same purpose. I
understand that the P.M.G. would not
give permission to the amateur organisa-
tion to use an identifying letter in this
way, It would have been for a few hours
only and would have helped those par-
ticipating in the N.F.D. enormously. En-
couragement of a portable station com-
munication network by amateurs seems
to be a good thing in every way. It
might be very useful as military equip-
ment.
* * * *
“Querex”: Amateur radio certainly
makes the world a small place. This
morning I read in my paper of happen-
ings around Shanghai, and this evening I
have been listening to a duplex tele-
phony conversation between a Sydney
amateur and an American in the Inter-
national Settlement. The two hams were
police radio officers.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: When drilling a chassis for
bolt holes don’t countersink the holes
where an earth connection is wanted.
The burred edge will bite into the sur-
face of a soldering lug and ensure a
better contact than will a clean hole. If
second-hand steel chassis are used be sure
to scrape away any paint from around
existing holes when making connection
to earth. The paint used by most manu-
facturers is usually a good insulator.
* * * *
“Enno”: When high internal resistance
in B batteries causes a battery receiver to
“motor-boat” or whistle, there is often no
need to discard them. The voltage may still
be quite high. The cheapest and simplest
remedy is to connect an Bmfd. elec-
trolytic condenser across the B battery.
The condenser positive must be con-
nected to B plus on the battery. Electro-
lytic condensers pass a small leakage
current, but they can be invaluable in
getting longer life from B batteries, es-
pecially where the receiver is of old
design, minus audio decoupling.
* * * *
“Brasso”: A headline in an English
radio weekly reads: “Holland to Have a
S.W. Transmitter.” The Netherlands was
a pioneer country in short-wave broad-
casting. Almost a decade ago Queen
Wilhelmina broadcast from the old origi-
nal PCJJ station.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Good headphones for ex-
perimental radio purposes are extremely
scarce in Australia these days, but' in the
early days of broadcasting crystal sets
sported such excellent pairs as Browns
“A” type, Baldwins, Ericsson or Brandes.
There must be countless homes where
good pairs lie dust-covered and forgot-
ten. Somebody ought to bring those old
high-quality ’phones to light. I and
several others could do with a few pairs.
What's What in Radio.
E. T. Fisk, chairman of A.W.A., has
been elected a Fellow of the Royal
Society of Arts, London.
* * * *
D. B. Knock was elected a full mem-
ber of the Institution of Radio Engineers
(Australia) as from 25/11/’37.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Co.’s Iron Knight,
now on her maiden voyage to Australia
from Britain, put up something of a
record for radio communication. When
3000 miles distant in the Indian Ocean,
communication was established with
Perth (W.A.) coastal radio station. The
vessel carries radio equipment made in
Australia by A.W.A.
* * * *
The Douglas DC3 airliner Kyilla,
engaged in the Sydney-Brisbane service,
is equipped with radio apparatus designed
by A.W.A. Pilots can communicate with
the ground stations on both short and
medium waves, either in Morse or speech,
and can send signals on which bearings
may be taken at the ground stations.
* * * *
The new Odeon Alhambra Theatre in
Leicester-square, London, is to have a
big-screen television installation. It will
be used for televising direct to film audi-
ences such events as the boat race. If
successful, other theatre installations will
follow.
* * * *
German radio manufacturers are ex-
perimenting with synthetic substitutes for
raw materials, and ceramic materials are
much in evidence. A new substance,
known as Condensa, has been produced,
having an exceedingly high dielectric
constant. High-capacity condensers can
thus be made with very small dimen-
sions. Ergan is another useful German
insulating material.
* * * *
Motor-racing was televised recently for
the first time in the 8.8.C.’s programmes.
Transmission was by means of radio link,
signals radiated by the mobile television
unit being picked up at Alexandra Palace
and rebroadcast. Reception was reported
in Manchester, about 200 miles from
Alexandra Palace. Cameras were
mounted near the start and finish of the
race, and excellent pictures were obtained,
the speed of the cars having no effect on
reproduction quality.
Chief R.I. for Cairo.
Jim Malone, Australia’s Chief In-
spector of Wireless, leaves on January
4 in the Orford to attend the inter-
national radio conference to be held in
Cairo as Australian delegate. Frequency
allocation issues will be decided at this
meeting, and Australia’s interests could
be in no better hands. Malone includes
among his many duties regulation of
amateur radio, and under his regime
Australian radio experimenters enjoy a
degree of co-operation from authority
unequalled anywhere else in the world.
J.M. carries with him the best wishes of
VK experimenters.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver: Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
waver (B. 28/4/’37).
Location: Hughenden.
The main “regulars” are pretty much
in the same position as a week or so
previously. From 8 a.m. W3XAL on
16.87 metres is the best, and gives
American and war news at 9.30 a.m. On
Sundays RNE at 9 p.m. on 25 metres has
an excellent session in English. This sta-
tion is on at 9.30 p.m. on Wednesdays,
with plenty of variety, and the signal is
always strong.
HSBPJ, 15.77 metres, was at good
volume on 15/11/ ’37 at 11 p.m., but not
up to the form of the 31.54 metres trans-
mission. Signal strength was better on
the 18th. This was the Siamese Sunday,
and transmission was for 45 minutes
only.
PCJ, on 31.28 metres, was not nearly
so strong during the special jubilee broad-
cast as the week previously, when it was
easily the strongest station on the air,
2RO Denmark and GSB had more
volume. WIXK is now well audible at
6.30 a.m. with news.
At 7 a.m. GSC has been added to the
Daventry trio, and is better than GSB
but not so good as GSD. In the late
afternoons Daventry and Berlin are
splendid, and at night GSO is now the
weakest 19-metre station. DJN and
DJA are quite strong with news in Eng-
lish at 10 p.m., with DJN the better of
the two. Forty-nine metres and higher
is now too noisy on most nights. Chief
item of interest is HSBPJ. This station
is worth looking for around 11 p.m.
NORTHERNER


*i 0 2a,te Station^
A e^tcV vVemße^
J
1
H
■
H
a
P*
Ultimate Radio gives you world-wide recep-
tion with the same clarity and realism of
local stations. No less than 798 stations
have been logged by the Ultimate.
Ultimate Radio gives you maximum per-
formance. Here’s the proof—Admiral Byrd
used Ultimate on his South Polar Expedi-
tions—Ultimate has won 9 Champion of
Champions Awards.
Prices from Write for full particulars.
jcoq/i«/ 267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
S.zy/10/- ’Phone: M 2544—3 Lines.
ULTIMATE
SOLE AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES,
GEO. BROWN & CO..PTY..LTD
Electrical ctrtcl Industral Engineers
Write for full particulars:
267 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone: M 2544 (2 lines).
1
\ i
dm
The test of time has
proved the consistent re-
liability of Radiotron valves
throughout the world. Be sure
to always . . .
,[VALVE W| T(
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
amalgamated
WIRELESS (g) (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
Amateur Chatter.
Again comes news that Mellanby, of
North Wales, has been hearing VK2NO
on five metres. This time it was on
31/10/’37 at 14.20 G.M.T., at which time
VK2NO was on C.W., calling ON4AU
on schedule. Mellanby’s report is Q 3
R5/6, showing an increase over the
report of a year ago. October and
November were wide-awake for 10-
metre DX, and, as the writer prophesied,
five metres got somewhere. A pity that
most amateurs were “10-metre crazy.”
Doubt has been expressed in some over-
seas circles about Mellanby’s report, but
the fact remains that twice this observer
has logged the transmissions, and his
report checks perfectly with the trans-
mission log. Nothing has been heard
at either end in the ON4AU schedules,
and it seems that, for some remarkable
u.-s.-w. reason, the Pwllheli location must
be a very good one for picking up re-
fracted or reflected five-metre radiations
from eastern Australia. It will be re-
called that Mellanby also reported the
fourth harmonic from VK2UC, of Lis-
more, recently, at which time VK2UC
was on 20-metre ’phone.
There should be more VK five-metre
co-operation. Several stations are re-
ported to be active at various distant
points, but success will call for consis-
tency. May and June next year will be
worth watching for possible five-metre
DX. A good scheme for diversion would
be to keep a watch for the seven-metre
sound transmissions from Alexandra
Palace, London. A South African re-
ceived this station a year ago.
The 10-metre band seems to have
“folded up” on European signals, but
the usual complement of Americans can
be heard at intervals. Twenty metres is
suffering a depression so far as ’phone
contacts with U.S.A. go, but possibly the
lack of W ’phone QRM is a relief to
many. Meanwhile there are Chileans and
other South Americans for the asking, to
say nothing of Japanese, Chinese (Ameri-
cans in Shanghai) and Filipinos. Inter-
State and country stations have been at
good strength under short skip condi-
tions, and one or two Europeans can be
heard at intervals. Opening up a C.W.
contact with GSRV in Chelmsford on
5/12/’37, the writer found VK2XC at the
key there.
An old-timer back at the game is
VK3KU, H. Kingsley Love. He was
VK3BM, but let the call lapse owing to
pressure of business. Visitors to Sydney
en route to U.S.A. and England were
VKs 3UN and 3SI. The former, Lieut.
K. W. Magee, of the Military Staff, goes
for a spell to the Royal Corps of Signals,
the latter to look over the gang in U.S.A.
Overheard in Sydney a VK2 on 20-
metre ’phone advising another to over-
modulate in order to be sure of putting
a strong signal over to Ws. There is
enough inter-station QRM as it is with-
out advocating the introduction of excess
“splatter.” Fifty watts input, plus 90 p.c.
modulation and an efficient array, will
get a ’phone station there easily enough.
VK3 held a five-metre day in conjunc-
tion with the first Australian N.F.D. on
5/12/’37. In Sydney VKs 2AZ, 2EM
and 2NO were calling and listening for
VK3’s all day with no result. It is under-
stood that records were broken in Vic-
toria by working between Castlemaine
and Melbourne. Bob Cunningham, of
VK3ML and Eddystone fame, was re-
sponsible. He has a good assistant in
Eric Ferguson, ex-VK2BP, of Hazel-
brook, and lately operator with (he
Mackay Expedition at VKSNO Tanami.
With DX in the doldrums and static
rampant, much local yarning per mike
goes on, particularly on 20. There is
no objection to this, but it seems a pity
that five metres goes begging. The ad-
vantage is complete absence of QRN
and very little QRM, plus a constantly
strong signal over a better cross-city dis-
tance than can be worked normally with
a 20-metre ground-wave.
VK2NO.
A New High-power Triode.
A new Radiotron transmitting valve,
type 833, has been produced for use at
plate voltages up to 3000 volts, with a
maximum plate input of 1250 watts and
maximum plate dissipation 300 watts.
The filament draws 10 amperes at 10
volts and the amplification factor is 35.
Under typical operating conditions a
maximum power output of 1000 watts is
obtainable under Class-C telegraphy con-
ditions. Maximum input ratings may be
used on frequencies as high as 30 mega-
cycles, but excellent results may be ob-
tained at higher frequencies with re-
duced inputs.
Since the valve was designed for ultra-
high-frequency operation the usual base
has been omitted and four connections
are brought out by separate seals through
the glass envelope. The two filament
leads are brought out at one end and
the grid and plate connections at the
other.
The resonant frequency of the grid-
plate circuit is as high as 200 mega-
cycles, remarkable in such a large valve.
The valve, including filament pins and
grid and plate caps, is Bfin. long by
4 19-32 in. maximum diameter.
The interelectrode capacitances are:
Grid to plate 6.3mmfd., grid to filament
12.3mmfd., plate to filament B.smmfd.
England-Australia U.-S.-W.
Tests.
A message from the Radio Society of
Great Britain, via amateur stations
G2MF, ZL2SM and VK2NO, gives de-
tails of final arrangements for a con-
certed effort to effect two-way 56 mega-
cycle communication around the world.
The test will take place during the week-
ends between January 15 and 27, 1938.
Starting at 15 G.M.T. and running to
16, overseas stations will listen for
signals from Great Britain for 15 minutes,
then transmit for 15 minutes, and
so on. It is believed that the time
of the test covers two hours from 5 a.m.
to 7 a.m. Sydney time, but, owing to
interference during communication on
metres, part of the R.S.G.B. message as
l° st -
The rotating aerial system for the Philips
broadcaster PCJ ( B . 24 / 111’37). The
two 165ft. towers themselves rotate.
Accurate directivity to any part of the
world is obtained by electrical-drive con-
trol. One correctly focused aerial of this
nature is more efficient than a number
of fixed arrays in various directions.
PCJ now has 60kw. in the aerial.
New Radiotron for
Experimental Transmitters.
An R.C.A. contribution to the
types of valves available for experi-
mental purposes is the new 25-watt
triode, type 809.
It is a three-electrode valve of
the high-Mu type for use as a radio-
frequency amplifier, oscillator, Class-
B modulator and audio-frequency
amplifier. It can be operated at high
plate efficiency with low-driving power.
The plate connection is brought out
through a- separate seal at the top
of the bulb to provide high insula-
tion, and the internal structure per-
mits operation of the maximum rating
at frequencies as high as 60 megacycles.
Maximum plate dissipation is 25 watts
for Class-C telegraph and Class-B ser-
vices. The valve is equipped with a
ceramic base.
From the characteristics it will be seen
that it surpasses valves of the T2O type.
Filament voltage (A.C. or D.C.) is 6.3
volts at 2.5 amperes. Amplification
factor 50. As a plate modulated R.F.
power amplifier for Class-C telephony
maximum plate voltage is 600 at 83 mil-
liamperes, with a negative grid voltage
of 200. D.C. grid current is 35 milli-
amperes maximum, plate input 50 watts
and plate dissipation 17.5 watts. For
Class-C telegraphy operation, with higher
input ratings, the plate dissipation is 25
watts.
The 809 Radiotron will be available in
Australia in January from the A.W.
Valve Co., York-street, Sydney.
Television and Home
Construction.
Although television is a costly busi-
ness so far as transmitting stations and
commercial receivers go, constructors are
beginning to realise that they can make
their own television receivers much more
cheaply than was at first anticipated. The
mystery which originally surrounded the
design of television components is being
slowly dispersed. Constructors find that
I.F. and R.F. coils can be very easily
made and at very low cost, and as seven
or eight coils are generally needed in a
receiver a big saving is represented. And
careful buyers find that they can substi-
tute radio components for those adver-
tised as television components.
It is a certainty that the R.F. side of
television reception has been helped
materially by the work of amateur radio
transmitters on five metres. As more in-
terest was taken in five-metre communi-
cation in England manufacturers pro-
duced many excellent parts for such
work. They are equally useful in tele-
vision receivers.
It seems that, like radio in earlier days,
television is sure to breed a large army
of constructors ; which is all to the good.
D.B.K.
Higher Ratings for Radiotron
807.
Higher ratings have been announced
for a new construction of Radiotron 807,
incorporating improved screening and
enabling a higher plate voltage and dis-
sipation to be used. The plate is sup-
ported by ceramic insulators in order to
withstand the higher plate voltages and
the screening has been improved in order
to reduce the tendency towards self-
oscillation when used as a buffer.
The new ratings show the interelec-
trode capacitances to be o.2mmfd. maxi-
mum grid to plate (with external shield-
ing), llmmfd. input capacitance, 7mmfd.
output capacitance. The maximum volt-
age has been increased from 400 to 600
volts, the maximum input to 60 watts,
the maximum plate dissipation to 25
watts.
On maximum voltage the following
outputs are obtainable under typical
operating conditions: Class-AB 2 push-
pull audio amplifier 80 watts (two valves);
Class-B linear amplifier 12.5 watts;
plate modulated Class-C telephony ampli-
fier 24 watts; and Class-C telegraphy
amplifier or oscillator 37.5 watts.
When used under plate modulated
conditions, the maximum plate voltage
is 475 volts, maximum screen voltage 300
volts, maximum plate input 40 watts and
maximum plate dissipation 16.5 watts.
The screen maximum input and dis-
sipation remain as previously, and the
Australian price of the valve is still £2.
The Question Box.
/ have been using a public-address ampli-
fier with 59 ’s in Class B, 59 driver and 56 sub-
amplifier. The microphone is an ordinary
carbon type, and gives ample output with this
arrangement. Recently I tried a crystal micro-
phone, and find that there is not enough initial
amplification. Can you supply circuit dia-
gram with values of a suitable pre-amplifier?
As you are using 2.5-volt valves through-
out, a twin triode of the 53 type will do very
nicely as a pre-amplifier. The circuit diagram
shows the arrangement with all values.


The Richartfsnn Chain Hotel
Of
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
iONE-CHiWING.
Tri-cal”; Don’t like the sound of
your finding evidence of bone-chewing.
You must get on to that right away.
Some time ago I found that Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour quickly remedied this trouble,
and during the dry spell my cattle held
their condition better than my neigh-
bors’. I found, too, that stock of all
ages took readily to Tri-cal-os. You know
our coastal lands are more or less mineral
deficient, and inland, where you are,
bone-chewing and osteomalacia are being
observed on a widening area. Write to
Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O.
Box 35835, Sydney, for notes about
a stamp.
• l
%
M
*3
wA
Tri-cal-os. It will only cost 2d. for
Old Farmer.
WOOL IMPROVEMENT
Follows Consistent Use
VITA -LI CK
Mr. Gordon Liddle, “Dalree,” Jerilderie,
writes , 15161-37 :■ —
“I might say Vita-Lick is a won-
derful lick. Our 6-year-old ewes
this year have wonderful wool on
them. I think the lick has made
the difference. My son says it is
the only sheep lick made.”
V TA-LICK LTD.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
A Blowfly Census.
“Ghanam”: I. M. McKerras and M.
E. Fuller, of the C.S. and 1.R., have
found through a recent survey that the
Lucilia Cuprina is the most deadly
sheep fly, while the Calliphora species
was responsible for only one-fifth of
1691 strikes examined in all parts of the
Commonwealth. The Lucilia is an Orien-
tal fly—a primary like the Calliphora
and the English Sericata, which does little
damage to Australian sheep.
Maggots were worked on to make
identification certain. In Queensland
Cuprina was responsible for 197 out of
209 strikes ; in N.S.W., for 242 out of
310; in Victoria, for 15 out of 32; in
S.A., for 196 out of 228 ; in W.A., for
175 out of 310; the all-round percent-
age, 76 in 1088 commercial flocks. The
Cailiphoras came next with 35 p.c.
In Victoria and Tasmania, which hold
17 p.c. of all Australian sheep, strike
incidence was low, possibly owing to the
fact that the more susceptible merinos
are not so numerous in the two States
in proportion to crossbreds.
Each fly seems to have its favorite
striking time. The Calliphora favors
early spring and late autumn; the L.
cuprina late spring and earlier autumn.
At Canberra experimental station re-
sults over five years roughly bore out
the flock tests. Out of 603 strikes, 551
were due to L. cuprina —9l p.c. inci-
dence. Generally speaking, however, the
incidence of Cuprina strike increases and
Calliphora strike decreases towards the
north and inland. In moist temperate
regions only 60 p.c. average Cuprina
attack was found ; but in hot and arid
districts the average was 84 p.c.
The records of the types of sheep
struck in 1453 cases gave 71 p.c. of
»■ eech-struck mature ewes, 15 p.c. breech-
struck ewe lambs, 4 p.c. breech-struck
male sheep of all ages. Body strikes —
both sexes —were only 3 p.c. Ram-head
strikes were 3 p.c., with 3 p.c. of attacks
on wounds, including tailing wounds.
There was evidently a succession of
strikes by different species. One experi-
ment showed that when sheep, were ex-
posed to the English L. sericata there
were no strikes, but when L. cuprina
arrived on the scene both flies struck. .
It is all interesting. But it does not
provide a panacea for the blowfly,
though it points the way. Assured
breech cleanliness and the absence of
breech wrinkles, as becomes more and
more obvious, are the paths to blowfly-
strike eradication.
On one N.S.W. western plains prop-
erty looked over by the N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department’s vet., the cost of beat-
ing fly among 40,000 sheep worked out
at £BOOO one year. On a second stud
property it was £4300 for 20,000 sheep,
a third with the same carrying capacity
spending £3OOO. These costs were esti-
mated without taking into account the
reduced value of wool clip following a
strike season.
Sheep Rugging.
“Sheepo”: The N.S.W. Agricultural
Department is a bit late in the day in
experimenting with sheep rugging (B.
8/12/’37). Thousands of sheep have
been rugged in N.S.W., and owners have
proved the system’s advantages.
Credit for first experimenting with rug-
ging must be given to Williams, of
Goldsbrough, Mort, Adelaide, who tried
out his ideas .on sheep in sandy country.
Initial results were so outstanding that
within a couple of years thousands of
rugs were in use, and in all cases rugged
wool made enough to pay a couple of
times over for the cost and trouble. Some
rugged lambs realised up to ss. per head
more than those unrugged running on
the same country.
Sheep benefit in condition from rug-
ging, the wool is protected against burrs,
seeds, dust and other foreign matter, and
the staple thrives better.
An experiment worth while in fly dis-
tricts would be to impregnate rugs with
some repellent. I’ve tried whale oil, but,
although it gave certain results, the cost
was prohibitive.
Sydney’s Royal Show.
Many changes are being made in the
arrangements for Sydney Royal next
“ You never bin ’ere before neither? They tell me it's a cow of a. place in drought-time."
year to fit in with the 150th anniversary
celebrations.- The show will open on
April 9, a Saturday, instead of the usual
Monday, and will remain open for 13
days—three extra.
. Stud beef cattle and pig judging will
take place on the Monday, as usual.
Bronze medals will this' year be given
for champions. Dairy cattle (except the
entrants for the Gold Challenge Cup
class) being judged on Tuesday, April
12, exhibits must be on the ground the
•previous day instead of on Sunday as
formerly.
In the beef Shorthorn section the
Robert Clarke Memorial Prize has been
reintroduced for a pair of bulls under
two years,* and a 30-guinea trophy to
commemorate the work of Edward
Lloyd' Jones, of Tarcutta, president of
the Shorthorn Society, will go to the most
successful exhibitor. This can be won out-
right by three consecutive wins. Polled
Shorthorn classes have been introduced,
and the veteran breeder A. J. Simpson
and his son Frank have contributed
prizes, as also has E. L. Killen. Here-
ford prize-money has been considerably
increased.
The biggest change in the dairy sec-
tions is the introduction of a £2OO gold
challenge cup contest, open to all breeds.
This will be awarded for a group, one
male and four or five females, and will
be judged on April 11. There is no age
limit, but the animals must be of one
breed and owned by a single exhibitor.
Not more than two entries will be al-
lowed to one breeder.. A maximum of
five judges *vill officiate, according to the
number of breeds entered. Butterfat
production on the latest 273-day test will
be considered in making the awards.
Wheatfarming on the Grand Scale.
The Westralian “Wheatgrower” in its
annual claims that its State “has not
only some of Australia’s biggest wheat
farms but the biggest.”
'The “Wheatgrower” mentions a
Dower in man who farms 15,000 acres
and this year has 3000 acres under crop.
“He will average seven bags to the acre
—his best crop will go 10 bags.” There
are N.S.W. and Victorian farmers* who
can match the acreage and beat the
average.
Smith and Sons, of Yarding (W.A.),
look harder to beat. According to the
’“Wheatgrower,” they have 6060 acres
under crop—36oo acres at Yarding, 460
acres at Bungulluping and 2000 acres at
Cleary. Incidentally, the paper gives a
picture of. one of the Smiths’ harvesting
units, operated by four men. It com-
prises three 10ft.. A.L. type harvesters
pulled by a Caterpillar Forty Diesel
tractor, and, exclusive of time occupied
in stops, harvests at ian approximate rate
of 10 acres an hour. It has averaged up
to 100 acres a day for a week, the high-
est day’s average being 109 acres.
But Farmer Liebe, of Wubin and
Waddy Forrest, is the “Wheatgrower’s”
Exhibit A. “Mr. Liebe,” it declares, “has
the biggest wheat farm in Australia, over
63,000 acres, of which 20,000 acres has
been under crop and 104,000 bags have
been harvested in one year. His huge
farm operates under his own system,
various sections being worked from dif-
ferent centres. A power farmer, Mr.
Liebe uses various types of tractors,, but
is now increasingly using crude oil.
Liebe was a contractor before he
turned farmer.
Herd Testing and Fertiliser.
“Hortus”: There’s plenty of room for
improvement here. Compare Queens-
land figures with those of the Buffer dis-
trict (M.L.):
Queensland.
" Year. Number Tested. Fat Per Cow.
1931- 10,383 1651 b.
1932- 12,690 1661 b.
1933- 29,521 1611 b.
1934- 24,334 1541 b.
1935- (drought) 14,422 1411 b.
1936- (drought) 6,530 1341 b.
Buller.
Year. Fat Per Cow. Year. Fat Per Cow.
1930 2301 b. 1933 2871 b.
1931 2501 b. 1934 2971 b.
1932 2791 b. 1935 3011 b.
M.L. herd-testing organisations have as
an objective an average annual produc-
tion of 3001 b. butterfat per cow. The
Buller district, with 40 p.c. of cow popu-
lation under test, is now going for 3501 b.
For the whole of Maoriland average
production per cow rose from 1271 b. to
1521 b. between 1901 and 1919. From
1920 to 1934 the increase was to 2201 b.
In 1934, no fewer than 286,889 cows
were under test for 100 days or over —
average production 2621 b. fat.
In N. S. Wales only 4 p.c. of cows
are tested. Queensland figures for this
period were 29,521 cows, with an average
of 1611 b. N. S. Wales runs about 1701 b.
and Victoria 2501 b. Denmark’s figure is
over 4001 b.
Of course, herd-testing means more in-
tensive cultivation, close subdivision,
wide use of artificial fertilisers and im-
proved grasses.
Figures show that the greater part of
M.L.’s 5,000,000 acres of dairying land is
topdressed at least once every three
years. It pays too.
Calf Rearing.
“Burradoo”: Every dairyman has a
surplus of calves that are sold to dealers
for a few shillings to be trucked to the
nearest saleyards. At three months they
are usually worth while, and the cost of
feeding is small. Skim milk and linseed
meal warmed to 100 degrees F. will keep
them growing for six weeks.
After six weeks a handful of steamed
linseed meal to three-quarters of a
(i Continued on page 44.)


<rt
■HERf'S TO'f-E
7
U
m
lii
9C
£
I
i
fgS
■
■
m
o
¥
m
fli
n
m
SSi
K«S
mm
m
\
m
? % fe -s 4J3&
I*lll, V
m
*W3m
i mi
4V
unn
A
1I
.
■
■
i m
mi
m m
' , - -
■ ■
i&llllPIllllli WmmmWmffi.
:
■ ■;.
' ... vv;
■ ■; V);; ; :v::-V.-:
H
m i
■
■HH
■
'■’*■■■
m
M
■I
I
HI
mm
•*<
*5!
li
I
hh
M
Hi
' 4, ” *'*■ ''*
X- ** -
.
m
m
i
f A
mm
■XT ->
i*
B
itliM
R«
- •
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: VICTORIA —Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA —Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
• % «?>■•%•*% - ; ;
II
tj*' % ' v |
v M
-•<..:•/: x-y-
-m V\


A WORK-BOOT MADE TO
STAND HARD WEAR . . .
If you really want a work-
boot which will give you
absolute comfort, look as
well as any work-boot should
look, and give you excep-
tional wear, try a pair of
Abbey Cossacks.
Made with heavy double
sole, full calf lining through-
out and a tough calf upper.
Stocked in full and half sizes
in stout Black or Brown
Calf.
1328
Price: Black Calf . . 39/6
Brown Calf . . 45/-
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe."
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY."
Siii
Demco Diesel Tractors Burn Crude Oil
BUILT IN TWO SIZES, 18/38 and 30/50.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO.,
243 Cleveland Street, Redfern, Sydney.
gdf
Take your Banker
Into your Confidence
There are many occasions when you should take your
banker into your confidence . . * occasions when his
knowledge of finance and business, of varying methods of
attaining objectives, and of the difficulties and pitfalls
which should be avoided, may be invaluable.
That knowledge is particularly helpful to enterprising
people who require financial assistance for developing
industries and trading ventures, and it may be equally
advantageous to depositors who wish to invest savings in
the safe haven the Bank provides.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Ltd .
(Incorpd. in Victoria )
44/12/37
%,'ML
Australia*s Leading Financial Journal .
DECEMBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
America’s Economic Tangle
The Sharemarket
What to Buy and Sell
Prospectuses Reviewed
Mines and' Metals
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC. INNOCUOUS.
i m
m
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Hundreds
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 53 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels. Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
bucket of skim milk, to which are added
a pound of lucerne or clover chaff and
a pint of lime water, should be served
twice a day. The lime water is important,
and with it scouring is unusual. A lump
of rock salt should be available, and a
paddock to pick about in.
For calves that are bad feeders, mix
an ounce of aniseed in a gallon of water
and serve half a cupful with the feed.
Size and weight should be the deciding
factor in marketing, not age.
Chiller Beef Type.
“Bullocky”: Queensland Agricultural
Department has issued a set of type rules
for chiller beef which might be pasted
with advantage on every sliprail post in
the cattle country.
Firstly, the beast should be low-set
and short-legged. Buyers do not want
leg beef but choice body cuts, so bodies
should be deep, wide and even, the top
and underlines straight, the floor of the
chest broad and the ribs well sprung,
giving a plenty of heart room. Horns are
a nuisance—in all modern cattle-breed-
ing countries chiller breeders do with-
out them.
Apart from these points, youngsters
should be quick-matured, their fleshing
should have a medium proportion of fat.
And in the saleyards a short, compact
head and evenness of color and a clear
and healthy eye help to keep prices up.
Bulk in the Ration.
“Silky Bag”: Bulk is just as necessary
as food-value in a cow’s ration. It can
often be the direct cause of good and
bad “doing.”
The movement of the muscles in the
walls of the intestines is determined by
the quantity of food and indigestible
matter contained within them. Should
the intestinal contents be small and dis-
tension low, the result is sluggish move-
ment and consequently poor health due
to toxic qualities developed directly from
the staleness.
If the walls are highly distended, as
when a bulky, low-food-value ration has
been fed, wall movement is very rapid
and violent, so that contents are pushed
along the intestine at a great speed. In
ruminants a ration containing 50-60 p.c.
fibre (or cellulose) is needed. With
horses this ratio can be slightly greater
—6O p.c.-70 p.c.
Fibre is partly digested by both
species, but bowel movement is its main
function in a diet, and equally important
to quality.
Native Grass Seed.
“Barcoo”: Not so long ago the rais-
ing and selling of western Queensland
grass seed would have been looked on as
a doubtful proposition by most graziers,
but the demand for Mitchell types has
developed to such an extent that seed
collection is becoming a substantial
industry.
Curly Mitchell gives a good stand, with
a broadcast sowing of from 41b. to 51b.
per acre, but the seed is very fine and
light and has to be handled carefully.
The price ranges from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d.
per pound. Nearly all seed comes from
northern N.S.W., and better results
should be obtainable if seed indigenous
to the district in which it is to be planted
can be used.
Clean Piggeries.
“F 34”: The old-fashioned notion that
a pig is lonely without filth is not dead.
I saw one piggery recently in which feed
for the grown stock was tipped into an
evil-looking wallow. Such practices can
be the root source of all known troubles.
Few piggeries, if any, are free from
the large “round worm,” and as the
female lays millions of eggs in its life-
time there is a risk of heavy infestation
where insanitary conditions prevail.
Farrowing sows should be washed free'
of mud and placed in clean, recently-
disinfected sties with impervious floors.
Strict sanitation should be observed
while the suckers are in the sty, and later
they should be put in paddocks where
pigs have not been run for a couple of
years. This means a rotation of pad-
docks.
Pigs should never be fed on the floor
of sties, where their food would be con-
taminated by dung and the worm-eggs
it may carry. Feed troughs should be
kept clean and preferably have cleats
across them at intervals to prevent the
pigs lying in them.
Although under farm conditions it will
probably be found more economical to
run the pigs in large paddocks, under
suburban pig-keeping conditions the
best type of sty is a row of wooden-
floored pens, Bft. by Bft., each with a
concrete-paved yard in front, about Bft.
by 10ft. This needs a good slope to a
drain in front to carry off all liquid
waste.
The pen should not be overcrowded
and must have the dung removed every
day.
Poultry should not have access to the
piggery, as they often spread tuberculosis
and also make it impossible to isolate
efficiently any pigs which are sick.
The fact that the pig does survive
filth merely proves his hardiness, and
better conditions will be found to result
in more profitable pig-raising.
Soil Erosion.
“Granova”: Where contour banks
have been maintained for several years
not a trace of erosion damage can be
seen in paddocks round our district
that previously had to be cultivated in
blocks of all shapes and sizes because
of gutters.
Recently we contour-banked 100
acres. Pegging out took half a day and
constructing the banks with a six-furrow
plough, a heavy home-made delver, a
12-horse team and two men one day.
One round with the plough, followed by
two with the delver, made strong banks
a foot high. A day was spent reinforc-
ing places where the banks crossed
gutters.
The more a paddock is eroded the
greater the task of reclaiming it. The
level recommended by the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department is a good instru-
ment to use for pegging out, but make
sure that the one you use has been tested
to give the correct fall —one in two
hundred.
The banks should be about six verti-
cal feet apart. It is often necessary to
treat two or more paddocks as one.
where they are part of one hill or slope.
Where water comes down from rough
hills it pays to make a strong bank as
close to the hills as the grades will per-
mit and to refrain from, cultivating
above it.
Where the water is taken through
fences, the ground has to be cut down
to allow it to flow freely. Provide a flap
as an exit through netting fences.
St. John’s Wort.
“K.Mc.”: Representatives from the
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, and Eastern
Riverina County Council recently in-
spected areas in Victoria infested with
St. John’s wort.
This pest covers a considerably larger
area of land in Vic. than in N.S.W., and
control has been removed from the shires
and centralised under the Vermin and
Noxious Weeds branch of the Lands De-
partment. The danger of fresh outbreaks
not being reported is a serious weakness
in the system.
Planting pines has proved a failure.
Whilst the trees were young and formed
a canopy to shut out the sun, this treat-
ment gave promise of great success; but
when the trees aged and thinned and the
sun came through, the weed came to life
with renewed vigor.
Salt treatment has been most success-
ful. Large quantities of a crude, coarse
quality are obtained cheaply and applied
at the rate of at least five tons per acre.
It is estimated that 4300 tons will be


CHRISTMAS • ..
ENTERTAINING i/ylsouvia cH&djytrfMJlxrfM-, 01/vuJL
HOSPITALITY n/l/L&Ct/VIA cy
$
K*
i
0
d
u *t°'
° 5
o
»k
9$
m
3
in
iV*Z*
Hi
m
'V*<?
Distilled from the original
recipe tinder licence from
J. & J. Vickers & Co. Ltd.,
London.
m
c°
o*
-»V*V
fi.S'
*
o
o
bo.**
►
\v. v
■siS
m
m
*€„m
m
iv x(
#«»
s** v
<©c
«w
m
used this season. On the land reviewed
salt had not greatly impaired the fertility
'll the soil.
Orchard Mistletoe.
“Johnno”: Now is the time to search
the orchard for mistletoe. Seeds de-
posited during the late summer should
have sprouted and be showing at least a
couple of leaves.
The parasite will usually be found in
tin upper branches, especially those
springing from a main branch. The
affected branch is best cut away, care
being taken to cut below the small roots
of the plant.
Pulling away the plant is useless.
Within a very short time the particles of
small roots left behind will sprout again.
If removal would spoil the appearance
of the tree, the branch may be saved
by removing the bark along with the
mistletoe, the stripped portion being im-
mediately covered with grafting-wax and
securely bound. The bark will soon
grow again.
As a precaution against mistletoe all
scrub and forest trees likely to bear in
the vicinity should be watched. Spotted
gum, stringybark and she-oak are the
most dangerous.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: The best way to
whitewash cow bails —also fowlhouses —
is to spray the coat on with a garden
syringe. This covers rough surfaces
quickly, and gets the stuff just as easily
into cracks, mortise holes and slots.
“Booraby”: If you have no gate
hinge, eye-bolt or hook and eye, wooden
substitutes —with a little tallow or axle
grease—will last for years.
“Mulyan”: A corner post, where a
wire fence forms an angle on the side of
a sandy slope, usually lifts out of posi-
tion with the strain on the wires. This
can be prevented by putting toprails in
the first two panels on each line, with a
stay each way from the top of the corner
post to the bottom of the next, and the
wires run through the stays.
“Sandy”: For an open teat sore take a
grain of Condy’s crystals place it <3h
the wound, holding the teat so that the
grain does not fall off. The crystal dis-
solves, burning the sore, and it will be
healed in a few days. A little painful
while the crystal is dissolving, but well
worth the trouble when you consider the
loss of time and temper over the milking
of a sore-teated cow. Wipe the teats
before milking in a solution of one table-
spoonful of formalin with one gallon of
water. If the mixture is placed in tins on
the end post of each bail there will be no
loss of time. In dry weather it will last
two or three milkings.
“Gumblegubbin”: Where rabbits water
at a tank or dam in summer, the whole
mob can be trapped in a couple of nights
by staking wire-netting round the reser-
voirs. Make a V-shaped indentation at
one side, with a netting tube laid inwards
from the point. Bunny gets in easily,
but hops over the tube when running
around looking for a way out.
“Werrimee”: Scales should be tested
before shearing, and the weighing, par-
ticularly when bales have to be near a
certain weight, done by the overseer or
boss of the board. Correct weights, to
start with, are expected by the carrier.
“Admiral”: Inbreeding produces some
peculiar results. We used an A.I.S. bull
with the Togo ear-clip—the tips of the
ears have a small clip missing, and it
runs in families —on some of his own
heifers. Their offspring were normal in
every respect, and were wonderful
milkers, but that tiny ear-clip was
strongly accentuated, and in one case
the ears were slit to the base and were
curled like dead leaves.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) Particulars of Ryeland sheep? (2) If
crossed with Southdowns, would the lambs be
suitable for export ? (3) Would they be suited
to a district 900 ft. above sea level with an
average annual rainfall of 48 in. ? —57940.
(1) The Ryeland is one of the lesser-known
British breeds, developed both for wool and
mutton. It grows the finest wool of any
of the English breeds, and counts would be in
the vicinity of 56/58 quality. In size and gen-
eral conformation the sheep is similar to the
Shropshire, but has a white face and legs. (2)
No, both sheep are very similar in appearance,
and it would be more profitable to cross with
oue of the longwool breeds. (3) The Ryeland
is a very hardy sheep, and not subject to foot-
rot, and would probably be suited to the Ringa-
rooma (Tas.) district. On account of the very
light fleece, however, other breeds could be em-
ployed more profitably. For further informa-
tion write to the Dept, of Agriculture, Hobart.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“II Vecchio”: Australian radio an-
nouncers suffer the agonies of the
damned through the changes and chances
of European and Asiatic politics, which
introduce them to a new jawbreaker
every week. Russian news particularly
has its terrors. Even the simplest Rus-
sian names are announcer-traps, since the
accent in polysyllables is almost invari-
ably where you would least expect it to
be —Schauvelov is not Sc/tawvelov, but
Schauve/ov; Karenina is Keremna, not
Karenmer. But Russia has no monopoly.
No sooner has the society of golden
voices ascertained that Kemal is not Kee-
mal than there is a Nazi revolution, and
they have to discover that the German
“z” is pronounced with a “t” before it,
and that Goering is not Gohring. The
latest hurdle is M. Delbos, the French
Foreign Minister. He pops up as Moo-
seer Daybo, Delbo, Daybohs, Daybo and
in other quaint forms instead of being
pronounced as spelt.
* * * *
“Kohi”: A Christchurch man has
found a good use for katipo spiders,
Maoriland’s only really poisonous
creature ; he, is sending specimens pre-
served in spirits round the schools in
order that children encountering them in
their wild state will know that they are
dangerous. The present is a bad katipo
season. Three men working in sandhills
outside Christchurch collected nearly 70
in an hour. Although bites are rarely
fatal, the poison causes painful and
periodical swellings unless treated imme-
diately. But Australians should know
this —the katipo, according to naturalist
Keith McKeown, is none other than Aus-
tralia’s redback or jockey spider.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: It is not generally
known that the British race is “indebted”
to the Chinese for the annual frenzy of
examinations. A British embassy 100
years ago unfortunately happened to be in
Nanking during the nation-wide ques-
tionnaire. It inspected the examination
cells, where 30,000 aspirants for academic
honors, ranging in age from 10 to 70
years, sat for three days and nights
locked up in the depths of winter with-
out food or water unless they had had the
forethought to provide themselves. The
embassy was so enamored of the system
that it was introduced into England as a
means of selection for the civil service.
Crosby—and Crooning.
“M.”: There is an element of surprise
in experiencing Bing. His voice—which
even he, in his latest film, describes as
“my tired baritone” —is almost colorful
compared with his acting. He leaves an
impression of having undergone an
operation and had all his personality re-
moved. He could pass as a personifica-
tion of the commonplace.
His acting is absolutely lifeless. He is
—and it seems to be part of his success —
completely expressionless. It’s as if all
vitality had been drained out of him.
And that’s as true of his dancing and
singing as of his acting. His long-suit,
of course, is crooning, which is simply
singing in a murmuring—or you might
prefer to have it a moaning—way. It is
singing without range or color: com-
pared with the singing of a voice it is
wishy-washiness made audible.
Yet crooning evidently has an irresis-
tibly hypnotic effect on Americans. For-
tunes are made out of it, and Bing has
one of the biggest of them.
Why?
An explanation might be that croon-
ing is not merely attractive to the Ameri-
can race; it is necessary. They speak
through the nose, and crooning simply
enables them to employ for what they
are pleased to call singing the nasal
equipment thus developed. The natural
human urge to sing can be indulged in
without their having to suspend use of
the main part of their normal means of
vocal utterance.
Crooning, in short, enables the Ameri-
can to employ his nose in his singing as
well as in his ordinary speech. If there’s
anything in this theory, it follows that
crooning must be in the nature of a god-
send —to America.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Exp. governess (25), six years in western
N.S.W., teach all subjects to inter, standard,
requires position February, 1938. Refs. —7862.
Author and name of poem containing the
line “We never rightly knew his name, we
always called him Gundagai.”—7962.
Schoolboy wishes to exchange stamps with
persons outside Australia. —7961.
Young man, 18 (Q’land), wants job on
cattle station, Gulf country preferred. Exp.
with stock and riding.—79s6.
Information Sought.
What are the figures of slow-bowler Zimbulis,
of Westralia, in first-class cricket matches and
in the tour of eastern States this season ?
7995.
For West Australia —4 for 143, 1 for 121
and 0 for 45 v. N.S.W. at Perth, 1935; 3 for
83 and 3 for 56 v. M.C.C. at Perth, 1935 ;
2 for 74 v. Australian XI for South Africa at
Perth, 1935; 1 for 131 v. England at Perth,
1936; 2 for 107 and 0 for 28 for Combined XI
v. England at Perth, 1936. With the touring
W.A. XI this season—o for 40 and 0 for 33
and 5 for 80 and 2 for 67 v. Victoria; 4 for 63
and 2 for 75 v. N.S.W.; 3 for 98 v. South
Australia.
* * # *
(1) Who was the first Australian cricketer to
top 2000 runs on tour in England? (2) Other
Australians who have scored over 2000 runs on
tour 7—1999.
(1) Trumper, with the 1902 team (the
eleventh), who scored 2570 runs, averaging
48.49. (2) Armstrong (2002) and Noble (2084)
in 1905, Bardsley (2180) in 1909, Bardsley
(2441) and Macartney (2204) in 1912, Macart-
ney (2335) and Bardsley (2218) in 1921, Brad-
man (3170) in 1930, Bradman (2106) and Mc-
Cabe (2094) in 1934.
* * * *
When can a batting side declare its innings
closed in (1) a one-day match, (2) two-day
match, (3) three-day match ? —7994.
(1) At any time. (2) At any time, but the
declaration may not be made on the first day
later than lhr. 40min. before the hour agreed
upon for drawing of stumps. (3) At any time
on the second day. Where there is no play on
the first day of a three-day match it shall be
regarded as a two-day match; and if there
is no play on the opening day of a two-day
match the law shall apply as for a one-day fix-
ture.
* * v *
What are the bowling averages of Ebeling
(Victoria) in (1) all Sheffield Shield cricket,
(2) Test matches, (3) Sheffield Shield matches in
1934-35, (4) 1935-36 and (5) 1936-37 3—7801.
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets. Average.
(1) 972.6 172 2791 77 36.24
(2) 31 9 90 3 30.00
(3) 197.1 51 480 19 25.26
(4) 192.5 36 498 14 35.57
(5) 149.1 29 359 11 32.63
* * * *
(1) Is there an Australian stand at Lord’s ?
(2) Can seats be reserved ? (3) To whom should
application be made? (4) Cost? —7946.
(1) Yes, it is used for all Test matches played
against an Australian team. (2) No, but tickets
are sold or issued only in sufficient numbers
to ensure that the holder of each ticket can
secure a seat. (3) Apply to the secretary of
the M.C.C. or to the manager of the Austra-
lian team. (4) Prices vary up to 15s. per day,
but a good seat should be obtainable for about
7s. 6d. per day.
* * * *
Some information concerning the Great Wall
of China ? —8026.
The wall was built by the Emperor Shih
Huang-ti in the third century b.c., and extended
along the northern frontier of China from the
northern part of the Gulf of Pechili to Syning
on the border of Turkestan. Prof. GeU ex-
plored the wall in 1908 and estimates its total
length, including curves, etc., as 2550 miles, and
direct length as 1145 miles. There are 25,000
built-in and 15,000 detached watch towers.
Col Ferguson measured the wall at Kalgan
in 1900 and gives it as being 17ft. 6in. thick
and 16ft. high, and made of two brick walls
filled between with earth and stones. In many
places the wall has crumbled into decay.
Did Rosehill, Sydney, ever embrace a greater
area than it does to-day 3—8036.
Rosehill, since the name was first coined
by Phillip, has represented three different areas.
From November 2, 1788, to June 4, 1791, it
was the name of the district which is now
Parramatta. From 1791 to about 1850 it de-
noted the area immediately surrounding Govern-
ment House there, i.e., a portion of what is
now Parramatta Park. It then fell out of use,
but in 1885 was revived to denote an area some
distance south-east of Parramatta, between
the Parramatta River and Duck Creek, which
is chiefly occupied by a racecourse.
* * * *
d es ‘B ne d Me Sydney Harbor Bridge? —
Dr. J. C. Bradfield, chief engineer of the
bridge, an officer of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment, projected the general plan. Details were
drafted by Lawrence Ennis, director of con-
struction for Dorman, * Long and Co., the
contractors.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to get a divorce under Aus-
tralian law on the ground of incurable in-
sanity 3 (2) If so, what period must elapse
before application can be made, assuming other
party to the marriage to be confined in a
mental institution 3 —8013.
(1) There is no Australian (Commonwealth)
law. Each State has its own divorce legislation.
There is no provision for divorce on the ground
of insanity in N. S. Wales, but in other States,
such as Vic. and Q., such provision is made.
(2) In all States where insanity is a ground for
divorce a period of residence (varying) is re-
quired.
* * * *
What articles are associated with each wed-
ding anniversary ? —BO3O.
The World Almanac gives the following:
First, paper; second, calico; third, muslin;
fourth, silk; fifth, wood; sixth, iron; seventh,
copper; eighth, bronze; ninth, pottery; tenth,
tin; fifteenth, crystal; twentiet :hina; twenty-
fifth, silver; thirtieth, pearl; t .y-fifth, coral;
fortieth, ruby; forty-fifth, sapphire; fiftieth,
gold; fifty-fifth, emerald; sixtieth and seventy-
fifth, diamond. Fifty years ago in England the
first was iron, thirtieth cotton, thirty-fifth linen,
fortieth woollen, forty-fifth silk, sixtieth, seven-
tieth and seventy-fifth diamonds.
* * * *
(1) When was the first Commonwealth
Labor Government formed? (2) Of whom did
the Ministry consist ? —7942
(1) The elections in December, 1903, resulted
in the return of 14 Labor Senators and 25
Reps., and when the Deakin Ministry resigned
in 1904 J. C. Watson formed the first Com-
monwealth Labor Ministry. (2) Watson,
Prime Minister and Treasurer; Higgins, Attor-
ney-General ; Fisher, Trade and Customs;
Hughes, External Affairs; Mahon, Post-
master-General; Dawson, Defence; Batchelor,
Home Affairs; and McGregor, President of the
Executive Council. Higgins was not actually
a Labor member, but was in sympathy with
the Ministry’s policy.
* * * *
Some particulars of miner’s complaint? Is
there any treatment? —79l9.
The repeated inhalation of various dusts
(stone and coal) may be a lifelong source of
irritation in the lungs, leading at first to bron-
chitis and later to chronic pneumonia. Dis-
eases due to dusts are classed together as
pneumokonioses. The characteristic feature is
excessive development of fibrous tissue in the
affected lung, with the formation of cavities.
Patients commonly lose weight and may spit up
blood, and there is often a peculiar clubbing
of the finger-ends. The ultimate outlook is
bad, but the course may be very slow, extend-
ing over 10 or 15 years. There is no specific
treatment; the best cure is prevention—ade-
quate ventilation, etc.
* * * *
(1) Are there any all-electric sawmills in Aus-
tralia ? (2) If so, is there a motor built to
couple direct to the saw spindle? (3) Running
costs of a steam-driven plant ? —BOl5.
(1) Most sawmills and timber yards in Aus-
tralia have changed or are changing to direct
electric motor drive in preference to the belt
drive, because less room is required, there is
no danger from breaking belts, a breakdown of
one machine does not affect the whole plant
and running costs have proved cheaper. (2)
This type of drive is arranged only for small,
light sawing. For heavy driving, such as 12in.
diam. saw and upwards, vee belts would take
up the shock between motor spindle and saw
blade, acting actually as a safety valve to pre-
vent the motor from burning out. (3) Steam-
driven plants are generally run very cheaply
because spare lumber or local scrap material
can be used for firing the boiler.
* * * *
(1) What is the calorific value of a fuel?
(2) What are the calorific values in B.T.U. per
pound of fuel oil, diesolene, power kero., petrol,
ethyl alcohol and methyl? (3) Hydrogen con-
tent? (4) Carbon content? —7949.
(1) The calorific value of a fuel is the
amount of heat produced when a definite weight
of the fuel is burnt completely to form carbon-
dioxide and water. (2) Figures vary accord-
ing to source of information, but the Shell
Co. gives the following: Fuel oil 19,300 B.T.U.
per lb., diesolene 19,580, power kero. 20,000,
petrol 20,000 gross, 18,800 net, ethyl alcohol
12,000 gross, 11,000 net, methyl 9000 gross,
8000 net. (3) and (4) These figures vary widely
and tests are not usually carried out. Approxi-
mate figures for petrol and power kero, would
be hydrogen 13 p.c. and carbon 87 p.c. No
other figures available. See Liquid Fuels, by
H. Moore, Technical Press, London.
* • * * *
A shipment of tinned goods is received on
consignment and bonded. On arrival a case
is withdrawn for samples and duty paid on
it, but no sales tax, as the agent declares it
under his wholesale number. If the case of
goods is used only for samples and examina-
tion by buyers, is it necessary to pay sales tax?
—7896.
For the purposes of sales tax, goods used as
samples by a registered person are regarded
as being applied Jo that person’s own use.
If a registered person imports goods for such
use he must refrain from quoting his certifi-
cate upon the entry of the goods for home
consumption. Imported goods of this class
may in some cases be admitted free of cus-
toms duty on the ground that they will have
no commercial value. In such cases the goods
will also be free of sales tax. In your case
the certificate of registration was incorrectly
quoted at the time of importation, and adjust-
ment will be necessary of the amount of sales
tax which would have been paid had you
refrained from quoting your certificate when
entering the goods.
* * * *
What is the commercial value of manganese ?
Would a 40 p.c. assay be a good proposition?
—7885.
It would be difficult to dispose of ore con-
taining only 40 p.c. of metallic manganese;
45 p.c. is usually required by steel manufac-
turers abroad. There is no demand by the
local steel industry. The export price of man-
ganese ore, 45 p.c. grade or better, is Is. 3d.
to Is. 6d. (English currency) for every 1 p.c.
per ton delivered in England. There is a
limited local market for a small quantity of high
grade manganese ore suitable for battery manu-
facture. Up to £4 per ton is paid for suit-
able material.
* * * *
(1) Is the honey of the small black native
bee ( Trigona ) of commercial value ? (2)
Has any attempt been made to improve this bee
with a view to commercialising the product?
(3) Is the native bee recognised under the
N.S.W. Apiaries Act? —7925.
(1) No, although some consider it useful
as an ingredient in cough mixtures. (2) No;
their honey, which is produced in very small
quantities, is stored in wax pots in a con-
glomerate mass, and there seems to be no way
of making them useful producers. (3) No.
* * * *
(1) What does the long-snouted honey mouse
look like? (2) Where is he to be found? (3)
What does he eat ? —BO4O.
(1) The head and body are 3in. long; the tail
4in. The short coarse fur is grey above, striped
with black or brown, and yellowish-white below.
The head is long and narrow, with an elon-
gated muzzle. (2) South-western Australia. (3)
Chiefly honey and soft-bodied insects.
* * * *
Brief biography of Lady Houston ? —7664.
Lady Houston, D.8.E., was one of the
first five Dame Commanders of the British
Empire. She was born in London, daughter
of the late Thomas Radmall, and educated at
home. In 1901 she married the ninth Baron
Byron, who died 1917. In 1924 she married
Sir R. Houston, who died in 1926. She had no
children. A keen suffragist, she was deeply
interested in the welfare of women, and was
donor and administratrix of the first rest-
home for tired nurses in war-time. In 1931
she gave £lOO,OOO for the Schneider Trophy
contest. Yachting was her recreation, and she
wrote many newspaper articles. Died Dec.,
1936.
* * * #
What are the standard points for judging
sweet-peas at shows? —7997.
The Royal Horticultural Society of N.S.W.
sets the points down as follows: Form of flower
one point, freshness (including correctness of
color of the individual variety and absence of
blemishes) one point, size of blooms one point,
arrangement of flowers on stems one point,
number of flowers on stems £-point, length
and proportion of stems i-point. (There should
be not fewer than three flowers on a stem, and
they should be placed alternately down the
stem at approximately equal intervals.)
* * * *
(1) How was the British light cruiser Pegasus
sunk during the war ? (2) Was she at one
time on the Australian station? (3) Tonnage?
—8029.
(1) While lying at anchor at Zanzibar, with
no steam up, she was shelled and sunk by the
German cruiser Konigsberg on September 20,
1914. Twenty-four were killed and 55 wounded,
seven of whom died, while gallantly trying to
fight the enemy, who never came within the
range of their guns. (2) Yes. (3) 2000.
Translation of the following Latin phrase:
“Quod prcestare poles, ne bis promiseris ulli;
ne sis verbosus, dum vis urbanus haberi” ?
—8033.
What you are able to do to serve anyone,
do not promise twice over; and do not be
wordy if you wish to be esteemed as a man of
discernment.
* * * IF
Particulars of the travelling art scholarship
for landscape painting? —Bol6.
The first scholarship for landscape painting
provided by the N.S.W. Government will be
offered in April, 1939, and in alternate years
thereafter. It will be worth £250 and tenable
for one year. Candidates must be British sub-
jects resident in N.S.W. for five years and not
more than 28 years of age on April 1 follow-
ing the date of lodging applications. Money
payable in pursuance of an award will be paid
in London. The successful candidate must leave
Australia within three months of the award and
return at the termination of the scholarship or
within two years thereafter. On termination
of scholarship he must present an example of
his work to the N.S.W. National Gallery and
supply a report of his activities. Applications
on the prescribed form and accompanied by a
certified copy of the applicant’s birth certificate
must be submitted before Dec. 31, 1938. Three
works are required: a landscape or still life in
oils or water-colors, or a composition in marine
or animal painting, size not less than 30in.
by 24in.; a charcoal, pencil, crayon or black-
and-white drawing from nature, 18in. by 14in.,
and an outdoor sketch in oils or water-colors,
18in. by Min. Application forms and further
information are obtainable from the Examina-
tion Branch, Education Department, Sydney.
* * * *
Would fain descending to the ground at an
angle (as during a strong wind) register a less
amount in a gauge than what actually fell? —
8038.
Yes, if the wind were very strong. To
obviate this, gauges should be sheltered by
walls, which should,. however, be not higher
than the distance between the gauge and the
foot of the shelter.
* * * *
Recipe for a bookbinder’s varnish ? —7BOO.
Take eight parts of white shellac, three of gum
benzoin and two of, gum mastic. Bruise the
materials and steep in 48 parts of spirits of
wine or pure alcohol. Add a few drops of
oil of lavender to repel insects. Strain through
clean muslin and apply with a flat varnish
brush.
* * * *
In what foods are the particular vitamins
found? What is their effect? —7735.
Vitamin A is present in liver oils, dairy pro-
duce and fresh green vegetables. It promotes
growth in childhood and is a preventive of
many infections, including certain serious eye
conditions. B 1 occurs in yeast, bran, whole-
meal, fruits and vegetables, and is concerned
with growth and bodily activity during preg-
nancy and lactation. Its absence may be fol-
lowed by neuritis, arthritis, beri-beri, debility
and digestive trouble. B 2 is a constituent of
yeasts, egg-white and liver, and persons de-
prived of it may develop dermatitis or (in
America) the disease known as pellagra. C is
contained in fruits and vegetables, and is pro-
tective against scurvy, faulty dentition and
anasmia. D, in the absence of which rickets and
dental decay arise, is present in liver oils,
especially of cod and halibut, and in dairy pro-
duce. It is also formed in the body by ex-
posure to sunlight. Vitamin E is contained
in green leaves, wheat-germ and certain fresh
fats. A lack of it causes sterility and habitual
miscarriage in certain animals. Many other
vitamins, especially in the B group, have been
postulated, and there is also a new F. Work
on the«e has not yet reached a stage that war-
rants discussion.
< Brief Answers.
F.C.F.: Only method of softening a hard
beard is to wash the face thoroughly with non-
irritating soap and hot water, then rub in
shaving-lather for at least five minutes and use
a razor dipped in hot water, keeping the face
wet and lathered throughout. Write to firm men-
tioned in letter. Regarding cutting edges, modern
steels are better than ever they were....
R. : Difficult to make the best use of the
myrrh unless you possess accurate scales and have
had experience in dispensing. A good pre-
paration is: Tincture of myrrh 125 drachms,
tincture of benzoin 50 drachms, tincture of
cinchona 8 drachms, alcohol 225 drachms,
oil of roses 30 minims... .5.H.8.: Can’t be
sure of the composition of the liniment you
mention, but you are at liberty to search the
files. Equal parts of drugs given would make
a suitable application when mixed together,
and the chemist would probably do it cheaply.
K.T.R.: (1) Exercise, eating moderate
amounts of roughage and drinking plenty
of water are better than violent aperients.
(2) Cannot advise as to the need for an
X-ray; you should get medical advice on
the matter (3) Too much sugar is not
advisable. (4) Apples are not acid-forming.
... .W.D.McC.: You probably refer to the
electrical treatment (diathermy) now effectively
used for many chronic rheumatic affections.
Any doctor will put you on the right track
S. : So far as has been publicly stated, there
is nothing to prevent the Duke of Windsor
returning to England whenever he chooses....
J.D.: Not necessarily immediately, but you
could read the will after its lodgment with the
Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court Build-
ings, Sydney, for probate, and, on payment
of a small fee, obtain a copy.... Ibex: Cannot
advise on incomplete facts stated. Consult a
solicitor W.C. “Coming Home” was com-
posed by Charles Willeby, words by D. Eardly-
Wilmot. Published 1914. No dedications
E.W.J.: Don’t know the composition; most pre-
parations contain silver nitrate (dilution, about
two grains to one ounce of water)... .W.F.P.:
The gold treatment will not benefit this particular
form of arthritis. Doubtful whether opera-
tion is advisable at 65... .L.H.H.: In N.S.W.
pupils are received into advanced standing from
other States and classified according to a special
test. No concessions or privileges acquired in
Q’land can be carried over C. 8.: (1) There
are cancer clinics at the Royal Prince Alfred,
Royal North Shore, St. Vincent’s and Prince
Henry hospitals. (2) Charges are regulated
according to the patient’s means. (3) It is not
essential to see a consultant first, but if the
case is urgent a specialist may be able to ex-
pedite admission to the clinic. Waiting lists are
and crowded E. 8.8.: Umslopogaas is
a character in romances by H. Rider Hag-
gard —Nada the Lily and others V.R.: In
poker the order of value of cards is ace,
king, queen, etc. There is no distinction be-
tween suits. Equal hands divide the pool.
Order of value of hands is: Straight flush, ■
fours, full hand (according to value of the
three), flush, straight, two pair (according to
value of best pair), pair, highest card. In some
schools the “blaze” (all court cards or aces)
is played to beat two pair HJ.: Attunga,
meaning “a high place”; Bibbenluke, “big look-
out” ; Cobbadah, “place on a hill”; or Coola-
matong, “water near a hill” W.P.: Illa-
warra, meaning “a high place near the sea”;
Bundaleer, “among the hills”; Cabarita, “by
the water”; Coolangatta, “a splendid view”;
or Iluka, “near the sea”,.. .H.G.8.: Erleigh’s
South Sea Bubble, price 7s. 6d., post. 5d., and
Benjamin’s South Sea Bubble, 265., post. Is.
3d., from Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
Teagh-street, Sydney M.L.: Both sarcoptic
and follicular mange are contagious, and
neither is usually amenable to home treatment.
Best to consult a vet E.N.L.: National
Art Gallery of N.S.W. paid £3OOO for “Vive
l’Empereur,” by Edouard Detaille, £2900 for
“Visit of the Queen of Sheba to King Solo-
mon,” by Sir Edward Poynter, £5OO for
“Chaucer at the Court of King Edward III.,”
by Ford Madox Brown, 300 guineas for “The
Valley of the Tweed,” by Elioth Gruner, and
600 guineas for “The White Glove,” by George
Lambert H.T.: Write Genealogical Society,
Chaucer House, Malet-place, London, W.C.I.
. ...J.K.8.: 1932 Chevrolet Repair Manual is
obtainable from General Motors, Marrickville,
N.S.W.; price 3s. 5d A.E.: (1) Bonedust is
usually made from bones that have been boiled
under pressure to remove the fat and soften
the bone. Green bone is more difficult to
grind, and, owing to its fat content, decom-
poses slowly in most soils. (2) Refer the ques-
tion to a merchant stocking such plant, such as
McPhersons, 51 Bathurst-street, Sydney
J.R.M.: St. John Ambulance Association is
not affiliated with the N.S.W. Ambulance Trans-
port Service M.F.H.: No prize is offered
for collecting Zig-Zag cigarette paper packets.
E.W.W.: An answer would require a couple
of columns; consult a boatbuilder, visit a
public library, then write to Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney, for books required Westralian:
E. V. Timms was born at Charters Towers,
Q’land, 42 years ago. He has published many
books both in Australia and London. His novels
run through several editions, and Conflict was
translated into Spanish and published in Spain.
Q.Z.: Publishers have thousands of manu-
scripts available, and would not be interested
in words only or music only R.J.F.: Armis-
tice Day is recognised by the major Allies, to
v'hom Nov. 11 marked the close of the Great
War... .E.F.W.: Explanation too lengthy
for this page; suggest you obtain French Polish-
ing, Is. 6d., Bitmead’s French Polishing and
Enamelling, 4s. 3d., or Staining and Polishing,
ss. 9d., from Angus and Robertson, Sydney
T.N.S.: Dry-cleaning is not necessarily a dry
process. Liquids used must not affect textile
fibres, and are usually highly inflammable.
Liquid depends on the article to be cleaned.
Books on the subject are Brannt and Gray’s
Practical Dry Cleaner, Scourer and Garment
Dyer, 19s. 6d., and Denney’s Answers to 1001
Questions on Cleaning, Spotting and Finishing,
245., from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
..(Many others mailed.)


“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
Make Money Designing
Snow Cards
m
STOTT’S Can Train You InYourOwnHome!
Showcards are
wanted in every
Shop Window in
City, Suburban
and Country stores. There is a universal
demand for those who can draw good
Showcards, such as students of Stott’s
learn to produce. Why not get Free par-
ticulars from one of Stott’s Correspondence Colleges?
Cut, and Mail This Coupon to STOTT’S
CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGES', 96-100
Russell Street, Melbourne; or 70 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
CUT HERE
Please send Special Showcard Prospectus,
obligation free.
My Name
Address
S.B. No. 4
QUICK FACTS
ABOUT
FIXED DEPOSITS
Shrewd investors know the value oi
interest-bearing Fixed Deposits, which
combine safety of principal with a
reasonable, assured rate of interest.
That is why there is £226,000,000 on
Fixed Deposit in Australia.
This Bank accepts Fixed Deposits
(from £5 upwards) from all sections
of the community.
Interest at current banking rates is
paid on all Fixed Deposits received
by the Bank.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
When in Sydney Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“TheMacleod Gallery"
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free.
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
I
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
E
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Ptj. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
Phone: CB3BO.
Phone: M 6505.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
F.H.C.: We don’t employ “district corre-
spondents,” but we’re always pleased to con-
sider contributions... .W.H.P.; One line
“Spring, Spring, Spring,’tis Spring!” H.G.:
Afraid we can’t “squeeze these little essays in
metre” into our “scintillating columns”....
8.A.8.: Yours is a rocky muse F.J.L.:
It’s merely album verse V.S.R.: Neither
good nor bad, and not very original....
A.E.L.: Pleased to hear that “Langtry Rides
Again” and that “he still shoots straight as
of old,” but we doubt if it would interest our
readers E.H.8.: We guessed that the “tight-
lipped, steely-eyed little man with the sinister
smirk of satisfaction” was the murderer as
soon as we met him....G.E.: Thanks for the
bouquets, but there’s nothing in that batch.
D.P.: You’re encroaching on another
man’s ground A.D.: Leave off reading
American magazines and try to spin a yarn
an Australian public.. O So the surf-
ff
again....C.B.R.: “Just a Little Bit”
y . ttfecuu. tjxtt • “T will npupr
was too much for us---P-N-L. I will never
send another contribution.
“Professiona l s Wives were dismissed ..
Flapper' stuff... .J.R. The tolen-walfet-con-
idea wen, out yea,
ago... .G.G.S.. Morbid. ...C.L. ..
ested in the conversation between St. Peter and
the mermaids ghost. ...R.F.. You might land
it elsewhere... .G.C.N.. Yes, its ham to
crash the gates of journalism, and you 11 need
a better ticket than that batch W.N.:
“Any Wife” is not for us E.C.T.: You
don’t say why a respectable citizen should
murder half a dozen tram conductors, and it’s
beyond u5....H.W.: The first few pages were
enough... .N.S.T.: “A short story should have
iwi, » wMi? H H • nnesn’t
both plot and style. Well?. . .HTI . Doesn t
make a yarn.. . .J.R.McC.. Cut out the pre
lmrtnaries and tell the yarn in the third person
and it might stand a chance....C.D.D.: All
entries will be held until the competition closes.
S.L.P.: Topnotch idea, but you can’t spin
a yarn L.D.C.: “He slaughtered them all,
every mother’s son of them.” Left slaughtered,
S.V.D.: “Fires of Youth” flickered to a
smoky finish... .S.T.Y.: “What is the best city
trv, frppLnpinff for a livincr?”
for a beginner to try freelancing for a living
None... .C.R.S.. He ran through the park
and she ran to meet him across the bridge
where the river ran” Sounds like a running
commentary to us P.M.S.: You’re too long-
winded, and, anyway, “sesquipedalianistic” is
not in Webster T.P.R.: A dead rat under
the floor has driven too many lodgers away
for it to make a yam A.C.McL.: No
place here for “The Evolution of Santa
Claus”... .W.B.: Send that film lover to a
flappers’ magazine Yes, we feel
with you, but we can’t do anything about your
talkative fellow-lodger C.L.B.: So dawn still
“comes riding down the purple hills” J.S.:
Can’t stable that wonder horse F.G.: Nor
find a mooring for the “luxurious steam-yacht,
plaything of a pleasure-loving potentate”
H.C.S.: Nothing new in that lot D.R.: Send
us a list of the victims —we got lost after
the sixth —and we’ll look at that murder yarn
again C.E.P.: Hopeless.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.F.S.: We showed the absentminded pro-
fessor the way home W.M.B.: They laughed
at that jest 40 years ago....G.C.: .Apparently
you weren’t taught anything about perspective.
A.D.: Cow cockies or ringbarked trees —
boulders or prize Shorthorns?... .E.L.: Pro-
mising, but you need to pay attention to
small detail? P.L.: As a signwriter you
might pass, but not as a comic artist....
J.C.C.: Surely you don’t claim that “I thought
I had a stamp” idea as your own? E.N.:
You’ll be sketching on a tramway ticket next.
. ...P.S.: Like your sense of humor, but your
drawing is still wooden F.D.: Outback
scenes make us glad we’re in the city
R.N.: Space too scarce for that R.M.W.:
If you can’t draw chairs seat your people on
the floor J.D.: Here and there it has bright
spots C.S.: No desire to open our doors to
your wooden horse... .W.W.: It seemed a
bright idea —when we first saw it illustrated....
J.M.: Who told you Billy was that shape?
J.Y.: People who know him declare the like-
ness is dreadful E.K.: Still debating as to
which is the worst of that batch H.M.:
Faint promise. Carry on B.R.: They look
like half-melted waxwork figures J.T.:
Missed, but not by much E.A.: You’ve
cribbed your gags and copied another man’s
style B.R.B.: Steeplejack who dreaded aero-
plane flying has had his day N.W.: He
is too long in the legs J.B.: Jests long-
winded P.H.P.: We grant you it would
be hard to obtain a hippopotamus for a model
in Central Australia, but you should have
done better than that J.N.: The moon is not
bad W.A.: Take more pains with your
work G.C.: This week’s most horrible
EJ.F.: Binghi looks like a Hottentot and the
station overseer like an English squire... .K.D.:
Make a New Year resolution to take up some
other hobby.
A MIXED GRILL.
The Sydney branch of the League of
Nations Union entertained “the Consul-
General for Spain”— i.e., the part of
Spain still precariously governed by Com-
munists, Anarchists, Syndicalists and so
forth —and seems to have been fired by
his description of the other side as
“gunmen.”
Professor Francis Anderson said that
Spain was fighting against a military revolu-
tion of generals aided by foreign countries ,
and African Moors.
There are two professorial Andersons at
Sydney University, Francis and John.
Francis is the “Tory.”
* * * *
Apologists for the Maoriland Labor
Government protest that M.L. has 8449
“unemployables.” Victoria, with a popu-
lation approximately 300,000 greater
than that of Maoriland, reckons the
number of its unemployables at 2000.
Either Mr. Savage’s Labor Government
is more easily satisfied that a man is
unemployable or Victoria breeds a
tougher citizen.
He * * *
L. W. Woodhall, a Queensland war
pensioner, set off casually from Maroo-
chydore, near Brisbane, the other day
in his 10-year-old car to spend Christmas
in Perth. In three years he and his
family, a small girl and a baby boy, have
been almost continuously on the track.
Last Christmas they contented them-
selves with a trip of 3000 miles to Adel-
aide and back.
* * * *
Mayor three times and alderman for
18 years, A. W. Monds has retired from
Launceston (Tas.) council. Monds repre-
sented the council on the Licensing
Bench and wages boards, sat on the fire-
brigade committee, was chairman of the
local savings bank, acted for a time as
president of the Show society, and
the Salvation Army, the Ministering
Children’s League, bands and building
societies have all found a good friend in
him.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A Superinten-
dent of Telegraphs, recently transferred
from Brisbane to Melbourne after pre-
vious experience in Sydney and Perth, has
been telling the world of his ideas on
each. Melbourne is 33 p.c. more efficient
than any of the rest. Perth comes next.
Sydney is happy-go-lucky, with personal
elements dominating business relations.
Brisbane is 30 years behind the times ; it
is even possible to sprain an ankle on
Brisbane’s broken Queen-street. The
comparison is interesting in view of the
standards which the superintendent’s de-
partment maintains. It announces as a
miracle that new arrangements will per-
mit delivery of S.Q. coastal letters be-
tween townships four miles apart in one
day instead of three days.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Eighteen years ago the ac-
countant of the city bank where I was
employed threatened me with the sack
for appearing in the front office without
a coat during a heatwave ; he also ob-
jected to an open-necked sports shirt.
During a recent burst of heat I went
to that same bank and found all the
tellers with their coats off and their shirt
sleeves rolled up. Some eight years ago,
on a sweltering night, a young man in
the stalls of Adelaide’s Theatre Royal
took off his coat; he was requested to
put it on again or leave and receive his
money back. He left. I tried the same
stunt last week, but nobody took a scrap
of notice.
* * * *
The A. C. Godhards, of Sydney, are
off for a jaunt to Colombo. Mr. God-
hard is just recovering from a bad attack
of pneumonia. Before their ship left, the
Godhards, who have twice won large lot-
tery prizes, sent stay-at-home friends, with
Christmas greetings, tickets in two ap-
proaching big sweeps. Not many people
who walk arm-in-arm with the goddess
Luck introduce the lady to their friends.


Mai ') we Suggest
ffggpl
'. ; :
' . ..xV' '
H
m
mt:
Hi
%
/JamrA
M
y
m
m
s -
m
' - : . •
nan
s mm
The gift he’ll like best
MEN’S GENUINE PIG SKIN FITTED TOILET CASE.
Containing natural ebony pure bristle hair brush, mixed
badger shaving brush, Kent “Super” shaving soap, in
bakelite containers, steel mirror, nail file, safety razor
and comb. Price ----- 757-
REAL PIG SKIN ZIPP FASTENER CASE. With
chromium fittings, containing natural ebony hair brush,
cloth brush, mixed badger shaving brush, tooth brush,
shaving soap container, toilet soap container, steel
mirror, nail file, scissors and comb, and Gillette type
razor in box. Price £5/17/6
Pike Brothers
liOIITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Roma.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra,. Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Champion Who Was A Digger
It is not on record that Hughie
Mehegan ever boxed at a Digger tourna-
ment ; but it is certain that no better
boxer than Mehegan wore the A.I.F.
uniform. A Victorian, born in 1886,
Mehegan, in an age of great pugilists,
proved himself a first-class lightweight,
of a higher standard than any Australian
predecessor except “Griffo” and per-
haps George Dawson. He was strong in
every department of the game, and was
all grit. * His best years in the ring were
1910, 1911, 1912 and 1913, but he kept
on fighting till he went to the war, ex-
hibiting between the ropes all the char-
acteristics which the Diggers exhibited
on the battlefield.
Hughie was lightweight champion of
Australia when he met Arthur Douglas,
of South Africa, at the Sydney Stadium
on February 10, 1910. In those days
he was a slim, white-skinned and rather
innocuous-looking lad ; Douglas, on the
other hand, was a muscular fellow, with
the intense facial expression of a bull
pup that has just had a bone ravished
from him and has been kicked in the
waist.
Already wise in the ways of pugs,
Mehegan possessed a very effective
smother and had reduced kidding to a
fine art. His smother neutralised the
effect of most of the Afrikander’s blows,
but he repeatedly pretended that he was
undone—-so effectually that Douglas’s
seconds excitedly commanded their
charge to wade in and blot out his tot-
tering adversary. As Douglas essayed to
wade and blot, the bogus ruin invariably
rose up, unwound a weighty upper-
cut and delivered mighty swings to the
jaw and head. “It was like treadin’ on
a dead boa-constrictor and findin’ it was
alive,” said Larry Foley, describing the
affair afterwards to a group of friends.
The leathery South African was stronger
than Mehegan, but as a boxer he was
not in the Victorian’s class. There wasn’t
a word of disapproval when “Snowy”
Baker, at the finish of the twentieth
round, intimated that Mehegan had won
on points.
On April 7 Hughie fought one of the
best ten-stoners that England has pro-
duced—Johnnie Summers. Summers was
a few pounds heavier than Hughie, but
the latter had agreed to let him come in
at lOst. and the Englishman made the
To Mehegan’s amazement, “Snowy”
Baker declares Wells the winner.
weight. The pair gave a charming exhibi-
tion of scrapping, conducted in perfect
good temper and with vigor and unusual
skill. For four rounds it was level peg-
ging ; then rain descended on the un-
roofed Stadium, and Summers got a
great suction-hold on the canvas, thanks
to his larger and flatter feet.
Realising that his best chance now lay
in ending it suddenly, Mehegan threw
defence to the winds in the fifth round
and tried for a knockout. Summers,
dodging, retaliated with an awful right
hook to the jaw, which sent Mehegan
down and nearly out. He struggled up
and made a gallant show in close quar-
ters, but only the gong saved him.
Coming out for the next round he was
still groggy, and Summers tried hard to
finish him off, but Hughie was fighting
gallantly at the end of the round, though
he had been floored twice.
Thenceforward he put up a grand
struggle against odds. For nearly 40
minutes the two game fellows sloshed
round in the wet, and sodden gloves
thudded on gleaming bodies, streaked
here and there with crimson where one
or other had brought blood, and with
red patches where repeated body blows
had landed. All the time a drenched
but fascinated crowd cheered them on.
But Mehegan never quite recovered
from the effect of those knockdowns, and
in the nineteenth round he was knocked
out. He fell flat on his face, and Tom
Boyle, his trainer, picked him up and
bore him to the distant dressing-room
much as dad carries a sleeping baby
after a day on the beach.
Some months elapsed before Summers
and Mehegan were brought together
again. In the meantime Hughie had
knocked out Dick Cullen in four rounds
(Cullen, a Californian, paying his second
visit to the Commonwealth, turned Aus-
tralian and has a returned-soldier’s badge),
and Johnnie had closed —with a punch
on the point—a nine-round argument in
Brisbane with Unholz, who called him-
self a Boer but was really a German.
Unholz had fought a no-decision bout
with Battling Nelson. There were 10,000
at the Sydney Stadium when Summers,
weighing lOst. lib., and Mehegan, a mere
9st. 71b., shaped up again. The April
knockout and the disparity in the weights
so impressed betting men that they made
the Englishman favorite at 3 to 1 on ;
but this time he could not bring the
lighter lad down. It was solid bruising
from beginning to end. Each man was
so intent on striking the other that
neither had any time for striking atti-
tudes. They slogged and socked away
till the full 20 rounds had run out; then
“Snowy” Baker said it was a draw.
In the following month Mehegan had
another fight with Douglas, who, after
their first Sydney match, had gone 20
rounds with Summers. The first round
seemed to teach Mehegan something;
anyhow, at the beginning of the second
he emerged from his corner like a well-
oiled bullet, leaped at his friend from
Africa and crossed and uppercut with
fervor and abandon. Africa’s response
was gallant but ineffective. In the third
round it was evident to the meanest in-
telligence that the Dark Continent was
doomed. Towards the close of the fourth
Baker stopped the butchery.
Then Mehegan was pitted against
“Cyclone” Johnnie Thompson. Thomp-
son had come from the U.S.A. with the
reputation of having given Packy Mc-
Farland, the Pride of the Stockyards, so
hot a fight that McFarland would not
meet him again. Not till Thompson was
weighed in the Stadium ring did Sydney-
siders understand Packy’s feelings in the
matter.
Bound to scale no more than lOst. or
forfeit £5O, the Cyclone rang the bell at
list. l\\b. The Australian went 9st. 9|lb.
A disgraceful business, disgraceful not
only to the American, who deliberately
forfeited the £5O, but to the Stadium
management.
“Don’t go on with it, Hughie!”
shouted the disgusted crowd. Hughie
replied stoutly that he was there to fight,
and fight he would if the other chap
weighed a ton.
But, instead of fighting, the heavy-
weight roughed, mauled, used his elbows
and applied a modification of the
stranglehold with the object of forcing
the little chap’s head into a position
where he could punch it. As far as
boxing was concerned, he wasn’t in the
same street as the Australian. So unfair
were his tactics that it looked as though
he was afraid he would get the worst of
the deal if he fought fair. He richly de-
served disqualification for his elbow
work in clinches alone. But he was al-
lowed to get away with it, and at the
Saylor’s “rabbit-killer,” with Mehegan
as the bunny.
end of the fifth round Mehegan’s
seconds wouldn’t let their boy continue.
Mehegan’s next opponent was Ray
Bronson, a member of the American
party. Bronson was a welterweight, but
the Stadium management had appar-
ently decided that poundage didn’t matter
where Mehegan was concerned ; at all
events, Mehegan v. Bronson was the
headliner on January 1, 1911. It was in-
teresting, clever and clean. The pair
were repeatedly cheered for their fair,
even courteous, behavior towards one
another, but there was no doubt what-
ever as to how the decision should go.
Mehegan had never used his left to better
advantage ; that night he could have hired
it out as a piston-rod to a ferry company.
Well beaten as he had been, Bronson
claimed the welterweight championship
of the world when he returned to his
own country. After a savage 10 rounds
with Young Erne, of Philadelphia, on
Feb. 22, 1911, he was greeted by the
Yankee press as the “logical welterweight


HAD AGONISING PAINS
IN HER BACK
Could Not Turn in Bed
Like many other sufferers from backache
and rheumatic ailments, this woman decided
to try Kruschen Salts in a last attempt to
obtain relief from pain. To her surprise, the
pains did grow less, and in a few months the
backache had disappeared. Having made sure
of the results, she now writes as follows:
“For about four months I had agonising
pains in my back, and could not turn in
bed. During that time I tried various remedies,
but obtained no relief, and was seriously con-
sidering going into hospital. However, seeing a
case similar to mine described in an adver-
tisement for Kruschen, I thought I would try
it, and was more than surprised to find the pain
getting less. I have been taking Kruschen
for four months, and would not be without it
for anything. I must say I am free from those
dreadful pains.”—(Mrs.) B.C.
The six salts in Kruschen coax your kidneys
back to healthy, normal action, so that not a
particle of poisonous waste matter remains un-
expelled. Your inside is thus kept clean and
serene. You experience joyous relief from
those old dragging kidney pains.
■HP&r"
MHK sit
SYDNtY
cean „
\aVef
QUCKLQND
IUatINGTO
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Cljiss Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
£
T
i«
*
* -VtRNON
IniUMEK
THE REST
OF THE FAMILY
Even though the head of the
family may need a cheque ac-
count for his business pur-
poses, the Savings Bank Ac-
count can be used with advan-
tage, by the “rest of the
family.”
A Savings Account costs nothing to open, is a safe
and convenient repository for whatever monies the
housewife controls, and is a splendid aid to the thrift
training of children and the making of suitable pro-
vision for their .futures.
For all members constituting the rest of the family,
therefore, the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Aus-
tralia offers helpful banking facilities peculiarly
adapted to their respective needs or requirements.
Every Post Office within Australia is an agency.
commonuifflLTfl
sfluinGS Bfln«
Of AUSTRALIA
champion.” Yet Mehegan was clearly
his master.
In March of that year, Adelaide saw a
fight for the lightweight championship.
In it, Mehegan covered himself with
honor, both as boxer and sportsman. It
did not go 20 rounds ; after the second
round Jim Armstrong showed that he
was not good enough. In the third he
was down for eight seconds and then for
nine seconds; but he battled along
gamely to the ninth: then he went down
four times, and finally stood up helpless.
Here was Mehegan’s chance. He took
it, but not in the usual way. He stood
back and refused to hit a man who was
unable to hit him. Then the gong went,
and the referee gave the fight to Mehegan.
As clean and fair was Mehegan’s first
fight with the Italian-American Frank
Picato at the Sydney Stadium on Sep-
tember 24, 1911. In the tenth round
Picato struck his opponent low —of
course, without intention. Mehegan
lowered his arms and bent up with pain ;
Picato likewise stopped, expecting an
appeal for a foul. After a moment’s
rest, however, the Australian straightened
up. “Box on,” he said and whirled his
weapons. Picato, equally sportsmanlike,
put up his hands, but did no more than
defend himself till Hughie had recovered
from the unfortunate blow.
Picato, who was 101 b. heavier, made a
clever showing. But the Australian was
fit to fight for the ransom of a rich
uncle ; his blows timed with ex-
cellent precision, and his smother was as
protective as a rabbit-proof fence. The
last round saw him spring at the enemy
like a wild cat with a bull-ant on his
conscience, and when the gong exploded
the issue was beyond doubt —Mehegan,
the winner on points.
In a subsequent affair it took Mehegan
18 very lively rounds to convince Picato
that the lightweight championship was
in the right stable. In the eighteenth
Picato was wondering where a solid body
punch had come from, and his jaw wan-
dered about, grazing in the paddock of
circumstance, and forgot where it was.
Mehegan remembered, and the time-
keeper did the rest.
Afterwards, the Fancy spoke rap-
turously of “that Mehegan-Picato punch.”
Dave Smith voted it “the prettiest I ever
saw.”
Indeed Mehegan was a real champion
that year. He knocked out Charlie
Mehegan tries to catch Kid Lewis.
(“Maniopoto”) Griffin in five 'rounds at
Melbourne and Hock Keys in 15 rounds
at Sydney.
Keys, one of the most stylish boxers
Australia ever saw, was trying to come
back. For 12 rounds his flashing fists
were as busy and he rocked as easily
on his feet as when he had gone 18
rounds with Freddie Welsh. But Mehegan
kept a wonderful control of himself,
clearly much impressed with the un-
looked-for revival before him, doing
what was possible in retaliation and
patiently waiting for the moment when
Keys’s steam would blow out. Then
all in a flash came the end. The gong
clanged round 15, and Mehegan landed
a clout that sent the veteran staggering
to the ropes. Came a second knock-
down—and the towel. Youth had
triumphed over skill run to seed.
In April, 1912, took place Mehegan’s
great but ill-advised fight with Jimmy
Clabby. It was advertised as for the
welterweight championship of Australia,
but as Clabby could not make less than
lOst. 7|lb. even after taking off his shoes,
the title ceased to be an element of dis-
turbance. Mehegan weighed 9st. 81b., so
he entered the ring against a man prac-
tically a stone heavier and strong and
formidable enough to have put up a
drawn battle with Dave Smith.
In the face of these circumstances,
Mehegan was considered to have no
chance, but it turned out one of the most
level fights ever seen at the Stadium.
For 10 rounds it was Mehegan’s, and
he piled up points in a way that was
frightful for the Yankees present to
watch. Then his steam gave out, and he
slowed down. Clabby came along at a
great pace, and for five rounds piled up
his contra account; and then he too
petered out. The pace was telling on
both. For four more rounds they wilted
in turn, and all the indications were that
it would end in a draw.
Referee Baker had threatened to dis-
qualify the first man who ignored the
order to step back. One of Baker's
weaknesses was that he sometimes made
threats and failed to keep them. In the
last round Clabby crowded his man on
the ropes, and Mehegan clinched. “Step
back!” fluted the soft, persuasive voice
of the referee. Mehegan couldn’t unless
he went through the ropes out into the
audience. Clabby took no notice.
Mehegan turned round to explain to
the referee that, owing to an unfortunate
combination of circumstances, he couldn’t
get out. Just as he was in the middle of
his explanation, something happened.
Hughie thought that the planet had burst
or that a thunderbolt had dropped on
him. It was only Clabby’s fist. But it
was a rattler, and it took all Mehegan
knew to avoid a knockout. But for the
clang of the bell, he would have got it.
Baker, having allowed the wallop
which reduced the lighter man to such a
condition, was, of course, perfectly in
order in declaring Clabby the winner.
Whether he was in order in allowing the
blow was another question.
The lightweight champion of the world
in those days was the fading Wolgast.
Wolgast wouldn’t have had the slightest
chance with Clabby, nor would he have
accepted a fight with that able middle-
weight. Had Wolgast been Mehegan’s
antagonist, instead of Clabby, the cham-
pionship would very probably have
changed hands.
But the batterings he had to endure at
the hands of Clabby and other big men
weakened Mehegan’s capacity for tak-
ing punishment and slowed him up. This
began to be revealed when he went to
England late in 1912 and boxed Matt
Wells.
Wells was a superb boxer and a great
favorite in New York as well as London.
He had magnificent shoulder develop-
ment, tremendous depth of chest and a
splendidlyrhalanced body and legs. He
was as light on his feet as a feather, and
as quick as it seemed possible for a man
to be. His only drawback was a rather
short reach.
He and Mehegan met at the National
Sporting Club, and after 20 rounds, in
which the English Jew was always on
the defensive, the referee awarded him
the verdict. Never one to squeal,
Mehegan always maintained that it was
unjust. He said as much before he left
the ring ; advancing to the ropes and
addressing the assembled nobility, gentry
and commonalty, he made his one public
speech, which was to this effect: “Gentle-
men, if I ever won a fight I won that
one.” Many in the hall were of the
same opinion, and the club incontinently
matched him with Freddie Welsh for a
£lOOO purse.
Welsh, who within two years was to
become world champion, was a very
clever boxer but no puncher. He showed
the Australian camp some subtle v points
one way and another. It was given out
that one of his eyes had been so badly
opened by a sparring partner that stitches
were necessary. On the night of battle
Frederick entered the ring with an
ominous-looking wound showing under a
mass of sticking plaster over his right
eye. “Play for that eye, Hughie,” the
Australian corner advised, and, little as
he liked doing it, Mehegan tried to obey
instructions. He connected with the
injured optic again and again. But
though he knocked the sticking plaster
to blazes he failed to draw blood. The
explanation lay in the fact that it was
the other eye that was in trouble. The
wound was bogus—a tribute to the skill
of an artist in theatrical make-up. Welsh
got the decision.
The Mehegan-Wells match aroused so
much discussion that the Sydney Stadium
management engaged Wells for a return
match. It took place on August 14, 1913,
and it filled the Stadium to overflowing.
From the start it was obvious that
Mehegan was the stronger man and the
harder hitter. He was the aggressive
party to the disturbance all the time, and
much the superior fighting animal —not
boxer. No one realised it better than
Wells ; and Wells adapted his tactics ac-
cordingly. He showed great speed in his
backward galloping, but at infighting he
was very much second-best, though he
blocked Mehegan’s uppercuts skilfully.
(Continued, on next page.)


The Last Chance
To clear up remaining limited stock “The Bulletin” is renewing
its offer to those who wish to obtain a bargain in Christmas
gifts of the choice of
Any Four of the Following Books for 5/-, Post Free.
Four
Australian
for
Novels
5-
Post Free.
Karangi F. S. Hibble
Bring the Monkey . . Miles Franklin
“Saturdee ,, Norman Lindsay
Nights Ashore . . . Capt. J. Hamilton
In Pursuit of Patrick . . Vera Dwyer
Giving Amber Her Chance,
Jessie Urquhart
The Sow’s Ear .... Bernard. Cronin
The World Is Yours, G. B. Lancaster
Stories by “Kodak”
As stocks are
limited, order early,
and send in six
names in order of
preference in case
any book is sold out.
THE BULLETIN
NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY., LTD.,
Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
The Australian was never in danger,
and the Englishman never out of it.
Wells received the greater amount of
punishment and simply dared not stand
up to his opponent, who begged him
often to come and have a real struggle.
Wells’s nose bled through the disturb-
ance. Amidst deafening protests, “Snowy”
Baker crowned Wells. “That’s your finish
as a referee,” Mehegan partisans
shouted ; and it is a fact that he did not
hold the position much longer.
On Jan. 25, 1914, Mehegan was
knocked out in 11 rounds by the Ameri-
can lightweight Milburn Saylor. Saylor
was a hitter of size, and the way he
swung his fists all over the place sug-
gested that he was double-jointed. Also
his reach was so long that he could bring
his right fist round a man’s head and
whang him on the right ear, though he
had a wicked preference for landing on
the back of the neck —a punch not then
barred. He would have been a formid-
able opponent for Mehegan when
Mehegan was at his best.
Hughie had not deteriorated physically.
He could hit as hard as ever. But he had
lost the instinct to hit, and there was a
decided falling-off in speed. He spent
valuable seconds working Saylor into a
receptive attitude and then either failed
to smite him or smote when it was too
late.
Saylor, on the other hand, punched
all the time. He bashed instinctively by
reflex action of the brain and without
thinking, whereas Mehegan had to think
before he hit, and was often buried in
meditation too long. For the first four
rounds Hughie had easily the better of
things, but after that he waned.
Half-way through the eleventh round
a wild right swing crashed into Mehe-
gan’s ribs, and the Australian staggered,
Quick as a flash, Saylor hurled his left
at the jaw. Mehegan saw it coming, but
didn’t leave in time. He went down, but,
with a roll over, struggled up again and
covered his jaw. A shower of assault and
battery floored him once more,
Thcn the audience gasped at an exhi .
bition o£ unequalled determination.
Mehegan crawled along the floor on all
fo seized the and hauled him .
~, , ~
s ? lf U P ,hem ' a “ ld f* ‘ he ” addest
c^eenn § ihat ever shook the Stadium,
on ly did he face the blizzard; he
made to attack. But he was done.
“Throw in the towel,” someone said
to Duke Mullens, the Australian’s sec-
ond. “He’d kill me if I did,” lamented
Duke, who had trained Jack Johnson,
Done as he was, Mehegan strove to
guard and duck; but nothing could save
him.' Again he was sent down, utterly
out.
He took his defeat, as he had taken all
his victories, philosophically. “It had to
come sooner or later,” he said ; “but,
all the same, it hurts when it actually
arrives. I hope I made a decent battle.
After all, it’s the way a man goes down
The Hand of Time snatches Mehegan
from the abyss of K.O. and gives him
the victory over Welling.
more than the fact that he does that mat-
ters.” He admitted that since he left
Australia on his unfortunate voyage to
England he had never felt quite the
same.
In a return bout with Saylor on May
9, 1914, Mehegan was knocked out in
the twelfth round. But he wasn’t alto-
gether finished as a fighter. He remained
in the business till he went to the war,
and, although beaten by such men as Kid
Lewis, Joe Shugrue and Johnnie Grif-
fiths —who were certainly among the six
best lightweights in the world—he never
failed to give the public its money’s
worth. ■
At Sydney on May 24, 1914, Joe Wel-
ling, another American lightweight, had
Hughie down and almost out in 20
rounds, but the Victorian had done such
fine work in the preceding 19 rounds
that the referee —Harald Baker now —
placed a hand on his head in sign of
victory. And in the second round of his
mill with Lewis Mehegan shook that
brilliant i youngster badly with a left
swing. Lewis pulled himself together,
and, though he was chivvied round the
ring for another 55 minutes, he wound
up a bit ahead on points.
Mehegan died at Bailleul, France, at
the end of 1916. It was reparted in Aus-
tralia that he had been a military police-
man. His Digger companions were so
indignant at what they regarded as a
blot on his memory that they wrote a
hotly-worded denial to Australian news-
papers. There is another Hughie Mehe-
gan, a son, boxing in Australian rings.
He has his father’s pertinacity and game-
ness, but an accident has put him out
of the business for a time.
HENNEBERRY v. CHESTER
Billed for 12 rounds and going just
over half the distance, this scrap at
Sydney Stadium last week was a savage
affair while it lasted.
The white and black were better
matched than furphies had given out.
Chester’s list. 811 b. was 4|lb. up on
Henneberry. He didn’t look that or any
other amount better, but the furphy was
that his gym. work wasn’t a patch on the
local lad’s, and that certainly couldn’t
be said of his ring work.
The cullud gemmun—a genuine hewn
piece of Darkest Africa, with a rather
high forehead, high wide nose, close
frizz and splendid shoulders—came out
of his corner raking the air with a Jack
Johnsonian reach. He could just about
hold Henneberry pinned in his corner
with it from the middle of the ring. For
the first round he had little trouble keep-
ing the comparatively blocky white
pusson at that long arm’s length. He
also gave evidence of a hitting right and
rather wide-set but useful footwork.
Henneberry took delivery in good part
of a fair amount of the cullud left’s
darting pokes into the dial and kept out
a couple of drum-testers with his ribs,
without giving anything adequate in
return, bar a second or so of solid,
short, two-fisted thumping when the
black led over his head. Still, though
rendered futile, Henneberry looked, if
anything, the cooler and the less over-
eager, and he could be almost overheard
thinking his way round the yardarm
lead.
Though packed with interest, and a
good scrap ahead indicated, matters so
far had been a trifle cooler than the
night—a fair frizzier—seemed to war-
rant. Back view of the cullud bulk as
they came out this time was the first in-
dication that they were warming up. The
sweat was flowing down in a broad flood,
and the beltline of his black-and-red
trunks was awash. You couldn’t be sure
blaming his condition for it; a billiard
ball would have sweated as much on
half the effort. Anyway, he came out
freshly enough, raking the air and the
Henneberry fa?ade with his darting fur-
long of left, holding Henneberry well off
with it and driving the right heavily to
the body. Then he drove Henneberry
against the ropes with a two-fisted
fusillade at shorter range, with a couple
of swinging right uppercuts for variety.
Henneberry came out of it as if he
hadn’t been hit, and clinched ; and Chester
came out of that complaining loudly to
Mr. Wallis, as one or two others had
done before him, of the entry of head-
work into the dispute. Mr. Wallis had a
word with Henneberry, who responded by
slipping promisingly inside the Chester
lead and giving his most effective show-
ing up to date. There was, too, a
measure of comparative wildness now in
Chester’s style. His arms had turned
from piston-rods to flails, and Henne-
berry for the rest of the round—fighting
at his best, which is pretty good—got
inside the cullud embrace.
The third round was notable mainly
for solid punching, but even more solid
defence. A splendidly-fought round,
with Henneberry—who had now taken
the measure of the Chester star-raker—
somewhat the better. Swift but even-
footed give-and-take fighting, certainly a
treat after the late exhibitions of airy
tap-dancers at the same address.
Henneberry did even better in the next.
He showed he had mastered Chester’s
early troublesome leading by giving the
black’s face a stinging with a shorter but
an equally waspish left as soon as the
round opened. With cullud lead over-
come, the fighting was now at close
quarters, with claiming by both to spoil
it and make Joe work as hard as any-
body, prising them apart. Even so, it
was still good, solid, downright pugilism,
and, as if three minutes of it in this
swelter wasn’t enough, some of the
fiercest of it happened after the bell.
Henneberry let loose what didn’t look
like a deliberate after-the-bell wallop,
and with the bell going great guns
Chester whaled in excusably, but
ominously, as it was to turn out.
The fifth was Henneberry’s. He came
out of his corner fighting, drove Chester
back across the ring and for a bit looked
like knocking him. The cullud one
weathered it, and fought the round out
fairly well, mainly with the aid of his
dangerous-looking long-range uppercuts,
but at the bell he came across to a
neutral corner looking for his seat, nor
was the wide smile on his countenance
the most reassuring.
The sixth was yet another solid fighting
round—Henneberry’s, no doubt, though
by not much of a margin. Claiming was
keeping Joe busier and busier, though no
great damage to the spectacle ; it had, at
least, a heap of savage muscled energy
in it. Also, the fact that the Henneberry
star was now somewhat more in the
ascendant than earlier took none of the
interest out of the proceedings. What
had most made it a good fight so far,
in addition to Henneberry’s improving
showing, was that the cullud bulk, except
for a while in the fifth, had kept on
looking mighty dangerous all the time,
and as frequently as he unloosed a punch
he still looked it. The half-way round
ended with still no certainty as to how
the fight would ultimately turn out.
It turned in inside the first minute of
the next. They were in a corner,
Chester against the ropes, slugging. The
black’s dial, head-high above the white,
contorted in a frantic grin as he indi-
cated a low punch. But it was Henne-
berry who went down, and instantly Joe’s
hand settled on Henneberry’s head.
Instantly Henneberry’s second, of the
clan Henneberry, rushed across the ring
and tore into Chester as the black’s
seconds hustled him to his corner. In-
stantly the fairly good house was up on
the seats, trying to make out what had
really happened. Police were up in the
ring seeing that Chester had safe cus-
tody back to his dressing-room. Mr.
Dent was up in the ring calling for order.
About a dozen assorted hangers-on were
also in the ring, some of them calling
for blood. The loudspeakers high above
the ring were calling hoarsely on every-
body.
Altogether, a grand old-time finish to
a good fight. The accompaniment, that
is; not the finish of the scrap itself,
which was rather a pity. A matter of a
jerked-up knee; apparently.
The explanation was then freely can-
vassed that some such ending was to be
expected from bad-tempered fighters.
That might be so ; they certainly didn’t
look exceptionally good- - tempered
fighters, and what passes with each of
them as a smile doesn’t make them look
any more so. Still, a fair whack on the
debit side ought to be written against the
night, which might have devilled Job
himself—or even Joe—into committing
a foul.


gdf
FLU S COLDS
Smash them with
Double”©”
Sum-Mitu4 SrPiMcH
It’s Summer, but many people still have Flu and Colds. Neglect
leads to Pleurisy or Pneumonia, so take no risks—-let Double D
Eucalyptus fight your ’Flu and Colds for you it will smash them in
record time.
B
TAKE 3 drops of Double “D” on a lump of
sugar.
RUB chest and back thoroughly with Double
“D.”
INHALE 15 drops of Double “D” in hot water
before retiring.
*
In this treatment Double "D” attacks your ’Flu and Colds in three
different, definite ways, and will quickly have you well again. But be
sure you use the genuine Double D Eucalyptus, it s the purest an
strongest Eucalyptus sold in Australia.
9d.
Always use Double “D ’ for cleaning
grease-marks from your clothing.
1/3
THE PURE STRONG EULALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET FRESH SMELL
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
g
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
You won't be free
m
:v.
;
until you banish excess
uric acid from your system
Uric Acid in excess is recognised as the prime cause of
Joint Pains and Rheumatism.
But why does it accumulate? You must look to your
Kidneys for the answer. It is the principal duty of the
Kidneys to filter impurities from the blood streams, but
when, either through some temporary disorder or some
particular disease, they fail to carry out their proper
function, impurities quickly accumulate.
The only way to obtain permanent relief from Joint Pains
or Rheumatism is to strengthen the Kidneys and assist
them to dispel all excess Uric Acid from the system.
The quickest, safest and surest way of doing this is by
taking Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills —the leading Kidney
Tonic sold in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills speedily correct any temporary
disorder of the Kidneys; will remove all inflammation; and
assist the Kidneys in their function of filtering impurities
from the blood streams. There’s no equal to Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills, and anyone can take them with absolute con-
fidence.
Buy your bottle of Gin Pills to-day.
Read what this grateful user says: —
“One bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Kidney Pills did more
for me and gave me more relief than 11 years
of other treatment.”
Mrs. Whight,
Bellambi Street, Campsie, N.S.W.
dfg
DFSHELDONS
GIN PILLS
FOE THE RIDNEVS
**
A .a <,** y> r,°
A
-° k
A a A 0 '
SEs^S#/*^/
&)
V
%tf-
\$ $
o
.*• a
•’>£s
s«jtc%A v n<
A< V
\o #siy'
A\)°
oT$ fc


DO YOU Suffer from these
symptoms of NERVE EXHAUSTION?
m
You are a victim of
MINERAL
STARVATION
Brain Fag, Irritability,
DEPRESSED FEELING
Lack of Concentration
Sleeplessness
It is a fact that the absence of sufficient minerals in foods
causes most cases of nerves, depression and easy fatigue
BIDOMAK provides extra minerals in an easily assimilable
form, and therefore we are able to GUARANTEE that BID
OMAK will make you well or cost you NOTHING.
MOTHER SAVED
FROM NERVOUS
BREAKDOWN
C/- Kotara F.O.
I think I had better get busy and drop a line
to 2KO before my name is placed on the absentee
list. It is some time since I wrote in to our
club, but up till about 5 weeks ago I was very
sick, and I know by the letters congratulating
different members that I have missed some splen-
did letters through not being able to listen in
to the session; however, I am once again a most
attentive listener and a lot better, thanks to
BIDOMAK. It will always hold a place in my
home for what it has done for me. I am busy
with my sth Bottle and No. 6is waiting. BIDO-
MAK saved me from a nervous breakdown as I
was just on the verge, and having had a nervous
breakdown a few years ago I know something of
its horrors. In my last letter I told you of the
sudden illness of my youngest boy; well, I wasn’t
too good at the time and the shock was too much
for me and my nerves went all to pieces. I was
having a rather severe course of needles and I
was ordered away after the course was finished
by my doctor. He said I bad to go away for u
complete change and rest and not to take any of
the family with me as I had to have no respon-
sibilities, Well, for me to go away under those
conditions was no good to me and I told my
husband, and he, after hearing so much from
your station about BIDOMAK, came home one
night with a bottle, and that is not all, he
asked me to try it. I did and, believe me, I felt
it doing me all the good after one bottle, and I
gained in weight after steadily losing for nearly
10 months. I am recommending BIDOMAK to
all I know. I have to return to my doctor for
another course of treatment and I am expecting
him to ask me what I have been doing, there is
sugh a change in me.
(Sgd.) Mrs. A. R. M.
(Pull name and address on request.)
w
NEW LEASE
OF LIFE
For Aged Couple
Interviewed recently, Mr. and Mrs.
Phillips, of 26 Millett Street, Hurstville,
gladly gave for publication the facts
regarding their near-breakdown, and then
their complete recovery to such health
and good spirits that now they regularly
hike as much as 10 miles in a day, and
finish their walks fresh and well.
“I was so worried about him,” said
Mrs. Phillips of her husband. ‘‘He was
really run-down, just skin drawn over
m
bones, if you know what
I mean—he lost interest
in everything, and could
not eat or sleep. When
we decided to try BIDO-
MAK it was a last hope
—we had tried so many
other things—but the
effects were marvellous. Why, it was just
no time before he was as well as ever—
better than he’d been for years.”
“Yes,” chimed in Mr.
Phillips himself, “I was
pretty bad, and so was
my wife. She was abso-
lutely run-down herself
and just would not give
in. But BIDOMAK
made her well again—
df
why, we walked 10 miles last Sunday!”
"We just got a new lease of life."
This wonderful experience is matched
by thousands more. Everywhere folks
who are run-down, tired and nervy are
being restored to the full bloom of health.
BIDOMAK must be the most wonder-
ful tonic in Australia, so much good has it
done for men, women and children.
Will make you well or cost you NOTHING
How to prove BIDOMAK’S bene
Simply go down to your chemist or
grocery store and get yourself the
first bottle of BIDOMAK. Take it
as directed, and soon you will feel
brighter and fitter—your edgy
nerviness will vanish away.
Perhaps you have tried many other
tonics or patent foods without bene-
fit and feel doubtful that anything
can do you good. If that is your
case, we say to you: Return the
partly empty bottle of BIDOMAK to
us if you have not benefited within
14 days and we will refund your
money.
Surely nothing could be fairer than
that; but really I have such abso-
lute confidence that BIDOMAK will
do you good that I do not hesitate
to make this offer.
BIDOMAK strikes at the
root of nerve troubles
In nine cases out of ten, Nerves and
Depression are caused by MINERAL
STARVATION due to a lack of suffi-
cient minerals in modern diet.
BIDOMAK provides extra minerals,
and therefore corrects the cause of
nerve troubles and many constitu-
tional ailments.
BIDOMAK provides . . .
EXTRA ferrum
to build rich, red blood, and so carry
extra oxygen, to the tissues, thus
drawing away anaemia, and chasing
poisons and wastes from the system.
EXTRA calcium
to build up bone and nerve tissues,
as well as general bodily endurance.
EXTRA sodium
to keep digestion keen, counter
acidity, clear away depression and
make you feel good.
EXTRA phosphorus
to prevent nervous breakdown and
fatigue and to help in creating new
nerve, brain and red blood cells.
EXTRA potassium
to relieve nerve pains and prevent
constipation.
That is why I can so confidently
guarantee that BIDOMAK will bene-
fit you or cost you nothing.
Harmless, pleasant to
take
BIDOMAK is harmless even
to the youngest children, and
very pleasant to take-—within
a few days you will feel better
—and within a week or so
you won’t know yourself. You
will feel so fit and well!
The sooner you begin, the
sooner you will experience the
benefit BIDOMAK brings you.
Go to your chemist or store
and get yourself a bottle of
BIDOMAK TO-DAY.
NEW WAY
When other treatments have
failed do not despair. Bidomak
has produced wonderful results.
It creates energy with a degree of
success that has been denied to
other forms of treatments. It
makes you fitter and helps you to
resist disease and illness. For
nervous debility it is unequalled.
The tonic properties of BIDO-
MAK maintain and assist Nature
in many ways, and the mental and
physical conditions begin to im-
prove immediately you start to
use it.
Koney Back Trial
OFFER
So certain are we that you will notice these
benefits quickly that we guarantee to refund
your money if the very FIRST bottle of
RIDOMAK does not benefit you and you return
the nearly-empty bottle to the Douglas Drug
Co. within 14 days. Nothing could be fairer
than that.
BIDOMAI
—«— The Tonic of the Century "H
For Nerve, Brain and
that “Depressed ” Feeling
Bidomak is a "product of the Douglas Drug Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Melbourne,
Brisbane, and Perth. Sole wholesale agents for Tasmania : L. Fairthorne &
Son Pty. Ltd.. 42-48 St. John Street. Launceston. New Zealand Distributors i
O’Tol-Fluenrol Labora eJlingtcßl. jj
