

si
.
m 1
«
IP
sm
as
I
t
*
I.
PI
Wv
■m
m
-s,
■ V;
„ «-
ms
m
amm
m
\
■ , .a
;i: «
m
m
wm
Wi
m
i ; s
*s*
. ;
11
SERVICE
No matter what your financial or
investment problems, Hamiltons’
expert staff is at your service.
Enquiries regarding the possibili-
ties of stocks and shares which
you are holding, or contemplate
purchasing, will be promptly
answered.
Let Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd.
advise you; enquiries place you
under no obligation.
fflamiltons (Australasia) limited
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers. Authorised Capital: £250,000.
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W.—’Phone, Armidale 150; Box No.
123 Armidale. Union Bank Chambers, 21 Bolton Street, Newcastle—’Phone, Newcastle 1942.
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Bth Floor,
A.M.P. Chambers,
Edward Street,
Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 101 7N.
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
1H
The Bulletin
A Life Assurance Supplement
Vol. 58.—N0. 2997.
Wednesday, July 21, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
um
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HEBE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates m addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
r Pr joi ra tes •
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
whSSy or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and addres
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
LITERATURE AND THE AIR.
The gentlemen poets of Elizabeth’s time con-
tinued to write sonnets to mercilessly obdurate Chloes
and Celias while their adventurous countrymen were
either setting out on voyages of discovery or return-
ing home with their fabulous tales. That was an
age of romantic movement, but the poets stood aloof ;
cherry lips and snowy bosoms meant more to them
than Drake and Raleigh.
It has been much the same in the present century;
the marvels of radio and aviation are accepted now
with as little thought as the morning milk-bottle, and
it looks as if we may have to wait a century or more
for the literary recognition of Kingsford Smith,
Hinkler, Ulm, Lindbergh, Alcock and Brown —all those
who have been the modern counterpart of the Eliza-
bethan voyagers.
The sensation of flying should have inspired many
poets, yet so far as I know the only one to record his
experience of flying is Jeffery Day, a young Aus-
tralian, who died while serving with the Royal Flying
Corps in the Great War. His poem “On the Wings
of Morning” has won its way into several anthologies,
and it should live because it describes so accurately
and sensitively the thoughts and sensations of an air-
man. Day flew perilously in a machine like a set
of hencoops, but his feelings are the same as those of
men flying to-day in the comfort and safety of a
Miles Hawk or an Imperial Airways liner:
A sudden roar, a mighty rushing sound,
A jolt or two, a smoothly-sliding rise,
A jumbled blur of disappearing ground,
And then all sense of motion slowly dies.
Quiet and calm the earth slips past below
As underneath a bridge still waters flow.
My turning wing inclines towards the ground]
The ground itself glides up with graceful swing
And at the ’plane’s far tip twirls slowly round,
Then drops from sight again beneath the wing
To slip away serenely as before —
A cubist-patterned carpet on the floor.
Such pioneers as Kingsford Smith, Ulm and
Hinkler have no doubt been celebrated in sentimental
occasional verse, but two other Australians, Parer
and Mclntosh, are the only aviators to have had the
tribute of an adequate full-dress poem. The younger
English writers, with their disturbing attachment to
Marxism and the machine age, have hymned the
dynamos, but Cecil Day Lewis, in his symphonic
poem “A Time to Dance,” is the first to discern
epic quality in a long flight. In searching for men
who exhibited supreme skill and tremendous resolu-
tion, he could have found no better examples than
Parer and Mclntosh, whose feat of travel from Eng-
land to Australia in a condemned D.H. Nine is un-
surpassed and unsurpassable. As Day Lewis says:
“No silver posh ’plane was their pigeon, no dandy
dancer quick-stepping through the sky.” Then he
describes their almost incredible wayfaring. “Erratic
their course to Athens and to Crete,” he wrote.
“Coolly they rode her like a tired horse at the water-
jump.” And this is the summary of their achieve-
ment :
We have seen the extremes, the burning, the freezing, the
outward face
Of their exploit; heroic peaks, tumbling-to-zero depressions:
Little our graph can show, the line they traced through space,
Of the heart’s passionate patience.
How soft drifts of sleep piled on their senses deep
And they dug themselves out often; how the ’plane was a
weight that hung
And swung on their aching nerve; how din drilled through
the skull
And sight sickened—so slow earth filtered past below.
Yet nerve failed never, heart clung
To height, and the brain kept its course and the hand its
skin.
Not until last year did war in the air become a
poetic subject, and it was made so then by Roy
Cambell, the South African matador, swashbuckler
and man of letters. He was at Toledo last July, and
here is part of the description he gave of an air duel:
One silver-white and one of scarlet hue,
Storm-hornets humming in the, winds of death,
Two aeroplanes were fighting in the blue
Above our town; and if I held my breath
It was because my youth was in the Red
While in the White an unknown pilot flew —•
And that the White had risen overhead.
From time to time the crackle of a gun
Far into the flawless ether faintly railed,
And now, mosquito-thin, into the Sun,
And now like mating dragonflies they sailed:
And, when like eagles near the earth they drove,
The Red still losing what the White had won,
The harder for each lost advantage strove.
Till (Glory!) from his chrysalis of steel
The Red flung wide the fatal fans of fire;
I saw the long flames, ribboning, unreel,
And slow bitumen trawling from his pyre.
I knew the ecstasy, the fearful throes,
And the white phoenix from his scarlet sire,
As silver in the solitude he rose.
There is nothing more important in the literature
of aviation than these three poems.
Some fliers (of either gender) have published
dully “ghosted” books detailing their exploits, but
to these there is one exception to be mentioned:
Maoriland’s Francis Chichester has written two books
describing his flights, and good patches of prose are
to be found in them.
For intelligent anticipation of the possibilities of
flying, honorable mention may be given to Sir Julius
Vogel, a Maoriland Premier of last century. Vogel
wrote a novel A.D. 2000, or Woman’s Destiny. In
this book, published in 1889, he prophesied many
things. He saw the coming emancipation of women ;
he anticipated the Statute of Westminster, and he said
the King-Emperor would be able to travel his
dominions from end to end in a dozen days. To
some dip into his imagination. He could see that
air-cruisers would necessarily be heavier than the
element in which they travelled, so he had to invent
a method of flying for heavier-than-air vessels. This
is what Vogel imagined:
It was at length proved quite satisfactorily that
aerial travelling was practicable in vessels considerably
heavier than air, by the use of quickly-revolving fans
working in the directions that were found to be suitable
to the progress of the vessel.
Had he lived a decade or so longer Vogel would
have seen those vessels driven by fans, and he would
have marvelled more at the sight than writers of our
own time.
LAN DONNELLY.
Wolberg on Dinner.
Every period has had its apostles of the table,
but in the last generation a new atmosphere has
descended on eating. The ancients, who may be said
to have kept up their tradition till the late-Victorian
era in Europe, and till the Great War in the Middle
East, were all for indiscriminate good food in endless
quantities. Differences in the taste of the centuries
were due rather to altering availability than to
changes of palate, and nobody can doubt that Petro-
nius might just as readily have died of a surfeit of
lampreys as any Middle Age English king, or feel
that Falstaff would have turned up his nose at that
fine old Egyptian delicacy, a steer stuffed with raisins,
figs and frankincense and larded over the fire with oil.
.Civilisation grows up among a forest of fair
round bellies lined with good capons, and 20 cen-
turies of pioneers would stand aghast at the present
era of the three-pound Sunday joint and* at communi-
ties in which the sight of a boar’s head basted in oil
and garnished with spices would send every man-jack
rushing for the soda bicarb.
The change is, on the whole, very much like
that which has taken place in artists and writers who
used to delight in being all whiskers and velvet,
scented with brandy. Eating, like everything else, has
had its haircut, and has come to be considered from
the point of view of well-being rather than of enjoy-
ment.
In place of Petronius and Pepys, the post-war
generation produces Bernard Shaw, Hitler and Mus-
solini, who are virile on carrots and lettuce, and
Dr. Lewis R. Wolberg, whose treatise on diet, The
Psychology of Eating (Harraps; Bs. 6d.), runs to 305
large octavo pages, and whose piece de resistance is
not larks’ tongues or Thackeray’s bouillabaisse, but
calories
Dr. Wolberg is no faddist. He is just a physician
who looks on the human race with the enthusiastic
eye of a skilled breeder and tries to show it how to
push the requisite balanced ration of proteins, carbo-
hydrates and roughage into the human corpus; how
to slim down the fatted paunch and pad the walking
skeleton.
For obesity or wasting, for anaemia or blood pres-
sure, the doctor has one remedy: Eat. Not as what
he calls the “gustatory sensualists” do it:
Bread, meat, fish, pastries, pickles, wine are mixed
indiscriminately, bolted in avalanches and sent tumbling
helter-skelter down the esophagus.
Not like men “who fill themselves with beer and
pretzels.” Not even like Mr. Shaw—whose Nebuchad-
nezzan meals he thinks “lacking in [protein-forming]
amino-acids,” resulting in the need for G.B.S. to make
“constant assaults on the intestinal tract” with “large
quantities of bulky foods which produce indigestion
and intestinal disease.” .
Pace Dr. Wolberg, however, there is no sign ot
intestinal decay or acid deficiency in the aged play-
wright, though some of his later writings seem to
premise indigestion.
The Wolberg method of eating is to look up the
protein-carbohydrate-fat-making-bone-building capa-
city of the groceries before you go to it. For mixed
cheese-milk-egg-veg. diets this twentieth-century
medical chef has a preference. But he is not hide-
bound. The U.L.V A. will rejoice to learn that soft
drinks are prone to make adipose tissue, and Bands
of Hope may be equally delighted to know that
alcohol supplies only a vicarious evanescent form of
energy, and that tea has no fattening value.
Whatever your bodily problem, there is always a
dietary way out. If you boast a bow-window like
a rising full moon, you may spirit it away without
taking dinitrophenol or resorting to surgery. It will
not do you the slightest good to imitate W. S. Gil-
bert’s discontented sugar-broker:
In every weather, every day,
Dry, muddy, wet or gritty,
He took to dancing all the way
From Brompton to the city.
You are merely fatiguing yourself on that lay
while you might be revelling in the pleasures of
Dr. Wolberg's anti-fat menus;
Dinner.
One cup soup, if desired.
One helping any lean meat, fowl, fish or meat
substitute.
Two veg. from list one.
One veg. from list two.
One portion fruit.
Coffee or tea.
Blessing the name of Wolberg you will, on this
kind of provender, subside like a punctured Zeppelin
till you qualify for the almost nauseating richness
of fare which puts the curves on skeletons. Then you
may have cantaloupes, pot cheese, milk and wheat-
meal ; tide over the time before a lunch of Carthusian
beef, fresh broccoli, tomatoes, cheese, wine and black
coffee with mid-morning apricots and cream ; cele-
brate three o’clock with an eggnog just to titillate
the appetite for a large, starchy dinner, the day end-
ing with cream custard and prayers for Dr. Wolberg.
This diet —“3700 calories”—is guaranteed to
enable any lady or gentleman on the dole to look
Venus de Milo and Adonis in the face in a couple
of moons.
A useful book, Wolberg’s, and, in its way, witty.
Lingering atavism inclines the reader to grin at him ;
but if everybody observed his principles there would
be better figures and fewer funerals.
ENTE MARID.
The Half-white.
Cedric Dover, Eurasian and biologist, in present-
ing an informative world survey of the half-caste
problem, or series of problems, becomes not only
provocative but bellicose in Half-Caste (Seeker and
Warburg ; 10s. 6d. net). Scorning the, pity and resent-
ing the patronage of those who assume superiority
because it is their privilege to be white, he collects
all the weapons of the distaff ancestry of the half-
caste and hurls them fiercely in the direction of racial
snobs.
Especially does he direct his aim at those
novelists who, professing sympathy, stress the frustra-
tion motif, but for David Garnett (The Sailor Returns
and Pocahontas ) and William Plomer (Turbott Wolfe)
—no missiles; they are on his side in their objective
treatment of colored relations. He is not sparing of
eugenists and other scientists who have contributed a
vast mass of pseudo-science to the creation of a con-
sciousness of genetic guilt in those of mixed blood.
Carrying the war into the enemy’s camp, he
quotes with gusto Defoe’s satire on “The True Born
Englishman,” and proceeds to dissect the heterogenous
mixture that makes the English—compounded of the
Long Barrow Folk of the Mediterranean type, fol-
lowed by the round-headed Beaker Folk, a vigorous
Alpinoid people ; waves of Nordic invaders starting
with the Celts and ending with the Normans; the
Roman occupation with its Mediterranean stock
diluted with negroid blood and even including a
sprinkling of pure blacks; Flemish laborers and Jew-
ish traders; and, in the last six centuries, Spaniards
of Moorish origin, Indians, Chinese and Africans,
who have all added their quotas to the genetic intri-
cacy of the English population. Nor does he hesitate
to go to “Aryan” Germany to draw particular atten-
tion to the disproportionate frequency of the broad
skull-form of the Eurasiatic.
Miscegenation has influenced human evolution from
the earliest times; there has not been a pure race of
our species for at least ten thousand years.
The problems of the half-caste do not arise from
the mixture of mysterious racial qualities, he claims,
but from economic and cultural factors operating
against achievement and social efficiency, and on
this theorem he traverses the position of the groups
of colored people in each country in which they form
any considerable proportion of the population—lndia,
Malaya, Oceania, the Americas and Africa: probably
the first time such a task has been undertaken so com-
prehensively. Certainly, in a long bibliography of
which extensive use has been made (the, range of the
author’s reading and quotation is extraordinary) no
volume is indicated which makes any attempt to cover
the same ground.
There is a surprising array of half-castes who have
become notable in various forms of intellectual
endeavor, and the author seems to resent their ten-
dency to seek assimilation in the ranks of the domi-
nant race, which appears to be inconsistent with his
theorem.
The book is marred as a scientific treatise on the
place of the half-caste in national economy by the
strain of bitter resentment against the ostracism and
economic submergence to which half-castes are nearly
{Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE.
“ strength That Is Founded on Quality Will Endure’’— Jumbuk" Motto
W;
*\
v'V '
•• '!.*
“Jumbuk” Underwear provides the right
protection against the ravages of winter.
Its natural warmth is a safeguard to health.
Made of selected long staple Pure Woollen
Yarn—the soft, down-like surface of the
fabric is flawless and will not irritate the
tenderest skin.
No. 750. "Jumbuk" Wool and Cotton. Light Weight
Sizes, inches. . 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, 5.5.... 5/11 6/6 7/- 7/9 8/9 9/9 11/- 12/3 13/9
. 6/H 7/6 8/- 8/9 9/9 10/9 12/- 13/3 14/9
Trunk Drawers 6/6 7/- 7/6 8/3 9/3 10/3 11/6 12/9 13/6
No. 25X. "Jumbuk" Nat. Wool and Cotton.
Winter Weight. „
Sizes, inches. . 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S.. . . 7/6 8/- 8/3 8/9 9/9 10/9 11 /9 12/9 14/-
Shirts, L.S.. . . 8/3 8/9 9/- 9/6 10/6 1 1/6 12/6
Underpants. . . 8/3 8/9 9/- 9/6 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 1 4/9
No. 660. "Jumbuk" de Luxe Nat. All Wool.
Light Weight.
Sizes, inches. .34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, 5.5.... 8/3 8/9 8/11 9/610/611/612/31 3/3
Underpants ..8/119/69/11 10/61 1/6 12/3 1 3/3 14/3
Trunk Drawers 8/6 9/- 9/3 9/9 10/9 11/9 12/6 13/6
Men's "Jumbuk" Comb., Nat. All Wool. Winter
Weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Short Sleeves,
Trunk Leg 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 27/-
Short Sleeves,
Long Leg 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/6 28/-
Long Sleeves,
Long Leg 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/- 2 7/6 29/-
USE
THE
». P. S.
DEPOS IT
PURCHASE
SYSTEM
Use this con-
venient system
freely. It is a
boon. Choose
what you
need, leave a
deposit of one
fifth of the
complete pur-
chase price
and pay the
balance in,
monthly instal-
ments. No ex-
tras charged.
• Men’s Mercery —
Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to
all Railway Stations in
N.S.IV. and Seaports in
the Commonivealth.
ANTHONY
HORDERN S'
FAMOUS
a:
%
*
<<,
<>
#EG P.
UNDERWEAR
“Jumbuk” Underwear is Australian through and through,
radiating in its winter warmth the stored-up virtues of our
country’s glorious sunshine. “Jumbuk Underwear is guaran-
teed and recommended by Anthony Horderns , and the wide
range of sizes stocked enables every man and boy to obtain a
comfortable fit. •
NOTE THE WIDE RANGE OF SIZES.
No. 220. "Jumbuk" Natural All Wool. Light Weight.
Sizes, inches. . 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, 5.5.... 7/- 7/6 8/- 8/9 9/6 10/3 11/6 12/9 14/3
Underpants .. 8/- 8/6 9/- 9/9 10/6 11/3 12/6 13/9 15/3
Trunk Drawers 7/9 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3 11/- 12/3 13/6 15/-
No. 330. "Jumbuk" Natural All Wool. Medium
Weight.
Sizes/in... 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S. 10/6 11/- 12/- 13/- 14/3 15/6 17/- 18/9 20/-
Shirts, L.S. 11/6 12/- 13/- 14/- 15/3 16/6 18/- 19/9 21/-
Underpants—
-11/6 12/- 13/- 14/- 15/3 16/6 18/- 19/9 21/-
Underpants, Three-quarter Leg-
-11/3 11/9 12/9 13/9 15/- 16/3 17/9 19/6 20/9
Trunk Drawers —
11/- 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/9 16/- 17/6 19/3
No. 440. "Jumbuk" Natural All Wool. Winter Weight.
Sizes, in.. . 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S. 12/3 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/3 17/3 18/6 19/9 21/-
Underpants 13/6 14/3 15/3 16/3 17/6 18/6 19/9 21/- 22/3
No. 220. "Jumbuk" Boys' Natural
All Wool Singlets. Light Weight.
Sizes, inches—
-20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Shirts, Short Sleeves—
-4/9 5/- 5/3 5/9 6/6 6/9 7/- 7/-,
No. 15. "Jumbuk" Boys' Natural
Wool and Cotton Singlets.
Sizes, inches—
-20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Half Sleeves—
-4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- . 5/3 5/6 5/9 6/-
No. 330. "Jumbuk" Boys' Natural
All Wool Underwear. Winter Weight.
Sizes, inches—
-20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Shirts, Short Sleeves—
-5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/9 8/9 9/9 10/6
Trunk Drawers—
— 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/9 8/9 9/9
Combinations, Half Sleeves—
— 8/6 9/- 10/3 11/- 11/9 13/-
Long Sleeves—•
_ _ 9/6 10/9 11/6 12/3 13/6
No. 25X. "Jumbuk" Boys' Natural
Wool and Cotton Singlets. Winter
Weight.
Sizes, inches—*
20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Prices—
-4/3 4/6 4/9 5/3 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6
Combinations, Short Sleeves —
_ 6/9 7/3 7/9 8/6 9/3
$ Boys’ Mercery—Ground Floor, Pitt Street, or First Floor, George Street, Freight paid to all Railway Stations in N.S.W. and Seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS LTD.
3
’Phone: M 2401.
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Who’d Stand for It?
Blackmail
BY VELIA ERCOLE
She was wondering, without much hope,
if there would be any use in trying that
one about owing her rent.
ILLUSTRATED BY MILLS.
WHEN quite young, Casey Bourke made a dis-
covery which, for him, enormously simplified
the business of living —he discovered his
hands. He found that, in addition to being
used to grab the agreeable, these two useful members,
if clenched and advanced with force and accuracy,
could be used to thrust back the disagreeable. In his
boyhood of backyards and school playgrounds
nothing occurred to convince Casey that he had not
stumbled on a Great Truth ; and as he grew into a
plain man with business, pleasures, wife and family
Casey was able to follow the pursuit of happiness
with more success than most.
There were few situations, Casey maintained, that
you couldn’t handle with your fists. Such things as
Fascism, Bolshevism, modern art, revolution and the
new science never came Casey’s way. If they had
he would, in his own words, have knocked them cold.
With a mild intolerance of these irritations which
beset the world at large, Casey would say “I’d like
to see any damned dictator try to tell me what I ought
to do!”
It is not surprising, then, that Casey should have
been outraged when his cousin Ernie came to him
with a request for one hundred pounds to pay off
a couple of blackmailers. Ernie had been to the city
on his annual holiday, and he had met a blonde.
Because his life was pretty dull Ernie had let things
happen, and the end of it had been a man suddenly
appearing to claim the blonde as his lawful spouse and
a threat of proceedings which was watered down to
a demand for a hundred pounds or else
When he got his breath back Casey bellowed:
“And you just walked out and let them get away
with a thing like that! Why, you”
Ernie bit his fingernails. “Well, what could I
have done? Go to court and have Bella and the kids
and all the people here know? Besides, I’d have lost
the case, I suppose. I was there in her flat all right,
though I swear, Casey, I never done a thing. All I
did was just”
“Why didn’t you land out and hit him in the
jaw—beat him to a pulp? One good hit and he’d have
crumpled up.”
Casey’s huge fists were clenched. “I wish I’d
been there instead of you.”
Ernie wished the same —devoutly. But as he had
been there himself— — “How about the hundred?”
he murmured. “It’s too late to do anything now
except pay up if I don’t want to have Bella and the
kids know”.
Casey liked his cousin. He lent him the hundred
pounds, but he did not let the matter rest there. In
a peculiar way —perhaps because his pocket had been
affected by it —he adopted Ernie’s dilemma. Ernie
asked nothing better than to be allowed to forget the
whole thing, but Casey would not let him forget it.
Whenever the two were alone Ernie found himself
compelled to add more details to the unhappy struc-
ture whose outline he had considered sufficient when
he had made his original plea—a description of the
girl, of the man, the events one by one which had led
to the final debacle.
“You know as much about it now as I do,” Ernie
would whine. “Why can’t you let a man forget it?”
“I don’t see how you can,” Casey would brood.
“To think that cove is walking around, pleased as
Punch at having made a mug out of you. There’s
only one way to handle things like that. I’d like to
see anyone try to blackmail me. I can’t get it off
my mind, that’s a fact.”
THAT he had something on his mind was soon
apparent to Casey’s wife Maude. There was a
change in him, and she confided the details of the
change to Bella. Bella was interested.
“Casey has never been easy, though,” she said.
“But this is not just ordinary, Bella. He is so
moody and irritable, and he wouldn’t go to bowls on
Wednesday, and you know he’s never missed for
years. And to-day—well, things have come to a head.
It was that kitchen. Really, I can’t stand it these hot
days, and I said —I waited till he’d had his dinner —•
and I said quite nicely about the house in Elm-street,
and how there would be so much more room, and his
mother more comfortable when she’d got used to it.
Usually he bites my head off if I so much as mention
our moving, and he was so quiet to-day, letting me
finish, that I thought he hadn’t heard and I was begin-
ning again when I happened to look at him. He was
glaring, Bella, positively glaring out the door, and
his fists all jerking, and he said ‘A good sock on the
jaw—that’s the only way to handle these matters.’
Well, I ran out of the room. What would you have
done? He didn’t follow me, and when I came back
he was talking to his mother, quiet as pie. But when
it comes to your husband turning on you like that
Bella, what do you make of it?”
Bella said she couldn’t imagine. But as the
weeks went by she did manage to imagine something,
and she confided it to Maude one fine day when,
unknown to either of the women, Ernie, in Casey’s
little office, turned and bit the hand that had fed
him.
“I’m just about fed up!” Ernie said in windy
rage. “I don’t know that you’d have done much
better yourself. For all I know, you’d have crawled
out with your tail between your legs, same as I did.
You go and get yourself in a mess like that and then
talk about what you’ll do!”
“There’s nothing I’d like better,” Casey said, and
the words were no sooner pronounced than he realised
this was not an idea —it was an inspiration. “Ernie!
I’ll tell you what. I’m going down there to find this
pair. It’s a public duty. I’ll never sleep at nights if
I don’t have a crack at that cove. But you’ll have
to come with me to identify the girl. We’ll have to
be pretty sharp.”
There was no fear of the birds having flown,
Casey insisted. If they had never been caught and
there were still mugs like Ernie about, why should
they leave a good thing? If one were patient the girl
would surely be found sooner or later at one of those
places Ernie had mentioned.
There was much of this, but within a week Casey
and his reluctant cousin had left on a visit to the city,
a visit which, strangely, drew less comment than you
would have expected from the family circle. True,
as she said good-bye to him, Maude had regarded her
husband oddly, but Casey had long ago ceased to
notice how Maude regarded him. Ernie was not in
a state to notice anything, and if the little man had
not been released as quickly as he was from his
dreadful bondage there is no telling what might have
happened. But on the third night of their hunt they
ran their quarry to earth.
“There she is! ” Ernie said, clutching Casey’s arm
convulsively, interrupting his cousin’s remarking that
if he came to such places he deserved all the trouble
he got. “That one in red . . . and if she sees me
it’ll be the finish. The blonde in red. Now J’m
leaving.”
Casey might or might not have wanted to ask a
few questions, but there was no one to ask. With
the slickness of a pantomime demon dropping through
a trap Ernie had disappeared ; and as there was still
time to catch the night train home to Bella he caught
it, and for the first time in weeks gave his fingernails
a chance to grow.
FLO BEDDLE was just about to shake the dust
of the Oriental Dancing Palace off her aching
feet when Casey came along. Flo had not been
happy. In addition to her aching feet she had a
grievance. The grievance had been slowly forming
through a difficult married life, and on that night in
the Oriental had reached mammoth size. It was clear
to Flo now that Eddie was mean. Downright tight.
The game, in fact, was not worth the playing. She
did all the work and got nothing out of it. When
the rewards came along Eddie took them. Out of
that last hundred pounds what had she got? Not
even one good dinner. Not a theatre, not a dress.
Only this pair of shoes that was killing her. And
what did Eddie expect her to do in a dress like this
in a place like this, where men trod all over your feet,
thanked you for the privilege and then dropped you
where they had found you?
And then came undreamed-of, incredibly easy
Casey. The world flowered for Flo, but the burgeon-
ing was not so luxuriant that she lost sight of the
grievance completely. That grey and stony form
was still apparent enough for her to make a
resolution that the flowers which momentarily covered
it should not too soon wither. Out of this, Flo
resolved, she’d get a few perks before Eddie stepped in
and went into the money while she went out into the
snow.
Flo took a taxi home that night. She let Casey
pay.for it, but she wouldn’t let him ride in it. She
had had such unpleasant experiences in taxis. Not
that she didn’t trust Mr. Bourke. He had the kind
of face any girl would trust —that is, one who hadn’t
had unpleasant experiences. But, after all, they had
only just met. He had to prove himself. When they
were real friends —well, that would be different.
After four days Flo let Casey ride home in one
of the taxis he had been rather monotonously paying
o Continued on page 6.)


THE IRONY OF LIVING
by V. Leon Branch
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
) HE early-morning sun splashed over the gaunt
f framework,, turning the network of rusted
,> girders a rich golden color. A crane perched
dizzily on the structure lowered its jib like a
long pointing finger, and the hook at the end of a
cotton-thin wire rope rattled down towards the
ground.
One of the lower floors, slightly above the street
level, had just been concreted, and carpenters were
busy knocking away the wooden boxes and planks
that had moulded the concrete. Other men were
sweeping up the floor and tidying the bundles of
boards. Some had begun wiring the girders of the
next floor in preparation for concreting. The air
was filled with dust and noise, hammering and
shouting . . . above all, the dismal sound of the crane
hauling up swaying loads of timber and bundles of
wire.
On the ground the dogman was busily readjust-
ing a sling about a great pile of wooden platforms
that had lifted unevenly.
“Mornin’, Tom,” the foreman called out cheerily
as he passed.
Tom grunted, and felt the foreman glancing
back curiously. He knocked the hook tight with a
vicious blow of the hammer and felt around his neck
for the cord of his whistle. The platforms began to
rise, not quite evenly; he moved quickly to the
other side of the wire rope and, bracing himself,
forced a balance.
The horizontal girders that formed each floor
passed slowly downwards. Half-way up one of the
boards caught and the load tilted dangerously. Lean-
ing over quickly he freed it with a push of his foot
and went sailing outwards, high above the ground.
His grip had tightened on the wire cable that
led from the crane. His heart was pounding against
his ribs and his breath seemed almost to suffocate him.
It was the second time that morning he’d had that
impulse, the desire to release his hold and go plunging
downwards. He had wanted to —still did . . . yet at
the last moment something had stopped him.
Something. And he couldn’t think exactly what
it was —perhaps hope, a faint tinge of hope. But he
knew that was silly—there was no hope, none at all.
It would have all been over now. Curious, he
looked over the edge and down towards the spot
where he’d have fallen. A man was standing there,
a tiny, dwarflike figure. He wondered if he would
have had time to get out of the way. If he’d called
out or screamed as he fell they would have looked up.
It would have been all right then.
THE jib of the crane turned and swung its burden
inwards across the top of the framework, and
when Tom whistled the load began to descend through
the centre. It was a bad trip down; the platforms
kept getting caught, and he was busy signalling to
the driver and manoeuvring the load through the
narrow well formed by the girders.
Usually he found pleasure in his work. The
gaping crowds on the footpath that watched him
move carelessly to the edge of a load and free it
with a'push of his heel or leave the hook trailing and
walk catlike along a high, narrow girder always made
him feel proud. But to-day everything was different.
He didn’t even know if there was a crowd on the
footpath. He performed all his work automatically,
his mind far away.
Somehow he couldn’t really believe she had gone.
Once before she had left him, but that was after a
quarrel—a bitter, silly quarrel —and she had stayed
away for only two days. That was nearly a year
ago, and she hadn’t left any note then. Straight
after the quarrel she’d packed her things in a suit-
case and left him.
But there had been no quarrel this time: he
couldn’t understand it. One night he’d returned home
to find the house in darkness. Feeling his way
towards the bedroom, he tried to convince himself
that perhaps she had a headache and was lying down.
It wasn’t convincing; the house had a strange, empty
feeling. When he snapped down the light-switch the
disordered bareness of the room mocked his stare.
Her case, which usually lay under the bed, was missing.
All her things had gone from the dressing-table ; the
wardrobe doors were ajar, revealing its emptiness. A
drawer was half-open and a few shirts hung out
untidily: everything else had gone.
He couldn’t understand it at all. There had been
no quarrel: what had he done? A piece of paper
propped against the pillows of the bed caught his eye,
a badly-torn page with hasty words scrawled across
it:
“I can’t stand it any longer, Torn, so I’m going.
Please don’t look for me ; it’s no use. I won’t come
back. — Mary.”
Even the clanking of the
crane-drum seemed to repeat it
—“1 won’t come back, I won’t
come back, I won’t come back”
—as he whirred down through
space, dangling on the end of
the wire cable. His brain said
it, too —the same four words —
over and over again, until he
thought he was going mad.
The platforms bumped
heavily on the concrete floor,
jarring him back from his
thoughts. The hook spun and
the wire sling loosened and
sagged. He whistled and jumped
down quickly, releasing the
hook and stepping back into it
just as it began to rise again.
“I won’t come back, I won’t
come back,” it began as he rose.
The impulse was so strong this
time that he even felt himself
curving outwards through the
air. He wondered why his grip
tightened at the last minute ; it
only meant waiting a little
longer...
WHEN he reached the
ground young Bob Thomas
was there, grinning cheerfully.
He liked Bob ; he was the only
man on the job he’d made a
friend of outside working hours.
Bob and his girl-friend Jean had
been to his house a few times.
Mary had liked them, too, and
the four of them used to sit
around the little table, talking
and playing poker for matches.
There was something clean and
wholesome about Bob. He’d
got a nice girl, too. She had a
steady job in a factory and was
going to stick to it after they
were married so they could save
a bit.
But for once he didn’t feel
like listening to Bob’s cheerful
prattle. He knew instinctively
that it would make him feel
worse, and he wondered how
long he would have to put up
with it —how long he could bear
to put up with it...
“ ’Lo, Tom. I’m goin’ up
with you next trip. Got to weld
that far corner-joint. O.K.
now?”
Tom nodded, wondering
grimly if Bob would be so
cheerful coming down —per-
haps alone. Throwing a set of
chains over the hook, he at-
tached them to the corner rings
of the box. It was a heavy
wooden box with three sides en-
closed to about knee-height. He
helped Bob lift in the cylinder
of compressed gas and coil the
rubber tube that fed the weld-
ing-torch. As they rose Bob
drew at a cigarette-stub and
began to talk between puffs.
“How’s the wife, Tom?”
“All right.” There didn’t
seem anything else to say. “How
are you getting along, Bob?” he
managed to ask in return.
“Oh, not too good—fed up
of boardin’. It’s no good ; no
good at all. Got to get dressed
every time y’ want to go out of
your room. Be ready at meal-
times. Can’t make much noise
or someone’ll kick up a stink.
Nothin’ much to eat”
“Why don’t you shift?”
Tom asked abruptly.
“Oh, well, I’ve been there
a good while —may as well stick
it out now. We’re gettin’ mar-
ried early next year. ’Bout
February. I’m reckonin’ on
having enough saved by then tc
make us safe.”
The box stopped rising
and began to swing inwards. It


for. Apparently they had become real friends, and
in the process Casey had taken Flo three times to
the cinema, twice to the theatre, once on an all-day
trip to the mountains (in a hired car, with a chauf-
feur). He had bought her meals twice daily, and —
though he did what he could to avoid this —three pairs
of shoes because she twisted her ankle outside a shoe-
shop and couldn’t walk a step, and an imported tweed
coat in a shop in Katoomba beause she hadn’t
dreamed it would be so cold on the mountains and
she’d had a weak chest from a child and would prob-
ably catch her death
But even a real friend was not permitted to enter
the lady’s apartment. Flo said good-night to Casey
at the front door and explained that, as she lived
alone, she could not very well ask men to her flat.
Now, could she?
Casey was disappointed, but he gritted his teeth
and arranged to have more money transferred to the
city bank. It would be worth whatever he had to
spend. He wasn’t going to spoil things now. Let
them take their time. He’d let this woifan think he
was the prince of mugs. The more they thought they
had him fooled, the softer he seemed, the better
pleased he would be when his hour came. Casey
did shadow-boxing in his room every morning. He
was sure of his fun and sure that it would be worth
while, even if he had to spend money.
He had to spend money. Flo saw to that—Flo, a
little dazed by finding, thus late in life, that Santa
Claus did exist, but not so dazed that she forgot to
hang out her stocking. But the time came when
Eddie began to nag, and Eddie had a line all his
own in the matter of nagging. After two weeks Flo
gave in, Eddie having delivered his usual ultimatum.
Things had better come to a head pretty quick, or
else
CASEY, too, though Flo had no hint of it, was
thinking exactly along those lines as he sat at
dinner with her. Possibly, if the beating-up could be
made a little more general—if he could plant just one
gentle sock in the ladylike jaws which at that moment
were working their way through at least a pound’s
worth of food, things would be brighter. But you
couldn’t, Casey ruled, hit a woman, however
thoroughly that woman had plucked you.
He was in this morose moment when Flo put
an end to his torment.
“Little Flo,” she said, with the most ingratiating
of yawns, “is rather tired to-night. Suppose we have
just one quiet evening at home for a change? If
you’re very, very good You know you’re always
promising to be good.”
As well as he could for the sudden leap in his
breathing, Casey promised to be good. It had come
at last. Casey flexed his muscles.
“And we’ll get the biggest box of chocolates we
can find for us to eat, shall we?” Flo said, but her
heart was not in that. She didn’t really care for
chocolates, but most of the shops were shut at that
hour. What could you get?
With her rather dismal last trophy under her
arm, and Casey beside her, Flo trundled home; and,
being there, was attacked by such a fit of the blues
that she could hardly bear to talk to Casey. A woman
got the worst end of the stick; you had to admit it.
Two weeks of living like a human being, and then
Flo wondered if it wouldn’t be a good idea to chuck
Eddie. The way her feet hurt! And so hot in the
flat. She might have gone to Manly. In a car, too,
with a chauffeur.
“I’ll get into something cool,” Flo said, and, the
way it looked to her, she didn’t care whether she got
into something cool or not. But Eddie liked things
done right.
She found some tepid lemonade. She was won-
dering, without much hope, if there would be any
use in trying that one about owing her rent, and if
she would have time to do it before Eddie came,
when there was a sound of footsteps, scraping and
thumpings outside the door.
Casey tensed and relaxed. His eyes shone with
the glory of the moment, a moment too splendid not
to be prolonged. He said, gently as a cooing dove,
“Expecting visitors?”
As it was ten o’clock and Eddie, most exact in
his timing, had stated that he would arrive at eleven-
thirty, Flo quite honestly said that she was not
expecting visitors. Least of all was she expecting
the three people who entered by the unlocked door
and whom she had not previously known to encumber
the earth —Maude, Bella and someone who turned
out to be a private detective who specialised in divorce
actions.
Casey did what he could. But who was there
for him to hit? His work done, the private detective
had melted like snow in the heat of the happening.
There remained Maude and Bella. And, after an
eternity which whirled him through space as well as
time, removing him from all danger from the Beddles
but placing him in a position more awful than he had
ever contemplated, there remained only Maude. Maude
making unspeakable demands —car, the house in Elm-
street, his mother to go to Aunt Elsie, a fur coat, one
of those cruises... And Casey submitting to this
blackmail levied by a wife grown strangely terrifying,
a faithful, outraged wife who wept and demanded
and said “Or else”
bumped a girder and lurched round crazily, then held
fast. The open side was away from the joint, facing
outwards. Tom braced himself and pushed against
the girder, but it was caught.
Bob shrugged. “Near enough. I can reach it
over the back there.”
He squatted and lit the torch with a match, hold-
ing a mica guard before his eyes to protect them
from the harsh light. Tom stood back, watching the
showers of yellow sparks that cascaded downwards.
"PHE blue flame stopped. Bob put down the guard
* and hung the torch by its angle over the edge of
the box, wiping his face and hands on a piece of
waste.
“Y’ know, Tom,” he said, stuffing the waste back
into his pocket, “we’ie goin’ to have kids. Jean’s not
like them other girls—she wants ’em.”
Tom leant back against the side of the box and
said nothing. Bob rose to stretch his legs and began
to roll a cigarette. “I never liked kids much but
they’ll be ours. .. That makes it different, somehow.”
There was a short silence. Bob licked the
cigarette-paper and began poking in the ends with a
match.
“Tom, a year seems a dam’ long time, don’t it?”
he asked, puffing at the brown-stained cigarette. “But
she won’t before then. Said she’d got things to get—
you know,” he ended, grinning.
“Where y’ going to live?” asked Tom with an
effort.
“Don’t know yet. We reckoned on gettin’ Hold
of a flat —for a while, anyway. Flats ain’t no good
to kids —no air in ’em.”
He drew at the cigarette, then ashed it carefully
and put the butt in his pocket. “Well, suppose I’d
better get finished.”
He lit the torch again and began to weld. The
rubber tube attached to the cylinder had twisted
around awkwardly and he threw the slack back over
his shoulder to keep it out of the way.
Tom stood back against the side, thinking.
Perhaps if they’d had a child things might have been
different. She had always wanted a son, a boy of her
own. He remembered all the plans when they were
first married. She thought they could save enough
to send him to a good school; after that he might
become a chemist —like that young Bowden chap who
had a shop in their street —or even a doctor. Tom
knew it would mean an extra eight or nine years of
work and study and the lad would get no pay. He
didn’t say anything, but he thought it rather filly.
Then she’d wanted
“She reckons we ought to call the first one Tom
—after you.” Bob looked up and grinned. “She’s
never liked my name, y’ know.”
The sparks flew like a rocket-shower as he turned
back to the girder again. # Tom watched them shower-
ing down the hundred feet of space, to burst on the
concrete floor below where the workmen were busy.
It would be over quickly, all in a second . . . yet
he couldn’t even believe that. Perhaps if he waited —
when he was alone again... Yes, that would be
better ; it could seem iike a slip then...
Turning away quickly, he walked to the other
side of the box. There was a harsh grating noise,
it twisted free of the girder and lurched crazily. Tom
grabbed wildly at a chain and hung on.
“Tom! Quick!” He heard a shout.
Bob was lying on the floor, the rubber tube
writhing and tightening around his body like the
sinuous coils of a snake. The cylinder was rolling
towards the open edge.
Instinctively he made as if to help. The box
lurched again and he strengthened his hold on the
chain, terror-stricken.
Over the side he saw the cylinder and the body,
tangled together, turning over and over as they fell.
He turned away, sick and weak. Someone shouted,
and he heard a report as the cylinder smashed to the
concrete and exploded. Then there was a silence ;
everything seemed to have stopped.
In the long seconds that followed, as the box
was being lowered to the ground, he crouched miser-
ably in the corner —he knew then that he could never
die like that...
DIET
BY G. C. B.
ONE way and another Miss P’lkington ’ad
caused a good bit of trouble with ’er ideas
on good ’ealth. Not satisfied with shovin’
’er nose into wot we drinks, she starts tellin’
us wot we should eat.
The first I ’eard of it was when Joe Russel come
into the bar of the Shelterin’ Palm one evenin’ eatin’
meatpies out of a paperbag and sayin’ things about
Miss Pilkington wot should ’ave been said under ’is
breath. I pulled ’im up short, pointin’ out that Miss
Pilkington was a lady, and Joe ’arf choked ’imself
in ’is ’urry to tell me wot else shq was.
“She’s a interferin’, meddlin’ busybody, Raggles,”
ses Joe very fierce, after he ’ad washed down ’arf a
pie with ’arf a pint. “She’s gorn and made my missus
wot she calls food-conscious now, and in future,
instead of eatin’ real food, we’re goin’ to live on vita-
mins and albums and ’igh drakes. I’ve ’ad to spend
’arf my beer money on these pies to keep meself from
starvin’.”
McNeil, the publican, thumps the counter savage
and says it’s a cryin’ shame ; and I felt so sorry for
pore Joe that I told ’im, I’d get Mrs. Raggles to cook
a bit extra each night and give it to ’im in the
mornings.
“She won’t mind doin’ it,” I ses, “as long as you
tell ’er every chance you get ’ow much you enjoy
wot she cooks. She’s very proud of ’er cookin’.”
He went off then, quite cheerful, and I went ’ome
and puts ’is case to Mrs. Raggles; but just as I was
leadin’ up to the cookin’ a bit extra she stops me.
“I see,” she ses, snortin’ with temper. “I might
’ave known it. She must ’ave ’eard me talkin’ to Miss
Pilkington after the lecture yesterday. I can’t do a
single thing without that Russel woman imitatin’ me.”
“Imitatin’ you!” I ses, starin’. “Imitatin’ you!”
“Yes,” she snaps. “When I was tellin’ Miss
Pilkington that I was goin’ to be a vegetarian she
must ’ave crep’ up and listened.”
“But you ain’t goin’ to be a vegetarian, Emma,”
I ses.
“Oh, yes, I am,” she ses, quite calm. “We’ve
been killin’ ourselves slow for years eatin’ meat. Miss
Pilkington showed us some pictures of the stummicks
of meat-eaters, and after seein’ ’em I couldn’t think
of eatin’ meat no more.”
“Just as well I didn’t see ’em,” I ses. “Although
I don’t think they would ’ave made”
“And I couldn’t think of cookin’ dead animals
no more neither,” she ses. “Meat ain’t necessary,
Ernest. All we need is vitamins and starch and iodine
and”
“Go on,” I ses quietly. “Go on. And I suppose
we ’ave a cake of soap and some ointment as a special
feed on Sundays. Now you listen to me, Emma.
Vegetables is all right in their right place, alongside
a lump of roast beef or”
But listenin’ ain’t Mrs. Raggles’s strong point:
she stalks into the kitchen singin’ at the top of ’er
voice, and a few minutes later I sits down to a ’oiler
mockery of a tea —a plate of messy-lookin’ vegetables
with peanuts to foller ; and instead of a nice cup of
tea we ’ad ’orrible green water wot ’ad been drained
off the spinach. Mrs. Raggles said it was wonderful
good for the complexion, but in ’er ’art of ’arts she
couldn’t ’ave believed it because of the way she carried
on next mornin’ when I told ’er I ’ad burnt ’er powder-
puff and two boxes of powder.
’Owever, you can get used to anything when
you ’ave to, and by the end of the week I ’ardly
noticed we wasn’t ’avin’ meat, but after another week
I begins to get worried because I notices a change
wot I didn’t like in Mrs. Raggles. That good-’ealth
diet didn’t seem to be doin’ ’er no good at all. Her
face was gettin’ ’aggard and ’er nerves was goin’ all
to bits, because every time she noticed me lookin’ at
’er sympathetic and sorrowful and shakin’ my ’ead
at the way she was fadin’ away she snaps me up
quick and wants to know wot I’m makin’ faces at
’er for.
I would ’ave tried to persuade ’er to go on to
meat again only that Joe Russel and ’is missus was
still on vegetables and lookin’ quite ’ealthy. I thought
and thought over it, and at last it dawns on me that
Joe’s missus must ’ave a special way of cookin’ vege-
tables to make ’em as nourishin’ as meat. To make
sure, I ’ad a word with Miss Pilkington about it when
I ’appened to meet ’er in the street, and she says that
Mrs. Raggles was probably killin’ the vitamins in
them vegetables and Joe’s missus wasn’t; and when
she left me she promised to take Joe’s missus round
’ome and show Mrs. Raggles just ’ow vegetables
should be cooked.
But you can always trust wimmen to muck things
up. I don’t know wot was said by them two, but
wotever it was Mrs. Raggles ’adn’t got over it when
I got ’ome. She was still red in the face and breathin'
’eavy with bad temper, and she says that if Miss
Pilkington didn’t know no more about good ’ealth
than she did about cookin’ it was a wonder she wasn’t
dead years ago. And when she starts on Joe’s missus
swankin’ in all dressed up and puttin’ on airs and
tellin’ ’er ’ow to cook I thought she’d bust.
And, talkin’ of bustin’, I pretty near did that
meself that night, because Mrs. Raggles seemed to
think she was gettin’ ’er own back on Miss Pilkington
by dishin’ up the biggest steak-an’-kidney puddin’
we’d ever ’ad.


Those Shipboard Cardsharps
FINESSE
by L. Lawrence
ILLUSTRATED BY WILBOW.
IN the dying twilight Andrew Fielding watched the
disappearing coastline of Australia. Tall and well-
built, he had that type of personality that made-
people like him instinctively. His quiet grey eyes
were so steady, so friendly.
When the fading coastline had finally disappeared
he turned and made his way slowly along the deck.
Amidships a fat, middle-aged man in a grey double-
breasted suit stood smoking a cigar and watching the
heaving sea. Andrew Fielding did not appear to see
him. With his hands clasped behind him, he paced
slowly along, his eyes fixed on the deck as though
deep in thought.
The fat man turned and saw him. “Fielding,” he
exclaimed.
Fielding raised his head, his eyes lit with pleasant
surprise. “Mr. Bolton. Well, well, how are you?”
They shook hands warmly.
“I didn’t expect to meet you,” Mr. Bolton beamed
at him. “Come on, this calls for a drink.” He linked
his arm through Fielding’s and led the way to the
bar, talking cheerfully.
“A friend of the wife’s went to New Zealand
for a holiday,” he explained. “She came back and
told the wife all about those hot springs and bubbling
mud. And then, of course, Mary made up her mind
to see them too. So here we are.
“What are you having?” he asked as they arrived
at the bar.
Fielding ordered whisky, and over the drinks
they chatted amiably. Mr. Bolton’s genial expression
suddenly changed.
“See that sour-faced runt that has just come in?”
he whispered. Fielding turned his head to look. He
saw a thick-set, unpleasant-looking man surveying the
room with a scowl.
“That’s Henry Woods, the millionaire,” informed
Mr. Bolton. “A regular skunk.”
Fielding turned suddenly to his companion. “Mr.
Bolton,” he said, “would you mind coming to my cabin
for a few moments? I'd like to see you privately.”
They finished their whiskies and Fielding led
the way to his cabin. “Make yourself comfortable,”
he invited. Mr. Bolton lowered his huge bulk into
an easy-chair and lit a cigar.
Fielding sat down opposite him. “Have you any
idea as to the source of my income?” he asked.
“Er —no.” Mr. Bolton looked a little surprised
and perplexed. “I’ve never given it a thought.”
“In fact, you don’t know anything about me at
all,” went on Fielding.
“No, you are just an acquaintance,” replied
Mr. Bolton slowly.
“I earn my living at cards. I’m a cardsharp.”
Mr. Bolton’s surprise at this admission was regis-
tered in his face. Andrew Fielding produced a pack
of cards from one of the drawers in the dressing-
table and then pulled his chair up to the bunk near
which Mr. Bolton was sitting.
“Shuffle the pack,” he said, handing it to his
companion.
Mr. Bolton placed his cigar in his mouth and
gave the pack a brief shuffle, then handed it back.
“Now watch carefully,” ordered Fielding. Rapidly
he shuffled the pack and then laid it down for Mr.
Bolton to cut. Then he picked up the pack and dealt
four hands on to the bunk. Then, pointing to one of
the four hands, he said, “That hand is full of kings
and this one contains four jacks.”
Mr. Bolton reached out and turned over the first
hand. - There were three kings and a pair of twos in
it. In the second hand he found four jacks. He
stared at the cards and then at Fielding. “I’ll be
sunk,” he said. “And I always thought this card-
sharp business a lot of rot. Do that again.”
Fielding smiled slowly and repeated the trick.
Mr. Bolton leaned forward, watching like a hawk;
but again he failed to detect anything suspicious. “I’ll
never play poker again,” he swore.
Andrew Fielding tossed the pack on to the bunk
and leaned forward, resting his elbows on his
knees. “Mr. Bolton, I want to put a proposition to
you. I wouldn’t suggest it, only I know that you
are a great practical joker, and you obviously don’t
like Mr. Henry Woods. Now a cardsharp cannot
work alone. He must have a partner. My partner
died a few months ago. Alan Wright hi r ~ie was,
and the best pal 1 ever had.” He cd for a
moment, his eyes sad and
pensive. Mr. Bolton drew
slowly on his cigar.
“I haven’t been able
to find a suitable partner
since, and my funds are
getting low. Mr. Bolton,
will you be my partner on
this trip? I’m after Henry
Woods. I assure you that
there is absolutely no
risk.” Mr. Bolton studied
his cigar-tip with an
amused expression, his
eyes alight with humor.
“G. H. Bolton, of
Bolton and Haliday Pty.,
Ltd., invited into a card-
sharping partnership.” He
chuckled.
“I know you don’t
need the money,” began
Fielding. “But I”
“Fielding, my friend,
it will give me the great-
est pleasure to peel a few
pounds off that loud-
mouthed monkey,” inter-
rupted Mr. Bolton. His
habitually cheerful expres-
sion gave way to righteous
indignation. He leaned
forward. “He was staying at the same hotel in
Sydney as the wife and I. He’s a damn’ know-all.
He tried to tell me how to catch trout, me! And
then he called me a pot-bellied fool.”
A FTER dinner Fielding strolled into the lounge.
Several card-tables were occupied. Most of them
were playing bridge and did not interest him. He
noted with satisfaction that both Mr. Bolton and
Henry Woods were in a poker game on the far side
of the room. The former looked up at that moment,
and, seeing him, beckoned him to come across.
“Care to take a hand?” he invited as Fielding
walked up.
“I’d like to,” assented Fielding.
Mr. Bolton introduced him. “Mr. Andrew Field-
ing, a friend of mine, Mr. Woods, Mr. Rordon, Mr.
Smith and Mr. Linton.”
He sat down. Mr. Rordon, a tall, thin man with
watery eyes, dealt the cards. After looking at their
cards they all dropped out except Henry Woods and
Fielding, who each bought three cards. The latter
had two good pair, and he made a tentative bet.
Henry Woods raised him, so he dropped out, and
Woods chuckled triumphantly as he raked in the win-
nings. “You’ll learn a bit about poker by the time
we reach New Zealand,” he boasted.
Fielding noticed Mr. Bolton’s eyes gleam with
amusement.
At the finish of the play that night Fielding and
Smith were the winners, although nobody had lost
very much. On the second night the play was again
very even. Henry Woods lost on both evenings, and
grumbled insistently about his bad luck.
On the third night Fielding and Mr. Bolton
arranged to bring off the big coup. The players were
the same who had played before, with the exception
of a Mr. Gallagher, who sat down for the first time.
They played steadily for three hours, and Henry
Woods won all the time. His luck was phenomenal,
and he sickened the others with his boasting.
It was a little after eleven o’clock when Fielding
took out his handkerchief and wiped his hands as
though they were perspiring. This was the signal for
which Mr. Bolton had been impatiently waiting. It
was Fielding’s deal next, and while Henry Woods and
Fielding fought spiritedly over a fair-sized pot he
collected the cards and arranged them in readiness
to deal. Henry Woods won the hand. Fielding
collected all the cards and shuffled them rapidly. He
laid them down for Rordon to cut, then picked
them up, executed a lightning recut and dealt them
round. He picked up his hand, glanced at it briefly
and discarded it. Mr. Bolton bought one card, Henry
Woods bought one and Rordon bought three. The
others did not play.
Fielding threw the remainder of the pack on to
the discards and leaned back to watch. Mr. Bolton
wagered a ten-shilling chip, Henry Woods raised him
Fielding turned his head to look. "'That’s Henry Woods,” informed Mr.
Bolton. “A regular skunk.”
the same amount, Rordon dropped out, so that Mr.
Bolton and Henry Woods were left to fight it out
alone.
With an inscrutable face, but smiling inwardly,
Fielding watched them betting cautiously. Suddenly
Henry Woods pushed fourteen pounds’ worth of
chips on to the centre. “Raise you a tenner,” he said.
Not a muscle moved on Mr. Bolton’s pink-and-
white face ; but Fielding knew that he was inwardly
jubilant. “Back twenty,” Mr. Bolton answered.
“Back forty,” replied Henry Woods.
Mr. Bolton pulled out his cheque-book and
rapidly scribbled a cheque and tossed it on to the
centre. “Back a hundred,” he said.
Henry Woods looked around the room. “Fenton,
Fenton! ” he shouted. His secretary, a scared little
man, left a bridge-table and hurried over.
“Fetch my cheque-book, Fenton, and hurry,”
ordered Henry Woods brusquely. Fenton hurried
away. Silence fell over the table. Fielding lit a
cigarette; Henry Woods picked up his cards and
looked at them with a frown ; Mr. Bolton leaned
back and lit a cigar; the other players waited
patiently, deeply interested. Fenton hurried back
with the cheque-book. Henry Woods seized it with
a curt word of dismissal and rapidly filled in a
cheque.
“Back five hundred,” he said.
“Back a thousand,” said Mr. Bolton.
“Back five thousand,” growled Henry Woods.
Mr. Bolton hesitated for the first time. He knew
that he could not lose, but he considered that he had
gone high enough. He did not want the winnings,
Fielding could have the lot. All he wanted was the
pleasure of seeing Henry Woods squirm.
“I’ll see you,” he said.
“Backing out,” sneered Henry Woods. Mr.
Bolton looked at him with an air of pity. Turning
over his cards he said, “Beat those.” He had a routine
flush in spades, king high.
“Sure, I can,” replied Henry Woods triumphantly,
and laid down a royal routine in hearts.
Mr. Bolton’s pink-and-white face was a study.
With amazed eyes he looked at the cards, then at
Henry Woods, and then at Fielding.
'T’HE CHALET on Mount Frere was very exclusive ;
1 the tariff made certain of that. Lounging in a
well-padded chair on the wide verandah, Victor
Mathieson, alias “Henry Woods,” tainted the crystal-
clear air with the aroma of a good cigar and watched
the sun set behind the dazzling snowclad peaks.
The Chalet service car appeared round the bend
in the road, and Victor Mathieson rose and went
forward to meet it. The first to descend was Andrew
Fielding.
“Hello, Vic,” he greeted. “How is everything?”
“Fine,” answered Mathieson. And linking h’>
arm through Fielding’s he led him inside.


everywhere subjected, and when the author suggests
in the final chapters that a federation of half-caste
populations may be organised to assert their collective
strength it is evident that he has allowed his
emotionalism to take command of his pen.
Modern Chinese Fiction.
Living China (Harrap ; Moore’s Bookshop ; 9s.
6d.), edited by Edgar Snow, is a collection of recent
Chinese short stories. They are from the work of a
new generation of writers that is a product as well
as a contributing cause of the upheavals that have
disturbed the world’s oldest continuous culture, and
are offered as samples in evidence, on the literary
side, of China’s desire to draw level with European
countries as a modern entity. The stories have con-
siderable intrinsic as well as social and comparative
interest. They portray Chinese life without con-
sciousness of Western eyes, cover a wide range and,
at any rate in the not-too-literal translation, they are
in an idiom easily grasped by the European mind.
Sun Hsi-chen tells the tragic story of a young
girl who disobeyed village law ; it has a sympathy
that rouses the reader and an irony that exposes the
stupidity and meanness of Chinese bumbledom. Lin
Yu Tang —known to Europeans through his book My
Country and My Countrymen —in a satire entitled
“The Dogmeat General” has a shot at the brigand-
soldiers who have so troubled China’s later years.
Pa Chin’s study of a half-crazy beggar is China seen
from the lowest rung. Ting Ling—a woman —tells
a story which conveys a vivid impression of what
happens in certain villages when floods threaten to
burst the dykes. Mao Tun illustrates the disillusion-
ment of a young man who took the promises of a
political poster too literally, and, in another frankly
propagandist story, shows that a young woman who
took her life through disappointment in a love affair
would have done better to have devoted it to the
general welfare. Jou Shih, in “Slave Mother,” shows
the divided heart of a woman who has one child by
her peasant husband and another by a wealthy man
to whom she is hired for the purpose.
Lu Hsun, pre-eminent among Chinese writers and
described as the Chinese “social and literary Maxim
Gorky,” contributes several stories. Very effective
are two short ones: “The Kites,” telling of a middle-
aged man’s regret for his youthful bullying of a
younger brother, and “K’ung I-chi,” a study of a
decayed scholar ending his days in a wineshop. Shen
Ts’ung-ven, in a particularly sensitive story, draws a
parallel between a junkman’s feeling for his vessel and
his regard for a woman whom he visits in his home
port.
On the social and comparative side Living China
offers a notable instance of the parallel between life
and letters. China is in a state of colonialism in
respect of Western ideas generally and of literature
in particular. While the vision is clear and native
to the country, derivative influences are often obvious.
Nym Wales, who balances Snow’s foreword with
a closing essay outlining China’s “literary renascence,”
mentions European authors and individual books that
have been most widely read in China. They’re a
mixed lot. Among the authors are Mark Twain,
Edgar Allen Poe, Flaubert, De Maupassant, Bernard
Shaw, Jack London, Oscar Wilde; and among the
books, La Dame aux Camelias, All Quiet on the
Western Front, Robinson Crusoe —a strong influence,
he says — Gulliver’s Travels and Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
Shakspeare is read “dutifully.”
The Gentle Emperor.
Alfred Neumann’s new book, Man of December
(Hutchinson ; Angus and Robertson ; Bs.), translated
from the German by Eden and Cedar Paul, belongs
to the same race of large historical novels as Oke’s
Boy from Apulia and Feuchtwanger’s Jew of Rome.
Their claim to be novels rests on a certain quality of
imaginative penetration, adjudged outside the scholarly
equipment of the historian, which they bring to the
reconstruction of character and event. Neumann gives
us history, but history under glass, not plain glass, but
the curious whorled glass of his imagination. It dis-
torts a little, enlarges, diminishes and presents a fami-
liar story in a strange new guise.
The “Man of December” is the Emperor
Napoleon 111., so called because on December 2, 1851,
by a dramatic coup d’etat, he overthrew the French
Republic, of which he was President, and had himself
proclaimed Emperor.
Man of December traces the arc of the Emperor’s
story from 1856, when he was at the height of his
power and popularity, the year the Prince Imperial
was born, to the fall of the Second Empire at Sedan
in 1871 and his death two years later. It records his
rebuilding of Paris, Orsini’s attempt on his life and
the use he put it to in seizing unconstitutional
powers, his gesture as liberator of Italy, his disastrous
Mexican venture, the Franco-Prussian War.
The long story is uncoiled with a subtlety that
sometimes obscures its mere events. They become
lost in their implications and reverberations. But
gradually it reveals itself as a history of Nemesis—
the working-out of those December days when Louis
seized a power beyond the measure of his ability to
wield and, two days later, on December 4, fortified
his position by a massacre of his opponents.
The basic theme is the problem of good and evil
—to Neumann not a dualism, but infinitely curious
and interlaced phenomena. In an earlier book , Deuce,
he attacked the same theme in the story of Louis XI.
and Oliver le Dain, Louis’s barber who became his
familiar and his scapegoat, taking upon himself the
king’s sins until he achieved an inverted and sinister
saintliness. -
In the present book the problem is further com-
pressed, for the good and evil work themselves out
in the one man, Napoleon 111. He is the “gentle Em-
peror,” always kind, courteous, a little sleepy. He
lives in a world that is more than half make-believe
—make-believe prosperity and make-believe glory. He
is overshadowed and rebuked by the legend of his
uncle Napoleon 1., which he had used as a stepping-
stone. His power is founded on the shifting sands
of romantic theory, and he has himself invoked
violence. The increasing violence that surrounds and
finally overwhelms this quiet and gentle man para-
doxically has its roots in himself.
The book ends with his death, ruined and in
exile, and it strikes a note oddly reminiscent of Bun-
yan’s Life and Death of Mr. Badman: “The Emperor
smiled until the moment when death took him at
10.45; and even then the smile remained.” The
enigma of his life and character remains, too.
There are many characters in the book, each skil-
fully woven into the pattern. The Empress Eugenie,
“faultily faultless,” is the Emperor’s protagonist.
Neumann holds no brief for her. She is impervious
to life. Behind them throng others: Cavour, Bis-
marck, Orsini, Moray the Emperor’s half-brother,
Offenbach the composer, Rochefort the journalist,
Rachel the tragedienne.
The style of the book is in the best mahogany.
The narration is slow, almost teasing. Undoubtedly
a book for the serious-minded and patient.
Mary Mitchell's New Novel.
Decline and Fall of a British Matron, supported
by the sub-title “A Caustic Comedy,” seems a rather
pretentious headpiece for Mary Mitchell’s latest novel
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). It awakens expectations of
wide-reaching social satire that the book does not
satisfy. It is no more than the story of a middle-class
Englishwoman’s discomfiture from three causes, all
rather far-fetched in the telling: through her daughter
posing in the nude for a picture subsequently repro-
duced on tins of condensed milk, through the daughter
marrying a wealthy but socially “impossible”
foreigner and through her own name being unpleas-
antly coupled with that of the man her daughter
jilted. In outline the story has possibilities as an
experiment in the absurd, and if carried off light-
heartedly might have pleased the public that enjoyed
A Warning to Wantons, but even taken at that valua-
tion it fails to attract. There is a too ruthless pursuit
of humor.
Venetia Bascombe, niece of the Bishop of Pod-
bury, is the beautiful, timid and incredibly stupid
daughter of a hard-bitten, matchmaking mother. She
is more or less forced into an engagement with a man
who, though he has enjoyed the usual advantages of
an Englishman of his class, has manners and a lack
of restraint that a rustic would be ashamed to own.
Twice in terror Venetia sends him packing for offen-
sive and violent behavior, and then, to escape her
mother, flies to the Continent and hides. In Zurich
she enters the household of an artist and latei poses
for him. The artist’s wife, when she learns of this,
turns her out, and Venetia, to put a permanent barrier
between herself and her mother, marries Beppo
Schwarzentor, an underbred young plutocrat, much
rejected of other women, who is glad to have
her to clothe her extravagantly and to parade her
beauty. While these matters are going forward her
mother and the jilted suitor, together, are searching
for her in other parts of Europe, and this story, get-
ting back to Podbury, allegedly completes the decline
and fall of Mrs. Bascombe.
It is the spirit of kindliness that is challenged by
The Decline and Fall of a British Matron. The char-
acters personify much that is distasteful in human
nature and present few of its redeeming qualities.
A South Seas Island Novel.
Everlasting Hurricane, by R. Walter Coulter
(Angus and Robertson; 65.), cutting a wide swathe
through the South Seas of last century, should appeal
to readers who enjoy the light romantic vein.
Among the exciting events described are escape
from New Caledonia in a whaleboat, drifting on the
open sea, the discovery of a derelict schooner manned
by dead men, with the exception of the aged owner
and his young and charming daughter, a hand-to-
hand fight with blackbirders, volcanic and submarine
upheavals resulting in shipwreck, the treachery of
supposed friends, captivity with a tribe of canmba s
ruled by a vindictive female dwarf, a death grapple
with a witch-doctor, an attack on the heroine by a
lustful savage, marches through fever-haunted jungles
and capture by a tribe of pygmies. This in addition
to love’s awakening between the heroine and the first
hero, the death of the second hero and the separation
and final happy reunion of the lovers.
Anne Wexley is the name of the skipper s daugh-
ter. The chief male characters are Raoul Servan, a
Communard, and Peter Craig, a Scots lad temporarily
resident in France, who were caught in the struggle
of May 27, 1871, and deported. The Australian tie-up
is through Raoul Craig, son of Peter and Anne ;
Raoul, now in his fiftieth year and a native of this
country, prepares the story for publication. The tale
is in the first person and in three parts, Servan’s,
Peter Craig’s and Anne’s. The author gives veri-
similitude to the idea—and shows considerable skill—
in endowing each of these with an individual narrative
style.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
The Casebook of Anthony Slade: Leonard R.
Gribble (Quality Press; 3s. 6d.). Short stories of theft
and violence, with Detective Slade solving all the
riddles and stopping none of the fatal bullets. The
writer wastes no time on fine points of logic, but
pins his faith to action.
Hill Quest: Michael Burt (Ward, Lock; 7s 6d.).
Bill and Joanna, each in search of a quiet holiday,
meet in Tibet, and there ensues a season of exciting
and humorous adventures. Good light reading by a
man who seems to know his Indian and Tibetan
scenes. There is a comic Bengali babu who is worth
the price of the book.
The Circle of Guilt: Charles Kingston (Ward,
Lock ; 7s. 6d.). In which a millionaire is a hero to
his typist. Murder and blackmail are the chief in-
gredients in a particularly diabolic plot. Beauty and
virtue emerge triumphant. A melodrama lacking
nothing and recalling, to this reviewer, Bland Holt.
Murder at Government House : Elspeth Huxley
(Methuen ; 7s. 6d.). A South African Governor is
murdered and the culprit nabbed after a generous
allowance of thrills and suspense. The setting is a
fictitious State —which gives the author freedom for
some light-hearted digs at South African Government
officials. Clever and amusing.
Oleander River: G. B. Stern (Cassell; Moore’s
Bookshop ; 7s. 6d.). Set on the shores of the Mediter-
ranean and composed of a cross pattern of love
interests, with a touch of comedy here and there.
One of the characters is enigmatical, and by means
of him the writer plays hare and houncjs with the
reader until —in the writer’s good time—understand-
ing and a happy ending are reached. For those who
like that sort of thing, a well-told tale.
As We Lie: K. R. G. Browne (Cassell; 7s. 6d.1.
Deals with the extravagant adventures of an especi-
ally sumptuous South American Government emis-
sary who visits England to buy agricultural imple-
ments and becomes involved in many other activities.
His part in a mixed foursome at golf is particularly
hilarious. Good Wodehousian comedy.
The Hare of Cloud: Hilton Brown (Bles ; 7s. 6d.).
The conflict of intellectual and material interests typi-
fied in the story of a fictitious university in an imagi-
nary town in England’s industrialised North. The
author introduces a mystic element that clouds the
issue at times, but writes with vision and sincerity.
Romantic interests are well handled.
Shanghai: Edmund Barclay (Angus and Robert-
son ; 65.). Love and adventure in the Far East.
Shaio Pao, the Lily, a Chinese princess, is the figure
of mystery. Jerry, a second mate, and Ursula, a
medical missioner, are the couple who glimpse each
other at the beginning and are tied together at the
end. The writer knows his job.
Dear Encounter: Barbara Hall (Longman ; 7s
6d.). The love story of an English girl and a young
German, educated in England, who goes home to
fight for his Fatherland against his friends. A well-
written, light story with authentic war-time atmo-
sphere, except that the hero, after being captured and
brought to England, is released on parole. It wasn’t
done.
Tod Wiley: Robert Darnell (Arrowsmith; 7s.
6d.). The story of a slum-bred boy’s pursuit of cul-
ture under the influence of an educated girl and his
tragic disillusionment when he discovers that learning
and lack of human worth may go together. A good
first novel. Reminiscent —though not unduly—of
Jack London’s Martin Eden.
GENERAL . . .
A Hundred Years of Yachting, issued by the
Tasmanian Government Tourist Bureau to com-
memorate next year the 100th anniversary of the
Hobart Regatta, is virtually a history of the little
island from the days of the whaling fleets —the first
races having been in whaleboats. There are about
200 photographs—boats, yachtsmen, regatta scenes of
last century. An ambitious little book, it should help
to lure mainlanders to the Speck for next year’s
regatta.
Adam Lindsay Gordon and Other Australian
Writers. A neatly-printed shilling brochure containing
brief biographies of seven writers and some enthusiasts
who have helped to honor their memory. It is being
sold to help place Gordon’s poems in Victorian
schools.
The Newest Swimming: Gilbert Collins (Heine-
mann ; 3s. 6d. net). Supplements, but does not super-
sede, the same author’s Newest Magic of Swimming,
in which modern developments were described.
Collins went to the last Olympic Games as observer
for the British Olympic Swimming Association, and
his latest book describes the various styles of the
champions. His casual reference in the chapter on
the American crawl does not do justice to the part
played by Australians in the development of this
stroke, which was originally adapted by the Cavills
from Alick Wickham, a South Seas native, as
described in Dud Hellmrich’s Australian book How
to Swim. Nevertheless, Collins is a sound guide for
any swimmer who seeks to develop his speed.
“Jachris” on a gruesome subject:
Another recently-published book, Russian Hazard, by
Dorian Blair and H. C. Dand, gives an account of the murder
of Rasputin and the subsequent disposal of his body dinerin o
entirely from that mentioned in the Red Page article on
Gubsky’s Angry Dust (B. IPI'M) . Blair claims first-hand
information. Sent to Russia as a British secret service agent
in 1915, he became a member of the Tsar s personal guaid. He
was present when the Duma denounced Rasputin, and was im-
plicated in a Counter-Espionage Service plot to kill the monk;
Before they could act Rasputin was murdered by agents of the
Duma. Then, Blair claims, he was given orders to take the
body from the mausoleum built by the Tsarina, where it
had become an object of superstitious veneration to the
peasants, and deliver it to a laboratory in Petrograd, where it
was to be chemically destroyed, and so end any title to
sanctity. He took a party and collected the body on a lorry,
but was stopped by an angry crowd of worshippers. De-
mined to dispose of the corpse there and then, he. covered .
in petrol and—this fulfilling the prophecy of a. gipsy-set it
alight. The clothes were burnt, so were the hail and beard,
but the embalmed body refused to burn. The party built a
fire of wood from the barn in which they were besieger
and threw the corpse on that; stiU.it wouldn t catch alight,
lust then a machine-gun party relieved them, the journey
was resumed and the body handed over to the chemists. So
far as Blair can say they disposed of it.


■
mm
9
***
,«»*
«»**
mm
m
*f*.
»«♦*
:•:-■■ •
■
m
P & O
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD
(22,284 TONS)
CRUISING TO
FIJI
leaves Sydney
August 20
days in Fiji seeing the Mekes (Native Dances), the Fire Walkers,
the gay Native Bazaars, the display of Hibiscus Blooms, Race
Meetings, Trips to the Coral Reef, and the Island Night's Entertain-
ment at the Grand Pacific Hotel.
FIRST SALOON FROM 20 GUINEAS
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 GUINEAS
Free of Exchange
Principal Agents: Macdonald Hamilton & Co., 247 George Street ....... Sydney
Branch Booking Office: Macdonald Hamilton & Co., 25 Martin Place ...... Sydney
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class: Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Pty. Ltd., 5 O'Connell Street, Sydney
ft
cx
SUNSHINE CRUISE


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
K
m
I
;
'.' X •
'
' .*
H
H
‘
11
s
X-
m
: Hi
■ v-. *
Hi
K*
Hi
mmmm.
m
■
m
mm
I
■
m m
m*
m
m
wm
MB
■
m
l
i mm
<#*
■
4 * , -
mm
m
mm
■ H
t
a .
rr-; 4 var^a
ti*
I
-s*:
sag? > ’ sssg
Hi
J
\i
■
m
Aerial View of Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.
me


“CRISIS IN CHINA.”
MARS: “Surely you are not going to disappoint your—er —friends?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage oh the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
IN PRE-SELECTION LAND.
The revolt against pre-selection, which has so sorely
embarrassed the U.A.P. managers in N. S. Wales,
has spread to South Australia. There the bosses of
both parties are wondering what has struck them.
In the reduction of S.A. Assembly electorates
from 46 to 39, Ministers and private members have
found themselves under the necessity of going after
the same seat. As if that were not sufficiently annoy-
ing, mayors and other local men of some tonnage
have announced that, however the Liberal and Coun-
try League ballots may result, they are going to stand
as Ministerial supporters ; and the number of these
“rebels” is growing. On the Labor side there has
been such turmoil that if “unity” is preserved—the
“unity” so painfully accomplished and proudly an-
nounced after years of strife, during which there
were at least three Labor parties—it will be some-
thing like a miracle.
Mr. Yates, who was Adelaide’s Federal member
for 14 years, was the first to intimate that he had had
enough.
Mr. Yates was vice-president of the State A.L.P.
and an aspirant —one of five —to the party nomination
for Torrens. Saying that he had “twice been a
victim of ballot manipulation” and had “no inten-
tion of submitting himself to a third operation,” Mr.
Yates withdrew from the Torrens ballot and resigned
his A.L.P. office. However, his name was kept on
the voting-papers, and he finished second with 70
votes —22 behind Mr. Baldock, who is secretary of
the Hotel, Club and Restaurant Employees, and 11 less
than the number of H.C. and R.E. votes “allocated”
to Torrens. In his letter of resignation, Mr. Yates
had objected to this “allocation,” and alleged that
it amounted to “a clear case of stacking.” The Trades
Hall reply was that the votes had been allocated
according to the party rules, and that 33 could make no
difference —though they were apparently decisive.
Another of the candidates defeated in Torrens
said before the ballot that he was “definitely against
pre-selection in any form, as often it does not give
the people a chance to vote for the man they want.”
The Torrens affair was one of 11 Labor ballots
completed on the same day. In proportion to the
number of electors enrolled, the number of effective
votes counted was grotesquely small, and “Informal”
beat three candidates in Norwood, two each in
Torrens, Goodwood, Glenelg and Port Adelaide
and one in Thebarton. Three sitting members
were defeated: Mr. Blackwell, chairman of the
Public Works Committee, in Thebarton, Mr. Dale in
Prospect and Mr. Howard in Adelaide.
Mr. Blackwell described the result as “extraordi-
nary.” Mr. Howard lodged a protest alleging “irregu-
larities,” and so did Mr. Tapping, of Semaphore. Mr.
Howard’s conqueror was Mr. A. A. Edwards, who
became a political liability some years ago. Some
people must think he has become a political asset.
Meanwhile, the organisation which will have to
deal with the charges of “irregularities” and decide
whether the party can carry Mr. Edwards has in-
structed its disputes committee to consider the case
of Mr. J. J. Daly. Mr. Daly, who led for the Scullin
Government in the Senate, has, after many struggles
with bitter enemies among the “comrades,” got his
name on a Senate ticket again. But he attended a
meeting at which the Spanish civil war was discussed,
and it is alleged “that he did cause to be put a resolu-
tion which expressed wholehearted support of the
Fascist General Franco,”
thereby acting in defiance of the 1936 A.L.P. Con-
ference decision which bound all members of the
Labor party to unqualified support of the Loyalist Gov-
ernment of Spain, which is fighting for Democracy
and against external and internal Fascism.
At the Sydney meetings which preceded theGwydir'
by-election, the Federal Labor executive repudiated
Communism in the most explicit and emphatic terms.
In view of this repudiation, it is difficult to be-
lieve that any Labor man can be forced by any local
“conference decision” to champion or pay lip-service
to a foreign cause which Communists are backing,
and in which Communists are allied with Anarchists,
Syndicalists and even Trotskyists, but the very fact
that the arrogant claim has been made shows to what
lengths machine politics can be carried. Even if this
disputes committee reports that the “charges” against
Mr. Daly are untrue, or that he has a right to exer-
cise his own judgment on a foreign disturbance which
touches Australian Labor nowhere, his enemies
among the “comrades” may conceivably make
it impossible for him to go on.
The Liberal and Country Leaguers have had a
spot of trouble with their own Senate ticket. A
few of the people who kindly arrange these matters
for the general body of electors foregathered in Adel-
aide or somewhere, and informed the newspapers,
after their “deliberations,” that Mr. Badman was off
the ticket and Mr. Mcßride on it. This shuffle must have
puzzled the electors, since Mr. Badman is a Senator —
he was elected in 1931 with 161,688 votes —and Mr.
Mcßride the member for Grey. The reasons, good,
bad or indifferent, were not divulged ; neither was
it explained why Mr. Wilson, a defeated candidate
for Boothby at the last election, had been presented
with a place on the Senate ticket in preference to
Senator Badman. After some weeks the Grey nomi-
nation was thrown to Senator Badman, much as a
bone is thrown to a growling dog.
Of course, it is nothing new for a Senator to have
to eat humble pie, or the Senate either. The Senate
is the pre-selection Chamber par (or sans) excellence.
In 1901 the people chose it, and out of the 127 candi-
dates who then presented themselves the people chose
well. Since 1906 parties have done the picking, and
the House that knew O’Connor, Symon, Baker,
McGregor, Trenwith, Best and Keating has become a
refuge for Yes-men. Sometimes a Lawson or a Pratten
or a Brand gets in, but as a rule he doesn’t stay long.
Mr. Pearce, who was quite overshadowed in the
first Parliament, has been leader of the Senate for
21 of the last 23 years. The quality of his leader-
ship and the prestige of the House in which he has
been supreme so long may be judged from his recent
puerile complaint that the little Canberra paper had
misreported him, and his equally puerile warning to
papers that don’t report him:
The time is rapidly approaching when, if the press
does not do its duty to our Parliamentary institutions,
the Parliament will have to do its duty to the people
by taking steps to ensure that they may know
accurately the business that is transacted in this building.
This when the Government has a publicity
department and owns a chain of radio stations! On
the other side we see a N. S. Wales group putting
four names on its Senate ticket, not because the
owners are eminent in public affairs, but because the
names begin with the letter A and the ignorant and
indolent will spot them first.
Since Symon was crushed between the party
machines in 1913, it has been taken for granted that
no lone-hand campaigner has a chance of winning a
Senate seat. It is by no means certain that such is
the case nowadays. The marketing referendum was
a slap in the eye for each of the parties, and there
is a great and growing feeling against burglarious
taxation and over-government (by Parliaments, Cabi-
nets, Excellencies, boards and commissions) that they
all choose to ignore. It is to be hoped that at least one
good man in each State will test this feeling by stand-
ing for the Senate. He would have one other advan-
tage denied to Symon: he could speak to pretty well
all the electors without stirring from one place.
Disturbance at Peiping.
Torn and bleeding after a struggle for unity which
has lasted for nearly 30 years, China is in trouble
again ; and the indications are that Communism is
at the bottom of it.
Nominally, China has one Government which
has its seat at Nanking. The actual, though not the
titular, head of the Government is General Chiang
Kai-shek, who married into the family of Sun yat-
Sen, father of the Chinese revolution. Chiang has
done a great deal toward unifying China: has
restored order in many provinces, Europeanised
many cities, developed industry and organised a
powerful fighting force.
But his task has been too great for a single man
to compass in a few years. Canton, which speaks a
language of its own, has gone its own way and kept
its private army. The far-northern provinces, beyond
the Great Wall, which reaches the sea just north of
Peiping (formerly Peking), have had local generals
with Communist sympathies. Urged on by their
Red friends, these generals made things difficult
for the Japanese along the Manchukuo border.
Disorder became so rife that Japan gave its
support to a movement for turning the provinces
of Suiyuan, Shensi, Shantung, Chahar and Hopei
into a self-governing whole, embracing all the
best of China north of Nanking. Chiang tried to
checkmate it, and was partly successful, but portions
of Hopei and Chahar set up a sort of Government of
their own under Japanese protection, leaving foreign
affairs in the hands of Nanking, except where they
touched the Japanese.
Since then there have been repeated attempts to
restore peaceful relations between Nanking and
Japan. The Japanese demanded that Nanking should
suppress the Communists, who incessantly devise
plots to drive them out of China. Nanking held
Japanese policy responsible for wholesale smug-
gling, which was making the Chinese Customs a dry
spring. When a new border system stopped the
smuggling, bandit marshals, with Communist advisers,
started an invasion of Shensi. When the Japanese
proposed to deal with them, Nanking demurred —a
Japanese anti-Communist force might become an
army of occupation.
Then Canton demanded that Nanking should
expel the Japanese from China. Chiang told the
Cantonese to go to Antananarivo. They moved a
couple of spare armies against him ; he retaliated with
superior forces, and Canton capitulated. Thus Chiang
enforced his authority in the south for the first time.
But there were murders of Japanese by a Mon-
golian mob, and a Japanese Vice-Consul was slaugh-
tered at the treaty port of Hankow. Japan protested,
and while discussions were in progress a rabble of
troops from various disintegrating armies descended
on parts of the wretched north. The Nanking Govern-
ment suggested that they were in the pay of Japan,
the Japanese that they were in the pay of Nanking.
While this hubbub raged, Communists and ban-
dits turned up again in another guise. Chiang and
members of his staff suddenly disappeared. It trans-
pired that Chang Hsueh-liang, a fat northern marshal,
owner of a bandit army or two and close friend of
the Communists, had seized them. Chiang had been
trying to remove the marshal from Communist influ-
ence by ordering him to Fukien, which, being oppo-
site Japanese Formosa, rarely sees a red flag. It took
all the persuasive genius of an Australian, Will
Donald, to rescue Chiang from Chang’s clutches.
For some months China was a little quieter, but
a row was bound to break out again. While Japanese
troops —there are about 10,000 between Peiping and
the treaty port of Tientsin —were manoeuvring round
the outskirts of Peiping, they came into conflict with
a Chinese garrison. The scene of the fighting is near
the most important railway junction in the north,
key to all communications with the Chinese capital,
with Shanghai and with the sea.
How hostilities began only the combatants know ;
as usual, reports are contradictory. But, though July
is a favorable month for a war in China, there is
unlikely to be a real war. For one thing, China is
a loosely-held-together agglomeration of 43 peoples,
spread over a country more than half the size of
Australia. And no reasonable Chinese wants a war
which would begin with the blockade of Chinese ports
and certainly end in Japanese annexation of the north.
The only element which desires a fight is the element
which does its fighting by deputy, and which is for ever
screaming for “a united front against Fascism and
imperialism” —it was “British imperialism” a while
ago, though, because of the exigencies of Red politics,
John Bull has temporarily ceased to be “the enemy.”
Tinkering with Transport.
If the Stevens Government seriously intends to tackle
Sydney’s traffic problem, it would be well advised to
take the public into its confidence. What the public
wants is not merely something for silencing complaint
to-day and to-morrow, but a steadily-constructive plan
for meeting transport requirements of 10 and 20
years hence, with regard for the increasing population
and increasing numbers of private vehicles and the
nature of Sydney’s streets.
Nothing of that kind has been revealed in any
utterances so far made, nor do recent actions support
a hope that there might be some such plan about
somewhere, if only in a pigeonhole. The only thing
apparently on the way is what the Stevens people call
their “bus policy.” This, as officially announced on
May 22, laid down that no more trams would be built
for Sydney’s services ; the present rolling-stock would
gradually be replaced by motor-buses and trolley-
buses. Mr. Stevens insisted that carrying out this
“policy” would have to be gradual, but that the
question of future requirements was being examined
with a view to drawing up a programme for the purchase
of trolley or Diesel buses to keep pace with the expansion
of traffic.
He added, altogether too vaguely, that projected
developments of the underground-railway system must
“also be kept in mind.” Where those “developments”
should be kept is in the forefront of the plan. It is
where they would be in any plan at all likely to get
Sydney’s transport out of the mess that past political
timeservers permitted it to drift into, and into which
it is evidently to go on drifting deeper still.
The first doubt that arises over Mr. Stevens’s
“bus policy” is as to whether it is a policy at all or
merely a stopgap expedient born of temporary poli-
tical necessity. The first step in it mentioned by the
Premier was an “order for 27 Diesel buses to meet
present needs.” Evidence of ordinary eyesight might
be enough to suggest that 227 would not do that
adequately ; but even 27 might be placed to advantage.
Some of them can, for instance, be run over the
bridge, where trams and trains already run, though
not to capacity; at all events, it has been on this
ground that the overlords of Sydney’s transport affairs
have for years strongly opposed proposals to do what
has now been decided on with astonishing alacrity.
Possibly it is only a coincidence that a by-election
is due on the side of the harbor the buses will serve;
also, that North Sydney is a doubtful electorate.
Randwick and parts of the Bondi electorate are
also urging their claims to bus services; Rand-
wick and Bondi, too, are doubtful seats, and there
are residents of both areas low-minded enough to
look forward with confidence to having the bus
services operating before the general election.
Apart from the political aspect, there is fair
ground for dismissing Mr. Stevens’s “bus policy” as
a mere temporary tinkering with a problem that calls
for constructive planning. Buses are needed in the
City of Sydney; beyond the city trams will still be
required, and so will the underground trains be
required, to an increasing extent. In parts of London
trolley-buses are superseding trams, but no such
wholesale scrapping is called for in Sydney, where
trolley-buses are of doubtful advantage; in any case,
the sacrifice of public capital involved would not be
patiently borne.
In Sydney, as in London, the bulk of the
passenger traffic will have to be carried underground.
It is merely shuffling the question to mention keeping
the “underground-railway system in mind,” as it is
mere evasion to oblige with a bus service here and
there as pressure of one kind and another insists.
Underground-railway construction is dawdling along;
there is no attempt to push it to meet the pressing
requirements of to-day, let alone to-morrow. Yet,
urged on by constructive statemanship, enough of it
could be built in a few years to meet requirements for
many years to come. In the process a steady market
would be furnished for an industry which has for
years been suffering grievously for lack of markets,
and which could provide the power for the bulk of.
Sydney’s transport for centuries to come.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Kalgoorlie to Port Pirie.
All going v/ell, the Prime Minister will be on hand
for the opening of the Commonwealth Railway’s Port
Augusta-Port Pirie link on Friday.
The 56f-mile extension of the Commonwealth
4ft. 84in. gauge line will give a continuous 1108-mile
railway service from Kalgoorlie to Port Pirie. From
Port Pirie on to Red Hill, S. Australia has constructed
27J- miles of sft. 3in. gauge line to connect with the
S. Australian and Vic. railways of the same gauge.
The overland journey is reduced by only 70 miles, but
the change-over obviates the discomforts of the old
narrow-gauge meander between Port Augusta and
Terowie. Change of trains will be necessary only
at Port Pirie instead of at both Port Augusta and
Terowie, arid, later, sleeping cars will run from Mel-
bourne direct to Port Pirie to cut the Adelaide change.
By the end of the year the train trip from Perth to
Melbourne will have been cut by a day.
Thirty-four years ago engineers of the five main-
land States, in discussing plans for the transconti-
nental line, which was begun in 1912, declared it
imperative that the proposed 4ft. 84in. gauge should
be extended further south than Port Augusta. And
no doubt it did look important then, but its import-
ance had greatly diminished late in 1935, when
the Commonwealth and S.A. Governments agreed
to proceed with the extensions Mr. Lyons is to
declare open for traffic.
In the meantime, road and air transport have
altered Australia’s whole internal traffic position.
Between Perth and Adelaide it is the ’plane that is
rapidly becoming the real competitive factor. Its
passenger-carrying progress is revealed by statistics
for the last 2} years. During the year to June 30, 1935,
400 air travellers passed between Perth and Adelaide ;
in the next year the number increased to 478 ; for the
nine months ending in March this year the figure
had reached 709.
B.H.P.
Broken Hill Proprietary is a splendid example of
what can be done with Australian capital mined out
of Australian soil.
The original B.H.P. was formed in 1885 with a
capital of £304,000. Its operations expanded gradu-
ally until, from being a miner of silver-lead, the
company found itself in 1911 with the problem of
dealing with its huge, high-content manganiferous
deposits at Iron Knob (S.A.). About 21,000,000 tons
of ore was estimated to lie there, though Australia
at that time was importing £6,000,000 worth of steel
p.a., including nearly 150,000 tons of steel rails.
In July, 1914, the company secured a loan of
£1,000,000 through the Commonwealth Bank to
enable it to establish its Newcastle steelworks. The
works were opened in 1915, a million and a half
having been spent on the job. By the end of 1915.
at a time when overseas supplies were almost cut off
by war, over 150,000 tons of steel products had been
supplied to Australia, and the company was already
making munition steel. By 1920 capital had grown
to £2,520,000, and the co. could report that it had
paid £2,500,000 in wages to Newcastle men, apart
from £13,000,000-odd which had gone into the pockets
of workers at the original mine. Since then many
new issues of capital have been made linking other
metal firms with the company.
In 1936 B.H.P. was still an all-Australian con-
cern, born on an arid Australian station and managed
by Essington Lewis, son of one of the oldest pioneer
families in South Australia, and was making a profit
equalled only by that of the C.S.R. It and its subsi-
diaries (exclusive of the old Broken Hill mine) employ
over 11,000 Australians, and its reserves at the end
of last financial year were just on £6,000,000 —all
money to be used in Australia and produced in Aus-
tralia by Australians.
Large sums are now to go into the development
of new works at Port Kembla (N.S.W.) and in the
modernisation of the Newcastle plants. All this
money will be spent in Australia, where the new plant
will be made from Australian products. The result-
ing equipment will enable Australia to increase its
ingot output by 500,000 tons a year-equal to the
material in ten Sydney Harbor bridges and a dozen
first-class battleships—and bring the construction of
warships and the manufacture of motor vehicles in
sight.
Roadmakers already owe a great deal to B.H.P.
by-products. B.H.P. coal usage is enormous. Benzol
is produced, and production will be considerably
increased. Benzol is a good fuel and a fuel-improver.
Almost every chemical used in the dye industry and
in medicine, from anaesthetics downwards, through
the whole range of barbitones and disinfectants, can
be derived from the coal residues left unused after
coke for steel-making has been produced.
Just over half a century ago a station-owner and
a few station-hands met on Mt. Gipps. They could
have had no foreknowledge of tvhat their meeting
would lead to, but it was the genesis of an enterprise
which has developed into a vital organ in Australian
progress and development.
The Putnam Flight.
Mrs. Amelia Earhart Putnam and her navigator,
Captain Noonan, are gone, there now seems no doubt.
Despite some reputable expert opinion to the contrary,
there would appear to be little hope for the occu-
pants of any ’plane, other than one specially fitted
for water-landing, if forced to go down in mid-ocean.
At least, the history of such disasters is not very
reassuring on this point.
Other points about this particular flight seem
worth noting. In failure, the tendency is to disparage
it as “freakish.” What critics who never move out
of an armchair seem unable to grasp about any
venture the outcome of which cannot be vouched for
by an actuary is that even failure can have positive
value. As in this instance, it can serve to narrow
down the permissible margin of risk that can be
taken. In this it acts as guidance in future flights
over the specific area, or over any other area similarly
perilous.
That is a condition of progress, and has been a
most important element in the advance of aviation
from its beginnings. Its logical opposite is stagnation.
The risks have to be taken, are being continuously
taken, and will be taken while any spirit remains
in the human race.
The moral obligation to search for such lost
adventurers is certainly inescapable and the financial
cost considerable. Other lives can be lost at it, and
on many occasions have been. But even this is not
entirely lamentable. It is splendidly human, and while
the bulk of humanity’s manifestations remain trite,
paltry and cheap, a display now and then of the finer
qualities underlying all the piffling effervescence has
virtue.
Knowing at Second-hand.
Believing it time something was done about the
boy’s proper education, a Sydney father the other
night took his 15-year-old son to see the mixed boxing
and wrestling bill at a Sydney stadium.
The lad subsequently confirmed the impression
gathered at the time that the night had provided the
surprise of his life.
Not that he was unfamiliar with these boxing
and wrestling contests. He had seen them frequently
on the movies, and often heard them described over
the radio. And that was how he knew them —in
shadows and by canned voice.
It had never dawned on him, of course, that,
received by either medium, neither was more than
a substitute and a simulation. Without the experience
of the real thing for comparison, the shadows and the
canned descriptions had passed for reality. Naturally,
he had not allowed for what he was thus given having
been merely a narrow selection of incidents impos-
sible for either medium to record in full.
Nor had it, naturally, occurred to him that what
he was getting was, in any case, something seen
through other eyes than his own, or that the dramatic
interest contained in either screen or radio version
did not arise from the events depicted at all, but w«s
wholly an artificial effect imposed by the medium
itself.
In other words, he had been seeing and hearing
not for himself, but at second-hand, and taking all
for granted. The tense drama that belongs inherently
to two men trained to the minute and stripped in the
flesh for a boxing bout, all the significant incidentals
to the contest, the atmosphere of the place and all
the rest of it had hitherto been shorn, away, not pur-
posely, but by the limitations of the mediums involved
in trying to reproduce it.
And all this holds not for this particular experi-
ence alone. A vast number of people take what
passes with them as full information from the same
shadows and the same canned voices, overlooking
or unaware of how such things can distort, sometimes
through their obvious limitations, sometimes deliber-
ately, for propaganda purposes. From screen, radio
and the daily press continuously this distorted second-
hand bombardment batters at the public mind and
passes current as real knowledge of this and that
people, this and that event. Lacking the personal
experience, anyone might profitably take into con-
templation of the lot of it the safeguard of sceptical
doubt.
Bouquets for "Soviet" Airmen.
In the days when Britain, U.S.A., Italy, France and
Germany were producing dozens of aeroplanes
capable of world flights, and the world was girdled by
Smiths, Hinklers, Scotts, Amy Johnsons and Wiley
Posts, Russia’s sheet was clean. Now, when world
flights have become commonplace, Russia has entered
the field ; and the very creditable performances ol
Russian —no, “Soviet” —airmen have caused a rash
of adulation to break out on Australian newspapers.
Last week three Russians flew from Mbscow
to California, via the Pole, 6262 miles, in 62
hours 17 minutes. They used a high-altitude aero-
plane with abnormal wings specially built for the
job and of small commercial utility—less, indeed,
than the racing Comet which, with Scott and Black
aboard, won the Mildenhall-Melbourne air race in
October, 1934, covering 12,000 miles in 70 hours
53 minutes.
Flying over the Pole has, in the case of “Soviet”
airmen, a certain spectacular appeal, but there is
nothing new about it. Australia’s George Wilkins did
it in 1928 in a commercial Fokker which was after-
wards reconditioned so that Smith and Ulm might
fly the Pacific in it. After several round-the-world
adventures, this Fokker did faithful service until
recently on Australian mail runs.
In 1933, before the days of stressed skins, high-
speed, long-distance engines, geodetic construction and
other weight-saving devices, two British officers,
Gayford and Nicholetts, flew from Cranwell (Eng-
land to Walvis Bay (S.-W. Africa) in a slow, standard
Air Force bomber-freight-carrier, 5341 miles, in 57
hours 25 minutes, without moving Presidents to “en-
thusiastic congratulations” or even King George to
anticipate Mr. Stalin and send his subjects “flaming
congratulations.” Nor did the London-Tokio flight
of the Japanese Tsukakoshi and linuma in three days
22 hours lead to flags being hung outside Australian
newspaper offices.
As far back as 1931 an aeroplane flown by
Lees and Brossy stayed 84 hours in the air in Florida
without refuelling. There are at least two types of
machine in the British R.A.F.. which could compass
at least 8000 miles with only fuel and crew. But the
R.A.F. does not advertise, and politics are never
dragged into its performances.
"Menace" to Gibraltar.
Characteristic of the ravings of bellicose British
pacifists which are offered to Australians as news is
the report that during February a dozen 12-inch guns
were landed by “the Germans'” near Gibraltar ; and
that in March a first consignment of 16-inchers was
put ashore. These toys are, it seems, being installed
along the coastline to within two miles of the Rock.
A 16-inch gun weighs 108 tons. Shield and
mounting weigh another 1270 tons. A 12-inch gun
weighs about 44 tons, shield and mounting about 430
tons. Such weapons can be hauled only on special
roads. The laying-down of them would take months
per gun, and if one were toted through the country-
side it would be even more obvious than a “Cronk-
News” mare’s-nest —a 16-inch gun has a 60-foot
barrel.
Furthermore, to be of any use, such weapons need
a railway to serve them, and huge ammunition-dumps.
The shell of a 12-incher weighs approximately 8001 b.
and that of a 16-incher nearly a ton, outside the firing
charge.
Two miles from a fortress either weapon would
be about as helpless as a rat in the mouth of a cat.
The elevation and trajectory of that kind of artillery
are intended for long-distance work, and, even if they
were not, such guns would be easily dealt with unless
guarded by a forest of trenches, light guns and
entanglements.
If “the Germans” are bent on wresting Gibraltar
from the British with such weapons, the very first
attack would involve the presentation to us of a
nice, large lot of brand-new heavy artillery.
Solution by Conference.
Senator McLachlan has promised a conference on
the Australian fishing industry. It is to be held in
September, a date which will ensure, in view of the
just-ahead Federal elections, that no politician will
take the faintest interest in a subject so destitute of
any vote-catching prospects. Such of the findings as
may receive Government attention will of necessity
have to await settlement of the innumerable details
attaching to the settling-in of a new Parliament.
No problem of the kind with which politicians
are expected to grapple was ever solved by a confer-
ence, although reference to a conference is one of
the favorite political expedients. Still the promise
of a conference affords some evidence of a change of
outlook. Senator McLachlan is the Minister actu-
ally controlling fisheries matters. He is also the states-
man who informed the Senate not long ago that he
proposed to inquire into the reasons why Australian
pilchards are not suitable for canning. They arc
eminently suitable for canning. He also credited
Victoria with a splendid system of fish distribution
in town and country, based on the use of dry ice.
Victoria, Australia, has no such system—it was Vic-
toria, British Columbia, of which the Senator was
thinking. Mr. McLachlan also quoted the highly-
developed Newfoundland fishery industry in support
of the selection of the new Commonwealth Director
of Fisheries from that blue-nosed locality. In point
of fact, Newfoundland fishermen are poverty-stricken,
and their industry is backward. Other political lights
spoke of sharks and rocks as insuperable obstacles in
the way of a successful Australian fishing industry.
Although Senator McLachlan has not indicated
the subjects with which his conference will deal, quite
a few are obvious from the point of view of the
fishing industry. Whether, for example, Australian
canned fish is to continue to be debarred from official
use for Australian Defence Forces. Why it is “uncon-
stitutional” to subsidise the fishing industry but quite
constitutional in the case of sugar, cotton, wheat and
fruit. And a score more of matters, all extremely
undesirable on the eve of an election.
"Why War Won't Come."
“Dugout Dick” hops in:
“Macann” (B. 14/7/’37) could have rested all his argu-
ment on the patent fact that it would be national suicide for
any of the nations allegedly thirsting for a war if they
embarked on one.
The guilt for the last war has been fixed on various
countries, England being held, by some self-elected judges,
as guilty as anyone. But history will probably settle the
blame on one nation’s having become so swelled-headed that
it felt itself competent to lick any opposition whatever, and
having, in this mood, launched out for national aggrandise-
ment, to make itself supreme in the world.
Germany is in rather a different position to-day. It is still
far from recovered from the frightful hiding it unquestionably
got. Even if sabre-rattling by its present leaders was half
as violent as the welter of obviously inspired propaganda
would suggest, a drubbing of that sort is something a people
does not recover from in a hurry.
Germans felt the war terribly—a measure of misery
suffered by all which Australia, knowing nothing of the real
fearfulness of war, cannot appreciate. That remembered
misery is the background of Germany to-day, and not until
the present generation passes is this nation likely to go hogging
for another whack of it.
Another thing, France —though it, too, has plenty to
remember —now offers a line of fortifications against any
repetition of 1914, and a semi-recovered people throwing
itself against that would certainly commit suicide. Also, the
French have the psychological advantage of having come out
of the war on the right side.
This applies also to another of the allegedly war-eager
countries, Italy. And Italy has emerged successfully from
an African campaign during which it was without friends, as
Britain was without friends in 1899-1902; and was boycotted
withal. But the Italians are not such fools as to imagine
that beating the Abyssinians was a test of a very high
order. Additionally, the country is not rich and Abyssinia
set it back heavily. Mussolini, as one of the shrewdest
of living statesmen, needs no telling that it would be com
mitting national suicide for his country to launch a war on
any people of consequence.
Another point of some weight is that, apart from the
different internal condition of nations compared with 1914
and the respect they have all gained for the danger of lightly
letting war loose, there is that tremendous force (overlooked
by all the insistent war-tipsters) the power of world opinion,
which is, in a body, for peace, perhaps as never before in
history.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nakhoda”: If Kingsford-Smith may
be still alive in the Malayan jungle, as
has been suggested, something almost
miraculous would be required to account
for it. Food of all sorts is plentiful, and
a native skilled in the craft could main-
tain himself indefinitely, but a white man
would find the forest as unproductive gs
the early explorers found the Australian
interior waterless and foodless. His
natural hunters, the leeches, are difficult
to contend with for a strong and healthy
person ; for a weakened one it would be
impossible. In any case, there are no
parts of the habitable jungle which are
not frequented by camphor and gutta-
percha getters, and they are in touch with
the semi-civilised native. The news of a
strange visitant from the skies would be
brought very quickly to the nearest
British district officer.
¥ ¥ 'l*
“Bo”: Hitler’s edict that horseflesh
should be given a prominent place on the
Fatherland’s menus recalls that Dobbin
supplied most of the Belgians’ sirloins
and steaks after the Armistice. When we
heard that the local butcher was offering
up to 1500 “onks” for mokes (we were
billeted near Charleroi, outside Brussels)
“flogging” cases of bufty to the civvies
looked only bucket-shop biz by com-
parison. Sentiment forbade the selling
of Aussie horses —I never knew a Digger
who could bring himself to sacrifice a
four-footed cobber—but Nugget sug-
gested the A.P.M.’s hack, a vicious brute
as cranky as the “haw-haw” officah who
rode it. There were difficulties ; the beast
was stabled at the back of the local
brewery, and would have to be led over
about 40 yards of cobblestones. But
Long Ted had a brainwave. Every avail-
able horserug was laid on the cobbles,
and at zero hour (10 p.m., when revelry
was rife) we led the nag out, successfully
negotiated the sale and set about the
immediate liquidation of the pelf. We
expected an uproar the next morning,
and it came from two quarters. The
wires between Corps H.Q. and the
A.P.M. —who looked as if he’d have a
stroke at any minute —ran hot for a
week. But an enraged butcher looking
for his lost bargain was an unexpected
development. He couldn’t report the dis-
appearance of his stock to the A.P.M.
I’ve always handed it to that Digger who
was smarter than ourselves. We heard
later he’d got 2000 “onks” for it from a
butcher in Loverval, a few miles away.
* * * *
“Pluto”: Strange words have an in-
stant appeal to me, and I thought I had
come on an entirely new one when I
read in the “S.M.H.” that a “volcanist,”
Dutch and distinguished, was about to
visit Rabaul and furnish a professional
opinion on its suitability as an adminis-
trative centre. I was wrong, though;
the word must have crept into the dic-
tionaries years ago ; Webster defines it
as “one versed in the study of volcanic
phenomena, also a Plutonist.” Plutonist,
with its suggestions of Hades, sounded
attractive, too, and, pursuing my re-
searches, I found that it means “one
holding the theory that the successive
rocks of the earth were formed by
igneous fusion.” The opposite, it seems,
is a Neptunist, who attributes the for-
mation to the agency of water. It might
have been a good idea to send a Nep-
tunist to Rabaul as well as a Plutonist.
“Marija”: Add the antipodist to the
list embracing fruitologists, beauticians,
morticians and the like. His job is
juggling with his feet, and he does it
dashed well —rubber balls, bottles, even a
bedstead all come alike to him. He’s
doing the Australian cities now with a
vaudeville crowd. But Webster won’t
allow he exists any longer. To the dic-
tionary man the antipodist was “a be-
liever in the existence of the. antipodes
(when that belief was heresy).”
* * *
“M.C.”: This seems the decent season
for commenting on that unpleasantness
of summer months the Shark Menace.
When somebody has been mauled or
ripped to pieces even the most callous
assessor of the facts is reluctant to point
out that the victim —as is true of most
cases —was deliberately tempting attack
by showing off out of sheer flashness far
out from the shore. Instead of sym-
pathy such asses deserve the strongest
censure, not for risking their own unim-
portant lives, but for dragging into the
same danger the courageous chaps who
invariably go to the rescue. A special
medal restricted to the Commonwealth
might well be struck for these men, whose
heroism —judging this quality by the de-
mand made on the individual character
by the prevailing circumstances —is of
the highest order. But immediately after
one of these tragedies, though the hero
is admired, the natural weight of public
feeling is sympathy for the victim. A
penalty for the shark-bait fraternity might
be no bad notion ; something is needed
to convince them that there is nothing
heroic about their cheap flashness.
“Kerys”: Broadcasting studios get
some queer requests. We had a sudden
cyclonic blow the other morning, and in
the midst of it the studio telephone went
and an agitated voice said “Oh, please
help me! I had a blanket on the line
before the storm came, on and it’s dis-
appeared. Could you ask if anyone has
seen it?” The SOS was sent forth, and
an hour later a grateful ring reported
the blanket home again.
* * * *
“Blurb”: Stage heroes, heroines and
villains haven’t changed much in the last
50 years, except in their exterior charac-
teristics. And audiences react to them
in much the same way. Drift into any
one of our numerous picture palaces and
you’ll find a large audience of presum-
ably average intelligence either booing
the villain as he tries his dastardly tricks
on the “luvly goil” or cheering on the
hero as he smashes his way to the rescue.
About the only difference I can discern
is that, whereas in the old Surrey-side
melodrama the villain wore an opera
cloak, chewed a cigar, twirled a heavy
moustache and gnashed his teeth, his suc-
cessor of to-day (still hissed as loudly as.
ever) “totes a rod,” wears a loud check
suit, speaks through his nose and chews
gum in his spare moments. The goil, I
concede, is as luvly as ever, but she has
discarded the flowing drapery of the Vic-
torian age for a bathing costume, a pair
of scanties or something equally negli-
gible. The only change in the. hero is that
he croons. And Sydney audiences mop
it up by the mile.
* * * *
“O’G.”: Having owned a bulldog
from puppyhood to five years old, I’m
with those recent Bulletin scribes who
hold the breed among the friendliest and
most amiable of canines; also, leading
Bully about the suburban landscape has
increased my knowledge of the human
race. Being a striking-looking animal he
attracts a lot of attention, and I now
have a nodding acquaintance with half
the women of the locality. The other
half of the fair sex, I admit, shriek at
the sight of him, but —psychologists can
make what they like of this—these
usually are not the best-lookers. Alto-
gether the ladies —from the tiniest tots
upwards—seem endowed with a better
dog-sense than the men. The stronger
sex are mostly furtively afraid or —
especially with a little hops in them —full
of patronising bravado. There are ex-
“Come on, youse man-eaters. Sign ’ere before I lose me temper !”
ceptions, of course, but taking them all
round few men seem to know the first
essential in approaching a strange dog,
which is, address him, and then, if he
wags his tail, handle him: if the rudder
doesn’t move, leave him alone. Women
seem to know that by instinct.
* X * *
“Katie Keyboard”: Gee, won’t those
air-hostess girls have to watch their step
with 150 rules to remember and slimming
to eight stone, six all the time till they’re
35, and not even allowed bright nail
polish. And they have to be alert, soli-
citous, methodical, pleasant and keep on
warning passengers not to get their heads
cut off with the propellers, though I don’t
see how anyone could put their head out
of the window far enough for that, and
be diplomats, too, which I always
thought were baldheaded old gents with
sidewhiskers attending royal courts and
things and conspiring in corners, at least
they’re like that in a picture I seen—l
mean saw —with my boy-friend last week,
and they had on silk stockings and dinky
knickers. I mean the diplomats had, but
I think an air-hostess girl with a nice
shape would look quite .nice in them,
too. But, gee, it’d be awful to think that
if you forgot and went up to eight stone
seven the mean things would sack you.
A box of chocs, might do that.
* * * *
“C. Mac”: Anyone going in for home
study to qualify as head lecturer on
“How to Read Newspapers (B. 7/7/ 3/.)
would not have missed the following
gem of innuendo and implication in the
cables of July 15 touching on Britain’s
newest plan for restricting Spain’s civil
war to Spain:
It is stated that the details of the plan
were not even divulged to the Ambassadors
who waited on the Foreign Secretary (Mr.
Eden). They were told only of the pro-
posed procedure. It is believed that this
has been done to prevent premature, and
possibly biased, comment in Germany and
Italy before other nations have had a chance
fully to consider the plan.
The italics were not in the cable as
printed, but newspapers might recapture
some of the waning trust in their con-
tents if they devised some such means
of indicating how much of the cables is
to be read as genuine news and how
much as guesswork and comment. In
the foregoing example “possibly biased”
is exceptionally good.
if * * *
“Keg”: N.S.W. Minister Dunningham
has been complaining that he is unable to
enforce safety-first methods in the trans-
port business on account of overlapping
awards. Still, there is nothing to prevent
him making a start on the footboards of
the State tramcars. There is no award
to prevent that reform. If the tram is to
disappear in 10 years, as has been pre-
dicted, Mr. Dunningham might get a
report from experts on how to convert
the present stock to last out a decade. It
is remarkable what complications politi-
cians can find and what pikestaffs they
can miss.
•!* "K
“Awani”: Lost schools? Over 20
years ago the Westwood State school in
the Warialda (N.S.W.) district was closed
for lack of pupils. It remained unutilised
for a few years, then, by departmental
orders, it was shifted to Biniguy, about
five miles away on the other side of the
river. Some time later, the teacher in
charge of Gravesend State school, about
10 miles from Biniguy, received instruc-
tions from headquarters to inspect the
Westwood school, make a note of how
much furniture was there and send in a
report about its condition. The. depart-
ment had apparently forgotten the fact
that there had been no school at West-
wood for years past!
“D.E.,” full charged with thunder:
I propose an export embargo on nice Aus-
tralian girls bound for Hollywood. One went
there last year and became enamored of an
actor-r —according to Hollywood custom
several times married. He answers to the name
of Brent, and is alleged to be an Irishman ;
but no real Irishman would behave like 'the
cad and bounder he has shown himself to be.
Brent took her over the border to Mexico,
where the pair contracted a Hollywood mar-
riage—now, I suppose, one of the most profit-
able Mexican industries since Californian com-
petition killed the horse-gambling, faro, rou-
lette and dicing joint at Tia Juana. After 10
days the actor-r discovered that “we were not
meant for each other,” and he has since an-
nounced that he “intends to seek the annul-
ment of the union on the ground that the
Mexican marriage laws were not observed.”
Setting aside the fact that he was an Ameri-
can by adoption and she a new arrival from
a far country, it was the fellow’s duty to see
that the Mexican marriage laws were observed.
Taking a girl into a semi-barbarous republic,
inducing her to become a party to what she
must have regarded as a binding marriage—
the fact was cabled to the ends of the earth —
leaving her flat after a week and a half and
then suing for divorce on the pretext that they
had not conformed to even the loose regula-
tions of the Greasers —this must surely be the
ripest example of ruffianism on even Holly-
wood’s nasty record. If my first proposition
is too strong for weak-kneed Canberra, I sug-
gest as an alternative an import ban on all
films in which Brent figures.
RESIDENTIAL.
Oh! ’andsome is as ’andsome does, and ’e’s
not very ’andsome
That stands upon a chiffonier and looks across
a transom,
And tells the gent, in Number Five as ’ow
’e’s seen me sneakin’,
And tells Miss Smith in Number Three as I’ve
been stickybeakin’.
If ’e ’as lost a collar-stud, I’m sure I never
took it;
If she ’as lost a georgette scarf, I’m sure I
never shook it.
For, though I keeps a boarding-house, I’ve
always been a lydy;
I only likes to see their things is kept all nice
and tidy,
And nothing in the duchess-drawers that
shouldn’t ought to be there,
Like dirty socks and apple-cores and such
things you might see there.
She needn’t lock her letters up—l’m sure I
never read ’em;
He needn’t plant his cigarettes—l’m sure I’ll
never need ’em.
I know ’e keeps a flask of gin—’e couldn’t
do without it —
But if it’s shrinking every day—well, I knows
naught about it.
And if ’is fancy glass is cracked, ’e needn’t say
1 cracked it;
And if they say such things of me, I’ll make
’em all retract it.
I’ll have them transoms nailed up tight when
Tommy comes to-morrow.
’E’s done ’is peeping long enough, ’e’ll find it
to ’is sorrow.
This running round and telling tales is all some
folks is good for,
But standing up on chiffoniers —it simply can’t
be stood for!
QUEENSLAND.
L. M. D. O’NEIL.


VISIBLE SMELL.
What glorious lun
For everyone
If only smell
Were visible!
Nature, or I’ll be jiggered,
Was far too niggard
In planning out our senses,
Just, I suppose, to save expenses.
Why not extend
The use of the eye
To its logical end?
1 ask why.
In the garden beds,
Over the heads
Of lilies and roses,
Mist would arise
To gladden our eyes
As well as our noses —
Diaphanous vaporous mist,
Colored with delicate hues,
To comfort and amuse
The horticulturist.
And then
Elizabethan Ben
Need not have sworn
This his rose smelt only oi Phyllis or Laura,
For it would have worn
The lady’s aura,
Her own distinctive shade,
Pink, azure or jade,
Combined with its own scent
A duplex ornament.
Again, contrariwise,
The nasty smells, leaving no doubts,
Would advertise
Their whereabouts.
m.l. Arnold Wall.
* * •* *
“Ente Marid”: It was a very select
and proper inner political circle, and the
All Highest sat tensely round the table
during consideration of the radio talk
programme which was to convince the
country that Lyons was the only bet.
The silence grew when one of Sydney’s
most politically generous knights began
to rehearse his bit. “Well, folks,” began
the orator, “we are here to-night to
have a little chat about what Mr. Lyons
has done for the unemployed. Now, let
us look at the whole situation without
evasion and without circumcision” ——
He didn’t get any further. But the talk
was a success. An immense success.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: “Pulls her up as quick
as you could wink,” Jones told me of his
newly-adjusted brakes. But they don’t,
and never can. Seven times a second is
as quick as most people can wink. At
60 m.p.h. a car travels nearly 10 feet
per wink-period. But the average time of
reaction to a clear, normal, unpreoccu-
pied brain is seven-tenths of a second,
from first sight of sudden danger to when
the foot goes down on the brake. Even
at 30 m.p.h. the car travels nearly 31
feet in that time before the brakes go
on. And well-adjusted four-wheel brakes
require nearly 45 feet to stop the car at
"Hey, Ma, better knock off now. The boat sails in quarter of an hour."
that quite moderate speed. Few motor-
ists realise the power of a car at quite
ordinary speeds as a projectile—until
they hit something. A 30001 b. car at 30
m.p.h. strikes a stationary object with a
force of over 40 tons.
* * * *
.“Mallam”: It was a Collins-street con-
sulting-room. The haughty lady-in-wait-
ing who answered my ring looked at me
as though I was some unknown fungus
which had taken root on the doorstep.
Under her icy stare I asked, “Is Dr.
Sawyer in?” “Mr. Sawyer is in,” she cor-
rected me pointedly. Following abjectly
in her footsteps I tottered to a chair in
the waiting-room.
* * * *
“Keg”: In reply to “Aussie” (B.
14/7/’37), I was a member of the 2nd
A.L.H. in ’l4, and many of my mates
bore German names. Another mate was
rejected on account of his name. The
same thing applied at elections later on.
Some electors with German names were
allowed to record their votes ; others were
barred. It was probably a matter of the
individual taste of those who were in
charge at the moment.
:|: * * *
“Fiona”: The revelation that the film
censorship was responsible for the altera-
tion of the name of the film “John
Meade’s Woman” to “John
Meade’s Lady” recalls that when
Barrie’s ‘‘Admirable Crichton”
was filmed in the silent days the
Hollywood autocrats decided the
original title was lamentably lack-
ing in sex appeal, and altered it to “Man
and Woman.” To-day, of course, the
censor would hasten to remove the last
vestige of s.a. by insisting on its being
screened as “Gentleman and Lady.”
:fc * * *
“Hamer”: Discussing the recent Bul-
letin symposium on the potency of
various drinks, a venerable chemist of
my acquaintance introduced a new angle.
In the days when women were virtually
barred from those portions of hotels
where drinks are sold, he assured me,
chemists did a roaring trade in certain
patent medicines with alcohol for the
main ingredient. Now that women may
drink openly, the chemists’ trade in such
items has faded almost to nothingness.
* * * *
“Rustchuk”: Cabled that the recently-
born son and heir of King Boris of Bul-
garia has been christened Simeon, “after
the celebrated Bulgarian King of the
tenth century.” I can’t find much in his-
torical books about the original Simeon,
but he was presumably one of the last of
the warrior chiefs who made things
mightily unpleasant for the Eastern
Roman Empire for centuries. It can’t
have been very long after he had gone
that the Bulgars’ hereditary foes took a
terrible revenge by what must surely be.
the most hideous and calculated bar-
barity ever recorded in warfare. “In
1014,” writes a chronicler of the period,
“the Emperor Basil defeated the Bulgars,
and after taking 15,000 of them prisoners
he caused their eyes to be put out, leav-
ing one eye only to every hundredth
man to enable him to conduct his coun-
trymen home.”
“Brix”: Our church being hard-up the
Ladies’ Guild decided on a bazaar and
concert. A sprightly young woman, a new
arrival and the latest member, found the
function a bit slow, so with a few choice
spirits she retired to her home for a
flutter with the cards. Stakes were pur-
posely high, and the organiser raked in
nearly £l5. When she appeared with her
contribution, just as the treasurer was
totting up the takings, the guild, as one
woman, recoiled from the proceeds of an
"Yes, madam, Lightning Messenger Service speaking ."
evening's gambling, and exhorted her
never to let the Rev. know she had
even suggested helping the church by such
means. The young woman walked off in
a huff. Nothing more was heard of the
matter until the next Sunday, when the
Rev. announced from the pulpit
that he specially wished to thank the
generous anonymous donor of nearly £l5.
At that announcement the Ladies’ Guild
turned a greenish hue. All but one.
* * V ; i !
“Mallam”: If “Oxmead,” who faults
the phrase “try and use” (B. 7/7/’37),
will refer to Fowler’s Modern English
Usage he will see that the learned author
does not altogether agree with him.
Fowler winds up a paragraph with:
Though “try to do” can always be sub-
stituted for “try and do,” the latter has
a shade of meaning that justifies its exist-
ence; in exhortations it implies encourage-
ment —the effort will succeed ; in promises
it implies assurance —the effort shall suc-
ceed. It is an idiom that should be not
discountenanced, but used when it comes
natural.
;|; Ms . * * %
“Bellum”: Revolutions or civil wars —
whichever term is deemed fitter for the
conversion of Spain
into a battlefield-
are more likely to
be short and sharp
than long-drawn-
out affairs, but
there have been
some notable ex-
ceptions in com-
paratively modern
times; the Ameri-
can Civil War, for
instance, dragged
along from 1861 to
1865. England has
had only two suc-
cessful revolutions.
The first lasted for
nearly three years,
from August, 1642,
when the Parlia-
mentary forces rose
against Charles 1.,
until June, 1645,
when that mis-
guided monarch’s
goose was definitely
cooked at Naseby.
In the second re-
volution of 1688 it
was little more than
a matter of weeks
or months before James 11. was held to
have abdicated by bolting from his realm.
Among the great nations France holds
the record for revolutions. It had six
between 1789 and 1871.
* * * *
“Red Heckle”: “Newtowner” is right
in stating that only five Highland regi-
ments are entitled to wear the kilt (B.
7/7/’37), but the Highland dress is also
issued and worn by the 6th and 9th Bat-
talions of the Highland Light Infantry,
The 6th wear the Seaforth (McKenzie
tartan) and the 9th wear the Black Watch
variety; also, the 9th Royal Scots wear
the hunting Stewart dress. Braces, of
course, are out of the question; two
safety pins are all that is needed to hold
the kilt in perfect position. No breeks
are ever issued or worn under the kilt;
they would cause the wearers to chate,
especially after a long march over dusty
roads. The only men to wear them in
France were the battalion runners, who
had to ride bikes when on duty.
* * * ❖
“Erskine”: In the blouse of Com-
mons the Speaker, once elected, is prac-
tically assured of retaining his job as long
as he wishes, whatever Ministries may
come or go. This wholesome, precedent
was mostly followed in this country until
early in the present century, since when
the valued billet, which ought to set its
holder above politics and faction, has
become a party prize, one of the. choicest
of the spoils earmarked for the victors.
The only exception, of course, is when a
newly-arrived Government confers the
Speakership on an Oppositionist or an
Independent to enable it to keep its
majority. I am not sure who was the last
survivor of the old system. One Lee-
Steere, I can recall, occupied the Chair
under several different Administrations in
Westralia until his death in 1903 ; Jenkin
Coles must have lasted until some years
later in the Adelaide Assembly.
:f: %
“J.0.L.”: There are other causes of
tooth decay (B. 14/7/’37) than wrong
diet. Otherwise, how account for the fact
that fine molars are found among peoples
who exist on widely different food?
Eskimos live almost entirely on meat,
yet dental decay affects only 1.4 p.c. of
them, according to a recent medical in-
vestigator. On the other hand, the Sikhs
of India are practically vegetarians, yet
any of them could pose for a toothpaste
ad. The cause of dental decay is a mys-
tery, even to the bigwigs of science.
* * * *
“Dumbleyung” on a Westralian out-
break :
Several movements have recently been
started in Westralia for boosting local products
in the most practical way of all, by consum-
ing more and more of them. Among other
things it has been urged that the State would
be made more self-sufficient if people would
sweeten their tea and coffee with honey, instead
of sugar from the other side of the continent.
The latest is the citrus-fruit campaign, and
Lieut.-Governor Mitchell, like the sturdy
patriot he is, has given it not only his official
blessing but a personal recommendation. His
Ex. is reported as having told a deputation
from the W.A. Fruitgrowers’ Association that
“he found after taking oranges and lemon
juice last thing at night he could do with much
less sleep and awoke much fresher in the morn-
ing.” And he should know —like George Reid,
he always enjoyed the reputation, when he was
in politics, of being able to drop into sound
and peaceful slumber at will, whether on the
Treasury bench, when he was being assailed by
Labor members, or at any other time or place.
Even when the present Duke of Windsor (then
Prince of Wales) was here in 1920, and the
train in which he was visiting the W.A. timber
districts ran bff the rails, the then Premier was
alleged to have been the very last passenger to
be awakened by the bumping and the yells.
To stress the beneficent influences of their
wares the local growers might do worse than
get out a poster depicting the King’s represen-
tative. after a midnight course of lemon squash
and orange crush, leaping from his bed at
dawn “like a codiin just washed in the dew,’’
(Continued on page 58.)


l\My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
10 for 9°'
20 for 16
:
!il
THE
THIS
GENERATION
CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
London “Financial Times” advises Aus-
tralia to “take advantage of its trading
prosperity and curtail additions to its
public commitments.” Good advice ; but
it reached Australia’s spendthrift State
Treasurers when they were gathering at
Canberra to demand £23,000,000 of loan
money for 1937-38 instead of the
£16,000,000 agreed upon at their last
palavers. Their troubles about curtailing
public commitments!
The Government at Canberra objected
to the six superfluous provincial Admin-
istrations borrowing more than
£16,000,000 this financial year—“put its
foot down at the Loan Council,” as
Ministerial newspapers expressed it. But
the superfluous provincial Administra-
tions are to get another £8,000,000 spent
in their provinces by means of “semi”-
Government loans, like the one for
Stevens’s Water Board. Thus the Finan-
cial Agreement is set at naught and the
Loan Council stands revealed as the fake
it has become.
As the parly machines have fixed
things, the N.S.W. Senate election will be
a fatuous sort of poker game. When
the cards were shuffled and dealt, Labor
had four As in its hand: Amour, Ander-
son, Armstrong and Ashley. The U.A.P.-
U.C.P. got Aarons, Arkins, Hall and
Hardy. Aarons having been discarded
(at his own request), Helmore was
drawn from the pack: three Hs and an
A against four As. But political poker is
not played ordinary to Hoyle, and the
lookers-on have a hand in the game.
“The new streamlined Melbourne-
Sydney express” is to be. all the colors of
the rainbow. “Royal blue, with two gold
bands running horizontally” outside, and
inside “blue in the general compart-
ments, grey in the women’s compart-
ments, maroon in the smoking compart-
ments, green, grey and red in the second-
class cars.” It is all symbolical except
for the introduction of gold. Taxpayers
go green, grey and red when they con-
sider the losses on these railway depart-
ments, and the outlook for relief from
the taxes they have to pay to meet the
losses is distinctly blue.
At the instigation of a greedy and
arrogant Vic. Cocky clique, Page and
Agrarians who follow him have agreed
to demand at least half the Cabinet jobs
as, the price of their adhesion to any
coalition. The demand, it is understood,
is to be presented after the elections.
Wouldn’t it be just as well to win them
first?
There has been an unusual number of
by-elections in Britain since Neville
Chamberlain became Prime Minister,
and his Government has won them
nearly all —in most cases by great major-
ities. “S. M. Herald’s” London corre-
spondent suggests that it is because
“Labor’s policy” (and “the Liberal rump
is more or less lumped in with Labor”)
“promises war and that of the Conser-
vatives aims at peace.” The odd thing
is that the “Herald” gives its public little
but Lib.-Lab. “news” and views in its
Spanish war and war-scare cablegrams,
and its editorials merely repeat the Lib.-
Lab. views and “news.”
When the Salisbury-Bowmans railway
was being discussed in the S. Australian
Assembly in 1913, Premier Richard
Butler predicted that it would “connect
up the broad-gauge system with the line
in course of construction between Kal-
goorlie and Port Augusta.” Richard
was right, and his son, the present Pre-
mier, will see the prophecy become fact
on Friday when the new Red Hill-Port
Pirie link begins operations. Father
Butler also predicted that the thing would
“revolutionise railway traffic in the
north.” Son Butler will be hoping this
is another prophetic bull’s-eye.
N.S.W. municipalities, which are now
expected to provide most of the dirt jobs
for the unemployed, have just on
£3,000,000 of rates outstanding, and
mostly uncollectable. Many of them,
if not bankrupt at the moment, are sure
to go bung unless the Government saves
them with tax-money. Yet Spooner, the
Minister of Local Government, is actu-
ally advising these embarrassed concerns
to borrow.
The Westralian Primary Producers
recently sent a committee down to the
south-west group settlements to see how
many settlers remained. It was told that
they were quitting at the rate of one
every third day, was shown “27 farms
that had had over 40 occupants” (five
remain), and departed with the convic-
tion that for most of the survivors there
was only “a bare subsistence” ahead.
The Westralian group settlements were
“established” in country to a large
extent “entirely unsuitable for cultiva-
tion,” but it grew splendid timber. The
“The Soviet’s great gift to an expanding world.” — “S. M. Herald.”.. .“Magnificent
non-stop flight—no mention in the German press. Maybe there will come a day when
Hitler will realise....” —Sydney “D.T.”
TWO LITTLE RED RIDING HOODS : “Oh, grandma, what big teeth you have!”
public debt would be several millions
less and thousands of poor devils would
have been spared years of heart-break-
ing and hopeless labor had the timber
been left to the axeman and sawmiller
instead of being ringbarked and fired —
often ineffectually; the Primary Pro-
ducers committee saw “any number of
dead forest giants, up to 40 per acre, still
standing.” No one has ever been able
to reckon the total losses on these group
settlements, but the Agricultural Bank
Commissioners reported that to June 31,
1934, £2,816,000 had been paid to
settlers for “sustenance” alone.
In London last week, if the Sydney
“Sun’s” Special Representative bears true
witness, Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., “advo-
cated a boycott of Hitler, Mussolini,
Franco and their murder gangs.” In Adel-
aide about the same time the State A.L.P.
Council ordered an inquiry into the
charges against “Mr. J. J. Daly, selected
Labor Senate candidate.” The “charges”
are, shortly, that Daly isn’t barracking
for the Reds in Spain. If this kind of
thing isn’t scotched it may lose Labor an
election which is not yet won.
Out of its boasted surplus the Sydney
Government.is finding £25,000 “for ad-
vances to necessitous fruitgrowers who
are carrying on their operations in a
reasonably satisfactory manner,” and it
has appointed the inevitable royal com-
missioner to “inquire into the economics
of the fruit industry.” A land man?
No, a police magistrate!
When news of the shindy in the Pei-
ping neighborhood reached Sydney, the
Chinese Consul-General hailed the thing
as “Russia’s opportunity to demonstrate
its sympathy with China.”
At present Russia is adopting a policy of
careful watchfulness.
Yes, with its tail between its legs.
In S.A.’s direst extremity—and it suf-
fered more during the depression than
any other State —the Adelaide Govern-
ment did without an unemployed-relief
tax. It got along with one income tax,
though it made the schedule very stiff.
People who have to look hard at every
shilling are now reaping the benefit of
this policy. It was made possible by
huge Commonwealth grants; but West-
ralia has also been getting huge Common-
wealth grants, and there State taxation
begins on incomes of £53 p.a. In S.A.,
as the Liberal and Country League com-
placently points out, a £l5O-a-year man
with a wife and two children pays no in-
come tax and a £2OO a year man pays
only 10s. as against £7 11s. in States with
unemployed-relief taxes, real or alleged.
In three months, if they last that long,
the Stalinists will be celebrating the
twentieth anniversary of their Uproari-
ous Revolution. It is to be hoped that
the inhabitants, who are to be enfran-
chised some time, will be well washed
for the occasion, but it seems unlikely.
In public addresses delivered in Sydney
during the last fortnight an ex-Senator
(Garling) and a lady (Miss Lorna Byrne,
of the N.S.W. Agricultural Department)
have testified that a hot bath is still a
luxury in the alleged Workers’ Republic
and there is still a chronic shortage of
soap. As always, cleanliness is next to
godliness in capitalistic countries, but the
Red Government provides the materials
for neither.
The war against Fascism and Imperial-
ism, in which the British Empire is to
be the mug, still refuses to grow out of
the Spanish shaloo, though Reds and
yellow newspapers continue to hope for
the worst. As head of the Non-interven-
tion Committee, the British Government
has proposed a substitute for the naval
patrol, with recognition of both factions
conditionally on foreign fighting men
being withdrawn. The plan is furiously
condemned by British Labor members,
the “Cronk News,” “Pertinax,” Madame
Two-Blues, French Socialist politicians
and Moscow, so it must have solid merits.
Mrs. Freer arrives in Sydney:
“Herald.” “Sun.”
Mrs. Freer’s ar- Vast Crowd Extends
rival excited little in- Warm Greeting,
terest. She was met She was given a
by a group of reception equal to
friends, including her that of an interna-
aunt, of Darling tional celebrity, hun-
Point, with whom dreds of people
she will stay for having waited out-
the present. side the wharf at
Darling Harbor since
early morning.
Well, anyway, they tell the same, stories
in their Spanish war news.
A committee is to report on a pension
scheme for British Ms.P., to be financed
out of the beneficiaries’ own pockets.
Australia needs something of the sort,
but if it were initiated without charge
to the taxpayer it would cease to be a
scheme —it would be a blooming miracle.
A Canberra commentator notes that
“on his return, Mr. Lyons will find his
suite of offices at Parliament House
spick-and-span”:
The carpets in the air-conditioned rooms
have been taken up, and painters are giv-
ing the walls a new coating for the first
time in 10 years.
Very thoughtful of Joseph—or some-
body— to make things so nobby for the
next man.
Our Glorious Press served up a feast of
Sino-Jap war news last week. On Mon-
day there was severe fighting outside
Peiping—the Chinese were “going to
throw their whole weight against Japan
if necessary.” On Tuesday, it was esti-
mated that the chances of an outbreak
were fifty-fifty, and “believed that a
Japanese offensive would begin on Thurs-
day.” On Wednesday, China agreed to
make the 20th route army apologise, and
Japan considered the offer satisfactory.
On Thursday Chiang Kai-shek was sup-
posed to have moved six divisions north-
wards. By Friday, it was thought that
Japan would avoid war. On Saturday,
the news came that Japan was concen-
trating 50,000 men to invade Hopei and
that 30 divisions of Chinese had been
spread between Nanking and Peking.
There is nothing like variety.
S. A. Lloyd, who besides being “full-
time” member for a shaky Assembly
electorate, Concord, is on the County
Council —so-called because it is supposed
to run a Sydney and suburban electricity
business—gave Sydney a laugh the other
day. He suggested that County Coun-
cillors should “resign in a body as a pro-
test against the powers given to the
general manager.” The g.m. is a dry old
Scotch engineer who finds it impossible
to conceal the fact that politicians like
Lloyd get on his nerves.
Fr6m a Frenchman abroad:
It was a bad year to return to France, judg-
ing by what is happening in Paris. Everything
is muddled up and disorganised. Class hatred
is obvious; the new social laws and the 40-hour
week especially have upset everything. Banks
are closed all day Saturday, big shops all day
Monday, and food stores also —very awkward
for those who haven’t a frigidaire, and those
are the majority. I think I will be very
happy to return to Sydney and live once more
in a more healthy and less selfish world.


ANOTHER CASE FOR THE CENSORSHIP.
“Police were present when the Marcus Show was opened in Sydney. It had been described as ‘absolutely disgusting’ and ‘a moral danger’ by members of a deputation to
the Chief Secretary.”


ADELAIDE’S
BLOSSOM TIME
A riot of color ... plains and hillsides aglow with flowers
and blossoms, ADELAIDE presents unforgettable scenes
in August and September.
7 DAYS 7 TOUR ... . £5/5/-
Fare includes one week’s accommodation and tours to
Adelaide’s mountain and coastal beauty spots, and is
PLUS FARES FROM YOUR TOWN TO ADELAIDE.
Full details from the S.A. representative at Victorian or New South Wales Government
Tourist Bureaux, Melbourne and Sydney, or from
The GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Box 664 G, G P. 0.,
Adelaide.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could, your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death .
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age If the answer
is “No ," fust consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can .beat that performance.
Australasian
YYULIU C.UII
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., XiTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland- A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
iovTH Australia : Paringa Building, 13 Hindley, Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. Georges Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Two of the three candidates selected
as the U.A.P. Senate team for N.S.W.
were originally sent to Parliament as
Labor men. Arkins won Castlereagh in
1915 after Louis Trefle’s death, but left
the party during the conscription rumpus
and was then elected as a Nationalist for
St. George. He went out in 1930, but
went into the Senate on a vote of the
State Parliament in the place of Lionel
Courtenay, who died before the Senate
met. David Hall was first elected for
Gunnedah in 1901 and served one term.
He beat Conroy for the Werriwa Federal
seat in 1906, but resigned in 1912 to join
McGowen and Holman as Minister for
Justice with a seat in the Leg. Council.
Next year he stepped out and won the
Enmore seat twice, finishing his Parlia-
mentary war in 1920. Since then he has
stuck to his practice as a solicitor, with
occasional incursions into public affairs.
Helmore, the third man, is a Newcastle
solicitor who has not hitherto made a
bid for public office.
Lord Mayor of Hobart J. J. Wignall
has three distinctions —he is the first to
hold that title, which originated in 1934 ;
he has held office longer than any other
Outdoes Whittington.
Mayor of Hobart —eight times —he is
now in his sixth consecutive term; and
he is one of the few Australians who re-
ceived a C.M.G. from Edward VIII.
Tasmanian-born, he was first a basket-
maker and then a butcher, but for 22
years has given himself up to municipal
work. Having signed a contract for a
new water scheme for his city, he is now
taking a spell in Queensland.
Capt. Fred Aarons, who won a place
in the N.S.W. U.A.P. Senate team and
withdrew before the announcement of
the ballot because he discovered he did
not find favor with the executive, went
to Gallipoli with the Ist Artillery Bri-
gade and there lost the sight of an eye.
Back in Australia he formed and com-
manded the 120th Howitzer Battery, but
at the third battle of Ypres in 1918 had
the other eye badly damaged, and this
put him out of action. He has been
seven years president of the Blinded
Soldiers’ Association. During the depres-
sion he gave five years’ honorary service
as director of a rural employment
scheme for boys. He now broadcasts
on foreign affairs for the A.B.C.
Dr. Macdonell W. Woods, Tasmanian
Rhodes scholar of 1934, finished his term
at Oxford with a doctorate in philosophy,
and will return in a few months to do
research work in the engineering school
at Melbourne University under Prof.
Burstall. Woods is the son of W. A.
Woods, one-time Tasmanian Speaker, ex-
editor of Hobart “Clipper” and an old
Bulletin contributor.
Alfred Hemsley, partner in Allen,
Allen and Hemsley, Sydney legal firm,
left England for the benefit of his health,
and added 49 years to his life before it
ended last week. For 10 years he was
in the Legislative Council. Scorning to
ask for a vote, he nearly missed when
the reformed Council was elected in
1934; he succeeded only in the last
ballot, for a three-year term. Failing
health prevented him from recontesting
his seat last April. He was a shining
example of old-world courtesy.
For many years some of the best
horses seen in Adelaide streets bore the
“R” brand of John F. Ryder, one of the
best judges of a horse in South Australia.
He raced extensively, and such good ones
as Swordfish, New Warrior, Firepan, St.
Simonian, Destructable, Rumford, Com-
monsense and Scentum carried his colors.
He bred cattle in the south-eastern corner
of the State, and Ryder Brothers’ annual
cattle sale at Mt. Barker was an event;
also, his Ashmore woolshed was one of
the finest in S.A. John, bom at Nairne in
1867, died this month at Naracoorte.
Born at Gawler in 1848, when South
Australia was an infant colony, James
Grey Moseley pioneered the northern pas-
toral areas early enough to get his name
on the map for a lake and a mountain.
He took up 150 square miles in the
Gawler Ranges when he was 19, but
drought drove him back. Unbeaten, he
managed and afterwards bought Yadla-
mulka station, and later acquired Yardea,
Pavey, Pondona, Yartoo and Carcuppa,
all leases that had been abandoned to the
rabbit, and made good holdings of them.
At 61 he was sent to Parliament to repre-
sent Flinders, and stayed there for 21
years, fighting his last and unsuccessful
campaign at 82. After enjoying seven
years of quiet retirement this grand old
pioneer has passed on.
Edward Bennett arrived at Melbourne
in the year the Port Phillip district of
N.S.W. became the colony of Victoria.
His first job was carting wood from Dam-
pier Creek, where the post office was
Ballyshanassy, now part' of the suburb of
Burwood. He came from Armagh,
Ireland, knew a horse when he saw one
and traded them when Kirk’s Bazaar was
a paddock in Bourke-street. In the
’eighties he bought the Turf Hotel at Said,
and in the ’nineties went on the land at
Briagolong to grow hops. Forty years
ago he took up a grazing selection three
miles out of Briagolong, and there last
week 92 of his descendants assembled to
watch him blow out 103 candles on a
birthday cake and tell them tales of the
days when Victoria was courting Prince
Albert'.
Old Westralian miners will remember
the carvings Harry Dowd cut on salmon-
gum trees giving directions to waterholes.
Dowd, a sculptor who became smitten
with gold fever, was a prospector in the
Coolgardie-Kalgoorlie days, and one of
the carvings, including his name, is now
in the Perth Public Library. His brother
William, born at Sandhurst before it was
Bendigo, did not go westwards until 1895,
nor to the goldfields until 1900, but he
immediately became secretary of the
W.A. Federated Miners’ League, and held
that post for 12 years. William passed
on at Perth last week at 79.
Onetime member for Darwin in the
Tasmanian Assembly—he topped the poll
for Darwin in 1931, but was beaten at
the next election —Tom Butler, of Shef-
field, died last week while on a visit to
Hobart. Starting as a bullock-driver,
he worked up an extensive carrying and
road-contracting business, his jobs in-
cluding the hauling of the 10-ton trans-
formers to the top of Cataract Hill, Laun-
ceston. His chief public interest was in
education, and he was on a mission to
get a new wing built to the school he
was taught in when the end came.
After 56 years in the public service of
Tasmania, Auditor-General E. H. Prety-
man has vacated his chair for his deputy,
F. J. Batt. It was Pretyman who dis-
covered that his State’s Taxation Depart-
ment accounts were never audited ; he
had to wave a legal opinion at the
Treasury officials before they would let
him inside the door to do anything ex-
cept pay his own taxes. His successor,
who has been his deputy for 17 years
and in the department for 47, prepared
“The Case for Tasmania” in 1926 when
Lockyer conducted the financial inquiry
on behalf of the Commonwealth.
Believed to be the youngest Director of
Finance any Australian State has had,
A. T. Smithers, the. Victorian Government
man who is to succeed H. A. Pitt, was
born in Echuca (Vic.) 43 years ago, and
has been in the Treasury for 26 of them.
Closely associated with the conferences
that led to the financial agreement of
1927 from which sprang the Loan Coun-
cil, he has since attended every Loan
Council meeting. Budget secrets are no
secrets to him —he has helped perpetrate
the. mysteries themselves under Premiers
Hogan, Argyle and Dunstan. Before the
Budgeteer.
intricacies of Government finance began
to absorb so much of his time he was one
of Vic.’s promising young singers, and
in 1917 won the South-street (Ballarat)
tenor solo.
Minister for Works in the first Collier
Government and Deputy-Premier in 1933,
Alex McCallum, one of Westralia’s best-
known public men, died last week at
South Fremantle at 58. Only last year
he retired from politics to become chair-
man of the Agricultural Bank Commis-
sion. He was given the first State funeral
in W.A. for 20 years.
Robert Semple, Public Works Minister
in Maoriland’s first Labor Cabinet, is
revisiting his native heath. He was born
in Sofala (N.S.W.) 64 years ago, and his
acquaintance with hard work of all sorts
is long and practical. He spent 16 years
laboring on goldfields in Vic. and W.A.
before he crossed the Tasman to delve
The Australian-Maorilander.
for coal in the. Westland State mine. He
founded the M.L. Miners’ Federation
and later the “Red Federation” ; was
gaoled in 1913 for his part in the water-
side workers’ strike and again in war-
time (“three years’ hard” for resisting
conscription). They let him out after 12
months of the second term had been
served, and Wellington South put him
into Parliament at a by-election. After
one year in the House Semple was de-
feated, and went in for a co-operative con-
tract to bore a railway tunnel. His strict
discipline got the tunnel cut in time that
constituted an Australasian record.
Member for Wellington East for the last
nine years, he affects a Hitler mo., is a
vigorous speaker, and hates leadswingers
and slackers almost as bitterly as he de-
tests the capitalistic octopus. Principal
activity nowadays is equipping the M.L.
P.W.D. with all sorts of labor-saving
machinery, and insisting that a fair day’s
pay is worth a fair day’s work.
W. A. Jolly, who is to be the U.A.P.
candidate for Lilley (Q.), is an accountant
in his native Brisbane. He was an aider-
man for Windsor for 13 years, six of them
as Mayor, before Greater Brisbane
arrived. Elected Mayor, he did useful
work in straightening out the financial
and administrative tangle with which
the new corporation began life, and was
returned for a second three-year term
with increased majority. He declined to
nominate for a third term. His Labor
opponent for Lilley will be E. Taylor, a
civil servant and editor of the A.L.P.
“Debaters’ Journal.”
Matthew Henry Lowe, who at 60
becomes Deputy Public Trustee of
N.S.W., kicked off as a lad of 15 in the
Sheriff’s office, and graduated in the ser-
vice, collecting an LL.B. in the process.
He is of the unobtrusive and capable
type. Over the years he has championed
the fortunes of Waverley district cricket
and baseball teams.


“I can tell
White Horse
blindfold
rip- I ——*•
i
' fc
, rig g
NS
Breathe that subtle aroma: did you ever know anything
richer! Take a sip, roll it slowly over your tongue: did
you ever encounter such smoothness! Can you doubt for a moment
the name of this WHISKY? You have it, White Horse, of course!
EQUAL TO A FINE LIQUEUR
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices


ABIRIGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Atrax”: For long I have had the
gravest doubts as to whether the kooka-
burra has any honest claim to his world-
wide reputation for killing snakes. Full-
sized snakes, that is—anything above
nine inches or so ; little ’uns, except for
death adders, are practically harmless.
Jacky’s favorite dish consists of one of
the big earthworms which come to the
surface after rain and lie there help-
lessly. Ranging from Victoria to Queens-
land, anything up to a couple of feet
long, and to the untrained eye—even to
the partially-trained one from a distance
—remarkably snakelike in outward
appearance, they are good publicity-stuff
in the. snake-destroyer line. Jacky belt-
ing one. of these on a high-up branch
makes an ideal photo, of Australia’s self-
appointed protector against venomous
reptiles. Try him with a real snake of
the same size, and there’s nothing doing
—in fact, Mr. K. exhibits the same re-
pulsion as most of us do to Mr. Blake.
$
“Runa”: The giant clam isn’t the only
shellfish that can clamp itself on to an
intruder. When a M.L. housewife went
to examine a plate of cockles recently she
found that one had apparently taken a
saunter along the bench to the corner.
When she tried to retrieve the cockle she
discovered it was blocking a small hole,
on the other side of which was a firmly
caught mouse, which had apparently
strolled over the. plate of shellfish, causing
one indignant cockle to fasten to its tail.
“F.Y.7”: Flying frogs are as common
as gumleaf rum in Western Queensland
by comparison with the wombat, which is
so often met with in the southern States.
The other day a wombat was encoun-
tered far up in C.Q., and, of course, was
promptly shot. The only other “badger”
found in Bananaland was a solitary cap-
tured on the Moonie River in 1900. A
black stockman saw some strange tracks
in recently flooded country and followed
them up. FTe took the resulting wombat
to his boss, who sent it to Sydney
Museum, where it was discovered to be a
new species and christened the “hairy-
nosed wombat.” By the irony of fate the
boss in question sported a crop of hairs
on the. end of his boko, so from then to
the end of his days he was known
throughout the countryside as the hairy-
nosed wombat.
❖ ❖ *
“Ellenvale”: “Nordbo’s” ownerless
dog that attaches itself to the cheque-
men who come to town for a spree (B.
26/6/’37) reminds me of a freelance
hound which follows seasonal work in
North Gippsland (Vic.). When the spring
milking is in full blast and tucker is
plentiful on the farms he joins a cow-
cocky and works for his keep until the
summer. He haunts butcher-shops and
backyards of the township during the hot
weather, and winter generally finds him
with rabbit-trappers. This roving hound
works well for all his temporary masters
—he can handle either cattle or sheep,
and he has few equals in finding a miss-
ing trap or tracking a wounded fox.
* * * *
“Dr. J.”: Came across a theory the
other day which offers the most satis-
factory explanation I’ve so far struck for
regurgitation in animals such as sheep,
cows and the like. When, in prehistoric
times, sheep and other ruminants had to
feed on the plains to obtain sufficient
grass to satisfy their herbivorous
appetites, they were easy prey for preda-
tory enemies. With the development
of the four-stomach plan and the regur-
gitation act, however, they were able to
sneak into the plains, hurriedly fill their
first stomach and bolt for the safety of
the hills, where they could regurgitate
their meal for proper mastication and
digestion.
* * * *
“Grumpy”: Ino longer wonder at the
thickness of a dugong’s skin since seeing
a shark attack one. When the shark
charges the dugong swings round and
turns its back. The shark can rip into
that as much as it likes. In the result-
ing flurry the dugong does a flit, leaving
the shark to nurse an aching jaw and be-
moan the loss of a few good teeth. Its
hide is as great a protection to the
dugong as the carapace is to a turtle.
Having harpooned both, I know it’s*
easier to get the spear into the turtle
than into the dugong. To get the dugong
the aim has to be at the nape of the
neck, just below the skull.
“Strand”: Where did “Hayband” get
the notion that a stockwhip can’t be
machine-plaited (B. 30/6/.’37)? Nine out
of ten whips in use are done by a
machine. To tell one from the other,
hold the whip up and let it hang. If
the seam of the plait lies in a perpendi-
cular line, that flail is made in a
machine. If made by hand the crossing
of the strands —the seam —will slowly
wind round the whip.
•fc H* *s*
“ArchbeU”: If “Bundeena” (B.
30/6/’37) looks into any decent bee-
yard he’ll find the apiarist always clad
in light-colored togs. Even the veils are
nearly always white, with black for the
face side, black net being easier to sec
through. I had a chap with me one
day whose black hat was peppered with
stings, while mine, a light-grey one, was
left alone by the bees. The only time
tfiey bother me much is when I handle
them after working on the motor-truck
and getting oil on my hands.
V * , # *
“E.S.S.”: It is generally field by Old-
World naturalists that bright plumage in
birds indicates weak powers of song.
Australia has many striking exceptions.
The golden-breasted whistler, a topnotch
singer, is one of the handsomest birds
of the bush. Its cousin, the rufous-
breasted whistler, is an equally good
songster and only a little less gaily
apparelled. The yellow-bellied fig bird,
whose song A. J. Campbell likened to
that of the English thrush, is another
beautiful scrub-dweller. Its long tail,
olive-green coat, glossy black cap and
yellow under-surface make it easily
recognisable. The blood bird, or san-
guineous honey-eater, is also a brightly-
arrayed musician ; and its bigger rela-
tive, the black-chinned honey-eater, adds
agreeably to the beauty and bird melody
of the bush. The red-throat has beauty,
too, and its rippling cadence is hardly sur-
Kml” 8 ’ by “ y ° f itS midge '
J? e % * *
“Eureka”: I met an old swaggie as he
was hurriedly leaving a farmhouse with
a dog at his heels. “I suppose you get a
lot of insults when you call at houses for
food?” I remarked. “Well, it’s a funny
game,” he replied. “I’ve had ’em set the
dog on me as you have seen this mornin’,
I’ve been called a good-for-nothin’ loafer,
told I was a blot on the landscape, and
even advised to go and have a bath, but
I’ll say this much—l ain’t often insulted.”
* ... * *
“M 8”: It’s not only in the tropics
that things grow quickly (B. 7/7/’37). A
two-way disk was left on a headland in
a Murray valley vineyard while the vines
were irrigated. Five days later it took
two men and a boy over an hour to find
the disk in a 6ft.-high growth of the weed
commonly known as “fat hen.”
* * * *
“Wang”: The parson, visiting at the
farm, came on Dave at the back of the
barn, swearing angrily at old Ben lying
against a tree stump with a vacuous grin
on his face. “Tut, tut, Dave! ” cried the
parson. “You should not indulge in such
intemperate language.” Dave glared at
him. “Yer pickin’ on th’ wrong one,
mister,” he protested. “It ain’t me what’s
usin’ intemperate, langwidge, it’s that ole
blighter Ben there.” “No, no, Dave,”
“Get your spears ready, boys, in case I miss her.”
the parson insisted ; “I heard you myself.
It wasn’t Ben. All he said, somewhat in-
distinctly, I’ll admit, was that he was all
right. Nothing else.” “Corse he ain’t
said nothin’ else,” retorted Dave. “That’s
th’ intemperate langwidge of his. He’s
just swigged a bottle of whisky we had
hid in a tree, an’ he’s too drunk t’ say
anything else.”
* * * *
“Nordbo”: I never knew the white-
ant (termite) to change color until re-
cently, when a hogshead of beer in the
cellar of the Mount Mulligan (N.Q.) pub
was required to quench the thirst of dust-
throated miners. The first roll cascaded
the precious fluid to the earthen floor,
white-ants having eaten the bottom of
the cask to paper thickness overnight.
A hundred enraged miners—beerless
until the bi-weekly train should arrive
from Cairns —declared the white-ants
definitely black.
* * * *
“Lapin”: Britain, like Australia, is
groaning under the rabbit menace. Statis-
ticians estimate that the furry beast costs
farmers and landowners in the Old Dart
some fifty millions annually. Not only
do they play Jehannum with crops and
pastures, but they transmit a disease
known as coccidiosis, which is deadly to
fowls. The onslaught is at its worst in
Sussex, one of Britain’s chief chook-
raising districts. At the same time there
is strong opposition to proposed legisla-
tion allowing county councils to embark
on a subsidised destruction campaign ;
it is held that the rabbit is “the poor
man’s chicken.”
* * * *
f
is Nomine in
™P°rtant in Australia,®and
our legislators would do well to examine
methods employed in U.S.A., where
stringent regulations have been intro-
duced - Magazine capacity of repeating
shotguns is limited to three cartridges,
ba § bmits have been reduced and the
° f dec °y s forbidden altogether. But
™ the regulations in the world won’t
change a garne-hog, and a rich one can
evade, most of them. He takes along a
few spare guns; limits don t worry him
as he doesn t retrieve the killed or
wounded ducks ; and who wants decoys,
anyway, when you can buy gramophone
recordings of actual duck calls?
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Here’s the history of a
do S owned by a squatter at Tintinara
(S.A.). When little more than a puppy
he was run over by a car and badly
knocked about; shortly after recovering
he was run over by an empty wagon, and
again badly damaged. Next, a bag of
wheat fell on him and fractured his
pelvis ; a girl nursed him for weeks, and
he recovered. One day he ripped up
some clothing and had a piece of one of
the frocks he had ruined tied around his
neck “as a punishment” ; a few days
later a rabbit-trapper brought him home
with a broken leg. “I was going to kill
him when I found him in one of my
traps,” he. explained, “but this ribbon
stuff tied round his neck made me think
he might be some kid’s pet.” Daniel had
his leg put in splints, and the bone
knitted. His next misadventure came
.when a pitchfork tossed off a load of
hay pinned him to the ground. Once
more he became a cot case and was
nursed back to health. He is still chasing
rabbits to-day. Now bring on your
nine-lived cats!
•i'
“The 0.D.”: I can hear a yell of pro-
test from Murray River fishermen if the
water-rat is protected (B. 7/7/’37). The
sleek raider does great damage to fish in
drum-nets and cages. Trapped cod in-
variably shove their noses against the
upstream side of net or cage and push
for all they’re worth. Then the rat swims
down and chews off as much nose as he.
can reach through the mesh of the wire
net cage, and a half-hundredweight of
fish can be spoilt for market in a night.
The rats can pass through the larger
mesh of the drum-net and feast royally.
* * * *
“Sheafstack”: In the craw of a turkey
killed at Coonamble (N.S.W.) 1080
grasshoppers were counted. The count
may have credited deceased with a
’hopper or so in excess of fact; but it
the bird got within a hundred or two of
the number mentioned the performance
might constitute an excellent warrant for
a close season for the big barnyard fowl,
particularly about Christmas.
SONG OF THE STATE BATTERY.
Near where the old Queen Dinah lies dreaming
of ’ninety-three
The State has raised a ten-head mill for
prospectors like me;
When I break out a parcel of likely-looking ore,
The Battery finds a voice and chants “Two
’weights, three ’weights, four.”
Poppet heads on the skyline, nearer the cease-
less roar
As twenty head of stamps come down on
Golden Gully ore.
When I go by the “Gully” its battery sings
to me,
“Crumble-crum-crum, this is a mine, one ounce,
two ounce, three.”
Hard by the reborn township, pulsing with
steam-borne might,
Ever the new State Battery rends the drowsy
hush of night.
When I awake each morning it always-seems
to say,
“Crumble-crum-crum, crushing a dud, four
’weights will not pay.”
Thus does the new State Battery worry me
night and day,
Crushing my dreams with low-grade ore, filling
me with dismay.
Still I can’t help from hoping some day it will
sing to me,
“Crumble-crum-crum, struck it at last, one
ounce, two ounce, three.”
WESTRAUA.
JACK SORENSEN.


“Siz”: One of the first things those
natives of Australia who are forming
self-protection societies should do is to
see* about getting extended to themselves
a courtesy commonly granted to Hotten-
tots, Dyaks, Red Indians and every other
deserving race, on this earth—elevation
from the printer’s lower to the printer’s
upper case. As far as my researches take
me, the abo., aboriginal or aborigine has
the misfortune of belonging to the only
one. race whose general name is com-
monly spelt in the papers— The Bulle-
tin, to its shame, among them—without
the capital. If a man has the honor of
being a maori he’s a Maori, but no abo.
is ever an Abo. Why this unfair dis-
crimination?
*’* * *
“Skull Creek”: “Porcupine Joe” and
“Harry N.” may wax lyrical about the,
succulence of wombat flesh (B. 7/7/’37),
but from experience I maintain that it is
about as palatable as a piece of badly-
baked brick. I have eaten fried camel,
and once, when a mate and I lost all our
gear in a Gippsland flood, I sampled a
slab of tomcat baked in the ashes. The
fried oont tasted and smelt like scorched
rubber, and the one serving of cat I
managed to keep down still haunts me
in the night watches; but both these
dainties are well ahead of wombat as
a table delicacy.
', * .
Gum sucker : I don t know what adult
wombat tastes like as a joint, but I
remember dining with some wild cousins
who snatched a crust in the Bogong
Ranges (Vic.) by wattlebark-stnpping
and kindred activities. The piece de
resistance for Sunday s dinner was what
I took to be roast sucking pig (it had
been cooked in a camp oven, and there s
no better way). After I had swallowed
two liberal helpings Mum, with a twink-
ling eye, inquired what I thought it was.
It was sucking-wombat. The reason
why the wombat at one time became
nearly extinct was because of the par-
tiality of the old hands for this delicacy,
stuffed with sage-and-thyme forcemeat.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Tell “Skull Creek” (B.
30/6/’37) that neither he nor any of his
wagering pastoralists ever saw a lamb
carried off by any Australian eagle. The
fact is that an eagle cannot lift the weight
of a lamb from off the ground. As for
rabbit, eagles are among the most useful
natural enemies of that pest, and, if only
for that reason, deserve the fullest pro-
tection.
* * * *
“Printi”: Although he is not credited
with much medical skill, Binghi has dis-
covered that rheumatism can be fairly
effectively treated by bathing the affected
part with a solution made by boiling
the leaves of common sandalwood or
buddah. A similar preparation is taken
internally for the treatment of colds. The
roots of the kurrajong, too, are greatly
sought after, being soft, sweet and juicy,
somewhat resembling sugarcane. In the
“Two sections !”
dry country Binghi uses these roots to
stave off thirst.
* * * *
“Tin-dog”: Tinned tucker lasting 25
years in Polar regions (B. 23/6/’37) is
no marvel; it should, in fact, last as
long as those million-year-old mammoth
carcasses upon which the Siberians of
last century were accustomed to dine.
The real marvel is the length of time it
will last in the tropics. Take a tin of
peas or beans on the shelf of some gal-
vanised-iron store in Northern Australia ;
note the semi-boiling to which that tin
every summer day is subjected. Yet
some items will still be edible after a
couple of years of it. Tinned fish is
always the first to “blow,” with vege-
tables, a good way behind, second. Sar-
dines make the exception to the rule by
lasting longer than anything—longer
even than corned beef, which sees tinned
fruit racing to the discard months earlier,
**. * *
. Heresone : Here, is the way to deal
a half-way down a hole (B.
“6/5/37)- if you are wearing hobnails,
6jrab Joe s rudder, take up the slack and
P ut ln the boot just on ground level. The
steel toecap bisects him, and if the fore-
part gets down the hole it makes no dif-
ference to the result—unless it is tucker
you’re after.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: I arrived at a Malay
kampong in Negri Sembilan after a small
girl had been taken by a croc. The men
had already exacted vengeance on the
saurian community by landing four of
the brutes, each being hooked from a
tripod suspended over the water, the bait
a living village mongrel. Further down
the river the bereaved mother was pre-
paring her own private revenge. A
young goat had been killed and the skin
removed and stretched tightly over a
framework of rattan. The interior was
then filled with unslaked lime and the
skin sewn up and placed at the water > 3
e dge. Then the woman vigorously twisted
lhe tail of a ]ive kidj and soon thc
plaintive bleats drew a couple of in-
quiring snouts; there was a sudden swirl
and the stuffed figure d j sapp eared. Two
hours later the whole community was
watching the threshing monster which
had swallowed that frightful bait,
......
“Laetitia”: For sheer belligerency the
baby croc, is without a rival. He’ll bail
up when cornered, no matter what the
opposition, from the very instant he
emerges from the eggshell. He starts
life with his armory of teeth already de-
veloped to business efficiency.
* * * *
“Finn”: Traces of old cultivation (B.
7/7/’37). The Irish have a proverb that
the tiller dies but the land keeps the
mark of his hand for ever. In Kerry
and Tipperary are the remains of monas-
teries untenanted for centuries, but it is
said that even the untrained eye can still
distinguish the outlines of the monks’
cultivated patches thereabout. Photo-
graphs from aeroplanes have supplied in-
formation that could never have been
obtained otherwise on the extent of agri-
culture in Ireland a thousand years ago.
* * * *
“Hanko”: I heard my first nightingale
when I was feloniously studying the lay-
out of a Wiltshire (Eng.) orchard. The
bird can trill all right, and’ I listened
all the more keenly because I’d been told
that the songster lisped in its vocalising,
It does. It sings “Thweeth, thweeth!”
for “Sweet, sweet!” adding charm there-
by to its tuneful warble.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: “Bull-ant Bill” is using his
hat for a mike when he says (B. 30/6/’37)
that “no dog, Alsatians included,” has a
chance in a single-handed scrap with a
dingo. A few years ago I could have
introduced Bill to a station where Scot-
tish deerhounds made no more account
of killing a dingo single-handed than they
would of liquidating a rabbit. These dogs
were specially introduced for dingo-
killing, and the fact that they could run
a scent as well as gallop at high speed
made them very successful. Used since
puppyhood to sheep on their native hills,
they never interfered with the woollies.
* * * *
“Hayband”: At Liverpool (N.S.W.) it
was recently alleged that some thrifty
person has been using a vault in the
cemetery as a dwelling place. This re-
calls a pair who for years lived in a dis-
"Going, going, GONE —to Miss Smith.”
used vault in the old Sandhills cemetery,
on the site of what is now the railway
station. Inspecting the grass-grown and
neglected grave-patch, an intending con-
tractor for the work of removal noticed
a well-worn track leading “downstairs.”
A trap netted two bushmen who stated
that long before, unable to secure ac-
commodation in an Easter-crowded Syd-
ney, they had “camped” in the cemetery.
Getting work, they had remained in
residence.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: In s.-w. Queensland and
the N.T. wherever sandflies and buffalo-
flies are bad, smoke is the best musterer.
The horsetailer, wishing to collect his
string, makes a good smudge-fire. Horses
(and cattle, too) come on the run to get
relief from the ceaseless attacks of the
flies. Some horses hang about camp
when not feeding, poking their rumps as
close to the fire, off-wind, as the heat
and the boss permit.
* * * *
“Qwertyuiop”: Very touching about
these faithful dogs (B. 7/7/’37), but they
can’t all be taken on trust. I
once knew a high-bred foxie
which when tired of an ador-
ing home would trot off to a
distant suburb and there act
the part of a poor, little,
shivering, footsore dog look-
ing for his mislaid master. If
he fancied the home to
which some deceived citizen
inevitably took him, he
would for a few days be the
perfect-mannered little lost
dog and the centre of family
admiration. Then he would
tire of it, choose his oppor-
tunity, knock Hades out of
any local cats, kill a few
fowls, tear up any available
socks or slippers and go
home. Why I know is that
he once mistook me for a
likely victim, and when ad-
dressed by name trotted off
with a look of cynical con-
tempt. Which led to inquiries
—judiciously suppressed by
his solicitor owner. But he
always hated me. for dis-
covering his double life.
“Awani”: A friend of mine has a
well-trained alarm clock. His bed is on
the verandah, and every morning about
daylight his sheep-dog arrives and, stand-
ing on hind legs, pats him on the chest.
If the first call is ineffective he returns
and repeats the performance—silent, but
effective.
* $ $ *
“H.A.L.”:' Mick, who liked to show
off in front of the ladies, was giving the
daughters of a neighboring cocky a lift
into town in his car when old Cantassi,
the Italian woodcutter, stood by the road-
side, holding up a pound note and a slip
of paper. “You get the taheker?” he in-
quired. Mick pocketed the quid, but waved
the list aside. “Never minda da lista,” he
said. “You wanta da saveloy, da maca-
roni, da wino? Good-oh! I getta da lotta.
Blessa da omeletta!” Then, heedless of
the frenzied shouts, he drove on. That
night Cantassi raged through yards of
saveloys, packets of macaroni and bottles
of plonk for the kerosene, matches and
cigarette-papers he had wanted. That
happened six months ago. On a recent
Saturday Mick was on the tractor, work-
ing against time to get the last paddock
under crop, but keeping an eye on the
road, when Cantassi appeared on his bike.
Mick hailed him. “Be a sport,” he said.
“Take this quid and give it to L , the
bookie, with this list of horses. He’ll
understand.” Cantassi took the money,
but ignored the note. “Back it the race-
horse?” he shouted, riding off. “Have it
the bet? Yes, yes!” That evening he
placed some betting slips on the strainer
post and weighted them with a rock, in-
dicated them with a wave of his hand
and rode on. Mick’s been elaborating on
the Italian’s pedigree ever since.
* * * $
“Bert the Carpenter”: Called at a
road-workers’ camp on a stormy night,
to find half the toilers shivering in un-
heated tents while the rest kept warm
with firepots which filled the tent with
fumes, to say nothing of the risk of fire.
Old-time railway construction navvies
kept warm and comfortable. One end
was removed from a four-gallon drum ;
half a dozen fin. holes were punched or
drilled in a group near the edge of the
lid, and on the opposite side two fin.
holes were punched, three inches apart.
Holes to correspond with the latter were
punched in the edge of the drum, the
lid was joined to them with wire hinges,
and in the bottom of the drum near the
edge a four-inch hole was cut. The
contrivance was laid on its side on stones
just inside the door of the tent; from
the hole in the back a 6ft. length of old
piping went out the door at an angle of
45deg. to the top of a stake. A fire of
brush was lit inside the drum, chunks
of wood or mallee root were added, then
the lid w»s dropped to cover the front
of the drum. If stoked up at bedtime
one of these heaters will keep the place
cosy all night; I have seen them still too
hot to touch at sunrise after a frosty
night. Risk of fire is nil.
% % %
“L-Fire Jack”: The claypan squatter
was worried. Just when the annual
muster had started his best stock boy,
“Apricot,” wanted to go on an extended
walkabout. Reason? Daisy, the kitchen
dish-walloper, had learnt her art at a
mission station and wanted to be
properly married. It was arranged.
That evening, Apricot and Daisy, in the
dim light of the kitchen slush lamp, stood
hand in hand in front of the whiskery-
faced squatter. Clad in a gin’s white
dress, he solemnly read the words of the
marriage ceremony from the yellowed
pages of an old cookery book!


w
USE
PE
Plus
ETHYL
m
■Qrzi,
Get
that
Spirit
/
VEmpire
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE ONLY SUPER
GRADE PETROL
CONTAINING BENZOL
THE BENZOL MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
CBB/12/SP
BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD 6RADE ; PRICE
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
J
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The [?]
COLUMN
Dominion Breweries, Ltd. (M.L.)
To- Nominal
wards Re- Re-
Mar,, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 4,392 Nil 4392 4,392
1932.. 1,044 Nil 1044 5,436
Loss. _ Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £19,100 .. .. 13,664
1933.. 14,002 Nil 27,666
Profit.
1934.. 2,436 Nil 2436 25,230
1935.. 7,947 Nil 7947 17,283
r~ Pref. and Ord.—^
1936.. 15,224 64 p.c. = 5,819 9405 7,878
, Reserves.
Share premiums, £17,235 . . .. 9,357
1937.. 22,039 9 p.c. = 12,298 9741 19,098
Considering the number of lions in the
path, this youngster has made extra-
ordinary progress, development being
most marked over the last couple of
years. Having bought the Waitemata
brewery at Otahuhu, near Auckland, the
co. kicked off with an issued capital of
£75,000 in 1930, when the economic
barometer was low and falling fast, and
in opposition to the big N.Z. Breweries
group. Then came, slump and stinging in-
creases in income tax and excise, and a
loss of £14,002 showed up in 1933. Still,
the public liked the new brew, and the
management went the right way about
things, keeping a tight hold on exes, and
buying up hotel freeholds and leaseholds,
thus widening and anchoring turnover,
which bounded along as spending became
freer again.
To finance the larger trading £40,000
of 5 p.c. participating pref. capital was
gathered a couple of years ago, and an
all-round 6j p.c. div. (the first) was paid
in 1936, followed by 9 p.c. for the last
term, when 80,000 new £1 ords. were
issued in two parcels of 40,000 each, at
premiums of 2s. 6d. and 7s. 6d. respec-
tively. How last year’s £80,189 of new
share capital, together with £17,235 of
share premiums, an extra £15,911 from
sundry creditors and £48,680 of mortgage
money, was invested, the following table
shows:
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £78,207 £78,207 £108,582 £188,771
Sundry creditors 9,575 11,193 18,084 33,995
Overdraft ■ ■ 19,226 18,786
Mortgages . . 48,680
Land and
buildings .. 11,405 11,429 16,177 111,553
Plant, etc. .. 31,885 37,734 47,487 89,149
Leaseholds, etc. 7,128 6,238 8,264 19,765
Stock.. .. 17,994 22,692 33,106 45,903
Sundry debtors 12,747 11,923 15,706 .27,704
Cash, etc. .. 618 880 11,866 28,142
The year’s growth of £95,376 in land and
buildings was mainly due to purchase of
hotel freeholds. Leaseholds, etc., were
up £11,501, while £41,662 was added to
plant, £12,797 to stocks, £11,998 to
debtors’ balances and £16,276 to cash,
etc. There was a contraction of £23,520
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£19,074), owing to the heavy outlay on
fixed assets ; and the programme of ex-
tension is not yet complete. A new build-
ing, to house plant for production of
lager of the type popular in Continental
countries, is in course of erection ; and a
new system, claimed to be the most
hygienic in the trade, for storing and
serving draft beer is being put into the
co.’s hotels at a cost of about £lOOO per
installation.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, sales stepped along
briskly, thanks partly to improvement in
conditions generally and partly to a vigor-
ous advertising campaign. Gross earnings
sprang £35,011, reaching £97,659. In-
cluding £B3ll struck off for deprecia-
tion, exes. (£51,620) took only £4196
of the. increase. After setting aside
£24,000 to meet the next tax bill when it
arrives (no similar provision was made
in the previous term), the net result was
£6815 better at £22,039, equal to 16.1 p.c.
on average capital as against 17, 10.1 and
3.1 p.c. for the three preceding terms. It
was a very creditable performance, con-
sidering the amount of new money, which
has not yet had a chance to develop full
earning power, invested in the business.
As for the outlook, the chairman says
“the co.’s trading position is definitely
assured, and the stage set for further pro-
gress.” For the three months since the
close of accounts, sales are reported to be
30 p.c. better than for the first quarter
of the preceding term. Still, one can hear
a knife being sharpened in the opposition
camp.
The £188,771 of paid capital is in
40,000 prefs. and 160,000 ords.; there
was £11,572 still to come when the books
closed. The prefs. carry a cumulative. 5
p.c., advance with the ords. in any dis-
tribution beyond that rate, and share in
surplus assets. The market prices both
classes of scrip at 435. 6d. as against
255. 6d. a year ago. At the higher figure
the return is 4.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. Including uncalled capital, etc.,
the net tangible cover is 225. 2d. per
share. Goodwill (£19,100) is not treated
as an asset herein.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Added
to Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1927.. 24,663 8 p.c. = 24,000 663 114,939
1928.. 22,082 7 „ „ 21,000 1,082 116,021
1929.. 23,159 7 „ „ 21,000 2,159 118,180
1930.. 22,806 7 „ „ 21,000 1,806 119,986
Loss.
1931.. 5,983 Nil 114,003
Special depreciation, etc., £25,025.. 88,978
Profit.
19/J2. . 2,625 Nil 2,625 91,603
1933.. 3,230 3* p.c. = 3,000 230 91,833
1934.. 14,492 12* „ ~ 12,000 2,492 94,325
1935.. 16,910 15* „ „ 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 t „ ~14,000 4,625 100,860
1937. . 20,282 t „ „ 14,000 6,282 107,142
* Pref. only. t Pref., 6 p.c.; ord., 4 p.c.
This old-established Melbourne co.
turns out biscuits, cakes, plum puddings
and dried-fruits and -vegetables, etc.,
most of which are marketed in all the
Australian States and in the East
Indies. It also owns all the shares
(total £48,000) in three subsidiaries —
The Ice Cream Co. Pty., Swallow and
Ariell (Dehydrated Products). Pty. and
Heparidene Pty. The £300,000 of capital
is in 100,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs., which
advance with the ords beyond that rate,
and 200,000 ords. Shareholders have
never had anything exceptional in the
way of divs. After the crash of the
’nineties it took 18 years for the rate
to climb to 5£ p.c. The war provided
new opportunities, trade was extended
to the Indies, and 10 p.c. was paid for
the three years to the close of accounts
in 1920. For the next decade the average
was 7.4 p.c., with little to spare. Then
slump dried up earnings, payments to
the prefs. fell behind for a while, and the
ords. went without for the five years to
the end of April, 1935. Meanwhile, elec-
trification of the factory, the improve-
ment in conditions generally and an
overhaul of the organisation enabled the
prefs.’ slate to be cleaned, and the ords.
have had 4 p.c. for each of the last two
years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts trade continued to im-
prove, and gross earnings sprang
£14,655, reaching £117,549, the best yet.
But exes. (£97,267) took £12,999 of the
increase, leaving the net result £1657
better at £20,282, or enough to give the
prefs. their minimum requirements and
then show 7.1 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 6.3 p.c. and 5.4 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. The div. was kept at
4 p.c.
Here is the position looked at from
another angle, so far as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1924 1932. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . £ £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 45,335 91,521 37,739 20,289
Mortgages, etc. 17,000 24,000
Other debts.. 48,405 23,882 23,546 45,581
Fixed assets.. 326,773 343,560 285,904 286,823
Shares other cos. 674 48,716 48,716 48,716
Stocks .. 108,211 40,109 41,117 50,671
Book debts, etc. 92,732 98,391 97,242 93,581
Cash .. .. 307 232 167 121
To clip £17,450 off the overdraft and
carry an extra £9554 of stocks, £22,035
was added to the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors. The drop of £3661 in
debtors’ balances was due to a reduction
of £9281 in advances to subsidiaries
(now £21,648). The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£78,503)’ was £1262. On fixed assets
£919 more was spent than was written
off.
In a manufacturing business much de-
pends upon the efficiency of the plant,
which affects costs of production. The
co. made an assault upon these costs in
1928, when the factory was electrified.
Partly on account of expanding business,
the factory and plant are to be further
extended and modernised, at an estimated
cost of about £45,000. “The alterations
will pay for themselves by enabling
greater efficiency and more economical
production,” the chairman says. The
intention is to go to the bank for the
money; divs. are not expected to be
affected. The immediate outlook in the
trade is bright enough, though competi-
tion is very keen.
Doubtful when the participating rights
are likely to amount to much, the. market
prices the prefs. at 255., at which figure
the return is 4.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. The ords. at 18s. return 4.4 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. distribution, or 5.5 p.c. from
a 5 p.c. div. The net tangible cover
(book value) is £4 Is. sd. prefs. and
30s. Bd. ords.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus, Dividends
to Profs. Nominal
Sur- Polic.v- 8 To Re- IJe-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £, £ £
1927.. 17.461 4500 200 8 p.c. = 1136 11,625 31,139
Premiums on new shares, £330 .. 31,469
1928.. 8,827 4011 200 8 p.c. = 1268 3,348 34„817
Premiums on new shares, £1135 .. 35,952
10 p.c.
1929.. 11,011 3196 250 10 p.c. =2042 5,523 41,475
Premiums on new shares, £521 .. 41,996
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.c. =2250 41,101
12 p.c.
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 ~ „ 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,764 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
1933.. 14.073 3163 300 12 ~ „ 2700 7,910 55,230
1934.. 3,144 1726 300 12 „ „ 2700 53,648
174 p.c.
1935.. 18,984 2423 437 174„ „ 3938 12,186 65,834
20 p.c.
1936.. 20.649 2617 500 20 „ „ 4500 13,032 78,866
1937.. 18.937 2777 500 20 „ „ 4500 11,160 90,026
This little 15-year-old, which severed its
connection with the Royal Auto Club
(Vic.) and welded “Fire and General”
into the. title about nine years ago, has
put up a very stout performance. Despite
slump, a run of 8 p.c. divs. was followed
by 10 p.c. for the two years to the. end
of April, 1930, 12 p.c. for the next four
years, \l\ p.c. in 1935 and 20 p.c. for
the two years to the close of last accounts.
Meanwhile the co.’s connections had been
widened and strengthened by patronage
of the United Travellers’ Association and
the “Herald” Touring Club.
The management has lately put more
ginger into the hunt, to the benefit of net
premium income, which has almost
doubled over the last three years, the
spring being £14,067 for the last term:
Net Pre- Loss Expense
April, miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1927.. £83,028 £29,206 £38,370 35.2 p.c. 46.2 p.c.
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1929.. 58,765 34,999 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1931.. 43,380 21,650 14,307 49.9 „ 32.9 ~
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 ~ 42.0 „
1933.. 50,062 17,866 20,493 35.6 „ 40.9 „
1934.. 44,173 23,053 20,749 52.1 „ 46.9 „
1935.. 54,898 21,569 17,155 39.2 „ g 1.2 „
1936.. 73,982 34,252 23,376 46.3 ~ 31.6 „
1937.. 88,049 40,203 32,315 45.7 ~ 36.7 „
Good results from an increased volume
of fire and general accident business
offset heavy motor-car claims, and the
loss rate fell from 46.3 p.c. to 45.7' p.c.
But the expense rate jumped from 31.6
p.c. to 36.7 p.c., owing partly to a heavier
tax bill, leaving the underwriting surplus
at £15,531 (down £823), equal to 62.1
p.c. on capital. Interest, rents, etc., turned
in another £3406 (down £889), or 13.6
p.c. on capital. Allowing for bonuses
to policy-holders the net return from all
sources (£16,160, down £1872) was 64.6
p.c. on capital as against 72.1, 66.2, 5.6,
43.6, 23.« and 21 p.c. back to 1931. The
div. was kept at 20 p.c.
Since 1933 motor-car insurance pre-
miums have been fixed according to ex-
perience during the depression years,
when comparatively few cars were on the
roads. Owing to the growth in the
number of accidents, following an in-
crease in the number of fast and elabo-
rately designed cars now on the roads,
premiums for this class of business have
been raised by 121 P-c. for private cars
in the metropolitan area, and lowered by
20 p.c. in country districts. Subject to
the claims experience, the current year’s
result should benefit.
When the books closed assets com-
prised freehold, £48,252 ; plant, £3086 ;
shares and debentures in other cos.,
£8842; debtors, £13,119; Australian
Consols, £60,415; cash and deposits,
£13,954. The amount coming to out-
siders was £23,968.
The £25,000 of paid capital is in 5000
8 p.c. cumulative prefs., which participate
with the ords. beyond that rate, and
45,000 ords., all of £1 each paid to 10s.
At 50s. (28s. two years ago) the ords.
return 4 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. Including £35,139 reserve for
unearned premiums, the net tangible
cover was approximately 50s. per share.
The prefs. are not listed.


dfg
A few fortunate shooters still have an oppor-
tunity of securing one of the finest .22
Calibre Bolt Action Rifles ever produced.
The Famous
WINCHESTER
MODEL 69
Mick Simmons, Ltd., have just landed
the balance of their quota of American
Firearms allowed by the Federal Govern-
ment ; and the stock on hand at present
is not expected to last longer than a few
weeks at the utmost. NO MORE CAN
COME INTO THE COUNTRY!
Winchester Model 69 has a 25in. heavy
barrel and an adaptation of the Model 66
bolt; the excellence of whose design is
well known to discriminating riflemen all
over Australia. Winchester 69 is pro-
vided with two magazines, one for .22
long-rifle and long cartridges and the other
for .22 short. This model can be supplied
with two types of sight equipment. The
front sight in both cases is a hooded
ramp of excellent design and choice of
either standard open rear sight or
aperture receiver sight, the latter
providing for both windage and ele-
vation adjustments. The material and
finish of Model 69 are thoroughly in
keeping with the Winchester standard
, of quality from muzzle to butt-plate.
Price, £4'ls / -
(Carriage Paid.)
Write for Catalogue. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
712-22 George St., Haymarket, Sydney.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
Now on Sale —
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.), in one handy and com-
prehensive volume.
This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR — COMPREHENSIVE — COMPLETE
Price, £1 /!/-
Order now from the publishers
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521BB, G.P.O.,
Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
55
YEARS
: '
:'
: i • -
*"-- v " "
&wufj
ESTABLISHED in 1882 to combat usury, The N.S.W. Mont de Piete has built,
over the years, a fine tradition of helpful service. The keynote of that service is
to aid —not hinder—the financial recovery of clients and in so doing to render more
than personal assistance: to play an essential part in the economic fabric of the nation.
With a paid-up capital of £300,000, the
company has this important advantage: it has
no need to borrow from others in order itself
to make loans. The saving this effects is
passed on to clients in lower interest rates
and in extra consideration in cases of sickness.
No charges are made for enquiries, prepara-
tion of documents or valuations, and every
allowance is made in cases of sickness.
Loans arranged on Furniture, Pianos, Player-
Pianos and other such classes of security with-
out publicity, possession or embarrassment.
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete is an all-Australian organisation Its
complete capital and all its employees are Australian.
•[
ADVANCE £lO —REPAYMENT 5/- WEEKLY ~W
ADVANCE £2O REPAYMENT 7/6 WEEKLY
ADVANCE £3O REPAYMENT 10/- WEEKLY
ADVANCE £5O REPAYMENT 15/- WEEKLY
ADVANCE £lOO —REPAYMENT 25/- WEEKLY J|
Special Rates of Repayment arranged if above not suitable
Advances made on Jewellery of all descriptions, Diamonds, Precious Stones, Modern and Antique
Silver and China, and all classes of portable security. Repayments include both Principal and Interest.
The N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. COMPANY LIMITED. FRED C. SMITH (General Manager)
Fully Paid-up Capital: £300,000
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (same side as David Jones’) - Telephone; M 6465
DIRECTORS: J. R. HARDIE (Chairman), G. E. DALE, J. M. EDWARDS, J. S. DUNSTAN, W. G. FISHER
For the convenience of sub-
urban, country an'd interstate
clients, the Company has es-
tablished these branch offices:
285 Elizabeth Street
(Opp. Anzac Memorial)
F. SUMMERS, Manager
Telephone: MA 2901
18 City Road (opp. Grace Bros.)
J. A. DOUTTY, Manager
Telephone: MA 4563
5 Station Avenue, Hurstville
J. GOODING, Manager
Telephone: LW 2780
164 Church Street, Parramatta
M. CUTLACK, Manager
Telephone: UW 9761
CESSNOCK BRANCH :
Vincent Street
H. E. ROBERTS, Manager
Telephone: Cessnock 415
NEWCASTLE BRANCH :
260 Hunter Street West
J. N. FELTHAM, Manager
Telephone: Newcastle 274
WOLLONGONG BRANCH:
Woolworth Buildings, Crown Street
L. POWYS, Manager
Telephone: Woll. 618
BRISBANE OFFICE :
Cnr. Adelaide and Creek Streets
ERIC ASH, Manager
Telephone: B 4944
GOULBURN BRANCH :
E.S. and A. Bank Chambers
Cnr. Montague and Auburn Streets
Telephone: Goulburn 485
MELBOURNE OFFICES :
309-311 Little Collins Street
’Phone: M 3022
349-351 Swanston Street
’Phone: Central 4339
Ryrie Street, Geelong
’Phone: Geelong 3743
Grenville Street, Ballarat
’Phone: Ballarat 557
N. HOOKWAY, Manager for Victoria
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends , Towards
Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 p.c. = 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,600 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 4i „ ~ 7,491 1358 2.694
Loss. " Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350* Nil 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
1933.. 3,116 Nil Nil 23,310
Profit. _
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1913 21.397
1935.. 8,299 4741+ Nil 3558 17,839
1936.. 20,090 73241 4 p.c. = 6,659 6107 11,732
8 p.c.
1937.. 23,426 2400 8 „ „ 13,821 7205 4,529
* Six months. + 9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l,
and 6.9 p.c. for 13 months to 31/10/’32.
t Includes all arrears.
This co. turns out builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware, sanitary ware, sheet
metal, dairy utensils and hotel- and cafe-
kitchen equipment. The works are at
Alexandria, near Sydney ; there are five
selling branches in N. S. Wales, and one
at Brisbane (Q.).
When the business of F. Malley and
Son was taken over 18 years ago, the post-
war building boom had just begun, and
turnover stepped along in fine style. Capi-
tal advanced from £70,000 in 1920 to
£196,473 eight years later; and, after
allowing for the pref. div., net earnings
mounted to 14.4 p.c. on ord. capital for
the 12 months to the end of April, 1929.
Then slump gave the building and ancil-
lary trades such a jolt that the co. regis-
tered losses aggregating £24,654 for the
three years to the close of accounts in
1933, and payments to the. prefs. fell
£7780 (ss. 2d. per share) into arrears.
Meanwhile, debtors’ balances and
stocks were worked down, the outside
debt was reduced, cash was strengthened
and new lines were added to the list of
manufactures. With the turn in the tide,
earnings promptly improved, and the
prefs.’ slate was cleaned in 1936, when
the ords. got back into the picture with
4 p.c., after a four years’ drought.
During the last term, turnover con-
tinued to advance, and £35,527 of fresh
ord. capital (one for five) was issued at
par towards the close of accounts to help
finance the larger trading. After setting
aside £5OOO (up £1250) for the tax-
gatherer and openly striking off £l5OO
(same as in the previous term) for doubt-
ful debts, the net result was £3336 better
at £23,426, equal to 11.5 p.c. on average
capital (pref. and ord. combined) as
against 10 p.c. for the previous year. The
div. was lifted to an all-round 8 p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a.,
which will call for £20,700 p.a. (£2726
less than was netted last year) on capi-
tal as it now stands. The £7205 that re-
mained reduced the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles to £4529 —
goodwill (£22,682) is not treated as an
asset herein.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion of the business:
1931. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £196,473 £196,473 £196,473 £230,000
Liabilities* .. 17,714 23,833 64,219 81,902
Freeholds .. 55,632 55,859 59,652 59,652
Leaseholds .. 17,272 15,680 14,923 15,490
Plant, etc. .. 40,304 40,820 42,372 46,957
Stock.. .. 54,772 50,960 65,205 87,048
Book debts .. 24,465 32,035 79,375 105,390
Cash, etc. .. 11,677 1,642 1,416 2,182
* Including- provision for depreciation.
The £33,527 of new share capital, to-
gether with a further £17,683 from
sundry creditors, etc. —the etcetera is an
unspecified reserve for taxation —went
mainly into stocks (up £21,843) and book
debts (up £26,015). Plant (up £4585) is
reported in good condition. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£112,718) was £30,941.
The immediate outlook favors mainten-
ance of a brisk turnover, but competition
is keen and costs are on the up-grade—
the full effects of the recent rise in the
basic wage will not be felt for a year
or so.
At 245. 6d. the 9 p.c. cum. prefs. (sub-
ject to statutory cut) return 6.8 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. distribution, or 7.3 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis. The. ords. at 235. yield
7.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution; each
rise or fall of 1 p.c. in the div. would
affect the yield by 0.5 p.c. The net tan-
gible cover is £7 10s. 3d. prefs. and
19s. 6d. ords.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
This is the co. which exchanged
600,000 of its own £1 shares for all the
scrip in Larut, Tupai and Kota, which
together owned five dredges with a com-
bined capacity of 7,500,000 c.y. p.a., at
the end of 1926. The properties con-
sist of free dredging ground near Taiping
(F.M.S.), where there is abundance of
water. The co. is also jointly interested
with Rawang and Anglo-Oriental in the
Bang Toe property (West Siam), estimated
to contain 55,000,000 c.y. of 0.571 b.
ground.
In 1927, when tin averaged over £289
per ton in London, the co. paid 10 p.c.,
followed by p.c. in 1928 and 5 p.c.
for 1929. Operations ceased in 1930,
when the London price of the metal
dropped as low as £lO4 10s. per ton.
Dredging was resumed in August, 1934,
when tin averaged over £228 a ton, and
the quota was 34 p.c. of assessment.
No. 5, a Werf Conrad steam-driven
( Continued, on next page.)


Public Notice.
C ORESTRY BONDS. —I pay up to £5 more
1 per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
-NOBELY
NOBEC
i
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
1 AUSTR4IASTAN AfIEXTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, limited.
MEIBOURNE, A'IC.: Dalyety & Company, limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: It. N. Kirk Sc Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Daljfety & Company, limited.
BRISBANE, QID.: Elder, Smith & Company, limited.
DARAVIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
IAIJNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
lIOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, limited.
AUCKIAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WEIIINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, limited.
INVERCARGIII, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, limited.
SUVA and IAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, limited.
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- anil 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
JULY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
INVESTORS AND THE STOCK EXCHANGE
GOLD QUESTION
BASIC WAGE
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
bucket dredge which had just been mod-
ernised was the first to start up, fol-
lowed by No. 2 in February, 1936, and
No. 4, which had been converted to all-
electric drive, three months after that.
Nos. 1 and 3 machines are still idle.
Financial results are summarised in the
following table:
(--Dividends— %
Net Per
Dec., Income. Exes.* Profit. Share. Amount.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 38,640 18,790 19,850 -/3 7,500
1935.. 75,317 42,965 32,352 -/ 6 15,000
1936.. 118,793 82,326 36,467 -/9 22,500
* Including depreciation, etc.
The improvement in earnings over the
last three years has been due to increased
turnover, owing to the steady rise in
quota allotments. The spring in last
year’s gross earnings was £43,476, despite
a further drop in the average price of
tin, a slightly lower recovery and a rise
in costs. Including depreciation (£21,219,
up £10,531) and £2061 struck off to cover
the cost of prospecting and river diver-
sion, exes, took £39,361 of the increase.
After reserving £5lOO for bucket band
replacement, the £31,367 that remained
was equal to Is. 04d. per share, and 9d.
(£22,500) was distributed.
Here is an analysis of operations over
the last three years from another angle:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Cubic yards dredged 983,000 3,090,000 5,717,000
Tin oxide, tons .. 184.8 515.1 939.1
Assay value, p.c. .. 74.49 74.4 74,8
Recovery c.y., pound 0.42 0.37 0.36
Costs per c.y., pence 1.96 2.19 2.48
Av. price realised t.o. £137/16/3 £134/7/11 £l2B/1/2
Av. London price
metallic tin ..£230/7/5 £225/14/5 £204/12/8
The rise in the general average cost per
yard was due to the starting-up of Nos. 2
and 4 dredges. The average yardage cost
per dredge was No. 2,2.70 d.; No. 4,
2.46 d.; No. 5,2.01 d. In April the co.
sent out Is. per share, thanks to further
increase in output, slightly better values
and the rise in the price of tin, which
averaged £252 10s. in London for the
six months to June 30.
The co.’s annual assessment is 1395 tons
t. 0., and the allowed production quota is
now 110 p.c. of assessment. At the end
of December the management figured
that there was 41,080,000 c.y., contain-
ing approximately 8464 tons t. 0., ahead
of the dredges. At the current rate
of dredging there is about seven
years’ work measured up. In addition
there is the co.’s interest (one-third) in
the Bang Toe property, together with
276 acres now being test-bored, with the
possibility of further areas being ac-
quired. When the books closed, stocks,
debtors, investments and cash totalled
£72,751. Outside liabilities amounted to
£20,632, of which £11,607 (now paid) was
in respect of the Bang Toe area.
The market prices the scrip at 19s.
6d. At this figure, and with tin averag-
ing, say, £220 London, appearances are
that the investor will get his money back
plus about 7 p.c. p.a., or a trifle more
if the Bang Toe venture turns out well
and more payable areas are acquired.
On July 23 Tinsongkla Tin, N.L., will
clear the balance of its pref.-div. arrears
(£6821), when a shilling a share (£5868)
will also be distributed to ord.-holders.
The co. kicked off with £112,604 of share
capital in 1926 to take over from Eastern
Options some 9,250,000 c.y. of tin-bear-
ing wash at Ban Din Lin, Southern Siam,
said to average 14yOZ. to 17oz. t.o. per
yard. A 140,000-c.y.-monthly steam-
driven bucket dredge, digging to 59ft.,
set in during 1928, but poor dredging
conditions and other difficulties upset cal-
culations, and the board went to share-
holders for mote, in addition to raising
£16,000 (since repaid) of outside money.
Then output restrictions and falling
metal markets caused a cessation of
operations, which were resumed in 1933.
Results over the past three years have
been as follows:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards dug .. 718,000 1,257,000 1,444,000
Recovery t. 0., tons.. 180.7 200.35 237.98
Av. per c.y., pound 0.56 0.37 0.36
Costs per c.y., pence 3.61 3.8
Ore sale price ..£154/17/- £137/1/-£137/18/-
Net profit .. .. £14,959 £7,787 £10,838
Divs. —Pret £2,046 £6,821
Ord £5,868
Last term attention was confined to the
lower and poorer section of the prop-
erty, where clay is bad. All-in costs were
lower, permissible output was lifted,
and the metal fetched a bit more
•—£32,822, or 5.45 d. a yard, com-
pared with £27,470 and 5.24 d. respec-
tively in the previous term. After
charging £293 for prospecting, etc., the
net result was £3051 better at £10,838.
At the end of February there was little
more than six million c.y. to be dug, or
less than five years’ work for the dredge
at last year’s rate of turnover. For the
current term the co.’s quota is 251 tons
t. 0., of which 95 tons had been won in
the four months to the end of June. At
balance date the co, held £16,096 in
cash; more or less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £23,396. Capital is
£187,487 in 131,500 ords. and 10,000
6 p.c. (originally 10 p.c.) cum. par. prefs.;
all 30s. shares paid to 265, 6d. Market
valuation of the ords. is 10s. 6d. Share-
holders’ prospects depend on the acquisi-
tion of additional ground and the nature
of the dirt encountered in the upper
area, where better values are expected.
* * * *
Despite industrial and other troubles,
New Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), con-
tinues to more than replace ore taken out
with ore developed, reserves at May 22
down to No. 10 level being put at
454,760 tons of 84dwt. stone, compared
with 375,000 tons of a similar grade six
months earlier. On Nos. 7, 8 and 9 levels
the drill stabbed an ore-body which sub-
sequent driving and crosscutting have
proved to contain 60,000 tons. Hopes are
that the lode, largest and richest at No. 9
level, will live and maintain its values at
depth. Sinking of the main shaft is being
pushed ahead to open out at two lower
levels, where sub-level stoping will be
introduced in a further assault upon
costs. For the full 1936 term the co.
crushed 72,104 tons, averaging 7.B4dwt.
gold, for an average recovery of 6.65dwt.
Costs were 41s. 6d. during the first half
of the term and 335. Id. for the second.
For the first 29 weeks of the current
term, 41,194 tons of ore has been sent
to the mill for 14,6140 z. fine, or 7.o9dwt.
per ton. Revenue was £127,611 and
working costs £72,833, which is at' the
rate of approx. 355. 4d. a ton. Capital
expenditure totalled £43,263, of which
£39,221 was in respect of the New Cobar
mine (acquired last year for £50,000 in
scrip), where unwatering is about com-
plete, treatment (by flotation) being
scheduled for October. To date New
Occidental has spent £53,000 on the New
Cobar property, and another £29,000 is
expected to be necessary to bring it to
production. Ore reserves are put at
295,000 tons, of which 140,000—102,000
averaging 7.3dwt. gold and 1.75 p.c.
copper—is figured positive. Prospects
have lately been enhanced by the acquisi-
tion of the near-by Chesney mine, where
650,000 tons of ore is thought to be avail-
able. According to old records, the reef
is 800 ft. long and 40ft. in width, assaying
copper and 3dwt. 6gr. gold. The
main shaft is down 954 ft., the deepest
workings being at 925 ft. The mine is
to be immediately unwatered.
$ * * *
Austral N.Z. Mining will shortly com-
mence erection of its pontoon, though
actual construction of the dredge, to
handle 3% million c.y. yearly, is likely
to be delayed owing to a steel shortage.
An offshoot of Austral Malay Tin, tne
co. was formed last year to take over
from the parent about 7f miles of aurifer-
ous river flats on the Clutha, where the
gorge ends above Cromwell, Otago
(M.L.). The original selected area was
estimated to contain 28,00(1,000 c.y. of 3gr.
dirt, which, with all-in costs at 2.8 d. per
c.y. and gold at £A7 an ounce,
was expected to return ss. a year over
eight years, after allowing for amor-
tisation of capital and taxation. Recent
boring has indicated the existence of a
further 28,000,000 c.y. of ground,
and, though further prospecting has dis-
closed nothing of importance, there are
possibilities of a lot more payable
dirt being proved upstream. Values
are found in about 18in. of wash, on a
blue clay and schist bottom. Above are
gravels—apparently free from clay, large
boulders and buried timber—and a
barren overburden of soil.
* * * *
After unsuccessful wanderings in Cen-
tralia, Westralia and Fiji, Granites De-
velopment has become interested, to-
gether with Glen Innes Dredging, in allu-
vial gold and tin areas on Nine Mile and
Rocky Creeks, Glen Elgin (N.S.W.). With
gold at £8 10s. and tin at £224, E. T.
Lewis figures that there is 1,500,000 c.y.,
averaging Is. 6d., and 1,250,000 c.y.,
averaging Is. 3d., on the properties. Work-
ing costs are not expected to exceed 3d.
a yard. On this basis, a 50,000 c.y.-a-
month dredge would handle the ground
in about five years for a working profit
of approximately £150,000, after allow-
ing £6250 for transfer of the plant from
one property to another. The co. re-
cently bought Haven Gold’s bucket
dredge, at an unstated figure. Anticipa-
tions are that shareholders will be asked
for 9d. a share in three calls of 3d. each.
There are 280,000 shares of 10s. each
issued, of which 80,000 are fully paid and
the balance paid to 3s. 7d. each. The
market prices the contrffis. at 6d
$ $ $ *
Japanese interests are nibbling at the
big iron-ore deposits recently discovered
at Iron Range, Cape York Peninsula.
According to Herbert Gepp, director of
the North Australian aerial geological
and geophysical survey, there is evidence
of “millions of tons of commercially
valuable iron ore to be easily won” here.
The deposit is near the coast, with good
harbor facilities. The law prevents aliens
from taking up leases on their own
account. The idea is that the Japanese
interests would finance an Australian co.
for large-scale production, provided a
long-term contract for delivery of ore
could be obtained. This and other in-
quiries from Japan for our iron ore call
attention to the recent quick expansion
of Nippon’s iron and steel industry.
In metric tons Japan’s output of pig-iron
and ferro-alloys advanced from 934,000
in 1931 to 1,930,000 in 1935. Over the
same period production of steel ingots
and castings moved up from 1,914,000 to
approximately 4,500,000 metric tons, and
has continued to increase since. Chief
producer is the Japan Iron Manufactur-
ing Co., of whose capital (360,000,000
yen) the Government owns about 80 p.c.
It was formed early in 1934 to amalga-
mate the Government works at Yawata
with five private concerns. The Tokio
and Osaka cos. were absorbed later.
This organisation controls 95 p.c. of the
national capacity to produce pig-iron,
and 55 p.c. of that to produce steel in-
gots. Dividends are limited to 6 p.c. ;
the balance of annual profits (of recent
years over 50 p.c. on capital) has thus
far been used mainly to finance expan-
sion of the industry and new enterprises.
* * * *
B.H. Associated Smelters and Electro-
lytic Zinc are sending officers abroad next
month to investigate processes for de-
zincing slag dumps. If results confirm
the views of the managements of the
two cos., a lot of money will be spent on
erection of plant at Port Pirie (S. Aus.)
for treatment of the big slag dumps at
the smelters there. The question of
extracting the zinc from this slag
has been under consideration for
years, but the collapse of metal
prices caused plans to be shelved.
It is estimated that there is about
2,500,000 tons of slag to be treated, assay-
ing approximately 20 p.c. silica, 30 p.c.
iron, 11 p.c. lime, 17 p.c. zinc, 2 p.c.
lead and 0.20 z. silver and o.Boz. gold
per ton.
* * * *
For the 12 months to the end of Sep-
tember last, Leonora Central, Leonora
(W.A.), balanced £8724 on the wrong
side of the ledger. The option over the
Weebo lease, acquired in 1935, was aban-
doned because it proved to be “not a
company proposition.” Lack of funds
stood in the way of installation of plant
to treat ore disclosed in the upper levels,
and diamond-drilling revealed only low-
grade stuff (average 2|dwt. over a width
of 20ft.) further down. Efforts to get
others interested in the property have
been unsuccessful. Whether any of the
£5OOO-odd invested in the Mount Mines
venture at Widgiemooltha is likely to be
recovered depends upon whether that co.
succeeds in disposing of its interests to
another concern with which it is nego-
tiating. When the books closed there was
£676 m the till.
Shareholders in Slamon (W.A.) Gold
Syndicate have got little for their out-
lay except experience. Formed in 1935
to work a show at Mt. Ida, the co. put
out 1500 fully-paid £5 shares, including
300 to the vendor. A final distribution of
assets amounting to 11s. 3d. per share
has just been announced.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Pal: A gamble, with the odds against you.
G.M.: Quite sound J.A.McD.: (1)
Cannot say; no open market for the scrip.
(2) The secretary of the co. or your broker
might be able to find a buyer. (3) Yes. (4)
A speculation, with prospects not too rosy....
C.H.N.: Prospects doubtful C.T.H.: There
was less available for distribution among policy-
holders, owing to the drop in interest rates.
No need for concern A.G.W.: Exchange
is allowed for in the quote, which means that,
after allowing for cost, freight and insurance,
the sterling price is approximately 25 p.c. below
the Australian figure.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * S: :]:
DAVIES" & COLUSON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —-Advt.
V * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
Jjs sfc ❖
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
“Snobbery among nudists resulted in the
breaking up of a camp in England.”
Even putting on dog is against the
rules.
•b *b *b *b
“According to Dr. Tinney, New York pro-
fessor of neuro-anatomy, man’s ancestors were
not apes, but fish.”
Perhaps that accounts for the ease with
which man has been hooked and landed
ever since.
•b *b *b *b
“Women never give away a secret.”
— Feminist.
They just swap it for another.
•b *b *b *b
Just a song at twilight,
But a bit off key,
Makes the suburb wonder
Who the cow may be.
'I- *b *b *b
Winter Sunday Morning.
“Aw-w-ah-ah-00-oop! wazzer time?
Only ha’-past seven! It’s those kids out
there kicking up a row; no wonder a
man can’t get a wink of sleep. Here!
if there’s any more of that brawling I’ll
come out there and give someone a
hiding”
“Tom! don’t shout at them like that!
No wonder the children cower every
time they see you”
“That’s all right, Connie, but you’ve
got to be firm with ’em or they’ll”
“Well, I wish you wouldn’t raise your
voice so much. I’ve got a splitting head-
ache and I think you might”
“Orright! Orright! I know. You
work your fingers to the bone every
day of the week and it’s the least I can
do to get you a cup of tea on Sunday
mornings! ’Struth! it’s a bit fresh as
soon as you get out”
“You’ll find the tea-caddy on the left-
hand side of the kitchen cabinet, darling,
and don’t make it too weak. Oh! and
put the milk on to scald, there’s a
dear”
“Blast that cat! It darts in as soon as
a man opens the door. Here! Git out,
you! Aren’t you kids dressed yet? You
take a month of Sundays. And see if
you can make yourselves useful for a
change and set the table. Well, I like
that! I bring the paper around and
before I can get my glasses the kids dive
on to it. Yes, yes, I know I said I’d do
the pruning to-day, but can’t a man just
take a glance at the sporting pages?
Here, you kids, don’t any of you ever
think of giving your mother a hand at
washing up? Not old enough me eye,
Connie; when I was their age”
“And, oh, Tom, I wish you’d clean
the grate out and give those windows a
rub —they’re disgraceful. There you are
at the paper again! I know what it’ll
be. You’ll be rushing round at the last
minute for a shave, and you know Aunt
Maggie’ll be here this afternoon. Tom!
that language! And you expect the
children to be well brought up”....
Nipper.
4* +
“Nobody is born with an evil temper. It is
usually the result of indifferent health,” says
a doctor.
In other words, feeling bad brings on
bad feeling.
•b *2* *2*
“The French Chamber of Deputies has gone
into recess.”
If it can be kept there for another week
or two it should break the record for the
longest-lived French Government.
*l* *2* *2* *2*
A leader of men is one who sees which
way the crowd is going and steps in
ahead.
*l* 'l* *2*
“His theory was that every man should keep
a cashbox in his home.” — “Sun.”
There’d be nothing in that!
♦2* *l* *2* *2*
“The woman always pays,” indeed!
That maxim makes me roar;
My job’s t.p. collector
For a millinery store.
*l* *4* *l*
“Insolvent tock ” —Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Through too much tick?
Among the Storms.
“Cricketer claims that climate ruined his
home.” — News item.
It’s been a source of annoyance in
mine for years. For instance, I had
barely set foot inside the door early yes-
terday morning (it was only two o’clock)
when a veritable typhoon broke out.
At breakfast-time, conditions had
changed, and an Antarctic depression had
firmly set in. After much expenditure of
hot air o’n my part, things began to thaw
out a little, and I left for work with the
barometer set for fair and warmer,
though if the fur coat I’ve promised
doesn’t materialise I know what the
week-end’ll be —cloudy and unsettled,
with a tendency to heavy thunder.
Harrv N.
•b b *b *b
When it comes to spotting bargains,
women leave men standing.
•b *b *b *b
“Dances in prison not approved.”— “D.T.”
Still, the prisoners have their quod-
drills.
“A woman’s paper says that, as a rule,
women do not care for tall husbands.”
The girls who seek connubial bliss
May choose a wowser or a sport;
But women are alike in this :
They love to keep their husbands short.
P.P.
*l-
“Bankrupt partly blamed his downfall to
borrowing friends who never repaid him.”
—News item.
Another victim of friendzied finance.
•b *b 4* *b
Between Ports.
“Captain Viereck said that on the voyage
from Antwerp to Sydney the German steamer
Mosel was navigated by ‘speak-easies.’ ”
—News item.
It must have been like one I was on.
Often three sheets in the wind, and at
times with a strong list to port, this
schooner made heavy weather, sailing
blind.
But she was well tanked, and as she
staggered on a zig-zag course the crew
were in good spirits, notwithstanding that
“ Hey , back you go!”
they got well soused as she took them
head on.
Although no mug v the bos’n lost the
skin off his nose when the ship struck a
snifter, and he was thrown against the
snifter.
She recovered from the jag, however,
and when the sun appeared over the yard-
arm the skipper shouted “Here’s luck!”
The morning after, the tight little craft
reeled into port, the crew still groggy after
their long bout and feeling almost like
dead marines.
Orwell.
A Strong Handicap.
“Widow, bright, middle-aged, comfortably-
built, home, means, desires meet smart, stout
gent., auburn hair preferred. Must be strict
teetotaller.” — Melb. view mat. ad.
On her chassis, she confesses, hangs an
X.O.S. in dresses,
Though she isn’t old, she’s yet no
longer young ;
And she doesn’t want perfection in her
spouse — her strong objection
Is the bird who’d bust his wad —or hers
—with Bung.
Here’s a chance for some fat fellow, not
quite in the sere and yellow
Class, yet one who’s past &he flapper-
chasing age
{Some suspicious wives, however, are
convinced that husbands never
Can attain that perfect, patriarchal
stage).
He can be flat-footed, weedy, or be per-
manently seedy,
Have a liver tinged with gall or sag-
ging chops;
He might even be a whinger, and she’d
like him to be ginger,
But there’s one thing, though—he
mustn’t go the hops !
Bo.
A Narrow Margin.
“After all, it is only bad luck that many
people, who try hard enough, are poor instead
of being wealthy.”— “Sun.”
Exactly what I say. I might have been
worth a million to-day if mine had been
the first marble out of the last 200 draw-
ings of a “certain consultation.”
can say I haven’t tried hard enough. In
the last one I was only 17 off a fiver.
In other investments only vile luck has
prevented me from landing on Easy-street,
Slowhoof was given me as a sure thing,
my winnings to go all up on Alsoran,
Last Post and Hobblehop. The only
blemish in an otherwise perfect scheme
was that Slowhoof, on which I had put
my entire “bank,” ran last.
I merely mention these two incidents
as typical. I might have'been chairman
of directors of one of our greatest busi-
ness houses if, when I started there as an
office boy, I hadn’t caught the boss by a
trip-wire, thinking he was a stranger.
Moreover, had my great-grandfather been
sensible enough to have come to Aus-
tralia in the early days, acquired a grant
of 10,000 acres in what is now the heart
of Sydney and left it all to me —well,
calculate for yourself about how well-off
I would be.
It is just trifling little failures such as
these that have stood in the way of my
success. But lam a trier still. Apart
from my usual weekly investments, I
save coupons. I have to buy only 237
more bottles of tomato sauce to be
entitled to a pair of imitation pig’s-bristle
hairbrushes.
H. M.
Lament.
I scarce recall when we were wed,
So long I’ve worn the halter;
It seems an age since first l led,
With halting heart and trembling tread,
My bride towards the altar.
She fastened on those words “Wilt thou”
(They seemed to me so stilted),
And ever since, when there’s a row,
Before the thunder’s left her brow
She’s seen to it I’ve wilted!
GUY W.
Sovietising Science.
“The Soviet Agricultural Institute claims that
bees can now be induced to fertilise plants they
have hitherto not visited to obtain honey. The
plants are sprayed with a syrup flavored with
essence of the flowers to which the bees are
partial.”
“The Soviet printing industry is being
modernised by the introduction of the latest
British and American machines.”
Although there might seem to be no
connection between these two items of
interest, secrets of contemporary Soviet
history which have recently fallen into
my hands reveal that it was the coinci-
dence of these phases of commercial ac-
tivity in the U.S.S.R. that led to the
sudden demise a few weeks ago of Serge
Maekzimitch, the Commissar of the
Bee-Pollen Industry.
It was the brilliant Serge who was re-
sponsible for the bon mot that Lenin was
able to grasp only with the aid of four
professors. In the early days of the
Revolution the dictator was making a
speech to the Bolshevik Council, and he
had just reached the part where he said he
would soon make Russia a land flowing
with milk and honey when Serge inter-
rupted to say that, while he didn’t know
anything about cows, he was willing to
take over the bee industry. Lenin, ever an
admirer of aggressiveness, promised Serge
that he would make him Commissar for
Milk. Serge replied rather testily that he
had already said he knew nothing of
cows.
Lenin thought this emphatic repetition
rather redundant, but again promised him
he could have the milk industry, and
banged the table with his gavel to indi-
cate that the final word had been spoken.
This got Serge hot where his collar
should have been, and they’d almost got
to the stage of brawling when the pro-
fessors started in to explain things to
Nicolai.
Maekzimitch first revolutionised the
bee industry by having all the “queen”
bees killed off, as he considered the word
“queen” glorified royalty and was inimi-
cal to the principles of Bolshevism. As
a consequence the swarms began to die
off until someone told him that the queen
bee was essential to the existence of the
colony. He had more imported, but in-
sisted that, distinctions being invidious,
they must be referred to only as “com-
rade bees.”
He organised the Collectivised Bee
Farms and announced that, now that
everybody in Russia at last enjoyed com-
plete political freedom, bee-farmers
would have untrammelled scope to make
a success of their industry. The only
trivial authority the Soviet would exer-
cise would be to shoot any bee-farmer
whose production failed to reach the re-
quired standard or who was caught by
the O.G.P.U. concealing a jar of honey
instead of giving up the entire yield to the
State in return for rations.
But his master-stroke as an organiser
came when, the boxtreeskis on which the
bees fed having all been chopped down
by the peasants in Western Russia, he
conscripted 20,000 bee-drovers to get the
swarms across to Siberia, where the sweet
grksxzlk grows in profusion. But the
bees, sick of waiting for the plants to
come up through the snow, made off
south. They were never heard of again,
but the bee industry is now firmly estab-
lished in Turkey.
It says much for Maekzimitch’s great
ability that by 1937 he had almost a
quarter of the number of swarms he
started with in 1917.
Then came the modernisation of th«
printing industry. When the result of
the Agricultural Institute’s experiments
was announced Serge drew up a pamphlet
which he had printed for distribution to
bee-farmers. It ran as follows:
In pursuance of the shock tactics approved
by the Commissar plants not favored by
bees must all be sprayed with a thin syrup
flavored with essence of raspberry. This
essence, which has been distilled from the
heavy crop from White Russia, is available
at collectivised depots.
But Serge was a bit stiff, for the com-
positors at the Collectivised Printery,
being new to the modern linotype
machines, dropped the second line out
altogether, the result being that by the
time the bee-farmers had carried out in-
structions every bee in Russia was
gummed up and couldn’t fly a yard.
And that’s how Serge Maekzimitch,
lord of the Soviet bee world, who used
to have a fleet of Rolls Royces and dine
on caviare and champagne, was hauled
out one chilling morning and parked
against the outer wall of the Kremlin for
“wrecking activities and sabotage.”
And, having no trial, he didn’t have a
chance to explain about that dropped line.
S. W. K.


SECURITY to a thoughtful person means a permanent
income sufficient for present and future needs.
SECURITY to a prudent Company means the steady
expansion of its business by which large
reserves of capital may be built up without
sacrifice of regular and adequate dividends to
shareholders.
SECURITY in an investment means safety of an investor’s
capital, plus a satisfactorily high income.
Such an investment is
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
since the purchaser’s risk is spread over no less than 20 of
Australia’s foremost industrial and commercial undertakings.
Custodian Trustees: UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF
CANTON, LTD. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney).
Write for descriptive booklet No. 1 to the Managers
of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Briseis Tin
The ss. fully-paid shares in Briseis
Consolidated, N.L., sold at the new high
level of Bs. 4d. last week, and there were
, • , . c , . ~ . a r-
big dealings in Sydney at that figure. For
Bs. 4d. the buyer obtained a 600,000 th
equity in what remains of and what has
been added to the old Briseis tinmine at
Derby, 62 miles from Launceston (Tas.).
The English co. that worked the prop-
erty from 1900 onwards paid £517,000
in divs., which sum, however, wasn’t
equal to the £600,000 of capital put up or
deemed to have been put up by share-
holders in the beginning. There were no
distributions from 1919 onwards—a ven-
ture in an English colhery during the war
and a flutter in a Vic. gold-dredging show
were duds, and besides these drains the
cost of developing new areas overburden-
I ® m< ? val a b’g fiem)( kept earnings in
check. The newly-built Cascade dam
buist in 19-9, washed out the^ mine and
scattered or submerged much of the plant.
Following the slump in tin a year later
the old co. went into liquidation.
Burma-Malay Tin in 1934 arranged for
the purchase of the complete outfit from
a Launceston syndicate. The present co.
paid Burma-Malay £58,750 in full com
side:ration-—,£25,000 cash and 135,000
fully-paid ss. shares. Shareholders in
Malayan tin-dredging cos. were offered
305,000 shares, and the. public 160,000.
All were subscribed, making paid-up capi-
tal £150,000 in 600,000 f.-p. ss. shares.
Salvaging of old plant, installation of
new machinery and rehabilitation of the
mine w;k carried nn for the best naU
mme was carried on tor tne Best pare
of 18 months. Between May and August
24, 1936, 44.25 tons tin oxide was re-
covered, worth £11,657. Then another
flood came in the Ringarooma River, on
which the mine is situated; additional
waters from the, Cascade, which joins the
main stream just below the workings,
backed up the flood, and, despite levees,
etc., again the show was washed out,
much of the plant going downstream and
through a 12-chain breach in the river
bank. This time the dam held.
Salvage and dewatering on this occa-
sion were estimated to cost £25,000. Most
of the job has been done—with the aid
of some borrowed money—and partial
production started again last month. In
September or October the plant is ex-
pected to be working at full capacity,
On July 1 the Cascade dam was nearly
half-full, following useful rains. The
present co. has had a somewhat unhappy
experience of dry spells and floods.
The prospectus contemplated a plant
with a throughput of 625,000 c.y. p.a.,
rec °veries of 1.71 b. a yard (493 tons tin
P- a ->> ai ? d mine P™ fi ! s °( £s °,“° Au J'-
p.a. with tin at £250 London. On small-
* onerations 91 tons tin was recov-
ered ’ “
The CQ working a dee p-lead-an
o i d r j ver _ bed Q f tin-bearing gravels and
drift, covered with thick overburden.
At flotation 4,000,000 c.y. going 1.71 b.
was spoken of as proved. With six
years’ life approximately assured, sub-
jec t to such accidents as may occur, an
additional 14 years’ work was estimated
to be ahead of the plant by engineer J.
Atkinson in measuring up the “possible”
ore reserves This same authority be-
jieved that a 10 years’ life was certain,
Net profits of say £40)000 p.a. for a
ten _ year period would aggregate £400,000,
as a g a j ns t a present market capitalisation
o£ tbe s h ow 0 f £240,000. Allowing for
amortisation of principal, the return offer-
-ng on these estimates would be about
6 2 . 3 p c p a (tin at £2 5 0 London). It
j s taking something for granted, too, in-
eluding costs at Is. 6d. a yard and free-
dom from further flood or drought
troubles.
Operating the mine isn’t the simplest
thing in the world. According to Mr.
Atkinson
TT . ’ x ... ,
'V5"b. “
moved to give access to "four cubic yards
of tin-bearing drift, but....on account of
the thickness of the overburden and drift,
the ° f the lower deposits below the
nver and the presence of the Ringarooma
River running through the property and
alongside of the workings, the operation
of the mine is a major operation, necessi-
tating skilled attention and vision from the
outset.
Several diversions of the river have been
necessary to date in order to work dif-
ferent areas ; sometimes the rich ore has
gone right under the. stream,
The undertaking has decided promise
as a moderate-sized venture, but it seems
unwise at the moment to pay too high
a premium for the scrip. Shares of ss.
denominations lend themselves easily to
speculation, and Briseis ss. counters were
last week at 335. to the £1 of paid capital,
Of course, ore reserves and costs may
pan out better than expected, and flood
dangers .appear to have been reduced;
but in mining investment it isn’t sound
practice to pay much for prospects until
a couple of years’ large-scale operations
have indicated the trend of future results,
While the deepest gravels are usually rich
at Briseis, from the overburden face to
the lowest working face there might be
a wide variation in values.
Broken Hill Prop.’s announcement of
new additions to its works at Newcastle
and affiliated enterprises at Port Kembla
was at first received casually by the
sharemarket. The co. must have some
cash on hand left over out of the large
sum raised last year to finance, tin-plate
works which at present are being held in
abeyance, pending investigations over-
seas; but considering the money put
into Australian Iron and Steel recently,
and into other of the co.’s ramifications,
new capital of some kind is likely to be
asked for soon. It might reasonably be
raised by share issues, and would thus
benefit present holders even if a new issue
carried a 50 p.c. premium. After a few
days of cogitation, and with a prelimi-
nary announcement of profits due at the
end of this month, investors lifted their
quotes above 85s. for existing B.H.P.
shares towards the end of last week.
**. * *
After about four months of intensive
classification of the share-list (during
which time two-thirds of the listed stocks
were parcelled up into 17 different cate-
gories that were hard-of-reference), Syd-
ney Stock Exchange is to partly “de-
classify” the list as from August 2. As
was pointed out here when the new sys-
tem was introduced about the beginning
of April, hearty curses were expressed
by busy investors more often than appre-
ciation. After August 2 there, will, be
about 10 different classifications of in-
vestment shares, and 80 p.c. will be under
the one heading of “miscellaneous.” It
will be all to tne benefit of easier refer-
ence.
* * * *
T. J. Hughes, the Perth barrister and
M.L.A., handed in his resignation as
secretary of Litchfields (A/sia), Ltd., on
June 28. According to a Westralian
paper, the “Groper,” Mr. Hughes ex-
plained that he “just didn’t like the job,”
and wasn’t satisfied with “the rate of ex-
penditure in relation to the sale of the
scrip.” Meanwhile “the versatile Mr.
Claude Osmond Barker,” managing
director of Litchfields (he “has claims to
royal blood”), has again been writing to
the press. Some of Litchfields’ sales-
literature was criticised here in B.
7/4/’37.
* t- * *
With electrolytic copper fairly steady
at £63 in London last week, Mt. Lyell
shares lifted somewhat, especially in Syd-
ney. Production of refined copper for
nine months to the end of June was
10,208 tons, up 528 tons on the corre-
sponding figure for 1935-36, when a
drought interfered with production.
Present highly-profitable metal prices also
are now encouraging greatest possible
production. Lyell should be earning, at
present metal quotes, about 7s. per share
a year, taking investment income in at
last year’s level. Average price for the
electrolytic metal for the nine months to
June 30 was £59 15s. sterling, and on
Lyell’s production for that period a net
mining profit alone of about £325,000 is
indicated. If last week’s metal price
were, maintained until the end of Sep-
tember, in the vicinity of £450,000-
£500,000 net profit could be reasonably
expected. Though there was recently a
10 p.c. lift in the wages of some em-
ployees, other production economies
should have an offsetting effect. A 12
years’ life is indicated for the mine on
proved ore reserves alone.
* * * *
The announcement by the G. J. Coles
co. of a final 1\ p.c. div. (making 18f
p.c. for the year) and a one-for-ten
bonus issue in ord. shares gave a fillip
to the scrip ; it lifted from £5 4s. to
£5 12s. 6d. during the day in Melbourne,
and on Friday there were sales at the
higher figure. If the bigger div. is main-
tained on the new scrip the yield will
be about £3 15s. p.c. at £5 12s. per
present £1 share. It is a return that
demands additional future benefits to
justify it.
* * * *
Carlton Brewery shares, more than
once a selection here in recent months
and particularly in B. 28/4/’37, when
the price had weakened to around 625.
6d., sold at 68s. 9d. early last week in Mel-
bourne ; the Sydney market was equally
firm for a time, but an easing to 675. 6d.
followed. Next div., an interim, is due for
payment at the end of August, with the
announcement early in that month. At
the latest price the immediate return to
investors is about £3 14s. per cent, on a
12 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Henry Jones shares rose suddenly on
Tuesday of last week. On Monday there
were sellers in Melbourne at 475. 6d.;
next day sales took place in Sydney at
48s. 3d., then 48s. 9d. was touched. An
interim div. at an unchanged rate was
paid in June, and the final is due in.
December. On a 10 p.c. div. basis im-
mediate yield is about £4 3s. p.c.
❖ * * :«c
With Australian Cement (Melb.) £ i
shares at 325. 6d. last week, Kandos
(Sydney) 165.-paids crept up to 255. 7-jd.
As usual, Kandos scrip was much under-
valued. Though Australian Cement and
Kandos divs. are. at present the same (10
p.c.), on a pound-for-pound capital basis
Kandos has an p.c. greater interest
in the operating co., and therefore a pro-
portionately greater earning power which,
on paper, should make its fully-paid
shares worth 295. when Aust. Cements
are at 325. 6d.
*'. * $ *
Yarra Falls shares, a few of which went
begging at under 395. a week or so ago,
lifted to above 40s. again last week. The
financial year closed on June 30, and
the final div. is expected about the middle
of October, with an announcement in
the accounts published about the end of
September. Even if no more than 10
p.c. goes out for the year, the yield of 5
p.c. to present buyers is good.
* * * *
Cabled reports from London of North
Kalgurli’s net profit for 1936 put it at
£71,854 sterling (about £90,000 Aust.),
compared with £57,303 sterling in 1935.
In B. 23 /6/ ’37 a surplus of £120,000
Aust., subject to development written
off, was forecast. Details of how much
was provided for taxation and develop-
ment before the net figure was struck
are not available in advices to hand, but
the accounts should arrive here within a
few weeks. The earning power of the
mine has increased greatly since pro-
duction stepped up. The shares, after
going above 205., came back to about 19s.
last week.
Emperor shares have had a sick market
lately, and one that hasn’t rallied with the
improvement in most other gold issues.
Emperors were at 14s. 6d. last week,
against 21s. 9d. earlier this year, when
speculators were warned on this page
against putting too high a premium on
prospects. The testing period of the
show as a large-scale proposition is
quickly approaching; September was set
down some time back for the running-
in of the new plant. There is a large
capital (1,500,000 shares) to be taken
care of, and the vendors have par option
over 350,000 more shares until March 15,
1938. They are taking 52,450 now to
finance completion of the treatment
plant. If the big plant starts to schedule
they will have six months of milling ex-
perience before it becomes imperative for
them to make up their minds about the
rest. Whatever the mine’s merits ulti-
mately turn out to be, Emperor to date
has been no stock for the faint-hearted
or financially weak.
* * * *
Australian gold production for the- first
five months of 1937 was 528,0000 z., up
99,2920 z. on the figure, for the same
period in 1936. Around 1,300,0000 z.
may be the final figure for this year.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Myer ords. remained firm around 395., and
the prefs. were also in better favor at 375.
Buckley and Nunn ords. were offered at 18s.,
after sales at that price. Mutual ords. again
received attention at around 9s. Cox Bros.
ss. paids were firm at slightly above 19s.
Davies, Coop ords. (the co. makes men’s
clothing and weaves denims, dungarees, etc.)
appreciated to par on the sale of 1000 shares
on Wednesday. The year has closed, but a final
div isn’t due till September. The interim was
unchanged at 5 p.c. p.a. The newly-listed
Yoffa Hosiery prefs. (carrying 7 p.c.)
were dealt in at 10s. 7d.
Gordon and Gotch ords. lifted to 545. 3d.,
then slackened to under 545. The yield at the
latter figure is about £4 9s. per cent.—quite
favorable, considering the co.’s past history and
future prospects.
Howard Cultivators.
An interesting proposition, a
trifle on the speculative side, is
Howard Auto Cultivators, Ltd.
Profits are won mainly from manu-
facturing and marketing the
Howard rotary-hoe, a patented
farming implement that has taken
on considerably in recent years. A
tractor with a charcoal-gas fuel
unit has recently been developed ; it
may be used in conjunction with
the rotary-hoe. Some pastoralists
in western N. S. Wales are con-
sidering the rotary-hoe as a culti-
vator for pastures; it is already
fairly widely used for some forms
of crop cultivation. In 1936, 18.2
p.c. on ord. capital was earned by
the co., and 9 p.c. was paid. At
325. 6d. in Sydney the immediate
yield is 5.7 p.c.; net tangibles are
about 20s. a share. Accounts are
due next month.


•• • ' > * .**•
flilliiis
iiilMiiiiP
m
■■
Wm
B
m
m
k« »:•: :<•:•> xx-aBfc:
1 HHKi
| •
rwt
'4 ■ sj
m
mi :i
■■■Nl
5'SiW
111
r
i
r
PREVEIV
strike
IN YOUR ENGINE
When you start up your engine these cold days, does
your Oil hold a stay-in strike ? Does it stay in the sump,
thickened up, slow-flowing—so that engine parts are
forced into action without proper lubrication?
No matter how brief this failure, the result is excessive
and costly wear to your engine, particularly to cylinders
and bearings. It should be and can be avoided by one
simple precaution —the use of the new temperature-
proof Atlantic Motor Oil.
This New Atlantic Motor Oil is from the world’s best
pure paraffin base crude, refined by a new process
which leaves nothing in the finished product but full
active lubricant. No sludge, no carbon, no gum!
Particularly in modern, closer-fitted, hotter-operating
engines, harshest of all on lubricants, the New Atlantic
Motor Oil maintains consistently high efficiency.
For instant Winter starting, your high compression car
needs not only Atlantic Motor Oil, but also Atlantic
Ethyl, the high anti-knock fuel which guarantees maxi-
mum efficiency in all high compression cars, particu-
larly models built since 1934!
THE NEW ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
PURE PARAFFIN BASE
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD. AMO 4-48-37


• ; 3
M mm
Vjfgl
H'i A
m
m
2; jV
■v^
3?/
&
i:wi
5 .ft
'•V.-V-V
A remarkable record 67 years of
sound success is reflected in these
figures:
Assurance
Funds
£
Assurances
in Force
£
New Business
for Year
£
1870— 781 77,100 85,400
1901— 3,265,126 12,064,507 1,367,170
1936—40,883,125 115,761,661 11,348,578
The abore figures refer to ordinary Life Assurance only—
the Association does not conduct Industrial Assurance.
New Heights
A BLY piloted, with men of fore-
** sight and experience at the
controls, the National Mutual soars to
new heights. . . providing a safe and
sure transit to Financial Stability—in
fair weather or storms —for hundreds
of thousands of policyholders.
Purely mutual—every policyholder is a
partner—low management expenses and
wise administration mean extraordinarily
liberal benefits.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </ A/ASIA. LTD.
(Inc. in Victoria),
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain,
South Africa, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements.
LIFE ASSURANCE SUPPLEMENT
The Good Years and the Bad
The year 1936 was generally considered
to be a “good” year by recent standards,
and 1937 has started well. Savings-bank
deposits have lifted to near the high-
est point reached before the depression,
and unemployment has been reduced,
though hardly to bedrock. Except for a
disturbed position overseas —and it is
overseas conditions that govern prices for
wool, wheat, etc., and consequently
have a vital bearing on our external
revenue—Australia is in a fairly happy
position. For how long we don’t know ;
we hope for many years to. come, but
no one can foretell with certainty.
“Australia in a happy position”—such
phrases can apply at best to the majority
of Australians, and not to the complete
population. A country on the whole
“Individual happiness in many cases
depends on the individual.”
may be doing well, but individual happi-
ness in many cases depends on the in-
dividual. The young man may just now
have any amount of opportunities to gel
a job and to lead his life (within limits)
as he desires. His wife and family, if
he has such dependants, may be simi-
larly content. But‘the aged, the widows
and small children cannot as a rule go
out and take part in the business ac-
tivity that is called “prosperity” and
gather in their share of the increased
spending-power circulating. They have
to be provided for somehow, unless pro-
vision has already been made by the
now-aged themselves in their younger
days, and by lost breadwinners in the
case of dependent wives and children.
Independence in old age is a great
thing. Freedom from worry on the part
of a breadwinner and his family is also
a thing eagerly sought after by many.
Neither is easily achieved, as a rule, and
either is rarely won without previous
planning and saving years ahead.
Life assurance was designed and has
been evolved with the chief aim of pro-
viding capital and income to the aged
and bereaved when income is hard to
come by. Another use of assurance has
also become apparent; that of establish-
ing in the good years (like the year
1937) the beginning of a savings fund in
anticipation of some expenditure that is
to take place in a few years’ time. The
building of a home, the cost of a trip
abroad, the education of a child while
the assurer is still in his prime—saving
for such a purpose can be wholly or
partly carried out by means of life
assurance.
The Mutual Office
Mutual life assurance represents a
pooling of savings instalments, the living
continuing to contribute and those who
die ceasing to pay, their dependants re-
ceiving the sum assured, plus bonuses.
In the case of endowment assurance the
assured himself may collect the proceeds
of the policy on his reaching a certain
age; in the event of his dying before
reaching the specified age his dependants
would collect.
The life office represents a pool with
a stream of contributions entering and a
stream of benefits leaving. The benefits
represent a larger volume than the contri-
butions in a good office. This is achieved
by reason of the fact that the investment
of policy-holders’ contributions, while
those funds remain in the office, brings
“The assured himself may collect an
endowment policy.”
in a revenue greater than the business
expenses and early claims put together.
All profits after providing for claims
and probable claims, expenses, dividends
(in some cases) and reserves are dis-
tributed among policy-holders in the form
of reversionary bonuses. Reversionary
bonuses have their full face value only
when the policy matures ; if cashed as
soon as declared the office usually dis-
counts them heavily, the fundamental
idea being that they, like the policy,
should be left untouched until maturity.
Healthy competition among leading
Australian life, offices has brought a
rivalry that has the result of keeping
expenses and other outgo down and in-
creasing the surplus for policy-holders,
who get it in the form of bonuses.
As shown before, the effect of the
many transactions that take place in a
life office is that those who live con-
tribute towards the dependants of those
members who die. A contributor may
live a long while and pay a long while :
but, if he has a participating policy in
a sound, bonus-paying office, he should
lose no capital in the venture. And, of
course, when he took out the policy
neither he nor his dependants could be
sure that a long life was ahead of him,
or that his policy would not become a
claim within a few days, a few months
or a few years.
It is because of these factors that all
types of life assurance can be regarded
as an investment by one who assures in
a good office. The assured is assured
so long as he keeps his payments going ;
the gamble as regards the capital of the
assurance is on the part of the office.
The speculation as far as the policy-
holder is concerned is practically limited
to the question of bonuses. He can
almost always be certain of his premiums
back; and often he receives excellent
interest, as well as death-cover for his
dependants.
Past experience shows that, once a life
office has established itself, it should
begin to pay bonuses, and then, subject
to unaltered economic conditions, im-
proved bonuses. Not often does an office
reduce its premium rates; if results im-
prove and the office is able to run its
business with lower expenses and claims
than it first bargained for, and if returns
from investments are better than ex-
pected, the assurer gets the benefit, not in
cuts in the payments he makes to the
society, but in bonuses. He originally
contracted to make certain periodical
payments for the assurance of a lump
sum at a certain age or at death ; in the
end he gets a considerably greater sum.
The selection of an office in which to
assure is important. Regard should be
given to expense rates, mortality experi-
ence, investment income, reserves set
aside for policy liabilities, and the nature
of investment of the funds. All assur-
ance contracts are not of the same value.
It depends on the bonus-paying capacity,
present and future, of the office. Some-
times, also, an office is more liberal on


_[ AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA L
Investment in
HAPPINESS
Public invested in
£27,970,000 worth of New
A.M.P. Policies last year
Average of one family in two
now protected by the Society
year of immense progress was the A.M.P.
Society’s record for 1936. The Nation’s faith in the
Society grows day by day, month by month, and year by
year. The year that closed on 31st December was the
greatest in the Society’s history. The Society again made
a large increase in the volume of its business. See:—
New Policies Issued in Each of These Years:
1931 £11,500,000
1932 13,600,000
1933 15,600,000
1934 £17,900,000
1935 24,000,000
1936 27,970,000
An average of one family in two in Australia and New
Zealand now enjoys the benefit of A.M.P. protection.
Become a member if you are not one already. If you are
a member, make the most of the opportunity to strengthen
your finances that membership presents. The Society will
keep on growing in strength, but for YOU even to-morrow
may be too late. Seize on membership while you may.
A.M.P.
Bonus Distribution
£5,284,000
T AST month the Society distributed £5,284,000 in Reversionary
•*— l Bonuses, on all participating policies in force on 31st December
last. These bonuses represent a cash value of £3,177,044. They
mean that participating members in the ordinary department are
receiving back, in cash or its equivalent reversionary bonuses, an
average of over 8/6 for every £1 paid by them in premiums last year.
The A.M.P. grows from strength to strength. Every member’s
policy is backed by £106,000,000 of conservatively valued assets.
In the past five years the Society has paid out’ £31,787,817 to its
policy-holders: more than SIX MILLION POUNDS a year.
An experienced representative will gladly be sent to discuss the
benefits of A.M.P. membership with any citizen living within a
reasonable distance of any A.M.P. office. Send word to-day that
YOU want to see one.
The Society is purely “mutual”—there being no shareholders—
and is conducted for the benefit of the policy-holders only.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
the point of surrender and loan values
than others.
If a life office doesn’t fully distribute
surplus profits, and adds part of them
to reserves, it increases its future bonus-
paying ability.
Thus we hear of terms like “the basis
of valuation.” This often means the
basis of anticipating the future. If an
office, for example, up to the present ex-
pecting a 4 p.c. return on its investments,
is able, by increasing its reserves, to
count on only a p.c. return and still
pay the same bonuses, its bonuses are
obviously going to be higher if it actu-
ally nets 4 p.c. on the strengthened funds.
“Life offices have made a feature of
tailor-made policies.”
By the same token, if an office budgets
for high expenses and high mortality,
and both those forms of outgo are below
expectations, another source of profit
accrues.
A life office, is a continuing entity, and
old policy-holders benefit by new ones
coming in. As an inducement fot new
members to join up, prospects must be
made appealing by strengthening bonus-
paying possibilities. So, generally, policy-
holders should be more pleased than
otherwise when they see portion of the
actuarial surplus going into reserves in-
stead of out in bonuses. Thrift and care
on the part of a life office are a safeguard
and a virtue just the same as they are
in an individual.
A National Trait
The depression increased the Austra-
lian people’s championship of life assur-
ance. If any large-scale advertisement
was necessary to boost the secure and
profitable nature of such saving-cum-
death-benefit, the slump of 1930-34 pro-
duced it. Life offices paid claims and
added bonuses —the latter somewhat re-
duced, admittedly—at a time when the
world’s largest savings-bank closed its
doors, and many trading cos. were un-
able to pay dividends to their share-
holders.
Proceeds of claims paid and loans
made in the bad times also had increased
buying power, though the circumstances
“All assurance contracts are not of the
same value.”
which made payments to policy-holders
worth more made payments by policy-
holders (premiums) proportionately more
onerous. Still, annual premiums are
usually small items on the policy of
average size and term, and the fact that
the same policies in a good office have
a fixed loan and surrender value in bad
times (when money is wanted most) is a
great advantage, and one that is a direct
result of saving in the fat years in anti-
cipation of the lean.
In 1920 there were 692,000 policies in
force in the Ordinary departments of
life offices operating in the Common-
wealth ; the sum assured was £168,257,400.
In 1934 the figures had risen to 908,620
polices, assuring £304,778,000. The aver-
age amount of cover taken per Ordinary
policy has greatly increased in late years.
In 1933 it was £333, in 1934 £335. These
figures are the most recent aggregates
published ; but in 1935 and 1936 a record
volume of assurances has been put on
the books of most life offices, and at
present business is being written on an
unprecedented scale.
Industrial assurances numbered 904,000
in 1920, assuring £26,227,000. In 1934
there were 1,782,291 of these policies in
force, granting cover amounting to
£77,024,429, the average per policy lift-
ing from £29 in 1920 to £43 in 1934.
Especially in a country such as Australia,
where mutual and semi-mutual assurance
is highly popular, larger policies mean
more economical cover for all concerned.
The great number of industrial poli-
cies held —now equal to slightly more
than one policy for every four of the
population—indicates the strong appeal
life assurance holds out to working
people. There are almost twice as many
I.D. policies as O.D. Industrial assurance
is usually paid for in small weekly or
monthly premiums, and, therefore, by
reason of the. cost of getting in these
small and frequent premiums, there is
usually less profit for policy-holders than
in the Ordinary department.
Policies in the O.D. of a sound life
office certainly represent the best in life
But by its popularity Indus-
trial assurance shows that it fills a want.
The collector represents a persuading
factor against allowing such policies to
lapse, where lapses are liable to be
frequent.
Life and Death Matters
The evolution of endowment assur-
ance, whereby the prime object is to
establish a savings fund payable at a
certain age (but with the very valuable
addition of the payment of a guaran-
teed sum, usually with bonuses, at
“Annuitants usually live a long while."
previous death), has extended the field
of life assurance greatly in recent times.
With many people an endowment assur-
ance policy is the best form of saving
they know, because of the semi-compul-
sory nature of it; others regard it as the
safest and most profitable investment
they know —even the shrewdest investors
have difficulty in earning an income,
year in and year out, equal to the
bonuses which accumulate on a partici-
pating policy in a sound life office.
Those who control a life office are
generally experts; experts in selecting the
lives they assure, in estimating average
lives, in keeping business costs down,
and in choosing investments in which
to place the office’s funds.
As an office accumulates records of
past assurance experience it can plan
ahead with greater confidence; also it
can extend benefits, or introduce new
variations of policies to suit particular
needs.
In Australia we have seen great de-
velopment as regards adapted forms of
assurance over the past 10 years. Life-
offices have made a feature of “tailor-
made” policies—made to your order and
design, or at least very near to them.
There are so many adapted and adapt-
able forms of assurance to-day that
almost anybody in reasonable health can
get an exact fitting out of the regular
tables without fuss or bother.
Policies may be taken out to provide
for dependants in a great or small de-
gree, to make provision (by means of
endowment assurance) for a retiring en-
dowment, or to make sure of having
cash on a certain date for any antici-
pated event where cash will be required.
Or the object may be to provide for pay-
ment of probate duties, for funeral ex-
penses, for redemption of a mortgage or
other debt, for the purchase of a house,
for education of children, for a marriage
o Continued on next page.)


T5hQ
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1879.
INCOME.
1916 .. £254,825
1926 ... 981,704
1936 .. 1,270,649
CLAIMS PAID.
1916 .. £58,647
1926 .. 136,711
1936 ... 428,241
ASSURANCES IN FORCE.
1916 .. £4,160,598
1926 .. 14,425,201
1936 .'. 21,955,545
ASSETS.
£986,986
4,033,122
8,859,399
1916
1926
1936
PURELY MUTUAL ENTIRELY AUSTRALIAN.
The Office Which Pays the Big Bonuses.
o. j. McDermott.
DIRECTORS:
G. E. BRYANT, Chairman.
The Hon. FRANK E. WALL, M.D., M.L.C.
W. BENNETT.
M. J. O’NEILL.
OFFICES
NEW SOUTH WALES: City Mutual Building, Hunter and Bligh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIA: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne;
C. A. Ralph, Manager.
QUEENSLAND: 313-315 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. M. Hannan,
Manager.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Trustee Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide;
B. J. Dolin, Acting Manager.
WEST AUSTRALIA: St. George’s Terrace, Perth; A. Wansbrough,
Mciii3.§[cr«
TASMANIA: E., S. and A. Bank Chambers, Patterson Street,
Launceston; R. McNair, Manager.
J. A. Thomson, Assistant General Manager. .
J. G. Taylor, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5., General Secretary,
WILLIAM BENNETT, Managing Director.
G. F. Diamond, A.1.A., Actuary.
dowry, for a world tour or special holi-
day, for regular income to a bereaved
family, or for income to the assured him-
self.
Probate assurance, since it is payable
at death, comes in just at the moment
estate duties have to be met, and if the
C. A. ELLIOTT,
Actuary of the A.M.P.
sum assured is enough to meet the bill
the rest of the estate is left intact.
Annuities became popular among the
public during the depression, but they
aren’t so popular among life offices. The
procedure with an annuity is the reverse
of that with an assurance policy ; the
assured pays a lump sum to the office at
the beginning, and the office then pays
him instalments until death. Annuitants,
life offices find, usually live a long while
and receive more than they pay in.
An annuity represents worry-free in-
come to the annuitant, though in this
case he takes a bigger monetary gamble
than with a life policy. The office is
sure of the amount it is going to get, but
the annuitant doesn’t know how much
he is going to draw (nor does the office
know how much it will have to pay), as
death terminates the annuity. The annui-
tant does know, however, that he will be
paid a regular income during his life-
time ; if he has no dependants that is all
he is concerned about.
Policies
The A.M.P. has a long experience of
the wants and circumstances of the
average life-assurance prospect behind
it, and it offers a variety of policies. As
with other offices, whole-life assurance
finds pride of place.
The whole-life contract provides the
maximum amount of assurance at
death in return for the policy-holder’s
outlay. Continuity of assurance protec-
tion throughout life is also secured under
this table, irrespective of the state of
health of the life assured in future
years. On the other hand, should it be
found, at some later date, that this con-
tinuity of protection is not wanted, the
existing contract may generally be con-
verted into an endowment assurance
policy on favorable terms, without medi-
cal examination.
In addition to general family protec-
tion, whole-life assurance is also suit-
able for providing for probate, estate
and succession duties. The policy un-
doubtedly supplies the most effective and
economical means for meeting this lia-
bility—a charge that cannot be avoided.
Business and partnership assurance
may also be arranged with a whole-life
policy.
In some cases it is preferred that the
obligation to pay premiums should be
limited to the period when earning
capacity is greatest. The A.M.P. has a
table providing for this, premiums being
paid for a fixed period of years only.
In addition to life assurance protec-
tion, an endowment assurance policy
with the A.M.P. will, the society be-
lieves, at maturity give a compound in-
terest return on the premiums paid over
the whole term of the policy at a rate
from 3 per cent, upwards. Thus an in-
vestment is secured which provides
security of capital, freedom from depre-
ciation, and remunerative return, to-
gether with definite income tax conces-
sions, both on the premiums paid and
on the claim moneys at maturity. “As
every investor knows, there are few
such investments.”
An endowment assurance policy
effected on the life of a parent, payable
at the end of a specified term of years
or previous death, will guarantee the
funds necessary for (among other things)
a professional training or a technical
education for a son or a daughter.
Under these tables, parents are en-
abled to endow their children by secur-
ing for them the future benefits of life
assurance protection, together with
options offered by the society, at a low
rate of premium.
Parents who effect policies on their
children’s lives at an early age and hand
them over to the children when the
latter become self-supporting assist them
to acquire a sense of responsibility and
thrifty habits. For the young man, it
will mean capital when he is ready to
enter business.
Policies originally effected under
children’s deferred tables may, if desired,
be exchanged for a whole-life or endow-
ment policy at any time after the life
assured (i.e., the child) has attained the
age of 10. The concession is subject to
usual conditions relative to evidence of
good health, etc.
A.M.P. monthly income assurance may
be divided into two broad classes: (a)
H. VAUGHAN,
“Figure"-head of the M.L.C.
policies under which the annuity benefit
is contingent upon death occurring
within a stipulated period from issue of
the policy and is payable only for the
remainder of that period, and ( b) policies
that provide a guaranteed income for a
definite period, following on the death
of the life assured or upon his survival
to a specified age.
♦j* -*£♦ ■»£«- ■*£«■
The National Mutual is always up with
the leaders when any new and useful
type of assurance is being accepted by
the public on an extensive scale. It has
some very attractive contracts, which
especially favor younger men.
But its policies are generally of a
liberal and attractive nature, meeting the
requirements of all classes of assurers.
Premium rates are low, and the office is
unique in that it accepts at age nearest
birthday, and not at age next birthday.
The two factors combined often result in
substantially increased guaranteed cover.
Management expenses are kept well
down, and bonus rates in relation to pre-
miums charged continue to be on a high
scale. The true basis of comparison of
bonuses is in relation to premiums
charged, not in relation to the sum
assured.
The National Mutual has written a lot
of home-purchase business, through
which the borrower not only secures an
advance on easy terms, but also pro-
tects his dependants against the possibility
of his untimely death.
Alternative types of this assurance are
(1) Fixed mortgage plus endowment
assurance, and (2) reducible mortgage
plus whole-life policy.
The first is the customary house-pur-
chase contract, premiums and interest
constituting the monthly or quarterly pay-
ment by the assured. The second, by
including with the premium and interest
charge an instalment repayment of the
mortgage, aims at leaving the home-
builder with his assurance policy and
home both intact at the end of the mort-
gage period. If the assured should die
within the period, his policy and added
bonuses would mature, and the repay-
ments already made would be taken into
account when deducting from the policy
proceeds the amount of the mortgage.
-<s* *
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ has re-
cently introduced two new varieties of
assurance, which it calls its “BA” and
“BY” contracts.
Under its “BA” policy the office has
estimated that with bonuses accruing at
last year’s rate (they may be greater or
less over the period) a man of 30 next
birthday, by paying £4O 13s. 3d. a year


.
!'S
*
TO
' '
77ze Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Australian
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company, Ltd.
Incorporated 1895,
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian
Metropolitan is one of the old-established Life Offices.
It has 41 years of faithful service to the public behind
it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and
sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
As its liabilities are conservatively valued, its Funds are
ample for all purposes —but, even so, these Funds are
backed by substantial Reserves, so that its financial
position is impregnable.
At the end of 1936 the assets were made up as follows:
Government and Municipal
Securities
Loans on Mortgage
Freehold Properties .
Loans on Policies
Cash and other Assets
55.66 per cent.
17.43 „ „
15.16 „ ~
6.64 „ „
5.11 „ „
Assurance Funds at 31/12/’36, £1,477,273.
DIRECTORS:
DR. A. MURRAY WILL.
W. A. H. ALLWORTH.
D. F. STEWART.
J. A. HENDERSON.
F, J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER :
J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL SECRETARY:
FREEMAN J. EATON.
ACTUARY: '
W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
BRANCH OFFICES :
Victoria:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 367-9 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia :
22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
(15s. Bd. a week), may obtain £5 a week
for life after age, 65. He may take the
endowment in a lump sum (in this case
£1431, plus bonuses, estimated on the
basis mentioned to bring it up to £2766);
he has the third option of taking the in-
come for a definite number of years in-
stead of a life annuity—£ll Bs. 9d. a week
for five years, £6 2s. lOd. for 10 years
or £3 10s. 2d. for 20 years. In the event
of this option being exercised, the income
is paid for the full period after 65 irre-
spective of whether the assured dies or
lives for the stipulated time covered by
the payments.
The sum assured is payable in full,
with bonuses added, if the assured dies
before the endowment age (in this
example 65) is attained.
If the assured survives to 65 he has
the annuity, lump-sum or stipulated-
instalment options mentioned; and
if he elects to take the annuity he, is
W. D. STEWART,
of the National Mutual’s N.S.W. board.
guaranteed £9 Bs. a year (payable quar-
terly) for every £lOO of the maturity
value (sum assured, plus bonuses).
This is obviously a very fine type of
assurance for those who wish to provide
an income in their old age. It should
appeal particularly to young men, and
is a flexible type of policy indeed. Under
the M.L.C.’s “BY” policy a sum is pay-
able at death before reaching a selected
age, and double the sum if the assured
survives to the selected age. Bonuses
are paid in full in either event.
The M.L.C. explains its house-purchase
assurance as follows:
You can arrange for your home to be free
of mortgage debt in the event of your death
before the end of the term of purchase, or paid
for just the same on your survival of the term,
so that instead of being a burden to your
family should you die it becomes an asset.
Proceeds of an endowment assurance policy in
the M.L.C. make the provision.
You need not worry about the mortgage so
long as you keep the interest and the premium
paid. Take an example:
The M.L.C. advances you £7OO (the
remainder of the cash being provided by
yourself):
Interest on £7OO at p.c.
per annum .. £3 4 2 per month
Premium on 25 years’
Endowment Assurance
Policy for £7OO (age
30 next birthday) .... 2 9 7 „
£5 13 9 „
The sum assured under the policy would pay
off your debt of £7OO either if you died at any
uime during the 25 years, or at the end of that
period if you survived.
As the policy would receive bonuses, these
would be payable at the same time as the sum
assured.
On the assumption that the 1936 rate of
bonus allotted to policies of the class con-
cerned be continued, the bonuses at the end
of the 25 years would be £3BO. In effect, there-
fore, though you have paid interest on £7OO
you really get £lOBO in value.
You have paid off the £7OO mortgage and
have the bonuses of £3BO in cash, and it has
cost you about 265. per week to secure it —less
than what you would have paid in rent —and
you are now the owner of the property instead
of being merely the occupier paying rent to a
landlord. In the event of your death during the
currency of the mortgage, the property, free
of debt, would have passed to your bene-
ficiaries.
+}♦ ♦+♦
In keeping up to policy-holders the
high bonus rates they have come to expect
from the City Mutual, this office has
concentrated on plain and simple assur-
ance. Whole-of-life and endowment as-
surances usually have greatest participat-
ing rights among various types of poli-
cies ; and this is particularly so in the
City Mutual’s case.
The office is purely mutual, established
in 1879. It operates solely in Australia,
and claims very liberal policy conditions,
transacting all classes of Ordinary de-
partment assurance.
The City Mutual is one of the few
offices that do not write Industrial assur-
ance. There have been suggestions that
the proposed introduction of a scheme
of national insurance will make inroads
into the industrial .business; the City
Mutual won’t be affected. The society
claims to pay record bonuses, and these
are allotted irrespective of the age of the
assured at entry.
There is no charge for instalments to
complete the current year of assurance
except in cases where the policy-holder
elects to pay by monthly instalments.
Monthly instalments, incidentally, are a
great convenience to some policy-
holders.
Under the office’s table A, which deals
with whole-life assurance, the relevant
conditions of the, policy are expressed
in about 40 lines. The conditions are
subject to the society’s articles of asso-
ciation, but the essence of the contract
is clearly displayed on the document the
assured receives.
The principal conditions of the City
Mutual’s whole-life policy are worth
general study. One of these policies, for
£lOOO, taken out in 1916, is now worth,
with bonuses, £1719 should the assured
die to-morrow.
Should the assured have made wilful
misrepresentation in the proposal (a con-
dition in practically every life assurance
policy) the contract becomes void. If the
assured commits suicide after 12 months
from date of the policy, it is payable in
full.
' When the policy has been in force two
years, it is kept alive until the surrender
value is exhausted should premiums fall
into arrears.
After three years it may be converted
into a fully-paid-up participating policy
of reduced amount free of further
premiums.
The office gives special disability
benefits.
Under any policy issued by the City
Mutual by which the death risk is
covered, if the assured loses two hands
or two legs or goes totally blind through
an accident incurred within six months
previously, the whole policy becomes im-
mediately payable. Should the assured
lose one arm, one leg or one eye as a
result of such an accident, one-quarter of
the assurance is paid immediately, the
balance at the agreed maturity date, and
the premiums are, reduced by one-quarter.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Now one of the big life offices of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, the T. and G.
Mutual Life, established in 1876, had
slow growth in its early stages. But
with attractive forms of assurance, sound
investments and stringent conditions in
its valuations for future profits to policy-
holders the office’s progress over the last
20 years has been somewhat dazzling.
Present figures of the society show just
how successfully the purpose of the
founders has worked out.
The funds, over £25,000,000 in the last
report, are entirely invested in Australia
and Maoriland ; the greater portion is
in Government, municipal and public-
body securities.
The office, meeting the need for help
to buy new homes, is doing home-pur-
H. M. JACKSON,
of the T. and G.
chase assurance for the benefit of its
policy-holders and others. In two of the
society’s plans provision is made for a life
policy of sufficient amount to liquidate the
mortgage in event of the borrower’s death
during the currency of the contract.
Family income assurance, now one of
the office’s most popular new tables, has
had a run of attention second only to
((Continued on next page.)


Sws
a
* >. Jk&
v 8 *. y i / * * Sw?
' A*’
U '?
1
r,
I 11
■
1
til I
II I i
ii
1
IS 111
I
Sill
HyuttuyyjjjLJU
•f- : ■-•;■■>.
m
m
m
HEAD OFFICE BUILDING.
For over sixty years
THE
T.&G.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
has a perfect record of service to its policy-
holders.
Its great progress and present strength
justify confidence in an even greater growth
in the future.
The T. & G. Life is popular because it
provides Life Assurance in its best forms.
Take an instance —the special problem of the
average man is to continue an income to his
family. It does not satisfy him to leave invest-
ments only, some perhaps hard to realise on,
for he knows that the average family is not
usually qualified to handle profitably large
sums of money. So for the business man
whose responsibilities are greatest during his
earning years theT. & G. Improved Family
Income Assurance meets every need. Rates
for this plan or any form of Life or Accident
Assurance will be quoted without any obligation.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TEMPERANCE 8 GENERAL
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
Income 1936 ....... £5,004,192
Assets 1936. ...... . £25,407,810
HEAD OFFICE;
Collins & Russell Streets, Melbourne.
J. T. THOMPSON, Managing Director.
H. M. JACKSON, F.1.A., Actuary.
I’S'fr
SECURITy
‘Freedom from core or apprehension.
OMEONE has said that Joseph was the first
Underwriter. During the seven fat years ne
built up a reserve” by storing Egypt’s surplus
grain in huge granaries. Then came seven lean
years, and the land was parched and withered.
But the Egyptians were secure; they had free-
dom from care or apprehension, as Josepn
knowing the Risk, had provided against it
through the exercise of Forethought and lnritt.
In other words, they were INSURED against
Disaster.
INSURANCE means SECURITY.
The PEARL ASSURANCE
COMPANY. LIMITED ( incor-
porated in England), with Funds
totalling £94,565,273, offers this
security.
Head Office for Australasia —9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
house-purchase assurance in the special-
policy class. It combines life assurance
with a guaranteed income to the bene-
ficiary if death occurs in a selected period.
This form of policy provides, if death
occurs in the selected period:
(1) An immediate cash payment with
all accumulated bonuses.
(2) An income increased by a share of
the interest earned by the society in ex-
cess of a certain percentage, payable by
equal monthly instalments for the unex-
pired portion of the selected term.
(3) The capital sum assured when the
monthly income ceases.
Service to policy-holders has always
been a leading feature, and, apart from
the £1,667,265 paid out under contracts
last year, the society gives a free nursing
care and periodic medical examination
that have been the means of improving
the mortality experience.
In the Industrial department the society/
pioneered a lien-revival system which has
been of great benefit to its large body
of constituents, particularly during and
after the depression. Added to this is a
system of waiving all future premiums in
certain cases where the breadwinner of
the family has become permanently and
totally disabled.
♦♦♦ ♦+♦ * *
Home ownership is a simple enough
problem for those who have the cash
to make an outright purchase. But
many can become home-owners only
after a long period of saving, often at
the same time finding money for rent.
The Australian Metropolitan Life
makes a feature of financing approved
persons in the. buying of homes under a
system which provides for the loan to
be repaid by monthly or quarterly in-
stalments over a term of 10, 15 or 20
years. The loan is protected by a with-
profit life-policy, payable in the event of
the death of the borrower.
The main feature of this plan is that',
should the borrower die, the loan is im-
mediately repaid, and, in addition, his
dependants receive the difference be-
tween the value of his policy (plus
bonuses) and the amount owing on
the mortgage. On the other hand, should
the borrower survive to repay the loan
himself, he then has an unencumbered
property asset and a life policy 10, 15 or
20 years in force (as the case may be),
which is an additional asset for his
family.
One of the important features of such
a home-purchase plan is that the bor-
rower has not to face frequent renewals
of a mortgage with the attendant ex-
pense, and involving perhaps an increase
in the charge for interest, for, of course,
it could only be renewed at the then
current rate.
The office doesn’t encourage protection
of the loan by an endowment policy for
the reason that when the policy matures
the borrower would be without assur-
ance protection at a time when he most
needs it, and when, perhaps, impaired
health might make any form of life
assurance unobtainable.
Generally speaking, advances are made
up to 65 p.c. of the value of the property,
but in selected instances this ratio might
be exceeded.
*i* ♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
The British Prudential, one of the
world’s largest offices, points out that if
the chief director of a business
learned that tfis desk and those of
his assistants had not been insured, he
would at once admonish the one respon-
sible. Yet is that director himself not re-
sponsible for a far more serious lack of
business foresight in not ensuring that his
business is protected against the financial
loss inseparable from the death of him-
self or any one of his important officers?
In England, America and many othei
parts of the world it is a common prac-
tice for a firm to assure the lives of their
key-men. Australia and Maoriland aren’t
so advanced.
The Prudential emphasises that busi-
ness assurance can be equally adaptable
to partnerships, private companies and
public companies.
The death of a key-man must react
to a greater 'or lesser extent upon a busi-
ness. The Prudential’s key-man assur-
ance provides for a fund against such
losses, and the policies may be arranged
to provide a life income, should the em-
ployee assured reach retirement.
Temporary (or term) assurances have
been specially devised to meet temporary
risks. They provide for immediate pay-
ment of the sum assured should the
D. DRYBOROUGH,
With F. C. McPhail, now abroad, joint
actuary for the Colonial Mutual.
person upon whose life such a policy is
granted die within a fixed period of
months or years. The rates of premium
for this class of assurance are only a
fraction of those charged for whole-life
contracts.
When a director, manager, engineer or
buyer goes abroad on business, nearly
always it is with a view to gaining
further knowledge or making arrange-
ments for the profit of his firm. Should
he die whilst abroad very valuable ex-
perience is lost, and, further, the. pro-
spective profit will not materialise. To
this loss (and the expenses which have
been incurred) will be added the dislo-
cation of smoothly-functioning arrange-
ments which is inseparable from the
death of a key-man. A temporary assur-
ance effected for the term of the pro-
posed trip will ensure some compensa-
tion should death occur.
To those who are commencing busi-
ness or professional careers, or to those
who, through temporary financial diffi-
culty, find whole-life and endowment as-
surance premiums too high to permit
their securing the full cover they require,
the Prudential convertible-term policy
offers specially designed advantages.
Under this form of contract life-assur-
ance protection is provided at greatly-
reduced premiums for a period not ex-
ceeding five years with the provision
that, at any time before the expiration of
the five-year term, the life assured may,


•£25,110,206
HAS BEEN PAID TO POLICY-
HOLDERS IN SIXTY-FIVE YEARS
00
CO
es
00
CN
*5
OF NEW BUSINESS WAS COM
PLETED IN 1936 (Excluding
Industrial and Accident Depts.)
•£20,000,000
OF WELL-INVESTED FUNDS
ARE SPREAD THROUGHOUT
THE EMPIRE
SUCH IS THE STORY OF
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Chairman of Principal Office Board:
THE HON. SIR HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G.
General Manager:
CECIL B. HEARN, A.C.I.S.
THE MUTUAL
LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. maintains its
Ordinary Branch bonus rates
for 1936
EXAMPLES: Whole-of-life policy, age 25 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for first year £2/5/-
p.c., increasing to £4/2/- p.c. for the 30th
year.
Endowment Assurance maturing at age 60,
age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus for
first year £1 18/- p.c., increasing to £3/2/-
p.c. for the 30th year.
REASONS why these results
are possible:—
1. The Company’s powerful reserves and the assets
covering them are unsurpassed for strength
in Australia. 84 p.c. of the assets of over
£25,000,000 consist of Government, Muni-
cipal and Local Body Loans and Loans on
Policies.
2. The mortality experienced, due to careful selec-
tion of risks, is extraordinarily light.
3. The Company is managed efficiently, and always
has been. Last year the expense rate was
10 p.c. of the total income.
4. The rate of interest earned on the funds and
reserves exceeds 5 p.c. The rate assumed
in valuing the Company’s liabilities is 2}
p.c., leaving a margin of more than 2\ p.c.
for profit. '
Annual Income exceeds £3,500,000
Payments to Policyholders exceed
£33,000,000
ARTHUR M. EEDY, C.8.E.,
Managing Director .
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
Temporary Head Office (during rebuilding):
Hosking House, Hosking Place,
Off Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
without further medical examination,
convert to a whole-life or endowment
assurance policy at premium rates which
are reduced by all premiums paid before
the option was exercised.
Banks and other lenders of money
are influenced by the business ability
and personal integrity of the bor-
rower, and life assurance is a means of
providing the collateral security neces-
sary to the lenders. Such protection en-
sures the automatic extinction of the debt
upon the death of the borrower. The
extent to which those who lend money
as a business now insist upon temporary-
assurance policies covering the period of
their loans is an indication of the gen-
eral appreciation of the value of life
assurance in business.
Life Offices Reviewed
A.M.P.—In all those matters on which
prosperity of a life office depends, the
A.M.P. has established an enviable
record. W,ith policies valued at
£314,500,000 on its books, aggregate
funds of nearly £107,000,000 and an
annual income little short of £13,500,000,
the office stands out, not only as the
largest purely mutual life institution in
Australasia, but also in the Empire, and
expansion in its figures is continuing in
those directions where expansion is most
desirable.
But bonus-paying capacity, not size, is
the true measuring-rod of a life office.
In this respect the Mutual Provident has
done consistently well for its policy-
holders for many years, as the follow-
ing table shows: —•
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1920.. £1,324,193 £39,834 £1,364,027
1923.. 1,967,457 115,931 2,083,388
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1931.. 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934.. 2,674,409 288,312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746,567 297,574 3,044,141
1936.. 2,837,798 310,646 3,148,444
For the 1936 term an extra £104,303
was sent out in cash bonuses in the two
departments combined, the O.D. dis-
bursement on participating policies repre-
senting 42.8 p.c. of the year’s net
premium income, as against 44.4 p.c. in
1935.
As in the case of most established life
offices, the small A.M.P.O.D. policy-
holder participates in bonuses at the same
rate as the larger. The source of the fore-
going attractive distributions is to be
found in the low expense rate (exclud-
ing taxes, 14 p.c., up 4s. p.c., in the
O.D. last term, compared with the load-
ing of 18.6 p.c. allowed by the actuary),
a mortality experience lately only 52
p.c. or so of expectation, and the strong
actuarial basis of valuation. Net effec-
tive interest return on mean funds (in-
cluding Life, fidelity guarantee, contin-
gency and taxation accounts) averaged
£4 3s. 9d. p.c. From the Life fund
alone, a 3 p.c. return is assumed.
The cover for policy liabilities is in
this form:
1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
Public securities £58,231,599 57.2 £61,440,328 57.5
Mortgages . . 23,075,022 22.7 24,838,104 23.3
Loans on policies 16,181.560 15.9 16,299,207 15.3
Premises. . .. 1,886,779 1.8 1,950,732 1.8
Other assets .. 2,494,085 -2.4 2,274,213 2.1
Pursuing safety-first tactics, the office
plumps mainly for Government bonds
as an investment, though more attention
is now being directed to mortgages with
the rise in interest rates. Further promis-
ing shrinkage is apparent in loans under
policies. The co., incidentally, enjoys a
reputation for its liberal treatment of
borrowers and policy-holders in finan-
cial stress.
National Mutual.— First of the Aus-
tralian offices to introduce the non-for-
feiture principle into policy-writing, the
National is now the. second-largest
mutual life institution in the Common-
wealth, gathering its income, which last
year topped £si millions, from Great
Britain, S’Africa and other parts of the
Empire, as well as throughout Austra-
lasia.
Ten months ago business in force had
reached £ 100,000,000-odd, group and
family-income assurance being appre-
ciated features of the co.’s prospectus.
Total funds, aggregating £42,500,000
(built up over 68 years), were invested
this way at Se*pt. 30 last:
, 1935 y-* 1936 N
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds .. .. £1,726,462 4.2 £1,745,535 4.1
Public securities . . 18.745,953 45.9 20,261,045 47.6
Mortgages . . .. 8,880,307 21.9 9,187,679 21.6
Foreclosures .. 374,628 0.9 356,876 0.8
Loans on policies.. 5,725,574 14.0 5,646,535 13.3
Other assets .. 5,327,529 13.1 5,372,081 12.6
Nearly 22 p.c. of assets comprise mort-
gages, reflecting the popularity of the
office’s house-purchase assurance scheme.
A low premium rate, combined with
highly-satisfactory bonuses, characterises
G. F. DIAMOND,
City Mutual man.
the National’s activities. There is no
Industrial branch. Last year the net in-
terest yield on mean funds averaged £4
4s. sd. (up 5d.) p.c., leaving a margin
of 245. sd. over the 3 p.C. return assumed.
A moderate expense rate (14.5 p.c.,
slightly higher than the previous year's
experience owing to the number of
smaller policies written, but still below
the 15.2 p.c. allowed by the actuary),
the mortality experience (recently only
57 p.c. of anticipation) and healthy shock-
absorbers are points on which the office
scores. The results stand out in the
following comparison of recent triennial
actuarial valuations and surpluses:
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept,., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922. £16,557,695 £14,882,160 £1,705,499 £1,455,499
1926.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2,118,974
1928.. 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,518
1931.. 34,558,434 32,898,077 4,160,430 3,577,833
1934.. 37,851,007 36,469,354 3,423,419 3,053,074
At the 1934 valuation reversionary
bonuses on whole-of-life policies ranged
('Continued on next page.)


THE
UNION BANK
of Australia Limited.
Established 1837. Incorporated in England in 1880.
Authorised Capital
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the
general business of the Bank)
Currency Reserve (used in
business of the Bank) . .
Reserve Liability of Proprietors
£12,000,000
£4,000,000
3,250,000
7,250,000
the general
1,600,000
8,000,000
£16,850,000
Head Office: 71 CORNHILL, LONDON, E.C.3.
Head Office in Australasia:
351-357 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne, Victoria.
General Manager: A. W. McNICOL.
ADVANCES MADE AGAINST WOOL
AND OTHER PRODUCE SHIPPED.
World Credits and Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
MOTORISTS ! PUBLIC RISK ! !
PROTECT YOURSELF BY INSUR-
ANCE against Claims for PERSONAL
INJURIES or PROPERTY DAMAGE
resulting from NEGLIGENCE.
LEGAL ACTIONS also involve a
lot of worry. Why not allow us to
accept these responsibilities for you?
Our COMPREHENSIVE MOTOR
CAR POLICY follows you wherever
you go and gives you COMPLETE
INDEMNITY.
QUEENSLAND INSURANCE Co. Ltd.
Head' Office: PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
LARGEST AUSTRALIAN COMPANY transacting
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE except Life.
Branches and Agencies throughout the World.
INCOME TAX ACTS
for 1936-37
See Announcement Page 23.
from 40s. p.c. on contracts one year
in force to 68s. p.c. on those 35 years or
more in existence. Brighter economic
conditions, combined with a lightening
of the tax burden, promise even better
things for policy-holders when the actuary
completes his next overhaul in a couple
of months’ time.
*X* *X* *X* <*
Australian Metropolitan Life. —
Steady progress along sound lines, plus
regular bonuses, is attracting growing
support to this 41-year-old co-operative
office, whose organisation takes in the
three Eastern States and South Aus. The
reduced cost of handling the business,
promising well for future bonuses, is a
pleasing feature. Deducting the tax-
gatherer’s whack, exes, last year took
18.2 p.c. of O.D. net premiums, com-
pared with 19.8 p.c. a year earlier and
25.7 p.c. in 1929.
At the last triennial valuation (in 1934)
the actuarial surplus was £48,290, made
up as follows:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931 .. £ 25,779 £19,700 £41,479
1934 . . 28,143 19,747 48,290
In the O.D. it was sufficient to declare
bonuses ranging from 30s. to 40s. p.c.
on whole-of-life and endowment assur-
ances.
Assurance funds are now in the. vicin-
ity of £1,475,000, besides which there is
£50,000 of share capital and over £97,000
of sundry reserves. Assets, a solid bunch,
were in this form at last accounting:
1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. . . £259,745 17.1 £250,988 15.3
(lovt. securities .. 770,571 50.8 912,558 55.7
Shares other cos. 22,047 1.4 21,345 1.3
Mortgages. . .. 281,649 18..6 285,755 17.4
Loans on policies. . 101,384 6.7 108,999 6.6
Hook debts . . 45,247 3.0 46,193 2.8
Cash . . . . 37,632 2.4 13,947 0.9
The office continues to favor Govern-
ment stock as an investment, which,
though low-yielding, offers first-class
security.
On the Assurance funds of both de-
partments, the year’s net interest return
was slightly less at 4.3 p.c., or a shade
under 4 p.c. on Assurance funds, capital
and reserves combined. The co. looks
for a 3 p.c. return in the 0.D., as against
3| p.c. in the Industrial branch.
♦♦♦ *X* *X* ♦♦♦
Mutual Life and Citizens. —The
Commonwealth’s biggest and oldest semi-
mutual office, the Citizens notched its
half-century last year, celebrating the
occasion by setting fresh records in alt
branches of operations. Assurances on
the books now exceed £68,000,000.
There is £200,000 of share capital in the
business, and policy-holders’ interests
are well protected—shareholders have to
show more than £4 of profits for every
£1 allotted to themselves.
Income is approaching the £4,000,000
mark, and assets, conservatively valued,
total £25,000,000. Last term the rate the
office assumes these will net was lowered
from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c. in the Ordinary
department; in the Industrial the figure
is 2\ p.c. The most stringent rates yet
adopted by a life office in Australasia,
they augur well for present and future
bonuses. Actually the effective interest
return, deducting taxes, was £4 14s. 7d.
in the 0.D., leaving a margin of 395.
7d. for bonuses, etc.
In the two departments combined the
surplus available for distribution has
been moving up steadily:
, 1929. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Ordinary .. £692,946 £552,326 £671,296 £721,589
Industrial . . 76,730 70,530 96,203 105,399'
Total .. £769,676 £622,856 £*767,499 £826,988
Last year’s increase was £59,489. On
O.D. with-profit policies bonus rates
were at the same increased rates as in the
previous term.
Economy in business-writing, a favor-
able mortality experience and strong
actuarial and inner reserves are respon-
sible for the strong basis of valuation.
Last year, owing to the amount of new
business written, O.D. expenses took a
bigger bite of income, making off with
14.8 p.c. of net premiums, or 10 p.c. ot
total income, compared with 13.6 p.c.
and 8.8 p.c. respectively in the previous
term. However, the position, like the
claims experience, is still decidedly
promising.
Funds are worth a lot more than their
book value, as the high interest yield
(considering that nearly 77 p.c. of assets
represent Government securities) indi-
cates :
1925. p.c. 1936. p.c.
Public securities. £19.929,882 82.8 £19,297,913 76.7
Mortgages . . 1,189,369 4.9 2,875,207 11.5
Loans on policies 1,857,846 7.7 1,811,089 7.2
Cash, book debts,
etc 492,659 2.0 510,817 2.0
Property . . . . 133,611 0.6 184,128 0.7
Other assets . . 473,660 2.0 489,692 1.9
£24,077,027 £25,168,846
Liabilities* . . 1,624,153 1,394,527
Net assets . . £22,452,874 £23,774,319
* Other than under policies.
More attention is now being directed to
mortgages. At present the co. is build-
ing itself a spacious new home on the
corner of Martin-place and Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
City Mutual Life— One of the Aus-
tralian entirely mutual offices, the City
Mutual has long claimed to dispense
fatter bonuses than any other life office
in the Empire. Certainly the rates are
handsome. They ranged from £2 17s.
p.c. on policies five years in force to £4
ss. p.c. on those 40 years or more old
from 1931 to 1934, though there has
been slight reduction over the last year
or two following a big drive after new
business, invariably expensive, and the
strengthening of the basis of interest ex-
pectation recently from 3| p.c. to 3j p.c.
The latter is all to policy-holders’ good.
It means that large sums are locked up
in the early years of a policy, to be
released, with interest, later on.
Slump and moratorium legislation
upset interest returns for a while, over
57 p.c. of assets being represented by
mortgages in 1928 —a big scoring-point
in boom times. With the revival in real-
estate values and the jettisoning of the
Federal property tax, property income is
again heading sharply in the right direc-
tion. Net effective return on all funds
during 1936 ran out at 4.72 p.c., com-
pared with 4.28 p.c. in 1935, which
leaves a highly favorable margin for
bonuses over the assumed rate. And a
lot of money, represented by an impos-
J. G. BEST,
The Prudential’s Assistant Manager.
ing new home recently completed in
Sydney, and now well tenanted, turned
in very little, if anything.
The £8,000,000 or so of policy-
holders’ protection was distributed as
follows at balance day:
1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
Govt, securities. . £1,782,721 21.4 £1,994,630 22.5
Mortgages .. 2,995,216 36.0 3,009,436 34.0
Loans on policies 1,153.931 13.8 1,239,734 14.0
Properties., .. 1,297,721 15.6 1,807,490 20.4
Shares and
debentures, etc. 621,469 7.5 723.835 8.2
Cash and sundries 476,894 5.7 84,275 0.9
A swing to bricks and mortar (including
the new head-office building) and Gov-
ernment bonds is apparent.
Like the National Mutual, the C.M.L.
has no Industrial branch. Young men’s
business is particularly sought—and in
life assurance a young man can drive a
good deal in a sound office. There is
little fanciful in the co.’s prospectus,
simply stated, straightforward whole-of-
life and endowment policies and annui-
ties —the most profitable types to the
assurer—being the office’s front-window
lines.
Owing to the new business written,
exes, last year swallowed a slightly
bigger mouthful, absorbing 12.2 p.c. of
total income, compared with 11.7 p.c. the
year before.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
The T. and G. —Founded in 1876, the
Australasian Temperance and General
last term celebrated its diamond jubilee.
Further headway, so apparent of recent
years, marked the occasion, new high
figures being established in all matters
which make for strength in a life office.
The society does a big Industrial busi-
ness, slightly above half the £24,500,000
of funds belonging to that section, and
total business in force has grown to
around £73,000,000.
In the two departments, the office
values on a 3 p.c. basis, but the high
average yield of £4 11s. sd. on both
assurance funds combined (£4 ss. net, after
paying taxes), suggesting substantial inner
strength considering the holding of public
securities, indicates a wide, margin for
bonuses and contingencies.
Excluding taxes, exes, cost 17.7 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums in the O.D.
and 34.9 p.c. in the 1.D., compared with


INSURE
WITH
mm
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY—
Established 1878
FIRE,
ACCIDENT, MOTOR CAR
PLUVIUS (Rainfall) INSURANCES
HOUSEHOLDERS & HOUSEOWNERS'
COMPREHENSIVE (Combined)
INSURANCE
CROPS. STACKS and OTHER AGRI-
CULTURAL INSURANCE
BE PATRIOTIC. INSURE AUSTRALIAN
PROPERTY IN AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE
COMPANY.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
KELSO KING. Managing Director.
17.2 p.c. and 35.2 p.c. respectively in the
previous term —healthy enough move-
ments considering that £15,000,000 of new
business was put on the books. The
claims experience continues highly grati-
fying, which promises well for future
bonuses as the cost of handling the busi-
ness is further reduced.
Here are compared actuarial surpluses
over a period of years:
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary . . £398,612 £393,592 £437,176 £465,129
Industrial, .. 190,059 286,548 317,199 344,972
Total . . £588,671 £680,140 £754,375 £BlO,lOl
After visibly whisking away £50,000 for
contingencies, there was a lift of £55,726
in the amount available for distribution
last year ; prospects of further improve-
ment are bright.
Investments take this shape:
Public 1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
securities . . £15,116,452 65.2 £16,203,829 63.8
Loans. . . . 5,656,969 24.5 6,477,507 25.5
Freeholds .. 1,960,999 8.5 2,150,294 8.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 405,940 1.8 576,180 2.3
The society has long realised the pub-
licity value —and profit, in good times —
in attractive premises ; most of the other
big offices are inclining to the same view.
❖ * ❖ ❖
Colonial Mutual Life. —In the
matter of business-writing, this old
mutual office last year left all past
records far behind, putting £12,000,000
of new ordinary business on the books,
raising the O.D. total in force to
£65,000,000. Exes., which have been
troublesome in the past, were kept well
in hand, too ; they absorbed (excluding
the tax bill) approximately 22.2 p.c. of
net premiums, compared with 22.7 p.c.
and 25.1 p.c. in the two preceding terms.
As further economies are effected, policy-
holders’ prospects brighten-.
Owing principally to a heavy batch of
endowment clain\s, the lowering of the
anticipated basis of interest-earning to
3 p.c. —same as for the I.D. —in the pre-
ceding year and the large amount of new
business put on the books, there was a
slip of £111,546 in the amount available
for distribution among O.D. participating
policies:
1935. 1936.
Assurance Fund . . . . £13,801,071 £14,807,691
Liabilities under policies 13,239,109 14,357,275
Surplus .. .. £561,962 £450,416
Of that amount £435,114 is to be dis-
tributed, representing 17.6 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, compared with 26
p.c. in the previous term. Policy-holders,
though, have small cause for concern on
that count. Life assurance is essentially
a long-term business, and future bonuses
will benefit from the strengthening of the
actuarial basis of valuation.
Also, mortality, one source of bonuses,
is now only 50 p.c. of expectation. And
policy-holders ’can see greater protection
(£19,000,000, conservatively invested) than
ever before:
Public securities 1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
and debentures.. £9,135,779 49.9 £9,770,686 49.1
Mortgages . . . . 4,395,786 24.0 5,276,181 26.5
Freeholds .. .. 2,169,801 11.9 2,484,670 12.5
Loans on policies.. 1,552,396 8.5 1,534,513 7.7
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 312,960 1.7 315,312 1.0
Cash and deposits. . 583,564 3.2 338,139 1.7
Other assets .. 146,479 0.8 178,264 0.9
With the lift in real-estate values and
interest rates, the swing to properties as
an investment, conspicuous of recent
years, will assist income. Last term’s
net return on O.D. funds averaged 4.2
p.c., up about 2s. p.c. on the 1935 result.
Australasian Catholic.— From the
point of view of age, the Catholic is a
mere youngster compared with the older
offices, but it’s a very lusty one, and has
long since earned both the confidence of
the assuring public and the respect of
bigger colleagues. With a share capital
of only £14,610, managing director E. J.
Mooney set the business on its feet in
1921, and it is testimony to his business-
like command that within ten years
of inception bonuses commenced to flow
from surpluses well earned. These are
now at the satisfactory rate of 525. 6d.
p.c. on O.D. whole-of-life and 355. p.c.
on endowments. Policy-holders’ interests
are well looked after.
Except when the actuary makes his
quinquennial overhaul, O.D. and I.D.
figures aren’t separated. As most of the
business on the books is Industrial, how-
ever, an expense rate equal to 37.5 p.c.
of the 1935-36 net premiums, compared
with 35.7 p.c. in the previous term, is
distinctly encouraging ; and as the posi-
tion improves so will bonuses.
Of the £830,000 of solid, revenue-pro-
ducing assets at 1936 balance, only
£24,000 is owing to outsiders:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Mortgages .. . . £291,780 £309,891 £301,450
Govt, securities . . 122,855 131,408 67,544
Cash, etc . . • • 10,540 13,506 8,036
Debtors 1,422 2,008 2,931
Loans on policies . . 23,834 31,042 39,345
Equipment . . . . 4,711 4,668 5,526
Shares in other cos. . . 3,313 3,388 3,437
Freeholds ... .. 106,024 206,488 402,162
Allowing for taxes, these turned in 4.3
p.c. (as against 5 p.c. in 1934-35) on the
Life fund, from which the co. budgets for
W. R. DAY,
of the Metropolitan Life.
a 3i p.c. yield. With attractively modern
new Sydney headquarters, having
plenty of letting space, occupied, and
new Melbourne and recently-acquired
Brisbane premises complete and mostly
let —a lot of cash was lying idle in this
connection in 1935-36 —interest returns
for the year just closed will be much
better than in the previous term. Also,
preliminary totals of new business are up,
and the addition to funds will constitute
a record when the accounts are published.
+*♦ +*+ *+♦
The Prudential. —The assets of this
huge financial institution are now
£315,923,771 sterling, up £13,500,000 dur-
ing 1936. Total sums assured in force,
plus accrued bonuses, in the Life
branches amount to £813,774,005. The
surplus arising from the life business
was £9,976,151, including a sum of
£1,136,378 brought forward, and in the
Ordinary branch the office has declared,
in respect of with-profit policies, a re-
versionary bonus of £2 6s. p.c. for whole-
life and £2 p.c. for endowment assur-
ances.
Premiums received were £ 13,230,421,
an increase of £526,477 over the previous
year. Death claims paid were £2,603,962,
up £80,438. The £9,567,827 paid on ac-
count of matured endowments shows a
decrease of nearly £3,000,000. Surrenders
were £794,132, a decrease, reflecting a
further improvement in economic con-
ditions.
The life-assurance business has now
spread to all the principal territories of
the British Empire. In Australia and
Maoriland the new business written in
1936, after deduction of reassurances,
amounted to £2,894,905 Australian,
showing an increase of £511,047 over the
previous year’s results—a larger increase
than that secured by any other of the
co.’s overseas branches. Life assurance
operations, so far as new assurances are
concerned, are now confined to the Brit-
ish Empire and Asia.
Recently a site with frontages to
Martin-place, Elizabeth and Castlereagh
streets, Sydney, has been bought, and a
new Australasian head office is to be
erected.
Car Insurance
Third-party and Other Risks.
In Australia, as elsewhere, the rapid
development of motor transport over the
last 20 years has been one of the out-
standing features of the present century.
Slump caused a temporary setback,-
but the output and demand for
motor vehicles over the last two years
have been phenomenal. The Com-
monwealth, with 613,000 private, and
commercial vehicles on its roads at Dec.
31, now ranks fourth —after the U.S.A.,
Canada and Maoriland —proportionately
to population, among car-using nations
of the globe, having almost twice as
many per head as either Great Britain
or France, and nearly six times as many
as Germany.
The advent of motor transport opened
up fresh fields for insurance enterprise.
The tendency first was to leave car in-
surance in the hands of companies
formed for the sole purpose of granting
such cover, but it was not long before
old-established institutions whose activi-
ties had been confined chiefly to, say,
fire insurance began to cater for this
class of business. The natural outcome
has been the birth of a healthy com-
petition, such as is found among Aus-
tralian life offices, for the business offer-
ing, with attendant gratifying results to
policy-holders. Not only have premium,
rates been substantially cut back, but at
the same time greatly extended benefits
have been offered at the lower cost.
As in other forms of insurance, the
losses of the few are spread over the
contributions of the many. Under the
original “comprehensive” policy of 30
years ago, the amount insured on the
car was the limit of indemnity for all
purposes, including third-party liability.
Additional third-party cover was obtain-
able- on payment of an extra premium,
which was also clapped on if it were re-
quired to have more than one person
drive the car. Damage to the car had
to be the result of “impact with an
object” to come within the scope of
the policy, and there were other restric-
tions which have since gone overboard.
One of the most important was the pro-
viso that the insured must bear the first
£5 to £lO of any claim himself.
But motor insurance has undergone an
evolution almost as rapid as that of the
vehicle itself, and latter-day policies are
as different from their prototypes as the
piodern streamlined runabout is from the
curiosity grandfather first idled round in,
preceded by a gentleman with a red
flag. The modern comprehensive policy
usually covers loss or accidental or mali-
cious (by other parties) damage of any
kind whatsoever to a vehicle, including
theft of it or any of its accessories ; un-
limited legal third-party liability to
persons or property; the liability of
other persons driving the car, and the
insured’s liability when driving other
people’s cars; an allowance for medi-
cal expenses in respect of bodily in-
juries, and personal accident benefits for
the insured or other occupants of the car.
Cover, of course, can be taken out inde-
pendently against one or more of these
contingencies, but such policies are rela-
tively more expensive than the fully com-
prehensive type, for the same reason as
the assembly of a machine by buying
parts piecemeal is usually more costly
than the straightout purchase of the com-
plete article.
The motor-owner who doesn’t carry
third-party cover is a menace to pedes-
trians and other car-owners unless he
happens to be personally well-off. And
if he is well-off, he isn’t fair to him-
self in carrying the liability which may
accrue if he accidentally injures or kills
someone.
The clause covering third-party risk in
a policy issued by one Australian tariff
office is in the following terms:
The insured is indemnified for any lia-
bility at law for compensation for death
or bodily injury to persons caused by use
of the insured vehicle. In this clause
“person” shall not include:
(1) Any relative or friend of the in-
sured ordinarily residing with the
insured.
(2) Any person engaged in and upon
the service of the insured at the time
of such'death or bodily injury.
Sometimes a limit is placed on the office’s
indemnity as regards public risk ; often,
as mentioned before, the indemnity is
unlimited. The position should be ascer-
tained by the insurer before taking out
his policy. He will find that terms some-
times vary—the cover may extend
from himself to his relatives, employees,
employer, etc., as drivers.
Thus, by taking out fully comprehen-
sive cover, the 1937 motorist is not only
protected against practically every variety
of claim he may become liable to, but
the onus of disproving groundless claims,
sometimes resulting in heavy litigation
costs, is transferred from his own
shoulders to those of the insuring com-
pany. Nowadays, all the insured driver
has to consider on meeting with a mis-
hap is whether it will pay him better to
fork out for the extent of the damage ot-
iose his “no-claim” bonus, usually a 20
p.c. rebate, made on payment of each
renewal premium.
Some criticism has been levelled at
Australian underwriters of late over pre-
mium rates. Actually, tariffs throughout
the Commonwealth compare more than
favorably with those ruling overseas. For
a private car of 15 h.p. valued at
£3OO, the N.S.W. premium for compre-
hensive cover in the metropolitan area
is £l5 10s. A similar policy in London
would cost £lB 155., in New York £46
10s., in Canada £32 and in Germany
£32 10s. —generally with much-restricted
cover. If the market value of the car is
£2OO, the N.S.W. premium, which dis-
regards horse-power, is £l3 10s., while
there is no reduction in the London rate,
which goes up according to the car’s
h.p. Most underwriters are prepared
to grant substantial discounts if the
insured is willing to bear a definite
proportion of each claim.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Leamington Hurdle running at Caul-
field suggests that Dress Suit will take a
lot of beating in the Australian Hurdle
next month. Dress Suit, who hails from
S.A., but occupies a box in the Fleming-
ton stable of Charley Fitzroy, is raced
by his breeder, T. S. Ryder, in conjunc-
tion with I. Malone.
Two years ago Dress Suit, then trained
by G. Tantram, finished second to
Fulham in the V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdle. Just afterwards he suffered in-
jury in the Australian Hurdle, and was
thrown out of training. T. S. Ryder
ought to have won the 1924 Melbourne
Cup with Stand By, the sire of Dress
Suit; but he is more partial to jumpers
than gallopers.
Dress Suit eased from 8 to 1 to
“twelves” in the betting on Saturday, and
a mild sensation was created when Alick
Fullarton brought him along with a bril-
liant run in the straight to make what
appeared to be a dead-heat with Devon-
brook, who had led round the home
bend. The judge declared for Devon-
brook by half a head.
When Devonbrook finished third in
the National Hurdle Dress Suit was far
back in the field. The Stand By gelding
has made rapid advance in training, and
ought to be cherry-ripe for his big en-
gagement on August 7. Devonbrook
seemed rather lame when he pulled up
at the week-end. His legs have been
giving trouble.
Highland Fling repeated his Grand
National escapade by running off in the
Leamington Hurdle, but on this occa-
sion he kept going as far as the last flight
of battens. One of the early leaders, he
then looked like reproducing the form
that enabled him to win so well at Flem-
ington in the spring. A lot of Adelaide
money has been lost over Highland Fling
during his present trip to Melbourne.
Tapageur, winner of the Port Phillip
Hurdle at Williamstown immediately
prior to the Nationals, has developed a
stubborn habit of jumping out at the
obstacles. Favorite on Saturday, he lost
a terrible lot of ground in the manner
stated. Much of this was made up be-
tween the hurdles, but it is not surpris-
ing that the horse knocked up.
Those who accepted cramped odds (5
to 2 and even less) about Jehu for the
Godfrey Watson Steeple were disgusted
to see the son of David tailed off in the
first round. He must have been half a
furlong behind Tezpur when that rival
led past the stand. Ridden with the whip
for six furlongs, Jehu staged a sensa-
tional finish to defeat Tezpur by nearly
two lengths.
Jehu, a green ’chaser, has had only
three outings over fences, winning at his
last two starts. With lOst. 71b. (up 71b.)
he may have to be reckoned with in the
Australian Steeple. Nine years ago that
race went to Sir Alogy, who was new to
the game. Jehu has inherited stamina
from David, and favors his sire in color,
being a whole black. R. M. Cuthbert-
son, M.L.C., his owner, acquired a fond-
ness for jumpers through being financial
manager for the Miller brothers, who
raced Redleap.
His display in the Godfrey Watson
Steeple suggests that Santa Casa is slip-
ping. He ran a poor third in a field of
seven, two of whom fell. Seymour’s
withdrawal robbed the race of a lot of
interest.
From a galloping standpoint the chief
happening at Caulfield was the Lillimur
Two-year-old win of John Wilkes. Re-
garded by his trainer, D. J. Price, as
backward in condition the Baralong colt
nevertheless firmed from “sixes” to 7
to 2. John Wilkes scored comfortably
by half a length from Percy Miller’s
Avenger, an improving colt by Pantheon
from the Magpie mare Chatterbox.
Percy Miller bred both John Wilkes
and Avenger. The former is out of
Golden Cello, a daughter of the famous
Golden Slipper. He belongs to a Mel-
bourne K.C. who races as “G. Ornong.”
When spring comes round John Wilkes
may prove a serious rival to Ajax, Hua
and other young thoroughbreds in three-
year-old events.
Red Ray, owned by Bert Price, a son
of the trainer of John Wilkes, had not
been seen in winning brackets for a
long period, but he shortened four points
to “eights” in the Murrumbeena Handi-
cap and scored nicely from Hardwood,
an outsider, and Demagogue, who ended
up nearly as good a favorite as Desert
Chief and Tapestry. The Sydney horse
assisted to set the pace and had every
chance, but wasn’t good enough. Desert
Chief ran a close fourth, and would have
done better on a dry track.
Divisions of the Kambrook Trial, for
apprentice riders, enriched the book-
makers, *the respective winners being
Syrian Maid (12 to 1) and Dictator, a
20-to-l chance from the powerful stable
of Lou Robertson. Further wins may be
expected from Dictator now that he has
struck form.
Six years ago Dermid beat Denis Boy
in the Cantala Stakes, and a season later
he was third when Denis Boy won. Still
good on his day, the, hardy son of
Tippler credited J. A. Donohoe with
£350 in stake money and an appreciable
sum in bets by annexing the Malvina
Welter. Second-last at one stage, Dermid
came home with a whirlwind rush to pip
Erua (20 to 1) on the post by half a head.
Dermid (9 to 2) was equal favorite with
Cackle, who had a wretched passage.
Erua should win soon for M. T. McGrath.
*** • *
“T.”: Opposition of a five-bob-each-way
tote which is steadily increasing in popu-
lar favor compels Melbourne bookmakers
to “open out.” At Moonee Valley on
Thursday they offered 50 to 1 Neuve
Chapelle in the Benefit Welter Purse,
and the mare (she is by Drake-Sabrina)
won by lengths. Divs. were £l4 15s. 6d.
s.o. and £2 13s. 6d. for a place. Success
of 50-to-l shots is no uncommon thing
on Melbourne tracks. It rarely happens
at any of the Sydney proprietary courses ;
there, at least 50 p.c. of the fielders seem
to have a 20-to-l limit.
, * *
Because of a dicky leg, Dulcedo was
sold a few months ago. A Tamworth
man, F. Hamilton, got him for 100
guineas, and already the Promised Land
horse has proved a bargain. For the Can-
terbury Handicap on Saturday he was
turned out in excellent trim by the New-
castle trainer D. McKinnon, and ridden
expertly by Reynolds; as a result, Dul-
cedo romped home from Buzalong, who
also did a lot of racing in Brisbane.
Pancake plodded along to get third prize.
It was the second race Dulcedo has won
for his new owner. He was heavily
backed at 6 to 1.
A.J.C. committeeman Reg Allen had
the pleasure of seeing his colors carried
to victory in a division of the Juvenile
Handicap by Pygmalion, by El Cacique,
sire of El Senorita, from Polvalla, by
Polymestor, sire of Mestoravon. He is
a black colt, and fast; he cantered in
from Impetus and Riga. Heranni, a
brother to The Marne, was fourth. The
second division proved lucky for Mrs.
M. E. Nathan’s Rex (5 to 1). He wanted
to drop the bit in the straight, but Knox
never let up on him, and in the end Rex
beat Let Slip, who had struck lots of
trouble. Dorette, owned by a southern
districts sportsman, A. W. Austin, was
a good third.
Newcastle-owned and -trained Ver-
dene (6 to 1) gives promise of develop-
ing into a useful stayer. He won the
Novice rather well, finishing too strongly
for Maid of Peru, who is noted for
strong finishes. Kirrang was third.
Rockne and After Six did not appreciate
the slow pace. Yerdene is owned by a
Hamilton hotelkeeper, G. H. Sidebot-
tom, and is trained by P. Brennan.
Povertdale (7 to 1) recorded a slash-
ing performance in the Flying Welter.
He was badly placed at the top of the
straight, but finished fast on the outside
to beat Wayside and the pacemaker
Brazandt. Brazandt, a two-year-old, had
done the pacemaking and beaten off two
challenges before Povertdale got to him;
with less bullocking to do he would
probably have been first instead of third.
* Backers were on the spot in the Park
Stakes divisions. Rummage was always
favorite in the first division; Haughty
Clare was second favorite in the second
division. Rummage just struggled home
from Laurel G. and Suzanne; but
it was a good effort: Rummage
was slow to leave the barrier and
had to be hard-ridden over the
last half-mile. She started at 7 to 4.
Haughty Clare had the run of the race,
but was flat out to stall off a late run
by the pony Pacodal and Lavage. She
was backed to 7 to 2.
* * * *
Siren, this Page’s early fancy for the
Epsom, galloped three furlongs in
38|sec. at Rand wick one day last week.
A daughter of Valicare, and herself the
fastest three-year-old seen out for several
seasons, she looks well treated in the
Randwick mile race with Bst. 31b. But so
far she has not been quoted in the bet-
ting.
* * * *
“Retired Urger”: “O’G.” on s.p. bet-
ting in N.S.W. (B. 7/ 7 / ’37) is funny with-
out being vulgar. He thinks that, because
s.p. merchants in the Ma State do not
bet in shops as they used to do in Queens-
land but through surreptitious agents,
“people who think they can put a stopper
on this have it all ahead of them.” In
Queensland the agents working for the
unknown s.p. merchant did 90 per cent,
of the business, since shop betting was as
illegal before the new legislation as it is
now, though the. authorities had little
power to prevent it. The Tom Tiddler’s
ground for these gentry was the pub bar.
The £lOO fine and possible loss of license
for landlords under the amended law
closed the bars to the. fraternity in a day,
and they remain barred to the agent.
“O’G.’s” picture of the, agent rarely
handling money but giving the punter
tick and settling with him later, and his
contention that “no money changes
hands,” are so ridiculous that they hardly
need confuting, and writer makes this
statement with a first-hand knowledge of
s.p. betting extending over years in Syd-
ney and elsewhere.
{Continued, on next page.)
Footbrawl
• Melbourne, Collingwood, Geelong, St.
Kilda and Richmond, the. five V.F.L.
teams at the top of the premiership
ladder, all won on Saturday. Melbourne
beat Essendon, 11-13 to 8-15; Colling-
wood had the better of a keen struggle
with South-Melbourne, 18-19 to 15-14;
Geelong outkicked Carlton, 13-14 to
9-13 ; and St. Kilda ran rings round Haw-
thorn, 11-15 to 9-8. By beating North
Melbourne, 9-14 to 5-17, Fitzroy is level
with Carlton in sixth position. The teams
next in order are South Melbourne, Haw-
thorn and Essendon, Footscray and
North Melbourne.
* * * *
For the second Test at Sydney Cricket
Ground the Springboks fielded a peculiar
line-up: half-back Craven went down as
anchorman in the scrum and De Villiers
and Van de Vyver came in to the next-
to-scrum positions. The Australians
went out without Richards and Pauling
from five-eighth and centre, and Dorr
from the wing. Collins, the Victorian
Hammon and O’Brien replaced them.
The Africans had a try up in the first
minute and a half, and another within
five minutes. Long before half-time it
was a question merely of how many
they could score. The local forwards
were working hard with little success ;
the backs were anywhere. Towers, the
captain, could do nothing right; Collins
and Hammon couldn’t make openings.
Collins, unlike Richards, ran across field,
crowding Towers, who failed to hold the
short passes. What was worse he missed
tackles, and held off others. The ’Boks
poured through with long, swinging
passes taken at top speed, and O’Brien
completed a sorry display by hanging off
the centres, waiting to tackle a wing man
who never had the ball. At lemons
six tries and sundry goals had given the
’Boks 26 to 6—two penalty goals.
The Aussies went into the second half
with more resolution. The forwards
rucked fiercely, and the backs, though
they still didn’t move ahead, brightened
their tackling—Windon began to range
out of the forwards to help them. With
20 minutes gone Towers had left the field
to have a nasty head gash stitched, and
Windon took his place in the line. He
started things. He didn’t always wait for
Hammon to give him a pass, but took
it from Collins and ran straight ahead.
Once he broke through, got to the full-
back and sent O’Brien over. A few
minutes later he did the same thing, then
turned the ball in for Hodgson to score ;
and before the finish he’d followed on,
grabbed the ball up in the loose, given
it to Collins, to Kelaher, who crossed in
the corner. The ’Boks didn’t raise a
point, but they didn’t need to. Africa,
26-17.
The ’Boks gave Sydney the first taste
of the open game they’d been promising,
and all did well. Williams on the wing
was perhaps their best man. His swerve
infield led to three of the tries, and with-
out Kelaher opposite him he’d have
crossed for another three himself. Only
30,000 saw the game—fewer than went
out to the Soccer the previous week—
and those who prefer football to bash
were disappointed. There was rough
work in the rucks right from the first,
and towards the finish it led to one
stand-up fight and a number of scrim-
mages. As far as could be seen the referee
gave no warnings and reprimanded no
one. There were culprits on both sides,
and firmer control could have done much
to help the game. .
* * * *
“Mak”: Hooper and Cobden, the two
Canterbury (M.L.) backs who played so
well in the North-South Rugby Union trial
match, have both been provincial reps,
for a couple of seasons. Hooper gener-
ally plays inside centre ; a bright attack-
ing player, he has a wonderfully safe
pair of hands, is a tricky runner who
gets away fast, and has a good eye for
an opening. A few seasons ago his de-
fence wasn’t so good but, according to
recent performances, has improved out
of sight. Cobden is an ideal wing-three-
quarter when he’s on his game, as he
was in the inter-island match. A pro-
lific points-getter, he is always in position
and has an irresistible infield swerve.
Present indications are that Hooper and
Cobden, with former All-Black Mitchell
(Southland), will be the South Island’s
major contributions to the back line of
the Maoriland Test side -that will line
out against the Springboks.
:|= * * *
England won the second Soccer Test
at Brisbane 4-nil. The whole story is
contained in the fact that the English
centre-half Joy’s third-back tactics came
off. The Australian centre-forward Smith
had shaded him in the first Test. On
Saturday Joy went back even deeper,
didn’t give Smith a chance in front of
the goal and repeatedly drove the ball
down to his own forwards. They,
strengthened and reshuffled, knew what
to do with it.
(Continued on page 38.)
“G. Man”: Cables state that one
Montague, notorious in California for
freak golf exhibitions, has been arrested
for highway robbery some years ago.
After the crime he is alleged to have
vanished into the murky arcana of golf,
where so many fear to tread. No doubt
there are others —furtive, careworn folk
dragging themselves round golf courses.
* * *
“Rottnest”: Westralia is talking about
sending a cricket team on an eastern
tour next' season. The Bananalanders
are first in the field with an invitation,
but a lot of preparation will be neces-
sary to fit the trip in with Sheffield fix-
tures and other big matches.
* * * *
The Maoriland cricketers begin their
second Test match with England in Man-
chester at the week-end. Robins will
again skipper the home side, but there
are several new hands in the team, among
them Wellard, the Somerset all-rounder,
and T. W. Goddard, a Gloucester slow-
medium bowler. Fred Brown, here with
Jardine’s side, is the only amateur be-
sides Robins.
x * * *
“Wirral”: The Goulburn polo-players
got bumper prices for their ponies in
England, 29, all N.S.W.-bred, realising
9625 guineas. Top price was brought
by Skene’s bay gelding Maitland, for
which the Maharajah of Kashmir gave
1700 guineas. A chestnut mare, Jemima,
brought 1000 guineas, and the average
was" 385 guineas. Here is the rebirth of
a useful little industry.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
St. Mongo Handicap: Othello ;
next, Our Boy.
Steeplechase: Philax; next,
Seymour.
Compensation Handicap: Der-
mid or Royal Armour; next,
Tapestry.
Phoenix Handicap: Finch ; next,
Great Feast.
Welter: Dermid or Erua; next,
Heroic’s Pride.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Flying Handicap: Water
Waggon ; next, Lolorua.
Rosehill Handicap: Grand
Warbler; next, Monogram.
Carlingford Mile: * ■ Povertdale ;
next, Djojka.


Incorporated in England
by Royal Charter
in 1935.
S£B /
The liability of
the members is
limited.
Are you aware of the many facilities offered by The
Bank of Australasia to existing and prospective customers?
CURRENT ACCOUNTS may be opened, enabling payments
to be made by cheque, affording the greatest safety and
convenience in all business and personal transactions.
FIXED DEPOSITS . . . Interest is allowed on Fixed Deposits,
which are accepted for any amount —however small—for
periods of 3 to 24 months.
ADVANCES are made promptly against approved securities.
BILLS are discounted or collected.
WOOL, BUTTER, PRODUCE, and other Bills on London and
elsewhere are purchased on the best terms.
DOCUMENTS and other valuables accepted for safe custody
free of charge to customers.
COMMERCIAL CREDITS established and funds transferred by
mail or cable to or from any part of the world.
DRAFTS, LETTERS OF CREDIT, TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES,
and CIRCULAR NOTES are issued negotiable wherever you go.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES are also available in Italian Tourist
Lire at special concession rates to travellers visiting Italy or
Italian Possessions.
These and other facilities will readily be placed at your
disposal at any of the numerous branches of The Bank
of Australasia throughout Australia and New Zealand.
The Bank of
Australasia
Pontiac’s Lower Prices plus the
easy G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
makes the Silver Streaked Beauty
one of the easiest cars to own
Why pay a higher price for your
car this year? For to-day, despite
other cars being up in price,
Pontiac actually offers you
lower prices . . . yet more for
your money. It's the year's
motor-car bargain . . . bigger
and roomier than in 1936 by a
full 5 inches ... with Open-Type
Independent Front Wheel Spring-
ing . . . luxurious sound-proofed
weather-sealed Unisteel'' Turret''
Top Body by Holden ... Flat
Floors ... increased power with actually greater
economy . . . and, of course, Pontiac's famed
durability due to its "square" design engines,
electroplated chrome-nickel alloy-iron pistons, etc.
’/UIsOVUVUJ
{& g
ymtUac
l/nueA.-^iic&eL
SIXES
AND
EIGHTS
Come in now and see the 1937
Pontiacs before you commit
yourself to any other car. Com-
pare the big luxurious Six with
any car of its price. Marvel at
the value of the long, low,
distinguished Pontiac Straight
Eight, the world's lowest priced
Straight Eight, with a big saving
over any competitor. The Confi-
dential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
your Pontiac Dealer will explain
to you makes it easy to own a
Pontiac to-day. There are no hard-and-fast rules
in this plan. Down payment and monthly pay- ,
ments can be made to fit your requirements.
GENERAL MOT O R S--H OL D E N'S LTD.
Consult your local Authorised
Pontiac Dealer
E 4408
"AIR CHIEF" CAR RADIO
Enhance your motor travelling with enjoyable and
diversified entertainment. The 1937 “Air Chief” two
unit car radio with its faithful reproduction and rich
tones will bring you and your friends many pleasant
hours. Especially designed for Pontiac, the 1937 “Air
Chief” has controls which match the fittings on the
instrument panel and a separate speaker which fits
flush with the roof lining giving ear-level reception.
“Air Chief” performance is equal to the best home
model sets. A demonstration will be gladly given.
Under the Whip
“Macann”: Queensland T.C. made
£7600 profit for the just-ended racing
year, compared with £2399 for the pre-
ceding year. At the annual stocktaking
this was credited to “recent racecourse
legislation,” and people who think with
their ears have put it all down to s.p.
having been “wiped out.” The truth is
that, as well as representing the public
response to reduced race-attendance
charges, it is an indication of the general
economic recovery. People everywhere
had more money to spend, and but for
the strangling taxes, plus the clubs’ own
suicidal high charges, Sydney racing
would be in as happy a position. What
little s.p. legislation, compared with eco-
nomic improvement, has had to do with
it is indicated by results at South Grafton
(N.S.W.), which hasn’t the benefit of
Q.’s alleged cure-all. This small club
held six days’ racing in the year, with a
total of £7OO prize-money. Three days
showed a loss; the. other three turned in
a profit of £417—£285 net profit on a
prize outlay of £7OO. If any business
could show a like return for such an
outlay it would reckon itself in clover,
but the S. Graftonians were as convinced
as anybody that “some efforts should be
made to induce the Government to bring
in new legislation.”
With the Four-footed' Friends
Anyone at a loose end in Sydney and
wanting a good, lively evening’s enter-
tainment might do worse than go to the
dogs. Provided the loose-ender has had
a reasonably well-misspent youth, it
might at first stir a chord of memory.
This, when an unknown philanthropist,
suddenly appearing from the darker side
of the street on the way down from the
train-stop, urgently offers an entrance-
ticket for half-price and another kindly
soul offers his protective friendship and
expert advice as soon as the turnstiles are
passed.
Then —this, perhaps, only the glare
from the floodlight towers playing un-
fair tricks with appearances—the crowd,
too, might possibly seem reminiscent in
a general way. It may call to mind that
N.S.W. Parliamentarian who in his
maiden speech divulged that while attend-
ing Sydney University he raced a pony
or two, and added that, therefore, when
he took his place in the. House he at
once felt quite at home.
But, underlying any general impression
of having strayed into an illuminated
Valhalla of the old pony-battlers, the
loose-ender shouldn’t be long discerning
that the Dogs have a character and an
atmosphere all their own.
For one thing, the prize-money—
enough to make any old-time pony-battler
think he had barged into Paradise; sur-
prising, too, to most people, who think
the tin-hare does his rounds for a few
pounds. This night the total is £llOO, but
i< has touched £l5OO, and for the rest of
this month the tykes’ owners will take
out midway between those amounts every
week. Lowest prize-money for a race,
as disclosed in a book as elaborately
compiled as Randwick’s, is for this night
£45 ; highest, £450. Terrible temptation
for a lay-preacher to invest the collec-
:ion in a “magnificent f. and w.d., guaran-
teed over distemper.”
A thought occurs that what seems to
have happened with the Dogs is that
they are one of the few things ever to
have thrived on ridicule. Associated in
their early history here with the scarcely
reassuring name of Colonel Swindell,
labelled a joke from the beginning, the
“tin-hare” a pocket-money provider for
humorists ever since, the Dogs have dug-
in and entrenched behind this barrage of
banter.
It might well turn out that what the
horse people really have to contend with
is not s.p., broadcasting or any of the
other advertised troubles—it’s dawgs. It
isn’t only that it’s the “poor man’s sport,”
though running a string of dogs would be
a long-cut to the poorhouse compared with
a string of horses, and though the race-
book reveals that the big majority of the
tykes are trained by their owners ; nor —
to switch to the country, where the Dogs
are getting a great hold —is it only the
comparative ease with which the tykes
can be transported: four, for instance,
can be put in a car-trailer and taken 50
miles to a meeting and back easily in
an evening. Such things count, but
apart from them the. sport stands well on
its own legs as a sport.
Run, at Harold Park, on a track about
the shape of a tin of herrings-and-tomato-
sauce, the races have tons of merit as
a spectacle. True, a statue of the late
Victoria might unbend at first sight of
the occasionally yelping hounds, with
their numbered colored rugs on, being
led out along past the grandstand and
on to the brightly-floodlit track, doing,
in solemn cavalcade with (these nights)
their overcoated leaders, a, stately pre-
liminary march to the starting boxes.
Then the trainers, having seen their
charges into the boxes and perhaps
cavorted in front to stimulate their tykes’
interest in the proceedings, turning and
themselves doing a skedaddle round to
the finishing point to catch their four-
footed friends after the race —such things
might bring out a grin on a graven image.
The grin might be unabated, too, when
the red globe over the starting point
lights up and the whirr of machinery
announces that the tin-hare will instantly
be on his way. But once the race starts,'
it’s exciting enough.
What the horse-addict possibly first
notices is that in this racing every starter
is obviously a “goer” from the jump. The
pace is clapped on from barrier-rise, and
it’s kept on. They’re not all equal to it,
and some get skittled or lose sight of
the “hare” and drop out, but these things,
after all, look like “acts of God,” and
some things in racing possibly don’t.
There is no delay at the barrier, “where
Bullseye is playing up badly,” and it’s
quickly run —they carve out the quarter-
mile in less than 25 —but it lasts long
enough, with the hounds stretching out
in a beautiful galloping stride, to give
the onlooker a complete enough feeling
of the satisfaction that’s to be had from
watching any keenly-run race.
When it is run down go those with
attractions there to the vociferous ring
—Randwick’s is a prayer-meeting of the
semi-dumb to it —and the primitive tote.
Most—say, nine-tenths —remain seated
in the grandstand, without exception re-
futing those educationists who declare
that reading is a lost art, though it might
not be generally agreed that what they
are reading is the highest form of litera-
ture. Unless the “Greyhound Recorder”
and a page torn out of the “Labor Daily”
will pass.
(“Sporting Notions” continued on next
page.)


"silver edge
BRAKE LINING
TRADE MARK THE RAYBESTOS CO. ,
SAVE MONEY/
*
There is never any true economy in cheap articles,
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes. t
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper, in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
Belvedere i>x
W£<> etLVfOEKt
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
MimPlMTi
\
•it «*%•%
v v v v v v v %
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
.SUITINGS
ca>i RtivtoiKi
r-la BtLVtOtßt .»>*
M.Q. and Rafferty
De Guzman beat Mickey Miller, the
Australian featherweight champion, but
he could not beat George Elliott at Leich-
hardt. The young Sydney featherweight
showed marked improvement on pre-
vious performances, and clearly out-
pointed the Filipino. At the beginning
De Guzman’s speed stood out, and his
unorthodox ducking puzzled Elliott. But
the latter began to connect with straight
lefts, and at the end of the 12th round he
had a clear lead. A right to the chin
dazed him in the 13th ; he recovered, had
the better of the 14th and 15th, and Mick
Lacey’s decision in his favor was the only
one a good referee could give. And
Lacey is a good referee.
Footbraw!
“Fitzcray”: Continual tinkering has
brought the rules of Australian football
to a condition beside which those of golf
are. simplicity itself. To add to the
trouble, the various States have their own
interpretation of what constitutes hand-
ball, holding the man, and other contro-
versial matters. Another attempt to
revise the long and tangled code is to be
made, at the Australian conference at
Perth.
“Renakoe”: The ’Boks will meet much
stiffer opposition in Maoriland than they
have done in Australia. They open
against Auckland tough proposition
No. 1. And, apart from the three Tests
at Wellington, Christchurch and Auck-
land, there are teams like Wellington,
Canterbury, Otago and Southland to
tackle —not an easy mark in the bunch —
to say nothing of sides like Taranaki
and Hawke’s Bay. The hard work of
their tour is only starting.
* * * 4
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland, preparing
grimly for the ’Boks, has had trial
matches, culminating in the clash of
North and South Island teams at Wel-
lington. North won by 30-21. Men who
shone were Hooper, Mitchell and a new
winger named Cobden, who is weighty
and fast. The games were all played
under international rules.
* H= * *
“Forward”: As a result of a visit from
some Springboks, a Federal Territory
R.U. has been formed at Canberra. The
Union code is now established in every
Australian capital. It should succeed in
Canberra. It should be sufficient only to
let it be known that in England Union
Rugby is patronised by the very naicest,
and that the King rarely misses an inter-
national match at Twickenham.
* * 4 *
“Birkenhead Park”: The problem of
the Springboks’ scrum might be solved
by an ingenious device which brought vic-
tory to Combined London Counties
against them in 1912. As soon as the
scrum was formed and the ball in, all
but the front row men broke up and
swarmed round on the. ’Bok backs.
When the tourists attempted to hold the
ball, they were attacked from the sides,
and, since they could not wheel or get
away in the. rucks, were quite at a loss
to meet the unexpected tactics.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian R.U. has
invited Westralians to come to Mel-
bourne. Both sides are satisfied they
have learned something from the ’Boks,
if it is only the. Afrikaans for “shove,”
and intend to apply the teachings. The
match is to be played at Olympic Park
on August 16. The Westralians are pay-
ing their own fares, but the Victorians
will see to stabling and nosebags.
* * * *
“Gate”: Two and a quarter tons of
League footballers leave this country for
England via M.L. on July 31 ; the 14
forwards average 13st. 101 b. and the
same number of backs list. 121 b. Solid
as these figures are, they are left in the
shade by the Springboks, who must be
the weightiest footballers in captivity.
* * * *
“Gate”: The English Rugby League is
talking about altering scoring values for
the visit of the Australians, making a try
worth two points and a goal one only,
instead of three points and two as at
present. Time was when only a goal
counted in Rugby, a try giving the side
gaining it the right to have a shot at the
posts. Then one point was awarded for a
try, with two for a goal from a try and
three for a field goal—there were no p.gs.
in those, golden days. Later values be-
came two for a try, three for a goal from
it and four for a field goal. Later still
the scoring changed to that in vogue at
present —in Union three, two and four,
with three for penalty goals ; in League,
three for a try and two for all goals.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The long-standing feud be-
tween the Brisbane Rugby League and
its Queensland overlord, the Q.R.L., has
culminated in a request from Brisbane
that the N.S.W. League should send dele-
gates to a conference. This had to go
first to the Queensland body, which re-
fused to forward it, so the B.R.L. took
direct action. Sydney, which has its
own troubles, declined to butt in on a
domestic dispute, and there the matter
stops for the present. The Q.R.L. is a
one-man show and the Brisbaneites ob-
ject.
* 4 * *
“Pineapple”: Playing under artificial
light for the first time in their experience,
“I told you to Watch that bloke.”
“I am —aint he a treat ?”
the English Soccer team beat Queensland
at Brisbane, by two goals to one. The
visitors made a disappointing showing,
and apparently the light bothered them.
Seven thousand saw the match, and the
swag totalled £515.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: Stirred by the mag-
nificent gates in the, two Sydney games
against the English Soccer players N.S.W.
is trying hard to fit in an extra game in
Sydney, but dates will not permit it.
The Rooineks are on the way to Mel-
bourne for matches against an Aus-
tralian XI and Victoria, and thence to
Adelaide and Perth homeward bound.
* * * *
“Centre Half”: The Australian Soccer
heads have fallen foul of Sydney “D.T.”
for saying the tour has been such a suc-
cess to date that guarantors will reap a
100 per tent, dividend. The Soccer folk
say this is far from the truth, and that a
few bob profit may be possible. All the
same the N.S.W. matches —three to time
of writing —have turned in £6875. The
cost of the tour is reckoned at £5200,
and there are games in Queensland, Vic-
toria, Adelaide and Perth to be played.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: The British golfing tail
went up another notch when Cotton,
the open champion, beat Shute in a match
for £5OO a side and the alleged world’s
championship, played at Walton Heath.
Cotton won by the thumping margin of
6 and 5 in a 72-holes match. He scored
69 in one round and won all the way.
Shute, holder of the American profes-
sional championship and winner of the
British open in 1933, was in Australia
with the American professionals. There
were a couple of unusual incidents.
Cotton got a ball under a motor-car,
which, as a movable object, was shifted
without penalty. Shute landed one of
his shots in a woman’s skirt, and referee.
James Braid had to pick it out and drop
it. One would have thought there was
hardly room in a modern skirt to hide a
pill, let alone a golf ball.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Bobby Locke is to be
asked to visit Australia for the 150th jam-
boree. Three other Afrikanders will be
invited to make up a team. A clash be-
tween Locke, Ferrier and Williams should
provide golf worth seeing.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Possible that a team of
Australian amateur golfers will go to
M.L. in September, when the Dominion
championships will be held. The trip
will not be official—that would mean that
the golfing heads would be responsible
for the cost, a horrible thing to contem-
plate—but a fairly strong representation
is already assured. It is a good idea.
Australians pay far too few sporting visits
to Maoriland. More of them, especially
where cricket teams are concerned, would
be good for both sides.
* * *
“Divot Digger”: The mixed foursomes
championship of N.S.W. went this year
(as in 1935) to A. N. Waterson and Miss
Corry, who defeated Ferrier and Miss
Jennings with a total of 155 over 36
holes. With rounds of 78 and 77 they
were the only pair to break 80. Miss
Jones took the women’s singles from
Miss Ebert, 5 and 4. She also' won the
event 10 years ago.
“Hamilton”: Queensland golf authori-
ties are satisfied that the sending of an
amateur team to the last Australian
championships in Melbourne was worth
the money. Several of the men sent
have benefited immensely in their game,
notably Colledge. The experiment will be
repeated for the championships in Syd-
ney, which begin on September 4. Of
the fund raised last year there is £5B left,
and this time, with the shorter journey,
costs should be much less. The levy in-
stituted by the Golf Council, with the
surplus from last year, may obviate any
necessity for another passing of the hat.
* * * *
“Bunkered”: The N.S.W.G.C. is per-
turbed at the ignorance of golf etiquette
displayed by players. Some time ago the
council had a film made illustrating the
bloomers, but golfers generally preferred
to see Mae West. The council should
appoint some golf Grandison to tour the
clubs and illustrate in person how to
behave in all circumstances. Provided the
bar was closed during lectures and the
handicaps of all members not attending
heavily reduced, some good might come
of the scheme.
* * $ *
“Scout”: Once more complaints are
being made that rich golf clubs are
seducing good players from organisations
of lesser wealth by guaranteeing them
places in A teams, etc. One minor
Sydney club has formally reported an-
other of greater tonnage for kidnapping
two of its players—named—and threatens
to refuse a clearance to the players.
Also it asks the City and Suburban Asso-
ciation, the ruling body concerned, to
enact that players joining other clubs in
this fashion be barred from taking part
in competitions for a year.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Australian Davis
Cup team, minus Quist, was beaten by
France at Paris by 6 rubbers 193 games
to 6 rubbers 191 games. In singles
Bromwich defeated Merlin and Petra;
Crawford lost to Boussus and won from
Destremeau; McGrath beat
Boussus and succumbed to Des-
tremeau. Crawford and McGrath
won both their doubles, but Sproule
and Bromwich succumbed in theirs.
Bromwich has been showing grati-
fying improvement as the tour goes
on, and has justified his selection.
In a match against. England at
Eastbourne Crawford was licked
by Hare and McGrath by Austin,
but Quist and McGrath accounted
for Hare and Wilde in five sets.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The de-
parture of a German tennis team
for these shores seems liable to as
many hitches as a vaudeville sailor’s
trousers. The latest inaccurate informa-
tion is that “the differences are appar-
ently slight on the other side, but insur-
mountable to Germany.” Negotiations
are proceeding on the best diplomatic
lines.
Miscellaneous
“Marija”: The Australian riflemen in
England had a good win in the Kola-
pore Cup match for Empire teams. It
was shot over 300-, 500- and 600-yard
ranges, and although none of the Aus-
tralians scored possibles at any of the
distances the team finished seven points
ahead of Guernsey. Third was Canada,
with England, India and Jersey follow-
ing. It was the first Australian win in
the event in 23 years —though before the
war it happened often enough—and the
aggregate, 1121, was eight points better
than England won with last year.
❖
“Ride Off”: The Ashton brethren
wound up their English polo season with
a match against the Jaguars, the inter-
national team that they defeated for the
Champion Cup at Hurlingham. This
clash was for the King’s Coronation Cup,
and the Jaguars, helped by a four-goal
handicap, won 8-4. Pity the Goulburn-
ites didn’t rake in the trophy. It would
have made a good match for the King’s
rowing cup, and, like that pot, might
have become a trophy for inter-State
competition.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Australia’s girl cricketers
managed a draw of the third Test with
their English cobbers. The match was


Patents.
PRIMER VALVE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
18466/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SCALES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
21727/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN LIGHTNING
ARRESTERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
10427/27 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Position Vacant.
SALES MANAGER.
APPLICATIONS are invited by Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills Limited for the above
position. The appointee will be in charge of
the Company’s sales organisation for the Com-
monwealth.
Applicants should write the Company, Box
856-K, G.P.0., Melbourne, C.l, stating their
age, credentials and experience, and the names
of personal referees.
Applications, which should be in the Corji-
pany’s hands by 24th July„ will be treated confi-
dentially, if so desired.
The Commonwealth Government having prohibited the importation of American Firearms, the only
Arms suitable for all Australian conditions, WINCHESTER World Standard Rifles will
shortly be unprocurable. Do not miss this opportunity of obtaining the Rifle you want, the Rifle of
supreme accuracy, and, above all, the Rifle that is SAFE to shoot. Stocks are rapidly diminishing and
cannot be replenished. ORDER NOW.
WINCHESTER
WORLD STANDARD RIFLES
MODEL 67.
.22-cal. Single-shot, bolt-action, 27in. barrel,
elevating rear sight. Adapted for short, long
and long-rifle regular and Super-speed cartridges. Price, 557-
Carriage Paid.
MODEL 69.
.22-cal. Bolt-actipn Repeater, 25in. round
tapered barrel; two magazines, one for short,
other for long and long-rifle, with sporting rear sight.
Price 95/-
With adjustable peep sight. Price 957-
Carriage Paid.
Model 69, fitted with Lyman No. 422 expert
telescopic sight. Price £B/157-
Carriage Paid
New Winchester Model 37, Steel Bilt Single Barrel Shot
Gun, 12 gauge, 30in. barrel, full choke, chambered for
2|in. cartridges. Price. . . 657-
Carriage Paid,
T he Vroved Economy Car
ifc:.'3gg£?3oS»*:S
HbBB^B
114 privately-owned
Ford V-B's in unique test
averaged
23.02
miles per gallon _ _
23.02 miles per
gallon was aver-
aged by 114 pri-
vately-owned V-B’s in the recent eco-
nomy test* held simultaneously in
all parts of Australia. On the day of
the test, high winds, rain and almost
cyclonic conditions and the bad
state of roads in many outlying
centres made much second gear driv-
ing necessary. Despite these gruel-
ling conditions 23.02 miles per
gallon was averaged by the privately-
owned V-B’s which travelled a total
of 12,583 miles at an average speed
of 39.18 m.p.h. The cars were driven
under strict touring conditions (no
coasting or other aids were per-
mitted) and checked by inde-
pendent observers. The figure
recorded proves conclusively what
thousands of V-8 owners already
know that V-8 performance is
more economical than ever.
have special proof steel barrels for the use of
Super-speed Cartridges, and are scientifically
proportioned, drilled and rifled to ensure maxi-
mum accuracy and balance. Full-size Walnut
Stock with Shot Gun type Butt greatly adds to
appearance and ease in handling.
MODEL 62.
,22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-repeating
Rifle, 23in. round barrel, for short, long
and long-rifle. Price
Carriage Paid.
£5/10/-
Tver
barrel
barrel,
Price
Johnson “Champion" Single-
Shot Gun. 12 gauge, 30in.
full choke, chambered for 2|in. cartridges.
Carnage Paid.
Iver Johnson Single-shot Bolt-action Rifle,
,22-cal. model 2X, 24in. barrel. Price, 357-
Freight extra.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OF
WINCHESTER
COMPLETE RANGE OF ARMS.
COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
V-8 Performance costs
less than ever before . . •
In addition Ford gives you the safety
of all-steel closed bodies, (steel roof,
steel sides and floor welded into a
single steel unit), safety glass in the
new V-type windscreen and every
window and the safety of easy-action
mechanical brakes. Ford gives you
the comfort of Centre-Poise riding
with new-design springs and 4 ad-
justable double - acting hydraulic
shock absorbers . . . wide, deep-
cushioned seats. Ford gives you V-8
power . . . with proved economy.
You must drive this new V-8! See
your local Ford Dealer. He- will
gladly demonstrate the model to suit
you and explain the easy purchase
terms available.
*Write or ask your local Ford Dealer for
the leaflet which gives full details of every
car's performance in this unique test.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
A BRITISH
EMPIRE
PRODUCT
FORD V-8 o» 1937
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA).
interrupted by rain. Australia closed its
first knock at 9 for 207 ; England replied
with 9 for 308 (declared). Australia then
came along with 224, leaving the locals
123 to get in quarter of an hour. Miss
Pritchard fought hard for 66, and was
helped by Miss Smith with 45, but Miss
Davis, who took 8 for 86 in the match,
bowled in fine style. England actually
tried to get the runs, scampering in and
out at top speed, but had only nine up
for three wickets when time intervened.
With a win each and a draw, peg-
ging is level for this series, though wins
in Australia keep the English girls ahead.
* * * *
“Findy”: When Percy Lindsay was
drawing that jokeblock of the golfer
about to play kitty off the bowling-green
(B. 14/7/’37) he must have been in tele-
pathic communication with Adelaide. A
few weeks ago a lacrosse team from
the Deaf and Dumb Institution was play-
ing on a ground adjoining a bowling
club, and in the course of the game the
opposing side hit the ball through a
straggling hedge dividing the two arenas.
This entailed a free throw to the deaf
team, so one of their players gleefully
leapt the hedge, dashed among the horri-
fied bowlers, scooped up kitty in his
racquet and had it well in play before
its rightful owners could come to its
rescue. Quite a lot of angry words,
finger-talking and lip-reading was neces-
sary before kitty got back to the right
side of the hedge.
* * $ *
“Village”: The All-Black hockey-,
players had a game with a Northern
Suburbs team in Sydney before starting
on their travels. The N.S. side were only
reserve graders, but the tourists were suf-
fering from the effects of the trip over the
Tasman, and took things easily, winning
an unimpressive game 4-0.
=i' -* $ t-
“Spinnaker”: The America’s Cup
races on Long Island Sound begin on
July 31. For the first time the English
challenger has taken two yachts over
and held speed tests. Sopwith’s new craft
Endeavour 11. has proved much faster
than her elder sister, which in the last
contest was little, if anything, inferior to
the American defender. Sopwith will
this time have a professional crew in-
stead of the mob of hastily-collected
amateurs a strike forced on him last
time. Let us hope the ugly features of
the last contest will not be repeated.
* * * *
“Yarra”: That challenge boatrace
which started the Oxford-Cambridge
clashes (B. 14/7/’37) had an Australian
counterpart. In 1868 Scotch College,
Melbourne, thirsted for the scalp of Mel-
bourne Grammar. A challenge daring
Grammar to tackle Scotch in a boatrace
was written and conveyed by heralds to
the Grammar fastnesses. This was the
beginning of the Melbourne head-of-the-
river race. It is only a few weeks since
the last survivor of the two crews, Joseph
Field, secretary of the Scotch R.C., w'ho
wrote the challenge, heard the finishing
gun.


"AUSTRALIAN
BUSH RECITATIONS."
BUY this rare book and learn to recite
“The Squatter’s Daughter,” “Starlight’s
Last Stand,” “Marion Lee,” “The
Kenniffs’,” “The Kelly Gang,” “Only
a Simple Picture,” “The Broken Shoe,”
“The Stockman’s Tale” (My Brother
Ben and I), “The Gatton Tragedy,” “The
Old Bark Hut,” “The Stockman’s
Dream,” “How the Sailor Rode the
Brumby” and many others.
Sent post free by forwarding Aus-
tralian P.N. or stamps for 1/4 to
FRANK REID, P.O. Box 164, Bowen,
North Queensland.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Shall We Dance?”
RUSSIAN BALLET DANCER,
Fred Astaire
LEG-SFIOW DANCER, Ginger Rogers
IMPRESARIO, Edward Everett Horton
HOTEL FLOOR MANAGER,
Eric Blore
R.K.O. has eclipsed all previous efforts
in gorgeousness for the background of
this frothy toe-stepper. Settings glitter
with black glass, chromium steel and
white enamel, and dressing is lavish. But
the music by Gershwin is not melodious,
except that part written for a dog-exer-
cising scene on the deck of a liner.
Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore
have a comparatively lean time on the.
comedy fare, though Blore trying to spell
out over the ’phone to Horton the com-
plicated name of the police station he
wants to get bailed out of is a rib-tickler.
The story is just barely strong enough
to hold together the series of dances
which Astaire and Miss Rogers do very
Franchot Tone in “Love on the Run,"
at Sydney St. James.
capably. There is some very neat tap-
dancing on roller skates, and the pair
sing some songs, the only merit of which
lies in the snappily-worded lyrics. At
Sydney State.
“Too Many Wives.”
RICH GIRL Ann Shirley
POOR YOUNG MAN .. John Morley
STENOG Barbara Pepper
Poor young man’s job is acting as
scapegoat for newspaper editor, for
which purpose he is credited .with a
wife and two children, so that when
he is threatened with the sack the
party injured by the newspaper will
relent and beg him off. He picks up the
rich girl in the park, and romance blooms
at first sight, but the imaginary wife
and children crop up to put' sandpaper in
the course of true lurv. The machine-
made affair is kept going for an hour
mainly through a missing postage stamp
—very old and rare —which is chewed
by a dog for at least 40 minutes and
emerges as good as new. Morley, play-
ing lead for the first time, makes a very
good showing with very poor material.
At Sydney State.
“Slim.”
OVERHEAD LINESMEN,
Pat O’Brien, Henry Fonda
FOREMAN —. J. Farrell McDonald
FRIENDLY NURSE, Margaret Lindsay
The perils of a linesman’s life form the
burden of this briskly-directed film.
Photography is first-class, particularly
some shots from the top of a tower under
construction and of a huge dam.
Story deals with the determination of
a gawky but likeable young man to
graduate from farmer’s boy to linesman
on the high-tension overhead lines of a
hydro-electric circuit. He is aided by the
star linesman in the gang, a devil-may-
care fellow for whom the hazardous life
holds fascination. The two become in-
separable, and even when the newcomer
displaces his pal in the affections of a
girl it makes no difference to their friend-
ship. Climax comes when, with a snow
blizzard raging, the gang is ordered out
at night to effect repairs on a 150 ft.-high
tower carrying 88,000 volts. Happen-
ings thereon carry a full quota of thrills.
Pat O’Brien gives an excellent delinea-
tion of a casual fellow who likes to be
on the move from one risky job to an-
other. Henry Fonda proves his versa-
tility in a role that cuts right away from
his previous screen experience. At Syd-
ney Capitol.
“That I May Live.”
REFORMED CROOK .. Robert Kent
HIS REFORMER .. Rochelle Hudson
FAIRY GODFATHER,
J. Edward Bromberg
This film has the merits of an exciting
start and finish, but padding has made
the middle of it sluggish.
A not-so-bad crook leaves gaol deter-
mined to go straight, but under threats
by his former confederates he is forced
into a bank holdup. One of the gang-
sters kills the watchman and, knocking
the unwilling one unconscious, puts the
gun into his hand and bolts. Arrested,
and recognised as an ex-convict, he can
see there’s nothing between him and the
“hot seat,” so makes a dash and suc-
ceeds in escaping. He is befriended by a
waitress in a roadside cafe who gets him
a job. Romance blossoms, and the
owner of an itinerant trailer-shop with
whom they join forces urges them into
marriage. With rewards out for his
arrest he tells all to his trailer-trading
pal, who agrees to hand him over to the
cops on condition that they co-operate in
laying a trap for the gang. This is
worked ingeniously. At Sydney Capitol.
“Nobody’s Baby.”
NITWIT HOSPITAL NURSES,
Patsy Kelly and Lyda Roberti
REPORTER Robert Armstrong
HIS DETECTIVE PAL, Lynne Overman
Turned out by M.-G.-M. on an off-
day, a machine-made farce comedy of
the type more usually exuded by Eng-
lish studios. Messrs. Armstrong and
Overman are worried about the baby
which their sweeties are taking care of,
but as the infant’s perfectly respectable
paternity is known to the audience from
the outset there isn’t very much difficulty
in clearing up their misapprehensions.
Patsy Kelly’s mannerisms, palatable
enough in small doses, are overworked.
Miss Roberti, yet another disciple of
“Cookie” Allen, is perseveringly but not
at all convincingly eccentric. About the
best thing in the fantasia is Mr. Over-
man’s falsetto laugh. At Sydney Civic.
“Sworn Enemy.”
SPECIAL INVESTIGATOR,
Robert Young
HIS SWEETIE Florence Rice
MASTER RACKETEER, Joseph Calleia
EX-CONVICT Lewis Stone
GOOD-HEARTED PUG, Nat Pendleton
The nice young hero’s brother gets
killed by racketeers accidentally while
they are assassinating a bigger fish.
Clark Gable in “Love on the Run.”
Whereupon nice young hero swears ven-
geance, enlists as a special investigator
under the D.A. and assumes management
of world-beating boxer as a means of
getting in touch with the master
racketeer, a lame man who evades
Federal action about income tax by mak-
ing all his transactions spot cash and
hoarding his millions in a private strong-
room concealed at the back of his hotel
bathroom. Nice young man’s sweetie is
introduced to chief racketeer, pretends to
get pie-eyed on champagne, and sets fire
to hotel. Bad man rushes to his vault
and thus tips off its whereabouts. At last
the D.A. and his merry men rush in and
apprehend the malefactor and his sinister
henchmen. The fantasia is hustled along
in snappy style, and acting and direction
are competent. Calleia adds another ster-
ling performance to a long list of gang-
ster impersonations, Lewis Stone is as
impressive as ever as an innocent man
who did 12 years in Sing Sing, framed by
the crooks, and Miss Rice goes gay in
an unexpectedly convincing fashion. At
Sydney Civic.
“Wake Up and Live.”
MALE CROONER Jack Haley
FEMALE DITTO Alice Faye
Based on the assumption that Mr.
Haley’s voice is so phenomenal as to
cause sane newspapers to devote front-
Tom Walls in “For Valor,” at Sydney
Mayfair.
page stories with banner heads to its
free advertisement. He is one of the uni-
formed guides at Radio Centre, an es-
tablishment so badly conducted that there
are live mikes all over the shop, in un-
occupied rooms, connected with the
broadcasting network. Mr. Haley sings
over one of these a song which a night-
club orchestra is playing, and the event
convulses the United States. This he
does believing the mike to be dead, for
he suffers from mike-fright. Eventually,
through the pure lurv of a beautiful goil
(Miss Faye), he overcomes this disability
and is able, as he is in real life, to earn
more than the presidents of Yale, Har-
vard and the United States.
Walter Winchell, a famous American
columnist, and Bernie, an equally famous
dance-band conductor, figure in the fan-
tasia. Unfortunately their fame hasn’t
spread very widely in Australia, so the
effect of their appearance isn’t very devas-
tating. Patsy Kelly, Ned Sparks, Walter
Catlett, Etienne Girardot, Warren Hymer
and Grace Bradley are in the cast, totally
wasted. Previewed at Fox Theatrette,
Sydney.
“A Star Is Born.”
RISING STAR Janet Gaynor
DECLINING STAR (-HER
.HUSBAND) Fredric March
PRODUCER Adolphe Menjou
FAITHFUL FRIEND .. Andy Devine
HARD-BOILED PRESS-
AGENT Lionel Standee
STOUT-HEARTED GRAND-
MOTHER May Robson
In technicolor, and particularly well
handled on the photographic side. For
instance, the contrast between a Western
outback farm district at night with color-
ful Los Angeles at high noon, a transi-
tion in the introductory sequences. Main
setting is Hollywood backstage. Small-
town girl, backed by pioneer grandma,
seeks a film career. Suffers usual set-
backs for weeks, then attracts attention
of dissolute star, Norman Maine, always
in the news through his drunken pranks.
He and a horde of Hollywood techni-
cians of all sorts make the girl a star.
Maine marries her. But she’s on the way
up and he’s on the way down. At long
last she decides to relinquish her screen
career to look after him, but he won’t
accept the sacrifice, walks into the sea
towards the. setting sun, and never re-
turns. Her courage stiffened by her in-
domitable grandmother, the girl carries
on.
The values in this drama are maybe a
bit warped, but both Miss Gaynor and
Mr. March are adepts at winning sym-
pathy, and they will carry their audi-
ences with them. Stander has one of
the best roles of his career, and his wise-
cracks give the piece a liberal leavening
of chuckles. Menjou is the producer to
the life ; just a little weary. An antidote
to any suggestion of star-idolatry is his
final remark to his new actress after
signing her up and making her purr with
honeyed words—“and for the love of
Pete, keep your mouth shut, if you have
to speak through your teeth!” May
Robson is at her best in a vigorous role
—no weeping—and Andy Devine’s com-
fortable qualities are intelligently sifted
into the mixture. It’s a long film—nearly
two hours —but it doesn’t drag. Coming
to Sydney Regent.
M.-G.-M. Shorts.
Best of Sydney St. James’s supporting
programme featurettes is “Torture
Money,” a cleverly constructed miniature
drama in the “Crime Doesn’t Pay” series.
It demonstrates the ingenious methods
of a gang working a third-party accident
racket on car-insurance cos. and the
risks taken by a determined Federal
agent to scotch their activities. Real
thrills in this.
“Hollywood Party” shows some of the
stars at play in a bizarre setting.
In “Bar-rac’s Night Out” Pete Smith
brings his whimsical humor to bear on a
little nature study.
“Glimpses of Java and Ceylon” is in
James Fitzpatrick’s best vein, excellent
photography in technicolor being strength-
ened by a good running commentary.
“Pay as You Exit” is the weakest of
the “Our Gang” comedies to date.
“Dancing Feet.”
CALLOW HOOFER Ben Lyon
DANCE-MAD FLAPPER, Joan Marsh
The heroine’s wealthy grandpa won’t
let her go dancing ; the hero’s offer to
conduct a dancing school over the air
is treated with insulting levity by a
broadcasting co. Goil gets a jahb as
“dance hostess” —more vulgarly, profes-
sional partner—in a fifth-rate jazz joint
and there meets the youth. It takes him
an hour and a quarter to make good and
things to straighten out. The piece ac-
celerates considerably in the last three
minutes, during which yawns average
only four a minute. At Sydney Lyric.
STAGE SHOWS.
The Marcus Show.
Astute advance-agent propaganda sug-
gested that this American revue troupe
would shock and scandalise Australia by
the extent to which its chorines revealed
bare skin, and it was whispered through
Ralph Lynn in “For Valor.”
the packed Royal on the opening night in
Sydney that the Commissioner of Police
and seven eagle-eyed inspectors were
present, intent on closing down the show
should the goings-on stray over the legal
brim. The fact that the co. had shown
all its revues in strait-laced Maoriland
without causing one additional earthquake
rather discounted these premonitions, and
the first night’s performance, as a matter
of fact, was troubled by no interruptions
save chuckles and giggles from the audi-
ence.
The character and quality of the enter-
tainment are exactly what might have


df
m
m
■
l : ' :
■H
ism
mmmsmm
:
, v
m »
.
70 Gerrard Street.
Alexandria.
To
Messrs. William Arnott, Limited,
HOMEBUSH.
Dear Sirs ,
I have much pleasure in forwarding a snap of my
six months old baby boy Kevin. I have been feeding
him on your famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits since the
age of three months , which I am sure have been most
beneficial to him regarding his physical fitness.
Yours in appreciation,
Mrs. K. E. Dwyer.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Qxnottls
Famous
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Amott's
“They are Better thaa Ever”
been expected from the liberal screen ex-
cerpts from such performances to which
Australia is perpetually being treated.
Shapely legs, artfully scanty dresses and
elaborate stage settings, blazing with gold
and silver and all the hues in the spec-
trum, form a sort of background or atmo-
sphere for crooning, tap-dancing and
commonplace vaudeville turns.
Of the 34 items presented in the open-
ing revue, “Broadway Vanities,” only two
—the most elaborate—stick in the
memory. These are “The Story of
Shanghai Sal,” a musical monologue done
into a Russian ballet, and “The Mechani-
cal Age,” also a drinking-den scena, dis-
tinguished by the jerky mechanical move-
ments of the performers and the emis-
sion, towards the end, of a vast cloud of
steam which momentarily makes a screen
between stage and audience.
The jokes are mostly of ancient vin-
tage. But stage-management is good. No
turn is on long enough to become
tedious; there are no waits save for the
one interval (a meaningless survival from
the days when it wasn’t a criminal offence
to have a drink at the pub next door), and
encores are taboo. People who can
appreciate the sort of show Ziegfeld took
from Paris and imposed upon Broadway
won’t be disappointed with the Marcus
set-out.
•I* •!• v *l-
- in Melbourne.
Huberman increased his grip on Mel-
bourne last week by two remarkably fine
solo concerts and a joint attack with the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra on
Saturday on Beethoven’s'only violin con-
certo. This was an A.B.C. adventure,
and the A.B.C. did irqmeasurably better
with it than it did with the Johann
Strauss programme conducted by Pro-
fessor Schneevoigt. The Town Hall was
filled to overflowing.
With the exception of an Introduction
and Allegro for Strings by Elgar and a
charming Bach encore by Huberman, the
Saturday programme was exclusively
Beethoven. Prof. Heinze set the ball
rolling with an admirable handling of
the tragic rumblings and thunderings of
the “Coriolanus” overture, and there-
after exploited his orchestra to the
utmost in the violin concerto. Huber-
man’s face frowned above his violin
while that instrument wended its way with
extraordinary clarity through the argu-
ments presented by the orchestra. The
three cadenzas which Joachim wrote into
the opus gave the soloist a more than
ordinary opportunity to display his vir-
tuosity, though the audience was already
convinced about him by his masterly
playing of the lovely first movement, the
slow and solemn second and the exciting
and melodious rondo.
The Victorian String Quartet, com-
posed of Hyman Lenzer, Franz Schie-
blich, Mischa Kogan and Mederic Frail-
lon, combined with the orchestral strings
to make a remarkably full and rich affair
of the material of Elgar’s opus ; and the
marching rhythms of the Fifth Symphony
brought the evening to a conclusion.
►J* »J. »!.
Tito Schipa on the Ether.
On Sunday night, for a huge fee, and
by courtesy of a gas co., Tito Schipa
sang to B-class stations. The lauded
mezzo-voce in which he. sang the
first two or three numbers made him
sound more like a crooner than a
Caruso. But he avoids the most annoy-
ing habit of Italian singers and eschews
gusty sobs, while his singing of Mozart’s
best-known operatic aria demonstrated
the effortless smoothness of his method
of vocal production. “La Donna e
Mobile” was almost thrilling. But the
best effort of the evening, as heard
through a permag speaker, was a ballad
of Schipa’s own composition, exploiting
every known Neapolitan cliche, but sung
with admirable warmth and feeling.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Pictures from Canada.
Canada became a British colony 25
years before Australia, but the differ-
ence doesn’t show in the art development
of the two regions. Judging by the
apparently very representative collection
of paintings by contemporary Canadian
artists at Sydney’s National Gallery, the
snowy. Dominion is just about neck-and-
neck with the Commonwealth as a prac-
titioner of the pictorial art. That is to
say that very few Canadian painters
have .produced a really individual style,
that there are worthy exponents of
nearly all the main British and foreign
schools, and that all, to greater or less
extent, have been influenced, when form-
ing their styles, by the scenic and
climatic characteristics of their country.
As might be expected, the Canadian
painter is most unlike his Australian
opposite number when he depicts snow.
Australians, on the rare occasions when
they get a chance at it, reveal it as cold
and sloppy. The Canadian —as in Clar-
ence Gagnon’s gay landscape with
figures, K. M. Morriss’s glimpse of
sleighs outside a church and F. S.
Coburn’s log-hauling team —make it a
cheery, comfortable sort of substance.
The sort of winter subject Australians
never can tackle on their native heath is
an ice-flecked sea. Charles W. Simpson,
in his canvas depicting ships lying in an
ice-packed anchorage, the ice all iri-
descent and as pretty as opal, revels in
his high-latitude opportunity.
In summer landscape the more con-
ventional Canadian seems to run to a
heavy richness of tone and texture, as
exemplified in a fine canvas by Elizabeth
Nott. In portraiture a vigorous old
woman by Alfsen (looks like a very old
painting) and a vigorous young girl by
P. Heward, in the modern pseudo-renais-
sance style, show that that branch of the
art is in safe hands. One of the few
water-colors, a street scene by Paul
Alfred, is notable for the extensive use
of solid color. C. W. Jeffereys makes
an attractive picture of a group of
pioneering figures in seventeenth-century
costumes, and Yvonne McKague on a
big canvas gives an extraordinarily im-
pressive glimpse of a small town. A fine
bit of figure work is that by Otto Schie-
lenberger, depicting miners at work un-
earthing some dazzlingly white mineral.
The rest of the work comprises pic-
tures in the foggier and more slapdash
of the modern modes, together with
throwbacks to primitive styles, some bad,
some clever. An interesting show.
*l* *l* *f*
Contemporary Group’s Paintings.
Mostly the members of Sydney’s “Con-
temporary Group” of painters are fol-
lowers of one or other of the French
post-impressionists; having shed the
academic shackles, they have forthwith
assumed a heavier and less graceful set
of fetters. Their show at David Jones’s
George-street gallery is headed by Maori-
lander Roland Wakelin, who exhibits
“Two Figures at a Window,” “Interior”
and a still-life. Arnold Shore, still
an exponent of painting with a palette-
knife, or the end of a stick, demon-
strates cleverness in making pictures
while thus handicapped as to means. A
portrait head in which he has weakened
and used the usual appliances is a sane,
vigorous piece of work.
Kenneth Mac Queen’s water - color
Boat Deck, ’ Joseph Connor’s nicely-
composed Tasmanian studies and C. L.
Jones s ‘Auckland Blue” are sincere at-
tempts to record impressions without
distortion, and succeed. Flower pieces
and some chalk drawings by Thea Proc-
tor are also graceful. Helen Stewart,
most uncompromising of all the local
new-arters, excels herself in diagrams
that doubtless have some esoteric signi-
ficance.
*2*
Adelaide Painters’ Show.
In the latest show at S.A. Society of
Arts gallery Hans Heysen produces his
varied styles, from mountain scenery to
livestock under gum-trees in sunshine.
McNally, now an Adelaide resident and
critic, scores with a realistic rainstorm.
Louis McCubbin, Director of Adelaide
Art Gallery, surprises with a brilliant but
hard city view, every chimney-pot present
and correct, alongside a dainty impres-
sionistic woodland scene more in the
manner of his father. Of the younger
men, Ivor Hele, in a riot of fleshy
figures, has gone right back to Norman
Lindsay, his earliest inspiration. James
Wigley shows promise with rough
Hogarthian types in black-and-white. Of
the ladies, Gwen Barringer and Isabel
Haynes are clever and pleasing, as usual;
Dorrit Black produces “modern”
scenery, with all the graceful curves of
the mountains turned to sharp angles.


<J a 4
ess
of
trvP
«o rtß „
® g5V SMa««^
to
IVfc* ,
*0"
s v *25
Whether your visit to Sydney
be business or social—stay at
the Wentworth. This fine hotel
offers you everything; comfort,
service, convenience. You will
enjoy your stay at the Went-
worth; wire or write for reser-
vations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
r C.D. MACLURCAN mns. dipfctob
J. S. LEVY, Manager,
&
r
WAKE UP ! !
BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidnev, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints, etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
1/- and 2/-. Cheaper and better. Send 2d. stamp
for liberal sample to Box 1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
For Sale by Tender.
PETRIFIED MAN, found about 1889 in marble
quarry near Orange, N.S.W. Intending buyers
apply to MESSRS. W. E. CURTIS, Auctioneers,
Bundaberg, Q. The lowest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
8 Bottles of Cough Remedy
for Cost of One.
Cough remedies, if bought ready-mixed,
cost a lot of money, but the following
recipe gives you eight bottles for the cost
of one. To sweetened water add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, thus making a supply equal
to about £l’s worth of the best remedies
money can buy for banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, whooping cough,
and influenza. HEENZO is delightful
to take, and wonderfully good for both
adults and children.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Two Sydney women well known for
their humanitarian works were decorated
last week. One was Matron Kellett, of
the Sydney Hospital. Her Florence
Nightingale medal (awarded by the In-
ternational Red Cross Society of
Geneva) was pinned in place by Lady
Gowrie at Admiralty House. This cap-
able nurse, who has been for years the
matron of the hospital in which she
trained, holds a record for war service
that commenced in 1914 and continued
into post-war years, when she was
matron of the Randwick Military Hos-
pital. During the war years she had
charge at various times of the nursing
staff of hospitals in Egypt, England and
France. She is also actively associated
with the A.T.N.A., the Bush Nursing
Association and the N.C.W. The wife
of former Judge Alexander Gordon was
the other lady of the decoration. For
services rendered she was made Sister
of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem,
and Lord Wakehurst bestowed on her
the outward sign of inward grace at
Government House.
There are days when greatness must be
a heavy burden. Such a day fell to Tito
Schipa last week, when he sustained three
receptions. The first was the lunch given
in his honor by the Dante Alighieri
Society. At this, at least, he heard his
own tongue. In the afternoon he ambled
amiably along to the Arts Club, where he
co-starred with Violet Roche. In the
evening, with A.B.C. conductor Schnee-
voigt, he was welcomed by the Musical
Association. This party was at Farmer’s,
and, as usual, the first slice of entertain-
ment served to the visiting musicians was
a programme of music. The A.B.C. String
Quartet and George White and Alex-
ander Sverjensky were the artists. This
is probably the first time the president
of the association has also been a per-
former. But the election which exalted
Mr. Sverjensky happened after the make-
up of the programme.
Mrs. Hope Gibson, the president of the
social committee, was presented with a
basket of roses and carnations, and in
turn handed over a cheque for the profits
from the recent ball. Director Bainton,
of Sydney Con., told a story of perform-
ing fleas that went to Buckingham Palace.
It was linked up in some way with orches-
tral music. Roland Foster said a piece,
and Georg and Tito made creditable
stabs at replying in English. Claude
Kingston, shepherding the tenor, was a
bland personality. Secretary Marie Brown
was busy leading importants to their
places. Among these were Italy’s Acting-
Consul Marocco and his golden-haired
wife.
From every point of view Joan
Waddell’s wedding was a good one. Joan
is a pretty girl; her ’groom is pleasant
looking, tall and has a dimple. The
bridal procession was one of the most
attractive this city has seen for a long
time. The party at Elizabeth Bay House
simply spilled over with champagne, and
a touch still being discussed on Friday
afternoon was the lily-of-the-valley in the
little silver baskets on the tables. White
camellias and azaleas, too, were heaped
about almost recklessly. The wedding
dress was white and silver, and it gleamed
in the pale winter sunlight through mists
of tulle and a veil of embroidered net
which had been the bride’s mother’s.
The ’maids in their redingotes of stiff-
ened white lace over full white chiffon
frocks were an effective trio. Two small
flower girls, Antonia Blaxland and Chris-
tine Wincott, dressed in similar fashion,
white camellias flat against their hair,
instead of the Juliet caps of white violets
edged with mesh veils of their elders.
The. bride was duly handed to her
’groom, John Cramer Roberts, of Adel-
aide, at St. Mark’s by her father, Dr.
G. W. Waddell. Mrs. C. B. Wincott,
John’s sister, helped in the entertaining.
Lord Ranfurly was one of a small army
of ushers, and all social Sydney was at
the party.
France’s National Day celebrations
were all tied up with farewells to the re-
tiring Consul-General Suzors and with
welcomes to the new Consul, Jean
Tremoulet. On the. evening before the
great day the French Alliance rooms
went gay with the tricolor and many
flowers, and here members of the French
community were received by the Suzors
and introduced to Mr. Tremoulet. A
dinner party at Usher’s and a dance at
Hordern Brothers’ were among the day’s
celebrations. Hugh Poynter (he is presi-
dent of the Alliance.) and his lady enter-
tained an official party in which were
Belgium’s C. J. Segaert and his wife,
France’s Vice-Consular Meyers, Canada’s
Moore Cosgraves, the Bertie Kellys and
knight Francis Anderson and his lady.
Pauline Hyde, sister to composer
Miriam, will arrive, in Sydney on Friday
for an extended holiday. Pauline is one
of Adelaide’s brilliant young singers, and
has just completed the third year of a
singing scholarship at the Elder Con.
Before taking up singing Pauline studied
the violin and was a member of the South
Australian orchestra. The proud parents
of the two gifted girls are coming over
from Adelaide to be present at the Con.
on July 28 for the combined recital of
daughter Miriam and Phyllis Burnard.
The subject of this picture will then have
the pleasure of listening to an original
composition called “Pauline,” dedicated
to her by the pianist of the family.
There was none of that comatose, half-
way-through-the-morning feeling about
last week’s meeting for the Pastel Ball.
The briskness of the proceedings sug-
gested that winter-weather vitamins A,
B, C, D and E were charging through
everybody’s veins. Preliminary parties, a
whole round of them, are being arranged
to help clear off expenses. This commit-
tee is packed with Sydney’s good-lookers,
and the Trocadero on October 5 will
bloom like a spring garden with their
pastel-toned frocking. The Industrial
Blind Institute will benefit.
As usual there was quite a gala air
about the. opening of the Contemporary
Group’s exhibition. David Jones’s gal-
lery was crowded with the bright and the
gay and young things who felt they had
something to say in art, and longed to say
it in unfettered style. One of the best
things of this show was the opening
speech by Dame Constance D’Arcy. This
got away from the boresome platitudes
that usually declare an exhibition open,
and said something constructive and in-
spiring about progress in art, quoting
Constable and Turner. The Dame, whose
long black coat was richly collared in fox,
was given a posy in which reds and pinks
spread harmonious petals.
Dame Mary Gilmore, very erect and
smart in a brown color-scheme, did the
walls conscientiously. The General and
Mrs. A. T. Anderson were visitors. Her
“Madonna and Child” will probably be
one of the decorations of the cathedral
in the Solomon Islands which the group
known as the Turra Murra wall-painters
has been asked to decorate. This will be
the sixth church on its list. Treania Smith
was a graceful figure in oatmeal angora.
Grace Cossington Smith added a yellow
hat, and the smartly-costumed Miss Muir
from Canterbury was an advertisement
for Maoriland tailors. Another Maori-
lander was Aileen Younghusband, some
of whose work was recently exhibited in
London.
If you want a whiff of the cold, cold
North, where men are men and Nature
is one big ice-factory, the Canadian
paintings in the National Gallery will
supply it. The right temperature, mostly
below zero, and bits of rugged life are
fearlessly depicted. The Ice Harvest,
Quebec, Logging and the River Driver,
not to mention Greenland’s Icy Moun-
tains, grip the brain with the teeth of
the north wind, so to speak. This writer
wondered if the artists wear mittens
when they sit among the rocky ravines
or by the side of lake and river painting
those richly deep blues and greens that
only occur in chilblain areas.
However, the show makes at least
one gazer long for a trip to Canada.
Canada’s good-looking Commissioner
Moore-Cosgrave opened the show amid
a full gathering of Gallery trustees, a
handful of Consuls and their wives, and
the John McKelvey lady, looking very fit
after her country holiday. The presi-
dent of the Canadian Women’s Associa-
tion, Mrs. Halse Millett, was also present.
The Carnegie Corporation is sponsoring
this exhibition as part of its programme
of assistance to the arts and sciences of
the British Empire.
A postcard from Enzed novelist Nelle
Scanlan tells of the publication of her
new novel Leisure for Living. This, if
you count the Pencarrow trilogy as one,
makes the sixth novel from the fluent
writer’s pen. The central characters in
the story are an English family settled in
Maoriland. There are a mother, two
grown-up sons and two daughters in the
domestic picture. The action of the. story
moves from the Antipodes to England.
Two ball committees promise to be
all the more successful for having Mrs.
Ellis Fielding Jones’s charm and capa-
city for work. They are the Pastel Ball,
for which she is treasurer and
which is dated for October, and the
Artists’ Ball, which will fill the Palais
Royal with fun and frivolity on August
3. Dorothy Welding photograph.
Another packed Town Hall listened to
Tito Schipa on Saturday night and ap-
plauded deafeningly. Dorothea Mackellar
was there, just better from an attack
of pleurisy, and wearing graceful flow-
ered satins under her furs. Ruby Adams,
too, was of this audience, her black
velvet redingote richly bordered in fur.
Near by sat Mrs. Cornwell and Anne
Adams. One of the week’s • handsome
concertgoers was Mrs. Mick Dalton,
from Orange. Mrs. Harold Bott, in
black and gold, was an enthusiast; so
was Roland Foster.
Everybody at the Sterling Levis party
on Sunday had fun. The music was
just the right weight—happy and not too
highbrow'. Mrs. I*evis and daughter Joan
played duets for dulcitone and piano.
Joan, just between school and coming-
out, gained added height from a swal-
low-tail tunic of magnolia satin worn
with a long skirt of black. Mrs. Levis’s
black velvet frock was fur-trimmed, and
when she played the accompaniments
fitted in with the atmosphere created by
Clement Hosking’s songs of the Hebrides.
Charles Nicis sang gay Armenian and
Latvian songs, and Mrs. Norman Mac-
leod’s soprano voice rose rich and clear
in songs by composers of many lands.
Sheila O’Brien, a young girl, let float
one of those sweet, high voices that sug-
gest the “Jewel Song” and suchlike spark-
ling numbers. The Snowden lady came
with Madame Scotia, the harpist from
Scotland. Knight Harry Budge with
daughters Sadie and Rosemary, Miss
Nancy Jobson, Dr. Greg Roberts, Mrs.
Chard and daughter Joan, Lute Drum-
mond, Professor Lambie and Jeanie Ran-
ken were others who nibbled sandwich
and sweet which Dr. Sterling Levis and
the. doctor son (Miles) of the household
helped hand around.
The Anzac Fellowship of Women last
Friday heard of the Spanish situation
as seen by Dr. Madeleine Ekenberg. The
speaker was mostly concerned with the
child refugee, colonies in Catalonia. She
went across to Spain from England earlier
in the year under the auspices of the
Joint Committee for Spanish Relief. The
housing of the refugee groups does not
present such a great problem, as so many
private homes and villas have been
vacated by their owners, but the food
question is an ever-pressing one. Many
of the children have been evacuated in
school groups, in some instances their
teachers with them. At any rate, war or
no war, lessons go on for the young-
sters. The. Spaniards feel that in educa-
tional matters the wheels as far as pos-
sible must be kept going round.
Milk is being sent over by committees
in England, Switzerland, America and
other countries, and is being distributed
at the rate, of 400 litres a day at various
milk-distribution centres in Barcelona.
The cafe where the doctor and her fellow-
workers had their meals rang the changes
on lettuce, lentil and rice till on a day
when meat was served nobody bothered
to ask what animal the steak came from.
Psychology is Dr. Ekenberg’s special sub-
ject, and when she left Sydney 10 years
ago she continued her studies at the Sor-
bonne under the famous Dr. Simon. She
specialises in child psychology.
When Thomas William Rattigan, then
a lad, saw Sir Hercules Robinson laying
the foundation stone of Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, did he have any pre-
monition that 50 of his 70 years would
be spent at the. institution? Thomas Wil-
liam has been senior hall porter for a
long time, but last week he retired. He
has seen the staff grow from four resident
medical officers to its present long list.
There was a record gathering of the medi-
cal and nursing staffs and members of the
board when chairman R. M. Clark made
a presentation to the hospital’s faithful
attendant.
The lst-19th Battalion Ball, which
will be held in Hordern Brothers’ ball-
room to-night, will have for the guests
of honor Mayor Howie and Mayoress
Parkes, the Town Clerk and Mrs. Hendy.
It is fitting that they should be present,
as only recently the regiment received
the charter that gives it the title of
“The City of Sydney’s Own Regiment.”


The Queensland National Bank Limited
HEAD OFFICE,
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF BRISBANE, JULY 13, 1937.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred and twelfth Report, with the
Balance Sheet and Auditors’ Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended June 30 last, after allowing
for Rebate on Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, all assessments of
Income, Land and other Taxes payable during that period,
reducing Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts £2500,
making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts and *all known
Contingencies and including Recoveries, amounts to . . . . £74,820 3 8
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended
June 30, 1936 £19,935 18 7
Making a total of £94,756 2 3
Out of which an Interim Dividend was paid at the rate of 4 per cent,
per annum for the Half-year ended December 31, 1936,
amounting to £35,000 0 0
Leaving for Distribution ' .. £59,756 2 3
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Dividend at the rate of 4% per cent, per annum for the Half-
year ended June 30, 193 7 £39,3 75 0 0
(Free of Queensland Income Tax and Unemployment Relief Tax)
Balance to be Carried Forward £20,381 2 3
£ 59,756 2 3
After occupying the position of General Manager of the Bank for the past
seventeen years, Mr. M. G. Haymen retired on April 30. Mr. D. S. Forbes succeeded
him in that capacity.
Total deposits show an increase of £464,726, those bearing interest being
£46,503 higher, and those not bearing interest' £418,223 higher, whilst advances,
etc., have increased £209,678.
With the exception of the south-eastern portion the State of Queensland has
experienced a good average season over the past twelve months, and as a result of
this and the improvement in prices for our exportable commodities, the Bank has
been able to satisfy a steady demand for accommodation to cope with expansion
both in Primary and Secondary Industries. In addition to servicing this requirement,
the Bank has, where circumstances warranted, assisted in some measure to restock
its pastoral customers whose earning capacity had been seriously impaired, and in
a number of cases almost extinguished, by the disastrous drought of 1926-35. The
outlook for the ensuing twelve months is reassuring, the 1936-3 7 wool selling season
closing on a confident note, whilst successful negotiations overseas have considerably
enhanced the prospects of the meat' and sugar industries.
have not been drawn upon during the current year.
£2500 has been written off for depreciation of the Bank Premises and Furniture.
Reference to the Balance Sheet will show the extra details required by the
provisions of the Queensland Companies Act' of 1931.
By Order of the Board,
D. S. FORBES,
General Manager.
* The additional information starred is published in accordance
with the provisions of the Queensland Companies Act of 1931.
The Queensland National Bank Limited.
BALANCE SHEET as at June 30, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
*Authorised
Capital ..£2,000,000 0 0
♦Subscribed
Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
Capital paid up 1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 860,000 0 0
Profit and
Loss .. 59,756 2 3
Intermin able
In scribed
Deposit
Stock .. 2,750,842 9 0
£5,420,598 11 3
Bills payable and other
Liabilities .. .. .. 356,843 9 2
Deposits .. .. .. .. 9,110,746 14 3
*The additional information
starred is published in accord-
ance with the provisions of
the Queensland Companies
Act of 1931.
£14,888,188 14 8
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
Austra 1 i a n
Notes, and
Cash at
Bankers ..£1,513,681 7 6
Commonwealth
Loans
(under
cost or face
value, and
provi s i o n
is held to
adjust t o
market
value) .. 2,206,614 8 2
Cash Balances • 151,495 19 1
Bills remitted
and in tran-
situ .. 656,651 12 10
Money in
London at
call and on
short notice 15,000 0 0
£4,543,443 7 7
Advances to Customers, Bills
Discounted and all other
Accounts *(exclusive of pro-
vision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts) 9,787,974 18 2
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Stationery *(at cost less
amounts written off) .. 556,770 8 11
(Of the Bank Premises figures
£170,000 is revenue pro-
ducing)
£14,888,188 14 8
Dr.
PROFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT for Year Ended June 30, 1937.
Cr.
To Interim Dividend paid Feb.
18, 1937
„ Balance at June 30, 1937 ..
£35,000 0 0
59,756 2 3
£94,756 2 3
By Balance from June 30, 1936 £19,935 18 7
„ Net Profit for Year ended
June 30, 1937 .. .. 74,820 3 8
£94,756 2 3
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
.. £860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
i
By Balance
.. £860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
The total amount paid to the Directors, including Local Directors in London and
Sydney, as remuneration for their services during the year ended June 30, 1937, was
£2430.
JAMES LOVE, Chairman of Directors.
F. E. LOXTON, Director.
D. S. FORBES, General Manager.
* We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as
to exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the
information and explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books on June 30, 1937.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have reauired.
LANCE A. JONES, F.F.I.A.
E. D. SUMMERSON
Chartered Accountant (Aust.)
Auditors.
July 13, 1937.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the Banking
House, Queen Street, Brisbane, on Thursday, August 12, 1937, at noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the year ended June 30, 1937
To elect a Shareholders’ Director in the place of Michael Joseph Ryan, Esq., who retires
in accordance with Clauses 858 and 86 of the Articles of Association, but is eligible for
re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
To elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
cAnnounoind —
CINESOUND*
5 UPER*PRODUCTION/
:
an
V
&
fk
0
i
FROM THE STORY B
CART. FRANK HURLE
★
with
CINESOUND'S ALL STAR CASt
★
FRANK LEIGHTON
Shirley Ann Richards „
FRANK HARVEY
HARVEY ADAMS
JOE VALLI
CAMPBELL COPELIN
AILEEN BRITTON
LETTY CRAYDON
GEORGE LLOYD
RONALD WHELAN
Directed Bi| KEN G.HALL
Made in
AU STR ALIA
for the
WORLD!!
m
A
4
I
mm
Watch for
World Premiere,
Lyceum Theatre,
Sydney.


The Richardson Chain Hotel.
m
i tt
*
mm
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL V.V.V. (Bill) communicate with sister
Dorothy, “Bendemere,” Yeulba, Queensland?
Urgent.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1604 of 1936.
BETWEEN ADELINE JOYCE HARRIS Peti-
AnTcHARLES THOMAS HARRIS Re-
spondent. f
TO CHARLES THOMAS HARRIS late of
Francis Street Earlwood N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ADELINE
lOYCE HARRIS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
ior a dissolution of marriage on the grounds o
desertion for three years without just cause; o
excuse and also bigamy with adulteiy AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to entei
an appearance to the said suit at the ptopei
office^of this Honorable Court on 01 before the
Fourteenth day of October One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-seven and in the event o
your not doing so within the time limited
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 15th day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. FIARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
JAMES W. YOUNG, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1027 of 1937. .
BETWEEN MARY LOUISA KELLY Pet.-
aTcT'eDWARD FRANCIS KELLY Re-
TO EDWARD FRANCIS KELLY late' of
Narrandera. , ~ ,» AD v
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARI
1 OUISA KELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards withou
iust cause or excuse And take notice tha
you are required to enter an appearance t
the said suit at the proper office of to
Honorable Court on or before the Thirtieth
day of September One thousand nine hun
H red and thirty-seven and in the event of you:
not doing whhin the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the petition will proceed a
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge. _
DATED this 7th day of July, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
L. L. HENDERSON, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Narrandera; by his Sydney Ag _
C THROSBY YOUNG, Solicitor, 26 OCon
nell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Fashions at Caulfield races on Satur-
day were like the day—good in spots.
The sunshine was not nearly as warm
as the glow of the braziers dotted about
the course. These were a favorite ren-
dezvous for many of the American tour-
ists having a few sightseeing days here
while the Mariposa was in port. Too
often at our race meetings strangers are
left out in the cold, but through the
courtesy of the V.A.T.C. and someone
with initiative at the Tourist Bureau the
Mariposa visitors had the entree to the
members’ enclosure. One representative
of the land of Stars and Stripes, in a
grey swagger suit, displayed a pair of
shapely ankles through a film of the
sheerest of sheer stockings. The only
color clue to the silken hosiery was the
navy-blue seam.
Mrs. George Stevenson, who soon will
be going abroad to be with daughter
Betty on her twenty-first birthday, was
coated in smart black, collared in Per-
sian lamb. With her mink coat, model
frock showing a unique jade buckle at
the waistline, and a pet of a hat of soft
antelope, Mrs. W. J. Wearne indicated
that all was right in her financial world.
Her daughter, Mrs. s Charles Langley,
sported a distinctive black coat, finely
lined in a grey-and-red-plaid design, the
touch of red being repeated in her gaunt-
let gloves, handbag and hat band. Mrs.
Tompkins, whose husband designs
houses, paraded in a sealskin coat. As
she has just come back from abroad,
this indicates that this fur, which was all
the rage in the days of Queen Victoria,
has come back to fashion again. Betty
Tompkins’s cravat scarf in cerise and
violet was as smart as her mother’s sleek
seal. Mrs. Ross Grey-Smith was in
brown with a sporting hat to match —
English county style. When the sun
came through Valerie Crowther doffed
her raincoat, revealing a trim suit in
brown, green and beige check. A turban
as bright as a ruby showed above Mrs.
Merson Cooper’s squirrel collar.
When the French community cele-
brated the fall of the Bastille last week,
the official reception and the Alliance
Fran9aise Ball were not marked by the
same warmth of national atmosphere as
an unofficial event—a dinner party given
by a group of epicures born in France.
With his delicacies cooked in the wine
of the country, the chef proved that the
casserole was a mighty instrument of
patriotism. The thrifty housewife would
hold up her hands in horror at the
amount the meal cost, but France’s
national day is a very special occasion.
At the ball nearly every evening frock
sported a brooch in the tricolor, and, of
course, the French flag was given the
best place amid the decorations. Mrs.
M. R. McMillan has become so inter-
nationally-minded through her associa-
tion with the club that makes for
foreign friendliness that she was taken
right into the heart of the family circle.
Madame Claudon, wife of the Consul,
upheld the fashion reputation of Paris
in an organza frock of black-and-white
plaid design, to which bright illumina-
tion was imparted with a broad sash of
scarlet velvet. Madame Albertine Gay,
as vivacious as when she linked up with
the Alliance more than 20 years ago, had
tinsel traceries outlining the floral design
of her blue lace frock.
The Moonee Valley Club brought out
the gee-gees and jockeys on Thursday to
give three welfare centres a chance to
make a bit. Apathy on the part of those
who might have benefited was indicated
by the great open spaces. Those who
took advantage of the outing had a
happy day, dividing the time between
the betting ring and basking in the sun-
shine. Tempted by the welcome warmth
women discarded their fur coats for
jaunty costumes. Mrs. William Cox,
wife of the secretary, added a splash of
gay color to a kasha suit with a jumper
in henna shade. The D. W. Reddans
had Great Saint out to win, but, as Mrs.
Reddan’s pearl necklace came apart just
as she was leaving home, she was pre-
pared for the worst —and got what she <
expected. Hazel Menck and her mother
registered the winning smile when Fril-
vian, father’s horse, dashed first past the
post. Mrs. Percy Alderton, who can
boast Titian hair that is not synthetic,
had a halo hat perched on her gleam-
ing tresses, and her navy suit sported a
a bit of jungle animal decoration.
One of the trimmest figures was Mrs.
Gordon Snow, in belted navy blue with
bits and pieces of grey fur dotted about
it. Matron Albion Walkeley had silver
fox on a well-cut black coat. The older
generation had a gracious representative
in Mrs. H. P. Henty, coated in broadtail,
with a feather mount in her hat. Wear-
ing a smart ensemble in pigeon-blue
coloring, with a tarn turban to match,
Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie’s sunshiny per-
sonality was in keeping with the weather.
She sported one of the latest novelties,
an animal brooch. The terrier in her
tarn was so lifelike that one would not
have been surprised if it had barked.
Doctor Marshall Renou, whose brass
plate gleams in Collins-street, has induced
Neenoo Due to give up her nursing
career and keep an altar appointment
with him at an early date. She emerged
from the Alfred Hospital with her train-
ing certificate six months ago. In com-
pliment to her Norwegian parentage this
lass was christened Solveig, the pet name
being bestowed upon her by an amah
who thought the Chinese word Neenoo,
meaning sweetheart, sounded nicer and
was easier to say. Neenoo was born in
Shanghai. The Due. household has had
more than a fair share of excitement
lately. Mother, one of Melbourne’s fore-
most welfare workers, had just recovered
from a nasty shaking in a motor crash
when she found herself welcoming a
prospective son-in-law and greeting a,
future daughter-in-law. The marriage of
her eldest son, Einar, of Alpha station
(Q.), and Gloden Norris, whose family-
own Surat station, will be celebrated at
Roma (Q.) in October. Blanche Due,
another member of this interesting family,
was one of our first inter-State air hos-
tesses. After six months’ strenuous duty
in the air she has come down to earth.
Anyone will be able to see by Jack
Cato’s photographic impression of
Neenoo that the young doctor has an
eye for a pretty face.
By the time those who parked their
cars on Saturday night had walked to
the Town Hall to attend the Celebrity
Concert they had passed through a
downpour and a blustering wind that
played havoc with fanciful headdresses.
Music-lovers who could not sport a car
came armed to the teeth against the
weather. Young pianist Betty Halkyard
must have arrived under cover, for one
side of her long dark bob was massed
with pink hibiscus, and apparently not
one petal had been blown out of place.
Sitting next her was Gladys Verona, one
of Australia’s singing birds, with a pink
velvet coronet resting on her curls. Mrs.
Jack Goodall added a splash of color
to the front seats with a coat of old-
gold velvet hugging her tall, slender
figure. In the interval Dr. Reg Ellery
was glimpsed ih the foyer receiving gay
greetings from musical friends with
whom he had been out of touch since his
visit abroad. In nutmeg-brown lace and
furs to tone, Mrs. Tom Hogan passed
on the pleasing news that this. was not
one of her ordinary holiday visits ; soon
she will be deserting Sydney to make her
home in Melbourne. Judith Amadio,
Melbourne’s youthful flautist, wrapped
her young self in black velvet. Dr.
Playle, who keeps a watchful eye on the
patients at Greenvale Sanatorium,
looked cheery in spite of being a sombre
figure in brown. Mrs. Woodruff, wife
of one of our university professors, came
along to enjoy the music. Father
Murphy, rector of Newman College, and
musician Roy Sheppard were glimpsed
in the crowd. Colonel and Mrs. Helme
Pott were there.
Vincent McMurray, the South Aus-
tralian tenor, has left here on the first
stage of his journey to London, where
he hopes to study with Dinh Gilly. He
is a likeable lad, pleasant-looking and
blessed with a manner that will take
him gently over many rough places. In
appreciation of his services to Melbourne
charities a group of matrons, with Mrs.
T. J. Ryan at the head, staged a send-
off party at Scott’s Hotel, and a fat cheque
went into the travelling wallet. Eileen
Castles, Fred Collier and the guest of
honor warbled operatic airs for those
who preferred music to cards. Mrs.
Esmond Kiernan had charge of the cash,
and Mrs. J. H. Keating was hon. sec.
Vincent will break his journey at Adel-
aide, where friends are organising con-
certs for his financial benefit. Richard
Watson, of the Gilsullivan co., who also
hails from Adelaide, sent a generous
donation to the Melbourne shivoo, and
has promised to give a helping hand on
the other side, which he will reach a
little ahead of Vincent.
Since she returned from England Mrs.
William Seymour has been kept very
busy. No sooner had she got her trunks
unpacked than she was roped in as one
of the secretaries for a charity bridge
party. With her co-worker Mrs. J.
Chester Guest she distributed the tickets
to such social advantage that the affair
which took place on Friday was more
like a smart-set private party than
charity bridge. Coonac, one of Mel-
bourne’s old mansion homes, provided
an ideal setting. The effort was made
on behalf of the Fitzroy Mission Free
Kindergarten, which, like "all philan-
thropic'' agencies, finds winter a costly
time. Though Mrs. Seymour during her
girlhood spent a lot of time at Mt.
Schanck station, the family home, her
tastes are not rural, and though her hus-
band is the master of Findon Harriers
Hunt Club, she is never seen in the
saddle. On the dancing floor she cuts
a very decorative figure. Her small son
Conway may follow in father’s foot-
steps. Broothorn made the picture of
Mrs. Seymour.
Lulu Collins emerged from All Saints’
Church, St. Kilda, late one afternoon
last week as the wife of Peter Lempriere,
whose mother, Mrs. A. R. Lempriere,
of Double Bay, Sydney, came over to
see the knot tied. Lulu hates fuss, and
shied at wearing satin, tulle and orange-
blossom. She would not even have a
bridesmaid, but for all that she made a
charming bride in her hyacinth-blue
frock draped with a navy sash and a
smart little hat matching the sash, with
a bunch of hyacinths pinned in front.
Lulu is the only child of the late Major
Percy Collins and Mrs. Collins.
Madame Sita Devi has closed her
maisonette and put the dogs out to
board in order to continue her singing
studies in Sydney under the guidance of
Federico Longas, the brilliant pianist,
composer and accompanist who is ac-
companying Tito Schipa on his Austra-
lian tour. Madame can converse fluently
in French, Italian and Persian, if oppor-
tunity offers. For some time she has been
preparing a repertoire for a song recital,
and she is taking these lessons with the
idea of including some melodies of a
Spanish character. This lady’s name has
not been wished on her by a Hollywood
producer. She came by the. Sita when she
embraced the Hindu faith. If she wished
she could take the title of Maharani of
Tikari. She made a romantic marriage.
An Indian prince fell in love with her
when she was appearing with a musical
comedy co. in his country. As his wife
she lived in regal splendor for several
years, but eventually they parted.
Although they are good friends now,
there was a long feud over a marriage
settlement, in which Sita came out vic-
torious, but as the case was taken to three
courts and eventually to the House ol
Lords most of the jewellery showered
upon her by the Maharajah, including a
magnificent set of emeralds, had to be
sold to meet the legal expenses. However
the. little lady managed to salvage a few
precious pearls from the domestic wreck-
age.
Hinemoa Rosieur, the young Maoriland
singer who was the first to capture the
Melba Memorial Scholarship, will give
Melbourne a taste of her vocal quality
before she leaves for study abroad. By
the death of Thomas Brentnall, a veteran
patron of the arts, Hinemoa has lost the
chairman of the committee working
tooth and talon for her farewell recital
in the Assembly Hall on July 26, but
Harold Elvins, who has just stepped into
Fritz Hart’s shoes at East Melbourne
Con., has taken on the leadership. The
Auckland girl has the late Mary Camp-
bell to thank for her good fortune. She
was one of Mary’s discoveries.. Like most
students, Hinemoa was handicapped in
developing her talent through shortage
of money. She was on the verge ol
forsaking music altogether when she won
the Mary Campbell scholarship, provid-
ing a 12 months’ full course at the Con-
servatorium sponsored by Melba. Hine-
moa does not expect to set the Thames
on fire, but she has hopes that the flare
of her own little bonfire may not pass
unnoticed.
Ida Gresham, one of the darlings of the
gods in the days when the Australian
stage waxed rich on melodrama, has
taken her last curtain-call. In her hey-
day she was the ideal stage, heroine, blue-
eyed, fair-haired and slender. Nature
had given her the kind of figure whicn
film stars these days starve themselves to
get. In her young days she was a firm
favorite in every capital city in Austra-
lasia. Her husband, C. R. Stanford, very
successful as a character actor, died many
years ago. They both gave of their best
in their green years, but they reaped no
golden grain to store for the days when
the theatre fell on lean times.


NEW
SHORTER ROUTE
Across Australia by Rail
Shorter Route via Port Pirie opens
MONDAY, 26th JULY
Save time, . . . and travel in delightful
comfort by Air-Conditioned Cars on the
faster, improved rail service across
Australia.
Official opening by the Prime Minister, the
Right Hon. J. A. Lyons, takes place at Port
Pirie on Friday, 23rd July.
THE
TRANS-AUSTRALIAN
RAILWAY
Full details from Railway Enquiry Offices or Secretary
Commonwealth Railways, 623 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Tennant Creek’s first Method-
ist Conference saw the arrival of 24
delegates who among them had travelled
40,000 miles to raise their voices in mis-
sionary effort. Some starters did not get
there, because the roads would not let
them, but those who did no doubt had
a proud record as the only wayfarers to
reach the Tennant after rain without
making steam rise off the Davenport
Ranges by the vigor of their opinions of
the highway. There are many consola-
tions in being a Methodist minister, but
there are times when shepherds are dig-
ging themselves out of the Barkly Table-
land soil, as one evangelist party did for
23 hours on end, when they must wish
they were bullock-drivers.
* * * *
“J. Want”: Work on the. new Queens-
land University at St. Lucia, outside Bris-
bane, is to be no rush job. Costing a
million or so, it will have only about
£lOO,OOO a year spent on it to begin with.
The grounds are to be laid out and the
main building, which will be round a
large quadrangle, reminiscent of Oxford
colleges, will be started first. When that
is done, a bridge will be commenced to
enable the undergrad, to reach his Alma
Mater without the long swim that would
be needed if he were to take the direct
route to-day.
* * * #
“Physalia”: Bribie Island (Q.) harbors
a flying-fox roost that covers over 20
acres and is estimated to have at least
300,000 inhabitants. It is situated in, and
surrounded by, deep swamp. In spite of
a bonus of 3d. per scalp, shooters can’t
face, the smell for more than a day or two
at a time. The Government is being
approached for assistance by orchardists,
but all previous attempts at control of the
pest elsewhere in Queensland have been
failures. Best results to date were
obtained by a returned soldier in the
Caboolture Shire, who, with a cannon im-
provised from a steel cylinder, cleaned up
£3OO in a season. But even he said the
money was not worth it!
vjj «jj
“X.T.”: The original tender for the
Mackay Harbor scheme was for £785,000
—£120,000 below the engineer’s estimate.
The chairman of the board says now that
the cost will be £1,000,000, about
£400,000 having been spent already. An-
other member of the board thinks a mil-
lion and a quarter will do the trick, and
still another is willing to bet on £1,600,000.
It reads like a plagiarism of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge estimates, which crept
from less than £5,000,000 to over
£10,000,000 before Mr. de Groot and
Mr. Lang opened the wonder.
* * * *
“Ekibin”: If a new uniform the Post
Office is considering is adopted northern
postmen may be allowed to deliver in
their shirtsleeves in summer. A sound
idea. The thing that struck me in the
warmer parts of U.S.A. was the sensible
dress of everybody compared with ours.
Magistrates sit on the Bench and lawyers
plead before them in shirtsleeves. Army
officers are seen in shirtsleeves on duty.
Bank clerks work in shirtsleeves and
don’t trouble to put on coats when they
go into the street. The result is just as
neat as that of our incubator system.
And so it is in the British East. Of
course the ideal costume North of 28 in
summer is shorts on Indian lines. They
are cheap, cool, clean and spruce. Any-
body who has worn the Indian outfit
finds it hard to roll himself into a sac
suit in summer ever after.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: I had come to think
the bogey of the frightful climate in the
Far North had been for ever laid. In
a book of mine, Trepang, now being pub-
lished in London, I deal with this ques-
tion, writing from an experience of 25
years in the North. During that time
my only absences from there were two
years at the war and two holidays total-
ling 11 months in all.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Two Queensland astrono-
mers, R. B. Bousfield, of Stanthorpe, and
Mrs. Rosina Dafter, of Brisbane, have
carried out some remarkable observation
work on the Zodiacal Light phenomenon,
and their results have been published by
the British Astronomical Association. For
the greater part of the year the Light
appears as a misty-white cone extending
above the sunset point after twilight is
over. When the Milky Way ceases to
obscure it, most markedly in July, it is
seen to stretch clear across to the western
horizon, with a sort of buttress at each
end. It is now believed to be a ring of
small meteorites or dust round the sun,
but whether self-luminous or rendered so
by reflected light is still doubtful. The
degree of luminosity appears to be
affected by changes in the upper atmo-
sphere, not more than 200 miles up.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: A hotel with a history
is up for auction in Brisbane. Originally
the Shakespeare, it began on the present
George-street site about 1859, when Bris-
bane’s population was not much over
5000 all told. In the 1870-1880’s it was
a favorite haunt of Brisbane Bohemians,
led by “Daddy” Earle, later founder of
the Johnsonian Club, and Nehemiah
Bartley, who once lived not far down the
street. About 1900 its name was changed
to Hotel Cecil, and some 12 years later
the. rambling old building was remodelled
and rebuilt on its present comfortable
lines. ,
$ $ •!*
“Dungeness”: Mobs of wild horses
running on 4000 acres of thickly-timbered
country within a few miles of the million-
pound City Hall form one of the prob-
lems of Brisbane’s City Fathers. The
“Blunder country,” in which this unusual
problem for a capital city has arisen,
extends from near Oxley to Goodna, and
is part of the 16,000 acres taken up
originally by James Wood in 1859 and
grazed by P. Durack and others till quite
recent years. The name dates back to a
local episode of the “earlies,” when a
flash Yankee bullocky, who boasted that
he never made a mistake, was found by
his mates, the morning after a particu-
larly lively rum-party, solemnly driving his
team in the direction of Brisbane, instead
of towards Ipswich, where he was really
bound, and without the wagon at that.
“Bill the Blower’s Blanky Blunder” was
enshrined for years in bush song and
story, and the name has stuck ever since.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
A bright item in the prevailing round
of dancing was the Field Artillery
Officers’ Mess annual at-home at the
Carlton, with the Div. Artillery colors,
scarlet and blue, reproduced everywhere,
even in masses of sweet-peas. Lieut.-
Colonel and Mrs. C. A. McEachern
received the guests, the lady in white-and-
gold. There were service tunes in between
dance numbers, and plenty of scarlet
mess-jackets.
Students of Emmanuel (Presbyterian)
College held their annual at-home in
their own common-room. Principal
Mervyn Henderson and Mrs. Henderson,
she in Nile-green, welcomed the guests,
among whom were the heads of St. John’s
and the Women’s College.
Mrs. H. G. Morris and her son Robin
have been enjoying a two months’ stay in
Brisbane with Canon A. E. Morris. They
went back to Sydney to do a bit of final
shopping before returning to Bhopal,
India, where Colonel H. G. Morris is now-
stationed.
The council of the Press Institute, gave
a tea-party at the National, at which J.
G. Holmes, just back from England and
Europe, told a group of Inky Wayfarers
all about press conditions in Germany
and Russia. There still are compensa-
tions for ink-slingers, and to be in Aus-
tralia is one of them. President Frank
Bryan and his wife (she in dove-grey)
shook the hands of the invited.
Lota, the seaside home run by the
Queensland Country Women’s Assoc.,
got a good financial lift through the
bridge and wogs party held in the recep-
tion-rooms at the City Hall. Lady
Mayoress Mrs. A. J. Jones received, wear-
ing black marocain with a tiny white
spot, and a black hat. Mrs. A. E. Moore,
also in black, had furs and in her hat a
touch of gold.
“We'll be doing a dance for the tourists to-day, Lulu. Whose turn is it to
Wear the perished elastic?”
Once a year the committee of the
Queensland Turf Club has a charity
meeting, an event which seems to infuri-
ate the one in charge of the weather, for
there’s usually a downpour. For a
change, it was fine this year. The takings
will be divided among about 40 charities.
Ivy Massingberd Teale, only daughter
of the A. M. Teales, of Auchenflower,
and Kenenth Curtis Lavis, younger son
of A. E. Lavis, editor of the “Sunday
Mail,” were married in St. John’s
Cathedral, the bride’s uncle, Rev. J. M.
Teale, tying the knot. Eileen and Edith
Lavis were, maids, Eileen in blue, Edith
in rose-pink.
Recently the engagement of Dr. Garth
May and Mary Sunners was announced :
now Alan Sunners is engaged to Leonie
May, who is on the nursing staff of the
Mater Misericordiae Hospital.
Bert Bailey and daughter Tim had a
large reception committee waiting for
them when the Marella berthed in Bris-
bane, en route to Singapore, and another
even larger gathering to wave farewell
and throw streamers at departure.
Joyce Rounsefell, who will be Mrs.
Allan Freeman when this sees print, has
been flitting from tea to tea for the past
few weeks. Dorothy Milton’s party was
unusual —it was a gift tea, and each guest
was bidden to bring “something blue.”
The place cards were
in the shape of blue-
birds, the bon-bons
were blue and silver,
and the guest of
honor wore blue.
Gifts ranged from
blue undies to blue
china.
Reg McAlister, the
Forgan Smith pri-
vate sec., viewed the
Coronation armed
with a movie
camera, and at the
recent party the Pre-
mier gave to his
friends and Minis-
ters the pictures were
shown. They are in
color, and are so
good that Mrs.
Forgan Smith imme-
diately arranged to
borrow them and
have them shown in
aid of the funds of
the Creche and Kin-
dergarten Associa-
tion, for which wel-
fare organisation she
has already raked in
a considerable sum
of money.
Over 1000 books
came in as a result
of the annual appeal
made by the Bush
Book Club. Mrs.
Willie Persse, presi-
dent, and Mrs.
Firmin McKinnon,
general sec., poured tea for hours. Annual
book day always is a cheery and informal
affair. The club has done a lot for out-
back women, as hundreds of grateful
letters testify; but members of the com-
mittee are still wondering about one dear
old soul who wrote: “Please send me
love stories. We see all the rest of life
ourselves.”


DOUBLE the THRILL
YOUR MONEY BACK!
If Pepsodent doesn't show-up any other
tooth paste you ever used . . . bar none!
Ov
m
NVjSt
HP
>*>•*
o^9
0^
VO* 6
dew
pep
too
The New Pepsodent alone contains IRIUM
which Thrillingly Steps-up Lustre on Teeth
Because it alone contains IRIUM,
the new Pepsodent works on an en-
tirely new principle. It dissolves
film on teeth with an amazingly
swift but gentle action.
It thrillingly steps-up lustre on teeth,
yet it is Doubly safe because it con-
tains no pumice, no grit! Doubly
delightful because it contains no
chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM brings flashing lustre to
teeth—freshens the mouth —stimu-
lates gums—yet does so with the
safest action ever known in tooth
pastes.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) _
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used —bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd.. Dept. 4. Box
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
Name
Address
City
AU 7372 D
.State.
Admission Free.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia, with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised ..
Capital Issued
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund .. . • • ■ • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 10S Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LuMiOM ur t'lOE : 11 LEAuEjnHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and 'proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
CREATES PHYSICAL
FITNESSand
ENERGY
m
m
£
To be physically fit in the true sense menu
something more than a negative condition of
health or freedom from sickness. It means
building up and maintaining a store of vitality
and endurance, a reserve of strength to draw on
as required. Something that will help everyone
to make a supreme effort to win through, no
matter how handicapped at the start in life s
race. The foundation of fitness is a well
nourished body and there is no better way of
attaining this than by taking Roboleine, the best
protective and energy creating food. A tcaspoon-
ful three times a day supplies the body with
that extra nourishment which builds up strong
bone and healthy tissue, and increases resistance
to infection.
"Life is not to be alive,
but to be physically fit."
RDBOLEINE
(Made in England)
The best protective and
health restoring food
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide High School Old Scholars,
400 strong, danced at the Palais Royal.
Minister of Education Jeffries, Director
of Education Adey, Superintendent of
Primary Education Martin and Super-
intendent of Secondary Education Allen
brought their better-halves. It was a
colorful gathering.
Though we are putting up records in
cold nights the Budapest String Quartet
and the Russian Ballet had crowded
houses. Adelaide Town Hall has ceased
to be the icy tomb that roused the wrath
of Melba. The walls are now lined with
radiators. Lady Dugan was present at
every change of programme of the Rus-
sian Ballet.
A cabaret evening arranged by Scotch
College Fathers’ Assoc., held in the col-
lege theatre, drew an attendance of 400.
The theatre boasts two huge open fire-
places, one of the advantages of the place
having been the private residence of the
Barr Smiths before it was a college. A
bright programme was presented.
The University Women’s Union enter-
tained guests at bridge and dancing.
Helen Wighton (president of the Union),
Lesley Bidstrup (secretary) and Aileen
Cherry received the guests. Professors
and their better-halves gathered in the
enclosure reserved for them in front of
a cheery fire.
William Sowden and his lady left Eng-
land on July 14, and are returning home
via the U.S.A., where they should have
a good time, as the Sowden lady writes
that a millionaire banker has offered to
motor them 1400 miles down the West
Coast. They will stay at Tourist Camp,
and later will call at Hollywood. Inci-
dentally, the millionaire’s brother is
W. J. Leyendecker, who, on contract,
does illustrated covers for the “Satur-
day Evening Post,” for which he receives
$50,000 p.a. He has been doing covers
for the “Post” for 30 years. In England
the Sowdens were the guests of Lord
and Lady Dillon (they had been fellow-
travellers on the Narkunda), who took
them to many interesting places, among
them Blenheim Palace, where they had
afternoon-tea with the Duchess of Marl-
borough.
Public interest has been aroused by
the effort of the Vina Barnden Trust
Fund Committee to raise £lOOO to send
the young South Australian pianist over-
seas. One hundred and forty tables were
booked for a bridge party held at the
Town Hall, and over £lOOO was raised.
The fund now stands at £BOO.
The Alliance Fran<?aise Ball at Birks’s
Piccadilly went off very successfully. In
contrast to former years, there were more
dancers than bridge players. The tri-
color was prominent in balloons and
floral decoration. Guests were received
by the president, Mrs. A. E. V. Richard-
son, who was gowned in flesh-pink
diagonally-striped taffeta. Mrs. Arnold
Moulden, wife of the Consul for France,
was present wearing sapphire-blue silk
net with a waist-length cape of the same
trimmed with ostrich feathers to tone.
The new Lady Mayoress (Mrs. A. G.
Barrett) started her social functions with
a bright party, at which she entertained
the wives of the municipal council and
others.
. WESTRALIA.
Streams of cars outside the King s
Park Tennis Club proved that a wintry
nip in the air adds zest to dancing. In
the pavilion roaring log fires warmed
shivering feminine shoulders. On Mrs.
Basil Bruce’s white taffeta glistened seed-
pearl encrustings; Mrs. Boyd-King
(usually associated with trim tennis
shorts and a skilled wielding of the
racquet) graced gold lame satin, and Mrs.
Sam Mortimer had lacquered gold dots
on black silk velvet. Dorothy Adams s
taffeta picture frock was ciel-blue (pink
roses bloomed at the neck), and St.
James rose crepe garbed Phyl Brazier.
Flora Barrett-Lennard was turned out
in deb.-like appliqued white nets, and
Betty Ellis’s demure Quaker-grey satins
were self-spotted.
To Eileen Bowley has fallen the ap-
pointment of guide-lecturer at the Perth
Museum. With an M.Sc. to her credit she
is well equipped for the position.
At Perth College chapel the E. R.
Rexes’ only daughter Lucy exchanged
vows with Oscar, son of the Frank Un-
macks, of Fremantle. A diamond and
platinum true-lover’s knot caught the
high-cowled neckline of her ice-blue
satins, over which shimmered drifts of
mist-blue tulle. Small train-bearer Mar-
garet Rex was a tiny replica of maid
Margaret Strettle. with shirred Patou-
pink georgette and gerbera posy. After-
festivities were at the Rex home in the
Avenue, Nedlands.
Pauline Farrar attained voting age
’midst the shaking of cocktails, tinkle of
glasses and babble of voices of some 100
guests, who danced in the ballroom at
the Karrakatta Club. Mrs. Hebden
Farrar, hostess of the doings, wore a
russet-brown suit with headgear of the
same color. Pauline had pink rosebuds
clinging to her new “birthday-gift” foxes,
which she draped over a sea-green pan-
velvet-trimmed cloque tunic frock.
Winter rains have brought up a fresh
crop of engagements. Betty, eldest
daughter of the Wyborn Seabrooks, of
Seabourne, York, has made her promises
to Harold Ansell-Hack, of Lane Cove,
Sydney ; Lola Stuart-Smith, of the Pep-
permint Grove family, newly affianced to
Wing-Commander J. P. Coleman, of the
British Air Ministry, will sail for Eng-
land early in September, to be married.
From pastoral districts comes news of
the betrothal of Celia Hill, of Bandya
station, Laverton, to William, heir of the
W. N. Cockses, of Kaluwiri station, Sand-
stone.
Draped powder-blue velvet running to
a train, halo with tulle veil falling
shoulderwards and Dame Edith Helen
roses were Elsa Shearer’s bridal regalia
when she. kept her tryst with Dr. Guido
Mayrhofer at Claremont kirk. Mrs.
Keith Cooper, her pink satins brocaded,
slightly basqued and full-sleeved, was
matron-of-honor.
Admirers of the Bard enjoyed extracts
from “Much Ado About Nothing” when
they rallied to the McNesS* Hall at the
bidding of the Shakspeare Club. Joyce
Mortlock (president) said her welcomes in
beige silk embossed velvet. The Dr.
J. S. Battyes and Mesdames Cecil Mason
and C. H. Clifton were honored guests.
Kathleen Gordon, graduate of Perth
University, will return from England next
month with the experience of a full
course at the Chelsea College of Physical
Education, where medical gymnastics
and massage are part of the training.
At Lund, in South Sweden, she has
studied Swedish methods of physical
culture.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark was unable to attend the
Tasmanian Club’s party, having sprained
her ankle. His Ex. was there, but as a
private member, which meant that the
scene was not quite as gay to the eye as
usual —no uniforms or decorations.
Pretty frocks, however, were worn by
most of the women. The president, Dr.
Lines, and Mrs. Lines received guests in
the big dining-room.
Jeanette Mackinnon and her brother
Ronald gave a jolly party at Mountford,
Longford. There are no dances so suc-
cessful as those in these old country
homes. Guests came by car from all
parts of the district and from Launces-
ton. Jeanette’s black velvet frock was
lightened by a silver sequin design on the
corsage. Mrs. Eric Scott-Young enter-
tained a party of friends at a buffet
dinner at Palmerston, driving on to the
Mackinnons’ dance afterwards.
About 75 couples kept their circulation
going at. the Hutchins School cadet
dance in the school gymnasium. All the
brass-hats of the governing body were in
the official party, with the head and
Mrs. J. R. Oberlin Harris.
Alys Jones’s party for her brother
Basil and Betty Viney, just before their
marriage, was a super-effort. The house
was divided up for the various forms of
entertainment; music—Charles Benson
sang—in the big. drawing-room, race
games in another, bridge and monopoly
in another. The broad back balcony was
all closed in and banked with window-
boxes full of flowers. The hostess was
in a beautifully-cut frock of black velvet,
and Betty wore a red velvet long frock
with smart little cutaway coat of the
same material.
Other parties for Betty Viney were
given by Mrs. A. K. Oldmeadow and
Mrs. Gerald Propsting, who combined
forces at the Lyceum Club; Jean Hull
and Betty Morris, who gave a luncheon
party at the Chaucer ; and the two brides-
to-be, Margaret Pringle and Doreen
Cotton, who gave a luncheon at the Im-
perial.
Col. J. M. A. Durrant, our new mili-
tary commandant, and his better hall
have arrived in the Speck and settled
in at Anglesea Barracks.
Lake Fenton was crowded with ice-
skaters during the worst of the frosty
snap. Quite a number stayed the week-
end at the ski-hut, and skating went on
by flare-light late into the evening.
The Vincent Shoobridges’ youngest
girl, Nancy, and Archie, only son of the
Andrew Downies, Glen Derwent, an-
nounce their engagement.


S 3?
;■•
Si:
mm
m
mma
■
mm
m
mmm . ■
ate $c mue
s&m
!Sf?
K SjSKS(&»W!4«®S»
!|gp£3§s3s&£3§§
■Mi
in
fiiiiiii
Li
SSSfSf
Vs
SI
iM
9 for <d.—lB for 1/
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY MADAME ALICE DELYSIA
BW (38.24
ALSO BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
The Long White Cloud
The Show Business
The Savage Government has taken a
leaf from the policy pages of its most per-
sistent critic, the. Associated Chambers of
Commerce, and hired a publicity man —
but before Labor won office the A.C.C.
had changed the title of their old news-
paperman to “organising secretary” or
something equally innocuous. The Labor
appointee, Robert Riley, was once with
Australia’s publicity-minded W. M.
Hughes and, with wide journalistic ex-
perience as well, knows his job.
But the rest of modest Maoriland is
wondering what the job entails. It is
the first official Maoriland Government
press-agent appointment. As such, it
probably reflects existing Labor dissatis-
faction with the daily-newspaper treat-
ment of its mouthpieces. The press
agent’s job will be to get his political
bosses “good” publicity.
No easy task, this. Inspired political
stories are always suspect, and those con-
trary to newspaper policy generally end
in the nearest w.p.b. But the Savage Gov-
ernment has its radio medium, which
gives its propagandist one way of reaching
the public that was denied the original
American press agents.
Mostly old journalists, these people
grew out of the show business ; they were
travelling vaudeville company advance
agents. From that beginning the publicity
man racket spread through commerce
and politics until even individual actors
and other self-styled celebrities had press
agents on their pay lists. One of the
duties of the ideal “public relations
counsel,” as some Americans call him,
is to “keep his principals from acts
tending to antagonise the public.”
“D.G.C.”: A Maoriland shopkeeper
was floored when a girl from the Marcus
Show asked for “a container of gas.” She
wanted a tin of petrol to clean feathers
with.
* * * *
“Kakapo”: When Nature and an Eng-
lish traveller met in Reefton recently,
Nature took the decision. The visitor
was, he said, used to a daily shower
before breakfast. Regretfully the hotel-
keeper intimated that nowadays the cold-
water supply never thawed till mid-after-
noon. The alternative was a plunge in
the snow-fed Inangahua River.
“J. 8.”: Another Maoriland daily
paper is gone—the Taranaki “Central
Press,” formerly the ( Stratford “Evening
Post.” The “Post” grew out of the
Egmont “Settler,” founded by John Bal-
lance, and the Egmont “Post.” Until the
war period it flourished. Robert Masters,
Minister of Education in the Forbes-
Coates Cabinet, steered the paper for
some years, but when his political star
waned the fortunes of the “Post” waned,
too. In the last phase, competition from
New Plymouth, 25 miles away, proved
too keen.
$ $ $
“Kakapo”: When the first rail-car
crossed the Mohaka viaduct, on the
North Island East Coast recently, Gis-
borne was brought within 14 hours of
Wellington by the road and rail. Next
year it is hoped to reduce this to 13
hours. Hundreds from all over the
countryside cheered the car as it drove
through to Wairoa ; some of the chil-
dren were seeing a railway engine for
the first time. The railway has been
going ahead by fits and starts since 1912 ;
there is still a good deal more than
£1,000,000 to be spent on the work which
nearly 1300 men are putting into it. On
the Mohaka job Australasian bridge-
building records have gone by the board ;
in spite of reduced hours, the steel and
riveting work, estimated to take nine
months, was pushed through in seven
months.
* * * *
“M.”: Christchurch is a Maoriland
city with a literary tradition, so it is not
surprising that its “Press,” in pontifical
“Wish I Was diggin' this f'r the cow Wot fed the tennis ball to
the hippo."
prose, took the opportunity afforded by
the death of G. W. Russell to have a
column-long tilt at the “decay of the
literary tradition” in Maoriland politics.
“Mr. Russell—with the notable excep-
tion of Mr. J. A. Lee in the present Gov-
ernment—is the only Dominion legis-
lator of this century to make distin-
guished use of the pen,” says the “Press”
sadly. It was G. W. Russell, author of
the novel The New Heaven, who gave
cartoonist David Low some work to do
for the old Christchurch “Spectator”
before Low crossed the Tasman to The
Bulletin and an Australian career that
led to his present exalted Fleet-street
position. But the “Press’s” cursory dis-
missal of the Savage Government’s
numerous aspiring writers must have
hurt the Rev. Clyde Carr, a fellow-South
Islander, author of a slim volume of
Parliamentary character sketches.
'i' * :Jc ;}c
“Mak”: Unemployment taxation, ac-
cording to a Maoriland Labor Minister,
won’t be reduced until the Savage Gov-
ernment has “brought to fruition
measures for permanent rehabilitation”
and launched its national superannuation-
unemployment insurance scheme. Which
reminds me of a cute angle of Maori-
land’s unemployment-taxation system.
There is a lump payment of ss. a quarter,
which applies to Maorilanders travelling
overseas as well as even sustenance
workers at home.
After a 1936 holi-
day, I wanted to
come back to
Australia with
my Maoriland
passport, but on
making applica-
tion was appalled
by an official
suggestion that 1
pay the unem-
ployment quarter-
fees, with over-
d u e penalties,
from as far back
as 1933, when I
first left Maori-
land. It took a
parson’s written
assurance that 1
had been paying
u n e m p 1 oyment
taxes in Australia
for those years
before I could
escape paying the
Maoriland dues.
“D.N.”: Average hard-working Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders credit Gov-
ernments as well as newspapers with un-
canny avenues of international informa-
tion —but leaders of Governments can be
more dangerous rumor-setters than any
foreign innuendo-newshound. Case in
point is the statement by Acting-P.M.
Fraser that the “world has never been
closer to war since 1914” than it was at
time of speaking. Even citizens who would
ordinarily take Mr. Fraser’s prophecies
with lots of salt read this one with uneasi-
ness ; after all, he was acting-head of the
Maoriland Government, and in times of
crisis Downing-street is reputed to confer
with Dominion leaders. But next day
Mr. Fraser said he had merely expressed
his own private opinion, “based exclu-
sively on the published cable news.” A
poor excuse, for a poor opinion.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and' experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Bead “Kadio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
Push-pull 2A3 Quality
Amplifier.
Despite the advent of metal valves,
power triodes of the glass 2A3 type are
always popular. An amplifier using two
of these in push-pull in the output was
described in Radiotronics Bulletin 77,
issued recently by A.W. Valve Co. The
circuit and details are given here.
It is generally agreed that for the high-
est possible fidelity it is desirable to use
triode power valves. Two 2A3’s in push-
pull appear at first sight to combine
readily, but usually an audio transformer
is necessary to give enough grid swing
to the valves. A.W. Valve Co. engineers
found that it was possible to use a resist-
ance-coupled arrangement throughout,
giving excellent frequency response with
a minimum of distortion. Tests made
with the amplifier operating from an in-
put of 0.24 volt into a loudspeaker load
gave a power output of seven watts with
a total harmonic distortion not rising
above 2.5 p.c. under any conditions. A
considerable portion of this was second
harmonic distortion; the higher audio
harmonics were almost completely absent.
Owing to the use of Radiotron 6C6 as
a high-gain resistance coupled pentode,
with a similar valve operating as a triode
phase-splitter, it is possible to operate
over a very wide range of audio frequen-
cies extending from below 30 cycles to
over 10,000 cycles. Class ABI operating
conditions were first investigated, but it
was necessary with this arrangement to
feed the loudspeaker field coil in shunt
with the receiver, and to use a very good
regulation power supply and filter. These
difficulties led to the adoption of a pre-
Class-A condition in which the loud-
speaker field can be used for filtering
purposes.
Another advantage of Class-A opera-
tion is that audio harmonics are ex-
tremely low. Self bias can be used with-
out the necessity for a by-pass capacity,
as is necessary in Class ABI. The power
stage is also more easily excited, since it
needs a smaller voltage from grid to grid.
Only 250 volts are required on the plates
and 45 volts for grid bias, which together
with the drop in the speaker transformer
amounts only to slightly over 300 volts
supply voltage. The 83V has been used
as the rectifier as it enables a standard
transformer of 385-385 volts 150 ma, to
be used with standard electrolytic con-
densers while still permitting the loud-
speaker field to be connected in the plate
circuit.
Since the amplifier is capable of re-
sponding to very low frequencies, it is
essential that the power supply be ade-
quately filtered. A two-stage filter is
used in which the loudspeaker field forms
one of the chokes, with a standard choke
for the other. Additional filtering is
provided for the earlier stages by the
use of dropping resistors and separate
Bmfd. filter condensers.
In order to obtain sufficient voltage for
the grids of the 2A3’s it was decided to
use a phase-splitting valve with equal re-
sistors in the plate and cathode circuits.
The input to this stage is between grid
and earth, and the stage gain is approxi-
mately 1.8 times from input to total out-
put, grid to grid. The 2A3 valves require
a peak voltage from grid to grid of 90
volts for full output, and in order to
obtain this swing without any appreciable
distortion the voltage supply of both
earlier stages is derived from the first
stage of the filter, giving over 400 volts.
Thus standard components are used with-
out the expense of high-fidelity trans-
formers. The power output is ample for
home use with a loudspeaker of ordinary
.sensitivity.
V.C.
way.” This one was established by Adel-
aide “Advertiser” with the idea less of
profit-making than of knitting the State’s
south-eastern district more closely to
Adelaide, against the growing influence
of Melbourne.
* * * *
“Enno”: For the first time in Aus-
tralia ultra-short-wave transceivers have
been put to use in movie production.
They were used during the making of
scenes for Cinesound’s “Lovers and Lug-
gers” at Botany Bay (N.S.W.), to con-
trol the movements of luggers carrying
the actors. A.W.A. supplied the equip-
ment ; its engineers have done consider-
able research with ultra-short-wave
equipment in recent years.
* * * *
“Norwood”: The average city set-
owner generally contrives to run up some
sort of aerial and even the most horrible
of these contraptions works provided it
is reasonably free of loose hand-spliced
pieces of wire. Earths are a different
proposition, only one in ten having the
faintest chance of doing its job. Gener-
ally, the longer the earth the broader the
tuning. It should never exceed 9ft., the
length of the lead on household appli-
ances. Water-pipes must always be
treated with suspicion until it is estab-
lished that they are earthed within these
limits, and even then a special clip is
necessary, owing to the impossibility of
effecting a properly soldered joint. The
earth from three-pin power-points should
be avoided like the plague, as the wiring
is liable to meander about the house
before reaching earth. Second-floor
dwellers are up against an even tougher
proposition. Their best solution is often
to run a second wire about 10ft. below
an outdoor aerial for use as a counter-
poise when connected to the earth ter-
minal. A device I have found exception-
ally handy is to simply clinch the loose
end of a clean earth wire to mortar or
concrete in the walls with ordinary
staples, touching the joint with a piece
of solder.
Hs * * *
“Cluny”: The hold-up with television
seems to be mainly a matter of the diffi-
culty in deciding on the right moment
for a kick-off. The 8.8. C. led people
into buying receiving sets which became
obsolete almost before they were in-
stalled, and the present policy is to dis-
courage extensions. With radio, it is
munication on the ultra-shorts. Because
the experimenters here are comparatively
few nothing but local work has yet been
done in Australia, but a co-ordination
of effort between States and with Maori-
land is in sight. In U.S.A. and Europe,
large numbers of experimental stations
have been continuously active, and at
intervals GSBY and G6DH have been
heard in the U.S.A., and W2JCY has
been heard in North Wales. In addition
to these transatlantic successes, Ameri-
can amateurs have been able to com-
municate right across their continent at
certain times of the year. Englishmen
and Americans have gone to great trouble
to compile data on weather conditions,
and details given by Lawrence Cockaday,
of “Radio News” (U.S.A.), are of in-
terest generally.
The illustration shows conditions
under which five-metre DX may be ac-
complished at irregular intervals. These
transmissions may be over distances any-
where from 100 to 400 miles, and do not
usually cover more than 500 miles. They
are made possible, it is believed, by a re-
fraction or reflection in the lower atmo-
sphere at a height of only a few miles.
Cockaday terms it a “mirage effect,” and
says that under these conditions cold air
lies in a blanket along the surface of
the earth, with warmer air above. It can
exist also under a condition where fog
lies close to earth, with warm or dry air
above, as is often experienced when a
cyclone is approaching. Under pre-
cyclonic conditions the effect is most
prevalent near or over large bodies ol
water, and the Americans have noticed
that on the eastern seaboard they could
transmit 300 or 400 miles up and down
the coast while these conditions held.
The possibility should be most inspiring
to five-metre experimenters in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victoria.
The condition seems to recur monthly,
either at or shortly before or after the
period of full moon. W2JCY urges five-
metre experimenters to keep a schedule
log of all long-distance signals heard, in-
cluding time, date and known weather
conditions ; keep a careful log of all test
transmissions; obtain and use a good
five-metre superhet with noise silencer
RADIO TROUBLE CHART.
This radio-receiver “family tree,” drawn up many years ago, is helpful in tracking down receiver trouble, and
a useful guide for constructor and serviceman.
Radio Comment.
“Flux”: English amateur set-builders,
although well advanced in radio tech-
nique generally, steer clear of the solder-
ing-iron, and British manufacturers still
market components such as coils and
I.F. transformers with leads taken to
nickelled terminals for wiring. If an
Australian constructor wished to avoid
soldering it would be necessary to have
parts specially made or to import them.
There is nothing difficult about solder-
ing provided it is tackled with an electric
iron and resin-cored solder.
* *. * *
“Mount”: McLachlan, P.M.G., open-
ing a new broadcasting station at Mt.
Gambier (S.A.), announced that Aus-
tralia now has 81 commercial and 21
national stations, “with others on the
possible to continue listening-in even
with the most archaic crystal. With tele-
vision, any technical advance at either
transmitting or receiving ends may in-
volve the. scrapping of sets costing up-
wards of £lOO. Television as a commer-
cial entertainment will have to arrive
fully-born, and, once established, the trade
will have to collaborate with transmis-
sion engineers and research workers to
present improvements simultaneously at
long intervals
Ultra-short-wave DX
Conditions.
In the last two years it has been
demonstrated that there is always a
chance of unexpected long-distance corn-
and 8.F.0.; try horizontal aerials, or at
least systems with a high angle of radia-
tion, also beam transmission and recep-
tion, with reflectors behind or underneath
aerials ; use C.W., I.C.W. and ’phone on
DX tests (any one of these may pro-
duce results where others may not); use
10 or 20 metres for prearranged reports
between points; don’t place too much
importance on reported harmonic recep-
tion ; watch the periods three or four days
before and after full moon, during
summer particularly ; watch for signals
up to 200 or 300 miles during quick
changes of temperature or during sudden
fog (the 1927 work of A2DY and A2IJ
between Sydney and Bowral was during
fog); use a stabilised frequency trans-
mitter, such as a good M.O.P.A. or
C.O.P.A.
VK2NO


JOHN DOES THIS EVERY FEW WEEKS
HEAVY. RADIO
CCUMULATOR TO
TOWN ANO
BACK
PAYS TO HA.VE IT RECHARGED
EVERY FEW WEEKS
A
but his neighbour
buys an
Ctvt
*>D'°
* xtv z
. *.* WO
OP** 1
v/O*
«A S
A**® krC\^ G
H*C*A**
i*2
H
rAJM \
m
Country folk need no longer
envy city people their All-
Electric Sets. Air Cell operated
Radio is every bit as con-
venient and reliable because it
is equipped with the new
Eveready Air Cell, which needs
no recharging—gives over a
year of trouble-free “life” with
normal use —maintains con-
stant voltage at the correct
level for perfect reception—
and needs no attention at all.
Air Cell operated models are
available under the following
well-known brands:-
STROMBERG-CARLSON
BRITON
STERLING
S.T.C.
TASMA
PARAMOUNT
ECLIPSE
KRIESLER
ARISTOCRAT
ZENITH
GENALEX
SYMFONA
LEKMEK
WELDON
BREVILLE
VELCO
(E.S.M.)
SEA3B
rSHiHISi
AIR
CELL
THE EVER READY CO, [AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY
Amateur Chatter.
Several amateurs confined to sick
beds carry on their hobby from the bed-
side by remote control of transmitters
and with the receiver within easy reach.
Recently VK2AZ, a Sydney amateur,
well known on 20 and five metres, under-
went an operation. Next morning the
writer was surprised to hear VK2AZ’s
familiar voice “Calling CQ” on 20-metre
’phone, and supposed the operation had
been postponed. Contact revealed that
VK2AZ had made his plans beforehand
and moved his bed into the shack.
The 20-metre band has shown the
usual winter fluctuations, with European
signals peaking only around R 4 in the
The new A.W.A. radio-electric works at Ashfield, near
Sydney.
afternoons, but on 11/7/’37 at 5 p.m.
G6HB rose suddenly to R 8 plus on
telegraphy. Contacted, the signal from
VK2NO was reported equally powerful.
This peak lasted for about 10 minutes,
then signals dropped again until they
were barely audible.
At night, at about 8.30 p.m., K4SA,
Porto Rico, has reappeared with his
powerful ’phone, and between 9.30 and
10.15 p.m. such stations as WBANO
(apples, nuts and onions) are as strong
as the locals. Better probably, because of
lack of “monkey chatter,” so prominent
with some Sydney ’phone stations. One
suburban station is notoriously bad in
this respect, with chronic overmodula-
tion and at least six different waves. Be-
cause si station 8000 miles distant can
make sense of such a noise the transmis-
sion is not necessarily all it should be.
It is now be-
-1 i eved that
VK2 G U, Can-
berra, also heard
signals from
VK2NO on five
metres on 27 /6 / ’37
during the test
period. He has also
heard weak signals
considered to be of
American origin.
As VK2GU has
special receivers
and beam arrays
concentrated o n
U.S.A., such recep-
tion is not beyond
the bounds of pos-
sibility. The writer
feels confident that before 1937 passes
VK experimenters will crack some tough
five-metre nuts.
Forty metres is livening up again, for,
as predicted, quite a few erstwhile 20-
metre adherents are seeking a change.
Forty is a good inter-State and DX band
during the early evenings and mornings.
VK2NO.
Mixer Circuit.
Expensive “T” pads are eliminated in
he mixer circuit illustrated, and gramo-
phone pickup or radio can be fed in or
out at will, singly or in combination. The
volume controls Rl, R 2 and R 3 are
500,000 ohms each, except where a cry-
stal or other high-impedance microphone
is used. In such case, R 1 must be not
less than five megohms, otherwise there
will be severe attenuation of the higher
frequencies.
G5NI.
Separate Reaction Valve
Gives Smoother Control.
There are a hundred and one different
methods of controlling oscillation in re-
generative detectors. With simple two-
or three-valve short-wave receivers hav-
ing triode detectors there is often trouble
in the. way of “overlap” or harsh oscilla-
tion. An old method, but a good one,
is to use a separate
reactor valve.
The circuit given
as an example
shows the essen-
tia 1 s. Practically
any old valve will
do’for the reactor,
so long as it will
oscillate. It is in-
terposed between
the detector and
the tuning coil.
There is nothing
complicated about
the circuit or the
construction. The
plate voltages can
be adjusted inde-
pendently for
best results, with
the reactor work-
ing around 50
volts. Some ex-
perimenting may
be needed, R 1 and R 2, for short-wave
work.
The chief advantage is the unusual
stability of reaction. If the size and
coupling of the plate coil have been care-
fully determined, the familiar effect of
oscillation occurring more easily as the
wave-length is reduced is practically over-
come. It is possible to set the reaction
control quite close to the oscillation
point on any waveband, and to cover the
whole of that band without any necessity
for readjustment. Hand capacity is
entirely absent with the resistance con-
trol method of reaction in the plate cir-
cuit of the reactor, and threshold howl is
unlikely, as the valve is practically iso-
lated from the audio amplifier. The
smoothness of oscillation control is at
once apparent.
The .OOlmfd. variable condenser can
be an old 175 kc. superhet padder con-
denser. Once this is set, it can be for-
gotten. This short-wave tip should be
useful to readers with battery triodes of
the A 415, A 409, PM2DX, 30 or similar
types on hand.
D. B. K.
Heard on Short Waves.
During the afternoon of 2/7/’37, JZK
and DJB were excellent, but GSO was
barely audible. GSD was good and GSB
fair. Using the receiver in Charters
Towers (Q.), GSD and GSB were poor
and GSO very good at the same. time.
All kinds of variations occurred in the
reception of the main short-wave stations.
In one place Daventry beat Berlin, and
in another Berlin was on top, but the 25-
metre band in the morning was good
everywhere. Thirty-one metres at night
was excellent.
At 7 a.m. on July 1, the address of the
President of Czechoslovakia to his sol-
diers on the anniversary of a battle they
won in 1917 was clearly heard. It was
news that the Czechs had ever beaten the
Germans. This' Czechoslovakian station
gives a splendid musical programme
every morning on 25.34 metres.
Amateurs are really good on 20 metres
in all localities visited. Although the
dual-wave battery superhet has better
selectivity on the broadcast band, I do
not think it will surpass my Ideal T,R.F.
job for short-wave reception. I intend to
test them for comparison when in
Camooweal.
NORTHERNER.
A.B.C. Short-wave Broad-
casting Programmes.
Callsign, VK3LR ; frequency, 9.58mc. ;
wave-length, 31.34 m.; power, lkw.
Transmission 1. —For reception
throughout Australia, M.L., N.G. and the
South Seas, also Far East.
Week 2 to 6/8/’37: 7.40 p.m. E.S.T. News,
markets and weather for Nth. Australia; Stock
Exchange report; wheat market; wool sales;
fur-skin sales; London copra, jute and rubber
prices; cotton future; London metal prices,
citrus and tropic fruit market; inter-State
weather notes and forecasts; outline of follow-
ing day’s programme.
Australasian news service, 10.30 p.m. daily
except Sundays.
Transmission 2.—For New Caledonia
and Noumea, also for Australia and
M.L.
Week 2 to 6/8/’37: Adelaide and Melbourne
Stock Exchange reports; London metal prices;
wheat markets; W.A., Central Australian and
Queensland weather notes; Australian news and
cables; sporting notes, mid-week race accept-
ances.
A valuable adjunct to a modern radio
receiver is a synchronous electric clock.
The latest type in the popular Hammond
series is the Parkway, in chrome-plated
bezel. The agents are Amplion ( A’sia ),
Ltd., Clarence-street, Sydney.
The Question Box.
(1) You frequently mention the “Book of
Practical Radio,” by John Scott-Taggart. Do
you know anything of his “600” receiving set ?
(2) Is there any reason why this set should not
be successful in Australia? (3) 1 have full con-
structional details, but so far have been unable
to obtain certain parts. Where can solid di-
electric condensers, differential variable conden-
sers and such parts be obtained? (4) Equiva-
lents (obtainable in Australia) of the valves
specified ? —568.
(1) Nothing, except that it is a tuned R.F.
battery four, with an iron-core band-pass filter
in the input, regenerative detector and twin
audio channel, using triodes. (2) No, but it
would be useful mainly in districts well away
from local broadcasting centres. It should
be a good broadcast receiver for economical
operation anywhere outback. (3) The radio
deparment of Murdoch’s, Ltd., Park-street, Syd-
ney, carries stocks of English components such
as these. (4) The R.F. stage can be a Philips
KF3, similarly with the detector. The same
Mullard valves, PM2DX and PM2O2, are avail-
able in Australia.
* * $ sit
Enclosed is a sketch of two proposed aerial
systems for use with my Radiokes DW 4/5 kit
set. At present I get daytime reception of all
Melbourne, Adelaide and Tasmanian stations
at my Vic. location, and some Sydney stations
can be heard quite well. At night I get the
Brisbane stations, and after midnight 6AM and
6 GF. Short-wave reception seems to have
gone off. The present aerial is the inverted
L type, and the one contemplated is the verti-
cal one. Which would be better? —569.
The aerial you are using now is more effi-
cient than the vertical one suggested, owing
to the fact that it is not totally vertical, but
partially folded. The overall height of the straight
L type is, in this case, more effective. Short-
wave reception varies considerably with weather
conditions and seasonal changes. The poor-
reception period will be followed by good
conditions sooner or later.
* * * *
Some time ago 1 noticed an announcement
to the effect that an all-wave superhet to
cover from 10 to 800 metres, with bandspread
tuning, woidd be described. When will this
article appear ? —570.
As the receiver contemplated was intended
purely for use in such locations as yours
(Cairns, N.Q.), it was decided to make it a
tuned R.F. type. This was described as the
Ideal Battery All-wave Receiver, B. 28/4/’37.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
li pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. AH
lamps fitted with
PYREX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 47/6
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINERALS IN WINTER.
“Tri-cal’’: Thanks for letting; me
know how pleased you are with Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour. I knew you couldn’t be
otherwise. The fact that your sheep,seek
it means they need it. You won’t, of
course, see the benefit immediatelybut
your wool cheque should tell the story.
Yes, you were right in that argument
with Bill about the relationship between
the phosphate content of the grasses and
the growth of the grass. In young green
shoots the phosphate content is high, in
the old dry growth it is lowest. Hence
the need for Tri-cal-os in the winter
months when there is little or no growth
taking place. Tell Bill that Davis Gela-
tine, Sydney, will send him full particu-
lars about Tri-cal-os for sheep. It’s
reliable and economical.
Old Farmer.
a
*3.
WHY GRAZIERS USE
VITA-LICK
Mr. A. L. Varley, “Kahmoo,’
Inverell, writes, .3/5 / ’35 :
“For some years we have main-
tained that the constant use of
Vita-Lick ensures health, also
(a) a healthy sheep is able to
withstand worm attack; (b) is
less subject to blowfly attack;
(c) grows more and better
wool.”
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Sheep at Cootamundra.
“Rom Ney”: Cootamundra (N.S.W.)
Sheep Show is claimed to be the largest
in the Southern Hemisphere. This year
it had 450 merino entries, compared with
Sydney’s 356. Corriedales and British
breeds totalled 137 head. In all 92.3
sheep were on the ground. Last year the
number was 1039 —a world record.
Local breeders’ classes for merinos at-
tracted some excellent sheep. Others had
faulty mouths, and there were a few
medium wools badly overshot. Slack
backs and bellies and muffed faces
showed here and there. G. G. David-
son’s champion unhoused ram could
scarcely be faulted. He is of Boohoke
blood.
Many Sydney Show sheep competed in
. the open section. The Starrs, of Dalton,
had good* wins in the housed fine wools,
the champion ram being one of the stud’s
Stonehaven Cup. winners at Sydney in
’36. There was too much wool of
broader type on the folds of some of the
fine wools.
Merryville provided both grand cham-
pions, ram and ewe, in the medium-wool
section. The ram, Everest, has a tremen-
dous frame, carrying rich wool, very
dense and long-stapled. Snowdrop, the
ewe, was grand champion at Sydney.
Mungadal did well among strong
wools, where competition was rather dis-
appointing.
Unhoused merinos were impressive.
One judge doubted if some were actually
“unhoused,” but their owners offered
statutory declarations. There were some
with hair and others with frosty faces.
L. F. Bennett took the Corriedale
honors with Macfarlane-bred sheep.
Absence of Chatsbury left the Romney
Marsh section to three breeders, a M.L.
ram from Parorangi being champion.
W. J. O’Neil won again with his Sydney
champion Border Leicesters. W. J. Mc-
Sweeney was successful with South-
downs, and Alleyn and Son took the
major Dorset Horn prizes.
Polwarths v. Merinos.
“Sheepo”: “Bungaree” (B. 30/6/’37)
has evidently never travelled in the
Western District of Victoria, where many
old stations once famous for super-
quality merino wools now pin their
faith to Polwarths. Essentially a come-
back, the Polwarth is one of Australia’s
outstanding utility sheep, and each year
sees more and more one-time merino
holdings changing over.
Evolved by the Dennis brothers in
western Victoria, the Polwarth produces
56-58’s wool. The weight cut by the
average Polwarth compares more than
favorably with medium- and strong-
woolled merinos, and, with freedom from
wrinkles, fly-strike is low. Of recent
years high-class Polwarth wool has run
the choicest Western District merino
clips close in top-line prices.
Dual-purpose Sheep.
“Lion”: Our returns prove “B-gar”
right (B. 23/6/’37). For years we have
bred dual-purpose sheep, with excellent
wool and mutton returns, arid the pro-
geny suitable for export as suckers or
for sale as fine crossbreds.
We use a stud English Leicester ram
on a large-framed merino ewe carrying
60-64’s or 70-74’s' wool. This year we
_got.26d. for A AAA merino ewes and the
same for AAAAcbd fine E.L.-merino
cross. The sucker lambs at five months
old made up to 255. each in Homebush ;
the tails from 12 trucks 18s. 6d. at a
bad sale. And a team of 50 E.L.-meririo
cross ewes which we sold won the N.S.W.
s.-w. districts championship and came
second in the State.
Another advantage with this cross,
one cannot slip easily. Those lambs
which run to wool and do not fatten into
suckers can either be shorn and sold off
shears, kept as hoggets or used for
breeding prime suckers with Downs
breeds.
The grown sheep have a very fine
soft-handling wool, of good length and
quality and bright. The ewes will aver-
age 101 b. and rear a lamb., Lambs at
six months old will average at least 3-Vlb.
saleable wool, apparently much in
demand.
The art of breeding this cross consists
in using well-grown young stud rams on
the type of ewe described, any age
between two and seven years, according
to condition of mouth. Sound country
enables ewes to be kept longer. We
break-in two-too,th' ewes with merino
rams, first, join those again to merinos
that have missed, then mate with E.Ls.
This is a big factor in avoiding lambing
troubles.
Feed the rams well all the year. Join
in tiptop condition. Thinning rams down
proved a fallacy with us. Put in 2 p.c.
for 14 days ; withdraw and put in 5 p.c.
of fresh ones ; leave them for a month,
yarding at least every other night, then
replace them with the original 2 p.c. Let
these remain until all work is obviously
finished. This method assures us of an
80-95 p.c. lambing. • *
Honesty and Showmanship.
“Murrawong”: The president of the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association is to
.be congratulated on his attack on dis-
honest shearing of show sheep.
In- future, sheep for exhibition at
Sydney Show must be shorn to a
maximum staple 4in. length. District
committees have been appointed to in-
spect prospective exhibits within three
weeks of shearing, and no sheep will be
eligible for entry without the associa-
tion’s shearing certificate.
Nevertheless some stricter method of
identification is necessary. Sheep may
“ Didn't I tell y’ only to use the single-barrelled gun?”
“But the boss's got that , an' he’s lookin’ for ME!”
still be rung-in by substituting. animals
to be officially shorn and “levelling off”
actual show sheep. A* distinctive brand
or label that cannot be transferred, should
be used by inspectors.
The new regulations apply only to
merinos. Breeders of Corriedales and
British breeds should follow suit.
Shearing regulations should be ex-
tended to all rams sent to Sydney for
sale. The effects of housing and
pampering of rams can be detected, but
the buyer has no means of telling
whether a ram was fairly shorn or had
a couple of inches of wool left on him.
There are studs that send their sale
rams down straight from the paddock and
machine-shorn. They have their regular
clients, who are seldom disappointed in-
their purchases. But on the show floor
these cannot compete in appearance with
artificially prepared rams.-
Potato Competitions.
“Zedo”: The potato championships
conducted by the Sydney R.A.S. con-
firmed the belief that Australia can do
far better with its yields.
Three districts competed. The prize
•went to T. J. Edwards, Armidale, with
11 tons lOcwt. yield—about 94 tons above
the Australian average. W. R. Drabsch,
Guyra, produced 12 tons 13cwt., but
lost points for purity of type and quality.
Edwards worked with Satisfactions and
Drabsch with Factor. H. W. Thomas
produced 9 tons 3cwt. with the white
Jones’s Success.
Edwards’s crop was sown in black
loam which had been under oats last
year, on a June ploughing harrowed and
reploughed in September. Two-ounce
seed was put in whole with a plough in
the first week in November. Six har-
rowings and five scufflings followed.
There were only 204 rows to the chain
and the season was anything but favor-
able to potato production, severe early
frosts following a dry summer, during
which potato moths had the time of their
lives with some crops. Edwards’s crop
had only the barest touch of scab and
gained full points for type.
Drabsch had good loam which had
been down to pasture for 15 years. The
plot was ploughed in June, combined
and harrowed two months afterwards.
Mixed cut and whole dipped seed was
put in on November 15. No further
work was done except for hilling just
before flowering. The sowing was
denser—2s rows to the chain.
Hand-planting Clover.
“Bogaauck”: A few years ago, shortly
after the first good autumn rain, an old
chap planted clover by hand on a steep
and rocky hillside of his holding in this
corner of S.A. Last winter I had a look
at that hillside. Every pocket of soil
among the rocks was a dense mat of
sub. clover ; it was even growing in chinks
in the rocks, and wherever there was a
(i Continued on page 52.)


mm
m
Wmtmm
5 .
as
V > o sw
%mmt
■ a ■!&*&
mmm.
m
m
sex
m.
m
m
m
■
mm
VOOVMSS
iMEAF
T
LISTEN
TO
THE
MUSIC
STARS
OF
THE
15
MINUTES
UNINTERRUPTED
AT
MUSIC
SUNDAY
EVERY
AND
WEDNESDAY
2 GB
I N 8 OTT LE S , HALF BOTTLES,'. BABY BOW LE $
* 5S,»? t »S$
CITY TATTERSALL’S CLUB 12th ANNUAL HOSPITALS BALL
(Under Vice-regal Patronage) will be held at the Trocadero on Thursday, July 29th. TICKETS 10/6.
Reservations: ’Phone City Tattersall’s Club, MA3668.


A WORK-BOOT MADE TO
STAND HARD WEAR ...
If you really want a work-boot
which will give you absolute
comfort, look as well as any
work-boot should look, and
give you exceptional wear,
try a pair of Abbey Cossacks.
This model is made with a
heavy double sole and tough
calf upper on a broad, com-
fortable last.
Made in Black and Brown
Calf in full and half sizes.
When ordering Working Boots don’t
forget a tin of Dubbin leather dressing.
It keeps the leather soft and supple,
and also keeps it waterproof.
Price, Black Calf
Brown Calf
27/6
27/6
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
-THINK OF
BYBis
f
m
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .... £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London' Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
TTie'^xxlletz/ih
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
bit of water seepage it was marked by
a wide strip of strawberry clover, with
lucerne growing in two gullies.
The planter summed-up: His prop-
erty was a small one and the hillside pro-
vided poor grazing for a few dry cows;
he had neither implements nor top-dress-
ing outfits that could be used on such
steep and rocky ground. He decided to
try hand-planting because he had read
that sods taken from established pas-
ture would contain the nitrogen-fixing
bacteria necessary to the growth of
clovers. All attempts to establish straw-
berry clover by seed had failed.
The sods used measured two inches
square and were cut with a small trowel;
they were placed in buckets and carted
on a packhorse. Three, or four sods of
sub. clover were planted on the high side
of every patch of soil among the rocks;
the strawberry clover was planted wher-
ever there was a sign of seepage. The
lucerne, however, grew from seed broad-
cast along the gullies, the ground being
afterwards gone over with a hand-rake.
Super, was carted in half-bags slung on
either side of the packhorse and scat-
tered by hand. It took three weeks to
do the planting, and the annual top-
dressing takes 10 days. The hillside now
carries 80 sheep and six milking cows
all the year.
A young and wealthy squatter with a
few thousand acres of some of the best
grazing land in western Victoria tried
the same idea. After having failed to
establish strawberry clover from seed, he
cut some sods of straw, clover by the
side, of the road and planted them on
the edge of the swimming pool. Within
a few years they had spread to cover a
couple of acres of moist ground. Sods
were then cut with a sharp spade, carted
in a dray and planted at six-foot intervals
on every damp flat along the creeks.
Now each creek is lined with it, and the
sheep have taken it to every swamp and
the banks of all the dams and water-
holes. It grows with amazing luxuriance,
though little of it gets any top-dressing
and during the latter part of the summer
the stock keep it grazed as short as a
bowling green.
In one of my own paddocks, where
limestone outcrops frequently, I hand-
planted sub. clover on every pocket of
soil among the rocks, afterwards top-
dressing by hand. It took a day of
scrambling over boulders to do the
planting, but the soil in those sheltered
nooks is very rich, and this winter every
one of them is smothered in young
clover plants, far bigger than any grow-
ing on the open ground. That one day’s
work has added the equivalent of nearly
an acre of tiptop grazing to the paddock.
Cheap Horse Feed.
“Hortus”: Farm horses in sugarcane
areas do well on the following daily
ration: Chaffed cane-tops or panicum
grass, 541 b.; molasses (heavy), 61b.; lin-
seed meal, 31b.
It’s a good, balanced ration. The
cane-tops supply the nutrients and the
necessary bulk, the. molasses provides the
carbohydrates and the linseed meal pro-
tein.
It’s a pity molasses is not used more.
The sugar industry can supply millions
of gallons annually, and it can be bought
in bulk for £1 a ton. The trouble is
containers. If it could be prepared in
solid form all difficulties would be solved.
Carbon Tetrachloride.
The Graziers’ Co-operative Shearing
Co. has issued a useful pamphlet on the
treatment of worms and fluke containing
instructions for the proper use of carbon
tetrachloride which would save a lot of
valuable sheep if closely followed.
A small control-flock, say 50 sheep,
should be drenched 10 days ahead of the
main mob to see whether ill-effects result.
For a few days before treatment the
sheep should have access to a bone lick,
and during this period linseed and meat
meals, etc., should be cut out of the
ration. Don’t drench in wet or unusually
cold weather, and, if the weather does
suddenly become cold after drenching,
sheltered paddocks should hold the sheep.
Sheep should not be drenched on empty
stomachs, nor yarded overnight before
the dose.
With normally grown sheep the dose
for fluke is 5 c.c. given with a syringe—
it is too small for a drenching horn —
of one part carb. tet. to four parts
paraffin ; for worms and fluke two parts
carb. tet. to three parts paraffin.
All sheep should be dosed. One missed
may spread infection through the rest.
Also, drenching loses a good deal of
its value if it is not supported by spell-
ing of paddocks, rotational grazing and
a general system of sound feeding and
watering.
More About Sweet Clover.
“Bogaduck”: A man who has grown
it reports:
Fine fodder; remains green and makes
growth during the driest part of the
summer and will grow where lucerne won’t
persist. Must not be sown thickly; ideal
stand contains one plant to every two or
three square yards. Before sowing, send
Is. 6d. to Department of Agriculture, Perth,
W.A., for a bottle of bacterial culture for
inoculating the seed; follow instructions on
the enclosed leaflet. Do not graze too
hard; should be planted in small paddocks
and the stands grazed in rotation.
The Waite Research Institute says that
the chief objection to s.c. is its odor and
somewhat bitter taste. This smell is very
persistent, and can be detected in flour
and bread if the wheat has been con-
taminated with the seed, even if the
seeds have been graded prior to
milling. Stock do not always find the
plant palatable, though they are said to
quickly acquire a liking for it. S.c. is
one of the best honey-producing plants
known.
If placed in an experimental plot and
not grazed or cut, the clover grows
strongly and resembles tree lucerne, with
thick, woody stems and branches which
reach a height of many feet. When
grazed or cut it resembles a strong and
rank growth of lucerne.
Odd plants will keep growing for four
or five years. This suggests that by seed
selection a strain could be bred which
would be very nearly a perennial.
Under grazing it does not readily
reproduce itself from seed. When a
stand is required to reseed itself, it should
be closed to stock until a good seed for-
mation is assured, then mown and the
fallen heads allowed to lie until the seed
has germinated. Like most clovers, it
should have super.
When introduced into U.S.A., s.c. was
regarded as a weed—and a bad one—
until it was noticed that it was drought-
resisting and that stock kept going on
it in bad times, although they needed a
change of pasture at intervals.
Pasture and Silage and Root Crops.
“Silky Bag”: A fact often overlooked
by advocates of root crops is that they
are less economical than pasture and
silage.
Root crops give larger quantities
of fodder provided the land is enriched
and highly cultivated. But they mean
manual work and heavy soil-feeding.
Grown under the same conditions,
there is little between roots and grass
and clover pasture or silage. Their
respective yields are:
Yield in Tons
Protein, Carbo- Per Acre
p.c. hydrates, p.c. Each Season.
Turnips .. 1.0 6.0 15
Mangolds .. 0.8 6.4 18
Maize Silage 1.0 11.4 20
Pasture
(mixed) .. 2.2 14.1 15
It is possible to secure 15 tons of green
feed an acre per season from well-estab-
lished perennial top-dressed pasture. Un-
fortunately, few men take the trouble to
ensile pasture, although the richest silage
can be made from it.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mulyan”: To keep leather soft and
preserve it try kangaroo fat, rendered
into oil.
“Yarri”: Don’t drain small swamps in
grazing paddocks. The swamp carries
green feed all through the winter—reed
grass and water grass. The latter will
grow where the water is several feet
deep, forming a thick mass of excellent
feed on the surface. Add a sprinkling of
strawberry clover, and you have a pas-
ture hard to beat. And swamps are not
affected by drought as the dry land is.
“Lam”: Careless drenching isn’t worth
the trouble. Never drench travelled
sheep till they have cooled off. Don’t
force heads too far back or push the
gun or funnel too far into the mouth.


HAD AGONISING PAINS
IN HER BACK
Could Not Turn in Bed
Like many other sufferers from backache
and rheumatic ailments, this woman decided to
try Kruschen Salts in a last attempt to obtain
relief from pain. To her surprise, the pains did
grow less, and in a few months the backache
had disappeared. Having made sure of the
results, she now writes as follows:
“For about four months I had agonising
pains in my back, and could not turn in bed.
During that time I tried various remedies, but
obtained no relief, and was seriously consider-
ing going into hospital. However, seeing a case
similar to mine described in an advertisement
for Kruschen, I thought I would try it, and
was more than surprised to find the pain get-
ting less. I have been taking Kruschen for
four months, and would not be without it for
anything. 1 must say I am free from those
dreadful pains.” —(Mrs.) B.C.
The six salts in Kruschen coax your kidneys
back to healthy, normal action, so that not a
particle of poisonous waste matter remains un-
expelled. Your inside is thus kept clean and
serene. You experience joyous relief from those
old dragging kidney pains.
'What do they say
of your smile?
If you- use Calvert’s, the gleaming whiteness
of your teeth will be the admiration of all
your friends. All dentifrices contain some
powder—that’s what does the cleaning, but
Calvert’s is ALL POWDER. That’s why
it keeps your mouth so fresh and healthy and
gives such sparkling brilliance to your smile.
F. c. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
fg
If
NOZAC
Pens - Pencils - Sets
Built with watch-like precision
the Conklin Nozac presents
the revolutionary Cushion
Point a new scientific de-
velopment that makes writing
easier and smoother. Other
outstanding Conklin advan-
tages include self-filling de-
vice that “Winds like a
Watch”—new controlled feed
—visible ink supply—exclusive
Conklin Word Gauge—beauti-
ful penline design.
Before buying any pen, see
the Conklin Nozac—a truly
precision pen.
Available in Black, and in
Grey, Green and Red Pearl.
The Pens are priced at
22/6, 30/- and 40/- each.
Pencils to match, 17/6 and
25/-.
Complete Sets in Presenta-
tion Cases, 40/-, 55/- and
65/-.
Conklin Fountain Pen Ink —
the best for every pen—4oz.
Bottles, All Colours —1/- per
Bottle.
From Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores every-
where.
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request zee shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 7901
Jr*-*
V*
'
m
JIH
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
QUICK FACTS
ABOUT
THIS BANK
Soma people may think the Rural
Bank is for farmers and home-build-
ers only. . Lending is confined to
those two important classes—but the
Bank provides a banking service for
the ithole community. Interest
bearing Fixed Deposits are accepted
and cheque accounts opened at all
branches.
The Bank has assets exceeding
£30.000,000, reserve funds exceeding
£2,000,080, and its services, directly
or indirectly, benefit everyone in
New South Wales, every day.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. MslCerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the .page indicated in the index of the book—•
Ringbarking—Wages f . . . . Page 39
Rations ~ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting ~ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
And see that the animals take their medi-
cine standing.
“X.T.”: The best treatment for red
worm in horses is oil of chenopodium—
R drachms to 2501 b. live-weight of animal
mixed with a j3int or so of raw linseed
oil. Three or four treatments in the year
are enough. It is well to get a chemist
to make the mixture —and be careful to
give a dose as nearly exact as possible.
It’s a poison.
“Spud”: Queensland spring potato
crops are usually affected with virus
diseases. Use only seed murphies from
certified crops—best from a crop you
have seen yourself. The man who thinks
that he can pick disease-free seed on its
appearance is own brother to the tipster
who knows what will win the Three-
fifteen.
“Grunter”: Try Belgian field carrots as
a pig feed. They are easy to grow in a
fair, lightish soil, and contain all the best
body-building elements. North of or
near Twenty-eight sweet potatoes are a
sound bet.
“Ghanam”: It is strange that the mule
(B. 23/6/’37) doesn’t have a better spin
in Australia, especially in rough country.
In harness with a cart or a harvester on
his tail or packed up with a screw gun
or a heavy load of bags, he is a steady
worker if you know how to make him
work, as stubborn in laboring in difficul-
ties as he can be when crossed. There is
less temperament about mules than
about either horses or donks, and the
mule is far more likeable and friendly
than the camel, and has about 40 times
the brains of a bullock.
“J. Want”: Experiments are being
made around Mackay (N.Q.) in raising
fat lambs as a sideline to sugar, and
despite the wetness of the climate Corrie-
dale-English breed crosses are doing
well. But it is unlikely that ah export
market will be developed ; local demand
can take up everything Mackay is likely
to grow.
“Kauri”: That par. (E>. 23/6/’37) about
the releasing of trapped bucks to keep
Bunny’s numbers under control reminds
me. A Maoriland gang was working
a hefty block, half hill and half flat. The
flat was worked first with poison bait,
then the hills were trapped. Bucks were
collected and skinned, but the does were
carried in bags to the flat. Enough sur-
vived to make things interesting next
winter. The business would never have
been discovered but for one little mis-
take. After a kill a trapper came to
the homestead for a wool-bale to pack
the skins in. Naturally, the boss smelled
a rat.
“Sandy”: Arrowroot tops (B. 30/6/’37)
are of no value for cows, being tough and
stringy. The tubers are good for sows,
but must be boiled for fats. Their main
value lies in the fact that they are ready
after sweet potatoes are finished and in
the ease in getting a load quickly.
“Y. Dent”; A world-record maize
yield is claimed by Douglas Blow, of
Foxground, near Gerringong (N.S.W.).
He took the equivalent of 204 bushels an
acre from a patch of Manning White.
The crop was uniform and cobs were of
immense length.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Are potatoes (small and inferior), boiled and
mixed with oaten chaff and a little salt, suit-
able food for sheep? If so, what quantities are
necessary where there is a little poor pasture ?
—6341.
Potatoes can form up to half the ration for
adult sheep, and one-third the ration for lambs;
that is, sheep can be fed up to 41b. of potatoes
and lambs up to Rib. per day. Other supple-
mentary feeds would be necessary to produce
a balanced ration. There is no need to boil
the potatoes. Unripe potatoes or the sprouts
of stored potatoes should not be fed to stock,
as they may contain solanin, an alkaloid
poison.
=!: h= * *
Method of bringing up and feeding young
motherless lambs ? Is there anything that may
be used as a substitute for green feed to sup-
plement milk ? —6246.
Often a young lamb can be transferred to a
foster-mother. If this cannot be done the
orphan can be raised on cow’s milk, though
for the first few days it should get some ewe’s
milk, if possible, by letting it suckle from a
ewe whose lamb is not yet old enough to take
all its mother’s milk. The cow’s milk should
be from a cow giving milk rich in fat, or some
extra cream should be added. Use milk from
the same cow for the first three or four weeks.
For the first few days and nights feed often,
giving only two to three tablespoons of milk
at a time, and feeding from a bottle with a
medium-sized nipple, warming the milk to
about lOOdeg. F. by immersing the bottle in
water of this temperature or slightly over.
Carefully wash bottle and nipple after each
feeding. Gradually increase the quantity per
feed and reduce the number of feeds; after
the lamb is two or three weeks old, three
feeds a day will be sufficient. When about
two weeks old the lamb, if doing well, will begin
to nibble at grass and other feed. If green
feed is not available, a little concentrate mix-
ture (such as crushed oats two parts, bran one
part, linseed meal one part) can be given as
a supplement to the milk, but only so much as
will be quickly consumed. At first the lamb will
not take much, but it will soon get to like it
and look for it.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you —now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
dfg
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling liist Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Our ServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Journalist, Sydney, will revise novels or other
literary material. —6408.
Words of verses having some such beginning
as “On the road to Milparinka a swagman
trudged in the dust and heat,” and of verses
containing “There’s always something in a tin
to feed a fellow batching.”—64oo.
Woolclasser, good references, experienced all
types wool, contemplating trip to Tas. and M.L.
at end of year, would like to get in touch with
woolgrowers with a view to employment.—64l2.
Country youth wants newspaper experience;
go anywhere.—64l3.
Experienced tutor Blackfriars Correspondence
Course (Sydney) seeks position on outback
station. —6420.
To buy Horse Dentition, by Sydney Gal-
vayne.—6427.
Information Sought.
Some boxing enthusiasts believe Frenchman
Marcel Thil is middleweight champion of the
world; others that American Freddie Steele
holds this title. Which of the two is generally
recognised as holder? —6358.
From the time he defeated Gorilla Jones
on a foul in Paris on June 11, 1932, Marcel
Thil was recognised as world’s middleweight
champion until he fought American Lou Brouil-
lard in Paris on February 15 last. Thil was de-
clared winner on a foul, after Brouillard had
knocked him out; there was adverse criticism
of the decision, and Thil announced his retire-
ment. Steele, who had beaten Gorilla Jones,
Fred Apostolu, Vance Dundee and Eddie
(“Babe”) Risko, then knocked out Frankie
Battaglia, % Canadian list. 61b. titleholder, in
an advertised world’s middleweight champion-
ship at Seattle on May 12, and Steele is now
recognised as middleweight champion.
* * * *
Dimensions of the wrecked Zeppelin Hinden-
burg as compared with the Graf Zeppelin and
the American-built Akron and Macon? —6416.
Graf Akron and Hinden-
Zeppelin. Macon. burg.
Length (ft.) .... 776 785 811
Gross lift (lb.) .. 285,000 403,000 472,940
Engines, ea. (h.p.) 2,750 4,480 4,400
Diameter (ft.) .. 100 132.9 135.17
Gas volume
(cub. ft.) .... 3,700,000 6,800,000 7,063,000
Maximum
speed (m.p.h.) 80 83.8 84.37
Cruising
range (m.) .... 6,125 10,125 8,750
No. of engines .. 5 8 4
Weight (tons) .. —•— 220
sje :Jc sjc
What are the subsidised air services in Aus-
tralia, their routes and distances of flight? —•
6360.
Qantas Empire Airways: Brisbane-Darwin-
Singapore, 4361 miles; Cloncurry-Normanton,
216 miles. Macßobertson-Miller Aviation Co.:
Perth-Daly Waters, 2252 miles; Ord River-
Wyndham, 154 miles. Butler Air Transport
Co.: Cootamundra-Charleville, 629 miles.
Holyman’s Airways: Melbourne-Launceston-
Hobart, 463 miles. West Australian Airways:
Perth-Adelaide, 1453 miles. Aircrafts Co.:
Brisbane-Cracow, 250 miles. Commercial Avia-
tion Co.: Adelaide-Whyalla, 150 miles. Adastra
Airways: Sydney-Bega, 205 miles.
* * * *
What are the makes and sizes of the organs
at the State and Prince Edward theatres, Syd-
ney, together with such other particulars as may
be available ? —6226.
Both are Wurlitzers; at Prince Edward a 250
two-manual; at State a 270 four-manual. Com-
plete specifications have been posted.
H* * * . *
(1) Has it been definitely proved that water
can be located by the divining rod? (2) Has
telepathy been proved to be a scientifically
established fact ? —6254.
(1) Most tests have given negative results;
nevertheless dowsers have struck water. (2)
Experiments in telepathy were first con-
ducted in the ’seventies, and ever since belief
in its existence has slowly gained ground,
carefully-conducted tests over the period having
offered apparently conclusive evidence. Pro-
fessor Sir W. F. Barrett, Sir William Crookes
and Sir Oliver Lodge have been among the
experimenters.
* * * *
When was the U.S.A. aircraft-carrier Lex-
ington launched? Dimensions, armament and
capacities ? —63 3 3.
Launched 1925. Displacement 33,000 tons,
length 830 ft., beam 112 ft., draught 24ft. 3in.,
engine power 180,000 h.p., speed 34.2 knots,
crew 1900, armament eight Bin. guns, 12 sin.
anti-aircraft and several small guns and four
torpedo tubes, ’planes carried 135 (90 t'cady
and 45 unmounted).
* * * *
Number of typewriters imported into Aus-
tralia during the last two years and their value,
and from what countries were they imported?
—6295.
(1) 1934-35: United Kingdom, 1612, valued
at £30,037; Canada, 4534, £63,896; other British
countries, 7, £88; Germany, 47, £573; U.S.A.,
5723, £60,987; other foreign countries, 1, £7l.
1935-36; United Kingdom, 1715, £29,892;
Canada, 3034, £43,725; other British countries,
4, £5O; Germany, 428, £4540; U.S.A.. 9948,
£97,517; other foreign countries, 61, £264.
* * * *
What increase in the number of murders in
Australia has occurred during the last 30 years?
—6326.
The number of homicides has remained
almost stationary during the last 30 years, the
following being the numbers for every fifth year
for which information is available: 1910 96,
1915 111, 1920 111. 1925 83, 1930 103, 1935 106.
4c $ * *
(1) Value of the seven principal exports from
Australia ? (2) Value of the seven principal im-
ports to Australia ? —6359.
(1) 1935-36, wool £52,343,949, wheat
£14,018,909, gold £10,187,222, butter £9,027,843,
meats £8,751,923, hides and skins £5,650,389,
flour £4,519,908 (Aust. currency). (2) 1935-36,
metal manufactures and machinery,
£25,194,339; apparel, textiles, etc., £17,287,303 ;
oils, fats and waxes, £6,690,595; paper and
stationery, £5,295,877; drugs, chemicals, etc.,
£4,382,849; vegetable foodstuffs and non-
alcoholic beverages, £3,212,565; vegetable sub-
stances, £2,262,928 (British currency).
* :!: * *
Quantity and value of Australian imports of
preserved fish, and countries of origin? —6324.
1935-36: U.K. 33,824 centals, £88,216;
Canada 175,276, £417,076; M.L. 2996, £22,114;
Union of S. Africa 4162, £7776; other British
countries 23, £62; Alaska 5765, £18,241; China
583, £3044; France 25, £512; Japan 13,943,
£24,915; Norway 33,376, £132,421; Portugal
2725, £16,185 ; Soviet Union 3897, £6777 ; U.S.A.
6102, £13,741; other foreign countries 967,
£5747.
* * * *
From what countries does Australia import
veneers and to what values ? —6372.
1935-36: United Kingdom £2150, Canada
£2053, other British countries £226, France
£2298, Germany £lBOl, Spain £lOO2, Switzer-
land £516, U.S.A. £7790, other foreign countries
£395.
* * * *
(1) What goods does Australia import from
Hungary ? (2) What goods do we export to
Hungary ? —6299.
(1) 1935-36: Furs and skins, £11,075; arti-
ficial silk, £16,074; other textiles, £1570; seeds,
£293 ; machines and metal manufactures, £6197 ;
drugs and chemicals, £715; all other articles,
£3637. (2) Not shown in detail. 1932-33, £72;
1933-34, £23; 1934-35, £lB5B (greasy wool,
£1623).
* # * *
Type, displacement and power of ships of the
Royal Australian Navy in commission ? —6396.
Australia and Canberra, cruisers, 10,000 tons,
80,000 h.p.; Sydney, cruiser, 7250 tons, 72,000
h.p.; Stuart, flotilla leader, 1530 tons, 40,000
h.p.; Voyager, destroyer, 1100 tons, 27,000
h.p.; Vendetta, destroyer, 1090 tons, 27,000
h.p.; Cerberus, motor boat, 61 tons, 220 h.p.;
Moresby, sloop, 1650 tons, 2500 h.p.; Pen-
guin, depot ship, 3455 tons, 3500 h.p.; Yarra,
sloop, 1060 tons, 2000 h.p.
History of the kelpie sheep-dog ? —6419.
Between 1870 and 1880 two N. S. Wales
station-owners imported a pair of smooth-
haired, prick-eared, black-and-tan Scotch collies
(Brutus and Jenny), both of which were re-
puted to have in them a strain of fox. Just
after their arrival Jenny had a litter of pups
sired by Brutus. The best of this litter, Caesar,
a black-and-tan, was mated to a fine black-and-
tan sheep-bitch called Kelpie. This bitch’s
pedigree was unknown, but it is fairly certain
that she was a cross of black-and-tan collie
and dingo. Kelpie produced a litter, one of
which resembled her so strongly that it was also
called Kelpie. At 12 months old this pup won
easily in the first sheep-dog trial held in the
Commonwealth, and thereafter her pups were
in great demand. At first they were called
“Kelpie’s pups,” but their progeny were known
as “kelpies.”
* * * *
How is the election of a Pope conducted? —
6432.
Ordinarily by scrutiny. Each cardinal in
conclave writes on a ticket his own name with
that of the cardinal whom he chooses. These
tickets, folded arid sealed, are laid in a chalice
which stands on the conclave altar, and each
elector approaching the altar repeats a pre-
scribed form of oath. Thereupon the tickets
are taken from the chalice by scrutators ap-
pointed ad hoc from the electing body; the
tickets are compared with the number of car-
dinals present, and when it is found that any
cardinal has two-thirds of the votes in his
favor he is declared elected.
* * h= *
Why is Mount Kosciusko named after a
Pole ? Was it ever named differently ? —6431.
In 1839 Strzelecki, a Polish geologist and ex-
plorer, discovered the Snowy Range and named
its highest point (as he thought) Mount Kos-
ciusko, after the Polish patriot. It was later
ascertained that another hummock, not far
away, was slightly higher, and the name was
transferred to this peak, the original peak being
known as Mount Townshend.
$ * * *
What money is in use in Soviet Russia ?
6414.
Until recently the monetary unit was the
chervonetz, equal to 10 roubles of the pre-
revolution gold coinage. It contained 7.74234
grammes of fine gold. As from March 1, 1936,
a new gold rouble has been substituted for the
chervonetz, based on the French franc, at the
rate of three francs to the rouble, or 24.89
roubles, to the £l. The currency in circulation
is: (1) Chervontsi notes in denominations of
1,2, 3,5, 10, 25 and 50, issued by the State
Bank against gold cover, but inconvertible at
present; (2) Treasury notes in denominations
of one, three and five roubles; (3) silver coins,
either bank silver (90 p.c. silver and 10 p.c.
copper) in denominations of one rouble and
50 kopecks or change silver (50 p.c. silver and
50 p.c. copper) in denominations of 20, 15 and
10 kopecks; (4) copper coins in denominations
of one, two, three and five kopecks and half-
kopecks ; (5) bronze coins in denominations of
one, two, three and five kopecks. Owing to the
scarcity of silver, nickel pieces (the first used
in Russia) of 10, 15 and 20 kopecks were intro-
duced in 1928.
* * * *
What are the political policies of the princi-
pal London daily newspapers ? —6379.
The “Times,” “Daily Express,” “Daily
Mail,” “Daily Mirror,” “Daily Sketch,”
“Morning Advertiser” and “Evening News”
are independent; “Daily Telegraph,” Govern-
ment; “Daily Herald,” Labor; “Daily Worker,”
Communist; “Morning Post” and “Evening
Standard,” Conservative; “Star” and “News
Chronicle,” Liberal.
* * * *
(1) Can a Justice of the Peace who is an
uncertificated bankrupt sit on the Bench and
witness affidavits and declarations? (2) Is an
uncertificated bankrupt eligible to hold a posi-
tion as trustee of public or recreation reserves ?
(3) Up to what amount can an uncertificated
bankrupt contract debt without being liable for
prosecution ? If liable, what is the penalty ?
6339.
(1) Neither the N.S.W. Bankruptcy Act nor
the Justices Act contains any specific prohibition.
If he should act in that office the attention of
the Department of the Attorney-General and
Justice might be drawn to the fact. (2) No.
(3) Obtaining credit to the extent of £2O or
upwards from any person without informing
him that he is an undischarged bankrupt is an
offence under the Bankruptcy Act and is punish-
able by imprisonment for one year. It has been
held that where a bankrupt obtains credit for
less than that sum, subsequently bringing his
total credits above £2O, he comes within the
prohibition.
Jit * * *
Particulars of the wrecks of the Elingamite
and Tasmania ? —6377.
The s.s. Elingamite, 1675 tons, bound from
Sydney to Auckland, was wrecked at Three
Kings Island, M.L., Nov. 5, 1902; 30 lives
were lost. The P. and O. liner Tasmania, 3000
tons, bound from Bombay to London with 144
passengers, was wrecked on the rocks off
Corsica, April 17, 1887, with 35 lives lost.
The ss. Tasmania, 1265 tons, of Melbourne,
was wrecked at Table Bay, near Napier, M.L.,
July 29, 1897, with 11 lives lost. The Tas-
mania, a barque sailing from Sydney, was
wrecked in 1853.
* * ❖ *
What are the six periods of the world’s
existence ? —6381.
Azoic (without life), containing no trace of
life in any form; Eozoic (dawn of life), charac-
terised by the first appearance of animal life;
Palaeozoic (old life), or Primary, containing
traces of extinct animal life; Mezazoic (middle
♦ life), or Secondary, with intermediate forms of
animal life; Cainozoic (new life), or Tertiary,
containing forms of existing life; lastly the
Quaternary or Post-Tertiary.
* * :!'• -f
What are the facts as regards the war with
China over opium ? Was the British East India
Company concerned in it? —6403.
Prohibition in 1800 of opium by China in-
tensified friction between that country and the
British East India Co., which traded in the
drug. Other points in dispute, including the un-
satisfactory status accorded to traders and disa-
bilities inflicted upon them, led to the dispatch
of several embassies to Peking, and British
resentment was high when Lord Amherst, leader
of the delegation in 1816, was discourteously
treated for refusing to kowtow to the Emperor.
The trouble did not come to a head until after
the East India Co.’s charter expired in 1834,
when Lord Napier was appointed head of the
Canton establishment. The Chinese refused to
regard him as other than a head trader, and
further irritations led to Britain declaring war
in 1839. The Treaty of Nanking at the close
of the war promised revision of trading regula-
tions, but omitted to mention opium, and
smuggling in the drug continued. Fifteen years
later, owing to further differences, a British
and French force took Canton. In 1859 when
the foreign representatives proceeded to Peking
for ratification of the treaty of the preceding
year they met with armed resistance. This led
to a renewal of hostilities in 1860, when Peking
was taken, and the British, in retaliation for
the violation of a flag of truce, set fire to the
summer palace, China, in addition, being re-
quired to provide indemnities.
* * * *
I am a shareholder in an Australian mining
co. whose head office is in London. Each time
a dividend is declared, English income tax is
deducted. Being a resident of Vic., can I claim
a rebate of such amount from Australian taxa-
tion authorities, and, if so, to whom should I
make the claim ? —6237.
The dividends received are not subject to
ordinary Vic. income tax, but are liable for
unemployment-relief tax and special tax. Where
income is taxed by the United Kingdom and
also by the Commonwealth of Australia (not
the States), it is possible to obtain a refund
from either the United Kingdom or the Com-
monwealth to avoid double taxation; the United
Kingdom is always willing to make a refund
where tax has been paid twice, but none of the
States will reciprocate. The address of the
. British office is: Office of the Chief Inspector
of Taxes (Claims). Cornwall House, Stamford-
street, London, S .E. 1.
* * * * ~ — ”
(1) / want to start a small lending library and
book exchange. How many books would be
required to return about £2 10. y. per week
gross? Approximate cost second-hand? (3)
Where can they be bought ? (4) Any other in-
formation, such as type of books? —6215.
(1) A minimum of 400 is suggested; charge,
3d. per lending. (2) and (3) Books suitable
for the type of library you have in mind are
to be found on the second-hand tables of the
book stores, priced from Is. upwards. A certain
number of newly-issued books are essential.
These are obtainable in cloth-bound editions
at 7s. 6d.. reprints at 4s. and 3s. 6d., less
10 p.c. library discount. Paper-bound editions
are not advised. (4) Covering costs from 4d. to
6d. per book, but this expense could be les-
sened by covering at home; library cloth cover-
ing is obtainable at from Is. 6d. to 2s. 3d.
per yard. Romantic and mystery fiction seems
to be most popular among small-library
readers. Write Dymock’s, 424 George-street,
or Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, for further advice and catalogues. A
“Woman’s Mirror” article (9/3 / ’37) also gives
useful information.
Brief Answers.
D. 8.: (1) It would be illegal to capture, kill
or injure protected birds. To carry a firearm
on one’s own property is not in itself an
offence. (2) Yes, unprotected birds may be
destroyed. (3) As the whole island is protected
it would be difficult to prove accident. Special
care should be taken... .P.A.L.Me.: Penny
token was issued by Hanks and Co., tea men
chants, Sydney, in 1857, and made by W. J.
Taylor. Its value is about one shilling, this
token being very common and represented in
the collections of all known token collectors.
. ...H.H.: Carnac Island is about 5£ miles
south-east of Fremantle. Area approximately
260 acres C.F.: R. D. Meagher was
Speaker of the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly from
December 23, 1913, to April 16, 1917
H.S.C.: (1) “Wiluna Miner,” published every
Friday. (2) “Kalgoorlie Miner” (daily), “West-
ern Argus” (weekly, Tuesday) and “Goldfields
Observer” (weekly, Sunday)... .W.T.: Goonal
is a N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning “big
lagoon”; Widgelli means “drink” and Yuppara
“camp”... .C.T.A.: “Love is the business of
the idle, but the idleness of the busy” is from
Bulwer Lytton’s Rienzi D.J.: The tree
martin (Petrochelidon nigricans ) and fairy
martin (P. arid) differ from swallows not only
in color but in having the tail square instead
of forked. The tree martin nests in holes in
trees, the fairy martin constructs a bottle-shaped
nest of mud. Each species usually nests in
colonies; groups of fairy-martin nests are
often plastered on the sides of cliffs, buildings
or bridges... .J.T.: Australian Press Cuttings
Agency, 443 Little Collins-street, Melbourne
H.F.: Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios, Culver
City; Paramount Productions, Inc., Hollywood;
R.K.O. Radio Pictures, 780 Gower-street, Holly-
wood ; Warner Brothers Pictures, Inc., Bur-
bank—all California, U.S.A W.S.: Rex
Ingamells has published one book of poems,
Forgotten People (F. W. Preece and Sons, Adel-
aide, 2s. 6d.)... .F.M.: Miller’s Sporting
Annual, obtainable all booksellers; price, 2s.
J.E.D.: Purpose of this department is to
provide facts, not cases for debaters. Britain’s
budgeted expenditure on defence for the cur-
rent financial year is £277,000,000, as against
£178,251,000 the previous year. So far from
“stimulating a race of armaments” Britain’s
action seems likely to check the expansionist
plans of nations which have already well-nigh
bankrupted themselves by armament expendi-
ture... .C.C.: (1) Louis Becke was the super-
cargo of the brig Leonora, formerly American
brig Waterlily, when* she was wrecked in South
Harbor, Strong’s Island, Caroline group, on
March 15, 1874. (2) No lives were lost. (3)
“Bully” Hayes was the master... .E. 8.: (1)
Depends on amount of revision necessary. For
a novel it may range from £5 ss. to as high as
£2O; short story, from 10s. 6d. to £2 2s. (2)
Charges too long to quote. Any copying office
will give you a list on application.... R.S.:
J. W. A. Adair and Sons, 19-21 Abercrombie-
street, City; Federal Bat Co., 622 Botany-road,
Alexandria—both Sydney; Fordham’s Sports
Depot, 398 Sydney-road, Brunswick, and Ideal
Bat Mfg. Co., 246 Flinders-lane—both Mel-
bourne... .TJ.N.: Bagot Bros., Ballina
(N.S.W.); Brunero Bros., Campbelltown
(N.S.W.); Hely Bros., 48 Hudson-street, New-
castle (N.S.W.); Phil Hassett, 86 McKenzie-
street, and G. Phelps and Son, 140 Balmain-
road—both Leichhardt, Sydney... .C.D.: The
1914 English Derby was won by H. B. Duryea’s
Durbar 11., ridden by M. Mac Gee and trained
by T. Murphy; 20 to 1; time, 2min. 38 2-ssec.
S.H.: Winners of the Prix Femina-Vie
Heureuse Prize from 1930 to 1935 are: 1930,
Cecile de la Foile, Marc Chadbourne; 1931,
Vol de Nuit, Antoine de Saint Exupery; 1932,
Le Pari, Ramon Fernandez; 1933, Claude,
Genevieve Fauconnier; 1934, La Chute de la
Maison de Verre, Robert Francis; 1935,
Benediction, Claude Silve... .J. 8.: The comedy
“Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford” was written by
George M. Cohan and first produced in 1913;
“Bunty Pulls the Strings” was written by
Graham Moffatt and first produced in 1911. ...
H.H.: The six Senators returned for N. S.
Wales at the first Federal general elections
(1901) were J. T. Walker, E. D. Millen, A. J.
Gould, R. E. O’Connor, J. C. Neild and E.
Pulsford E.C.: Loss, after providing for
working expenses, interest and exchange, on
the Clyde-Carlingford (N.S.W.) railway line
was £14,008 in 1934 and £14,367 in 1935;
on the Tempe-East Hills line the loss was
£54,988 in 1934 and £52,774 in 1935... .J.W.:
Methodists and Congregationalists and a large
number of Presbyterians united to form the
United Church in Canada. At the 1931 census
its membership was 2,017,375; about 870,728
Presbyterians remained outside the United
Church... .T.M.C.: “Walkabout” (Is.
monthly), Railway Building, Flinders-street,
Melbourne H.C.: Write D. W. Thorpe,
secretary, Australian Booksellers’ Assoc., 191
Queen-street, Melbourne S. D.: Katharine
Cornell, the American actress, was born at
Berlin and married Guthrie McClintic. She
made her first appearance on the stage at the
Comedy Theatre, New York, on November 13,
1916, with the Washington Square Players in
“Bushido” A.H.: Waterloo was a N.S.W.
State electorate from 1894 to 1904, when it
was represented by George Anderson
H.F.0.: Coaching may be obtained at the
Sydney Nautical School, Royal Exchange, Pitt-
street, Sydney... .T.W.: Yes, Rock End, by
F. J. Thwaites; 65., from Dymock’s (Many
others mailed.)


These rollers
corrugate the flat
sheets to the exact
standard measure-
ment.
LYSAGHT'S
Red Orb
Gal vani z ed
Iron is made to
the most exact specifications, and
its extreme rigidity and resis-
tance to strain makes it ideal for
roofing purposes. Throughout
Australia, millions of sheets of
Red Orb, carrying Lysaght's
guarantee, are sold every year
to confident users sure of the
long life which is built into
every sheet.
FREE a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of
useful information for ironworkers, store-
keepers, and the man on the land. Write for
your copy to John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 196 D., G.P.0., Sydney.
L.YSAGHT
AUSTRALIA
/SpTfSX
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
SSSSS^&SSSS^SSSSSSBSm
'Wm.
Xvxx x%^-x-x-Xv-X;XyX ; Xx:
WMwmmm
WWwMM
l«*; ,
“ Val og disi‘« cU ° U i S UV- & Sow uA ‘’
u«' a ' V . U«\« evU . Sa« AcrS ° \B 6 ' 5 -
o\d Sco'c' u s i»ce V
,i u . vai* °‘ f fme "' u ' A e ina« ds ' ‘
tro t^d^ rSOf „ood^ cA
Le v \d over lbC , Ua\( Bo«V*
at
an df'" k -
AFPOINTMta*
? SCOTCH WH~
ii
i m
MIiMM
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
K.E.J.C.: Undistinguished. “Apprenticeship”
is a poor rhyme for “nondescript” and phrases
like “the ringing grooves of change” have a
familiar air... .M.L.L.: As remarked before,
we’re dead off spring poems... .H.L.1.: No, it
won’t... .T.H.Y.: “Old Tim” is ambling back
to the home paddock... .Ajax: It has us beat.
.... H.McK.: No luck... .N. 8.5.: Hardly worth
saying even if it were less feebly expressed....
P.J.1.: Not for us J.L.H.: You sacrifice too
much for rhymes, rather cheap rhymes at that.
R.L.D.: Mere glimmerings, at the obvious.
....J.N.M.: Hopeless... .J.S.R.: It’s neither
swinging nor amusing... .P.M.: “This poem
describes the period between Death and the
Hereafter.” Well, we don’t want to cross our
bridges until we come to them M.W.Y.:
Too involved and obscure for the average com-
prehension ... .C. 8.: The poem about books
recalls one which Cole, the Melbourne book-
seller, wrote on the same subject... .W.E.F.:
Space for four lines:
When I consider how my life is spent
In digging spuds with aching back all bent,
The thought arises in my sorry head
1 labor tlius to see that you are fed.
And yourself, too, presumably R.M.: Cori-
tribution forwarded to the desired quarter
J.P.O’S.: “The Family Skeleton” returning to
its cupboard R.J.: Dull F.J.: Nothing
there L.R.8.: No place for the keeper of
“Hell’s End Gambling Den”... .K.E.D.: Try
that jewel-stealing hypnotist on a flapper maga-
zine JJ.S.: Leave “Cut-throat” Hardigan in
gaol L.McL.: Cheap at the price, but not
our kind D.M.: No refund for Monty
J.8.C.: No time for “Superstition” J.T.:
Your best friends were right when they said
we wouldn’t publish that kind of stuff....
W.8.J.: Misses... .D.L.: Can’t place it here.
J.I.: Same with that;, try it on a daily
N. 8.5.: Can’t even ease “The Incurable Pain.”
F.P.D.: Nothing new there E.G.R.:
Thin... .G. 8.: Not in our line... .W.D.R.:
That guilty-man-dying-through-the-results-of-his-
crime idea went out with the last century
L.W.W.: Stodgy F.R.H.: Why not tell the
girl the tale? ... .G.J.F.: Gave it up after the
third murder. We’d forgotten which characters
were still alive J.H.: “Piano-guano” might
pass muster as a rhyme, but not “cabbage-
luggage”... .G.K.: Little in it and a great deal
too much of it....F.V.: Cannot honestly
advise you to keep trying... .M.F.: The beauti-
fully clear handwriting is its lone merit....
J. : Saddeningly commonplace C.M.: It
left us yawning E.P.Valueless twitter
M.L.L.: Still wide of the mark. Try some paper
that has a weakness for nature poems....
H.M.C.: No snap in it.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.T.K.: Gent, who had his wooden leg run
over by a tram has been here before....
F.R.H.: Not at home to the brawling female
flourishing a dead marine A.W.8.: Gags
suggest a long course of children’s comic
papers... .L.J.: Choose subjects you can
handle, and brighten your humor P.T.:
Still trying to fathom the point of the joke
about the bagpipes C.N.: A juvenile effort.
R.B.: Dismal drawing illustrating what
reads like a condensed sermon W. 8.: This
‘address is not a “port of entry” for that artistic
derelict R.J.: Nice sweep about the line-
work, but the wheezes are venerable H.D.:
Count it among your youthful indiscretions
P.L.: The craneman has been returned for re-
pairs... .G.D.: Two fashion-plates engaged in
feeble badinage C.H.: ’Twould‘have been
best for all had the lady in widow’s weeds
committed suttee... .A.N.M.: Looks to have
been done with a floor-mop dipped in tar....
K. : Gent, with the torn trousers and lady
on the raft have been floating around for years.
J.G.: Promising student’s work —look us
up again a bit later A.C.F.: All the charac-
ters seem to have been flattened out by a steam-
roller R.P.: No use; for picture of three
mournful men sittting on giant toadstools and
gazing at a dead cow N.E.8.: After a brisk
tussle the Art Editor tossed the wrestler out
of the ring G.S.: Looks more like a string
of yaks than an Australian bullock team....
T.R.: Too unpolished for publication 8.H.:
Latest submissions suggest that you are travel-
ling from, instead of towards, publication level.
... .M.C.: Cluttered up with unessential details
and badly-posed figures E.C.: Joke based
on a worn-out malapropism; drawing lifeless.
J.D.: Several years’ hard study needed.
WARS, AND RUMORS THEREOF.
The International Peace Research
Committee, Melbourne, protests:
Our International Peace Research Commit-
tee was set up to study all the available
facts of the international political situation
with the object of drawing reasoned conclu-
sions ; to the end that those desiring peace may
know, in advance, from what quarter (if any)
conflict was threatening.
We believe this to be an aim sufficiently
worthy not to need any apology. We were
under the impression that The Bulletin has,
or once had, a like ideal. Perhaps the direct-
ness with which we wrote upset your reviewer.
But we can assure him that platitudinous
generalities have never stopped any war or
furthered any cause, unless, perhaps, a news-
paper’s circulation.
Probably your reviewer overlooked the date
on our booklet; otherwise he would surely, in
a spirit of fair criticism, have mentioned that
Canada’s position, as revealed at the Imperial
Conference, the decision to seek a rapproche-
ment with Germany, also made at that meet-
ing, and the recent announcements regarding
a suggested Anglo-German-Japanese entente
all confirmed what we had written and re-
duced to print last April.
We do not believe, as presumably does your
reviewer, that a man’s intelligence is necessarily
commensurate with the size of his banking
account, but since he, in extremity, was reduced
to resorting to this argument we can assure
him that we have the means at our disposal
to pay the monetary penalty he would exact:
or, further, that we would gladly pay that sum
to avert the disasters to which we have drawn
attention.
It would, of course, be understood that he or
his employers would forfeit a similar sum (to
the funds of the Red Cross, we suggest) if his
uninformed scoffing prove false.
Finally, we are not anti-British. We are,
what we believed The Bulletin to be, Aus-
tralian. Unless we totally misread the situa-
tion, we believe that the “Bully” may yet join
us in demanding that sane thing—an Australian
Foreign Policy formulated by Australians.
After reading Crisis in the Pacific The
Bulletin suggested that to the commit-
tee there seemed to be no evil threaten-
ing the world but that Britain was the
villain of it. A few extracts on which
this conclusion was based:
England’s wars of the past 300 years have
been wars of commercial and colonial rivalry,
and always she has helped, perhaps instigated,
the weakest States against the strongest nations
on the Continent.
England is courting Japan and preparing for
a struggle with America.
Following the visit of the English Cabinet
Ministers in March, 1935, Germany announced
her reintroduction of conscription in April of
that year. Is it too much to suggest that Ger-
many’s military, move.... had England’s secret
sanction?
The English action for the imposition of
sanctions against Italy was.... simply a shrewd
mow at France and a snare with which to
delude electors and peace-propounders.
If war between England and Germany was
inevitable in 1914, conflict between England
and U.S.A. in the near future is equally inevit-
able.
When Japan goes in to seize China it would
be just too awkward to have a British fleet there
doing nothing to prevent the Japanese piracy;
hence the decision to remove it before that
time.
England consciously compels Japan to speed
up with her military preparations for the con-
quest of China.
To .England, the Italian conquest of Abys-
sinia meant the driving forward of Japan in
her Asiatic scheme of conquest.
When Japan conquers China the road is open
to the penetration of that country by English
capital and capital goods.
But the attack on China is likely to involve
Japan in war with the U.S.A., for which reason
Japan must have the assistance of England,
and England makes the price of her assistance
of Japan Japanese attack on Russia.
Britain is preparing to assist Germany and
Japan to overcome Russia.
Destruction of France’s military and political
power is the aim of British policy.
To facilitate the destruction of American
shipping, mercantile and naval, Singapore naval
base has been built, and six million gallons
of naval oil fuel has been stored at Darwin.
Palestine is being built by the English into a
powerful military base for the coming conflict.
A Fascist regime in Spain is definitely in line
with England’s future military requirements in
a European conflict.
There is plenty more in this vein, and,
though the committee’s statement that it
is not anti-British is reassuring, what is
given here, plus what was given in the
questioned article, seems reasonable
ground for such inferences as The
Bulletin drew.
The committee’s inference that The
Bulletin believes “a man’s intelligence
is necessarily commensurate with the size
of his banking account” is a quaintly un-
humorous reading of The Bulletin’s
proposal that a £lOOO fine should be
imposed on all war-tipsters who fail to
bring their war off within a given time.
Those who appeared to have made
themselves eligible for this fine before the
committee loomed up included a doctor
who forecast war between Japan and
Russia as “inevitable,” a professor who
was reported to have declared a general
European war “inevitable” and a touring
representative of Hollywood’s movie in-
dustry who expected a war to break out
at any moment. Such gentlemen might
be presumed—a professor, perhaps, ex-
cepted— to have the wherewithal for
paying the proposed fine. For them a
time limit of three years was fixed, dating
from early this year, though the pro-
fessor was subsequently exonerated, he
having afterwards stated that war was
“not inevitable.”
The I.P.R.C. has fixed its own limit
at “early in 1939.” On and after
that date England must be fighting
America, Japan must be fighting America,
England must be fighting Russia, Japan
must be fighting Russia, Japan must be
fighting China, Germany must be fight-
ing Russia, and odd ones of these must
be fighting France. Delivery of this
lively lot of goods seems a tall order
even for a committee of International
Peace Research, and in view of the size
of the undertaking, and by way of indi-
eating that it' does not for a moment
doubt the sincerity and good Austra-
lian spirit of the committee, The Bulle-
tin is prepared to reduce the fine, for
this one case only, to a levy of The
Bulletin is, of course, agreeable to pay
the full amount to the Red Cross if the
committee manages to do the trick.


XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful 7J weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA and AORANGI,
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
First Class £72, Cabin Class £52.
(From Sydney)
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
(inc. in N.Z.)
247 George Street,
Sydney
or
59 William Street.
Melbourne
FENCING WIRE—BUILDING AND
FENCING WlR*
. FENCE SIANMRDJ
I WIRE STRAINERS
Autoscrerw Droppers
sens
111
FARM SUPPLIES
We supply the public direct in any
quantity at wholesale rates.
It is a condition of purchase with
us that our prices are never higher
than any other wholesale firm.
Otherwise the buyer has the right to
deduct the difference.
HIBISCUS FENCING WIRE—We are Sole Agents. Big Stocks. Immediate
delivery.
Bg. Galv., 17/- per cwt. coil of 566 yards.
12|g. Standard High Tension Wire, 21/- per coil of 1500 yards.
\2\g. Hibiscus, 26/- per coil.
12 ig. Bull Brand English Barb on iron reels, guaranteed 440 yards
to tlie coil. Price, 20/- per coil.
WEL.DMESH FENCING—The latest fencing for sheep, cattle and pigs. Prices
from 21/6 per 5-chain roll. Also lowest for “K” Wire, from 13/4
per 50-yard roll, and Chain Wire, etc.
HARDWARE —Braces, Plain, 9in. sweep, 3/-; 10in., 5/6; 12in., 6/3 each.
BARS WIRE CUTTERS, 3/- per pair. STAKE PLIERS, 2/3 per pair.
KING DICK WRENCHES, 3in. 1/9, 4in. 2/-, 6in. 3/6 each. 16oz.
CLAW HAMMERS, Cheney’s or Stanley’s, 6/-; 20oz. 6/6 each.
TINMEN’S SNIPS, Straight Jaw, Bin. 2/3, 9in. 2/6, 1 Oin. 2/9; Bent
Jaw, Bin. 3/3, 9in. 3/6, 1 Oin. 4/- each, etc.
NOW IS THE TIME TO PAINT —Our best seller, "Crown” Paint, ready
mixed, all colors, 12/6 per gallon. Blundell Spence’s
world famous paint, 20/- per gallon. Linseed Oil, in
5 gallon drums Raw 5/- per gallon, Boiled 5/2, Pale
Boiled 5 /4. White Lead and White Zinc, No. 1 62/-
per cwt., Genuine 72/- per cwt. Genuine Turps in 4gal.
tins, 5/- per gallon. Mineral Turps, 8/- per 4gal. tin.
GALVANISED CORRUGATED IRON—26g. U.B.
Immediate Delivery. £26 per ton (sft. to Bft.
sheets), or by the sheet
sft. 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. 10ft.
2/4 2/10 3/4 3/10 4/5 5/- per sheet.
LOWEST ALSO FOR: All Farm and Garden Gates; Dover Stoves, still at
60/- each; Fibrocene Asbestos Cement Sheets, 2/- sq. yd., less 3 p.c.
cash discount; Q.P.S. Special Marble-finish Bathroom Lining (Sample
Free); Peanut Meal for Dairy Cattle, 10/- per bag; Cement, 4/- per
bag, 95/- per ton, or 92/6 per ton in 6-ton lots; Bath Heaters; Tank
Materials; Galv. Water Piping, sin. at 3d. up to 2in. at 1/- per foot;
Joinery (Sashes 12/6, Casements and Doors, etc.); Threeply; Horse
and Cow Rugs; Groceries, etc.
Write for Our Big Illustrated Catalogue. It will Save You Pounds and Pounds.
JRi
A
OIIHNSUND PASTORAISUPPIIH
PTY. LTD.
BOWEN ST (NEAR FIRE BRIGADE) BRISBANE
"THE ASHES" IN 1883 AND 1884
This is the second of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
The student of old cricket records is
apt to come upon touches that seem
strangely modern. It was written last
season that the girls and women who
swarmed to the Test matches and
squealed at inappropriate moments
represented an Innovation. Actually they
were just doing what their grandmothers
did, though their grandmothers, being
less sure of themselves (they hadn’t the
vote, and Victoria was on the throne),
were less noisy. An English commen-
tator on the 1882 team’s tour of his
country mentioned that he had “made
the acquaintance of a charming woman
who has come all the way from Aus-
tralia” —with her husband, he thought-
fully added—“just to see the Australians
play cricket in England.” But the charm-
ing lady was not singular: “there” were
“hundreds of them here on the same
errand.”
There were also bafrackers among the
lady writers of the period. For example,
“Gladys,” who contributed to a Mel-
bourne daily: “The public is getting
rather tired of seeing this one-sided game
of cricket, with the Victorians always at
the top of the poll. It is anxious to
know if there is any other game Sydneyites
might try to play with more success to
themselves and more credit to their one-
horse colony than they ever can do with
cricket.”
“Fine writing” also had its devotees.
This appeared in an English paper 55
years before Neville Cardus: “In the
centre space, level and close-shaven, the
light flannels of the cricketers floated in-
cessantly, with, ever conspicuous in the
middle of the picture, the darkly-clad
and statuesque umpires. Encircling all,
and a rich background, rose golden
laburnum, comely beach, graceful ash,
sombre fir, delicate birch, immemorial
elm and magnificent chestnuts.”
But in one important respect there
was a decided difference. Australians
played far more international cricket in
ihe early ’eighties than they have done
in modern times. From- 1878 to 1890
inclusive an Australian eleven was in
England every second year, and an Eng-
lish eleven was in Australia nearly
every summer. For example, the 1882
men encountered the Shaw-Shrewsbury
team in Australia the summer before
they left for England, and the Hon. Ivo
Bligh’s team on their return. This was
perhaps overdoing it, but a great many
Australians are of opinion that nowa-
days tours are too infrequent; certainly
an occasional visit from a representative
county side or an “unofficial” band skip-
pered by some jovial soul like Chapman
or Robins would be very welcome.
The Hon. Ivo Bligh, who was to find
a bride in Australia, was the first to make
a recorded speech about “the ashes,”
since become a weariness of the flesh.
He said in an address at Melbourne that
he. and his fellow-cricketers hoped
“before concluding our tour to be able
to gain the revered ashes of English
cricket, which have been laid on the
shelf in England by the Australian
eleven.” In this they failed, and after
their first match against the Australians
at Melbourne, which they lost by nine
wickets, Murdoch chaffed the English
captain, saying “Ivo, I’ve only to add
that you have simply waxed up that urn
a little tighter.”
Murdoch’s complacency was to suffer
a rude shock. In the second match at
Melbourne the Englishmen got the first
use of a perfect wicket, and very slow
but purposeful batting brought them a
score of 294, of which W. W. Read made
GEORGE PALMER.
Member of the 1880, 1882, 1884 and
1886 Australian elevens. A bad kneecap
fracture shortened his career as bowler.
75, Barnes 72 and Bates 55. A shower or
two interrupted the Australians’ first in-
nings, but the pitch was never actually
bad. Bates, playing the game of his life,
got seven good wickets for 28, dismissing
McDonnell, Giffen and Bonnor with suc-
cessive balls. Only Massie (43) could do
anything with him; all out 114. In the
second innings Bates was on the spot
again. The last Australian fell with the
total a beggarly 153: beaten by an in-
nings and 27 runs. Bates had taken
7 for 74.
Poor Billy Bates! He was the Jem
Belcher of English cricket. Before long
an accident on the field had wrecked his
career ; a rising ball destroyed the sight
of one eye and impaired that of the other.
He had planned to settle in Australia.
Morley, another member of that team,
became a casualty before the end of the
tour. The steamer that brought the side
to Australia had been concerned in a
collision with another vessel, and Morley
had been considerably shaken. He never-
theless played in a number of matches
until he became so bad that a doctor
was called in ; not till then was it dis-
covered that the poor devil had been
playing with a fractured rib. He never
got over it; within 18 months he was
a dead man.
Two other matches were played at
Sydney in 1883. The Englishmen won
the first by 69 runs, the Australians the
second by four wickets. So the Hon.
Ivo Bligh failed in his ambition as a
cricketer, but he was proud ever after-
wards of that Melbourne match, and cer-
tainly it was a great achievement to have
so overwhelmed 11 Australians like Mur-
doch, McDonnell, Giffen, Massie, Ban-
nerman, Horan, Bonnor, Garrett, Palmei,
Spofforth and Blackham, conquerors of
All England in. 1882.
Murdoch was captain of the 1884 team
for England. Bannerman, McDonnell,
Giffen, Bonnor, Palmer, Spofforth and
Blackham were with him again, and so
was Boyle ; Scott, Midwinter and Cooper
replaced Massie, Horan and Garrett.
Cooper was a Victorian: a slow bowler
with a tremendous leg break. A mishap
damaged his bowling hand and he did
not come off —became indeed almost use-
less, with the ball, the bat or in the field.
There was no second wicketkeeper, and
after three or four matches it was clear
that the Australians would have to get
through their programme —the most am-
bitious thus far attempted —with 11 men.
In the circumstances they did wonders,
and they retained all their popularity
with the crowds, who followed them
everywhere ', but the luck of the game
was against them.
Three Test matches had been arranged.
In the first, at Manchester, weather and
time robbed the Australians of what
would have been a certain victory had
the match been played out. The Eng-
lishmen, opening the batting, failed dis-
mally against the bowling of Spofforth
and Palmer, being sent to the pavilion for
95. The Australians replied with 182,
and in the third essay had bagged nine
English wickets for 180 when time was
called.
The second match was played at
Lord’s. Here England was definitely on
top: England, 379; Australia, 229 and
145 ; England by an innings and five runs.
As if this wasn’t enough, some muck-
raking pressman of the period discovered
that the Australians had received all the
gate-money, amounting to £1344 17s. A
disgraceful row began.
A rag called “Entr acte, now long—
and doubtless deservedly dead, came
out with a cartoon in which the British
Lion, bat in hand, was represented as say-
ing to the Kangaroo, pictured with a face
like Spofforth’s and with a pouch full
of coins: “Well, you don t mind a good
licking so long as you get the gate-money,
do you?”
Labouchere’s “Truth ’ joined in the hue
and cry. It asserted that “when the Aus-
tralians received their cheque from Mr.
Perkins, of the M.C.C., they did not even
say ‘Thank you.’ ” This Mr. Pei kins
denied, and “Truth” had the grace to
apologise. It added, rather handsomely,
that “other statements made from time
to time as to the eleven having their lun-
cheons and drinks for nothing were
unjust. If a man accepts an invitation
to dinner, you would hardly appreciate
his being sneered at and told that he had
had his food and wine for nothing , and
so, I take it, it is with the Australians.
The case for the, Australians was that
they depended on this match at Loids
to make certain of getting the unprece-
dentedly heavy expenses of the tour. In
every other instance they received only a
percentage of the receipts, and the
M.C.C. was no loser, while the. countv
clubs profited greatly by the matches
against the visitors —as they have done
since the war.
When news of the rumpus reached
Australia, Melbourne “Sportsman” ex-
pressed the pious hope that the present
is the last of the gate-money teams that
will visit the Old World. Other Aus-
tralian newspapers rushed to the defence
of their men. It was recalled that no
English club had ever offered to finance
an Australian tour of England. On the
other hand, the Melbourne C.C. had
undertaken financial responsibility for the
visit of Lord Harris’s team (1878-79).
It lost £6OO on the venture, the English-
men’s wine bill coming to more than that.
The wrangle went on, and some of
the London papers let their funny men
loose on the tourists. One perpetrated
the following: “Another of those un-
pleasant episodes which now regularly
mark the preliminaries of all matches in
which the Australians are engaged in
this country took place at Lord’s. The


STILL
ii 2TT£;<
LlGrlTli'l'j
with
LISTER-LITE”
LIGHTING PLANTS
In N.S.W. alone, there are over 2000 “Lister-
Lite” installations in Country Homes. Add
your name to this ever-increasing list of satisfied
owners. Write to-day for particulars—you’ll
be under no obligation.
driven by
isTen
British Buu-f
Diesel Engines
u-
am
M
■
■
■
■
■
■
■
The use of the Lister Diesel Engine is cutting
generating costs to a minimum. For every
purpose you will find a Lister Engine to give
you unfailing and economical power.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Mailoch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
first objection of the colonists was a curt
refusal to play unless the M.C.C. um-
pires were changed for nominees of the
visitors —two New South Wales men,
who chanced to be on the ground. After
this, two totally new wickets were
pitched to suit Messrs. Spofforth and
Giffen, and the whole of the pavilion
was placed unreservedly at the disposal of
the Australian colonists now in London.
“The English captain, having won the
toss, was about to send in Messrs. Grace
and Steel when the Australian captain
objected to Mr. Steel’s bat. This having
been gauged and found correct, Mr.
Murdoch objected to Mr. Steel himself.
Mr. Steel made way for Mr. Studd, and
the two men were proceeding to the
wickets when the Australian captain
again intervened and said that he must
call on the M.C.C. to guarantee that
there should be no expression of public
feeling in favor of the Englishmen or ad-
verse to the Australians, and that all
such cries as ‘Go it, Jumbo!’ to Mr.
Bonnor and ‘Bully for the little bandi-
coot!’ to Mr. Bannerman be at once
suppressed. This being agreed to, the
match was about to begin when Mr.
Murdoch stepped out once more and re-
quested that it should be played at the
Orleans Club before visitors invited by
the Australians only, as the presence
and the effluvia of the vulgah classes
GEORGE GIFFEN,
As a young Adelaide cricketer —the first
to be chosen for an Australian eleven.
He went to England five times.
were strongly objected to by several
most distinguished ladies and gentlemen
from Darling Point and Collingwood.
Finally the Australians threatened to
start for home by the next steamer un-
less the match was entered as a drawn
game in favor of themselves, and this
was, of course, consented to in order to
avert the dread catastrophe.”
The Gentlemen of Philadelphia were
in England that season. They had a
good press. One of their panegyrists
wrote that when they went to Ports-
mouth to play the United Service Club
they would be “entertained in barracks
by the garrison regiments and on board
Nelson’s old flagship by the naval officers
of the port. These, cricketers were asked
what share of the gate-money they would
like. They replied, at once and decisively,
‘None.’ The Australians will not visit
Portsmouth this season.” Another scribe
kindly called Murdoch’s attention to this
innuendo. He said, very decisively: “The
Gentlemen of Philadelphia evidently know
how much it is worth to see them play.”
The roar of contumely died down for <
a time, but broke, out afresh after a
match at the Oval, Australia v. The
Players. On the last day, when the Aus-
tralians wanted 11 runs for a win and
had nine wickets in hand, all hands ad-
journed for lunch. The crowd was so
wild that it rushed the ground.
It was, of course, alleged that the Aus-
tralians were wholly to blame., their ob-
ject being alleged to be an afternoon
“gate,” but this time they found de-
fenders. “Punch” addressed a stinging
couplet “To the Surrey Crowd”:
Shame, sirs! When victory fails to crown our
banners,
Bad cricket is not mended by bad manners.
Pendragon,” one of the foremost
sporting journalists of the day, pointed
out that the demonstration was not
directed against the Australians ; “if there
was any direct feeling shown, it was
shown against the Surrey executive. Pro-
fessionals though the Australians be and
amateurs as the Surrey clubmen are, by
virtue of being Surrey clubmen, we do
not find that the Australians have been
allowed any peculiar advantage in the
dealings which have taken place between
them. Nor can anyone else who has had
dealings with the Surrey club conscien-
tiously say that its executive is ever pre-
pared to lose sight of the main chance or
give up its hold on the loaves and fishes.”
Meanwhile the “Standard,” another
journal that Australian cricket has out-
lived, had deprived the Australians of
the customary “Mr.” in its match re-
ports. Other dailies and weeklies fol-
lowed its example. The “Times,” how-
ever, continued to give the tourists the
benefit of the “Mr.,” even in the case
of Midwinter, who had been a profes-
sional in England and remained a pro.
in Australia. The Gents of Philadelphia
were of course misters, though the
“Globe” introduced a pleasant variant
by printing an Esq. at the end of each
Gent.’s name.
The newspaper campaign against the
Australians had not the slightest effect
on their play or their appeal to the
masses. They continued to be firm favor-
ites with the lads who paid 6d. a head,
and at their third and last match with
All England at the Oval the takings
were £1445. Their newspaper friends
noted sourly that the visitors divided the
£1445 equally with the Surrey club.
It was a very hot day, and the. Aus-
tralians relished the heat and the wicket,
on which they had first knock. Before
nightfall Murdoch, McDonnell and Scott
had made three centuries, a feat without
precedent in representative cricket.
Murdoch carried out his bat, and on
the second day took his score to 211,
the innings closing for 551. The Eng-
lishmen replied with 346 and 85 for two
wickets. Then time saved them, as it
had done at Manchester.
This was honestly admitted by news-
papers which had not joined in the yells
of depreciation. “The Australians’ per-
formance at the Oval,” said the “Sun-
day Times,” “makes us sing small. Eng-
land has won the rubber under false
pretences.”
Said the “St. James’s Gazette”: “Tech-
nically, the championship has reverted
to England. We do not on that account ;
claim any superiority for English over
Australian cricket. Spofforth and Palmer
are better bowlers than any we. can boast
of and Blackham’s wicketkeeping is
simply matchless. It is owing to the
superior quality of their batting, taken
on the whole, that English cricketers
have come out so well.”
ThS “World” agreed with the “St.
James’s Gazette.” But while allowing that
“the Australians’ visit has made all other
matches seem tame and insipid” it declared
that “it has introduced a bloodthirsty
spirit.... The Australians make their
own terms, insist on them not always
very gracefully and play too obviously
for the money’s sake. They arrogate to
themselves the rank of gentlemen. It
should be made clear to them that if
they visit England to make money, they
must rank, with others in the same con-
dition, as paid professionals. English
professionals are sore on this point, and
it is for the Australians to decide be-
tween their pride and their pocket. That
they should decide for the latter would
be best, perhaps, for all. They would
continue to gather their golden harvest
and we should then be in a position to
put a stop to certain little practices they
are so fond of, and certain other vagaries.
At any rate, this way or that, a decision
should be made before their next visit,
whenever that may be.” The decision
has never had to be made.
The “Daily News” summed up the
tour as “brilliantly successful. In pre-
vious seasons the colonists played con-
tinually on wickets damaged by rain.
During the present summer they have
had continuous fine weather, hard, dry
wickets being the rule and a wet wicket
the exception. That the men should
have gone through so much work, and
yet at the end of 32 matches be in full
possession of their powers at all points
of the game, is the best evidence of their
superb physique, but it would be rash
again to undertake a similar feat with
only 13 players, including the manager.”
Spofforth the “Daily News” pro-
nounced “better than ever. He has
bowled in fine weather against much
stronger sides than ever before and has
taken 211 wickets at an average cost of
12.76. Palmer, who would by the
majority of English cricketers be con-
sidered second only to Spofforth, has
only taken 127 wickets as against Spof-
forth’s 211 ; nevertheless, he has done
splendid work for the team. On a per-
fectly good wicket, Palmer is the most
difficult bowler in the world.” Giffen
this London journal described as the
third-best bowler and the best all-
rounder. As for the batsmen, Murdoch
was “still considerably ahead of all other
Australians; McDonnell retained his
splendid hitting and displayed a great
deal more discretion, and Scott proved
an unqualified success.” The fielding
had been “less certain than on previous
tours —very brilliant at times but occa-
sionally marred by serious blunders.
Judged on the whole, the tour has been
a great and genuine success.”
Many years were to elapse before a
friendly critic could write in that strain
again.


“Tact”: The minister and stewards of
the local Methodist church were flattered
and pleased to see a number of Chinese
gardeners attending the services, and as a
mark of their appreciation reserved one
of the pews for the aliens. After a few
appearances, however, the Chinese sud-
denly stopped coming. Thinking they
must have taken offence at something
the minister called on one of the gar-
deners to ask if that was so. “Oh, no,”
he was told, “you all welly good people.
But him Plesperterian buyem cabbagee,
too.”
* * *
“S.T.S.”: The exact meaning of “inter-
section” has been engaging an Adelaide
traffic court, which
does not allow more
than 25 m.p.h. in
crossing one. The
straight City-to-Port
road was so gener-
ously laid out in the
earliest days that it is
now two broad one-
way tracks, with a
long plantation down
the middle (originally
meant for a canal),
through which, are oc-
casional cuts from one
track to the other.
The argument was
raised about a small
street coming from the
north, plus one of
these cuttings, going
straight on across,
but, as it happened,
with no corresponding
street away on the
south. Argued for the motorist, and
allowed by the Court, that the whole,
Port-road, both sides and plantation, is
one road, and thus there was no legal
“intersection.”
* * * *
“Buzfuz”: With the return of the
Coronation trekkers the usual tales of
the Englishman’s ignorance of Australia
are going the rounds. I’ll back, the fol-
lowing, taken from an American news
magazine of some standing, against them
all. The paper, giving a short biography
of an actress, says she “was born on the
French-Dutch island of Tasmania in
1911.”
* ❖ 4* *
“Winsley”: The quaintest pub title I
ever saw, and the one which puzzled
me the longest, was “The Scribbling
Horse” in a little West of England town.
The signboard had disappeared, so there
was no information to be gained from
that on the subject of the (presumably)
grotesque quadruped. Naturally I
thought it was a corruption of some
kind, like the “Bull and Mouth” or the
“Goat and Compasses,” until a local anti-
quarian enlightened me. The town had
once been a centre of the woollen in-
dustry, and the scribbling horse is the
name of a machine once used in fac-
tories for the “scribbling” (a word you
may still find in dictionaries) of wool
fibre.
* * *
“Passer”: Westralia has had another
“sparrow scare,” a lone specimen of the
species having been observed alighting at
Fremantle from an inter-State boat. The
hue and cry that followed and the des-
perate chase after the prohibited immi-
grant recall a similar happening a few
years ago —though in that case there
were a pair, and it is difficult to see
how a mateless bird could be a menace.
But the State is very nervy over such
matters. Some 20 years back it was re-
ported that two starlings had been seen
in the south-west, and that they were
believed to be nesting in a lofty jarrah-
or karri-tree. A well-armed and -equipped
expedition, under the leadership of an
eminent naturalist, was dispatched to the
scene hot-foot, and a band of sturdy axe-
men soon had the forest giant crashing.
But whether the birds were starlings or
not will never be known, for not as
much as a feather or a bit of blue egg-
shell was disclosed by the combing of
the wreckage.
“Malaprop”: “It is not the first time
the prisoner has indulged in a hunger
strike,” said N.S.W. Minister Martin of
a convict who has recently been giving
the gaol authorities a lot of trouble. A
queer sort of indulgence, surely, remi-
niscent of a bygone utterance of Premier
Stevens to the effect that his then col-
league Weaver had been “enjoying bad
health.” The first definition of the verb
to “indulge in” which I find in my dic-
tionary is “to gratify one’s appetites
freely.”
* * * *
“Kellick”: The ordinary seaman was
being examined before being drafted to
sea. “And where,” asked the officer, “is
Monkey’s Island?” (a naval nickname
for the navigation platform). Like a
flash came the answer: “An island off
the coast of Spain, sir.” Everybody
laughed, but later that night a perusal
of charts, sailing directions, etc., proved
that the lad was correct.
* * * *
“The Hittite”: In M.L. at all events
“Heresone” (B. ■23 /6/’37) might find con-
firmation for his theory that blue-eyed
men make the best scorers of bull’s-eyes.
All the winners of the Dominion’s King
Prize,since 1911 have been in this class,
except Herb Simmonds (1924) and Fred
“But I like the balance of this one, sir.”
Bowes (1935), who manage to look pretty
straight out of brown eyes. The oldest
of the gold-medal winners known to me,
Harry Doughty, winner of the Prize in
’92, has optics' as blue as the sea off
Donegal.
“P.H.X.”: I say the color of a marks-
man’s eyes doesn’t matter a scrap.
One of the greatest Australia has pro-
duced, J. H. Williams (Melb.), is brown-
eyed. So is Clarence of the same name,
but unrelated, who has won a couple of
King’s Prizes among other trophies.
Horrie Natt (S.A.) and Clarrie Armstrong
(Q.) are others of the dark-eyed per-
suasion who have several King’s Prizes to
their credit, and the greatest of them all,
Harry Ommundsen, an Englishman, killed
in the war, was another. If there are more
blue-eyed than brown-eyed marksmen in
the front rank it is simply because blue
eyes are much more common than dark
ones in this country.
“Alpha”: This Mac, Me and M‘ con-
troversy (B. 7/7/’37) is merely a revela-
tion of the ignorance of Sassenachs. Mac
is simply the Gaelic for “son of.” Origi-
nally it was written either in runes which
have been lost or in the extant Irish
Orgham alphabet. As the rendering of
it into Roman letters was almost im-
possible, each early English writer used
his fancy on the spelling of Mac, and
that is about all there is to it. To try
to discern a difference in Scots and Irish
practice is absurd.
❖ * * *
“Oxmead”: As well as animals, birds
and insects, certain trees are regarded in
the English countryside as reliable
weather prophets (B. 7/7/ ’37)—long-
distance ones, that is. The tradition is
that if the oak gets into leaf a few weeks
before the ash a fine and productive year
is assured ; in the other event, there will
be a cold summer and an unseasonable
autumn. The theory has some backing,
too, though probably no botanist could
give a reason. A scientific gent, who
went over the records for 30 or 40 years
found hardly an instance where it hadn’t
proved correct. There were only five
years in his survey when the two trees
were reported as coming into leaf about
the same time, and in each of these the
seasons that followed were neither good
nor bad from the farmer’s standpoint,
just middling. I rise to suggest that an
oak and an ash should be planted in
every Australian meteorologist's back-
yard,
:J: * * *
“Fordlaw”: I can tell “J.W.” (B.
23/6/’37) after whom the flower bou-
vardia is named. Exactly 300 years ago
Louis XIII. of France, had famous
gardens, Les Jardins du Palais Royal, the
director of which was an old bird called
Bouvard. He had some adventurous
friends, and one of them brought him
home from Mexico a plant which he
called after his old cobber. Dr. Alexis
Bouvart, who flourished during Napo-
leon’s empire, was an astronomer, not a
botanist.
* * * *
“7346”: The recent presentation to a
German visitor by a Griffith (N.S.W.)
Digger of the clock taken from Richt-
hofen’s ’plane was a friendly gesture, and
the clock is already on its way to the
National War Museum in Berlin. Hardly,
however, had this been announced in the
press when an item appeared in three or
four dailies to the effect that a Tasmanian
Digger had denied the authenticity of
the Griffith .clock and claimed to have
in his possession the genuine timepiece.
His particular clock, it was added, bore
the words “Baron von Richthofen”
written in ink on the case. Now this alone
arouses suspicion; if a German had
written the name he would have said
“Freiherr” von Richthofen; Germans
seldom use the word “Baron.” The
second man further sought to fortify his
claim by mentioning that his clock was
branded K.u.K. Truppen. But K.u.K.'
means Kaiserliche und Konigliche
Truppen, or, in English, “the Emperor’s
and (he King’s Troops” ; in other words
the troops of the Emperor of Austria
and the King of Hungary! The Tas-
manian claimant adds that his clock is
branded “Luftfahrtruppen,” which means
“Observation Balloon Troops.” The
Griffith clock, on the other hand, was
marked only Eigentum der Flieger-
truppen, or, in English, “Property of the
Flying Corps.” It seems unlikely that the
crack German war ace would have been
using a clock in his 'plane originally
issued to an Austrian Observation Bal-
loon Section and quite inconceivable that
“Baron” von Richthofen would have been
written in ink on the back for thfe bene-
fit of English-speaking souvenir hunters.
s}c * * *
“C.X.”: Let me assure. “Clio” (B.
7/7/’37) that hot tamales have been pro-
curable in Kurri Kurri (N.S.W.) for 12
years past, all three varieties, Americano,
Italiano and Mexicano. They go well
with beans and peppers, but nobody
seems to acquire the taste for chillies.
* * * *
“Joseph”: Queer devices for dodging
the Customs (B. 30/6/’37) remind me of
a strenuous campaign to dry up un-
licensed liquor in Sydney a few years ago.
For a long time the cops were baffled by
the mystery of a house in Surry Hills.
From shadows opposite they watched a
procession of men enter apparently sober
and leave some time later undoubtedly
drunk. Despite general raids, the dwell-
ing guarded its secret until one night an
outsize in constables bumped his head
on the chandelier. He was immediately
drenched with beer which gushed out of
the gas pipe connected with a cask above
the ceiling.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Talking of
potent tipples, it was a visiting American
medical official from Manila who intro-
duced to Singapore the Bacardie cock-
tail, since known locally (and with good
reason) as “Tiger’s Milk.” “I was plumb
scared of what I’d been told of those
cold Britishers,” he explained later, “so
I brought along a good snort of Bacardie
and mixed the cocktails myself. They
sure were enterprising about noo breeds
of booze, and averaged four each before
dinner. With the fish, old Blank at the
head of the table said he was just as good
an athlete as ever. To prove it, he stood
on his head on the table, and got his feet
caught in the electric fan. Only one guy
among all those Britishers even noticed it,
and he asked Blank to do it again be-
cause he’d missed seeing it. Blank did, too,
and the only comment was ‘Well done,
sir.’ They’re sure not really sticky, those
British officials, when they get a snort
of real Bacardie, but those Scotch high-
balls haven’t got any kick to them.”
* * * *
“Ichabod Crane”: “Warrigal” (B.
7/7/’37) is off the trail when he asserts
that no Government department would
dream of moving a disused school to a
new site. In N.S.W. such removals are
frequent. I have taught in three schools
that have been shifted from their original
sites to more populous districts, and the
academy over which I now preside is in
its third incarnation. When a disused
school building is left standing for any
length of time the department anticipates
that it may reopen again or considers it
is not in good enough condition to stand
removal.
* * * *
“Fisher”: The “Sun” educationalist
(B. 7/7/’37) erred in good company when
he wrote “try and .” The Revised
Version of the. Bible is an accepted
authority on the English language, and
the New Testament will be found to con-
tain this particular idiom in various com-
binations. Anyway, language is not the
slave of grammar or of logic, but a
natural idiomatic growth. Many a nine-
teenth-century author of repute, on either
side of the Atlantic, has used “and” in-
stead of the infinitive “to” whenever he
saw fit.
* =!= =:• *
“Kwakprak”: According to extensive
investigations between one in ten and
one in twenty-five white men are color-
blind and about half that proportion of
women. Eighteen different types are
classified, of which three are common,
the red-green disability being the most
frequent, followed by blue-yellow. The
defect may be of any grade. It arises
from disproportion in the focusing-point
on the retina, between certain specialised
structures known as “rods,” which only
take up grey, black and white impres-
sions, and “cones,” which are sensitive to
colors. The primeval eye probably saw
only in black and white, evolved later to
blues and yellows, and eventually to its
present normal color-range of four pri-
maries and their major combinations.
Plenty of people go through life never
knowing that they are color-blind, and
some of the “new Art” is certainly due
to this defect.
* * * *
“Kellick”: Is there anything in a sea-
man’s work more nerve-racking than
waiting for a decent-sized, fully-strained
wire to reach snapping-point? Writer’s
biggest thrill happened in Montreal. We
went astern on our spring and pulled out
a bollard. Our wire acted as a catapult
and hurled scwt. of solid metal straight
over our fo’c’sle. Ever since then the
ping of a small boy’s shanghai makes
me duck.
* * * *
“G.K.”: That story about the rats
chewing Hori’s hair (B. 23/6/’37) is no
exaggeration. Two of us were deer-
stalking in the heart of Rua’s country in
1927 and had with us a Maori guide who
declined the offer of a corner in our
small tent, electing to sleep outside by
the fire. With one blanket and a pile
green fern he slept there each night m
temperatures lower than 40 degrees. One
morning I came, out and found him exam-
ining a bloody toe. To my question he
answered, “Kiore [rat] bit me, eh.
said “What did you do, Hon? and
was told “I kicked him and he went
away.” The rats there belong to the
Norwegian breed, and although we hac
travelled for two days from the Waikare-
moana road we were never without then
company.
MECHANISED AGES.
Old lady with the stereoscope,
What draws you to a toy so queer
And makes your fragile fingers grope
Among those prints of yesteryear?
The remnant of an Afric troop,
A regal pair whose task is done,
A picnic scene, a wedding group,
A legend lettered on a stone —-
Shine dimly through a trickery
That Science wrought in infancy.
Come, see where Progress weaves her spell
Through lenses filled with voice and light!
Hear native virtue Sin repel
In laundered phrase (at eight each night).
Feel how a gleaming silver sheet
Reincarnates rare sex appeal
As brilliantined Apollos greet
Synthetic beauty, reel on reel.
Watch life unfold in throbbing ways
Undreamt of in your cloistered days.
Now that I’ve shown this new-found joy
That glitters in Time’s cavalcade,
You well might spurn your clumsy toy
And pageants that the past displayed.
But still the stereoscope you hold
And con its scenes with wistful eyes;
What matter if new worlds unfold,
Sometimes the old one never dies!
And as T watch you span the years,
Dear God, what fills my eyes with tears!
TASMANIA.
LRAMINGTON.


WRITING
FOR
RADIO
A New Course Prepared
and Conducted by
Bernard Cronin.
The outstanding opportunity for
aspiring writers is in the writing of radio
plays and the preparation of “talks” over
the air.
The enthusiastic attitude of the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission is
responsible for this, and, because the
technique of Radio plays is new and, in
a sense, revolutionary, the opportunities
for the beginner with constructive imagi-
nation and powers of application are very
great. Established writers, able to adjust
themselves to new modes and conditions,
have some advantage over the beginner,
but the advantage is not by any means as
great as in other forms of writing. Old
and young, experienced and inexperi-
enced, start very nearly from scratch.
Bernard Cronin has marched step by
step with the new technique in Writing
for Radio, and his experience, actual and
progressive, is embodied in this new
course. Every problem arising out of the
conditions peculiar to radio is discussed
from the standpoint of practical experi-
ence and illustrated by Bernard Cronin
plays which have been widely broadcasted.
The description of Bernard Cronin’s
Story-Writing Course as a “Masterpiece
of Practicality” may be applied with equal
truth to the Bernard Cronin Course of
Writing for Radio.
Write or call for prospectus.
Bernard Cronin
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Story Writing.
For the past eight years Bernard
Cronin has successfully conducted his
Story Writing Course, which is
described as a “masterpiece of expert
practicality.” Mr. Phillip Da.rbyshire,
well-known contributor to “The Bul-
letin,” “The Home” and many other
first-class publications in Australia
and overseas, whose serials art to-day
a popular feature of Australian broad-
casting, was a pupil of The Bernard
Cronin Story Writing Course. Other
outstanding successes include the
author of a novel chosen by the
London Book Society as the novel of
the month. These writers are an
evidence of the rewards of tuition and
training on right lines. Bernard
Cronin’s Story Writing Course is fully
described in a pamphlet, “Story
Writing.” Copies will be sent post
free to any reader of “The Bulletin”
who would like one.
Letters ...can be addressed to:
Bernard Cronin,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Pelmanism Saves Time
and Labour, It is Practical
—opinion of Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch.
g?*7
H.RjH.
Prince Charles of
Sweden.
Lieut.-General
Lord Baden-Powell
K.C.8., K C.V.0., LL.D.,
F.R.G.S.
Mr. E. V. Lucas.
Assistant Editor of
London “Punch.”
!y
The Late
Lord Riddell,
Newspaper Magnate*
Pelmanism is the Science of Living, of making every day a full day, a day of enterprise
and satisfaction. It deals with fundamental personal attributes and qualities which, when
developed, establish mental and physical health, making life pleasant, harmonious and successful.
Fortunately, the qualities are inherent in every normal man or woman. The most important are
Self-Confidence,
Concentration,
Seif-Control,
Judgment,
Will-Power,
Tact,
Initiative,
Social Ease,
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices, and useful data of every
kind.
Pelmanism makes all past experience, whatever its nature may have been, of service in the
present; it is at one and the same time the spirit of success and the means to personal and
individual progress.
The Kind of People Who Take the Pelman Course
The men and women who take the Pelman Course are found in every calling and in every
walk of life. They are the people who want to excel, who will not be deterred by circum-
stances, who will live intelligently and strongly, who will reach out and share in the good things
that every age and every occupation offer to those who have the ability and courage to
take them.
The following extracts are from letters published in “The Efficient Mind” and “What Pel-
manism has done for me.” Copies may be had free on request.
An Accountant states that Pelmanism has
shown him “how to overcome • that paralysing
feeling of inferiority.”
A shop-assistant reports that he has secured
a better position, and attributes this to Pel-
manism.
A Manager reports an increase in Self-
Confidence, “which has brought me the respect
of my colleagues.”
An Engineer writes: “I feel especially an in-
crease in Self-confidence, which gives professional
status.”
A Clerk writes that he has improved in memory,
concentration and will-power, and that his mind
is quicker and more alert.
A Doctor writes that he has improved his
powers of Observation, Concentration, and
Memory, and has increased his Self-Confidence.
An Insurance Clerk writes: “Financially I am
over 30 per cent, better off than before; mentally
and physically I am hundreds per cent, better
off.”
Assessor: “I marvel at the progress I have
made.”
Business Man: “I now work with the greatest
ease.”
Farmer: “. . . given me an aim in life . . .
better concentration, more self-confidence, better
memory and the spirit of achievement.”
Clerk: “I can now face the future.”
Reporter: “Now I know why you say that the
course is personal.”
A Teacher writes: “This Course has had a
remarkable effect on my physical and mental
health. What pleases me most is the certainty
that I have lost my fear. My self-confidence has
returned, and my whole outlook on life seems to
be reconstructed.”
A Clergyman writes: “Had I known at the age
of 30 certain things which I know now—largely
through the Pelman lessons —I think I could have
avoided one or two painful nervous break-
downs . .
A Cabinetmaker: “I have strengthened my con-
fidence, and been assisted in overcoming a shy
and reserved nature.”
.Journalist: “My memory has improved beyond
my anticipations . . . produced mental grasp and
alertness I did not think possible.”
Bank Officer: . . benefited far beyond my
expectations in concentration, logic and self-
confidence.”
Paw Clerk: “. . , one of the wisest things 1
have yet done.”
Pelmanism is a training. This cannot be said too often. It removes bad, careless and
slovenly habits of mind and memory, and substitutes for them good, reliable and exact habits.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describing the Pelman Course, are
posted free on application to The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne. All inquiries are treated as confidential.
.
Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch,
King Edward VII. Pro-
fessor of English
Literature at the Uni-
versity of Cambridge,
England, torites —
“l say, without hesitation,
that the Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had come
my way in youth, would
have saved me more time
and labour than I can
reckon.”
THE
SIGNATURES
The signatures in this
announcement are reproduced
from signed letters of appreci-
ation received by the Pelman
Institute.
We are sure that readers
will be interested in these
signatures of well-known
Pelmanists,
•
INTERNATIONAL
AWARDS
to the
Pelman Institute:
Over half a million World
I’elmanists. 35,000 enrolled
with the Institute in Melbourne.
THE PELMAN
INSTITUTE
for the scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality
is a world-wide organisation of
40 years’ standing. Its head-
quarters are in London. The
Institute has been established
in Melbourne for 30 years.
£
The Late
Mr. Edgar Wallace.
Author and Dramatist.
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
Sir Harry Johmton, G.C.M.G
K.C.8., D Sc..
Governor of the London School of Ecenouict
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Eane, Melbourne.
“The Efficient Mind,” please. 471
N,
ante
Address ...
vV, ;v.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
gd
TO “THE BULLETIN.”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
,0>
V>-s*,
Jiws'f .«> *
Fa*
's■
A
<?i> C
0^
v\V
e A ,v>^
<* e V
0°
o
e
\c
,I S® <9*
* VM
\> 3
*A
<v' v S e \. mi 6
\o \* v yr,^ 1
c®\cV°
>s«*¥
\
c vV


DISTILLERY
iW
• V;"- •'
P
::
■r
G ILBEY'S new Australian Distillery—-most modern of
its kind—sponsors a new era of high qualify gin
production in Australia and completes the chain of
Gilbey's Gin Distilleries throughout the world.
The actual process of distillation and the materials
and flavourings employed are the same as have been
used for the past seventy years in the manufacture of
Gilbey's, "the Gin of Generations."
The greater manufacturing facilities afforded by this
modern distillery enable the famous Gilbey's to be
sold now at the price of ordinary gins.
ASK FOR YOUR GILBEY'S AT THE NEW REDUCED
PRICES BY THE WOBBLER AND BOTTLE.
LTD.
THE LARGEST WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS IN THE WORLD.
GILBEYS
Don't say Gin , say
