

r-sssrs. i-v y
kXS
fei
• ifeLic?
■
«**.■ K
*».; IE
:t‘S
■>-
M- .fc
Ws&i
fcRP
>ss*h '' 4; ' v
’.L-* •<
'"■ » •
I -Si!, 7
I
-' „~-s
MX
i "M
■
F 3 :l
#] !
m.
r-s <
*1: H
. XT
- ,
■ (■■-
t
»'-*K . .
Wynyard' Court (Margaret Street, next to Kembla Buildings)
will give Sydney what it badly needs—modern flats right in the
centre of the city, yet away from noise and congestion,
Write for full Prospectus to any address alongside.*
A Sound Investment in City Real Estate
(ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS)
WYNYARD
PROPERTIES
LIMITED
(A Company registered under the “Companies Act 1899 ” and its amendments — N. S. Wales.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL £100,000
divided into 100,000 Shares of £1 each, of which
30,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each have been applied! for and allotted for
cash consideration.
40,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each will be held in reserve for future issue,
if required, at the discretion of the Directors.
30,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are now offered for public subscription,
payable 7/6 per share on application, 7/6 per share on allotment,
and the balance in a call of 5/- per share three months after allotment.
DIRECTORS: William Jolin Curtis, Esq,, K.C., Barrister-at-Law, 107 Phillip Street,
Sydney; William Whitfield, Esq., Retired Master Builder, 9 Greenaere Road,
Hurstville, Sydney; Ernest Abraham Goldsmid, Esq., Company Director, 17
Martin Place,' Sydnej : Paul Haege, Esq., Company Director, Hermann Haege,
Limited, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
BANKERS: Commercial Bank of Aust., Ltd., N.S.W. Head Office, 273 George Street,
Sydney.
SOLICITOR: Harold Joseph Price, Trust Building, 155 King Street, Sydney.
ARCHITECTS: D. Forsyth Evans and Associates, Kernbla Building, 58 Margaret
Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR: Neville Murray McClung, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), Kembla Building,
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING ENGINEERS: Michell and Hallett, 62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE: Fredk. T. Smythe, F.I.C.A., Consulting
Accountant, Union House, 217 George Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The objects of the Company are fully set out in its Memorandum of
Association.
In particular, the Company, having already purchased the land upon
which the premises known as 54-56 Margaret Street, Sydney, are erected,
proposes to demolish the existing improvements and to erect on the land
modern Residential Premises comprising 143 Self-contained “Bachelor” Flats,
Shops and Grill Room with all necessary modern appurtenances.
ESTIMATE OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE.
Based on the Architect’s estimate of the building, together with the cost
of the land and other necessary outlay, it is estimated that the total capital
requirements will aggregate £120,000, as follows:—■
Land and Buildings £99,900
Furnishings and Equipment 9,000
General Establishment Costs, Provision for Working
Costs, Contingencies, Mortgage Costs, Stamp
Duties, other Legal Costs, Brokerage and
Advertising . 11,1 00
£120,000
The capital requirements as above will be provided for by 30,000 shares'
of £1 each already allotted, together with 30,000 shares of £1 each now
offered for public subscription, and the balance of £60,000 by way of a
loan on first mortgage.
PROPERTY VALUATION.
Richardson & Wrench, Ltd., Real Estate Valuers, of 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney, under date of 8th September, 1937, value the proposed property as
under:—•
“We estimate the value of the property when completed
in accordance with the Plans and Specifications submitted to
us, excluding furnishings and appurtenances, at £107,000 (one
hundred and seven thousand pounds).’’
ESTIMATED ANNUAL PROFITS UNDER COMPANY’S MANAGEMENT.
The estimated income and expenditure obtainable by the Company from
direct management are fully detailed in the Prospectus, and disclose a net
profit, after providing for mortgage sinking fund and reserve for taxation,
equivalent to \2\ c /c on invested capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS OF THE NEW SOUTH WALES
. “COMPANIES ACT 193G.”
(1) All the requirements of Section 137 of the
“Companies Act 1936” (N.S.VY.) have
not been complied with in this advertise-
ment.
(2) Copies of the full Prospectus and forms
Of application for shares may be obtained
at the Registered Office of Wynyard
Properties, Ltd., Union House, 247
George Street, Sydney, or the offices of
Churchills, Limited, at o 7 Queen Street,
Melbourne; Brookman Building, Grenfell
Street. Adelaide, and Commerce House,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
(3) Applications for shares will be received
only on one of the forms of application
referred to and endorsed upon a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
(4) This advertisement is an epitome of the
Prospectus, copies of which have been
filed with the Registrar General for New
South Wales, dated at Sydney, 30tli Sep-
tember, 1937, the Registrar for South
Australia and the Registrar for Queens-
land.
(5) The Company has already proceeded to
allotment upon 30,000 shares allotted
and fully paid for cash.
This advertisement is inserted by W.vnyard Properties, Limited, from whom copies
of the Prospectus may he obtained upon application or from Chturchills, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3014.
Wednesday, November 17, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
THE VANISHED MUSE.
What has happened to the verse-writers of Aus-
tralia?
As far as this Page can recall there have been
only two books of any poetic consequence by indi-
vidual poets published this year.
Last year it was worse, for it’s hard to assign
poetic consequence to any of that year’s new publi-
cations. So it has been, with rare exceptions, for
years past.
Indeed, this year’s two outstanding publications
—Kenneth Mackenzie’s Our Earth (Australian) and
Douglas Stewart’s Green Lions (Maoriland) —seem
more hopeful than any for years, since these are both
young poets. Even so, Mackenzie has taken to novel-
writing, so he may not turn out the poetic hope his
poem made him appear, especially as he has written
a pretty good novel. Men have done both well before
this ; but hundreds more have turned from verse to
prose and never gone back.
Stewart, though he has written some fine stuff,
knows better than anybody else just how far up the
slopes he as yet has, and hasn’t, scaled. At the moment
he is in England, though he is too poetically bound
to the south to be likely to stay there.
But it isn’t only those represented by books. On
verse submitted during this year it has to be said
that few of the older poets are writing at all well ;
the bulk of work by younger writers shows a gleam
how and then, but even this is rare. There is a dearth
of even ordinarily publishable verse.
All sorts of theories might be advanced to explain
this. One is that those who would be writing verse
if there was a book-publisher and -audience for it
have, like Mackenzie —temporarily, perhaps, in his
case —turned to the novel. A better explanation might
be the absence for many years past of any outstand-
ing national poet. The Muse, lacking such a repre-
sentative, may simply be sleeping on the job. There’s
nothing like a good bandmaster to jog up a proces-
sion.
NO CONVICTS—BY REQUEST .
Sydney’s 150th birthday celebrations committee
desires to keep the convicts dark, even to enacting
Governor Phillip’s landing without having anything
in the subsequent “March to Nationhood” street
procession to show why he landed.
It is not getting much help from literature.
Dr. Eris O’Brien's The Foundation of Australia,
a study in penal colonisation ; Owen Rutter's book
on the First Fleet and Matra’s colonisation scheme ;
M. Barnard Eldershaw’s Australia: The First Five
Years ; Dr. George Mackaness’s biography of Phillip ;
fTelen Simpson’s Under Capricorn, and William Gosss
Hay’s The Mystery of Alfred Doubt, a Tasmanian
early-day story, have all been published—or will be —
this year.
"CRUISE OF THE CONRAD
The curious circumnavigating voyaging which
Melbourne-born Alan Villiers tells of in his Cruise
of the Conrad (Hodder and Stoughton ; Dyraock’s'
began with only £lOO cash in the locker, sailed closed
to the financial rocks throughout—very nearly crashed
disastrously on them more than once —and ended,
even when the ship had been sold in New York, a
financial washout.
Though not on that account, the book, leaves an
impression that its author ended up disappointed.
This may be quite a wrong impression ; suggested,
perhaps, by the author’s harping a bit too much
on the poor quality of some of the men who shipped
with him.
Such a voyage—going in these times under full
sail from England to America, down to Rio, across
the Atlantic again to Cape Town, thence across to
Westralia, up and through the Malayan islanded seas,
down to Sydney and Melbourne, to Maoriland, and
thence to Tahiti, across and round the Horn and up
again to New York —all this, with many calls at
tropic islands and other colorful places of the world,
must have left the author with an enormous surfeit
of material. His selection is so good, however, that
he conveys the impression of having told everything
that happened on the voyage.
Even now, after having been in the Cape York
grain-ships six voyages and having served in Tasman
Sea barques and in whaling vessels, Villiers depre-
ciates his sea-knowledge. His modesty is startled by
the fact that at the beginning of this voyage he who
had hitherto been nothing but an A.B. was now
master, with the big job of sailing this ship, with its
30 souls.
But, though Villiers thus pictures himself as the
overawed amateur, he knows, all right. Apart from
that, he has the right feeling for the sea and for
ships. He is a connoisseur of ships. Before he bought
at Copenhagen in 1934 the beautiful craft then called
the Georg Stage, he had inspected vessels at many
anchorages in America, England and elsewhere. He
found this one by accident one day as he walked the
waterfront —the real old frigate type ; gloriously pro-
portioned ; a seat in the water like a bird ; tall, sym-
metrical masts and tapering yards, all painted a light
golden color.
She was small —about 200 tons (much the size
of Bligh’s Bounty)—but “what a picture of grace and
sea-beauty!” The last surviving frigate in the world,
she had been for 52 years a cadet schoolship for the
Danes. They now wanted something more modern:
so he bought her, called her Joseph Conrad, got her
to England with a scratch team, and at last set out
on the big voyage, with a crew picked partly from
men known to him through sailing in other ships, and
a complement of boys for whom the voyage was to
serve as a cadetship. The voyage was financed by
contributions from those of these whose people had
money and —chiefly—by the money made by Villiers
from his books, which sell well in America. Villiers —a
high idealist; the fineness of his character rises out
of this book and stands over the whole story—insisted
that no concern should “sponsor” the voyage ; it was
to be in no sense a “stunt.”
His first difficulty—one he was to encounter again
as members of the original complement left, from
necessity or because they had come on the voyage
with the wrong notions —was in getting the right sort
of boys. Women he could have had by the liner-load,
but in them he was not interested: “there are some
problems better left ashore.” He was to find that
among the aspiring adventurers he did take there weie
problems every bit as tough as women could have
been. But, at any rate, he got his complement to-
gether, and, with the sea waiting to test them to the
limit with a succession of gales even before they
cleared the English Channel, they set out.
In this biggish book, \vell illustrated with photo-
graphs, Villiers brings all the voyaging which fol-
lowed to life. He has humor—somewhat angry
humor, it must be admitted —and he has a strong,
honest, muscular manner of writing, excellent for the
job in hand. He conveys a lively idea of fine adven-
turing—the sea, the ship, the characters of those who
sailed in her, their disasters (such as the piling up of
the ship in the night at an American anchorage), their
streaks of good fortune (as when, right at the end
of the financial tether in Melbourne, the voyage was
enabled to continue only through gold-hunters wanting
to be taken to islands half-way across the ocean), their
happy times (think of boys dropping overboard at
sea and swimming about among albatross), how such
a voyage is run, description of many interesting places
(at one tropic island a chief came melodramatically
aboard armed with a revolver and wanted to take
one of the boys as husband for his daughter), with
here and there some outspoken criticism, none of this
more slashing than that of officialdom’s treatment of
the ship in Sydney.
NEW FICTION .
Under Capricorn, by Helen Simpson (Heine-
manri), is a highly-colored romance of Australia's
early days.
The hero, the Honorable Charles Adare, reached
Sydney with Governor Bourke in 1831. He found
the wreck of a lovely lady, his sister’s friend, Lady
Henrietta Considine, who had shot her brother when
she ran off with her father’s groom, Flusky, 20 years
before. Flusky had taken the blame and been sent
to Botany Bay, Now he was a rich emancipist, and
Lady Henrietta, overcome with remorse for her
brother, was drinking herself to death, ably assisted
by a pious housekeeper who hoped to be the second
Mrs. Flusky.
Into her darkened life Charles Adare came like
a ray of sunshine, and had almost saved her from
herself when Flusky, in jealousy, sent him off on a
gold-seeking expedition intended to be fatal. Charles,
lost and starving, was rescued by a friendly tribe.
He returned to Sydney without the gold but with an
ardent love for the country that had almost killed
him. He democratically married Susan Quaiffe, the
sprightly daughter of an ex-hangman, and settled in
the great open spaces. Lady Henrietta reforms and
returns to her true orbit in the Irish aristocracy.
This is told half seriously, half jestingly. Helen
Simpson might be called a derisive romantic. Her
reader can take the book one way or the other —
according as he is able. Considerable capital has been
made out of the background and the period, treated
in this writer’s usual spirited style. The life of the
§tory centres in Flusky, inarticulate, sinister, pathetic.
His character has been drawn with a power and
restraint not found in the rest of the book.
The blurb of H. G. Wells’s new novel, Brynhild
(Methuen ; Moore’s Bookshop), suggests that he has
returned to the manner of Kipps and Mr. Polly. It
isn’t quite true, but where we have grown accus-
tomed to him as the prophet of worlds to come,
juggling impressively with large social ideas, we now
see him doing the same thing gracefully with light
psychological notions.
Rowland Palace, author, hires a publicity agent
to boost his literary reputation and to keep his public
facade in proper trim. The public’s idea of a rather
too serious fellow is to be modified into something
more debonair. Pursuing this aim, Palace neglects
his young wife. Almost against her grain she has an
affair with his literary rival, Burner. The agent, quite
in the dark as to Brynhild’s position, digs up a murky
past belonging to Bunter, who promptly disappears.
Brynhild’s attention, through an unforeseen occur-
rence, becomes directed toward motherhood as a
career and a substitute for love.
Though amusing in patches the book is latter-
day Wellsian in its lumpy proportions. The space
given to Palace and his agent is inordinate and loaded
with the writer’s ideas on authors, publishers and the
public. The long yarn about Burner’s past might well
have been summarised, and Brynhild, vdien she reflects
on marriage, feminism, the past and the future, thinks
exactly as if she had borrowed Wells’s dialectical
brain for the purpose.
The epilogue whimsically reveals that Palace is
never going to learn that Bunter is the father of his
wife’s first child —Brynhild also has a fapade to be
kept in trim.
The story of Ferdinand and Isabella, the
sovereigns who united Spain under one rule in the
fifteenth century, drove out the Moors, expelled the
Jews, established the Inquisition and, hesitantly, with
extreme parsimony, sent out Columbus, is told in
Hermann Kesten’s Spanish Fire (Hutchinson).
It is a long, dramatic and often terrible story,
for the time was one of bloodshed and violence, an
age of persecution which bore heavily on heretics —
the Jews, the Moors and the rich. War was continu-
ous and of various sorts dynastic wars, religious
wars, pogroms and private but no less bloody scuffles
arising out of a quarrel at cards or over a lady’s
garter. Poisonings were so usual that the fifteenth-
century Spaniard must have had little conception of
natural death.
The narrative, thus stained and entangled, is
infinitely complex, and is written with smouldering
passion-; the style, like velvet, smooth one way and
rough the other. The author appreciates and brings
out the dramatic quality of his story and lends it an
almost Biblical ring. It is a record of slow retribu-
tion, of the inevitable and terrible consequences of
sin. Isabella, in pursuing power, ruins herself; in
seeking riches she impoverishes Spain for all time.
The characters are drawn with superb mastery.
Isabella, who is followed from the age of three —a
brave little girl declaring, “Infantas of Spain do not
weep” —to her death, an old woman at 54, “ham-
mered by God,” should be one of the enduring por-
traits of modern fiction.
A woman of strong character with a genius for
ruling, cruel and loving, sq steadfast to her faith that
she was willing to sacrifice anyone and everyone to it,
seeking power and riches, winning them and dying for
them, she is at once admirable, pathetic and repulsive.
Spanish Fire is translated by Edward Crankshaw
from the German. Its emotional force suggests that
the wrath of the present is being poured into the
mould of the past.
BROWSING AT LARGE
Excitements and gore in galore! In Nine Lives,
by Mark Channing (Harrap), superman hero, accom-
panied by beautiful wife, survives every form of
death possible on the North West Frontier. You ask
why? Friends, has he not to save the Empire from
a dark Islamic plot? Again you ask why? You
should be more patriotic.... Confession of a Mur-
derer, by Joseph Roth (Hale), ropes us in with a
group in a Parisian cafe,..where we listen to an enig-
matic character telling a personal story of love,
intrigue and death in Tsarist Russia. Mr. Roth has
browsed more deeply on Edgar Allan Poe than we
have browsed on Mr. Roth, or we’re bad judges.
Still, Mr. Roth can write... .Dames Don t Care, scotts
Peter Cheyney (Collins). No? Well, after enough
gambling, forged bonds, murder, suicide, mixed iden-
tities and car smashes to make a round dozen movies,
it’s proved that one of them does care. California's
where all this happens... .Thence to Mexico, with
Stuart Palmer’s The Puzzle of the Blue Banderilla
(Crime Club), solved by a bright American girl ;
police, of course, off on false scents. Humor in this
one. .. .And so to England, with Suspect, by Edward
Percy and Reginald Denham (Seeker and Warburg);
this one a play, with country-house setting, stock
British drama types and plot centring in a woman
the audience suspects of having committed one grue-
some murder and being about to commit another.
Just a slick bit of mechanism.
At all events, that lot kill time, and that’s highly
important to thousands, including, on their own admis-
sion, Australian Judges. Not so easy to find excuse for
such wants as My Father's Son, by Giles Playfair
(Bles). Sir Nigel Playfair, this author’s dad, achieved
some degree of success as an actor-manager at London
Hammersmith Theatre, but he skimmed the cream oft
any literary value attaching to that achievement by
penning two tomes himself. His son fills 300 pages
with small-beer chronicle of his own unexciting adven-
tures.
But applause to the house of Dent for Conrad’s
Prefaces, neatly got together in a smallish vol., with
an introduction written by Edward Garnett only a
few days before this early heralder of Conrad him-
self passed on. Got together in this way, the Pre-
faces, gathered from various of Conrad’s 60-odd
tomes, supply not only a matchless account of this
author’s writing career and how he built up char-
acters from men met in chance encounters and whole
books from seemingly worthless fragments of fact,
but in doing this they supply as authentic an insight
into the workings of all serious creative authorship
as has yet been penned. It all has a reasonably wide
general interest, of course ; as a collection of brief,
scintillating essays by a splendid writer of English
writing on that in the world which he had most at
heart. Apart from Conradians, who can be left safely
out of the count, it should engage any reader who has
a taste above rattle-gun literature. But lor writers,
young writers especially—those who ask for pointers,
for guidance, for something to help them out of the
confusion and bewilderment —it must have its strong-
est appeal. There is no writer who has not read these
Prefaces who would not benefit by doing so. The
simple clarity of the language alone should do many
a power of good ; and to read Conrad himself telling
what in this book and that he tried to do may be in
the nature of a light to many, leading them to a new
conception of what they are about and inspiring them
to get on with it. One touch of its Conradian per-
sonalia: “If I had not written in English I would noi
have written at all.”


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
‘THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
D.P.S.
This enables you to
secure any article by
merely paying a
deposit of not less
than one-fifth of the
purchase price. This
will be put away for
you, and you can con-
tinue to pay for it in
easy weekly or
monthly instalments.
Harvester SUNSHADE
When it’s sweltering out in the paddocks, the
work still must go on. And what better pro-
tection could you have from the blazing sun
than the ample shade of the Harvester Sun-
shade. Strongly made with solid steel ribs
and wood pole. The cover is Durable Brown
Canvas with a 60-inch spread. Order without
delay and have the benefit of it right through
the hot weather. Price, with freight paid, 32/6.
♦
mmm mm
\\
t > v
vm
i
w
I
X
is
\V
mn
it
X K
\\x
' !
\ f
>* v :
Harvard Work Shirts
A durable boiling shirt, made with 9in.
tuck double backs. Light and medium
ground stripe. Collar and pocket
attached. At Anthony Horderns’, 6/11.
THE ZEPHYR WORK SHIRT
A cool summer work shirt in neat checks. The colours are
Blue, Grey or Fawn. Sizes Min. to Min. neck.
At Anthony Horderns’ 6/6
mi:
mm
,-sr
.. \
, :
mm
s&*
/4i
M
PS
. ,
m-
m
m
>-y
.mm
mu
WWwW:
2m
The Bushman .WORK SHIRT
A full-fitting shirt, made in our own workrooms. A durable
British Oxford weave in Heather or Blue tonings. Collar
and pocket attached. Sizes 14£in. to 18in. neck.
At Anthony Horderns’ 6/6
Cesarine
Work Shirts
The shirt for very hard work.
Made in our own work-
rooms of Cesarine in Blue,
Putty, Khaki or Navy.
Collar and pocket attached.
Sizes to 18in. neck.
At Anthony Horderns’, 7/6
9 Mercery Ground Floor,
George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS LTD.,
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.


A Feeling Sketch
FTFTEENTH
DAY
by
DON EDWARDS
DRAWING BY WILBOW.
JANE PLEDGE endured the loneliness for a fort-
night, but on the fifteenth day she set out for
Riverside-road.
The determination she had possessed when
she left the house gradually departed as the train
approached the terminus. By the time she reached
the station she had decided to walk out to the house
rather than take a taxi. But the long walk made
her more undecided than ever, so that when she
reached Riverside-road she crept past the house and
was almost pleased to reach the shelter of the trees
on the vacant blocks next door.
Her quick glances as she passed the place showed
her that the gardens and lawns were well-kept and
clean. Trust Miles for that, she thought; he wouldn’t
be likely to let anything interfere with his regular
duties.
As soon as she was out of sight of the house she
paused and stood irresolutely looking back down the
road. She wondered whether any of the neighbors
had seen her and what they had thought about her
absence. After all, they must have noticed something
in the last fifteen days—especially Mrs. Sloane, who
lived opposite. It would be very awkward if the
woman came out now and saw her. “Oh, Mrs.
Pledge, when did you come back? Mr. Pledge and
Gordon will be glad to see you! ” she would probably
shout, with a sly, questioning look inviting confidences.
No, she must not stand there on the footpath.
Relieved at having made a decision that postponed
the more important one, she walked through the
trees into the spare allotment. She mounted a small
rise and sat on a fallen tree-trunk. Here she was
sheltered by the saplings, but she was able to look
down on the long warm side .of the house.
Often she used to come here with Gordon and
sit on this same trunk while he played about amongst
the trees. She wondered whether he played here
now and if Miles ever sat here with him or joined
in his games. Then it suddenly occurred to her that
they might come into the paddock this afternoon.
Over and over again in the last couple of weeks she
had imagined a meeting with Miles and planned her
attitude, but now that there was a possibility of such
a meeting she was afraid.
The longer she sat there the more she dreaded
his cold aloofness, his steady, appraising glare, the
accusations made by his every attitude. But this was
the afternoon on which he so often went to the city,
and her spirits mounted, to fall swiftly when she
considered that he
would probably take
Gordon with him
now.
Why didn’t she
walk up to the front door as she had intended
doing? Miles would probably be out, and
Gordon might even open the door. Then she
could have an hour or so with her son. But
suppose Miles had turned her son against her
—and what if he wasn’t out; and suppose he
opened the door himself! No, she would wait
here, and probably Gordon would come out
into the yard and she would get a chance to talk
to him.
The house was quiet, as if deserted, but several
of the windows were open. On the back lawn she
could see Gordon’s toy motor-car. She had given
him that for his last birthday, and how pleased he
had been with it! She smiled when she thought of
how he had run it off the path and broken some
of his father’s plants. Miles had been annoyed, but
not for long.
It wasn’t so long till Gordon’s next birthday
either. She wondered what she would give him.
Perhaps on that day But she must see him before
then. Why, she might see him at any time now. He
might suddenly come trotting into the garden with
his funny, lovable little run, or push through the hole
in the fence and see her and come running td her.
The back-door of the house opened, and she
stood up quickly. A woman stepped into the yard.
Jane had never seen her before. A momentary feeling
of annoyance seized her. No doubt she was a house-
keeper that Miles had obtained, and probably she
had no affection for Gordon. Why should this
stranger be able to move about that house as she
liked when she herself was unable even to see her
son? She was pleased when the woman went inside.
r- FHE shadows from the trees slipped farther down
' the slope and the winter’s afternoon crept towards
a grey twilight.
Jane saw them coming along the road, Miles
striding along in his upright, vigorous manner and
Gordon jogging along beside him. They passed
through the front gate. A few minutes ago she had
decided that if only she could see Gordon she would
go away contentedly. Now she found it more difficult
than ever to go. She wanted to put her arms about
him, feel him kissing her, ask him questions.
The deepening twilight obscured the shadows,
and night came with a cold breeze that dropped from
the treetops and rustled the grass. Lights shone in
the windows here and there. Jane walked along the
path, hidden by the darkness. If she stayed a little
longer perhaps Miles would go out, she thought, and
then she could go to the house.
Amongst some trees just off the footpath she
waited. She could hear the rattle of crockery, and
occasionally Gordon’s voice. A few people passed
her, their feet clipping sharply on the pavement, but
they did not see her standing in the greater darkness
of the trees. If only Miles would go out! At any
rate there was a chance, and she couldn’t bear to
think of returning home without having talked to
Gordon. She was too excited to feel hungry or tired ;
and the darkness gave her a courage that she had
not felt since she left home. She did not mind
standing there against the fence ; she only hated the
passing time, which must eventually force her to some
sort of decision.
The french windows suddenly shone out as long
warm panels of yellow light. That was Gordon’s
room. He was going to bed. Miles was still sending
him to bed early. She wondered whether Gordon
used his usual excuses for postponing his bedtime.
The light went out and someone opened the windows.
She stood there staring at the spot where the light
had been. Gordon was in bed, and no doubt Miles
was reading before the fire.
She moved on to the footpath and started to
walk past the house. At the front gate she stopped
as if undecided, then she slipped through into the
garden. She crept across the verandah and, standing
at the doorway, whispered “Sh-h! Gordon, can you
hear me?”
Her heart thrilled at the low answer: “Yes,
Mummie. Yes.”
He was pleased to see her —he wanted her! His
arms went round her neck and pulled her down.
“Daddy said you weren’t coming back for a long,
long time,” he said.
“Yes, darling. Mother is back, though. Don’t
make a noise.”
She kissed him again and again, felt his soft
hair and held him close to her. “You are cold, aren’t
you?”
“A little bit,” he replied.
“Why, you haven’t enough bedclothes on,” she
said. “Mother will lie down with you and make
you warm.”
He snuggled close to her and she held him tightly,
and a great contentment came to her as he relaxed
into a peaceful sleep. Almost fiercely she held him,
occasionally kissing his forehead, acutely and happily
conscious of her son lying beside her. Her content-
ment caused her to relax too, and suddenly she felt
very tired.
The glare of the light awakened her. Her
husband was standing inside the door, looking down
at her. She sprang to her feet, confused and afraid.
“What are you doing here?” he asked.
“Sh-h! Not so loud or you’ll wake him,” she
said, glancing at Gordon, who .was curled up in the
middle of the bed.
For a few seconds she and Miles stared at each
other, and in that short time she seemed to read his
distrustful glances. That had started the whole
trouble —his continual suspicion. Perhaps he thought
she was trying to impress him. She almost laughed
at the idea. No, he just did not understand —he never
had understood.
“What do you want, then?” he interrupted her
thoughts.
“To see my son, of course,” she said quietly, and
then she walked out.
At the edge of the verandah the cold breeze
struck her sharply and caused her to shiver. She
looked round at the lighted windows and hastily
moved back into the room. Gordon had moved
slightly ; one chubby arm was thrown back across
his face.
Her husband stood beside the bed, staring down
at him. He turned towards her, his attitude showing
surprise.
“You should put more clothes on Gordon,” she
said. “He was cold.”
His eyes dropped. At that moment she thought
he might have come near to understanding, but she
couldn’t be sure.
“Perhaps I could drive you to the station?” he
asked.
“No, thank you,” she replied.
AS she walked down the dark road she saw vividly
her son lying curled up in the big bed and herself
walking away in loneliness down the long roadway.
And she cried quietly.


Brief Drama
AGREAT DAY
DRAWING BY SUCH.
BY FRANK DARGESON
IT was beginning to get light
when Ken knocked on the
door of Fred’s shack. “Are
you up?” he said.
Fred called out that he
was, and in a moment he opened
the door.
“Just finished my break-
fast,” he said. “We’d better get
moving.”
It didn’t take long. The
shack was right on the edge of
the beach, and they got the
dinghy on to Ken’s back and he
carried it down to the water;
Fred followed with the gear.
Ken was big enough to make
light work of the dinghy, but it
was all Fred could do to man-
age the gear. There wasn’t
much of him, and he cursed his
load every few yards that he
went.
The tide was well over half-
way out, and the sea was abso-
lutely flat, without even a ripple
breaking on the shore. Except
for some seagulls that walked
on the sand and made broad-
arrow marks, there wasn’t a
single thing moving.
Ken eased the dinghy off his
shoulders and turned it the right way up, and Fred
dropped the anchor and the oars on the sand and
heaved the sugar-bag of fishing gear into the dinghy.
“I wouldn’t mind if I was a big hefty bloke like
you,” he said.
Ken didn t say anything to that. He wasn’t the
sort that ever does say anything much. He sat on
the stern of the dinghy and rolled himself a cigarette,
and Fred got busy and fixed the oars and rowlocks
and tied on the anchor.
“Come on,” he said, “we’ll shove off.”
With his trousers rolled up he went and tugged
at the bow, and with Ken shoving at the stern the
dinghy began to float. Fred hopped in and took the
oars, and then Ken hopped in and they were off.
“It’s going to be a great day,” Fred said.
The sun was coming up behind the island they
were heading for, and there wasn’t a cloud in the sky.
“We’ll make for the same place as last time,”
Fred said. “You tell me if I don’t keep straight.”
For a time he rowed hard without sending the
dinghy along very fast. The trouble was his short
legs; he couldn’t get them properly braced against
the stern seat. And Ken, busy rolling a supply of
cigarettes, didn’t watch out where he was going, and
when he took a look ahead he was heading for the
wrong end of the island.
“Hey,” he said, “you take a turn and I’ll tell
you where to head for.”
So they changed places and Ken pulled strongly.
You realised how strong he was. He had only a shirt
and a pair of shorts on, and his big body was hard
with muscle, and he must have been quite six feet.
“Gee, I wish I had your body,” Fred said. “It’s
no wonder the girls chase you. But look at the sort
of joker I am.”
He wasn’t much to look at. There was so little
of him. And the old clothes he wore had belonged
to someone considerably bigger than he was. And
he had on an old hat that came down too far, and
would have come down farther if it hadn’t bent his
ears over and sat on them as though they were
brackets.
“How about a smoke?” Fred said.
“Sure. Sorry.”
And to save him from leaving off rowing Fred
reached over and took the tin out of his shirt pocket.
“That’s the curse of this sustenance,” Fred said.
“A man’s liable to be out of smokes before payday.”
“Yes, I suppose he is,” Ken said.
“It’s rotten being out of work,” Fred said. “Thank
the Lord I’ve got this dinghy. D’you know last year
I made over thirty pounds out of fishing.”
“How’ve you done this year?”
“Not so good. You’re the first bloke I’ve had
go out with me that hasn’t wanted to go shares. Gee,
you’re lucky to be able to go fishing for fun.”
“It’s about time I landed a position. I’ve had
over a month’s holiday.”
“Yes, I know. But you’ve got money saved up,
and it doesn’t cost you anything when you can live
with your auntie. How’d you like to live in that
damn’ shack of mine and pay five bob a week rent?
And, another thing, you’ve got education.”
“It doesn’t count for much these days.”
“Yes, but if a man’s been to one of those high
schools it makes him different. The girls chase him,
just to mention one thing.”
Ken went on pulling, and he got Fred to stick a
cigarette in his mouth and light it at the same time
as he lit his own. And then Fred lolled back in his
seat and watched him.
“Pull her round a bit with your left,” Fred said.
“And there’s no need to bust your boiler.”
“It’s 0.K.,” Ken said.
“You’ve got the strength.”
“I’m no infant.”
“What good’s a man’s strength, anyhow? Say
he goes and works in an office? Another thing, he
gets old. Fancy you getting old and losing your
strength.”
Ken stopped rowing to throw away his cigarette.
“Am I heading right?”
“Pull with your left,” Fred said. “But I’ll give
you a spell.”
“It’s 0.K.,” Ken said. And he went on rowing,
and after a bit Fred emptied the lines out of the sugar-
bag and began cutting up the bait. And after a bit
longer, when they were about half-way over to the
island, he said that they’d gone far enough, so Ken
shipped the oars and threw the anchor overboard, and
they got their lines ready and began to fish.
D Y that time it was certainly turning out a great
' day. The sun was getting hot, but there still
wasn’t any wind, and as the tide had just about
stopped running out down the Gulf the dinghy hardly
knew which way to pull on the anchor-rope. They’d
pulled out less than two miles from the shore, but
with the sea like that it might have been any number.
You couldn’t hear a sound or see anything moving.
“Wouldn’t you like to stay out here for good?”
Fred said.
“Ring off,” Ken said. “I got a bite.”
“So did I, but it was only a nibble. Anyhow, it’s
not a good day for fish. It wants to be cloudy.”
“So I’ve heard.”
“I’ve been thinking ; it’s funny you never learnt
to swim.”
“Oh, I don’t know. Up to now I’ve always lived
in country towns.”
“Doesn’t it make you feel a bit windy?”
“On a day like this! Anyhow, you couldn’t
swim that distance yourself.”
“Couldn’t I? You’d be surprised. You’ll be
settling down here, won’t you, Ken?”
“It depends if I can get a position.”
“I suppose you’ll go on living with your auntie.”
“If I got a good job I might be thinking of
getting married.”
“Gee, that’d be great, wouldn’t it?”
“I got another bite.”
“Same here. I reckon our lines are crossed.”
So they pulled in their lines, and they were crossed
sure enough, but Ken had hooked a tiny snapper.
“He’s no good,” Fred said. And he worked the
fish off the hook and held it in his hand.
“They’re pretty little chaps, aren’t they?” he said.
“Look at his colors.”
“Let him go,” Ken said.
“Poor little beggar. I bet he wonders what’s
struck him. He’s trying to get his breath. Funny,
isn't it, when there’s plenty of air about?”
“Oh, for God’s sake!” Ken said.
“I bet in less than five minutes he forgets about
how he was nearly suffocated,” Fred said, and he
threw the fish back.
They put fresh bait on their hooks and tried
again, but there were only nibbles.
“I’ll tell you what,” Fred said, “those nibbles
might be old-men snapper, only they won’t take a
decent bite at bait like this.”
He explained that off the end of the island there
was a reef where they could get plenty of big mussels.
It would be just nice with the tide out. The reef
wouldn’t be uncovered —it never was —but you could
stand on it in water up to your knees and pull up the
mussels. And if you cut the inside out of a big mussel
you only had to hang it on your hook for an old-
man snapper to go for it.
“It’s a fair way.”
“It doesn’t matter,” Fred said. “We’ve got oceans
of time.” And he climbed past Ken to pull up the
anchor, and Ken pulled in the lines, and then Fred
insisted on rowing, and they started for the end of
the island.
'T" HE tide had begun to run in up the Gulf, and
* there was a light wind blowing up against the
tide.
“Going back,” Ken said, “we’ll be pulling against
the wind.”
“Yes, but the tide’ll be a help. Anyhow, what’s
it matter when a man’s out with a big bloke like you?”
He didn’t seem to be in any hurry to get to the
reef. He kept resting on his oars to roll cigarettes,
and when Ken said something about it he said they
had oceans of time.
“You’re in no hurry to get back,” he said
“Mary’ll keep.”
Ken didn’t say anything to that.
“Mary’s a great kid,” Fred said.
“Sure. Mary’s one of the best.”
“I’ve known Mary for years.”
“Yes. So I’ve gathered.”
“Up to a while ago Mary and I used to be
great cobbers.”
“I’ll give you a spell,” Ken said.
But Fred said it was O.K.
“Mary’s got a bit of education, too,” he said.
“Only when her old man died she had to go into
service. Lucky she got a good place at your auntie’s.”
“Look here, at this rate we’ll never get to that
reef.”
“Oh, yes, we will,” Fred said, and he pulled a
bit harder. “If only a man hadn’t lost his job.”
“It must be tough.”
Fred stood up and took a look back at the shore.
“I thought there might be someone else coming
out,” he said, “but there isn’t. So, thank God for
that!” And he said that he couldn’t stand anyone
hanging round when he was fishing.
(Continued on page 7.)


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for its fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd., wants stories
suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize . £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both sections.
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will be
paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500 words is
the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpublished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will attend to
that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any entry
considered to have a chance will be paid for and pub-
lished as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
Another Micawber
THE ROAST BEEF
0F OLD ENGLAND
By JAMES HACKSTON.
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
MY father was of an inventive turn of mind, and
always had some new scheme whereby he
would make a fortune. He could invent
things and start new ventures on an empty
stomach. Hunger could not stem his enthusiasm, and
he was proof against laughter and reproach. He
believed in himself, and went on from failure to
failure, undismayed and unperturbed, certain of his
own ultimate victory. Faith succored him valiantly
and soothed him after each blow. The intervals
between his schemes, a small job somewhere that
would enable him to pay enough off at the store to
get a little more credit so that he could enter on the
next bout with fortune.
He had one slogan for his family. Each new
venture was to bring us the roast beef and Yorkshire
pudding of old England, and we grew to look forward
to that much-promised treat. I had never tasted roast
beef, nor had my brothers and sisters, for my mother
had not seen a sirloin of beef since we had moved to
the Red Range road. He himself must have looked
forward to the favorite dinner of his native land, for
he promised it so often. Maybe his English tongue
had tired of our week-end leg of mutton and mid-
week rabbit.
My first memory of these promises goes back to
the potato idea, the first and last of his farming ven-
tures. But the potatoes were never planted. He had
taken the spade and gone down to the bottom of our
land to test its spud-producing possibilities, and
returned, his face beaming.
“Perhaps it’s just as well,” he said absent-
mindedly, “that the potato idea has been nipped in
the bud.”
My mother raised her eyebrows. “Nipped in the
bud?”
“Yes, 1 have a better idea.”
She looked at him sorrowfully.
“The land won’t grow anything,” he explained.
“I always knew that,” she complained.
He passed his hand heavily over his forehead.
Then: “There it is,” he said, and threw a round ball
of red clay on to the table.
We went up close and looked at it. “Mud,” said
my mother.
He laughed. “No, clay ; beautiful clay. 4 ’
“Clay,” she echoed. “What good is clay?”
“What good is clay?” he repeated. “Bricks are
made of clay when they get the right kind of clay,
and I've found it on my own property, thank God!”
“What are you going to do?” she asked hope-
lessly.
“Start a brickworks, Mother. I’ll get some of
the influential men in the town to put money into it.”
That evening my father sat over the fire and
figured out the profits, and next morning marked off
a circle nine feet in diameter and began digging a pit.
For several days he shovelled clay, and my mother
used to take tea down to him and
stand looking at the top of his head,
sadly, I thought, as he burrowed
deeper into the earth.
After he had moulded a number
of bricks from different depths of clay
and put them aside to dry he set off to see the in-
fluential men of the town. When he arrived home
late that evening he was flushed with success.
“I have seen the men and they are most enthusi-
astic about it.”
“And what happens now?” she asked.
“I have to show them the samples as soon as they
are properly dry.” He threw his chest out. “Our
brickworks will bring us the roast beef and Yorkshire
pudding of old England, mark my words.”
When the moulded clay had dried he set off
again to see the influential men ; but returned earlier
that evening. “It hasn’t panned out as I thought,
Mother. They won’t put up the money. I think they
must have an interest in some other brickworks. Here,
my sonny, take these samples and put them back in
the shed.”
I took out my first exhibit of disappointed hopes ;
and the promised roast beef of old England dis-
appeared from our menu.
A WEEK later he said to my mother: “I met an
** old chap to-day, and he told me there’s a reef
somewhere up on One Stump Hill. He has been
loaming up there lately and feels sure it’s somewhere
there.”
He waited for her to say something.
“Yes,” he went on, “I believe I’m on the track
of something at last. He wants me to go in with
him.”
“Go in with him?” she queried.
“Yes, help him ; and when we find the reef I’ll
have to see about getting a hand-stamper. It’s neck
or nothing now, and you must hang on just a little
while longer.” He patted her on the back. “I’m
going to put the stamper at the back. We’ll crush the
quartz here.”
“Why don’t you get it crushed up at the battery?”
she asked.
“He says they clean the copper plates at night
and you never get your proper return from a crush-
ing.”
The old fossicker found the reef, which showed
fair gold, and on the strength of it a small hand-
stamper was obtained on credit and duly erected. We
all stood round and tried to work it the day it was
launched, and when my father swung lustily on the
young sapling that levered it the bush awakened to
the thump, thump of our new battery. In the even-
ing, by the light of a slushy, we took turns at the
stamper.
Things began to look up. They got some gold,
not a lot, but enough to give promise of more,
and something was paid off the store account.
“Well, my sonny,” he beamed, “you won’t have
long to wait for the roast beef now.”
Then the little reef petered out. Disappointed,
they loamed the surrounding country, but no reef
turned up to feed the little stamper, and the near bush
sank back to peace again. It rested beside the brick
fortune in the shed, and the sapling that had worked
it made a new roosting-place for the fowls.
COME months later I added a model of a water-
wheel to the collection. It refused to drive water
up hill, and no beef came from it.
The wreck of a ship with two hundred thousand
sovereigns aboard was the inspiration for the next
invention, and the idea for the safe carriage of bul-
lion was born. My father carved a model of a ship,
into which he built a patent self-unlocking safe. The
influential men were again approached, and they
agreed to come out and see the model work.
I had a part to play in this—that of a strange
boy looking on. “It would not do for them to know
you are my son with no shoes and stockings on. It
would lower my prestige.”
The day they were to arrive I waited in the pad-
dock opposite, near the dam where the demonstration
was to take place. When they arrived I walked casu-
ally out of the scrub and stood gaping at them. My
father played his part with much swagger.
“Come here, sonny,” he called loftily, “and I’ll
give you a job.” I walked up to him. “Wade into
the dam and throw this ship into the deeper water,
and when we have finished get it out and take it
over to the house opposite, and I’ll give you half a
crown.”
I threw the model into the water and waited until
the play was over.
Back in the house the ragged end of a cigar
protruded from under my father’s moustache.
“The Safe Ship will bring us the roast beef of
old England, mark my words,” and he blew a wide
mouthful of smoke to the ceiling.
The cigar was all he got out of the influential
men.
“Lloyd’s,” he said coming up for another attack ;
“they’re the people to handle this, a good old English
firm.”
I was sent off to the town for four large sheets
of paper and two large envelopes.
The evenings that followed were given over to
composing a letter. After several family skirmishes,
discussions, alterations, additions and reading aloud
the final draft, it was ready for engrossing, which was
my job, with his heavy breath on my neck as I trem-
blingly wrote word bn word. He stood over me, guid-
ing me and driving me —“Steady there, now be careful,
not so fast now” —as I struggled on, his hot face beside
mine, tense, breathless and puffed with excitement.
“What will I sign it, Mother?” he asked. “What
do you think —‘Inventor’?”
She said that it would do, but he altered it to
“Engineer,” and the letter was posted.
There was great excitement the day the reply
came. He read the letter and the envelope over and


“By the way,” he said, “I forgot to do this
before.” And he stuffed pieces of cotton-wool into his
ears. “If the spray gets in my ears it gives me the
earache.”
Then he really did settle down to rowing, and
with the sea more or less following him it wasn’t long
before they were off the end of the island.
Nobody lived on the island. There were a few
holiday shacks, but they were empty now. On this
side there weren’t any landing-places, and with the
wind blowing up more and more it wasn’t too pleasant
to watch the sea running up the rocks. They had to
spend a bit of time manoeuvring around before Fred
found his reef.
It was several hundred yards out with deep water
all round, and it seemed to be quite flat. If the sea
had been calm it might have been covered to a depth
of about a foot with the tide as it was. But with the
sea chopping across it wasn’t exactly an easy matter
to stand there. At one moment the water was down
past your knees, and the next moment you had to
steady yourself while it came up round your thighs.
Fred took off his coat and rolled up his sleeves
and his trousers as far as they’d go, and then he
hopped out and got Ken to do the same and keep
hold of the dinghy. Then he steadied himself and
began dipping down his hands and pulling up mussels
and throwing them back into the dinghy, and he
worked at a mad pace, as though he hadn’t a moment
to lose. It seemed only a minute or so before he was
quite out of breath.
“It’s tough work,” he said. “You can see what
a weak joker I am.”
“I’ll give you a spell,” Ken said, “only keep hold
of the boat.”
Fred held the dinghy. Ken steadied himself and
dipped his hands down more than a yard away, and
Fred managed to pull himself together and shove
off the dinghy and hop in. As he pulled away he
had his eyes shut. Nor did he open them except
when he took a look ahead to see where he was going,
and with the cotton-wool in his ears it was difficult
for him to hear.
So for a long time he rowed like that against
seas that were getting bigger and bigger, but about
half-way back to the shore took a spell. He changed
over to the other side of the seat so he didn’t have
to face the island, and he just sat there keeping the
dinghy straight on. Then when he felt that he had
collected all his strength he stood up and capsized
the dinghy.
And then, taking it easy, he started on his long
swim for the shore.
over again, and then put it on the mantelpiece where
he could see it. He was proud of his letter from
London. It was encouraging ; Lloyd’s wanted further
particulars.
“Were they impressed up at the store when they
gave you the letter?” he asked.
The reply was drafted, a plan drawn, and again
I struggled on with the pen while he breathed behind
my ears, down my neck, on the top of my head and
round the sides of my cheeks.
My father posted it himself, and talked the store-
keeper into giving him credit until his cheque from
Lloyd’s arrived. We all had faith in him this time,
my mother leaning his way for once.
Some months later an official-looking envelope
arrived, and I raced home with it, with a picture of
the storekeeper’s friendly smile when he gave it to
me in my mind. My father’s hands shook as he
opened it.
“My God!” he gasped, and sank down heavily
on the old couch. The letter lay on the table. My
mother picked it up, read it and put it quietly back
on the table. I picked it up, read it, then dropped
it again.
Lloyd’s were no longer interested. It was all over.
My mother smiled. “Well, there will be no need
to order that large tin of mustard after all-”
Roast beef was still off.
1 put the “Safe Ship” in the shed with the brick
fortune, the stamper fortune and the water-wheel.
FROM cradling the creekbeds my father jumped to
gold in a big way—big fish, he called it. He had
taken a few pennyweight of gold into the town to
sell, and returned home with a large flagon of red
wine and a man with a yellow moustache. My mother
was surprised, for we never had visitors. There was
an air of mystery about my father. He said the man
had been an assayer ; and my mother was to do her
best —something to eat, and if possible put him up
on the couch.
“I’ve brought some tinned fish,” he said, “and
everything will be all right.”
She looked perplexed. “Put him up on the couch,
Walter? Why, most of the springs are sticking
through.”
“Never mind that,” he said. “I have a reason.
I’m going to put some wine into him and get his guts
about assaying ; and, remember, don’t call me Walter
to-night. My name is Bill.”
“Bill?” she gasped.
“Yes, Bill. I’m never known to men as Walter.
They call me Bill.”
“Why?” she asked.
“Well, it sounds all wrong for a man to say
‘Where’s the shovel, Walter?’ He calls me Bill.”
That evening the assayer and “Bill” got drunk, and
in the morning my father said he had obtained a lot
of valuable knowledge and information from the
metallurgist.
It was not long before several large books on
metallurgy arrived from the city, with the bill; and
my mother’s evenings were mostly occupied from then
on working out decimals and other items.
Long trips were then journeyed, and small bags
of tailings were brought home which the man with
the yellow moustache assayed ; and these assays pro-
duced the roast-beef promise with renewed vigor.
I have often wondered since then why a man who
so often promised the famed roast beef of his own
country did not strain a financial point once in a
while and try to buy a joint. But he didn’t, and
we continued to fare on the week-end mutton, mid-
week rabbit and tinned fish —sometimes.
At this time I was interested in a large plot of
pumpkin plants which I had planted, and I was keen
to make a success of my own venture. But, like my
father’s schemes, nothing came of it.
One early afternoon a large mob of bullocks,
advancing from the north, came into view—and wild-
looking fellows they were. Through every opening
in the scrub a sea of reddish-brown, with white blazes
here and there breaking the massed color, surged on
towards us. Slowly they surrounded us, and from
our windows we watched the brown mass go past, their
forest of horns swaying as in a breeze. We stood
marooned in an ocean of cattle. They grazed past,
shouldering the walls of our house and raking them
with their horns. I could have reached out and
“Clay; beautiful clay.”
touched them. Their red-rimmed, sullen eyes looked
at us through the windows as they pushed by. I
felt that they were taking us with them, and that our
house had been lifted and was being carried along on
the red-brown sea.
There were no gaps between them. The space
between the fence opposite our place and the fenced
paddock at the back was narrow, and through this
bottleneck they squeezed, jambed and swayed. All
they left on our place was the soil, and my green
pumpkin plants had gone with them. The overlanders
from Queensland had passed.
The drovers, who were on the outskirts of the
mob, were never sighted by us.
MY father came home from seeing the assayer
that afternoon and inspected our damaged
property, but was not worried about the matter. He
talked quite a lot to my mother, and was in good
humor. He patted me on the back and told me not
to fret over my lost pumpkin plants. Recent develop-
ments had pleased him, and early next morning ha
set off for the town and came home full of import-
ance. “It’s all fixed, Mother,” he said.
That afternoon two men came to see him on
business, and after some talk left the house.
The next day my father set off for the town again,
and came home with two parcels, the opening-up of
which disclosed four bottles of beer and two big
sirloins of beef.
I was sent off to get some potatoes. My mother
got the camp-oven out and my father drank two bottles
of beer. After all the years we were to eat roast beef
—and Yorkshire pudding, too.
My father sat at the top of the table and carved
for us, as his own father had done for him in the
home he seldom mentioned. As he ate he talked of
England. Did we like it?
He poured himself a cup of beer and held it up.
“Well,” he
smiled, “here’s to
the roast beef of old
England, and there’s
more where this
comes from.” He
looked at my
mother. “Come,
Mother, you must
drink, too.” And
he poured some out
for her.
“Oh, well, here’s
to the roast beef,”
she smiled. “You’ve
kept your promise.”
“Ye s,” h e
laughed ;• “didn’t I
say ‘mark my
words’ it would?”
He looked at me.
“Yes, my sonny, and
always remember
this an English-
man’s word is as
good as his bond.
And, by the way,
if those drovers
come back looking
for the two steers
that fell into the
clay-pit remember
you know nothing.”


■' .J
m
/ . ij 'iJli if j tjj
'l'i* //.vv/is
U
!!(
it,
V!
7/"!
:■**
Produced
in England A
Went co Fabric.
TRICOLINE means the ultra in comfort and smartness . . .
and its silky touch adds emphasis to your appreciation.
Men look on TRICOLINE SHIRTS with friendly eyes, and
admire them instinctively.
Your Mercer will tell you that shirts of TRICOLINE are
Becken shrunk . . . that they wear for years . . . and retain
the smartness of their stripes right to the last.
SHIRTS FOR M£N
TRICOLINE
RECD.
Brisbane: W. C. Williams, Ryan House, Charlotte St. Perth: Marshall Flower, 757 a Hay St.
Melb.: K. Mather, Pawson House, Flinders La. Sydney: Keogh & Co., Grace Bid., York St.
XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA” and “AORANGI,”
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
First Class. Cabin Class.
Per “NIAGARA” both ways £79/10/- £57/10/-
Per “AORANGI” „ „ £Bl/10/- £57/10/-
Per •'.AORANGr r;.7 aml ] £57/10/-
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
247 George Street,
Sydney
(inc. in N.Z.)
or
59 William Street.
Melbourne
ROUNDABOUT
Backstage.
He alights from a hansom here in front of the
old Royal in the heyday of the legit. No yellow-
faced No-Parking notices gaping about then, to get
his goat and dampen his ardor. Not that he was so
easy to dampen. He’d have boldly souvenired any such
emblem of a regulated age and strode into the near-
by Australia with it at the shoulder-arms, and given
it to a barmaid as a bouquet.
On another occa-
sion, that is; when he
was out on a jollo with
the boys. Not on this
night we have him in
mind. This night he is
serious. He has been
smitten.
On the pavement
beside him, as he hesi-
tates a moment to bid
the cabby wait, a ro-
mantically battered gar-
bage can has its lid
cocked rakishly up. Even
garbage-cans, of course,
would be rakish then.
Full of romance. In a
sweeping glance he takes
in the can, the stray cat
Into the Australia at the
shoulder-arms.
up on its hind legs sniffing the glamorous remnants
of a cray, the cobbled alleyway leading darkly down
beside the Royal to the Stage Door.
Thither he strides ; a geranium in his buttonhole,
his left arm embracing an acre or so of chrysanthe-
mums, his face decorated with tufty louse-ladders and
the smile of the smitten. And, of course, gloves—
yellow suede —top-hat, and what have you.
And then?
Well, you know, sir, backstage visitors aren’t
exactly encouraged. Oh, thank you, sir! H’m; well, yes,
perhaps if you let me have your card I might get a
chance to slip it into Miss Fluffyfluff’s dressing-room.
Just wait in the Green Room here, sir.
You can fill in the rest for yourself . . .
And now what?
Hello. Yes, this is Toots. That you, Freddie?
Could keep the
ghost walking for
six months.
Oh, it’s Basil. All right,
I s’pose so. Why, of
course, Basil. Yes, about
eleven - thirtyish.
WHAT? Stage door?
What are y’ taking me
for Tittell Brune?
Cut out the slops,
Bassy, old boy. Drop
up to the flat. O.K.
S’long. Yeah. I’ll be
seein’ y’.
Well, something
like that, anyway.
At any rate, on
the night we lately
dropped in to see
what backstage looks
like these days, if there were any dashing bloods
about—or what may now pass for such—they had
themselves pretty thoroughly disguised.
We did see our old
friend Sammy Stein, and
he and we and Mr. Gee
had a friendly word or
two in Mr. Gee’s dressing-
room, in the course of
which we gathered that
Sammy was there to
show Mr. Gee some photos, they’d had taken together,
and that he (Sammy) would be seein’ us again next
wrestlin’ season. But as for bloods —well, the nearest
we got to sighting one turned out to be our friend of
even longer standing, Mr. Phil Smith, dressed to go on
stage.
Not only bloods ; even chorus boys have altered
in these few years since we last inspected them. To
gallery girls, 1937 vintage, they’re no doubt as allur-
ing as ever, but on a closer inspection there doesn’t
seem to be a really pretty one in the whole bunch.
And we haven’t any doubt they’d take that as a com-
pliment. We’re not suggesting that they’re unhand-
some. Not at all. Let us say that they’re about as
strong in that line as The Bulletin’s literary staff
and let it go at that,
As for the girls—well, what do you expect us
to say, standing here in the wings with them brushing
by us like this? Of course they’re as charming, as
flittersome, as lovely and light on the wing as ever.
A little matter of suntan powder in lieu of silk stock-
, ing, perhaps, but who will say that is not a change
for the better?
And as for the leading ladies —Miss Valerie Hay,
Miss Lois Green, Miss Billy Worth, Miss Enid Hollis
—well, if you should happen to be in Sydney, go
along to d.c. or stalls and inspect these graceful
premises for yourself. We guarantee you’ll find it
most agreeable.
But here, backstage,
you’d probably notice that
a change has come over
them all. Industrious
seems to be the keynote
to all of them now —in
these shows of Mr.
George Gee’s, at any rate.
These people work.
In their breathers they
relax against the stray
ends of scenery and such-
like in the wings, and
you’ll have just about time
to carry conversation up
to the scarcely-advanced
point of mutual agree-
ment on the brightness of
the show. Then, before
As light on the wing as
ever.
you can think of something else to remark, you’ll
see a steely look come into his, or her, eyes. You’ll
see that he, or she, is now watching the stage trans-
fixed, already beginning to hum the song that’s going
to burst out on there presently.
If ever you’ve seen human beings in the process
of becoming literally entranced you’ve seen it now.
As far as you’re concerned they’ve already vamoosed.
Their humming gets slightly louder, with words in it.
They swing into a lively mark-time motion, hands
on each other’s shoulders at arm’s length, and on they
go, to pack more yakker into ten minutes or so than
most of us manage in a week.
The truth is that the stage show, even in the few
years since we last had a look backstage, has been
speeded up. To suit the times, apparently, it now
keeps ’em going at a terrific bat.
Once upon a time —it really does sound like a
fairy story now —a fair-to-middling show could keep
the ghost walking for six months or more. Now it
takes something right out of the box to keep him
active —or, at any rate, animated —for six weeks. And
at only two addresses in Sydney at that —one of them
vaudeville.
To stem the tide —a couple of years back it looked
like going out for keeps—the stage people have hit
on speed as the essence of the contract. Anyway,
we’ve never seen them working faster than in the
several recent shows at the old Royal.
And none of them more so in these Gee shows
than the (on stage) fish-faced Mr. Gee himself. This
weather one of the late night sights at the back of
Gee!
the Royal must be the wardrobe
bloke wringing out Mr. Gee’s
singlet.
He’s on stage for somewhere
about nine-tenths of the time in
his show* s , and there he never lets
up. Even when, say, he has to
flop on a couch as part of the busi-
ness, and could, as far as the re-
quirements of the piece go, shut
his eyes and relax, he still keeps
at it, gives an impression of a cat
going to sleep which even from
here, a few feet away in the wings,
is a faultless little comedy
cameo.
Mr. Gee is a born funny man. A polished artist,
of course ; but that doesn’t finish explaining him. It’s
simply that whatever he does takes on the comedic
twist.
How much so we gathered by going backstage
again on a humid morning and watching them re-
hearse the show they have on at the Royal now. This
was one of Sydney’s- enervating days—an utter swel-
terer. We shouldn’t have been surprised to find them
all absent at Bondi. We found that the pace that’s
been injected into legit, has even got into rehearsals.
They were tearing into it as if the southerly had
already arrived and they wanted to get warm. What’s
more, enjoying it.
Mr. Lock, producingj isn’t the bullroaring type
familiar to everybody through a thousand screen ver-
sions of backstage. He tells them, and they go through
with it. If he doesn’t like it, he tells them conver-
sationally why, and they go through it again. From
a hopeless jumble—a clumsy clutter of individuals
getting industriously about —you see it knocking into
shape, taking form and definiteness.
Beside Mr. Lock, Mr. Tatnall, who’s stage man-
ager, and a gentleman we suspect of being the
prompter, getting their ends of it right as it goes
along; or hopping in and filling the part of any
absent mummers. Down in the front stalls Mr. Mac-
Cunn, ticking off where he and his orchestrians come
in.
And now enter Mr. Gee, in shirt sleeves. Funny!
He’d be funny if he came in nailed up inside a pack-
ing-case. Which isn’t only
our impression. It’s how
these people themselves feel
about him. He makes them
laugh. Grouped around
the sides, in their knock-
about clothes, they enjoy
this rough performance in
shirt sleeves as much as
any audience is ever likely
to enjoy the finished thing.
Compliment to a leading
comedian can’t go much
higher than that.
We head out through
the alleyway again with our
old regard for the legit, bol-
stered up a lot. We must
write to the City Fathers
Mr. Gee’s singlet.
and suggest a new statue to be erected at Poverty
Point. One of Hamfat defying the Talkies. Two or
three years back such a thought would have put us
off our beer for a fortnight.


Now even Greater Comfort
Performance and Safety in the
WORLD S FINEST LIGHT CAR
'U/ii// Mil
DOMINANT
NEW FEATURES
IN its sweeping new Design, Comfort, Safety, Per-
formance, Proved Reliability and Economy, the New
1938 HILLMAN MINX clinches its reputation as the
World's Finest Light Car.
Look at the dashing New Style ... the handsome new
radiator ... the new “Monopiece" steel r00f... the new
full-width safety spring bumpers fore and aft >.. the new
rich colours ... the graceful sweeping tail which incor-
porates the new “Armless" luggage platform on the De
Luxe Saloon! Study the re-designed engine now
packed with even greater “big car" power and stamina.
yet endowed with truly miserly economy. Sink your
hand into the silky-soft luxuriousness of the new "con-
tour-correct" upholstery of chrome handbuffed leather
. . . that's the comfort you expect at TWICE the price!
Each of its 21 Dominant New Features is a definite
reason why you, too, should see now the new 1938
Hillman Minx . . . now more than ever before, the
World's Finest Light Car . . . BIG in everything but cost!
The 1938 Hillman Minx is identical in every detail
with the model on sale in London.
DISTRIBUTORS
QUEENSLAND:
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
358 Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA
WAYMOUTH MOTOR CO. LTD.
42 Waymouth Sireet, Adelaide.
NM7.
VICTORIA:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
222 Exhibition St., Melbourne, C.l.
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
York Street, Launceston.
W. AUSTRALIA:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street, Perth.
N.S.W.:
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
15 5 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
World Exporters:
It
ItootES™
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London.
Australian and N.Z. Representative:
C. E. BLAYNEY
Kembla Building,
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
$m
u
mm
. ;:
Um
M
m
... m
svS^
V>H\
SS£
C\
m
mmmm
SS*
■
SNS
m
mm
m
m
S*
wm
. Ml
;\
&
■
sm,
■1
Some Idea of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars .
- V"


A TIME FOR COOL HEADS.
Since Japan signed the anti-Communism Pact there have been angry demands on the part of Reds and their sympathisers that Britain and the United States should
sign the Franco-Soviet Pact.”
“As you were saying, John, it’ll be a fine day if it don’t rain.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE ANTI-COMMUNISM PACT.
Must the inevitable outcome for us of the anti-
communism pact be just a blundering return to the
old Triple Entente, Britain, France, Russia against the
rest? That would be in accord with the British
“Liberal” and British Labor attitude of bitter hostility to
Germany, Italy and Japan. It would equally suit the
book of a section of Labor in Australia. More than
anything else, it would suit Russia and all who favor
the Communist idea.
Few people in Australia have even a slight notion
of what anti-Communism means to the countries
which have become parties to the pact, especially Ger-
many and Italy. We have seen Communism in action
only in comparatively mild forms —in the last silly
seamen’s strike and in basher-gang methods in strikes
before that. Britons have seen it in worse forms
in their colonies and dependencies—in the subsidising
of sedition, and in the corruption of colored men.
In Britain itself, so much closer to the scene than
we are, the bulk of the people cannot yet appreciate
the German and Italian view. They still cannot realise
there, any more than most people can here, that to
Germany and Italy anti-Communism is vital. Com-
munism is no incredible bogey to those nations. It
came to them when they—especially Germany —were
in a state of collapse and disintegration. Fascism
arose as an answer to its aggression.
Communism has threatened the Germans and the
Italians with frightful civil wars, with a fate com-
parable to but immeasurably worse than the fate of
Spain. It established itself for a time in both coun-
tries. Little wonder that the great majority of the
Germans and the Italians have accepted even Fascism,
which does at the worst derive from race and tradi-
tion, rather than surrender, after wholesale murder
and robbery, to an Oriental socialism opposed to
their entire national feelings and ideals.
To appreciate this is not to desire to imitate or
approve of their forms and methods of government.
It is simply to take a step towards achieving the
world’s most urgent need of the moment —a little
simple understanding to replace the blunt front of
snarling hostility.
Two of the countries which have signed this pact
are traditional friends of Britain. The other has
shown in a hundred ways that it is anxious to be a
friend. It is only facing the issue frankly to admit
that these nations have been brought together in their
anti-Communism pact in part by the new British
foreign policy —that of which “the League,” U.S.S.R.
included, “is the cornerstone” —which is so very unlike
the old British foreign policy, as well as by their fears
of Communism. They are not alone in resenting the
new British foreign policy. Belgium, Portugal, Siam
and other countries have been alienated by it. British
influence used to be supreme in Brazil. Now Brazil,
inspired by its anti-Communist motherland, Portugal,
which has removed itself from the British orbit, has
turned Fascist.
For Britain to answer the pact, as is suggested it
should, by joining with Russia and France in an
armed anti-Fascist —therefore, a pro-Communist—
camp would be to move from clumsiness to stark,
staring madness. It is beyond all human reason that
two such armed camps could face each other without
sooner or later clashing into the slaughter. It would
mean the whole horrible, futile business of 1914-18
over again, but with elements that make it seem
almost certain that this time we should be on the
weaker side.
Accepting the position arising from such a divi-
sion of nations, as Sydney University’s voluble Pro-
fessor Roberts has done in print, as that of “1914 all
over again, except that now we have the support of
Czechoslovakia,” is to display a lack of historical
nous that would be surprising in a kindergarten miss.
It is to wipe out not only a generation and more of
world history, but even ordinary day-to-day memory,
and start off with a blank sheet.
In 1914 we had Japan with us from the begin-
ning, fruit of a generations-old friendship produced
by foreign policy of the kind Britain had before it
was taken in hand by Mr. Eden. A blundering move
now into any Franco-Russian camp would ensure
Japan’s not only being not with us but hostile.
In 1915 Italy came in on our side, result of an
even older and firmer friendship. In the press cam-
paign of hostility towards Italy the barrage of insult
has included disparagement of Italy’s 1914-18 war
effort; actually, Italy proved a very useful ally and saw
the fighting through, whereas Russia quitted. Instead
of that friendship we should now have to count on
the open enmity in the Mediterranean of the new
and much stronger Italy—a contingency that might
neutralise France. As it is, the French Right has no
use for the Russian alliance, and is for an arrange-
ment with Italy and Germany.
Against such considerations as these Professor
Roberts throws in Czechoslovakia as the measure of
difference between the position now and in 1914!
And then, of course, he spoke of Russia, under
the “S. M. Herald’s” stock heading: “Power of the
Soviet.” If there was one thing of which the last war
might have been expected to make British people
unforgettably aware it surely must be the folly of
placing any reliance on the alleged might of Russia.
Theorists have colossal faith in the Soviet’s great
Red Army—the “S. M. Herald” followed on Professor
Roberts’s remarks in the same column with its own
eulogies of the Soviet’s grand tank corps, its “un-
rivalled” air force and its “army of 1,300,000, com-
pared with Germany’s 550,000.” Ordinary practical
minds recall the Russian Steam-Roller, the fact that
the Red Army has so far been tested only on parades
and against imaginary enemies, and the fact that Red
Army generals and a host of commissars have been
victims of Stalin’s purge, and wonder whether a
Government so obviously scared of civil war could
resist the Germans for three weeks.
There is one other important difference in the
arrangement of Europe to-day and in 1914. That is
Spain, where Franco gets daily closer to victory, and
where, whatever form of government is ultimately,
adopted, it will certainly not favor Communism. In
1914, of course, Spain stood neutral.
Yet one other point needs touching on. That
is the hope, nourished by many sentimental theorists,
of America coming in on our —as it would be then •
pro-Communist side. This can be dismissed as utterly
fantastic. Isolation and neutrality are the policy of
Democrats and Republicans alike. As the head of
the American delegation said in the first sentences
he addressed to the Nine-Power Conference, his
country has “no commitments.”
It has to be faced that the situation created by
the pact can become dangerous. It does represent a
grouping of forces, and the temper of the people in
those countries has become such that it will not need
much more blundering to make them not merely
united against Communism but menacing to us.
It is with the avoidance of that danger that British
' foreign policy is now faced. The suggested lining-up
with Russia and France wbuld obviously be the most
colossal of blunders. What is needed is an entirely
different approach towards understanding the internal
policies of the countries brought together by the pact;
not a continued open hostility towards them over the
respective merits of forms of government, but a
friendly acceptance of the fact that it is wholly their
own affair what form of government they prefer, and
that it is our affair —and our interest too —to be
friends with them.
The Edenish policy of our merely holding out
against either a Communist or a Fascist bloc is not
enough. In that position circumstances would force us
one way or the other in time. The approach must be
in the line of understanding and of making our friend-
ship seem real. Mr. Chamberlain has already given
proof that he is on the side of sanity in British
foreign policy. The position would improve immedi-
ately if he dismissed Mr. Eden from his Ministry or
relegated that young gentleman to a minor portfolio
and took control of foreign affairs himself.
"Safe in the Senate."
An oppressive weight was lifted from the U.A.P.-
U.C.P. mind when Senate-election preferences were
counted in South Australia. In the last Parliament
there were 33 Ministerialist and three Labor Senators,
and, after the fashion of Governments with command-
ing majorities, the Administration treated the Senate
with contempt. During the last couple of years that
Chamber abandoned even the pretence of being a
House of Review, and became the Government’s
docile instrument in the passing of ill-considered laws.
The end-of-the-session rush “to get done by Christ-
mas” became more flagrant than ever.
Great was the shock, therefore, when it dawned
on the Government that the Senate voting was going
against it. It was plain at midnight on polling-day
that a good majority in the House of Representatives
was assured —in point of fact, only one Ministerial
seat, Ballarat, was captured by Labor, which had no
more than 28 members in the last House, though one
of the two Dunstan-group Agrarians elected in Vic-
toria has declared himself hostile to composite Min-
istries —but when the maddeningly slow count had
lasted into the second week it was feared at U.A.P.
and U.C.P. headquarters that all the Senate seats
would be lost. And 19 were contested.
There was gloomy talk of a double dissolution
to regain the Government’s predominance in the
Senate. It was very foolish talk, for a people burdened
with seven Parliaments does not welcome elections
and would most certainly regard an unnecessary one
as an infliction deserving of sharp punishment. (Inci-
dentally, 1938 will see State elections in N. S. Wales,
Queensland and S.A., and a fourth in Victoria is a
possibility. The Commonwealth’s one double-dissolu-
tion experiment 12 months after a general election was
disastrous to the Government that lightheartedly ven-
tured upon it —Joseph Cook’s. Besides, better Gov-
ernments than Mr. Lyons’s carried on without a
Senate majority when the Senate was a far less tract-
able Chamber than it has become. Edmund Barton
had no Senate majority, nor had Christopher Watson
or Andrew Fisher (1908-09) or Alfred Deakin till he
formed his third Ministry—the fatal Fusion —in 1909.
From the other side also came prophecies of a
double dissolution, though here exultation was the
note. It was asserted that the 19 Labor Senators to
be elected would accept no legislation “inimical to
the workers,” and would force the Government to go
to the country on the first issue that could be impro-
vised. Cynics, running their eyes over the names put
on Labor tickets, and finding that most of them be-
longed to oft-defeated old hands, rejects of State con-
stituencies and obscure aldermen, found it difficult
to see the owners uniting in a grand determination
to risk easy jobs, good for six years at £950 p.a. (and
sure to go back to £lOOO p.a.), with free passes over
all the Government railways and tramways in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, whenever summoned by Mr.
Curtin or Mr. Lang or Mr. Beasley.
The elected Labor Senators are not to be called
upon to make the sacrifice or the cynics to strain
their imaginations. Mr. Mcßride, who was M.H.R.
for Grey, is to be transferred to the Senate after the
end of June. South Australia has also re-elected
Senator McLachlan, the Postmaster-General, and
Mcßride-McLachlan preferences have put Mr. Wilson
in. When the S.A. count was finished, the Govern-
ment was sure of a majority of four from the begin-
ning of July—until then it will, of course, retain a
commanding advantage—and the return of the three
Queensland Labor Senators will not alter the position.
The Government is nevertheless losing two of
its three Senate Ministers, and when the old members
are succeeded by the new the Senate will be weaker in
personnel than ever. It will have to find a new leader
and a new President. Mr. Pearce has been in the
Senate from the beginning ; Mr. Lynch, since 1907.
Elected as Labor members, both followed Mr. Hughes
out of their old party when conscription rent it in
twain, and both became Nationalists —and U.A..P.
when the Nationalists changed their label. According
to his lights, each has done his best to serve the
country, and, although they have figured in some of
the bitterest controversies which have rocked political
Australia, neither has ever suffered the experience
of having his personal integrity questioned, in or out
of Parliament.
Assistant Minister Brennan and Senators Guthrie
and Plain, who go out with him, and the defeated
Tasmanian Senators, Sampson, Millen and Payne, will
also be missed. Like the two Westralians, none of
these gentlemen lacks ability, and all have helped
to preserve the decencies of debate. In that respect the
Senate has rarely been found wanting. It is a fact,
nevertheless, that its influence has steadily degen-
erated.
The Senate was intended to be a States’ House,
but it has long ceased to be that. It has powers almost
as great as those possessed by the U.S.A. Senate,
which refused to let President Wilson carry his coun-
try into the League of Nations and frustrated the
second Roosevelt’s plan for packing the Supreme
Court; but it never exercises them. It might be a
champion of national causes like the settlement of
the empty North and the employment of idle youth
and defence on the basis of universal liability to
training and service, but nowadays it is not even
expected to give the nation a lead in such matters.
Rather is it expected to be a feeble echo of the House
of Representatives and the Government’s obedient
servant when the Government is in a hurry, and it
meekly accepts the parts assigned to it.
Perhaps pre-selection is chiefly to blame the
Senate has been a pre-selected House nearly all its
days. Perhaps Proportional Representation or the
division of States into districts would make it more
like what the fathers of Federation hoped it would
become. Perhaps it will function better when Labor
can make itself heard to greater effect than wfien Mr.
Joseph Silver Collings and his two associates raised
their shrill chorus, even if the Victorian Senators
were elected because “there are 150,000 voters who
can’t count up to ten”—the theory of the superior
Mr. Menzies—and the N. S. Wales four because “they
are just letters of the alphabet”—the groan wrung
from U.A.P. headquarters, though U.A.P. head-
quarters may have beaten its own ticket by making
the four As a present of Newcastle, West Sydney,
Darling and Hunter. At all events, if the Senate
doesn’t show a decided and permanent improvement
it will be in danger of being scrapped.
The fact that there is no express provision for
scrapping the thing will not save it if it isn’t worth
saving. The Commonwealth Constitution Act was an
Act of the Imperial Parliament, and the Imperial
Parliament could not listen unmoved to a petition
backed by a great popular vote for abolition and the
substitution of the referendum as a brake on the
audacities of elected persons and non-elected officials.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Positive Action" Again.
Last month the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” an-
nounced that Mr. Roosevelt had declared for “positive
action” against Japan. It recommended Australia to
be in “positive action” up to its neck, and explained
what the President meant by it.
It means two things, both simple, bloodless and
effective: .
One is to paralyse Japan’s army and navy by
cutting off her vital oil supply.
The other is to paralyse Japan’s economy by closing
the world market to her goods.
We in Australia must make it clear that we stand
behind America.
Events have proved this reckless newspaper to
have been utterly wrong. The alleged “positive action”
boiled -down to an extremely cautious participation
in a Nine-Power Conference, sitting not in Washing-
ton, where the Nine-Power Treaty was arranged and
signed, but at remote Brussels. And the American
delegation has made it crystal-clear that its Govern-
ment entered upon the discussions without “commit-
ments,” aiming not at any form of coercion of either
party to the war in China, but at proposals for a
peaceful settlement, if any such could be arrived at.
Sydney “Sun,” which publishes quite as many
puffs for Russia as the “Telegraph,” put it this way:
America is not at Brussels even to consider apply-
ing sanctions. She has left no doubt of her anxiety to
avoid the appearance of leading any movement against
the Japanese. Mr. Eden, for his part, has appointed this
cautious and non-committal Washington the pacemaker
for London.
In short, the “Telegraph” grossly misled the
public. So far from apologising, it seized the oppor-
tunity afforded by the signing of the anti-Communist
pact to come out with another furious attack on
Japan, and, of course, on Germany and Italy. It
saw in Mr. Roosevelt’s “congratulatory telegram to
Stalin” on the twentieth anniversary of the founding
of the Red Republic (“Best wishes for the welfare of
your fellow-countrymen”) a “peculiar significance,”
and returned to its favorite project of a Russian
alliance.
The Franco-Soviet Pact is not a pact against Fas-
cism. It is a pact against war... .Insofar as England’s
security is bound up with France’s it is of vital import-
ance to the Empire.
Can Britain afford to reject the security that par-
ticipation in a pact with France, the U.S.S.R., and
possibly the United States, would provide?
Yes, Britain can and will afford to reject this
“security,” which would be a short way to another
world war in association with a rotten ally, and it’s
a million to one that the U.S.A. will turn away from
the “security” without even considering it.
Anything in the guise of a Red soldier seems
to arouse the “Telegraph” to enthusiasm. Though
the unhappy Chinese have suffered the inevitable
defeats, the “Telegraph” has discovered that “a former
Red army launches a counter-attack against Peiping.”
These fighters are acknowledged masters of mobile
warfare over a shifting front.
The Diggers and the Tommies made a similar
discovery about the Portuguese, only they didn’t put
it that way.
A New Capital.
The report of Dr. Stehn, the Dutch vulcanologist,
makes it clear that something will have to be done
about Rabaul, which suffered earthquake last June
and has been proved to be in the centre of a violent
volcanic area.
The official leaning is towards moving the capital
to Madang on the mainland of New Guinea. Madang
is a better site than Rabaul, which is isolated by sea
from the greater part of the Mandated Territory. It
has a good harbor, well sheltered, but it is low-lying
and has more than once been the scene of wholesale
native deaths from epidemics. In any case, the move
would be expensive, and Madang is not -far enough
away from the volcanic area to be safe. Only a few
miles out to sea to the north, Manam Island steams
like Etna.
The obviously sensible thing to do is to move
the capital to Port Moresby. Should Madang become
the capital, the position will be even more ludicrous
than it is at present. Within 350 miles of each
other as the crow flies, two Administrators, two
Councils and two sets of Treasury, Lands, Native and
other officials will administer two sets of laws and
two sets of taxation.
The two territories are divided by an imaginary
line running through country so wild that it needs
a surveyor to discover its whereabouts. And whereas
Moresby holds a long-trained staff, many of whose
members were born on the spot and know the
native, the Mandate is served to a large extent by
experimentalists who have lived only part of their
adult life there.
Moresby has the distinct advantage that it is
nearer to Australia, less open to invasion and easier
to defend. It is as accessible to other parts of the
whole territory as Madang. The two territories, taken
together, are the makings of a new Australian State,
and the two populations, taken together, even now
have a white community which would justify some
representation in the Commonwealth Parliament.
The mandate idea is played out. John Bull was
glad to hand oyer his Irak mandate to a local Govern-
ment. Those in Syria and Palestine are held by the
British and French only by force of arms. The
Japanese have ceased to consider the Carolines, Mar-
shalls and Mariannes as anything but an integral part
. of their empire. New Guinea would be better gov-
erned as one unit with a stable destiny as part of the
Commonwealth.
We are never likely to give up Mandated New
Guinea. For defence reasons alone, it must remain
an Australian possession. To allow any foreign
nation to take control again of a country rich in
resources and harbors, and capable of providing a
native army of first-class fighting men, would be
nothing short of disaster.
Ramsay MacDonald.
Ramsay MacDonald was not a great man, but he had
character and courage; and he played no mean part
in the history of his time.
He was born of a poor family in a Scottish
village, Lossiemouth, and to the end of his days he
made Lossiemouth his home. Journalism gave him
his first start. He could write strong and even beauti-
ful prose. He spoke clearly and well, and in the dark
days of Labor at the beginning of the century he was
the party’s best propagandist.
He married at 30 the daughter of a distinguished
physicist, J. H. Gladstone, related to Lord Kelvin.
His wife died early, leaving him with two sons and
three daughters, his constant companions. The couple
in their early days did much work for the poor
children of London. The wife is remembered in a
beautiful memorial in Lincoln’s Inn Fields, erected
at a time when MacDonald’s politics were anathema
to most of those in authority. It is one of the very
few memorials in England to women other than
queens.
During the war MacDonald’s heart controlled his
head. He was on the side of pacifism. Had he been
a citizen of equal prominence in a Continental coun-
try that venerable-looking head might have rolled ; at
any rate, his attitude would have meant exile. As it
was, it cost him his seat in Parliament.
But within three years he was member for Wool-
wich, chairman of the Labor party and leader of the
Opposition. And three years afterwards he was Prime
Minister.
His Government soon fell. His colleagues were
difficult, and his party was in a minority. His second
term coincided with the onset of the depression. Most
of his lieutenants and followers demanded measures
which he considered disastrous. He had the courage
to break with them and join with the Conservatives
and some of the Liberals in forming a National Min-
istry, which he led for six years. The breach was per-
manent ; it cost him friendships which he valued and
made him a target for invective.
His foreign policy, based on efforts to bring
France and Germany together, failed. He carried his
disarmament notions to perilous lengths. When he
retired recently he was an old, tired, broken man.
But he had become something of an institution, partly
because of his exemplary family life, a factor which
always counts heavily with the British public.
His son Malcolm is an abler politician. At 31 the
son was in the Ministry. At 35 he was a Privy Coun-
cillor. History’s judgment on the father will be kinder
than that of Clynes, who was his associate in 1924
and 1929 ; certainly it cannot ignore him altogether.
Turning on Santa Claus.
Things aren’t going as well in the U.S.A. as the
professors and economic advisers expected. The
President seems to delight in keeping people guessing,
but labor troubles of a nasty kind and a growing
restlessness on the part of employers have become
unpleasantly obvious results of his policy.
Whether the alphabetically-tabbed recovery
devices were 0.K., f.a.q. or just-N.G. was hotly dis-
cussed at the Presidental election a year ago, but the
electors pronounced a favorable verdict. With trade
and employment now falling off again, and Wall-
street so weak that it looks like being a cot case for
some time, many of the people who gave the verdict
are now plumping for “N.G.,” with an extra letter
in particularly disgruntled cases.
In Australia during the slump we faced facts,
willingly or otherwise. Fanciful credit schemes and
short cuts to Utopia were rejected by the people. And
the people won through despite Governments, not
because of them.
Associates Fall Out.
In the struggle for circulation among Melbourne
newspapers, Victorians are getting a liberal education
in the value of cable services as certified to by the
journals publishing them.
The “old” “Argus” printed Australian Associated
Press cables. The “new” “Argus” has withdrawn
from Associated Press and is joining with Sydney’s
“Daily Telegraph,” which has also suffered a sea-
change from “old” to “new,” in distributing the bless-
ings of “an independent cable service,” giving “first-
hand authoritative information about affairs overseas.”
The “new” “Argus” informs devotees of the
“old” “Argus” that they were “obliged to read
cable news in the morning... .substantially the same
as that which appeared on the previous afternoon” ;
had “access to only one set of opinions and only one
interpretation of events,” and were exposed to all
the unspecified injuries arising from “group control.”
From that they are to be freed.
The “new” “Argus” service will present new angles
on events and people, open up new paths to understand-
ing of the world situation and satisfy the need of every
intelligent person for a daily picture of the lives of
other people.
The “Age” came back, as it always does. It hotly
explained that “it has the exclusive use in Victoria
of a special independent cable service, established in
association with the Sydney ‘Morning Herald,’ ” which
is speedy, serviceable, reliable, honest, efficient and
authentic. The “Age” subscribes also to Associated
Press, whose news is sane, full, correct, comprehen-
sive, balanced, responsible, elaborate, dignified, un-
biased, exclusive, well-organised and continuous.
There are no fakes about these services; there is
no guessing and no taking of risks; there are no “half-
baked” stories; no sensational figments of the imagina-
tion under the guise of news; no distortion or coloring
of facts, and certainly no attempts at propaganda.
As evidence, it is proudly mentioned that Associated
Press has “exclusive access to information gathered
by,” among other newspapers, the “Times,” the “Daily
Telegraph,” the “Daily Mail” and—yes, the “News-
Chronicle” and the “Daily Herald.”
Meanwhile it would seem that Bruno Mussolini
has been killed and raised from the dead, and that
another Italian army has been landed in Spain, all
the Italian infantry have been withdrawn from that
country, and infantry and reinforcement have been
shipped back. Further miracles are hoped for.
For Commonwealth Control.
Canberra announces that early in 1938 Ministers of
Transport will assemble to discuss suggestions. Pre-
sumably proceedings will begin with the reciting of
the poem “We Are Seven,” after which border rates,
- break-of-gauge problems and the establishment of
“some form of independent control to co-ordinate
transport in all States” will be mentioned, together
with an idea about making all forms of transport
work together in the event of war.
Canberra is emphatic on the point that it has no
intention of even suggesting how any State should
deal with its own internal transport affairs. Which
is the essential smallgoods of ihe whole affair, of
course. . If State Governments continue to strike at
commercial transport and extend their war on it from
the ground to the air, there will be no commercial
transport to organise.
If Mr. Lyons is really in earnest he should make
national control of transport a vital feature of the
proceedings. Britain, Maoriland and South Africa
have it, and Australia needs it.
A Plea for the Half-caste.
The half-caste has always been a problem, though
less in Australia than in almost any other country.
The tendency in Australian mixed marriages, as
with white-Polynesian unions, is for the progeny to
acquire white characteristics. Throwbacks towards
aboriginal types from unions between pure whites and
blacks or half-castes are rare. Second and third
infusions of white blood usually leave progeny with
few aboriginal traces.
At the last aboriginal census (1934) there were
about 22,000 abo. half-castes. Over 9000 are in N. S.
Wales, about 5000 in Queensland, 4000 in W.A.
and 1800 in S.A. These do not, of course, include
a number of other persons whose black blood has
been bred out until they are almost indistinguishable
from the whites. Fewer than 3000 are nomadic, living
with the blacks; 4000 are employed, mostly in station
work ; 7000-odd are in supervised camps. Statistics
do not show the condition of the remainder.
The position of some of those in homes was indi-
cated by proceedings brought at Alice Springs (N.T.)
by an ex-inmate of the Alice Springs half-caste home.
In other years this home was in a most unsatisfactory
condition. It consisted of an iron shanty without
egress except for the doors, and without water or
sanitation. In this an indiscriminate boiling of
youngsters from early maturity downwards, and of
every color from almost pure white to dark chocolate,
were locked every night.
Conditions have since improved out of sight, but
the evidence shows that they are not perfect. The
prosecuting inmate, a woman, claimed that she
had been wrongly imprisoned, since she was an octo-
roon, not a half-caste ; her mother was a quarter-
caste, her father a white man, She declared that she
was kept in the institution for three months and
allowed out only on special permit. She slept in a
dormitory with 56 other persons, and was locked in
at 9 p.m.
Once she was allowed out to go to “the pictures”
and did not return. She was taken back to the home by
a policeman and prosecuted. The charge against her
was dismissed, and she was released. The defence
was that she was a half-caste within the meaning of
the Act, and had been placed in the home for her own
good. The Court did not uphold the official view.
It awarded £75 damages.
There is something wrong with the whole system.
The Commonwealth thinks sufficiently well of half-
castes to grant them the vote, and if they are intelli-
gent enough to vote they should be intelligent enough
to look after themselves, like other citizens, subject
to good behavior. If their behavior makes them a
nuisance, they should not be detained without a public
hearing before a magistrate and a formal committal.
Committal to a home in which inmates need to
be locked up at night is not the best way of dealing
with the matter. It would be far better to isolate
such people under a compound system in some quiet
locality, far from the temptations and distractions of
town life.
The present conditions are no reflection on the
local officials, who do their best with poor facilities ;
but they do reflect on Government policy. Most of
these unhappy people are capable of being made into
useful citizens if taken young enough and properly
trained.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Dick Tafone”: A Fremantle (W.A.)
prisoner has swallowed a razor blade and
a packet of needles. A Melbourne
gaol inmate scoffed a number of frag-
ments of sharp steel —he died eight
months afterwards. Every big hospital
has its swallowing cases, mostly children,
and including coins, clock-wheels, toys,
safety-pins and even the ignition key of
a car. Excited adults who have, or claim
to have, swallowed their false teeth are
almost weekly patients. But none of
them has, so far, equalled the perform-
ance of Hadji Ali, who once showed in
Australia, by swallowing a couple of pints
of water, then a glass of petrol, igniting
the petrol, and extinguishing it with the
water. Nor will he again—he has died.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A new offence has come
into an Adelaide court, to wit, “wearing
a naval uniform in such circumstances as
to bring contempt upon it” ; £3 and costs.
The wearer had been gaoled for stealing
goods from a tennis-club. When it was
found that he had been camping under
the club’s verandah in uniform, Defence
Dept, took the further action.
S': sfc *
“Lag”: It recently cost a Brisbane
man £5 cash down or 20 days’ for trying
to send H.M. boarders a tin of
tobacco and' cigarette papers disguised
as soap. ’Sonah pointed out the
interesting fact that the conveying of
contraband into Queensland prisons is
one of the few offences where the Law
enables both a fine and imprisonment to
be inflicted —£50 and six months’ choky.
* * * *
“K. 8.”: A mention of the engagement
of Charles Kingsford Smith’s widow re-
fers to her as “Lady Mary Kingsford
Smith,” thereby promoting her to the
status of an earl’s daughter. Where the
reference is to the wife of a baronet or
knight a Christian name is only used (and
then in parentheses) where it is desired
to distinguish her from some other lady
whose surname is the same as her own.
Strictly speaking, no woman whose hus-
band has a lesser title than baron is en-
titled to the appellation “Lady.” She is
really “Dame,” but common usage now
permits the former.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Interested to read that
police and natives have clashed at Mossel
Bay in the Cape while the former were
raiding a native location for “a pro-
hibited narcotic herb.” This will be
“dokka,” a common weed. Under its in-
fluence the smoker becomes a dangerous
maniac before he subsides into the final
stupor. It may be smoked in an ordi-
nary pipe, but the darkies when I knew
them had a way of their own for tackling
it —the veld natives, at any rate. Two
small holes about a foot apart were made
in the ground and connected by a little
trench. In it a twig was laid, and after
the trench had been filled with tightly
rammed earth this was withdrawn, leav-
ing a tunnel between the two holes. Fill-
ing one with dried dokka, the smoker put
a coal on top and, lying on his stomach,
put his mouth to the other hole and in-
haled the fumes. In the Republics the
penalties for dokka-smoking included un-
limited sjambok, and even in the Cape
and Natal they were heavy.
* * * *
“Tickets Please”: In Melbourne the
three “offside” entrances on the electric
trams (B. 27/10/’37) are always barred,
and in wet, windy weather canvas-
covered. There’s a fine for anyone join-
ing or leaving the car on this side, and,
although a few hustlers make use of
them as entrances, only once have I seen
anyone leave by them, but then he didn’t
know whether it was Tuesday or Port
Phillip Bay.
* * * *
“Fong Tsz”: The latest enumeration
of Japanese population shows Tokio, the
World’s third city, to hold 6,274,000
people. Only two have more; Greater
London with 8,474,000, and New York
—including Brooklyn, Queens and
Richmond —something over 7,000,000.
Berlin comes next with 4,250,000, then
Chicago, Shanghai, Osaka, Paris, Mos-
cow in the over-three-million class. Out-
side London, at the end of the eighteenth
century there was no city bigger than
the Sydney and Melbourne of to-day,
though now they are down among the
villages. The great city is new in his-
tory. Rome in its ancient prime could
scarcely have held more than 400,000,
though to-day its population is 1,150,000.
Among the famous Oriental cities
Nineveh could have been no greater
than a very moderate English country-
town, and Metropolis would not have
qualified to send a member to Canberra.
Babylon appears one exception which
might have competed with our over-
grown capitals.
*** . *
“Ike Hollar”: The Back River Metho-
dist church, near New Norfolk, Tasmania,
centenary just celebrated, is the oldest
Methody church still in its original
form in Australia. A fire in 1924
burnt out the interior, destroying
fittings of historic value, but the stout
stone walls are those erected by such
hardy pioneers as Samuel Dowsett,
William Jackson, Ebenezer Shoobridge (a
son, W. E., who is 92, attended the cen-
tenary) and the Rev. Joseph Orton. The
church is one of the few which retain
the surrounding churchyard, the graves
including that of Mrs. Betty King, the
first white woman to land in the Speck.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Those four Melbourne tele-
phone subscribers still with their original
numbers (B. 10/11/’37) remind me that
Byron Moore, who, as secretary of the
V.R.C. and a notable flower-lover, was
responsible for Flemington’s claim to be
the finest racecourse in the world, was
uncommonly proud of being the possessor
of No.l. He was one of the group which
got the original exchange going, and was
the chief organiser of the venture. The
bearded secretary was retired in the late
’eighties in a spasm of retrenchment fever
from a front-rank civil service job, and
received his pension for well over 40
years. He was a many-sided chap; one
of his hobbies was writing fairy-tale-
nature-study books for children. He
stuck to the No. 1 call number till his
death.
* * * *
“Wordologist”: Tartar (B. 27/10/’37)
was originally Tatar. The form Tartar
arose when “the terrible hordes of Middle
Asia burst upon civilised Europe in the
thirteenth century,” and in the minds of
many their ravages were a fulfilment of
the Book of Revelation concerning the
opening of the bottomless pit. Hence
Tatars was changed to Tartars to put
these folk in closer connection with Hell
(Tartarus), whence they were supposed
to have come. Just another sample of
war propaganda, really. *
“Groper”: Any pickings, political or
otherwise, that W.A.’s “Six Families” got
they mostly earned. W. G. Lefroy-his
family was mentioned as one of the
elusive six—set out in 1880 from Shark
Bay, then one of the jumping-off places
into the unknown, accompanied by one
black and equipped with two riding hacks
and one packhorse. Apart from the dif-
ficulty in locating water the country
swarmed with hostile natives. Two hun-
dred miles to the north-east Lefroy
selected 300,000 acres, naming the place
Lyndon. Next year his brother arrived,
Their first job was to fence the home
paddock of 15,000 acres—and without a
yard of wire, or even timber suitable for
splitting posts and rails. With logs and
scrub piled high enough and packed
tight enough to hold a sheep in they ac-
“Wait till y ’ get yer blister from the Johns fer not gioin' Way to the vehicle on yer right!"
complished it, and within 10 years their
holding was carrying thousands of
sheep. Now it is just about in the
centre of the Gascoyne-Ashburton dis-
trict —sheep country which bulks up the
fleece output sufficiently to justify W.A.
conducting wool auctions of its own.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: The recent N.S.W.
Optometrical Convention raised once
more the matter of compulsory vision-
tests for drivers of motor vehicles, both
as a condition of granting licenses and
thereafter for drivers involved in acci-
dents. W.A. requires such checks for
taxi-drivers, and N.S.W. has made an
elementary beginning on wider lines.
Persons with gross sight-defects are
usually detected during the police driving-
test, but such conditions may develop
later on, and there is no present way of
protecting the public from their effects.
Less obvious abnormalities create grave
risks to road users. Night-blindness, for
example. It is fairly common, and
seldom recognised by the sufferer, who
sees normally by day but only very
dimly in dusk or night. Color-blindness
may create serious risk with traffic lights.
The appalling toll of life and limb from
motor accidents affords ample justifica-
tion for early Government action.
* * * *
“Claremont”: Sam Copley (B.
10/11 /’37) used to tell the story of his
first “rise”: “When I landed in Fre-
mantle in 1888 I had a gold watch and
£lO. I lent the tenner to civil servants,
and the business showed such promise
that I sold the ticker and let the pro-
ceeds out at interest.” Samuel generally
concluded with the sage reflection: “Aye,
you can’t go wrong in lending money to
civil servants.” Copley also used to say
that in his early days he regularly fre-
quented racecourses, where he went to
pick men—not horses. Armed with a
sufficiency of ready money he was on
the lookout for “safe marks” who were
making heavy weather of the racing. A
small advance until Monday morning
W as a better investment than putting
money on nags. Nevertheless, Sam
wasn’t a bad sort; I cannot remember
any case of sharp practice being charged
against him.
* * * *
“D.E.”: 1 wish Australia possessed a
sartoria i authority like that pride of
Cockaigne the editor D f t h e “Tailor and
Cutter.” Not that any such despot could
instil or ram a clothes sense into the half
°f the o atlo JJ to wkl ?k * e !? n . 8 tke
other half, of course has a full issue-
tm- because he would be a better recruit-
mg agent than money could buy lam
positive that, in the fashion of the late
Cato, he would wind up his philippics
against the wearers of uncreased pants
anc i coats which look as if they have been
slept in with savage exhortations to this
effect: If you want to look your best
an d you will persist in being walking
horrors in mufti, for the Lord s sake get
into uniform. Unquestionably the
young male of the species does look his
best in uniform. Take a slovenly fellow
off the streets, case him m khaki sur-
mounted with the hat that turns up at
the side, and he resembles a being from
another world. I don t say this trans-
formation was effected in the case of the
horsed Gippslanders whom the G.-G.
and the State Governor had for guard
of honor at Flemington on Cup Day, or
in that of the Light Horse patrol I have
seen ride up to the Cenotaph in Martin-
place, Sydney, but those fellows were
magnificent —there was no other word for
it. A year or two after the war I was at
a cricket match in which a member of
the A.I.F. team was playing. Someone
commented on his fine appearance.
“Ah,” sighed a matron, “you don’t see
many men like him about now” ; and,
unhappily, neither you did. But you
can see them about now, in uniform.
* * * *
“Kingsland”: In attempting to correct
the text of the classic ballad, “Kafoosa-
lem” (B. 10/11 /’37) “Old Boy” errs him-
self. He says the refrain should be “ ‘Oh
Kafoosalem —the daughter of the Baba’
—not barber.” The first verse of the
song opens: —•
In ancient days there lived a Turk
Within the East, a horrid beast,
Who did the Prophet’s dirty work
As barber in Jerusalem; etc., etc.
The reaction of the tonsorial artist to the
news of his daughter’s naughtiness is
described in a later verse:
The pious barber said no more
Than forty swears and went upstairs
And took a bowstring from a drawer
To strangle of Kafoosalem; etc., etc.
So that’s that.
THE KNIGHTS THAT FAILED.
“Toll for the brave, the brave that are no
more! ”
It needs must be in these election fights,
Even upon the side that tops the score.
Some doughty warriors must get their lights
Snuffed out. It happens even when they’re
knights
Whose progress heretofore has known no check.
And now —take pity on their woeful plights—
Parkhill and Pearce have got it in the neck!
Toll for the brave! When Aulus homeward
bore
His battle spoils from ’neath the Porcian
heights,
In triumph’s hour he couldn’t but deplore
Herminius and Valerius, valiant wights
Who should have stood aside of him by
rights,
Left dead for wolves to tear and crows to
peck.
And Lyons doubtless lost some sleep o’ nights
When Pearce and Parkhill got it in the neck.
Toll for the brave! While others crashed the
door
Whose prospects oft occasioned party frights,
Two stalwarts will be missed upon the floor
Where once they loosed their dialectic flights.
Impervious to Labor’s stabs and smites
Joe and his U.A.Ps. are still on deck,
But —out on fickle Fortune’s slights and
spites!
Parkhill and Pearce have got it in the neck.
Toll for the brave! With fury, rage and roar,
» From Perth to Brisbane, Darwin to the Speck,
The fierce campaign was fought from shore to
shore;
But when the victors’ roll is rattled o’er,
These twain will answer to their names no
more —
Archie and George have got it in the neck!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“M 8”: The realism of the talkies.
My small nephew was taken to see
“Captains Courageous,” and so intent
did he become that we were startled to
hear a weak little voice say, during a
scene of rolling seas, “Take me out,
I’m going to be sick!” He was — seasick.
* H= * ¥
“Jamwood”: Upper parts of Sydney
Harbor would nowadays provide a per-
fect setting for a Canadian lumber film,
if any producer yearns to make one, and
it wouldn’t be more incongruous than
some of the Australian films I’ve seen.
The necessary costumes could be hired,
and in Sydney alone there are at least
100,000 young women dressed and made
up like talkie actresses. Acres of harbor
water are covered with Oregon logs.
Beyond Blackwattle Bay they are so thick
that if it wasn’t necessary to leave a
narrow channel on each, side you could
walk on them from shore to shore. They
have been imported to satisfy the demand
for the houses which “co-operative build-
ing societies” are to raise when the finan-
shul inshtitushuns come to light with
Government-guaranteed overdrafts and
co-ops. let themselves go —they are to be
indemnified against loss. One suburban
Mayor proudly announces that he is
chairman of six co-ops. I forget how
much arrears of rates in his bailiwick
“Hold her, boys—she ain't finished."
amounted to when the finances of seedy
municipalities were last overhauled by
the inquiring spirits who collect such
figures, but if reserved for the purpose
they would be enough for a good many
houses.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Colonel French (B.
10/11/’37) served in Canada for some
time, and there raised and trained the
Royal North-west Mounted Police. As
Queensland Commandant he was as
popular with the forces as he
was efficient. French was a stickler for
discipline, and the troops sent from
Queensland in the early part of the Boer
War earned high commendation from
the Imperial command for their steadi-
ness on parade and in the field. Most of
the senior n.c.os. of the early regiments,
composed largely of trainees from the
militia M. 1., were ex-imperial soldiers of
21 years’ service.
* * * *
“T.”: Nowadays every daily-paper re-
porter dodges inquiries conducted by
royal commission, if he can. They have
a tendency to run into millions of words
of unspeakably dull evidence, and appar-
ently if the least expensive wig got his
address off his chest inside two days he
would be tarnishing the grand traditions
of the Bah. So when a magistrate was
handed a commission to find out what's
wrong with N.S.W. fruitgrowing, scribes
groaned and prepared for the worst. In
point of fact, that inquiry has yielded
the one humorous observation noted
since the present Sydney Government
contracted the royal-commission disease
in an acute form. “How long has the
fruit industry been going?” said the
Beak to a witness in the export trade.
“Since the days of Adam and Eve,” was
the smart reply. “Has the organisation
improved since those days?” asked his
Washup, entering into the spirit of the
thing. “Well, there’s more co-operation,”
the wit in the box came back.
'k •** : i*
“Bunda”: Another election story. A
candidate bitterly attacked the existing
order of things, and made some wild
promises on his own account. He con-
cluded his appeal with: “Are we to take
this lying down?” “No, old chap,” came
a voice, “the reporters will do that.”
$ * %
“Greenhide”: The familiar tale of the
bridegroom roused out by revolver shots
on the first night of his honeymoon by
a faithful friend, come to break the news
that he has wedded his long-lost sister,
really happened in Milan the other day.
Domenico Sincich was lost in the con-
fusion of the Italian retreat after Capo-
retto in 1917, and given up by his family.
Italian soldiers made him a regimental
mascot. His sister was born the follow-
ing year, and he had no cause to suspect
her existence, otherwise the identity of
names might have aroused his curiosity.
To further complicate the tangle, the
parents died soon after the girl’s birth
—so she had no opportunity to learn
she had ever had a brother.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: November skies are not as
interesting as they were in grandfather’s
time, when the Leonid meteor swarms.
flashed out i'rom the Sickle on the 12th
and 13th. Every 33 years the swarms
grew to dimensions which an 1833 ob-
server compared to flakes in a snow-
storm. The 1866 show was equally re-
markable, but for some inexplicable
reason, possibly the naughtiness of the
’nineties, it failed to recur in 1899 or
later. Nowadays, only a few stragglers
show up. Another absentee is the irregu-
larly variable star Mira Ceti, which
should have been due last month. "The
Demon Star,” Algol, shows out on the
edge of the Milky Way in Perseus, fad-
ing every 69 hours from second magni-
tude to fourth, in 4\ hours, to regain its
original brilliance in a little longer time.
A dark companion is responsible for this
winking trick, causing regular eclipses
as it circles its bright mate almost in our
plane of vision from the earth.
* * * *
“Xie”: Why the objections to the
dying Falstaff babbling of green fields?
"Hullo, George, what have YOU been doing?"
The scandalous old rip was obviously
quoting the 23rd Psalm. Perhaps no
other Shakspearean character quotes
Scripture more often or more appositely.
Biblical allusions and quotations are
scattered through many of his speeches.
In “Henry IV.” alone are found refer-
ences to Pharaoh’s lean kine, to Dives
burning in Hell, to Lazarus, Achitophel
and Job. It would be quite in keeping
with his character for him to quote
Scripture when in extremis, and quite in
keeping with Dame Quickly’s for her to
fail to recognise the allusion.
“Gin and Two”: To the uninitiated
the customers at one Sydney pub are
much the same as at any other grog-
shop, but the experienced pub-crawler
knows better. Near the Quay there
are hotels patronised mainly by wharfies,
though “Hamer” (B. 10/11/’37) has the
face to assert that nowadays wharfies
prefer milk; in others ferry skippers,
naval officers, the lower deck, mercantile
marine officers, the fo’c’sle and retired
salts may respectively
predominate. In the
Exchange area wool-
broke r s,. shipping
officials, insurance
men and civil ser-
vants have different
pet bars. Further up
town there are tav-
erns which cater for
brokers and lawyers
and along York,
Clarence and Kent
streets for ware-
housemen. There
are pubs where every
second drinker will
be a bookmaker or a
motor salesman.
One explanation is
that certain classes
of business in Sydney
have a tendency to
congregate in certain
areas. At the same
time actors have always had their favor-
ite pub, and the poets’ pub in George-
street North still attracts scribes and
bards from every corner of the city.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: Another interesting addition
to the growing body of aeroplane law is
under consideration in England. A woman
going for a short flight in a two-seater
’plane took her seat with a baby in arms.
The other seat was occupied. The aero-
drome manager protested against three
passengers occupying a two-seater; the
pilot, declaring that the baby made no
difference, took off. The case went to the
Air Ministry, which ruled that children in
arms might be disregarded, provided that
the authorised load for the machine was
not exceeded. A qualification was that
no legal ruling existed as a precedent; if
one should be given later it might upset
the Minister’s decision. Insurers are in
a quandary lest the fact that it is impos-
sible to fit a baby with a safety strap
may not vitiate policies in some future
contested air-accident case.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: Though one Sydney
daily, referring to the 23rd anniversary of
the Sydney-Emden scrap at Cocos, men-
tioned the name of the German comman-
der, I saw nothing about the man who
led for Australia in its first sea-fight.
Poor Glossop has been dead too many
years to worry about posterity’s forget-
fulness of the part he played in the action
as skipper of the Sydney. Although a
large percentage of the vessel’s personnel
consisted of R.N. men, her gunnery-Jack,
mainly responsible for the excellent
marksmanship, was a pukka Australian —
Lieutenant J. Finlayson. “Finny” passed
out of the old Britannia in time to take
a part in convoying troopships “going to
Table Bay.” He was later transferred to
the Royal Arthur, and spent some three
years in these waters. As a result of the
Cocos fight he was promoted to Com-
mander and awarded the D.S.O. Subse-
quently he married an Australian, daugh-
ter of the late John Russell French, for
many years g.m. of the Bank of N.S.W.
Finlayson’s name doesn’t figure in the
list of officers of flag-rank, so I presume
that he is fighting Cocos all over again in
some snug retreat on the beach. Aus-
tralia owes a duly to the men of the
Sydney to at least remember their names,
and perhaps sometimes to find out what
kind of weather they are meeting with.
* * * *
“Sandgate”: Old family estates (B.
27/10/’37)? Wingecarribbee is part of
a grant made to Oxley for his services
to Australian exploration; when he died
109 years ago his younger son took over
the property. Subsequently the town of
Bowral (N.S.W.) was built on Oxley
lands. The present owner and occupant
is the original grantee’s grandson, an
Oxley too.
* * * *
“Exdig”: With some ceremony —it is
increasing every year —the Tank Corps
on November 20 will carry out its anni-
versary parade. The Australian forces
have a useful Tank Corps now ; and there
is a movement to make the celebration of
the anniversary of the Battle of Cambrai,
at which tanks were first used consider-
ably, Empire-wide. The war hadn’t been
going for a moijth before Swinton
put forward his ideas about the
employment of armed tractors mainly to
trample down barb-wire defences ; nearly
six months later (in February, 1915) it
was decided to build a hundred “tanks”
—in the interests of secrecy those who
saw the trials were told that the
new contraption was a new kind
of water-carrier. Swinton (who became
‘ Major-General later) was given charge
of the first unit, the “Heavy Section
Machine-gun Corps” ; and, from what we
saw of the strange beasts before they did
really satisfactory work, he must have
uttered many curses, in spite of his faith
in the new arm. Personally, I always
feel some affection for the things because
of the shelter from spraying shellfire one
that was permanently camped in the mud
on the broken corduroy road in Branden-
molen gave me more than once.
SMILES IN COURT.
“A witness is perfectly entitled to smile if some-
thing happens to amuse him.”- — Mr. Justice Boyce, in
Sydney Divorce Court.
When in the witness-box you needn’t stir
Uneasily, or feel a fool or flat,
If some aggressive cross-examiner
Demands to know what you are laughing at.
Grin on, nor let his bullying deter,
Never be rattled at a snarl like that.
Of outworn fallacies be disabused,
A chap may always smile when he’s amused.
’Twere better, all the same, in courts of law,
However keen your sense of humor be,
Not to permit yourself the loud guffaw
At some preposterous absurdity.
Men should restrain the boisterous “haw-haw,”
The other sex the feminine “he-he.”
But, short of these, you needn’t be confused
At gently indicating you’re amused.
Why, from the Privy Council oversea,
Or any other lordly court on earth,
Down to tribunals where some lone Jay Pea
Decides what insobriety is worth,
There’s no embargo upon tacit glee,
No prohibition upon soundless mirth.
Twere tough if any mortal were refused
License to smile when he (or she)’s amused.
Brothers, my brothers, ever prone to split
Your honest dials in a genial grin,
Sisters, who never look so surely It
As when white teeth show o’er a dimpled
chin,
Take heart of grace! It matters not a bit
What edifice (except a church) you’re in.
Aye, even where judicial files are used
To sever marriage bonds you’ll be excused
For smiling when you chance to be amused.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


20/0/-16
10 for 9 d
- W 1874
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.,
H,: w
/
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENERATION
THE CORK TIPPED
POLITICAL POINTS
Yes, this 1937 Commonwealth election
was very like the 1922 one. In 1922
Labor gained three seats in the House
and 11 in the Senate, making its totals
29 and 12. This time it has gained 13
in the Senate (total, 16), and its success
at Ballarat gives it 29 in the House
again. In 1922 four Ministers (Greene,
Poynton, Lamond and Rodgers) were de-
feated ; in 1937, three (Pearce, Parkhill
and Brennan).
Weaver, the N.S.W. Speaker, is out
against pre-selection. Member for
Neutral Bay, he says he wouldn’t mind
contesting it on a “let-’em-all-come”
basis, all the candidates to speak from
the same platform. He is a member of
the U.A.P. executive, so his word should
carry some weight. In point of fact, the
open go is no threat to members like
Weaver—only to Yes-men, duds and
despots.
“S. M. Herald,” still stridently cham-
pioning a lost Cause:
The plain fact about pre-selection is that
it is absolutely necessary for the effective
running of our political machinery. There
is no alternative but sabotage and chaos.
Strange that Tasmania has been spared
these twin disasters. There the one
Labor party that dropped pre-selection
long ago has won the last two State elec-
tions, three of the State’s five seats in
the House of Reps, in 1934 and 1937 and
the three Senate seats contested last
month.
Mcßride, who resigned from the
House (he was member for Grey, S.A.)
to run for the Senate, got in after all,
though the first week’s figures suggested
that he was “sent for.” But Donald
Cameron, who gave up the safe Lilley
(Q.) seat to make one on the U.A.P.-
U.C.P. ticket (though if he had consulted
his own inclination he would have re-
tired), failed of election. Such experi-
ments are hazardous, particularly in
Queensland.
S.A. was the only State to which Lang-
ism spread. There are still Lang Lab.
members knocking round Adelaide, and
they haven’t been forgiven. That ex-
plains the failure to wrest the Adelaide
Federal seat from Stacey and to win the
Senate election, won everywhere else—
that and the dead set made by the Red
element against Daly because he couldn’t
see why Australia should meddle in the
affairs of Spain.
To the vast delight of Sydney’s pro-
Russian press, Roosevelt “cabled his con-
gratulations to Stalin” when the twentieth
anniversary of the Red revolution was
celebrated in the Soviet fashion —by mili-
tary demonstrations, attempted assassina-
tions and exhibitions of Soviet “justice” ;
but only one passage is quoted: “Best
wishes for the welfare of your fellow-
countrymen.” With one word substi-
tuted it would have been as appropriate
if addressed to the keeper of a home for
lost dogs.
A week’s budget from the “Workers’ ”
Republic: —-
An unknown assailant fires at Voroshilov,
the Commissar of War. Nineteen high
officials sentenced to immediate execution
for espionage and attempts on the life
of Stalin. Soviet Ambassadors to Ger-
many, Poland and Turkey arrested; also
a crowd of other Famous Bolshevists, in-
cluding poets, photographers, tourist agents,
“Professor Tupoleff, the real creator of
the Red Air Force,” and “many of Lit-
vinov’s men.” Anticipated that the
bag of comrades would far exceed that of
October, when 496 death sentences were
imposed, the charges being “wrecking or
spying on behalf of a foreign State.”
Perhaps it was just pretty Stalin’s way
of celebrating the Twentieth Anniversary.
Britain has recognised Franco’s Gov-
ernment to the extent of appointing
agents to and receiving them from
Nationalist Spain. That, Mr. Anthony
Eden declares, “includes two-thirds of
Continental Spain, and practically all
overseas Spanish territories, among them
the Canaries and Spanish Morocco” ; and
to go on leaving British interests without
protection would be plain damphoolish-
ness. But socialists, as Chamberlain has
acidly observed, would leave them with-
out protection, while demanding that the
British army and navy—which they
would have disarmed if they could—
should be employed to back the putrid
politics of Red foreigners.
British Labor members hit the roof
when the arrangement with the Spanish
Nationalists was announced. One
tribune’s special grievance was that they
were described as “the Salamanca authori-
ties.” He expected them to be called
“bloody-minded Fascists.”
Since the war Australia has had for
Defence Ministers (besides Howse and
“A hundred and fifty thousand voters who can’t count up to ten.”
— Attorney-General Menzies in an indignant survey of the election results.
“Can’t count up to ten be blowed, Bob! Didn’t we count ten over all your
pals?”
Glasgow, who acted when retrenchment
was in fashion) Pearce, Massy-Greene,
Bowden, “Texas” Green, Pearce again
and Parkhill. Not a returned soldier
among them; and now it is suggested
that the job should go to Thorby. Thorby
also lacks war experience, and would
have lost his seat last month but for
(1) Lang and (2) Curtin’s blunder in ac-
cepting defence as the main issue.
A Digger should have a turn as Minis-
ter of Defence. There is a good one
available in Archie Cameron, who was
in the 27th Battalion A.I.F. for three
years and has been in the 27th Battanon
A.M.F. since. Cameron is member for
Barker (S.A.). He has such a hold on
it that Labor did not oppose him, many
Labor men being among his admirers; so
he would be in a position to carry out
a long-range policy. Also he is the sort
of representative who doesn’t care a
damn for anyone. But at Canberra that
may be regarded as a disqualification.
Westralian Laborites who could have
got Senate nominations are kicking
themselves hard. Reckoning Pearce,
Lynch and Marwick certainties, they
stood aside to let Clothier, Cunningham
and Fraser take what was coming to a
weak team. What actually came was
election for six years at a far, far better
salary and concessions than anything the
State is likely to offer (though, with
Commonwealth millions to play with, it
pays Ms.L.A. and Ms.L.C. £6OO p.a.);
and neither side has got over its aston-
ishment and chagrin. Pearce and Lynch
had never been beaten before; and they
have been in politics since the beginning
of the century.
In an unhappy moment the Douglas
Credit chaps put up a certain H. A. Cash
in Lilley (Q.), and Cash undertook to
do his darnedest to get the Lilleyites their
“national dividend.” They turned Cash
down so cold that Cash did in his de-
posit—£so paid in cash. Jolly was their
choice—Jolly, 31,754 ; Cash, 3033.
The latent oalace revolution against
Lang (the 25th, according to the Lang
•
Lab. secretary, a genial person named
Graves) seems sure to peter out. Perhaps
it is because N.S.W. workers regard
Lang’s enemies as an even sorrier lot
than Lang and his friends.
Reds took the dejected Chinese crew
of the Silksworth along to a Japanese-
boycott meeting at Glebe, and a gentle-
man from the Trades and Labor Council
bellowed that “no Government of a
democratic country could resist the de-
mands of its people for economic and
political measures against aggression.”
He will learn that even a Government
like Lyons’s will refuse to let a parcel
of blatherskites, who would have dis-
armed the country if they could, drag it
into a mad war with a military power.
Though the U.A.P.-U.C.P. ticket was
8000 ahead of Labor on primary votes,
Douglas Credit preferences re-elected
Queensland Labor Senators Brown and
Colli ngs, and elected the nominated
Courtice. In some electorates, notably
Hunter and Griffith, Douglas Credit
electors gave most of their No. 2’s to
Ministerialists. In the Senate election
Labor got 80 per cent, of them.
The Maoriland broadcasting authori-
ties, according to the Wellington
“Dominion,” are in a great state because
a clerical speaker ventured to “condemn
the teachings and practices of Com-
munism” in a sermon over the air:
An outcry from Communist organisations
and a Labor union received immediate con-
sideration, and such criticism will not be
permitted to be broadcast in future.
Things are not quite so bad as that in
this country, but Red dogs and Pink
poodles get to the microphone sometimes.
And on their pet subject they have all
the barking to themselves.
Longfield Lloyd, who was sent to
Tokio as Australian Trade Commissioner
and has been reporting lack of progress
to Canberra, is to be known in future
as plain “Commissioner” or “Represen-
tative” or something anyway, the
“Trade” is to be dropped. Appropriate
in a melancholy way, for the trade itself
is dropping. For the first quarter of
the financial year there was an adverse
balance of £567,000 (exports were valued
at £867,000, imports at £1,434,000),
whereas the quarter used to show a favor-
able balance of as much as £3,000,000.
Trade-diversion politicians were respon-
sible for the change, and now Red boy-
cotters are continuing the mischief.
In Lang’s time, mad as it was, there
wasn’t a Government busman in N. S.
Wales. Now there are 1300, and more
being put on every month. Stevens and
Bruxner are ardent anti-socialists, and to
them this is anti-socialism in action.
Wilson, the one Dunstan-group Cocky
sent to Canberra—by a 50 per cent.
Labor vote —has “declined to attend meet-
ings of the Australian Country party
unless his party becomes affiliated with
the Federal organisation.” Considering
that Victorian Labor polled 473,664
primary votes at the Senate election and
Wilson’s “party” 66,661, the gentleman
may have a job finding the “party” when
Labor sends Dunstan about his business.
Press reports of the Nine-Power Con-
ference at Brussels give that solemn
show about a million-to-one chance of
effecting a settlement in China, but a cor-
respondent is positive that “the cement-
ing of Australian and Dutch friendship
and the recognition of their mutual inter-
ests will be an outcome.” He mentions
that the Dutch Foreign Affairs man
made a fuss of Bruce. The truth is that
our friends the Dutch are nervous about
their colonies and are willing to let
8,500,000 Australians and Maorilanders
defend them. The prospect pleases them.
For three days last week—not all the
time, of course—the alleged Parliament
in Sydney angrily discussed tin-hare-
chasing, its genesis under Lang, its ex-
tension under Stevens —a concern which
broke the law by staging so-called trial
meetings has been forgiven—the number
of persons “employed” in it, the number
of tripehounds kennelled and trained,
what it costs to feed the useless brutes,
and so on. When the debate flagged it
was switched to the subject of the two
royal commissions on s.p., and two ex-
cited newspapers devoted several columns
to “the Pick -a - Placed - Horse Card
Racket,” calling upon Parliament to
Take the Matter Up.
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George-
street, Sydney, sign anything requiring a signa-
ture in this issue.]


EASE BEFORE ELEGANCE.
“I believe in witnesses being at their ease. If a man wants to scratch hi. head, fold his arms, look where he likes, or smile if something happens to amuse him. he is
perfecl t y entitle d to do so.”—N.S.W. Justice Boyce, after a witness had been rebuked by a barrister.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • . • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £ 1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in 1 S’outh Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ACCELERATION DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS (
Champions
•YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
ACCELERATION can only be
satisfactory in an engine with per-
fect ignition. To get the kind of
“pick-up” that makes driving a
real pleasure, install a set of new
Champions every year.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
23
&
Ml
***2JJJ
J7JJ7777
7J777777
y 77777777,
*7777777
77777/^5
r////
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
D. C. T. Bennett, formerly in the
R.A.A.F. —he is a Brisbane native—has
made a name for himself by recent flights
with the new Imperial Airways flying-
boats which will some day serve the
London-Australia run. In one of these
he was the first man to fly from Alex-
andria to England in a single day. And
he has since taken the Corsair on the
longest single-day journey yet made in
Africa —2000 miles from Dar-es-Salaam
to Durban in 12| hours’ flying time.
Phil Wade, the English-born private
detective engaged on Vic.’s lost-truck
case, has seen more of Australia than
most natives. Before he turned to in-
vestigation for a career, Wade was a
North Queensland boundary rider, a
coachdriver in Westralia, a Brisbane
newspaper office employee and the
manager of five touring theatrical parties
A Victorian Sherlock Holmes.
in Queensland. Then, after a couple of
years on special work under former Vic.
Police Commissioner Sainsbury, he
started on his own. Stopping cargo
thefts is one of his specialties, and he has
been retained by the Orient, the P. and
O. and the Matson lines ; a number of
large Melbourne firms also use him as
their “controller of protective systems.”
He worked in with the police on pre-
vious cases, and some years ago cleared
up gold losses at a couple of mines.
Dead in Sydney, Martin Brennan,
founder and editor of “Film Weekly.”
Brennan early interested himself in theat-
rical journalism. He founded the “Aus-
tralian Variety and Show World,” be-
came editor of “Everyone’s,” a film maga-
zine, and started “Film Weekly” 11 years
ago. He was the Australian represen-
tative of a half-dozen overseas theatrical
journals, and was president of the Ama-
teur Magicians’ Club. Poverty Point will
remember him for his encyclopaedic
knowledge of stage affairs and his readi-
ness to assist mummers in distress.
Dead at 62, Dr. W. A. Ramsay Sharp,
tutor in surgery at Sydney Hospital for
more than a decade. He had been a
member of Vaucluse Municipal Council
for many years, and took an active inter-
est in public affairs in general. He
leaves a medical generation to carry on
—one of his sons is doing post-graduate
research in London, and the other two
are qualifying to practise.
Another Australian inventor has made
a name for himself. After 25 years of
experiment, C. W. Swift, of Sydney, has
solved the problem of cheap stereoscopic
color photography. The German Gov-
ernment printers, Muller and Sons, have
bought German rights.
“Loulalo”: The Warrnambool (Vic.)
Agricultural Society held its first annual
show in 1853. Eight years later Jack
Ballis, then in his teens, attended his
first show. This year illness broke a
proud record ; from 1861 Jack had not
missed a single show. He has filled many
roles, including that of Town Crier and
Bellman. No gathering seems complete
without his small, agile figure, and hard-
ened racegoers insist that they can ex-
pect no luck if they don’t buy a race-
book from him for the W.R.C. or
W.A.T.C. meetings in January and May.
Another young professor, Dr. Eric
Ashby, who is 33, has been appointed
to take charge of the Botany depart-
ment at Sydney University. Ashby took
a first-class at his B.Sc. examination at
the Imperial College of Science Botany
School, London, in 1926. After vari-
ous wanderings on research work in
U.S.A., dealing particularly with sugar-
cane, he was appointed lecturer in plant
ecology at the Imperial College of
Science in 1931. More recently he has
been a reader in botany at Bristol Uni-
versity.
A picturesque visitor whose trim beard
and red fez have been seen in Sydney
streets during the last few days is Mr.
M. Hasan. His brother was the pioneer
Moslem in the Fijian Leg. Council. He
himself was called to the High Court
Bar at Lahore in 1914, practised for 15
years in Zanzibar and settled in Fiji
five years ago.
In a competition for Australia’s most
athletic alderman very few worshipfuls
could compete with Dr. Otto Nothling,
acting-Mayor of Maryborough (Q.).
Leaving Brisbane Grammar School with
a fine sporting record, he played in
Rugby Test matches against S’Africa and
Maoriland and in one of the cricket
Tests against England in 1928. Besides,
he holds the golf championships of
Wide Bay district and of Maryborough.
Reg Denison, new president of the
Australian Newspapers Conference, has
been 14 years with Sydney Associated
News —his father is chairman —and g.m.
since 1934. Denison holds both arts
and law degrees at Sydney University and
served in the war with the 10th Siege
Battery Garrison Artillery, returning a
captain. He is 43.
Australia has managed to produced
not only a Lady Mayoress of London,
but at least one English Ludmayor—
knight John Wesley Courtis, who, born
at Williamstown (Vic.), became a mem-
ber of the London Stock Exchange.
He was Lord Mayor of Cardiff in 1911-
12, and was knighted in the latter year.
Four years later he was High Sheriff of
Glamorganshire. He was in Australia
in 1934.
“El V.”: The universal fitting-up of
cruisers with aeroplane platforms in
these days reminds me that the
pioneer in that art was the Glen
Innes-born (N.S.W.) J. S. Dumaresq
who, apart from his torpedo and fire-
control inventions, designed the first
revolving platform fitted to a warship
—H.M.A.S. Sydney —which was thus
equipped in October, 1917. The
Dumaresqs were ever an inventive and
warlike crowd. J.S.’s grandfather, Wil-
liam John, designed many N. S. Wales
main roads and bridges, and was god-
father to Sydney’s first water scheme.
And there was a grand-uncle, born in
1802, who was in the Engineers, and who
joined the Tasmanian Survey Depart-
ment in 1825 —he died in 1906, aged
104. J.S. commanded the R.A.N. for
a time, and died comparatively young
on his way to England.
One of the most familiar figures in
Brisbane’s public life disappears with the
retirement of W. E. Bowering, Lord
Mayor’s orderly, who has kept the moths
out of the city’s rabbit-skins for a gen-
eration. Bowering has been pictured
handy to Kitchener, Deakin, Reid and
the present King, and his trim uniform
is prominent in the pictorial record of
the laying of the foundation-stone of the
present Town Hall by the Duke of Wind-
sor when Prince of Wales in 1920.
Sydney McAuliffe hailed originally
from Cootamundra,. and served seven
years as a pupil with the Manly Gas Co.
and Hoskins Iron and Steel, finishing his
course just in time to join the Pioneers
in the A.I.F. He left a leg in France,
spent 10 months’ hospital leave in Britain
studying technical coal washing and plant
recovery problems and arrived home to
take a job with Gibson, Battle. Then he
went to U.S.A. There he was two years
with a firm concerned' with pulverised
fuel and cement, and came to Australia
as their engineer, putting in some heavy
plants qf his own design for pulverised
SYDNEY McAULIFFE —Bayard of
Commerce.
coal firing. For a time he was chief of
the commercial standards section of the
Standards Association. Now he is chief
engineer to Hadfields (Australia), Ltd.,
originally an offshoot of the great Shef-
field steel firm.
R. W. Dalton, the Senior British Trade
Commissioner in Australia, is a York-
shireman who has been in the Board of
Trade service for 37 years. His first ex-
perience this side of the world was in
Maoriland, where he went in 1916. Then
he had a brief period in England after
the war as secretary to the commission
inquiring into the affairs of the British
Britain’s Trade Commissioner.
Empire Exhibition, followed by a year
as Trade Commissioner to Canada. Since
then, Sydney has been his headquarters.
His reports on Australian conditions
each year have become a standard work
of reference on the Commonwealth. He
was knighted this year.
James Stewart McLean, whose near
forebears were close relations of Gov-
ernor Macquarie, was one of the last
remaining original pupils of Scotch Col-
lege, Melbourne, when he died recently
in Melbourne at 91. He left the college
after a year or so and went to Edinburgh
Academy in 1856, finishing his educa-
tion at Edinburgh University as a pre-
liminary to joining the Australian and
N.Z. Land Co., founded by his two
uncles. In later years he was a lead-
ing breeder of Red Poll cattle. The
McLeans are noted for their longevity—
the chief of the clan died on the edge of
his century a few months ago—but they
had nothing on the Macquaries: the last
chief of that clan lived to be 103.
A North Queenslander, Chester
Parker, born at Charters Towers and
educated so far at Townsville Grammar
School and Queensland University, be-
comes this year’s Queensland Rhodes
scholar. He went to the ’Varsity on a
three-year scholarship, and is due to sit
for his B.A. honors examination. He
has played Rugby for the University and
cricket, football and tennis for St. John’s
College, and he is president of the
Students’ Union.
On a pastoral dynasty:
The latest addition to the A.J.C. committee,
R. R. Dangar, comes of a family which has
had an infinite variety of Australian interests
for the last hundred years. The original
Dangar, a Cornish immigrant, was appointed
assistant-surveyor to Oxley by Macquarie; he
surveyed the A.A. Co.’s holdings at Port
Stephens, and much of the Hunter, and
acquired Neotsfield, near Singleton. Henry
began a Parliamentary tradition which kept the
family represented in N.S.W. politics for nearly
half a century. He sat in the old N.S.W.
Council for Northumberland in 1845. His
second son, H.C., sat for West Sydney in the
’seventies, and was afterwards in the Council
until his death in 1917. Incidentally, he won
the Derby with Gibraltar in 1890. His grandson,
the new A.J.C. committeeman, won it with Peter
Pan in 1932. The father of R.R., Albert
Augustus, of Mooki Springs, was a great Short-
horn breeder, and, though never in politics,
he took a prominent part in public affairs, and
was president ot the Pastoralists’ Association at
the time of the maritime strike. The original
Henry Dangar’s nephew, Thomas, sat in the
N. S. Wales Assembly for Gwydir (afterwards
Namoi) from 1865 to 1890. But the present
generation eschews politics and confines itself
to stockbreeding management.


3
“MY
GOODYEARS
PAY FOR
THEMSELVES
IN TIME AND
FUEL SAVED
ALONE..
“and they do a lot better and
faster work, they do more kinds
of work and more jobs in top
gear.”
That is the general experience
of farmers throughout the
Commonwealth who have
equipped their tractors with
Goodyear A 1 - Way - Traction
Tractor Tyres.
The saving in fuel averages
25% compared with steel-
wheeled tractors. Also, special
tests have resulted in the opin-
ion that the tractor itse.f will
last 30% longer! Road-hauling
on Goodyear-equipped tractors
is quick and easy, without de-
lay for wheel changes. Labor
is saved.
In short, the Goodyear All-Way-
Traction Tractor Tyre gives
50% more traction, 100% more
shoulder grip, 30% better clean-
ing, 30% more drawbar pull.
It is the only tractor tyre that
provides maximum grip and
pulling power FORWARDS,
BACKWARDS and SIDE-
WAYS.
• GOODYEAR-IZE
YOUR FARM
There’s the right Goodyear Belt for
all your stationary work. There’s
the right Goodyear Tyre for your
car, your truck, and your farm
machinery Binder Combine
Sprayer Farm Waggons Hay
Press Header Cultivator
Thresher.
10-C2B-’37.
o
TERMS
Goodyear Tractor Tyres and
Wheels are available on
Hire Purchase Terms. For
particulars write the Good-
year Branch (all capital
cities).
SEND FOR
INTERESTING
LITERATURE—
on the advantages of pneumatic tyres
for tractors and farm machinery.
Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co.
4 Yurong Street, Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
GOOD/YEAR ■■
ALL-WAY-TRACTION
TRACTOR TYRES


ABORIGINALITIES
“CD1”: There are some disgusted kite-
hawks around Llanrheidol (W.Q.). The
A.I.M. recently installed a transceiver
wireless set, which called for the erec-
tion of a new aerial mast made of piping.
For graceful effect this was topped with
an old ball-valve from a bore pump. As
soon as the kites —old hands in fowlyard
forays—spotted the lovely big “eggs”
there was a hooray rush from all quar-
ters. Since, however, the ball is of solid
brass and as big as an emu egg, none
of them could lift the thing ; and the
homestead resounded for days to
whistling wings and angry, disappointed
shrieks. The hawks are waking up to it
now, and probably the old hands even
get a spot of sardonic amusement from
the frenzied excitement of the occasional
newcomer.
❖ * * *
“8.G.C.”: Silos? A W.A. farmer was
trying to eradicate Kikuyu grass from
one of his paddocks, and was cutting it
out in thick sods, which were placed in
heaps as they were cut out. The firm,
neat way in which they packed together
gave him an idea. A circular wall about
3ft. thick and surrounded by posts
threaded with No. 8 wire was the result.
He claims it is quite efficient and superior
to a pit. It is certainly one of the deep-
est ever erected.
i|c * $ *
“G.G.”: The strange effect of those
delayed rifle-shoot reports (B. 3/11/’37)
was probably due to a projecting ledge
of the quarry cliff upon which the rifle-
man was lying. By some freak forma-
tion, the sound waves issuing from the
muzzle of his rifle, which was appar-
ently held at an angle below the hori-
zontal, were reflected downwards instead
of rising, as one might expect, above the
cliff level. The air agitation, therefore,
stirred the rifleman’s eardrums only after
the waves had been reflected either from
the water surface or from one of the sides
of the quarry.
$ V f
“Flight”: Strange as it may seem, it’s
the easiest thing in the world to drown
a diver or a shag without laying a hand
on him. Run over the bank of the
waterhole near where it is floating. Done
suddenly, that rooster will dive every
time, seeking safety below. As soon as
he shows his nostrils land a stone near
him. He’ll dive again. Repeat the per-
formance and add an encore or two.
That bloke only has about three good
dives in him ; after that his dips are slight
things of seconds only in space! and
feet in distance, growing shorter every
time he submerges. After about a dozen
flips his feathers get logged, and it takes
him all his time to keep afloat at all,
while to dive is an effort. At that stage
a man can walk out and take him by
the hand and lead 1 him where he wills.
But, though that cove is at death’s door,
with his lungs bursting, specks before
the eyes and with his heart pounding,
he isn’t above driving the dagger-tip of
his beak through the hand which is held
out to help him.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: Magpies seldom chum up
with other birds, but the half-dozen of
them that gather round my house are
always accompanied by three or four mud-
larks. Grallina seems to take liberties with
Maggie, too. I’ve seen them pulling at
the bigger birds’ tail feathers, disputing
ownership of the fattest grubs, and mak-
ing a nuisance of themselves generally,
with no more result than a half-hearted
squawk of protest.
* * * *
“Amateur Poacher”: No need to re-
sort to the elaborate “springer” snare to
catch wallabies (B. 3/11/ ’37). Use a
slightly stronger and larger edition of
the “wire” which sent many a rabbit-
catching lad to Australia in the trans-
portation days. This consists of a copper
wire slip-noose with cord attached to
fasten it to a post or tree. Set on the
run —the place used by wallabies for get-
ting through a wire fence is ideal—the
open noose is held at the right height by
a twig split at the top to take the shank
of the noose. A little study will show
how high to set it. For rabbits the
poacher used to allow the bottom of the
wire loop to touch his closed fist placed
little finger down on the ground. For
hares the thumb was extended upward
and the noose just allowed to touch this.
Writer has caught many a wallaby in
this fashion. The “wire” needs none of
the elaborate preparation of the other
type of snare, and it has the advantage
that, whereas wallabies will strangle
themselves in it, the family dogs have
the sense to sit still if caught and wait
for the boss to release them.
* * * *
“Atrax”: “Mountain Devil” ought to
get up a testimonial to that male spider
he saw go so gallantly in the best spirit
of the A.I.F. to the rescue of its wife
and babes (B. 3/11 /’37), not only for
its gallantry but Tor the fact that it must
be the first he-spider on record to sur-
vive matrimony. In spider-land it is the
practice for the missus to eat her spouse
the moment he has assured the future
of the race, and how this particular hus-
band became the exception to an inexor-
able rule would be worth finding out.
* * * #
“Curate’s Egg”: Whilst agreeing with
“Kali” (B. 27/10/’37) that suonression
of head-hunting tends to deterioration
among natives given over to that recrea-
tion, I maintain that the real advantage
from such forays lies not in a periodical
revival of vigor, but a beneficial racial
admixture due to the capture of mar-
riaaeable maidens This obviates in-
breeding inevitable in small communi-
ties enclosed by the narrow confines of a
small island. This is best shown in the
case of the present-day islanders of
Torres Strait, where the population, with
the exception of several almost denuded
islands, is now double that prior to the
arrival of the white man. But there is
a marked degeneration ip physique of
the oresent-day bucks and belles, conse-
quent upon an ever-increasing consan-
aninitv in marriaee
g y * * & * *
“Bushy Park”: Toilsome jobs for sexa-
genarians (B. 20/10/’37)? Listen to this,
A whiskered battler nearing the eighties
pulled into the homestead last week and
accepted our hospitality for the night.
His swag held three blankets, two com-
plete changes, a 6 x 8 tent, a heavy duck
fly, a cookery outfit, three rabbit-traps, a
tomahawk and other trifles such as a
hammer, nails and a couple of rusty
spanners—“a man never knows when
they come in handy.” The aged hiker’s
luggage went 821 b. on the woolshed
scales. He told us that it was his summer
swag; in the wintertime he carried a
decent-sized drum.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: “O.D.’s” assurance that
a man can move with safety among a
mob of merino rams (B. 27/10/’37) is
cheering news to those of us who have
to deal with these ferocious beasts. Down
our way we have always taken the pre-
caution of using stilts or wearing armor-
plated pants when coming to close quar-
ters with the animals, but from now on
“Keep ’is feet out o’ the trough, mum.”
we’ll go among them serene and un-
afraid. He warns us that a single ram
is dangerous, so, of course, we’ll stick to
the old methods when we handle ’em
one by one. I don’t know what the pug-
nacity of rams has to do with the original
argument as to whether a mob of Here-
fords will attack a man, but perhaps in
“O.D.’s” suburb Herefords and merinos
are thought to be of the same family.
Anyway, I am willing to wager my saddle
against “O.D.’s” lawnmower that he will
not walk within a hundred yards of really
wild Herefords and depart with dignity,
* * * *
“Nor-west”: Whales soon realise
when they are being hunted by man,
and take full advantage of their trick of
“bottling” (B. 20/10/’37), though that
was probably acquired by the need of
constant vigilance against “killers.” The
timid sperm has its eyes so placed that
while on the surface it always watches
behind—any attempt to approach from
that direction in a boat sends the pros-
pective quarry streaking either for the
hundred fathoms or to the horizon,
Long detours so as to approach from
ahead meant hard work in the old pull-
ing-boat days. Even when a harpoon
was driven home the battle often went
on for hours before a lance could be
thrust to a vital spot, though often the
cetacean settled itself. Sounding in panic
from the first harpoon it would crash
pn the bottom in anything less than
200 feet of water. A broken jaw in-
variably resulted. Nowadays the dyna-
mite-harpoon gun spells a quick dis-
patch-and in such prodigious numbers
that soon the humpback will become as
scarce as the sperm now is.
* , *
Scrub : G.B may pira.se his
common heath (B. 3/11/37), but 1
found it a confounded bugbear white
scrub-clearing in Gippsland (Vic.). Its
small, stiff and incredibly sharp-pointed
leaves were a constant menace to my
peace of mind and pedal extremities, as
they broke off in my trouser-legs, fell
into my boots, itched and irritated like
blazes where they touched the skin. And
that was only in the stunted weed,
Heaven help anyone lost in “G.B. s six-
foot stuff. Heath may be an attrac-
tion for the tourist, but for the unfor-
tunates who work in it it’s a pain in the
neck.
* * * *
James W. : Those pars about horses
pulling bring to mind the only horse-
race I ever rode in. It was a farmers’
race, once a feature of all bush meetings,
The judge had become bored and left
his box before my draught Pegasus and
I had covered the four furlongs from
“Go” to “Whoa” posts ; but that was
expected. What was not expected was
that the other five who led us home
would jib at dragging the log. The
winner of a farmers’ race always had to
snig a log or drag a dray a prescribed
distance to prove he was a genuine
farmers’ horse and not a race prad only,
Failure in the pulling test meant dis-
qualification, and the next prad would
be duly put to the test, and so on. So
it went till my hay-burner hauled the
log from its original position and so
literally won in a walk. He was no
speedster, but logs, stumps, ploughs,
drays and slides were all the same to
him. Odds? Five to one!
* * * *
“Stralia”: Next time you drop a kan-
garoo, observe the apparently two-
clawed toe on the inner side of the hind
feet. Actually there are two toes bound
together by tissues. The arrangement
serves as a comb for grooming the coat.
Most other animals possess a similar aid
to the toilet. In the echidna it takes the
form of a large spurlike claw on the
hind feet.
* * * *
“8.J.”: Although the belief is fairly
general that the abo. in his fighting days
never used fire-spears, I am not con-
vinced. For one thing, there is on record
an attack by blackfellows on a station
hut in Geelong (Vic.) when the two
men defending their lives were driven
into the open when the roof began to
blaze. There is also a sketch in the
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia figur-
ing abos. attacking a hut with fire-spears,
while others are depicted lighting more
of these weapons for the throwers. In-
cidentally, the sketch bears the signature
of “Hopkins.” How about it?
THE DEAD END.
Twin shining steel ribbons with never a curve
But stretching as straight as a die
Where phantom pools glisten for ever ahead
To the rim where it arches the sky;
They cross the dry claypans, swept clean by
the wind.
Where the shifting red sandhills extend,
And the clustering roofs and the “snake-
charmers’ ” tents
Gleam white on the plain at “the end.”,
A train of grey waggons with engine and van
Await on a loop of the line
Beside a small mountain of squat bags of ore
That mule teams have brought from the
mine,
While listless and patient amongst their rough
gear
Lank camels are having a rest
Ere starting a journey o’er waterless wastes
To bring in the wool from the west.
There are woolpacks and wire piled high by
the dump,
And station supplies on the ramp;
And close by are ash-heaps and jam-tins and
bones
At the spot where the carriers camp.
A long team of bullocks drawn up in the yard
Are weary from weeks on the road;
The wagon is laden with tallow and hides,
And flies cluster thick on the load.
White-turbaned and stolid, a-squat on his heels,
And dreaming of far Hindustan,
Waits Hassan, the hawker of shoddy and mean,
In the shade of his old caravan.
The next train is bringing his treasure-trove load
(A shabby, cheap lot at the best),
The gaudy and flimsy that gladden the hearts
Of women who wilt in the west.
In front of the gates is the Fettlers’ Hotel.
Where thirst may be quenched at the bar;
There’s always a meal and a bed to be had
For those who have come from afar.
Flies swarm in the room where the. visitors
dine,
There’s grease round the knob of the door,
Dead matches and bottle-caps border the path
And fill up the cracks in the floor.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Nagheer”: A young and ambitious
John Hop, just appointed to his first
turn of independent duty at a far-back
west Queensland township, received
urgent telephonic instruction to make
sure of an inter-State car thief who was,
on last advices, heading for his hamlet.
When an affable stranger in a large car
arrived, he was ready with the warrant,
duly sworn, after great trouble in finding
a J.P. in time. Holding it behind his
back, he interviewed the newcomer, con-
versing tactfully until identity was estab-
lished to the point of action. At the
right moment he produced it —or, at least,
he produced what had been the warrant
and was then a mere thumb-and-fingerful
of blue paper, destitute of all legal form
or effect. A goat had sneaked up and
eaten it during the interview.
* * * #
“Naturala”: If the ghosts of all the
wild turkeys wantonly slaughtered ever
meet the shades of the bandicoots simi-
larly dealt with they must have a grim
chuckle at seeing their chief destroyer
now engaged in practically a life-and-
death struggle with the ever-increasing
grasshopper. . Observations on a bandi-
coot kept in captivity showed that it
“You’re got your new suit, but you don't care if your poor wife NEVER
has any clothes .”
was entirely carnivorous, with a prefer-
ence for large insects, scorpions, spiders
and grasshoppers. Mice it would also
tackle. Its long suit, however, was grass-
hoppers’ eggs. Possessed of a keen
sense of smell, Bandy displayed no dif-
ficulty in locating egg deposits, and,
scratching and eating, must have ac-
counted for a thousand or so unborn
’hoppers in one meal. Many bush
naturalists assert that deposits of
hoppers’ eggs represent the bandicoot’s
larder during the winter months. Now
with the diner mostly gone the larder
hatches out —to establish a larger and
still larger hatchery with each successive
season.
* H= * *
“Ptarmigan”: That rooster mentioned
by “Incube” (B. 27/10/’37) has nothing
to crow about. Chanticleer has proved
himself a scientific godsend and the
heroic father of a family. Years ago, as
any graduate of Adelaide University will
tell you, when Prof. Watson was anato-
mist there, the hen. he had hatching a
special experimental species of eggs de-
cided to cease brooding, so “Wattie”
grabbed his only other bird —a White
Leghorn rooster—gave him a carefully-
computed shot of dope, and set him to
keep the eggs warm. He was fed and
put to sleep daily. Result: a perfect
hatching of the setting and a cock that
had to be weaned from the pernicious
drug habit.
* % * *
“Xie”: Forty-four gallon petrol-drums
(B. 27/10/’37) make first-class fireplaces,
too. In my schoolyard there is an
old building that onpe housed a subsidised
school. Its petrol-drum fireplace—-set
on bricks, and a layer of bricks inside
prevents the iron burning—has been in
use for a dozen years and is still going
strong. A square hole is cut in the top
of the drum, the edges are turned back,
and on them is jambed a four-gallon
petrol-tin from which top and bottom
have been removed. A succession of
petrol-tins one upon the other makes a
good chimney. And “Valencia Creek” is
mistaken about the petrol-tin being given
free with the spirit it contains.
* * * *
“Turon River”: Sitting geese are the
flamin’ limit. We put down six this
year, with about a week between.
Goose No. 1 hatched three early in the
piece, and while she remained to hatch
the rest the gander and a non-sitter
“Any of these your husband, Mrs. Belvedere?"
pinched the three. When the others
hatched, goose No. 2 had four out, so
No. 1 snaffled them to make up her
tally. They did that right along the
line until the last one was due. She
had bad luck —a sheep-pup separated
her from seven of her eight, and when
we finally discovered their plight and
took them to their ma the little swipes
wouldn’t look at her, so we had to rear
’em. They took possession of the place,
following us about everywhere. Then
the geese joined forces, and, after belt-
ing No. 5, took her goslings. We
tried her with the orphans. She wanted
them, but those little coots didn’t want
her. Perseverance, plus wonderful
motherly qualities in the old goose,
finally won. But even now, if a human
goes anywhere near,- the little ’uns will
follow as hard as they can run, with
their patient old foster-mother plugging
determinedly after them.
* * * *
“Brix”: We arrived back at the farm
after an afternoon in the village, to find
some idiot had left the gate of the dam
paddock open, and 27 Muscovy duck-
lings were disporting themselves in the
water. Realising the danger, a visitor
offered to chase the ducklings on to dry
land, but Dad merely remarked, “Leave
them alone. They’re as good as dead.”
Twenty-three of them were, but four
miraculously survived and grew to duck-
hood. That water is good for ducklings
is a fallacy that dies hard: they have to
be introduced to it with the utmost
caution.
* * * *
“Aves”: “Stralia’s” chicken-hawk (B.
27/10/’37) may not attack pigeons, nor
any other fully-grown wild or semi-wild
birds for that matter, but I
wouldn’t trust him within the
range of a .22 if there were any
chickens around. Just let a
young chick wander from its
parent for a few moments and
then watch the hawk do his
stuff. Otherwise tell me why
chicks run for cover or why the
parent bristles with hostile ani-
mation at the sight of the
marauder. I’ll admit that the
bird is canary-yellow inside as
far as its adult sky brethren are
concerned, ’cos I’ve seen a couple of
wagtails put one to flight in a few
moments.
“Archibald”: Falcons? Two years ago
500 homers released at Ivanhoe, western
N.S.W., were torn to pieces by falcons.
Eighty were picked up within a short dis-
tance from where they started. The
N.S.W. Homing Pigeon Protection Coun-
cil offered a decapitation fee of ss. a
head for falcons.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: “Larrakeah” must have
got his mangrove lore (B. 27/10/’37)
from a leg-pulling northerner. The larg-
est seed (not a pod) I’ve come across
measured 12in. The trees have no
faculty that enables them to differentiate
between the outgoing and incoming tide,
and no power to let the seeds fall on the
latter. As other fruit, they drop when
ripe. In fact, dead-low water offers the
greater chance of survival for the seed,
which is cigar-shaped, with the centre of
gravity at the root-striking end. The
force of the fall drives it into the bared
mud, to root rapidly. That is Nature's
way of extending a mangrove forest —
step by step. The “floaters” drift up and
down with the tide —you may see droves
in the Cairns (N.Q.) inlet —and now and
then one comes home to roost. The
wastage is enormous, and it is well that
it should be so, for even if one seed in a
thousand becomes a tree the struggle to
keep Trinity Bay clear of mangroves
would send the Cairns harbor authorities
to an early grave.
* * * *
“Grilse”: When the Victorian Fisheries
and Game Department liberated a lot of
quinnat salmon fry in Lake Bullenmerri
there were plenty of doubting Thomases
who averred that without access to the
sea salmon would not flourish. Recently
the catching of a 3|lb. salmon caused
a change in the tune, especially as the
fry were turned loose barely 12 months
ago. The quinnat, from the West Coast
of America, is now established in Tas-
mania and Maoriland, but in waters with
access to the sea, to which all authori-
ties are agreed the fish must go to de-
velop the capacity to breed on their
annual return to their river or lake quar-
ters. But in the U.S.A. it has been
found possible to establish what are
known as “landlocked salmon” in inland
waters. These have done well, though
no signs of breeding have been observed.
The same will probably be found in the
Victorian experiment, and the Lake
Bullenmerri fish will have to be periodi-
cally renewed by the introduction of
fresh fry from M.L. or Tasmania.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Some 17 years ago a
returned man living in Townsville (N.Q.)
had an even more remarkable escape
from a shark attack than had that
Maubiag swim boy. Capsized near
Black Rock, northward of Magnetic
Island, he and several others swam for
it, he in the lead. His mates suddenly
saw him shoot clear of the water, the
head of a big shark emerging immedi-
ately after. They pluckily swam up
splashing, frightened it off, and escorted
him, bleeding somewhat but saying that
he was unhurt, to the rock. Investiga-
tion showed a line of shallow tooth-
marks along chest and back which, had
the jaws closed, would have severed him
almost in halves. The fish had charged
so swiftly that the corners of its wide-
open mouth had shot him into the air
before the teeth had time to close. After
a few days in hospital with shock —of
which he was quite ashamed! —he re-
covered completely.
RETROSPECT.
I dunno what’s gone wrong with me —I used
to be a bloke
Who never worried overmuch, took life as
jist a joke.
Good times an’ bad —I laughed ’em off, then
looked around once more
To see what else that cranky dame old For-
tune had in store.
An’ Liza Jane—well, there I thought I’d drawn
a lucky card;
But ever since we’ve been engaged she’s had
me thinkin’ hard.
I’m happy—yes, too flamin’ right—a peach is
Liza Jane,
But is it she that’s come to heel or me that’s
on the chain?
Don’t get me wrong—l didn’t have an easy
row to hoe —
Six times I tried me luck with her, six times
she answered no.
Fair dinkum, ’tween me house an’ hers I’ve
nearly worn a pad,
An’ pounds an’ pounds it must have cost me
shoutin’ for her dad.
But that’s jist in the game, of course, the
groundwork, you might say,
That fathers get from blokes who try to steal
their girls away.
Yet, thinkin’ over things again, I’m hanged if
I can see
If I’ve been courtin’ Liza Jane or she’s been
courtin’ me.
Six times she turned me down, but still she
always done it kind,
An’ left a bloke to sort of hope some day
she’d change her mind.
Not like these stony-hearted tarts you read
about in books
Who shudder at a feller’s touch an’ hand him
dirty looks.
Not Liza Jane —she always had a softness in
her eye
As if to say “Call in again next time you’re
passin’ by.”
I did—she’s bought her weddin’ dress, the time
is gettin’ short;
But did I do the capturin’ or is it me that’s
caught?
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dikectors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq,;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Care of Your Estate.
The care of an Estate demands not only integrity and knowledge, but
organised facilities to ensure daily, attention to all matters affecting its
interests. Such organised attention by specially trained staff, experienced
in every phase of Estate and Trust administration, is provided by
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Board of Directors;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Colonel the Hon. T. A. ,T. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Call or write for free P. Cureton,
Explanatory Booklet. Manager.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver. Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Streei. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London price#
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit. 64 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
1927. .201,194 8125 23 p.c.=126,500 66,569 127,065
1928. .219,245 8125 25J „ ~140,250 70,870 197,935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 „ ~154,000 103,712 301,647
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275,000 26,647
1930..223,578 8125 22 59,086 85,733
1931. .147,934 8125 9„ „ 98,316 41,493 127,226
Added goodwill, £52,000 .. .. 75,226
1932. .191,105 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 72,980 148,206
1933. .182,118 8125 10 ~,,110,000 63,993 212.199
1934. .186,748 8125 10 ~,,110,000 68,623 280.822
Deficit.
Depreciation reserve deducted from
plant in balance sheet, £366,139.. 85,317
1935. .209,707 8125 10 p.c.=110,000
Written off, £41,031.. ..j so ’ oul 34,<66
Reserves.
1936. .226,529 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 ) ~ 901 ln re-
written off, £41,113.. | 40,4« i iv,oto
1937. .259,659 8125,12 P£.=132,000 } 78>001 88 .526
Written off, £41,533.. .
This is the largest newspaper organi-
sation in Australia, and one of the most
prosperous, too. Headquarters are in Mel-
bourne, where the business was founded
97 years ago. Here the co. issues nine
or more publications, most important
of which are the “Herald” (it is the
backbone of the business, and has out-
lived one competitor after another in the
evening field) and the “Sun,” a morning
daily, whose circulation is claimed to be
the largest in Australia (it was taken
over from Sun Newspapers, Ltd., Syd-
ney, when that co. retired from the
southern field in 1925). In 1929 the co.
bought a large holding in Advertiser
Newspapers, Ltd., Adelaide, where it
already held an interest in News, Ltd. It
thus gained control of five publications,
including the morning and evening
dailies there. In 1933 Queensland News-
paper Pty., Ltd., was formed to amalga-
mate the interests of the “Courier” and
“Mail” cos. in Brisbane, and the Mel-
bourne “Herald” people acquired a sub-
stantial interest in the new organisation,
which publishes the chief morning daily
in Queensland and two weeklies. In 1929
the co. also set up its own broadcasting
service (3DB Melbourne), which has been
recently extended by erection of a relay
station (3LK) at Lubeck in Western Vic-
toria. In Adelaide, the “Advertiser” co.
set up a similar service (SAD) in 1930.
Meanwhile, the “Herald” co. installed a
number of high-speed Hoe presses and
modernised its remaining plant, to the
benefit of costs; more recently it has
done a lot of preliminary work in con-
nection with the manufacture of news-
print at Boyer, on the Derwent (Tas.).
There was a reconstruction in 1924,
when the ords. received a three-for-two
gift issue. Divs. have since averaged
15.4 p.c. with satisfactory margins, and
£815,594, of which £400,000 was bonus
scrip, has been added to paid capital,
raising it to its present figure, £1,225,000
in 125,000 6| p.c. cum. prefs. and
1,100,000 ords.
During the last term sales and adver-
tising revenue continued to expand, and
all the co.’s journals contributed to the
year’s profit, which was “substantially
assisted by investments in newspapers in
other States.” The “Star,” the last and a
short-lived competitor in the evening
field, ceased publication in April, 1936.
The spring in gross earnings (£403,073)
was £36,815. Exes. (£143,414) took only
£3685 of the increase. After allowing
£41,533 (up £420) for depreciation, the
board called £218,126 (up £32,710) net
profit. It was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 19.1 p.c. on ord. capital.
According to the co.’s 1927 report, visible
allowances were “in excess of normal
provision for depreciation,” and the co.’s
history provides ample confirmation of
this. Including the £41,533, the year’s
net result was sufficient to hand the prefs.
their 6\ p.c. and show 22.8 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 19.8, 18.1, 16.2, 15.8,
16.6, 12.7 and 30.3 p.c. back to 1930.
The div. was kept at 12 p.c. Money may
soon be needed in connection with the
manufacture of newsprint.
The outstanding feature of balance-
sheet figures is a growth of £208,722 in
paper stocks—whether the co. bought
before the recent rise in the price of
newsprint is not ascertainable from the
published accounts:
1 QQI IQO/; 1 QQ.fi IQQ7
Stock.. £104,679 £149,719 £150,729 £359,451
Debtors,
etc. . . 89,116 198,207 214,911 230,879
Shares
in other
cos... 478,315 348,738 337,840 328,140
Cash .. 92,172 13,741 39,556 537
Liquids £764,282 £710,405 £743,036 £919,007
Liabilities 103,657 165,875 138,496 225,048
Surplus £660,625 £544,530 £604,540 £693,959
Freeholds,
etc. . . 331,711 420,215 421,364 429,218
Machinery
and ,
plant 445,513 314,315 320,721 302,463
Net ' •
assets £1,437,849 £1,279,060 £1,346,625 £1,373,590
To help meet the outlay and add £15,968
to debtors’ balances, the co. went outside
for an extra £128,603 and drew upon the
cash holding for £39,019. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus was £89,419.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
ords. at 625. 6d. (lower than a year ago),
at which figure the return is 3.8 p.c. on a
12 p.c. div. basis, or 4.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
distribution. The prefs. at 295. yield 4.4
p.c. The net tangible cover is visibly
£lO 10s. 2d. prefs. and 21s. 7d. ords.
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.
, Dividends —- — N To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£*£ - £ £
1931.. 20,217 9 p.c. 15 p.c. = 10,460 9,757 13,394
1932.. 32,773 9 „ 20 „ „ 14,338 ( 7 ne ~ 91 IRI
Estab. a/c written off, £.10,667 j-V-
Goodwill written up, £65,812.. .. 86,973
Reserves disappear, £1402 .. .. 85,571
1933.. 42,383 S p.c. 20 p.c.19,746 22,637 108,208
Reserves capitalised, £43,560 . . . . 64,648
1934.. 48,225 9 p.c. 22| p.c.= 26,552 21,673 86,321
Goodwill written up, £238,417 .. 324,738
Reserves disappear, £5500 .. .. 319,238
Reserves capitalised, £147,015 .. .. 172,223
1935.. 60,104 9 p.c. 14 p.c. = 38,803 21,301 193,524
Reserves capitalised, £98,010 .. .. 95,514
1936.. 72,787 9 p.c. 171 p.c.= 59,630 13,157 108,671
1937. .111,461 9 ~ 15 „ ~ 64,495 46,966 155,637
Staff fund, £5OOO 150,637
Reserves to be capitalised, £56,601.. 94,036
•Includes 10 p.c. on bonus shares issued,Oct., 1933.
t Subject to goodwill ( £304,229 at October 1, 1937),
and excluding depreciation reserve (now £76,020).
This highly-successful variety chain-
store organisation is an offshoot of Wool-
worths, Sydney. It set up in the
Dominion with two stores and a capital
of £50,000-odd in 1929. Now there are
19 stores, and paid capital is £615,982
in 50,000 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and 565,982
ords. Goodwill has been given a value
of £304,229 in the books, and bonus
scrip to the amount of £288,585 has been
issued against it.
During the last term three new stores
were opened, one each at Greymouth,
Lower Hutt and Masterton. After mak-
ing an unspecified provision for depre-
ciation, and setting aside £74,000 (up
£11,000) for the taxgatherer, net earn-
ings were £38,674 better at £111,461.
This was enough to pay the pref. div.
(£4500) and show 26.7 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 21.6 p.c. for the
previous term. The div. was dropped
from 171 p.c. to 15 p.c. But those
on the Register were offered 222,947
new pound ords. at par during
the year—34,27B, one for ten, in Dec.
and 188,669, one for two, at the end of
June. This was in the nature of a sub-
stantial bonus to shareholders, owing to
the high premium which the scrip com-
manded in the market. The money was
wanted to finance further expansion of
business and the purchase of freeholds
at Nelson and Christchurch, and a lot of
it has not yet had time to develop full
earning capacity.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1931. 1934. 1936. _ 1937.
Paid capital .. £84,450 £148,010 £393,035 £615,98L
Mortgage . . 39,531 79,967 113.500
Sundry creditors 42,987 33,697 114,091 102,240
Freehold .. —v 53,108 143,213 246,574
Leasehold . . 20,912 8,950
Plant . . 30,064 75,084 120.549 143,960
Shares other cos 15,000 15,000
Stocks . . 81,036 139,898 276,685 384,913
Debtors, etc. .. 2,414 24,488 15,154 59,486
Gash, etc, . . 1,172 6,482 3,130 95,138
The new capital, together with the year’s
surplus earnings and £33,533 of mort-
gage money, went into freeholds (up
£103,361), plant (up £23,411), stocks (up
£108,228), debtors’ balances, etc. (up
£44,332), and cash, etc. (up £92,008).
Shareholdings in other cos (£15,000 at
the previous balance) disappeared, and
£11,851 was snipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£323,797) was £222,886, or prac-
tically the amount of new capital
gathered.
It is proposed to split each pound ord.
into four shares of ss. each, and those on
the register at Dec. 7 are to receive a
Christmas-box of £56,601 of bonus scrip,
one for ten. That will make paid capital
£672,583 in 50,000 £1 9 p.c. cum. prefs.
and the balance ords. The pref. div. and
15 p.c. to the ords. will then call for
£97,887, or £13,574 less than was netted
last year. Of the £622,583 of ord. capi-
tal, £354,186, or 11s. 3d. in the pound,
will be gift scrip, which makes a 15
p.c. div. worth 34.7 p.c. on cash-paid
capital.
Though costs are rising sharply in the
Dominion, chain stores are likely to
feel the pinch less than most other
traders ; but competition promises to be
much keener than in the past. Still, the
market sees the glow of the past re-
flected into the future, and prices the
pound ords. at 104 s. After exercising the
rights to the gift issue, the return at this
figure is only 3.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for 4.2
p.c. on his money counts on a 20 p.c.
div., or a one-for-three bonus issue and
maintenance of the div. at 15 p.c. To-
gether with the pref. div., this would
call for £124,516, or £13,055 more than
was netted last year. The prefs. at
375. 6d. return 4.8 p.c. Including the
December bonus issue, the net tangible
cover is £9 4s. lid. prefs. and 13s. 3d.
per pound of ord. capital.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 16,333 9 p.c. = 9,900 6433 37,962
1928.. 13,686 9 „ „ 9,900 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 „ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ ~11,000 4441 50,730
1931.. 11,675 7 „ „ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,168 6 „ „ 6,600 2568 57,273
1933.. 8.,712 6 „ „ 6,600 2112 59,385
1934.. 8,962 6 ~ ~ 6,600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
TO-*.. IUSO . 7 „ „ 7 700 3930 68,186
1937.. 15,935 10 „ „ 11,000 f „ ooia
Stall oonus, liblvs , 1762 ° 9 ’ 948
This corporate trustee celebrates its
jubilee by recording the second-best profit
in its history, by handing shareholders
a special 3 p.c. bonus, making 10 p.c. for
the year, by giving the staff an extra
£3173, and by offering the Government,
testators and others some good advice.
Cemmenting on the laws relating to
the administration of trust estates, chair-
man F. N. Yarwood said:
Take the case of a man and wife, or
any two relatives, leaving wills where their
estates pass outright to one another. As
the law now stands, if they should die
within a short time of each other, duties
become payable twice on the same assets.
The same position arises in intestacy.
We have a recent case where the one-third
share received by a wife under her hus-
band’s intestacy again became liable for
probate and estate duties in a little over a
year, It seems that there should be some
time exemption in such cases.
It would be advisable for those who have
already made wills on the lines indicated
to consult their solicitors with a view to
avoiding this double impost. The position
can be met to some extent by each party
providing that, unless the survivor of them
survives for a number of years, to be
specified, the bequest of the capital, as
apart from income moneys, in his or her
favor, will pass in another direction.
More glaring still is the following in-
stance of duplication of taxation:
W. died domiciled in N. S. Wales, leav-
ing an estate in which he had shares valued
at £l4OO in a co. registered in Victoria,
but carrying on business in Queensland.
Duty was paid in N. S. Wales £95, Vic-
toria £65, Queensland £173, Commonwealth
£57, total £390. The Victorian levy was
subsequently refunded, leaving total duty
paid £325, or approximately 23 p.c. of the
value of the asset. Had the £l4OO been
invested in a N. S. Wales co., total duty
payable would have been £152, or less than
half the amount actually paid.
Such clumsy and inequitable taxation
stands in the way of the development of
Australia as a whole, and shrieks for
legislative correction.
The volume of business entrusted to
the co.’s care keeps on expanding, partly
owing to the growing appreciation of the
corporate as against the private trustee,
and partly to complications now associ-
ated with the administration of estates.
During the last term the net growth in
the volume of trusts on the books was
£420,662:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910. . £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931. . 16,777,007 61,944 49,669 80.2 „
1932.. 17,909,175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933.. 18,150,645 54,663 45,350 82.9 „
1934.. 19,048,865 54,142 44,580 82.3 ~
1935.. 19,613,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191,487 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 49,340 74.9 „
Gross earnings were £5213 better, and
exes, took only £909 of the increase.
After striking the usual £6OO off the book
value of premises, the net result- was 14.4
p.c. on capital as against 10.5, 8.2, 8.1,
7.9, 8.3, 10.6 and 14 p.c. back to 1930.
The special bonus already referred to
lifted the div. to 10 p.c.
Paid capital is £llO,OOO in 200,000 £5
shares paid to 11s. each. Of the £llO,OOO,
transfers from reserves account for
£50,000. At 18s. the shares would return
6.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution, or 4.9
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, which is easily
within reach and not a bad return from
this class of security. The cover is 17s.
lid. in net tangibles.
Hordern Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends Towards
Prefs. Re-
July, Profit. 9 p.c. Olds. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 40,639 9,000 6 p.c. = 13,500 18,139 19,477
Reserves.
1928.. 42.596 9,000 6 „ ~ 13,500 20,096 619
1929.. 43.046 9,000 6 „ ~ 13,500 20,546 21,165
Preliminary exes., £3275 .. .. 17,890
9 & 8 p.c. . • -
1930. .27,725 12,939 4 p.c. = 9,000 5,786 23,676
1931. .17,319 17,000 Nil 319 23,995
1932.. 28,231 14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933. .30,207 13,175 6 „ ~ 13,500 3,532 27,967
1934.. 31.007 13,175 6 „ ~ 13,588 4,244 32,211
1935. .34,860 13,175 6 ~ ~ 13,669 8,016 40,227
1936.. 39.048 13,175 6 ~ ~ 14,124 11,749 51,976
1937.. 42.313 13,175 6 ~ ~ .14,530 14,608 66,584
•Seventeen months.
The outlook for shareholders in this
big drapery establishment continues to
grow more encouraging. There is
£442,175 of capital to feed in 100,000
first 9 p.c. and a like number of second
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 242,175 ords.
Under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act, the pref. divs. are reduced to 6.9
p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively, with the
right to advance beyond these levels to
their original contract rates point for
point with the ords. The second pref.
money was gathered at the end of 1929
to help pay for remodelling the shop,
which is in one of the busiest blocks in
the city, with frontages to Pitt and
George streets, the idea being brighter
and better displays and improved ser-
vice and comfort to customers.
Earnings reached their peak in 1929,
when there was enough to pay the pref.
divs. and show 15.1 p.c. on ord. capital.
Then slump called for big changes in
merchandising methods, and the co.’s
figures show that the management lost


FOR EXPORTERS AWD IMPORTERS...
\
ft
FINANCING TRADE
tfl Crlt t t&e Wcrtct ...
o
The Bank of New South Wales provides the most
complete facilities for financing trade within Australia
and between Australia and all other parts of the world.
Remittances are made by mail or cable, credits are
established in all parts of the world, forward exchange
contracts are arranged. Experienced officers of the
0
Bank are prepared, at all times, to advise on exchange
problems.
The Bank has over 800 branches in Australasia, two
branches in London and over 2,500 agents and c >rre»
spondents throughout the world.
'ms
ESTABLISHED 1817
286 F. 1937
Ask your wife
TO-NIGHT
TELL your wife the income that she will derive
from your life assurance or other property, in
the event of your death, and then ask her these
questions:—
Could she continue the payments on the
home mortgage?
Or, alternatively, could she pay rent on a
suitable home?
Could she support herself and her
children ?
Could she educate the children?
Would it be necessary for her to go and
find a job?
Is she trained to earn even a fair in-
come for herself and the children?
If the honest facing of these questions disturbs
your mind—and hers—ask the nearest A.M.P.
office to show you the best way to do the right
thing; the way to provide immediate and adequate
security on payment of a small premium; the best
way to put your wife and children beyond the dread
and fear of want, and, at the same time, to give
yourself peace of mind.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C, A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
no time in successfully grappling with its
problems. Only once, in 1931, were the
ords. shown an empty basket; they re-
ceived 6 p.c. again in the following year,
and the div. has remained steady at that
rate since. Meanwhile, turnover and
earnings have continued to advance with
the improvement in conditions generally,
During the last term, more people
came to the store, a second escalator
had to be installed, and the co.’s mail-
order connections with the country
expanded, too. After writing off £6968
for depreciation and making provision
for taxation, net earnings, which had
advanced by annual steps from £17,319
in 1931 to £34,860 in 1936, reached
£42,313, or enough to pay the prefs.
their full contract rates and show 10.4
p.c. on ord. capital. The ord. div., how-
ever, was kept at 6 p.c., which means
that payments to the prefs. were less
thi full statutory cut. There is a sug-
gestion there that the board, instead of
o,• .1 j .. , ~ c ,1
lifting the ord. div., and therefore the
pref. divs., point by point, may prefer
to hold off until it is ready to pay, say,
9 p.c. But before it does this it might
like to see a wider margin than existed
last year.
Although the outlook is not so settled
as it might be and costs are on the
up-grade, prospects of the co. doing a
little better during the current term are
encouraging.
The market prices the firsts at 275.
and the seconds at 245. The return at
these figures is 5.1 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. re-
spectively on the basis of last year’s
distribution. The net tangible backing is
£5 Is. 9d. firsts* £4 Is. 9d. seconds and
255. 6d. ords. The ords., largely held
by family interests, are not listed.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1929. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £325.000 £427,825 £440,825 £442,175
Mortgage 1 f 100,333
Overdraft, etc. 1 325,646 193,614 190,635 j 23,320
Creditors J l 82.430
SS etc. i S,E - 818 ‘ O5 - WS
stocks . . 200,291 150,441 156,861 185,655
Book debts . . 47,894 55,920 66,586 70,565
Sh^ 68 ’ etC ‘} 61,807 58,100 65,317 {12,490
To carry an extra £28,794 of stocks, and
add £3979 to debtors’ balances and £3433
to mortgages and cash, the board went
outside for a further £15,448. Still,
there was a growth of £20,756 in the
more or less liquid surplus (£118,885),
making the improvement £48,038 over
the last two years.
Burma Malay Tin, Ltd-
This prospecting, finance and holding
co. records a net profit of £13,610 for the
12 months to March 31 last, compared
with £3361 and £21,332 respectively for
the two preceding terms. A 6d. div.
was paid, and two similar distributions
have been made since the close of ac-
counts. In sterling, the latest accounts
show shareholdings at £100,353 ; loans
to and debentures in associated cos., etc.,
£20,612 ; Commonwealth Loan and cash,
£22,287 ; sundry creditors, £11,218. In
addition, the co. had a four-fifths interest
(Renong is the other interested party) in
a Siam property known as the Thalang
area, since sold to Siamese Tin Corp.
(London) for £101,500 stg., out of which
a cash distribution is to be made to
shareholders, either as return of capital
or bonus.
Formed in 1925 to prospect for tin in
Siam, Burma Malay subsequently
launched the Renong and Katu cos.
Imposition of a prospecting ban in 1933
caused the co. to turn attention to Aus-
tralasia, where two projects, Briseis Tin
(Derby, Tas.) and Mataki Junction Gold
Dredging (M.L.), have. since been
brought to production. The extent of
the co.’s shareholdings is seen in this
table:
B.M’s.
Hold- r-'Divs.—,
ing, Paid Book Market ’36- ’37-
Oompany. Shares. To Value. Value. 37.* 38.
Renong" .. 39,140 £1 £36,388 £62,624 4/- 4/-
lvatu . . 38,290 £1 33,094 44,336 2/- 1/-
Ratrut .. 7,000 £1 6,582
Briseis ..105,000 5/- 21,000 29,400
Mataki . . 44,000 2/6 4,289 6,160
Kapitea .. 1,507 10/- 1
All figures stg. * Actually received by Bunna-Malay.
At present Katu and Renong are the
backbone of investment revenue. Last
term Katu dug 0.441 b. ground. Average
recoveries this year have been 0.591 b.
There is about 14 years’ work measured


“Let Atlas carry the burden.”
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000.
Fire—Accident—Marine
WOOL (Sheep's back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager fob Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY 11. HEATH, Manager.
Incorporated in
England by Royal
Charter in 1835.
&
18 35
The liability of the
Members is
limited.
PROGRESS
The following figures give some indication of the steady
progress made by THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
through the years —an achievement attained by
maintaining a sound and progressive banking policy:—
comprehensive service covering every of
modern banking business.
The Bank of
Australasia
The oldest Bank now trading in Australia as originally constituted.
Public Notice. '
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
1 per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab” Melbourne.
CJ OTHL* CORDIAL*
up for the dredge, which has the rich-
est portion of the property still to treat.
Co. is handicapped by its small assess-
ment. Life of Renong is around 16
years, but wash remaining to be dug is
mainly tailings averaging 0.51 b. t.o. —
about half last term’s recoveries.
Ratrut Basin’s Sichon (Siam) property
(23,000,000 c.y., averaging 1.131 b. t. 0.) has
been worked by Burma Malay under
tribute since 1935. After meeting work-
ing exes., profits are split equitably
between the two cos. Burma Malay
also has an option over 12,094 unissued
10 p.c. first cum. prefs. till 1941. There
are two dredges, one of which, after
treating tailings at a small profit, is get-
ting into virgin ground. The wash is
hard and bouldery, making dredging
difficult and costs high.
Commencing in June, 1936, produc-
tion at Briseis was disorganised by a
costly flood two months later. Flood
dangers have since been minimised, and
divs. are expected to flow in 1938.
Proved ground was originally estimated
at 4,000,000 c.y. averaging 1.71 b. t. 0.,
with more than twice that quantity
labelled probable. With tin at £2OO and
costs at Is. 6d. per ton, annual sur-
pluses of £30,000 were reckoned on.
Recent recoveries from virgin ground
have been below estimates.
Progress of Mataki (South Island,
M.L.) is reported to be encouraging.
Of the yardage available, 6,000,000 c.y.
was expected to average 6.8 Id. (gold at
£4 an ounce). The co. is earning profits,
but recoveries (1.2 gr.) over the last few
months- have been short of prospectus
figures.
Two prospecting concerns, Kapitea
Development and Mitchell River Gold,
have also been sponsored.
Last month the parent abandoned an
option over New Pyrenees Alluvials’
gold-bearing property at Avoca (Vic.).
On the market the fully-paid £1 shares
fetch 395. 6d.
Another effort is being made to prove
the existence of more payable ore at the
old Sunny Corner silver-lead mine
(N.S.W.). About 700 ft. of the lowest
tunnel has been picked up, and a make
of ore is being driven-on. Below this
the workings are full of water. Before
Broken Hill, the Sunny Corner was the
largest lead-silver producer in Australia,
and for many years paid well. At first it
was a goldmine, the gossan capping being
put through a battery for gold and silver,
the tailings, which probably carried high
values, being discharged into Daylight
Creek. Then, for many years, the gossan
was smelted for gold and silver by an
American co. After that, larger fur-
naces were erected by an English co.,
and smelting of the sulphide ores for
matte was entered on, with highly-profit-
able results. When the ore supply was
supposed to be worked out, the mine
passed to Frank Gardner and J. Kemp
Charleston, and thousands of tons of ore
was won again, pinches opening out into
large bodies. But . the Gardner-Charleston
partnership was interested in so many
duds in other parts of the State that when
more capital was required it wasn’t there.
During the war the mine was reopened
by W. B. Wilkinson, and a large body of
ore, only a couple of feet wide at first, but
opening out almost immediately, was
taken out and smelted. Operations ceased
when metal prices dropped. A com-
prehensive drilling campaign along the
contact line might have valuable results ;
it had at Captain’s Flat. Lake George and
Sunny Corner ores are very similar,
though the latter were always the richer.
# * * $
At West Mitchell, a mile from Sunny
Corner (N.S.W.), a novel gold-saving
machine has been installed to treat sur-
face stuff at the Little Hill mine. Local
opinion is that the machine seems quali-
fied to save gold when it is plentiful
enough, but it is doubtful whether grand-
father left enough of the yellow metal to
be worth saving. If the venture proves
profitable, there .is plenty of material
there.
* * * *
“Quidam”: Although treating tailings
at Rutherglen (Vic.) has been successful,
most alluvial puddler tailings are worth-
less from a cyanider’s point of view. They
are payable only where the ordinary allu-
vial gold is mixed with the almost im-
palpable and weightless flour gold, shed
from decomposed mineralised reefs. Such
leads in Vic. occur on some of the fields
round Maryborough and Rutherglen.
Between 1905 and 1912 dozens of cyanide
plants were operating in the Mary-
borough district, and many working pro-
prietors made a living on 2s. a ton ex-
traction (about 12gr. in those days). The
white pipeclay slimes were very light on
cyanide and lime, leaching being the
chief difficulty. Little of the flour gold
was saved by the power puddlers, and
large sums were paid by Chinamen for
the right to retreat the slimes with their
so-called “quicksilver cradles.” Only
assays and cyanide tests revealed the
values in these dumps, some of which
averaged 4dwt. to sdwt.
* * *
“Eastern” puts his finger on the weak
spot in Lady Shenton (W.A.).: The
board’s proposal to reduce shareholdings
to one-fifth of the existing number
ignores the real problem, which is re-
duction of costs. The co.’s figures sug-
gest that development gave only 373 tons
of milling ore for a cost of approxi-
mately £B4OO, including the amount spent
on drilling. Extraction and treatment of
7178 tons of Shenton ore and sands, and
2854 tons of customs sands cost £31,191.
Allowing 10s. a ton for the treatment of
outsiders’ sands, Shenton costs work out
at 7178 tons for £30,764, about 85s. a
ton. This staggering figure is officially
ascribed to faulting in the ore-body
jiecessitating a large amount of dead
work. In view of this, common prudence
demands that a substantial cash reserve
be created and dividends not even thought
of until costs are brought under control,
either by improved methods or a major
development of more settled conditions
in the ore-body. The long - suffering
though patient shareholders should not be
asked to make further sacrifices.
H* $ * . - *
South Kalgurli, Fimiston (W.A.), con-
tinues to maintain ore supplies at over
two years’ feed for the mill, though the
grade is a fraction down. Latest esti-
mate is 187,300 tons, averaging 5.72dwt.,
blocked, and 98,400 tons of probable
s.sldwt. ore. For the 12 months to
March last, the div. was cut from 3s. 6d.
to 2s. (40 p.c. = £25,000) per share, but
net earnings for the current term should
comfortably cover a distribution at the
higher rate —Is. has been sent out so
far. To the end of October, 71,290 tons
had been milled for * a working profit,
after charging development, of £38,132,
compared with £38,977 for the whole of
1936-37. Average recoveries (555. Bd.)
have lifted 4s. 6d. or so, owing to instal-
lation of a fine-grinding unit and aban-
donment of the Wombola and Croesus
tributes, whence lower-grade ore was
being drawn. Costs (40s. lid., exclud-
ing development) have advanced only a
few pence. The ss. shares (250,007 are
issued) have steadied around 16s. 6d.,
after being 2s. below that figure ; 225. 3d.
was paid earlier in the year.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s net earnings for
the year ended June 30 last were £439,905,
compared with £478,414 for the previous
12 months. A slightly lower average
gold price and a short stoppage or two
account for the drop. The current year’s
profit is tipped to be a record. Special
development last year absorbed £39,446,
and depreciation £46,297. Tributors:’
claims amounted to £4244, and dividends,
2s. a share in all, moped up £280,000. Six
directors divided £lO,OOO in fees, and
£69,000 was earmarked for Australian
taxes, leaving £10,083 to carry forward ;
£19,170 was brought in. The co.’s mines
on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile improved
in appearance during the year.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Triton reappears on the West-
ralian goldmining dividend list after
about nine months’ break, due to ex-
penditure of profits on new plant. Mine
developments continue to be satisfac-
tory in the Emu North section, while the
Emu South section, previously not of
much assistance as a source of ore supply,
has been shaping well. Still, the market
seems uncertain, mainly on account of a
report that the main shoot in Emu North
is shortening 20ft. or thereabouts for
every 100 ft. in depth. If this is correct
it means that as the workings are deep-
ened and time rolls on there will be
less ore available for extraction.
* * * *
Southern Cross United, one of De
Bernales Westralian group, is resampling,
because returns from the newly-installed
mill are lower than expected. Some
diamond-drilling is also in progress to
test hitherto unprospected ground. To
bring the property to the producing stage,
£75,000 stg. was raised by a 10 p.c.
note issue. These notes are redeemable at
par on June 30, 1942, or at a premium of
10 p.c. on or at any time after June 30,
1939, on three months’ notice by the co.
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward (W.A.) has started ore
treatment with no liabilities and a few
weeks’ working funds in hand. Returns
are expected before the till becomes
empty. Head values of the oxidised re-
serves are reckoned to be 7dwt. a ton, but
the board says no definite estimates of
results are possible, as the sands will have
to be left for future treatment. The
next few months’ operations should throw
considerable light on the value of this
venture.
* * * *
Increased mining activity is reported
from Marble Bar, Westralia’s most im-
portant goldmining centre in the nor’-
west. Here Western Mining Corp. has
taken an option over McKinnon’s block,
near the Comet, and De Bernales’s
group is interested in an area at
McPhee’s Patch. London was recently
urged to have a go at the big low-grade
Nullagine deposits, about 100 miles from
Marble Bar, but has not yet done any-
thing.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.L.H.: The fixed trust you mention is not
a trustee co. It sells its own unit certificates,
security for which is scrip in the 20 cos. re-
ferred to S.S.C.: (1) Cannot say. (2) Secre-
tary may be able to find a buyer for you.
(3) Yes. (4) Yes. Amount depends upon
whether forest products are marketed as timber,
pulp or kraft... .W.M.: (1) Depends on risk
you are prepared to take. Mine not yet suffi-
ciently developed to be other than a gamble.
(2) No. (3) Prospects not very bright
F J.H.: (1) Hordern Bros, first prefs., Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers prefs. and Cum-
berland first prefs. worth consideration. (2)
Reasonable spec. Everything depends upon the
course of metal prices. (3) Prospects look en-
couraging, but it is a new venture and may
take time to develop full earning capacity
H.H.P.: (1) and (2) The shares are a long-term
speculation; cannot say what they are likely
to be worth in the long run. (3) Scrip not
listed on Stock Exchange, but any broker will
endeavor to find a buyer for you P.K.: Bis-
muth ores are bought per pound of metallic
content. The price ranges from 3s. 6d. per
pound for ore assaying 50 p.c. to 2s. per pound
for ore assaying 25 p.c C.H.M.: (1) Prefs.
Oct. and April, and ords. Dec. and June. (2)
Final If P- c -> payable in Dec., making 3| p.c.
for the year, compared with 3f p.c. for the
previous term. (3) Cannot say; no report
issued yet. (4) Secretary will ask you to send
in provisional certificate when he is ready to
issue scrip.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* » k *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants,', certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street. Sydney.— Advt.
$ * $ $
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Youn? Streets. Sydrev
IM
II
m
m
MI
H
tin
ill
mm
mi
ii!
* ill
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“The Judge always has the last word,” stated
a Judge in court recently.
At home, too?
*l* *l* *!* *l*
“Eight doctors celebrate golden jubilee with
dinner.”
Apples, it is understood, were excluded
from the menu.
*i* *l* •b
“Expert says it would be impossible for a
snake to milk a cow.”
Dad now thinks there is something
snaky about the new hand.
*l*
“The average police-station is a cold, bleak
place.”— “Sunday Sun.”
And they won’t even let their visitors
wrap themselves in the charge sheets.
•b •b
“Judge says that divorce is a turning point in
far too many people’s lives.”
With many it’s a co-re-turning point.
“Most women love a ‘suppose.’ ”
— Woman’s paper.
Their puzzled husbands suppose they
know what they suppose they suppose,
and, supposing they do, suppose it means
something—probably “Suppose you give
me ten shillings.”
“Holding the whisky bottle in his hand he
declared that he would taste no more liquor.”
— “D.T.”
That was the right time to take a pull!
*l* *l*
“A film star says that her third husband, a
titled Austrian, is the ideal lover.”
This may be taken to indicate that
titled Austrians will get first choice when
she is picking her future husbands.
4* ►I- *l*
“There was applause in a Sydney court when
a man charged with assault upon a woman
was sentenced to a term in prison.”
Now he knows what it means to be
clapped into gaol.
•b •b
The reason why many wives go off
the handle is that they are unable to get
their husbands to go off it.
i
When IS a Man Under the
Influence ?
The time has come when this vexed
question must be approached in the
spirit of scientific inquiry. Such methods
as getting the S.I. (suspected inebriate)
to pronounce polysyllabic, sibilant,
alliterative and incomprehensible words
and phrases, scratching the middle of the
back while standing on one foot and
giving the Hitler flip, and blood tests
are too indefinite. Convinced that the
surest test of determining the degree of
intoxication lies not in reference to what
has been drunk but to what has not been
drunk, I have devised a scheme to this
end.
Take a number of citizens representa-
tive of all classes and sexes, and decant
into them under strictest supervision
sufficient alcoholic liquor to render them
all completely blotto. It is then a simple
matter of dividing the quantity imbibed
by the number of cits, to arrive at the
N.I. (norm of inebriation).
Assume now that the N.I. of beer is
25 pints and an arrest has been made
for driving under the influence. Under
my scheme, police stations will be fur-
nished with well-stocked cellars. As
soon as the S.I. is brought in, the ser-
geant will, using pint-pots, proceed to in-
sert beer into him, keeping an accurate
tally till he sinks into slumber. It is
likely that the S.I. will object strongly
to this treatment, but he must be com-
pelled to drink the beer even if its taste
must first be disguised with vanilla
essence.
Suppose it took 10 pots to stonker
him. The sergeant, by referring to
the charts (N.I. beer = 25), will deduce
that the S.I. must have had- 15
pints in when lumbered. This last
number is divided by the Time Factor
“I saw ’im first."
(period of absorption), which gives the
equation:
N.I. -r T.F. = +X.
where X =* Verdict and Plus = Guilty
or not, as the case may be.
Thus it can be seen that, provided the
sergeant makes no mistake in working
the formula, he knows automatically
whether to shoot the S.I. into the cooler
or let him go without a stain on his
character.
Note.—Since the N.I. is the crux of
the scheme, it will be necessary to get
the right kind of men to act as subjects.
I am prepared to act as often as called
upon.
Turoar.
•1* *s* *i*
“New Tasmanian prison regulations provide
that within three months of a prisoner’s dis-
charge his hair may be permitted to grow.
Officials believe that this will enable released
men to get a new start in life sooner.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
They should have no difficulty in pos-
ing as visiting pianists or giving imper-
sonations of Famous Statesmen.
“A laborer claims a record with three sets
of twins and one of triplets.”— Sydney “Sun.”
That’s storking!
“His reasoning is absolutely idiotic. My
wife, I might add, thinks the same.”
— Correspondent.
And that, of course, proves it.
+ 4* +
“She had a good memory but a vile temper,
which caused her to say terrible things at
times.” — Woman’s paper.
Even a woman with a good memory
can forget herself now and then.
*s*
This chap Lang must be an amiable
fellow. It takes a lot to put him out.
4* 4* 4*
Customs, Inhabitants and Industries
of Our Great Outback.
So ill-developed an emotion is human
gratitude that the homing city toper,
bibulously and affectionately clasping
his crayfish to his breast as he meanders
along, gives never a passing thought to
the noble sacrifice made by the crus-
tacean itself or to the hardships and
perils suffered by the crayfisherman who
had industriously pursued over the vasty
deep the concomitant of his beer supper.
The crayfisherman’s lot is not, as
many suppose, merely a matter of row-
ing a boat a few yards, dumping over-
board an affair like an outsize cocky’s
cage, counting 20 and then hauling it
in as it literally crawls with fat, luscious
lobsters. Far from it. Actually, this
art —for such it is—is a highly-specialised
one involving manifold and intricate cal-
culations.
A study of astrology is the first essen-
tial. Governed by the zodiacal sign of
the Crab, to which they are allied by
family ties, the crays may be caught only
when the Crab and Pisces are in con-
junction with the planet Uranus, and
then only on the turn of a neap tide.
Also, the type of ocean floor must be
reckoned with. All crayfish like a
barnacle-studded reef to gambol on, as
this obviates the risk of their skidding
and putting dents in their carapaces.
Again, this must be in juxtaposition to a
sandy bottom, to which they can retire
immediately danger threatens.
When, therefore, the conditions ac-
cording to the astrological guide are pro-
pitious, the cray-gatherer sets out in his
snub-nosed scow (the bottom will, of
course, be suitably camouflaged), which
he propels with a single muffled oar.
Stacked in a neat pile aft are his traps,
and in the nose of his craft is his case
of bait.
Approaching cautiously over the sus-
pected bed, he then “feels” for the
bottom with his long, slender bamboo
pole. Having satisfied himself that it is
likely ground, the fisherman lets his
anchor go, making certain that it has a
firm grip on the bottom. Then he strips
off, takes a deep breath and goes over
the side, to make his way hand over
hand down the anchor rope.
If he has performed these tasks silently
he may even get a sight of the “colony”
before they dash for cover. Usually,
however, they see him first, and he is
then compelled to make more exhaus-
tive tests to determine their size and
numbers before putting down his traps.
Standing on the reef bottom—no easy
task because of the strong upward pull
he has to combat—he waggles the muscle
of his big toe to attract the attention
of the lobsters and draw them out. The
crustaceans, ignorant of the vagaries of
the English language, mistake it for a
mussel and seize upon it with their
nippers. By the severity of the nip he is
enabled to judge the size of the lobsters.
Should they be too timid to come out,
the cray-snatcher then has recourse to
another method. Knowing that lobsters
submerge in the sand, leaving only their
eyes and feelers sticking out, he gropes
around until his hands meet a pair of
flowing whiskers. A lightness of touch
is here necessary, otherwise the lobster,
scared, would withdraw the whiskers
before he was able to whip out his tape
measure to get the size. This he natur-
ally has to memorise until he regains his
craft, there to consult his chart, which
gives the sizes of lobsters to correspond
with whisker-length.
Assuming, then, that he considers it a
profitable ground to fish, he sets about
preparing his traps.
It is obvious that an intelligent
creature like the lobster could, when in
its right senses, find its way out
of any door it walked into, so
means must be taken tempor-
arily to dull its intellect when
in the trap. For this reason a
bottle of beer is placed on the
floor of each trap, and when
they are all lowered (the
“empties” are used as location
buoys) the fisherman again
goes down to take the tops off
the bottles.
The call of this ancient partnership is
too strong for the crays to withstand.
As the beer permeates the water in the
trap they dash madly in, too excited to
notice what they are entering. Soon the
alcohol has its effect and they are too
drowsy to find their way out again, and
in this condition they are hauled to the
surface.
Not immediately, however, for were
they to be pulled straight out the sudden
lifting of the pressure would give them
the bends ’ and kill them. This in turn
would mean a big loss to the fisherman,
who must get them to market alive.
He therefore “stages” them up; i.e.,
brings them up, say, 20ft. at a time. Some
fishermen have been known to “stage”
their traps at various depths throughout
the night, only to find when they got
them to the surface that there wasn’t a
lobster in them. Even a crayfisherman
will admit that this is slightly annoying.
To ensure that his catch doesn’t get
knocked about either in drunken fights
among themselves or by heavy seas on
the way back to port, the scow is fitted
with a fur-lined false bottom, divided
into separate compartments, and into
these the lobsters are put.
Among the catch there will obviously
be a percentage of baby lobsters. Those
that have not been weaned are put back.
The rest go into a tank specially kept by
the fishermen, and they are fattened up
on algae and stout. So that they won’t
develop stringy muscles through too
much exercise, they are kept in a con-
fined space.
S. W. K.
Love and War.
“No true lover should be in favor of war.”
—Pacifist speaker.
True lovers certainly should be
Opposed to battle’s dire alarms,
And yet, methinks they all agree,
There’s nothing like a call to arms!
T. W. N.
Affaire de Cook.
“His wife cited the cook as co-respondent.”
—Divorce item.
It justs shows you how a man can get
into a stew!
It began when the husband employed
the cook because she was a dainty little
morsel. She pretended that she didn’t
know her onions, but she was so hard-
boiled and saucy that he should have
taken that with a grain of salt. He soon
learnt that just because a girl can make
angel’s food it doesn’t say she isn’t a
little devil.
She was out after sugar and she made
things pretty hot. After a little spooning,
hubby had to fork out, and the missus
soon got her knife into him when she
found the cash going like hot scones, and
the family finances just about in the
soup.
Of course, it was futile trying to keep
the affair under cover. It soon leaked
out, and the missus boiled over with
rage. She gave him no end of curry, and
promptly proceeded to cook his goose.
T. W. N.
Close Pals.
“In private life the two boxers are the firm-
est of friends.” —“ Telegraph.”
No glowering looks or hatred do they
bring
To mar their friendship when they leave
the ring.
During their fights, in fact (we’ve yawned
them through),
They’re mostly quite inseparable, too.
ZAKB.


March
16.
April
29.
July
29.
Oct.
7
Oct.
21.
Oct.
28.
Nov.
9.
Nov.
11.
Batik of N.S.W. ..
07.9
£38.5
£35.2
£33.6
£33.6
£34.2
£33.5
£33.5
National Bank
£8.0
£7.9
£7.5
£7.2
£7.3
£7.6
£7.2
£7.3
Carlton Brewery
64 f-
63/6
67/6
63/9
65/-
65/6
65/6
65/-
C.-Perkins
26/-
26/9
26/9
26/-
26/3
26/6
26/-
26/3
Tooth
57/-
58/3
55/6
55/6
55/-
54/9
54/3
54/9
Goldsbrough, Mon
39/6
39/-
36/6
34/3
34/6
34/6
33/6
33/9
Wincficombe
36/6
36/6
36/-*
34/6
33/9
33/6
33/-
32/9
Adelaide Steam
32/6
32/6
31/3
32/-
32/9
32/6
32/7
32/6
Queensland Insurance
60/9
60/-
60/-
60/9
—
56/-
57/6
Australian Gas “A
£7.2
£7.3
£7.4
£7.3
£7.4
£7.5
£7.5
£7.4
Associated News
24 3
23/7
23/-
23/-
22/9
23/6
23/-
23/3
Australian Glass ..
93/6
90/-
95/3
91/6
91/-
92/6
92/-
92/-
Australasian Paper
39/-
35/-
33/6*
33/-
33/3
33/6
32/3
31/9
Australian Cement
11/6
31/6
32/-
.32/6
32/-
31/6
31/6
31/9
British Tobacco ..
537-
50/-
50/-
48/6
48/6
48/6
48/9
507-
Broken Hill Ptop.
91/3
81 /3
82/9
77/-
67/6*
66/3
60/6
64/—
Burns, Philp
80/-
73/-
72/9
58/-*
58/3
58/3
58/-
57/9
Electrolytic Zinc -
66/6
57/6
58/-
53/'$
52/-
52/3
47/-
48/6
Fairymead
39/3
37/6
35/-
32/9
3276
32/6
33/-
33/-
G. J. Coles
£5.3
£5.2
£5.6
£4.7
£4.7
£4.7
£4.5
£4.6
Gordon and Gotch
52/-
52/6
51/6
54/6
54/3
54/6
54/6
54/9
H. Jones
46/-
46/9
50/-
50/—
49/3
50/3
49/-
49/-
Melbourne “Herald"
74/6
717-
69/-
67/-
65/6
66/-
64/-
62/6
Mauri Bros.
75/-
74/-
70/6
68/6
69/-
68/6
69/-
68/6
Yarra Falls
43/-
42/-*
39/9
40/-
40/3
40/-
39/9
40/-
VV. M. Soul
84/6
85/-
70/9
90/-
90/-
89/-
88/-
86/6
86/6
North Broken Hill
89/3
76/-
61 /-
58/3
57/3
46/9
52/-
Broken Hill South
58/-
46/9
47/9
39/-
40/9
41/-
35/6
39/3
Mount Lyell
S2'/6
45 /
*E.v
43/6
rights.
39/3
38/5
38/6
33/3
36/6
Assoc. Pulp and Paper.
The ords. in Australia’s new pulp
and fine-printing venture, paid to
17s. 6d., could be bought at 18s. 9d.
last week. They look interesting.
m
m
*:X \
1 m
;
Xvxo:
mm®
k m
me sc muc
■
■
SSSBB@iSS®S
SWSSSS?:?
i
v V'£ <- s ' ✓
Wmm i&sls
111 | 1 | \^W
W
-
ISi
&
:-:-:-:*:-: : : : : : : : : ; : : :i::X::
iSS
. :■;<?.
9 for 6d.— 18 for I/-
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. C. W. A. SCOTT
8W.141
BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT —THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Emperor’s Ore
In October last year published ac-
counts of the Emperor (Fiji) mentioned
620,000 tons oxidised ore and 50,000 tons
tellurides, the oxides expected to go
10dwt., “with a probably higher value for
the telluride ore.” These estimates were
credited to geologist H. J. C. Conolly.
Latest figures announced by the general
manager of the mine show an in-
crease of 236,300 tons in bulk ; but grade
indicated suggests that last year’s esti-
mated assay values were on the high
side, or that recently-developed ore has
been of very low grade. The types of
ore also vary. Estimates as at Sept. 4
were:
Proved Ore.
Assay,
Tons. Ton.
Oxidised .. .. .. 444,600 6.Bdwt.
Semi-oxidised .. .. 133,600 8.1 „
Sulphide 255,100 10.9 „
833,300
Prospective Ore.
Sulphide 73,000 *lO
Total .. .. .. ' 906,300
* Probable.
In brief, the 1936 estimates visualised
not less than 335,000 fine ounces to be
available in approximately 670,000 tons
of ore, mainly oxidised ; present figures
suggest 380,8010 z. in 906,300 tons of ore
ranging from a substantial quantity of
oxides to a substantial body of sulphides.
The new mill, it was stated in the last
report, was designed to treat 12,000 tons
oxidised ore per month, and it is par-
ticularly worth noting that recoverable
values were then estimated at 9dwt. —
costs 17s. 6d., profits, at 150,000 tons
p.a., £408,750 p.a.
Whether the treatment plant has been
modified so that it will be adaptable to
sulphide ores after the oxides are worked
out isn’t known here. Oxides are usually
treated by cyanidation, sulphides by
flotation. If a largely-new plant becomes
necessary later on it may throw previ-
ous estimates further askew.
The position now seems to be that
average head value of the proved and
prospective ore is reckoned to run
out at B.4dwt., and that about six
years’ life is indicated so far. Say
recoveries averaged 60s. a ton (a little
over 7dwt. at the present price of gold)
and all-in costs, including taxation, 30s. ;
then about £225,000 p.a. might be ex-
pected, in six years aggregating
£1,350,000, as against a sharemarket
value of the undertaking now of around
£963,000 (at 13s. per 10s. share).
Some who take an interest in Emperor
shares have produced higher estimates,
others lower. Calculations, including the
one in this article, at this stage of de-
velopment are subject to those many
qualifications which make goldmming
the gamble it is.
On this page appears a record of the
ups and down in a number of represen-
tative Australian stocks over a period
of eight months. A fact that strikes the
eye is that, though cos. depending on
export prices (such as base-metal mines,
woolbrokers, etc.) have had an uncei-
tain, and in some cases hectic, market,
industrials showing a return above the
average have been remarkably steady.
Retailers' scrip has been jumpy.
jjj jjj # ♦
With metals so heavily down again
last week, bewildered investors, when
they get into a steady enough mental
condition to think, wonder how present
rates will affect profits of the principal
Barrier cos. The best that can be done
to help them is to compare profits of
the North and South mines over the last
five years, giving the relevant average
prices and the throughput of each mine:
.——Profits
Lead, Spelter, North, South.
£stg. £stg. £A. £A.
’32-33 .. 11/11/6 14/15/8 166,565 240 674
{Tons, crudes, ’32-33 .. 313,782 360,280)
’33-34 .. 11/16/7 15/12/- 273,355 220 214
{Tons, crudes, ’33-34 .. 393,577 345,630)
’34-35 .. 11/6/- 12/16/7 390,684 342,510
{Tons, crudes, ’34-35 .. 396,175 366,660)
’35-36 .. 16/4/5 15/3/11 636,940 486 197
{Tons, crudes, ’35-36 .. 402,097 386,100)
’36-37 .. 23/2/8 20/2/1 910,628 768,116
{Tons, crudes, ’36-37 .. 434,865 369,79 u)
Those profit figures in some instances
appear to be unresponsive to metal-price
and production movements. The ex-
planation is to be found principally in
the quantity of stocks on hand by cos.
at the snd of each period. In the ’32-33
term North produced 3672 tons more
lead than it sold ; in ’33-34 10,253 tons
went into stock ; in ’34-35 10,458 tons
was sold out of stock; ’35-36, 10,502
tons sold ; ’36-37, 7846 tons sold, bring-
ing stocks of lead down to 13,192 tons,
after 41,998 tons in ’33-34. South in
’32-33 put 839 tons into stock ; ’33-34,
9399 tons went in (making 38,409 tons);
’34-35, 8514 tons went out; ’35-36,
11,078 tons out; ’36-37, 7596 tons out,
bringing quantity on hand down to
11,221 tons. Expressed in tabular form,
movements have been as follows:
Additions ro (+) and Sales from (—) Lead
Stocks.
North. South.
Tons Lead. Tons Lead.
’32-33 + 3,672 + 839
’33-34 + 10,253 + 9,399
’34-35 - 10,458 - 8,514
•35-36 - 10,502 - 11,078
’36-37 - 7,846 - 7,596
On hand. June 30, 1937: —
13,192 11,221
Silver has continued to accumulate in
each case. Zinc concentrates go almost
automatically to the E.Z. Co. at Risdon.
It is quite possible that, with lead at
£l5 12s. and spelter at £l4 15s. for a
time last week, the management of most
Barrier cos. withheld metals from sale.
If that is the case, and the practice is
intermittent throughout the 1936-37
term, profits may fall particularly heavily
compared with last year’s bumper show-
ings, to achieve which both current pro-
duction and large accumulated stocks
were sold.
* * * *
An ex-Broken Hill mining engineer has
made some rough calculations which in-
dicate that North shares, making full
allowance for the longer period over
which its profits are aimed to be won,
are worth half as much again as Souths.
* * * *
Wool sales in Sydney during the week
ended Nov. 6 averaged 13.7 d. a pound,
and last week there was a drop of 5 p.c.,
affecting all types except the best lines.
About 13d. was the closing figure.
* * * He
With United Provisions ords. at 6s.
last week in Melbourne they looked a
very fa'ir spec. It represented the lowest
quote on record, slump-time or otherwise.
Net profits disclosed by the operating
cos. —these are the figures that really
count —have been: 1928, £138,385 ; 1932,
£29,047; 1933, £21,595; 1934, £20,510;
1935, £55,546 ; 1936, £54,045; 1937,
£46,857. Though the drop last term was
only £7lBB, the market fell precipitously
—from 11s. in July. The earnings com-
fortably covered divs. on the 450,000 8
p.c. prefs. (paid up to date), and were
more than double the showing of 1933
or 1934. Chief trouble has been desperate
competition. There are 950,000 £1 ords.
to pay divs. on, and, though from this
aspect there are signs of top-heaviness,
finances are quite comfortable, and fixed
assets, less depreciation reserve, show a
drop of £81,129 on 1928 figures.
Hi « H=
In October Briseis Tin (Derby, Tas.),
treated 70,000 c.y., including 20,000 c.y.
flood debris, for 45 tons tin, average
1.441 b. per yard of virgin ground and
debris. The ss. shares have firmed
slightly.
$ -i*
In Melbourne last week:
Barrier shares, after one of the most hectic
weeks in their history, steadied at about the
preceding week's rates.
Holeproof ords. could be bought at 265.
9d. to yield 7.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
King Island Scheelite 25.-paids, after
slumping heavily following the steep drop in
wolfram, recovered to Is. lOd.
Mt. Morgan announced a record month of
gold production— sl l9oz, from 28,550 tons
sulphides and 26,867 tons oxides. The scrip
strengthened, but a weaker Sydney market even-
tually took the peak off the lift.
Yarra Falls shares changed hands at 395.
towards the week-end, returning slightly more
than 5 p.c.


I
GOOD CAMERA
•MM
INDISPENSIBLE
m
onia*c
'CONTAX"—with
Range Finder
Focussing and
ZEISS Rapid Lens
y' Obtainable from
ZEISS-IKON Dealers
IKON
List on application to the
Australian Representatives:
E. C. HEYNE PTY. LTD
m FLINDERS ST ME L B 8 BOND ST . SYDNEY. .
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
EVERY CAILON
Always ask for C.O.R Super Plus Ethyl, the only
super grade petrol that also contairis BENZOL. A
natural anti-knock fuel in itself, benzol, when
blended with super grade petrol, gives your engine
EXTRA POWER and presents you with a bonus of
EXTRA MILES PER GALLON AT NO EXTRA
COST.
Remember only C.O.R Modern Petrols contain
BENZOL—an exclusive CiO.R improvement.
■ '
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
• •'■ •' ■- f \ >_- • ; r: '<
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Commonwealth Government &. Anglo-Iranian Oil
Co. Ltd.), Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE
!
C93.39.5P
V
?ssjL
n
A Dog Chasing Its Tail
The National City Bank of New York
reporting, date about a month ago:
The improvement in the volume of U.S.A.
contraction has ceased, and building has been
running behind a year ago, especially in tne
residential classification of which so much was
hoped. In August residential contract awards
were 27 p.c. under the same month last year,
and total awards were only 4 p.c. larger....
In the first three weeks of September the total
was 15 p.c. smaller. As compared with earlier
months this year the drop has been consider*
ably more than seasonal. The building indus-
try plainly supplies an example of cost in-
creases which could not be passed on, and
which have checked the upswing; and the
check is likely to be effective until changes in
the ratios between costs and rents, and the
prices of old and new property, alter the re-
lationship governing building activity to make
it profitable again.
As regards heavy industries:
Steel-mill operations have dropped from 84
p.c. of capacity during August to below 75 p.c.
at latest reports, and the curtailment has come
chiefly in the plants making heavy products.
The backlog which sustained production in mid-
-1937 has now been so reduced that operations
will be governed by current orders.
So far as general merchandise is con-
cerned in the States:
The evidence is that production has been
outrunning consumption, and stocks are up.
Seasonal buying has been slack, and the trend
is toward curtailment, especially in fine
cotton goods, men’s wear woollens, floor cover-
ings and shoes... .This goes to emphasise the
need of a strong showing by the capital—goods
producers if industrial production is to main-
tain its high rate.
The bank also recorded that the
amount of new money raised by cos.
continued negligible, and that Govern-
ment “pump-priming” activities had been
sharply reduced.
Expenditures are as great, but are derived
to a less extent from credit, since the rise
of tax receipts nearly covers disbursements.
This reduction in deficit-financing is equivalent
to a withdrawal of purchasing power which
the Government has been creating. Everyone
has known that at some stage of the recovery
this would have to come, and that to take up
the slack an equivalent increase in private in-
vestment and credit expansion by private en-
terprise would be needed. But whereas Gov-
ernment pump-priming is an arbitrary act,
unconcerned whether the expenditure is pro-
ductive or profitable, private enterprise must
consider costs, the market, and all the other
factors of prudent investment More than
anything else it needs the anticipation of pronts.
The security market action [the crash on Wall-
street] and the prevailing concern as to profit
margins have deferred hope of early improve-
ment.
Boiled down, the huge cost of the New
Deal, with all its inflationary effects, has
failed to keep the ball of recovery roll-
ing. The ball still has to bp pushed by
the force of public spending. Private
enterprise in the U.S.A. doesn’t seem to
be able, largely by reason of the forcing
up of costs and prices to artificial levels,
to take over the problem which Roosevelt
set out to solve.
“Reflation,” as it was called in
America, seems to have failed; rising
costs are beating manufacturers and
largely offsetting the nominally increased
buying power of the people.
Last week the New York “Times” said
that Roosevelt called a conference of
New Deal officials.
They advised that Federal spending must be
resumed on a grand scale, or private capital
induced to flow into the new construction drive.
Latest advice is that pump+priming
isn’t to be continued. Still, last week
many people began to fear that a revival
of “reflation” would mean absolute in-
flation in the States, and, in the absence
of any definite line of self-protection
indicated, speculators slaughtered metal
prices.
The United States, compared with
Australia, shows some remarkable simi-
larities, as well as some amazing dis-
similarities. In the Commonwealth a
frontal attack was made, on all costs,
including wages and interest, in order to
bring them into balance with fallen
price levels. When world prices started
to improve, with the added help of the
exchange premiums, our land industries
showed comparatively quick recovery,
and manufacturers also prospered. .Also,
though wages were low, the standard, of
living actually improved. The most
equivocal development was the big lift
in wage-rates a few months ago.
In the U.S.A. efforts were made to
boost prices and buying power by heavy
Government outlay. In cases' like this,
if costs beat the gun, inflation and trouble
are on the way. Costs do appear to
have outstripped recovery. Profit-mar-
gins are shrinking.
More than half the jitters .affecting
world markets to-day have their origin
in the U.S.A. The war in China is de-
pressing, things are bad in France and
other places on the Continent, but Ameri-
can influences have been-the most force-
ful. The U.S.A. is not a big customer of
ours or the Empire generally, and for
that reason the shocks we have been
getting are likely to .wear Off without
having any direct, profound effect on
Commonwealth affairs, except as regards
metals.
Mt - LYeirs P rofif > before providing for
Prospecting and development deprecia-
Jon and taxat.on (together £l5O 361, up
£47,146), has been shown at £494,213, or
£343,852 net, compared with £187,291 net
f n 1935.35, The improvement in net, on
fi mires disclosed amounts to little
tne figures aisctosea amounts 10 little
more than £ll (Aust.) per ton of elec-
trolytic copper produced, whereas the
J
actual rise in copper over the latest
period averaged about £24 (Aust.) per
ton. Where some of the £l3 a ton differ-
ence that didn’t go into profits went is
seen in the increased depreciation, taxa-
tion, etc., charges (up £3 10s. a ton of
copper). Though the full accounts are
not yet to hand, it seems that stocks on
hand at balance-day have been drasti-
cally slashed in value—a wise move con-
sidering the rickety metals market. It
is perhaps indicative of conservative
profit-estimating that, though net earn-
ings were shown at only 85 p.c. greater,
provision for taxes is up 177 p.c. Esti-
mates on this page in the past were based
on the assumption that opening and
closing stocks would be valued on the
same basis, and. that working and othei
exes, wouldn t rise a great deal.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
John Wilkes is far from being the best
three-year-old of his year. Hua, Ajax
and Avenger finished ahead of him in
the Victoria Derby, and the Baralong
colt had every chance. On Saturday,
nevertheless, John Wilkes landed the
Williamstown Cup in highly creditable
style.
John Wilkes govered the \\ miles in
2min. 31isec., which is only a second
outside the course record for the dis-
tance, established by Yarramba five years
ago. The colt bettered the three-year-
old achievement of Garrio in 1935. He
carried 21b. more than Garrio did, and
took a second less over the journey.
Before the V.R.C. spring meeting
opened, Alan Cooper negotiated for the
purchase of John Wilkes. He took fright
ar a demand of £BOOO, with Derby and
Cup contingencies; yet John Wilkes
would have been more of a bargain than
either Talking or Mala. First prize in
the Williamstown Cup was £l7OO and
a £lOO trophy. All that “G. Ornong”
staked on John Wilkes was £l2O at 4 to
1 ; Cooper, as owner, would have col-
lected a lot more than that. A better price
than fours could be got —fives and even
sixes were heard —but the closing quota-
tion was 7 to 2.
Dave Price, who trains John Wilkes
for the Melbourne K.C. who races as
“G. Ornong,” was rather afraid that his
severe tasks in the Derby and Melbourne
Cup might have sapped the energy of the
son of Baralong. However, Price took
comfort from the fact that John Wilkes
hadn’t left an oat in his manger during
the previous three months. On his way
to the post he looked a mass of condi-
tion. Though not so long in the barrel
as many thoroughbreds, he is tall and
powerful—size without lumber. Black
Mac went out next in demand at 6 to 1.
The overboomed Flood Tide was at
sevens, closely pressed by Balkan Prince,
Young Crusader and Alinura.
Third to Young Crusader and Dictator
as they passed the stand for the first
time, John Wilkes was fourth at the mile,
where Young Crusader (lugging out) led
by a couple of lengths from Dictator
and Plectrum. Close handy was Night-
guard, who encountered trouble at several
stages and did well to finish fourth.
The only really sensational feature of
the race was Black Mac’s sudden burst
of speed at the six-furlongs post. This
brought him close to the leaders turn-
ing for home. But Black Mac wasn’t
suited by these riding tactics, and petered
out into sixth at the judge. He needs
to be reserved for a finishing run.
John Wilkes covered extra ground by
being several horses out from the rails
for most of the journey, and W. Cook in-
curred blame from some observers on
that account, just as he did when
Amounis won the Caulfield Cup of 1930.
But the Sydney jockey was on an un-
beatable horse once more. Shooting to
the front on the bend and avoiding any
chance of being pocketed, he landed the
favorite an easy winner by If lengths
from Old Rowley (16 to 1), who finished
splendidly, to beat Dictator by a length
and a half for second.
Melbourne owners have so many rich
prizes to race for that they can afford
to let opportunities pass that would be
seized avidly elsewhere. The Rawdon
Stakes, of £BOO, for juveniles, at set
weights with penalties and allowances,
attracted only seven runners. It went
to Larissa (7 to 2), who easily accounted
for the 9-to-4 favorite Sir Harold. More
will be heard of Kingdom. This Thra-
cian colt came from a long way back to
finish third. He needs a little more timq.
Brought across from M.L. to compete
in the Caulfield Guineas, in which he
shaped poorly, Elanage, a stable-com-
panion of Wotan and International, more
than repaid travelling expenses by cap-
turing the Altona Trial. The Posterity
colt started at even money. The good
thing almost came undone, for Elanage
had a rotten passage. Last at the mile,
and in still further trouble at the back,
he “flew” from that stage. Elanage took
charge entering the straight, but naturally
tired, and had to be ridden right out to
beat Virtnul by a neck, with Mascarades
only half a neck farther away.
Fryer, who trains Elanage, hoped to
pull off a double. He “went nap” on
Flying Chief in the Ozone Welter. With
every chance in running, Flying Chief
had to be content with third, Thurles
Lad (9 to 4, favorite) stalling off a late
challenge from a 20-to-l chance, Boon-
garry. Thurles Lad had been backed
from 7 to 2.
~,*•»
St. Fox, an even-money favorite for
the Cup Hurdle, ran last in a field
of four, success going to the longest-
price candidate, Wallace Drake. The
defeat of St. Fox led to a wild
demonstration. An official inquiry into
“Here it is, Tom; I'll be able to get my par after all .”
the S.A. gelding’s form was opened and
adjourned.
The Steeplechase, in which old Tezpur
broke his neck, went to El Dama-
royal, ridden by Sweetnam, his trainer.
Conde, old enough to vote, led to the
second-last fence, where the superior
speed of El Damaroyal told its tale.
* * * *
There are Cups galore in and around
Melbourne in the spring. That at Wood-
end last week went to Sir Simper, who
staged a surprising comeback. Sir
Simper won the Toorak Handicap of
1934, and ran third in the Caulfield Cup
that year. He wasn’t seen in winning
brackets again until the Woodend suc-
cess. W. T. Hazlett, the M.L. sportsman,
has the virtue of perseverance.
* * * *
McMenamin rode four winners and a
second at Rosehill, raising his score for
the season, young as it is, to 44. Barring
accidents, he seems certain to head the
N.S.W. jockeys’ list this year. A product
of the Riverina, whence so many Aus-
tralians eminent in sport have come, he
had to content himself with ‘Tidin’ over
’urdles” till his merits were recognised
by discerning trainers and he was given
flat-racing opportunities. His remarkable
success suggests that the general standard
of horsemanship would be improved if
some of his old hurdle-racing companions
were similarly encouraged. Clubs could
help by raising the 6st. 71b. minimum
much more frequently than they do.
One of McMenamin’s mounts was
Arabia, who won the Clyde Handicap all
the way —his second achievement of the
kind in the few weeks that have elapsed
since the previous owner sold him for 400
guineas. The grey was, as usual, rest-
less at the barrier, but was on the move
when the field was sent on its way, and
McMenamin made good use of the
opportunity. Brown Betty, Night of Love
and Beaupre endeavored to run Arabia
down in the straight, but Heroic’s son,
who started at 6 to 4, would not be
caught. There was money for Duke
Caledon, but he finished last. Aureus
showed that he retains his pace.
On form there was no warrant for the
strong support accorded to Billy Boy in
the November Handicap—he was backed
from fours to 7 to 4. At his previous run
at Warwick Farm he was beaten at the
top of the straight. It was different at
Rosehill. For the most part fourth
behind El Senorita, who tried to steal the
race, the favorite took charge at the
Leger and easily held off the Newcastle-
owned and -trained Fair Warning, with
High third. High seemed to be in one
of his piggish moods. Forestage and
Minnesota were among the failures,
while Autoland was chasing the field
hopelessly throughout.
Thanks to Darby Munro’s vigorous
riding, Heracles (7 to 2) just got up in
the Novice, after an exciting finish with
Morning Gift, Patwood and Lifebuoy—
a close fourth. Lifebuoy’s rider missed
the jump, and then made his run on the
outside turning for home. No wonder
the colt was beaten. Palarang did not
start.
June (evens) had too much pace for
her opponents in the fillies’ division of
the Two-year-old Handicap; Fair
Melanie and Banter filled the places.
June is a daughter of Heroic and Winter,
an alliance that has produced good
winners. Royal Prince (7 to 2), who
was bred by T. C. Trautwein, had romped
home at Ascot and was expected to be
a hot favorite for the colts and geldings
division ; but the owner got 9 to 2. This
Royal Sun colt recorded a sterling per-
formance. Slow away, he was rushed to
the lead inside a furlong. He was
challenged by Benburb, who ran past
him at the furlong pole, but Royal
Prince came again, and had his head in
front at the right point. Amplify was
third.
McMenamin had to ride Artsman (7
to 2) with everything he had in the first
division of the Maiden Highweight. He
gave a polished exhibition of horseman-
ship on Picture in the second division.
Picture started at 5 to 1. A daughter
of The Verderer-Redleaf, the filly car-
ries the Beauford colors.
* * * *
Brownfelt’s brother Spear Chief went
out one of the hottest favorites on record
for the Queensland Cup—evens in a
field of 15. Perhaps, like other Spear-
felts, he requires time; anyway, he was
beaten into third place by Direct Lady
(8 to 1) and Princess Rivoli (6 to *1),
Direct Lady defeating the other mare by
three lengths in the excellent time of
3min. 21|sec. All three are Queensland-
bred, Direct Lady being a four-year-old
by Spearfelt-Direct Action. She is
owned and trained by W. S. Carter and
was ridden by Spencer. Conquest, who
rode her when she won the President’s
Handicap at Ascot on Sept. 25, had been
engaged for Spear Chief in the Cup.
Direct Lady is consistent: her last four
starts have yielded two firsts and two
seconds.
s*c * * *
No doubt about the W.A.T.C. stewards
having the courage of their convictions.
On Saturday they disqualified West-
ralia’s most noted trainer, J. J. Kelly, and
its leading jockey, Dillon, over the running
of Hybla, owned by W.A.T.C. chairman
Ernest Lee Steere, in the Belmont Stakes.
The race was won by Nannine, owned
by Lee Steere and Sprigg and trained by
Pinkus. Mr. Lee Steere had only re-
turned to the State that morning, and
the stewards absolved him from all re-
sponsibility for Hybla’s showing.
Hybla is a three-year-old gelding by
Treat, an imported stallion at the stud
in the West, out of the Caulfield Cup
winner Maple. Kelly trained Maple for
the W.A.T.C. chairman, as he did
Eurythmic, Second Wind and other dis-
tinguished horses. He has appealed
against the stewards’ finding, and, by
permission of the W.A.T.C. committee
was allowed to superintend the affairs
of 10 horses engaged on Monday, that
being the second day of the W.A.T.C.’s
Birthday meeting.
(Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
The Maorilanders played very inter-
esting cricket against Victoria. They
batted first, and Vivian (30) and Kerr
(41) gave them a good start, Wallace
(39) and Hadlee (51, run out) carrying
things along: all out, 210. Fl.-Smith was
expensive, two for 92 ; McCormack took
three for 38. The visitors proved superior
with the ball and in the field. Ledward
(49 n. 0.), Hassett (36) and Rigg (27)
made some sort of a show for Victoria—
but all were back for 141 (Parsloe five
for 47, Vivian four for 43).
The Maorilanders began again on
Monday with one down for 18, and
Vivian (66) and Wallace (63) got to
Fl.-Smith —38 runs came from his first
four overs. After Wallace had gone it
was six for 178.
(Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
s Bromwich continued his winning
sequence by taking the
N.S.W. singles title after a
gruelling struggle with Quist
in blistering heat: 4-6, 6-4,
6-1, 2-6, 7-5. The two offered
strange contrasts: Quist
short, sturdy, athletic, ortho-
dox, was in fine form, strong
in service and overhead;
Bromwich tall, rangy, un-
orthodox, weak as water in
service and smashing, but
with the uncanny ability to
retrieve almost hopeless
shots and to wear the other
fellow down by sheer per-
sistency. The colt looked
tired after the first set, but was hitting
them hard. He still looked tired towards
the end of the long match, and was hit-
ting them even harder. If he can
strengthen the only two weak phases of
his game he will menace the world’s
champion.
In the doubles McGrath and Crawford
proved too strong for the Bromwich-
Huxley combination: 3-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-4.
The match produced patchy tennis which
rose to first-class standard only at spas-
modic moments; the singles had taken
all the steam out of Bromwich.
By the manner in which she beat Miss
Coyne (6-3, 7-5) for the N.S.W. singles
title, Miss Wynne amply demonstrated
that she is head and shoulders over any
other Australian girl. The women’s
doubles championship went to Mrs.
Hopman and Miss Coyne, who beat Miss
Wynne and Miss Stevenson 10-8, 3-6,
6-3. Solid hitting and snappy volleying
marked the game.
(Continued on page 30.)
The North of England has won an-
other Rugby League rubber ; at Swinton
the Australian tourists were beaten 13-3
(three tries and two goals to a try). The
trouble was the same as usual: the
Australian forwards couldn’t get the ball
from the scrums, and the inside backs
couldn’t cope with spotting tactics. The
Englishmen led 3-rtil at lemons; after-
wards it was only good tackling kept
them out and the score down.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Ormond Handicap: Dark Sky ;
next, Boongarry.
Eclipse Stakes: John Wilkes;
next, Nightguard.
Rosstown Plate: Thurles Lad;
next, Beechwood.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Horsley Handicap: Mangoola ;
next, Misnomer.
November Handicap: Jovial Son ;
next, Cathartes or Journal.
Leumeah Handicap: Arabia;
next, Stalin or Cathartes.


SAFETY of new
Texaco Motor
Oil PROVED!
THE NATIONAL ROADS AND MOTORISTS' ASSOCIATION (N.S.W.) \
AND THE AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALIA
certify that as a result of a 3,017 miles sealed engine test on the NEW
TEXACO MOTOR OIL (Grade S.A.E. 20) in one of the latest high-
speed cars, the oil at the conclusion of the test was “still suitable for
further use as a safe and effective lubricant,” and the quantity of oil
consumed for the 3,017 miles only pints.
m
This Test was made by
Australian Motoring
organisations to prove the
Safety of TEXACO MOTOR OIL
When you use TEXACO and
change regularly every 1,000
miles (or at the mileage speci-
fied by your car manufacturer)
you get the same great margin
of safety—of continuous, effec-
tive and protective lubrication
at the end of its period of
use as you did when the oil
entered the crankcase. Think
what this means to you in pre-
venting engine wear.
Ash your Service Sta-
tion Man he will tell
you more about the
New Oil.
The NEW
TEXACO
MOTOR OIL
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LTO. (INC. IN N.S.W.)
Under the Whip
A mare called Cerne Abbas won the
New Zealand Cup; Wild Chase was
second and Silver Streak third. A four-
year-old by Lord Warden-Monoxide,
Cerne Abbas did a bit of racing
in Australia last season without suc-
cess, nor was her recent Maoriland
form anything out of the way. 1 hough
she had a win at Wellington m
the Watkins Handicap, a mile and a
quarter race, she was subsequently beaten
out of a place in the J. F. Buchanan
Memorial Handicap at Christcnurch, run
over the same distance. She is trained by
F. D. Jones, who had Limerick, and is
far from being in that horse’s class. As
a matter of fact, in spite of the deeds ot
Wotan, Cuddle and Gold Rod, the best
Maoriland-bred horses are not nowadays
equal to the best Australian-bred. Valais
and Magpie and their sons have put
Australia ahead.
* * * *
“T.”: I suppose Darcy Eccles must
be accounted this season’s luckiest racing
man, though he has had some very bad
years ; but the Maoriland trainer who re-
covered £l5OO damages from the N.S.W.
Transport Department for injuries to
Mala, and then sold that animal to Alan
Cooper for 7000 guineas, must be feel-
ing on excellent terms with himself. What
would the damages have been if the case
had been heard at the beginning of
summer instead of the beginning of
winter, and how much would the horse
have fetched had he been put up for
sale in November instead of July? If
interesting, though unprofitable specula-
tions are in order, how much less than
£19,000 would that Parramatta butcher
have got for Talking had his sale been
delayed for a year? The late owner of
Mala stated in evidence that the colt
had shown him the greatest Derby trial
he had ever heard of, and Billy Cook,
the jockey, testified that Mala was the
best three-year-old he had ever ridden.
I am not questioning either statement,
having not the slightest doubt that they
were perfectly sincere ; but each shows
how trainers and jockeys are apt to
overrate the horses they are associated
with—jockeys especially.
* * * *
“0.T.”: With Pike and Duncan re-
tired, and McCarten, Wilson, Knox and
Elliot temporarily out of action, Ausr
tralia is poorly off for jockeys at the
moment. Wilson was luckier than Knox
and McCarten. He retained his license
long enough to land the Victoria Derby
on Hua and the Oaks on Prairie Moon.
Voitre has returned to the saddle, but
has yet to regain his old following. The
accident that removed him from the
active list for so long has left him with
a limp.
v * ❖ *
“Retired Gun”: Pleasant to note that
the good old practice of ringing-in has
not wholly perished from the racecourse.
A gentleman at Cairns (N.Q.), hauled
before the stipes on suspicion, blew the
gaff. He admitted that a nag he had
raced at a recent meeting as Wellworth
was really Lord Ray, a winner of several
events —Wellworth was entered as a
maiden. Also, the penitent one con-
fessed he had written out all the papers
in connection with the entry, including
receipts, himself, and topped all this by
saying that this was his first attempt at
horseracing. If so, it was a highly credit-
able performance.
Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: Just off the boat—they did
not play at Perth —the Maoriland
cricketers went under to a strong S. Aus.
side by 10 wickets. All the same, some
of the visitors showed fine form and
moved a lot faster than the locals when
batting. They have a capital fast bowler
in Cowie, who had a great season in
England, and batsmen like Vivian, Don-
nelly and Wallace are good enough for.
any side. Ward proved a difficult hurdle
for the tourists, taking 11 for 121 in the
match —4 for 59 and 7 for 62. The two
M.L. innings yielded 151 and 186, S. Aus.
coming along with 331. Bradman failed,
and Badcock led the batting with 114,
though Hamence impressed greatly with
an attractive shot for 56. Badcock and
Walker got the 12 runs needed to win.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne papers report
that Ponsford has been offered a good
job in Westralia to play with North Perth.
The journals implore Ponsford not to
take it, in view of his “probable” selection
for the next Australian Eleven. Ponsford
has been, and may still be, a great
cricketer, but if the selectors put him
into the team in the place of the promis-
ing young batsmen crowding each other
for places they should be struck off the
o Continued on next page.)


C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
n
k ' i
A ustralias Leading
Specialists in Travel Goods
Gents’ Z’pp Dressing
Sets, as illustrated,
70'-
Others from 32'6
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
"silver
EDGE"
TRADE UMARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
£9JEa
i>Ll
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with RAYBESTOS BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
list. Ponsford showed good sense and
taste by getting out of the game before
he burned out. It is to be hoped these
attributes will rescue him again from this
press-engineered foolishness.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The Queensland-N.S.W.
match in Brisbane was abandoned be-
cause of continuous rain. Queensland
replied to N.S.W.’s score of 257 with 2
for 39 when stumps were pulled. Each
team takes two points.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: There will be no more
Sheffield matches until December 17,
when the next round begins: Victoria v.
Queensland in Melbourne and S.A. v.
N.S.W. at Adelaide. The interval will
be filled with the games against the
Maorilanders, the Westralians and the
Grimmett-Richardson testimonial match.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. team to
meet the Maorilanders at S.C.G. this
week-end is the same as that which made
the futile trip to Brisbane. It is good
to note that Beattie, of Newcastle, is
being persevered with, for selectors are
apt to drop country players after a per-
functory trial.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: There was a fuss re-
cently about wicketkeeping gloves hav-
ing some of the fingers joined by web-
bing. Such gloves are being used in
Australia, and at the inter-State confei-
ence in Sydney it was resolved to refer
the matter of their legality to State asso-
ciations. There is nothing in the rules
against them, and they confer no advan-
tage on the ’keeper save that they render
his fingers less liable to injury. Queens-
land has, so far, been the only objector.
He * * *
“Aigburth”: Hammond is giving up
professional cricket and blossoming out
as an amateur. As such he is likely to
captain England against Australia. The
change-over is not common in English
cricket, though there is some precedent.
Long ago Richard Daft, of Notts,
sloughed off the professional skin and
became an amateur, much to the indig-
nation of people who believed in keep-
ing such persons in their proper place.
In later days Sharpe, of Lancashire, did
the same, and, like Daft, in process of
time he captained his county.
“Bramall Lane”: The Hammond an-
nouncement was made to a deputation
of pressmen, summoned somewhat in the
style of the Duke of Windsor. Hammy
is going into business as a tyre manu-
facturer. He is only 34, so is likely to
give Australian bowlers a headache for
some years to come.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: A brief cable gives
news of Lord Tennyson’s team in India.
It drew with Scinde, Edrich, of Middle-
sex, scoring 140 n.o. and Tennyson 118,
while Gover, of Surrey, took six wickets
for 105. The fact that Tennyson, who
has not played first-class cricket for
years, could make a century doesn’t say
much for Scinde’s bowling.
* * H= *
“Spare Cardus”: One Pollock, here as
a cricket writer with Allen’s team, has
told an interviewer at Perth that English
cricket has gone completely to the dem-
nition bow-wows. This he-Cassandra
says that there are no bowlers and not
a captain worth his beer in the country,
though there are some decent batsmen
according to English standards. A meet-
ing between the pessimist and Dr. Robert-
son, of the Board of Control, should cer-
tainly be arranged.
Nineteenth Hole
The amateur team to go to Britain
next year is to be composed of Len
Nettlefold (captain), Harry Hattersley,
T. S. McKay and M. J. Ryan, with
Sloan Morpeth as manager. Ferrier —
evidently because he has chosen to be a
player-writer —was not invited. Wil-
liams was, but performance of a minor
operation was made a condition, and the
Victorian replied that it would be in-
convenient to have it done within the
time specified.
It is a good team, and one that will
certainly maintain the character of Aus-
tralians for being “nice fellows” who
win without bragging and lose without
squealing. That is the general reputa-
tion of Australian teams in Britain,
whether amateurs or professionals,
cricketers or footballers.
* * * *
“Snore”: Asked some time ago to
fix up a golf competition for the Anni-
versary shivoo, N.S.W. golf council sug-
gested instead a visit from professional
teams from overseas, in spite of the fact
that only amateur sport is to be allowed
at the celebrations. It pleaded that it
couldn’t think of anything else unless
Locke, of South Africa, would come at
his own expense. The celebrations crowd
“Played ’im f'r 'arf an hour!”
then accepted the offer of a tourney
arranged for amateurs by a body known
as the Golfers’ Armistice Cup trustees.
This aroused a yowl of protest from
interested sources, because the Cup was
originally presented by a whisky firm.
Though the proceeds of the tourney for
the Cup are yearly handed over to the
descendants of deceased soldiers, a Syd-
ney journal is now yelping at the heels
of the celebrations committee for turn-
ing the national event into “an adver-
tising campaign for a certain brand of
whisky.”
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Jackson, who learned
his golf at Bowral, more widely known as
the dorp which produced Bradman, sur-
prised all and sundry by winning the
N.S.W. assistant-professionals’ cham-
pionship of N.S.W. by beating Barr at
Concord, 2 and 1. Barr had previously
struck the experts dumb by outing
Cremin, the professional champion. There
was a certain amount of poetic justice in
Cremin’s defeat, since there was some
demur to his playing in the tourney for
which he was perfectly eligible after
winning the major title.
Racquet and Bawl
Budge will find Bromwich his most
formidable opponent in Australia, in
the N.S.W. championships —much post-
poned by rain—Bromwich got to the
final by beating Crawford in straight sets.
In his previous match he overwhelmed
Hopman, taking only six minutes to dis-
pose of that player in the first set, Hop-
man failing to win a game. Bromwich
profited by that overseas trip to gain in
confidence and poise ; and he is a big
fellow now.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The A.L.T.A. has
called on Miss Wynne to explain why
she played at a Cessnock (N.S.W.) tour-
ney without permission and show why
she should not be suspended. Quist has
accepted the blame ; both are employed
by a concern selling racquets and balls,
and he explains that he omitted to ask
for necessary leave on her behalf. As
Miss Wynne is a sure pick for the Euro-
pean tour next year an adverse finding
would hit her hard ; but it doesn’t seem
to be a case for severity.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: A N.S.W. tennis official
is suggesting a pension fund for 10
ranked men players between the ages of
16 and 20. Ten-year-insurance policies
for £lOO are proposed ; cost to the L.T.A.
—players are apparently not expected to
subscribe—£74 a year. The idea, appar-
ently, is that after 10 years the amateur
will have some cash compensation for
adhering to his status. But since ranked
players are provided for by billets in
sporting-goods firms as long as they can
keep a measure of their form, the scheme
seems superfluous.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The next
general meeting of the Davis Cup coun-
tries will consider a motion for a tourney
every two years instead of annually. As
backers include Britain and Germany,
there is a chance of the idea being
adopted ; and adopted it should be. Such
a system would give time for exchanges
of visits at present difficult to arrange,
a~ well as relieving the strain on fellows
travelling long distances. Australia
would benefit more than any other
country.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: European experts tip
that Germany will challenge this year
in the American zone. The idea has
many advantages. The racing and chas-
ing about Europe, playing on all sorts of
courts, will be cut out, and no team able
to extend Von Cramm and co. is likely
to be tackled —the Americans, as holders,
will not be encountered until the chal-
lenge round. The decision of Canada to
re-enter for the Cup will add interest to
the American end of the play, without
involving any dangerous threat to Ger-
many.
* V * *
“Centre Court”: Touching the argu-
ment as to whether amateurs or profes-
sionals would prevail if the two classes
were allowed to meet. Lott, nowadays
a professional himself, declares that in a
clash of the leading 10 players on each
side the lilywhites would win only three
matches. Vines he tips to down Budge
without trouble, while Perry, Nusslein
and Tilden are certainties to defeat Von
Cramm, Henkel and Austin. Kozeluh,
Stoeffen and Cochet can master Parker,
Grant and Crawford, and there the win-
ning trot of the professionals ends. Lott
gives a win over the Frenchman Paa
to Quist, while McGrath would beat
Englishman Barnes. Our old pal
Menzel is tipped to down Ramillon, an-
other Frenchman. But there is a lot of
wild surmise about Lott’s allotment.
Miscellaneous
“Cottesloe”: Westralia is sending a
strong team to the Australian champion-
ships at Brisbane on December 4 and
11. The hope of the side is D. B. Hill,
a schoolboy, who is to run in the 880
and the mile. Hill’s best for the mile is
4min. 30.25ec., a record for a schoolboy ;
and he has done the 880 in lmin.
59.65ec., equalling the N.S.W. G.P.S.
record.
“Spike”: Queensland athletes are boil-
ing over at what they consider Southron
perfidy. The A. A. Athletic Union of
Australia was to have held its biennial
conference in Brisbane in December, but
has postponed it until February at Syd-
ney. This is regarded among the Banana-
landers as “a slight upon Queensland and
every Australian athlete.” It is asserted
that the postponement was due to the
union’s secretary finding himself incon-


Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
headlight inserts
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
“KING t°h f e ROAD”
BATTBRIBi
Crossings are Dangerous..
Casing construction of or-
dinary tyres. Notice how
threads (wefts) cross casing
cords.
m
Weftless Cord Casing: All
Cords run parallel, completely
encased in rubber.
especially those in Tyres
There are no crossing cords (wefts)
to cause dangerous wear
from friction and heat in
DUNLOP
Weftless cord tyres
Weftless Cord is exclusive to Dunlop interests in Australia.
Dunlop Perdriau invites you to listen to “DUNLOP
PRESENTS”—Radio’s finest entertainment —consult your
local Broadcasting Programmes for Stations and Times.
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD., (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F.Slt-JO
venienced by the December meeting, his
business requiring “his closest personal
attention” at that time. The frothing
Northerners are asking why the Rock-
hampton deputy could not have been
appointed.
* * * ■' *
“The Gaffer”: Stawell (Vic.), the place
which keeps the more or less sacred lamp
of professional running burning, is to
make an extra splash at its annual meet-
ing next Easter, when the Stawell Gift is
to be worth £BOO to the winner, the club
giving £l4OO in all in prizes. The Stawell
secretary declares that professional pedes-
trianism is booming. True of Victoria
to a certain extent, and the game still
has a following in other States. In N.S.W.
and Queensland it is as dead as the dip-
rotodon, and the fact does not call for
floods of tears from those who recall the
game in its heyday.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Cabled that the French
Athletic Federation has dispatched a
mission to the heathen —in other words,
has sent a committee of experts to
Senegambia to try to dig up some
nigger athletes for the next Olympiad.
No doubt the French have been influ-
enced by the “Afro-American” suc-
cesses in the athletic field. The Yanks
may have reason to tremble, for French
papers are telling of a tribe of seven-
foot Senegambians who skip over 26ft.
wide canals as part of their daily work.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: England has chosen a
formidable crew to row in the Empire
Games events on the Nepean. Though
active Oxford-Cambridge oarsmen could
not be included because of the University
boatrace, there are several old blues.
London R.C. has the highest representa-
tion, with four men. Leander, a club
drawn from ex-University oarsmen, has
three, Thames R.C. two and Kingston
R.C. two. Beasley, of London R.C.,
strokes the crew, which averages 12st.
1311 b.
* * * *
“Splash”: What should be an attrac-
tive addition to the University regatta
on the Parramatta (N.S.W.) will be
a spin over a mile for eights made up of
Old Boys. For some time it has been
the custom for crews of the kind to help
school crews with their training. All the
senior club races will be over by then, so
0.8. oarsmen in the clubs will be free to
offer their services. No 0.8. selected for
the State will be included in the Parra-
matta event.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman, toil-
ing on his long bike ride from Fremantle
to Sydney—he is attacking the record, 18
days 18 hours 32 minutes—is reported
well ahead of his schedule. The ride is
the longest “Oppy” has ever attempted,
and it seems a pity he did not decide to
make a job of it and go on to Brisbane.
The extra distance would have been a
world’s record for a ride against time.
* * * *
“Bus-misser”: The Australian Soccer
chiefs indulged in a wild orgy of kick-
ing themselves when the accounts of the
English amateur tour were made up.
Afraid to take the risk of standing the
cost of the tour themselves, they passed
the hat round for subscriptions, con-
tributors to divide the net profits. As a
result each guarantor in N.S.W.—it was
the same in Queensland —has pouched
a dividend of 95 per cent, on his original
outlay. The handout would have been
lafger but that £2OOO was earmarked to
meet the loss on the tour of the All-
Blacks.
* * * *
“Kilkenny”: The latest Rugby League
barge is over the proposed visit of a
French team to this country. The Queens-
land section of the Board of Control, at
first all in favor of bringing out a team,
reported against it after seeing the
Frenchmen play. N.S.W. promptly held
a meeting and, after some uncomplimen-
tary remarks about the said Queensland
section, who is also one of the team’s
managers, resolved to have the Gauls out
at all costs.
* * * *
“N.U.”: Up to the second Test the
Rugby League footballers in England
had played 15 matches, won 10, lost four
and drawn one, scoring 202 points to
124. A much better record than seemed
likely at the beginning; but it is now
clear that playing only a few hours off
the boat did the tourists no good. It is
creditable to them to have made such a
recovery.
* * * *
“Under the Lap”: An objection to the
proposed use of Sydney Sports Ground
for tin-hare chasing on the ground that
the arena was dedicated in trust for
amateur sport only has brought the in-
teresting confession that a “rededication”
was made some years ago to allow pro-
fessional sport a foothold on the ground.
The oracle was worked very quietly,
chiefly for the professional Rugby
League. The Sydney C.G., also dedi-
cated to amateur sport only, has been
leased for long terms to the League, to
the exclusion of amateur sports. Per-
haps this ground also has been “rededi-
cated” on the quiet.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Festival of Remembrance.
A month’s rain having been reported
forecast earlier in the week, the Diggers
had a perfect night last Thursday for
this extraordinary annual finale to
Armistice Day at Sydney Town Hall.
Not that a return performance of the
Deluge would have made any differ-
ence, even with a touch of S.R.D. in it.
When the show started the vestibule out
to the top of the steps and down them
to the street was still crowded with those
who’d relied on getting tickets at the
now locked and deserted box-office.
There were more standing in the pas-
sages that skirt round each side of the
auditorium. And the Town Hall holds
a tidy few.
Flag-draped and with a spectacular
display of small-boy choir’s well-washed
knobby knees and fresh white shirts and
shining faces fronting the audience from
stage tiers backgrounded by the great
organ, the huge place—main floor, gal-
leries, every inch of it—was a crush to
the doors.
Zero hour was 8 p.m., but the
notorious impetuosity of the Diggers must
have launched the hopover hours before
that. When this showman got there at
7.3 o—going along early to make certain
of a seat, he thought—the objective was
already well and truly taken and the
troops securely and impregnably dug in.
Even so, they were still courageously
attacking in massed formation, with
none more conspicuous for grim deter-
mination that the famous Amazon troops
now permanently attached to the Diggers.
Going up the gruelling sandstone
heights on the crest of a wave, this
showman did manage to get a foot into
no-man’s-land, only to be knocked back
by the sentries posted there. They said,
in effect, that the position had been taken
hours before. Unless the password could
be produced at the double there was
'nothing for it but to take the next boat
back to Australia with the rest of the
unfit and try again next year. Horribly
disheartening to a genuinely earnest
recruit. *
Then, brushed aside in a general
“Make way, please!” melee, rejected re-
cruit witnessed the entry of a small party
of evident heads, who deployed to the
right inside the vestibule and attacked
the salient through a side door. Lord
Wakehurst, etc. A severe temptation.
Write it to the credit —or perhaps it
should be the debit—of ex-A.I.F. that
that temptation was overcome.
But when, a minute or two later,
Lance-Corporation B. S. B. Stevens led a
small foraging party through the same
side door it was too much. Imitating the
gait of these veteran campaigners, this
showman crossed no-man’s-land and
was at least able to have a look round.
Prising a door into the auditorium open,
he saw that the position inside was in-
deed hopeless. The troops —Dig. and
Amazon—had settled down in massed
bivouac, and now up on the platform
tiers the fresh faces of the choir boys
were shaping up to “My Old Shako,”
bringing to one onlooker, at least, sharp
recollection of Enoggera (Q.), 1914, and
other places equally bygone.
The rest of the show was taken in per
wireless a few miles from the Town
Hall. It seemed good, and certainly the
bivouackers thought so. Their thunder-
ous applause of items came over in
massed waves of sound.
Best bit from the radio side of it was
a few words of vivid description by the
announcer. This was when the A.I.F.
colors were trooped up the centre aisle
to form in line facing the huge audience,
with a line of trumpeters, similarly drawn
up, blowing the “Last Post” as 100,000
poppy petals, released from somewhere
up in the ceiling, floated down and
settled on heads and shoulders of the
now standing mass of people. He said
that he did not see one movement —not
a hand raised anywhere to touch a petal
—while this evidently impressive and
dramatic spectacle was being enacted.
Pick of the Flicks.
Only two new talkies were let loose in
Sydney last week, and neither of them
was worth a cracker. Still, there was
an abundance of good entertainment on
offer, and Sydneysiders were evidently
lapping up “Wings of the Morning,” “Big
George Gee (the one with bouquet), Valerie Hay (letting loose a nice right).
Tommy Jay (avec face fungus); background, John Dobbie —in “Swing Along,”
at Sydney Royal.
Fella,” “Maytime,” “They Gave Him a
Qun,” “Thin Ice” and “The Road Back.”
State Theatrette Shorts.
Usually present film-taster is depressed
by the commentary that goes with Aus-
tralian newsreels —the reliance on poor
puns for laughs, the apparent idea that
whatever happens a commentator mustn’t
let up on the voluble flow of words for
a second, and the apparently equally-
fixed belief that, whatever the subject, a
commentator must be funny-man at all
cost.
Often the Australian variety of com-
menting in these things comes out badly
compared with overseas efforts. In these
there is plenty of wisecracking, and
much of it is poor stuff, but voices are
allowed to rest for short stretches now
and then when the picture is itself talk-
ing eloquently enough, and there is often
in the comment plenty of sound stuff,
too.
Against these opinions, an Australian
commentator, Charles Lawrence —often
an offender to this film-taster’s way of
thinking—manages the best brief bit of
commenting in the good current bill at
Sydney State Theatrette. The subject’s
a horserace —a matter so hackneyed as
to be highly unpromising on the face of
it. Not only that, it’s a race with only
five horses —that won by Black Mac in
Melbourne a week or so ago in 12sec.
or so on the wrong side of the record,
and with The Trump, hot favorite, last.
Lawrence yawns his way through it;
a capital simulation of a bored and dis-
illusioned onlooker. It makes a rare bit
of spontaneous comedy. If the race
was screened in slow motion it couldn’t
seem slower or more futile than Law-
rence thus makes it sound. Punters will
get a sardonic satisfaction out of this.
For the rest, the bill is f.a.q. State
Theatrette, and they probably haven’t
had a dull show there yet. The
war-torn-China scenes are getting a bit
too familiar to be as dramatically effec-
tive as they were, but there are a few
original shots among them. Sporting
bits include the fight between Neusel and
Maorilander Strickland, a game cus-
tomer, this. Steve Donoghue being
farewelled from the pigskin by brother-
jockeys at a dinner given by Gordon
Richards is another interesting sporting
item.
Most striking of the lot, perhaps, is
a nature study of the sort of teeming,
voracious underwater life that goes on
in any ordinary pond.
A glimpse of Chamberlain in a slow,
searching but very solid few sentences
of speech is another interesting item.
Incidentally, a political short in the
Capitol’s current bill might make some
people think. It’s a leading American
speaking, and the burden of his remarks
is that if there are Americans in danger
in China they should be removed at
once ; that when two peoples are at war
things must happen for which they can’t
be held responsible ; that America’s peace
must not be endangered by leaving
Americans risking their lives in such a
situation; and that there is only one
way to preserve what America means to
preserve —neutrality—and that is by get-
ting a long way away from the hotheads
and staying there.
‘‘Armored Car,” at Sydney Capitol, is
only f.a.q. gangster melodrama, clumsy
in plot, childish in appeal and hobblecle-
hoyish in humor and lurv interest, but
still soundly directed, well acted and
made almost attractive by the beautiful
speaking voice of the gangster big shot.
“Mr. Dodds Takes the Air,” at Sydney
Capitol, takes a young singer (male) from
the U.S.A. equivalent of Woop to
N’Yark, gives him Fame (that is, he be-
comes a radio singer in the interest of
mattresses) and, of course, finds lurv for
him via a young lady whose jaw looks a
full sister to Tommy Farr’s. A quite un-
ashamed attempt to skim the skimmed-
milk of interest left in the wake of “Mr.
Deeds Comes to Town,” its most original
note is an operation on the young man’s
throat for quinsey, whereby he’s con-
verted, within a couple of days, from a
baritone to a tenor.
“Swing Along.”
Given its first Australian airing at
Sydney Royal on Saturday night, this
Gee show kicks off as a serio-comic skit
on political shirt-wearing, and by the end
of the first half has worked itself towards
something like a plot. In the second
half the skit aspect is shoved into a very
minor key, and the piece turns into a
light cross between tuneful musicomedy
and vaudeville.
The second-half change is to the good.
It is altogether funnier than the earlier
spasm.
In the first half, for one thing, the
exigencies of the piece demand that most
of the time George Gee’s face must be
hidden behind a growth of face fungus,
a camouflage that should never be im-
posed on that incomparable dial. Behind
such a barricade the voice is the voice
of Gee, but the face might belong to
anybody.
Cleared of the fungus, Gee turns on
some uproarious damfoolery, some of
this in skirts and the best of it—and of
the show—in a mock-music broadcasting
turn with John Dobbie and Percy le
Fre ; Lois Green is also present, but purely
for decorative purposes.
Miss Green, however, gets her chances
in other parts, and makes tiptop use of
them, including a particularly snappy
appearance in the first half. She’s as
bright a tiny parcel of femininity as the
footlights have shone on for some time—
headed straight into the tradition of the
best comediennes Australia has produced.
It was odd to see John Dobbie come
out and begin as nervously as a basement-
theatre tyro, but he soon had the part
well in hand, and a fat part it is—liter-
ally as well as histrionically. William
O’Neal is perfectly set up as leader of
the No Shirts, a job that gives his vigor-
ous singing and talking voice whips of
exercise. The part is much better suited
to him than the one he had in the pre-
vious show. Valerie Hay and Donald
Burr have pleasant-enough things to do
together and do them pleasantly enough,
and Billie Worth has the stage to her-
self for a snifter spot of dancing. Phil
Smith buttles with his customary
waddling expertness; Tommy Jay—one
of the most useful young actors about—
does his part smartly, and Ken Tuckfield
and Dorothy Dunckley do their little
well.
Settings are first-rate —mainly Monte
Carlo-ish—and ballet items neat and
pretty as pictures. There’s some fall-
about in the show that ought to be
dumped.
“Boy Meets Girl”
At Sydney Con. last week Doris
Fitton’s Independents put on this snappy
American farce on child stars, screen
writers and picture-producing in general.
A studio waitress startles a movie pro-
ducer by announcing that a baby is due,
but two write-up men come to the rescue,
godfather the child and make it a star
overnight. Thereafter things move
briskly with the authors’ attempts to keep
the child on the road to stardom and
hold their jobs, until Susie, the mother,
ambles along the primrose path with an
extra, who, as usual, turns out to be the
son of an English lord or something.
Howard Craven and Jack Needham as
the wisecracking writers took the honors


A HOLIDAY IN
Whan mid-summer heat makes you
feel that it is time for a real,
energy-recuperating holiday plan a
trip to New Zealand. Here, even
in mid-summer, mighty alps rear
snow-capped peaks to the sun—and
wherever you go the climate is re-
freshing and energising. There is
much to see—glorious fiords, under-
ground caverns, lovely glow-worm
grottos, inspiring grandeur of lakes
and mountains, great glaciers, bush-
clad slopes and fertile farmlands.
■■ ■ ■
m
V
UUU WAKATIPU.
■
rvi
mm
!
wmmMi
sc
FREE TRAVEL SERVICE L.t the New Zea-
_ . . . land Government
Tourist Bureau relieve you of all the little annoyances
and irritations of travel. Transport and accommodation
arrangements made and assistance freely given through-
out the whole tour, you will find our Special Credit
System invaluable. Write, call, or 'phone:—
H&tr ZsaUiuL 'fa
SPORT AND
PASTIME FOR ALL
And for the sportsman—what a paradise . . .
trout and salmon flash in lake and stream . . .
giant swordfish and mako sharks test the deep-
sea fisherman's skill to the utmost . . . picturesque
well-kept links make summer golf really pleasur-
able . . . game, big and small, give ample scope
for shooting . . . while hikers and mountaineers
find scenic trails of surpassing beauty, and alpine
peaks to extend the most experienced climbers.
A CRUISE AND A SCENIC TOUR IN ONE
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY (Directly opposite G.P.0.)
COLONIAL MUTUAL BLDG., 318-320 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
T. G. DEWAR & JONES, KING HOUSE, 7? QUEEN STREET
(And all Travel Agents)
'Phone B 7043.
Central 3110,
BRISBANE.
If you live in the country
MAKE SURE YOU
BUY...
KR
L£R
carls
W£ STIH
GHOUs
til 0
N\
'U
V?
£
O
&
cram mono
s
&
*R/
*4
s>
r O
&
A/
*
*•
ST
r £7?
'£9
PMat
(?.
(£
A
to.)
-f
WELDON
LSO/V
EQUIPPED WITH AN
EVEREADY
AIR-CELL
SEA.S A
$
a
iWV
n? OiZ & \
Q The fact that so many leading radio
manufacturers are to-day producing
AIR CELL models testifies to the extra-
ordinary appeal of this new type of
country receiver.
Fitted with an Eveready Air Cell —the
newest means of supplying power to radio
in non-electrified areas—they offer the
man on the land a set that is no more
trouble to run than those designed for
the city. The Eveready Air Cell requires no
RECHARGING and yet is capable of
delivering a consistently smooth flow of
power for upwards of 12 MONTHS under
normal conditions of use. Therefore, for
a more efficient, more convenient, and
100% reliable radio, insist on AIR CELL
operated models.
The Ever Ready Co. (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
for the night, and most of the others
did good work. Chief faults were a ten-
dency to rowdiness and an overdone
Yankee accent.
Comedy Harmonists.
If an ostrich swallowed a music store
it couldn’t make more noise of a musi-
cal sort than is managed by the Comedy
Harmonists, who finished their Austra-
lian season at Sydney Town Hall last
week, and departed hence for Maoriland.
There are six altogether, five vocalists
and a pianist, and this Harmonist addict
finds it difficult to say who attracts the
most attention.
Their cleverest piece is probably the
overture to “The Barber of Seville,” with
“Persian Market” in comedy vein run-
ning a close second. “Blue Danube” and
Mozart’s “Lullaby” are straight numbers
and leave little to be desired —as Har-
monist entertainment.
Perhaps, as a brother showman has
said here, neither the performers nor the
audience are authentic Town Hall, and
probably those who converse with higher
muses would raise their eyebrows, but
at the end of the show storms of clap-
ping, with cheering and stamping from
the upper regions of the hall, recalled
the Harmonists for repeated encores
until, with gentle irony, they sang “Auf
Wiedersehen.”
A Melbourne Concert.
On Saturday night Malvern (Vic.)
Town Hall resounded to the strains of
Hubert Parry’s music, set to Milton’s
stately verse.
Malvern Choral Society supplied the
mass attack, and the part of Euphrosyne,
goddess of heart-easing mirth, was given
to Kathleen Castles, the soprano whom
Lotte Lehmann has invited to Vienna
on the score of her lovely, unspoiled
voice. Although Miss Castles needs
technical training, the lyrical quality of
her soprano is there, and in the solo.
“Sometime Walking, Not Unseen,” it
sounded not unlike Lotte’s own.
Howard Andrews was Divinest Melan-
choly, and gave a suitably sombre tone
to the pensive side of Milton’s philo-
sophy.
Herbert Davis, to whom Malvern is
indebted for its claim to be Melbourne’s
most musical suburb, conducted the Zel-
man Symphony Orchestra through
Haydn’s Military Symphony and Han-
del’s Concerto Grosso, No. 15.
Edward Goil’s Recitals.
Last week at the Wyseslaskie Hall
pianist Edward Goll concluded what was
probably the longest and most distin-
guished-looking exploring expedition
into the realm of musical literature in
Melbourne history.
In the course of his 14 recitals Goll
played over 150 pieces, drawn from the
works of 69 composers, without once
repeating himself. And it is doubtful if,
during that period, he fell once below
the high standard he set for himself.
The final concert ranged from J. B.
Lully (1633-1687) up to Friedman, a-
modern pianist-composer whom Goll
places in the first rank ; and in his stride
he took Beethoven’s “Variations on the
Diabelli Waltz,” which can be said to
be an epitome of Beethoven’s musical
styles. The pianist’s playing in this long
and exacting work was superb, but every-
thing Goll plays gets the stamp of his
artistry and conscientiousness.
As the Public Supports Music.
John Horner, a music expert in Adel-
aide, has made public his computation
of the scale on which the local public
will give its support.
High-class music, he says, may expect
an attendance of 150 ; music with tea,
300 ; with foxtrotting, 700; any juvenile
performance, 1500.
Last-named is the popular craze of the
moment, and will fill any theatre, in city
or country.
Money in Art.
Heysen’s show in Adelaide, just over,
sold over 30 pictures, mostly to S.A.
people and two to the National Gallery
of the State. Total, about £2200.
An Impressionist.
The paintings of Robert Campbell, 50
or so of which are on view at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, are done in
such robustly broad style that a very
large apartment is necessary to show
them to the best advantage.
Campbell seems to have coquetted
with various methods, but has not so
far improved upon the vibrating light
effect achieved in such pictures as the
seven-year-old street scene “Trafalgar
Square, London,” and in a more recent
study of a cauliflower.
There is some good painting and a
just appreciation of values in some Syd-
ney street scenes —“Park-street, Morn-
ing,” for example—and “Martin Place,
Coronation Week,” is a faithful record,
though, alas, of a very inartistic scene.
The reds, whites and blues of the Union
Jack refuse to abide peaceably in any
color composition.
Ronald Steuart.
Steuart’s first all-to-himself exhibition,
at the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, re-
veals him as a very versatile painter and
a master of that sort of water-color treat-
ment which best exploits the cleanness and
and clarity of which the medium is
capable, as in such pictures as “Road to
Port Stephens” and “Sketch, Dee Why.”
“Signal Box at Dusk,” “Wine Casks”
and “Wet Street” are unusual subjects,
made pictorial by clever treatment. In
“Grey Camden” there is some distance
painting as pretty as ever came from a
brush charged with water-color.
The gallery trustees chose “County
Road, Cobbity,” a good sound piece of
work, but not very characteristic of the
artist.
New Group Exhibition.
Melbourne Athenaeum showing of the
New Group comprises nudes, still-life,
landscape and portraits by Nairne
Butchart, Colin McGowan, Maidie Mae-
Whirter, Hal Porter, Frank Morgan,
Albert Ticker and Evelyn Shaw, all
names comparatively unknown to Mel-
bourne art. Effect is of an extraordinary
uniformity.
Show at Leighton Galleries.
Ex-Bulletin cartoonist Will Dyson
smiles out of a large frame at the Leigh-
ton Galleries, Melbourne. The portrait
is by Dugdale and is a first-rate likeness,
though as a painting it is not in the first
class.
The same might be said of the huge
canvases by Dame Laura Knight, Russell
Flint and other celebrated English paint-
ers of the academic school hanging in
the same gallery.
Having carefully searched his soul for
the last ounce of pro-Australian pre-
judice and resolutely kicked it out, the
present commentator came to the con-
clusion that there are a round dozen
Australian painters who display more
skill.


(grammar i>rljmil
orl|onl %nmt
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927, conducted
under the direction of the Trustees by a School House Board.
Early application for 1938 is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
8 Bottles of Cough Remedy
for Cost of One.
Cough remedies, if bought ready-mixed,
cost a lot of money, but the following
recipe gives you eight bottles for the cost
of one. To sweetened water add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, thus making a supply equal
to about £l’s worth of the best remedies
money can buy for banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, whooping cough,
and influenza. HEENZO is delightful
to take, and wonderfully good for both
adults and children.
Excess Fat—lts Cause and Cure
DON’T let excess fat spoil your holiday
pleasures. Get rid of this unnecessary
burden quickly and safely.
The root cause ot fat is usually a liver that
isn’t doing its job thoroughly. Your system
gets clogged, poisons form fatty acids, you put
on unhealthy weight. But a daily teaspoonful
of BARTZ Salts in a glassful of warm water
soon alters all that. The natural elements
in BARTZ Salts break up fatty acids, the
liver functions properly again, your figure
grows slim and shapely. You feel fine, no
fear of Rheumatic Aches.
Once upon a time it was a choice between
‘taking the waters’ at some fashionable Spa
or staying fat. Now, BARTZ Salts produces
‘waters’ in your own home that have a similar
safe and natural slimming effect —but not at a
similar cost. No, indeed; for a jar of
BARTZ Mineral Spring Tonic Salts costs only
1/- or 2/-. Now you can understand why
this wonder remedy has leapt into popularity
during the past few months. Ask your Chemist
or Storekeeper for it to-day and enjoy the
health and beauty of a slender figure.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The gold of wattle, the red of poppies
gleaming against green foliage, were
banked on the Cenotaph last Thursday,
the day on which the nation paused to
remember her dead. In Martin-place
just before the silence there were thou-
sands of men and women looking to-
wards the bronze figures symbolic of the
sacrifice they and theirs had made. Flags
were at half-mast, and about the Ceno-
taph soldiers stood with reversed arms.
The Governor, the Premier and the
Mayor arrived, but to the attentive thou-
sands place and power were not signi-
ficant to-day. Past became present, and
for two minutes the dead lived again.
Sadly blew the “Last Post.” Inspired
with hope rang out the “Reveille.”
Flowers fragrant and fair were heaped
about the monument. Presently men
and women, with a but half-awakened
look at the clock, stepped on their way,
a hand fingering the poppy at waist or
lapel.
Even the speckless skies and the hot
winds of the week-end could not keep
the crowds away from the State cham-
pionship tennis at Rushcutter Bay. The
Hon. Henrietta Loder was among Friday’s
early arrivals. Others who saw Thelma
Coyne, Nancye Wynne and others put in
some pretty work were Mrs. Norman
Brookes and Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones.
Mrs. Brookes is a guest at the Joneses'
Woollahra home, Rosemont, for the tennis.
Government House’s guest, Catriona
Maclean, was another of the coolly-
frocked onlookers and deep-blue linen
was the choice of the dark Hermione
Llewellyn. Glare glasses, shady hats and
tub frocks were the universal wear
among the women. The Fred McMasters,
of Cassilis, and the Bruxners were among
Saturday applauders.
The Governor and Lady Wakehurst,
with daughter Henrietta and her friend
Catriona Maclean, were at the Indepen-
dents’ production of “Boy Meets Girl”
at the Con. on Saturday night. Another
theatre-eager crowd turned into the
doors of the Royal. Here George Gee
with his shirts of many colors was
Swinging Along. Here was Gladys Mon-
crieff, sitting in a box, her smile the
right complement to rose and gold lame.
Mrs. C. V. Walker, pencil slim, had the
long-fitting tunic of her white crepe
edged with a stiffened frill of black net.
Down in the stalls Mrs. C. L. Jones’s
white crepes were worn with diamonds.
Plum blue was Mrs. Sep Levy’s frock.
Delicate crystal embroideries were traced
on Mrs. F. J. Davy’s hydrangea-blue
satin. Pink and gold lamd and Mrs.
Lashmar’s dark hair were in nice con-
trast. Distinctive was Amber Jacobs in
her spreading ivory taffetas. The skirt
was circled just above the knees with a
design in pale-pink roses. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly served a scarf of filmy lace with
her supple black velvets.
Practical sympathy has always been
the Salvation Army’s great stock-in-trade.
At Christmas their care of the sick
and the needy is intensified, and for
Christmas, 1937, they have 4000 guests
on their list. Fifteen hundred families
will be provided with parcels of food,
2500 families will be supplied with
Christmas dinner. There are 2500 chil-
dren due to receive presents, and 10,000
sufferers and inmates of public institu-
tions are already having gifts prepared
for them. Donations will be welcomed at
140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
If you are curious enough to step
around to the old electricity department
behind the Town Hall you wiil see the
sesquicentenary pageant in the making.
This is to be a colossal affair in which
over 1000 will take part. The costumes
march steadily down the 150 years from
the dashing and pictorial worn by the
bucks and belles who came from Eng-
land bringing their lace fichus and
cravats, their buckled shoes, their scarlet
uniforms, their high dragoon hats with
them. A sense of adventure here to
prickle the scalp, a sense of romance to
stir the sensibility. And this spirit has
been cleverly caught by Thelma Thomas,
the girl from South Australia who is de-
signing the dressing of this pageant just
as she designed those of South Australia
and Victoria.
Claude Fleming is directing the
arrangements, and first lieutenant all
round is Miss Beddows, who dressed
“Colli ts’ Inn,” “Cedar Tree,” “Jolly
Roger” and many Thring productions.
Of the floats, the one of Australian birds
all in color should prove a great favorite.
This will have a cargo of lyrebirds,
parrots, magpies, cassowaries and such-
like, and the lyrebird with outspread tail
will have pride of place.' The heralds,
too, on silver caparisoned horses will be
a noble sight. They will be in groups
of four, with cloaks of gold, silver and
flame flowing out as they prance forward
announcing each incident.
Children will love the Christmas-bell
house. This quaint little house is thatched
with Christmas bells, and in its belfry
top a fairy ringer can be seen pulling the
cord of an inverted flower bell. There
will be flannel flowers, waratahs and
scenes symbolic of the discovery of coal
and gold and pearls. Anzac is not for-
gotten.
Surrounded by the fresh air and the
country about Wagga, Mrs. Kathleen
Higgins has written a book of botany
for children. This is called Betty in
Bushland, and the life history of our
native flora is told in a series of stories
suitable for children of all ages. Pixie
O’Harris has supplied the delicate
sketches. The drama is also one of Mrs.
Higgins’s interests, and she is the repre-
sentative of the British Drama League
in Wagga. This go-ahead town has just
concluded a successful Festival of
Drama. Photograph from Montgomery
Dunn.
The Penfold Hylands are sure of their
Christmas cake. As a result of lucky
numbers drawn for a luscious and fruity
cake at the conclusion of an electric-
cooking display, Mrs. Penfold Hyland
carried off the trophy. Sydney women
responded in numbers to the invitation
of Mrs. Robert Dixson, and crowded out
the electrical kitchen in Kelvin House.
This is done up so attractively in pale
green and primrose that any husband
would be humbly grateful for a meal
cooked, however baaly, in these aesthetic
surroundings. But, according to experts,
it is impossible for meals to be cooked
anything but perfectly in these electric
ovens.
Among those who drank tea and ate
thistledown scones baked under their
gaze were the Poynter lady and daugh-
ter Shirley. Shirley had gone to the
dogs for inspiration for her linen dress.
It had red hounds scampering all over
it. Another welcome relief from the
always-recurring navy and white was the
cherry red with white spots worn by
Mrs. C. L. Jones. Mrs. Walter Burfitt
had a cravat of fine white hand-made
lace on her black frock. Mrs. Montague
Bean, who is proud of growing hogs suc-
cessfully, was with sister Lady Poynter.
White frilly lace collar and cuffs relieved
the trig black frock worn by the hostess.
Mayoress Parkes was an interested
listener.
Over 1000 tickets have been sold for
the “Night in Honolulu” Ball which will
commemorate America’s Thanksgiving
Day, November 25, and at the same time
help the Sydney Day Nurseries. Mrs.
Von Schilling, gazing from this Dorothy
Welding picture, is one of a committee
of American ladies who have organised
the ball. This will reproduce the languor-
ous and friendly spirit of Hawaii from
the fragrant leis around the dancers’
shoulders to the Hawaiian band and the
hula girls in the foyer. An important
person will be Mr. Cypier, who was,
when the war struck Shanghai, chief
entertainer at the Cathay Hotel. Ukelele
Joe, Mrs. Waikara, who does Hawaiian
dances, Freda Spinks, who has been four
years in Honolulu, and Miss Ryan, who
brings the silken rustle of the palms, the
insistent chant of the surf, and suchlike
atmospherics close when she sings, will
be among the night’s entertainers.
Cecily Wheelihan, one of the young
workers for the Mater Misericordiae
Hospital, is busy heralding the Sunday-
night screening of “In the Wake of the
Bounty,” which will benefit the Mater.
The picture is being shown by courtesy
of producer Charles Chauvel, whose
wife is vice-president of a committee
which includes Mrs. Toby Browne and
Mrs. L. W. Ritchie. The Cameo Theatre,
Sunday, 21st, are the place and the date.
Before the Lloyd Hughes couple went
off in the Mariposa last week Cinesound
poured cocktails with a lavish hand in
their honor. Everybody in the film world
was in the Blue Room at Usher’s, in-
cluding Shirley Ann Richards, very
young and ingenue- ish in hyacinth pink
and a hat that hovered between a halo
and a bonnet, as attractive a little star
as Hollywood can put forward. Rosalind
Kennerdale, who is the temperamental
opera singer in “Broken Melody,” was
another of the photographed. Her frock
was black, with a touch of sophistication.
One of the prettiest was Mrs. Lloyd
Hughes. The green of her blouse would
have done credit to the knights of St.
Patrick ; her suit was black, her flowers
orchids. Her smile was a bit of English
lavender. t
Lloyd Hughes himself was very much
in the picture, very delighted over the
two productions he has put through for
Cinesound. They are “Lovers and
Luggers” and “The Broken Melody.
This last has haunting music by Alfred
Hill, and a theme song that is guaranteed
to set young love soaring and old love
dreaming. The Alfred Hills were among
the farewellers. Ken Hall and his pretty
little wife were the right host and hostess.
American journalist Mildred Seydell,
who also went off in the Mariposa,
brought a suit of beige-pink that deserved
a second glance, as did Mrs. Alan
McGregor’s black frock with its zipper
fastening at the back from neck to waist-
line. Her small hat was rounded by a
swathe of green velvet.
The little widow of The Bulletin’s
beloved B. E. Minns is arranging a
memorial exhibition of her husband s
works. This will be held in David
Jones’s, and will be opened on November
24 by Lieutenant-Governor Philip Street.
In all 65 of the artist’s most glowinjg
water-colors will be on show.
Perhaps it is because we are a nation
of Pacific Islanders that our artists excel
as water-colorists. Another successful
worker in this delicate medium is Ronald
Steuart, whose first exhibition was
opened at the Grosvenor Galleries by
Sydney Ure Smith. This artist has
already shown with the Society of
Artists, and his public gathered at the
George-street address to discuss the
merits of such diverse subjects as
“Country Churchyard” and “Wine
Casks.” Bunty Hogg, who was having
a day off from leaving-certificate exams.,
voted for the casks ; “Wet Street” was
another favorite. Mrs. Steuart pinned a
knot of field-flowers on her navy-and-
white frock. The painter’s mother, too,
was at the ringside when Syd Smith
made his speech.
The good-looking Felix Demery, who
came to Australia a year or two ago to
act as examiner for the Australasian
Society of Operatic Dancing, has re-
turned to our midst for the same pur-
pose. With him comes Mrs. Demery.
In between his visits to Australia Felix
had an illness, and spent some weeks in
hospital. Through this illness he
divorced his appendix and married his
nurse. This lady was introduced to her
husband’s Sydney friends at a five-
o’clock party in Usher’s Hotel yesterday.
The president and executive of the
A.S.O.D. were the hosts.
Down in the cool depths of the Pick-
wick Club Saturday’s heat was for-
gotten. A tea dance for St. Vincent’s
Hospital Building Fund was swinging
along, and Mrs. Harold Bott, who helped
in the organising, had arranged a pro-
gramme of music to sandwich between
the jazz. As her singing self, Marie
Brown, she raised her own soaring
soprano in company with Virginia Bas-
setti’s rich contralto. Between them the
old lingering sweetness of - “Bonnie
Doone” and “Believe Me If All Those
Endearing Young Charms” flowed
through the room with a dewy freshness.
Ron Williams, whose accompaniments
were played by teacher Neville Smith,
sang like an opera star. Pianist Mar-
jorie Hesse and violinist Phyllis Mac-
donald charmed the ear. Valerie Scan-
lon’s Hungarian dance was a whirling
inspiration dressed in white puff sleeves,
black velvet bolero and grass-green
skirts. Aileen Britton, of “Tall
Timbers,” sang. Oswald Cheeke brought
a large party, and Mrs. Bertie Kelly,
who was cool in sapphire-blue sheers,
was given a round posy of roses and
carnations in a long-ribboned holder. Mrs.
Hope Gibson, president of the women’s
committee of the Musical Association,
kept the door.
A visitor from Scotland who arrived
in Sydney by the Awatea is Miss Jean
Harper. Her home town is Glasgow,
and she made up her mind to visit us
because she liked the ways of a group
of Australians she made friends with
when they were on their travels a year
ago. Miss Harper will stay in Australia
for some months.


TOOTS'
TO
no
vT
O
*
ST RATH MO
c,! 9 *
*
V*
*
Ekm
ffp
Mm
D
0
6
THREE new Liners, the
"Strathmore," "Stratheden"
and "Strathallan," each
23,400 tons, are included
in the P & O Sailings to
London between November,
1937, and May, 1938.
Sailing dates and other in-
formation will be found in
the daily Press.


a au
ess
o
trip
Vr‘SEav
Whether your visit to Sydney
be business or social—stay at
the Wentworth. This fine hotel
offers you everything; comfort,
service, convenience. You will
enjoy your stay at the Went-
worth; wire or write for reser-
vations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 Bines)
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
i mm
73
mm
—from every part of the world visited the last
Spring Fair. At the coming Spring Fair more than
8000 Exhibitors from 25 countries, including Great
Britain, will help YOU to make 1938 a record
trading year.
LEIPZIG
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
FAIR
SPRING FAIR
begins March 6,
1938.
Comprising (ieneral
Samples, Textiles,
Engineering a n d
Building T'airs, etc.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) and Letters of Introduction available of LARS CL
RRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig
Trade Fair, Cliallis House, Martin Place, G.P.O. Box
3127 P Sydney.
C.*"n, ’ KEPPEL, Temple Court. 422 Collins Street, G.P.O. Box
20245, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1749 of 1937.
BETWEEN REGINALD JAMES PORTER
Petitioner „
And ALICE GRACE PORTER Re-
spondent.
TO ALICE GRACE PORTER late of Aspen-
dale in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said REGINALD
JAMES PORTER has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Tenth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited 01
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined y9 ur
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to tne
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of November,
1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,.
Clerk in Divorce.
LAPPIN & GRIFFIN, Solicitors for Peti-
tioner, Wagga Wagga; by their Town
MESSRS. BOWMAN & MACKENZIE, Solici-
tors, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Features which helped considerably to
make the ball in the Esquilino not only
a financial success but a party which
everybody enjoyed were the friendliness
of captain and officers, who danced every
dance, the solicitude of the stewards in
their spotless white uniforms with tooth-
some smiles to match, and the buffet
supper of sumptuous and elaborate
dishes, hot and cold. Cakes and pastries
were particularly ornamental, and so
tempting that even the people who have
to consider their digestions after mid-
night fell for them. Both bars did well
right through the evening. On deck there
was a free-beer bar, and inside one could
buy what one liked, from champagne
downwards.
Guests were announced by name as
they stepped from the gangway to the
deck and filed past the receiving com-
mittee —Signor P. Bianci, who organised
the function; Mrs. W. Flintoft, who
wore white chiffon and a languorous purple
orchid ; Mrs. S. De Marco, whose corn-
colored gown was swathed with green-
and-purple grape taffeta; Mrs. V. Dime-
low, whose patterned dress was worn
with a coat of navy moire, and Miss N.
Lanteri, whose frock, of flowered sheer
was protected (metaphorically) by a giddy
little jacket of tobacco-brown net.
Catherine Neylon, who accompanied her
uncle and aunt, Signor and Signora Bar-
tolini, had a fetching little quilted coatee
to go with her bright-blue ninon gown.
She speaks Italian, and was a very popu-
lar partner of the officers. Kathleen
Gepp chose her frock made in the style
of black chiffon overdress upon a foun-
dation of red-white-and-black-figured
material. There were two orchestras,
strings up for’ard and swing down aft.
The Italian anthem was played on the
arrival of Consul Dr. Arrighi, but Aus-
tralians are lost beyond the “Marseil-
laise” and the “Star Spangled Banner.”
It took several bars and the straight-
backed standing at attention of any
Italian within earshot before everyone
was quiet.
Melbourne’s new Lady Mayoress chose
her own home and garden for the party
she gave on her first day of office, with
councillors’ wives as guests of honor.
Beach chairs and sunshades were popular
in the garden at Meadow-street, St.
Kilda, where daughter Bonnie’s handi-
work caused a good deal of interest.
Bonnie learnt horticulture at Burnley, and
is now putting her ideas into practice
with measuring tape, spade, the trans-
planting of trees and the building of
arbors and lily ponds.
For the party a string orchestra played
on the verandah and provided material
for a guessing competition concerning
musical medleys, in which Mrs. Solly
and Mrs. Keith Campbell proved their
musicianship by winning prizes. Among
the floral decorations on the tea table
were sprays of tulip-tree flower. The
parent tree grows in the garden opposite,
where the old home was the property of
Edward Campbell’s father.
A Baby Health Centre on wheels is
now an accomplished reality. The new
caravan returned safely last week from
its first eight-day journey through the
Mallee. The caravan is manned by two
triple-certificated nurses, Sisters Hughs-
ton and Turner, who take it in turns to
drive, and who sleep and cook in their
travelling home. Among interior fittings
are baby scales and secretarial desk. The
Women’s Centenary Council donated
£6OO towards the caravan project as a
memorial to pioneer women, other gifts
of money have come along, fittings and
furnishings were donated by various firms,
and the Baby Health Association is
confident of being able to maintain its
experiment as a permanent institution.
Those who work for Baby Health are
particularly grateful to the city engineer
for Box Hill, F. W. Kerr, who, with
Mrs. D. A. Skene and Mrs. Kerr, went
over the route by car in advance of the
caravan. To make this possible both
Mrs. Skene and Mr. Kerr arranged to
take their holidays at that time. Mr.
Kerr designed and supervised the con-
struction of the conveyance—he had
built a caravan for himself, so he knew
both pitfalls and short cuts to success.
He is familiar with the Mallee roads and
planned the timetables and routes of
travel.
The aim of Baby Health Centres, both
static and mobile, is to keep well babies
well. Sometimes there are halls available
in townships for use as rest rooms
for mothers who bring their babies to
the caravan for advice as to feeding, etc.
The sisters have so far had encouraging
co-operation from societies and indi-
viduals everywhere along the route. They
had one mishap, when they got bogged
near Kooloonong, but there were willing
hands available to pull them out.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mel-
bourne’s new Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Edward Campbell, who took office last
week. Cr. and Mrs. Campbell have six
children, the youngest are 12-year-old
twins, at school respectively at Grimwade
House and Girls’ Grammar. One son
is doing engineering, and eldest son and
daughter Keith and Nancy are both mar-
ried. Nancy was at the Emily McPher-
son Institute for a couple of years, so
that Bill Champion is one of those lucky
husbands whose wives never frizzle the
breakfast chops. The Campbell family
will spend part of the summer at Inver-
loch, where they have taken Basil Lay-
ton’s house. Their cottage at Rosebud
was burnt down two years ago, and as the
family was growing up and showing
signs of early marriages it didn’t seem
worth rebuilding. Bonnie’s wedding with
Keith Lewis is to take place in May,
The Little Theatre’s season of five
short plays provided assorted entertain-
ment in the shape of a war-time mono-
tone, “Two Men”; a W. W. Jacobs
comedy, “Distant Relative” ; a dramatic
piece, “The Dogs of War” ; imagination
unrepressed in “Budge, Budge Not,” and
a joyous bit of fun, “Pedlars’ Progress.”
Frederick French and Colin Mack were
comedians who did justice to the salted
almond of Jacobs’s humor. Edith Bell,
whose deportment and accent are a de-
light to the eye and ear, was the back-
bone of the nineteenth-century Russian
play “Dogs of War.” Shirley McLeod
played the heroine, and Nancy Finn and
Clarice Graham a couple of frivolous
shades in “Budge, Budge Not,” where
two young folk sitting out at a dance
are teased by their materialised-in-flesh-
and-blood consciences and frivolities.
Although she said she didn’t like the
part, Madeleine Orr provided pungent
comedy as housekeeper Martha in
“Pedlars’ Progress.” Plenty of confi-
dence and an excellent speaking voice
should secure for Miss Orr something
of a dramatic career. Among others
well cast was George Lord as lovelorn
yokel Dickon (not quite all there). Cos-
tumes, and scenery also, considering the
small stage, were an admirable back-
ground for 1450.
In this Athol Shmith photograph is a
bride-to-be, Kathleen Caffrey, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. /. Caffrey,
who has announced her engagement to
Athol Loftus, of Hampton.
If a stranger had walked, unprepared
for Maud Richardson’s exhibition, into
Margaret Mac Lean’s Gallery last week
his first impression would have been of
oils on one wall and etchings on the
other. Second impressions, which ap-
plied to everybody, were of amazement,
for accurate effects of brush and etch-
ing point were achieved with needle and
threads. Miss Richardson is an English-
woman who has lived in Australia for
about 17 years. She has extraordinarily
good eyesight, wears reading glasses
while embroidering, but always removes
them to judge the effect of her work. She
used 30 different shades of wool in the
tree-trunk of one of her landscapes. Miss
Richardson prefers to work at night at
her “etchings,” in which she gets un-
canny likenesses. Paderewski’s serious-
ness is there, also Roosevelt’s thoughtful-
ness and Shaw’s cynicism, and Dr. Julian
Smith looks as if he’s ready to bark (a
bark that’s worse than his bite).
When R. G. Menzies launched a show
of lithographs and lino-cuts at Riddell’s
Galleries it was suggested that he should
henceforward take his place in Parliament
as Minister of Culture. The suggestion
seemed to please Mr. Menzies, who opens
on an average, in the season, one show
a fortnight. His opening speech was
short, partly as a result of a hint dropped
by a friend whose collar had wilted in
the sudden heat and who remarked that
the temperature was “opening his pores.”
One of the speediest jobs R. H. Croll
has ever carried out (the whole thing
was compiled and sent away typed in a
fortnight) is expected to appear in fin-
ished form this week with the publica-
tion of his biography Dr. Alexander
Thomson. Dr. Thomson, who was the
first surgeon in Port Phillip, blazed the
trail of the Geelong-road by driving 50
Hereford cows from Melbourne to his
property, which covered what is now the
site of Geelong. He had to do the job
alone, as his men were too frightened of
blacks to accompany him. Thomson was
born in 1800, and before settling down as
a pastoralist made six trips from South-
ampton to Van Diemen’s Land as sur-
geon on convict ships. Among his de-
scendants are grandson A. T. Creswick
and great-granddaughter Mrs. Roland
Wettenhall.
When a De Crespigny marries, up pop
the ancestors who wore buckled shoes
and curled wigs in the days when knight-
hood was in flower. Last week St.
Andrew’s Church of England, Brighton,
collected in its register the signature of
Royalieu Dana Champion de Crespigny,
bracketed with the feminine handwriting
of Nancy Temple Smith. The bride also
had her share of family glory, for she
wore her grandmother’s beautiful
Limerick-lace veil and her taffeta frock
was her mother’s wedding gown with a
few modernising touches. Among the
bride’s most treasured trousseau posses-
sions is the ’groom’s gift of a fur coat.
After the marriage ceremony a recep-
tion was held at Grosvenor, where the
speeches were short and bright and a
good orchestra inspired dancing for
everybody. The only missing relative
was Frances de Crespigny, who left San
Francisco on her way home from round-
the-world travels on the same day as her
cousin’s wedding. The newly-married
pair will live at Elmhurst, about 50 miles
from Ballarat, where Phillip de Cres-
pigny, the bridegroom’s cousin, who was
also his best man, shares the property.
Phillip is still a bachelor, and Nancy is
looking forward to housekeeping for two
men.
Mrs. Norman Dawborn has returned
after interesting travels. Going north
Mrs. Dawborn experienced the excite-
ment of her ship’s running on a reef and
gathered a mixed bag of impressions on
how people react to such an occasion.
The funniest sight was a woman in night
attire, silver-fox furs, life-belt and hat.
Mrs. Dawborn says she spent six very
pleasant weeks in Japan, where there is
no sign of war except soldiers entraining,
where everybody is courteous and hotels
are offering special reduced rates for
refugees. She visited Shanghai twice,
but passengers were not permitted to go
ashore. General impressions there are
that the Chinese fire wildly at anything
and are just as likely to blow themselves
up as their enemies.
Recently Mrs. Edward Stevens received
a friendly letter from Buszards’, the
famous catering firm in London, the
managers of which wished to make her a
cake as a present. Buszards’ interest was
roused by a piece of cake which Mrs.
Stevens sent to them by favor of a Syd-
ney friend, Mrs. M. Robinson. It was a
slice of her own wedding cajce, still
sweet, moist and palatable, which was
baked by Buszards in 1883. The secret
of its preservation, simply in a cardboard
box, was that every crumb of icing had
been removed. Much as she would like
a Christmas cake from the firm which
bakes for royalty and the weddings and
christenings of the aristocracy, Mrs.
Stevens has decided that her eightieth
birthday in February is a more momen-
tous occasion.
Among recent engagements is that of
Rene Crooke and Neville Payne. Rene
is the second daughter of E. J. Crooke,
her home is the Holey Plain, Rosedale,
and, with her sister Marie, she often
comes to town for races and other social
functions. For many years Neville Payne
has been one of Melbourne’s most
eligible bachelors. He is the only son
of Mrs. T. H. Payne, of Toorak. His
father, the late Harry Payne, was well
known for the horses and carriages which
he preferred to use for many years after
the motor age was well established.


FOR SALE OR LEASE.
Gentleman’s Residence in Brisbane
Suburb.
FOR sale or lease (furnished or unfurnished)
5 miles of G.P.0., Brisbane. The property is
in excellent order and repair. Hot and cold
water system throughout. Septic system. Ser-
vants’ quarters. The grounds contain about
6 acres, and are laid out in gardens and lawns.
Grass tennis courts. Garage and stables and
fowlhouses. Brisbane River frontage.
Eminently suitable for pastoralist’s home,
boarding-school or private hospital. Owner
leaving State.
For particulars, apply first instance to Box
981 M, G.P.0., Brisbane.
Don’t Speculate
INVEST!
in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
Annual YIELD approx. 5f p.c.
CUSTODIAN TRUSTEES:
Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 (it’s free) to the Managers
of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Bureaucracy? Once, the
Queensland Government, using the drag-
net clauses of the Sugar Acquisi-
tion Act, seized the electric-lighting plant
of a sports ground to stop a pony-racing
meeting otherwise not preventable by
law. Betting, drinking hours, a hundred
activities are all carefully controlled, but
I think the best example of how wicked-
ness is frowned upon was exhibited last
week when the organisers of an Ambu-
lance Brigade picnic started selling ice-
cream on Redcliffe Beach. The local
council turned pale at such depravity.
One alderman said that “the council
should take a grave view of such
breaches of its by-laws,” and the council
decided that if anything of the sort oc-
curred again “drastic action would be
taken.” No doubt thumbscrews will be
applied.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A visiting English natural-
alist friend has been asking me why the
Queensland Tourist Department doesn’t
get out some Barrier Reef information
for the more intelligent sort of would-
be visitor. He wants to spend six months
or so in different areas with his wife, who
is also technically interested, for ecolo-
gical study of coral reefs. The only
result from the Tourist Bureau has been
a mass of blurb about glorious tropic
seas, romance and turtle-riding. Appli-
cation to the Barrier Reef Committee
brought the required information, but
only after a lot of work for the staff of
that almost entirely voluntary scientific
organisation, which once published just
what the visitor needed, and was unable
to keep it in print.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: It is nice to read that
Mr. Brown, Director-General of Postal
Services, returning from a London con-
ference, reveals that Australia has no-
thing to learn about the handling of
mails, and that we are on the verge of
marvellous developments in cable and
radio service from abroad. Up in
Queensland we take the usual parochial
point of view, of course, but we really
would like to know whether it isn’t pos-
sible for Mr. Brown to speed up his
world-champion mail-handling service so
that it will deliver a letter from one
coastal S.Q. township to another, only
five miles away, in less than three days.
The three days is not an accident, but
the regular official procedure, because
the letter has to be sent on 10 miles or
so for sorting, then returned. Connec-
tions miss each way. The mail-driver
won’t accept even a stamped letter for
roadside delivery a mile off —“Cripes,”
he says, “I’d lose me job.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: lam glad to see that the
Queensland Nutritional Advisory Board
has given the nannygoat a pat on her de-
serving back for good work in the in-
terests of outback babies. That authori-
tative body “agreed that the goat was of
the greatest value as a source of fresh
milk to children in the far west of the
State.” More than that, it has written
to western local authorities advising in-
quiry and action in order to secure all
possible betterment of goat-stock and the
efficient safeguarding of the milk against
contamination between milking and
drinking. Another useful bit of work by
the board has been to ask, in effect, why
something can’t be done to divert skim
milk, which is rich in calcium content but
sold at Id. per gallon at butter factories
for pig food, from pigs to human young-
sters who don’t get an adequate milk-
ration. It contains most of the ingredi-
ents which such youngsters most need,
and the rest are easy to add from aver-
age domestic menus.
* * H= *
“Trochas”: Despite the Japanese entry
into the Australian pearling industry,
Queensland companies have not had a
bad year. They won 1174 tons of shell
in 1936-37 —62 tons more than last year
—which netted them a comfortable
“Give us the bucket t ’ put over the crop , ma —’ere come the ’ oppers !”
£149,400. A contract has now been
made with American interests which will
increase the price considerably in the
coming season. Japanese catches out-
side territorial waters cannot be esti-
mated.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: At the present rate of pro-
gress little of Papua will be outside
official “control” after the next two
years. The two Champion brothers, who
have been prominent in exploration in
the last few years, have had a good deal
to do with the preliminary opening of
another 13,000 square miles of territory.
C. T. Champion has recently gone up
the Kikori, and has established a police
camp at Lake Kutubu, from which the
penetration will begin. It is to be hoped
that most of this country will be left to
the native, who is the most civilised
type of Papuan. But there seems no
chance of that. Officialdom already is
talking of “throwing open for develop-
ment” the fertile Tari Furoro valley so
soon as the native has been taught con-
fidence in his white masters.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: It’s sad for us who
knew the pleasant sleepy hamlet at the
north end of Bribie Passage (S.Q.) called
Caloundra, which Vance Palmer de-
scribed in The Passage, to endure all the
so-called improvements. Gone are the
miles of banksia and wattle, the cool
gullies where the maidenhair fringed the
moist rocks in a green aquarium shadow.
Cars rattle over Tooway Creek on a new
bridge. The youngsters who drive
motor-boats over Lake Tooway neither
know nor care about the tragedy of the
old house which once stood among the
mango clump, any more than they do
about the older one of which the in-
scribed pandanus tree tells on Moffat
Head. Nor do they care about Lands-
borough, the explorer, who built at
Golden Beach on a grant from a Gov-
ernment which desired to give recog-
nition to exploits which had added thou-
sands of square miles of good country
to a young colony. It’s time for us old
hands to move out, especially as we can
get good prices since the Governor
came to live here.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
R. M. King and his wife, just back
from England, spent a few days in Wilt-
shire as the guests of Sir John and Lady
Goodwin. They also were for some
weeks in Jersey, staying with Mrs. King’s
brother, Frank Hewson, who owns
Longueville Manor.
Mrs. Vic. Blanshard and Olive Mc-
Cann, who visited all the leading fashion
centres of the world during their tour,
have returned with authentic information
about tubular skirts, long beach coats,
boned collars (which gave our female an-
cestors such a severe appearance, and
which have been revived), high-crowned
brimless hats and other vagaries of the
modes. In Vienna they stayed at the
same hotel as the Duke and Duchess of
Windsor, and at dinner were able to ad-
mire the lady’s severely plain black frock
garnished with furs and diamonds.
Miss H. Harrison, head of the Keele-
street nursery school at Collingwood
(Vic.), is in Brisbane at present, where
there is a move to establish such a school.
It originated with the New Education
Fellowship Conference, and was taken
up as a special study by a group of
women graduates. Seemed a pity to
waste such a heaven-sent opportunity as
the arrival of Miss Harrison, so she has
been asked for information and advice,
Now it seems possible that a school will
open in Brisbane early next year.
Lawrence Johnson, art director of
several successful Australian-made films,
recently returned from a long visit to
England, the Continent and the U.S.A.
He had a look at all the big British
studios, and took in Hollywood on the
way home. He and his mother visited
John Boles’s new star, Luli Deste, while
she was working on her first American
picture, “I Married an Artist,” and were
photographed with her. Copies of the
picture have been sent to a few Brisbane
friends.
M.-G.-M. Theatre very nobly gave the
whole of the proceeds of opening night
to charities —Limbless Soldiers, Red
Cross, Bush Childien’s Health Scheme
and the Montrose Home for Crippled
Children. There was a bumper house,
and Albert-street, always rather the poor
relation in our civic scheme, was bril-
liantly lighted for the occasion. Lieut.-
Governor Blair and his lady, the Premier
and Mrs. Forgan Smith, the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, and a full comple-
ment of the city’s noblest and fairest
went along to enjoy “After the Thin
Man.”
Repertory’s final show for this year,
Priestley’s “Duet in Floodlight,” hap-
pened on a night when every tap in the
sky was turned full on. None the less,
the Old Guard struggled through the
elements and were rewarded with an ex-
cellently-produced, soundly-acted show.
It was hard luck that a number of
pigeons’ nests were dislodged by the
downpour, and that the resultant stuffing
up of a pipe should have given a large
section of the audience a showerbath.
But, according to the best stage tradi-
tions, the show went on. Barbara Sisley
produced, and Dulcie Scott had the big
part. Erich John’s orchestra, which has
had a lot to do with putting Repertory
on the map, as usual provided a good
programme of incidental music.
Dozens of our bright young things of
both sexes dashed madly up to Too-
woomba for the Bachelors’ Ball, motored
straight back to Brisbane when the last
extra was over, snatched an hour’s rest,
packed a bag and hurtled down to the
Main Beach for Gaffney Connor’s
twenty-first birthday party, a dance at
Surfer’s Paradise. That there had been
something very like a cloudburst and that
motoring had become an aquatic sport
didn’t deter the 100 guests from arriving.
Gaffney’s frock was lovely: pale-pink
organza with tight bodice and very full
skirt, trimmed with Victorian posies of
violets. She had a fan to match, which
added an old-world touch.
Brisbane Ladies’ Rowing Club had bad
luck with its regatta. So violent was the
rain that the heads were about to post-
pone the affair, when it was discovered
that the crews competing in the first
race were all in position, drenched but
determined. Only a handful attended,
but the rowing was worth it.
Mr. and Mrs. F. Z. Eager left for the
U.S.A. in the Mariposa, and will be
away for nearly six months. They wilt
spend Christmas with Mr. Eager’s
mother in Ohio.


ICKERS
V
•Ki
li
V'' i
gd
When buying gin. make
sure of strength. Order
Vickers. Its strength is
genuinely satisfying and
unchanged.
Vickers upholds the oldest
and highest gin tradition.
No novice for popularity
of price, its quality-
heritage dates back in an
unbroken tradition for 187
years-an unapproachable
record,
UNCLAIMED MONEY—MISSING HEIRS
—NEXT OF KIN.
BOYCE-LEACOCK.— Martha Elizabeth Boyce
(nee Leacock).
BOTTOMLEY.—John Albert Sykes Bottomley.
BAILLON.—HaroId Joseph Baillon, formerly
of Any ox, B.C.
CRADDOCK—CaroIine, Charlotte and Geor-
gina Craddock, and their brothers or sisters
(formerly of Geelong, Vic.).
DOLBY. —Robert William and Thomas, sons
of Robert and Caroline Dolby, deceased.
ERNEST-GORDON—Charlotte Jane and
Thomas Whatmore Ernest or Gordon, and
their brothers or sisters.
FLANIGAN. —Thomas Flanigan, son of
Bridget (nee Madigan), of S.A.
HAMILTON.—WiIIiam Hamilton, son of
Robert William Hamilton, of Twyford,
Berks, England.
JONES. —Charles Jones, believed died at
Bendigo, Vic., son of John and Henrietta
Jones.
LEWIS. —Edgar Alfred Lewis, formerly of 17
Russell Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
MOLYNEUX. —Alfred Molyneux, born about
1890, sometime in Royal Navy, discharged
1923.
MASCHMEDT. —Alwine Maschmedt, son ol
Albrecht Herrmann Ludwig Maschmedt,
of S.A.
NICHOLS. —Frank Henry Nichols, born about
1879, formerly of Richmond, Farrington,
Alton, Hants, England.
PORTER. —Holmes Porter, born about 1890.
A few years ago residing near Warwick, Q.
PARKER. —Joseph Ambrose Parker, born
about 1870 (Traveller), formerly of Ade-
laide, 1900 to 1918.
REDBURGH. —Mrs. Annie Lindsay Redburgh
(nee Chisholm).
RUTTER. —Francis Robert Rutter, formerly
of Gundagai, N.S.W., in or about 1928.
SCHUMACHER. —Walter Schumacher (Fen-
nell), formerly of S.A.
THOM. —Duncan Thom, formerly of Mackay,
Queensland, in or about 1911.
TURNER-QUlNN.—Annie Turner (nee
Quinn), daughter of Michael and Mary
Quinn.
WEEKS.—Hezekiah Weeks, formerly ol
England.
YOUNG. —William Young, born in 1882, son
of William Foster Young, deceased.
YOUNG. —Robert Young, formerly of St.
Arnaud, Vic., in 1934.
The abovenamed persons or heirs write Mr.
Telfer, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide, immediately.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1850 of 1937.
BETWEEN EVELYN ADELA BROWN Peti-
tioner
And WILLIAM WALLACE BROWN Re-
spondent.
TO WILLIAM WALLACE BROWN late of
Port Kembla.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVELYN
ADELA BROWN has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Tenth day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-eight and in the
event of your not doing so within the. time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
By the Court,
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) W. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. M. EWING AND BADHAM, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 11c Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
BATCHELOR, Alfred Joseph, formerly of Wan-
garatta. —Information as to whereabouts of
abovenamed, or as to when and where was
last heard of, requested by NOTCUTT &
PURBRICK, Solicitors, Wangaratta, Victoria.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-
page woman s paper pub-
lished in the Common-
wealth. It features every-
thing a woman ought to
know. Once you read it
you will never be without
it. Every month six to nine
patterns are given away
free for a penny stamp for
postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA
Bv mail from India came news of the
wedding at St. George’s Cathedral,
Madras, of John
Meredith, of Perth, ?o Maureen, sole
chick of Dr. and Mrs. T. E. A. Stowell,
of London. Shimmering folds of cream-
and-gold flower - patterned brocade
formed the bridal raiment, a row of
miniature gold buttons stretching from
neck to train-edge. Tiers of parchment
tulle were caught with haloed orange-
blossom, and the bouquet was of creamy
arum-lilies.
The Karrakatta Club’s end-of-the-
season at-home took the form of a
dinner and dance. In the hall, trans-
formed into a bower of flowers with
bowls of statice, poppies and carnations,
the president (Mrs. W. H. Vincent) re-
ceived the guests in heavily-beaded black
French crepe suede. Giant gladioli and
shaded roses decorated the cream lounge
and a different floral decorative scheme
was used for each of the smaller lounges,
in which non-dancers played bridge.
A water-lily pool, fringed with over-
hanging trees, smooth green lawns and
brilliant floral splashes of color, made
the Supreme Court gardens a pleasant
setting for the fete arranged by mem-
bers of Perth Hospital auxiliary. Huge
gaily-colored umbrellas shaded each stall,
and old English folk-dances were per-
formed on the lawns. W. M. Nairn,
M.H.R., did the opening speechifying,
and Mrs. John Hicks (president of the
auxiliary) spoke gracel ill
Women members ot the Cottesloe
Golf Club rounded off the season with
a dinner and cine-camera show at the
clubhouse. Mrs Meecham, who occu-
pied the presidential chair, knotted
cherry-red velvet on her midnight-blue
crepe; secretary Mrs. Foiman trailer
lengths of cobwebby black lace cut in
Renaissance fashion, and Mrs. A. W.
Jacoby’s draperies were of mist-grey
lacquered satin. Claude Henriques sue-
cessfuliy carried out showman duties
with the films.
Miss E. H. Dannatt, who has retired
after many years as headmistress of St.
Mary’s C. of E. Girls’ College, was guest
of . h ° n “ at . a far'wel l party at the Kar-
rakatto Club arranged by parent!i ofpast
a ” ef a^ P bo l i qu ets of gladioli and
roses were presented by the school’s head
prefects.
Joan, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
John Knuckey, of Adelaide, kept a date
with P. C. H. Reynolds, also of South
Australia, at Christ Church, Claremont,
The bride paced the aisle in misty-blue
pleatings of chiffon, picture-hatted in a
deeper shade. Mrs. Freddie Waldeck
removed the glove in tea-rose sheer
crepe worn with black etceteras. Padre
John Bell tied the knot, and after-rejoic-
mgs were at the Savoy,
So many tables were booked for the
Dental Hospital’s bridge party that it
had to be run in two sections at the
Adelphi. Mrs. C. O. Tebbutt pinned a
shaggy pink chrysanthemum on her
navy cellophane, striped ninons, and ex-
tended greetings to the players at the
head of the stairs.
The c F ]yf ac laren family celebrated
a dual event—their silver-wedding anni-
V ersary and daughter Isla’s engagement
to jsjevil Hack—with a dinner-dance at
F og Cabin at Greenmount. Shoals
congratulations kept the party-givers
as they received their guests in a
fl ora i setting of larkspurs and del-
phiniums. Mrs. Maclaren hostessed in
grey-blue satin sashed with petunia, and
ls i a p i nne d Cattleya orchids on her
silver-leaf-patterned white cloque.
The Ro^ert gunnings’s home, overlook-
j th e river in Peppermint Grove, was
thronged with guests when Jane and
F j ass jsted by brother Tom, poured
cocktails. A hot day made
i OV ely gardens a pleasant spot in
w gj c | l jo sip, and indoors masses of
m j xec j flowers were banked in profusion.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
, . . , . ~ ,
Even the best-dressed woman in Adel-
aide cannot hope to vie with Howard
Pfitzner in the cost of a single costume,
In the second act of “The Vagabond
King” he wears, as the poet Villon, a
doublet of gold velvet with silk tights and
a train 32 yards long of gold velvet em-
broidered in silver fleur-de-lis, an out-
fit which cost over £3OO. The costume
was made for the original production in
New York.
The Scottish flavor of Glenelg, hitherto
mostly confined to the name, has been
extended by the furnishings of the latest
cinema theatre, the Ozone, which boasts
a McPherson tartan carpet, with which
the whole of the foyer and stairway to
the circle is covered.
The Music Salon’s soiree at the Picca-
dilly was largely attended. In addition
to the musical programme, Harold
Parsons read a paper embodying the
views of Prof. Carl Flesch.
Vina Barnden, the young pianist who
left Adelaide for London in the Strath-
aird, contracted typhoid fever on board,
and when the ship reached dock had to
be taken ashore in an ambulance. Latest
news was that she was still in hospital
but out of danger.
The marriage of Irene, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Willshire, of
Prospect, to Samuel, son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. L. Goss, of Walkerville, was cele-
brated at St. Cuthbert’s. The bride was
gowned in silver-embossed satin, cut on
princess lines with long sleeves, a cowl
neckline and a train, and the tulle bridal
veil was held in place by a halo of silver.
Bridesmaids Dora Holmes and Jean Le
Page were frocked alike in pale geranium-
pink satin, with flowers at the waist and
silver haloes.
Mrs. Nelson Clover was a passenger in
the Orcades with her son Robin, and is
staying with her mother, the Kidman
lady, at Eringa, Millswood.
The engagement is announced of
Helen, younger daughter of the Herbert
Solomons, of Rose Park, to Keith, only
son of Mr. and Mrs. K. S. Levy, of
Bellevue Hill, Sydney. Both parties are
lawyers.
TASMANIA.
More than 50 tables of bridge were
filled at Hadley’s at a party organised
by the Sandy Bay Auxiliary for the fur-
nishing of the maternity wards at the new
General Hospital. Supper helped swell
the exchequer, and the affair was very
successful.
Jean Hull was much be-partied in the
weeks before her wedding with Neale
Edwards. Bridesmaid Wyn Masters gave
her a kitchen tea at Hadley’s Hotel, Carys
Page hostessed a big tea-party at the
Imperial, Betty Morriss and Lois Wayn
joined forces for a lunch party at the
Chaucer, Joyce Okines and Trina Pal-
freyman both gave parties in their own
homes, and the Misses Brown gave a
“crystal” tea at Maidstone. Mrs. Basil
Jones, at her home in Sandy Bay, had
a tea-party for Jean, and a group of
friends arranged a picture party for the
same evening.
Joan, elder daughter of Col. and Mrs.
J. P. Clark, Devonport, and Charles C.
Seager, Sandy Bay, were married at St.
James’s, New Town. The bride, the
second to wear blue this season, chose
a frock of ice-blue cloque with a little
basqued coat, and her halo hat was made
of the same stuff. Her sister Meg
’maided in a toning blue frock with
bolero and a navy and white scarf sash.
At the lunch-party following at the Im-
perial, the wedding cake was also blue.
Mrs. Basil Crisp’s at-home at Clovelly,
Sandy Bay, was a welcome-home party
for Mrs. W. Roberts, just returned from
Europe. A lovely day made it possible
for tea and coffee to be served in the
loggia, with the whole expanse of river
view looking its best in the sunshine.
Mrs. Crisp’s long dress of soft black
crepe had touches of blue and pink at
the neck, and Mrs. Roberts’s grey
tailored suit was topped by a most be-
coming tarn-beret in the same shade.
Sybil Sale has much to tell about her
exciting motor trip all round Australia
with two N. S. Wales friends, Mrs. and
Miss Gregson. They are the first women
who have driven a car all round the
continent, and they completed their jour-
ney without misadventure. Calculating
the cost of the trip for petrol and oil at
about £B5, Miss Sale says that what
struck them most in the scenery were the
gorgeous color effects in Central Aus-
tralia. They did a bit of buffalo hunt-
ing and crocodile shooting.
Mrs. C. E. Davies and Ciceley are home
again after a very varied and interesting
trip abroad. Ciceley enjoyed the winter
sports at Grindelwald, and the Corona-
tion provided plenty of thrills. She
played a lot of golf in England and Scot-
land, and met the Barclay twins from
Hobart, who were playing in tourna-
ments.
The Arthur Thirkells are back from
their trip abroad ; so is Mabel Evershed,
though her trip has lasted for years, as
she left the Speck not intending to
return. She has spent much of her time
abroad in Italy and Germany, and was
warmly welcomed home.


df
ENDUR A
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura uncon-
ditional and perpetual service
guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
... a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/- and
40/-, with Pencils to match
25/-. Complete Sets in
Presentation Case 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink—the best for every
Pen—4oz. bottles in all
colours, 1/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
A
Colour-Line Tours
provide a choice of scenic
surprises
COLOUR - LINE TOURS, arranged by the
Tasmanian Govt. Tourist Bureau, provide a choice
of itineraries, any of which enable you to enjoy the
scenic beauties of Tasmania carefree and
comfortably.
Select the tour and know exactly what your trip
will cost. The inclusive fare provides First Class
steamer travel from your port of embarkation, the
trips and your accommodation in Tasmania.
The bracing climate and entrancing twilights add
to the enjoyment of your stay in Tasmania—the
holiday wonderland!
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings and fares on application
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
SYDNEY ... - 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
NEWCASTLE 24 Hunter Street
MAKE VOUR RESERVATION NOW*
HOBART - - - Macquarie and Murray Streets
MELBOURNE - - - The Black, Collins Street
ADELAIDE - - - - 12 Pirie Street
PERTH - - - A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE 196 Adelaide Street
The Long White Cloud
Rocks Ahead for Maoriland
In the past Maoriland has been to
some extent safeguarded against the
boom that presages a bust by the con-
certed action of the trading banks, which
traditionally tighten the pursestrings
when importations threaten to become
uncomfortably heavy. Their influence
in that respect is not now so great, for
there is a Reserve Bank in the saddle —
and it is under political control.
M.L. at present has all the outward signs
of a boom. Not only have exports re-
covered from their slump low level —they
totalled £64,000,000 last season as against
£35,000,000 in 1932 —but importations
have been increasing at a faster rate.
In 1935-36, when exports were
£53,000,000, imports were £31,000,000.
For 1936-37 (to August) exports were
£64,000,000, imports £50,000,000. The
sterling balance in the latest period was
a little over £11,000,000 —just about
enough to pay London interest.
What makes the position awkward is
extremely heavy taxation —£22 10s. per
head of population—and heavy loan ex-
penditure on public works: £13,000,000
last year, £17,000,000 this year. Prices
in the world markets for M.L. produce
are at present relatively high. What is
going to happen when they go back to
normal?
“Tally pierk”: The champion nark in
Maoriland industry is, and always has
been, the wharf-lumper. His job is not
a pleasant one, and it is full of ups and
downs. To the wharves drift the unem-
ployables of other industries—discon-
tented men with a grievance against
society. Many grave commissions have
sat and pondered for weeks on methods
of alleviating the wharf-lumper’s lot and
making him to some extent responsible,
but he remains a rebel. In the last four
years, as any shipper can tell you, cargo-
handling costs have increased by well
over 60 p.c. Go-slow has been reduced
to a fine art. In two years the
loading rate of lamb in one port has
been lowered from 4500 to 3500 car-
casses an hour ; butter-boxes are stowed
at the rate of 500 an hour instead of
800 ; preserved meats used to go overside
in a ton sling; now only 12cwt. is
hoisted. So systematic and annoying are
the delays in loading chilled beef (condi-
tion of which depends on reasonably
quick loading) that the industry is in
despair. Time will be taken to argue
how many carcasses should go to a sling;
there will be a further stop-work parley
because some quarters are bigger than
others ; the condition of railway trucks
and gear will provide a pretext for a
stoppage. The dairy industry suffers
because the wharfies won’t use mats, and
dump cheese crates direct on the wharf
with any amount of breakages and
damage. Finally, any one member of
a gang can precipitate a strike. If he
chooses to knock off for a smoke-oh, or
for the rest of the day, his mates will
do no work so long as he’s absent.
* * * *
“Rimu”: Maoriland’s afforestation
companies were right on one important
point. They predicted a fairly speedy
end to M.L. soft-timber resources and
were laughed at by people who said the
West Coast white-pine forests were
“practically inexhaustible.” Since then
“Frightfully sorry—thought I knew you .”
the claim of the dairy industry on soft-
timber resources has increased consider-
ably. To-day it uses 35,000,000 super
ft., p.a. for butter- and cheese-boxes.
Other industries have also increased their
demands, and in the last two years
475,000,000 super, ft. of Soft woods was
taken from matured native forests, de-
nuding, it is estimated, 47,500 acres.
Plantings in the period totalled only
18,790 acres. Now the end of the West
Coast resources is in sight. The last
great forest, in the far south of West-
land, extending down to Jackson’s Bay,
is to be thrown open for cutting. When
it is gone—and that, at present rate of
consumption, will be in less than 20
years —Maoriland will have to tackle its
timber problems in real earnest.
* * # *
“Avon”: What everyone with any
experience of Government-guaranteed
prices of farm produce predicted
has come to pass in regard to
the Maoriland commandeer of butter.
The Government pays 1235. Bd. per
cwt. and the London price recently
has been quoted at 1525. per cwt.
Hence a loud scream from the farmers,
headed by J. J. Coates, once a Liberal,
later a Reformer, and very subsequently
a Cabinet Minister. Coates, who does
a bit of cow-cockying when not in Wel-
lington, told Parliament that he was
being robbed ; his butter was selling at
190 s. (1525. plus 25 p.c. exchange) per
cwt. in Tooley-street. Minister Nash put
the other side of the case. When the
scheme was put in operation, he said,
the Opposition condemned it because it
would take £2,000,000 a year out of the
taxpayers’ pockets. At the beginning of
this present year the Government was
paying the M.L. farmers a bonus of 225.
3d. on every cwt. of butter sold in Lon-
don. The Government fixed its rates
on a 10 years’ average, not on temporary
booms or slumps, and not a penny was
being or would be taken out of the Dairy
Industry Account. The Government
shouldered the responsibility for short-
ages. Surpluses were allowed to accu-
mulate.
$ * * *
“Taipo”: “Paekiri” (B. 13/10/’37) put
his finger on a glaring inaccuracy in
A. J. Cronin’s novel (as a local charac-
ter once remarked, “the only cows in the
Grey Valley in 1890 were goats”), but
forgot to mention that there is only one
blackberry bush on the coast. It is
claimed to be the largest in the world.
For evidence refer to Prime Minister
Savage and chief Labor Whip O’Brien —
they landed in the middle of it when
their car dived over the bank at Duffers
Creek, just before the 1935 election.
* * * *
“Kea”: Though the cornless, fowl-
less, meatless Maori possessed a dog
when Cook first met him on his native
fern, the tyke could not be considered a
very companionable variety, being, so
historians assure us, entirely voiceless.
Still, a silent canine has its advantages,
and as the Maori Was prone to take all
his relations along even in troublous
times (the mighty Hongi always took his
blind wife on his marauding expeditions),
a dog that would never give his master’s
position away by barking was probably
an asset. An ancestor of mine used to
assert he had seen one of the now-extinct
Maori curs, a short-legged, long-snouted
little creature with straight straggly hair
and a furtive eye, but there’s always been
a family suspicion he was deceived with
a hybrid.
“Ellerslie”: “Paekiri”* (B. 10*11/’37)
is astray when he writes that Auckland
supports M.L.’s one and only arch-
bishop. Dr. Averill, of Auckland, is the
only Anglican archbishop, but there is
a Catholic archbishop at Wellington, Dr.
Thomas O’Shea, who assumed the
archiepiscopate in January, 1935. His
immediate predecessor, Dr. Francis Red-
wood, was made archbishop when Well-
ington was made an archdiocese in 1887,
so Wellington has had an archbishop for
over 50 years. Auckland has had a
Catholic bishop since 1848, when the
diocese was established. He was Dr.
Jean Baptiste Francis Pompallier, con-
secrated in 1836 as Vicar Apostolic of
Western Oceania, who took up residence
in Auckland in 1838. That event is being
commemorated in Auckland next year.
On his retirement Dr. Pompallier was
made a titular archbishop and died in
France ; his successor, Dr. Thomas Croke,
was transferred as archbishop to Cashel
in 1875.
* * * *
“M.”: Until the advent of telephones
and wireless receiving sets at reasonable
prices settlers on Maoriland’s back-
country blocks were as isolated as those
in the more remote parts of Australia.
Instead of great distances, these Maori-
landers faced access problems bred by
mountains and a rainfall that turns bush
tracks into impassable quagmires for
months every year. Now Public Works
Minister Semple says Labor will “spend
as much as possible to give the back-
country settler access to his land.” A
five-year plan has been prepared, and
about 6500 miles of roading is contem-
plated. The whole job will cost nearly
£5,000,000.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: At long last the idea has
developed that there may be some good
cinema material in Maoriland’s pioneer-
period history. An Aucklander, Rudalt
Hayward, is making a talkie to be en-
titled “Rewi’s Last Stand.” Characters
will include Sir George Grey, various
Maori personalities of the period, in-
cluding rebel chief Rewi, of course, Cap-
tain Jackson ana Von Tempsky. The
lastnamed was a Polish soldier of for-
tune who, with Jackson, organised a
band of rangers to oppose Maori depre-
dators and forays. The rangers in time
became as expert in bushcraft as their
brown-skinned foes, and sometimes (as
in the case of the American scouts op-
posed to Indians) outwitted them at their
own game. Museums and historical
societies are working overtime supply-
ing Rudall Hayward with facts about
the period of his talkie, so it should not
fail on the score of authenticity of
detail.


Amplion
QEMEMOTOR
For every requirement where it is
desired to convert low tension D.C.
to high tension D.C. They can be
supplied with inputs from 6, 12,
32 volts, etc., having outputs from
135 volts up to 1000 volts. Practi-
tically any type of special gene-
motor can be made as required.
Prices from £6/10/-.
Special Filters are available for
each type of Genemotor. Prices
from 30/-.
Write for comprehensive bulletin giving
full details of all models.
AMPLION (A/SIA) PTY. LTD.
66 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including, special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Somebody's buying
a Better Radio now/
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Prirvs from £I2 / 19 / Q.
gdf
Trains like hotels, every
new service for comfort.
Scenic wonders of the
Canadian Rockies. Go via
Canadian Pacific for new
experiences. Moderate fares.
GsuAaJkoAiQuifcc
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly• Co., Inc. in Canada
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Tasman Crossed on Five
Metres.
At long last report comes of the re-
ception in Maoriland of Australian
ultra-short-wave signals. VK2NO was
heard in Wellington (M.L.) on the after-
noon of 23/10/’37.
The report comes from P. A. Morri-
son, of 7 Essex-street, Wellington, and
checks with activity at VK2NO. The
signal, C.W. telegraphy, was logged at
QSA 4/R5, sending “CQ Five DX DE
VK2NO.” It was received at intervals
during the afternoon.
The aerial in use at the Sydney end
was the vertical “BJK” beam (B.
3/11/ ’37) and during these afternoon
transmissions it was aimed directionally
n.-w. and s.-e., radiation from the south-
eastern side taking in Maoriland.
Ultra-short-wave transmissions from
VK2NO have now been logged in New-
castle, N.S.W. (two-way contact with
VK2ZC), Deniliquin, N.S.W., Pwllheli,
North Wales, and Wellington, M.L. The
approximate total mileage, 11,830.
D. B. K.
Overseas Ultra-short-wave
Broadcasting Stations.
Not content with ordinary short-wave
listening, many home constructors are
experimenting with ultra-short-wave re-
A view’ of the final stage of the VK2NO five-metre trans-
mitter responsible for world records. The condensers
tuning the output “tank” are made in the form of disks
on screw threads.
ceivers. If in the immediate vicin-
ity the number of amateur stations
working on 10 and 5 metres is
limited, the results are likely to be
disappointing, and the listener
may spend long hours searching
over the dials without hearing any-
thing. On occasions, however, far-
distant stations may suddenly
break through the silence, as ultra-
short waves can travel long dis-
tances under certain atmospheric
conditions. There are a few over-
seas stations in regular operation,
and it is possible that they may be
heard, if only for brief periods.
Notification of reception of such
stations would be of interest to
the authorities.
Apart from the possibility of
hearing long-distance five-metre
amateur stations, there are stations
in the vicinity of this band
operating with fairly high
power on regular broadcast-
ing programmes. One is
WBXKA, a Westinghouse re-
lay for KDKA. This station
is on 4.96, 5.41 and 9.494
metres. Another is W6XAO,
a television station in Los
Angeles, California, working
on 6.667 metres. There is also
the Alexandra Palace televi-
sion station in London, and
another possibility is W2XDV in Wayne,
N.Y., a Columbia System station on
7.32, 7.78 and 8.45 metres. There are
several stations ad-
jacent to the ama-
teur 10-metre band,
and these may be
heard in Australia
at intervals.
WIXKA at Chica-
pee Falls, Massa-
chusetts, uses 500
watts in this region,
and W9XAZ at
Milwaukee, also a
500 - watter, has
often been heard
overseas. This sta-
tion relays the pro-
grammes from
WTMJ.
D. B. K.
tance trains and headquarters. At
present once a train leaves for the coun-
try, unless it be near a signal box or
railway station, it is out of touch with
the world.
* * * *
The Egyptian Government is installing
a 15kw. short-wave transmitter near
Cairo for the purpose of relaying to all
What's What
in Radio.
“Sach”: The
Canadian Pacific
Railway has in-
stalled radio for
the convenience of
the travellers, the
power coming
from the axle.
Generator axle-
drive for power is
no problem at all,
and, as I suggested
here recently, could
easily be utilised to
provide u. -s.- w.
between long-dis-
The automatic telegraphy device in use at
experimental station VK2NO, Sydney, for
56-megacycle long-distance test trans-
missions. It is made on from a fan motor
and a double reduction worm drive. The
disk is of three-ply, with saw cuts and
interleaved copper foil to make up the
Morse code characters. It sends “CQ
FIVE DX DE VK2NO” at 12 words
per minute.
parts of the world the Arabic programmes
broadcast by the main Cairo station.
A skw. short-
wave transmitter
has now been in-
stalled at Pretoria,
South Africa, and
tests are being
made at intervals
on 33.71 metres.
Another* station is
undergoing tests on
49.83 metres at
Cape Town.
* * *
A microphone
fitted in the vaults
is used as a burglar
detector in a new
U.S. building in
case the intricate
standard burglar
alarms should be
dodged. It is in
circuit with an
amplifier feeding
a loudspeaker in a
central guardroom.
The guards are
thus able to hear
the slightest
sound.
* * *
The Vatican City
station, Rome, has
suspended broad-
casts temporarily in
order to completely
overhaul the trans-
mitting plant. The
power will be
raised from 10 to
50 kilowatts.
More Home-made Variables.
An easy-to-make high-voltage variable
transmitting condenser, useful on the 80-,
40- and 20-metre bands, was described in
B. 20/10/’37. For ultra-short-wave
tuning much less metal is needed, and the
idea can be further simplified. Illus-
trated is a method of variable condenser
construction widely adopted in U.S.A. —
the kind of gadget that can be made up
at short notice from a few stand-off in-
sulators and sheet metal.
The condenser assembly is a split-
stator arrangement. The centre-plate
measures about 3in. by 3in., and the two
movable disks are 2{in. in diameter.
Although a fine-thread adjustment is de-
sirable there is no objection to a {in.
Whitworth thread for the spindles. If a
lathe is not on hand to turn the disks
they can be made with a circle cutter
from sheet aluminium, and the edges
rounded off with a file and emery paper.
Heavy gauge sheet metal should be used
for both fixed plate and disks. The
writer uses home-made condensers of this
type in ultra-short-wave experimental
transmitters.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: Experimental transmitters,
no[ num £ rous in Australia, are
entitled to consideration. Often the ex-
perimenter, through no fault of his trans-
mission, has to make wavetraps or line
filters to attach to near-by broadcast re-
A close-up view of the exciter control panel and the push-
pull 801 buffer stage of the VK2N0 five-metre transmitter.
Disk-type condensers are used for neutralisation.


Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
LfCB rf!E
R/.Df 0
}
\ )~j%
e- €
AX
( :
'so
c
WM
Gi ■ M
Radio licences cost the
same, no matter how your set
works. To get your money's
worth . . .
R E-VALVE W| Th
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL HI ELECTRICS
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
reivers, in order to eliminate “blanketing”
interference from his key or telephony
transmissions. In many cases the addi-
tion of an R.F. choke in series with the
broadcast receiver aerial will effect a
sure cure. It would help if manufac-
turers were to include an aerial choke
and a small line filter in all their designs.
* * * *
“Querex”: A good idea for amateur
transmitters taking part in the first
national field day, to be held on
5/12/’37, would be to attempt a link-up
with members of the Victorian division
of the W.1.A., who are running a five-
metre field day on the same date.
Although the national field day is orga-
nised on the lines of the similar event
held annually in Great Britain, with port-
able stations working on 80, 40, 20 and
possibly 10 metres, the Australian occa-
sion seems to be a good one for investi-
gation of long-distance five-metre possi-
bilities under favorable conditions in
open country.
Scheduled 56mc. DX Tests.
Conditions at present are favorable for
long-distance 56mc. communication, and
following on the successful results ob-
tained recently in Sydney by VK2NO,
which was logged in Wellington (M.L.)
on 23/10/’37, the U.H.F. section of the
W.1.A.. (N.S.W. Division) has notified
experimenters of its test schedules for
56mc.
November 28, 1937: Starting at 10 a.m.
Sydney time, N.S.W. stations will transmit
directionally for ZL until 10.15 a.m.
From 10.15 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. N.S.W.
stations will be listening for possible
replies or calls from ZL. At 10.30 a.m.
to 10.45 a.m., N.S.W- stations will again
transmit directionally for ZL, listening
for possible ZL signals from 10.45 a.m. to
11 a.m. At 11 a.m., N.S.W. stations in
the Sydney district will change direction
of transmission to north-east and south-
west, and transmit until 11.15 a.m. with
the object of putting signals into country
and inter-State locations in Australia. Be-
tween 11.15 a.m. and 11.30 a.m., the Syd-
ney stations will be listening for any pos-
sible replies from these directions.
There will be no further schedules until
2 p.m., and the intervening period is avail-
able for individual transmission and re-
ception in any direction. From 2 p.m. to
2.15 p.m., Sydney stations will again trans-
mit directionally for ZL, and will listen for
signals from across the Tasman between
2.15 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. Sydney and coun-
try VK2’s will repeat this procedure to 3
p.m. At 3 p.m. Sydney stations will again
transmit north-east and south-west until
3.15 p.m., and will be listening for any pos-
sible country or inter-State signals between
3.15 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. It is anticipated
that the transmission times for. N.S.W.
stations to ZL will be used for the same
purpose in Queensland, Vic., Tas and S.
Aus., and that stations in these States will
be trying to get through to Sydney during
the n.-e./s.-w. Sydney listening periods.
Tests will be with the same schedule
The arrangement for a Bruce receiving aerial with
reflector, designed for 25 metres reception (in this case
from the east). The Bruce aerial is much favored by
Australian amateurs for transmission and reception on
five metres.
on Sunday, December 19. In the inter-
vening week-ends, and right through the
summer, several Sydney stations will be
in continuous action with CW telegraphy
on 56mc. in various directions on Satur-
days and Sundays. Those known to be
on the job are VKs 2NO, 2MQ, 2EM,
2AZ and 2VN. There will be others.
The stations mentioned have crystal
control or M.O.P.A. transmissions of
stable form, and in some cases high
power. Directive aerials of the rotatable
type are used. VK2NO proposes to run
very early morning DX tests on Sundays
if definite co-operation is forthcoming
from inter-State and M.L. sources.
Owing to the prevailing conditions on
28mc. it is likely that DX conditions on
56mc. will be very favorable for the next
three or four months. Those interested
are urged to make use only of stable
C.W. telegraphic forms of transmission
with directive arrays, and to concentrate
on T.R.F. receivers or superhets with
8.F.0. Super-regenerators are largely a
waste of time and the cause of wide-
spread local interference. “Acorn” valves
are expensive, and if these are not readily
obtainable metal valves of the 6K7 and
6J7 types give excellent results in 56mc.
T.R.F. receivers. It is high time this
ultra-short-wave oyster was opened ; it
appears to be merely a case of getting the
right kind of co-operation at various
points.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Possibly the recent VK-ZL DX con-
test, plus the attractive DX conditions
on 10 metres, has accounted for the
lack of concentrated effort on five
metres in the VK2 H.Q. area. Now
that VK2NO has been logged in Wel-
lington (M.L.), there should be renewed
interest. A five-metre test day has been
suggested for the end of the month, and
it is hoped to secure
constant week - end
activity through the
summer. Stations at
present active or
completing recon-
struction are VKs
2NO, 2MQ, 2AZ,
2ABZ, 2DP, 2TR,
2IP, 2EM, 2ACB,
2ZN, 2VN, 2PF and
2VV. Many others
report they are inter-
ested, so the Sydney
list is growing. In
the country VK2PN
at Tumut (N.S.W.)
is active with QRO
looking for DX.
Others who began
well a couple of
years ago are miss-
ing from five metres.
In VK3, 3ML will be on the job look-
ing for inter-State signals on Saturday
nights, and many other VK3’s are known
to be on the alert. The extent of VK4
activity for DX tests
is not at present
known. Participants
in five - metre DX
tests are urged to
toss out modulated
oscillators and ordi-
nary super-regenera-
tive receivers. They
are a poor make-
shift at best, and will
lead nowhere. Two
6L6’s can make a
nice little M.0.P.A.,
and if an 807 or
something larger is
used in the final, so
much the better.
Such a job can be
keyed for C.W. re-
ception, but the aver-
age S.E. five-metre
TX is useless for
this purpose. While
receivers of the
T.R.F. or superhet
variety using
“acorns” are desir-
able, the .metal
valves of the 6K7
and 6J7 types are very efficient,
and there should be no objection to
a T.R.F. receiver with 6K7 tuned R.F.
stage, capacity coupled to a 6JK electron
detector with 41 or 42 audio. Such a
receiver will locate weak signals that are
inaudible through the mush of super-
regeneration. Super-regeneration is, of
course, useful at present for local con-
tacts, but it would be entirely unneces-
sary if all transmitters were what they
should be in these times. A separate
triode interrupter valve can be included
in the receiver design, to be switched in
as wanted. With valves and application
ideas as advanced as they are, there are
no technical obstacles to correct TX and
RX design. Apparatus can be made to
perform equally well at 56mc. as at
14mc.
A tip concerning short-wave receivers:
Many a good SW RX shows symptoms
of pronounced audio feedback when
volume is advanced on speaker recep-
tion of a strong signal. This is due to
sound waves causing minute vibrations
of stator or rotor plates in the variable
condensers. Use condensers with stout
plates. Thin aluminium- and brass-
plate condensers are bad offenders'. Con-
densers with a large number of small
plates for a given capacity are better
than condensers with few plates of larger
size.
A station on 20-metre ’phone was
heard to remark, “I don’t see yoiir card
here, so it must be the first time we’ve
hooked up.” These stations are but a
few miles apart. It seems as if the
QSL card is the sole objective in many
cases.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
(Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
Romer Four-valve Portable Superbet.
Though there are many occasions when
a lightweight but efficient portable broad-
cast receiver would be useful, the com-
mercial production of such receivers has
languished. For one thing, manufac-
turers have been preoccupied with car-
radio design, and, for another, technical
difficulties have militated against produc-
ing the kind of receiver that can be
picked up and taken anywhere at short
notice. But with the modern battery
valves that give economical operation in
the small superhet, a first-class job can
now be made of the small portable.
An excellent example is the Romer, a
particularly compact and light four-valve
superhet, marketed in Sydney by
Antennex (A’sia) Corp., Kembla Build-
ing, Margaret-street, Sydney. This re-
ceiver was tested in the office in the
heart of the city. All local broadcasting
stations could be tuned in with ease, and
it is obvious that out in the open many
more stations would be available. In
use at Katoomba (N.S.W.), this receiver
tuned in 44 stations.
It is a four-valve superhet with 460 kc.
I.F. channel, using a IC6 as first detector-
oscillator, IC4 as intermediate ampli-
fier, IK6 as second detector and ID4
pentode audio to the permag. midget
speaker. The capacity, and therefore
non-directional, aerial, contained in the
lid of the carrying case, is not of the
loop type. There is no necessity to swing
the lid about to get maximum signal, as
with some portables. Furthermore, a
length of coiled insulated wire is sup-
plied for use as an external aerial by
connecting to a terminal inside the lid.
Thus the receiver can be used far away
from broadcasting centres with all the
performance of a battery broadcast re-
ceiver as installed for regular home use.
The receiver itself is contained in the
upper portion of the case, with speaker
grill in the centre and controls to the
right. The lower portion, with opening
lid, contains the two-volt accumulator,
90 volts of Ever Ready light duty B bat-
tery and nine-volt C battery. On the
receiver chassis there is a switch to
change bias value on the audio stage
to a lower value after a few months’ use
of the receiver. This compensates for
reduction in plate voltage and gives a
more correct bias value. The audio tone
can thus be retained throughout the
whole useful life of the B battery.
The case is well made and finished in
maroon-colored imitation leather, with
carrying handle on top. A snap catch
locks the front, which is opened to use
the receiver. For readers with uses for
portables, this Romer production should
fill a long-felt want. It is only a matter
of keeping the two-volt accumulator
charged to have broadcast entertain-
ment anywhere at any time at a second’s
notice.
D. B. K.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Please give details and circuit of a simple
and portable modulated oscillator to use a single
30 valve. It is intended mainly for checking
broadcast receivers. —6l4.
The oscillator illustrated is of the Hartley type
for battery operation. It will work with any
general-purpose medium impedance valve of the
two-, four- or six-volt types. Modulation is
effected by grid blocking, thus producing a musi-
cal note. By changing coils it may be used for
175, 465 or 1500 to 550 kc. It could also
be used for higher frequencies with suitable
coils. The coil for 1500 kc. to 550 kc. consists
of 100 turns of 32 D.S.C. on a l|in. diameter
former, centre-tapped. The tuning condenser
Cl is a .00035mfd. variable. Other values are:
C 2, .00025 mica; C 3, .smfd.; R 1 should be de-
termined by experiment and will be between
5 and 10 megs., depending upon the valve used;
R 2, 200-ohm potentiometer; R 3, 30-ohm rheo-
stat. The oscillator should be coupled to the
receiver through a dummy aerial (also illus-
trated). This is merely a coil, condenser and
resistance in series. Use 30 turns of 32 D.S.C.
on l|in. former for L, .00025mfd. for C and
30 ohms for R.
* * * *
(1) Could I study at home for the second-
class marine wireless operator’s certificate, and
attend a wireless school for practical experi-
ence ? (2) How long should be necessary if I
already possessed the amateur operator’s certifi-
cate of proficiency? —6l2.
(1) Yes. (2) Depends upon operating ability,
plus sound fundamental knowledge. An ama-
teur operator with good technical and operat-
ing knowledge should not need more than
three months’ study.
* * * *
(1) Would a crystal pickup give sufficient
volume for home purposes if attached to a
five-valve receiver with B in. speaker? (2) Is ,
there any first-class magnetic pickup on the
market at present? (3) Is the H.M.V. port-
able gramophone and pickup reliable? (4)
How would a magnetic pickup affect record
wear ? —613.
(1) Yes. (2) There are several, including the
Audak and B.T.H. (3) Have not heard one,
but any product bearing this name should be
first-class. (4) No more than any other type, if
properly balanced and tracked.


100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
''V
IS
PROOF
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK tor Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
-
- *
r~ §■ i
K
■
V
3HSB
- ,<* Ay,-- - ii^aas
■ mm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydne y.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
The Wool Position.
“Ghanam”: N. S. Wales wool figures
show that Sydney sales for the first four
months of the season turned over fewer
bales than in any season for years except
1934, but at a higher price. The 297,929
bales disposed of realised £5,651,000, an
average of 14.9 d. per pound, while last
year 335,401 bales realised £5,914,000, or
13.8 d. Later prices, however, have been
lower by about 2d. per pound than those
at the same period last year.
In the first three months of the season,
exports showed an increase to most
foreign countries, but there was a decline
in the amount shipped to the U.K. from
181,713 to 172,000 bales. The only other
countries which showed a reduction were
the Netherlands, Czechoslovakia and
Poland.
Growers have little need to worry.
Continental wool stocks are low, and the
market, if anything, showed a brighter
tendency in Sydney last week. Though
japan is buying anywhere in preference
to Australia—its manufacturers have re-
cently contracted for 70,000 Australian
bales in North China—it is bound to
come into the market on a larger scale
before long.
Other countries which have been hold-
ing off in the hope of keeping prices at
a reasonably low level, Germany and
Italy among them, will probably be heard
from later in the season. At the recent
Sydney sales both showed a new activity.
Badly Prepared Clips.
“B-gar”: “Lion” (B. 13/10/’37) gives
some pertinent reasons why many clips
are not sent to market as they might be.
There are a few more.
Fleeces become badly torn by the
careless placing of shearers’ feet, and the
jumble of wool picked up and thrown on
the rolling tables cannot be skirted prop-
erly. Where there is much fleece
trampling, the percentage of broken and
pieces is always greater than it should be.
Dumping of pieces is an all too
common practice when the piece-pickers
get more wool than they can handle.
It’s the grower’s fault if dumping is
tolerated. I have seen two good piece-
pickers hopelessly bogged trying to cope
with the skirtings of fleeces shorn by 20
fast shearers. The wages of an extra
man would have been returned many
times over.
The manner in which contractors some-
times do away with “broomies” is re-
sponsible for .the presence of fribs, stains
and locks in both fleece and pieces lines.
Unless the board and woolroom are kept
clean, small and inferior bits cling to
the better classes of wool, to remain
hidden until buyers get busy.
Much of the dirt and dust in many
clips could be avoided if the yards were
watered daily during shearing.
Overclassing small clips results in
too many star lots. It’s just as foolish to
overclass as to underclass.
Jute Fibres in Wool.
“F.L.8.”: The continual complaint by
woolbuyers concerning the cost of jute
fibres'getting into wool could be easily
remedied if they would allow the grower
the additional cost of paper-lined bales—
11s. 6d. each as against 2s. 6d. for the
ordinary bale. A big increase, but, as
every piece of jute has to be picked out
by hand, that costs money, too.
I have never seen more waste jute ends
and lengths in and around the bales than
in our lot this season. Some of the
caps had as many as eight lengths hang-
ing off the two ends. Inside the bale was
often a double handful attached to the
bottom, which we had to remove. Simi-
larly along the seams, but one couldn’t
cut them all off.
It is time growers, brokers and buyers
combined to remedy the evil.
Worms in Sheep.
“Jackaburra”: I have every respect for
“W.D.Mc.’s” 50 years’ experience (B.
20/10/’37), but I repeat that the man
who says that during that time he “has
never had a failure” is either talking
through his hat or living in country where
worms, as we know them in West
Queensland, don’t exist.
The C.S. and I.R. and various Depart-
ments of Agriculture have devoted much
“ That's right, CUT me! Now I've to face six roaring lions looking
like a piece of raw meat!"
research to the many kinds of worms
with which we are troubled, and it is
hard to believe that all their officers are
wrong in the seemingly complicated
methods they advocate.
Dr. Allan Fraser, Deputy Director for
Research of the Duthie Experimental
Stock Farm, Rpwett Institute, Aberdeen
(Scotland), says “there js only one worm
—the large stomach-worm—that has been
proved to be killed by drugs. The smaller
worms are sometimes scarcely touched,
and it is the smaller ’ftorms that do most
damage.”
There is far too great a tendency to
drench indiscriminately. Before any
drenching is done, the flock-owner should
do everything possible to build up the
animals’ bodily resistance.
Fraser says:
Whenever lambs are ill-thriving the first
thing thought of is worms and the first ;
thing done is to dose. There are a hun-
dred and one reasons other than worms....
It'is easier to increase the sheep’s resist-
ance than to decrease’ the number of
worms. Even when a drug is effective and
clears out the worms they will soon be
replaced by others... .Until a a drug or
proved value is discovered, my consideied
advice is to look after the sheep and the
sheep will look after the worms.
If “W.D.Mc.” is inclined to reply that
this isn’t applicable to Australian con-
ditions, tell him his alleged cure-all cer-
tainly isn’t suited to N.S.W. or Queens-
land conditions. When it is decided to
drench, the first thing to find out is what
sort of worms the sheep are infested with,
and to follow the prescribed treatment for
that particular variety.
Fly and Arsenic Dips.
“W.D.Mc.”: Effective dipping, with an
arsenical powder dip, should be the first
line of defence against fly strike.
The dipping should be done as long
after shearing as possible to allow for
growth of enough wool to retain the dip.
If the dip is properly prepared and the
sheep left in it for the proper time they
will be protected for months.
The flock should be crutched properly
and jetted if necessary. I live in a very
bad fly district (they blow the blankets
on the clotheslines), and I have never
seen a properly-woolled sheep struck
after being dipped in an arsenical powder
mixture.
I would cull all wrinkly sheep, fore
and aft. Better to have a plain-bodied
live sheep than a dead wrinkly cutter.
Uniformity of Branding.
“C.V.S.”: Although it is contended
that buyers pay no attention to descrip-
tive brands, and that they will bid as
keenly for suitable wool whatever the
brands, uniformity is desirable for other
reasons.
A uniform system would simplify work
in brokers’ stores, and make for easier
reference.
A case in point is to be found in two
lines of wooI—AAAA and 888 (B.
3/11 /.’37), Though these marks may have
a restricted meaning in N.S.W., to many
woolmen they may . mean nothing.
Under a universal system they would be
descriptive of widely-known types.
Some classers use mostTetters for their
top lines ; others use most for their low
lines.* Different brokers advise different
systems. Uniformity could be obtained
by co-operation between wool schools
and brokers in all States.
Argentine Bull Prices.
“Mookau”: While Australian breeders
baulk at a few hundred pounds for stud
beef bulls, the Argentine is intensifying
its policy of buying the world’s best sires
at the world’s best prices.
At the recent Palermo show, one of
A. J. Marshall’s Scottish sires, Cruggle-
ton Captivator, changed hands for £7500
Australian, and 55 imported bulls, the
pick of the British season, averaged £790.
The £7500 bull was a two-year-old re-
serve champion at the British Royal at
Bristol. Another Marshall bull, of
Clipper strain on the female side, brought
£2500, and another, senior yearling at
the Melrose Highland Show last year,
realised £1250. Twelve Marshall sires
averaged £lO3O.
A lot of seven bulls from Perth, Scot-
land, averaged £lOOO, the top price being
£2250.
The Argentine has long ago realised
the need to import fresh blood continu-
ally in order to produce the type of beef
which the English market demands. Some
Australian breeders have tried to work on
the same lines, but the results have been
a bitter disappointment, and it is no un-
common thing in Australian show sale
rings to see stud animals which in the
Argentine and Scotland would bring four
figures sold for a hundred or two hun-
dred guineas for breeding with females
completely unworthy of them.
No amount of marketing organisation
will secure the British chilled beef trade
for us until we adopt Argentine breed-
ing methods.
Best Udder Classes.
“Silky Bag”:
Since the udder
represents at least
50 p.c. of a cow's
value greater recog-
nition might be
paid to it at shows.
At present, only
one breed, the Ayr-
shire, provides
even one prize for
the “best vessel.”
There should be
a prize in classes
of cows in milk,
and for two-year-
old s, three-year-
olds, four-year-olds
and mature cows.
And a prize for
the best vessel,
open to all breeds,
might be awarded.
In recent years,
the udders in most
dairy breeds at our
big shows have
gone off in quality.
Show-ring points
place too much
emphasis on other virtues, such as head
and horns, length of tail and loose hide.
If a cow has a good vessel, which
milks out well —in udder classes that
would have to be a condition, plus weight
and test of the milk—she must have a
sound constitution. If the udder is big
and the animal a poor milker, then the
vessel is fleshy or fat.
N.S.W. Wheat.
“Hortus”: Things are changing in the
wheat world. “Greater flour strength"
and “improved baking quality” are now
the demand. The relatively weak flour
wheats have had their day; Bobin, Free
Gallipoli, Tiirvey, Penny and Currawa
are on the decline. Ford, Nabawa, Dun-
dee and Baringa'are to the fore.
Our wheat is improving in quality.
The percentage of wheat areas under
varieties classed as medium-strong to
strong has increased from 8.1 p.c. in 1932
to 37-5 p.c. in 1936.
News now comes from England that
N.S.W. f.a.q. wheat is superior in flour
(i Continued on page 44.)


THE WORLD’S BEST GUNS
NEW —MODERN —FAMOUS
BY CHURCHILL - JEFFERY - HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON LALOUX
Actually in stock at 560 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, where you can shoot on our range and be certain that you get a gun that really suits
you. This new department is in the care of Mr. J. Harrison, one of Australia’s Leading Trap and Field Shots. As well as being a
champion shot, Mr. Harrison has made a lifelong study of ballistics and technique of shotguns. He and other expert members of our staff
place themselves at your disposal.
•• \v>- sXvX'M :■
E. J. CHURCHILL, OF LONDON,
Prices from £35 to £175
W. J. JEFFERY & CO., LTD., LONDON,
Prices from £32/10/- to £l5O
As is well known to all shooters
London-made guns represent the high-
water mark of the gun-making world.
Both the above London makers
specialise in producing long-range guns
specially suitable for Duck and Fox
shooting. These are the guns we recom-
mend for the man in the back country.
Holloway & Naughton are makers of
a good range of trap and field guns.
Many guns of this make are already in
use in Australia and give extreme satis-
faction to their owners.
For the popular priced gun Laloux has
been a leading Belgian maker for many
years, and the guns h e is sending us, both
hammer and hammerless, in 12 down to
.410 bore, are strongly built and of good
weight. The twelves weigh not less than
71bs. and run up to 7;i|lbs. These are not
frail weapons built down to a price, but
guns you can produce in the best com-
pany, without fear of criticism. Stocked
in both ejector and non-ejector.
HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON, BIRMINGHAM,
Prices from £lB/7/6 to £3l
m
M
GEORGES LALOUX, BELGIUM,
Prices from £2/17/6 to £l5
SEND FOR OUR
BEAUTIFULLY
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
POST FREE.
Hatoe
(yuccess&s
(D. & W. Chandler, Ltd.)
560-566 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE
TELEPHONES: CENTRAL 187-188.
SOLE
AUSTRALIAN
LOADERS OF THE
WORLD FAMOUS
"RHENWEST"
CARTRIDGES.
ULTIMATE -the Only Receiver
for the
DISCRIMINATING
LISTENER
Listeners who demand the most exacting quality in their
Radio quickly discern and appreciate the perfection of
Ultimate Receiver.
Ultimate Receivers are designed for your enjoyment. Their
unusual power makes them unrivalled for world-wide recep-
tion. You can tour the world at will, delight in music arid
entertainment from numerous foreign countries, with the
same smooth reception as your local stations.
Other features that make Ultimate the perfect Radio are
the increased sensitivity, absolute accuracy in tuning and
the glorious tonal realism.
DO YOU KNOW THAT NO FEWER THAN 798
VERIFIED STATIONS HAVE BEEN LOGGED ON A
STANDARD ULTIMATE RECEIVER?
REAL RADIO
Ultimate offers a comprehensive
range of Receivers . . . A.C., Battery
Operated, Air-cell and Vibrator
Powered Models . ■5 to 15 Valves
. . . from £29/15/- to £i2o
ULTIMATE
Sole Australian Concessionaires
GEO. BRO WN & C□. PTY. LTD.
Electrical and Industrial Engineers .
Write for full particulars,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: M 2544 (2 lines).
m
m' I
111 ■
:
wm
m
- : \V' : :
m
m
■
■Hi
Wm
V.
■
■
m
5,
HU
■
* I
■ i
mi
American Butt Walnut Radio-
Gramophone Combination for.A.C.
or Battery Operation.


3258.
d
US
v
0
THE EXTRA WEAR
IS ALWAYS THERE
Wallaby Skin lined throughout and made from high-grade Velour
Calf, this full golosh is made for long wear.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in medium and wide fittings.
Price: Brown, 48/6; Black, 47/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe
it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe
it’s a good Shoe.”
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
(Dip
£
f f
Keepjnq Track
~\
« >
>
A cheque account is one of the best means of
keeping track of your business or personal
finances.
By banking all your income and recording, on
the "butt" of each cheque the amount and pur-
pose for which it is drawn, you will have a
complete record of your financial affairs.
Cheque accounts may be opened at all branches
of the Bank by ANY reputable person or firm.
Rural Bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
7/*
Sirs
?>#//,
S.Y/fc
My
f *./ fill
*
mmimtmak
M
im
Hot acid here re-
moves all grease
and scale prior to
galvanizing.
LYSAGHT
ORS
AUSTRALIA
OT Fo
IfltVW
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
IN the production of Lysaght's
Red Orb Galvanized Iron, at
every stage the most scrupulous
care is exercised by skilled work-
men, for every sheet which carries
their brand is guaranteed by
Lysaght's. This is your assurance
of long service and absolute satis-
faction. Look for the Red Orb on
THE rigid roofing sheets, used all
over Australia.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write for your copy to
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
E
m
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St„ Sydney
JTuT&'alleiz/iL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BEEBE
ALL STEEL
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
For use where Power ia not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity., weight .. 6Glb.
5-ton capacity, weight .. 1101 b.
Illustrated folder with full particulars
obtainable from:—
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
quality to that of any other State. And
it is expected that the f.a.q. standard
will be raised still further. Waratah,
Bobin and Ranee will be replaced by
soft wheats of much improved strength.
The greatest improvement, however, is
expected in the hard-wheat class. Gular,
Cailloux, Baldwin and Sturt are bound
to stand out.
Gular is a very early-maturing wheat.
It has little place outside the N. S. Wales
n.-w. slopes, the drier parts of c.-w. slopes
and western plains and W. Riverina.
A quarter of a million acres of early-
maturing wheats are grown in N.S.W. at
present. Gular could well take the place
of most of this group. It would give
growers an' added return from a slightly
better average price than f.a.q., if ac-
cepted as hard wheat at country silos.
Gular has a relatively short, fine,
though fairly strong, straw. It stools well
for such an early wheat and can fill three
or four grains in the spikelet. Gular has
produced 53 bushels per acre.
The grain is fairly small and white.
It is hard or vitreous when grown under
dry l western conditions. It is susceptible
to flag smut, but not to such a degree as
Waratah, Aussie and Canberra.
With all its faults, it stands alone in
baking quality, and is superior in this re-
spect to all varieties at present grown in
N.S.W. except Pusa 4.
Dundee is another popular wheat —it
occupies 524,237 acres, or 12 p.c. of the
total wheat area. Last season’s acreage
was almost double that of the year
before.
But Dundee has a tendency to throw
back and to become mottled.
Dundee was evolved by crossing Hard
Federation on Cleveland, and crossing the
progeny with Sands. Hard Federation is
a selection from Federation, and is be-
lieved to be the product of a natural cross
(Cowra Experiment Farm). Its non-
bleaching qualities make it a favorite with
millers. Federation is the direct result
of Farrer’s attempts to produce “a short
straw wheat especially suited to the Aus-
tralian method of harvesting with
stripper.”
Dundee is fairly smut-resistant (Cleve-
land trait), and inherits short, strong
straw of Federation type. Harvest results
show it a heavy grain-yielder, especially
in western and north-western portions of
the wheat belt. It has a high protein con-
tent, good maltose figures, excellent
dough stability and general strength
better than the average plate wheat.
Tested Seed in Victoria.
“Nodule”: The Vic. Director of Agri-
culture has issued a warning that persons
who sell inferior seed as “certified”
will be dealt with drastically. He
points out that the basis of pasture im-
provement is tested seed of high quality
and germination power, and of suitable
strains for the right districts.
He estimates that there are 31,000,000
acres of improved pasture in Victoria,
which produce an income of £26,000,000
p.a. At the same time, development is
retarded occasionally by sales of poor
seed. Out of 150 samples tested for
merchants’ stocks, 25 p.c. were found to
be below standard.
Dealing with Laminitis.
“Agamemnon”: Acute laminitis is
often fatal in horses. It may affect all
four feet or both fore or hind.
Laminitis is usually due to overgorg-
ing—say, with wheat —especially when
combined with heavy work. It may
follow many fevers from toxaemia.
The legs are drawn under the body
and the weight borne as far as possible
upon the heels. Movement is extremely
painful; the feet are lifted very quickly
in a crouching manner. The foot is ab-
normally hot and throbbing.
Haemorrhage may follow. Death is
common from pain or gangrene. Chronic
laminitis may result.
Treatment must be prompt. Bleeding
and very strong purges are valuable.
Aconite may be used to deal with the
fever.
Local treatment consists of cold
foments and astringent lotions. Paring
of the toe or grooving the hoof to relieve
the pressure help, but must be carefully
done or infection and blood-poisoning
are likely to follow.
Hints for the Farm.
“Silky Bag”: On sappy pastures, where
cattle scour or bloat badly, a shovelful
of clean lime in each water trough will
act as an anti-acid. It will not dissolve
readily, so that each cow will get only a
diluted lime-water when drinking.
“Gumblegubbin”: In S. Aus. haystacks
are protected from mice by digging a
trench, a foot deep and 4in. wide, all
round, and filling with concrete. Droppers
leaning outwards are driven in while the
concrete is still soft, and flat sheets of
galvanised iron bolted to them. This
allows the mice to go out for water, but
none can get in.
“Dimon”: The straining posts of a
wire fence should be put up with a slight
lean away from the strain, for the stay or
strut will give a little no matter how well
it is fitted in. The bottom of the strut
should be against the butt of the next
post.
“Illiterate”: One thing badly needed in
agricultural departments is a course
for instructors in the writing of simple
English. One official wrote that a symp-
tom of a certain plant disease is that the
leaves develop a “slightly chlorotic’
appearance. A Webster I salved from
the depression told me “chlorotic”
meant “affected by chlorosis, destitute of
chlorophyl, characterised by chloranthy.”
It cost me a twopenny stamp before I
found that what my adviser meant was
that the leaves would have a greeny-
yellow tinge.
“Ponderosa”: U.S.A. growers are giv-
ing first place to a tomato with a pure-
white skin. Its virtues are disease-resist-
ance and absence of acidity. Seeds have
been obtainable in Australia for some
time, but, even if the variety dodges Aus-
tralian sun freckles, its anaemic appearance
will prove its biggest drawback as a good
seller.
“Zedo”: Though Australia was out-
standing in milk and butterfat produc-
tion a few years ago, it seems to be
slipping back, judging by some overseas
records. A Canadian Ayrshire owned by
F. C. Briggs and Sons has turned off
31,1561 b. milk and 13561 b. butterfat for
365 days, beating the existing Ayrshire
Canadian record of 27,1981 b. milk and
12571 b. fat held since 1928 by Nellie
Osborne of El Shade XVI and the world’s
record for cows milked less than four
times a day held by the Jersey Bramton
Basilua, whose fat output was 13131 b.
It is about time that the A.I.M. Short-
horns produced another Melba.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Where are the three largest shearing sheds
in Australia ? (2) Number of hands employed
during shearing ? (3) Number of sheep shorn
in a season ? —7438.
(1) and (3) The largest shearing shed building
is at Tinnenburra, Cunnamulla (Q.). The rela-
tive importance of a shed depends more on
number of sheep shorn; this varies from year
to year as big estates are cut up or seasonal
conditions affect carrying capacity. Again,
sheep shorn at a shed may not necessarily be
pastured on that property. Last year, Kooba
(Riverina) shore over 200,000 sheep; Wellshot,
Longreach (Q.), approximately 160,000. There
are several aspirants for third place, including
Northampton Downs, Blackall (Q.). (2) Only
20 shearers are now engaged at Tinnenburra.
Number of shearing hands employed is about
50.


SHE DIDN'T WA
TO FLY THE
PACIFIC
*bT Star in the films. All her interest
centred round her home. Making jam, feeding
chi ckens, and looking after the children during
the holidays kept her busy and contented. Then,
for no apparent reason, these things began to pall
iS"
ill!
tesssss
: ;Ie
<
XT
m
m
Why are you selling
off the fowls
Mrs. Ellis 7 You used to
take such pride in
them, particularly
j x-X the Rhode Islands
If?
_ .I'll tV Oh, they need
\ such a lot of
\\=\ \ looking after.
and I just don't
feel up to it
any more.
?*s£
W
SK
*0
So in the end I had to come
to you, doctor. I used to do ail
the work myself but now-well.
I even wake up tired. I feel
quite guilty
about it.
M
&
;Avu
You see
Mrs. Ellis,
your trouble is
Night-Starvation.
You’re not
replacing the
energy you use up
during sleep. Here's
the way to create
the new energy
you need - *
7/.
ft
I reckon the
doctor put her
on it. My sister-
in-law seen her
going to the
doctors with
her own eyes.
I
the
hast h 'l e ; u p-^
Every
a cup
Missus
goes
hot
she
true
as
toW-Tding
That?
ere
stan
im
as
JT
i maKea iy
ak.
K ,d °?m much too
bo f h er * 'J t think wJ
tired. I can T John
I'll d ov y he e ,
\ afl LTefor' he
hom holidays- J
There’s Mrs. Ellis from the
Wyona Farm. Wonder what
sne’s got in that parcel. Its
not meat, because they get it
delivered, and its
not library books
-they don't
wrap them up
His round, Maudie.
Its a jar or a fin.
Thafs what it is. Now
buying
&
a
SIX WEEKS LATER
Hang if, Mofher
this isn't a
steeplechase.
Give a chap a ,
breather, y
■lurry up, Michael
iome on John, we’ve
miles to go, and its
nearly teatime.
A
9
S? A
THERE must be hundreds of people all over
the country who wake up tired and get
more and more tired as the day goes on. It
never occurs to them that energy is still used
up during sleep, so they do nothing to create
new energy in its place. The last thing they
suspect is "Night-Starvation.”
A regular cup of Horlick’s, taken hot before
bed, creates the new energy needed. It helps
you to wake up thoroughly rested and ready
to face the hardest day, and guards you
against "Night-Starvation.”
Prices from 1/6 economy size, 2/9.
Horlick's Mixer, 1/-.
SPECIAL OFFER! i-lb. tin Horlick's Mixer Measuring Spoon —all for 2/-.
HORLICKS GUARDS AGAINST
uahvaiiiin
THIS MEANS YOU SLEEP SOUNDLY,
WAKE REFRESHED, AND HAVE
EXTRA ENERGY ALL DAY.


Short Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
I Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
X.C.S. School o£ Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d, packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion ir. filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Married man (28), 10 years’ exp. in western
division of N.S.W., wants position as station
manager. Refs. —7736.
Gentleman, Vic., wants seat in car or truck,
Melbourne to Brisbane and return. —7701.
Will Sydney agency that wrote to Mrs. V.
McNeil, of Ballarat, concerning money in
Chancery get in touch with Samuel McNeil,
16 Haymes-crescent, Ballarat East, Vic.?
Schoolboy stamp-collector will exchange
stamps with residents in the Pacific Islands and
elsewhere. —7718.
Accountant-manager (N.S.W.), exp. timber
and builders’ supply, hardware, undertaking,
does buying and costing, 14 years present posi-
tion, age 38, seeks similar employment for
family health reasons.—772s.
Will buy used Australian stamps, 4d. values
and over, at one-eighth face value. Large lots
only considered.—76o7.
Words of “Waltzing Matilda” and “Nine
Miles from Gundagai.”—772B.
Words of the following poems: “Murphy’s
Brindle Cow,” “The Utility Truck” and one
beginning “Fie chose a roan, all muscle and
b0ne.”—7704.
Words of verse “Ode to a Potato.” —7705.
Words of verse beginning:
Yet not the more
Cease I to wander where the muses haunt
Clear spring, or shady grove, or sunny hill.
—7570.
Words of parody on the recitation “Dan-
gerous Dan McGrew” containing the line “She
was wrestling with her conscience when she
fell”; also patter of a sporting reporter de-
scribing a wedding.—7679.
Words of recitation “The Men Below the
Waterhole.” —7709.
To buy back numbers of American maga-
zine “Esquire,” or will exchange “National
Geographic Magazines.”—77ll.
Book or other printed instructions for build-
ing a log cabin.—7676.
To hear from experienced practical bench-
man, N.S.W., who would saw cypress pine
on contract at a small plant.—7747.
Does Anybody Know?
How to play American dice game called
“craps”?—7sB7.
How to make casein powder into glue? —7750.
Information Sought.
(1) Who were the batsmen and their scores
when N.S.W. knocked up 713 for six wickets v.
Victoria at Sydney in January, 1929 ? (2) Is
it a record score for N.S.W. v. Victoria? —
7669.
(1) Bradman 340 not out, Fairfax 104, Mc-
Cabe 60, Marks 56, Jackson 41, Bettington 40,
Fingleton 25 not out, Andrews 19 (sundries 28).
(2) No; N.S.W. previously scored 815 v. Vic-
toria at Sydney, and 805 at Melbourne.
* * * *
If a bowler makes holes in the ground near
the wicket when delivering the ball, can the
batsman compel the opposing captain to have
them filled with soil? —7661.
The batsman should appeal to the umpire,
who, if he considers the holes are dangerous,
can order them to be filled. The umpires may,
if they think fit, hold consultations with the
captains of both teams on the question, but
the umpires have the final word. Sawdust is
generally used for all purposes of filling in
important matches.
* * * *
What were the batting averages of Gregory,
Badcock and Robinson in (1) Tests v. England
in Australia in 1936-37, (2) Sheffield Shield
cricket in 1935-36 and 1936-37 ? —7672.
Test Matches.
Highest
Tngs. N.O. Score. Total. Average.
Gregory 3 0 80 153 51.00
Badcock .. 4 0 118 128 32.00
Robinson ..2 0 3 5 2.50
Sheffield Shield, 1935-36.
Badcock .. 6 1 325 622 124.40
Robinson ..11 1 103 613 6-1.30
Gregory 8 1 80 258 36.85
Sheffield Shield, 1936-37.
Robinson ..7 0 163 407 58.14
Badcock .. 6 1 136 249 49.80
Gregory ..11 1 85 394 39.40
* * * *
Names and positions of members of the
Australian Test teams in the recent tour of
the English League in Australia? —7628.
First and second Tests: Beaton (full-back),
Crippen, Hey, Brown and Ridley (three-
quarters), Norman (five-eighth), Thicknesse (half-
back), Prigg, Pearce, Heidke, Curran, Fairhall
and Stehr (forwards). Third Test, Beaton
(full-back), Crippen, Brown, Norman and
Ridley (three-quarters), Hey (five-eighth), Gil-
bert (half), Prigg, Pearce, Heidke, Curran,
Madson and Stehr (forwards).
* * * #
When Bradman and Larwood were opponents
in Test cricket, how many did Bradman score
in each innings, how was he dismissed and
what were Larwood’s bowling figures in each
innings ? —7730.
1928-29: At Brisbane, Bradman, 1.b.w., b.
Tate, 18 (Larwood, 6 for 32), and c. Chapman,
b. White, 1 (Larwood, 2 for 30); at Mel-
bourne, b. Hammond, 79 (Larwood, 3 for 127),
and c. Duckworth, b. Geary, 112 (Larwood,
1 for 37); at Adelaide, c. Larwood, b. Tate,
40 (Larwood 1 for 92), and run out, 58 (Lar-
wood, 0 for 60); at Melbourne, c. Tate, b.
Geary, 123 (Larwood, 1 for 83), and 37 not
out (Larwood, 0 for 85). 1930: At Notting-
ham (Eng.), b. Tate, 8 (Larwood, 1 for 12),
and b. Robins, 131 (Larwood, 1 for 9); at
Leeds, c. Duckworth, b. Tate, 334 (Larwood,
1 for 139); at Kennington Oval, c. Duck-
worth, b. Larwood, 232 (Larwood, 1 for 132).
1932-33: At Melbourne, b. Bowes, 0 (Larwood,
2 for 52), and 103 not out (Larwood, 2 for
50); at Adelaide, c. Allen, b. Larwood, 8
(Larwood, 3 for 55), and c. and b. Verity, 66
(Larwood, 4 for 71); at Brisbane, b. Larwood,
76 (Larwood, 4 for 101), and c. Mitchell, b.
Larwood, 24 (Larwood, 3 for 49); at Sydney,
b. Larwood, 48 (Larwood, 4 for 98), and b.
Verity, 71 (Larwood, 1 for 44).
* * * *
When delivering a ball the bowler stumbles
and it stops half-way down the pitch. How
may the batsman deal with it? —7716.
Provided that the umpire decides that the
ball has been “delivered” the batsman has the
right to hit the ball without interference. After
he has hit the ball the batsman can be run out
or stumped if he doesn’t regain his crease.
* * * *
(1) Results of Sheffield Shield series since
1892-93 ? (2) Biggest win in the series? (3)
Result of the 1936-37 matches? —7723.
(1) N.S.W. 20, Victoria 16, South Australia
5, Queensland 0. (2) Victoria’s defeat of
N.S.W. by an innings and 656 runs at Mel-
bourne in 1926. (3) Six matches played; Vic-
toria won 6, South Australia won 3, lost 3,
N.S.W. won 2, lost 4, Queensland won 1, lost 5.
* * * *
(1) Who was the first Australian killed in the
Great War ? (2) On Gallipoli ? (3) In France ?
—7760.
The R.S.S.I.L.A. Year-Book gives the follow-
ing : (1) Able Seaman Williams, of the Naval Re-
serve N. and M.E.F., who was mortally
wounded on the Bitapaka-road in the advance
from Kabakaul against Kokopo (then Herberts-
hohe) and Rabaul, Sept. 11, 1914. (2) Capt.
Annear, who was shot in the head on the
plateau above Ari Burnu Knoll. (3) First re-
corded are Sgt. Robinson, Bdr. Klintworth and
Gnr. Morgan, killed in action in front of Mont
St. Eloi, March 15, 1916.
* * * *
I am buying a block of land about 20 miles
from Sydney. How can 1 obtain particulars of
the workers’ home scheme? —7596.
Insufficient information to permit a complete
answer, but if you are employed and in a posi-
tion to acquire a block of land you are prob-
ably eligible for assistance through one of the
co-operative building societies, full particulars
of which are obtainable from the Registrar,
Co-op. Building Socs., 61 Hunter-street, Syd-
ney. If you are unemployed, with a family of
children, application could be made to the
Homes for Unemployed Trust, 37 Phillip-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
I understand that the national debt is in-
creasing each year. Any actuarial figures avail-
able to indicate whether it is possible to liqui-
date the capital debt ? —7688.
Details of the national debt sinking fund
are contained in Commonwealth Year-Book,
1929, p. 371. Establishment of the sinking
fund implies that liquidation is possible.
* * # ' #
Is there a Federal award for station hands in
N. S. Wales?—ll\s.
Yes, there is a Federal award covering the
employment of such employees by persons
whose names are included in the schedule to
the award as respondents. The employees
must be members of the Australian Workers’
Union, otherwise the award has no application
to them. The present rates of pay are: 675.
per week without keep or 12s. 3d. per day
without keep if engaged by the day, 455. 6d.
per week with keep.
* He * *
Some particulars about Nell Gwyn ? —7692.
She was born Feb. 2, 1650, either in an alley
off Drury-lane or in Hereford; her father
was probably a soldier of Welsh extraction,
and little is known of her mother except that
she was drowned in a pond at Chelsea, 1679.
Nell Gwyn sold oranges near Drury Lane
Theatre until, at 15, she started acting. In her
first recorded appearance she was badly cast
in Dryden’s “Indian Emperor,” but in the fol-
lowing year succeeded in Howard’s “The Eng-
lish Monsieur.” Her success in Dryden’s
“Secret Love, or the Maiden Queen” brought
her leading parts in Beaumont and Fletcher’s
“Philaster,” Rhodes’s “Flora’s Vagaries” and
R. Howard’s “Surprisal,” and she stayed with
the Drury Lane Co. until 1669. Her last
appearance was in 1670 in Dryden’s “The Con-
quest of Granada” after the birth of her first
son to Charles 11. She was, however, more
noted as the King’s mistress than as an actress.
She had two sons to Charles; the first was sub-
sequently Duke of St. Albans, but the younger
died while still a boy. After Charles died
James 11. cared for her till her death in 1687.
* * * *
What has been done to establish a uni-
versity at Canberra ? —7767.
The question is still under consideration, but
in the meantime a uni. college has been estab-
lished under the Canberra University College
Ordinance 1929-36. By temporary regulation
of the University of Melbourne, which ex-
pires December 31, 1940, the college is em-
powered to provide lectures in arts, science,
commerce and law in preparation for degrees
and diplomas of the uni. Lectures commenced
in 1930, and 30 students were enrolled during
the year. In 1936 there were three full- and
five part-time lecturers and 65 students. Ex-
aminations are conducted by the University
of Melbourne.
* * * *
History of the Timur ruby? —77s3.
Probably discovered in one of the old mines
of Badakshan, it is the largest spinel ruby
known and weighs slightly more than 352
carats uncut but polished. With other stones
it was seized by Ameer Timur when he raided
Delhi in 1398. It passed to his son, then to the
grandson, who lost it to one of the Kings o
Iran during a war between the Tartars and the
Persians. In 1612 Shah Abbas I. presented
the ruby to the Mogul Emperor Jehangir, who
passed it on to Shah Jehan to be placed in the
Peacock Throne. It then passed thmugh
various hands, including Alamgir Shah,
Mahomed Farukh Shah, Nadir Shah and
Ahmad Shah, to the last-named’s grandson, who,
when expelled by Dost Mahomed, took refuge
in the Punjab, where Maharaja Ranjit Singh
forced him to surrender both the ruby and the
Koh-i-noor diamond. With the annexation of
the Punjab in 1849 the Board of Administra-
tion took over all the State jewels. Most of
the possessors of the Timur ruby have at some
time inscribed their names on the stone.
* * * *
(1) What amount of unemployed-relief tax
should have been payable in N.S.W. on « net
income of £226 for the year ending June , 1930,
and £220 for year eliding June, 1931, the tax-
payer being an ordinary salaried man . (2)
Would the whole of the first year be assessed
at 3d. in the pound, and half the second year
at 3d. and half at lv. ? —7687.
The tax first became deductible as from July
1, 1930, and the rate up to December 31 was
3d. in the £ and then subsequently Is. in the £.
Taxpayers who were not employed but derived
their income from property, business, etc.,
were taxable during the year ended June 30,
1931, on the income of the previous year
ended June 30, 1930. The rates of tax applic-
able were in the £ to income of the year
ended June 30, 1930, and Is. in the £ for
income of the year ended June 30, 1931.
Thus an employee would have paid tax only
for the year ended June 30, 1931, amounting
on a net income of £220 to £ll.
* * * *
(1) Who wrote the lines on the Henry Ken-
dall Memorial on the Sydney-Newcastle road
near Gosford? (2) What are they? —7673.
(1) Kendall himself. (2) They read:
There was a rock-pool in a glen,
Beyond Narrara’s sands.
The mountains shut it in from men
In fiowerful fairy lands;
But once we found its dwelling place—
The lovely and the lone—
And in a dream I stooped to trace
Our names upon a stone.
# ' * * *
How to make flypaper? —7s7l.
Major E. E. Austin, Deputy-keeper of the
British Museum’s Department of Entomology,
says: “The best ingredients are castor oil (five
parts) and powdered resin (eight parts), heated
together until the resin is dissolved. There is
no advantage in allowing the mixture to boil.
It should be applied as thinly as possible, while
hot.” The mixture may be kept indefinitely in a
closed tin and heated for use when required.
If paper is coated, it should be glazed paper.
Unglazed absorbent paper is useless. Wires
may be coated and hung either vertically or
horizontally. They are readily cleansed by
passing through a fire.
* * * *
How may transparent celluloid be treated to
take permanent sketches in Indian ink and
Velox water-colors ? —7629.
Use Kodak roll or cut film either with or
without photographic image. If required clear
for drawing sketches, the unexposed film should
be immersed for 10-20 minutes in l-to-4 solution
of hypo and water, to remove the silver bromide
with which the film is coated. Wash the film
for at least 10 minutes and hang up to dry
in the usual way. The gelatine surface offers
a good hold both for Indian ink and Velox
water-colors. Use waterproof draftsman’s ink.
Should there be any tendency for the film to
repel the water-color, sponge the surface with
a weak solution of ox gall, obtainable as a
liquid or dried flakes from any dealer in artists’
colors.
* * * $
How to stop a red-crested cockatoo from
eating its feathers? —7648.
The feather-picking habit probably arises
from too much oily food, such as sunflower
seed or peanuts. Although a bird may live
for years on this food, in the end it seems
to produce an irritation of the skin. The only
thing that will stop it is Radio Malt or Irra-
dol-A. Take about a saltspoonful and dis-
solve it in warm water, then soak toast in that,
and give to the bird.
* H= * *
(1) What is “myasthenia gravis ”? (2) Usual
cause? (3) Common in Australia? (4) Should
patient exercise or rest ? (5) Does it usually
attack eyes first? (6) Any cure? (7) Treatment,
and country most advanced in research into
complaint ? —7542.
(1) Characteristic feature of this disease is
great weakness of voluntary muscles, which are
rapidly exhausted by exertion- but recover their
power to some extent after rest. In severe esses,,
the weakness persists, and death may occur
suddenly or follow respiratory paralysis.
Muscles of the eyes, head and. neck are gener-
ally involved, so that the eyelids droop and
there is double vision, difficulty in chewing and
swallowing, weakness of the voice, inability to
support the head in an upright position, and
lack of expression in the face. (2) Cause is not
established, but the thymus gland is often en-
larged and collections of lymphatic cells have
been found in various organs. (3) Disease is
uncommon in Australia; probably not more
than two or three cases would be admitted to
a large city hospital in any one year. (4)
Patients are usually too weak to take exercise.
(5) Ptosis (drooping of the lids) is an early
sign. (6) and (7) Dr. Harriet Edgeworth, of
U.S.A., herself a sufferer, reports improvement
following the daily use of ephedrine in half-
grain doses, thrice daily by the mouth. Suc-
cess has also followed injections of physostig-
mine and of a kindred drug, prostigmin, in
doses of one-fiftieth of a grain. Large doses of
potassium chloride have also given promising
results, and glycine has helped many patients.
These agents can be taken only under medical
direction. Research into the cause and treat-
ment of the disease is now going on in England
and the U.S.A.
Brief Answers.
G.A.E.R.: Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-street,
London, W.C.2 E.W.M.: (1) Collector value
Is. (2) Cannot say if the firm is still in exist-
ence. (3) Write to Belfast P.O. (4) Know of
no firm of that name with such connections
X.Y.Z.: (1) Distance from shore to shore
directly beneath the bridge, measured along
the centre line of the structure, is 1517 ft. (2)
North pylon is 122 ft. from the shore and south
pylon 111 ft. (3) Length of span 1650 ft
A.L.N.: No, measles would cause high tem-
perature, fever and discharge from the eyes
and nose. Spots are probably a serum rash.
Bathe with carbonate of soda, dab on calamine
lotion and administer five-grain doses of calcium
lactate every four hours... .T.N.: Write Mc-
Pherson’s, .51 Bathurst-street, Sydney
M. : The old Drury Lane Theatre opened
May 7, 1663, with “The Humorous Lieutenant,”
under the management of Thos. Killigrew and
Sir R. Howard; a theatre on the present site
opened October 10, 1812, with “Hamlet,” under
management of S. J. Arnold. The present re-
modelled theatre opened April 20, 1922, with
“Decameron Nights,” under company manage-
ment... .H.A.F.: Segrave was killed on Lake
Windermere June 13, 1930 J.P.: Plant
should be propagated by root division about
August and grown in rich soil in a dry, warm
spot... .C.N.S.: Caution money is money de-
posited as security for fulfilment of contract or
obligation... .C.K.McN.: Can find no local
records, but two Russian scientists claim that
potatoes submitted to super-sonic vibrations
(sound waves whose frequency is too high to
be within the range of human hearing) of
400,000 per sec. for periods of lmin. gave 16
p.c. greater yield and contained 2 p.c. more
starch than normal plants... .S.N.: Louis XVI.
was guillotined 1793, Louis XVII. never reigned
and the National Convention first sat September
21, 1792... .F.0.C.: Technical difficulties limit
the production of activated carbon to a plant
designed and produced by one British firm.
Details riot available, but smallest plant would
cost approx. £lO,OOO sterling. Australian market
value of respirator carbon is about £l5O per
ton. Sutcliffe and Speakman, Leigh, Lancs,
England, might quote for the plant. Non-acti-
vated varieties of charcoal are not usually of
coconut-shell origin... .H.R.: First edition of
Bulletin Reciter is out of print; second edition
available from the N.S.W. Bookstall, Is. 3d.
....T.S.P.: (1) About £l7 10s. (2) No, there
are too many unemployed seamen... .H.Y.:
Suggest Willowie, meaning “green trees and
water,” Willunga, “locality of green trees”; or
Gundamain, “hut on a stream” Katinka:
Personal examination of child is necessary be-
fore treatment begins. You could get an
expert opinion at Brisbane General Hospital or
at the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children,
Sydney... .D.W.: Cannot trace the machine
mentioned... .E. 5.8.: Last convict ship to
arrive in W.A. was the Hougomont, 1868
D.S.: In December, 1934, Mackay and Too-
woomba were the only cities outside the met-
ropolitan area with sewerage works. Too-
woomba works have been in operation since
1926, and those for Mackay were under con-
struction at the end of 1934 P.H.L.:
Areas taken up under Mining Acts, 1934,
N. 11,004 acres, Vic. 57,483, Q’land
117,659, S.A. 36,100, W.A. 102,045, Tas. 8148.
S.B.: Symptoms are drowsiness and finally
unconsciousness, weakening pulse, breathing
full and slow at first but gradually slower
and shallower, pin-point pupils and face flushed
and sometimes purple. An emetic may not
work; give strong coffee and try to arouse
the patient, but do not exhaust; apply arti-
ficial respiration and stimulants if breathing
stops, and get medical aid as soon as
possible... .X.R.: The Master in Lunacy has
a claim on any estate of the patient applic-
able to his maintenance. Although it is
a matter within his discretion it is improb-
able, if other means of maintenance are avail-
able, that he would interfere with the home.
On the lunatic’s death, should he die intes-
tate, the property would be divisible between
wife and children in the usual course
S.G.T.: Yes, by renunciation or giving up his
right. An executor who declines to take
probate of the will of his testator is said to “re-
nounce” probate... .W.L.G.: Irrespective of
the sources from which you derive your income
you are by law required to maintain your wife
from it. If you fail she may obtain an order
from a court compelling you to do 50....
Reader: Yourself, unless when renting the
hall you stipulated with the landlord that he
should supply and put up the blinds
C.W.T.: He could be adopted by application
to the Supreme Court in its Equity jurisdic-
tion. The Court would have to be satisfied
that the parents have deserted the child or, if
living and can be found, consent to the adop-
tion, and that the child’s welfare and interest
will be promoted by it. Cost would depend
on circumstances... .J.C.E.: Record is unob-
tainable in Australia; it might be procurable
in Europe... .N.M.: Cannot trace the artist;
an inspection would be necessary to determine
the value... .R. 8.: Application should be made
direct to the District Naval Officer, Edward-
street, Brisbane. Age for entry is from to
18| years... .TJ.H.: White and Black Aus-
tralia, edited by Needham, and The Australian
Aborigine as a Human Being, by Bennett; also
“Native Education, with Special Reference to
the Australian Aborigines,” an article by Prof.
Elkin which appeared in “Oceania,” vol. 7, No,
4, price 55., from Australian National Research
Council, Science House, Sydney. A reprint could
be obtained for about 2s K. 8.: The co. will
communicate with you personally G.R.P.:
Modern Gas and Electric Refrigeration, b>
Althouse, 305., from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney M.A.W.: Can trace no books on the
subject A.N.W.: Provisions of State and
Federal Income Tax Acts are not usually in-
sisted upon in the case of persons travelling
on any specially-organised cruise, but if you
intend to travel by the ordinary channels appli-
cation for a clearance must be made
(Many others mailed.)


df
EARN AN EXTRA INCOME WEEKLY FOR LIFE
—WRITING FOR THE PRESS!
Thousands of STORIES and ARTICLES are wanted annually by
Australian Editors. If YOU have THOUGHTS, why not turn them
into CASH and make a regular EXTRA INCOME weekly? Send
for STOTT’S New Free Booklet, “How to Write for Proftt.” No
letter is necessary. Simply cut out this advertisement and mail
it with your full Name and Address to Dept. 8100, STOTT’S
CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE, 100 Russell Street, Melb., Vic.
so
lANO
k
%iUeteJ~
Sharp scenic contrasts,
hordes of quaint, unusual
natives strange wild animals
in fact all that is treasured by
an old, old land, has at last
bowed to Modern Transport.
Now South Africa welcomes you
to her wonders as you speed, in
luxurious comfort, along her rail-
roads, her highways and her sky-
ways. Learn how inexpensive the
whole glorious trip can be and
you'll decide unhesitatingly that
South Africa is far too good a
gem to miss.
For full particulars, apply to any
office of
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents for South African Railways
throughout Australia & New Zealand.
SUUfiUH
« f W,~*>'
£
I#
j!i( ;!ii;l:;ji' *::| ifjii'
Ififtlifcl
/l ' • -ml#
: &^Ag&V‘£@&
: : ; :T ’ * w *
■**
. p|Jfc
I tfK
v-A
■
Viy.-AVf iir |
PLilrl
:•<?
in
A
Sp?
A
ii
!
WColUiwv
*2*-^
Bar:
... I,'iiji
• •.:•!' i
K
t^Sr-r
*mt.
«e
MB
IZmi’SpMyl
imiiiiiiiii
/?Gt/JlP7s
(ft c Callums
1L UlhisAy js-
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright Si Co. ----- Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. &Co - - - Hobart
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
fro notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.8.K.: You may have “dashed these off
before breakfast,” but they’re not “verses”....
L.M.: The “wailing wind” and “mournful
music of the morning” almost tore tempestuous
tears from our eyes... .P.A.D.: Yours is an
unreliable muse... .T.G.: You might find it
~,4 , , .
a spare page in somebody s autograph book.
W.P.T.: It had one distinction it was t e
first “Ode to Autumn’ we’ve seen for months.
F.L.: That’s J. H. M. Abbott’s preserve,
E.D.: Yes, “the tempo of the yarn moves
briskly forward,” and “events lead in logical
progression towards the climax and disaster,”
but that doesn’t lead us to inflict it on our
readers....J.R.G.: Afraid we’ve met that talka-
tive radio salesman beiore . ..C.S.M. : And your
thief with the heart of gold is an old friend
E. 0.5.: We don’t like “The Lass with the
T , .. . .. „ nu „ , . ..
Indelicate Air .. D.McC.: You ve got the
idea, but you need a lot of practice... .8.C.:
He scorched the gaudy, gory cauliflower ears
with a fire of vindictive vituperation. Well,
well! .... J.R.: Hopeless A.G.S.: You ve
been ploughing the same furrow for the past
six months... .G.L.R.: And you re digging a
grave for yourself; try some fresh ground....
H.L.D.: Pretty words but nothing else....
R.J.8.. Slight improvement; keep at it....
E.A.S.: Try it elsewhere... .W.S.: Mum Goes
Down the Mine.” As far as we’re concerned,
she can stay there J.L.M.: Dunno which
was worse, your writing or the yarn 8.T.P.:
“Musical Madness” is an old tune K.D.R.:
That marriage-indigestion-divorce yam was
done to death years ag0....D.R.: We’ve
never read of so many murders in so little
space D.M.: Radio scripts are no use to us.
... .H.G.L.8.: That yarn won’t be “Settling
Down” here... .T.R.C.: “Do you think I’ll
ever make a yarn-spinner?” We doubt it
P.A.N.: “He rushed through the door, sprang
into a tram, leaped out and ran madly in the
opposite direction”; after that we lost trace
of him... .D.D.H.: Afraid “Porkers” won’t
bring home the bacon... .M.K.D.: Have yet to
meet the editor who “hurried into the print-
ing department to. dash off a leader on the
linotype machine”... .8.M.Y.: Those gory
persons were hastily dispatched C.L.N.:
The eternal triangle has been worn to a semi-
circle... .Z.V.W.: Doesn’t make the grade....
W.D.R.: “The Safe Witness” betrayed itself
too soon J.S.: Returning that dog to its
kennel R.J.L.: Nothing in that batch
H.T.: We’re not very excited about a
trip through Mexico... .G.L.P.: “Successful
Second” failed to get a place M. 1.: We
soon forgot it A.H.M.: Your secret-service
hero might find a niche elsewhere... .E.J.McC.:
That confusing-names yam is worn 0ut....
Neither had anything to recommend
d .-.C-G S. t No return from Low F,nance.
J.F.K.: Cut your efforts in half and
{ry gmoke-0h... .E.V.N.: The first page
was enoU gj l I.T. : You can’t seem to strike
our needs... .J.8.R.: We agree with your
sentiments, but they hardly make a yarn....
M E . Right off our beat... .J.8.C.: “Nick
Benton Comes and Goes” and has gone home,
TO ARXISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
, , . ..
P.L.: Half the figures appear to be in the
of a whirlwind .... J.8.T.: Office car-
penter . g knockj a coffin for tha t corpse.
LH . Wooden head-studies illustrating
woodcn jests K.T.: You manage to cram
an amaz j n g numb er of errors into a square inch.
w w . Heavy-handed art and anaemic gags,
. ...C.K.: You must have copied those horses
from a me rry-go-round... .D. 8.; The gent, in
kilts is badly in need of repair... .W.P.:
Aboid as much use to us as a jam-tin label.
. ...C.M.F.: Figures are well posed, but the
linework is too heavy J.A.: Wash drawing
looks like a faded photograph of a mud geyser.
E.R.8.: “What! No shave!” gag goes
back to the time of Waterloo H.N.: The
doorstep is not bad 8.P.: Saw the same
idea in a recent American magazine... .J.S.:
Sketch of two obese goldfish was heaved out.
F.J.D.: A hopeless jumble of badly-drawn
figures... .F.T.: That Parliamentarian looks
nothing like your caricature... .G.H.8.: Is it
a whale or a one-palm-tree island? J.C.:
You can remove the deformed billygoat and the
tribe of urchins at your leisure A.W.: We
liked the battleship, but we have no place to
float it 8.H.G.: Better suited to an Eng-
lish mag W.P.: Look us up after a few
years’ study... .G.F.: We’re wondering why the
ladies are wearing boxing gloves at an after-
noon-tea party G.M.: Not keen on that type
of humor E.S.: What the cockroach said to
the mouse left us unmoved T.H.: We’ve
met some freakish art contributions, but you’re
the first to turn in a sketch done on crinkled
paper C. 8.: You’ll go further if you cut
out imitating N. 8.: We don’t want illus-
trated children’s riddles M.S.: This week’s
feeblest.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Bulletin Quotidien d’lnformations
Economiques,” which claims to be in a
position to give details of Soviet consign-
ments, says that since the beginning of
this year gold to the value of £37,539,000
has been dispatched to London. How
much of this is new gold and how much
old, forcibly taken from the quick and
the dead in Russia, is not stated.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Have we a publicity de-
partment in England? We have, but a
geography branch should be added. A
man has written to Brisbane to announce
that when he sought to buy a postal
note in England payable at Brisbane he
was informed that Brisbane had no post
office.
* * * *
The suggestion that Will Ogilvie
should be invited as one of the official
overseas guests at the 150th anniversary
celebrations should meet with approval,
Ogilvie. born in Scotland 69 years ago,
, a , m nmi
came to Australia at the age of 20 and
spent 11 years sampling sheep-station
life in all its phases. He contribu e
regularly to The Bulletin while he was
here. After leaving Australia Ogilvie was
Professor of Agricultural Journalism in
the lowa State College, U.S.A. He it
was who described the Australian soldier
as The bravest thine God ever made.
as me wdvthi uiiixg vj
*** . *
bailor Once”: The scarcity of naval
officers qualified as interpreter in
Japanese (B. 27/10/’37) is no new thing.
Oddly enough, when the century was
young, the Navy List teemed with the
names of n.os. who had passed in Swahili.
I’ve never been able to fog-out the why
and wherefore of it. Many of these “inter-
preters” never got within coo-ee of Zan-
zibar in all their service days, and what
was the good of a Bantu tongue modi-
fied by Arabic, anyway? Probably it
was a survival from days when naval
sloops and cutters still chased Arab
dhows in suppression of the slave trade.
The only Navy List I’ve seen in recent
years still contained a fair sprinkling of
Swahili experts, and I wouldn’t mind
betting the R.A.N. can boast one or two.
* * * *
“Balsamo”: Claimed by spiritualists
as proof of ability to speak with the
dead is the discovery in the Berlin State
Library of the full score of a hitherto
unheard and unpublished Schumann con-
certo. A lady violinist, Jelly d’Aranyi,
a dabbler in spiritism, was implored by
the deceased Robert to recover his corn-
position. The Library had a concerto
score of Schumann’s, given by the
composer to the great Joachim in 1853
(when Schumann’s mind was sorely de-
ranged), and not to be published or per-
formed until 100 years after the corn-
poser’s death. But the score was an un-
finished one. Back went Miss Jelly to the
spirits. Schumann was emphatic. So the
curators had another search, and out
came three more scores of the same con-
certo, one of them a final, com-
pleted job. This Miss Jelly played
f° r th e 8.8. C. at a Queen s Hall con-
cert. A nice story, but it’s scarcely
credible that people as methodical and
as musical-as the Germans, with their
passion for cataloguing, should mislay,
m a library, so important a document,
(rue tha J t ’ Arthur Sullivan and George
Grove unearthed ; n
Germany some price-
]ess § c j lu j 3ert SCOreS5 but they found them
]n a pjj e D f waS ( e paper, not in a public
library.
’ , * *
“Kanai”- Con Drew’s varn (B
3/]1/ > 37) of th 1904 Melbourne Cup
.it • T A ,
brings back memories. I was in Auck-
land that-year, and all Maoriland pro-
nounce(j Wairiki a certainty. It was
a [ mos t impossible to back him in Auck-
[anc[ on £ U p ( j a y pd drawn him in a
swee p xhe storeman at our place drew
Acrasia in the office sweep and in Tatt.’s
as we ll. His luck was properly in that
year ; his wife eloped with a younger
man after collecting her share of the
boodle.
* * * *
“Tamanga”: Origin of the term “Test
matches”? This is Pelham Warner’s ver-
sion, contributed to London “Sunday
Times” of September 19: “The first time
I ever saw or heard the expression was
during the winter of 1894-95, when A. E.
Stoddart’s team was in Australia. The
‘p a fi Mall Gazette’ was then the only
[London] evening newspaper to give a de-
tailed description of the’cricket. It was
the‘Pall Mall,’l am fairly certain, which
coined the expression ‘Test match.’ ”


CLOTHES FOR MEN AND THEIR SONS
m
U
m
mm
H■
m
t
m
m
m
«
H
i
Pleasingly Nonchalant
There’s something friendly about a well-cut Sports
Coat. So freely comfortable, yet smart-looking
—with just that touch of nonchalance which helps
to express your individuality. Pike Brothers
specialise in Sports Coats.
SPORTS COATS in English and Australian
Tweed. Ready for use. From 55/-
Write for Our New General Catalogue.
Also our Christmas Gift Catalogue.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street
Brisbane
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
Australian Boxings Debt to Dave Smith
Australian boxing owes a great deal to
Dave Smith. He restored some of its
vanished glory when it had seemed for
many years that the great Australian
fighters of the late ’eighties and early
’nineties had left no successors. He re-
established the feeling that Australia and
Maoriland could produce pugilists as good
as any in the world, and paved the way
for Les Darcy, who, though a natural
fighter, learned much from his associa-
tion with Smith, and was inspired by his
master’s example.
In the two years 1910-12 Dave Smith
met some of the best middleweights and
light-heavyweights in the business, and
never failed to turn in a fine fight. Dur-
ing that period he beat Pat O’Keefe,
Bandsman Rice, Billy Papke (“the Illinois
Thunderbolt”), “Cyclone” Johnnie
Thompson and Jack Lester, and drew
with Battling Levinsky (subsequently
light-heavyweight champion) and Leo
Houck, a representative American middle-
weight.
Pat O’Keefe had come to Australia
from England as Tommy Burns’s spar-
ring partner, and stayed on after Burns
lost the championship to Johnson. He
was a likeable chap and a fine fighter
who, like Smith, would take on anyone.
He signed articles for a Sydney bout with
the South African heavyweight Mike
Williams, though Williams was at least
two stone heavier, and a friend who was
going to Melbourne extracted a promise
from him that he would wire the result
the same night. “Don’t waste words,”
the friend said ; “just let me know the
decision and what you got out of it.”
There was no fight on the appointed
night, it being so wet that the few hun-
dred “sports” that turned up were told to
come some other time ; but Pat sent the
wire. It read: “No decision ; hundreds
turned away.”
Smith stopped O’Keefe in 17 rounds.
Rice, who was reckoned the cleverest
light-heavyweight in England, stayed 20
rounds with him but was outpointed. In
the meantime Papke, Clabbv and Thomp-
son had arrived in Sydney under engage-
ment to Hugh D. Mclntosh; and
Clabby, though only a beginner com-
pared with the other two, had shown that
he was a class above the Australians
pitted against him. He toyed with a
welterweight, Bob Bryant, and knocked
out the supposed middleweight cham-
pion, Ed Williams, in 11 rounds.
Papke had, in September, 1908, become
middleweight champion of the world by
knocking out the great Ketchel in 12
rounds. A return match two months
BILLY PAPKE.
later saw Ketchel regain this champion-
ship by knocking Papke out in 11 rounds.
But Ketchel in 1910 was shot by a jealous
cowhand on a Missouri ranch, and the
title became vacant. It was agreed that
Papke had as good a right to it as any
other pug, and he was billed as cham-
pion when he arrived in Sydney. For a
time it looked as if he would have to
go back to the U.S.A. for lack of oppo-
nents, and when Smith accepted a match
with him there was merriment in the
American camp. Australians, for their
part, openly sympathised with Dave and
audibly wondered “how long Papke
would let him ‘go.’ ” They were destined
to receive a most agreeable surprise.
The men met at the Sydney Stadium on
Boxing Night, 1910. Weights were not
given, but it was announced that they had
agreed to fight at list. 111 b., and neither
exceeded it. Papke crouched in the Jef-
fries style. Smith shaped up exactly as
Jem Mace had done of yore: head and
body erect, left arm well extended, guard
easy and handy. His capable and confi-
dent appearance induced a few loyal
Australians to take the long odds offered
against him ; and he had the great crowd
cheering from the first round to the last.
And he gave it plenty of occasion for
cheering. Except in the first two rounds
the American was definitely the loser.
He was punched half a dozen times for
every wallop he landed. In vain he lum-
bered after his sharp-footed and keen-
witted opponent. He stood off, bogged
in, roughed, tried everything in the way
of punches—all to no purpose.
The Red Indian used to make a point
of honor of laughing loudly and hor-
ribly when an enemy split his skull; and
Papke smiled every time his enemy
punched hunks off him. He smiled also
when he turned on his right shift, a
manoeuvre with which he had brought
many Americans low, and found it of no
avail.
So it went on for nine rounds,
the spectators growing ever
more enthusiastic at the superb
showing of Dunedin’s son.
The time had arrived when
the only man Papke wanted
to meet was the fellow who
turned off the lights, though all
through he had battled like a
fighting Irish navvy. The tenth
round brought the end.
In a mix near Smith’s corner
Papke switched a blow for the
body. Smith dropped as if a
bullet had gone through him.
Simultaneously his seconds and
the crowd yelled “Foul!”
Snowy Baker, the referee, started a
count, but did not conclude it. Two
doctors climbed into the ring and
examined the stiffened boxer. Mean-
while pandemonium was raging, and
when Baker tried to say “Smith the
winner” he could not be heard. It was
only when he pointed at the prostrate
man that the verdict was made clear.
Had the thing gone 20 rounds Papke
would have lost on so many points that
it would have taken a firm of account-
ants to reckon them up.
The Duel m the Rain.
Four weeks later Smith had the first
and most memorable of his seven fights
with Clabby. It was a great and, in one
respect, an amazing scrap.
The Sydney Stadium had no roof in
those days, and 10 rounds were fought
through pelting rain, with the thunder
of cheering thousands drowning the roar
of the storm. The flaring Lux lights that
illuminated the vast barn were repeatedly
thrown into shadow by the lightning
flashes ; but no one cared what happened
so long as the fight went on.
Smith did most of the attacking. His
blows fell upon Clabby’s kidneys in’ a
manner that the young American pal-
pably disliked. A red splurge began to
show, and Clabby evinced signs of pain.
Clabby’s style was peculiar. He
seemed to turn away from Smith and
then spring in sideways in an endeavor
to catch Dave in a willy-willy of blows.
But he was met with straight lefts and
rights which stopped his willy-willy half-
way.
The third was a wonderful round.
Twice Clabby caught Smith on the jaw
and looked like finishing him. But Dave
kept cool, and in a clinch he smote
Clabby hard on the chin. Clabby swayed,
and was so seriously hurt that he had
to summon up all his generalship. He
was literally punched all round the ring.
His face set in a ghastly smile, he man-
aged to avoid the knockout that seemed
imminent all through his painful ordeal,
and reached his corner, groggy but game.
A blinding flash, followed by a crash
of echoing thunder, brought the audi-
ence to its feet. Before it knew what
had happened, the fountains of heaven
burst. It was not rain but a sheet of
water that struck the people and broke
THOMPSON KEPT BORING IN.
like a wave against the iron walls of the
Stadium. Many thought it was a cloud-
burst. And then there came a mighty
wind, and the most awful riot of sound
tore the atmosphere to pieces. It was
the rattle of the wind-driven rain against
the iron walls.
But in the ring they never let up a
moment. Round and round, through the
driving rain, the suffocating wind, they
swirled, Clabby backing away, Smith in
wild pursuit, smashing and driving.
Clabby fought like a fiend, but Smith
beat him back, smashed down his guard
and forced him to take shelter once more
in flight. Details were lost in that amaz-
ing downpour, and it was hard to see,
for the eyes were dazed by the lightning.
But when the wind swept the rain
aside, Smith was seen to be getting all
over Clabby. The American’s left eye
was bleeding and his right eye was clos-
ing.
Towards the finish Clabby pulled him-
self together and went for a knockout.


SHE BECAME STOUT
ALL AT ONCE
Face Nearly Twice as Big
as Before
Some people seem to put on weight all of
a sudden. You meet them one day, and they
are quite normal, then the next time you see
them you hardly recognise them, they have
become so fat. That was what happened to
this woman, who put on stone before she
began taking Kruschen.
“I used to be very thin,” she writes, “only
8 stone 8 lbs. Then all at once I got so stout,
my friends did not know me. My face was
nearly twice the size, I had a double chin and
my arms were terribly fat. I weighed 14
stone 2 lbs. Then one day I began taking
Kruschen Salts. Imagine my surprise when I
started going thinner. I am now 10 stone
10 lbs., and I am slim enough for my height,
as I am very tall. I have never dieted a bit,
and I feel much better in health.” —(Mrs.) S.A.
Before the first bottle of Kruschen is
finished the fat starts to go. Then, month
after month, the scales tell the same story—
a few pounds less of superfluous flesh to
burden the body and endanger the health.
THE PERFECT XMAS GfFT
FOR YOUR SON.
THE
"YOUNG
SHOW-
MAN"
SADDLE,
£6'6'-
(MOUNTED)
The flaps and skirts
are of best quality
kip leather and the
seat and pads are
covered with L.C. hogskin. A nice
saddle for the show ring.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
WALTHER v STEVENSON
395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
PTY.
LTD.
SB
AV
f°
|P
a
1 5Q
Under a blaze of
gay colours and bright
lights, Sydney will become a
magical city of the Arabian
Nights when she celebrates
Australia’s 150th birthday
from January 26 to April 25.
* THE MIGHT OF A YOUNG NATION
The story of Australia’s progress
will be told in a hundred ways.
Commemorative landings of Cap-
tain Arthur Phillip will portray
the humble birth of a nation.
Something of its present might
will be seen in Military, Naval
and Air Force Reviews and
Tattoos. Cultural progress will be
evident in the Exhibitions of Art
and Musical Festivals. Scientific
Congresses, Industrial Exhibitions
and a Monster Royal Show will
tell of its material development.
* PAGEANTRY ON LAND AND SEA
With her natural beauties as a
setting, Sydney will stage one
long round of pageant and car-
nival, of which a magnificent
scheme of municipal decoration
and illumination will form the
background. Surf Carnivals, Vene-
tian Carnivals, Historical, Com-
mercial and Industrial Pageants,
Monster Fireworks Displays all
will lend colour and movement to
the gorgeous scene. January 26th
in particular will be a day to live
in memory.
*GALA SPORTS EVENTS GALORE
Naturally, sport will play its part.
Special Race Meetings, Big Cricket
and Tennis, the world’s largest
Rifle Shoot, Bowls Carnival, Big
Game Fishing, Anniversary Re-
gatta, World’s Junior Cycling
Championship and, above all, The
Empire Games, will help to make
a programme replete with interest
and excitement. Truly, you must
come to Sydney to the
Big Birthday Party
that lasts from January
26 to April 25, 1938.
H
USTRALIA'S 150
TH
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS
SYDNEY JANUARY 26 - APRIL 25 - 1938
He took a fearful pasting while doing it.
He landed some vicious blows, too, but
the strength had been battered out of
him Once he did look as if he might
bring off his knockout: a wild left swing
to the stomach made Smith gasp. But
before Clabby could follow up the
Maorilander stopped the attack with a
shojver of blows. Then through the ram
and lightning they were seen standing
toe to toe, punching for all they were
worth. Clabby reeled, the gong sounded
the close of the twentieth round and
Baker pronounced Smith the winner.
Thompson Tamed.
The night of February 5, 1911, saw
Smith continue his career of conquest at
the expense of Thompson. No rain fell
that night, but it was- cloudy. A startled
moon peeped out now and then and with-
drew hurriedly, Thompson’s appearance
being enough to frighten any portion of
inanimate nature. He had no neck, the
least possible nose, gigantic shoulders and
Cyclopean hips. He was like a creature
from the Mesozoic Age sent into the
world armor-plated to do .battle with
monsters of the Jurassic seas, so that if a
saurian smote Johnnie’s jaw with his
tail it was the tail that would break.
Before the fight the American re-
marked that he expected to get chopped
up for six rounds and then he would
start to land a few on his own account.
And, sure enough, for six rounds he got
chopped up. Thompson would whirl his
arms and walk into battle. Smith would
amble lightly across and hit Thompson
right on what point Johnnie’s nose had.
He did it regularly and never missed a
round. He pounded Thompson’s face
with right and left and blinded him, but
could not disconcert him.
Thompson advanced resolutely, looking
for a chance to swing his sledge-hammer
right. The chance never came ; although
he swung it often, it always failed to land.
In the fourth round he just grazed Smith’s
nose and chin, and was soundly slapped
for his effort. Smith’s footwork was
beautiful.
By the end of the sixth round Thomp-
son could not breathe through his nose,
and as he lumbered round the ring try-
ing to get Smith in position to be killed
his wind could be heard whistling
through his teeth. He started to wrestle ;
it was evident that he realised that his
only chance of winning was to move in,
worry his man and knock him out.
PAPKE WAS STRONG AND ROUGH.
In the tenth he almost got his oppor-
tunity. As he was being smacked he
brought across a right smash that
dropped Smith for nine seconds. When
Smith rose he showed the prettiest of
blocking, and the American could not get
home on him again.
In the eleventh Thompson made a
desperate but unavailing effort. The way
he came in was magnificent, and his
capacity for receiving punishment was a
wonderful and horrible thing. When he
stood off, Smith pounded his weary and
crushed snout until Thompson must have
felt that the organ would give way. In
the twentieth he tried his imitation of a
cyclone again, but Thompson was more
reminiscent of an elephant with two
trunks than any cyclone seen in these
parts.
The decision for Smith was the only
possible one.
Second Fight with Papke.
Then came Smith v. Papke again on
March 12, 1911. On that occasion the
American gained a victory which was
more of a tribute to his business acumen
than to his prowess as a boxer.
Papke had agreed to meet Smith at
list. 111 b., and if either could not make
the weight he was to forfeit £lOO. Smith
trained down to list. 7jlb., an argument
with a bad oyster assisting the process.
Papke did not train down at all. People
who watched the weighing saw him kick
the beam at 13st. 31b. Others declared
that those figures had been touched be-
cause Papke merely bounded on the
machine and off again, and that 61b. or
71b. must be taken off for the jump. If
appearances went for anything he was a
stone heavier than Smith. Of course, he
forfeited the £lOO. It paid him to for-
feit it.
Papke was no thunderbolt in the open-
ing round. After receiving five wallops
on the nose he showed a disposition to
hang on. While doing so he managed to
land a few ineffectual ones on the ribs
and one on the nose.
In the second round Papke indulged
in wild swipes such as an untrained black-
smith’s striker might be expected to hand
out. None of them got home and Papke
stopped a few more with his olfactory
gear, which began to be somewhat dam-
aged. In the third referee Baker had a
busy time prising them apart. Smith
cut loose in magnificent style and belted
his man how and where he liked till
Papke backed away. Twice he landed on
Smith, once on the head and once on the
shoulder; then he began swiping him
again.
In the fourth Smith got all oyer his
man, bashing him repeatedly with the
right and left. It looked for a moment
as if Papke was going out, but the gong
came to his rescue. In his corner the
American looked tired and spat blood.
The fifth was a wild rally from begin-
ning to end. Papke strained every nerve
for a knockout, but was checked with
lefts, though he caught Smith with a
damaging clout on the jaw.
In the sixth Papke seemed despondent.
Smith went in like a dancing master
and banged his opponent twice on the
nose, twice on the eye and once on the
ear, mouth and chin. Papke rocked ;
and then Smith lost his head. Instead
of standing off and bashing the fading
American, he went into clinches and took
delivery of a couple on the nose that
shook him badly.
When Smith came up for the seventh
he was still feeling the effect of those
punches. He drove a couple to Papke’s
head, and they hurt. But in a clinch he
left his chin uncovered, and Papke
brought the right up like a piston rod.
Down went Smith.
At “eight” he was up, and he met
Papke’s ferocious rush with clever foot-
work. But Papke landed another high
up on the jaw, and the lighter man went
down again. As he sprang up Papke got
him. Taking him into a nice fatherly
clinch, Papke swung a fearful right belly
rip that sent Smith writhing. It was a
fearful blow, and Dave was a long while
getting over it.
That punch was very conclusive, but
the fight left the impression that Dave
had it in him to stand off for 10 rounds
and box the American, and then sail in
and chop him to pieces.
Lester Whipped.
On New Year’s night, 1912, Smith
beat a man as heavy as Papke ; Tommy
Burns’s protege Jack Lester. Lester had
gone 20 rounds with Sam McVea and
gained a decision over Bill Lang ; and
Smith was thought to be flying at high
game. Anyway, Burns, who was in Syd-
ney at the time, backed his man as if
he were a certainty.
Lester was a believer in action. Leap-
ing from his corner, he charged Smith
like a vast whirling punkah broken loose
after 12 nights in a bar-room. His arms
tore rents in the atmosphere. His body
toppled and rebalanced; his buffalo
rushes, when Dave stepped aside and
clouted him on his way, threatened to
send him hurtling into the ringside seats.
The play was, of course, that Lester
should collide with Smith and utterly
destroy him. Smith refused to be col-
lided with. Instead, he brought excep-
tional skill to bear and knocked the low-
comedy man about as if the low-comedy
man were an old-clo’ merchant. This
went on for 14 rounds, when Baker
ordered Lester off for a breach of stand-
ing orders.
It was the easiest money Smith ever
earned, and if he hadn’t been fouled he
would probably have knocked Lester out.
As it was, he slugged the American to
the floor in the thirteenth round, and but
for overexcitement should have finished
the job when Lester clambered up at
seven seconds.
Still it didn’t matter. He was so far
ahead on points that a car would have
been required to catch him.
Dave Smith’s honorable ring career as
amateur and professional lasted for 11
years. In 1913, at the age of 27, he be-
came heavyweight champion by outpoint-
ing Bill Lang ; he had previously held
the light-heavyweight and middleweight
titles. For some years he was an aider-
man at Mosman, being the representative
of Balmoral, where he kept a beachside
store. When he left the district a few
months ago, Mosman showed its appre-
ciation of his fine qualities by presenting
him with a handsome cheque.


BRAN DAI) fR’S
m
PENS
*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUEB * CO., U&. BIRMINGHAM. ENO
W.V
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); lion. Sir Tlenry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
5 YU Alts’
GUARANTUI
INVINCIBLE”
~ SINCE
H WOO
INVINCIBLE ENGINES
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY„ LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
(4) Eleanor Dark.
By M. BARNARD ELDERSHAW.
ELEANOR DARK is a daughter of the late
Dowell O’Reilly, story-teller, poet, letter-writer.
She was born in Sydney, began her schooling
at the age of three, finished it 15 years later
at Redlands, Neutral Bay.
After business college and 18 months in a
solicitor’s office she married Dr. Dark in 1921, and a
year later made her permanent home at Katoomba.
Mrs. Dark has one son, aged eight, and has pub-
lished four novels since 1932. She has recently
returned from a trip to America.
As a writer Eleanor Dark is a dual personality,
or, to. put it another way, she makes a bid for two
worlds. She is a romantic and a realist; essentially
an objective writer, she adopts a. subjective style ; she
portrays forthright plots in a complex manner, sim-
plicity in sophistication.
These are bald statements that require some sub-
stantiation. Her four novels may be called as wit-
nesses. Each tells an essentially romantic story in a
sophisticated way.
The first novel, Slow Dawning, is the story, in a
country town setting, of a young and beautiful woman
doctor, Valerie Spencer, and her search for happiness.
She carries into maturity a girlhood love for Jim
Hunter, but when she returns to her native town to
practise, in the expectation of marrying him, she finds
that he is betrothed to another girl, the childish
Kitty.
After marriage, Jim Hunter’s old love for her
springs up anew, but she refuses to' listen to him till
one evening in her car she accidentally knocks him
down and the shock causes her to reveal her love. In
this impasse Kitty develops pneumonia. A violent
storm prevents her family doctor attending her, and
Valerie is called to face the emergency. Kitty dies,
and Valerie is blamed, accused practically of murder,
by the girl’s mother.
The shock of his wife’s death kills Jim’s love for
Valerie. Valerie has other tribulations besides a
heavy heart. She is innocently involved in a scandal,
and another doctor, an embittered war invalid, comes
to town, and she begins to lose her practice to him.
But Valerie’s courage and goodness pierce the
cynicism of her rival, and with him at last she finds
true love and happiness.
The second book, Prelude to Christopher, pre-
sents another view of the triangle. Nigel Hendon,,
a vigorous young doctor with strong views on
eugenics, marries Linda, a brilliant scientist, only to
discover that she has an hereditary taint. He sub-
limates his private disappointment in working for the
good of the race by founding a tropical colony on
eugenic principles. Linda and then the war disrupt
it, and he returns to Australia, disheartened, to prac-
tise in a small country town.
Here one day—and this is the point at which the
novel begins—he meets with a motor-car accident
and is badly hurt. He is nursed in hospital by Kay,
a young girl who is deeply in love with him. They
both recognise that it is she, not Linda, who should
have been his mate and the mother of his healthy
children. Life demands it. Linda without the reassur-
ance of her husband’s presence and care chooses
suicide on the railway line. The way is now laid open
for a happy marriage between Nigel and Kay and
the birth of the eugenic dreamchild Christopher.
In Return to Coolami the triangle is varied—of a
different shape, you might almost say—for it is com-
posed of two living and one dead.
Susan, young, brave, gay, had an affair with Jim,
although she secretly loved his elder brother, Bret.
She finds that she is going to have a baby and
agrees to marry Jim, but before the ceremony
can be performed Jim is killed in a motor-car acci-
dent. Dying, he begs his brother to marry Susan
for the sake of honor and the child.
They marry, the baby is born and dies, and
Susan finds herself tied to the man she loves, but who,
she believes, hates and despises her. She suggests
divorce, and out of pride rebuffs the tenderness he
is beginning to show her. He insists that they return,
for the time being at least, to Coolami, his station
home. It is during the journey there by car, accom-
panied by Susan’s parents, and in the stress of a
narrowly-averted accident, that Bret discovers the true
worth of Susan and the strength of his own feelings
for her. The journey ends at Coolami in reconcilia-
tion and lovers’ meeting.
In the recently-published Sun Across the Sky
Eleanor Dark treats another theme of similar kind,
but this time more deeply embedded in other lives
and events.
Dr. Oliver Denning, a lover of life at the height
of his vigorous manhood, is married to the beautiful
but cold and complex-ridden Helen. It is no marriage
—a torment to her, ai frustration to him. He meets
in Lois —a young widow, an artist, carefree, happy
and as brilliantly alive as himself—the woman who
should be his mate.
He suggests a divorce to Helen, but she is
frightened and shocked. He is faced with a dilemma.
Must he sacrifice life and happiness to Helen’s patho-
logical squeamishness, or shall he save himself from a
barren existence at the expense of her pain?
Stirring events, a fire with fatal consequences,
give Oliver a new vision of life, and the reader is
led to believe that when he recovers from his burns
he will choose happiness even if it must be at the
expense of conventional morality.
These plots are all conventionally romantic and
romantically conventional. Each finds at last its happy
ending. The characters, too, are conceived in
romantic style.
ELEANOR DARK.
Mrs. Dark is, still in the romantic tradition, very
zealous for her leading characters; she cherishes them,
she fights their battles, she special-pleads for them.
Her heroes are heroes, her heroines are heroines,
and subsidiary characters play up to them.
Same of her best characterisation, however, is
done among the minor personalities, such people as
Sir Frederick Gormley in Sun Across the Sky, so
childishly pleased with his power, yet so tough beneath
the childishness, so indulgent to himself and so par-
ticular about other people’s morals; the poet
Kavanagh, in the same book ; Mr. and Mrs. Dent in
Return to Coolami; and Mrs. Hendon, Nigel’s
mother, in Prelude to Christopher, “elegant, upright,
weary, frightened.”
The plots of the novels depend very much on
accident and coincidence, another romantic trait. This
is a world in which accidents change life and in which
characters are apt to move in jolts from one violent
and unusual happening to another.
With this is entangled another characteristic of
the novels. The author is never content to suggest;
she must state, and state in terms of event. She
does not trust to character or to the natural flow of
life, but must support her narrative continually with
circumstantial evidence. Sometimes this reacts against
her purpose, making the stories less, not more, con-
vincing. The characters are held in a vyce of events ;
they tend to spring out of the plot instead of the
story arising out of them.
So much for the romantic side of Mrs. Dark’s
work. If it is romantic in conception it is realist in
execution. The romantic and even melodramatic hap-
penings in these novels are approached in a scientific
spirit; there is a touch of the research laboratory and
the textbook about them. This hardens the outline of
events, dockets the characters. The medical manual
and the psychology textbook are put in the balance
against romance. To attack romance by means of
laboratory methods is tantamount to sophisticating it.
The latest technique is harnessed to material that, with
different treatment, might appear to belong to the
golden age of Victorian romance. A garnish of
entirely un-Victorian detail is added.
It is in her technique rather than in her matter
that Eleanor Dark has added lustre to Australian
letters. The criticism that is most frequently brought
against Australian fiction in the mass is that it is bald,
crude and ingenuous. Such books as Prelude to
Christopher, Return to Coolami and Sun Across the
Sky do something to redress the balance. They have
a technical sublety to delight the heart of a crafts-
man. It is in the elaboration of her technique that
Eleanor Dark shows the development of her talent
and the virtuosity of which she is capable, and it is
curiously separated from both the matter of her novels
and the premises which lie behind them.
Each of her last three books is an experiment
in technique. In their essence these experiments are
concerned with time and it's manipulation. Prelude to
Christopher is the story of four days, Return to
Coolami of two days, Sun Across the Sky of one day.
Her problem in each has been to pack all the neces-
sary retrospects into the period covered by the action.
With each book the author has tackled a more difficult
problem, till, in Sun Across the Sky, she has set her-
self a well-nigh impossible feat. In 24 hours she com-
presses not one history but many—the past, present
and future of a whole little community. To succeed
in this, even partially, must be a matter for pride.
Mrs. Dark’s favorite device is the “stream of con-
sciousness.” By telling her stories through her charac-
ters she is able to weave the past into the present,
with retrospects and reminiscences broken into natural
lengths by happenings. So it comes about that techni-
cal exigencies force naturally objective stories into
subjective moulds.
Eleanor Dark’s novels also show diversity and
development. Each is more ambitious in its scope
than its predecessor, each more complex in its struc-
ture. Sun Across the Sky is a step forward in a most
important quality. It is more Australian. There is
more local flavor both in background and character-
drawing. Here is a picture of the Australians of the
future: —
Lean and brown —almost as lean and
almost as brown as the people whose land they
had stolen —they would be indolent and accurate
in their movements, indolent and inaccurate in
their speech. Only their eyes would move
quickly, and sometimes, in a flash of mordant
wit, their tongues. They would be amazingly
easygoing, amazingly good-tempered—up to a
point; beyond that point, ruthless and indomit-
able. They would care nothing for pictures,
less than nothing for books, but music would
draw them as it draws children, open-eyed and
open-hearted....
And here is another of the beauty of sunrise:
It came up slowly, dripping and glittering,
and instantly the earth and everything jn it
responded. The sea which had been grey and
still was suddenly alive ; the beach, a cold, pale
crescent, was transformed by a kind of magical
abandon. It was as though every one of those
uncountable myriads of sand grains woke and
thrilled voluptuously beneath the first touch of
warmth ; as though in that concerted reaction
of its units the whole beach stirred with some-
thing that was less a movement than a breath
of ecstasy.
On the hillside colors woke in the bush.
Even the shadowed parts took on a deeper .
richness, a purple depth. The red roof of
Lois’s house glowed among treetops like a coke
fire. Even the southern end of the town, even
the concrete roads, the parking area, the row
of shops and the towering fa9ade of the picture
theatre, drew a sudden glamor from the blos-
soming of warmth and light.
This more complete sense of race and of natural
beauty may well be the growing-point of Eleanor
Dark’s future work.
Publications: Slow Dawning (1932), Prelude to
Christopher (1934), Return to Coolami (1936), Sun Across
the Sky (1937).


LUCKY
X
5$
GIRL
She has vivid, snapping eyes. Her hair glistens with life.
Her skin is smooth and firm. Her clear complexion is not the
kind that comes from cosmetics. Her figure is supple and robust.
She has a pleasant, vital personality. Men admire her —and so
do women.
A lucky girl, you say. Not exactly. Just a normal healthy
girl. The kind of person nature meant every girl of her age to
be. And yet, in a way, she is lucky.
Her Mother Knew What To Do
Most girls (and young men, too) pass through a time when
their faces are pimply and their complexions poor. They lack
energy and interest. The danger is that their complexions may
he permanently marked or that they may contract serious
constitutional ailments.
The best thing to do at such a time, as this girl’s mother
knew, is to keep the digestion and elimination functioning as
perfectly as possible. And for that purpose Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are excellent. They are laxative—gently and surely
eliminating waste natter from the bowels. They stimulate the
digestive organs, increasing the flow of digestive secretions.
They help to “tone up” and cleanse the digestive tract.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are purely vegetable, and
contain no minerals or habit-forming drugs. They make you
feel brighter.
nun
Dr.MORSES
I
I
PILLS
A\AD£ IN AUSTRALIA
Fof Simple Constipation and Attendant Ills
DANGEROUS
PARASITES
Worms Cause Havoc in the
System .
Worms are parasites. That is, they
live in the body by absorbing digested
food intended to nourish the body. The
two commonest types of worms found
in human beings are Thread Worms and
Round Worms.
Thread Worms (also called Seat
Worms or Pin Worms) are most common.
They are about one-quarter-inch long,
resembling a piece of thread. They live
in the lower bowel in considerable
numbers, particularly in children.
Round Worms (also called Stomach
Worms) are frequently found in humans,
both adults and children. They resemble
earth worms in shape, and may grow
to a length of twelve inches. They in-
habit the small intestines, but may occa-
sionally get into the stomach and be
vomited up. Sometimes numbers of them
form a tangled mass and impede the
intestines. All worms breed rapidly.
Their eggs are continually discharged in
the waste matter and may infect others.
These eggs may be carried by flies, on
the hair of household pets, in raw food,
in drinking water or merely by contact
with earth in which they lie.
Symptoms—The symptoms of worm
infection are many and often obscure.
Itching of the nose is the most common
indication of pin worms. Round worms
may cause nausea, upset or swollen
stomach, desire to vomit, voracious appe-
tite and craving for strange foods. Either
type may result in diarrhoea, restless sleep,
grinding teeth, a bluish look about the
eyes, nervousness amd irritability. In
children convulsions sometimes occur.
The danger to the person infected by
worms is not so much in the symptoms
themselves as in certain results which
may follow. The continual irritation of
the digestive tract may cause a number
of digestive disorders. The strain oh
the nervous system may also bring more
serious trouble. The general vitality is
lowered, the patient feels tired and weak,
the natural safeguards of the body
against disease are reduced, and grave
ailments may be contracted.
Many physicians now believe that
worms are often a cause of appendi-
citis. It is certain that worms are some-
times found in the appendix.
Treatment.—For home treatment it is
best to use a specific medicine which will
kill or stupefy the worms and follow it
with a laxative so that the worms and
eggs will be expelled in the waste matter.
Several treatments should be taken to
assure that any eggs Which may remain
will not start the trouble anew. Com-
stock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
made for just one purpose—to promote
the death of round and pin worms. A
Specific Medicine, they act on the worms
only, and can be given in cases where
the presence of worms may be in doubt.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price, 2/- per packet (6 packets 11/6),
post free.
If writing, mention this paper.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fg
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so ttiat I do not. miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regulai
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
V
.-, t$Z/\a
srd&z&spy
v?
>* A e
• o tri- a
.\ ' y a s °
cP; / '*
S e A^ C
,^V
e V *e
r- v v^<.l\' 6
,p>
4?
t #
o x
4
s° v
AVI
•• a»
x S®V^ V 0
/*sL>
.••* 0$


no matter
where you live .... what
you do...what you earn
c /cUnia
OFFERS IDEAL RADIO
Hln the country home—in the most remote shack —in city flat—in
mansion—or in your car—you can enjoy the most realistic, trouble-
free radio reception of modern times.
The TASMA series of over 36 different types of receivers contains
one for every locality, every income—no matter how small—and
every purpose.
Each of these receivers is housed in cabinets which are artistically
executed in flawless veneers and selected woods which have been
fully seasoned to withstand all climatic conditions; all vital parts
have been carefully impregnated for protection against humidity
and changing weather. That new and revolutionary discovery—
the FERRO-COIL (exclusive to TASMA)- -which automatically
shuts out ail sounds except those you want to hear, and which
prevents overlapping, interference, noise and hiss, is embodied in
every TASMA receiver.
We promise you that when you hear and see any of these out-
standing receivers at the showrooms of your nearest TASMA
dealer or —if you prefer—in your own home, you will be
amazed at the tremendous steps which have been taken by radio
science and skilfully applied by TASMA.
m
%
m
m
■ '
■
m ■
m
:
ms.
.
a:
::
m.
■
m
m
THE TASMA “HOMESTEAD.”
Model “435” 5-valve Dual Wave A.C,
Receiver. Price 2& Guineas.
Model “440” 7-valve Electric All-wave
Receiver. Price 40 Guineas.
THE TASMA “TIGER.”
Small in size, but a “tiger” for
power, range and performance.
The price of the Tasma
“Tiger” is only 15 Guineas.
The ideal set for those who
like to move the radio from
room to room. Ask for a
demonstration.
THE TASMA “GUMNUT.”
All the Tasma models illus-
trated on this page are avail-
able in this attractive and essen-
tially modem cabinet, i.e.,
Models 435, 475, 470, 430,
485, 480, 445.
TASMA AUTO RADIO.
As supplied to N.S.W. Police
Department. 6-valve Auto
Receiver supplied complete for
installation in any type of car.
Price £27 plus tax. (Under-car
or over-car aerials are available.)
tea
THE TASMA “CARMEN.”
Model “475” 5-valve
Batt'eryless Vibrator
Operated Receiver.
Price 38 Guineas.
Model “455” 7-valve Uni*
versal A.C.-D.C. Receiver.
Price 38 Guineas.
Model “415” 7-valve
Battery. Receiver.
Price 43 Guineas complete.
THE TASMA “RONSARD.”
(Below.)
Model “430” 5-valve Broad-
cast A.C. Receiver.
Price 23 Guineas.
Model “470” 4-valve Bat-
tery Broadcast Receiver.
Price 26 Guineas.
Model “485” 5-valve Bat-
teryless Vibrator Operated
Broadcast Receiver.
Price 33 Guineas.
Model “445” 6-valve A.C.-
D.C. Universal Broadcast
Receiver.
Price 27 Guineas.
DI S T
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 270
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST.: OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND; NOYES BROS.* (SYDNEY),
LTD., 197 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
(Wholesale Distributors.)
G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen Street,
Brisbane; Rockhampton and Cairns.
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
A Product of THOM AND SMITH PTY., LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot
