

B/
1 •Q&.
-*- '
eUP
TJERIE
s
• •■
I
' %
.
TT**
111
■:
i
m ’ I
* -
Exclusive suppliers
to N.S.W. Govern-
ment and Sydney
County Council.
A
NEW
BATTERY
FOR THE NEW YEAR!
mmsr*'
r j
% 1 1
«S:
The ERG EVALASTING
Battery is GUARANTEED
for THE LIFE OF THE CAR
while in the one owner’s hands
Fleet owners . . . Truck men . . . Taxi drivers and thousands of motorists throughout the
Commonwealth endorse ERG popularity . . . you, too, can buy an ERG BATTERY from your
LOCAL GARAGE, or write to Erg Batteries Pty., Ltd., 156 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3020.
Wednesday, December 29, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
WESTRALIAN BOOKS.
Westralian art from the State’s beginnings having
recently been organised into a comprehensive exhibi-
tion at the Perth Art Gallery, the Westralian Women
Writers’ Club felt called upon to do as much for the
printed word and arranged a retrospective show of
books.
The list, though not large, let it be seen that the
State has contributed its fair share to Australian
letters. Leaving a variety of early chronicles and one
or two histories aside, the main contribution has been
through the novel, although, of course, Walter Mur-
doch’s essays have outshone all other such Australian
effort.
Katharine Susannah Prichard’s Working Bullocks,
Coonardoo. Kiss on the Lips and Intimate Strangers
have all grown, and Haxby’s Circus has grown in part,
from Westralian sand and soil. This writer is unique
perhaps in discovering a brusque, dry, rebounding,
verbal rhythm which suggests the astringent, sun-
soaked Western landscape.
More lately, Henrietta Drake-Brockman has come
forward with stories of pearling, including Blue North,
while her Younger Sons is the first family-chronicle
novel traversing the West’s century. J. M. Harcourt
wrote The Pearlers and Upsurge; F. Rhodes Farmer,
Thirsty Earth; Elizabeth and Mary Durack, Chunuma
and All-A bout; Gurney Slade, Lovers and Luggers;
M. L. Skinner collaborated in The Boy in the Bush,
and is still bringing out novels.
In poetry Peter Hopegood wrote Austral Pan
from the West; so, too, Kenneth Mackenzie, of Our
Earth and a recent radio verse play, “Young Shaks-
peare,” is a Westralian. John L. Glascock’s Pageant of
Pain has been well regarded. “Dryblower” Murphy, who
has turned out verses of racy quality over a generation,
is the best Westralian representative of the old ballad
school.
Latest arrival is Alexander Turner, whose Hester
Siding and Other Plays and Verse gives limpid expres-
sion to an extremely sensitive, poetic mind, which is
romantic in its impulses yet observes the life of which
it is part with a clear eye for detail. His radio play,
“Hester Siding,” is in its own slight and delicate wav
a masterpiece of emotional understatement.
LESLIE REES.
ANOTHER CONVICT HERO.
Robert Gibbings has given the convict settlers of
Australia some more favorable publicity in John
Graham, Convict, 1824 (Faber).
He tells the story of John Graham, an Irish boy,
convicted in 1824 of stealing hemp and sentenced to
seven years’ transportation. He reached Australia in
the Hoogly with 192 other convicts, was assigned to
a miller at Parramatta, got into further trouble and
was sent for secondary punishment to Moreton Bay.
He escaped and lived for a Jong time among the
blacks, until, for some reason unknown, he returned
and gave himself up.
When reports reached Moreton Bay that a white
woman, a survivor of a shipwreck, was held captive
by the blacks in the vicinity of Wide Bay, Graham
was sent with Lieutenant Otter to rescue her. He
showed great courage and endurance, and eventually
brought in the woman and the other survivors of the
wreck.
Gibbings attempts a fictional reconstruction of
the story, a task for which his gifts prove somewhat
inadequate. His descriptions are rather bookish in
style, and his sense of character seems to be at fault
when he presents Graham as “a boy who didn’t grow
up,” an estimation scarcely borne out by the facts.
Gibbings apparently realises his deficiencies part way
through, and falls back on quoting his documentary
authorities without dramatic or fictional embellish-
ments. However, the intrinsic interest of the story
is strong enough to carry the book—which is beauti-
fully presented and decorated with 40 woodcuts by
the author.
CATHERINE HELEN SPENCE.
Except perhaps as a novelist, the subject of the
biographical study Catherine Helen Spence, by Jeanne
F. Young (Lothian), belonged to that type of energetic
and socially-minded citizen who leaves behind no per-
sonal achievement as a monument, whose harvest is
ploughed in to enrich the soil of life.
A Scottish immigrant girl, she reached Australia in
1839 at the age of 13, and devoted a long, hard-work-
ing life to politics, journalism, philanthropy, sociology,
religion, education and literature. To get an open-
ing in the press, she had at first to use her brother’s
signature. Her papers, written for various cultural
bodies, had to be read by a man. She broke down
these prejudices after a time, pioneering— and advanc-
ing throughout her life—the intellectual emancipation
of women.
She was not, in the restricted sense, a feminist.
She assumed, rather than demanded, equality with
men, and while the special cause for which she worked
was effective voting—now called Proportional Repre-
sentation—her interest and activity were aroused by
all political movements touching the general welfare.
She helped very greatly to make democracy as we
know it in Australia to-day.
Jeanne F. Young was intimately associated with
her during the last 14 or 15 years of her life, and by
means of description, anecdote, recorded activities and
critical assessment builds up a living portrait. Of
particular interest is a chapter devoted to Miss Spence’s
critical articles on leading British novelists and poets
of her time. It is rather a pity that the biographer
is not able to write from a first-hand knowledge of
Catherine Helen Spence’s novels. They were taken
seriously in their day. H. M. Green devotes a page
to them in his Outline of Australian Literature, and
the merits of one in particular, Clara Morrison, are
ardently championed by Miles Franklin. Here per-
haps is Catherine Helen Spence’s personal monument.
NEW FICTION .
Those who have a taste for sudden death, witch-
craft, intrigues, adulteries, lush period settings and
romanticised history shouldn’t miss Eduard Stucken’s
The Dissolute Years (Jarrolds, translated from the
German by Marguerite Harrison).
It opens with the accession of James VI. of Scot-
land to the throne of England. The period is the
late, or overripe, Renaissance, and the author has
crammed into his pages all the local and historical
color available. There are hundreds of characters
and scores of intertwined narratives.
Stricken deals largely in violent contrasts. The
characters are all either monstrous or angelic. James
himself is represented as an inhumanly cruel and
selfish pervert, a murderer for a whim, cowardly and
repulsive. To balance him Prince Hal, his heir, is
shown as the perfect knight, without fear and without
reproach.
The story, which involves plots, counterplots,
sub-plots and infinite digressions, is too complex to
summarise, but if one issue may be taken as the main
one it is the ill-starred love of Prince Hal for his
cousin, Lady Arabella Stuart, on whom his father
had also cast an eye more politic than amorous. Their
love ends tragically in madness for the lady and death
for the prince.
The workmanship of this heroical piece is a
monument to German thoroughness, and doubtless
much research went into its making. It is only to
be regretted that the author should have drenched
his scene in such garish limelight.
End of the Imp, by V. Krymov. (Allen and
Unwin, translated from the Russian by Malcolm Burr),
deals with the fortunes of several Russians who fled
from the revolution, taking with them what portable
wealth they could smuggle out of the country. All
had enjoyed positions of social or commercial emin-
ence under the Tsar, and all believed for several years
that the Bolshevik regime would either collapse or be
overthrown by interested European States and the
old order restored.
They are men whose chimerical —and only—hope
of the future is a reconstruction of the past. They
are seen mainly through the eyes of one, Arseny,
whose experiences and reflections as he wanders from
country to country are followed in detail.
End of the Imp, though the narrative is eked out
with a couple of Arseny’s love affairs, is necessarily
a book of inaction, a story of a rootless and vitiated
man who has little sense of fellowship except with
others similarly situated. It is a difficult sort of story
to carry off, and Krymov has done it well. The short
snatches in which it is told and the economy with
which each little scene is presented keep it from
dragging; also—and it is a great virtue—he convinces
as to his intimate knowledge of the class of people
he deals with.
Though James Hill’s Loving Memory (Collins)
doesn’t seem to live up to the possibilities of its unusual
theme it is a very readable book. The author knows
how to tell a story, has a good prose style and—at any
rate, with regard to detail—a reliable sense of life.
He deals with Richard Helder, foreign correspon-
dent of a London newspaper, who loses his wife as
the result of a motor accident. She was a woman of
acknowledged charm, of whom he was fond, and
upon whom he was in some ways dependent, for she
had marked emotional stability, a quality in which he
was lacking.
After her death he comes on her diary, which
discloses that for 10 years she had believed him to be
having an affair with a certain woman in their circle
of friends. The entries are the collected evidence for
her belief, all perfectly sane and reasonable, pro-
vided she had been justified in her first suspicion—
otherwise a painful web of delusion.
Helder’s image of the past happiness crumbles on
the instant. Follows the story of a distraught man
nishing from place to place collecting proofs of his
innocence for the impossible task of convincing the
dead —and stumbling here and there on evidence that
her belief in his infidelity was a self-inflicted wound
in which she took a morbid pleasure, that she secretly
despised him, that she misrepresented him to his
friends, that she was not and never had been the
woman he had believed her to be, that his friends —•
some of whom had tasted her malice —had an inkling
as to her true character. In the end he marries again,
and, as a gesture, takes his second wife to the country
inn where he had honeymooned with his first.
The tale holds together well enough in the tell-
ing ; afterwards the thought arises that the story of
the first marriage might have been told in closer detail,
that Helder should have found an answer to his diffi-
culties in his nature, that for him to have found the
answer only in the arms of another woman was merely
a way out —for his creator no less than for him.
It is not often that after 25 years a book is
fresher, more topical and more interesting than on the
day on which it was first published, but this is true
of Laurence Housman’s King John of Jingalo: The
Story of a Monarch in Difficulties (reissued by Cape).
Housman has shown himself a specialist in royal
psychology, and in this, the lightest and deepest of
his books, he outlines the tragi-comedy of a king
caught in a net of Tradition, Party Politics and Big
Business—and the greatest of these is Business.
Jingalo is a mythical European State with a Con-
stitution remarkably like that of Britain, and with a
constitutional sovereign. Unfortunately the king
takes himself and his office seriously, and tries to
apply logic and humanity to the business of ruling.
He becomes involved in a highly technical dispute
between the Cabinet and the bishops.
Both sides are entirely unscrupulous, and, while
preserving a surface decorum, resort to the most
violent and even operatic measures. The king tries
abdication. Brasshay, the Prime Minister, counters it
with a spurious—and quite innocuous—bomb outrage.
A morganatic marriage is dragged like a red herring
across the issue. While the king and his Ministers
are locked in combat the archbishop quietly goes off
with the prize.
There, are moments when the comedy becomes
farce, as when first the Princess Charlotte and then
the king are arrested and haled off to prison. Under
the farce, however, there is much shrewd and serious
comment. There are discussion scenes of penetrating
brilliance that dig at the very roots of modern govern-
ment.
King John of Jingalo is a book without a dull
moment. While its surface tingles with wit, satire
explodes on the deeper levels like a depth charge.
Anecdotes, character studies, cogent parallels drawn
from here, there and everywhere, satire, discussion
and dialectic are all brought into commission, and
between them achieve a very pertinent whole.
Fit to stand beside Shaw’s play, The Apple Cart,
which it resembles in its general trend, its first appeal
is to the mind. It should go well.
REVIEWED BRIEFLY.
In the vein he has made his own—a lighter and
a more remunerative one than many had expected of
him—Philip Lindsay has constructed another sound
historical entertainer in The Bells of Rye (Nicholson
and Watson). The characters of the romantic yarn
are those residents of the Cinque Ports who in the
late fifteenth century were known as the King’s Pirates
because they plundered locally, both ashore and afloat,
when not engaged in authorised scuffles with their
monarch’s enemies. Lindsay throws in a sophisticated
beauty from London to give the pirates something
over which to fight each other More romantic
adventurings in Sir Devil-May-Care, by Jane Lane
(Methuen), this time of a rollicking cavalier who went
buccaneering with Prince Rupert to get money for
exiled Charles, turned highwayman to get even with
the Roundheads, who had robbed him of his estate and
murdered his wife, and lived to see the Restoration.
Those who like this sort of thing get 560 pages of
it for their money Another package of adventure
on slightly different lines in Queen of the Riffs, by
Operator 1384 (Bodley Head), with John Barrington,
trusted officer of L’Espionage Central, fighting on the
opposite side to Estelle Conroy, the dear lady he loves.
Wedded blisslessness has an airing in Mary Mor-
rison’s Dark Summer (Hale); childless-marriage prob-
lems, with misunderstandings arising from wife’s
attempt to pass off someone else’s unwanted babe as
her 0wn.... More married life in Poison Flower, by
Mabel Constantduros (Bodley Head), wherein a beau-
tiful and dutiful wife pretends to have affairs with
other men so that her husband, who craves a little
drama in his life, can have the thrill of demonstrat-
ing his hold over her. A well written but rather
meaningless comedy In Hervey Hamilton’s Family
Holiday (Nicholson and Watson), a charming widow,
while steering her children through the shoals of pre-
marital attachments, meets an old flame of the war
days. Happy endings all round.,. .A woman’s ambi-
tion for a brilliant marriage for her daughter, who
develops a will of her own as she grows, is the staple
of Give Me To-morrow, by Shirley Darbyshire
(Nicholson and Watson). Daughter marries for love,
but as she ropes in a marquis that doesn’t spoil
mother’s delight More good cheer in Ursula
Orange’s To Sea in a Sieve (Hamilton), concerning a
girl who chucks a man of the dependable order to
live on love in a small London flat with an imprac-
ticable idealist and doesn’t live to regret it Dragon
Under Ground, by Ramsay Bell (Hodder and Stough-
ton), is Christmas in a Devonshire village, with carol
singers and the rector’s quiet house party, and unex-
pected arrival of gay Juliet, rollicking Commander
Morris, R.N., and his spirited pal Jimmy Jefferson,
who put real pep into the festive season. Wedding
bells follow Christmas bells Still more bright light-
ness —it must be the festive season—in Richard Con-
nell’s What Ho ! (Hale), telling of a romantic Ameri-
can taxidermist who visits the seat of his remote Eng-
lish ancestors, is taken for an eccentric millionaire and
has amusing and extravagant adventures.... The Street
of False Steps, by April Brookes (Collins), is love or
a career with a Fleet-street setting, Audrey having a
little of both before she becomes the novelist wife of
a successful journalist Confidential, by Donald
Henderson Clarke (Werner Laurie), is a battle of
N’Yark underworld bosses, reporters, gunmen and
crook lawyers, surging round a beauteous brunette.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Always
\
§M
jm
■K
IPlii
mm
m : m
:.v
I
mm
80S®
1
r*»*
S 3
JUail
M WmWifi
m
m
%
iii
nfi
«
Q The Britannia is a remarkable outboard. Its perform-
ance, ease of starting, quietness, economy of operation,
durability and dependability are exceptional; It gives you
the safety of full reverse, Its shapely enclosed power head
completely protects the motor from rain and spray.
“FOLBOT” Folding Canoes
Complete and Portable
Britain’s foremost
Outboard
“THE SENIOR STORE."
ĵ
j
The “Britannia” is a smooth running, quick
starting motor, full pivot reverse, underwater
exhaust, power head enclosed protects motor
from spray and rain. Flywheel magneto
ignition, three-bladed propeller manganese
bronze, chrome plated, diameter. Weight
531 b.
Price £45
Easy terms arranged.
FOLBOT LIGHTWEIGHT
Two seater. Length 14ft.
beam 33in., draught
loading capacity 5001 b.
£lB/51-
weight 421b. Price, including
two double paddles and bags
FOLBOT MINOR
Two seater. Length
1 Oft., beam 2ft. 6in.,
draught 4in., weight
251 b. Dimensions
£912/-
folded 3ft. x 1 x sin. Price .. £9/12/-
FOLBOT POPULAR
Single seater.
Length 11 ft.,
beam 28in.,
draught 4^in.,
£l3/ 12/6
loading capacity 3001 b. Weight 301 b. Price,
including double paddle and bags . . £l3/12/6
FOLBOT
Single seater. Length
15ft. 10in., beam 26in.,
draught loading
SPORTS
£l9/7/6
capacity 7001 b., weight
581 b. Strengthened by eight aluminium cross-frames
Price, with paddle and bags £l9/7/6
• Sports—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’Phone, Day or Night
M 2401.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.0,, Sydney


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for its fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
wants stories suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both
sections. In addition to the prizes, all entries
published will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500
words is the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpub-
lished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will
attend to that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any
entry considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
‘‘Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
”Dinny and the Two Bays Were an Institution”
Gidap, My Horses
by E Mary gurcey
ILLUSTRATED BY M. LYNN GURNEY.
44 IDAP, Bess! Gidap, Barney!” On the still
I "1 afternoon air old Dinny Burral’s voice
Vj sounded very loud, echoing down the hill-
side to the valley where the punga-trees
drooped above a hidden creek ; but Bess and Barney
had heard it so often that they did not even twitch
their ears, but plodded on stolidly up the long, steep
hill from Te Punga.
Dinny flapped the reins on their sweaty backs,
more from force of habit than because he expected
any results.
“Gidap!” he said again, but the stolid horses
took no notice, so Dinny wound the lines round the
brake-handle and philosophically filled his pipe. Once
a day every day for fifteen years Bess and Barney
had hauled the stout old brake over twenty miles of
bad road that served the wide district and tiny settle-
ment of Te Raroa, buried in the heart of the hills.
In the beginning Te Raroa had been a milling
township. Now it served a widely-scattered farming
community, settlers of the pioneer type to whom -it
had not yet occurred that they might be better served
than they were by old Dinny Burral and his team.
Dinny and the two bays were an institution.
Come rain, come shine, round about half-past three
of an afternoon you’d only to watch, and there they’d
be, toiling slowly but surely up Blowhard. On the
crest of it they would pause for a breather, clear-
silhouetted against the sky, then vanish over the far
rim on to the valley road that wound down terrific
hairpin bends into Te Raroa.
Here and there a blue spiral of smoke wavered
up against the blue of the autumn sky. Here and
there the straight towers of frost-kissed Lombardy
poplars splashed the landscape with gold. The horses
plodded on. Bess snorted a little, twitching her tail,
and Barney flattened his ears as one rebuking frivolity.
Dinny muttered “Gidap!” but for once he was
not thinking of his horses or of his job, but of the
time that was drawing close when he would not be
on the earth but under it . . . Before Bess and Barney
there’d been Baldy and Ben, and before Baldy and
Ben there’d been Patch, the roach-backed, wall-eyed
skewbald that had carried the King’s mail over the
bridle track before the clay road came . . .
For ten years now there’d been cars running to
and from Te Raroa. That is, during the dry months.
Lately there’d been some little agitation, and now
there were vague rumors that the district was to be
“opened up.” “They,” so the rumors ran, were
going to widen the road and metal it, and bridge the
fords over Te Punga and the White Creek.
There was always water in Te Punga, no matter
how dry the year, yet in the wintertime she did not
get so very full. The bush, back in the untouched
hills, held the water, so that at the spread of the ford
Dinny could hardly remember it ever being more
than hub-deep; but White Creek, which dried up
in the summertime, was in the winter alternately a
raging flood foaming from bank to bank and a mild-
looking stream, treacherous with unexpected holes,
scoured by the floods that poured down during the
rains,
The White Creek had her sources in the cleared
country where the farming settlements were. There
the bush had been burnt out,
and the rains poured down
from the ridges, scouring
great watersheds in their un-
protected sides. Into the
floods of White Creek Bess
and Barney waded stolidly,
upon occasion swimming
where they could not wade. The brake bounced
and bucketed behind them, its staunch wheels
lifting from the treacherous bottom, and Dinny, the
precious mailbag held on his knees beneath his oil-
skins, would sit clamped to his high, swaying seat,
swearing softly round the stem of his pipe, profane
encouragement to his royally striving team.
So stores and the King’s mail went into Te Raroa.
A CAR came roaring up Blowhard, and the horses
moved without haste to the left to let it go by.
A woman leaned out and waved—his granddaughter,
no less, riding in the new car young Tom Kilgour,
her husband, had recently bought.
Dinny waved the whip he never used and pon-
dered it. When the road was metalled, the creeks
bridged, there would be no room on the King’s high-
way for the likes of him, and his own flesh and blood
would be partly responsible for his undoing.
Bess and Barney lurched with sudden determina-
tion into their collars and rushed the last hundred
yards to the hill’s crest, where Dinny’s gaze swerved
from the heat-hazed distance of hilltop and valley
to follow, on the bends of the road far below, the
gleaming flash of Tom Kilgour’s car. In three
minutes it would be in Te Raroa, but it would be
a full half-hour before Dinny pulled up at Jock
Hallorsen’s store.
Jock was a big man run to seed. Once he had
felled trees for the mills, living hard and loving life.
Now he sold sugar and spools of thread, and when
Dinny arrived greeted him querulously. “You’re late
again, Dinny! Every day you get later!”
Dinny, twisting the reins round the brake-handle,
answered without heat, “You’re looking seedy, Jock.
Needing fresh air and exercise, I shouldn’t wonder.”
He spoke with ineffectual sharpness to Bess, who
was rubbing her itchy head against Barney, who
snapped at her. “Be still, you old bitch!” the last
word lingering in his mouth as though of a sudden
he tasted how short were his days—how few, perhaps,
the hours left in which he would draw up against
Jock Hallorsen’s door.
“It’ll be a good thing when the road goes
through,’" Jock grumbled morosely. “They’ll send the
mail in by car. Early.”
Dinny got down stiffly. “I’ll be out of a job
then.”
There was no rancor in his tones, and Jock,
stooping to pick up the bag, relented. “It’s tough,
Dinny ; but you can’t stop progress.”
“Competition,” agreed Dinny sombrely. “Is the
breath of life”. . .
He did not reach the home he shared with his
daughter until sundown. Rachel was a pretty woman,
not as young as she looked, with the mark of the
back country strong on her. She had good teeth and
a lovely skin, but her modish clothes did not become
her.
“Tom and Glad came in,” she called, opening
the gate. “The road’s to go through, Dad! Just
think what it means!”
“I’ve thought,” said Dinny.
Cleaning the horses out and feeding them, he
pondered on what the road would mean to Rachel,
who had not found a lover in Te Raroa.
A FORTNIGHT later work on the road began.
When Dinny pulled out in the pride of the morn-
ing everything was as usual, but, coming back, he
heard from a great way off the ring of axe upon
wood. When he reached Te Punga a lancewood-tree
lay across the track.
The foreman, a little, lean, dried-up man, greeted
him with a stream of profanity. “I can’t help it, I
tell you! These lily-fingered lounge lizards that call
themselves timbermen- —they don’t know which side
of an axe you split kindling with!”
Dinny’s gaze went past him to the sacks of
cement and other paraphernalia that were scattered
along the banks of Te Punga.
“We’re going to cement the bottom,” explained
the ferret-eyed man. “She never floods”...
“No,” agreed Dinny. “Never.”
He looked at the horses drooping in their har-
ness, eyes wide with interest. They can shift it, he
thought. The King’s mail. . .
Unharnessing them, he talked to them as though
they understood. The foreman listened to him, sneer-
ing, but, hitched to the tree, inch by inch they cleared
the way for the King’s mail.
“Useful things, horses,” said the man condescend-
ingly.
Dinny ignored him. Hitching his distressed team
back in the brake, he looked thoughtfully at Blow-
hard, rearing its windswept crest against a bank of
sullen cloud. Already the rain would be dark above
Te Raroa.
It was dark before they reached the township.
Jock Hallorsen was waiting.
“It’s high time they got the road through,” he
greeted in his surly way.
Dinny dropped the heavy mailbag at his feet.
“It’ll be a lifetime coming,” he retorted, “if
what they’ve done to-day is a specimen of what
they’re going to do.”
But by the end of six weeks it was done. The
road was widened, corners taken off it, tops levelled


off the hills and thrown into the valleys, flinty metal
strewn all along it, and a single-span concrete bridge
across White Creek.
Dinny, watching progress, thought how the flood-
waters would back up it in a normal winter. That
winter was abnormally dry, and the engineer con-
gratulated himself. He said to Dinny smugly, “You’ll
not have to swim that again,” and went away to build
more inadequate bridges elsewhere.
A month after the road was finished Dinny’s
mail contract ran out and was not renewed. A stream-
lined car with nickel fittings ran in every morning
from Rarapai, delivering mail and papers by nine
o’clock.
Dinny, driving his team out, answered the smart
driver’s salute with a curt wave of his whip. A man
with any sense would, of course, have gone off the
road, but Dinny was too old and too set in his ways
to be sensible. He had been in harness so long that
the very thought of idle pastures frightened him. The
beginning of the end that would be—a hastening of
it; a filling in of time in place of living, with nothing
at the end of it but death.
So, on time each morning, Dinny and the old
horses pulled out on the flinty road. Bess began to
go lame from stone bruises, and Barney developed
wind galls. There were days when the old brake
leaped and bounced empty on the uneven road, while
the new service car rode steadily, balanced under a
generous load.
“Ginger” Hopegood had freckles and red hair.
He had a mania for speed, but was not always in too
much hurry 10 notice Rachel’s dark eyes. Dinny
liked him. He had, for Dinny’s bad luck, a grin that
was singularly like Dinny’s own, frank, engaging,
mischievous.
.New settlers began to come in and take up blocks
of land, clustering like flies on the high country where
Te Punga had her source. On a still day you could
hear, even in Te Raroa, the ring of axe upon wood.
On a frosty morning Dinny would hear it from
the crest of Blowhard, and it was from there, upon
an autumn morning, he saw the beginnings of the
big burn that swept across fifty miles of country and
laid it in a blackened waste. Coming home that night
from Te Punga to White Creek, the horses were half-
choked by the dense pall of smoke that hung above
the burn.
WINTER came early that year. The bitter frosts
cut back the uncertain green that was beginning
to show on the blackness of the burn. Snow lay
on the hills that flanked Blowhard. On the first day
of May it rained, a bitter, driving rain that increased
through the night to a steady downpour.
In the small hours of the morning Rachel heard
her father go out and got up to remonstrate with him.
“Where’s the sense ? Ginger brings everything ; and
it isn’t fair to the horses”...
“There’s a parcel for Mrs. Hallorsen,” said Dinny
stolidly.
The new concrete bridge at White Creek was
under water. Water backed up against the approaches
and roared over them in a foaming cascade., Dinny
wondered whether they would still be there when he
returned.
The horses went in cautiously, testing each step,
snorting distrustfully; they who had swum the un-
bridged creek half a dozen times in days gone by.
Safely over, they breasted the long hill, moving with
a deliberation relentless as time.
On the crest of Blowhard the wind caught them,
a sleety wind, searing as a blizzard. Under its on-
slaughts the brake rocked like a ship in a stormy
sea. Long before they reached the bottom they could
hear Te Punga roaring. The placid stream that had
never been known to flood ran
in wild spate from lip to lip of
her wide, sloping banks. On
the far side Ginger Hopegood
stood with his hands rammed
home in his pockets—the per-
sonification of defeat.
Dinny reined up his horses
and sat staring at the clay-
yellow tide. Not swift, as the
White Creek was swift, but in
the days when they had swum
White Creek Dinny had always
been able to count on the fact
that half a dozen strokes at least
would find the horses foothold
on the other side. Here they
might have to swim several
yards, and if the brake swung
round they would be washed
below the ford.
Peremptorily he called to
the horses: “Gidap, Bess!
Gidap, Barney!”
They went down to the
water snorting but not afraid.
On the opposite bank Hopegood
began to gesticulate and shout. Idiotic he looked,
jigging about and mouthing like a marionette.
The horses left their feet suddenly, and the spray
of their floundering was flung back into Dinny’s face.
It mingled with the rain, trickling down his neck and
soaking him to the skin. For a space they swam
wildly, and the brake began to swing, and then they
got foothold and plunged towards the shore, hauling
the brake as though it was made of paper.
Ginger raised a pasty face to the old man.
“You’re crazy!” he shouted. “How the devil am
I to get the mail over?”
“Swim,” suggested Dinny unfeelingly.
Ginger eyed him bitterly. “She’s never flooded
before.”
“The bush,” said Dinny dryly, “has never been
burnt before.”
For a fleeting second the curtain of the rain
lifted, revealing the long marches of the blackened,
barren hills. The sides of them were scarred and
pitted and gouged into raw ravines down which the
water poured in minature cataracts.
“How am I to get the mail over?” asked Ginger
again.
“It’s your contract,” retorted Dinny, and picked
up his reins.
Ginger stood back, his shoulders hunched. “A
fellow would risk it if he could swim.”
“Eh?” demanded Dinny. “Can’t you swim ?”
Ginger blushed brick-red. “Not a stroke. I’m ..
afraid of water.”
“Good Lord!” said Dinny incredulously. He
sorted the reins out in hands that were blue with cold,
but he did not call to his horses.
“Forty years!” said Ginger, with grudging
admiration. “And I’m out in the first round!”
Dinny said suddenly, curtly, “Give me the bag.”
Ginger stared. “You’re not going back ?”
“Give me the bag,” repeated Dinny.
Ginger turned and ran towards the car. Dinny
stroked the whip across old Bess’s back, and his face
was peaked and bitter. For the first time in forty
years the brake would not go out to Rarapai. For
the first time in forty-odd years Dinny Burral was
turning back.
Ginger came running, stumbling over the sharp
stones, clutching the mailbag, and began clambering
over the off wheel.
Dinny swore. “Give me the bag! I don’t want
any extra weight!”
Ginger trod on the hem of his coat and fell into
the bottom of the brake, gashing„his forehead. Sitting
up, he dashed blood out of his eyes and glared back
at Dinny. “I’m responsible for the mail!”
Dinny shouted at the horses. “Gidap, Bess!
Gidap, Barney!”
He swung them, and Ginger bounced in the
bottom of the brake, crawled forward and managed
to claw himself up by the seat, hanging on to the
back of it, clutching the mailbag and ignoring the
trickle of blood that ran down his face. He bawled
in Dinny’s ear, “We’ll be drowned!”
But his tones were more excited than fearful.
Dinny knew a sudden warmth ; that, at the least, if
they went they would go in good company.
This time the horses kept their feet longer, going
through the water in a series of lunges that threatened
to smash something; but Dinny knew the value of
sound gear, and, though the brake creaked and groaned
like a living thing, it held. The power of their pro-
gress carried them half-across the deep channel, so
that this time the brake had no time to swing, but
cut through the water with a force that sprayed the
wash clean over them and drenched them both from
head to foot.
As the horses plunged up the opposite bank,
Ginger gave a funny little sighing laugh. Dinny
looked at him dispassionately and got out to walk
beside the horses.
Barney had some reserve of energy left, but old
Bess was sorely distressed. Her eyes were bloodshot
and her breath whistled in her nostrils as though her
wind might be gone, but Dinny did not dare let them
rest. In the icy wind that came round Blowhard it
would be only a matter of seconds before they were
chilled to the bone; so he walked beside the mare,
encouraging her with his voice, patting and petting
her when she blundered and wavered. Barney put
his head down and hauled stolidly as though he knew
that to-day much was required of him.
The roar of Te Punga died out under the rising
roar of the wind. Dinny plodded beside the horses,
his mind an inferno of anxiety lest the approaches to
the bridge at White Creek should be washed away,
making it impassable. The approaches were built up
along the old road, and the bridge covered the old
ford. Up and down stream, on either hand, the sheer
banks were under water.
The wind and the rain howled down from the
snow of the mountains, buffeting them with icy hands.
Barney stumbled and began to falter, and Dinny
went round to him, touching his face with hands
that trembled.
“It’s the King’s mail,” said Dinny as though the
horse must understand.
On the crest the full fury of the storm caught
them. On the long descent Bess trod on a stone that
rolled, and fell heavily, cutting her knees open. Dinny
wept. He put his arms round her head and cried
like a child. Bess whinnied piteously, and staggered
on again waveringly. Barney whinnied back, nudging
her anxiously, slipping and skidding as he strove to
hold the heavy vehicle on the sharp turns.
Dinny walked beside them, wrapped in a kind
of daze, but when they got to the bottom and the
bend above White Creek he climbed back into his seat
and called to them: “Gidap, Bess! Gidap, Barney!”
Bess went into her collar, moving automatically.
On the near side it was still solid, but across the
bridge they floundered suddenly into a hole belly-
deep. Bess panicked, but Barney went steadily for-
ward, pulling her with him, keeping her on her feet,
dragging her by sheer strength up the two-foot drop
on the other side.
Dinny jumped from the pole into the water and
got his shoulder to the wheel, calling to them, and
once again Bess found strength to pull beside her
mate. Inch by inch they won out and started on the
last journey home.
Dinny wound his hand in Barney’s mane and
reeled along beside him, scarcely conscious, moving
without volition. A stupor was creeping over him,
a numbness that was slowly negativing effort.
The mare stumbled to her knees again, groaned
and staggered up and plodded on. Ginger sat in the
brake, staring ahead of him, his eyes clouded and
blood upon his face. Barney wavered a little- in
his tracks, gathered himself and plodded on again.
Dinny spoke again. “Gidap, Bess! Gidap,
Barney!”
The horses took no notice.
It seemed to Dinny that suddenly the world was
full of voices, of faces. He heard Ginger, self-con-
sciously triumphant, crying “I’ve got the mail
through! ”
Someone said: “You!” And someone said:
“The mare’s dead!”
Someone said: “Dinny’s dying!”
Dinny heard from a great way off Jock Hallor-
sen’s wife say: “I’ve a little something in the
office”...
Then Dinny Burral went beyond reach of earthly
sound.
“They’ve wrote an epic,” said Jock Hallorsen,
“old Dinny and his horses. I guess we’ll hear them
for ever. Old Dinny calling ’em up from the ford:
‘Gidap, Bess! Gidap, Barney! ’ ”
This time the horses kept their
feet longer.


The Men on Tugs
THE PLATYPUS GOTS OUT
BY
WILL
LAW SON
DRA WINGS BY LOCK.
SAM knocked loudly on >
the cabin door. “The Mary
Isobel’s outside, sir, waitin’
for a tug.”
“Let her stay there,” Seth Lay-
cock said, turning over to sleep again.
“The tide ain’t high yet. Call me in an
hour.”
“What about the Platypus, sir?” Sam
persisted.
“You needn’t worry about her. Call me later.”
Captain Seth grinned to himself. He had fixed the
crew of the Platypus. He wished he had fixed Blue-
nose Billy, her master, too, but that would have been
risky ; and, besides, he was the father of pretty Annie
Mason, the belle of the river. She had treated young
Seth with scorn in his attempts to claim her affection.
That was galling, too, but, after all, a girl had whims,
and there still was hope that some day she would
change. With Bluenose Billy it was different. He
was mainly responsible for Annie’s antagonism. Seth
was sure the old man had set his daughter against him.
Bluenose Billy was an old-time down-East skipper
who had married and settled on the Richmond years
before. He had many friends among the skippers
visiting the port, and he got most of the work on the
bar. But this time Seth had him well fixed, and there
would be five or six towing jobs with the schooners
coming to load red cedar for Maoriland.
Laycock chuckled again. There had been a prize-
fight in Ballina the night before which had brought
every roughneck timber man to town from miles
around. Naturally there had been some heavy drink-
ing, in which the tugboat crews had taken part. But
simply getting a crew drunk would not ensure their
incapacity for duty. They were tough men ; so Seth
had done much more than that. He had had the three
men of the Platypus put into a waggon and driven ten
miles up the river. They would wake to the sound of
bellbirds and kookaburras, far from their ship.
For the time being, though he himself did not
know it, Billy was alone in the Platypus, and she was
a bigger tug than the Gamecock, one which he could
never handle alone. Captain Seth fell asleep again in
happy contemplation of the situation. Only one
thought disturbed him for a moment —what would
Annie say? He consoled himself with the belief that
she would most likely admire him for his cleverness.
Old men were fools ; even their daughters must recog-
nise that fact.
Less than an hour later his door resounded to
a violent banging from Sam’s fist. “Wake up, sir!
The Platypus is blowing off steam. She’ll be away
in a few minutes.”
“What?” Seth was wide awake instantly, out of
bed and reaching for his trousers.
“We couldn’t see her for the fog,” Sam explained.
“She’s smokin’ like a chimley.”
“Tell Jimmy to whack up his fires,” Seth roared.
As he ran to the bridge and looked down the misty
river he saw the Platypus, as Sam had said, apparently
ready for sea. He clenched his fists and cursed. Then
he saw her slowly move out of her berth lower down
from where he lay, a short figure on the bridge and
Bluenose Billy nowhere to be seen.
“Hell and billygoats,” Seth stormed. “He’s got a
crew. Below there! Sling kerosene in. We’ve got to
shift from here in ten minutes.”
BLUENOSE BILLY had wakened at dawn, a bit
misty in the head after the night before, and from
force of habit looked out over the bar. Then he was
wide awake as he saw the tall sails of the Mary
Isobel standing close in to anchor.
“Rouse out, you lubbers,” he shouted. “Up on
deck, all of you.”
No answer came, not a sound. He stumped
forward to the forecastle. Not a man was there.
Cursing, he ran aft to get the engineer, who slept in
splendid isolation in the glory-hole, just above the
rumbling shaft. “Wake up, Johnny!”
But Johnny had been included in the country
party, too. Billy ran down the iron ladder into the
engine-room, opened the flues, stirred the banked-up
fires and shovelled coal in. When he had the furnace
going well he went ashore to see if he could find any
signs of a crew. But Ballina was still asleep— not
even a dog moved in the wide street. Bluenose Billy
had vague thoughts of going and waking up some-
one who would help him to get out to the schooner
before the Gamecock. The whereabouts of his crew,
however, was a riddle which clouded his mind, almost
paralysed it, and he heaved a sigh of relief when he
saw his daughter running down the road towards him.
Annie was breathless. “Oh, you’re up, dad! I
saw the Mary Isobel and was afraid you might all be
asleep after last night.”
“I’m not,” Bluenose said, “but the rest may be.”
“Don’t you know?”
“No. They ain’t there —not on board.”
“Not on board? What will you do? I know,
I’ll come. I can steer.”
“No, you won’t,” he said stubbornly. “This ain’t
a woman’s job. Dig out a couple of men somewhere.
Alf Gray or Tommy 810w —try them, or some of the
men on the Sydney steamer. Hurry! If you get any
send them down. I’ll get a good head of steam up.”
Annie ran off and Billy went on board in a fume
of rage and puzzled helplessness. The Gamecock
would be out any time now.
He was staring up the river, looking for signs of
movement by his rival, when a snivelling husky voice
sounded at his elbow. “Hullo, skipper! Yer darter
sez ye want a hand.”
Startled, Billy turned and saw a small, incredibly
dirty man in ragged clothing and a tight-fitting fire-
man’s cap, his face grimed with coal.
“Who’re you?” the skipper asked roughly.
“I.’m Rusty, extra man in the Sydney boat. Yer
girl sent me.”
“I told her to send a man, not a rat. You couldn’t
shovel coal in the Platypus. Can you steer?”
“Too right, I can. I’ll do anything you want.”
“All right. Throw off those
lines and I’ll take her out and
straighten her up. There’s the Game-
cock moving now. We’ve got to hurry.”
Impatiently, Billy steered his tug clear
of the wharf, then headed her for the bar.
“Now, take her,” he said, “while I get
more steam on her. It’ll be a race, my son, and
if we lose I’ll kill you.”
Through the thinning banks of fog the Platypus
sped down the river, met the first rollers and tossed
her deep, fine bows high, to plunge them again into
another blue roller. Captain Billy came up for a
moment to check the course.
“I see you know your way,” he said.
Just then the tug bumped slightly. “Look out!”
he yelled.
“She’s shifted since larst I crossed,” the man said.
“We’ve got to keep more to the left. Not high tide
yet, though. Anyway, the Mary’ll be in ballast an’
light. We’ll bring her over all right.”
“If we get her line,” the skipper said. “There’s
the Gamecock right astern of us.” He dashed below
again to feed the fires till his arms ached. When he
came on deck again he found the Gamecock’s bow
level with their stern.
“Swing her towards the schooner. Block them,”
Bluenose Billy panted. “We’ll get her line yet; if
Captain Barker’s still in her she’s ours.”
Down he went again to make steam for the final
dash to get the line of the schooner, whose crew was
gathered on deck to watch the race.
“Come on, Billy,” a voice rang out.
“Hooray, Gamecock,” another shouted, holding
the towline out in a tantalising way, “come and get
us.”
The tugs were racing almost level, with Seth, at
his wheel, shouting curses down to the engine-room,
while Bluenose Billy, having done all he could below,
came up to take a hand in getting hold of the line.
“Who’s your helmsman?” Seth shouted. “And
where’s your crew?”
“Mind your own business,” Billy yelled back, his
voice roaring with anger. “Here, you rat, I’ll take
her now. You couldn’t lay her alongside a brewery.”
Without a word the man relinquished the wheel,
moved to the rail nearest the Gamecock and began to
take off his filthy clothes.
“Here! What are you doing?” Billy yelled. “If
you jump overboard I’ll log you. You’re my crew
and I can’t take a tow without a crew.”
Still tugging at his clothes, the man said in his
queer husky voice, “I’m going to show that flash Alec
in the Gamecock where he gets off.”
“You needn’t strip to do that. Tell him as we go.”
Billy’s attention was on the schooner. He had
won ; and intent on his triumph he was startled to
hear his daughter’s voice beside him. Spinning round
he saw her, in her neat dress, emerged like a chrysalis
from the rags that lay on the deck, her face red with
anger and her voice shrill as she shouted towards
the Gamecock.
“I’m the crew, Mister Laycock,” she screamed,
shaking her fist at him. “I know what you did last
night. I hate you, hate you—so now you know.”


Brief Sketch of Character
Her SON RETURNS
BY Don
Ed wards
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
SINCE early
morning Clara
had been pre-
paring for her
son’s return. All the
while she worked
she kept thinking to
herself, “He is com-
ing back to-day. He
is coming back.”
She knew that
he couldn’t arrive
till the afternoon,
but every sound of
steps on the pave-
ment outside dragged
her to the front win-
dow, and several
times she opened
the door imagining
she heard someone.
Most of the
work had been done
before the morn-
ing was half through, but she couldn’t endure to sit
and wait. His bedroom had been ready for several
days, but she went through it again, polishing the
linoleum and wiping the dustless ledges. She saw
Susan’s photo, on the dressing-table, and quickly
snatched it up and carried it out, as if afraid that
someone might see her. It had been there so long that
she had failed to notice it till now. Well, it wasn’t
too late to get rid of it.
She read the writing in the corner, “To Maurice,
with love,” and a flush of anger surged through her.
Almost viciously, she flung it into a cupboard and
slammed the door upon it.
The noon siren sounded its harsh and long-drawn
note and set her hurrying. He might come any time
after the next hour. That thought filled her with
mingled feelings of happiness and doubt, so she busied
herself with unnecessary tasks, as if to defeat her
worrying thoughts.
Ever since she had known that he was to come
home, and the first wave of joy had given place to
one of apprehension, she had found relief in work.
It had been the same with her husband, too, even
though he had said nothing of his fears. She could
read his mind as easily as she had been able to read
her son’s before he went away. Now, of course, it
might be different with Maurice after all this time,
but he was coming home, and that was what mat-
tered.
“He is coming back,” she kept thinking, “he
is coming back,” and the single note of the clock in
the dining-room told her that an hour of the after-
noon had passed, and he could arrive any time now.
She had intended to have lunch early, but some-
how or other she had forgotten all about it. Now
it was too late. She didn’t want Maurice to walk in
on her while she was eating. Besides, she wasn’t
hungry. She was too excited to eat. She must put
on another dress and clean herself up before the boy
came.
Would he come in with a rush and lift her up
and kiss her as he used to when he got home from
work each night? He had been very proud of his
mother then, and she had been proud of him. She
was still proud of him, too, but he mightn’t believe
that now. There it was again, the old doubt creeping
in as soon as she stood still and let her thoughts
wander.
She walked across the room, straightened the
curtains and looked about anxiously for something
else to do.
Suddenly she swung round and stared at the door
into the kitchen. She heard steps crunching on the
gravel of the side path. She hadn’t thought of him
coming in the back way till now. I'he steps sounded
on the back verandah, and stopped as the wire door
creaked in opening. She felt afraid as she walked
towards the kitchen. It was almost with relief that
she saw her husband at the door.
“What’s wrong, George? Why are you home?”
she asked, but she knew his answer before he spoke.
“I thought I’d like to be home when Maurice
got here, so I asked the foreman for the afternoon
off,” he said.
“You didn’t tell him the reasons?” She put the
question aggressively.
“No,” he replied, “but he knows. They all
know.”
“Would you like some lunch with me?”
He put his bag on the table “I don’t feel like
any,” he said.
There was no escape for her that way.
“Neither do I,” she said, and she hurried into
the bedroom to change her clothes.
THE warm afternoon dragged along slowly. Every
noise was fraught with possibilities for her, every
alarm when proved to be false gave its sense of sudden
relief at a crisis postponed, and was followed by a
sharp disappointment.
At last her tasks had run out, so she sat near
the window from .which she could watch the street.
After reading one page of her novel several times,
without any comprehension, she dropped the book
on the table and sat there in a way that frankly
admitted that she was waiting. Her eyes kept dart-
ing from the street to the clock.
“Shouldn’t he be here by this?” she asked im-
patiently.
“There’s plenty of time. He might come any
minute.”
But she could see that George was as worried
as she was. What if he didn’t come? Suppose he
got some silly idea that they didn’t want him now?
He was like that, sensitive. And these things would
all be accentuated now.
She burst out, “We should have gone to meet
him, George. I know we should have.”
“Now, now, Clara,” he said soothingly, “you
know he preferred us not to. He’ll come home all
right.”
But she noticed that all the time he was talking
his foot was tapping the floor in quick bursts, and
presently he said, “I think I’ll do a bit in the front
garden.”
She watched him take up a position from which
he could see down the street. Several times she
thought of something she could do in another part
of the house, but always she found herself stopping
to listen and returning to the window.
She saw her husband straighten up abruptly and
peer down the street. Maurice must be coming at
last. A feeling of panic seized her. She had wanted
to be the first to greet him, but now she was afraid.
She was pleased that it would be George who would
meet him first.
Two figures slouched into view and commenced
to talk to her husband. She heard his raised voice
and saw him wave his arms angrily. So they knew
that her son was coming back, and probably they
thought that they would be welcomed now.
Soon her husband came in and said, “That young
larrikin Arthur Moore and his friend just came
along to see if Maurice was home. I told them we
didn’t want them about here.”
She heard him walk off, muttering angrily.
Now she had a feeling that Maurice wasn’t com-
ing at all. If he had been coming he would have
been here before this. The shadows had lengthened
till they were thrust across the street. People were
beginning to arrive home from work. In a resigned,
abstracted way she prepared tea.
“Are you setting a third place?” her husband
disked
“No. What’s the good?”
He remained silent for a while, looking at her.
“He mightn’t want to come till after dark,” he said.
Of course ; that was it. She should have thought
of it before. Suddenly she was alert, anxious, expec-
tant again. Hurriedly, as if she might be caught un-
prepared, she set another place at the table.
Then they sat down to wait. Her husband read
his paper, his fingers drumming on the table. She
sat looking through the window. The purple twilight
slowly deepened into darkness. Suddenly the street
light before the house flashed on, spilling a pool of
brightness over the pavement and the front garden
and gate.
Still she sat there, her hope gradually going, her
mind no longer saying “He is coming back.” She
was unable to face the thought that he might not
come, so she stared out into the night, at the place
where the light faded into the darkness.
She heard her husband speak to her, “Perhaps
we should have our tea. We can get Maurice some-
thing later.”
Mechanically she set about getting the meal.
Neither of them ate much. They did not speak
to each other. Afterwards she did not return to the
window, but sat listening, alert, to distinguish every
sound. The sharp clicking of footsteps on the pave-
ment caused her to lean forward attentively till the
sounds diminished in the distance. She noticed that
her husband was listening anxiously, too. As time
passed her sense of hopelessness increased. The idea
that he wouldn’t come obsessed her, but she still
listened for any sounds from the street.
SUDDENLY a
sharp noise told
her that someone
had opened the
front gate. She stood
up, and her husband came across and stood beside her.
Footsteps sounded falteringly along the path and on
to the verandah. She grasped her husband’s arm.
They waited, tense and alert. Someone was outside
the door, but neither of them was able to move.
The ticking of the clock seemed to increase in
loudness and intensity. Abruptly a low, hesitant tap-
ping gave them a sudden freedom. Clara’s old, anti-
cipatory joys and worries rushed on her with the
realisation that her son had come back.
She pushed her husband gently. “You go,” she said.
He walked to the door and opened it, and she
saw her son come into the room. Her first impulse
was to run to him and hold him, but she fought back
the desire, because he seemed to be nervous and
strange. Instead she said, “Would you like some tea,
Maurice?”
“I’ve had some,” he answered.
He pushed the door shut and walked across the
room, to stand awkwardly near the fireplace. None
of them spoke. She tried desperately to think of
something to say to him, something that wouldn’t
hurt him, but nothing occurred to her, so she walked
over to him and kissed him. He was unresponsive.
Her husband said loudly, “Well, it’s good to have
you home again, Maurice.”
“Thanks,” he answered quietly.
She imagined him waiting for darkness before
he would come home. “Sit down, Maurice,” she said.
He didn’t seem to hear her. He looked away
while he spoke.
“Have you heard from Susan?” he asked.
“No,” she said, and saw his hands clench, and
more than ever she wanted to comfort him.
Why didn’t he settle down instead of standing
there like a stranger? She thought that after being
away for so long it would take some time to adjust
himself to the old life. But suppose he didn’t try,
suppose A dozen disturbing fears flashed through
her thoughts.
Her husband’s voice interrupted them: “Arthur
Moore called. I told him that we didn’t want him
about here.”
Alarmed, she looked at her son. She saw the
flush on his face and sensed what was coming. In
a frantic effort to avert it she spoke quickly and en-
treatingly: “We are going to move to another suburb,
Maurice. We intend to sell the house.”
But it was useless. He swung round and shouted
violently, as if his self-control had snapped: “You
don’t want Arthur, then who will want me? He is
better than I am. I’m a thief, an embezzler. I’ve
been in gaol, haven’t I? Why don’t you call me a
gaolbird?”
He stamped towards the door.
She ran past him and stood with her back to
the door. He stopped before her. For a time nothing
was said. The clock ticked on calmly in the quiet room.
“If only he could know how we both wanted
him, if only he could understand, she kept thinking,
but she found it impossible to speak.
He looked away, and suddenly he started to cry,
his shoulders shaking with the sobs. She went to him
and comforted him, as she used to when, he was a
small boy and in trouble.
“It’s all right,” she murmured soothingly. Every-
thing is all right now. You are home again.”
She smiled at her husband, and contentment came
to her and dispelled her fears as she repeated happily
over and over again, “It’s all right now. Everything
is all right.”


Grapplers as They Used to Be
ABDUL
BY
CON DREW.
JT\ FTER I’d been ditched by that wrestlin’ feller
/| Zolo I swore I’d shy off grapplers for the rest
* of me life. But in a moment of weakness I
let Melbourne Harry unload a half-share in
a Hindoo named Abdul Mar Hornet on to
me. Abdul had been in a circus before Melbourne
picked him up, and as he weighed close on half a
ton he must have cost the proprietors considerable
bullion to cart around. Where he learnt to wrestle
I ain’t got any idea, but he proved hisself a slap-up
matman in a dozen try-outs we gave him.
We trained Abdul at Melbourne’s gym. in a hay-
loft in Lower George-street, and except that he was
a bit particular about his eats he gave us little trouble.
Now and then he’d touch us for a couple of rogues
to buy a colored handkerchief, but that was only
to be expected. When he wasn’t wrestlin’ he was
content to sit cross-legged on the floor.
In them days in Sydney it was harder to get
an unknown grappler a match than it is to open an
ace-pot, and we found it so with Abdul. Most of
the promoters wouldn’t look at him at all. A couple
was willin’ to put him on for a preliminary bout, but
that was no good to us. We knew we had got hold
of a real good man, and we made up our minds it’d
be a main bout or nothin’.
There was a wrestlin’ joint down near the railway
station that we hadn’t tried, because the hall would
only hold a couple of hundred people. It was run
by a bloke named Joe Solomon. Joe and me had been
partners in a deal or two, and l decided to go and
look him up. He gave me the glad hand when I
lobbed down at the hall, but when I explained me
business he shook his head.
"Sorry,” he says, “but it can’t be done. I’ve
made it a strict rule not to have nothin’ to do with
an untried grappler.”
“But we’ve tried him out a dozen times,” I come
back.
“You’ve tried him out in the gym.,” says Joe;
“but you don’t know how he’ll perform in public.
I’ve put them untried blokes on before, and they
always, proved a washout.”
“I’ll guarantee that Abdul wouldn’t prove to be
a dud,” says I.
“Maybe he wouldn’t and maybe he would,” says
Joe, “but that ain’t the point. All my clients are
top-hole judges of a wrestler, and I wouldn’t like it
said that they left the hall disappointed.”
“The only blokes that would leave the hall dis-
appointed when my bloke was wrestlin’,” says I,
“would be them who backed the other grappler.
Abdul is a blown-in-the-bottle, first-class matman.”
“I’m sorry,” says Joe again, “but it can’t be
done.”
“All right,” says I. “If you ain’t too sure of my
bloke’s merits as a wrestler you can do one thing
for me.”
“And what’s that?” says Joe.
“You can let me bring him down to the hall and
show you a sample of his work.”
Joe bites off the roots of a cigar and sticks it
in the corner of his mouth. “It’s an idea,” says he.
“What did you say your baboon weighed?”
“Nineteen stone,” I come back.
“Tallow or muscle?”
“Muscle.”
“I see,” says Joe. “Can he use his head?”
“That’s just what he can do,” says I. “He butted
a bloke in the breadbasket the other day, and the
bloke has been winded ever since.”
“I don’t mean that,” says Joe. “Has he got any
brains?”
“He’s the brainiest grappler I’ve ever handled,”
says I.
“All right,” says Joe. “I’ll give him a try-out,
but I suppose he’ll turn out like the rest of them.
Bring him down to the hall to-morrer mornin’ and
I’ll have a couple of grapplers here to see what he’s
made of.”
HAT Abdul didn’t do to Joe’s grapplers
is too small an item to be worth recordin’. For
a start Joe stacked him up agen a local wrestler who
was reckoned one of the best trial horses in the
town. Abdul put the local lad on his back in lmin.
25sec. by the watch, and never worked up a sweat
while doin’ it.
The next bloke to face the music was a Swiss.
This bloke stuck to his guns fairly well, but wound
up after four minutes’ solid wrestlin’ with his neck
twisted like a stick of barley-sugar.
There was a huge gorilla of a bloke sittin’ near
the ring, and Joe beckons him over.
“In you go, Bozoll,” he says, “and don’t let there
be any ‘Waltz-me-around-agen-Willy’ business.”
There* wasn’t. But I must give the big bloke
credit for puttin’ up the best show of the lot from
a spectacular point of view. After landin’ on the
top of his head three times, he varied the act by
dislocatin’ his shoulder.
“Well,” says Ito Joe. “Was I romancin’ when
I told you Abdul was a wrestler?”
“He ain’t bad,” admits Joe. “You say he weighs
nineteen stone?”
“He does.”
“Right,” says Joe. “There’s a grappler called
the Turkish Strangler lookin’ for a bout with some-
one. I’ll match him with Abdul for Saturday week.”
Melbourne and me held a conference when we got
back to the gym. that afternoon. We’d seen the
Strangler wrestle, and we knew that Abdul could
lick him. Melbourne thought it’d be next to com-
poundin’ a felony to miss such a chance of rakin’ in
some extra coin, so after a deal of discussion we
decided to back our man to the limit.
There were two snappy grapplers at a loose end,
and next day we engaged the pair as partners for
Abdul. He took them on each afternoon, and, believe
me, they wasn’t sorry when their contract was up.
We worked Abdul right up to the evenin’ before the
bout. It was contrary to our usual rule, but he
thrived on plenty of work.
T OE’S hall was well in the boom in them days,
and when we landed there on Saturday night we
found it full to the doors. Most of the crowd were
Joe’s regular customers, %ut there was also a good
few foreigners who had a personal interest in the
go. We had left our run a wee bit late, so we got
Abdul ready lively and took him into the ring.
A few seconds later the Turk stalked in attended
by two of his countrymen. He was a big, upstandin’
bird with coal-black eyes and enormous chest and
shoulders. He looked well trained and chock-full of
confidence. I judged him to be half a head taller
than Abdul, but their poundage was about the same.
Joe’s regular referee had charge of affairs, and
while he was gettin’ the grapplers together Melbourne
beckoned to a bloke we knew named Bob who was
sittin’ at the ringside.
“Any bettin’ goin’ on?” asks Melbourne when
he came over.
“Plenty,” says Bob. “Your man is five to four
against.”
“Put this on him,” says Melbourne, handin’ him
twenty quid, “and see you get someone to hold the
stakes. It’s all we’ve got.”
Just then the referee stepped back to the ropes.
In another second the grapplers were at it.
I’d expected somethin’ sensational to happen,
and wasn’t disappointed. The Turk dived in so quick
that I don’t know exactly what did happen. Neither
did Abdul. One second he was on his feet and the
next he was reposin’ on his ear. I heard Melbourne
suck in his breath, and the crowd went wild. Our
bloke spun on the canvas for a tick and did a double
roll. It was just as well he did, for the Turk dived
down at him like a cartload of blue metal. The
pair struggled on the mat for half a minute, then
scrambled to their feet.
Then the row got properly willing. Abdul opened
the ball by dumpin’ the Turk on his melon. The
Turk replied with a snifter back slam, and was tryin’
to stage an encore when Abdul slung him clean over
his head. When the Turk got up our bloke threw
him agen the opposite ropes. The Turk bounced back
like a cannon-ball and butted Abdul in the pantry.
It was amazin’ that the baboons didn’t break their
necks the way they chucked each other about. And
they kept it up all through the first three rounds.
The crowd was so excited durin’ the third round that
two blokes started fightin’ and the ushers chucked
them out.
The end had to come some time, and it came
when the fourth round was half-way over. The Turk
had been manoeuvrin’ for a headlock, when suddenly
Abdul slid under him and gave him the flyin’ mare.
It’s a throw that beats all the aeroplane spins, Missis-
sippi hoists and other fancy falls invented by present-
day grapplers, and it beat the Turk. Like a stone
hurled from a catapult he sailed across the ring and
banged his head with terrific force agen a corner-post.
Joe’s ring-posts wasn’t padded, and the Turk was only
human. He couldn’t continue the bout, and the
referee declared for Abdul.
Melbourne let out a yell that nearly split me ear-
drums. “We’re a pony to the good,” he yelled excit-
edly. “At last the joy gull has flown our way.”
There was a lot of hand-shakin’ with blokes we
knew and blokes we didn’t know. The crowd was
roarin’ for all they were worth.
In the middle of the din there’s a commotion in
the mob that stood around us, and Bob pushes his
way to the front. He was sweatin’ like a Kanaka, and
looked to be all het-up.
“What’s up with you?” laughs Melbourne. “You
look as if you’d been chucked out instead of them
two blokes who was fightin’.”
Everyone laughed, and Bob looked mighty
savage. “Do I?” he yells. “You’re terribly funny,
ain’t you? . Do you know who them two blokes
were?”
“I do not,” says Melbourne, “but I don’t mind
failin’ for it. Who were they?”
“Well, the big bloke,” says Bob, “was the man
I made the wager with. The other chap was the
stakeholder. They must have made it up between
them.”
THE OLD MAN
BY MARGARET TRIST.
THE old man lay on a cane settee in the little
porch. His son’s wife had had a lot of diffi-
culty with that porch. Since the days when
she had dreamed a porch into her doll’s house,
she had wanted one. Then, when the fit took her to
have a Spanish bungalow with walls that rose from
the ground straight into the air, there did not seem
any place for it. But she wanted a porch, so a porch
there was. It had the look of a platform that had
been put down temporarily and would be shifted away
any moment.
Lying there in the morning sunshine, the old
man could see those straight walls of La Granada,
the curious yellow plaster and the hilarious splashes
of red, green, blue and yellow that covered it. The
doors, window-sashes and spoutings were painted red,
while above his head fluttered a vividly-striped canvas
awning. There was something so blatant about the
house, something so admittedly gaudy, that the old
man felt a shamed feeling as if he was looking at
something immodest.
“Your tea, father.” His daughter-in-law, a plump
but well-corseted figure, set the cup down and shook
up his pillow, jerking his head out of the comfort-
able position into which he had gradually worked it.
But she meant well, so he smiled faintly, and patted
(i Continued at foot of next page.)


her white, bulgy hand with his own trembling yellow
one - .
He did not speak much now ; it made him tired
Besides, there were so many thoughts going round
in his head that he found it difficult to separate them.
Still, he was grateful, and he showed his gratitude by
c
nods and pats and smiles. Sometimes it seemed luce
To rvonodo and some
years since he had come to La Granada, and
times ,t was only days since h.s arrival. Nothing was
clear now, excepting that long life he had lived before
coming there
He drank his tea, while Molly steadied the cup.
Then she wiped the dribbles from around his chin
and the corners of his mouth. There were times when
a dreadful humiliation swept over him at this, but it
was only for a second. The feeling soon passed from
a body too tired to retain it.
“The view’s lovely to-day, father,” said Molly
as she left him. He looked at it, but from his low
position he could not see the far-away spot of blue
harbor cradled in a sun-filled hollow among dark-
Jeaved trees Anyhow, it wouldn’t have meant any-
thing to him. All he could see were the houses across
the roadj the oozy> tarry road and a sick> un f a miliar
trge
Hqw was ,
J
He had thought of it as something clear-cut and
, . . A
sudden, something that would take him unaware,
drifting into it cooling slowly from
And here he was dnf, ng rnto coo ing slowly trom
the leverneat or lire to tne coioness or aeam. ne
opened his eyes again and looked at the straight walls
of La Granada, and felt, despite its canvas awning,
the unprotectedness of the porch.
And then he thought of the other life he had
known. The vine-wreathed verandahs he had rested
on in the noonday heat, the soft greys, greens and
grass yellows of the plainlands he had known. The
barking of dogs and rattle of the milkcans in the
morning, the clang as the windmill revolved slowly
in the night breeze sights, sounds, smells even came
back to him. Somehow these things had passed. How
they had passed he did not know now. Reasons were
lost in the limbo of the strangeness that had followed
those days. But that, he knew, had been his life; this
waiting on a sunny, incongruous porch was a drifting
into dea th. .
Aeain he shut his eves and because his body
Again ne snut nis eyes, ana oecduse ms uuuy
nMr iv wnrn nllt he dronned into fitful slumber
was nearly worn out ne aroppea mio nuui siumoei.
As he slept he dreamed of a strong-bodied, lean man
* across en stretch The horse was
6 nn d
young and fiery. Now and again it stopped an
plunged sideways, but the man kept his seat without
effort. The sun was high and very bright, but a long
way off were the purple shadows or night, so t
shadows submerging and hiding the crudities of lire,
The old man slept as he rode towards the
shadows, and the shadows hid the yellow-plaster walls
of La Granada and the hilarious splashes of red,
green, blue and yellow that covered the plaster.
ROUNDABOUT
“The Stage Triumphant.”
The quotation rang its challenge out in an adver-
tisement somewhere, and we went along to “Balalaika”
to see what the stage and thereabouts might look like
in a triumphant condition.
They looked very nicely, thank you. We can’t
recall when we last counted so numerous a display of
the female vertebrae as worn for dress-circle purposes.
A mole on the eighth is unexpectedly becoming, as
The whole front garden.
is a constellation of
freckles S.E. by S. of the
left shoulder-blade wing.
Apparently feminine
opinion remains divided
on what kind of vertebra
looks most effective with
evening frocks. The
sunken or submerged
kind seems to be running
the switchback railway
or Great Dividing Range
type very closely. There
is also a fair amount of
support for the boomer-
ang or Sydney Harbor
Bridge type.
Epidermis acreage
varies according to
wearer and cut of frock,
ranging from Great Open
Spaces to flat-in-Darlinghurst areas, with coloring from
schoolmarm-chalk white, through varying shades of
pink and 333’s red, to mottled or mahogany brown.
Frocking is equally colorful, and with floral
accompaniment extending from the simple gardenia
clamped tastefully behind the left ear to the whole
front garden worn across the entire bust facade, with
festoons of red roses worn in the Honolulu or Ancient-
Order-of-Bisons-regalia manner for variety, the dress
circle at the old Royal has rarely looked so stunning.
Male wear remains lamentably unenterprising
save for one or two praiseworthy attempts to carry
off with dignity the white or now-we-look-like-a-quart-
of-milk style of men’s evening dress. Apart from
these, nothing but the white-breasted-black-beetle
style ; with variety only in the
degree of intoxication simulated
by the ties, this ranging from
Pussyfoot or tied-by-the-wife
correctitude to droop-to-the-
top-stud or Central - Police-
Station - on - Monday-morning
style.
We are inspired to make
these few fashion comments
both by the ultra-fashionable
nature of the audience and the
industry of newspaper fashion
reporters on the d.c. stairway
as we entered.
Gaston.
There were also on the stairway a strikingly
handsome young member of the male species with
earphones on and beside him a representative expres-
sion of feminine daintiness yabbering away at a micro-
phone. So we take it that our old friend Bill Maloney
out at the Three Mile, our Uncle Roger in Long Bay
for socking the bailiff and the few others here and
there who were unable to be present will already be
aware of what a crush of notabilities, interspersed with
chronic deadheads, emulated a run of Alaskan salmon
in the Royal’s foyer for “Balalaika.”
Among indications inside of the stage’s trium-
phantness we noted particularly the excellent new idea
of putting all the lights out and letting Mr. MacCunn
conduct his orchestra in complete darkness. This is
another of the effective ways in which the legitimate
stage is replying to the opposition of the talkies. The
blackout not only allows people, especially the young
or a la carte couples, to establish themselves in reason-
able comfort for enjoying the show ; it also adds to
the happy chances of
theatre-going by making it
about 50-50 whether what
trips over your feet and
collapses into your lap
will be a semi-draped
houri or a pork butcher.
But the black-outing
is not to happen for a little while yet, and in the mean-
time, apart from the old Royal crowded with this
elegantly-draped audience, there is the programme’s
evidence
For one thing, this play we are about to see, “gen-
erally considered to be the finest contribution to the
musical stage for many years, has been running in
England for over 12 months.” It has come to Sydney
from a good run in Melbourne, and, moreover, it
was written by an Australian, of the grand old Aus-
tralian name of Eric Maschwitz.
Born at Killara, Mr. Maschwitz helps to illustrate
the splendid give-and-take exchanges that keep the
ties of Empire so firmly bound. Just as Australia
provides the players to play their Rugby League foot-
ball for them in the North of England, and Britain
provides us with a Mr. Hughes to show us not only
how to mend umbrellas but eventually how to repre-
sent Mr. Maschwitz’s birthplace as it deserves in our
Federal Parliament, so we give England Mr. Masch-
witz and he gives England a charming musical play
called “Balalaika” (evidently a Russian word meaning
a corroboree in a vodka dispensary). Then the Para-
mount picture people pay the record sum of £22,500
for the film rights, and so the vicious circle goes on.
And what more evidence of the stage triumphant
could anybody want than that, although Mr. Robert
Halliday “has been acting continuously for 10 years,
he has only appeared in five productions—the reason
being that each one enjoyed enormous success.”
We are also in-
terested to note
that, “contrary to
general belief, Mr.
Halliday is not an
American,” an an-
thropological
phenomenon which
he completely veri-
fies by refraining
from crooning, even
when, in this play,
though himself
born in Scotland,
he is exiled from
Russia to the lone-
liness and priva-
tio n s of Paris.
Russian aristocracy.
It is evidence, too, both of the stage triumphant and
of the new education completely victorious that Mr.
Halliday “learned to love the stage when he was going
to school in Glasgow.”
Even stronger evidence to be also gathered from
the programme is that Miss Margret Adams, the
“lovely young American artist” (hear, hear!), is “a
descendant of the famous Adams family, of which
John Adams, the second President of the United
States, was a member.” She would, therefore, be
related to Tom Adams.
And then, by way of showing how the stage-
triumphant’s triumphantness is not, as some might be
inclined to think, a sudden come up, we have a dash
of histrionically blue blood which seems almost as
old as the historical blue of Miss Adams.
This is present in the person of our old friend
Gaston Mervale, whose very name is a remi-
niscence, and who, in fact, was with Julius Knight
in “The Sign of the Cross” and a string of others;
Exchanges that keep the ties of Empire so firmly bound.
with Tittell Brune in “L’Aiglon,” “Parsival” and so
forth ; and with Nellie Stewart in “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury,” “Trilby” and other things that should be
household words around at the Nothing Under
Seventy Club.
But the most effective evidence of all, of course,
is the play itself.
After the theatre has been plunged in darkness
and Mr. MacCunn has had an apparently telepathic
Running about the house as pets.
bout with his reinforced platoon of orchestrians down
there in the blackness, a magic-lantern finger writes
the date and address of proceedings in gold scrip
across the curtain. Even the chocolate champing and
the engaging chatter which have so far put up a fair
opposition against the music give out before this
rather novel divertisement.
And so the curtain rises, and from now -on all
present —forgetting, as far as their minor reminders
will allow, the razor edges of collars, the brisket
verandah-fronts of flower-gardens, and the other little
means by which we make believe that we are that
which we are not —will be given over to a more potent
magic of make-believe —that which remains, as it has
been from time immemorial, the singular prerogative
of the stage.
Under this influence some candles stuck in empty
bottles, a huge stage tree and other incidental props
and scenery will be the entrance to a vodka dispen-
sary in old St. Petersburg, and the crowded troupe of
actors and actorines, decked out in romantic costumes,
will be gipsy entertainers at the vodka establishment
and Russian aristocracy having a night out.
The scene will shift 11 times in all, and we will
make-believe we’re in such places as the Marinsky
Theatre, St. Petersburg, a Russian Army h.q. in
Galicia, backstage in the Marinsky Theatre, in the Mar-
insky Theatre itself watching the Russian ballet per-
form, about these same premises when somebody
heaves a bomb at the Tsar’s box, present when the
revolutionaries swarm into the Palace, and subse-
quently exiled in Montmartre, where we’re now former
Russian aristocracy running a restaurant, and where
our own deeply-embedded love for the beautiful Lydia
Marakova will emerge from its many tribulations in
the embrace triumphant.
In the meantime we have shifted somewhat re-
markably about the globe and seen strange sights and
dancing and gorgeous costumes, heard graceful singing
and witnessed the funniness of Miss .Gordon rolling
in staggering postures on the floor with Mr. Nicol,
and of Miss Banvard supremely well plastered on
vodka in Montmartre. The quaint, seemingly almost
dwarfish smallness of the ballet dancers has intrigued
us, making us wish we could have such charming
little creatures running about the house as pets; Mr.
Mervale has afforded us the pleasure of his bell-like
enunciation and his attitude of the spirit of Garrick
defying the talkies; and
Mr. MacCunn’s orches-
trians have filled us with
admiration for their re-
peated victories over the
industry of the stage-
shifters.
And now the final cur-
tain is down, and we sud-
denly become our slightly-
disguised selves once more,
standing while they play
“God Save the King,”
thinking perhaps of the
stage triumphant, and
checking up on our count
of the vertebrae immediate 1 y
in front. We had it right
the first time.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
~ f > - ■*& -'■" V'/ jB
ygw,„ g neayr
*»*« ■*>>“■■ "**’ ,«.
; '
S&ii ' ■ ■■. 3 jl ii
: i
I mmm-
H■' !-: -. V-::: :•■:: ;X: -, >:.:; ' Pffiptap \ fe| |
$
?
a i
m
wm
:;
mi
«"* - ;-
**
Vcw^
lb \
wm
m
SR
*
m
m
m i
m
m
m
m
\
1
HI
mm
BS
3
H
Hi
1
H
H
■
s
m
M
Wine-Riled Casks awaiting Storage in one of the Vast Cellars Available.


NO SADNESS OF FAREWELL.
“Well, if a man can’t do better’n YOU”. . . .


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon tfe Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ST. NICHOLAS'S FAVORITES.
St. Nicholas was a native of Asia Minor who flour-
ished in Roman times and enjoyed a reputation for
benevolence. He gave dowries to young ladies who
otherwise would have been forced to abandon thoughts
of matrimony. Once, finding three young gentlemen
dead in a pub, he restored them to life.
Long after his death, Russia annexed him, declar-
ing St. Nicholas its patron saint. For ages afterwards
he was represented as coming from the north with
reindeer harnessed to a sleigh laden with gifts. He
is still celebrated in Moscow, though his name has
been ironically changed to Old Man Frost. Re<}, his
color, is the prevailing hue. The snow has lately
been dyed with it in spots where the Tsorni Voron,
or Black Maria, the Stalinist successor to the Christ-
mas sleigh, pulled up, to empty out the quaking forms
of Messrs. Karakhan, Yenukidze, Rohelshsvili and
others, whose last Christmas box was buried with
them.
So in his unseen passage through a troubled world
St. Nicholas found civil war lurking in Russia and—
for the second Christmas and from much the same
cause —raging in Spain. In Spain where the lines
meet the sound of any Christmas bell which a Spanish
optimist may have rung was most certainly drowned
by the scream of shells and the chatter of machine-
guns. Beyond the Pyrenees, France is a prey to fac-
tion ; beyond the Rhine, Germany is an armed camp ;
beyond the Alps, even the little Italian boys are
soldiers. Among the Little Peoples only the Scandi-
navians are not oppressed with cares. Austria and
Czechoslovakia anxiously watch the German border.
Yugoslavia and Rumania wonder how long they can
keep their racial minorities down. Greece, poor, over-
populated, theatre of a struggle between Communism
and Fascism, considers the situation in the Mediter-
ranean and trembles for the future.
In Palestine and Syria not even the armed forces
of the Mandatory Powers can hold rebellion and inter-
racial strife in check. In Irak a political plot culmi-
nated in assassination. In India the North-West Fron-
tier has had its minor war. And at the other end of
Asia China, defeated in battle, is in chaos.
From the Spanish dominions in North Africa
Moors cross the Mediterranean to fight for Franco.
In the French settlements, Moors, Tunisians and
Algerians plot against the Republic. If travellers are
to be believed, Abyssinia is still a running sore.
America has witnessed grisly slaughter on the borders
of Haiti and San Domingo, a Fascist coup d’etat in
Brazil, disorder among black men in the West Indies,
strikes with bloodshed in the United States itself.
Australia at Christmas was the only continent in
which old St. Nicholas would have found his ideals
of peace and plenty realised. It is the only continent
inhabited by men who belong to the same race and
are united by common ideals. No heads roll in
the Commonwealth. Every politician is free to speak
the truth as he sees it or the half-truth that will serve
his purpose. Outside the great cities there are no
slums, and what are called slums would be classed
as eligible suburbs in the industrial areas of Oriental
cities. Almost everybody has work, and those without
it are helped until they are in a position to help them-
selves.
Yes, Australia is a pleasant place to live in, none
better in the world. How long it will stay that way
depends on Australians themselves and their capacity
to profit by examples, good and bad. From the
example of China they should learn that no nation
occupying a desirable country can depend on other
nations for defence ; it must accept that first of all
national duties and rely upon its own exertions or it
will go under. Old Kriss Kringle’s method of recon-
ditioning youngsters slain while surfeited with food
and wine is inapplicable to nations.
Sectarianism in Queensland.
Considerable sectarian feeling was shown in some
of the Queensland Federal electorates two months ago,
and the indications are that there will be more at
the State elections. A Protestant Labor party has
upended itself. It is. of course, against “State aid
to denominational schools” and “undue preference
to any religious sect in Government employment” ;
and, though its leaders at present shrink from publicity,
they have acquired a postal address Box 809 L,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
N. S. Wales became possessed of a Protestant
Labor party in 1922. His name was Skelton, and he
headed the poll for Newcastle, then a five-member
Assembly electorate. He was re-elected in 1925 with
a greatly diminished majority, and that Parliament
saw his finish. In other words, Protestant Laborism
had merely a local and temporary existence, and it
was never quite clear in other quarters why Newcastle
was taken that way, one theory being that it was a
cynical protest against the faction fight between the
Dooleys and the McGirrs.
The Queensland shindy has been working up
for a long time. In 1936- it became known
that unemployed-relief money raised by taxes had
been spent on church properties, and a series of ques-
tions was put in Parliament to the Secretary for Labor
and Industry, Mr. M. P. Hynes. That gentleman
admitted that “it was the policy of the Government
to approve of intermittent relief labor being utilised
for ground-improvement work in connection with
denominational schools and churches, irrespective of
denomination,” adding that “it was not the practice to
approve of any particular amount for these works.”
Mr. Hynes seemed rather reluctant to go into
details, but in reply to a specific question he admitted
that in two years £112,769 of unemployed-relief money
had been spent on church properties “within the area
of the Brisbane City Council”—£Bs,3Bs of the
£112,769 on R.C. properties. He insisted that “the
amounts were expended exclusively on intermittent
relief workers’ wages, and in no case were any grants
made from the fund.”
The amounts therefore would have been similarly
expended on intermittent relief workers’ wages by the
Brisbane City Council if the workers had not been
diverted to denominational-school and church-ground
improvement work.
This very clumsy business was followed in 1937
by the advent of the Catholic Taxpayers’ Association,
which conducted a campaign for direct subsidies to
church schools at a singularly inopportune time. It
came out —partly because members of other taxpayers’
associations protested that they had a prior claim to
the title—that Archbishop Mannix was the head and
front of the movement. This was taken by old war-
horses of 1916 and 1917 as invitation to battle ; and
battle was joined.
It is natural for Catholics to want subsidies for
church schools, more especially as they get them in
Protestant England; and equally natural for subsi-
dies to be opposed by those whose faith is in free
and secular education. Between the zealots on both
sides there is a vast body of Australians who have
an open mind on the subject or who are indifferent.
These Australians cannot see that Protestantism has
suffered or is likely to suffer because the Prime Min-
ister is a Catholic, or that Catholicism has suffered
or is likely to suffer because the Premier of Queens-
land is a Presbyterian. Nor can they agree that the
destinies of the nation or any part of it should be
determined on such grounds, though many of them
might say that Labor should not employ such clumsy
servants as Mr. Hynes.
Australia has drifted into a doubtful, and perhaps
dangerous, age, in which national unity will have to
be achieved somehow. It can never again afford to
be a house divided against itself. New-world problems
cannot be faced and solved if we waste ourselves on
old-world quarrels of religion and race. And it must
be said that devout Christians are no longer in a
position to indulge in the luxury of quarrelling among
themselves. Communism is a threat to all the deno-
minations ; and Communism, with hordes of writing
men and professors in open or veiled sympathy with
it, is making headway,. particularly in Queensland.
A Communist candidate got 12,500 votes in Federal
Herbert. A large proportion was cast for him in
Townsville and in the Premier’s own subdivision of
Mackay.
Ludendorff.
The death of Ludendorff removes the last of the four
great generals who were at the top of the tree at
the end of 1917. There were others —Monash, for
instance, and Maude —who probably had it in them to
become as great as any of the four ; but circumstances
denied to them the opportunities granted to Foch,
Haig, Hindenburg and Ludendorff.
In appearance Ludendorff was every inch a
soldier. He had a jaw like a battering-ram and eyes
like gimlets. He entered the Prussian Army in 1873,
when the glory of Von Moltke was at its height, and
graduated to the General Staff under Schlieffen, maker
of the Plan on which the invasion of France through
Belgium was based.
When war broke out Ludendorff was 50. He had
a comparatively unimportant job on the Belgian front
when an unusual accident favored him —the sudden
death of the general in command of the storm troops
who were pressing Liege. At once Ludendorff was
transformed from a staff officer into a front-line com-
mander with a flair for quick and daring action.
He was not allowed to remain long in Belgium.
He was named chief-of-staff to Hindenburg on the
eastern front. His was the planning mind: Hinden-
burg, grim, massive, but riot so strong of purpose,
was the administrator. After they had wrecked the
invading Russians in the Masurian battles, the pair
became like one man. The Germans, who had grown
desperate under the Muscovite advance that threat*
ened both their eastern line and that of the Austrians,
who were wilting into defeat, hailed them as national
heroes.
Ludendorff followed Hindenburg to the west as
Chief Quartermaster-General when Hindenburg suc-
ceeded Von Falkenhayn as Chief of the General Staff
after the failure to take Verdun. Under their control
the German armies held back the French, British and
Belgians, drove Russia and Rumania out of the war
and inflicted a horrible defeat on Italy. Ludendorff
planned and directed the campaign of 1918 which
began with the overthrow of the British Fifth Army.
Very nearly successful at first, it failed in the end,
but the retreat which he and Hindenburg maintained
with a courage which even their worst enemies could
admire was a historic feat of arms.
In October, 1918, Ludendorff was superseded. A
broken man, he knew none of the glories and rewards
which came to the allied generals. He dabbled in
politics, became a member of the Reichstag, stood
for the Presidency of the Reich —and received a negli-
gible vote. Gradually he drifted into vague religious
activities and associations. His home was broken
up ; his wife divorced him. In his later years he was
notorious as an eccentric rather than famous as one
of the greatest German generals of modern times.
Had he died in the early part of 1918 his demise
would have been hailed by every German as an im-
measurable disaster, and by every allied soldier as a
vast step towards victory. As it is, it will be left to
remoter history to forget his post-war period and give
him his laurels as a soldier.
Teaching the Japanese Wisdom.
A Mr. Katz and a Mr. Monk, of the Melbourne
Trades Hall, have issued a manifesto urging the
Australian people to show their utter detestation of
what the Japanese are doing in China by refusing to
buy Japanese goods. The inference is that the*
Japanese have no right to be in China. But can the
people who say that the Japanese should not be
in China say where they should be?
The annual increase of population in the island
empire is in the region of a million. Most authorities
on the subject agree that the country is overpopulated
and that the familiar consequences of overpopulation
are showing themselves—undernourishment, restless-
ness, dissatisfaction. In other words, the Japanese
Government, which is presumably responsible for the
deeds of its armies and navy, is confronted with
precisely the same problem as the father of a family
who is unable to support them on his available
resources.
When a father is in that position the community
usually comes to his assistance in one way and another.
It does not do this with a unanimous opinion as to
how to do it. There are almost as many opinions
about it as there are individuals in the community.
One section says that to assist him to feed his family
would destroy his independence and sap the virility of
the nation. Others say that there would be no problem
if the country had socialism, Fascism, a different
financial system, more religion, less religion or the
single tax. The obvious deduction to be drawn from
these multitudes of counsellors is that there is not
enough collective wisdom in the community to solve
the problem. But nobody would say that the children
should be allowed to die by starvation^
Nor would anybody be so inhuman as to say that the
surplus Japanese population should be allowed to perish
from inanition. But nobody can say how they could
be prevented from doing so unless there was enough
food to feed the surplus population. Very few people
would be prepared to admit that the Japanese are going
about providing them with food in a sensible fashion,
but when one asks how otherwise it could go about
it one gets such a diversity of opinions that one can
only conclude that the question is not yet even
remotely in the realm of scientific discussion.
When European nations were confronted with
the same problem that confronts Japan at the present
moment, they reacted to it in precisely the same
manner—by invading and appropriating the lands of
other people. There may have been better ways of
meeting the situation, but if there were nobody knew
them, or if anybody knew them they were mis-
understood, because it is perfectly certain that when
people understand what is actually to their advantage
they invariably act in accordance with their under-
standing. As Socrates said a couple of thousand
years ago, wisdom and virtue are one, and if indi-
viduals or nations make the world a more ugly place
for themselves to live in it is because they think
they are trying to make it more beautiful.
The chances are that the Japanese will make
fools of themselves in China. In the result they may
convert an easygoing race of 400,000,000 people,
content to muddle along as they had done for close
on 20 centuries, into a race bursting with patriotism
and burning for vengeance. Appearances are that
the Japanese will industrialise these people, and when
they have succeeded they will want to de-industrialise
them to prevent them from driving Japanese in-
dustrialists out of the market.
However much the Australian people may detest
Japan’s behavior, to try to give it the wisdom to
support its population by helping to bring it one
step nearer starvation would be like trying to give
the father of a family the wisdom to feed his family
by fining him for his inability to do it.
Messrs. Katz and Monk have lost sight of the
fundamental problem. They are not alone in that,
since more distinguished individuals like Bertrand
Russell have joined them in advocacy of the boycott
business. They might as well start boycotting Eng-
land, France, Italy and Spain as a way of making them
give Africa back to the negroes or putting a sanitary
cordon round Australia to induce the Federal Govern-
ment to give the country back to the aboriginals.
FENG-SHUL


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Twenty Millions for Wool.
Less wool was sold in the first five months of the
season than during the corresponding period of last
season —869,000 bales of greasy and 117,000 bales of
scoured in 1937, 932,000 bales of greasy and 127,000
bales of scoured in 1936 ; but there was less erratic
speculative buying. Japan bought £1,060,000 worth
against £18,500 worth last year. Foreign countries
bought £10,921,000 worth and British countries
£9,210,000 worth. Actual exports for the five months
were valued at £20,132,000 against £20,236,866 for
the corresponding period last season.
In the disturbed conditions of the world and its
currencies, this result is satisfactory.
Buying by Japan became inevitable early in
December, and the result was extended clearances and
higher prices. Prices, at 14.6 d. on Sydney, are Iyd.
per pound more than at the season’s lowest ebb. At
the final Sydney offering for the year nearly all the
well-grown wools found buyers. In Geelong com-
petition was keen and prices on the rise. Quality for
quality, average prices for the season are up a bit on
the average for the first five months of 1936.
Japan’s foreign trade is seasonal. Its import
season is naturally the early part of the year, and it
is now definitely in the wool market. The two surprises
are the holding-off of Bradford, whose buyers seem
to have anticipated a lowering of levels, and of the
U.S.A., which, on last year’s performance—263,ooo
bales —and on the statistical position, was expected
to do • better than the small effort which its agents
have so far made. If they come in later, it will have
a very definite effect on the market for better-class
wools.
In any case, the worst of the season is over.
Japan must buy unless prevented by a cataclysm.
British buying will probably be accelerated. The
position of the Australian grower is fairly comfort-
able. It would be more comfortable if the proportion
of high-class wools were bigger than it actually is. A
lot of improvement in the all-round average can still
be made.
Two Philosophic Old Politicians.
The very unexpected stroke of misfortune which
deprived Senator Pearce of the leadership of the
House in which he is the only remaining 1901 mem-
ber, and is depriving President Lynch of the Presi-
dency, was taken by those old politicians in a philoso-
phical spirit. It means political extinction for both,
but neither has been heard to utter a testy word.
“What are you going to do?” Mr. Pearce was
asked. “You see what I’m doing now,” he replied—
“going through my papers. I’m collecting all my
records of the Great War, and I think I’ll write a
book.” As Minister of Defence throughout that
heroic period, he is in a position to make a valuable
addition to A.I.F. history ; and it should be a worthy
book.
Mr. Lynch is going back to his Westralian farm.
Taking leave of his fellow-Senators before Christmas,
he counselled them to aim at restoring “that under-
standing and sweet reasonableness which characterised
the relationships of Parliamentary opponents in days
gone by.”
There are as many notions as to how a country
should be governed as there are brands of tobacco or
whisky. Those who hold fast to a certain political
view must concede to others the right to hold different
views; otherwise their intolerance becomes tyranny.
“With malice toward none, with charity for all,”
should be the nation’s motto, alike in its internal
affairs and in its relations with other peoples.
This glorious country cannot afford to be without
the blessing of friendship. Amicable relations between
all sections of a community are essential to its welfare.
The pioneer of the backblocks cannot live without culti-
vating friendship with his neighbors. He realises that
fact to the full when his homestead is threatened by
fire or when sickness enters his home. And the need of
the individual is also the need of nations. Without
the friendship of other peoples, Australia cannot endure.
We shall not have that friendship if we adopt the attitude
that we are “it” and are entitled to dictate terms.
Such sentiments do not often fall from the lips of
beaten politicians. They are as creditable to Mr.
Lynch’s head as they are to his heart.
An Object Lesson.
One of the most striking features of Australian Aerial
Medical Services, an undertaking as typically Aus-
tralian as there is in the Commonwealth, is its lack
of the crippling regulations bred so promiscuously
these days by all the seven Governments and their
hosts of departments and boards. There is a breadth
of vision and an unquenchable virility in the develop-
ment of the A.A.M.S. that wouldn’t be there if the
service were cluttered up with red-tape.
To-day it is a £20,000-a-year concern, still growing.
There are flying-doctor bases at Cloncurry, Wyndham,
Port Hedland, Broken Hill and Kalgoorlie; five doctors,
five ’planes, five radio bases with a third of the con-
tinent to cover. The sixth base is anticipated by Alice
Springs during 1938, with another radio man, another
doctor and another charter ’plane.
Scattered over this third part of Australia are
more than 100 pedal radio sets; when Broken Hill,
Kalgoorlie and, later on; Alice Springs perfect their
bases, this total will increase again. Apart from odd
gift sets, station-owners themselves pay the £75 or
£BO installation price of the pedal transceivers. They
put the outback in touch with the world beyond the
horizon as well as with the doctor.
Each base station costs about £3OOO a year to main-
tain, complete with doctor’s salary. Settlers can’t meet
the full cost, so executive committees in each State
collect contributions from city clubs and organisa-
tions. There is an annual Federal grant of £5OOO, first
made available in 1936-37, and the service also bene-
fits from such trust funds as that of the late H. V.
McKay, of Sunshine (Vic.). The estate of that great
Australian manufacturer has given £lOOO a year since
1928, when the amount enabled the original flying-
doctor experiment to be tried at Cloncurry. Esti-
mated revenue from all sources for the current year
won’t exceed £lB,OOO, including earnings, and another
£2OOO will be needed to keep the service in a position
to continue its progressive work for Australia.
How does the A.A.M.S. administer its far-flung
affairs? As far as possible, control is decentralised.
There are State “section” committees in each main-
land capital, Westralia having an additional one at
Kalgoorlie to watch the eastern goldfields. A Federal
council, composed of only two representatives from
each section, is the general pivot—and the services
of all executive officers are honorary.
Judging by the success achieved and the progress
made in only nine years, it is a system that suits the
independent character of the Australian. It is simple
and efficient, and neither outback nor city contributor
sees his donations being diverted to any other purpose
than that for which they were collected.
Psychology and the Law.
Dear Bulletin, —The N. S. Wales speed-limit law
came into operation on December 23. Within built-
up areas, where there is street lighting, it incontinently
became an offence for a car to travel at more than
30 m.p.h. In other areas, drivers may exceed 50 m.p.h.
at their own peril.
It is a principle of British law that no man shall
be found guilty until proved guilty. But under Mr.
Bruxner’s law anybody found driving more than 50
m.p.h. on an open road may be arrested, and the
onus will not be on the police to prove him guilty of
dangerous driving but on him to prove himself inno-
cent. In many cases this will be difficult.
On the morning of Christmas Eve I made a
hurried survey of the channels by which traffic reaches
the heart of Sydney. There was one universal fact:
nobody was taking the slightest notice of the new
regulations.
I stopped for petrol on the Pacific Highway near
the Harbor Bridge. There were a dozen cars ahead
of me when I pulled out. A blast, like the mating
cry of an angry mastodon, behind me heralded the
approach of a double-decker Government bus, which
rolled past. I kept close enough to it as far as the
tollgates on the city side of the bridge to be able to
read its number-plate continuously. My speedometer
never registered under 40 m.p.h., and the maximum
speed was over 45 m.p.h. Even at that a number
of cars passed both of us.
A check of 20 cars entering Oxford-street from
Randwick showed only seven within the speed limit,
and two were heavily-laden lorries. A check in
William-street, which carries the busy King’s Cross-
Darling Point-Rose Bay traffic, showed not more than
half a dozen out of 30 within the limit.
Generally speaking, the law was being ignored,
and there is a good reason for it. While there are
more traffic laws operating in Sydney and some other
capitals than in most countries, enforcement is desul-
tory and ineffective. In England there are six motorist
signals, and anybody who ignores them is certain to
be called up and admonished. N. S. Wales acknow-
ledges only three, but they are ignored oh the road
by 70 per cent, of motorists. The bulk of police pro-
secutions are for parking and ether trivial offences
affecting congestion rather than safety.
I was in London during the general strike of 1926
when emergency traffic regulations were issued. It
needed only their publication in the newspapers to
ensure that they would be instantly obeyed.
Australians are naturally as law-abiding as the
English, but the kind of laws with which they have
to put up and the manner in which those laws are
enforced or not enforced brings authority into con-
tempt.
If the police concentrated on dealing with more
serious offences which endanger life, instead of on
trivialities, and patrolled the roads in such a manner
as to assure the punishment of more dangerous
offenders, there would soon be a different atmosphere.
—Yours etc., El V.
"Finest in the World."
The old claim that N. S. Wales possesses “the finest
education system in the world” has been abandoned,
even by the old claimants, since the gentlemen of the
New Education Fellowship riddled it at their discus-
sions. Delegates to the N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federa-
tion conference were critical of the whole show, from
“tripartite control by the Minister, the Under-Secretary
and the Public Service Board” to buildings and equip-
ment.
A resolution that present school buildings and
equipment are out of date and insufficient for the needs
of modern education was carried unanimously.
Many of the structures thus condemned are bare
barracks, set in deserts of tarred or packed-clay
grounds. Courses taught are as bare, classes are too
large, and in many cases salaries are too small.
Youngsters learn to write laboriously in French
that the cochon is in the sty. This in places where
they might more profitably learn to tell whether the
cochon is a Berkshire or a Middle York, and what
must be done to him to make him an export pig.
Children in woolgrowing districts are taught to
trace acanthuses in drawing-books. Lessons in wool-
classing and the use and maintenance of shearing-
machihes would be more to the point.
Farmers’ sons end their schooling with no know-
ledge of farm botany or veterinary science, but often
with an intermediate certificate to show that they have
been successfully crammed for an examination in
subjects useless to them. And at an age when, in
other days, a city youngster was deep in his appren-
ticeship, making his own chest of tools and looking
forward to the day when he would be a skilled jour-
neyman, the contemporary city youth is far too often
still wrestling with the conjugation of mensa or look-
ing for a clerk’s job in hopeless competition with
girls. There are six Ministers of Education, each with
a personal staff ; and the whole six are demanding
Commonwealth money on the ground that technical
education has been starved.
The British system is far better than ours. The
Government provides ample funds, and its inspectors
go through the work of the schools and help to guide
policy. But the guidance is restricted to main prin-
ciples, and districts are encouraged to control the
technical side of schooling to suit particular needs.
In Australia under the six Ministers education is the
prey of provincialism and of a besotted sort of
economy.
In Regulation Land.
Victorian Mallee farmers, who have had many
worries since 1931, struck a new one the other day.
They have grown a lot of wheat this year, and, for
once, the price is pretty good (though it could be
better), and they were feeling on excellent terms with
themselves when the news went round that a Trans-
port Board inspector and a policeman had grabbed
some Sea Lake carriers for overloading. This engen-
dered fears that the shifting of wheat from weather-
exposed paddock dumps to the shelter of railway
sidings might be delayed long enough for threatening
rains to reach and ruin it.
With a year’s work in jeopardy, the Mallee men
roared to such purpose that their grain reached the
sidings before the weather broke. Certainly the roars
did not greatly disturb the complacency of the Trans-
port Board. Its secretary climbed out of its pile of
regulations and shoved the blame on the police,
who, he said, “fix the load capacities of motor-trucks.”
He added that
Board members made it clear to interested parties
in the wheat districts when the matter of load limits
was raised that, so far as the board’s officers were con-
cerned, no action would be taken to interfere unneces-
sarily.... It was agreed that excess loading, within
reasonable limits, in local carrying during the harvest
would not be regarded seriously.
Perhaps the board omitted to tell all its inspec-
tors of the intention to overlook loading regulations
in the interests of seasonal expediency. But -truck-
owners heard something of the sort, and when a few
drivers were caught with loads exceeding the vague
limits of the board’s generosity further confusion was
added to that bred by the tangle of regulations applying
to the drivers of commercial vehicles. It is explained
that “owners have registered their trucks on a lower
unit basis than they are actually entitled to,” and
have thus “been under a misapprehension regarding
their privileges”—if the board has left them any.
According to Hollway, M.L.A., Victoria has
three different Transport Regulation Acts and 11 sets
of regulations applicable to operators. Truck drivers
have other motorists’ laws to obey; in fact, Mr.
Hollway has totted up “at least 25 different sets of
regulations and 15 different Acts of Parliament” with
which “the ideal motorist should be familiar.”
Wanted, a Select Committee.
The bankruptcy case of the naval stoker’s wife who
disputed, on constitutional grounds, the Common-
wealth Government’s right to charge her for a wire-
less receiving-set license, and who, when ruled out by
the High Court, failed to pay its costs, £164, was
reopened to admit of another witness being examined.
In her evidence, the woman had said that the
original summons was served and the fine (£1) im-
posed in her absence; she was informed that the
summons had been taken by her Darlinghurst land-
lord, Ivan Morgan, to T. F. Williams, a solicitor. The
solicitor, she asserted, told her that she had nothing
to pay. She proceeded to make the following state-
ments: —
Williams and Morgan came one night and put a
paper on the table. Morgan said “Sign it; there is
nothing in it; he just wants to go to the High Court.”
Witness signed; she read the paper but “hadn’t the
education to know what it was.” She was told the
only thing she had to worry about was the £1 fine
and the Bs. costs.
It was Morgan who appeared last week, and his
evidence was in conflict with that of the woman. She
had shown him the summons, he said, and asked
him to recommend a solicitor. He recommended Mr.
Williams, who was his own solicitor, took her to the
office and remained throughout the interview.
She inquired whether she had “any chance of getting
out of it.” The solicitor said “Yes,” but she might
have to appeal to a higher Court. She replied that, she
did not mind that. Asked whether she had any money,
she said “Yes.” The solicitor then wrote out a docu-
ment, which she signed, and told her that if she won
the case very likely she would have nothing to pay,
and that if she lost the Commonwealth might ask her
for a bill of costs, and again it might not. At the
interview, there was nothing said to the effect that
there would be nothing to pay beyond the fine if the
case were lost, or that there would be something
coming to the woman if it were won.
On a subsequent occasion [Morgan went on] he and
the solicitor called on the woman, who had in the
meantime changed her address, and the solicitor
informed her that the Sydney “Sun” had published an
article which might prejudice her case. She then
signed a document authorising him to take proceedings
for contempt of Court.
The document in question and a letter authoris-
ing the solicitor to appear for her at the Police Court,
and “to take the matter to the Appeal Courts if you
so advised me,” were referred to by Morgan’s counsel.
The Registrar made an order that they should be pro-
duced to the Court. Counsel objected that the Court
had no power to order the production of documents
which were not the witness’s property.
The Bulletin remains of the opinion that the
circumstances warrant the Commonwealth Parliament’s
intervening to the extent of appointing a select com-
mittee. In these matters select committees can be
trusted to see that facts are established, wrongs righted
and virtue vindicated.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jaques”: Our Sydney firm was
pleased with the sales of its lines by a
Brisbane storekeeper, and just before
Christmas it was decided that a present
of some kind was indicated—something
for his wife, perhaps. We wired our
Brisbane agent:
Is Jones, the Valley, married, or does
he smoke? Hereby authorise appropriate
gift if either.
Back came a reply:
, Jones not married, doesn’t smoke. Await
further suggestion.
We wired:
Give him couple bottles whisky.
A telegram came back:—-
Jones doesn’t drink. Try again.
We began to feel sorry we’d ever thought
of a present. However:
Take Jones round to Pike’s and buy
him new hat.
I came away on vacation just after we
got the following reply:
Jones member no-hat brigade. Suggest
you give him pair trousers. He wears
those.
“Barleywine”: If the nation continues
to increase the social amenities, England
may yet regain the prefix “Merrie.” A
company has been formed to vend beer
from penny-in-the-slot machines operat-
ing night and day, cartons holding three-
quarters of a pint for a tanner. The
company avers that it has the best legal
opinion to say it is within the licensing
laws, but it is doubtful whether the
Bungs of Britain in their assembled might
will let it go at that,
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Fate played a queer,
grim trick in Brisbane the other day. A
passer-by found an elderly man insen-
sible on a path in the Botanic Gardens.
The ambulance was called, but by the
time it arrived life was extinct. The body
was taken to the morgue ; the morgue-
keeper was not on duty, although he
should have been there half an hour
before, and after some telephoning an
assistant arrived. The body was taken in,
placed on a slab, and the handkerchief
which hid the dead man’s face removed.
The startled assistant realised that it was
the morgue-keeper himself who lay there.
He had died of heart disease as he was
walking in to commence duty.
* * * *
“Kerys”: We were coming down by
train from Brisbane, and at Warwick a
depressed-looking girl joined our com-
pany. She had, she told us, been a gov-
erness at a Far West station, and had left
in a hurry. “I really couldn’t stay a
minute longer,” she said. “There’s a
plague of blowflies, and the sheep are
dying in hundreds. The station has an
imported pedigree ram worth a tremen-
dous sum, and everybody’s wondering if
he will be saved. This morning the
bookkeeper told me he was off-color,
so as the car was coming to our
station I said I was ill and left.
My nerves really couldn’t stand the
strain.” At Newcastle a telegram was
handed to her. It was from the station
bookkeeper. The ram was dead.
* * * *
“Bronzewing”: Tattooing (B.
24/11/’37)? At the Ayr (Scotland) races
before the war, among camping caravans,
spud-peelings and waste-paper. I visited
a lady in a tent. She claimed to be the
“most exquisitely tattooed woman in the
world.” On her back was a hunting
scene: red-coated huntsmen, jumping
horses, fences, dogs and a fox. Front
elevation showed a seascape and numer-
ous other studies down to her toes. Gaps
in between were filled with butterflies
that gave the impression of having settled
for the moment. The wings were particu-
larly well done. The lady informed me
she was showing all the law would allow.
Old Law was fairly generous.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Eastern skippers would
smile broadly at the news that the Malay
crew of the City of Delhi refused, for
religious reasons,” to sail in company
with two pedigreed Canadian pigs
addressed to N.S.W. Millions of China-
men in Malaya and Siam and more mil-
“O Solly Me-ow!”
lions in Java and Sumatra must have
their bit of pork, and the vast majority
of the animals are reared on the island
of Bali, which is mainly inhabited by
Hindus. The pig-boats, -manned by
Mohammedans, transport the porkers
from producer to consumer by thou-
sands every week. The pigs are enclosed
singly in an unsubstantial basketwork
crate that fits as tight as a corset, and the
shippers pile the crates one above the
other and as deep as safety will permit.
In the Borneo-Singapore trade humane
skippers sometimes require each squeal-
ing animal to be given a dose of opium.
* * * *
“E.E.”: Sydney’s unique street (B.
15/12//37) has a mate in Bairnsdale, Vic.
There are wide, tree-shaded lawns all
along the centre of the main avenue. All
businesses houses and shops close for an
hour at noon, and then the oases fairly
buzz with activity. On the bi-weekly
stock-sale days the street-lawns are
crowded with farmers and their women-
folk.
* * * *
“Xo”: Big Business can’t be as heart-
less as its minions declare —or perhaps
the Christmas spirit had a lot to do with
this. One concern, with branches through
the Commonwealth, offered a seasonal
sliding-scale bonus to managers with
three or more children. One applicant
notified head office that he had three
kids; he neglected to add that there was
another on the way. His better-half
wasn’t so backward, and in a separate
letter suggested that the fourth shouldn’t
be disqualified just because it missed by
a month! After enjoying the diversion
in their day’s business, the bosses agreed
with her, but I’m still doubtful if her
husband thinks the increased bonus
cheque compensates for what was obvi-
ously a male defeat in a domestic debate,
* * * *
“Mak”: A “lonely, unemployed
orphan girl, 18,” advertised for pen-
friends. One of the thousands who
answered her call was an Annandale
(Sydney) man ; in due course he received
_ _
a reply, together with a photograph of
a snappy brunette. The letter, full of
girlish giggles, asked his opinion, inter
alia, of “love,” and commented slyly that
there didn’t seem to be much in it.
As one girl said to me, “It makes fools
of boys and gets girls into trouble!”
The Sydneysider wrote again—it was a
very snappy brunette—and supplied, by
request, a stamped and addressed en-
velope for reply as the “orphan girl”
said she was “on the rocks properly.”
One thing led to another, and soon he
was sending her a few quid to buy her-
self some clothes; he even toyed with
the idea of marrying this helpless but
desirable stranger. The spanner was
thrown from Hobart (Tas.), where a prac-
tical cove in a newspaper office began
to wonder how an “orphan girl, unem-
ployed,” could keep on shelling out six
bob a week to indulge in the pleasure of
pen-friends. He interested the police in
her case, and in a Melbourne court the
other day the Annandale man had his
first view of the “orphan girl” who had
won from him such tender thoughts,
Mie was a beefy 27-year-old Yarra-
side shrewd-head, most definitely male,
rhe Court learned that the orphan-girl”
advertisements had won the distant
chivalry of many other romantic Aus-
tralians and her’ letters had brought
more than £ll4, three G.P.O. boxes
were required to cope with the “orphan
girl s correspondence. Now, unless
she” behaves himself for two years,
he’ll go to clink for three months.
* * * *
“Mak”: Traffic control by corner
lights, long a Melbourne pride, is being
advanced a further step as a result of an
experiment at the Queen- and Collins-
street intersection. There the lights are
being “traffic-actuated,” the density of
approaching vehicles ringing the changes.
F’rinstance, a stream of cars proceeding
in one direction keeps the “Go” light
on until a lull enables crossways traffic
to snatch the right-of-way. The gadget
is worked by an electrically-operated
road-pad over which the cars must pass,
Pedestrian lights, of the “Cross Now”
variety which stops all vehicular traffic
and sends swarms of footsloggers from
one corner to another, were also tested,
but subsequent vehicular holdups noted
by the City Council traffic bosses will
probably rule them out.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Old bows in
the Tower of London armory (B.
8/11/ ’37)? Yes, kings’ bows, steel bows,
hunting bows, but not one of the plain
yew staves with which Agincourt and
many another English battle was won.
And “Cape Blackwood” surely has the
wrong MacGregor report. Tugiris are
not Western Papuans, but mountaineers
from far inside Dutch territory ; they
never use canoes, and their raiding equip-
ment comprised the 7ft. to Bft. bamboo
bow, 4ft. arrows, mancatcher loop, head-
slings and a stone tomahawk. In aimed
dre bave seen them put arrow after
arr ° w in A to . a ,, 2ft - mark at / ,f aced , 90 f
yards. And they understand the art of
J ropping fire a / long ranges as well as
ever did William’s Norman archers at
Hastings, but would outrange them 100
P-C. For extreme ranges they use the
Jfgs to extend the bow to capacity, as
mentions-
* * * *
: J be maraa £ or
and -ormms increases. I am able to
r , ead wb,le eat / n g W bun-and-butter in
the modest cafeteria I patronise that the
cosmetician awaits me in his cosme-
torium.
* * * *
Ex-Mister”: Steamer passengers who
are peevish at the prospect of a few
hours’ delay in the Bight before reaching
Fremantle ought to be told of the barque
Garthneill. Chartered in Melbourne to
load at Bunbury (W.A.), she left on July
6, 1919. After covering 2226 miles
against contrary winds, she reached
Sydney, 570 miles in the wrong direction,
on the 29th. Refitting and provisioning,
she sailed again on August 14. Meeting
more westerly weather at the Promoa-
tory, her skipper decided to use the wind
instead of fighting it, and shaped a course
south of Cape Horn. After a wholly
fair-wind run of 14,563 miles, averaging
over 191 miles per day, with frequent
bursts up to 300, he duly reached Bun-
bury from the westward, 76 days out
from Sydney. There, he took up his
charter and was complimented by the
owners on his good sense.
* * t v
Ente Marid : I am one of those in-
terested in a young B entle man featured
as . “ the yod f. llm g boundary-rider.”
. 1S doting public is told in one lead-
mg . broadcast journal that he learnt
to nde down on tbe farm” yes, farm.
my ex P er i enc e boundary-riders don’t
yodeL Where there are boundary-riders
*bere aie usually few echoes and
ewer . mountains. However, the young
mai } is apparently prosperous at his pro-
fession since he has just got married and
is taking his bride to Maoriland for a
“hillbilly honeymoon.” That should get
a laugh in Tennessee, where the term
implies that the bridegroom is about 60
and has married a barelegged cabin lass
of nine or so. I trust the Maorilanders
will not enter into the cosmopolitan spirit
Q f the bridal and try to celebrate it
Tennesseean fashion by chasing the
bridegroom with sawn-off shotguns and
a rope, because the honeymooners look
to me as nice a couple of young Aussies
as I have seen photographed for a long
time.
THE S.S.S.-ERS.
“Australia owes much to convicts, and should not
be ashamed to own what sensitive sesquicentenary
souls would conceal.” —John Abbott (B. 15I12I’81).
Out on the stupid and snobbish convention
Settlers like these should be robbed of their
dues,
Sidetracked as something that’s tactless to men-
tion
At our spectacular birthday shivoos!
Pause and consider that, though their appear-
ing
Here came from causes beyond their controls,
Lags did their whack of robust pioneering,
Sensitive sesquicentenary souls.
What in the world does it worry Italians
That, at its founding, illustrious Rome
Furnished to outlaws and rips and rapscallions,
Ishmaelites elsewhere, a refuge and home?
Many fair cities had birthstained beginnings.
Why, when we’re calling the First Fleeters’
rolls,
Grudge those who came by compulsion then-
innings,
Sensitive sesquicentenary souls?
Maybe they left, for her benefit, Britain,
Paying the penalty Justice empowers;
Nevertheless in their records it’s written
Many a one of them came here for ours.
Hence to recall them with shrinking disfavor,
Blots that we fain would erase from our
scrolls,
Carries a strong Pharisaical flavor,
Sensitive sesquicentenary souls.
Picture them, gangs for the lash and the chain-
ing,
Struggling and sweltering under their loads,
Founders withal —do they merit disdaining,
Fellers of forests and builders of roads?
Let me suggest that it’s thankless and grum of
you,
Hustling them into oblivion’s holes.
There, but for God’s grace, went forebears of
some of you
Sensitive sesquicentenary souls.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Von Blutundgutzen”:' I was dis-
appointed to read the namby-pamby ac-
counts of the so-called “Pagan” rites ob-
served at Ludendorff’s funeral. They
resolved into a quiet burial in a quiet
garden to the accompaniment of “some
hymnlike songs.” If Tacitus is to be
believed, the pagan Germans whom the
dead warlord professed to emulate were
planted in much more striking fashion.
Their favorite horses, dogs, slaves —male
and female —and other domestic impedi-
menta had their throats cut and accom-
panied their lord to the abodes of bliss.
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: Faith-healing in respect to
the written word is strongly imbued in
all Oriental minds; even the matter-of-
fact Malay believes that the ink washed,
from the pages of the Koran will pro-
vide a medicine powerful enough to cure
the most serious illness. John Chinaman
goes further. Should he run short of a
drug it doesn’t worry him overmuch. All
he has to do is to write the name of the
stuff a dozen times on a sheet of
rice paper. This is then burned and the
ashes mixed with the other ingredients.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: The chances are that
the mystery of Russell’s disappearance
(B. 22/12/’37) will rival that of Leich-
hardt’s. When Colson crossed the Simp-
son desert in 1936, climatic conditions
were much more favorable than when
Russell started off in September. From
experiences on the fringe of the Simp-
son I can imagine the trials Russell would
have to face in the endeavor to urge
thirsty and weary camels over the steep
hills of loose sand. Unless he has found
a soak and is waiting for rain to allow
him to proceed or turn back, another
victim can be marked up against the
Centralian desert.
* * * *
“Spots”: It’s news to me that the
cheetah has taken to killing humans
(B. 22/12/’37). I haven’t much faith in
the “All India States People’s Confer-
ence,” whatever that is, which report’s
that the doglike cat has killed and in-
“But, dear, you're a DIFFERENT TYPE!”
jured some 50 people in Cutch. In the
first place the report says the beasts were
imported from Africa by the Maharajah
“to satisfy his lust for shikar,” that
little bit being obvious anti-M. propa-
ganda. The native States are full of
cheetahs bred in captivity for hunting
for centuries, and importation from
Africa would be superfluous. Further,
neither in India nor Africa has the
cheetah been known to attack humans.
The reported casualties may be correct
—though knowing the babu’s talent for
ground and lofty lying writer doubts it
—but' they look more like the work of a
confirmed man-eating tiger.
# * * *
The office antiquary has an idea:
Said The Bulletin on Sept. 11, 1886: “That
venerable and benevolent millionaire Mr.
Thomas Walker, of Yaralla, Concord, Sydney,
died last week, aged 82. There are a lot
of people who are quite sorry it wasn’t another
Thomas Walker [a reference to the Tommy
“Un'erstart, me man, we Want WORKERS in this firm!"
who was long afterwards to become a Labor
Attorney-General in Westralia]. Deceased left
£2,000,000, of which his daughter gets £500,000
and the probate duty fund £80,000.” Now,
after 51 years, the daughter is dead, leaving
part of her personal estate to the Diggers
League, and Yaralla is in the market. In
the advertisements the homestead is described
as “a historic mansion, of a distinctive and
dignified type of architecture,” and that it cer-
tainly is. The land consists of 130 acres, “with
extensive frontages to the waters of Yaralla
Bay”; the gardens are “renowned for their
design and beauty”; there are a swimming
pool, “a Norwegian cottage, erected in a pleas-
ing setting,” and 11 other cottages. But
when the auctioneers tried to sell it, as a
whole or in parts —“mansion and about 76
acres,” “mansion and about 12 acres” there
were no bids.
My idea is that the Diggers’ League should
buy it, make the mansion its headquarters and
convert the estate into a home for burnt-out
Diggers. The State Government could be fairly
asked to help with a grant towards the pur-
chase and sufficient for models of famous
battlefields, on the lines of the one that Cor-
poral Trim made for Uncle Toby, with
cycloramas like those (Battle of Waterloo and
Battle of Gettysburg) which delighted our fore-
fathers. The preparation and care of such
additions would give the veterans an abiding
interest in the place, and small charges for
inspection would help to make it self-support-
ing. Burnt-out Diggers will have to be cared
for sooner or later, and you couldn’t get a
nobler background for a beginning than
Yaralla.
“J.D.S.”: The bed of Wyong
River (N.S.W.) has silted up owing to
heavy floods, and launch traffic is almost
at a standstill. Erina Shire Councillors
shook their heads when the question of
dredging was brought up, then a resident
who owns a large
launch solved the
problem. He
claimed that by
loading the launch
to ,the gunwale
he could force
the propeller
down close to the bottom, thus
stirring up the silt, which would be
carried off in solution by the suction in
the vessel’s wake as it proceeded down-
stream. Councillors were dubious at first,
but the idea is now working with surpris-
ing results.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The impulse to “amuck”
(B. 15/12/’37) is conditioned by precisely
the same conflict that produces the neu-
rosis so fashionable in Western lands. The
victim finds himself unable to reconcile
his individual desires with his social con-
science. He wants to do what he has
been taught he shouldn’t ought. The
“trivial incident” is not the cause of
but the excuse for his outbreak, when he
will tear through the market-place with
the desire to kill as many of his fellow-
citizens as possible .before he is killed
himself. Like the happy dispatch of
the Japanese, the custom is falling into
disrepute because British and Dutch
authorities have stripped it of most of
its romance. Nowadays an amuck is
liable to be smartly caught in a forked
stick, shoved into a cell, produced in
court in a couple of days, duly brought
before the Beak, tried and, if found
guilty, obliged to serve his sentence with
the full rigor of the law.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: Bishops don’t necessarily
take their names from their see town
(B. 15/12/’37). Here in Australia we
have seven who don’t-—Car-
pentaria, North Queensland,
N.-W. Australia, Willochra,
Gippsland, Riverina and Tas-
mania. Neither are size and
importance factors of conse-
quence. Next to the Pope,
the world’s most important
ecclesiastic is his Grace of
Canterbury, acknowledged
alike by all Anglicans,
whether their political allegi-
ance be to the King of Eng-
land or the President of the
U.S.A. And Canterbury
would fit into any Sydney
suburb.
“Sastrugi”: A little-known but con-
sistent gold producer is Payne’s Find on
the Murchison. When discovered about
40 years ago the district was a paradise
of wildflowers—very hard to imagine now
after years of drought—and so impressed
was Payne that he suggested all the
mines be named after garden flowers.
The Carnation, the Orchid, the Aster, the
Sweet William, the Rose and the Mari-
gold are still producing.
•j: sjt #
“R.H.P.”: Infantile paralysis is a ter-
rible scourge. A Hobart woman en-
gaged in making a Christmas pudding
was called away from the job for a few
minutes, and returned to find her
previously healthy infant stretched stiff
on the floor. She picked the doomed
kid up and bolted for the doctor. The
doc. sniffed its mouth and advised the
flustered matron to put the brandy bottle
out of the nipper’s reach next time she
made a Christmas pudding. The kid got
over its glorious jag on the way home.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Not only is the
Admiralty said to be favorably consider-
ing the issue of
beer in lieu of the
time-honored tot
of Nelson’s Blood,
but the War
Office is offering
a greatly in-
creased number
of commissions
to rankers. The
army is far be-
low its proper es-
ta b lishment of
c.os., and as num-
bers of modem
recruits are of a
better type and
more highly edu-
cated than of
yore it has been
resolved to give
them a chance.
The A.I.F. fur-
nishes a striking
precedent. There
is general agree-
ment that the
high quality of
the subaltern
officers of that
force who rose
from the ranks during the war and were
trained as it progressed was not surpassed
in any army.
* * * *
“Bunbury”ln connection with Syd-
ney’s forthcoming birthday party, stick-
lers for historical accuracy are pointing
out that, although Phillip landed in Syd-
ney Cove on Jan. 26, 1788, the formal
proclamation establishing British rule
was not read until Feb. 7. W.A. annals
are similarly confusing. The records
show that Captain Fremantle, in H.M.S.
Challenger, arrived off Garden Island
(W.A.) on April 25, 1829. Formal pos-
session was taken of “all that part of
New Holland which is not included within
the territory of N.S.W.” on May 2 at
Arthur Head, the southern point mark-
ing the entrance to the Swan River. The
Parmelia, with Governor Stirling, officials
and first settlers aboard, was sighted on
June 1, and on that day Stirling landed
at Rous Head, the northern entrance to
the river. But, as in the case of Sydney,
the proclamation of the colony wasn’t
issued until some days later —June 18, to
be exact. To all good Gropers June 1
is their country’s birthday, although a
case might easily have been made out
for any of the other days.
* * * *
“Sidi”: Having ridden through miles
of his barley and sesame crops and date
farms, I cannot agree that the Arab
“never was a farmer” (B. 22/12/’37). As
regards ground crops, the Arab certainly
wouldn’t win a one-man exhibition at
Sydney Show, but, considering modern
conditions, he doesn’t do badly. In other
days it was different. The Moors con-
verted Southern Spain from a desert to
a garden, anrl to this day the better-class
Arabs are garden-lovers out of the ordi-
nary in the great cities. Curious that
these wild men of the desert should in
a couple of centuries learn so much of
horticulture and architecture. The ac-
cepted explanation is that they took the
one from the Persians and adapted the
other from the Greek civilisation of
Egypt and Asia Minor.
* * * *
“No. 1”: An interesting experiment is
to be made by the Tugun Surf Club
(Q.), which is just outside the scope of the
existing N.S.W. shark-meshing scheme.
A small observation balloon will be manu-
factured locally if possible, or imported,
with sufficient lifting power to carry an
observer up a couple of hundred feet,
whence he may watch out for sharks
and ’phone down to the beach. The
plan was suggested by the club’s presi-
dent, J. Crombie, who was an observer
in “sausage” balloons during the 1914
dust-up.
* * * *
“Pangela”: These boxing kangaroos
leave me cold. I’ve seen several pugi-
listic marsupials, and all the damage
they could do with a pair of gloved fore-
paws wouldn’t disturb the slumbers of a
real pug. The “hands” can only inflict
a few small scratches in a genuine yike,
and in a sham brawl in the ring they’re
useless even for clinching. Actually
their chief use is to help the ’roo shape
up for the long searing gash with the
hind toe. The only animals that can
stand and hand out a real punch are the
bear and monk.
A SINNER CONFESSES.
“Fvervone invited. Tea and Social Hour 6.30.
Miss " will sin.” —Suburban church paper.
T loathe the concerts and bazaars
They hold each second Tuesday night,
When vast contraltos beef out bars
And lisping brats recite.
I utterly detest the teas
And fetes arranged by flock or choir,
Which finish up as scandal-bees
When someone’s name is mire.
Such entertainments I forswear
On purely self-defensive grounds;
But here’s a church-ordained affair
I wouldn’t miss for pounds!
N.S.W.
MISS SMITH.


20/wl'6
10 for 9 d
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
—smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS,
mm
mm
CIGARETTE
□Q
THIS
G E N E R A T I
CHS
THE
TIPPED
POLITICAL POINTS
The U.S. Government has accepted the
Japanese apology for the sinking of the
gunboat Panay and announced that the
incident is closed. It was a bitter blow
to the more bellicose section of Our
Glorious Press, especially as it had to
be admitted at the same time that the
Spanish “rebels” were still fighting
briskly in Teruel, the capture of which
had been reported “on unimpeachable
authority.” The situation was relieved
to some extent by the discovery of a
Body in a Bag.
Lang and his Inner Group have virtu-
ally won their wrangle with the latest
parcel of rebels. Only two rebs., Lazzar-
ini (Marrickville) and Heffron (Botany),
revealed themselves among the Labor
Assemblymen during the struggle for
party nominations, now closed, and the
hapless pair will have a dreadful time in
their electorates. There are too many
Reds among the rebs., notably the
Miners’ Federation and A.R.U. blather-
skites. Labor-unionists would rather
have Lang rule than Red rule.
Lang was 61 on December 21. He is
the oldest Labor leader now in the busi-
ness, and he has done more wrangling
than all the others put together ; but he
appears to thrive on it; anyway, it has
left no mark on him. In 1967 he will
probably be expelling Labor politicians
now unborn.
The Bulletin treasures the memory
of one of its old hands, now gone where
the good fellows go, who used to say,
without a trace of rancor, that he was
the only man it had sacked twice.
Before long Lazzarini, M.L.A., will be
able to claim that he is the only poli-
tician who has been thrice expelled by
Lang. But he doesn’t look the sort of
person who will refer to it with pensive
pride.
The “taking” of Teruel was received
with transports of elation by the mob of
Red and Pink interventionists who pro-
fess to speak for British Labor. Attlee,
who headed the all-expenses-paid Red-
Front-salute pilgrimage to the Reds of
Valencia, chortled in his joy. Address-
ing the U.S.A. by wireless Attlee likened
the “winners” to Washington’s soldiers,
mentioning Valley Forge. But it is not
on record that Washington’s soldiers
murdered a single nun.
Anthony Eden on the conflict in
China:
There have been daily consultations with
the United States. Over and over again
Britain and the United States have taken
parallel action indicating the closeness of
the collaboration.
Washington’s reactions:
Officials declare that the U.S.A. is still
following a course of independent action
and judgment without contemplation of
joint action with Britain or any other
Power.
So Eden can’t handle even a favorable
situation without blundering and mak-
ing the other fellow’s back rise. The
Conservatives have never had a clumsier
fellow in the Foreign Office.
Perhaps as a result of Roosevelt’s
voluntary census, although this is not
specifically mentioned, it is reported that
the number of U.S. unemployed has in-
creased by 2,000,000 since September,
and may total “between 11,000,000 and
12,000,000 by the end of January.” This
should be a lesson to Australia that
forcing up prices by trying to create a
famine in the midst of plenty, and rais-
ing taxes to the limit, and borrowing like
mad —doubling the national debt in a
few years—don’t in the long run benefit
the people they are designed to benefit.
Wiser than all the politicians and
economists were the Australian wool-
growers, who, when the depression
smote them, decided to sell their wool
for what it would fetch. Australian re-
covery dates from that farsighted de-
cision. Had the Americans ( their slump
arrived later) taken it as a precedent,
instead of paying farmers mints of
money to plough under their crops and
slaughter young stock, by way of forc-
ing prices to artificial levels, the present
condition of their country would be very
different.
There is a strong pacifist element in
the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation. Its
notion is that lessons in pacifism of the
League brand should be substituted in
class-books and -magazines for refer-
ences to the wars of the Empire. In fact,
“ ’Scuse me, Madame Rumor, the gents of the Press are ’ere to get your report
on to-day’s international ’appenings.”
some dominees seem to think that the
Empire is something to be apologised
for, and that peace can be achieved by
braying about it. The T.F. “decided to
abandon its policy of supporting special
classification privileges for Returned
Soldiers because of war service”—and a
Digger delegate let himself go.
I was ashamed to hear the conference
turn down the Diggers. Are we to talk
propaganda to the children and teach them
to be afraid to defend their country? Are
we to ask them to be ashamed of the
Diggers?
But the pacifist element seemed quite un-
moved.
One Raymond Watt, who was given a
free trip to Geneva at the taxpayers’
expense, and was there photographed ex-
changing grins with Litvinov, is reported
to have said to the Teachers’ Federation
conference that if war broke out he
would “look for a hollow log to hide in.”
A returned-soldier delegate expressed his
utter contempt for this attitude; but to
start a war and then skedaddle is what
the world nowadays expects of the
League.
Melbourne “Age,” in one of the
moods in which it makes penetrating
observations:
Practically no stimulus to political in-
terest is in these days furnished by
Federal Ministers. They rarely forsake
their official seclusion for the public plat-
form.
So the public goes uninstructed “upon
such questions as the revision of the
Ottawa agreements and Australia’s part
in the Anglo-American trade negotia-
tions.” British Ministers keep their
public far better informed, by means
not only of full-dress debates but of
week-end addresses at meetings. Com-
pared with the Britons, our gentlemen
get their money dashed easily.
Only four days after the “election”
which was to usher in a New Age in
Russia, with a free press, Habeas Corpus,
fair trials and all the rest of it, Kara-
khan and several other Old Bolshevists
(all, of course, “famous”) got bullets in
the back of the neck. They were “Trot-
skyist wreckers.” As showing how the
ferocity of the thing startled people who
had swallowed the dope about Russia
having become another United States,
the Special Representative of our Glori-
ous Press was shocked into wondering
“whether Stalin will survive the wave of
cold-blooded murders, disguised as poli-
tical executions, that are sweeping over
Russia.”
In its report for the year to June 30,
the Tariff Board draws attention to the
fact that “raw materials so fundamental
as iron and steel are now available to
industry at less than the duty-free price,”
adding that “the significance of this can
scarcely be exaggerated.” It is perhaps
Australian protection’s greatest triumph.
Eamonn de Valera, who supported
“sanctions” and non-intervention in Spain,
is said to have embarrassed the British
Government by appointing a Minister to
Rome. The Minister has to be accredited
to the King, who has added Emperor of
Abyssinia to his titles, so the appoint-
ment means virtual recognition of the
conquest on the part of Eire. But the
chances are, so far from embarrassing
London, De Valera is establishing a
precedent which will be found con-
venient.
The Christmas spirit had no effect on
“S. M. Herald” when its thoughts turned
to Mussolini. In leading articles and
cablegrams from all points of the com-
pass, “Granny” gave Musso. a frightful
time. There is a radio announcer who
has for 15 years conferred on the Black-
shirt leader th£ benefit of his advice,
advice which the fellow has churlishly re-
fused to follow, but even the announcer
is less resentful than “Granny.” The
old girl is positively ruthless.
There has been so much provocative
and alarmist writing since crazy fellows
wearing the Japanese uniform sank the
American gunboat that had somehow
become a journalists’ G.H.Q. and fired
on British gunboats that it is a pleasure
to come across a foreign correspondent
who hasn’t lost his head. His name is
Hessell Tiltman, “one of the best-
informed observers of Far Eastern
affairs,” according to Associated Press,
and he doesn’t believe that Japan has
embarked upon “southward expansion
such as would seriously disturb Aus-
tralia.”
There is not a shred of evidence that
the Japanese wish to make difficulties for
the British. On the contrary, in Shanghai
and elsewhere they have scrupulously tried
to avoid damage to neutral property and
life, to a greater extent than some news-
papers admit.
So there’s one newspaperman who
doesn’t agree that when other news-
papermen get into a spot of trouble the
whole English-speaking world should
avenge them.
In an expansive moment Forgan Smith
said in April, 1935:
It shall be the policy of the Government
progressively to reduce taxation as employ-
ment increases.
The “Courier-Mail” keeps reminding him
of it, and hurling at him slabs of Bureau
of Industry figures to the effect that in
two years the number of adult males em-
ployed increased from 163,140 to 177,580.
There was no tax-cut in those years.
Though the revenue of Australian
Governments for five months of the
financial year has gone up from
£69,399,000 to £76,277,000, expenditure
has swallowed up the increase and a lot
more. Canberra is all right, having a
credit balance of £817,000, but all the
State Governments have deficiencies.
Victoria’s is £2,355,000, compared with
£1,417,000 to November 30, 1936. Per-
haps Dunstan has been giving too much
time to “reform.”
In Canada, as in Australia, the
national Government has —except for
an occasional grant—washed its hands
of responsibility for unemployed-relief,
a responsibility very properly accepted
by the Roosevelt Government. In
Canada, as in Australia likewise, the
national Government collects huge tax-
revenues in the large States and distri-
butes them among the small States for
expenditure without responsibility. The
Governments of Quebec and Ontario
are revolting against this policy. Can-
berra will have a similar revolt on its
hands if it doesn’t look out.
From an amateur economist:
When taxi-cab fares were Is. 6d. a mile in
Sydney the taxi-cab business was on the rocks.
Fares were reduced —in most cases to 6d. a
mile. On that basis companies are now pay-
ing dividends, and private cab owners are
doing famously.
When bacon was round Is. a pound retail,
bacon companies prospered. The price soared
to round Is. 6d. a pound retail, and two
companies admit having had a bad year.
These facts are charged with significance
to Australia, and so is the resounding success
of the chain stores —due in the main to the
fact that they satisfy human needs.


THE INCORRIGIBLE.
“The N.S.W. speed limit law is now in force. A short period of ‘education' has been allowed.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEOROE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
FREEDOM f ROM REFAIRS
DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
depen d a on Champions
You are more likely to avoid engine repairs
if you install new Champions every year.
Champions allow less carbon to form. They
keep engine power steady, reducing strain
.and wear. And they save fuel.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
PERSONAL ITEM S
Warrnambool (Vic.) citizens recalled
one of the most sensational wrecks off
the Victorian coast when William Ferrier,
a well-known Queenscliff fisherman, died
in his boat a few days ago. When the
barquentine La Bella went on a reef in
1905, Ferrier braved heavy seas in an
open 14ft. boat and, single-handed,
rescued the captain and a sailor, every
other soul on board being drowned,
despite the efforts of a lifeboat crew.
Ferrier had an injured arm at the time
and rowed his skiff out with one oar,
climbed on board and cut loose the sea-
man who was lashed to the mast. The
feat earned him a telegram of congratu-
lation from Edward VII. and the Royal
Humane Society’s rarely-awarded gold
medal.
Dead in Sydney F. Y. Wilson, nephew
of Commonwealth Chief Justice Samuel
Griffith and one of Australia’s best-
known solicitors in the days when he
was in partnership with Joseph Car-
ruthers. He was in many big cases, in-
cluding the Crick land scandal inquiry,
during the ’nineties. For the last 20
years,’ however, he had been in com-
mercial life'; had represented wool in-
terests in several countries overseas, and
for several years was chairman of the
Hobart Stock Exchange.
J. Gordon Jones, who joins the board
of Sydney’s David Jones’s, is managing
director of a front-rank manufacturing
firm and a member of the executives of
the Associated Chambers of Manufac-
tures and of the N. S. Wales chamber.
Much of his spare time is given to music,
and he is captain of the N. S. Wales
Golf Club.
James Allan, of Brisbane, has few liv-
ing seniors in the department-store busi-
ness. Fifty-five years ago he went into
partnership with B. J. Stark, and the
firm became a Brisbane landmark. Allan
has been president of the Chamber of
Commerce, the Drapers’ Association and
the Y.M.C.A. One of his sons, R. M. Allan,
has been professor of obstetrics at Mel-
bourne Uni. since 1929 —he married
a daughter of Harry Bracker, the second
white child born on the Darling Downs,
and son of the man who brought out
some of the first Sax6n sheep which,
crossed with the original merinos, began
the Australian wool industry. The elder
Allan retired in 1935. He has just cele-
brated his 81st birthday.
Dead at 66, Newton Diehl Baker, who
began his political career as private sec-
retary to one of the few Wilsons who
have sat in Uncle Sam’s Cabinet a
PrM.G. of the ’nineties —and ended it as
War Secretary to another Wilson, who be-
came President. Baker was in charge of
the War Office at Washington from 1916
to 1921. and bore the brunt of the organ-
isation of the American Expeditionary
Force. A Virginian lawyer, in an earlier
day he took an active part in the civic
politics oL Cleveland (Ohio), of which he
was Mayor for a decade.
Adelaide has lost its senior musician,
Albert Puddy, at 91. He was in his
day an expert organist, bandmaster,
musical critic and teacher of the piano.
His daughter Maude carries on the
family tradition at the Conservatorium.
The, latest generation of Victorian
Dows —one of them was with Alfred
Deakin on his tour of U.S.A. in the
’eighties and was afterwards Victorian
Lands Minister —is keeping up the family
reputation. Hume, son of D.M., Com-
monwealth representative in New York,
has just been elected a member of the
most ancient and exclusive of the curious
American College fraternities, Phi Beta
Kappa. Scholarship and personality are
the bases of election, and out of Har-
vard’s thousands of students it is rare
for as many as 20 to be chosen in any
one year.
In appointing a lecturer in philosophy
the Westralian University has added the
Gibsons to the list of families with more
than one university professor in a single
generation. Both are young men: Alex-
ander Boyce Gibson at 37 has been pro-
fessor of philosophy at Melbourne Uni-
versity for two years; H.B. comes to
the Westralian job fresh from two years
at Oxford.
The regalia with which Frith has deco-
rated his picture of Norman Nock, Syd-
ney’s new Lord Mayor, is not altogether
fanciful. His is one of the most popular
elections to the chair for years, and the
staff of one Town Hall department sig-
Sydney’s Lord Mayor.
nalised it by presenting their new chief
with a chain very much on the Frithian
lines.
A reorganisation divides the research
work of the C.S. and I.R. according to
primary and secondary industries. David
Rivett, the chief executive officer, will
concentrate on secondary industries and
A. E. V. Richardson, director of S. Aus-
tralia’s Waite Institute, will become
deputy chief in charge of research into
primary industries. Richardson was edu-
cated at University College, Adelaide,
and became successively Director of
Agriculture in S.A. and Victoria. For
five years after the war,
he was Dean of the
Agricultural Faculty at
Melbourne University,
having previously writ-
ten the report on which
the faculty was founded.
He took the Waite Insti-
tute job 13 years ago.
He has several times
represented Australia at
overseas conferences.
Visiting his native
country is the Tas-
manian - born Assistant
Judge Advocate-General
of the Indian Army
Eastern Command,
Major Rayner, who
went to Oxford in 1913
with an ambition to earn
a professorship at some
Australian University.
The war took him by a
different route to his
present job, though he
went back to Oxford
after the big scrap to
complete his courses.
His headquarters are at
Naini Tal, one of the
few places in the world
which have solved the
motor traffic problem
without imposing a speed
limit. Car ownership is
prohibited to everybody
except the Governor and
the C.-in-C.
DR. JEFFRIES.
“El V.” on an unsuccessful peace-
maker :
Undeterred by President Wilson’s failure,
Frank Kellogg, a rich lawyer who made most
of his fortune out of oil litigation, developed
a thirst to interpose a peace plan between the
world and Armageddon. Snowy-haired, per-
suasive, with something the air of a fashion-
able Nonconformist preacher, Kellogg pre-
sented a pact “renouncing war as an instru-
ment of national policy” to the nations, though
Briand, of France, was the original inventor of
the idea. Sixty-five nations, Italy, Japan, Spain,
Germany, the U.S.A. and all parts of the British
Commonwealth among them, obligingly allowed
their representatives to put their monikers to
the imposing document in 1928. The only
result of the pact was a reform of formalities.
There have, technically, been no wars since:
Italy in Abyssinia, Franco in Spain, Japan in
Manchuria and China have been careful since
then not to issue declarations of war. Dead
now, Kellogg learned of what little use to
diplomacy was his native simplicity.
Victoria is to lose the services
of J. E. Harrison, principal of the
Burnley Experimental Farm, to
whom the State owes a heavy
debt for his pasture-improvement
research. An early Melbourne
University agricultural graduate,
he did useful work in experiment-
ing with fruit cold storage before
he went to Burnley 10 years ago.
He transfers to the Australian
Estates Co. as pasture-improve-
ment adviser, and will have
stations throughout the sheep dis-
tricts of eastern Australia under
his care.
The administrative end of the airline
business has no secrets for H. W.
Matthews, assistant manager of Austra-
lian National Airways. West Australian
Airways, formed in 1921 to operate be-
tween Geraldton and Derby, the first air-
mail contract let in Australia, had been
going only four years when Matthews
joined it as sec.; in the next 12 years he
saw W.A. Airways extend to Wyndham
and then from Perth to Adelaide. The
co.’s business was taken over by A.N.A.
in June, 1936, and in May this year
Matthews came to the co.’s Essendon
(Vic.) headquarters. C. H. Scott and
L. M. Diprose, A.N.A. flying superin-
tendent and assistant superintendent,
were both with Matthews in the west,
and quite a few of A.N.A.’s engineers
had their early training there.
In 1894 Dr. Lewis Jeffries, his younger
brother —Attorney-General of S. Aus-
tralia —and G. H. Knowles, the Common-
wealth Solicitor-General, were school-
mates in Toowoomba
(Q.). Later, the family
moved to Adelaide, and
the doctor graduated at
Adelaide University,
worked at the Adel-
aide Hospital and
studied surgery in Ger-
many, U.S.A., England
and India. Back in
Australia, he joined the
4th Field Ambulance,
was wounded on Galli-
poli, won a D.S.O. at
Mouquet Farm in 1916,
and was sent to head-
quarters in London. He
went in for private prac-
tice after the war, then
he took up public-health
work. Now he is In-
spector-General of S.A.
Hospitals and Director-
General of Medical Ser-
vices.
The second Geelong
Grammar and Trinity
College man in succes-
sion, Alan Hamer has
been chosen 1937 Vic-
torian Rhodes scholar.
Hamer carried off high
honors in chemistry and
natural philosophy at
Melbourne Uni., and
will complete his chem-
istry course at Oxford.
He has played Austra-
lian rules football with the Uni. Blacks
and cricket with the Uni. second eleven.
Some January birthdays:
Prof. Gilbert Murray, 72, Premier Stevens
(N.S.W.), 49, A. D. McGill, K.C. (Brisbane),
52, C’wealth Meteorologist Watt, 62, and Wing-
Commander Wackett, 42, on 2nd; F. G.
Menzies (Vic. Crown Solicitor), 46, and Vic.
Gov. Lord Huntingfield, 55, on 3rd; author
R. H. Croll, 69, and Judge Lukin (Federal
Bankruptcy Court), 70, on 4th; N.S.W. Auditor-
General John Spence, 60, Prof. H. Tasman
Lovell, 60, and painter Arthur Burgess, 59,
on 6th; knight Graham Waddell (N.S.W.), 61,
bird-artist Neville Cayley, 51, W. J. Hutchin-
son, M.H.R. (Deakin), 34, and baritone John
Brownlee, 38, on 7th; Federal Labor-leader
John Curtin, 53, and Delamore McCay (Syd.),
61, on Bth; artist Sydney Ure Smith, 51, and
Canon Crotty (Melb.), 59, on 9th; Bishop
Batty (Newcastle), 59, on 10th; W.A. Senator
Johnston, 58, on 11th; Vic. Tax Commissioner
Chenoweth, 52, on 12th; Essington Lewis
(B.H.P. Co.), 57, on 13th; George Pearce,
68, on 14th; shipowner W. A. Mackay, 55,
geologist W. G. Woolnough, 62, and J. H.
Starling (P.M.’s Dept., Canberra), 55, on 15th;
Brig.-Gen. C. H. Foott, 62, and S.A.-born
violinist Daisy Kennedy, on 16th; knight
Clifton Love (Syd.), 70, and painter John
Rowell (Vic.), 44, on 18th; platypus authority
Harry Burrell, 65, Brig.-Gen. J. Campbell
Stewart, 54, and Rear-Admiral Ford, 58, on
19th; K. R. Cramp (N.S.W. Educ. Dept.), 60,
Justice Webb (Q.), 51, Lt.-Col. Geoff Street,
M. (Corangamite), 44, and N.S.W. Min.
for Labor Dunningham, 54, on 21st; former
N. Premier Geo. Fuller, 77, Col. J. M.
Arnott (Syd.), 69, and Archbishop Gilroy (Syd-
ney), 42, on 22nd; Prof. F. Wood Jones (for-
merly of Melb.), 59, on 23rd; former Vic.
Police Commissioner Maj.-Gen. Blarney, 54, ex-
Q. Agent-Gen. E. H. Macartney, 75, Prof.
J. F. M. Haydon (Canberra), 56, Vic. Min. for
Educ. Dr. J. R. Harris, 70, and Ethel Turner,
on 24th; Archbishop Wand (Brisbane), 53, on
25th; Prof. A. J. A. Waldock (Syd.), 40,
Westralian C.P. and Opposition-leader C. G.
Latham, 56, on 26th; painter Julian Ashton,
87, and Prof. F. W. S. Cumbrae-Stewart (Bris.),
73, on 27th; Justice Kenneth Street (N.S.W.),
48, Bishop Feetham (North Queensland), 65,
baronet JJugh Poynter (Syd.), 56, A. Gren-
fell Price, M.A. (St. Mark’s Coll., Adel.), 46,
and G. B. Rolph (Launceston “Examiner), 45,
on 28th; Bishop Norton (Bathurst), 47, E. L.
Frazer (Vic. Parliamentary Librarian), 46,
weather-prophet Mares (N.S.W.), 59, A. S.
le Souef (Director of Taronga Park), 61, and
Prof. C. A. Scutt (Melb.), 49, on 30th; bari-
tone Peter Dawson, 56, and Guy Innes (Melb.
“Herald,” Lond.), 56, on 31st.


FIRST OVER THE BARS
FOR HEALTH/
Am
11
\i
w
m
m
n \
\\
•I#
wmm
I sis*
m
m
M
iWP
rmm
1
?«►«
if!
m
m
'Si
'fii
*3:^l
'sl>
S SB
Slav
%
•tavV
oram
svou?
>A
Fx®w^ 4 *»6Trii6ff^r^
V
ft
m
TOOHE
m
w 4
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
Agents:
VICTORIA —Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Phllp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
’‘HERE'S TO-EE"


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Mac had become a
grandfather, and in true back-country
style he made preparation to welcome
royally the visitors that might be expected
to the homestead. One of them was an
earnest churchman who, knowing old
Mac’s habits, was a trifle doubtful if all
was as it should be. “I hope,” he mur-
mured anxiously to Mac, “that you’re
doing this with the right spirit.” Old
Mac blushed and looked apologetic.
“Well, no,” he confessed uneasily ; “y’ see,
things is a bit tough an’ that stuff costs
money. But”—and he brightened visibly
—“there’s plenty of beer! ”
* * t-
“Oran”: The visitor to the farm heard
Muift deploring that she had forgotten
to order rice for the youngsters, and he
inquired why Mum, on a wheat-farm,
didn’t encourage local effort by giving
the youngsters boiled wheat for a
change. He was invited to boil a sample,
and placed a large saucepanful on the
stove. Three hours later dinner was
ready, but not the wheat. Five hours
later it was nearly soft. In six hours it
was pronounced eatable. The visitor was
quite unused to the hardness of our local
grain, and Mum remarked coldly he had ,
used enough firing to roast an ox. It !
was certainly a very good dish, eaten
with sugar and milk, but the rice order
wasn’t cancelled.
* * * *
I angshan : The mudlark always
keeps its black-and-white plumage im-
maculate even when constructing its mud
villa. Grallina also has the faculty of
foretelling weather conditions, for, even
though wet weather appears imminent
when a nest is just begun, it is always
completed and hardened before rain
actually falls.
“Jesmond”: “Stralia” (B. 8/12/’37)
makes much of the young mutton-bird’s
almost suicidal method of taking off fol-
ds first flight. Actually, this is the
natural way of the adult birds, as they
cannot take off from level ground, and
the young birds have a good deal of
practice about the rookeries before they
“hurl themselves over the nearest cliff.”
The statement that these birds migrate to
the north Pacific is also open to question ;
rather should it be said that the open
seas of the Southern Hemisphere are their
destination after the nesting season. Un-
doubtedly they roam over thousands of
miles of open sea, but they don’t migrate
in the true sense of the term.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: The claim of “Cootcah” (B.
15 /12/ ’37) that plain turkeys eat chickens
can be dismissed as preposterous. The
bustard’s gullet and crop are far too
small to allow the engulfing of even a
newly-hatched chicken. I will not trouble
“Cootcah” to experiment, but ask any
disinterested Abo.-reader in a position to
do so to examine the swallowing appa-
ratus of the next turkey he shoots, and
see if I am, not right.
* * * *
“Awani”: By a recent fall of hail in
a valley on Gunyerwarildi station, Wari-
alda (N.S.W.) must be out on its own
in the Longest-Lasting-Hailstones Stakes.
The storm left several acres covered with
a frozen mass several feet deep. The hail
was joined together into one solid junk
of ice, though the outlines of the indi-
vidua! stones were distinct. Preserved by
a covering of silt and mud, the icy coagu-
lation was still sufficiently intact after
three weeks to allow residents to avail
themselves of cheap refrigeration. The
phenomenon was the more curious be-
cause the intervening weather had been
in the heatwave class. Before it com-
pletely melted, the carcasses of scores of
sheep and a horse could be seen tightly
encased in the mass.
* * * *
“Kelly”: The goanna may be a snake-
slayer (B. 15/12 / ’37), but he is also the
assassin of the slow-moving blue-tongue
lizard whenever he gets a chance. Bluey
is a mighty scoffer of grass-destroying
insects—if any of the tribe are left in
the ’hopper-infested country they must
be doing great work—and deserves a
better fate. My last meeting with a go.
on his native heath was just after he had
bagged a big blue-tongue. The slayer
took matters very coolly and disdained
the usual trick of putting the bole of
the tree between himself and the watcher.
* * * *
“Bert”: “Ribach’s” five-to-one shot at
a turtle (B. 24/11/’37) would be easy to
take but for one thing: the turtle prob-
ably won’t be there. Black ducks on an
inland creek are pretty hard to approach ;
woodies post a sentry and are harder still.
But for sheer speed of perception the
sleepy old turtle on a log has them both
licked. Creeks on the Darling Downs
(Q.) are full of turtles, and they bask
“Gad, what a beautiful night for a bombardment !”
on every log in every waterhole ; but the
instant my horse’s ears poke round a
creek-bend a lot of rings in the water
are all that remain of the reptiles in
that particular reach. Far away—3oo
yards or so —Fd often spot the bump on
a log, but even as I looked it would
move, and by the time its identity was
definite —splash!
* * * *
“Poplar”: Norman Lindsay may be
right about his “On the Sunset Track”
(B. 1/12/’37) so far as it refers to koalas
in the south. North of Capricorn, on
the eastern side, there’s nothin’ doin’ in
the way of mournful obituary notices.
Our Teddies don’t wear the woebegone
look Lindsay so strikingly depicts; they
are hale and hearty. From Mackay to
Townsville the bears were never as thick
and as happy as they are now. The main
thing is that public opinion has swung
in their favor —sentiment affords them
the same protection which the willie
wagtail enjoys. Barring accidents, the
only killings among the furry fellows are
when a man is clearing land'. They’re so
darned numerous that any tree of decent
size is sure to have an old-man or a
lady perched in a fork. Really, a man
who’s busy can’t be expected to spread
a net or climb a tree before he fells it.
The koalas have got so cheeky they live
in trees right beside the road, where end-
less motor traffic passes, and so blase are
they that they barely deign to turn
a head or roll an eye when even a new
and flash limousine purrs by.
* * * *
“Palencia Creek”: I’d give the ferret
the leather medal for. being the most ill-
natured animal of them all. Go to all
the trouble about the place to keep the
smelly little devil’s quarters clean and
comfortable, feed him on the choicest
viands, and he’ll repay you by taking a
piece out of your finger at every oppor-
tunity ; and what ferret-owner hasn’t
danced with rage at the sight of a yellow
face eyeing him with a bored expression
from the mouth of a burrow, just out of
reach but near enough to indicate that
the accursed beast will come out at his
pleasure? No wonder every man you
meet carrying a ferret-box wears that
strained, harassed expression common
to trusted Soviet officials!
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Turtles lay their, eggs
at night, but an apparently indifferent
Nature arranges that the young shall be
hatched out in the full glare of day.
Have watched such a hatching. The
beach sand stirs, and suddenly, almost as
though erupted, a couple of score baby
loggerheads appear little fellows, all
complete, but no larger than could rest
easily on the palm of a hand. By one
common instinct they start for the sea 50
yards away. But the demon gulls have
sighted them, and the massacre is on.
The tiny turtles have no escape other
than in their numbers and the possibility
of the gulls being satiated so that the
survivors may. reach the water. But
there another barrage awaits. By some
diabolical instinct the sharks are also
aware that it is hatching day, and, as .
close in to the shallows as they can get
without being stranded, they wait. Fins
and leathery bodies flash and disappear
and flash again as the sea-tigers gorge
themselves. Gorge is correct. Using a
baby turtle as bait we dragged a 10-
footer ashore and dissected its stomach,
A rough count gave 40 baby loggerheads,
How the species survives.such continuous
destruction is a marvel, yet there are still
numberless turtles of all kinds in West-
ralia’s nor’-west.
* * * *
“R.H.A.”: Our nine-year-old station
lass, whose knowledge of notices is con-
fined to road-repair warnings, recently
found the station tykes worrying a female
cat busy in the throes of maternity,
Tibbie was promptly palisaded in with
packing-cases, and the following notice
appeared thereon:—
NO DOGS ALOUD
KITTENS IN PROGRESS.
* *
“Brindle”: “The rummiest' bullicky
ever I noo,” said Larry, “was Mick the
Roarer. Never used to touch his bul-
licks with the whip, but he could give
’em the lash with his tongue orright.
When ’e’d git bogged Mick’d try a bit
of kiddin’ first, and holdin’ out a bit of
dungaree he’d rush up to the leaders.
‘Here,’ he’d say to Snowy, his pet leader,
‘i’U bet yer a fiver Darkey can pull
better than yer.’ If they never took the
tip Mick’d get real wild an’ he’d stand
off and curse ’em a treat. One day
Mick’s roarin’ at ’em till the team’s
shakin with fright, but it’s no good, they
wouldn’t budge an inch. Seein’ how it
was, Mick changes the team around, put-
tin’ Snowy and Darkey in the pole.
When he’s got ’em all yoked up Mick
lays down on the ground with his neck
in front of the wheel. ‘Bet yer a fiver
yer can’t shift her, Snowy,’ Mick yells
out. ’E ’adn’t got the larst word out
before they bends to it an’ ’eaves. Mick
was tough, an’ mighter got out of it if
’e hadn’t ’ave ’ad 8000 super, of bluegum
up at the time.”
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Katandra station (n.-w. Q.)
has its Centipede Gate. Many years ago
a droving outfit camped there. After a
shower of rain the drovers were watch-
ing myriads of insects emerge from the
moist ground when, apparently from no-
where, appeared a veritable army of cen-
tipedes, which started feasting on this
gift of the raingod. The drovers killed
50 of the hundred-legs, and, relating the
incident over many campfires, the moni-
ker got stuck to the gate.
* * * J|c
“Notaden”: The Johnstone Shire
Council (N.Q.) is seriously upset about
giant toads, introduced in 1935 to deal
with the cane-beetle pest. Councillors
have told dreadful tales of dogs dying
after playing with the creatures, of rate-
payers threatening to shoot councillors
if they bring the beastly things near them,
and of their alleged poisonous qualities,
Minister for Agriculture Bulcock has
very sensibly replied that they were in-
troduced to combat cane-beetles, not as
pets or food material. As a matter of
scientific fact, all toads—they are dif-
ferent from frogs—have poisonous, or
at least distasteful, skin secretions as a
means of self-protection. But I’m game
to bet that the giant toad in N.Q. cannot
be poisonous inside. Otherwise there
would have been a serious mortality
among the Johnstone shire Italian popu-
lation. As gastronomic adventurers they
surpass anything I’ve ever seen or heard
of, including Indian famine-sufferers.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: “Heresone” (B.
24/11 / ’37) was thinking of crickets, genus
Acheta. This little outdoor insect has a
cheerful rhythm at night, not too loud.
Frogs in chorus are not monotonous and
sedative. They are blatant and disrup-
live. They vary their shouts with
“plonks” and “quarks” and are never
rhythmical. If the rain comes or doesn’t
come they put on the heavy pedal unex-
pectedly and clamor for the impossible,
seeming to want all things at once. You
can’t silence a chorus of frogs, and as
for trams—well, they are going out of
date, and you won’t have to put up with
them for ever.
CHRISTMAS VERSE.
O for a seasonable song to sing!
Yet it might tax the most ingenious bard
to ring the changes on the sort of thing
That reads so smoothly on a Christmas card,
Where peace and neighborly goodwill are
starred
As best of all the goods the gods disburse,
Gifts for mankind to treasure and to guard
And duly celebrate in Christmas verse.
Christmas! And never day but comes to bring
Grim tales of regions battle-torn and -scarred,
Of death that from alpft they rain and fling,
Of cities shattered into ruins charred
Where Spaniards Spaniards, Japs Chinese
bombard.
With such things going, it seems, from bad to
worse,
It cramps one’s style. You feel a bit too
jarred
To break into appropriate Christmas verse.
Peace and goodwill! The white dove on the
wing,
The nations full of brotherly regard!
A pleasant notion, this, whereto to cling,
Only to feature it just now is hard.
Let’s hope another Yuletide mayn’t be
marred
By bloody strife’s interminable curse.
Till Mars is hoisted with his own petard
There’ll be a handicap on Christmas verse.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Passage Pilot”: That fellow, recently
mentioned, who fell overboard and was
out so lively that he never wet his
matches was slow compared with me. We
were anchored in Cid Harbor when I
fell from the rigging of a lugger. While
I was in the air my only thought was to
make a neat entry. As soon as I hit
the water it flashed through my mind
that a big groper was supposed to live
near where we were anchored. I don’t
know exactly how deep my dive was,
but as I pulled myself over the rails I
had to rip my clothes off lively—they
were scalding on me, and the place where
I’d emerged from the ocean was bubbling
and shooting spurts of steam.
* * * *
“Gam”: An old German I knew at
Mt. Gambier (S.A.) always made sure
that his periodical, trips to the township
were worth taking. The grocer’s was
always his first call, and a red herring
his purchase. Having scoffed that, he
would square his shoulders and, with a
“Now for de t’irst,” make for the pub.
* * * *
“Billy See”: “Swiller” may have had
great success with oatmeal-water as a
beverage (B. 1/12/’37), but I never did.
Firstly, I always found that it caused an
intense outbreak of prickly-heat rash —
and all the other hammer-swingers
agreed. Secondly, the brew placed in a
waterbag spoiled that receptacle within
a week —by choking the pores of the
hemp, thus minimising evaporation and
consequent chilling, and also by leaving
a slimy deposit which soon developed
into a bad smell. As one who has swung
a 141 b. hammer breaking scrap- and pig-
iron through more than one Kalgoorlie
summer, give me tea without milk and
with not too much sugar. That’s the
stuff that gets a proper grip on a man’s
vitals.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: Not so sure that “Pan-
danus’s” fowls (B. 1/12/’37) were suf-
fering from inbreeding so much as re-
version to type. Inbreeding in itself is
not necessarily harmful; fowls are delib-
erately inbred by fanciers to bring out
“ Don't go too close , Jacko."
wanted traits. The only catch about the
process is that there is a danger of ac-
centing undesirable characteristics as
well. When free from these, brother and
sister may continue to mate safely
through generations, as in the human
example of Cleopatra’s ancestors. Fowls
in the primitive state answered in descrip-
tion fairly accurately to what “Pan-
danus” has to say about his marooned
birds. Care and artificial, feeding alone
are responsible for the egg-laying capa-
city and virtually flightless existence of
domesticated fowls.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: Barbed-wire and green-
hide have always been the cocky’s tradi-
tional standby in an emergency, but
“Y airs, they feel all right —’ ow do they look ?”
greenhide seldom figured much as a per-
manent portion of a horse’s harness until
the depression put leather out of the
reach of a host of men on the land.
Through replacing breakages with pieces
of greenhide year in and year out the
habit grew, and I have seen virtually
complete turnouts of it. As far as ten-
sile strength goes, the substitute is at least
equal, if not superior, to leather, but it
can’t be recommended for girths and
surcingles. Reasonably soft at the start,
greenhide readily absorbs sweat and
moisture, and once these dry into it it
bakes as hard as iron in the sun and
causes girth-galls behind the front leg.
Nor will any subsequent moistening
soften it.
* * * *
“Pretty Poll”: It may be coincidence,
but in the days of my youth my relatives
had an experience with parrots similar
to that of “Curate’s Egg” (B. 1 /12/’37).
Aunt Jane, religious but charitable,
bought a parrot from an alleged sea-
farer, to 'be shocked on realising that the
bird’s one lingual equipment was a
phrase “I wish the old [great Australian
noun] was dead.” The parson of the
local Bethel fortunately owned a similar
bird, but one much given to reverent
utterances. It was decided to shut the
two up together for a while in hope of
reforming the delinquent. A couple of
weeks passed, during which no speech
whatever emerged from my aunt’s bird,
Thinking reform complete, Aunt and the
parson presented themselves. Aunt’s
parrot at once burst forth: “I wish the
old was dead.” Which sentiment
the parson’s bird endorsed, “Lord, hear
our prayer.”
* * * *
“Waranbini”: The Skuthorpes, Lance
and Violet, who are off to the Yankee
rodeos shortly, propose taking with them
an equine outlaw called Silver Threads,
This contorting devil, though now seven
years old, has never been ridden, and is
reputed to be the worst buckjumper in
Australia. There have been many noted
outlaws in the past, but all of them
found some one here and there that could
sit them. One such who was famous all
over the country was Dargan’s Grey.
He was a cyclonic show performer till
20 years old, and bumped the conceit
out of thousands of riders in his long
career. But many, including Harry
Morant (“The Breaker”), mastered him.
Another great horse was Bobs, which
Martini backed for £lOOO to throw any-
one. Lance Skuthorpe, sen., sat him.
Among other demons that come to mind
were Snips, Firefly, Rocky Ned, White
Wings, Frozen Honey, Queenslander,
Carandotta and Aristocrat. Of these,
Snips and Carandotta were star contor-
tionists for nearly a quarter of a century.
* * * *
“Groper”: Territory abos. may reject
frog as an, item on the menu (B.
24/11/’37), but the W.A. abo. displays
no such dislike. Out on the desert frog
to him forms both meat and drink, the
disinterring of cataleptic, water-filled
specimens being a staple spinifex indus-
try during times of drought. Down in
the lush sou’-west frog used to be even
more favored, the succulent tadpole,
taken neat like the oyster, forming the
hors d’ceuvre to many an abo. banquet.
The full-grown four-legged hopper was
also not despised. Browsing along a
billabong one morning I came on an
ancient of the tribe cooking breakfast,
On a scrap of wire-netting over the coals
he had two large frogs, one crab and
half a dozen large freshwater mussels,
Is there anything that the abo. wont eat.
when he is pinched? Of course, when
times are good he prefers tinned salmon.
“Bushy”: Although not of Australian
origin, the ordeal of a French rabbiter
must compare with that of “The O.D.’s”
tyke (B. 24/11/ ’37). One wounded piece
of underground-mutton had dragged
itself into a burrow, and the hunter
tried to reach it by putting head and
shoulder in. There he stuck, until found
two days later by a squad of searching
gendarmes. He survived the adventure,
and so did the rabbit.
* * * *
“Brix”: Those exalted folk who keep
peacocks aver that the birds are extra-
ordinarily sensitive to external noise and
vibration, but I would back our barnyard
turkeys against the aristocrats. The
Sydney-Melbourne mail-’plane used to
pass over our village, and long before
we had any intimation of its approach
the turkeys, never airminded fowls, were
running round in circles, gobbling and
complaining of the imminence of the
outsize bird. Their protests grew more
forceful as it neared, and its passing
directly overhead was always the signal
for a fierce commotion. When the Gun-
ning ’quakes were causing uneasiness
over a wide area the turks. apprised us
that something unusual was about to
happen seconds before we felt the actual
movement of the earth, and an unex-
plained agitation among them came to
be recognised as a ’quake so slight that
the earth vibrations were discernible only
to the sensitive fowls.
* * * *
“Cockyson”: Had a pointer-grey-
hound tyke that became adept at catch-
ing flying-foxes. The raiders used to
visit two native figs standing about 50
yards apart in a small paddock near
the house. Nigger’s technique was
simple: as the fruit bats swooped close
to ground on their way from one tree to
the other he would spring high, and an-
other pest would bite the dust.
* * * *
“Quack Quack”: For over a decade
I’ve kept the bailiff off the premises by
rearing Muscovy ducks, so when I read
that one by “Brix” (B. 17/11/ ’37) about
the 23 ducklings finding death from swim-
ming in the old farm dam —well, well!
Down in the run at the present moment
I have 39 of the fluffy little jokers—and
everyone of them is a swimmer. I have
the water waiting for them when they
leave the shell. Certainly not a dam,
but a dish deep enough and wide enough
for them to swim in, and with a ledge
of stones so that they can easily get out.
Those 39 represent three settings ; they’re
three weeks old, and none has died.
Out of the hundreds of Muscovies that
I’ve reared I’ve neVer yet lost one
through allowing it access to plenty of
water. Even an adult duck will finally
drown if it hasn’t got a ledge that will
permit its climbing out of deep water.
The Muscovy apparently lacks the
power, possessed by wild ducks, of taxi-
ing off the surface.
SEA-SHADOWS.
Salty dews are dripping
Thick from leaf and bough,
And the march of shadows
Is beginning now.
While by wild wave-voices
Stand I strangely stirred,
Fast o’er beach and headland
Flies a late seabird.
Unto me, long musing
Over ancient lore, ,
Haunted seems the twilight,
Haunted sea and shore.
Much I fear the shadows
Trooping noiselessly—
Fear the stealthy shadows
Marching from the sea.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Boolclet, sent free, on request
Directors 1 .
0- E. FmEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONT.'ELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available*
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Aust., Ltd.
Formed in Sydney in 1921, this pioneer
manufacturer of felted piecegoods in
Australia is now the centre of a group
of cos. which make felt and felt pro-
ducts, woven carpets, wool tops, cotton-
wool, wadding and allied products in
the Commonwealth, Maoriland and S.
Africa, and activities are to be extended
to India, whence the co. derives part of
its raw materials. The policy is to cover
all phases of manufacture from treat-
ment of raw materials (wool, hair, cotton,
etc.) to production of the finished articles
already referred to. The public became
interested in February last, when the
ords. were listed and 110,000 new shares
issued for cash.
Chief subsidiary interests are as
follows:
I Parent’s
Company. Activities. | Interest.
Federal Felters
(Melbourne) Woollen- anil |
hair-felt I 100 p.c.
N.Z. Slippers |
(Wellington) Slippers and j
shoes | 100 p.c."
S. African Slippers
(Durban) Slippers an cl |
shoes [ 100 p.c.
Botany Wools
(Sydney) Wool carbon- j
| isers, etc. 100 p.c.
Pacific Wools
(Melbourne) j Wool carbon-
I isers, etc. 100 p.c.
Felt Industries
(S. Africa) I Felt and I
| slippers | 100 p.c.f
Australian Hair I |
(Sydney) 1 Treaters o f |
I hair | 50 p.c.
J. Grant and Co.
(Maoriland) | Flock and |
I waddings ] 33J p.c.
Cotton Dressings
(Melbourne) Cotton wool j
& waddings | 25 p.c.t
Jas. Seymour and Co. |
(Melbourne) Wool tops | 75 p.c4
Baldwin and Grant
(Melbourne) Carpets, etc. | 75 p.c.t
* All the ords. and therefore control. t Held by
S. African Slippers, t Held by Federal Felters.
Interests are also held in several other
undertakings. The tops-making and two
wool-scouring and -carbonising concerns
were added to the list within the last
year or so, and so was the carpet-making
enterprise, which-is now installing more
plant. On the slipper side of the busi-
ness, a number of well-equipped Aus-
tralian factories was bought within the
last 12 months. The Wellington (M.L.)
and S. African subsidiaries, besides con-
tributing to the pool, also provide a-
market for the parent’s Australian-made'
wool felt. Cowhair felt was recently
added to the list of manufactures by the
Maoriland offshoot. In India arrange-
ments have been made to treat and pre-
pare raw materials before export for use
in the co.’s felt factories (mainly in Maori-
land and S. Africa), and to enter into
“certain types of manufacture.”
During the 12 months to June 30 last,
both sales and profits increased, despite
a certain amount of dislocation caused
by fires in factories at Footscray, Vic.
(March, 1936), Richmond, Vic. (July,
1936), and Sydney, N.S.W. (August,
1936). After adjustment of outside in-
terests and allowing for taxation and de-
preciation, the combined net profit for
the whole group was £54,894, compared
with £50,403, £32,405 and £21,084 for the
three preceding years. The £54,894 was
sufficient to pay the pref. div. (£2400) and
show 14.7 p.c. on ord. capital at June 30
(£357,854).
The parent’s accounts show a profit of
£44,521, so, in the aggregate, the sub-
sidiaries retained about £lO,OOO of the
year’s net earnings. The pref. div. took
£2400, and 10 p.c. to the ords. £21,410.
After wiping out underwriting exes.
(£6799), reserves for the whole group
amounted to £171,047, against which
there was goodwill, etc., totalling
£199,552.
Turnover for the group now exceeds
H million pounds p.a. In the slipper
section alone, sales are in the neighbor-
hood of three-quarters of a million
pounds p.a.
The quick expansion of the business
during the last term is further reflected
in the following comparison of combined
balance-sheet figures of the parent, its
subsidiaries and cos. in which the off-
shoots hold more than a 50 p.c. share
interest:
D . , , 1936. 1937.
laid capital £119,930 £397,851
Overdraft . . . . . . 110,984 169,083
Sundry creditors, etc. . . 194,396 183,793
Freeholds . . . . . . 82.017 112,615
* lant 149,068 229,131
Shares other cos 18,849 20.016
Stock 133.269 231,484
Debtors, etc.. . . , . . . 128,495 141,024
Of the growth of £277,924 in capital,
£llO,OOO was gathered in cash in Feb-
ruary, so £167,924 was apparently issued
in connection with businesses bought
during the year. With the help of £58,099
added to the overdraft the management
was able to snip £10,603 off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., add
£30,598 to freeholds, £80,063 to plant,
£1167 to shares in other cos., £98,215 to
stocks and £12,529 to debtors’ balances,
etc. When the books closed, stocks,
debtors, etc., exceeded outside liabilities
by £19,632. Since then more slipper fac-
tories have been bought, and 178,927
new £1 ords. were offered at par and
snapped at the beginning of Dec.
When all the money on the new issue
is in, paid capital will be £576,781 in
40,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 537,781
ords. The pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the
ords. will then call for £56,178, or only
£1284 more than was netted by the
whole group last term.
At 365. 6d. the ords. return 5.4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
18s. 3d. in net tangibles. The more
strongly protected prefs. are not yet
listed.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends and Dividend Tax.
Pref. To Re- Re-
►jept., 1 rofit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves
£££ £ £ '
1926.. 74,503 3000 16 p.c. = 49,3X0 ) , „
Written off, £20,258 j 1.935'325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720. . . . 339,183
Castleinaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 . . . 405 o’9
1927.. 98,861 3000 16 p.c. -- 54,659 } „„ „„„ „ ’
Written off, £14,000 . . J 27,202 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957 .. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. .. 506,121
1928.. 124,917 3000 20 p.c. = 85,076 36,841 542,962
1929.. 112,652 3000 20 „ „ 85,090 24,562 567,524
1930.. H 8,187 3000 18 „ ~ 76,581 41,606 606,130
1931.. 69,929 3000 14 „ ~ 59,563 7,366 613,496
1932.. 83,449 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 20,886 634,382
1933.. 89,645 3000 14 „ ~ 59,563 27,082 661.464
1.934.. 105,215 3000 18 „ „ 76,581 25,634 687,098
Written off freeholds, £5OOO .. .. 682,098
1935.. 98,974 3000 20 p.c. = 85,090 10,884 692 982
1936.. 120,253 3000 20 „ ~ 85,090 32,163 725,145
Share premiums, £33,981 . . . . . . 759 126
1937.. 116,390 3000 25 p.c.= 114,859 ' 757*657
The contraction of £3863 in net earn-
ings for the 12 months to Sept. 30
last is more apparent than real. Gross
earnings were £31,543 better at £369,386.
Exes. <£250,444) took all but £lO of the
increase. But they included an extra
£10,308 for depreciation (£92,358, equal
to 9.3 p.c. of the book value of fixed
assets at Sept. 30), and an additional
£1237 was spent on repairs, etc. (£21,604).
After allowing for an unexplained re-
duction of £2553 in the leasehold lia-
bility and guarantee account (£115,277),
there was enough to pay the pref. div.
(£3000) and show 22.2 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal, compared with 27.5 p.c. for the previ-
ous year. A 3d. bonus sent out in the
March (summer) half lifted the div. from
20 p.c. to 25 p.c.
The chances of earnings being suffi-
cient to allow the bonus to be repeated
in March next are encouraging. The
co. enjoys practically a monopoly of the
trade in Westralia, where consumption
of beer per head of population is about
50 p.c. greater than the average for the
whole of Australia, and continues to
grow. Three new hotel freeholds—the
Palace, at York, and Cottesloe and
Brighton, at Cottesloe —were bought
during the year, and reconstruction of the ,
Criterion, at Perth, at a cost of about
£30,000, was completed in July. Also, the
Emu Brewery’s new building and plant,
claimed to be the most modern of its
kind in Australia, is just about com-
pleted.
It was to help finance re-equipment of
the Emu that 339,814 new ss. shares were
issued at a premium of 2s. each in May
last. However, when the books closed,
the new capital (£84,953), share premiums
(£33,981, which was added to reserves)
and more besides had all been added to
cash, etc. (£236,844, up £121,735):
1926. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £358,190 £475,454 £475,454 £560,407
Mortgages .. 45,144 21,148 2,510
Other liabilities* 85,614 119,371 166,689 174,302
Freeholds and
plant . . 646,867 959,071 975,909 992,168
Mortgages .. 58,265 39,710 48,221 35,647
Stocks . . 61,798 50,234 58,199 62,347
Shares in other
cos 6,897 111,722 111,722 112,397
Book debts . . 60,471 65,817 102,170 108,009
Cash, etc. . . 6,289 50,827 115,109 236,844
* Includes goodwills accruing.
The year’s net growth in the book value
of hote.l freeholds (£719,364) was £18,529,
which is very moderate considering the
reconstruction and purchases already re-
ferred to. Including mortgages but not
shares in other cos., the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£266,035) was £109,025.
At Sept. 30 reserves were visibly piled
£197,250 higher than paid capital, and
the family stocking is bulging, too. To
transfer some of the lay-by to the share
register would make both net earnings
and dividends in relation to share capi-
tal look more like what the position
really is. But because of taxation and
other difficulties the board has shelved
the idea. A suggestion recently made by
one of the shareholders, with an idea
of sidestepping taxation, was tha;t the
business be handed over to a new co.
of the same name, shareholders in the
old co. to receive five f.-p. ss. shares in
the new co. for every four now held. The
board said it would go into the question,
and there the matter stands for the
present.
The market prices the ords. at 265. 3d.,
at which figure the return is 3.8 p.c. on
a 20 p.c. div. basis, or 4.7 p.c. on a 25
p.c. distribution. Visibly the backing is
12s. sd. in net tangibles. At 28s. the
well-protected prefs. return 4.3 p.c.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
z Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1927. . 72,025 10,500 16i p.e.=52,656 8,869 85,800
1928.. 60,476 10,500 13| , „ 44,555 5,421 91,221
1929.. 65,213 10,500 13f „ „ 44,555 10,158 101,379
1930.. 46,400 10,500 10 „ „ 32,404 3,496 104,875
Loss.
1931.. 24,622 7,471 2\ „,[ 8,101 64,681
Profit.
1932.. 18,505 10,500 Nil 8,005 72,686
1933.. 30,532 10,500 6 p.c. =19,442 590 73,276
Loss.
1934.. 17,894 10,500 2i „ „ 8,101 36,781
Unexplained reductions, £lO,OOO .. 26,781
Deficit.
1935.. 19,909 10,500 Nil 3,628
Unexplained additions, £2225 . . . . 1,403
Profit. Reserves.
1936.. 17,013 10,500 Nil 6,513 5,110
1937.. 34,825 10,500 21 p.c.= 8,101 16,224 21,334
Last year’s profit (up £17,812) was the
best since the big break in the markets
and change in merchandising methods
in 1930. It was sufficient to pay the
pref. div. and show 7.5 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 2 p.c. for the preceding
term and losses for the two years before
that. The improvement appears to be
due to better wholesale buying by the
co., a tighter grip upon the business,
following general reorganisation and
monthly trial balances and half-yearly
stocktakings, and steady improvement
in trading conditions generally. The
ords., passed by in ’35 and ’36, got 2\
p.c., and prospects of their remaining in
the picture and receiving a bit more
seem brighter than at any time during
the last seven years.
The store is in Bourke-street, in the
centre of Melbourne’s shopping area,
and before the slump the co. had built
up a large and very profitable trade in
imported high-grade fashion goods, the
most difficult of all drapery lines. For
the decade to the close of accounts in
1930 the ords. averaged a shade over 13
p.c., sweetened with £133,221 of bonus
scrip. Over the next half-dozen difficult
years, competition and other things
forced the co. into more competitive
lines, and aggregate profits exceeded
aggregate losses by only £3625, and re-
serves were bitten into for nearly
£lOO,OOO to keep up payments to the
prefs. and give the ords. an average of
1.8 p.c. The mischief occurred mainly
in connection with stocks. Hopes are
that difficulties in this and other connec-
tions have now been overcome. General
manager S. H. Rye recently visited
Europe and America and made contact
with a number of new markets, and con-
tinued improvement in turnover is re-
ported since the close of accounts, de-
spite the damping effect upon some
classes of trade of precautions taken to
check the spread of infantile paralysis.
Chief movement in balance-sheet
figures was a growth of £23,796 in stocks,
financed mainly out of the year’s surplus
earnings:—
IQTO iQQf; iQQrt IQQ7
Old. capital. . £324,041 £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital. . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities . . 268,673 376,820 335,884 330,949
Premises, etc. 411,044 468,089 467,794 467,411
Plant, etc. . . 83,465 96,320 '94,831 93,798
Book debts . . 77',368 59,741 63,856 61,767
Stock . . . . 304,582 199,678 175,347 199,143
Cash.. .. 5,323 39,814 28,466 23,181
Of the liabilities, £225,000 is mortgages,
secured by a charge over the freehold.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids (£284,091) exceeded the floating
debt (£105,949, down £4935) by £178,142,
an improvement of £21,357 over the
twelvemonth. During the second half of
1938 the co. will reoccupy its former
leasehold in the centre of its Bourke-
street frontage from which G. J. Coles
and Co. have been trading since the be-
ginning of 1934.
In the market the ords. have been
fairly steady around 18s., at which figure
the return is 2.7 p.c. on a 2\ p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for 5.5
p.c. on his money counts on a 5 p.c. dis-
tribution. The prefs. at 245. 9d. return
5.6 p.c. The net tangible cover is £3 6s.
prefs. and 21s. 4d. ords.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
1927.. 44,950 10 p.c. = 33,492 11,458 102,384
1928.. 48,214 10 „ „ 35,974 12,240 114,624
1929.. 47,720 10 „ „ 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930.. 49,737 10 „ „ 40,000 9,737 132,172
1931.. 35,383 7„ „ 28,000 1
Contingency reserve, £3OOO t 4 ’ dB,s irfo.ooj
Q’iand Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-share basis; reserves written off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17,300 .. 119,255
1932.. 30,083 5 p.c. = 27,359 2,724 121,979
1933.. 35,890 4 „ „ 27,042 7 -
Contingency reserve, £3OOO ) 0,040
Surplus on sale property, £16,250.. 144,077
From tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 154,077
1934.. 38,799 4 p.c. = 27,304 11,495 165,572
Unexplained reduction, £5713 . . 159,859
1935.. 48,079 44 p.c. = 30,717 17,362 177,221
1936.. 48,998 5„ „ 34,457 14,541 191,762
1937.. 51,916 5,, „ 37,345 14,571 206,333
Originally incorporated in 1874 as the
first building society in Queensland, the
co. now does a large general banking
business as well. For many years after
the crisis of the ’nineties it limped along,
nursing the properties that had fallen
into its hands. Gradually it developed
strength, and for the seven years to the
close of accounts in 1930 shareholders
averaged a shade under 10 p.c. Then
slump and its concomitants struck these
building banks a stunning blow. Still,
this one came through without failing
to pay a div., the average for the seven
years to the close of last accounts being
a wink under 5 p.c. Meanwhile, the co.
added to its stature by absorbing the
Queensland Deposit Bank and by taking
over portion of the assets of the sus-
pended Federal. The two deals lifted
the Permanent’s paid capital from
£400,000 in 1931 to £682,000 two years
later. The figure has since grown to
£750,000 by cash issues at par.
Headquarters were transferred into the
co.’s Queen-street premises, and
the Adelaide-street property was sold
(for £45,000) at a profit of £17,000 in
’34. Since then, lending connections have
continued to expand, interest rates have
hardened, the burden of taxation has
been lightened a little, and earnings
have advanced slowly. Still, the days of
{Continued on page 24.)


Poetic
Fragments or PARKES' LATEST
TO ARABELLA G., OF SACRA-
MENTO.
You ask me why I love you, Sweet.
Go, ask the silly moth that flies
Into the burning flame, to meet
A death unpitied, why he dies?
Since mother Eve first ask’d the
reason,
What lover ever yet could tell?
But love, like fruit when out of
season,
Is sweet, without a reason,
Belle!
H I love you, Sweet, because ’tis
I nice.
We sleep on beds of sweetest straw,
Th’ opossum cloak thrown o’er us.
RAGGED JANE.
I would not give my ragged Jane
For all the peacock ladies going.
She knows the way to banish pain —
Wiiat she don’t know is not worth
knowing.
THE STRONG MAN.
Like a rock that breasts the sea,
Firm he stood, in front of foes.
A.t last, in wondering
i pride, I see
Niagara’s eternal falls!
But, ’midst the scene en-
trancing me,'
My Nellie for her lovei
calls.
THE FIRST NIGHT AT SEA.
Ah, then the weary thinking heart,
With cold prophetic heaving,
Began to feel how large a part
Of life’s sweet things ’twas leaving
3 c
Z* 3 •
B - 0 5
< g v, X
* 2 >,
« § £
£ e „ w g o
- „cS 60 A! 60
go S 2 o Vi
OS* 1 t +—*
a> *-< d .
Sts s S--.S „
e 1 2 |
-S ’ X
a O
i <D G 4)
-■8 XJO 5 £ s
a =3 - ■*■* «a
2 £ S 3 « 2 -3 0J
**-i SI ° ’m'S
o-o H a ss
ls a >,x3
a<3 “ 2 2 S s-g
•a e u-5 s -C c £
4S C JS 4S « O
.;3 fi? g -rt>
g )t/1 ° u a 2 a “
-o' S !sS2.cg'g'SfSc3
c-S 8 a
<D <U <L> . <L> G
"2=5 5 § "313
SH £ u
// 4s os, /
' “ c<. s yt? ? r s>
How many who were foremost in the race
Have been translated to “another place!”
A maiden in a flowery nook—
Her own bright spot of garden
ground —
Sat, sweetly studious o’er a book,
By poet’s story spell-like bound.
The above full-page drawing by “Hop,” which appeared in 1889, is resurrected to settle the periodical controversy whether Henry Parkes should be remembered as a poet as well as a statesman.


He added to his
A.M.P. POLICIES as he
added to his years
JOHN CONKLIN BRYANT’S record, of membership in the
A.M.P. Society is typical of tens of thousands. He has
built up his Estate as he added years to his life. The record
can be told simply in pictures:—
Mr. John Conklin Bryant
became a member of the
A.M.P. in 1895 at 20 years of
age, when he took out his
first policy for £5OO. That
policy has grown, with
bonuses, to £1,183.
if
At 31 years of age, a son
arrived, and Mr. Bryant took
out a policy for £3OO that
has grown tp £561,
At 44 (in 1919 just after
the War) things were going
well with Mr. Bryant, and he
added a £l,OOO policy that
has now grown to £1,533.
In 1901, at 26 years of age,
Mr. Bryant married, and very
wisely added an A.M.P. policy
for £5OO. That policy has
grown to £1,084. It also has
more than doubled.
t
Mr. Bryant now regrets
that he waited till 40 to take
out his fourth policy; it was
for £5OO and has grown to
£794.
&
Things continued to go well
and, when he was 52, in 1928,
Mr. Bryant added a policy
for £2,000 that has grown to
£2,481.
To-day Mr. Bryant has that feeling of security that comes with the
backing of A*M.P. policies. If he were to die to-morrow his policies
for £4,800 would yield £7,638, plus bonus for 1937, and so long as he
continues to live bonuses will continue to grow.
It is open to any citizen in good health to become a member of
the A.M.P. and to build up an estate that will give him comfort and
peace of mind, and that will give his family security against the “slings
and arrows of outrageous fortune.” Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
send an experienced adviser to talk the matter over with you, or write
for a copy of “Investing in happiness.”
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. \ General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab/’ Melbourne.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
latest General Catalogue.— Advt.
10 p.c. divs. for financial institutions are
a thing of the past, the chairman says,
The market, which agrees with the
chairman’s opinion so far as the Perma-
nent is concerned, prices the fully-paid
pound shares at 21s. 9d., at which figure
the return is 4.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution.
Visibly the cover is 255. 6d. in net tan-
gibles.
For the 12 months covered bv the
, . . . ~ , . ,
latest accounts, the board reports that
business was “very satisfactory.” The
° f 14021 , ■" Bross earm "f
(£133,971) appears to have come mostly
from ex + ra lkmids fun £ll3 Tnch.d
ing the tax bill (£23,000, stlnJas in tl
previous term), exes. (£82,055) took £llO9
of ,the increase, leaving the net result
£2918 better at 6.9 p.c. on average capi-
tal as against 7.1, 7.1, 5.6, 5.3, 5.4, 8.8
and 12.4 p.c. back to 1930.
Subject to economic conditions, earn-
ings can be expected to expand with the
growth of Brisbane, which makes pros-
pects of a bit better than 5 p.c. encour-
aging, though the visible prop for capital
is none too stout.
The financial structure is sound, as
the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
capital £400,000 £682,000 £736,i50 £750,000
Deposits 901,842]
9i093 j 1,541 - 94 ° 1,466,581 £535,757
Premises,
, e . tc - • • 26,500 52,260 56,938 55,396
Advances 1,092,323 1,755,147 1,843,810 1,830',513
Public
SS 35J , M7 68 m
The extra £13.820 of capital gathered
i nct tm-m
r term ’ to § ether Wlth a further £69,176
aXatef alTw»f i„ C ,o° ho^idff 7
£1)3,929), raising them to 42 3 pc of
liabilities to the public. When the books
closed, the co. was holding only 325. Id.
of the public’s money for every pound
of its own.
Ronpibon Tin, N.L.
After providing £1024 for deprecia-
tion, this Melbourne-controlled Siam
producer netted £48,159 (up £24,572) for
the 12 months to June 30 last. Un-
changed dividends of ss. per pref. share
and 2s. to the ords. absorbed £23,643,
and £23,131 was written off sharehold-
ings. The Ronpibon Extended holding
has been rubbed out of the accounts,
but some return from the interest
in Talerng Tin Dredging, to which Ron-
pibon handed portion of its leases in
1930 for £2476 in cash and £12,500 in
scrip, is considered a possibility.
Talerng subsequently handed the leases
over to Southern Siam Co., which is
now associated with Tongkah Harbor.
The co. owns two properties, one at
Ronpibon, the other at Lampeh, West
Coask, Southern Siam. Including tailings,
which it is figured can be profitably re-
treated with tin around £2OO per ton in
London, there is about eight years’ work
measured up, and very few surplus areas
are available in the vicinity. The main
Ronpibon property was originally bored
to average lib. 3oz. per c.y. Check-
boring indicated values averaging
lib. 120 z., but recoveries have never
approached the larger estimate ; the stiff,
clayey wash, combined with timber and
stones, has been troublesome.
Still, over the last decade the co. has
consistently earned profits, lowest being
£4391 in .1934, when the dredge capsized
and sank. Last year’s result was by far
the best yet:
1935, 1936. 1937.
Treated, cub. yd. 1,161,000 1,087,000 1,650,000
Recovery, t. 0., tons 308.1 305.3 438.7
Aver, per c.y., lb. 0.59 0.63 0.59
Average value, c.y. 9.55 d. « 9.86 d. 10.35 d.
Net value . . .. £48,211 £44,723 £71,218
Profit .. .. £21,660 £23,587 £48,159
Dividends—•
Pref. share .. 5/- 5/- 5/~
Ord. share .. -/Hi 2/74 2/74
Total .. .. £16,745 £23,643 £23,643
Values slipped a bit, but metal prices
improved, and turnover increased.
Since the close of accounts tin prices
have taken an abrupt about-turn. But
the dredge has been in much better
ground, 532,000 c.y. having been dug
during the first five months of the cur-
rent term for 224 j tons t. 0., an average
recovery of 0.941 b. Dividends totalling
6s. per pref. and ss. 3d. per ord. share
have already been disbursed. The reduc-
tion in the international tin quota is not
expected to affect the co. to any marked
extent, but the future remains uncertain,
as less than half the dredging reserves
comprises virgin wash.
Paid capital is £248,750 in 50,000 £2
5 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and 85,000 £2
ords. called up to 355. On the market
the prefs. fetch 295. 6d. and the ords.
21s. Prefs. participate equally with the
ords. in divisible profits after allowing
for their minimum requirements, and in
the event of liquidation are preferential
as to £1 of their capital and arrears of
div., as well as sharing pari passu with
the ords. in any surplus assets after
allowing for return of ord. capital. At
balance date liquids exceeded outside in-
debtedness by £41,803.
It was in 1912 that B.H. Prop, de-
cided to embark on its big iron-and-
steel enterprise at Newcastle, and in
March, 1915, the first 350-ton blast fur-
nace was blown in. In October,. 1935,
activities were extended to Port Kembla,
on the N. S. Wales South Coast, where
the Australian Iron and Steel Co.’s big
new works were taken over with pur-
chase of all that co.’s 2,700,000 issued £1
ord. shares, acquired in exchange for
750,000 f.-p. £1 shares in B.H.P. Now
it has been decided to produce pig-iron
at Whyalla, on the western coast of
Spencer’s Gulf, and a blast' furnace
similar to No. 2 at Newcastle, capable
of turning out over 200,000 tons of the
stuff annually, is to be erected on the
spot. Whyalla is the port for the co.’s
rich iron-ore mines (Iron Knob and Iron
Baron) 33 miles inland. A large deposit
of limestone occurs near by at Rapid
Bay, and the co.’s own steamers will
bring coke from Newcastle as backload-
ing. It is possible that at a later date
coke ovens, open-hearth furnaces and
steel rolling mills, etc., will also be
erected at Whyalla. The cost of erecting
the blast furnace and auxiliary equip-
ment is estimated at £1,178,000. In addi-
tion £155,000 will be needed for
wharves, channels and approaches,
£59,000 for a jetty and storage bin at
Rapid Bay, and £27,000 for extension
of the Whyalla steam power plant. Total
expenditure will thus be £1,419,000. The
co. has over £13,000,000 invested in its
Newcastle works and subsidiary ven-
tures, etc., exclusive of Australian Iron
and Steel, whose assets total over
£5,400,000.
* * * *
In return for the building of a railway
line from Bungendore to the Lake George
mine at Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) the Lake
George Mining Corp. (a London con-
cern, paid capital £802,207, which took
over the mine from Lake George Metal
Corp. in 1929 for £510,000 in f.-ps.) has
agreed to spend £A600,000 on equipping
the property for production at the mini-
mum rate of 500 tons per day. At June
30 the co. had a cash balance of over
£571,000. A subsidiary, Lake George
Mines, Ltd., has been formed to work
the deposit. Power will be drawn from
the Burrenjuck hydro-electric circuit by
an extension of the transmission line
from Canberra, and storage and loading
facilities are to be constructed at Port
Kembla, the lot at a cost of about
£45,000. Pilot-plant experimental work
has proved that three concentrates —lead,
zinc and iron—can be obtained. The
question of the best method of using the
pyrite is still under consideration, and
the co. has had large-scale tests carried
out overseas in connection with the re-
covery of elemental sulphur. Ore re-
serves above the 800 ft. level are esti-
mated at 2,113,129 t0n5—504,048 proved,
346,582 probable and 1,226,499 prospec-
tive—assaying 7.67 p.c. lead, 13.06 p.c.
zinc, 0.75 p.c. copper, 2.340 z. silver and
I.3dwt. gold. Deep drillholes suggest
that there is a lot more pay-ore available.
The primary sulphides consist of an inti-
mate admixture of iron pyrites, galena
and zinc blend. But modern selective
treatment methods are expected to yield
an 85 p.c. to 90 p.c. separation of the
lead content of the ore, the concentrate
assaying 55 p.c. to 60 p.c. pure lead.
In the case of the zinc sulphide, which
is* exceptionally pure and floats easily, an
87 p.c. to 90 p.c. recovery is counted
upon, concentrate assaying 60 p.c. to 62
p.c. zinc. Since the ore is more or less
friable fine-grinding costs should be
moderate.
* * sje »
Loloma, on the Tavua field (Fiji), ex-
pects no further trouble with the oil-
firing arrangements on the roaster, while
the mill and cyaniding sections of the
circuit are reported to be running satis-
factorily, and throughput is approaching
designed capacity of 500 tons a week.
A 95 p.c. extraction or better is expected
when the various units are thoroughly
run in. And now chairman P. F.
Cody sees no reason why the co.
should not declare its first div. before
Easter, “and thereafter make regular dis-
tributions.” The g.m. (F. W. R. Godden)
hints at a material increase in the ton-
nage of positive ore, with a lift in the
average grade for the mine. These anti-
cipations are based on developments,
and expected developments, on the 224 ft.
level. The Tavua Power Co., in which
Loloma holds an interest, is now supply-
ing the mine with compressed air, water
and electric power and light. During
the year 33,830 tons, averaging 17.66dwt.,
was added to ore reserves, raising the
total at the end of July last to 138,960
tons, details of which are as follows:
Ay. Value, Content,
Ore. Tons. Jhvt. Fine Oz.
Positive . . . . 110,340 29.26 161,431
Probable . . . . 12,620 16.60 10,477
Possible .. .. 16,000 18.12 14,500
Total . . . . 138,960 26.83 186,408
Taking gold at, say, £8 per ounce and
allowing for a 5 p.c. loss in extraction,
the gross value of the mine is £1,416,700.
It has not yet been possible to accurately
determine costs, but the board hopes to
get the figure down to about 40s. per
ton, including expenditure on develop-
ment. The cost of treating 138,960 tons
at an average of, say, 425. 6d. would be
£295,290, leaving £1,121,410 available for
shareholders everything panning out
right. Over a period of six years,
this would be sufficient to repay capital
at the current market price of 16s. 6d.
per ss. share and show an average of
10 p.c. p.a. Earlier in the year the scrip
touched 275. on ’Change.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Youn» Streets, Sydney
■
Mm
HRlHllii
mm H i!
gg]lt
hi
in
Mini
Ilf
■
w
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“There are both fame and money in croon-
ing.”—Musical magazine.
Provided you can croon worse than
somebody else.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Car driver collides with 14 cyclists.”
—News item.
There’s greediness for you, when there
are other motorists who can’t get one to
knock down!
*l* 4* 4* ‘l*
“The hall was dimly illuminated by topers.”
—Short story.
Strange, seeing they were apparently
well lit up.
4* *!• 4* 4*
“Sobriety test givep to a man recently was
‘Sadie suddenly started swaying swiftly side-
ways.’ ”
Rather seems they should’ve given
Sadie a test, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, horsemaid, to help wife.” — Advt.
With the nagging?
Descent.
Down, down the long white marble
steps she came, her red gown trailing in
magnificent folds after her. Majestically
she paced, holding herself erect, her proud
gaze seemingly on some distant' point;
on her head a gorgeous diadem of rubies
darted molten fire. Then suddenly her
stilt heels caught in the huge folds.
Down, down the long white marble steps
she came.
Cinco.
•i* 4* 4*
Lord Cecil’s favorite quotation: “Half
a League, half a League onward!”
•b *1*
Then there was the mathematician who
tried to square the traffic cop.
■I* 4*
Best Wishes.
It was New Year’s Eve. As the car-
load of revellers hurtled around the
corner, a pickled rendering of “Auld
Lang Syne” assaulted the night.
Had the pedestrian been younger he
might have escaped. As it was, age
shortened his leap. The impact spun
him like a teetotum and sent him squelch-
ing into the muddy gutter.
With a faint notion that he had skittled
someone the driver climbed unsteadily
out to investigate. Finding his sus-
picions correct, he bent over the prostrate
victim, and, having managed to focus
his face, uttered a gasp of astonishment.
“Holy shmoke! If it isn’t old Bill!
Happy New .Year!”
T. W. N.
Love Caresses.
“‘I love him so much that I wanted him to
die with me,’ said Irene Schmeder, who shot
Lallement, the air pilot.”
That touches a chord in my own being,
for I, too, loved someone —my wife —
with all my heart, and often expressed
my devotion by a series of socks to the
jaw, varied (in moments of extreme
ecstasy) by hearty kicks in the slats. Yes,
on my wife, I can honestly say, I lav-
ished the gamut of love’s outward mani-
festations, and had she lived —I strangled
her in a passionate moment —she would
no doubt testify to the truth of this
eulogy of myself as the great lover.
Perhaps from her place up yonder she
will thrill to the love and esteem of
fellow-citizens for her erstwhile husband,
to be expressed in the usual way next
Tuesday when they adjust the knot
behind my ear.
Nordbo.
4* 4 1 4* +
Racing Note.
Back Losers.
Bacchus.
Back Home.
Back Answers.
Back Out.
Cuatro.
“Look, pa —I got a haircut like yours.”
Golfer’s Glossary.
Address. —Learning to distinguish be-
tween grounding the club and clubbing
the ground.
Bogey. —Scratch-score for any hole,
so called because you’ve only the ghost
of a chance of beating it.
Bye. —That part of a match at which
you really begin to get on to your game.
Cleek. —Refers to the Club Handicap
Committee.
Cup. —The sort of lie which the man
coming behind you gets.
Head. —So called because it is at the
foot of the club. Dos.
+ + •5'
“ ‘Broster” is a new word which has been
suggested as an addition to the English lan-
guage to mean ‘brother and sister.’ ”
—News item.
I didn’t realise the stupidity of this
combination system until I went into the
pub. It would have been all right had
I asked for a steer, but like a goat I
called for a bout. I got it good and
plenty.
Next time I shall stick to the old-
fashioned beer and stout.
Dougal.
+ 4* 4*
“ ‘Don’t do that,’ she said coyly, as she
pushed him across the teapot.”— Short story.
Need she have objected quite so
strenuously?
4*
Old Bore’s Almanac for 1938.
Jan. —A kilted piper with skinny, hair-
less knees will cause a sensation at a
Highland Gathering. A royal commis-
sion witness will give his evidence with-
out once using the phrase “I have no
recollection of that.” In a fresh Soviet
purge the O.G.P.U. will arrest their own
chief for Trotskyist wrecking. Baron
Hasegota Sensayuma, Tokio’s newly-
appointed Minister for Regrets and
Apologies, will, following another “inci-
dent,” make a flowery apology to the
U.S.A., at the same time disclaiming all
responsibility.
Feb. —A Sydney Judge will express his
ignorance of the term “to dong him
one.” A charity bazaar will be so suc-
cessful that the organising committee will
find it necessary to run only two bridge
evenings to wipe out the deficit. The
P.M. will announce that, provided no
further hitch occurs, the flying-boat ser-
vice will begin early in 1939. The
Weather Bureau will prophesy' a wet
week-end and it will rain. An English
visitor will admire the smart frocking of
our women, but deplore the awful
clothes of the men.
March. —A Sydney daily will publish
a sporting article that has actually been
written by the champion under whose
name it appears. Synod will protest to
the N.S.W. Premier against the holding
of the R.A.S. on Good Friday. The
chief of the Collectivist Trouser-pressing
Factory will be shot in a new Moscow
purge for introducing the knife-edge
creases worn by the hated bourgeois.
Musso., in a welcoming speech to Hitler,
will declare that Fascism and Nazism are
now free from enemies in the two Father-
lands. Later II Duce will accompany the
Fiihrer to the border in a special bomb-
and bullet-proof train.
April. —The R.A.S. will announce
that attendance figures for the Show on
Good Friday shattered all previous
records. The captain of an incoming
liner will declare that the mountainous
seas encountered were the worst he had
experienced in 40 years. The A.L.P.
Easter Conference will reappoint Mr.
Lang its leader. The U.A.P. will appoint
a deputy campaign director for the State
elections to assist Mr. Lang. A promi-.
nent Hollywood film star will divorce
her eighth husband to remarry for the
third time her first husband. Gandhi’s
last tooth will go, and he will have to
crack the nuts between his nose and chin.
May.— The P.M. will announce that,
owing to Botany Bay residents’ objec-
tion that the ultimate site of the Sydney
flying-boat base will interfere with the
view of the tanneries, the whole scheme
may have to be abandoned. The Retail
Traders’ Association will inaugurate
Father-in-Laws’ Day. Bradman will
narrowly miss the century in the open-
ing match of the English tour and Trevor
Wignall will predict that this failure is
the prelude to his early eclipse. An Eng-
lish journalist out here on a flying visit
will be shown the Jenolan Caves and
St. Kilda beach, and in a subsequent
book will tell us how to run the country.
June. —Bradman will bat for two days
in the first Test. General Sing Wun
Song’s crack 2795th Army in performing
a strategic retreat will patriotically refuse
to take a breather before the middle of
Tibet is reached. There will be great
celebrations in Rome following Costa
Rica’s recognition of Italy’s conquest of
Abyssinia. The “S. M. Herald” will pub-
lish an issue containing neither an inter-
view with a centenarian nor a photo, of
the reunion of a brother and sister after
a separation lasting 32 years.
July. —Madame Chiang Kai-shek will
give up her command of the Air Force,
the Navy, the General Staff and the
Generalissimo in order to devote her
whole time to presswork. A fettler will
be knocked unconscious by a railway
scone carelessly tossed out of the win-
dow of a passing train. Despite the
efforts of a strong Bar, a big society
divorce cause celebre will end before the
respondent has had time to wear every
frock in her extensive wardrobe. The
Taxation Dept, will introduce a simpli-
fied income-tax form.
Aug. —A bookie will admit that he’s
had a wonderful spin, and will opine that
it’s almost a shame to take the money.
A Melbourne street will be relaid in con-
crete, and will not be ripped up for the
replacement of water pipes for at least
six weeks. A new N.S.W. road-safety
campaign will be inaugurated, the
Premier announcing that the Govern-
ment is determined to reduce the grow-
ing death-roll. The Taxation Dept, will
increase its staff to cope with the extra
work involved by the new form.
Sept. —The N.S.W. Government Statis-
tician will reveal that road deaths for
August show an increase of 15 p.c. over
those of the preceding month. In a new
Russian purge Ivan Itchibak, Commis-
sar for Cultural Advancement, will be
arrested by the O.G.P.U. for the Zino-
vievist practice of . wearing socks.
Women’s spring hats will be worn under
the chin and will be kept in place by
being pinned to the ears.
Oct. —At a Nuremberg rally Hitler
will express a desire for a better under-
standing with England. British Foreign
Office comment will be that the state-
ment should be accepted guardedly, the
“News-Chronicle” will sensationally dis-
close that it is a subtle
trap to woo England from
association with France
and Russia, the proposal
will be furiously attacked
by “Pertinax” in the
“Echo de Paris,” and
Madame Tabouis will see
in it the weakening of the
Rome-Berlin axis, as pre-
dicted by her. The Japan-
ese Foreign Office will
announce that, in accordance with the
wishes of the Chinese people, China will
in future be known as Chinakuo, an en-
tirely independent State under the pro-
tection of Japan.
Nov.—Mr. Lyons will announce that
after prolonged negotiations the objec-
tions of the Botany residents have been
overcome by an alteration of the plans,
and that he expects the flying-boat ser-
vice to commence early in 1940. George
Bernard Shaw will visit Germany, and
will afterwards aver that there is no
hope for Hitlerism unless the totalitarian
ideology is watered down by Shavian
philosophy. Fashion experts will pre-
dict brighter colors in men’s suitings.
Dec. —In a fresh Soviet purge Stalin
and Marshal Voroshilov will be arrested
for anti-Stalin activities. A Melbourne
man will walk down Collins-street clad
in the latest canary-yellow lounge suit
and followed by a gaping crowd. He
will afterwards be taken to the Recep-
tion House. *
S. W. K.
Learning and Yearning.
“Among the 3500 students attending Mel-
bourne University there is a number of highly-
eligible bachelors and a number of co-eds who
can use a lipstick as effectively as a Roget’s
Thesaurus.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Probs. in Maths, and Medicine and
probing the interior,
Pretty co-eds now consider subjects quite
inferior.
In Botany they concentrate upon the
proven theory
That life bereft of orange-blossoms
would be dull and dreary.
With rouge and lipstick in the Arts
they’re very persevering —
Until they land their man and prove
they’re slick at Engineering!
D. McM.
Ideal.
“At what rate does the average girl expect
to reduce?” —Beauty query.
How satisfied my Isobel would be,
And how the speedy system she would
thank,
Could she reduce her form as rapidly
As she reduced my balance at the
bank !
T. W. N.


m
mm
a
“Let Atlas carry the burden.”
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000.
F ire—Accident—Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street. Sydney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1855.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Siy Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: .Tames Kidd; .T. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Carlton Brewery.
Now on a 15 p.c. div. basis, the
£1 shares of Carlton Brewery, at
635. 6d. last week, yield better
than 4.7 p.c. This holding co.’s
capital has been unchanged at
£816,992 since the writing-up of
1923, and it controls 38 p.c. of
C.U.B.’s capital. C.U.8., which
last year showed a record profit,
has financed all expansion over the
past 15 years out of profits, and
its liquid position is strong. Carl-
ton scrip at the moment looks a
catch among brewery stocks.
5 YEARS’
GUARANTEE
INVINCIBLE ENGINES
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“INVINCIBLE”
SINCE
1906
Business, Robbery, Etc.
We Come to 1938
The year 1937 has been highly inter-
esting to those who take more than a
passing interest in affairs industrial and
things financial. Boisterously the New
Year entered, “good times” for all,
happy days here again, and some enter-
prises in all parts of the world ready to
burst out of their clothes in sheer optim-
ism and high spirits. It is just as well
perhaps that these things happen occa-
sionally, that business and finance have
their highlights as well as their hum-
drum side, otherwise business occupa-
tions would become too impossible for
anyone possessing more than a machine-
like temperament.
The younger generation of present-
day Australian business-people will re-
member well the rather dazzling 1920’5,
when borrowing was at its wildest and
mechanised forms of travel and transport
were in their first youth. Motor-cars
were cranked with a handle, had mag-
neto ignition, etc., high-pressure tyres
and all sorts of shapes in bodies, hoods
and radiators. “Petrol-savers” galore
were experimented with, shock-absorbers
and side-curtains of weird and wonder-
ful designs were patented and sold, and
mugs “came at” gadgets that purported
to extract combustible fuel out of air.
Until the slump of 1929 the ’twenties
were mainly years of hope and experi-
ment — perhaps this writer thinks so
because he was then starting on his
working life. Still, it wa\s an ex-
pansive, though shockingly extravagant,
period for Australia. Concrete roads
started to shoot out in all direc-
tions from the principal capital cities.
George A. Bond’s original hosiery
and lingerie co. grew up like a mush-
room, paid startlingly-big salaries for
“efficiency,” and went ingloriously broke
in 1927. Millions of pounds’ worth of
forestry and other “bonds” were hawked
and sold throughout Australia. Glamor-
ous picture-palaces ran up dizzily to-
wards the skies, the celluloid art eventu-
ally stifling the stage when “talkies” were
thrust on us as one of the last bequests
of the ’twenties boom. We paid £4 or
£5 for a tennis racquet, and were nobody
if we didn’t have a court of our own.
Crystal wireless-sets shattered no one’s
nerves at this stage except those of ex-
perimenters. Aeroplanes were not an
everyday mode of conveyance.
The early part of the ’thirties brought
some disillusionment to many of the
youths of this and the previous decade.
Invention after invention, mostly in the
shape of refinements—all-electric radios,
cheap sedan cars, luxurious aircraft, elec-
tric refrigeration and ventilation —were
thrust on the world during and just after
the depression. But with the slump old
standards seemed to change, as they do
in any grave crisis ; money systems went
topsy-turvy throughout the world, •‘in-
flation” grew to be a phobia, artifice and
“management” took the place of metallic
standards for money, unemployment-
relief became an almost perpetual
topic, while taxation, regulations, restric
tions and Government interference grew
from month to month. Simplicity and
clear-cut issues appeared to form no part
of the outlook for modern man.
For two or three years, up to the middle
of 1936, the industrial world had been
lifting its head from the dejected position
of the slump period, but remained ready
to duck at any moment and lie low
again. Then the gold standard was
abandoned by its last supporters, prices
showed signs of rising, and, when real,
substantial recovery was becoming evi-
dent, a couple of countries felt fit enough
or desperate enough to indulge in a bit
of war. •
Helped by the League of Nations, war
soon became the universal topic. Nations
began to arm, and among investors and
speculators an idea germinated that
if the world could afford wars things
must be better than they had thought..
Anyway, war would mean higher prices,
so—let’s have a flutter in metals and other
commodities!
Prices soared. Speculation went mad.
Rumors that action was to be taken in
high places in Britain and the U.S.A.
were heard. Prices collapsed. For two
months or so prices have been con-
valescent. And so we get ready for 1938,
another lesson to study in our copy-
book, and hopes within ourselves for
simpler, solider and more sustained
“prosperity” for a few years at least.
Our overseas funds remain a key
factor in financial conditions within the
Commonwealth, but the position of
London balances, as ever, remains a close
secret from anyone except a select few
bankers and Government officials. The
commission on banking suggested that
information on the subject, even if the
figures were withheld for six months
after date of compilation, should be pub-
lished ; there is no evidence so far that
the hint has been taken. Figures six
months old would be of value for pur-
poses of comparison, even if up-to-date
statistics were considered to be too dan-
gerous to flash on the eyes of the
7,000,000 people whose interests are in-
volved.
* * * *
First Melbourne sales for North
Broken Hills -in 1937 were at 83s. ;
Souths, 525, 6d. Highest quotes were
935. and 60s. 3d. respectively—in March.
The year’s closing quotys were 525. 3d.
and 365. 6d. Norths have suffered the
harder marking-down for no real
reason. South’s momentarily steadier
div. seems to be the superficial attraction
in its case.
* * *
Normanby Tin, working at Mt.
Poverty, near Cooktown (Q.), continues
to be a market disappointment. In about
tv/o months the scrip has dropped from
2s. 6d. to Is. 3d. Recoveries have fallen
below expectations—the prospectus men-
tioned 200,000 c.y. “proved” (among
other ore reserves) going 41b. to the
yard, 90 p.c. recoverable. Recently
1.51 b. stuff seems to have been going
through, and whether that is fully repre-
sentative of values it is hard to say. The
Bulletin raised objections to market
optimism then existing in its issue of
20/10/ ’37. Shilling-paid shares lend
themselves to speculation.
* * * *
The year is closing without The Bulle-
tin having been able to print an issue on
Tasmanian-made paper; but Associated
Pulp and Paper’s Burnie works should
be on the market with their products by
mid-1938. Just on two years have elapsed
since the flotation, which was sponsored
by Barrier mining cos. ; the ords. may
still be bought at 9d. or Is. above par.
The proposition looks very interesting,
and after initial manufacturing difficul-
ties are overcome there should be worth-
while profits from the business.
* * * *
The shares of Oil Search, Ltd., which
went on a slide a couple of weeks before
Christmas, going below 6s. at one stage,
came up again sharply following publica-
tion of the directors’ report on operations
and negotiations with overseas interests.
Some definite announcement regarding
a tie-up with overseas capital is expected
in the early part of the new year. The
position in Papua and the Mandated Ter-
ritory so far as the hunt for oil is con-
cerned seems still to be in the prospect-
ing stage, however interesting the stage
may be. Market for the ss. shares closed
for the holidays at around 7s. 6d.
* * * *
One of the flare-ups of yesteryear,
when the shares went to over 405., Man-
dated Alluvials, operating near Port
Moresby, Papua, finished 1937 on
’Change at 2s. This stock brought near-
ruination to more than one punter, and
its nerve-racking, boisterously-fluctuat-
ing market will be remembered by Syd-
ney brokers, whose pockets it lined with
commission, for years, to come. It was
the show of the century, and all the rest
of it. Present hopes are that it mav be
worked with a small profit to share-
holders over and above return of capital
(ss. shares). “Completion of smelting
plant is now within measurable dis-
tance,” is the latest report. It remains to
be seen what sort of a job the plant
can do.
❖ * * *
Montana Western Extended, working
at Zeehan (Tas.), last week reported for
the period to Dec. 17:
100 ft. level, S. drive to 30ft., lode sft.
wide, hanging wall carrying band of brecci-
ated quartz, impregnated with galena 15in.
wide, balance 3ft. 9in. composed of
quartzite, well mineralised. East cross-
cut to 29ft. in sandstone and quartzite,
occasional occurrences galena. Plant work-
ing well.
The scrip sold around 3s. 6d.
**, * *
The ordinaries in United Provisions
opened for 1937 at 10s. 5d.; closing sale
for the year was at 6s. 9d., after a “low”
of ss. 6d. No ord. div. went out, though
a profit was shown that more than cov-
ered pref. requirements. If ever the
ham- and bacon-curing business gets
back on to a rational footing in this
country these shares may prove a money-
maker for present buyers. But old
holders have been stuck with them so
long for so little return that some are
ready to chuck up the sponge and get
•out.
* * * *
British Tobacco ords., by lifting to
525. on Wednesday, imparted a touch of
optimism to the sharemarkets near the
close of ’Change operations. If 10 p.c.
could be paid regularly in the future the
yield would be just under 4 p.c. There
is a lot of capital (£9,619,186) to spread
distributions and other benefits over.
* * * *
Tooheys, Sydney brewers, are on the
market for £210,000 of fresh capital in
the form of 175,000 16s. shares at a
premium of Bs. a share. This is the
second issue to be announced during
1937, the last being of 250,000 shares on
similar terms. Some holders are inclined
to buck at the premium. It is worth
bearing in mind that the extra charged
for the scrip should help to improve
future div. prospects.
* * * *
Producers and General (Sydney) ords.
flopped heavily, to 9s. 3d., on Monday of
last week. A string of sales from 10S.
downward on that occasion totted up to
1000 shares at the end of the day.
Further transactions at the lower price
took place on Tuesday; then there was
a firming of a few pence. Dealings for
some time have been almost as erratic
as in a goldmining stock.
* * v *
As 1937 draws to its close gold is
priced in London at a penny or two
under £7 sterling an ounce. Over the
year it has fluctuated no more than Is. 6d.
or 25., though few investors will forget
the fright of last April, when rumors
that Roosevelt was about to put a higher
value on the dollar and a lower price on
gold caused a world-wide selling of gold
shares and base metals. It is remark-
able sometimes how a really groundless
scare sets in motion a trend of events
that was bound to happen anyway. After
roughly seven months, the position is
that gold remains practically unmoved,
while lead and spelter are down by
more than half, and some other metals
almost as much.
* * * *
One of the disappointments of the past
year was Mt. Lyell. Not only have metals
lately failed to keep steady, but even for
the prosperous period that closed on Sept.
30 higher costs ate into profits at a rate
considerably above the expectations of
outsiders. The grade, it was well known,
was lower, and flotation costs were bound
to be higher per ton of copper produced ;
but the cheaper mining in the West Lyell
opencut was looked to by some to act
as a brake on any runaway upward move-
ment in outgo. Something of such a
runaway was shown in the accounts,
however. A lift in wage rates during the
year had to do with it. But some are
tipping that, with the pressure of
lower copper prices on, there will be-
a paring of exes, this term. Lyell shares
opened for 1937 at 41s. 9d., rocketed to
575., and closed last week at 31s. At that
figure they look interesting.
* * * *
Hill 50, at Mt. Magnet (W.A.), looks like
turning out all right. There are 250,000
shares, 4s. paid, and a first sixpenny div.
goes to holders on January 28. It has
been a long wait (3j years), and hardly
a merry one, but profits for some time
were used to square up the financial
position. Just over 2000 tons a month
is being treated at present, showing a
surplus of something better than £1 a
ton on working account. In August
proved ore was 52,000 tons, probable
27,000 tons, recoverable value 6dwt. in
each case. For some time development
was curtailed while alterations and addi-
tions were made to the plant, but latest
advices from the West are to the effect
that the ore-body at 200 ft. appears very
large and easily mined. Speculators are
banking on the lode continuing its present
make and accessibility, and paid ss. 2d.
for the shares last week in Adelaide.
The co. owes little or nothing now.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Adelaide Steam was active at 325. 3d. This
very well-in coastal-shipping and investment
co. gives a yield of £4 Bs. per cent, on a
7 p.c. div. basis, and 8 p.c. p.a. is a likely
possibility in the future.
Australasian Paper ords. recovered to 31s.
6d. buyers, after sales a few days earlier at
30s. Yielding 5 p.c. at 325., the scrip still
looks attractive.
North Kalgurli closed for the year on a
high note, 20s. 9d. being paid for the scrip,
which is now ex div.
Lancefield was indifferently supported
around ss. 6d. Triton was a little higher
at Bs.
Holeproof ords., after dropping to 285., re-
covered to 28s. 6d. Davies, Coop remained
in the market eye at 245.


SHE DIDN'T WA
TO FLY THE
PACIFIC
’’bf'fetaf in the films. All her interest
centred round her home. Making jam, feeding
chi ckens, and looking after the children
the holidays kept her busy and contented. Then,
for no apparent reason, these things began to pall
7
Oh
t'-j
<
-pr
m
iM
iii
Why are you selling
off the fowls
Mrs. Ellis 7 You used to
take such pride in
them, particularly
the Rhode Islands
. they need
such a lot of
looking after.
and I just don't
feel up to it
any more.
fy
. old girl
iers get the '
car out and
| run up to town.
1 A bit of dinner
[ and a show
would make <
v break, .
" nf
f L.M+l dont t , j. o 0
S. hom hol'M s J
So in the end I had to come
to you, doctor. I used to do all
the work myself but now-well.
I even wake up tired. I feel
quite guilty
C
about it.
M
u
£
You see
Mrs. Ellis,
your trouble is
Night-Starvation.
You're not
replacing the
energy you use up
during sleep. Here's
the way to create
the new energy
you need~
There's Mrs. Ellis from the
Wyona Farm. Wonder what
she's got in that parcel. Ifs
not meat, because they get it
delivered, and its
not library books (
-they don't /a
wrap them up a"
tH> round, Maudie.
Its a jar or a +in.
Th ats what it is. Now ,
what could f
Mrs. Ellis be |
guying? /
\j
&
I reckon the
doctor put her
on it. My sister-
in-law seen her
going to the
doctors with
her own eyes.
a
M th®
b |eS hVere^ or uf kS
.a^t e cup-she
Mis. su .
oes
hot
she
mixe
before
true
as
That?
has
bed
ere
ding
to
stan
as
SIX WEEKS LATER
V. Hurry up, Michael
| j Come on John, we’ve
Hang it, Mother
this isn't a
steeplechase.
Give a chap a
breather. J
miles to go. and its
v nearly teatime.
A
no
ST.
THERE must be hundreds of people all over
the country who wake up tired and get
more and more tired as the day goes on. It
never occurs to them that energy is still used
up during sleep, so they do nothing to create
new energy in its place. The last thing they
suspect is "Night-Starvation.”
A regular cup of Horlick’s, taken hot before
bed, creates the new energy needed. It helps
you to wake up thoroughly rested and ready
to face the hardest day, and guards you
against "Night-Starvation.”
Prices from 1/6 economy size, 2/9.
Horlick’s Mixer, 1/-.
* SPECIAL OFFER! |-lb. tin Horlick's Mixer Measuring Spoon— all for 2/-. 3 ih7.
HORLiCK'S GUARDS AGAINST
NIGHT- STARVATION
THIS MEANS YOU SLEEP SOUNDLY,
WAKE REFRESHED, AND HAVE
EXTRA ENERGY All DAY.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Position in Egypt
The machinery of actual self-govern-
ment in Egypt is already beginning to
creak. The young king is showing signs
of following the example of his prede-
cessors and ignoring the obligations of
the modern Constitution. Already there
is the makings of a fine row over his
refusal to confirm the appointment of a
high official by the Premier, Nahas
Pasha, on the ground that the appointee
is a Christian.
During British suzerainty religious
tolerance prevailed in Egypt because the
paramount Power took good care it
did. Of late, however, there is evidence
that the revival of the bad feeling be-
tween Islam and the Nazarenes which
began with the Pan-Islam movement
among the Arabs is finding a foothold in
Egypt, and it is not impossible that it
may spread to formidable proportions.
The Copts are numerous, intensely ener-
getic and often very wealthy. For years
Copts have held high positions in the
judiciary and administrative services. If
the move made by King Farouk is ex-
tended to a general purging of Copts
from the Government and other impor-
tant positions they have for years en-
joyed on terms of equality with Moslem
Egyptians, serious results may follow.
To this country above all others the
keeping of the Suez Canal under Empire
control is of vital importance. In spite
of so-called safeguards, the practi-
cal withdrawal of the British from Egypt
has greatly weakened that control. The
good faith of Egypt is very far from
being unquestionable, and internal dis-
sension in that country will not make it
any the more reliable. — Deir (N.S.W.).
One of the Egg Boards
I wish Minister Hogan or someone
would give me the strength of this Egg
Board business. As I take it there are
only a certain number of hens in Vic-
toria ; none lays more than one egg a
day, and the average per hen per year
is only about 200. As the Egg Board
doesn’t propose to persuade chooky to
lay two or three eggs a day, obviously
the State as a whole is no richer because
of the E.B.
The law of supply and demand fixes
the price of fowl-fruit —low when it is
plentiful, high when scarce. The E.B.
can’t alter that. Apparently the E. 8.,
through what it calls “orderly market-
ing,” proposes to raise the price received
by producers while lowering it to con-
sumers. It can’t be done.
The board has become a depart-
ment, whose inclusive cost of ad-
ministration (Minister Hyland’s words) is
£17,500 per annum. The salaries are:
Chairman £350, members £250 each.
Secretary gets £520, chief accountant
£520, statistical officer £312, export ditto
£312, five clerks £lll4, seven typists
£1055, five junior ditto £369, four junior
clerks £427, two operators £228 and six
inspectors £1456. Where do the pro-
ducers and consumers come in? — Elgar
(Vic.).
That Australian Pavilion
Touching “a Frenchman’s impressions
of the Australian pavilion at Paris” (B.
15/9/’37), I am surprised that such, a
statement should have been published in
a publication of the standing of The
Bulletin.
The artistic arrangement of the pavilion
has been favorably commented on, not
only by numerous artists, but by the
French Commissioner-General and one
of the leading artist-medallists in the
world, Mr. Spicer Simson. He wrote:
“The paintings especially interested me.
They were of such a very high standard:
some very brilliant; not one was poor.
The printings reminded me of the high-
class printing qf the Cobden Sanderson
press. The beautiful samples of wood
were well catalogued, the wool was
charmingly presented and the photo-
graphs around the circular were delight-
ful.”
Others who made eulogistic remarks
included Sir Patrick Hannon, M.P., Col.
E. B. Macintosh, Director Science
Museum, London, and Major Lhopital,
sometime aide-de-camp to Marshal Foch.
The only people to find fault were
disappointed that tinned fruit and tomato
sauce were not exhibited.
I have been the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s Trade Representative for 18
years. The whole of the organisation
only costs approximately per year the
amount you mention. —C. S. Foss.
Germans as Settlers
The Bulletin has pointed out that
next year will mark the centenary of
the arrival of the first German settlers in
Australia.
When a bank manager I was brought
into intimate contact with many Ger-
mans in N.S.W. and Queensland, and I
retain vivid impressions.
Ninety-nine per cent, of their farms
were neat and tidy. No useless logs
encumbered grazing paddocks, buildings,
fences and gates were in good order, and
approaches were made easy of access.
Every home seemed to have a flower
garden. They looked like places on which
it would be safe to lend the bank’s
money. Untidy farms mostly mean
troublesome overdrafts.
Rarely did a German default in his
payments. In a time of drought,
when men of other races were often
well over their limits, and worrying their
bank managers for further accommoda-
tion, Fritz came along with his interest,
even if he could not manage a bit off
the principal. How he did it was often
a mystery ; but done it was. Neither
was he constantly worrying his banker
for increases to provide for unforeseen
contingencies. Managers of other banks
have expressed the same sentiments. One
said to me: “I have never yet dis-
honored a cheque bearing a German
name,” Could a banker give a higher
testimonial?
Finally, their girls were trained to be
good housekeepers and homemakers. It
was always a pleasure to have a meal in
a house presided over by a German
woman. And there were no half
measures about their meals.
One of two brothers who were in the
A.I.F. and whose name is in Domesday
Book, I have seen Fritz in the fields, I
have ’seen him in the home and I have
seen him,as fighter. I believe him to be
above par in all directions. — Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
Melbourne’s Free Concerts
Melbourne City Council is reconsider-
jn g policy for the New Year with
re g arc j t 0 f ree concerts,
Q ne f ac tj on is in opposition to organist
jyfcKie, who placed a chaplet on the City
peers’ brow with the fine series of the
ex pi r j n g season. They complain that the
concerts ought to be made “popular.”
what music-lovers would like to know
how the objectors would define “popu-
jar» Although the programmes were of
as high an order as anything supplied by
A.8.C., the concerts were “popular”
enough to constitute a housing problem
on more than one occasion,
The fact is that eminent councillors
are out of touch with their public. It
has been educated by radio and grarno-
phone to want the very best of music,
and when a so-called “highbrow” con-
cert is announced you couldn’t beat the
lunch-time music-lovers off with a stick,
As the standard has been lowered
the audiences have proportionately
declined. — Cauboy (Vic.).


FOR RANDWICK.
Carrington: Beau Ercil; next,
St. Constant.
Pace Welter: Forestage; next,
Tuckerbox.
Denman Handicap: Mananui;
next, Country Party.
Tatt.’s Club Cup: Verberry;
next, Mananui.
New Year’s Gift: Arabia; next,
Mark Antony.
Flying Welter: Rosmead ; next,
Jocular.
Alfred Hill Handicap: Lord
Bine; next, Might Not.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Sefton Handicap: Brazandt;
next, Mangoola,
Farm Novice: Denman; next,
Artsman.
January Handicap: Kinsfolk;
next, Journal.
Berala Handicap : Sedunum;
next, Troy.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Standish: Sir Grey; next,
Amiable.
Bagot: Black Mac; next,
Elanage.
Welter: The K.C.; next, Kanuri.
Mm Sporting
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
During the closing year racing has
prospered exceedingly in Victoria, which
in this respect has increased its
supremacy over the other States. Vic-
toria gives the richest prizes, gets
the biggest attendances and—though this
does not always follow —has the best
horses. N. S. Wales still possesses the
principal studs, but the pick of the year-
lings sent to the Easter sales in Sydney
are nowadays generally snapped up by
Victorian buyers. And in recent years,
though standards are apt to fluctuate
with seasons, there has been a decided
improvement in quality.
In the nineties of last century, Aus-
tralian studmasters bred horses good
enough to go to England and win races
like the City and Suburban, the Cesare-
witch and the Ascot Gold Cup. Over a
longer period still, Australian horses were
famous in India. Then deterioration set
in, and English and Indian buyers gave
Australia a wide berth.
After many years, the Australian race-
horse is regaining its old reputation in
India, and a very useful trade has been
revived. For the second time in three
years the King-Emperor’s Cup race has
fallen to an Australian-bred horse—in the
present instance, Flying Glance, ridden
by the Australian Jimmy Munro, and
trained by the Australian Alec Higgins.
Flying Glance is by Stare-Bonny Wink.
As was the case with Ethics, who won
the Viceroy’s and King-Emperor’s Cup
two years ago, his record on Australian
courses was not particularly good, but he
has no doubt improved in India.
With the advent of such fine Austra-
lian-bred sires as Heroic, Windbag and
Manfred, horses in the same class as
Newhaven, Merman, The Grafter, Aus-
tralian Star, Georgic and Maluma are
again making their appearance. The
three-year-olds this season are an excel-
lent lot. Ajax may not be a stayer, but
he would not disgrace Australia if he
were shipped to England or California
for mile or middle-distance handicaps in
those countries, and were produced in
the form which enabled him to cut the
record for a mile to lmin. in the
V.R.C. Linlithgow Stakes. Moreover,
Avenger, properly acclimatised, might be
capable of repeating Merman’s achieve-
ment in the Cesarewitch (Merman also
won the Goodwood and Ascot Gold
Cups) with the weight he would be likely
to get. Hua and John Wilkes are also
good colts.
As for The Trump, he is one of the
best and gamest little handicap horses
that Australia has ever had. He made
1937 memorable by equalling Poseidon’s
performance of winning the two Cups, and
his superiority at the weights was mani-
fest. Unlike Heroic and Windbag, Man-
fred was not an immediate success at the
stud, but if he never sires a horse half as
stout as The Trump he will have made
an enduring name for himself among
Australian-bred stallions.
Overtaxation and starting-price betting,
together with the competition of the lot-
teries and “the dogs,” have hit racing
hard in N. S. Wales, and there was a
further decline in 1937. Figures tell the
lamentable story.
At Randwick in 1924-25 the attend-
ances numbered 724,100, the average
per day being 45,881. In 1936-37 attend-
ances totalled 446,141, the average per
day being 29,742. In 1921-22 Randwick
totalisator receipts amounted to
£1,261,633 ; in 1936-37, they had fallen
to £689,900. In prosperous days there
were 144 bookmakers in the paddock,
148 in the Leger reserve and 132 on the
flat; latest registrations showed 98 in the
paddock, 123 in the Leger and 128 on
the flat.
Very belatedly an effort is being made
to arrest the slump by reduction of taxes
on admission charges, tote receipts
and bookmakers, and by transfer of
dates from proprietary to non-proprietary
clubs. A committee is also to report on
the abolition of proprietary racing, but
on this phase of the subject the Govern-
ment is characteristically vague.
In Queensland, as in N. S. Wales and
Victoria, the quality of locally-bred
horseflesh has improved, thanks chiefly
to the merits as a sire of Spearfelt, who
has imparted some of his own stamina
and gameness to nags like Brownfelt.
Measures aimed at the suppression of
starting-price betting have brought more
grist to the mill of Queensland racing
clubs, but it is by no means certain that
the effects will endure.
South Australia has tried legalising
betting shops, with evil results to the
once healthy local sport, which has
hitherto nourished a capital breeding in-
dustry. In S.A. and Tasmania punters
are more interested in Melbourne than
in local events'. Time may rid them of
this queer preference, though it is more
likely to sicken them of punting alto-
gether.
In Westralia, racing revived on the
goldfields with the revival of goldmining,
and the Hannans Handicap and the Kal-
goorlie and Boulder Cups drew fair
fields and very good crowds during the
short but delightful goldfields spring. In
Perth, however, the sport shows no sign
of regaining its former glories, though
the night-trotting people have no com-
plaints. They are independent of wire-
less and s.p.
* * * *
Ex-Queensland jockey Shean, who
landed five winners for the day at New-
castle last week, continued the good
work when he got Tickle up in time to
beat Fortcello narrowly in Randwick’s
Boxing Day pipe-opener, the Christmas
Trial. Fortcello, trying to be in front
for the full mile, kicked out for a four-
lengths break in the straight, but weak-
ened right on the post.
St. Constant, the horse A. Cooper
sold for £l, made the joke another win
better by unwinding a good run to take
the Chisholm Handicap from the dead-
heaters Bodley Head, handy throughout,
and Hammerhead. Misnomer faded out
after leading to the distance.
Young Crusader won the Summer Cup
in something like his old style. Journal
was first to show out, but Young
Crusader went to the front and wasn’t
afterwards headed. Hard-pushed, Journal
got within a couple of lengths at the
finish, with Cathartes third.
' After being in the van pretty well
throughout Benburb was narrowly beaten
in the Summer Nursery by A. Yuille’s
Veilmond-Valdiva filly Vigil, with Simple
Simon third.
Despite his 71b. penalty “F. Smith-
den’s” Pandava (Brazen-Ring Again)
proved too smart and too solid for the
small but fairly good December Stakes
field. Only five faced the barrier.
Bonheur de Pere was first out, but Pan-
dava beat her for smartness, led into
the straight and, soundly tackled by
Creditor, held him off to win by a head
in course record time, Kooba
finished strongly into third place.
* * * *
Piloted by Fullarton Sea Scout put
up an excellent performance at Caulfield
to win the Shoobra Hurdle after being
temporarily headed by Wallace Drake
in the straight. Jolly Boy was the early
leader, but Heroic Chief stayed with him
and, when Jolly Boy dropped out of it,
piloted the field to nearing the home
turn, where Sea Scout went to the front
and, overtaken and headed by Wallace
Drake, came again to win by half a
head in a great finish. Tern took third
money.
The smart Sydney filly Bush Bee (2
to 1) carried her 9st. lib. splendidly to
win the Juvenile Stakes with a bit in
hand after beating off the early leader,
Larissa, in a keen set-to in the straight.
Veiled Prophet got up to cut Larissa
out of second-place money.
In the Hopetoun Handicap Dunloe
avenged the Williamstown defeat by Gay
Circle. Taking charge with seven to go,
Dunloe was not again headed. Gay
Circle second, Barapic third.
* * * *
Entries for the Standish and Bagot
Handicaps, to be run at Flemington on
New Year’s Day, show a slight falling-
off as compared with those of last
season; but they were taken later on
this occasion, and perhaps fewer scratch-
ings will be made.
Time was when big ante-post wager-
ing took place on the “Standish and
Bagot” double; but conditions have
changed, and these events, though valu-
able, do not attract the best horses.
They are held in reserve for autumn
plums, such as the Oakleigh Plate, the
Futurity Stakes, the Newmarket and the
Australian Cup, with the Doncaster and
Sydney Cup to follow.
Jack Holt has Press Gang, Cry Havoc
and Chelandric in the Standish. The
first-named was successful as far back as
1935, and is rising ten. He is as sturdy
a gelding as Sir Ibex, with whom Holt
won so many races up to a mile or
thereabouts for the late Norman Falk-
iner. But whereas Sir Ibex demonstrated
his ability to win at weight-for-age Press
Gang is purely a handicap horse.
So far Cry Havoc and Chelandric
haven’t yet been seen at their best.
When the imported mare came into Holt’s
hands he considered her. good enough to
start in a Futurity, but that proved to
be flying at too high game for the time
being. Cry Havoc won in more moderate
company. She has been sparingly raced,
and with maturity may develop into a
class sprinter.
Chelandric, the Heroic-Green Peach
gelding for whom C. B. Kellow gave
1000 guineas as a yearling, is another
of Holt’s charges that may spring a sur-
prise in the near future. Early in his
career this fellow registered four wins
and a second in five consecutive starts.
Holt doesn’t persevere with duffers, and
Kellow can afford to wait.
After finishing third in the Victoria
Derby of 1935, won by Feldspar, a
stablemate, Garrio, took the Williams-
town Cup. He has been nominated for
the Standish, but is missing from the
Bagot entries. It does not follow that
the son of Chivalrous has lost the ability
to stay. Lou Robinson may merely be
testing his physical soundness over a
short course. If Garrio stands up to
racing he will once more be in the top
flight of Australian gallopers.
Donaster and Black Mac are the best
performers among Bagot Handicap aspi-
rants. The former is being prepared for
the King’s Cup at Mowbray (Tas.) in
February, and may not yet be fit enough
for a gruelling 1 ) miles. Balkan Prince,
who also is after the King’s Cup, has no
immediate Melbourne engagements.
Gay Circle and Elanage, both owned
in M.L., have acquitted themselves
with distinction of late and will not lack
support if they face the starter. Elanage
is the only three-year-old entrant. Much
time has elapsed since a horse of that
age won the Bagot, but his Ascot vic-
tory suggests that Elanage has the neces-
sary stamina.
* * * *
The stipendiary stewards gave Sydney
racing men plenty to talk about at
Christmas. After Kembla Grange they
fell on McMenamin, the leading jockey,
and gave him two months for “careless
riding,” blaming him for a palpable case
of interference in a division of the Trial
Handicap in which McMenamin rode a
nag called Tarbon. And after Victoria
Park they decided that “Toy Time was
not allowed to run on her merits” in a
division of the Welter, and prescribed a
twelvemonth’s rest for the mare, R. W.
Skelton, the owner-trainer, and F. B.
Jones, the jockey. Skelton has 40 horses
in his stables. He and Jones are appeal-
ing.
Gold Rod is back at Randwick. While
spelling at Windsor he was not allowed
to get too big. Although he figures
among the nominations for the Challenge
Stakes to be run at Randwick on January
22 he is to be an early visitor to Mel-
bourne, and no doubt he will again tackle
the Futurity Stakes, which he won last
year, beating Pamelus and Young Idea.
George Price avers that the chestnut is
now one of the heaviest horses in training.
*** • *
Private training tracks are quite
common in England, but in Sydney they
are a novelty. Trainer Jack King started
a fashion with a private farm at Doon-
side; Eiver Walker followed at Rich-
mond ; and now Bailey Payten has
bought a property near the Ascot race-
course. Payten was pushed for accom-
modation, and one of his patrons, F. W.
Hughes (owner of Kooba), let him have
some vacant land near the wool-scour-
ing works. The horses can do pace work
there, and trials can be run at Ascot.
Several other Randwick trainers are con-
templating the possession of private
training establishments.
* * * *
The owner of Euphorbus, one of the
best hurdlers in Sydney, may settle in
Victoria. He considers that Sydney jumps
are not solid enough; except at Rand-
wick and Warwick Farm, a horse merely
has to step over them. Euphorbus is
an excellent jumper, but he will find the
class in Melbourne better than in Sydney.
Two Sydney hurdlers, Hands Up and
Asolando, gave awful exhibitions at the
Melbourne Cup meeting—Hands Up
hit nearly every obstacle and their
owners are not keen on another trip.
Euphorbus is not only a smart hurdler,
but has a lot of pace on the flat. He is
a Pantheon.
* * * *
The French horse Actor has had trial
gallops under silk in Sydney, but has
not impressed. He is a long way below
racing condition, and the trainer, J. T.
Jamieson, will have his work cut out to
get him ready for the autumn meetings.
Actor is a powerful-looking bay: a typi-
cal welter horse, built on similar lines to
Heroic Faith and Fernacre. He has
been successful up to a mile and a half
in France.
* * * *
The owners of Klemm Eagle and Lord
Bine consider that the fast pace in the
early stages of the Villiers was against the
Queensland horses. Both are to remain
in Sydney until the end of the racing in
January. On their return north they will
be set for the Doomben Newmarket,
which was won last year by Gay Chou.
Apropos, Gay Chou has returned to the
tracks after a spell. He is one of the
most improved horses in work at Rand-
wick.
(Continued on page 30)
Ins and Outs
N. S. Wales is relying too much on
O’Reilly. O’Reilly took 14 wickets
against South Aus., but the effort ex-
hausted him, and on the first day of
the match at Melbourne the Victorians
had his measure. Rigg (91), Lee (83) and
Gregory (84) were out by nightfall—three
for 301. On Monday they fell quicker.
In the afternoon it was eight for 395.
Queensland v. S. Aus. didn’t begin in
Adelaide till Christmas Day, and the
Queenslanders had a brief stay at the
crease, being all out for a wretched 93
(Williams six for 21, Grimmett two for
11, Ward two for 16). At stumps S.
Aus. had 61 on the board for three
wickets, with Bradman still there. He
got to the century and went on —and it
gave him 6000 runs in’ Shield games.
Five for 217 on Monday.
(i Continued on page 30)
The Rugby League in Australia heaved
a sigh of relief at the receipt of a cable
announcing that the English League, at
a conference with the Kangaroo man-
agers, had promised to refrain from
poaching Australian players until 1940.
It cannot be said altruism was behind the
sudden change of front. The canny
North of England lads who run the
League for profit have realised that the
steady poaching of Australian stars has
lowered the standard of Kangaroo tour-
ing teams in England, with a resultant
shrinkage in the gates.


' You’re ri
$ # •
... I can tell
White
Horse
H
1
m
U
White Horse has its own distinctive fragrance: you could
judge the whisky by its aroma alone. But you have your palate to
tell you as well: mellow smoothness such as this is a pleasure to
V
remember, a joy to find again.
A magnificent foundation for long, cool, summer drinks
2548 A..
Screw-cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices


Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
m
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
Legal Notice.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
ALL Creditors having claims against THOMAS
NAUGHTON, late of Cresswell Downs,
Northern Territory, are required to send written
particulars of such claims to MESSRS.
WHITING & BYRNE, Solicitors, 101 William
Street, Melbourne, otherwise they will be ex-
cluded.
DATED this 20th day of December, 1937.
WHITING & BYRNE,
101 William Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Administrators.
FOR RHEUMATISM, NEURITIS , ETC.
I fd&uflb
jf THE PERFECT MORNING SALTS
(J ALL CHEMISTS 4" . 8* . ft .
KEEP
CbCUcrufts
Octe*....
'J'ake Golcryst regu-
larly to ensure vig-
orous health. These
golden crystals of
health are pleasant
to take and tone up
the whole system.
Pooley Bridge, the champion hurdler,
who shaped well in a recent outing on the
flat in Melbourne, may have to be
reckoned with in the Bagot Handicap.
His half-brother, Speech, achieved a
maiden victory at Cranbourne last Wed-
nesday. Favorite at 7 to 4, Speech was
unlucky in running, but scored with con-
siderable ease. Like Pooley Bridge, this
three-year-old is trained by A. Foulsham,
son of the Randwick veteran, Ike Foul-
sham.
Fortune is smiling on the M.L. trainer
J. Fryer in Melbourne. He won with
Elanage at Ascot on December 11, and
last week annexed the principal event
at Cranbourne with Red Manfred, an
aged gelding by Manfred-Red Shank.
Cramped odds (10 to 9) were accepted
about Red Manfred, but he had to be
desperately ridden to beat Bustard (9 to
2) by a head. In the spring of 1936
Bustard ran second to Amalia in the Wil-
liamstown Cup. He then belonged to
J. S. Feehan, of the V.R.C. committee.
He retrograded subsequently and changed
hands.
Red Manfred has rather a romantic
history. When E. M. Pearce loomed
large as a Melbourne owner he mated
Red Shank with Manfred and sent the
mare to Maoriland to rear her progeny
there. Red Manfred was the result of
this venture. He never carried the
breeder’s livery, as Pearce retired from
racing.
In his second season on the turf Red
Manfred won the Wanganui Guineas
and G. N. Derby. Nightly beat him in
the N.Z. Derby, but he turned the tables
on that rival in the King’s Plate at Auck-
land. In 1934 Nightly landed the
Moonee Valley Cup with 9st. 21b.
* * *
Some official uneasiness has been
caused in Melbourne by a newspaper
announcement that in the early spring a
loaded horseshoe was found on one of
the metropolitan courses. V.R.C. secre-
tary A. V. Kewney states that his com-
mittee had no news whatever of the in-
cident. An ounce of lead in the toe of
a shoe puts a pound of weight on the
shoulder of a horse. It is on record
that a horse once raced at Williamstown
with silver (instead of aluminium) shoes.
Severe disqualifications followed.
* * * *
There are numerous brilliant timber-
toppers in Melbourne, and the New Year
Hurdle at Flemington ought to be run
at breakneck speed. Bridge of Mar set
a world’s record at the Melbourne Cup
meeting by covering two miles over the
battens in 3min. 34isec. He has a
doughty rival in the experienced Sarokos,
while Heroic Chief and Jolly Boy are
recruits who take the obstacles in their
stride.
* * * *
Little Max Papworth, who rode Bronze
Tulip in the race at Randwick on De-
cember 18 in which five horses came
down, died of the injuries he received.
He was a son of the Rosehill trainer who
moulded Talking into a £19,000 colt,
and was to have had his first ride on
Talking in a weight-for-age race at
Warwick Farm, but the stewards thought
he was too young. When he got his
license he immediately gave promise of
developing into a horseman of the highest
class, and he had ridden 17 winners when
death came to him —at 15. Poor Pap-
worth was a very broken-up man when
he buried his lad, and half the district
was present to show its sympathy.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Carroll v. Jannazzo.
From the land where scalping was
once the major industry Izzy Jannazzo
came to Australia about a month ago
bent on doing business in that line with
Jack Carroll. A decent young chap, not-
withstanding his intentions, Izzy took a
DONALD BUDGE.
ground-floor flat at Rushcutter Bay,
signed autographs for small boys even
when they rang his doorbell at six in the
morning, strolled in the park taking
puzzled stock of cricket as played by
Glassblowers v. Sausage Moulders,
boxed himself into apple-pie nick and
got into the Sports Ground ring last
week looking a swarthy, rugged, stocky,
well-muscled picture of dingdong con-
dition.
Alas for Izzy, it was not only Jack
Carroll, the ruling idol of Australian
stoush addicts, who got into the opposite
corner and waved the fist of acknow-
ledgment to the twenty-odd thousand
bivouacked on the playing field
and surrounding terraces —it
was a Carroll seemingly more
elusive, more guileful, faster
and more , sure of himself than
even his staunchest supporters
had dared to hope. He had
won all his fights at the Sports
Ground so far, but' since Jimmy
Leto dropped him there about a year back
it had been pretty widely felt that Jack’s
star was on the wane. That was a rather
fluky-looking punch—a chop that got
down over Carroll’s mightily protective
shouder at a moment when Jack was,
where Jack extremely rarely is, off his
balance. Still, it didn’t look good. It
made Jack appear vulnerable, and as he
always looks at least twice his age in the
ring, and is no chicken, anyhow, the
whisper went out, to be overheard in
the Mulga and more distant places, that
Carroll was a spent force.
Jack’s showing against Leto next month
may or may not support the idea that
Jack has meanwhile been reading himself
a lesson on how to negotiate with in-
vading scalp-hunters. But certainly he
fought a very different fight against Jan-
nazzo than he had against Leto. He beat
Leto all right, but it was a technical
rather than either a moral or a pugilistic
victory. He beat Jannazzo under every
heading that a beating can be classed.
He outboxed him, outfought him, out-
manoeuvred him and undid him.
Particularly he out-thought him. His
thinking gear looked to be a good half-
minute ahead of Izzy’s equipment.
Jack —lOst. Bjlb. to Jannazzo’s lOst.
7ilb. —slid across the ring at the opening
bell and started flail-like hostilities in-
stantly, letting loose pretty well every
biff in his extensive repertoire as if the
duration of the scrap had been limited
not to 10 rounds but to 10 jiffs.
An onslaught calculated to make the
ranks of Tuscany scarce refrain from
tears, it fairly dazzled the glinting black
headlights under Jannazzo’s sticking-
plaster-bedaubed brows. It fairly rocked
the crowd, too. A chorus of roar went
up to the heavens, the solo part at the
ringside being taken by a tongue rough
enough to lead a procession of bul-
lockies through Sheol. One who had
been in the wars himself, as a fresh-bleed-
ing gash on his right cheekbone testified,
he shouted encouragement to Jack in
every word in the Australian language
and a few additions of his own, what
time Izzy, by way of contrast, in spare
moments crossed himself devoutly.
Evidently as imperturbable as the
bronze he might have been cast in, Izzy
remained stolidly unshaken by Jack’s 15-
fisted barrage. In those first few seconds
Carroll {lit him —lightly—in every legiti-
mate part of the anatomy, but Izzy stood
his ground staunchly and put enough of
the mettle of his pasture into a couple of
body punches, while otherwise taking at
least some of the fight back, that it ended
about the most even round of the 10.
In the next four rounds, by the same
electrified process of assault and bat-
tery, Carroll piled up enough points to
account for a whole army corps of Jan-
nazzos. It was a fascinating exhibition
of brilliant boxing by an old master.
Jack not only gave Izzy, in the language
of Izzy’s native heath, the works; he
gave him the fireworks. He must have
hit Izzy at the rate of one a second. It
made Izzy look slow and wooden. About
the most startling thing Izzy did in the
four rounds was to bring his right down
slap into the middle of forward-bent
Jack’s back. It was nothing more than a
slap, but referee Harald Baker, who con-
ducts these Sports Ground fights extra
well, cautioned Izzy; a needless pro-
ceeding, for no cleaner scrapper than
Jannazzo ever flourished a glove. That
goes equally for Carroll, too ; the whole
fight was beautifully clean.
At the end of round five Jack came
back to his corner with a wide grin on
his seemingly toothless dial, and the
GOTTFRIED VON CRAMM.
fight already in the bag. In the next
round he began to ease up ; slow up
might be nearer the mark. At all events,
Jannazzo —though still stodgy—looked
faster than he had done hitherto. Izzy
took the initiative for the first time in
starting the hostilities, and, mainly with
a solid body attack, he had Jack back
to the ropes a couple of times. But even
there he could do nothing with Carroll’s
defence, while Jack demonstrated his
complete superiority by fighting him back
to mid-ring.
The seventh was another fairly even
round, but though Carroll had slowed
up and Izzy was fighting stronger in his
stolid, short-armed fashion, bumping his
gloves together in front of him as he
came in, nothing short of a knockout
could now hang the scalp on Izzy’s belt.
He got a little on the way towards one in
the next, when his right opened an old
mark on Carroll’s left eyebrow, a fair
return for the snorter Jack had given him
a little earlier. But Jack’s bled too freely
for Jack’s safety, and Jack was well aware
of it. Now he gave Izzy a striking lesson
in evasiveness, sliding, backing and
crossing about the ring ; a crafty per-
formance by a very cunning old fox.
The ninth was a further exhibition of
these tactics, with Izzy fighting tiger-
ishly for a knockout, interspersing his
efforts with the conversational invitation
“Come on, Jack. Come on, Jack.” This
behest Izzy varied in the beginning of
the tenth and last with the pained in-
quiry, “What you want to button up for,
Jack?” meanwhile following round the
ring bent on slaughter.
And then, and for the rest of possibly
as hectic a final two minutes as ever
concluded a fight, Jack unbuttoned. If
ever Izzy’s prayers come true, they must
have seemed to him then to be overdoing
it. Carroll came back and fought as even
he had rarely fought before. He raked
Izzy from peak to amidships. Izzy stood,
took it and fought back with everything
he had, but the one thing he didn’t have
was the ghost of a hope.
The rest of the fight had been good ;
this was splendid. A dazzling, wonder-
ful finish, with the old idol planted firm
on his pedestal, scalp intact.
* * * *
Rollo Hinton (Bst.), N.S.W. flyweight
champion, didn’t look much of a champ,
in losing to Tiger Donnelly (7st. 13|1b.)
on points in one of the good bill of
Sports Ground supporting bouts. Jack
McNamee (lOst. 111 b.), of Vic., handed
out such a doing to Canadian Johnny
Forster (lOst. that the ref. stopped
their eight-rounder in the fourth. A
slogging encounter between Slogger Wil-
liams (list, lib.) and Ivan Timmins
(lOst. 71b.) ended with Slogger slogged
unconscious in the fourth. Frank Cart-
wright (9st. 2|lb.), a useful-looking young
scrapper, did the same service for Tim
Lister (Bst. 121 b.) in the third.
Ins and Outs
Victoria and N.S.W. each scored an
outright win in their Sheffield matches
with Queensland and South Australia,
though at one stage of their game the
Welshmen looked to be gone to the pack.
Over 120 runs ahead, N.S.W. started its
second innings full of beans. But Grandpa
Grimmett (4-51) had his own ideas, and
helped by Cotton (3-22) had the Welsh-
men back in the pavilion for 104, Chip-
perfield topping with 20.
South needed only 225 to win. Though
Bradman sacrificed Walker, Ward and
Grimmett to the evening light, he and
Badcock had 34 up when night fell. Next
morning the pair took the score to 153.
Then O’Reilly fell upon the home side
again, and, with O’Brien, who broke the
partnership by bowling Badcock, dis-
missed the lot 33 runs short of the score
wanted to win. O’Reilly took 5 for 57
—l4 for 98 in the match.
In Melbourne Queensland gave the
inept exhibition we expect of it nowa-
days in Shield cricket. As in Brisbane


Mick Simmons'
Service to
Sportsmen
I
Let Lionel Bibby, famous Crack-shot and
Australia’s best-known authority on Fire-
arms and Ballistics, who is attached to
Mick Simons’ Shooting Department, guide
you in making your selection. Fully avail
yourself of his advice on any matter per-
taining to the sport of shooting.
3
ĵ
Stevens’ No. 8,
Medium-priced
Popular
Sporting Rifies
No IA—THE MAINE BE
LUXE RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt
action similar to No. 1,24 m.
barrel, pistol grip, adjustable
tangent rear sight; weight,
about 4ilb. i
Price / -
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRING-
FIELD S.S. RIFLE, MODEL
52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, gold bead front
and ladder rear sight; weight,
about 4Jlb.
Price
50/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 27— REMINGTON BOLT
ACTION REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 341 A, 22-cal. Magazine
bolds 22 short, 17 long, 15
long-rifle cartridges; 24in.
round barrel, bead front and
ladder rear sight; weight,
about 551 b. _ .
Price £5/5/-
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING
CATALOGUE!
No keen sportsman can be
without this comprehensive
publication. Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And All Branches.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne,
“TENDENCY FOR LIBEL
LAW
TO BECOME A RACKET”
‘The Telegraph 9 Apologises to
Mr. Randolph Bedford M.L.A.
In "The Telegraph” of October 1, 1937, there ap-
peared under the first heading quoted above, the report
of an address to the Queensland Press Institute, by Mr.
W. H. Cummins, General Manager and Editor-in-Chief
of “The Telegraph.”
That report, with headings and a photo reproduction
of Mr. Cummins addressing the Queensland Press
Institute covered two columns, and contained the follow-
ing statements, which are material to Mr. Randolph
Bedford’s objections.
“The tendency now is growing for the
libel law to become a racket.’’
“While it is undoubtedly true that
every man has a right to have his good
name and reputation uninjured . • • «
is also true that most people of high
character, when defamed, scorn to take
advantage of the law of libel; preferring
their own actions and conduct, to speak
for themselves.” . . . “The libel laws,
however, are so stringent and have such
far-reaching effect that people with little
or no character to lose are nowadays
successfully using the libel laws in
order to obtain what virtually is. black-
mail.” “In England the doctrine oi
Damnum Absque injuria, meaning loss
without injury’ used to apply, and it was
held that the plaintiff had no right for
injury to character if in fact he had
himself injured his own character.
Therefore truth was a complete defence-
But in Queensland truth of the libel
is not always a complete defence. It
must also be shown that publication was
for the public good ”
“NOW THE COURTS TAKE A VERY
RESTRICTED VIEW AS TO WHAT IS
FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT. IN ONE
CASE WHERE THERE HAD BEEN, TO
PUT IT MILDLY, VERY QUESTION-
ABLE TRANSACTIONS IN CONNEC-
TION WITH A PUBLIC COMPANY IN
WHICH SHARES WERE PUBLICLY
TRADED FROM DAY TO DAY-AND
ABOUT WHICH REPORTS WERE
PUBLISHED FROM TIME TO TIME
(REPORTS, MARK YOU. THAT WERE
SUPPLIED BY THE COMPANY IT-
SELF) IT WAS NEVERTHELESS HELD
THAT COMMENT ON THE ACTIONS
OF THAT COMPANY, EVEN IF THE
ALLEGATIONS WERE TRUE, COULD
NOT BE HELD TO BE FOR THE
PUBLIC GOOD.” . , .
The statement printed in capitals ob-
viously referred to the Golden Mile
Company and to the then Managing
Director, Mr. Randolph Bedford, M.L.A.
At the first trial in 1933; in the appeal
to the Full Court by Mr. Randolph
Bedford, M.L.A; in the subsequent appeal
by “The Telegraph” to the High Court of
Australia in 1934; at the second trial in
1934; and at the subsequent successful
appeal by Mr. Bedford for a new trial;
and at the third trial lh 1935, The
Telegraph” emphatically contended that
it did not accuse Mr. Bedford of any
wrong-doing, and that the statements
in the letter signed "Bushranger were
not intended to nor could even bear
the meaning, that Mr. Bedford had done
anything “even questionable.
In delivering judgment on the. appeal
to the High Court of Australia Mr-
Justice Evatt (Mr. Justice McTieman
and Justice Sir George Rich concur-
ring) said, as reported in the Courier-
Mail” of May 24th, 1934:
“The claim of the newspaper was
that it became entitled to publish un-
true and defamatory imputations
against the plaintiff merely because
the company of which he was Manag-
ing Director, had used this newspaper
(and many others) as a means of cir-
culating mining reports from time to
time. Such a claim was not ‘in the
interest of the community’; was not ‘for
the good of society in general’; and
was not ‘for the common convenience
and welfare of society.’ ”
Mr. Justice Evatt further stated that
he was of opinion “that the trial Judge
should not have directed the jury as a
matter of law that the article was in-
capable of meaning that the plaintiff,
as one of the directors, had deprived the
company of its gold ‘in such a way as to
commit a criminal act-’ ” It was ad-
mitted that the letter was defamatory
of the plaintiff and the jury had found
it to be so; but upon the new trial it
was not possible to exclude from the
jury’s consideration the possibility that
the letter imputed criminal conspiracy
to the plaintiffs.”
Throughout the litigation it was sub-
mitted for “The Telegraph” that the
statement (proven to be false) that the
plaintiff and a Sydney director had con-
veyed the company’s gold from the field,
was not intended to bear the meaning
that Mr- Bedford or his co-directors had
been guilty of any wrong-doing.
Mr. Cummins’ statement as reported
in “The Telegraph” of October 1, 1937.
contradicts that earlier belief by stating
that there has been in the affairs of the
Golden Mile Co. “to gut it mildly, ques-
tionable transactions.”
“The Telegraph” now unreservedly
withdraws any insinuation of the sort
against Mr. Randolph Bedford. M.L.A-.
and tenders to him its sincere and com-
plete apologies.
Signed for The Telegraph Newspapei
Co.. Ltd. w H CUMMINS.
Apology by Mr- W. H. Cummins
Jeneral Manager and Editor in ChieJ
f “The Telegraph.”
“I desire to apologise to Mr. Randolph
Sedford. M-L.A., for the statements
bove quoted, which were part
f my lecture on the libel laws
lelivered to the Queensland Press
nstitute and reported in The
telegraph” of October 1, 1937. There was
lot at any time any justification for
ny statement of "very questionable
ransactions” by Mr. Randolph Bedford,
lor is there any justification for my
>ther relative statements on the libel law
o be applied to Mr- Randolph Bedford.
[ desire personally to withdraw any
insinuations against Mr. Randolph Bed-
ford and to express my sincere regret
for the publication of these unfounded
statements.
W. E. CUMMINS.
with N.S.W., the Bananalanders helped
the home side with dropped catches until
Rigg closed with 6 down for 461. The
tourists started a safari between wicket
and pavilion until 7 had gone for 93.
Then Baker took the long handle to F.-
Smith till the total was 140 and his score
47. Smith had 5-60 and McCormick 3-19.
Following on, Queensland reached 212,
Coates, Tallon and again Baker tacking
on 46, 31 and 43 respectively. Sievers
(3-40) and Smith (3-101) split the
wickets, and Victoria won by an innings
and 99 runs.
No new light was thrown on the Aus-
tralian Eleven selection beyond the fact
that the venerable Grimmett dispelled any
doubt there may have been as to his claims
for a first-class return ticket to England.
O’Brien and Sievers likewise did them-
selves no harm. Otherwise it looks as
if the first dozen in the public eye last
season will catch the selectors’ peepers.
In South Australia Bradman, Badcock
and Grimmett; in Victoria Smith, Bar-
nett, Gregory and McCormick, in
N.S.W. McCabe, Oldfield, Fingleton and
O’Reilly look -unbeatable. Brown must
fight for a place ; Tallon, too.
* * * *
“Narque”: Next time the Marylebone
club meets to consider instituting new
laws or altering old ones I intend to
move that no cricketer be allowed to
sport a name with more than two short
syllables. If his real moniker does not
comply with this law, he will have to
adopt a suitable pseudonym. I am moved
to this decision by having frequently to
type the name “Fleetwood-Smith” when-
ever writing of Victorian or Australian
cricket. In future I propose to refer to
the young man —not waiting for the
M.C.C. —as “Flith.” Double-barrelled
names are a weariness to the flesh and
a wear-and-teariness to the typewriter.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Whenever the N. S.
Wales C.A. is forced to consider its
neglect of Maoriland cricket, it abases
itself in the dust with apologies and then
proceeds with further doses of neglect.
At the last meeting of the C.A. it was
stated that M.L. had dropped £2OOO on
its English tour and would lose more on
its team’s brief visit to Australia. As an
instance of sloppy supervision of the
Sydney arrangements it was stated that,
while the takings for the match with
N.S.W. were £448, there was only £lO2
left for M.L. There were profuse apolo-
gies, but a suggestion to hand the N.S.W.
share of £34 to M.L. was not followed
up.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Alan Fairfax is back
in Australia, presumably with unsigned
contracts in his pocket. Anyway Lush,
dropped like a hot lino, slug by the
N.S.W. selectors, has received an offer.
Fairfax seems to think England will have
to rely largely on the Old Brigade for
the Tests next season. While mention-
ing several new batsmen of promise he
has no news of an outstanding bowler.
“Aigburth”: On his return to Eng-
land, “Gubby” Allen had a lot to say
about concrete wickets and their part in
helping young Australian batsmen to lay
a foundation for their game. As a result
it is likely that local education authori-
ties in England will lay down concrete
pitches for primary schools and in parks.
One English journal grows dithyrambic
in its dissertation on the beauties of
concrete. “Outside the cities,” it says,
“and even in remote parts of the country
these wickets are to be found —some in
scrub inches high and some on plains
devoid of vegetation. Just outside Sydney
Harbor there are no fewer than 30 of
these pitches”—a note on which I may
close.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: As a result of its sweep-
ing win in the Australian championships
at Brisbane, N.S.W. has 25 athletes in
the track and field team for the Empire
Games. Victoria has 20 and Queensland
4. Tasmania, Westralia and South Aus-
tralia have one each. The team may be
added to or otherwise altered at the dis-
cretion of the Australian A.A.A. authori-
ties.
Of the dozen cyclists chosen, six come
from Victoria, four from N.S.W., one
from Queensland and one from South
Australia. Two of the chosen men have
been asked to declare that they have
never committed an act of professional-
ism.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: U.S.A. tennis rankings
are interesting just now. Budge heads
the men, of course, but Mako is only
eighth, though in doubles Mako and
Budge are top of the list. Riggs has
made a hurried skip into second singles
place. Alice Marble leads the girls, with
Miss Bundy third. No mention is made
of Miss Workman.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Another marathon
golfer has broken loose, this time in
Sydney. By name Stan Gard, he played
14 rounds and four holes at North Brigh-
ton, beating by four holes the recent
record of Sutherland in Scotland. Gard
began the long job at 1 a..m. and finished
at 9.30 the same evening by the light of
cars. A dozen caddies and markers
helped, and only seven balls were lost —
four in the second round when clouds
plunged the course in inky darkness. The
best round was 78 ; the worst 92 —the
fatal second.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: A mild stir was caused
when the Australian amateur cycling
heads announced that all Empire Games
riders must sign a contract to remain
amateurs for 12 months. This may affect
Duncan Gray, the N.S.W. rider, who is
a certainty for the Empire team. He has
made no secret of his intention to join
the paid ranks as soon as his Olympic
contract to remain as white as snow for
two years after Berlin expires in 1938.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union has decided to hand £5O to the
newly-formod Federal Territory R.U. It
has never shown any generosity. of the
sort to young unions like South Aus-
tralia and Westralia.
“Gate”: The feud between the Queens-
land and N.S.W. sections of the Rugby
League Board of Control thickens. Re-
cently the Queensland section recom-
mended that no invitation be given to a
French team until the tour of the South
of France had tested the rather doubtful
standard of the Gauls. The N.S.W. end
thereupon decided to invite the Un-
knowns.
* * * *
“Stade”: Save for a propaganda
match in Paris on January 1 the much-
discussed French tour by the Kangaroos
is confined to the South. Matches will
be played at Roanne, Bordeaux, Albi,
Perpignan, Marseilles, Bayonne, Tou-
louse, Villeneuve and Lyons—the last on
January 30. The rough play of the
southern French clubs is proverbial and
was one of the reasons for the French
Rugby Union being put on the peg by
its British cobbers. The Kangaroos are
to return to Britain to play “Wales.”
Australian bike-pusher L. Rogers did
some great riding to clean up the pretty
strong lot of international reps, at Syd-
ney Arena. He won the mile handicap
(£100) from scratch in lmin. 50.2 sec. The
field included Faure (France), Dissing
(Denmark) and ex-amateur Stan Parsons,
but in the closing laps Rogers looked
like lapping the lot of them and won,
easing up, by half the length of the
straight. He also won the flying mile
scratch race, in which he beat, among
others, Borsari (Italy), Cozens (Eng.),
Faure, Dissing and some of the best
locals, and he beat an even stronger
field in the Aces scratch five-miler. An-
other Australian, Grant Pye, cleaned up
the invaders in the World’s Sprint.
Rogers was again in great form at the
week-end meeting, accounting for all the
crack imports and others to win the
International Sprint, the Aces scratch
three-miler and his heat in the Christmas
Wheel Race from scratch.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Lovers and Luggers.”
Lloyd Hughes, Sidney Wheeler, James Raglan,
Campbell Copelin, Elaine Hamill, Shirley Ann
Richards, etc.
A jolly good entertainer, judged by
general standards of films produced any-
where, Cinesound’s latest is most en-
couraging from the viewpoint of film
production in Australia. It’s to have a
run at Sydney State in January.
In producing and directing it repre-
sents a great advance even on “Tall
Timbers.” It hasn’t spectacle as unique
as the timber drive in that film, but it
has an altogether better story, more inter-
esting scenes, more action, more varied
characters, and it deals with a more
colorful cross-section of life —that of the
Thursday Island pearlers. The scene,
of course, has been romanticised out of
recognition.
It is almost incredibly better film than
the narrative outline might seem to per-
mit'. This pictures a piano virtuoso at
the top of his fame in London accepting
In Cinesound’s “Lovers and Luggers”—Ron Whelan, James Raglan, Lloyd Hughes, Elaine Hamill, Scotty taking up the
white man’s burden, and Sidney Wheeler.
the challenge of a sophisticated woman
to go out to places where men are men
and show he’s in their class by personally
diving after a pearl for her. At Thurs-
day Island he wins the loyalty of several
hard doers especially the Wallace
Beeryish father of a pretty little minx—
by demonstrating himself to be as hard
a doer as any of them, and, to make
things interesting, the casual enmity of
the one from whom he secures his lugger
and residence at bargain rates.
He also meets one who, like himself,
is rather out of place in the company,
and before it’s all over he has learned
that he’s not the only one diving for
pearls to please the sophisticated gold-
digger, and also that Thursday Island has
its pearl, apart from the one he has to
fight for at the bottom of the sea.
What is contained within that outline
is what makes good film of it. The main
thread of story is of little account com-
pared with scenic effects, studies of
character types and incidents comple-
mentary to the working-out of the plot.
Being in the main an action film, it
would have been better for more lively
occurrences. Both in tempo and temper
it is, for its kind, in too restrained a key.
One thing which puts the brake on
movement, and which, in present film-
taster’s view, is a most serious fault, not
only in this film but in other Australian
productions, is repetition. Not less than
three matters already completely clear to
the audience are repeated because char-
acters entering later need to be in-
formed of them. Though sometimes
difficult to overcome, that always looks
clumsy and amateurish, and these Aus-
tralian productions are now touching
such high standards that the amateurish
needs jumping on with both feet.
Amateurishness is noticeable also in
this film in some of the dialogue—the
sort of lines that fall flat in spite of the
best acting. Typical of these is one in
the big scene. The sub-hero of the piece,
noticing dirty work aboard another
lugger, orders his own lugger to the
scene, draws his revolver at short range,
pots a murderous ruffian in the nick of
time, then, leaping on to the embattled
lugger, asks “What’s going on here?”
One other representative thing of the
kind is when hero, having taken up the
challenge to go forth from London and
dive for pearls, turns to take challenger
in his arms and she, eluding him, in-
sists on “Kiss on delivery.”
Against the few such lapses, the dia-
logue generally is excellent.
Lloyd Hughes, imported from Holly-
wood, is a neat, romantic hero ; Sidney
Wheeler does a brilliant job as the Wal-
lace Beeryish lugger-owner with a heart
of gold ; James Raglan is so good in the
sub-hero part that he often steals
Hughes’s thunder.
Campbell Copelin has a very brief
part, but he makes a splendid cameo of
it; a polished piece of acting in one
of those dress-suited tippling roles he
manages so naturally. Ron Whelan is a
most effectively nasty piece of work as
the dirty dog who goes down in diving
kit to fight Mr. Hughes for the £IO,OOO
pearl.
Shirley Ann Richards goes very nicely
as the pretty little minx. There’s no
doubt she’s easy on the eyes in her rose-
bud line of prettiness; certainly she’s a
much more feasible reason for the hero’s
change of heart than is to be met with
in most films. Elaine Hamill, the Maori-
land girl, is without any question a hall-
marked winner. A born actress, of
classic good looks and form, she plays
the sophisticate in a manner which indi-
cates a sure career ahead of her.
“Stella Dallas”
Barbara Stanwyck, John Boles, Anne Shirley.
The very human and moving story of
the novel of the same title is finely pre-
sented in this main offering of Sydney
Embassy’s current bill.
A long film, concerned mainly with the
theme of woman’s capacity for self-
sacrifice, it should have an exceptionally
strong and intimate appeal for women.
The main figure takes the name of
Dallas when she successfully lures into
matrimony an executive of the mill at
which her father and brother are grimy
employees. This represents a big come
up in the social world to her, and, an in-
stinctive snob to begin with, she wants
such enjoyments as that world offers.
Husband is equally keen on a quieter
brand of marital existence, and, neither
being able to make the necessary petty
sacrifices, rifts that are to widen into fis-
sures soon appear in their married bliss.
The competent way in which the early
narrative hurdles are taken to plunge into
the full stream of the story —rapidly but
with no sense of haste—is in striking
contrast to the comparatively slow open-
ing of “Lovers and Luggers.” A few
swift, effective scenes and the couple are
separated—he in New York, with only
occasional visits back to their home ; she
bringing up their daughter on terms
already intimating that a woman might
be incapable of making petty sacrifices
for her man, but will sacrifice with no
limit for a daughter
m . • *. j . J
That theme is carried to utter extremes
before the film is done; a moving busi-
ness, without however, being ever sordid
or morbid. It is a serious film, with only
about two comedy interludes to relieve its
drarna, but it is so brilliantly directed
and so finely played that it can be recom-
mended as a certain entertainer, provid-
ing entertainment of the finest dramatic
quality. . '
Barbara Stanwyck is superb in the
major role. Boles as Dallas, Anne Shir-
ley as the grown-up daughter and Alan
Hale as a sporting character whose pres-
ence in the home on two of Dallas s re-
turns makes Dallas suspect the worst are
all responsible for sufficiently convincing
support • but it’s a one-woman film, and
Miss Stanwyck’s acting dominates it all.
“Marie Walewska.”
Charles Boyer, Greta Garbo. _
Sydney St. James’s main offering, this
is history gently corrupted to provide
first-rate entertainment.
As a straightforward story of the love
affair of Napoleon and the Polish
Countess Walewska it is excellent. That
doesn’t sound like anything new or
exciting, and in point of fact it’s not.
Many films destroy their illusion with
the accentuation of improbabilities, but
this one, although lightly touched with
fiction, has a restraint and an absence of
exaggeration that neither excuse nor
overcolor the liaison and carry the
story all the way with the Convincing
inevitability of a Hugo novel.
Its depiction of Napoleon is one of
the best yet, and it is done in a very
subtle manner. Without permitting his
life as emperor and soldier to intrude on
the main theme, it takes one angle on
a single incident and gives a complete
illustration of the character of a man
who made and broke himself with his
own ambition and intensity of will.
Of course Boyer takes the credit for
this characterisation. Apart from a
remarkable physical resemblance, he
draws around himself the driving spirit
and dominating atmosphere attributed to
Napoleon. His performance ranks him
among the topnotchers.
With less opportunity, although admir-
ably suited to her role, Garbo is equally
good. To this showman’s way of think-
ing, she can with the twist of a finger
and the droop of an eyelid do more in
the way of acting than most others can
do in a whole show. And she doesn’t
have to spread herself all over the screen
to do it. Her performance in this film
is as good as ever.
Just sufficiently in the background, the
rest of the cast carry their parts with a
sureness that is characteristic of the
whole film. They haven’t a great deal
to do, but, with experienced hands like
Reginald Owen, Henry Stephenson, C.
Henry Gordon and Alan Marshal among
them, they do it very well.
“West of Shanghai”
This opus, served up at Sydney Capi-
tol, is about as solid as a lot of holes
tied together with smoke rings.
It starts with something about a young
gent, who finds oil in some God-forsaken
spot in China, and who becomes a mark
for a couple of city crooks. Bad men
make a journey to‘the oilfield, but the
film shoots off at an angle to murder a
Chinese general.
Next impression is that it’s going to
be a lurv story, but a bunch of bandits
burst in on things, and from there on-
wards it’s a far-fetched sketch of a Chink
warlord.
Karloff’s simple logic raises a laugh
here and there, but his piece is unsuited
to him and overdone.
In “The Adventurous Blonde,” at Syd-
ney State, Amurrican reporters arrange a
mock murder by way of pulling the legs
of pretty goil reporter and her paper.
The actor engaged to do the part is, how-
ever, actually murdered, and Uncle
Sam’s police and reporters and the
theatre’s audience then have a baffling
murder mystery on their hands, in the
solving of which blondie puts it all over
everybody, including her detective beau.
The film is not less than 28 times longer
than tripe has any right to be.
“Safety in the Air,” a Paramount short,
shows how the Americans have taken
almost all the guesswork and hazards
out of air travel. Before a pilot starts on
a trip he has to receive, by radio ’phone,
authority from a Federal official to go
ahead. He has at his disposal a weather
report covering his whole route, and ex-
perts have checked traffic and have
assured him a clear course. Once in the
air his course is preserved, even in dense
fog, by a directional radio beacon, and
if anything goes wrong mechanically
there’s a landing field every 50 miles,
even in the Grand Canyon locality.


“Messiah” in Melbourne.
“Messiah,” at Melbourne Town Hall
on Christmas Day, was this time under
the auspices of the Philharmonics and the
A.B.C. orchestra, with Bernard Heinze
navigating the stupendous opus through
the best voyage of his distinguished
career in oratorio service. The trumpet
obbligato of J. Geary, in conjunction with
the bass singing of Stanley Clarkson, was
outstanding.
The latter singer, a tall, commanding
figure with a bass of unusually rich tex-
ture, in a manner of speaking ran away
v/ith the evening, to the delight of ■ a
huge assemblage. Never since Apollo
Granforte’s voice rolled its inky waves
over a local audience has so much en-
thusiasm been displayed for a bass singer.
Clarkson’s voice was deep without being
turgid, his intonation was excellent, and
his renderings of a multitude of heavenly
airs and recitatives were stirringly ex-
pressive. He seemed to be enjoying, not
only his own majestic part, but the whole
performance, a rare thing in oratorio
soloists.
The other soloists did not come quite
up to his standard. Aria-winner Joan
Jones marshalled a carefully-trained con-
tralto which was reminiscent in places
of the divine Clara’s, and was never lack-
ing in good quality. Sylvia Fisher, an-
other aria winner, sang with a curiously
tight-shut mouth, but her soprano notes
were sweeter and fuller than would have
been expected from her method of sup-
plying them with a passage. Cecil Atkin-
son, tenor, had all the correct notes and
the emphasis, but his voice lacked feel-
ing.
Under George English’s tutelage, the
200 choristers would alone have made
the 119th performance of the oratorio
worth listening to, but the orchestra was
also in remarkably good fettle.
“Messiah” by Sydney Phil.
Exactly when Sydney Phil, commenced
to make a performance of “Messiah” a
Christmas duty is lost in the mists of
antiquity.
The earliest reference this critic can
discover is dated 1885, when the conduc-
tor was that Henri Kowalski who attained
imperishable fame by putting a roaring
lion into a pianoforte score.
He was a hot-tempered Gaul of Polish
extraction, and as he had to give his
“Messiah” in a building all upside down
after a prolonged bazaar, with orchestra,
chorus and audience scattered about
among stalls and booths, he probably
was badly hot and bothered when he
commenced to erect the Handelian tone-
cathedral.
But something happened that made him
forget mundane troubles and remember
that he was a musician. In the first
notes of the first soprano solo a Voice
hit him between the eyes—a Voice that
was to shake the whole world of music,
“Mrs. Nellie Armstrong,” the programme
said.
The 1937 performance was hardly
what one might call an evolution from
that historical beginning. To achieve
that would require the evocation from
their graves of Clara Butt, Andrew Black
and Caruso, as well as Melba.
There never has been a perfect per-
formance of “Messiah,” but this one was
done in the right spirit. The choruses
could have been more vigorous—they
seemed to lack body, and the orchestra
was not always sure of itself. Godfrey
Stirling, a tenor new to oratorio in Syd-
ney, made a good impression ; Raymond
Beatty’s warm basso enjoyed itself in
“The Trumpet Shall Sound.”
It is in the solos for men that Handel
seems to have forgotten his Italianate
tricks and made music from his heart.
The soprano and contralto arias, beauti-
ful though they are, are so dressed out
in furbelows and frills that attention is
deflected from the sentiment to the art.
Isolda Hill and Heather Kinnaird saved
their offerings from banality, and that is
something not always achieved.
Howard Carr’s conducting was, as
ever, very sound. Some of his tempos
are quarrelled with by pundits, but there
never has been any unanimity about
Handel time. His last movements have
a habit of running away with themselves,
which possibly is what George Frederick
intended them to do.
Tiv.
Latest show at Sydney Tiv. is most
interesting for both the return and the
performances of two vaudevillian ever-
greens —Ella Shields and Jim Gerald.
First sighted by present showman in
the war days—and she was at the top
even then — the splendid Ella goes on
singing “Burlington Bertie” and others
with extraordinary vim and sparkle. She
has a really wonderful vitality, and per-
forms and looks as well and bright as
ever.
Much the same can be said of Gerald,
stalwart of the old Sydney Fullers in
pre-talkie and almost pre-movie days. If
anything, he’s better than ever —a much
more polished and subtle comedian. He
carries the burden of the whole show,
making half-a-dozen or so appearances.
Other good items are the Arnaut
Brothers, a pair of clever whistling
clowns; Harry Kahne, a figuring
wizard; A1 Thomas, an uncommonly
good impersonator of film stars; and
Barbarina, who does a good turn with
her pomeranians.
“C.B.”: Touching “The Desert Song”
revival at Melbourne His Majesty’s (B.
15/12/’37). The slim and agile form of
Lance Fairfax flung the original Red
Shadow. Sidney Burchall donned the
scarlet mantle later on.
(Current Art Shows page 38.)
BEHIND THE LOOKING-GLASS
“F.S.” is filled with enthusiasm:
On behalf of all those genuinely in-
terested in the progress of Australian in-
dustries, I desire to extend hearty thanks
to Melbourne National Gallery on a
policy which should redound to its credit
An outet for Narcissian tendencies.
and the prosperity of the country. I
refer to the extensive glazing of pictures
at that address.
I don’t know whether glass is manu-
factured in this country, but, if not, it
ought to be, for the process is of re-
spectable antiquity. Representations of
bottles containing red wine have been
found on monuments dating back to the
fourth Egyptian dynasty, and an amulet
of glass exists bearing the name of
Nauntef IV., who reigned between 2423
and 2380 B.c.
So our manufacturers should have
heard of it by now. If the industry
exists, it is no doubt in need of all the
orders it can get and will be grateful
for the help of the Gallery. If it does
not exist, somebody can start it with
the utmost confidence, for the National
Gallery possesses some of the largest
canvases I, personally, have ever seen or
thought possible, notably the “Italian
Brigands” of Leyraud, at present in the
reading-room. ,
A painter friend informs me that the
artistic merit of this work is in inverse
ratio to its acreage, just as the artistic
worth of Tiepolo’s “Banquet of Cleo-
patra,” which is in the Gallery proper,
cheek by jowl with the Rembrandt self-
portrait, is, I am told, in inverse ratio
to the price the Felton trustees paid for
it. Then there are the two large car-
toons, depicting St. Genevieve revictual-
ling Paris, by Puvis de Chavannes. As a
cartoonist, I would say that the intel-
lectual interest of these two pictures
would be in inverse ratio to their size if
they were 40 times as large, but from
the point of view of the glass industry
size is an advantage.
One thing that puzzled me on my last
visit to the Gallery was why some of the
pictures were glazed and some not.. For
instance, the “Mr. Wardrop” of Raeburn,
said to be one of the greatest portraits
by one of the greatest Scotchmen who
ever lived, is properly glazed, and so is
the Rembrandt self-portrait, which cost
£26,000 and is also regarded as a master-
piece. If I stood close to either of them
I got a perfect reflection of my face,
if I stood a little further back T saw a
faithful rendering of my legs and feet,
and if I crouched down low enough I
could see the ceiling of the rotunda.
In other positions I could see the tes-
selated floor or some other interested
visitor crouching, standing on tiptoe or
bending double like myself; and in
none of these positions was I troubled by
the presence behind the glass of a pic-
ture.
But in some of the cheaper and ad-
mittedly more mediocre works by
painters who, however famous in their
day, are now regarded as of less ac-
count than the newest recruit to the Gal-
lery school, I could not see myself at
all, for the simple reason that the trustees
had omitted to glass the things.
The “Banquet of Cleopatra” is one
asking to be glazed. It cost £32,000 and,
so I am told, is of no artistic worth and
certainly less interesting, amusing and
to the point than a good cartoon by
Frith. It would make a full-length
mirror in which even Dr. Dale, the city
health officer, could see himself in one
piece, though it plays second fiddle in
regard to size to Leyraud’s “Italian
Brigands,” previously mentioned as hav-
ing been relegated to the reading-room.
If this canvas were glazed and moved
up into the Gallery, it would provide a
looking-glass sufficiently large to accom-
modate all the trustees simultaneously.
The perspicacious reader will observe
by now that the Gallery, in addition to
assisting the glass trade, is also bent on
providing the public with a harmless
outlet for those Narcissian tendencies
which, according to Dr. Freud, are in-
herent in all of us. Narcissus, as every
schoolboy knows, fell in love with his
reflectibn in a lake. In no circum-
stances could I have fallen in love with
the reflection I saw in the innumerable
mirrors presented to me, as I had had a
late night prior to my visit to the Gal-
Metamorphosis.
lery; and I observed other visitors in
similar predicaments, notably a young
clergyman who was astonished to find, on
looking at the Rembrandt, that that cele-
brated painter, who, according to con-
temporary standards, lived a somewhat
dissolute life, was a youthful ecclesiastic,
extraordinarily like himself. This ob-
server was succeeded by a gentleman ob-
yiously from the Mallee who was equally
surprised at the cockylike appearance of
the author of the “Bathsheba,” the
“Night Watch” and “The Syndics of the
Cloth Hall” and seemed to be annoyed
at it.
The question rises to the mind if it is
proposed to turn the Gallery into a
Hall of Mirrors, like the one at Ver-
sailles-well, that is very meritorious;
but why have pictures in the frames?
Some person who has come to the Gal-
lery under the delusion that it is for the
display of examples of the painter’s craft
might, in his disappointment and rage or
eagerness to see, push an umbrella
through the glass and damage some irre-
placeable masterpiece.
But it is the trustees who are doing
the job, not you or I, and you can bet
your life they have gone thoroughly into
the mirror-making business and know
all there is to know about it. The
Egyptians didn’t know much about it —
they made their mirrors from copper,
and poor ones they were, too. The
Romans used silver, and a kind of white
metal is still used in the East, which was
always backward. Pliny states that glass
mirrors backed with leaf-metal were
The effect is one of considerable
monotony.
made at Sidon ; but it was not till the
thirteenth century that glass mirrors
superseded metal ones in Europe. Even
then they were very inefficient. Drayton,
an English chemist, improved matters by
devising a coating for the back of the
glass composed of a thin layer of silver
precipitated from an ammoniacal solu-
tion of nitrate of silver, and later Lenoir
sprinkled a solution of the double
cyanide of mercury and potassium over
the silver, producing an amalgam,
whiter than pure silver, which was more
adhesive and provided reflections of
greatly-increased brilliance.
The Gallery has gone one better. Its
mirrors are backed by pictures which
cost the Felton Bequest upwards of half
a million. Even so, I would like to sug-
gest a few additional improvements
which will put the Gallery as a place of
entertainment in the same class as
“Balalaika” and the Marcus Show.
The glass at present being used is of
uniformly good quality; in fact, it is a
tribute to the glassmakers, whomsoever
they were. But the effect is one of con-
siderable monotony, and will doubtless
become more so if the scores of pictures
which have been removed from the walls
are replaced with their due supply of
glass. In order to introduce variety the
trustees would be well advised if they
installed a few distorting mirrors such
as cause such innocent amusement at
Luna Park.
The only other suggestion I have to
offer at the moment is that Phar Lap
In other positions.
should be moved out of the Museum into
the Gallery, and should have the Aphro-
dite, or, as it is more popularly called,
the Venus, mounted on his back, as Lady
Godiva returning from her famous ride.
Proud of my interest in the commer-
cial and entertainment possibilities of the
whole matter, I conveyed my impressions
to an artist who happened to come in *
biit he took an entirely different view of
it. In the unpractical way of artists the
world over, he disregarded the industrial
aspect altogether and arraigned the
authorities for permanently removing
from his sight pictures which had been
a source of inspiration and instruction
to him for years.
A Gallery custodian who happened to
be passing pointed out that if the pic-
tures were glazed they would last for
several more centuries than it they
were exposed to the air and the
public gaze. The artist tartly
retorted that it was not the air
but the chemical interaction be-
tween the varnish and the oil in
a picture which caused it to deteriorate,
and that the effect of glazing was almost
negligible. Most of the pictures, he
declared with heat, would last unglazed
for at least a couple of centuries, and
even if their existence could be pro-
longed 10,000 years through being
glazed nobody would be a penny the
better off for it than if they were put in
the Commonwealth Bank’s safe deposit.
Some of the trustees, he further de-
clared, were artists, too. How would
Of Rembrandt.
they like their own pictures to be so
treated?
When the job is finished and the Gal-
lery is reopened as a Hall of Mirrors the
trustees might consider excluding artists
altogether.


Grammar
i’rljool
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927, conducted
*
under the direction of the Trustees by a School House Board.
Early application for 1938 is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
After listening to George Vl.’s first
and last Christmas greeting to his people,
this Letter is more a King’s man, or a
Queen’s woman, than ever. The speech,
simple and direct, exemplified the innate
modesty of the man, his. steady deter-
mination to overcome difficulties. Feel-
ing that the Christmas broadcast was a
personal link between his royal father
and the people of the Empire, he does
not desire to blur the memory of those
speeches. The King’s delivery was mas-
terly, the tone of the voice natural and
pleasant. There was no trace of the
stammer which we all know he has taken
such pains to conquer. All that was
noticeable was a slight slowing up before
certain words—about long enough for
the inhalation of a deep breath. Any
man might have been proud of making
the speech.
Without disturbing the dew on one of
the petals of Rose Bay, the Centaurus
alighted on its sparkling waters on
Christmas Eve. Businessmen and -girls
stared down the waterway from the city-
bound ferries at the giant flying-boat rest-
ing with such nonchalance on the sparkle
of Port Jackson, not far from the spot
where Phillip himself landed. Piping,
tooting and whistling a greeting, launches
fussed, and further away on the shores
there was another gallery of enthusiasts.
The Centaurus is the first commercial
flying-boat to visit Australia, and its
light-blue pennant with its gold lettering
was pointed out with an eagerness that
other Christmas Eve excitements could
not dim. The Centaurus made the flight
from Brisbane in 3 hours 40 minutes.
She is comfortably appointed, has a
promenade deck, is air-conditioned, and
in spite of her powerful engines those
who have journeyed in it say there is
very little noise.
Sydney is rubbing its eyes and getting
back to work after perfect Christmas
weather. Just about sundown on
Christmas Eve the wind blew strong and
cool, and there was a blur of rain.
Holidaymakers leaving the city (and they
were in their thousands) groaned, and
thought' unutterable things about the
weather that had steamed and burned
them for over a week as they slogged in
office and shop, or cruised about the
streets doing their shopping, and that
now threatened to break. But the sun
conquered all, and golden beach and
sylvan shade were at their best. ‘From
Manly to Palm Beach, day and night,
ran a dazzle of gaiety. Bondi, Coogee
and the pretty Harbor strands from
Balmoral to the smallest sandy stretch
had dense populations of the sea-
minded. The swagger Friday-night party
was the Mackays’ fancy-dress dance on
the Showboat, whose decks were crusted
with pirates, Hawaiians, gipsies, sailors,
Russians—a human cargo that had
ranged the shores of the world for its
raiment.
Wedding bells chimed for the descen-
dants of two pioneer families last week.
Roma Doreen Lawson, great-grandchild
of the explorer William Lawson, was
married in St. John’s Church, Moss Vale,
to Edward Dixon, of Hunter’s Hill. Mrs.
George Throsby, the bride’s sister, was
matron of honor. Nieces Judy and
Wendy Throsby were also in the pro-
cession. At St. Mark’s, Darling Point,
Stewart Jamieson, whose forebears were
among Bathurst pioneers, married
Katharine Felicia Garvan. Bride’s
mother is now Mrs. Gordon Brady; her
father was Denis Garvan, well known
polo-player.
If any stranger to Sydney had been
strolling down Dalley-street last Tues-
day night he’d have wondered at the
curious figures that slipped around its
corners or made a dash from car to
a widely-opened doorway. Sydneyites
wouldn’t have turned the head, because
Dalley-street is known to house many
artists, and the furtive figures with jang-
ling bells, rolled-down socks and droop-
ing early-Victorian moustaches suggested
a studio party. Dora Jarret’s studio, a
holly wreath around the knocker, was
the scene of action, and soon the
room and the landing off it overflowed
with “stern parents and unruly children.”
Artist Albert Collins, who was a cross
between a Boy Scout and one of those
Alpine yodellers, was master of cere-
monies. The Rodriguez couple were
there ; so was pretty Margaret Coen. Rah
Fizelle was a funmaker. Lloyd Davies
brought a pretty sister, who topped her
schoolgirl frock with a white bow in
her dark curls. Rex Julius and Joan
Barnett and lots of young artists and
writers were in the melee.
“Burlington Bertie” Ella Shields, look-
ing like some exquisite creation of the
Rue de la Paix, slim, feminine and fas-
cinating, was the reason for a cocktail
party given by Violet Roche and Dora
Payter. Ella, in a pale-yellow dress with
tiny puffed sleeves and one of those new
straight-brimmed black hats, was sur-
rounded four deep from 5.30 to seven.
Mrs. Harry Chauvel, a swirl of white
organdie, was another of the admired.
Oswald Cheeke dropped in to see his
old friend Ella. Patrick Bellew and Mrs.
Arthur Cheeke were among the sherry-
sippers. The Will and Adrian Ashtons
and Albert Collins represented art, and
Paul Schramm, who has been touring
with the A.8.C., music.
The Australia’s tea-with-music last
week started off appropriately with
“Good King Wenceslas.” The flesh and
the wine and the pine logs were not
exactly the fare surrounding the hun-
dreds in the Wintergarden, who were
more intent on tea and buttered crum-
pets in an air-cooled atmosphere ; still,
the spirit was the same. Every table had
been booked out days before, and the
casual dropping in for a cup of tea
might as well have looked for one in
the Australian desert. One of the
largest parties was hostessed by Mrs.
Harold Bott. As was to be expected,
musicians predominated in her group.
Very upright and handsome sat Miss
Elizabeth Plummer, whose Sunday-night
music party was still being talked over.
Opposite sat Mrs. Hope Gibson, whose
next gaiety was a reception in Science
House. A neighbor was Mrs. Harry
Twigden, in softest pink sheer. Mar-
garet Chalmers, Mrs. Brindley, from
Longreach (Q.), and Alice O’Donnell
were others present.
Before May Hollinworth became one
of Sydney’s cleverest producers she was
a demonstrator in chemistry at Sydney
Uni. Now she devotes herself entirely
to the drama, and her name has been
associated with such successes as “Beggar
on Horseback” and “Day Must Break,”
in which the cast was made up of pro-
fessionals, and the delicate and charm-
ing Chrismas play “Tuttisantchen,”
which was presented at the Little Theatre
recently. This has been well translated
from the German, and is the story of.
the fir-tree that came to life, as one
does, according to the story, every thou-
sand years or so. Miss Hollinworth has
travelled widely, and knows America as
well as New York.
Mrs. F. J. Davy and Mrs. E. M. Lewis
are feeling pleased over the chance that
Premier Stevens has given them to help
the youth of this State. Following the
announcement of the Government’s in-
tention to go ahead with its scheme of
physical training for the young, Mrs.
Davy and Mrs. Lewis were appointed to
the advisory committee. They are the
only two women, and the men on the
committee with them are all noted for
their medical or athletic achievements.
Mrs. Davy is known in hockey circles
throughout Australia, and has a gift for
the leadership of girls. She has success-
fully managed Australian hockey teams
touring America and England. Mrs.
Lewis is interested in recreation and
leadership movements.
One of the old homes in York-street
close to the bridge is the centre of the
Big Sister Movement. This has nothing
to do with Big Brothers, but is just one
of the ways in which the woman whom
circumstances have surrounded with
security helps the woman who has come
on lean times. The hostel can accom-
modate about 12. Some of these guests
need work ; all need cheering up. This is
what the Big Sister Movement supplies.
It does its best, too, to find work for
those lacking it. Mrs. Edmond Gates is
the honorary president of the committee,
and Mrs. Jack Richards, the smiling sub-
ject of this Raymond Sawyer photograph,
the hon. sec.
Mrs. Albert Littlejohn got back from
her travels just in time for daughter Pat-
ricia’s wedding. As a matter of fact,
mother helped with choosing the wed-
ding dress and the veil. The dress was
of ivory brocade made with a high waist-
line, and had for accompaniment a veil
of ivory tulle caught with a spray of
orange-blossom and an armful of lilies.
Patricia is the younger daughter of the
Albert Littlejohn couple, and, like her
bridegroom, Dr. Terence Abbott, is a
graduate of Sydney University. She was
the first girl to graduate in veterinary
science, and held a job in the Veterinary
School until matrimony claimed her.
Both All Saints’, Woollahra, where the
knot was tied, and Elizabeth Bay House,
where the cake was cut, were pictorial
and fragrant with flowers. Bride’s sister,
Mrs. William Cullen, was matron of
honor, and her chiffon frock held shades
of lilac deepening from the pink to the
amethyst tones. Mrs. Littlejohn’s coro-
net of silver leaves was the right touch
with her frock of delphinium-blue bro-
cades. Dr. Terence Abbott is a son of
the Senator Macartney Abbott couple.
’Groom’s mother, like the mother of the
bride, chose a blue-and-silver scheme for
her wedding raiment.
What better spot could there be for
the Christmas party of the Friendly
Union of Sailors’ Wives and Mothers
than a warship? So to H.M.A.S. Pen-
guin last week wives and mothers and
children to the tally of 200 gaily made
their way. Popeye was a welcome guest
to the party, but, of course, the big hand
was kept for Santa Claus, who came
across the water, his launch filled with
gifts. Mrs. G. A. Scott, president of the
Friendly Union, was presented during
the afternoon with a liqueur set in amber
glass, and Captain Scott wasn’t forgotten.
He was given cigarettes. An innovation
at a navy party was the cow. This was
a very good-natured animal that mooed
in the most realistic fashion, and obliged
the young guests with rides on its back.
The French Alliance has now got a
junior group. The president is Joyce
Beazley, who, even in her schooldays,
spoke the language of Gaul fluently. The
group made its Christmas even merrier
by a dance at the Pickwick Club, and
Joyce was an efficient and graceful
hostess in her flowing blue-and-silver
frocking. The Poynter family was there
(Sir Hugh is president of the Alliance),
Lady Poynter wearing jade-green lace.
Notable guests were France’s Consul-
General Tremoulet and M. Giraudoux,
the French author and Minister-Pleni-
potentiary who has been doing the
rounds of the French Consular services.
He sailed for the East in the Nieuw Hol-
land two days later, so this was a plea-
sant farewell to social Sydney.
Peggy Newton-Scott’s twenty-first
birthday party made quite a noise, even
in Christmas week. The Pickwick Club
was as refreshing as a cold wind off
Bondi after the heat of the streets, and
the flower arrangements looked cool as
dew. Laces, delphinium-blue, gay here
and there with bows of hibiscus velvet,
were worn by the guest of honor in
company with a black halo hat, and a
ruby ring, the gift of father and mother.
Father, who is away in Port Moresby,
sent a greeting by radio. Mrs. Newton-
Scott’s ensemble was in flower-like blues.
Aubrey Halloran and Ben Fuller were
among the speech-makers.
There never was a month fuller of
parties, alcoholic and tea, than this
December. One pretty story comes from
the Eastern Suburbs. A young girl, at
her first cocktail party, refused the first
round of drinks, saying she did not drink
alcohol. “But,” said the hostess, “there
is no alcohol in those; they are fruit
cocktails.” Thereupon the girl sipped
and enjoyed. Presently a second tray of
the same sort came around, and she took
another. Similarly when a third round
was passed her hand was extended. Half-
way through the third glass she put the
drink down hastily. She was standing
facing the open doorway leading to the
hall, and her startled gaze beheld the
carpet thereon slipping and slithering in
an unseemly fashion. “How wrong of
them to tell me there was no alcohol in
that drink!” she muttered to herself, and
moved to the other end of the room.
Fifteen minutes later an aghast hostess
announced that, taking advantage of the
open door, some marauder had got off
with her hall carpet!
Her friends were saddened last week
by hearing that Mrs. W. A. Holman had
been stricken with pneumonia and was
in St. Luke’s. Just before Christmas the
report on her health was better, but still
there wasn’t much merry Christmas for
her. Althea Wallace, too (fair-haired
daughter of well-known journalist Theo-
dosia Wallace), spent her Christmas in
St. Luke’s mending up after an opera-
tion.
Alice Gould, still wandering about the
wide, wide world, sends a postcard from
Saint Raphael wishing Sydney friends a
happy Christmas and a glad New Year.
Belgium, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Aus-
tria, Switzerland, Italy and France are
corners of Europe visited by this indus-
trious traveller. She and her mother
spent Christmas in Wales.
And now, having got over that sub-
merged merry Christmas feeling, get out
your dancing slippers and prepare to
dance the old year out and the new
year in at the Music Revel. This will
raise the rafters of Hordern Brothers’
ballroom on Friday night from nine
o’clock till the second hour of 1938. This
is the eighth birthday of the ball, which
is under the patronage of every distin-
guished man and woman in the city.
As usual, Mrs. Ferrari Passmore is the
organiser and secretary.
Quambi, one of the Edgecliff strong-
holds of private ownership, is being
handed over to the building contractor.
A week or two ago the Kelso Kings
sold their long-established headquarters
with the cool and pleasant gardens, and
in a month or two, when they move
away, five houses will go up on the
property. The Kelso King lady, who
speaks regretfully of saying farewell to
the spreading trees about Quambi, says
that there will be no flats, only houses,
on the site of her old home. Visitors
from every State have known the hos-
pitality of this Sydney home. The use
of its grounds has been given many times
for fetes in the interests of charity. But
the city spreads, and one by one the old
homes and their gracious gardens dis-
appear.


EXCITED WOMEN in Thousands
Now Using The NEW LAVEX !
WOMEN everywhere are rushing this New
Wonder Washing Compound—it’s the new
sweet-smelling oxygened Lavex that will give you
a quicker, whiter and CHEAPER wash. Ask
your grocer to-day for a packet of Lavex -IT
COSTS LESS—and WASHES BETTER.
banish germs as well as dirt
—PROTECT YOUR FAMILY.
There are millions of germs as well as dirt in the family wash—Lavex
removes germs as well as dirt; if you would
protect your family, save time and work and
obtain a pure sweet-smelling wash, change
to Lavex at once.
THE MOST AMAZING WASHING
COMPOUND EVER DISCOVERED!
Instantly Lavex cleans whiter, easier, sweeter and
more gently, it saves colours and keeps your
hands soft and white, not harsh and red. Once
you have tried Lavex you will want no substi-
tute. Nothing can replace it, nothing is quite so
good—and yet it is cheaper. Here is your chance
to try this New Wonder Washing Compound.
I was a Was
JEEfIC 1 S3l
URRY UP, DEAR
THE BROWNS ARE
EXPECTING US FOR
BRIDGE - WE'LL
LATE
BE
THESE CLOTHE
r
fid
r OH, I'M SO WEARY
'AND FA6GED AFTER
THE WASH . . I'D
RATHER 60 TO BED
-YOU ANO MOTHER
V
CAN QUITE UNDERSTAND WHY YOU
FEEL SO TIRED DARLING - I USED TO
BE A REGULAR WASHDAY WRECK MYSflfy
UNTIL I STARTED USING LAVEX - IT'S j
TEN TIMES EASIER
DEAR /y .
I
MY
/
BLESS THE DAY MOTHER TOLD
r MEABOUT LA VEX- IT IS MUCH
QUICKER AND EASIER AND
\ JUST LOOK AT THE SNOWYi
WHITENESS Ot
YOU WERE WONDERFUL
TONIGHT MY DEAR...
I'VE NEVER SEEN
YOU SO ATTRACTIVE
YE
AN
GAY
DARLING
TO
TH
AN
' A SECRET
MOTHER TOLD ME
\*
X
N
LAVEX is
CHEAPER
Never before has a
washing compound
been sold so cheap—
only a packet, or
3 packets for 1 /-.
Women everywhere are
thrilled with this new
sweet-smelling washer
—they have proved its
capabilities and want
no substitut e—IT
WASHES WHITER—
SWEETER and
QUICKER—C OS T S
LESS.
LAVEX for a WHITER and QUICKER WASH!
These 5 tests were made with Lavex many times before
perfecting , and it passed them all with flying colours: —
1. With Lavex, clothes needed less boiling—saves Gas
and Time.
2. Lavex is super oxygened and therefore cleans whiter
and is more gentle.
3. Smell the wash afterwards—it’s sweeter, purer with
Lavex.
4. Lavex removes germs as well as dirt.
5. Lavex is safe for fabrics and colours; kind to
the hands, too.
4k Packet
or
3 Pkts. for 1 1-
Country Prices slightly extra.
UVIX
IS THE SECRET!
I’m no longer tired and irritable
after the wash—Lavex has
changed all that for me now —
it’s so much easier and washes
whiter and sweeter. It’s gentler
on the hands, too!
SAVE THE COUPONS!
Delightful presents can be obtained in exchange for
coupons placed on every packet of Lavex. If you want tea
towels, serviettes, pillow slips, blankets, etc., why not get
them for nothing by simply using Lavex?
j
TRADE ENQUIRIES FOR LAVEX.
Every grocer can benefit by the extensive
publicity to be given to Lavex by writing
at once to
SAVONS PTY., LTD.,
Box 3573 RR, G.P.0., Sydney.
Trade Orders only: ’Phone LM5524.
REMEMBER
IT COSTS LESS.
ONLY
42d. Packet
THE NEW SWEET - SMELLING
WASHING COMPOUND— LAVEX!
With all its wonderful advantages over old
methods of washing, Lavex is cheaper and
quicker. You can wash everything—coloured
fabrics, silks, woollens and cotton materials alike.
This amazing new washer removes every particle
of dirt—every stain—and removes it with less
trouble. Don’t hesitate to try it; put it on your
grocery order this very moment.
IMON s.jaoojo jnoA IV (03N30AX0) ™1
punoduioo X3AV|


O'
4
a
a
tto\?
trip
ness
Bus*
cJneH
S4
to
iHtH
Whether your visit to Sydney
be business or social—stay at
the Wentworth. This fine hotel
offers you everything; comfort,
service, convenience. You will
enjoy your stay at the Went-
worth; wire or write for reser-
vations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
CD. MACLURCAN MN6. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
Melbourne
Chatter
For the first Christmas cards in their
term of office the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress chose a replica of a Victor Cobb
etching of St. Kilda-road. Harold Her-
bert’s cards are a study in perspective,
back view of an elephant sandwiched be-
tween Harold’s scrawled signature and
“ Never Forgets.” Mrs. Geoff Selig-
mann (who used to be Merrie Jona)
sends a picture of her home, a lovely old
place with gabled windows in Great Mis-
senden, in Bucks. Other greetings from
England include Meg Gasquoine’s etch-
ing of Lichfield Cathedral, a coaching
scene from the Rodney Segraves, a
hunting picture and “Wishing you a
Merry Run” from Paula Dane, and con-
ventional wording on an all-vermilion
background from the Alan Buchanans,
of Birchwood, Black Hills, Esher. From
nearer home the. Bunny Hammonds sent
another bright idea in Bunny’s hand-
work ; with the tables turned, a plum-
pudding (its face expressive of a very
bad hangover) is chasing a couple of
bunnies among screed about “You can’t
get away from it, that Boxing Day feel-
ing.”
More caravans than ever before are
rolling along Victorian roads this Christ-
mas. In anticipation of the growing
preference for mobile holiday homes Port
Fairy is preparing to construct a cara-
van park at Martin’s Point on the pic-
turesque Moyne River. A concrete path
is to be put down round the point
from the wharf, shade trees will be
planted, shelters built, there will be a
water supply and mooring sheds for
boats. In order to raise the necessary
money a cunning scheme has been
adopted by which competitive instincts
are brought into action. The township of
Port Fairy has been divided into two
sections under Dr. H. V. Francis and
E. J. Wilson respectively, each section
endeavoring to top the other by raising
most money. A carnival on February
19 should, if the weather is good, bring
in a nice fat little sum.
Going bush has an attraction for many
city folk. People who live in comfort-
able homes with gardens or in labor-
saving flats complete with rubbish chutes
and jade-green telephones, who have a
fit if an insect gets into the kitchen or
a speck of dust into the milk, will go
abroad cheerfully by car and camp, to
bask in ozone, to swish flies, kill ants
and pass back their plates for second
and third helpings of burnt chops. At
5 a.m. the sun sends a much-too-warm-
to-be-comfortable ray of light through
the tent flaps, and maybe it rains and
the drips come through instead. Better
protected are the caravaneers, but they
also encounter small disabilities like
sleeping in the lingering aroma of fried
fish. But nobody minds. The day is
won by the picnic spirit and the fact
that change of scenery and mode of living
are as stimulating as double gins, and not
nearly as bad for the figure.
Once again Wallace Mitchell officiated
as Father Christmas at the Alfred Hos-
pital party, which is organised every year
for the children’s ward by Mrs. Barry
Thomson. Last year, owing to the heat,
Mr. Mitchell had trouble with his
whiskers and held up proceedings while
making frantic endeavors to get them to
stay in position. For last week’s party,
though the day was just as warm, he’d
profited by the experience, and all was
well with the assistance of spirit gum. A
couple of sick nurses whose ward is
near b y were brought into the children’s
domain for the festivities, and Dr.
Schalit, a convalescent from the veran-
dah, was also a propped-up visitor and
the recipient of a woolly lamb and a
bag of sweets.
Sister Leila Gilbert and Nurse Mavis
Peters went aloft to cut down the
presents from the tree, and Drs. Uhd,
Jolly and Dunn showed moderate skill
with yo-yos, their presents from the
spangled branches. As part of the ward
decorations the Old Woman Who Lived
in a Shoe (the shoe filled with toys in-
stead of children) was a great success,
The Old Woman with her witchlike mein
was life-size, and some folk guessed her
identity as “Alfred,” the model used in
the nurses’ lecture-room, but old friends
of “Alfred,” knowing well his benevolent
expression, disagreed with the aspersions,
When everybody had received presents
and Father Christmas had done an
extra round in the ward upstairs where
the little “polios” had a tree to
themselves, Matron Wilson invited com-
mittee people and other visitors to
tea in the nurses’ dining-room. Among
the nurses present was matron’s assistant
Sister M. Rowe, and among the guests
was Mrs. J. A. Campbell, hon. sec. of
the council of auxiliaries, who had paid
an earlier visit to the hospital that day
with the last quilt for the children’s
ward. The quilts are white, and on
each one there is a different animal,
appliqued in scarlet linen. With silk
shirts and shorts to wear instead of
pyjamas for the boys and blue hair
ribbons and jackets for the girls, the
quilts were Christmas presents from one
of the auxiliaries.
Dr. Patricia Hutson, who before her
marriage was Pat Wellington, has proved
the exception to the rule for most brides
that getting married is quite enough
excitement for one day. A few hours
before the subject of the Broothorn
photograph was arraying herself in satin
frock and tulle veil she wore the very
different garb of cap and gown in which
to receive her degree of Bachelor of
Medicine in the Wilson Hall. Bride-
groom Medwyn Hutson is also a doctor
(he’s at the Austin Hospital). One of
the ’maids, Ethel Roberts, was as newly-
fledged a medico as the bride ; another
’maid, Joy Muller, has only one more
lap to go for the same degree. Others in
the amethyst-clad quartet of attendants
were Elaine Hutson, who came over
from Westralia for the wedding, and the
bride’s sister Joan, who is 18, and made
her debut at Government House Ball in
Cup Week. Dr. Patricia is a past pupil
of Korowa. She means to continue in
her profession, with hospital work as
commencement.
Christmas at the Repatriation Hospital,
Caulfield, is celebrated every year a
couple of days before the 25th. This
year visitors were invited to inspect the
new wards, the widening of the veran-
dahs and the new nurses’ quarters, of
which the staff is justifiably proud. In-
stead of the old makeshift domiciles there
are pleasant community rooms, and each
nurse has a room to herself with a con-
venient built-in wardrobe. Matron
O’Dwyer has an attractive sitting-room
of her own, which during the festive
season was filled with presentation
hydrangeas. Matron has never missed
Christmas at the hospital since she was
appointed in 1920. She has a good
memory for names and faces and had a
cheery word for every man as she walked
through the wards, decorated inside with
flowers and outside with colored lights.
In the evening friends and relatives of
the men came along, concert parties
toured the wards and patients who were
well enough sat about in little social
groups on the lawns.
One patient on a wheel bed was Sister
Lee Archer, invited up for the party as a
special guest of honor. Sister Archer^
who has been on the hospital staff for
some years, broke her leg 13 months
ago. Complications set in, but she hopes
to be back on duty in June or July.
As part of the Christmas doings
doctors and nurses and their friends were
guests for supper at the Red Cross kiosk.
Among those who paid calls in that
direction were Dr. and Mrs. Simon
McLennan. (Every year Dr. McLennan
makes sure that patients in the wards
opened to the public like a noisy guest
night. Those who prefer to be quiet
are always moved before the influx of
visitors.) Dr. Edward Field was also
noticed, eating fruit salad and feeling
very bucked at his son’s newly-acquired
degree of Bachelor of Medicine and Sur-
gery. Also present were Dr. and Mrs.
Arthur Giblin, Sister Win Newell, of
Titian locks and witty tongue, with a
sprig of holly pinned to her uniform,
and Sister May Duggan, who has charge
of the new repatriation outpatients’ de-
partment, next to the Barracks in St.
Kilda-road. The hospital’s new secre-
tary, Harold Turner, was there with his
attractive wife. The couple have re-
cently come to Melbourne from Adel-
aide, and are taking advantage of every
warm Sunday to go surfing at one of the
beaches beyond the precincts of the shel-
tered Port Phillip Bay.
In the Ronald Esler portrait is Mrs.
Norman Cozens, who, with her husband,
is leaving on January 4 in the Orford for
London and the Continent, and finally
home via the U.S.A. The couple have
no plans as to the duration of their
tour. They are looking forward t;o
London and the opportunity of seeing a
good deal of their nephew, Dr. Edmund
Alcock, and his wife and small son.
Mrs. Alcock was Betty Nicholas, well
known for her charm of manner and
appearance.
A couple of hundred guests, a present
for each of them, and supper turned on
from the word “go” till the last friend
departed round about 2.30 were inci-
dentals of Dr. Deborah Buffer Murphy’s
lavish Christmas party. Round about
11 p.m. Father Christmas appeared to
hand out the presents, but after the sing-
ing of “Silent Night,” when the lights
were put out one by one on the tree so
that the room was plunged into impres-
sive darkness, he vanished so completely
that many people had hunches as to his
identity. For host Basil Murphy was
nowhere to be seen during the time that
the womenfolk were saying “Thank
you” for tissue-paper packages contain-
ing soaps,. perfumes, bracelets and com-
pacts, and the men were discovering sur-
prises of cigarettes, and merry gadgets
of funny faces peering over a fence that
turned out to be corkscrews, corks and
bottle-openers.
Norman and Alister Mackenzie,
Robert Lee, J. Kirkhope and John
Parry were the carol-singers, and pretty
good ones, for they’d had several re-
hearsals. After carrying round the was-
sail bowl John played foxtrots on the
piano for dancing. Another excitement
was the arrival of the boar’s head car-
ried by Basil Murphy and attended by
legal men Judge Stretton and Fred
Gamble, with John Parry flourishing
carvers over a red velvet cushion. Only
the day before at graduation he’d re-
ceived his degree in medicine, so familiar-
ity with such implements was to be ex-
pected. Supper in the dining-room was
sumptuous, and everybody did justice to
it notwithstanding the fact that they’d
been eating all night at buffets on the
terrace and at the bier-garten under the
elm.
Often heard of are surprise weddings
where the guests invited to what they
imagine is just one more party find
themselves being welcomed on their ar-
rival by a just-married bride and ’groom.
But Kathleen Sauerbier and John Bryce
went one better with their reception cele-
brations. Friends asked to caff in for
cocktails at John’s flat had a pleasant
hour or two, and finally accepted the
host’s suggestion that as it was Christ-
mas they should all go on to the Aus-
tralia. Even the specially-decorated table
there didn’t rouse anyone’s suspicions.
The dinner was nearly over when some-
one noticed a wedding-ring on Kath-
leen’s finger, and the secret came out that
she and John had been married earlier in
the afternoon. Ringing up Adelaide to
tell her parents the news, it cost her two
calls, for in her excitement she got the
wrong number, and for two minutes told
a perfect stranger how happy she was.
Only at a pause for breath did the un-
known’s vague answers arouse suspicions.
Clinton Reed, of the R.A.M.C., had
a busy time during his short stay in Mel-
bourne —he came from India in the
Strathaird, and is returing in the same
liner. Since his visit home a year ago,
Clinton has acquired a large and bristly
Guardsman’s moustache, which he thinks
balances his monocle. One party for the
visitor was given by Margaret Cochran,
who also numbered among special guests
the Norman Cozens couple, off to Eng-
land, and the Raymond Battyes, motor-
ing honeymooners from Sydney. They
have bought a portion of Bong Bong
racecourse (the Talbot . Sandersons
secured another part), and will thus live
on the scene of many jolly picnic meet-
ings of the past.
Two interesting plays were chosen by
Brett Randall for the Little Theatre
season. In Helga Krog’s “The Copy”
(reminiscent of the Russians with its
repetitive dialogue) Bob Bennett gave
a pleasing impression of an erudite
psychologist and Merle Silverwood
showed promise as a sentimental wife.
“Church Street” is a clever play by well-
known author Lennox Robinson. Some
small-town people are invited by Hugh’s
parents to meet their son, an unsuccess-
ful playwright at home for a holiday
from London. Hugh is depressed be-
cause he has no new ideas until taunted
by Aunt Moll to use his imagination, for
there is plot in plenty around each of
the guests at present in the house. In
a swift succession of short scenes the
audience is given a glimpse of the tense
drama in which, all unknown to one an-
other, these everyday characters are
forced to take part.
Murielle Hearne and Aenid Johnson
did commendable character acting as the
two elderly sisters, one simpering, the
other vituperative, whose secret tragedy
is starvation. For something to eat they
are forced to wait on the whim of six
white Wyandottes. Terence Crisp did
well in the role of Hugh, and Garnet
Fyfe was satisfactory as the evoked
Hugh. Jean Campbell was Aunt Moll, a
broadminded old girl under her peculiar
exterior. Boneitta Smith deserved the
applause she won in the trying role of
Honor.
A cat tax, the same sort of thing, but
milder, than a dog tax, is suggested by
the Field Naturalists’ Club, members of
which are in sympathy with bird life. A
favorite place to empty bags full of un-
wanted cats is the Botanic Gardens,
where the erstwhile owners assume that
the cats will keep themselves alive on
birds and waterfowl. But the director
of the Gardens, Fred Rae, owns a rifle
and he takes a fatherly interest in the
feathered folk of his domain. His eye
and hand are just as steady as they were
when he collected his commendable war
record. The cats are going to find out
about it.
Mrs. R. W. McKellar, of Elsternwick,
who for some years has been hon. sec. of
the Vic. Women Graduates’ Assoc., will
supply enrolment forms for the eighth
biennial conference of the Australian
Federation of University Women, to be
held in Sydney from January 17 to 19,
with a programme of social activities
from 14th to 21st. Membership fee for
the conference is 10s.; there are railway
concessions, and arrangements may be
made in Sydney for inter-State visitors
who would like to avail themselves of
hospitality offered privately. The prin-
cipal subject for discussion will be “The
Status of University Women in the World
To-day.” Artiong papers to be read are
one on Australia’s responsibilities to the
aborigines, “Women in Turkey,” material
for which was gathered by Jessie Webb,
and some aspects of social welfare as
put forward by a group of Sydney gradu-
cltCS
A Christmas novelty from overseas (it
bears a stamped “Made in Germany”)
is a purse so convenient that it’s a
wonder no one has thought about it
before. Shaped like a pea-pod with a
lengthwise zipper opening, it is just large
enough to hold a pound’s worth of silver,
and the money is much easier to get at
than in the depths of an ordinary purse.
Companion to this cute gadget is a car-
rier for keys in the same colored leather.
The ring is inside, and the holder is
large enough not to get' lost.


BRANDAUERrS
m
%
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRANDAUEE * CO, Ltd, BIEMINGHAM. ENG
* y -' - v - ■■if
BOOKS * PAPERS
5L0BIT€
Butin&iS Cate
Nothing smarter or more con-
venient than this neat, new-
shaped Globite Business Case!
It is light and strong, with
a glossy, grained finish, like
leather. It measures 14$ x 12
x 4 ins. Ask for Globite No.
4195.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: The Katherine (N.T.) boasts
one feature which attracts the eye of
every tourist —its bakery. On its shim-
mering galvanised-iron wall appears the
legend:
FORTY-FOUR YEARS A LOAFER
STILL MAKING GOOD DOUGH
BREAD FOR
energy
NOTHING
like it.
Not that it needs any boosting. The
looming form of the owner is advertise-
ment enough for his wares, even though,
through slimming treatment, he has re-
cently been able to boast that he has
reduced his weight from 21st. 91b. to
21st. 41b. And having taken part in two
wars in the ranks —in the last he enlisted
in his forties—Bob Carter, who is a
philosopher as well as a humorist, re-
marks, on occasion, that he won’t be
active enough to be anything less than a
general on the staff next time.
* * * ¥
“Splodger”: After a lapse of a dozen
or more years, I’ve just met the severalth
hundred fellow who picked up for Jacky
Howe the day he shore the 321 at Alice
Downs away back in the eighteen-hun-
dreds. Those fellows used to be as plen-
tiful as ticks, but with the passing of
the years I thought they were all dead.
Thirty years ago any man with preten-
tions to shed-work used to claim he
picked up, rolled, swept or shore pen-
mates with Howe. Goodness alone knows
how many derelicts have wiped the beer
from the walrus and stated they were
over the board the day Howe let things
go. Really, the fellow who did pick up
was Fred Pont, a smart-looking cove, a
horseman from his head to his heels,
gingery and with a bit of snap about
him.
* sH *
“Aileron”: Collectors of freak news-
papers should find a prize exhibit in the
“Tennant Kreek Kronicle,” the central
gold town’s first' journal, turned out
through the enterprise of Fred Wild.
The journal complies with the postal
regulations by announcing that it is regis-
tered for transmission as second-class
shaving paper, and its effort to reach the
high level of the metropolitan press is
evidenced by its local news:
Mr. Sam Irvine stood a round of drinks
and Mr. Huge-Bones stood five feet eleven
in his socks.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Old northerners must rub
their eyes when they read the advertising
in Darwin’s only paper, the “Standard,”
these days. Time was when the inland
used to order its goods from the south
a few months in advance, and Darwin
thought itself lucky if it got delivery of
orders from Brisbane inside six weeks.
But a big Adelaide firm has instituted an
air parcel service. Now it is possible to
wire one morning from Darwin an order
for a dress, and if there is an air mail
next day it arrives within 36 hours. The
firm pays freight.
* sk * sfl*
“J. Want”: The old saying about kill-
ing the goose that laid the golden egg
is being modernised in Arnhem Land
into killing the buffalo that breeds
the golden hide. Hides average up to
801 b. weight and 7Jd. per lb. A man
who can collect 2000 601 b. hides can
count on a gross income of over £2500.
Rumors of this reaching the south, a lot
of newchums are getting into the busi-
ness, and anything that looks like a
buff, is their meat. Old-timers, with an
eye on the future, carefully avoided kill-
ing cows. But to the modern capitalists
a cow is just a hide. A few years of
this sort of thing will see the end of the
trade. This year’s export of hides
will total about 12,000, and next year
it should be more, since a Japanese co.
is coming into the market with a demand
for 400 per month. The Administration
should step in, license shooters and limit
their numbers, giving preference to
pioneers in the industry, and prohibiting
the slaughter of all females of calving
age. Moreover, efforts might succeed in
extending the range of buffalo-grazing.
It would be a sad thing for the hardy
bushmen who depend on the animal for
an income of £lB,OOO p.a. if the buffalo
went the way of the American bison.
* * * *
“El V.”: In Brisbane, where the
summer heat sharpens the wits and
clears the intellect, the State Council of
the R.S.S.I.L. adopted new rules of
debate for its Christmas meeting which
should be adopted in every Parliament
and earn an M.B.E. (civil) for the in-
ventor. Speakers were given a five-
minute time limit and fined if they did
not fill it; but the meeting reserved the
right to count them out if bored. For
“ G'day , Dan. ’Appy Noo Year!”
“’ Struth, nineteen-thirty-four already ?”
"Aw, Wake up — nineteen-thirty-five!”
removing the paper hat which added so
much to the beauty of the orators by
obscuring the natural ruggedness of
some and the drought-on-the-plateau
appearance of others, one penny was
levied. Digressions from pertinent sub-
ject matter were met by prompt fines,
and abuse of other speakers, which was
frequent, if good-humored, called for an-
other contribution to kitty. The heavi-
est penalty was scheduled for referring
to the provost-marshal as a gentleman.
But nobody went that far in indiscretion.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Queensland musicians are all of
a-twitter since the announcement that
when 4BR, the new A-class station of
the A.8.C., is opened on January 7 only
Queensland artists, ensembles and
speakers will be on the programme. At
the same time the first programme con-
ference of Commission officials will be
held in Brisbane.
Curramundi, the new home built by
the Governor and Lady Wilson at Dickey
Beach, Caloundra, is “Christmas camp”
for them. A bungalow next door is
occupied by the staff. Caloundra has gone
ahead rapidly since vice-royalty favored
it, and many gay villas have been built,
Mr. and Mrs. James Stevens always
think up something different for their
parties. The final meeting of the Wyralla
Play-reading Circle was held at their
home, and the Stevenses staged a Christ-
mas party, complete with carols. The
guests, numbering about 50, danced the
Sir Roger De Coverley, and hostess and
guests all were in costume, representing
various Dickens characters. A lighted
Christmas-tree and a blazing plum-pud-
ding helped to provide the right atmo-
sphere.
Mrs. Marson is going to England to
join her husband, Rev. W. J. Marson,
a chaplain in the Royal Navy, and prior
to her sailing a group of friends ar-
ranged a farewell supper-dance in her
honor at the Belle Vue. Gladioli and ger-
beras decked the green lounge and
brightened the supper table.
Mrs. Forgan Smith has been in a pri-
vate hospital for a few days. She is
convalescing at Tambourine Mt.
A. E. W. Cunningham, of Strathmore,
Bowen, founder of the Scartwater Trust,
has sent £lOOO to the Townsville sub-
branch of the R.S.S.I.L.A. for the relief
of distress among Diggers. Scartwater
adjoins Mr. Cunningham’s property of
Strathmore, and is run for the benefit
of returned men under his friendly super-
vision.
Kathleen Margaret Fraser and Leo
Plunkett Power had a morning wedding
at St. Sebastian’s, Yeronga. Father Steele,
the bridegroom’s cousin, officiated. Leo
is the seventh son of the late F. I. Power,
of Gympie, who was a member of
Queensland’s now-defunct Upper House.
Ivory sheer, with a corsage spray of pink
and mauve flowers, and a white handbag
to which a matching posy was pinned,
looked very bridal; and a picture hat of
ivory lace provided the finishing touch.
Jess Fraser was the only ’maid, and John
Fleming was best man. A fork luncheon
at the Belle Vue followed the ceremony,
and later on the newly-weds left by car
for Sydney and Canberra.
Nora Holdsworth and T. E. Collins —
he hails from Spring Creek, Cairns —will
be married at the chapel of the C. of E.
Grammar School, East Brisbane, on
January 15. It is to be a quiet wedding,
and the bride has decided on a cream-
and-green ensemble instead of the usual
bridal drapings.
The committee of the Women’s Sec-
tion of the Social Service League enter-
tained the workroom girls at a Christmas
party, and handed each of the 150 girls
a dress length. There were community
singing and cheers for the president,
Mrs. Pease, and for Mrs. Henry Robert-
son, who organised the garden party and
mannequin parade which provided the
necessary for the purchase of the dress
lengths. Here’s hoping that Father
Christmas has 150 jobs in his pack for
the girls, all gallant souls who deserve a
slice of luck.
The King George Fund for Sailors,
London, cabled to the chaplain of the
Seamen’s Institute, Rev. W. Hoog, that
£750 had been set aside for Brisbane,
The committee probably will use the
money to build a recreation-room at
Hamilton, where so many of the big over-
seas ships now tie up.
St. James Cathedral, Townsville, will
hear the Voice when Dorothy Garbutt
marries B. Riley, son of Mr. and Mrs.
H. B. Riley, of Lautoka (Fiji). Mrs. T.
Garbutt, a recent bride, will be matron
of honor, and Nancy Garbutt and Olga
Core, of Charters Towers, are to ’maid,
Thanks to the Queensland Country
Women’s Assoc., the 32 kiddies in the
Wilson Ophthalmic Hostel had a cheery
Christmas party. They come from as
far away as Darwin, Boulia and Thargo-
mindah. There was the inevitable tree,
laden with presents, bon-bons, jazz caps,
balloons and everything. One 11-year-
old lad got the book he has wanted so
badly ever since he has been able to
read again ; but small Barbara Jones,
from Darwin, will have to wait a little
longer before she can have a book. She
won’t be going home until after Santa
pays his visit in 1938.
When it was decided to move the
Crippled Children’s Home from Mon-
trose, given by George Marchant, to
Ardoyne, once occupied by sick Diggers
and used as a repatriation home, the
R.S.S.I.L.A. was offered Montrose as a
home for aged service men. A few days
ago Mr. Marchant presented the deeds
to the League, together with a cheque
for £l5OO. Previously the Diggers had
handed over this amount to the com-
mittee of the Crippled Children’s Home
as repayment of moneys spent on various
improvements. At Montrose this year
George Marchant helped the 60 crippled
kiddies enjoy themselves, and listened to
their songs and recitations. There were
floral baskets from the children for Betty
Brenan, president of the young people s
committee, and Dorothy Corser, the hon.
who arranged the party,
Entries from all the Australian States
an d from Maoriland rolled in for the
literary competition conducted by the
Queensland Musical, Literary and Self-
Ald for the Blind. Harold Dick-
enson > 28 years old, of Indooroopilly,
w °n first prize for the poem and the
e^ a y competitions ,C. R. Allen, Dun-
edin (ML.), was second in the poem,
anc * uery ’ Bl^oe^a > Queensland,
seconcl ln the essay.


fey'
y A
\
N;
> When
a MAN
tells you:
that he is thankful
to Calvert’s Tooth
Powder for a life-
time free from
dental trouble and
for white teeth in
his old age—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth 2
Hk
o*
V- 4
J 0
. Sj VJ V
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
There is a Yuletide flavor about most
parties at this time of the year. The
J. C. Murrays invited hosts of friends
to drink pre-dinner cocktails and ex-
change greetings at the Esplanade Hotel,
after which the Max Rutters served a
buffet supper at their home in Clare-
mont. Mrs. J. R. W. Gardam’s bright
idea was a “Christmas shopping” morn-
ing-tea-drinking at the same hostelry,
the guests dispersing afterwards to con-
tinue their tour of the shops. The S. J.
McGibbons dispensed their well-known
hospitality at sundown at their home in
Bellevue-terrace, and Mrs. John Hicks
poured sherry for women friends on
her shady lawns at' Mt. Lawley.
The Pleiades Club rooms were festive
with holly and multicolored balloons for
the members’ annual Christmas revel.
Palest pink organza cut Victorian-wise
billowed round petite president Margaret
Giles, and Jean Otto (to whose secre-
tarial prowess a tribute was paid during
the proceedings) kept a watchful eye on
things in draperies of scarlet and cream-
spotted georgette. Gwen Bickford pro-
duced a farcical pantomime, and Muriel
Jacobs was responsible for the rest of
the varied programme.
Pauline, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. H. G. Woodroffe, of West Perth,
is wearing a sparkling token on her
fourth finger given her by Frank Ruse.
Another engagement is that of William
Robertson, of Melrose station, Leonora,
to Patricia Ellis, a daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. B. Ellis, of Hamilton, Vic. Yet
another lass to plight her troth in foreign
climes is Claire Luth, whose marriage to
Kenneth Cary Lowe, of Banojarsara,
Java, will take place in Singapore in the
New Year.
End-of-the-year festivities at the Rep.
Club took the form of a four-night'
season of a musical comedy written and
composed by club member Mrs. Winifred
Dickenson. The gate-crashing of the
nouveau riche Blighter family into a
house-party in English hunting circles
provided comic situations a-plenty, and
the long cast received rounds of applause
each night.
Molly Rowe celebrated reaching the
voting age with a dance given by her
parents, the S. H. D. Rowes, of Clare-
mont. Mrs. Rowe was girt with cloudy
black ninons, and Molly sprayed orchids
at the throat of her full-skirted lilac
chiffon pleatings. Masses of hydrangeas
and gladioli made a gay background for
the sweet young things who danced.
A happy idea of Sandover’s Social
Club was the collecting and dressing of
hundreds of dolls for small orphan girls
who otherwise might have petitioned
Father Christmas in vain. Mrs. Alfred
Sandover made the presentations at the
Adelphi to representatives of 13 organisa-
tions, and 200 dolls were dispatched to
outback kiddies via the Australian Inland
Mission.
Newly-fledged lawyer Frankie Wilson
passed handsomely in all subjects at her
recent legal finals at the Uni., threw off
academic cares and joined youthful Aunt
Linley, of dancing fame, for a seven
months’ trip abroad. Linley plans to
study the dances of various European
countries, and will return through the
U.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Mayoral Barretts gave Christmas
parties in the Lady Mayoress’s room at
the Town Hall, the first time they had
entertained in the room since extensive
alterations. The all-white walls make an
effective background for any form of
decoration, and the small pine-trees in
green tubs on either side of the door,
hung with bonbons, gave an effective
Yuletide touch. The outstanding feature
of the frocking among the guests was the
sudden fancy for a large black silk
Glengarry. The tarn beret is becoming
but the Glengarry straight up off the face
is hard. One smart woman in black-
and-white figured silk wore a veil with
her bit of Scotch. Madge Rymill, just re-
turned after two years overseas, was
being welcomed on every side.
Mrs. Edmund Doerr, Margaret Corpe,
of Medindie, that was, who with her
small son has arrived from Germany bn
a visit to relatives, is being given a series
of parties. It is two years since she
accompanied her mother and sisters on
a tour overseas, and met and married
her husband on the Continent. Mrs.
Corpe was hostess at a large party for
her daughter at her home at Medindie,
to give Mrs. Doerr an opportunity for
meeting all her friends. The reception-
rooms were gay with blue-and-white aga-
panthus and pink hydrangeas. There
were about 60 guests.
A cocktail party the same evening was
in the form of an at-home given by the
officers’ mess of the 43rd/48th Battalion
at the Parade Ground. Most of the guests
had been present at the naval and mili-
tary review in the afternoon. The rooms
were decorated with mixed flowers for
which Mrs. Gregory Bruer was respon-
sible. Lieut.-Colonel Murray Motten and
his wife were the host and hostess.
To be adjutant at a big review and
have only just time afterwards to get
into mufti and hie to your wedding was
the experience of John McKinna, who
was married to Betty, only daughter of
Mrs. S. E. Beach, of Millswood, and the
late Lieut.-Col. Beach. The bridegroom
is the son of the Rev. John and Mrs.
McKinna, and his father officiated at
the ceremony at Stow Memorial Church.
Bridegroom’s brother Andrew, also an
officer, arranged a surprise in the form
of a guard of honor waiting outside the
church after the ceremony, and the
newly-weds made exit beneath drawn,
swords. The bride’s lace frock was cut
on princess lines with long tulle veil held
in place by orange-blossom, and she car-
ried a sheaf of Christmas lilies. Brides-
maid Phyllis Leschen was in powder-
blue lace, with a silver halo, and carried
a sheaf of coral-pink gladioli. A cock-
tail party at the residence of the bride’s
mother followed the ceremony.
Vina Barnden, the young Adelaide
pianist, who contracted typhoid fever
on the trip to England, is now convales-
cent and staying at a nursing home
at Newbury, England, after five weeks in
the Royal Hospital. Mrs. Clive Carey,
who has lived in London since her mar-
riage, and has always kept in touch with
Adelaide friends, writes to Miss Barn-
den’s parents by every mail. Lady Dugan
has been keeping the invalid supplied
with fruit and flowers. It has been most
disappointing for the young pianist, as
several influential London hostesses had
arranged for her to play at receptions.
Oenone Adele Mandeville, a smart
Adelaide girl much in demand as a
mannequin, younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. Mandeville, became Mrs.
Gerad McMahon Glynn at St. Law-
rence’s, North Terrace. The bridegroom
is the son of the late Patrick McMahon
Glynn. The bride wore her travelling
dress, an ensemble in beige and tan blister
crepe, patterned with small floral de-
sign, with a matching .Glengarry and
a shoulder spray of flowers. Bridesmaid
Eileen McCarthy was in waltz-blue
blister crepe pleated from neck to hem
and worn with a belt. Her wide-brimmed
hat was tan color, and she carried a
sheaf of blue and autumnal flowers. The
Glynns’ future home is on Boyup Brook,
a property in the south-west.
Mrs. R. A. Haste and Mrs. J. M.
Irwin were lucky in holding their dance
for their young people before parents
became scared, as they are now, about
infantile paralysis. The party was held
at the home of Mrs. Haste at Maylands.
Dancing was in a marquee on the lawn,
set round a cumquat-tree laden with fruit.
Mrs. Haste had decorated the whole
house with flowers, and the wide
verandah was turned into a drink buffet.
Mary Haste and Mrs. Irwin’s daughter
by her previous marriage, Elizabeth
Holden, the two for whom the dance
had been given, both looked charming,
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson’s luncheon
party to farewell Mrs. R. Symons and
welcome home Daisy Vardon, who has
just returned after an extended tour of
China and Japan, was a very bright
affair. The table was decorated with a
huge bowl of roses, with wee Cecil
Brunner roses and pansies in flat bowls
set around. Each guest was presented
with a bunch of the lavender for which
Urrbrae is so famous. There were a
dozen friends present.
The Red Cross Society’s Christmas
luncheon at the Lady Galway Convales-
cent Home at Henley Beach is always
a gala affair. Matron Eddy and Mabel
Marryat brought 26 men by motor from
Keswick Hospital to join the patients
at the Galway Hut. The lunch was a
sumptuous spread of turkey, plum pud-
ding and all Christmas luxuries. Six-
teen V.A.Ds. acted as waitresses. The
huge Christmas cake, annually made by
Dr. F. Burden’s wife, was cut and dis-
tnbuted. After the luncheon Miss
Marryat presented a dark blue blazer
to each man on behalf of the Red Cross
Society.
TASMANIA.
Mrs. Keith Nairn’s morning tea party
for Mary Sharland was given at the
Chaucer, where the tea-tables were gay
with summer blooms chiefly in shades
of pink. Quite a crowd of guests wel-
corned the traveller home again.
Mrs. Courthope and her pretty daugh-
ters broke fresh ground with the manner
of their Christmas party this year. The
whole upper storey of the Prince’s pic-
ture theatre was engaged, and the seats
filled with their guests. At the interval
morning-tea was served in the lounge.
Mr. and Mrs. Lucien Dechaineux
have had word of tae appointment of
Commander Emil Dechaineux to the
Tactical Division of the Admiralty. He
was married last yeai to Mary Har-
bottle, daughter of Mrs. Alan Burn, of
Hobart. ...
Mrs. P. J. Pickering hostessed a
double-barrelled party at her home in
honor of her sister, Mrs. D. W. Gray,
who is here on a visit from South Africa,
The afternoon party was of the hen
variety, but in the evening men shared
the bridge tables.
Bessie Crisp gave a most daintily
arranged morning-tea as a pre-wedding
party to Pat Walch, whose marriage to
Bill Hodgman comes off in a few weeks,
The rainbow effect of the decorations
was carried out in each room of the
Crisp home in Fisher’s-avenue. The
dark-haired little hostess was in pink
linen, and the guest of honor in a grey
tailor-made and blue hat.
Noel Brain’s coming-of-age cocktail
party brought a long list of guests to the
imperial in the late afternoon. The
season was recognised by masses of
Christmas lilies in the decorations,
Noel’s figured navy-and-white frock had
a short bolero to it.
Mrs Francis Onslow is back at her
OW n home in Upper Davey-street after a
long absence in the country. She gave
a lunch party to several friends at
Hadleys to celebrate her return,
Miss Gertrude Adams was a passenger
for England in the Orama. The Lyceum
Club, of which she is a member, gave
her a farewell party just before leaving,
Lady Clark was present, and about 60
members and guests turned up armed
wdd bouquets, verbal and floral,
Phyllis, eldest of the Jack Swan girls,
Lindisfarne, announces her engagement
to G. W. Ramsden, younger son of Dr.
and Mrs. Ramsden, Quamby, Mt. Eliza,
Vic.
CURRENT ART SHOWS.
Prints at Sydney National
Gallery.
A small loan collection of steel engrav-
ings, etchings, lithographs arid drawings
at the N. S. Wales National Gallery is
more interesting to the connoisseur of
old plates than to the average art-lover.
Famous names are scarce. There are a
Goya etching (one of the bullfight
series), a Van Dyck, a Canaletto, and a
Legros, with a few more modern
examples signed by such names as Muir-
head Bone, Augustus John, and Francis
Dodd. A few of Whistler’s lithographs
of Parisian scenes are included, and one
etching by that very excellent architec-
tural draughtsman A. C. Webb.
The strength of the collection, how-
ever, lies in its copper and steel engrav-
ings. There are some beautiful examples
of the most famous plates of Antoine
Masson, Hans Sebald Beham and Johann
Heinrich Roos. These, wrapped in
glazed tissue, look as if they had just
left the press.
Worth study are Masson’s delicate
mastery of line and the more vigorous
technique of Roos, whose “Sleeping
Shepherd,” done about 1670, has immor-
talised a blissful moment.
Some anonymous old plates lent by
Phillip Street recall the pencil technique
industriously instilled into all young
ladies in grandmamma’s day, and some
small —and rare —Differ engravings are
balanced by equally small ones from
Diirer’s modern disciple, Stephen
Gooden.
“Nothing Over Ten Guineas.**
The above pretty good slogan for a
Christmas season art show rules at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Sydney,
where there are 60 pictures on show,
mostly by Australians, but with a couple
of English R.As. thrown in for variety.
The Australian names recommend
themselves — Long, Percy Lindsay,
Garrett, Herbert, Minns, Tristram, Lang-
ker, Fullwood, Commons, Sherman,
Solomon, Proctor, MacNally, Lister, Car-
lyle Jackson —and the names have no
need to be ashamed of the paintings they
are attached to.
“Fuller’s Farm, Lane Cove,” and
“Hulks at Kerosene Bay” are charming
examples of Percy Lindsay’s most en-
gaging vein; Syd Long’s deftest touch
with color illumines his “Afternoon,” and
his “Flamingoes” are a lot more grace-
ful than the flock in the Gallery. The
Fullwoods (Maorilanders, take notice) in-
clude his “Dunedin” and “Auckland.”
Thea Proctor, in “Afternoon, Manly,”
gets the esplanade and the salty breeze
and the after-a-dip feeling into a decora-
tive fragment.
Flowers and still-lifes? See the mas-
terly symphony in blue and yellow that
F. W. Potts makes of “Snapdragons”
and the contrast in Mary Baldry's
crisply-painted “Red and Silver.”
Veteran D. Commons is represented
by a vigorous coastal scene ; Lister Lister
by half a dozen genial, landscapes.
Harold Herbert is at his nicest, and
Lanc6 Solomon, the apostle of greys.
J. W. Tristram, who paints with cob-
webs and moonbeams, and Tom Garrett,
who paints like an engraver and engraves
like a painter, put forward some of their
best work.
As good a dealer’s mixed show as
ever was put on in Sydney, with much of
the stuff underpriced even in the present
bad state of the market.
Picture Pie at the Lodestar.
There is plenty of variety in a small art
show at Sydney’s Lodestar Gallery, where
the work of four very dissimilar artists
has been grouped.
M. J. MacNally, who has ceased to be
obsessed with skies, presents a series of
sparkling, clever water-colors of rural
scenes made at Camden, Cronulla and
suchlike out-of-Sydney hamlets. His
great talent as a colorist finds its best
expression in “St. John’s, Camden/’
Mary Edwards, whose backgrounds are
almost as interesting as the barbaric
heads she portrays so vividly, includes in
her panel of five oils two excellent por-
traits of white folk —“Color and Suntan”
and “In 1937.”
Lloyd Rees, best known by his pencil-
drawings (he has evolved a technique all
his own) shows six studies in oils, all
of which show the same peculiar quality
as his pencil work.
Treania Smith’s six water-colors are
mostly in primary hues, and reduce the
salient facts of rural landscapes to
common denominators.
Nature Catches Up.
An unexpected tribute to Dorrit Black,
whose pictures have been accused of
striving for unnatural effects, comes from
Douglas Welsh, winner of the S.A. travel-
ling art scholarship founded by Adelaide
“News” and “Mail.”
Welsh writes from London (where he
has joined the Byam Shaw school in
Kensington): “In the Straits of Messina,
I saw the exact effect produced by Dorrit
Black in her picture ‘Sicilian Mountains.’
The faithfulness of the painting to the
scene was simply incredible. Several
people to whom I mentioned it agreed
with me —even though disliking the pic-
ture.”


JUDGMENT—
yog SECURITY
in investment is paramount, especially when your capital
is small and cannot be easily spread for safety. That is
why you should investigate FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES. They give you a “spread”
over 20 famous companies, prospects of capital appreciation
plus a yield of over 6% p.a. Sums of approx. £22 and
upwards accepted. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Action to-day will be wise—and profitable. Write for Booklet No. 1
to the Managers: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephope: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY THURSDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every month six to nine
patterns are given away free
for a penny stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
■
I
The
'BOULIA 1
BIG DIP
STOCK
SADDLE
£l4/18/6
(MOUNTED)
Has plenty of dip in
the seat and the pads
are high. It has the
popular short' panel
with leather facings
at back. Built on a
best “Fouright” Tree
and the materials are first-grade
throughout.
N.S.W. Freight paid for Cash with Order.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
PTY., LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
The Long White Cloud
If there is no political alliance between
the Britons and the Americans, there is
a very close understanding in aerial
matters. On Sunday the Pan-American
Samoan Clipper arrived at Auckland
from Honolulu —in a trifle under 31
hours. On Monday Imperial Airways
dispatched the Centaurus from Sydney
to drop down beside the Samoan Clipper
at Auckland before the latter left on the
return voyage with mail. The same close
association was evidenced during the
trial flights across the Atlantic, with the
Irish Free State as a base.
* * * *
“M.”: The record of the Burgess
family in sea boats and sky boats is even
better than “Motu” recounted (B.
22/12/’37). Father Burgess and one
son are both sea skippers in Maoriland
waters, John Burgess is commanding the
Imperial Airways flying-boat Centaurus
on its present survey flight, and another
son, W. W. W. Burgess, is a Wellington
Harbor Board engineer who flies club
machines at Rongotai in his spare time.
There’s still another Burgess who has
done more than his share in developing
Maoriland’s air-sense, but I don’t know
whether he is related to the seafaring
family. This is A. S. Burgess, a Wan-
ganui businessman, who helped to ad-
minister the affairs of the Western
Federated (N. 1.) Flying Club when its
territory stretched from Mokau as far
south as Palmerston North and included
the New Plymouth, Hawera, Wanganui
and Middle Districts Aero Clubs.
* * * *
“Mak”: Maoriland has another pri-
vate interest in the visit and perform-
ances of the Centaurus besides the fact
that Pilot Burgess is homegrown (B.
22/12/’37). The big flying-boat is a
Short Brothers product and assistant test
pilot to Short Brothers is Maorilander
H; L. Piper, who, with C. E. Kay, made
a successful England-Australia flight in
1930. Australians will probably remem-
ber Piper as the very silent member of
that partnership. He hasn’t changed
much. It was only the other day that
Maoriland learned he had been selected
to pilot the slim, speedy seaplane that
straddles a monster flying-boat in what
the aviation world calls the Short Mayo
composite aircraft experiment. The idea
is that the big machine takes the smaller
one on its back to 10,000 ft. to enable it
to begin long flights with much heavier
loads of fuel and mail than it could lift
from the surface. If the mid-air un-
hitching is successful, aviation heads be-
lieve composite aircraft will alter present
ideas of long-distance air transport.
Should there be a mid-air mix-up, Piper
will, of course, do part of the paying ; but
it’s all in the game for a test pilot. He
comes of a well-known Canterbury
family and has done 2600 hours’ flying,
some of it while he held a short-service
commission in the R.A.F., which also
trained Burgess of the Centaurus.
* * * *
“Mako”: Many quite common Maori
names have radio announcers flummoxed
(B. 8/12/’37). I heard a Sydney speci-
men struggling with “mako,” a name
evidently to be locally adopted for fight-
ing-sharks. He pronounced it as the visit-
ing tennis-player apparently pronounces
his, “may-ko,” but there’s no such “a” in
Maori. The shark is “mah-ko.” The
M.L. wineberry and the bell-bird are
both mako mako, with the same “ah.”
* * # *
“Motu”: It promises to be a record
tourist summer for Maoriland. Last
summer two Matson liners were then
laid up by the Western Pacific maritime
strike and many American bookings
were cancelled at Maoriland resorts.
This year a different sort of overseas
bother is having the opposite effect on
tourist figures. Americans, Dutch
travellers from the East Indies and Aus-
tralians who would otherwise have gone
to China and Japan have chosen Maori-
land instead.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Deerstalkers with Maori-
land experience believe that wild sheep
multiply more rapidly than deer, and
“... .and this little piggy Went to market , and this little piggy stayed at home!"
constitute a bigger menace to standing
bush (B. 22/12/’37) over a period of
years. One North Islander, with 40
years’ knowledge of those deer frequent-
ing the mountainous Waikaremoana dis-
trict, declares the herds can only increase
when favorable seasons result in plenty
of the forest foods that the deer enjoy ;
in bad seasons, hunger makes them eat
anything within reach, and that is when
most bush damage occurs. But in these
periods the deer die by the hundred, and
the Bulls man, Major R. A. Wilson,
contends that these periodical decreases
would prevent the herds from becoming
consistent menaces. Any other deer-
stalker with a theory?
* * * *
“Xo”: Laborland’s bachelor Prime
Minister has “smilingly denied” that he
is about to marry. A widow’s name has
been coupled with his by an ungallant
press. “I have met the lady only once,”
Mr. Savage said.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Higher production costs re-
sulting from the Savage Government’s
industrial legislation (B. 15/12/’37)
wrung the complaint from an Auckland
manufacturer some months ago that it
was not only costing him more to make
a higher-priced article, but he was also
losing sales to cheaper Australian im-
ports of similar-quality goods. He men-
tioned overcoats. Recently he receivd
an Australian sales quote for the fin-
ished thing; it was only 3s. 6d. more
than the bare production cost of his
material. Cutting, sewing, lining and
finishing charges had still to be con-
sidered before he could fix the whole-
sale price. So I’ll bet that Tommy White,
the Australian Minister for Customs,
wasn’t exaggerating when he com-
mented that the Wellington trade talks
were “tough going.” Laborland has
higher-pay and shorter-hour principles at
stake, and it’s odds on that local manu-
facturers whose existence has been risked
by difficulties like those encountered by
Auckland’s coatmaker will receive some
sort of protection from trans-Tasman
goods capable of meeting stiff freight
charges and still undercutting the local
article.
* * * *
“Mako”: Maoriland, always on the
lookout for minor industries, has been
advised to go in for the export of small
eels, for which a market is assured in
England and Germany. There is no
lack of eels in M.L., where in the big
rivers they grow to a tremendous size,
but for export small ones are necessary, .
and those from the colder southern rivers
are favored as being most flavorsome.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: For people with an interest
in unusual churches, I’d recommend a
Maoriland walkabout. Of two unique
ones that come first to mind, one is in
the Waiho Gorge down in the Southern
Alps and the other is up the Wanganui
River. Waiho’s St. James Chapel has
an east window of plain plate-glass
looking over dark-green mountain trees
to the gleaming whiteness of the Franz
Josef glacier; its worshippers have
natural beauty for inspiration in place of
the stained-glass creations behind more
orthodox altars. The recently-consecrated
Putiki Maori Memorial Curch up the
Wanganui is quite European until one
gets inside the door; there the native
arts have been blended with more usual
furnishings. Carvers and weavers, work-
ing for years, have used this interior to
tell the whole story of the Maori people.
Although much of the work was done
in distant Maori centres, the craftsmen
worked with the general enthusiasm in-
spired for the project by Maori leader
Apirana Ngata, and the finished church
includes some of the best work of Maori-
land’s leading native artists.
“Puffinus”: A new industry is in pro-
cess of formation for utilising the skins
of Barrier Reef sea-eels in the manufac-
ture of leather suitable for various fancy
goods, including belts, shoes and hand-
bags for feminine wear. For many years
past flash swim-boys have been making
belts for themselves from the skin of the
tesselated reef-eel. It tans into a strong
light leather and resembles an inlaid
linoleum in the durability of its curious
pattern. Anyone who has ever walked
over G.B. reefs at low water will realise
the immensity of the available supply
extending over a variety of species and
patterns of the savage brutes One
species, Rhabdura nacrura, could meet
all demands for the most extraofout-
sizes in belts-a specimen in he Bris-
bane Museum measures 12ft. llin. long,


oiavu iimsvr
p-*®n n w
got
a Better Radio
Now!
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of XOOO
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers ?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
AVestern Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
High Quality T.R.F. Broadcast
Receiver.
This page thinks highly of the tuned
R.F. receiver in certain applications, and
it is interesting to note that in many in-
stances where really good audio quality
is the paramount consideration radio
designers turn to the T.R.F. principle.
Not that superhets with good audio
channels are not possible.
The problem of designing a high-
fidelity receiver is a very difficult one.
The audio amplifier is much more simple
than the radio tuner, the principal diffi-
culties being, firstly, reduction of har-
monic distortion and, secondly, reduction
of sideband attenuation. The second
difficulty is related to the selectivity of
the receiver and introduces a very serious
problem.
The simplest form of quality receiver
is obviously the tuned R.F. type. Many
attempts have been made to produce
fidelity receivers of this type, and satis-
factory results may be obtained with
simple construction. It must be realised,
however, that a receiver of this nature,
although sufficiently sensitive to give good
reception of distant signals, is not selec-
tude enough in some cases to prevent in-
terference between local stations of equal
strength. It may be necessary to use a
wave-trap or preselector in the aerial
circuit. .
A wavetrap is useful for reducing the
strength of an overshadowing local, or
a preselector will sharpen up overall
results considerably, even though it means
an extra control. The application of a
tuned R.F. receiver is limited to locali-
ties where the selectivity problem is not
acute. On the other hand, there are
localities where a receiver of this type
may be employed to give satisfactory re-
ception from local stations, together with
good quality.
From the engineers of A.W. Valve Cos.
in Sydney comes a description of a re-
ceiver which should appeal to listener-
constructors who are concerned only with
the best possible audio quality that can
be obtained from local stations.
Two stages of T.R.F. were decided
upon for this receiver—less than this
number does not provide sufficient selec-
tivity ; more add to cost and necessitate
a four-gang tuning condenser. One ad-
vantage of this type of receiver is that
there should be no whistles on any part
of the band. A difficulty is that the sen-
sitivity and selectivity tend to vary con-
siderably over the band, so that the selec-
tivity on the higher frequencies is not
sufficient for many requirements, and thus
the sensitivity at the low-frequency end
°f tbe ban d is poor. A distinct improve-
ment may be made by using high-im-
pedance primary coils together with a
suitably i,, c ' it co g 1; as in a
number G f the best R.F. coils,
To improve selectivity a high-imped-
ance “reflex detector” was chosen in
preference to a diode detector. The dis-
tortion given by this form of detection
i s very small indeed, and for most pur-
poses may be neglected. A reflex de-
tector is really an ordinary anode bend
detector in which degeneration is applied
to reduce the harmonic distortion. The
degree of degeneration can be controlled
by the arrangement of load in the
cathode or plate circuits. The reflex de-
tector has the advantages of the anode
bend detector in a high input resistance
and the capability of handling a high
grid swing. It cannot be used with
A.V.C. unless this is obtained from an
entirely separate valve,
The tuner uses two 6U7G Radiotrons
in the R.F. stages, and the reflex detector
is a 6J7G. Coils required are one aerial
coil and two standard R.F. coils of the
types mentioned. Details of the receiver
are given in the circuit diagram.
The seven-watt push-pull 2A3 ampli-
fier (B. 21/7/’37) is combined with the
tuner. The audio amplifier is sufficiently
sensitive to operate from a pickup, and
provides sufficient output for a reason-
able margin of power from any loud-
speaker. The quality of the amplifier is
high, and the whole receiver gives such
low distortion that cathode-ray oscillo-
graph checks barely register any indica-
tion.
Construction is simple, and the receiver
should supply the demand for a cheap
local-station receiver. Since there is no
A.V.C. it is necessary to have two
gain controls. The first of these takes
the form of a variable cathode resistor
for the two R.F. stages, and should be
adjusted so that the input to the reflex
detector is sufficiently high to reduce the
distortion without causing overloading.
It should be set according to the strength
of the station, and bears no relation to
the volume provided by the loudspeaker.
A second gain control is in the grid
circuit of the first audio stage, and may
also be used when the amplifier is used
with a pickup. This audio control should
be adjusted to suit the audio level re-
quired from the loudspeaker. A correct
adjustment of the two controls in rela-
tion to each other and to the conditions
of reception will be well repaid. For
readers with existing audio amplifiers, the
tuner outlined can easily be fitted.
V. C.
Amateur Chatter.
It is becoming increasingly evident that
stations cannot operate off frequency and
get away with it. There has been a
noticeable tendency for this practice
during international DX contests, with
some stations operating on extreme band
limits and others actually just outside.
Any operator who thinks he can take a
chance by working only a kilocycle or
two off frequency should take heed of a
communique from the Federal Radio
Commission of U.S.A. There a com-
prehensive monitoring and checking sta-
tion sifts every commercial and experi-
mental frequency utilised in radio com-
munication, and the Radio Inspector’s
Department in Melbourne has received a
complaint of the off-band operation of
a VK2, asking that stricter vigilance be
kept. The VK2 in question may or may
not have been aware of his frequency
difference. It was only a matter of a
kc. or two outside the 14,000-14,400
channel, but it was enough to cause
serious interference with overseas com-
mercial services. It happened during a
DX contest, and the station, a high scorer,
is naturally disqualified.
The evidence of such a
checking authority as the American
F.C.C. is indisputable. Those VKs with
crystals deliberately on the band limits
will do well either to do a little grinding
or, if at the high limit, get another
crystal. The Cairo Conference is in the
offing, and reports such as the one re-
ceived will not help experimental radio.
Very much the reverse. Crystal heating
and other causes can be responsible for
slight off-band operation where the
crystal is on or dangerously close to the
limit, but apart from C.C. stations there
is the self-excited pest minus frequency-
measuring equipment to reckon with.
Recently, a VK spent a whole afternoon
playing records right on top of VJZ
Rabaul, and held up commercial traffic
thereby. Ignorance is no excuse.
The second 56mc. test day, 19 /12/ ’37,
organised with
the object of get-
ting across to
M.L. and to inter-
state and country
locations, again
failed of results
so far as two-way
communication is
concerned, and at
the time of writ-
ing it is unknown
whether any
signals were ob-
served at extreme
distances. The
next test is with
England between
15/1/’3B and
27/1/’38, and keen overseas co-operation
is assured.
Gladesville (N.S.W.) is to have a radio
club, the foundation having been laid by
half a dozen active experimenters in the
district. Prospective members should get
in touch with VK2EW, who is the prime
mover. Radio clubs are invaluable in
affiliation with the W.1.A., and serve a
useful purpose in keeping radio experi-
menters in personal contact in outlying
areas where trips at night into the city
for meetings are inconvenient.
A popular contest during the coming
year will be that for the I.R.E. (Aust.)
trophy. In order to be eligible for entry
participants must send a prescribed mes-
sage to at least 10 different overseas
countries before 24.00 E.A.T. 20/1/’3B).
The message serves a good purpose in
spreading word by amateur radio of next
year’s 150th anniversary celebrations. It
reads, “World radio convention and Aus-
tralian amateur convention to be held
Sydney, April, 1938, convened by Gov-
ernment as part of celebrations associated
with 150th anniversary of Australia. Over-
seas engineers attending. Hope you will
be able to come. Please make known to
other interested people.” Starting on
1/12/’37 this message has been passing
from scores of Australians to all coun-
tries, and by the sound of things there
will be a goodly number of qualified
contestants for the I.R.E. trophy.
VK2NO.
First International 56mc. DX
Contest.
Full particulars are now available of ,
the first organised international five-
metre contest for amateur transmitters
and short-wave listeners. The R.S.G.B.
has taken the lead following on the suc-
cess of the 28mc. contests of 1935 and
1936. If sunspots have anything to do
with long-distance five-metre signals 1938
should be eventful.
The contest, which will commence on
January 1 and conclude on December
31, 1938, will be open to any radio ama-
teur licensed to operate his station in the
56mc. band, and the winner will be the
operator of the station scoring the most
points.
One point is awarded for each con-
tact over a distance between 200 and
1000 miles ; five points between 1001 and
2000 miles ; 10 points between 2001 and
3000 miles ; 15 points between 3001 and
4000 miles; 20 points between 4001 and
5000 miles, and so on, at the rate of five
extra points for each additional 1000
miles or part thereof, all distances to be
calculated by Great Circle.
To count for points, the readability,
strength and tone (both incoming and
outgoing) must be logged, together with
date, time and callsign.
In addition, each contestant is required
to send to the Radio Society of Great
Britain a monthly report of stations
heard and/or worked, together with
notes concerning conditions, power used
for contacts, etc.
The R.S.G.B. will present a trophy to
the winner of the contest, and certifi-
cates of merit will be awarded to the
leading station or stations in each
country.
No entrant may employ interrupted
continuous waves, modulated continuous
waves, telephony or any other form of
modulated carrier for contacts. At the
time of contact both stations must be
operating on 56mc. from their fixed-
station addresses. Only one contact with
a specific station may count for points in
any seven-day period. Entrants must
adhere to the terms of their license.
Entries must be received by the
R. 53 Victoria-street, London,
S. not later than February 28, 1939.
The decision of the council of the
R.S.G.B. is to be final in all matters re-
lating to the contest.
In conjunction with this contest, and
in order to encourage non-transmitting
members to collect and tabulate pheno-
mena relative to the 56mc. band,
R.S.G.B. has decided, provided sufficient
entries are received, to offer a trophy to
the non-transmitter whose log covering
the period January 1 to December 31,
1938, is considered by the council to
contain the most valuable information.
Certificates of merit will be awarded to
those submitting the most valuable in-
formation at the conclusion of the con-
test, irrespective of the number of entries
received. Logs must be received by
R.S.G.B. not later than February 28,
1939.
It should prove the most interesting
contest yet held, and valuable data may
be compiled. This kind of contest is of
much more value to radio science than
the usual free-for-all marathon DX con-
test. It is a path for pioneers to tread.
D.B.K.
Radio Comment.
’‘Don 3”: U.S.A. army experts de-
clare that present military communica-
tion methods have become obsolete be-
cause of the speed of mobile fighting
forces. According to observers at recent
manoeuvres, radio, telephone and mes-
senger communication has not yet ac-
quired the efficiency needed to supply a
commanding officer with necessary in-
formation and to transmit his orders. If
this is the case in a radio-minded force
such as U.S.A.’s, it is a poor lookout
where signallers still struggle along with
antiquated equipment.
* * * *
“D.C.N. Jnr.”: Those old Philips bat-
tery chargers available at the second-
hand stores are useful for owners of
vibrator-powered portable receivers. The
lj-ampere type should prove handy for
the small capacity accumulator supplied
with the portable. It wouldn’t be a bad
idea for manufacturers of vibrator port-
ables to supply an extra in the form of a
small charger where the set-user has 240
volts A.C. available in his home.
* * * *
“Videx”: That something is to be
done about television in Australia seems
evident from a recent statement by
A.W.A. chairman Fisk. Tests have been
conducted on television wave-lengths with
a transmitter operating from the heart of
Sydney, and observations have been made
for a range of approximately 15 miles.
This surely is a very conservative esti-
mate of range for a modem high-
powered ultra-short-wave transmitter,
especially in the six- to seven-metre
spectrum. Amateurs are able to cover
1 much greater distances than this around
Sydney with quite low power on five
metres, and there is a great difference
between direct-ray signal at five and at
seven metres. Where five metres is likely to


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 16 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
The test of time has
proved the consistent re-
liability of Radiotron valves
throughout the world. Be sure
to always . . .
RE-VALVE WITH
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN"
GENERAL ELECTRIC
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
£» ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
be lost in many localities with uni-direc-
tional transmission, seven metres appears
more definitely in screened positions. The
findings of ultra-short-wave experimenters
should be of value to those contemplat-
ing television.
* * * *
“Querex”: Coil switching, as in the
modern American switch mechanism, is
quite satisfactory for dual-wavers, but it
has limitations applied to multi-band cir-
cuits at high frequencies. Such switches
are merely a selector arrangement and
not a short-circuiting type to take care
of dead-end loss in coils. Several Ameri-
can receivers of commercial design use
switches which short out the unused
coils, thereby eliminating dead-spots in
oscillator tuning (or regenerative de-
tector). Such switches haven’t been seen
in Australia yet, and there is room for
them. Better still is the rotating coil
turret, which can be produced in quite
compact form. An English production
covering 4.5 to 90 metres sells there at
15s. 6d. It is of excellent engineering
design, with ceramic insulation. The
effect of such a coil-changing device is
literally to take out and throw away the
coils not in circuit at the time. It is
really a mechanical adaptation of plug-in
coils, and there is no trouble from ab-
sorption between coils (as must be the
case with a number of coils with one end
earthed), no “dead-ending,” and the un-
used coils close to the one in circuit.
What's What in Radio.
A new short-wave station on 24.52
metres is TFJ Reykjavik, Iceland.
Operation is on Sundays only, starting at
18.30 G.M.T. and the programme, in-
tended for British listeners, includes a
concert of Icelandic music and a descrip-
tive talk.
* * * *
An Italian musician has introduced a
n,ew international language which it is
hoped will overcome all linguistic diffi-
culties in short-wave broadcasting. It is
called Spatari, after the originator, and
is founded on the notes of the tonic
sol-fa scale, which are pronounced the
same way all over the world. A dic-
tionary, or code book, was compiled giv-
ing meanings to combinations of notes.
The idea is that listeners shall have a
dictionary for their own language. An-
nouncers would speak the Spatari words,
giving the . name of the station, particu-
lars and news items. The listener, it is
assumed, would have no trouble in iden-
tifying the station. Copies of the code
have been sent to many short-wave broad-
casting stations, and tests are now being
run in New York by WBNX and WCMA.
* * * *
On the Belfast-Stranraer ultra-short-
wave radio link between Ireland and
Scotland, opened recently, a record is es-
tablished in multiplex telephony by send-
ing nine messages simultaneously on a
single carrier. The system employs a
carrier frequency of 76mc. in one direc-
tion and 83mc. in the other. The nine
telephone channels employ individual
carriers between 150 kc. and 300 kc., and
all these carriers, together with their side-
bands, are used to modulate the trans-
mitter. The signal is amplified and recti-
fied at the receiving end, and the indi-
vidual channels are selected by suitable
circuits.
Experimental Operators'
Handbook.
To cater for the increasing demand for
information on experimental wireless
licenses, the P.M.G. has issued a Hand-
book for the Guidance of Operators of
Experimental Wireless Stations, obtain-
able in Sydney from the Radio Inspector’s
Department, Haymarket P. 0., Is.
In addition to preliminary information
on the requirements for a license, condi-
tions of operation and regulations are
quoted. The international Q abbrevia-
tions are given, with general operating
procedure. The handbook is useful not
only to the prospective experimental
operator, but to the licensee. It should
be kept on every operating table as a re-
minder of what may or may not be done
on experimental radio channels.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
Philips 6604 Radioplayer.
This six-valve dual-wave superhet by
Philips is a 240-volt A.C. job for use in
suburbs and country towns where such
supply is available ; it covers the broad-
cast band and from 16.5 to 51 metres
on short waves.
Chassis specifications show the valve
combination: AK2 octode as frequency
converter; AF3 R.F. pentode as inter-
mediate amplifier at 472.5 kc.; AB2
diode as A.V.C. and second detector;
ABCI triode as first audio ; AL2 pen-
tode as power amplifier, and EMI
cathode-ray tuning indicator. The recti-
fier is an AZ3, indirectly heated. Dial
lamps are of six-volt rating and are three-
watt auto lamps with single contact.
The cabinet is designed with a slight
slope to the control board, and is just
about right for armchair operation. The
now familiar Philips Twilight dial is
fitted, roomy, legible and smooth in
action. The dial operating knob is com-
bined with the wave-change switch im-
mediately underneath the dial. It takes
care of short waves, broadcast and
gramophone pickup, for which terminals
are provided at the rear of the chassis.
There are two other controls only, volume
and tone.
Nothing much in the way of an aerial
is needed on either band, and the full
volume level obtainable is more than
ample for the average home requirement.
Reproduction is excellent, and at 27
guineas the purchaser gets good value.
D. B. K.
Service Notes.
When servicing a super, the “stage-
by-stage” check is invaluable. In a
recent job the valves, speaker and trans-
former were O.K. The grid of the
triode in the 2A6 second det. showed
signs of liveliness. So did the I.F. grid
when touched. The volume control (in
the a.v.c. line) also was all right. Finally
the set was found in order from the out-
put of the pentagrid onwards, but oscil-
lation was quite absent.
Further testing showed excessive volt-
ages on all electrodes of the pentagrid
converter except the plate. When a
milliammeter was inserted in series with
the cathode of this tube it was found
that no current whatever was flowing;
cause, an open cathode resistor! With
the elements of the valve drawing no
current series-feed resistors naturally
gave no drop, hence the high voltage
readings which gave the first clue.
Some dynamic speakers may be found
to have slight “dithers” due to ageing
and climatic effects sending the cone
assembly out of centre. If the trouble
is not serious or is only noticed at high
sound levels the serviceman might be
tempted to dodge an awkward job and
let it go. It is best to tackle the trouble
as soon as possible since, if allowed to
go unchecked, the fault may grow worse
and (in extreme cases) the voice coil un-
wind itself in the air gap. I struck such
a case, and the replacement of the entire
cone assembly was necessary. Tackled in
its early stages the job would have
merely called for recentring.
A severe hum with the characteristics
of the supply frequency (as distinct from
the full-wave rectified ripple of double
frequency) may be caused by a centre
tap resistor coming adrift from the
power-valve socket where the output
valve is of the directly-heated type. If
one side only comes away the receiver
will still work, but with a pronounced
hum ; if both sides break and the c.t.
resistor is the only connection between
filament and B negative (as is usually the
case) the output stage will go dead.
Apropos c.t. resistors I wonder if any
manufacturer has ever considered pro-
ducing a line of valve sockets embody-
ing “built-in” filament resistors. The
extra bulk should not be great, and the
saving of time and space to the con-
structor, experimenter or serviceman
should be enormous.
R. H. A.
The Lathe in the Workshop.
Small machine tools are an important
part of the home workshop, particularly
where radio construction is the first con-
sideration. A prominent U.S.A. manu-
facturer, the South Bend Lathe Works,
of South Bend, Indiana, has sent to this
page a copy of How to Run a Lathe.
This, the 33rd edition, is a 160-page
volume containing -more than 300 illus-
trations. It is a handy reference, giving
tables of cutting speeds of metals, appli-
cation of lathe tools, cutting screw
threads, metric screw threads, taper turn-
ing and boring, application and types of
drives, shop hints, short cuts, etc. It is
a book intended for those more or less
unacquainted with the use of metal-
working equipment, and is just the thing
for those intending to include a lathe in
the radio workshop. Obtainable from
Anthony Hordern and Sons; 2s. 6d.
Radio Pipe-locater.
Invented by Dr. Gerhart Fisher, of
U.S.A., a new instrument, known as the
M-scope, has proved successful in locat-
ing and mapping gas distribution lines.
It consists of two radio units —a trans-
mitter sending out a continuous buzzing
signal and a receiver for checking. If a
metal object, even deeply buried, lies
between the units, the volume of the
signal increases on the headphones. A
meter, too, gives visual indication.
In using the M-Scope for tracing an
underground pipeline, the transmitter is
placed on the ground directly above it,
and the operator, carrying the receiver,
follows the path along which the sus-
tained signals are received. Additional
metal will give sudden increases in the
signals, indicating valves or pipe junc-
tions just below. Decreases show that
the line has turned aside or ended.
Energy for both units is supplied by
standard dry cells which last several
months in service. The units weigh
about 81b. each.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
Otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1)7 want to buy a broadcast receiver. Is
any advantage likely to be gained by waiting
for a 1938 model? (2) Do you advise a dual-
or all-wave set in preference to the ordinary
broadcast type ? (3) Do dual- or all-wave sets
provide additional entertainment value without
an excess of static noises? —620.
(1) No advantage in waiting. The 1938
models will have no radical changes, but there
will naturally be luxury improvements. (2)
and (3) Yes. The modern receiver in dual-
or all-wave form is a totally different proposi-
tion to early-day short-wave sets. Difference
in cost over the ordinary broadcast type is not
very much, and the entertainment value of
short waves to-day is high. A dual-wave re-
ceiver is worth the extra money for the sake
of the Empire station alone.
* * * *
Question No. 616 (B. 8 /12/’37) asked where
the phase-splitting system of audio amplification
was first developed. Reply was that it first
appeared in “Electronics” (U.S.A.), May, 1933.
Technical editor A. G. Hull, of “Wireless
Weekly,” Sydney, was probably the first to give
practical details of the system as applied to
modern valves in modern circuits in Australia
in April, 1933. Later, a North Coast (N.S.W.)
radio experimenter showed Australian patents
covering the idea as applied to a 24-type valve
as first audio amplifier. These patents were
dated about 1929 or 1930. Another interesting
circuit came to light, also showing the same
idea, in a Crosley (U.S.A.) commercial receiver
circuit of about 1931. Whilst the scheme prob-
ably originated in U.S.A. it appears that the
true origin is much deeper in history than the
“Electronics” of May, 1933. It is safe to
assume that the application in Australia was
primarily responsible for the widespread popu-
larity of the scheme.


MTS
LYS
PROOF
muum •••■»*
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Sheep on Improved Pastures.
“Hortus”: Experiments at Merryville,
Yass (N.S.W.), give the lie to the idea
that the production of fine and superfine
wools on improved pasture is impossible.
Fine-wool merinos were maintained on
sub. clover for 12 months at rate of
three sheep per acre. They made aver-
age weight gains of 41.091 b. per head,
and 11.121 b. of wool per head was cut.
Similar sheep on natural pasture—one
sheep per acre —made average weight
gains of 21.011 b. per head. They cut
8.921 b. wool each.
The wool grown by the improved-
pasture group gave as high a clean-
scoured yield as that on the other and
was 0.30 in. longer. There was no ap-
preciable difference in color and handle
between the two wools.
Microscopic examination of wool
fibre of the younger sheep showed no
tendency to become stronger. If any-
thing, it was slightly finer. On the other
hand, the natural-pasture wool showed
a marked fining" from tip to base.
Two drenches were given in summer
and autumn. As a result of these, the
improved-pasture sheep showed a much
lighter degree of infestation for the four
winter months.
Care of Tools.
“Doitnow”: All tool experts should
be able to shear.
A good shearer usually uses one comb
and two or three cutters per run, if
properly ground; whereas a learner will
probably use two combs and six or seven
cutters.
In grinding, use only the best car-
borundum cloth from fresh stock (paper
emery doesn’t pay), and as soon as it
fails to give the tools a keen edge with
a quick grind replace it. This avoids
burning, saves time and produces better
work generally on the board.
Be careful to grind the cutters evenly,
testing your work with a pair of callipers.
Put more pressure on the inside edge
(which is the slow part of disk) than on
the fast outside edge. Many lose sight
of this important fact.
Laps last longer if allowed to dry out
thoroughly for a day prior to using.
Use glue sparingly but sufficiently;
thin with a little water if necessary, and
never leave laps in the press overnight—
they sweat.
Tools can be quickly cooled by hold-
ing near the edge of the revolving disk.
Laps can be freshened when dull by
dragging the points of an old comb, with
the rake tooth ground off, smartly across
the disk horizontally when in motion.
This can only be done twice at most
before a change,
Footrot.
“Corriedale”: Most graziers fail in
controlling footrot because they don’t
recognise the disease as highly con-
tagious.
There is still a lot to learn about foot-
rot organism, but the technique of con-
trol is well established. Th© organisms
are carried from season to season in
badly-affected sheep. Small lesions, only
to be found on close, inspection, and then
usually only on the sole and spaces be-
tween the toes after some preliminary
paring, harbor the germs over the
summer. These lesions do not grow
during the period of dry pasture because
the horn cuticle dries out and is too hard.
But in the autumn the germs rapidly
invade chronic feet and fall in large
numbers over the pasture. Other sheep
collect them, become infected, but often
do not show it until next spring, as a
partial drying out of pastures during
winter arrests progress. Thus the usual
mild autumn incidence, comparative
absence in winter, and heavy spring
damage.
Footrot germs do not live more than
a few days on the dampest and warmest
“Wot about doin' y'r choppin' a bit farther away? One o' them chips
nearly 'it me!"
grass. If the sheep that carry them from
season to season are cured, there can be
no footrot.
Every animal must be examined (on
its back, too) as soon as feed dries off
in the spring. A hoof under inspection
should be pared right back, and every
sheep on the property run through for-
malin or bluestone foot-baths. This is
tedious but worth while.
And quarantine any flock in which the
disease breaks out to prevent its spread
to clean animals.
Border Leicester v. Southdown.
“Hornsby”: Of 6181 fat lambs, all
from first-cross and comeback ewes, sent
from Rutherglen (Vic.) for slaughter in
eight drafts, 5774 were by Border
Leicester rams.
The drafts averaged 43.221b., 42.661b.,
42.181b., 42.21b., 40.681b., 39.241b., 38.51b.
and 361b. The 5774 B.L.-cross lambs
averaged 40.11b. Their skins sold for
top draft 6s. averaging ss. 7£d. the
lot.
The B.Ls. for weight, quality and skins
were a record for the works.
The 407 by Southdown rams, out of-
the same class of ewes, averaged 35.91 b.
Their skins averaged 4s. Id.
All the lambs were sold by weight, and
skins by tender. The Southdowns were
splendid quality. For weight and skins
they did not come up to B.L. standard.
The B.L. average was £1 ss. 4d. net,
whereas Southdowns registered only
£1 Is. 3d. net.
The best entry in all-Australian export
lamb competitions (London) was from
Darling Downs (Q.). Lambs were sired
by Southdown rams. These, reared by
F. Prentice, were favorably commented
upon. Prentice has done well with his
fat lambs. At last Brisbane Show, he
Secured first and second in carcass sec-
tion. For a pen of export lambs, first
and second came his way also.
He uses only Southdowns, and turns
off prime suckers nearly all the year
round at about 13 weeks old, averaging
about 301 b. dressed weight.
Locality, feed and method, of course,
have a good deal to do with success.
Fire Brands.
“Beefo”: Cattlemen are not alone to
blame for hide export trade losses
through excessive and foolish branding
(B. 15/12/’37). Owners brand stock as
a means of identification, knowing that
some lightly-branded hides lose their
identity when offered for sale. They
know also that butchers value the beef
and its quality on a beast and pay no
heed to how the animal has been
branded.
For years past,, the Master Tanners
have complained about the damage done
through fire brands. If it was made
compulsory to transfer , brands from ribs,
loin and rump to the neck, low down-on
the shoulder and the thigh, identity
would still be assured, and complaints
about mutilated hides would be reduced
to a minimum.
It’s up to the various State Agricul-
tural Departments.
The Meat Business.
“Zedo”: Great changes have been
worked in the lamb and mutton business
during the past few years. World ex-
ports have shrunk considerably, and last
year were at the lowest level since 1929.
About 95 p.c. of all the trade goes to
the United Kingdom, and since 1930 the
Dominions’ quota has increased from 64
p.c. to 80 p.c. of the whole.
The position is peculiar, seeing that
British production of mutton has de-
clined substantially in the last four years
and that consumption was in 1936 only
301 b. per head against 331 b. in 1933. The
explanation seems to be that Britons are
inclined to eat more beef, of which both
internal production and import quotas
have increased by comparison with six
or seven years ago, though the per-head
consumption stands at the 1926 level of
701 b. per head.
Pig meat has become less popular in
the U.K. —in 1936, 5,000,000 cwt. less
ham and pork was imported than in
1932. Half the imported pig meat con-
sumed in Britain comes from Denmark,
but the Dominions have made great pro-
gress in the business. In 1932 their pro-
portion was 5 p.c. In 1936 it was 26 p.c.
Britain is doing quite a little pig-rais-
ing herself. The average, of her produc-
tion from 1930-35 was 40 p.c. of her
consumption, but last year her output
equalled more than half her needs—only
441 b. per head, or 61b. per head less than
in 1932.
There is still room for expansion of
Australian trade in all lines if growers
will study the British market and pro-
duce what Britons require.
Johne’s Disease.
“Korero”; The Maoriland Agricul-
tural Department has issued a useful
illustrated bulletin on Johne’s disease, a
slow intestinal inflammation which
affects cattle mostly, sheep sometimes
and occasionally goats. It is, mainly, a
disease of hard-working cows continu-
ally breeding and in milk, and does not
affect beef cattle nearly so commonly.
The disease is a near relative of tuber-
culosis. Its first symptoms are severe
loss of flesh • and a harsh, staring coat,
usually developing in times when feed
is good and all general conditions should
make for health. Then comes scouring,
often followed by an apparent recovery.
Scouring returns, and the animal becomes
a walking skeleton. Occasionally there
are accessory symptoms such as swelling
under the jaw and on the throat. The
animal almost invariably continues to
eat without any effect on the wasting of
her tissues.
By the time symptoms appear, the
animal has been carrying the disease
through an incubation period of 18
months, so that it is rare for cows under
two years old to show signs of the
scourge.
A cure has yet to be found, and once
animals definitely contract Johne’s it is
better to destroy them at once to prevent
the danger of bthers being • infected.
Scouring spreads the microbes over pas-
tures, and they are difficult to get rid of,
especially on low-lying, damp land.
Paddocks on which stricken cows have
pastured should be chain-harrowed or
dressed with burnt lime.
Much of the disease is carried by appar-
ently healthy cattle sold from one herd
to another. An injection test is used in
Maoriland on cattle moving from defi-
nite areas, but it is not 100 p.c. reliable.
Reactors are slaughtered at Dominion
expense.


COULD NOT LIFT ARMS
ABOVE HEAD
Suffered Agonies with
Rheumatism
This woman was practically crippled with
agonising rheumatism in her back, arms and
legs. For two months she endured this pain-
ful condition, then, like many another suf-
ferer, she decided to try Kruschen Salts. Read
her letter: —
“About fifteen months ago I had rheumatism
in my arms, back and legs. The pain in my
arms and legs after getting warm in bed were
excruciating, especially in my arms. Also, after
sitting for any length of time, I had to make
several tries before I could get up. I was
like that for two months, and could not reach
above my head. I read so much about
Kruschen Salts that I thought I would try
them. I am so glad to say that for more than
a year I have not had the slightest return of
my rheumatism.” —(Mrs.) H.E.
Do you realise what causes rheumatism?
Nothing but sharp-edged uric-acid crystals
which form as the result of sluggish eliminating
organs. Kruschen Salts can always be
counted upon to clear those painful crystals
from the system.
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
Q
&
K
Captain William Dampier, R,i\-
William Dampier, buccaneer, explorer, author and naval
officer, was the first English explorer to reach Australian
shores. In 1688 he visited the.north west coast of New
Holland, as Australia was then known, in the pirate ship,
“Cygnet”. c
Returning to England, Dampier published his “Voyage
around the Terrestial Globe!” Under the patronage; of
Charles Montague (afterwards Earl of Halifax) he secured
the Admiralty’s approval to explore the unknown southern
and eastern coasts of New Holland.
As a Captain of the Royal Navy he sailed from England
in January, 1699, in H.M.S; “Roebuck,” 290 tons, but
failed to carry out the object of his voyage. He landed at
Shark Bay, Western Australia, in August, 1699, but after
five weeks’ cruising off the west coast commenced his return
journey. His ship sprang a leak and was lost at the Island
of Ascension, in February, 1700. He died in England
fifteen years later.
The Bank of New South Wales, the first Bank in Australia,
presents this short sketch of Dampier s connection with
Australian exploration in view of the approaching 150th
Anniversary of Australia .
E 8
E-V
306 F. 1937
% ■
7■: " ■ '
■■■
4
-
fi
gg|
I
n« a*
' r t
A
si*
• w
i’> ..
• s
f|. ' j
4. *4
•jt
**.. ..T 6 ***
■
Brilliant gem of the South
ern Seas made even more
scintillating by glorious
pageantry, merry carnival,
gala sporting events, in cele-
bration of a Nation’s 150th
Birthday
PAGEANTRY, CARNIVAL, SPORT. Whaieve, your tastes and inclinations
may be, you will find in the round of attractions something to interest, to amuse,
to enthral you—the brilliant spectacle of pageantry on land and sea —the gaiety
of carnival—the excitement of closely contested sport —the quiet reflective joy
of historical, industrial and artistic exhibitions.
Write for full details to the
Organising Secretary,
Commonwealth Bank Bldg.,
Martin Place, Sydney.
The attractions include—Venetian
Carnival on Sydney Harbour,
Surf Carnivals, March to Nation
hood Pageant, Royal Show, Em
pire Games, World’s Largest Rifle
Shoot, International Lawn Ten-
nis, Gala Race Meetings, Big
Game Fishing, Big Cricket,
Bowls Carnival, City of Sydney
Eisteddfod, and the most mag-
nificent scheme of municipal
decorations and illuminations
ever planned.
■Rn
Australia’s 150 th
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS
SYDNEY - JANUARY 26 - APRIL 25 - 193 8
We Could Use More Milk Products.
“Mookau”: L. T. Mclnnes, a N. S.
Wales dairy expert, points out that Aus-
tralian consumption of milk products is
below that of many other countries. In
M.L., butter usage is 401 b. per head ; in
Australia, only 301 b. per head. To reach
the Maoriland figure would mean an
increase in milk consumption from
600,000,000 gallons to 1,000,000,000
gallons.
Of all Australian milk, only 14 p.c.
is consumed in natural form and 80 p.c.
is turned into butter, of which 70 p.c. is
exported.
Mclnnes thinks that by improving milk
supply methods in country towns usage
could be doubled, and says that whole
milk at Is. per gallon is worth double
the butter price paid to farmers for
factory milk.
There are other avenues of expansion
which he did not mention. Some inland
districts scarcely see milk or butter and
have no facilities for either securing them
or preserving them. There is plenty of room
for the development of cheap long-dis-
tance carriage of dairy products into in-
terior sheep districts, as there is also for
the expansion of the sale of cheese, which
is less used by Australians than by any
other people of British race.
One reason is the standardisation of
cheeses. In Britain, visitors are aston-
ished at the quantities and varieties of
appetising farm cheeses; almost every
district has its own. But Australia still
imports specialised cheeses from M.L.
and pays big prices for them while the
local cheese industry languishes.
Another Great Illawarra.
“Hortus”: Plashett Pearlie VII., an
A.I.S. cow from Jerry’s, Plains (N.S.W.),
has produced 23,2131 b. milk, with an av.
test of 4.5 p.c., and 1056.561 b. butterfat,
equal to 12721 b. commercial butter, in
273 days. In 1936 she completed an
official test of 365 days and produced
1039J1b. com. butter.
Pearlie VII. is paddock-sister to an-
other winner, Plashett Gertie VII. The
latter produced 20,9221 b. milk, 4.5 test,
and 932.621 b. butterfat, equal to 11231 b.
com. butter, in 273 days.
There has been one other cow in Aus-
tralia that has produced 10001 b. or more
butterfat in 273 days—Melba XV. of
Darbalara.
There IS a Way.
“Nabawa”: That gentleman who found
the whole N.S.W. north-west “devastated”
(B. 15/12/’37) is the type that probably
believed a Sydney daily’s wild story of
’hoppers on a 300-mile front, 200 miles
fS’ o£ e S, chewins up every,hins in
Early in 1934 Harold Bartlett, of
Parkes, warned the State of a ’hopper
plague the following spring. His plan,
published on the M.O.L. page at the
time, was for a concerted attack, using
poisoned bran bait, by organised parties
wherever young ’hoppers appeared. Little
notice was taken of him, except by a
few who adopted the plan for themselves.
The spring of 1934 saw N.S.W.’s worst
grasshopper plague, a much worse one
than tbi« vpar’<t outbreak
than this year s outoreaic. _
After that there was a conference
P.P. Board delegates, entomologists and
others, and the Bartlett plan was put for-
ward as the only means of control. There
was a howl of oppositon, and, though
3 Noxious Inserts Art was nassed it
a Noxious Insects Act was passed, it
was honored chiefly in the breach. .
Bartlett said that unless the campaign
was organised under a single authority
it could not be more than partially sue-
cessful. P.P. Boards, though empowered
x t r a .u
to levy funds for the purpose, acted half-
heartedly.
By the time of this year’s outbreak,
many individual farmers had been con-
vinced that poison bran bait was the only
method of stopping the pest.
T „ , 5 , „ .. XT c ~r
In a recent tour of the entire N.S.W.
wheat belt I lound scores of men Who
{Continued on page 44.)


4038.
Here’s a boot that will
keep pace with you
No matter how
hard you work
27/6
There’s strength in every line of this Abbey Riding Boot. It’s made to
stand the strain of hard, solid wear without losing shape or comfort.
Its uppers are made from high-grade Black or Brown Calf Skin, and it
has leather lining throughout.
Price: Black or Brown, 27/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe."
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
COMMUNICATIONS
Thousands of miles away in the towns and the
outlying parts of the Mandated Territory of
Papua and New Guinea, wireless is playing a
vital part in the development of communi*
cations.
Of recent years, Amalgamated Wireless has
erected new high-powered stations at Rabaul
and Port Moresby to serve the growing com-
munication needs of the Pacific Islands.
To-day the wireless telegraphic facilities
available to island residents enable them to
communicate with Australia and, via Aus-
tralia, with overseas countries; with ships at
sea; with outlying parts of Papua and New
Guinea; and also with Fiji and other islands
of the Pacific. Further, residents may, from
Rabaul, speak over the wireless telephone
with anyone in Australia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRAIASIA) LTD
■Outtialia j AJation&l \A/itelesi Ot<j<Lniia.ti<yn
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ffie'fy'ctlletz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
declared that, had it not been for the
bait, their pastures and crops would have
been ruined.
Thousands of tons of bran were used.
Certainly far too many grazing paddocks
were cleaned out by swarms, but to say
that the north-west was “devastated” is
ridiculous; little, if any, wheat was
damaged.
All that the Bartlett plan needs is a
Government ready to enforce its own
Act despite the bellyaching of a few big
grazing interests. The Bulletin has
already told how a single authority, with
power to co-opt everybody, wiped out
a locust plague in Sinai by the same plan.
Ball Smut in Wheat.
“Hortus”: Dry copper carbonate
pickles give better yields than formalin
and bluestone, and the seed can be
treated some time before sowing without
detriment to germination.
In 1935 anew mercury dry-pickling
powder—Ceresan—was tried out. This
year two additional mercury powders are
being tested —Agrosan G. and Agrosan
R.D.
They are more effective in controlling
ball smut than even the dry copper com-
pounds. Less mercury per bushel is re-
quired, and this offsets the higher cost.
Seed pickled with mercury is cleaner
to handle and runs more freely through
the drill.
But don’t take any risks —2oz. to the
bushel is a fair measure.
801 l Worms Active.
'"Archer”: The cotton boll worm is
active in Central Queensland, and the
Agricultural Department is experiment-
ing with a view to finding an all-round
destroyer.
Lime arsenate and lead arsenate are
being tried out for dusting, with and
without adulterants, and also a mixture
of Paris green and lime arsenate. Swab-
bing to deal with swarms of larvae has
not been successful with a mixture of
lgal. molasses and lgal. water impreg-
nated with lib. lead arsenate, applied to
bush tips with a brush.
Treatment produced increases in out-
put of from 61b. to over 1731 b. per acre,
but cost of materials alone ranged as
high as £1 13s. The lead arsenate and
lime and lead arsenate and sulphur gave
the best returns, but were scarcely pay-
able.
On the whole, the boll worm seems to
have the upper hand.
Still Another “Menace.”
“Dekko”: Still another “menace” is
included in the N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department’s list, which is now so long
that farmers almost need an accounting
branch to keep check of their enemies.
To skeleton weed, the burrs, grass-
hopper, thistles, St. John’s wort, prickly-
pear and others, Johnson grass has been
added. It appears that it has spread to
an “alarming extent” on the rich lucerne
lands of the Lachlan and is doing great
damage around Grafton and Tamworth,
where it is a suspected sheep poisoner
as well as a lucerne destroyer.
It is being carried far afield from its
original haunts by floods, and it seeds
quickly on flat country ; it is tough and
resistant to adverse conditions.
The treatment suggested is to cut
before seeding, which is now imminent,
and to follow with sodium chlorate
dressings. But if the grass were rooted
out whenever it appeared on the high
waters of rivers or along river banks —
a comparatively light job—there would
be no need for chemicals.
Tank-sinking Hints.
“Agamemnon”: The sides of the tank
must be pegged out at right angles or
the full capacity will be lost. Scoop
loads should be dumped away from the
tank so that the bottom clay will be left
lining the walls of the embankment.
Batter should not exceed one in three,
otherwise weak stock are likely to get
bogged. Any deviation of the batter
from the straight line will lower the
capacity of the tank, and sudden drops
in the contour will cause drowning
among stock when the vyater gets low.
, Trees should not be left too near the
tank, as they are heavy drinkers and are
liable to foul the tank. A windbreak a
few chains distance will, however, reduce
evaporation considerably.
When sinking on hilly country a
trench dug down to the clay, then filled
with clay from the tank, will do much
to reduce seepage on the downhill side.
A syphon running into troughs is often
very effective on such tanks but requires
constant attention.
Silt tanks are only necessary in large
tanks on easily eroded country.
Tomato Mite.
“Pota”: Symptoms of tomato mite are
a curling droop of the lower and a silvery
appearance of the upper leaves some time
before the early fruit matures. The hair
disappears from leaves and stems, which
later turn brown ; the skin of the fruit
roughens and dies out. Eventually the
plant loses nearly all its leaves.
Summer and autumn crops are usu-
ally attacked worst. For crops due to
be picked in January treatment should
be given at once. For those planted out
in January and February, the N.S.W.
Agricultural Dept, recommends seedbed
treatment with a spray of 1 in 100 lime
sulphur—l pint to \2\ gallons water —or
with a dust of fine sulphur and de-
hydrated lime in equal proportions. The
dose should be repeated a week after
transplanting.
Hints for the Farm.
“H.”: Don’t feed seeds with a high
oil content — e.g., peanuts—to bacon pigs.
Feed medium-oil-content seeds, e.g.,
seed cakes and meals (linseed and cotton-
seed), in moderation and discontinue at
least one month before slaughter. If
given to excess, soft, oily carcasses result.
Low oil-content seed cakes and meals
may be fed with perfect safety.
“Chuck”: Always ask for heavy-
weight clipped oats for poultry feed.
Whole oats vary in weight from 201 b.
to 501 b. to bushel.
“Hortus”: The best method to check
brown-rot fungus in plums is to spray
with lime sulphur (1 in 80). Use pre-
cipitated sulphur (81b. to 80gal. water)
for apricots, as there is less risk of fruit
dropping off.
“Sandy”: To remove a rusty nut im-
merse the bolt in sour skim milk curds
for about a week. The nut comes off
easily and will shine like anew pin.
“A.Y.”: Cow manure (B. 8/12/’37)
can be put on green. Philips, of Moorool-
bark (S. Vic.), housed his cows in the
winter and spread the droppings on his
pasture every morning. His night pad-
dock became a landmark for miles
around. And his cows tested higher.
“Mulgo”: A handy vehicle for the
farm is a home-made trolley with wooden
axles and wooden wheels, sawn off a log.
It is easier for a horse to pull than a slide,
and saves the heavy lifting in loading a
cart or dray. In hilly country a pair of
shafts are necessary, but these can be
cut from saplings.
“W.D.Mc.”: Petrol-drums no use for
pickling wheat (B. 8/12/’37)? Take
21b. or 31b. of bitumen or pitch, heat it,
paint the inside of the tin and it will last
for years. Painting the inside with thin
cement wash has the same results. •
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What were the number of birds and their
laying figures in the Hawkesbury ( N.S.W .) Col-
lege egg-laying competition for 1936-37 ? (2)
The averages of breeds and the value per head
of the eggs? —Sßoss.
(1) 540 hens were penned. The monthly
laying figures were: 1936 —April 7803, May
9148, June 8674, July 9702, August 10,928,
September 11,361, October 11,261, November
10,041, December 9654. 1937—January 8437,
February 7583, March 3710. Total, 108,302.
(2) The averages were:—.
Number Eggs Weight of Value
of Per Eggs Per Per
Birds. Breed. Hen. Dozen. Hen.
300 White Leghorns 202.1 25.60 z. 18/11
186 Australorps 200.3 25.20 z. 19/
24 R.I. Reds 182.3 .25.60 z. 16/11
30 Langshans 201.3 25.20 z. 19/1
* * * *
Have there ever been any instances of
Lotus major—water lucerne —poisoning cattle ?
—SBOI2.
No cases of prussic-acid poisoning due to
Lotus major have come under the notice of the
Q’land Agricultural Dept., and the plant is
rarely used there. A closely-related species—
Lotus corniculatus —has, however, been found
to contain a cyanogenetic glucoside. Lotus
major is used to some extent in N. S. Wales.
Suggest you write to the Q’land department
sending specimen for definite identification and
further information.


TRIUMPH
after
FOR
TRIUMPH
Grateful reports, from
former sufferers who have
been made well again by
this Wonderful Natural
Tonic, provide striking and
positive proof that Hutuwai
is giving genuine and per-
manent relief and restoring
health to thousands of
Australians.
HUTUWAI eradicates
aches and pains and fur-
nishes new vigour to the
nervous system . . . the
brain becomes more active
and clear and the body
glows with vitality and
vigour.
Read these Remarkable
Reports:—
“I am now 77 year* of age, and
want you to know that Hutuwai has
given me entire relief from pain and
has given me new life.’*
(Mrs.) ELLEN AMOS, Croydon.
“I was told my daughter had
INCURABLE PSORIASIS ... A short
course of Hutuwai has given amazing
results . . . She has lost all her sores,
and her health is greatly improved.”
—(Mrs.) MARY TURNBULL,
Campsie.
“We are deeply grateful to Hutu-
wai. People who saw mother when
she came to me eighteen months ago
cannot get over how well she now
looks.”
—(Mrs.) W. E. BAKER,
Home Hill, N. Q’land.
“Now my hands (which were previ-
ously dead, twisted and entirely use-
less) are better, my limbs are flexible
again, and I have taken a new lease
of life again, thanks to Hutuwai.”
-ELIZABETH STEWART,
Forest Lodge, N.S.W.
“Since taking Hutuwai I am no
longer troubled with BLOOD PRES-
SURE and HEADACHES, and feel
like a new man.”
—J.K.
“I am now relieved permanently of
all my Rheumatism, Neuritis and
Kidney Trouble sufferings.”
—(Mrs.) S. B. WOODWARD.
HUTUWAI
The Wonderful Natural Tonic That Everybody’s Taking
“HUTUWAI WORKED ABSOLUTE WONDERS.”
Mia Mia Street, GIRRAWEEN, N.S.W.
Messrs. Hutuwai Distributing Co., 7th October, 1937.
Dear Sirs,
As I consider my case has been one of an extremely bad nature,
and only by taking your Hutuwai have I made such a marvellous recovery,
I am setting out the history of my case in the hope that it will help others
to regain their health also.
In 1917 I was a Driver in the 3rd Divisional Train of the A.1.F.,
and was discharged from the Army with NEURASTHENIA. In June,
1936, I had to be carried home from work as a Ganger on the road.
When the doctor came he said I had ANGINA PECTORIS, and sent me
to Hospital, where I was told I had only three days to live. My wife
decided that if I was going to die she would rather have me at home. I
lay in bed for over nine months, during which time RHEUMATOID
ARTHRITIS set in; I was too weak to move, and had to be spoon-fed and
lifted in and out of bed. The pains were very severe, and my joints
would lock and would have to be forcibly straightened by my wife. One
day my wife heard over the wireless where Hutuwai was giving great
relief for any Rheumatic complaints; and my old Army complaint
NEURASTHENIA had developed again to such an extent! that I would
often lay in a coma for days, that my wife decided to give me a course of
Hutuwai. At this time, too, I was just skin and bone. Hutuwai soon
started to give me relief; in fact, it worked absolute wonders. After the
fourth bottle ALL MY PAINS DISAPPEARED, and I was able to get in
§nd out of bed and walk about the house by myself, and I can now do
many little odd jobs about the place, such as mending the children’s
shoes; and I take my walk night and morning.
My nerves are now very steady again; in fact, I can thread a needle;
as a matter of fact, Hutuwai gave me such a new lease of life that I felt
like dancing for the sheer joy of living. During my illness my weight was
reduced to about six stone, and I am now about Bst. 71b.; and every day
I am improving in health, strength and vigor. I have had about 25
bottles, and intend continuing to take it, if only as a tonic.
I am very well known in this District, and friends who saw me at my
worst are very surprised at the amazing improvement Hutuwai has made
in veritably lifting me from what was thought was my deathbed to a
return to normal, healthy life.
I have recommended Hutuwai to many others, and shall continue to
do so, as my experience proves what a wonderful Remedy and Nerve
Tonic Hutuwai is; and will gladly interview any person wishing to see me
and to hear my story from my own lips.
Please use this letter in any way you wish, so that other sufferers
may know what Hutuwai has done for me and can do for them.
This letter was not given in return for any consideration, monetary
or otherwise, from Messrs. Hutuwai Distributing Co.; I have given this
testimonial with my own free will and suggestion and quite voluntarily to
help suffering humanity to gain the same measure of relief as Hutuwai
has given to me.
Yours, full of new life,
(Signed) FRANK CLARKE.
What HUTUWAI
has done for Digger
Clarke and thous-
ands of other Aus-
tralians it can also
do for YOU.
HUTUWAI
MUST
DO
YOU
GOOD
Further Proof of the Health-
giving Power of Hutuwai
“I feel like a new man . . . X-ray
photo has failed to reveal the slightest
sign of the DUODENAL ULCER.”
—L. F. HUNT, Darlinghurst.
“I was seriously affected in both
feet and almost in despair of ever
being right again. Hutuwai is truly a
DIVINE, HEAVEN-SENT REMEDY.”
—H. MATTHEWS, Master Mariner.
“Expected her to die . . . now plays
usual games with other children.”
—MARY PETHYBRIDGE, Brooklyn.
“Thought I was going to die . . .
now I can walk for miles with plea-
sure.”
(Mrs.) ROSE HYMAN, Narrabeen.
“Hutuwai has given me steady
NERVES and an excellent appetite;
it has given me hope and courage,
for I can NOW WALK WITHOUT
ASSISTANCE. Hutuwai Herbal
Remedy has a health-giving power
that is nothing short of amazing.”
—W. SLACK, Kew, Victoria.
“HUTUWAI IS WORTH ITS
WEIGHT IN GOLD ... I am recom-
mending Hutuwai to all my friends
and sufferers of Neuritis.”
—ALICE C. McMULLEN, Bankstown.
mmo-vnmxffi
Proof Positive that HUTUWAI succeeds where others
have failed in the treatment of
ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATISM, NERVES,
BLOOD PRESSURE and KIDNEY TROUBLE.
j
Pronounce
HOO-
TOO-
THE BEST TONIC ON THE MARKET... BECAUSE IT IS NATURAL
Large Bottle
4/6
Also in 3/- Size.
Valuable DIET
CHART FREE.
Sold and recommended by CHEMISTS
and STORES throughout Australia.
If UNOBTAINABLE LOCALLY, SEND DIRECT TO HUTUWAI
DISTRIBUTING CO., DEPT. 83, 210 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
—Telephone, 82145; or 485 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
Cl—Telephone, MU4155. Post Free within N.S.W. and Victoria.
Elsewhere in Australia, Postage 1/- extra per bottle.
POST FREE IN N.S.W. AND VIC.
USE THIS COUPON 1
Hutuwai Distributing Co.,
Dept. 83, 210 George Street, Sydney;
or 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Please send me bottles of
Hutuwai. I enclose Postal Notes for
NAME
ADDRESS
: ■'l': - ; ' _


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in fifing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Woman miner would like to hear from an-
other thinking of going to New Guinea.—Bo2s.
Pensioner, N.S.W., ship’s carpenter, active,
well up in yachts, painting, repairing canvas,
own tools, wants a job in boatshed or on
yacht, etc. Refs. —8028.
Words of poems “The Blind Stockman” and
“The Draft from Tringadee.”—Bo34.
Information Sought.
(1) Result of Test matches between Aus-
tralia and South Africa? (2) What were the
marginal wins by Australia in S. Africa in
1935-36 ?— 8074.
(1) Twenty-four matches; Australia won 18,
South Africa 1 (by 38 runs at Adelaide in
1910-11), 5 were drawn. (2) First Test at
Durban, 9 wickets; second Test at Johannes-
burg, drawn; third Test at Cape Town, an
innings and 78 runs; fourth Test at Johannes-
burg, an innings and 184 runs; fifth Test at
Durban, an innings and 6 runs.
* * * *
Who had the best figures in Test cricket — left-
handers Hill, Bardsley, Darling, Macartney
and Ransford; or right-handers Trumper, Arm-
strong, Noble, Giffen and Bradman ? —8057.
Ings. H.S. N.O. Total. Av.
Hill .. ..76 188 1 2660 35.46
Bardsley .. 49 193* 4 1487 30.04
Darling .. 55 178 2 1632 30.79
Macartney.. 42 170 4 1640 43.15
Ransford .. 29 143* 6 893 38.82
251 193* 17 8312 35.52
Trumper .. 74 185* 5 2263 32.79
Armstrong.. 71 158 9 2172 35.03
Noble .. 68 133 6 1905 30.72
Giffen .. 53 161 0 1238 23.85
Bradman .. 40 334 2 3406 89.63
306 334 22 10,984 38.68
* Not out.
* * * *
(1) What players have taken 15 wickets or
more in a match in Sheffield Shield cricket?
(2) Most wickets in an innings? —Bo66.
(1) Giffen, 16 for 186, S.A. v. N.S.W. in
1894-95, and 15 for 185, S.A. v. Vic., 1902-03;
Grimmett, 16 for 289, S. Aus. v. Q. in 1934-35;
Fleetwood-Smith, 15 for 96, Vic. v. Q., 1936-37,
and 15 for 226, Vic. v. N.S.W., 1934-35; Mc-
Kibbin, 15 for 125, N.S.W. v. S. Aus., 1896-
97. (2) Tim Wall, 10 for. 36, S. Aus. v. N.S.W.
at Sydney in 1932-33.
* * * *
(1) Upon what day of the week was war de-
clared in England? (2) On what day of the
week did June 22 fall in 1914? (3) When was
the first Zeppelin brought down in flames near
London, and where ? (4) Date when second
Zeppelin was brought down at Potter’s Bar?
(5) Date of the Silvertown explosion ? (6)
Were prisoners of war exchanged between Eng-
land and Germany; if so, at what time and
under what conditions ? —7998.
(1) Tuesday. (2) Monday. (3) Sept. 2, 1916,
at Cuffley. (Earlier than this one was brought
down at the mouth of the Thames on night
of March 31, 1916.) (4) Two were brought
down in Essex on Sept. 23, 1916. The one at
Potter’s Bar was destroyed on Oct. 1, 1916.
(5) Jan 19, 1917. (6) Yes, wounded and in-
valid combatants. Agreement reached between
Britain and Germany in May, 1916, to send
the British prisoners to Switzerland. The first
batch from Switzerland arrived in London on
Sept. 11, 1917.
* * * *
What part was played by Major A. de B.
Brandon, Wellington, in the destruction of
Zeppelin L\s over the Thames Estuary on the
night of April 30, 1916.?—8061.
LIS was not brought down on April 30,
1916, but on the night of March 31, 1916.
According to the official history, the Zeppelin,
after discharging many bombs, was over-
taken east of Brentwood by Second-Lieut. A. de
B. Brandon in a B.E2c aeroplane from Hain-
ault Farm. From above the airship this gallant
officer dropped explosive darts, without apparent
result, and then flew alongside to attack from
the rear. He was met With machine-gun
fire from the airship as he went, several of the
shots hitting his aeroplane. He made a further
unsuccessful attempt to bring the Zeppelin down
with an incendiary bomb and explosive darts
before he suddenly sight of his quarry.
Breithaupt, in command of the Zeppelin, had
changed his course with the idea of getting his
crippled ship to Belgium. He jettisoned every
movable object to lighten the ship before he
crossed the coast near the Crouch. His deter-
mined effort to save the Ll 5 was of no avail.
At 11 p.m. the back of the airship broke and
she fell into the sea near the Knock Deep.
* * * *
To whom does the Randwick racecourse
belong, and on what terms does the A.J.C.
hold it?-—1653.
Randwick racecourse comprises land dedi-
cated under the provisions of the Crown Lands
Act and granted by deed to certain persons
as trustees. By the Australian Jockey Club Act
1873 the trustees are empowered to lease the
land to the Australian Jockey Club, and by
the same Act the committee of the club is
authorised to make by-laws regulating admis-
sion to the land and the rates or charges to be
paid for admission.
* * $ *
In the early days, was there a route or road
from Sydney to Coal River ( Newcastle ),
starting from the north side of the harbor and
continuing through what are now the Northern
Suburbs ? Were there any estates, privately
owned, along this route? And what was its
general direction ? —7930.
In 1835 a road ran from Blue’s Point
through Crow’s Nest, Artarmon and Pennant
Hills, ultimately joining the North Road, which
crossed the Hawkesbury at Wiseman’s Ferry.
About 1847 George Peat discovered a practical
line of road between Pearce’s Corner and the
Hawkesbury along the crown of the range
dividing the waters of Berowra and Cowan
creeks. On the northern side of the river a
track had been blazed from the Hawkesbury to
Wollombi. The Government decided to con-
struct a road from Pearce’s Corner to Wol-
lombi, where it would join the North Road,
and the road was ready for use about the year
1853. There were a number of privately-owned
estates along part of these routes.
* * * *
(1) After whom is the Sydney suburb Chats-
wood called? (2) Who held the original grant
of land in this district? —7929.
(1) It was named by Richard Harnett after
his wife, whose pet name was “Chatsie,” when
he cut up the estate there. (2) The original
grantee of the Chatswood district was Isaac
Nicholls, who had grants of 320 and 200 acres
there.
* * * *
/ propose making a motor tour of the Blue
Mountains ( N.S.W .) during the New Year. Can
you suggest a route that will embrace places
of historical interest ? Accommodation is not
important as / am taking a tent. —8087.
Follow the main Western Highway through
Penrith, Katoomba and Hartley to Bowenfels,
and return via Lithgow, Brown’s Gap, Collits’
Inn, Bell, Tomah, Kurrajong and Windsor.
Points of historical interest are the Explorers’
Tree, one mile past Katoomba; Mitchell’s
Beacon and Pass, about the same distance from
Mt. Victoria; Rosedale, at the foot of the Pass;
Hartley Courthouse, which is open for inspec-
tion daily. A good view is obtained from the
top of Hassan’s Walls, about three miles from
Lithgow, and Collits’ Inn should be visited,
preferably in the afternoon. If time permits,
visit Mt. York, four miles from Mt. Victoria.
Before leaving purchase a tourist map, Penrith
to Lithgow, 6d., from Tourist Bureau; also
a copy of Historic Blue Mountains, 1813-1938,
Is. 6d. from leading Sydney booksellers, wherein
these places are described.
* * * *
(1) Who built the first road over the Blue
Mountains? (2) When was it completed and
how many men were employed on the job ?
(3) Total length and time taken? (4) Where was
the descent made? —8056.
(1) Lieut. William Cox, of Clarendon. (2)
It was begun in July, 1814, and completed by
January 14, 1815. Thirty men were employed,
20 of whom were convict laborers, guarded by
eight soldiers. (3) miles, as measured from
Emu Ford on the Nepean River to the flagstaff
at Bathurst, the time taken being a little over
six months. (4) From the summit of Mt.
York down the n.e. slopes into Hartley Vale,
near the site of Collits’ Inn. Owing to the
steep grade of 1 in 4, trunks of trees had to be
attached to the rear of the vehicles to act
as a drag.
* * * *
What form of music is a galliard, and how
did it derive ? —8069.
A very old dance form, originally known as
the “cinque pas,” because it consisted of groups
of five steps, though written in common time.
Shakspeare refers to it in “Much Ado About
Nothing” and in “Twelfth Night.” It seems
originally to have been a dreary, dirge-like sort
of tune, but developed into something much
brisker and more sprightly in triple measure.
* * * *
Was Queen Victoria an accomplished
musician, did she compose, and are any of her
compositions at all well known? —Bo7l.
In the opinion of Mendelssohn and other
great musicians whom she invited to Windsor
the Queen was very much above the amateur
standard of the day both as a pianist and a
singer. Her essays in musical composition were
kept quiet, it being considered a bit infra dig
for a monarch to adventure in this field
(Frederick the Great and his flute notwith-
standing), but some of her songs were pub-
lished under disguising names. “The Ivory
Gate,” very pretty, and very popular in its
day, was suspected to be one of these.
* * * *
(1) Who wrote the “Adieu,” which used to
be attributed to Schubert, and bears his name
in quite recently-published albums? (2) Who
wrote “Weber’s Last Waltz”? —8063.
(1) A. H. von Weyrauch, who published the
“Adieu” in 1824, during Schubert’s lifetime,
afterwards claimed the authorship. But it is
made up of thematic material from the Schu-
bert lieder. (2) It certainly wasn’t Weber, but
the exact authorship is doubtful. It is generally
attributed to K. G. Reissiger (1798-1859), who
died 33 years later than Weber, and who is
otherwise best known for the facile “Fairy
Waltz,” still being reprinted.
* * * *
(1) What was Thalberg’s status as a com-
poser and pianist; how did he compare with
Liszt, for example? (2) Are any of his com-
positions valued to-day? —Bos4.
(1) In the matter of popular success as
pianists Thalberg and Liszt ran a very close
race, though Thalberg invented easy little
tricks and Liszt developed a truly stupendous
technique. Thalberg played in a calm, digni-
fied manner, appearing never to exert himself
in the slightest; Liszt, always the complete
showman, threw himself about in an amazing
manner. • Two sayings of Liszt about Thalberg
are remembered: “I hope to be able to play
as Thalberg does in my old age—with one
hand paralysed!” And on the credit side:
“Thalberg is the only artist who can play the
violin on the keyboard.” (2) Remembering that
Thalberg, for all his shallowness, was the
great master of the singing tone and the legato,
his series of 22 transcriptions “L’Art du Chant”
is well worthy of study.
* * * *
(1) 7 have seen it asserted by various musi-
cal authorities that the elder Johann Strauss
was a better composer than his famous son.
Grove, for instance, says the second Johann
was “scarcely less gifted” than his father.
If that was so, how is it that the elder Strauss’s
compositions are never heard nowadays. (2)
Is it true that the ‘‘Blue Danube” waltzes were
not written for dancing? (3) What was the
opinion of the younger Strauss’s great con-
temporaries as to his musical merits ? —BO6O.
(1) He won’t be forgotten so long as the
Radetzky March is played—and that can still
be heard in Vienna pretty frequently. Also,
many of his waltzes are still published by Peters
and Breitkopf and Hartel, and have enough
admirers to keep them on the lists. (2)
Original form was a choral work for male
voices. (3) Brahms was a warm admirer; Beet-
hoven, too. Wagner said that young Johann’s
waltzes were as far superior to the rubbish
turned out by his competitors as St. Stephen’s
(Vienna’s architectural glory) was to a cheap
caf6.
* * * *
(1) Composition of bakelite and particu-
lars of manufacture? (2) Any textbooks on
the subject? —Bol7.
(1) It is prepared by the chemical interaction
of substances such as phenol and cresol,
found in coal tar, and formaldehyde, a deri-
vative of methyl alcohol obtained either syn-
thetically or by the distillation of wood.
When these two constituents are combined
under certain conditions they form a solid
resin-like substance which is quickly softened
or melted by moderate heat. A brief exposure
to greater heat will set up further chemical re-
actions and cause it to harden so that it
cannot be softened again at any temperature
and the solvents which served to dissolve it in
its primary state will no longer affect it. (2)
Bakelite Moulding; 4s. 6d., Dymock’s, Syd-
ney.
* * * *
Can a person who has taken the invalid
pension for some years cease doing so without
any formalities, or must the money paid be
refunded in the event of the ex-pensioner obtain-
ing short periods of employment through his
planning and studying during years of incapaci-
tation ? —BOO4.
An invalid pension may be surrendered by
returning the pension certificate to the Pen-
sions Office together with a letter stating why
the pension is no longer required. The de-
partment makes no claim for a refund in re-
spect of pension payments except where the
pensioner has received pension instalments to
which he was not entitled because of misrepre-
sentation.
* * * *
Can handiness of the legs be corrected, or
even minimised, in a man of 35 ? —7983.
Great improvement, even at the age of 35,
often follows operation on the thigh-bone,
just above the knee; but the actual operative
treatment depends upon the cause and serious-
ness of the deformity. If unable to consult
a specialist, have a photograph taken in the
erect posture, showing the entire length of
both lower limbs in the unclothed state and ask
for an opinion by letter.
* * r *
Cause and cure of the complaint known as
Barcoo rot ? —7984.
These are pustules which appear commonly
on the backs of the hands and sometimes on
the legs. They are caused by pus-forming
organisms, and the condition is therefore in-
fective. Lack of fruits and green vegetables,
often believed to be an important factor in
the production of the disease, cannot be
solely responsible, since the condition is seen
not uncommonly in orchardists, to whom such
foods are available. As to treatment, the
lesions may be opened surgically and then
treated with hot fomentations and weak mer-
curial ointment. Keep hands scrupulously clean
at all times.
* * o *
(1) Cause of high blood pressure? (2) Treat-
ment ? (3) Diet? —7973.
(1) Has been attributed to many things—
poisons, such as alcohol, lead and arsenic, ex-
cess in diet, sedentary occupations and insuffi-
cient exercise. Heredity is an important influ-
ence, and so are certain infections. Obesity is a
frequent cause, and the disease may be a com-
plication of pregnancy. (2) Treatment depends
entirely upon the cause. No drug is of much
value in the reduction of pressure, though
iodides and some sedatives and preparations
which cause dilation of the blood vessels are
useful in good hands; they help, but do not
cure. (3) There is no set rule as to diet; the
general principle is to cut down food; the
higher the pressure the smaller the food intake
should be. With very high pressures a diet
of milk, fruits and vegetables, combined with
rest, gives good results. Each case is a prob-
lem of its own.
* * * *
What foods contain vitamin E, and which
have the greatest amount? —8000.
Best-known sources are green, leafy vegetables
and wheat-germ. Other foods are less potent.
It is present also in certain fresh fats, but if
the fat becomes even slightly rancid the vitamin
is destroyed, and rancidity in the fat will de-
stroy the vitamin in any other foodstuff mixed
in with it. The vitamin is fairly widely dis-
tributed, though in small amounts, in all natu-
ral foods.
* * * *
How to preserve statice flowers ? What are
the different varieties of statice? Is there a
market in Sydney for these blooms when dried ?
—8077.
Cut off the flower-heads when the blooms
are at their best and hang them head downward
in a dry shed for a few weeks. Annuals,
Atroccerulea (deep blue), Bonduelli (yellow),
Sinuata (lavender, rose, yellow, white, blue) and
Suworowi (rose-pink); perennials, Perezii (blue),
Puberula (deep purple) and Purple Cloud (laven-
der). Sydney florists (except those connected
with nurseries) will give you a quote if
samples are submitted.
* * * *
I have gate piers erected with good, sound
second-hand bricks which were originally set
in lime mortar. Some of these bricks show
traces of lime stains. I desire to stain Ihe bricks
to a natural brick color. What coloring matter
should be used, and how should it be mixed
and applied? —7979.
Limeproof colors in dry powdered form are
mixed with cement. To this mixture is added
water to produce a thin plaster, which is then
applied thinly with a brush or trowel to the
brickwork and immediately wiped over with a
piece of damp hessian to remove the surplus
and at the same time rub the color into the
bricks. Dry colors such as burnt umber, burnt
sienna or red oxide should be chosen to match
as near as possible the shade of the brickwork
to be treated; it may be necessary to blend two
or more colors to obtain the desired shades.
A small batch should be made up and tried
out on a part of the brickwork where it will
not be noticeable.
Brief Answers.
NJ.W.: Czechs and Slovaks 65.5 p.c.,
Germans 23.3 p.c., Magyars 5.5 p.c., Rutheniams
3.4 p.c., Poles .5 p.c. The country consists
of Bohemia with a population of 7,106,766,
Moravia and Silesia 3,565,010, Slovakia
3,329,793, sub-Carpathian Russia 725,357
D. 8.8.: Question involves too many techni-
calities and details for an answer on this page;
write to Kodak or Harrington, both of George-
street, Sydney... .J.T.: This department
cannot undertake to reveal trade secrets....
D.P.H.: You may depart from and return to
Australia whenever you choose, provided you
obtain a passport A.McC.: The Sydney
agents for Booth’s china and pottery are Jack-
son and Macdonald, 360 Kent-street, Sydney.
L.R.H.: Write to the School of Mines,
North-terrace, Adelaide D. 8.: Write to the
Melbourne branch of the Licensed Victuallers’
Association... .L.M.H.: (1) This was a private
matter with Lawrence of which he was not
prepared to speak. Various people asked him
a blunt question on the matter, but never a
second time. (2) The meaning is at least as
obvious as the introduction to Shakspeare’s
sonnets... .A.W.: Sydney would appear most
suited to your needs. . Write to the N.S.W.
Newsagents’ Association, 99 Clarence-street,
Sydney K.M.: Sherry casks are quite suit-
able for maturing whisky in large quantities,
but to add a bottle of sherry to four gallons
of whisky which is to be run into a new keg
would have a detrimental effect on the spirit.
... .A.D.D.: Write to the Department of Com-
merce, Canberra, F.C.T 8.J.H.: If the
president and vice-presidents are absent, the
members present should select a chairman from
their number. The secretary may accept a
motion to that effect and put it, if necessary,
to the meeting. Without being absolutely pro-
hibited from election it would be undesirable
for the secretary to accept office as he has no
power personally to delegate his duties as
secretary to the other members M.R.M.:
Every man is bound to use his property in such
a manner as not to injure that of his neighbor.
This is the common-law principle, applicable
alike to corporations and individuals. If the
council in making its road diverts water from
its natural channel or flow on to a neighboring
tennis lawn it lays itself open to action by
the owner of the lawn.. . .R.J.S.: The address
of the N.S.W. Bush Book Club is 19 Bligh-
street, Sydney A.W.: (1) John McGavock
Grider. (2) Can find no reason why the book
should not be genuine... .A.S.A.: Plans for the
sailing boat .mentioned, prepared for the
amateur boatbuilder, are supplied by the “In-
ternational Power Boat and Aquatic Monthly,”
Rawson Chambers, 491 Pitt-street, Sydney. (2)
Cannot trace boatbuilders who make hulls of
metal sheeting on a light frame. (3) Yes, from
the magazine mentioned in (1) and from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .P.S.: The Bulletin
Reciter, No. 2, is obtainable from the N.S.W.
Bookstall, Sydney G.O’S. : Cannot trace any
general provision for the appropriation of a “per-
centage of the total loan” as “a reward for the
responsibility of handling the money.” No
doubt where special services are rendered some
remuneration may be allowed. Ask your in-
formant to quote references to the law, so that
it may be traced. The N.S.W. Local Government
Loans Guarantee Act of 1936 authorises any
local body to borrow money or obtain advances
or make “financial arrangements” otherwise
than through official Government channels,
but whether the words “financial arrangements”
could be made to cover such a payment as
that to which you refer is very doubtful....
T.H.R.: The sft. 3in. gauge is known as the
Irish, and was originally laid in Ireland, where
it is still in use. It is also used by the Paulista
Railway Co. in Brazil... .P.G.: Cannot take
responsibility for the venture. It would be im-
possible to estimate the capital required on
the information supplied. Cost would increase
with the choice of more uncommon varieties,
but at the same time the area of ground re-
quired would decrease. Consult the Agricultural
Department and Arthur Yates A.H.C.:
Navy-blue suit, preferably d.b., white shirt and
stiff collar, dark tie and black shoes should suit
the occasion... .J.R.: Know of no remedy; a
hot iron and brown paper might help, but new
paper seems to be the only thing Musico:
If you are capable of writing a clear, legible
score, and do not require more than 200 or
300 copies, the job could be done on a dupli-
cating machine, such as the Roneo, or by very
much cheaper apparatus of the wet-gelatine
type. Make inquiries at the larger Sydney
stationers for a cheap hektograph outfit
J. and others: The Prime Minister of
M.L., M. J. Savage, was born at Benalla,
Victoria, worked as a miner, and went to
M.L. in 1907 A.L.W.: (1) and (2)
Write Heralds’ College, Queen Victoria-street,
London, E.C.4. (3) and (4) Write Society
of Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-street,
Sydney J.T.: Australian Press Cuttings
Agency, 443 Little Collins-street, Melbourne,
and Country Press, Ltd., 5 Barrack-street, Syd-
ney....D.S.: (1) No. (2) Personal details are
obtainable by writing to them direct. (3) No.
J.J.: From Dangar, Gedye and Malloch,
10 Young-street, Sydney... .H.C.K.: Watch
the shipping columns of the daily newspapers
and communicate with vessels arriving from
those parts C.W.L.P.: Write Government
Accident Insurance Office, Adelaide; State Gov-
ernment Insurance Office, Perth; Government
Insurance Office of N. S. Wales, Sydney;
Q’land State Government Insurance Office,
Brisbane; and State Accident Insurance Office,
Melbourne... .J.D.: Skoal is from the Nor-
wegian skaal, meaning cup, health or toast.
Without seeing the context, would say that the
word was used as a salutation P.W.: (1)
To make them stand up to racing longer. (2)
and (3) Matter of opinion. (4) Phar Lap and
The Trump were gelded as two-year-olds.
... .W.E.: (1) Queen of Hearts, by The Premier
from Sweetheart. (2) The name is Queen of
Hearts H.G.: The Byron Bay butter fac-
tory has the largest output in Australia, but
the Gympie factory has the largest buildings
and could carry double the present equipment
without any additional buildings. Output for
1936-37 (a drought period) was 2098 tons
K. : Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street,
Covent Garden, London C.T.L.: See The
Writers and Artists’ Year-Book, published by
A. and C. Black, Ltd., London... .J.T.: The
third-last line of Kipling’s poem “Betrothed”
is “A woman is only a woman but a good cigar
is a smoke”... .(Many others mailed.)


“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
j
im
STOTT’S can teach you how to write
them. Why not write Stott’s Corre-
spondence College for Free Literary
Prospectus ?
Study in your own home; distance is no bar!
Out, and Mail This Coupon to STOTT’S CORRE-
SPONDENCE COLLEGES. 96-100 Russell Street, Mel-
bourne, or 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CUT HERE
Please send Literary Prospectus, obligation free.
My Name
Address
S.B. No. 5
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
WHEN YOU BUY A
LUCAS
“KING “he ROAD”
BATTERY
YOU CANNOT
BUY BETTER
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
C.Y.T., B.L.M. and others: Oswald Pryor
is in London... .A.F.St.B.: Not for u 5....
W.G.: That “Stuffed Shark” didn’t suit our
palate L.M.: Afraid you’ll have to use
your own alternative —burn it... .P.D.T.: One
line from your happy Christmas verses:
Then weep; my child lies dead abed.
~. .K.P.: And why can’t you lose that gloomy
Muse? 8.R.: Hackneyed D.M.C.: That
sonnet’s no more than an echo... .R.F.: Not
here will “Bob muse on good food and
divorce” M.F.L.: An old yarn poorly
handled W.J.W.: The bits that were legible
were not very promising... .V.L.T.: Might be
something in it, but it rambles too much....
E.C.T.: “Amorous Aunt Arabella” was repri-
manded and sent home... .A.F.F.: Not for us,
but with a spot of revision you should land it
elsewhere L.T.: You’ll stand a better chance
when you get away from the man-in-the-club-
telling-a-yarn idea... .M.M. It needs finer treat-
ment F.R.F.: Might interest a daily
R.G.W.: Sob stuff laid on with a shovel.
. ...E.M.C.: Nearly escaped the basket....
M.D.M.: So you gummed the last pages to-
gether to see if we read the whole yarn.
Well, now you know... .J.C.M.: Doesn’t make
a story... .L.N.: Even after a prolonged fast,
two pages of “Eating for Pleasure” would have
been sufficient V.R.H.: Don’t you know
better than to pin a MS. at four corners?....
R.R,.: Might make a par G. 1.: Don
Edwards has covered that ground... .E.S.L.:
Weak A.L.: “Tellifer’s Incense” might find
a censer elsewhere... .J.R.: That “Final Cur-
tain” has fallen too often H.A.R.: We
made several onslaughts, but retreated after
the third page H.F.: Too much rambling.
R.P.S.: Returning “Christmas Greetings.”
W.F.M.: How you manage to put so much
blurb into a dozen pages is beyond us
A.L.R.: You get into a yarn like a man get-
ting into a cold bath... .G.C.L.: Doesn’t hit
the mark L.R.C.: Your verse gives the im-
pression that rhyming hurts you more than
getting a tooth out... .E.8.Y.: The first time
we’ve seen twenty lines of free verse called a
sonnet... .F.D.L.: So
Metre and rhyme are the song-quenching things
That strangle the voice of the poet who sings
Of all that is young, of youth in its prime;
For ever I’ll struggle ’gainst metre and rhyme.
Well, why attempt them? ... .D.C.N.:
Can’t reply to paragraphs here F.T.:
That super-cracksman couldn’t break in
on us R.D.R.: So after three divorces he
still went happily to the altar —it just shows
some people can never learn P.J.: Another
swagman to join the long line trudging back
from here T.U.W.: We were there in spirit
when “those bronzed and rugged bushmen,
true sons of the far North, stood with bowed
heads to honor one who, though not of their
breed, had yet stood shoulder to shoulder with
them, facing danger like the real man he was”
—but that was all A.T.: You’ll never
make a yarn-spinner... .F.D.: But you might
if you can find something worth telling
E.A.: Food for flappers.. ..8.E.8.: The week’s
weakest A.T.S.: You’ve dipped your pen
too much in gall J.C.: Concentrate on tell-
ing a yarn, not on writing the great Australian
short story 1.8. J.: It’s a neat little tale,
but hardly suited to our readers J.H.:
Once more the hard-riding, hard-drinking,
golden-hearted stockman ; he’s. galloping back
home D. 1.: J. H. M. Abbott has made that
field his own.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.D.: The farmer’s floating in mid-air
E.M.: The young man seems to have been
carved out of a telegraph pole KJ.T.: All
right for a fashion page, but no use to
us J.N.: The corpse is now lying in the
office morgue... .H.S.: The chap with stove-
pipes for legs and an outsize head was shown
the way home L.F.: Not wanting gags
which require three questions and three answers
before the point is reached H.K.: Where
did those freaks come from? .... W.H.R.: Joke
has a familiar ring and the drawing is too
stiff R.L.P.: Jest feeble and the sketch
done too hurriedly... .J.C.8.: That Caledonian
wheeze wanders along to us every 12 months;
this year the drawing is worse than usual
T.T.: Gag too insipid... .8.5.: Can’t believe
anyone could manage to stand at that
angle H.H.: You can remove the wrang-
ling laundryman and the market-gardener
at your leisure... .E.R.C.: What is the blur
on the right—smoke? ... .N.J.: Take a three
years’ course at an art school and you might
reach publication standard S.C.M.: No
cheers greeted the arrival of that eyesore....
P.J.: Whoever told you we would publish it
was pulling your leg F.L.: Have seen worse
efforts, but not many A.L.H.: Picture
of barmaid suggests that a ship’s figure-
head had been dumped on the counter
8.N.: It might have amused the home circle,
but it wouldn’t set readers laughing C.F.:
Abo. boxer and White Hope gag had
its day in the ’nineties... .J.M.: Why draw
with ruler and compass? ... .J.H.A.: Picture of
ship in a glass bottle is interesting, but it is
a wasted effort R.N.: Promising student’s
work. Look us up when you have completed
your studies G.N.: Foggy washwork, lame
jest M. 8.: You were a late starter, but you
almost produced the worst drawing of the year.
. ...C.P.: Overcrowded with unnecessary
details.
A South Aus. railwayman has told the
Commonwealth Grants Commission that
“the Red Hill railway is going to increase
net losses on the S.A. railways by £50,000
or £60,000 a year.”
We lose 101 miles of revenue haul, pay
interest on more than £300,000 additional
capital and have to maintain a service on
two routes instead of one.
Cheering news for Commonwealth tax-
payers, for, as the chairman of the
Grants Commission has blithely men-
tioned, Adelaide can come on Canberra
for the extra £50,000 or £60,000.
“Runa”: Add Maoriland to the coun-
tries where daylight saving operates (B.
8/11/ ’37) —the result of a lifelong cam-
paign on the part of Sidey, the knight
who became known as “Daylight Sidey”
to all M.L. The innovation, highly un-
popular at first, is now accepted without
agitation, and, on the part of the sport-
ing fraternity, with enthusiasm. To me it
is amazing that M.L., with a fairly long
twilight in summer, should have day-
light saving, whereas N.S.W., where even
in midsummer the dark follows quickly
on sundown, should be so emphatically
against the practice.
BUSH DATES
(BY E. S. SORENSON .)
What an elusive thing the date of the
month is! Even many city people, who
read the daily papers regularly, ask
“What’s the date?” when they sit down
to write a letter. In the far bush, few
men who live much alone are ever sure
of the date. Some lose track of the days
of the week, and occasionally one is not
certain about the month.
One day I heard a woman ask her
son: “Do you remember what day Mr.
Flynn was here?” She wasn’t interested
in Mr. Flynn, nor was he concerned in
the conversation she was engaged in. She
was talking about a letter she had written
to somebody, how long ago she couldn’t
recollect, but it was about the time Mr.
Flynn called.
Johnny remembered. “It was the day
after the bull-ant stung father,” he said
decisively.
That was a red-letter day in the family
calendar; still it didn’t help in summing
up the time-distance any more than the
calling of Flynn did.
Johnny gave further information. “It
was a Saturday, because I went down for
the mail, and the next Saturday Jimmy
found the yellow heifer bogged in Black
Gully.”
In this way, recalling various happen-
ings, Johnny’s mother reckoned up how
many days or weeks had elapsed since
she posted the letter to her friend.
It was the same with father. He
wanted to know when Johnny had seen
the grey mare last, that quadruped hav-
ing been turned out for a spell.
Johnny knew nothing about the date,
but he could always place it with an in-
cident that was contemporaneous or
thereabouts.
“It was the Sunday before we got the
bandicoot in the hollow log.”
Though the days of the week were
notched off in their regular order, nobody
kept any count of the date of the month.
If it was necessary to know the current
date, a request was made for the weekly
newspaper ; and if the paper was lost or
destroyed, that was the end of the
calendar till next mail day.
Mostly, so far as the family was con-
cerned, father was the calendar. Not
a very accurate or reliable one;
still the chief periods were faithfully
tabulated in his memory. His doings
and adventures and calamities made red-
letter days through the year ; as when he
cut his toe with the- adze, or slipped off
the log while crossing the creek, or when
Brindle kicked him over with the bucket
of milk, and when the plough reins got
round his legs, and the team dragged him
over the stubble on his ear.
But almost always it required some-
thing else to fix the exact time of the hap-
penings when they cropped up in discus-
sions. Everybody could remember when
father trod on the black snake, because
a week later Buttercup ate the pillow-
slips that mother had spread on the grass,
which was just two weeks after Lizzie
Anderson’s wedding, and four days
afterwards Tom Skinner’s boy got lost
in the scrub. That was the fourth of
October, because it was in the paper, and
they found him on the sixth, which was
Sunday. When father took a hand at
locating himself in the periods of the
past, he generally remembered the time
well, because the back paddock wasn’t
burnt then, and he was talking to Thomp-
son about the bit of fencing across the
swamp. He shot the two geese there
just a week previous—the day the pigs
got out.
When asked what day that was, he re-
collected that he was carting wood the
following day, which was Saturday, when
the colt bolted with the cart and cap-
sized the load in the gully. “An’ the
date’s on the paper you put on the pantry
shelf.”
In pursuing dates and reckoning the
weeks and months in the tranquil homes
of Faraway, one picked up a compen-
dium of chatty family history that illu-
mined the strides of Father Time, includ-
ing the occasions when Minnie had the
measles and the top blew off the chimney.
Even Little Hopeful kept that in re-
membrance.
“It was the night before the native
cat killed the speckly hen.”


ĵ
j
Cooler in a "Calcutta”
When it comes to cool headwear, you cannot beat the
Genuine “CALCUTTA” Indian Pith Helmet. Covered
with white linen drill, with red silk lining and self pug-
garee, the “CALCUTTA” is obtainable in Australia only
from Pike Brothers. Price 22/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Street
of Queen
Brisbane
McCoy, Who Whipped Lewis and Wells
In 1913 or thereabouts Australia had,
in Hughie Mehegan, Herb McCoy,
Hock Keys, Jack Read, Fred Kay and
Frank Thorn, some of the best light-
weights in the world. Before his powers
began to wane, Mehegan was perhaps
the best of them, but his fellow-Victorian
McCoy was very little inferior and was
more successful than Hughie in contests
with high-class imported boxers. Both
VICTORY OVER PAL BROWN.
lads were wonderfully game, and in
McCoy’s case, as in that of Mehegan’s,
no matter how hard he was pasted—so
long as he wasn’t knocked out —he would
hit back, and hit back so hard that
every wallop told a story.
Although he had previously distin-
guished himself by knocking over a row
of French boxers, a crate of whom were
imported by Mclntosh, McCoy’s best
years as a fighter were 1913 and 1914.
Until Darcy came along no Australian
had a greater following.
In November, 1913, McCoy tackled
Pal Brown, who in the previous month
had outpointed Hughie Mehegan. So
much interest was taken in the encounter
that 12,000 people crowded into the
Stadium, though informed by the man-
agement that their biff would cost them
more. McCoy was the shorter of the
pair ; Brown seemed to have an immense
advantage in height and reach, but he
was not so rugged.
When the gong sounded the signal for
battle Brown came in impetuously and
McCoy advanced after the manner of
Agag. It was evident that each had a
proper respect for the other. But, just as
Brown had been too fast for Mehegan,
McCoy was too fast for Brown. He
easily outboxed the American at long
range. Some of his returns were pretty
and his speed was dazzling.
Brown changed his tactics. He made a
sudden and savage attack and mauled
McCoy badly. For a time he seemed to
dominate the Victorian ; but McCoy hit
and hit and hit again. He could hit
faster than Brown, and when Pal missed
Herb bounded in like a flash and hit
some more. All the time Brown was
boring in McCoy smote hard and quick.
In the latter part of the fight the Aus-
tralian began to attack. The American
had tired; his mouth was bleeding, and
so was his head, from a clash. The end
of every round saw McCoy better than
he had been at' the beginning. In the
20th the American threw caution to the
winds, realising'that a knockout was his
only chance ; but it was beyond him to
deliver it. When referee Scott placed his
hand on McCoy’s head the crowd stood
up and roared approval.
On Boxing Night, 1913, McCoy met
Harry Stone, who had covered himself
with glory by gaining decisions over Matt
Wells and Johnny Summers, and had,
it was said, received an offer to box
Ritchie, the lightweight champion of the
world.
The match was attended by the largest
crowd that had packed itself into the
Sydney Stadium since the roof was put
on. All Jewry was there, and Stone’s
dazzling successes impelled bookmakers
of his race to offer 5 to 4 against McCoy.
Many shrewd Gentiles snapped up the
odds to sovereigns when the attendants
were not looking.
Just after the boxers got into the ring,
Paddy Minahan, M.L.A., scrambled
through the ropes and commenced to
speak. What he said was inaudible, but
when his flow of oratory ceased he
handed Stone a medal which glittered
with diamonds. Subsequent events
showed that the ceremony had no de-
pressing effect on McCoy.
They started cautiously, each trying to
feel his way. McCoy sent a couple of
investigating rights towards Stone’s mid-
region. Stone backstepped with delicate
alacrity and then tiptoed on and tried the
left. It was deftly blocked. Before Stone
thought it possible, over came the right
—and it stung.
At first McCoy was inclined to let
Stone lead, but after a minute or two
he discovered that Stone was more dan-
gerous on the offensive than the defen-
sive, so he went after his man. There-
after it became a race to see which could
SAYLOR, THE ONE-PUNCH ARTIST.
take the offensive first. McCoy demon-
strated that he had the requisite speed
to do the trick.
Half-way through the second round,
McCoy startled Stone by sneaking in a
wicked left to the body. In the third
Stone unfolded his kangaroo act, but Mc-
Coy winged him several times when he
was in mid-air, and Stone abandoned it
to devote attention to the body.
The fairest of fighters as a rule, Stone
began to hold with one arm and bang
the other on the body. He found the
Australian equally willing, and again and
again he was literally punched off.
In the ninth round Stone was badly
rattled. The gong went before the Aus-
tralian realised how rattled he was. Harry
was too flabbergasted to chew his gum.
The culmination came in the eleventh.
McCoy had worked Stone into the south-
east corner and was dealing out stiff
punches. Stone tried to duck out, but
was beaten back to the ropes. He tried to
hang on, but was slugged off. McCoy
slowed for a heavy swing; then Stone
went berserk.
The American hit McCoy so fast that
it was impossible to follow his blows.
Stone leaped and smote and smote and
smote; but ever McCoy’s white arms
flashed through the blizzard, giving
punch for punch. Then McCoy backed
out. Stone sprang at him, and kept that
fierce tornado in full blast.
Fifteen thousand people sprang to their
feet and howled like demons and stamped
and waved their hands. That vast roar
lifted the fighters to more desperate
frenzy. Across the ring they swept, fight-
ing, smashing, McCoy in retreat, Stone
in fierce pursuit. Then for a fraction of
a second they ceased, and a great silence
fell. McCoy, with a deep breath, sprang
forward, tearing in with lefts and rights.
Stone came in to meet him, and the
awful din was resumed. Once more
they swept across the ring, Stone in
retreat, McCoy in frenzied pursuit. Then
the gong broke through the din.
That tremendous rally had lasted
almost two minutes by the clock. Mc-
Coy’s cheek was split. Stone’s lips were
swollen, his cheeks had blotches on them,
his nose showed signs of disrepair, and
there were red splurges on his body
where the Australian’s fists had played
a devil’s tattoo.
That round ended Stone’s chances of
victory. The Australian hunted him
grimly all the time. At the close of each
round he would make a feeble rally, but
towards the end of the fight he clung for
safety. At the finish there was only one
in it. The referee declared McCoy the
winner, and for half a minute Herb
drank the milk of paradise.
Three weeks later McCoy drew an-
other vast crowd to the Stadium at Rush-
cutter Bay, his opponent being the
famous Matt Wells. At the midday
weighing Wells had gone 4oz. over the
requisite 9st. 101 b. He had worked
strenuously to get down to weight, and
the prospect of parting with a £2OO for-
feit broke his heart. It was an awful
example of the high price of meat.
For a time it looked as if there would
be no fight. Then the management inti-
mated that it would have forfeits to col-
lect on its own account if the affair went
up the spout —£100 from McCoy and
£lOO from Wells. This remark brought
both battlers to their senses.
In the ring Wells looked nearly a stone
heavier than McCoy. It was obvious that
he would never again fight as a light-
weight, and when the weights were an-
nounced the rude section of the crowd
yelled “Liar!”
Wells opened the dance with a dainty
exposition of the McGoorty left hook.
He was doing nicely with it when Mc-
Coy deposited a right on the left eye which
staggered the Jew and made him totter
all over Palestine. In the second round
Wells landed a right to the side of the
head that set McCoy’s teeth rattling.
Wells was sacrificing speed for the sake
of heavy hitting, and some of his rights
were deadly. He had the longer reach,
and he had the weight, and he made
skilful use of both. For 10 rounds Mc-
Coy was distinctly second-best.
Then Wells went to fragments. He
cracked up, his head began to smoke
and steam rose from his body as he lum-
bered round the ring. McCoy gave him
no peace. But the Australian’s seconds
counselled their man to be wary. They
SHUGRUE CONTEMPLATES THE
ENEMY.
regarded the obvious distress of the bril-
liant Semite as subterfuge: a trick to
lure McCoy into leaving an opening for
a knockout. Actually, when Wells did
land, there was no sting in his blows,
which had also become strangely slow.
When- the sixtieth minute of battle
closed, the chivalrous Wells anticipated
the referee by placing his own hand on
McCoy’s head.
In March, 1914, McCoy went up
against the formidable American Mil-
burn Saylor, who six weeks before had
knocked out Mehegan. A large fist at
the end of a strong and long and appar-
ently double-jointed arm, the said arm
attached to a long lithe body, with a


g—
m
11
I
£
bu CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA M AO RAN Cl "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
IN
N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
DECEMBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
America’s Economic Tangle
The Sharemarket
What to Buy and Sell
Prospectuses Reviewed
Mines and' Metals
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
small head at the far end of it directing
operations, and two small tapering legs
to move around on —such was Saylor.
For his size, Sydney has never seen a
man with a more effective reach. It is a
fact that many of his right smashes flew
clear round McCoy’s head and bashed
the Australian on the right ear. Also
Saylor was taller and apparently
stronger, although there was only 12oz.
difference in the weights. Both were in
perfect condition.
McCoy’s only hope of reaching his
opponent’s face was to show superior
speed. For a time he had it; with swift
jabs he found Saylor’s nose and mouth
repeatedly. For three solid rounds he hit
Saylor and dodged or blocked all the
American’s swings. But in the fourth
round Saylor got into holds, and McCoy
clung to his left glove, and Saylor waved
the boa-constrictor he called his arm
and hit with his right. The fist came
down on the back of the head and the
neck.
That was Saylor’s one effective wallop.
It is barred now, and it should have
been barred then. Time and again
Saylor got that punch home and beat
McCoy to the floor. When it didn’t
arrive on the head, it fell on the loins
and all over the back.
McCoy was being attacked behind and
didn’t know what to do about it. But
with great courage he fought on, and
often when he seemed to be groggy he
would flash out and send Saylor’s swings
wide of the mark by driving with the left.
Saylor’s head being a mere pinhead at
the butt-end of his arm, McCoy had to
be an excellent shot to hit it; it was
whisked out of the way so quickly that
only lightning* speed could catch it. But
McCoy caught it often and hard.
The Australian scored at the begin-
ning of nearly every round. Then,
through his misguided act of holding the
American’s left arm, Saylor, with a wild
succession of circular swipes, would wipe
out the points.
The end came in the eighteenth round,
when Saylor twice surrounded McCoy
KID LEWIS WAS CLEVER.
and cut off his retreat. On the second
occasion McCoy went down and rolled
over on his back. “Take your time!”
his corner shouted. He commenced to
rise to his knees, and there he waited
until clock and referee had, as it seemed
to many, counted nine; then he sprang
up. Saylor was waiting for him, but the
referee stepped between and pointed to
Saylor. By this time, McCoy, who had
wonderful recuperative powers, was all
right and ready to resume. He could
scarcely believe that he had been counted
out.
McCoy met with another reverse when
he took on Joe Shugrue in May, 1914.
Shugrue, a Jew from New York, was a
splendid lightweight, strong at all points.
He would probably have been cham-
pion of the world if his eyesight had not
failed when he was quite a young man.
In the fight at Sydney, which went 15
rounds, there was more demoralisation
in one blow of McCoy’s than in six ordi-
nary wallops handed out by the New
,Yorker; but Shugrue placed them where
they were effective. Moreover, McCoy
was fighting too many 20-rounders
against first-class men and had gone a
bit stale. In the fifteenth round he was
sent to the boards three times by clean
punches to the jaw. When he went down
the ]as( time _ a inspector wavcd
(he hunting . crop of authorjty and peace
was p rocda j med j n favor of Shugrue.
In spit£ of this second defeat> McCoy
was fighting again within a fortnight, his
antagonist being again one of the most
dangerous men in the business—“ Kid”
Lewis. Lewis, who had just arrived in
Australia, had agreed to take the place
of Sa y lor > tbat y° un B man having
knocked up his hands beating English
welterweights, among them Tom McCor-
mack (the champion) and Nat Williams.
T . . * ' , XT *
Lewis was in the pantry when Nature
was di ; d looks in the draw .
ing . room He was taller than McCoy>
and kad a i onger reach ; also he was by
wa y G f becoming a welterweight. As a
10st. 41b. man, he was for years to dis-
McCOY AND GRIFFITHS.
pute supremacy with Jack Britton, and
when his ring days were nearly over he
actually fought Carpentier.
Dancing round with a set, expression-
less face and eyes that could not be seen,
Lewis was horribly suggestive of a gal-
vanised corpse; but there was nothing
corpselike in his method or his speed.
He was on the move all the time, and
he moved so fast that the shorter-legged
McCoy could not keep pace with him.
McCoy was the attacking party right up
till the sixth round, in which Lewis
landed a heavy left. In the next round
he sent the Victorian staggering to the
ropes.
But after the tenth round Lewis fell
away. McCoy, in close fighting, re-
peatedly got home on the back of the
neck, in Saylor’s fashion, and also smote
the Hebrew repeatedly on the smeller.
All the same, Lewis fairly earned the
verdict by reason of his work in the first
half of the fight.
In subsequent matches at Sydney,
Lewis fairly and squarely beat Mehegan
and Shugrue, but at Melbourne on July
10, 1914, McCoy had his revenge on the
accomplished Jew. He met Lewis’s
superior speed with perfect timing, and
in close quarters he was distinctly the
better man. At the long-range stuff,
Lewis was the conqueror, but McCoy
had the ring generalship to force the young
man from the East End into the place
where he wanted him, and then he let fly
the battery that won the night. There
was no great margin of points between
them, but it was clearly in McCoy’s
favor and he received the verdict.
The long-looked-for scrap between
Mehegan and McCoy took place at Syd-
ney, May 23, 1914, and was a stubborn,
rugged battle from beginning to end.
The hard-hitting started from the word
go, and McCoy used a straight left
prettily and with considerable effect; but
suddenly discovered to his dissatisfaction
that Mehegan had cultivated a particu-
larly dangerous uppercut which, in the
first clinch, narrowly missed ending the
battle. McCoy did not try to be elusive,
but stood up and mixed it. Mehegan
had thrown away his crouch, and stood
in the Jem Mace style.
In the third he landed a left on
McCoy’s commissariat, and followed up
with the right to the jaw. McCoy was
badly rattled, but managed to hang on
till the end. He came out of his corner
and tried to carry the war into his enemy
in a literal sense by forcing his glove
down Mehegan’s neck. The round de-
veloped into a wild rally, in which both
parties got hurt. McCoy began to feel
that Hughie was crowding him too much,
and kept making room for his opponent
in a most polite manner; but, in order
that he might not feel too neglected, he
would occasionally rush back with a
straight left that bent Mehegan’s head
backwards. But Mehegan was tough
and he kept on hitting harder and harder.
In the eighth round Mehegan almost
got his plucky adversary. He bored
right in and let fly soul-shaking lefts and
rights to the body and head. In spite of
the battering McCoy came back and
strove to even up the points. He used
his straight left again and once more,
and Mehegan could neither guard nor
dodge it.
In the 10th McCoy had another narrow
escape. He was fencing very prettily
when Mehegan charged like a bull and
hurled his fists in front of him as he
charged. He banged McCoy against the
ropes and battered him until the gong
stopped the action. Then Mehegan began
to tire, and seemed to lose the instinct to
hurl his fist at the other fellow. McCoy,
who had recuperated wonderfully during
the spell, got all over him.
In the 13th Mehegan suddenly recov-
ered his hitting power, and great was the
smash he gave Herbert, but Herbert,
though somewhat groggy, survived it.
The 16th brought the beginning of the
end. Out of a wild mix-up Mehegan
sent a heavy one to the jaw, and McCoy,
turning his back on him, reeled towards
the ropes and held himself up. The
chivalrous Hughie looked at him instead
of following him up, and only the wild
roar of the delighted audience roused
him to a sterner sense of duty. McCoy
had slightly recovered, and alternately ;
clung like an oyster and fought like a
dazed tiger-cat, till the gong saved him. ;
He came out as fair and warlike as ever ;
and made a gallant show. But his legs ,
were trembling and he was all but done.
Mehegan stood right in and mixed it.
There was a flutter, and out of the melee
McCoy lurched sideways, fell on his side ]
and rolled over face downwards. As the
referee threw out his hands in sign of
“Finis” Mehegan bounded in, bent down
and carried his opponent to his chair.
Half an hour later he shared a bottle
of champagne with his fallen rival.
At the end of September, 1914, McCoy
held his own with another overseas
scrapper in the first flight, Johnnie
Griffiths. Exceptional pace and skill were
shown by both men. Griffiths was en-
dowed with a longer reach than McCoy
and was as light on his feet as Genee.
On the other hand, McCoy, though not
so airy and graceful, sent back 12 pence
for every shilling.
Never did McCoy let himself go in
Sydney as he did that night. He hurled
himself in with a mixture of utter reck-
lessness and brainy method that plainly
astonished his young American friend.
Johnnie paid considerable attention to
the body, but McCoy cleverly took the
bulk of his blows on elbow and glove
and smashed back with whichever fist
was free.
In the ninth round McCoy, charging
in, met a counter. As he reeled back,
Griffiths got him with heavy rights and
had the Victorian in a bad way. The
gong brought McCoy respite. When he
came out again he had quite recovered,
and he blocked and returned with
■splendid skill.
In the last few rounds Herb got all
over Griffiths, the latter’s left eye being
cut and his mouth badly battered. The
crowd clamored for the verdict to be
given to McCoy, but the referee thought
it was a draw.
Very probably that twelvemonth of
strenuous scrapping took too much out
of McCoy. Still he had enough left in
him to beat Mehegan for the champion-
ship in 1915, and to hold the title for
a couple of He remained in the
ring for several more years, fighting as
often as he could get matches and,
while his youth and strength remained,
never failing to put up a good show.
Australia could do with a lightweight of
his sterling quality nowadays.


"Bluff Is Half the Battle”
CALLING ADEAD MAN
BY FREEMAN
SANDOM
DRAWING BY SUCH.
BLUFF is half the battle, even on quiet Dugong
Island.
Old Peter Holzkopf was worried. For
the hundredth time he announced his inten-
tion of going to town with a gun and putting a charge
of birdshot through Mr. Roy Chalmers, who acted as
manager for the engineering works since old man
Swenson died.
“What’s the use?” I replied, also for the hun-
dredth time. “They’ll only clap you in gaol”
“Bud der mans haf me rob! ” cried Peter. “I haf
der moneys paid! ”
“You paid old Swenson, yes; and, being your
cobber, he gave you no receipt. . Which would have
been all right, only he. died. Now it’s your word
against Chalmers’s.”
“I dell you I paid”
“I know you did. But all we can do is to send
them a letter giving all the particulars we can and
leave it at that. You simply refuse to pay twice. Now
forget about it.”
That was easier said than done. Peter must turn
a grievance over and over until, snowball fashion, it
fills all his thoughts.
I dislike having the old fellow worried, and
when, the next week-end I spent in Barrierville, some-
thing happened which gave me an idea to work on, I
was glad. I was listening to the Railway Band playing
a selection on the Esplanade when Tubby Morton
drifted along.
“And how’s Bill Flowers?” he asked with the
geniality bred of many pots stowed under his belt.
For a while I tried to give intelligent replies to
Tubby’s quick-fire patter without missing a bar of
“Tales of Hoffman.” Then, suddenly, Tubby had all
my attention. It appeared that a series of spiritual-
istic seances were being delivered in Barrierville by
a Madame Claribel, and Tubby unburdened himself
of a more or less humorous account of one of these
meetings, in the course of which recital he mentioned
the name Roy Chalmers.
“What!” said I. “Is Chalmers a spiritualist?”
“Hullo!” said Tubby, “you woke up, did you?
Well, I don’t know, but Chalmers pretty well jumped
down my neck when I asked the medium to get in
touch with Brigham Young with the object of getting
reliable advice on the treatment of wives. Chalmers
said it was sacrilege to joke on the subject of spirits.”
I spent some time after that trying to make a
germ of an idea sprout and grow into a sizable weed,
and on the following Monday I completed a little
confidential business before I had the stores sent
down to the motor-boat ready for my returh. Then.
I strolled along to the engineering works.
THE workshop was situated on the banks of Croco-
-1 dile Creek on the outskirts of the town, just a
couple of tin sheds housing a bit of primitive machin-
ery, a mechanic and a boy the whole staff besides our
friend Chalmers.
Chalmers was a short, fattish man with a round,
red face out of which a pair of ice-blue, prominent
eyes stared with humorless intentness. He greeted me
guardedly.
“Chalmers,”.,l said, coming straight to the point,
“old Peter Holzkopf paid that bill. Swenson took the
money, and you witnessed the transaction.”
He flushed with annoyance.
“The old man is making a ridiculous mistake,”
he blustered. “Or he’s lying to save his purse.”
“Unless a receipt is forthcoming before next
Monday,” I continued, “I’ll take legal steps on Holz-
kopf’s behalf.”
“Legal proceedings!” he jeered. “Why, he ain’t
got a leg to stand on in court. There’s only his .own
word that he paid that bill.”
I shook my head. “There was a witness to the
paying-over of that money.”
“I know! Holzkopf contends I was there.”
I shook my head gravely. “There was another
witness.”
“Rot!” he exclaimed angrily “There was no-
body” He stopped, biting his lower lip in
vexation.
All this time I had regarded a pimple growing
at the root of his nose just between his eyes with a
stern and concentrated stare. I was speaking with
deliberate slowness and immense gravity. Now I
dropped my voice another half-note.
“There was another witness!” I repeated. “Old
man Swenson was there!”
Chalmers regarded me open-mouthed, then
cackled in relief: “Swenson! Swenson is dead,
man! ”
I nodded. “I’m calling him as witness.”
“Calling Swen —— Are you off your head, Bill
Flowers? You can’t call a dead man, you fool!”
“I can and I will,” I affirmed. “Till next Monday,
remember! ” ,
I turned, and left him staring a little foolishly.
Apparently he did not quite know what to make of
me —which was all to the good.
/''AN the wharf Tubby Morton was putting in some
of his ample leisure with a fishing-rod, as usual.
“I’m getting a few crayfish on the reef these low
tides, Tubby,” I said, cranking up. “Like me to bring
you one to-morrow?”
“Crayfish! ” —his fat face lit up with a glow of
pure joy—“my blanky oath I would! Ain’t had a
crayfish for a month of Sundays.”
“All right,” I nodded. And as the engine splut-
tered into clamorous life: “And, Tubby—Madame
Claribel shows again to-night. I’d like to know what
happens.”
“Oke!” said Tubby, who is a quick-thinker in
spite of his folds of fat. I switched into gear and
streaked into the channel.
The next day I had a decent haul of barramundi,
also a basketful of crayfish out of the pots along the
small dead-coral reef north of Shark’s Point. Tubby
was on the wharf waiting.
Yes, he had attended the seance. Yes, Chalmers
was there. Oh, the usual lot of rot. A woma*i fainted
when her husband announced that he was in heaven,
happy and content. King Tut-ank-Amen had lectured
on the art of pyramid-building. Old-man Swenson
had put in an appearance, or rather his voice. Some-
thing was worrying him, too. Something was wrong
with the books he had left behind; he was trying to
say something about an account. Madame Claribel
thought the reception would be much better to-
morrow night. What did I think that crayfish scaled?
Six pounds, hey? Sure, it would do! The finest
crayfish he had seen for a long time.
THREE days passed before the bread I had thrown
on the waters returned. It came in the form of
a letter addressed to Peter Holzkopf. The sheet of
paper was headed by a beautiful picture of sundry
machines and palm-trees intertwined—old gold and
black—set within a map of North Queensland. Over
this hovered a giant boomerang.
“Dear Sir (I read out to Peter), — In refer-
ence to the account for £5 ss. (five pounds five
shillings ) with which we had indebted you . we
now beg to advise that this item was an unfor-
tunate mistake.
Owing to the late Mr. Swenson’s somewhat
lax methods of bookkeeping, particularly
towards his regretted demise, it was impossible
to trace definitely whether the above-mentioned
amount had been paid to us. Now, however,
a memo, written on a loose piece of paper in
the late Mr. Swenson’s handwriting has been
discovered, which establishes beyond doubt that
your account was liquidated as you asserted.
We are, therefore, enclosing herewith our
official receipt, and beg to tender our regrets
for the unfortunate misunderstanding.
The letter was signed: Roy Chalmers, Acting
Manager.
Peter put down his pipe. “Nod von single vord
I onderschtand! ” he exclaimed. “Donnerundblitzen,
for vy can der mans nod English write? Bud no
madder, I haf der moneys baid. Oont von day I dake
mine gun—nefer mind, Pill Flowers! Dot iss mine
pizness— oont I shood der mans Shalmers voll to der
negg vrom birdshodd—vat!”
It took me the best past of half an hour to
explain the meaning of the letter, and to convince
Peter that his honor was definitely vindicated.
“And now,” I finished, “you owe me ten bob,
Peter.”
Peter glared. “Den bobs? Vat! For vy?”
“Witness’s expenses,” I said, “paid in advance.
And, furthermore, the value of one six-pound cray-
fish.”
Then the magnitude of the task before me, the
job of explaining the whole affair to Peter, appalled
me. I laughed. “Never mind, Peter, I was only
joking.”
‘Damn’ bad yoke!” said Peter sourly. “Don’t
you yoke as dot vons more, Pill Flowers!”
After Rain.
Sweet it is to walk the Bush
After sudden summer showers,
When the rain has quenched the thirst
Of the trees and ferns and flowers.
Sweet it is to hear the thrush
And the magpie raise their notes —
Mingling liquid melody
As though rain-washed were their throats.
Sweet it is to hear the drops
Dripping frond and blade upon,
Like a host of fairy feet
Tripping, tripping, tripping on.
Then there’s perfume in the air —
Odors prisoned, sealed and pent
In the earth —and now released
From rich reservoirs of scent.
Oh, if -you but seek the Bush
When the rain has worked its will,
You shall wander, wander there —
Sense surprised and soul athrill.
N.S.W.
RODERIC OUINN.


n “3his masterpiece is Perfection ~
!J the spirit he always serves.
5^
-
\H
?i:i
m
V,,
y«y
Q) c Gdlum‘s
(IFCallums
Scots CUhisk^
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I .enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
&
<<*'
BP’"
<f <s*
$ ?^ e
( %0 > '^ 1 v^K-Tv s ''
■ u Vs‘
/<$ e
,v>r ,•-' ..•-' .-•"<:
.t> ~••
X O 6 vo^
.\ss ..• .*** . vV 0<
*


100,000 People Have Read
This AMAZING BOOK!
m
PAST the 100,000 mark, and still going strong! If you
would read something that would stir your very vitals
—if you would learn something the like of which you had
never even dreamed! Then send for this book and read
how YOU can charge your body full of vitality, add five
inches to your chest, acquire the power of battering rams
in your arms, and develop a neck and legs like pillars! It’s
all here in this very book explained in detail, and you’ll
agree, like thousands of others have, that it’s the most
amazing book you have ever seen.
I Build Strong, Hand-
some, Healthy Bodies
People call me the Muscle-maker. I make
men’s bodies strong and healthy.
My list of thousands of wonderful
successes includes schoolteachers and
lawyers, book-keepers and clerks,
grandfathers and grandsons, fat men
and skinny men, weaklings and
nervous wrecks. By a method of scientific
body-building, I go all over your body,
strengthening your internal organs, broad-
ening your shoulders, cutting off fat, and
generally turning you inside out until
you’re a healthy, handsome, fighting he-
man any woman will be proud of in just
thirty days.
WATCH THEM TURN
AROUND!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow
who carries himself with head up. Notice
how the broad-shouldered man always gets their
eye. They want a dependable he-man when
they make their choice—one who can protect them.
AND YOU CAN BE THAT MAN. Remember, I
do not only promise it, I GUARANTEE IT. Now,
don't put it off a minute. Get going to
new happiness and real manhood to-day.
MAKE THIS TEST
TO-NIGHT! (
Before you step into your pyjamas to-night, stand |
in front of the mirror and look yourself over. 1
Are you proud of the man you see? Is he a
strapping, broad-shouldered husky, with arching
chest and rippling bands of solid muscle?
Would you bet on him in a fight?
Be fair to yourself. You can't expect the respect of
men or the admiration of women if you’re a
physical weakling. Let me get to work on that
body of yours. Let me build a man who’ll be
PROUD to step out in a bathing suit. This free
book shows how EASY it is. You’ll never know
what this book is worth to you until you’ve read
it yourself. It may change your entire life. It’s
a revelation in body-building and muscle-
building. It’s crammed full of pictures and
matter that will make you open your eyes.
Thousands of men have thought it worth while
to send the “free book” coupon below to get
their copies. It won’t cost you one penny. No
obligation no salesmen will call. YOU be the
judge .and jury. Mail the coupon or write
TO-DAY.
I Don’t Promise You Re-
suits-l Guarantee Them
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of solid
muscle on your arms; to increase - your chest
five inches; to develop your neck to a size
larger collar; to add three inches of powerful
development to four thighs, two inches to your
calves; to give you a firm, slim waistline that
will make you take in a notch or two in ,
your belt.
And I don’t ask you to take my word for it- —-
I don’t promise anything—I back every state-
ment with an ironclad GUARANTEE.
I’ve done all this for others. I can do it for
you. Get the PROOF—send for my amazing
new Book—NOW! It’s FREE.
ALFRED J. BRITON,
iVorld-famous International Phy-
sical Director; Founder of “Realth
and Physical Culture."
ĵ
j
“1 am fitter than ever before —your
course is doing for me more than I
ever imagined.”
R. A. NORRIS', C., S. Africa.
“The development of my arms and
shoulders has been really wonderful,
and it does my eyesight good to look
at my biceps and triceps, which are
now becoming a ball of muscle. I
wish I had taken your course years
ago and so saved myself much suffer-
ing and ill-health.”
C. J. CROSBIE, S., Vic.
“I am very pleased with your
course, and I feel wonderfully fit —
in fact, I’ve never felt better in my
life. All my friends are talking about
my wonderful physique. I thank you
again from the bottom of my heart
for what your system has done for
me.”
J. MORRISON, S., Scotland.
“I have seen my body pass from a
bony structure to that of a well-
muscled athlete. I have gained 7|in.
round the chest in 95 days.”
J. M. CRAIG, G., N.Z.
“I have completed the first course
and I am amazed. I have gained
eight pounds in weight and inches
around chest.”
K. H. FOULIS. T., Fiji.
“My chest has increased 3j inches
and each arm inches. Every-
one has marvelled at the pheno-
menal development of my body after
only one month.”
J. CLARK, Calif., U.S.A.
Gains One Stone!
“I am writing you these few lines to
congratulate you and your wonderful
system on the way it has developed
my body. My weight has increased
nearly a stone, and my height nearly
an inch.”
G. SWAINSON, M. Est., N.S’.W.
Height Increased.
“Gained two inches in height.”
Yours sincerely,
N. GRAVE', Malvern, Vic.
Gains sin. Around Chest.
“I am now 41 Jin. round the chest,
which is an increase of 5 inches.”
0. E. JEBREEN, M., Nth. Qld.
Gained 7in. Round the Chest!
“Before I started the Course, my
chest, normal, was 27 inches, but
now it is 34 inches, and 36 expanded;
truly a marvellous difference.”
J. MILNER, C., Norfolk Is.
Now a New Man!
“I beg to write and thank you
for the splendid muscle-building
and health-giving course you sent
me some months ago. I have been
through the whole Course thoroughly
and find myself a new man.”
A. V. HAY, G., N.Z.
Gained 3in. on Chest.
“I have just completed two
months of Exeelding, and am glad
to say that I have already made a
marked development, both in muscles
and appetite. Since I have started
1 have gained 3 inches on the chest,
and my thighs and calves are each
one inch bigger.”
JOHN WOLF, T., Sth Africa.
Don’t Know How to Express
Gratitude.
“I don’t think you have a more
thankful and satisfied pupil than I
am. In fact, I am that satisfied I
don’t know how to express my
gratitude. lam lost for words good
enough to praise your wonderful
course. No man should be without
it, at least no man would be without
it if he had it a few days. It is
marvellous.”
D. H. MOREHEAD, D., N.Z.
Great Improvement.
“I have now had about 12 days’
treatment, and already I am feeling
vastly improved, both physically and
mentally.”
K, I. MeCALL, G., Solomon Is.
ABSOLUTELY FREE!
This month, to every reader of this paper who is interested
—here is my offer: To prove to you what I have said about
the “Secrets of Muscular Strength and How to Acquire It,’
I am going to give ONE FREE ISSUE, providing you make
application at once! This book has been the cause of
changing the lives of thousands of men. I have received
countless thousands of wonderful letters and photographs
of actual transformation of men who never
thought they could acquire strength and
development! Make me PROVE these asser-
tions to you by sending for your copy this
minute, not to-morrow, you may be too late,
but to-day—NOW. Are you ready?
FREE BOOK COUPON *POST NOW
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept L,
107 Pitt St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely FREE n copy of roar
latest book. “The Secrets of Muscular Strength—Anri How To
4eonir, It " rion'l send -me nennr it'. FREE
lIJIJ 4DIIU ESS
29/12 / ’37.
ALFRED J. BRITON
Dept. L,
107 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Qmtheh 1.500
FRii BOOKS
fccr distniOution.
v (use coupon)
Just take a peep at the physiques ot
these Briton Pupils; they are only a
few. There are
thousands more
¥ o u, too,
can .acquire
mighty
muscles and
sple n d i d
health. Send
the coupon
—NOVV1
vm if
K&Ncmf
Mn .
m
