

S&J* ,
THE i% ,
/A
<*c
«y
f
A ■<***..■«.
m
V
X
/
•s^-.
<*S
%
3f
1
>
n.
6
W;
3BW
X
'■
J
L‘
HAVING something
on “The Cup” ?
Here’s hoping your
luck’s in!
But, win or lose, have
something in a glass.
Make it Johnnie
Walker. That at least
is a “certainty”—always
mature, smooth and
heartening, as only the
very finest Scotch
whisky can be.
JOHNNIE
WANKER
Born 1820 ~ Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd.,
LONDON, KILMARNOCK,
SYDNEY.
m
/A
The Bulletin
VoL 58.—N0. 3011.
Wednesday, October 27, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
"AUSTRALIAN WRITERS" ARTICLES.
On page 50 of this Bulletin begins a brief series
of articles on Australian writers by the authors who
work in collaboration as M. Barnard Eldershaw.
The articles have been specially written for The
Bulletin, but the views and criticisms expressed in
them are those to be given at greater length in a book
to be published later by Melbourne University Press.
The articles will supplement those on Vance
Palmer, Katharine Prichard, Hugh McCrae and others
published in The Bulletin a little time ago. Those
articles left a number of leading Australian writers
not dealt with, and it is of some of the main ones
of these that M. Barnard Eldershaw will write.
The first article is on one acknowledged to be in
the first flight of Australian writers —Henry Handel
Richardson.
AUSTRALIAN LITERARY CURRENTS.
Writers of the landscape school, whose books
picturing life and adventure in unknown Australia
have enjoyed wide popularity over recent years, appear
to be a product of the same energy that inspired the
balladists of the ’nineties and before them the word-
of-mouth versifiers who drew pictures of early colonial
life in what were largely parodies of Old Country
songs.
These last made the first attempt to domesticate
the strange continent, to make a verbal image of life
in it.
They had. no publishers until a few years ago,
when Banjo Paterson collected what was remembered
of their work. Theirs was a campfire audience, and
a responsive one that spread what they created by
repetition until even to-day, outback, fragments of it
are still heard.
They faded into silence. Perhaps their audience
thinned when it became obvious that their rhymes were
lapsing into mere variations on themes already ex-
ploited.
The balladists, led by Paterson, with their songs
of the shearing-shed and the droving track, seemed to
burst into the light in response to changes in local life.
The boundaries of the unknown had been pushed back,
the population had become largely native-born,
nationalism was in the air, there was a fresh outlook
and a fresh image was needed to express it.
There was a civilisation to support that effort.
The verse was printed and books of it sold by the
ten and twenty thousand. The audience was urban
as well as rural, for the balladists gave the bush a
peculiar and enduring place in the Australian town-
dweller’s consciousness. They made him feel a par-
ticipant in its life—particularly in its heroic and
glamorous aspects.
The balladists, like their crude forerunners,
ceased their song. They had exhausted the freshness
of their method and, except for echoing variations,
the possibilities of their theme. They had domesti-
cated another section of Australian life.
That stream of expression disappeared, to reappear
with the landscape school. The books of this move-
ment came like a series of timber drives, revealing
vista after vista. The unknown and the half-known,
the far west, the inland deserts, Queensland’s tropic
coast, the Kimberleys, the Territory, New Guinea
jungles and Torres Strait islands sprang one after an-
other into sharp focus. Outback life had gone off. New
images that a word could evoke in the Australian
mind were needed. The energy that had produced the
balladists and their predecessors had renewed itself
and burst into the light again, with a fresh method
of doing its work.
How long it will continue in its present course
it is impossible to predict. Its vigor and its hold on
the national imagination show no signs of running out,
and it is one of the two main streams of writing energy
in Australia to-day.
The other is the novel, with which it is usefully
comparable though not competitive. Of its nature it is
a pioneer effort, clearing the ground for the closer,
finer work that must follow as a process of a spreading
civilisation. It seizes on the obvious and the readily
communicable. It leaves to the novel —which appears
to have drawn to itself much of the poetic energy that
sparkled here a generation ago—the task of getting
behind the first appearances of things, of creating the
more complex images that are needed if the whole of
our life is to be expressed.
F. D. D.
LITERARY COMPETITIONS.
Entries indicate that one thing needs emphasising
regarding the Screen Story Competition The Bulletin
is running in conjunction with Cinesound Productions,
Ltd. — scenarios are not wanted.
They will not be read.
The competition is for stories. The Bulletin
offers prizes of £3O, £l5 and £5 for these, with a
special prize of £5 for the best brief story of up
to 1500 words; length limit for stories generally is
6500 words.
Competitors may send in any number they wish.
They need not wait till the closing date of the com-
petition—January 31 —but may send them in when
written. As they come to hand the stories will be
read, and all considered suitable for publication will
be bought at once. Stories bought may be published
before closing date, but all will be considered in judg-
ing for the prizes. In the last competition the winner
was published long before closing date.
Prize-winners will be paid for at Bulletin rates
in addition to whatever prize-money they may take
out. Bulletin rates will also be paid for all other
entries accepted.
What Cinesound Productions, Ltd., offers is a
prize of £lOO for the story among these most suitable
for film purposes. Cinesound will look after the
scenario writing itself.
Members of The Bulletin staff are not eligible
to compete. Any other details required may be had
on application.
The other current Bulletin literary competition
—the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize—closes on June 6.
In this competition the award will be £2OO. The
competition is for novels, and entries considered suit-
able for publication—apart from the winner—will be
bought as serials. Particulars of this competition
may also be had on application.
New Fiction.
Ronald Frazer’s A House in the Park (Cape;
Bs. 6d.), is a long novel of present times woven round
the lives of twins, Bobbie and Hella Stokes, born
1895.
The author explores in considerable detail and
with great pertinacity their Age of Innocence in the
pre-war world—about which there already hangs in
the minds of so many novelists the tender bloom of
a Golden Age for ever lost—their awakening and dis-
illusionment in war, their struggle to find themselves
in the post-war flux; Bobbie as a painter, Hella
through a couple of marriages and a couple of amor-
ous side issues.
This field has already been exploited, and it
requires something like genius to add new lustre to it.
Frazer is not a genius, but he is a fairly competent
novelist. After long stretches that are merely efficient
there is suddenly a burst of light—a passage, an inci-
dent, a journey to Spain, a Christmas party, a war
episode, all glowing with life-then the light is switched
off again as abruptly as electricity. v
This curious intermittence is apparent in the plot
and in the characters as well as in the treatment. The
theme is a worn one, but it has some new angles.
The unbreakable bond between the twins —their almost
mystical kinship—is beautifully handled; so is the love
of their father and mother as glimpsed by the children.
But this beauty and delicacy is too often cancelled by
meretricious scenes and by such obviously spurious
characters as Uncle Harry, the epicurean sage, or Lady
Alice with her “divine body and immortal curls.”
Frazer is for ever making and breaking his book.
The second volume of Compton Mackenzie’s
Four Winds of Love, The South Wind of Love (Rich
and Cowan; Dymock’s; 10s. 6d.), carries on the
story of John Ogilvie—whose adolescence was dealt
with in The East Wind of Love —from 1912 to 1918.
The book is by no means dominated by love
interest. When it opens, John, now a successful play-
wright, is having an affair with a French actress,
Gabrielle Derozier. Her intentions are matrimonial,
his are not, and they part in a cloud of sparks on
page 144. It is not until page 559 that love enters
again. This time in the soft south wind of young love
(Gabrielle was a sirocco).
The girl is Zoe, a maid of Athens, the 18-year-old
daughter of a Greek shipping magnate, whom John
sees on a refugee ship and instantly loves. Their idyll
is brief, a few snatched meetings and tender interludes
in time of war. Zoe will not marry without a trous-
seau. John wangles her a passage back to Athens
in a Government dispatch boat. It is torpedoed and
Zoe is drowned —on page 767.
The interest of the book centres on public affairs
and social development; the theatre in its heyday, the
comic beginnings of the motion pictures, Broadway,
Ireland, the war seen from the viewpoint of an in-
telligence officer in the Near East.
It is a dramatised picture of the times. Mackenzie
writes from personal experience. The narrative is
full of incident, often exciting, sometimes bitterly
satiric, and done with a verve that grips.
The book is rather too heavily weighted with
documentary evidence, numerous letters and dispatches
reproduced in full, a redundant habit which appears
to be growing on the writer. It is a solemn thought
that, if the four volumes are to balance, John Ogilvie
will have to encounter two more major passions, two
minor ones and weather the Depression before he can
fulfil his author’s purpose and be allowed to settle
down.
They Seek a Country, by Francis Brett Young
(Heinemann; Dymock’s ; Bs. 6d.), begins at the time
when the British Parliament proposed, by means of
the Enclosure Bill, to deprive the villagers of the
common lands. John Oakley, a village Hampden,
petitions Parliament in the interests of the people. His
cause is defeated, and his local enemies revenge them-
selves on him. He is arrested on a charge of poaching,
found guilty and sentenced to transportation to Van
Diemen’s Land.
The ship runs out of water near the South African
coast. Oakley and his friend George Dicketts are
among a boat’s crew sent ashore to fill the empty butts.
They escape into the bush, and after many hardships
reach the homestead of old Adrian Prinsloo, a Dutch
settler. They are nursed back to health, and Oakley
forms an attachment for Lisbet Prinsloo; his rival
being Jan Bothma, her stalwart but unlikeable cousin.
Cape Colony legislation has become increasingly
irksome to the Boer farmers, and at last there is a
general trek into Natal in which the Englishmen join.
At the end of the difficult journey fresh troubles arise.
Through the treachery of a Zulu chief war starts, and
great numbers of the Boers are killed before the
colonists are able to settle down in the new country.
They Seek a Country is a spacious book, but with
a lack of intense feeling ; and perhaps because of that
lack the author has been able to make a very smooth
job of the writing. Life on the convict ship, the bush
wandering, the great trek across the Paroo and over
the Drakensberg mountains are all well done. Its
weakness is that men are of less interest than events.
You know almost from the start that no matter what
happens the personal salvation of the leading char-
acters has been arranged.
End of Cornwall (Cape; 9s. 6d.), Richard Pres-
ton’s second book, shows a picture of Cornwall through
the village of Tregwidden—the Cornwall of the fisher-
man, the tinminer, the small tradesman.
All the stories that make up the plot—of George
Tangey, exasperating husband of an exasperating
wife ; of Sam Spargo, the nervous tobacconist; of
Amos Roscorla and his grandmother; of Bob Rodda
and his efforts to live first by fishing and then by
prospecting; of Bronwen Crowle, and of many others
—are held firmly in this setting and unified by it.
The author’s sentiment for Cornwall and his strong
social feeling fuse this book of many characters and
many ingredients into a living whole.
End of Cornwall is scarcely a political tract, but
it draws with pity and indignation a picture of a
community trapped in circumstance and driven by
poverty to desperation. The mines are idle; the fish-
ing has been deliberately ruined by the dealers and
the steam trawlers. There is little work and less hope.
Men are demoralised by idleness, their lives twisted
to ugly shapes, their natural human pride injured
beyond repair by their helplessness.
This humiliation at the hands of life, this help-
lessness before it, is, as Preston sees it, the end of
the brave old Cornwall that he loves.
The minor as well as the major characters are
sharply drawn and full of life. The prose style is
trenchant, sometimes abrupt. It has moments of
beauty as well as of wit; it is a flexible instrument for
all its forthrightness.
Funny Pieces: Stephen Leacock (The Bodley
Head ; 7s. 6d. net). Characteristic Leacockian fun-
poking at educational, literary and other human
pursuits and affectations. His touch is as light and
his eye for humbug as keen as ever.
Tennis Shoes: Noel Streatfield (Dent; 55.). For
the youthful. Family life and games. Nicolette, the
heroine, whacks all-comers at tennis. Well written and
illustrated with very good pen-and-ink sketches.
Return to Youth: Maribel Edwin (Hodder and
Stoughton ; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). Love problems with
happy solution. Camilla mourns her deceased soldier
husband and feels herself a stranger to his successor.
Son Timothy, trying to be a writer, is torn between
two charmers.
Summer Half: Angela Thirkell (Hamish Hamil-
ton ; 7s. 6d.). English manor-house and public-school
setting. Boyish antics, adult friendships and a young
romance.
Summer’s End: Dorothy Black (Hodder and
Stoughton ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). Charming widowed
authoress’s efforts to bring up four charming but way-
ward children as well as rule her own heart. English
country setting.
The Fair Beauty : George Godfrey Sellick (Hodder
and Stoughton ; Dymock’s ; 55.). Reflections inspired
in the author by contemplation of his garden. Nicely
printed and decorated.
Leading Ladies: Simon Koster (Robert Hale;
7s. 6d.). Gay adventures following on Elsa’s imper-
sonation of a film star who becomes lost in the Balkans
while travelling to Rhodes to make a film.
Britain and the Beast: Edited by Clough Wil-
liams-Ellis; 26 contributors (Dent; 10s. 6d. net).
Survey of the English scene and protest against the
destruction of its beauty. No harm would be done
if every Australian alderman read it.
Death from the Skies: Heinz Liepmann (Seeker
and Warburg; 6s. net). Central point of this book is
that, while the world’s normal annual demand for
arsenic is 15,000 tons, Germany is buying 50,000 tons
per annum from Sweden, “enough to make sufficient
poison-gas to transform the whole of Europe into a
mortuary.” Writer is a Jewish exile from Germany.
The Six Wives of Henry VIII.: Paul Rival (Heine-
mann; 12s. 6d. net). An imaginative Frenchman re-
creates the amorous life of a monarch who has been
dead for four centuries. Why not exhume King Solo-
mon and have a real feast?
And Both He Loved: Henrietta Leslie (Robert
Hale; 7s. 6d.). Can a man love two women? A
good many have tried, and Chris Sheen is one of
them. He did not love Gina, his childless wife, the
less for his interest in Janet, but at last Gina leaves
for Paris; she has her beloved violin —and she is still
young.
“Bohemian”: Will Lawson looks like living to see
himself the doyen of Australian and Maoriland
writers. Though he was a slightly younger contem-
porary of Henry Lawson, Edward Dyson and Will
Ogilvie, he is still writing prolifically and puts in heavy
preparatory work. His Cobb and Co. book was pre-
ceded by a lot of time spent going over old coaching
routes and hunting up old-time drivers, a long river
trip went into the making of Old Man Murray, and
several months in Hobart, inspecting hulks and yarning
with ancient skippers and harpooners, is soon to result
in a book on the old whaling days.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
‘‘THE SENIOR STORE.’
f
ANTHONY HORDERNS
20 DAYS
GENUINE
SPRING
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
lli
<
LIJ
y
§
LU
1
m
ihor
ii
life:
H'l
M
I
■
! fe
Ri
wm
i I
■
;s. :i r
H
:
HH
i
*■
m
ife
i ■
■
n| SSs
Men’s Work Trousers
Byll8 y ll Work Trousers
You will derive long and valuable service
from these Australian Cotton Tweed
Work Trousers. In neat, dark patterns.
Sizes 30 to 46 waist. Price, pair . . 8/11
Sale Price 7/11
/II
Marrickville Tweed Trousers
These Marrickville Tweed Trousers are
our own make. All wool and best
quality. Available in neat, dark patterns.
Sizes, waist, 30 to 46. Price, pair, 18/6.
Sale Price 14/6
/
19/6 All Wool Serge
Trousers
Fine quality; guaranteed not to fade.
They are our own make, and we can
assure satisfactory wear. Price, pr., 19/6.
Sale Price 15/6
156
15/6 Jodhpurs
Strong, Fawn Riding
Twists, cut for saddle
wear. Stoutly made.
Sizes, waist, 30 to 42.
Price .... 15/6. Sale Price .... 14/3
143
Riding Breeches
You will enjoy a life-
time service from these
Olive Gabardine Rid-
ing Breeches. They
are strongly made and
well cut. Price, 27/6.
2ft
Combination
Overalls
Khaki Drill Combina-
tion Overalls of strong
English Drill. They are
strongly sewn through-
out, and will stand hard
wear. Price ■. . 12/9
Sale Price .... 11/6
Il x 6
zm
* 1
-
wmmk
Jißill
:: '
■
■i
Lit
; I
? 1
'TX
c:
m
II
m
m
m
m
mm
m
i
USE OUR D.P.S.
By payment of a deposit of not less than
one-fifth of the purchase price of any of
these articles, you can secure it for your-
self, and continue to pay for it in easy
weekly or monthly instalments. This is
our Deposit Purchase System (D.P.S.) and
is applicable to all departments. Most
advantageous to you during our genuine
Sale.
© Men's Wear—Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY ’Phone: M 2401, Day or Night.


Mrs. Parsley Meets Trouble
The INFERNAL
TRIANGLE
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
By
HAROLD
MERCER
it nr" HE Bible says that a woman’s crowning glory
is her hair; so it stands to reason that she
| shouldn’t get it off,” remarked Mrs. Parsley
didactically. “But they do ; and that is one
of the reasons for the infernal triangle, which is one
of them things I will not have in my house if I can
help it. But the poor thing is always with us, as the
Bible says.”
For once I made no effort to check Mrs. Parsley’s
garrulity. I had some idea of what had stirred it this
morning ; and I was curious as to the cause of the
commotion of the previous night.
“If I had known that the Coopers, who was
Number Fifteen, and the Blacks, who was Number
Eight, had brought their triangles,” went on Mrs.
Parsley, “they would have only come into the place
over my dead corpse. But how was I to know their
aniseedings? lam no prophet to be able to read the
mistries of the dead, forgotten past; and I had no
more idea than a, baby duckling that Mrs. Cooper
was Mrs. Black and Mrs. Black was Mrs. Cooper.”
“By Jove! An interesting situation!” The ejacu-
lation was forced from me. “I don’t wonder there
were ructions.”
“Ructions,” said Mrs. Parsley with a touch of
acidity, “are what I will not allow in my establish-
ment, not if I can help it. A good row now and again
is what you cannot avoid between people who are
respectably married; but ructions —no. Although
there may have been some in this case.
HEY booked up for their flats within an hour
* of each other, and it was not until they had
both been here some time that I noticed something
funny when they both met in my flat, where Mrs.
Black and Mrs. Cooper had come to ask about some-
thing. As I introduced them, Mrs. Cooper went all
stiff as if she had been a frozen imidge.
“ ‘I hope,’ she says, ‘that you are getting along
happily with my husband.’
“Talk about the last straw that shows the way
the wind is blowing! You could have knocked me
down with that. It didn’t sound respectable to me
at all.
“ ‘I don’t know you, Grace ; and I don’t want
to know you,’ said Mrs. Black, which it didn’t sound
to me like the gospel truth, seeing she used her
Christian name.
“ ‘lf you ladies are living with one another’s hus-
bands,’ I says when I could get a chance to put my
oar in the troubled waters, ‘wouldn’t it be more
respectable not to talk about it?’
“ ‘How dare you say that! ’ cried Mrs. Cooper.
‘Of course it is my own husband I am married to.
But this woman stole my first.’
“ ‘Stole! ’ cried Mrs. Black. And they was off
again like a packet of firebrands.
“It turned out that they were quite respectable,
both having been divorced and married again to each
other’s husbands, as was very proper and right; but
I felt it was embraces of riches, as they say, to have
them both here with their infernal triangle and every-
thing.
“ ‘l’m sure I don’t know what is best to be done,’
I says. ‘You are both paid up to the end of the
week : but I suppose that one of you ladies will be
leaving.’
“ ‘l’m sure 7 won’t,’ snaps Mrs. Black. ‘The place
suits me, and I’m not going to leave simply because
a woman who has married the worm I discarded
chooses to come here.’
“It was a case of two minds that butt a single
thought, two hearts that beat the band, with them.
Each of them thought that the other had come to the
place with mallets aforethought, as they say in the
courts, because the other was there.
“ ‘That woman has come here,’ says Mrs. Cooper
—that was when Mrs. Black had gone to her own flat
—‘to flaunt my ’usband before my eyes. But you
needn’t be afraid, Mrs. Parsley. There will be no
disturbances. I will treat her merely as the dirt
beneath my feet.’
“Which was precisely what Mrs. Black said, too,
when I spoke to ’er alone. This ‘dirt beneath my
feet’ and worm that was discarded were hard words,
and it didn’t seem to me very pleasant to have them
being cast about the house. But it wasn’t for me to turn
away good tenants who paid their rents and were
quite respectable, having divorce decrees to show it,
so long as the only notice they took of one another
was to take no notice of one another, which was what
they told me they intended to do.
“AS a matter of fact, it seemed that their being
in the same place was not going to be so bad
as time went on. They even became almost friendly,
as they ought to have been, seeing that they had all
been married to one another. You wouldn’t have
noticed much difference in them to ordinary pairs
except that each couple was so loving you would
almost think they weren’t really married. If it hadn’t
been for other people interfering in their little undo-
mestic disagreements—people like that Mr. Hepburn,
who was Number Sixteen, and that Mr. Ben Tomlin —
the triangle might have been left in obeisance, which
is the right place for such things.
“Of course, I knew that both the husbands
wanted to leave. Not that I’m one of them peeping
Toms who hear no good of theirselves ; but, working
about the place, it was impossible not to hear what
went on in the flats. When Mr. Black’d say that it
was best to get away, Mrs. Black’d tell him that that
was because he still had a soft spot in his heart for
that dreadful creature and couldn’t bear to see her
the wife of another man; which, if she had known
that, she would never have married him.
“That being the attitude of their wives, the men
had to stay, though they were very uncomfortable
about it. I rather liked that Mr. Cooper, who was
big and jolly and a very quiet man, except that, when
he got a few in, he thought he was a regular Robin-
son Crusoe, and used to linger on the stairs singing, as
he came in, to let the other tenants admire his voice.
Which Mrs. Cooper used to say that he was singing
to stir memories in Mrs. Black’s heart, and was quite
nasty about it. But I hadn’t much time for Black,
who was a little pugressive man, and used to boast
about being a publican in politics. He hoped, he
would say, that the day would come when the people
would rise and all kings and emperors would be
admonished. I have no time for people who talk like
that.
“Once as I was tidying the hall outside Number
Eight I heard Mr. and Mrs. Black hard at it.
“ ‘He may be a worm,’ says she, ‘but I’m sure
the pore feller doesn’t deserve to be treated in the
way that beauty that used to be yours treats him.
Never thinks of his meals, pore feller —and him with
a delicate stummick!’
“ ‘Damn ’is delicate stummick,’ says Black nastily.
‘Whatever Agnes gives ’im is too good for the swine.’
“‘How dare you talk like that! Remember,’
says Mrs. Black, ‘he was once my ’usband. I believe
you still ’ave a soft spot in your heart for that worth-
less creature.’
“ ‘Well,’ says Black, ‘I don’t see why you should
be always going at her. Why not leave ’er alone?
It would be much better if we moved and got away
from them.’
“‘That shows ’ow spineless you are, Tom!’ says
Mrs. Black. ‘You’d run away.’
“What Mrs. Black said to ’im, however, was
nothing to what Mrs. Cooper said to Cooper, especi-
ally after the night ’e ’ad ’ad tea with the Blacks.
Mrs. Black, seeing ’im roaming about the corridors
like a lost ram on the Mountings, looking out for
’is wife to come ’ome, ’ad seen a good chance to
crow it over ’im. Not that ’e wanted their tea, I
expect, but they forced it on ’im.
“ ‘l’m sure you never missed a meal when you
was my ’usband,’ says Mrs. Black when they ’ad ’im
fairly seated where they could let ’im ’ave it. ‘I don’t
know how that creature ’as the face to go to the
pickshers an’ leave ’er ’usband at ’ome to starve.’
“ ‘Oh, she ain’t too bad,’ mumbles Cooper.
“ ‘I wouldn’t let even a dog go without ’is meals,’
said Mrs. Black to let ’im know jest where ’e stood.
“Mrs. Cooper evened matters up by ironing a
shirt for Black. She ’appened to be talkin’ to me
when Black comes along to see if I could rub over
a shirt for ’im, Mrs. B. ’aving gone back to bed after
getting breakfast, and gone to sleep.
“ Til do it for you, Tom, with pleasure,’ says
Mrs. Cooper, grabbing at the shirt prompt-like. ‘When
you was my ’usband, Tom, you never wanted for a
shirt ready to go out, decent-looking. And look,
this wants mending! I wouldn’t let anyone go about
in a shirt like that!’
“Black couldn’t very well grab the shirt back.
’E ’ad to let ’er do it, looking pretty miserable. ’E
knew that Mrs. Black’d nearly tear the shirt off ’is
back when she ’eard about it.
((CO they went on doing all the things for one
another’s husbands as unpleasantly as possible.
That was where the triangle came in. The women
’ad their own way of fightin’, but the men, when they
started, was noisier. I ’ad to go up to Number Eight
to stop the row.
“ ‘Whose wife are you' anyway?’ I ’eard Black
yelling. ‘ ’E’s alius ’aving ’is meals ’ere! ’
“There was more there than I expected; an’
Black’s lip was bleedin’. That wasn’t Cooper’s fault.
It was that young chap Ben Tomlin, a stranger within
the grates, so to speak, who had punched him for
saying something nasty to Mrs. Black. A regular
night errand, Mrs. Black said he was, talking after-
wards to me.
“That was where the ructions, as you call them,
began properly. Them triangles was getting in their
dirty work on the crossroads, as the saying is. The
trouble in Number Fifteen was all over when I got
up there. Mr. Hepburn, who was in Number Six-
teen, just next door, was coming out of the flat when
I arrived.
“ ‘I want to tell you, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says in
a loud voice which I knew at once he wanted the
people inside the flat to hear, ‘that if that scoundrel
starts the rough stuff again with that poor little woman
I’ll take him by the scruffle and throw him out of
the window.’
“It appeared that Mrs. Cooper had offered to
do up a suit for Black which Mrs. Black had acci-
dental upset some soup over —at least, they said it
was accidental; and Cooper had made a row about
it. Then Mr. Hepburn had interfered when Cooper
was trying to throw the suit out of the window, and
Mrs. C. was threatening to crown him with the hot
iron.
“ ‘I am not going to have my house turned into
a Bethlehem, not for anyone,’ I tells Mr. Cooper.
‘One of you pairs will have to seek pastors new, i
says.


“ ‘I wish I could get my wife to go, Mrs. Parsley,’
says Cooper. Poor feller, I was a good bit sorry for
him, being such a quiet man really, except for his
habit of singing when he was drunk ; but seeing his
wife doing up her former husband’s pants was enough
to make any man boil, as they say.
“But somehow, although one time and another
I told- both the Blacks and the Coopers to go, not
once but often, they stayed on. And so did the
disturbances, with that Ben Tomlin and Mr. Hep-
burn butting into them now to make Confucius
worse confound it, as Shakspeare says. The way I
used to have to run up to Number Eight or Number
Fifteen to tell them they’d have to go, which they
never did, was bad for my carpets. Them two men
were seeing the best side of their former wives and
the worst of their present ones.
“SOMETIMES there would be almost the peace
that passes all understanding for nearly a week
and then there would be a flare-up again, with all of
them going hammer and tongues, as the saying goes.
Even when there was peace anyone could see
with half an eye what was coming. There were them
two men sticking up for the wives that had been, and
them new wives not seeming to care so much.
I made a mistake when I let my first wife go,
Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Cooper to me one night.
It s no good crying over the spilt milk of
human kindness,’ I says. ‘Experience does it. Your
present wife is your wife now, Mr. Cooper, and I’m
sure she’s a good woman at heart.’
“It was a pretty kettle of flesh-and-blood drama,
as they call it. I could see how the wind was blowing
nobody any good. So it didn’t surprise me when that
bust-up came last night.”
“I heard it,” I said curiously as Mrs. Parsley
paused.
The first I knew of it was when I saw Mrs.
Cooper leaving with a couple of suitcases.
“ ‘l’m going away, Mrs. Parsley,’ she says. ‘Life
with my present husband is no longer supportable.
I am going to join the only man I really ever loved
and start a new life.’
“It took me aback, coming suddenly like a bolt
from the beaut, as the saying is. After all, it seemed
better to me that she should leave the life of dimen-
sion , and Black, too. Their rent was paid up in
both cases, so there was no call for me to interfere ;
and my flats would be quieter without them. Still, I
wondered how Mrs. Black would take the news, or
if she had heard.
“When I went to Number Eight I got another
shock. There was a letter addressed to me tied to
the bell. It was from that Mrs. Black ; she had gone,
too. She wanted me to tell ’er husband. The way
she. put it was that she ’ad found out what man she
really loved and had gone to him.
“Of course, I am very respectable myself, but it
seemed to me that if those women had decided to go
off and live in sin with their own former husbands it
was quite right and proper, them having been married
before, which covers a multitude of sins. It was
almost natural, it seemed to me. And as spring is
coming on, and there won’t be any difficulty in letting
their flats, I wasn’t so shocked as I might have been
at theni two women slipping from the paths of virtue.”
But, Mrs. Parsley,” I said, a little out of my depth,
“if they were all gone, what was the cause of that
disturbance last night?”
‘Why, it was Mr. Black and Mr. Cooper,” said
Mrs. Parsley. “Talk about blunders never ceasing
while there’s life and hope, I was as surprised as you
are when I found that the row I went up to see about
was in Number Eight, for which I had put up the
Flat Vacant’ notice in the front. And it surprised
me more when I found that it was Black and Cooper
who were making the building shake like the walls
of Jellicoe, tumbling one another over the chairs and
tables.
“ ‘What have you done with my wife, you swine?’
Cooper was saying as he rolled over Black, knocking
over a couple of chairs and trying to punch him.
“ ‘What have you done with mine, you devil?’
says Black. *
“There would have been murder done for sure,
which is a terrible thing to think about happening
in a respectable home when there are so many places
better suited for it, if it hadn’t been for the other
tenants, who rushed in and helped me to tear them
apart. But it was the ring on the telephone that come
for me while they were still struggling that smoothed
matters out.
It was from that Hepburn. He rang up to say
that he had taken his belongings out that afternoon
and wouldn’t be back. ‘Tell Cooper that Agnes sends
her love,’ he says with a laugh as he rings off.
“When I got back to Number Eight with this
inflammation, it was to find that one of the tenants
had told Black how he had seen Mrs. Black in a taxi
laden with luggage with that Ben Tomlin.
“That was the end of the infernal triangle, which
is the last I will have in my house as long as I live.
“What you heard last night,” concluded Mrs.
Parsley, “seeing that you came in late, was the party
they held in Number Fifteen. With all the beer they
had I don’t wonder that Black and Cooper and some
of the other tenants, too, are sick this morning. I
could have interfered, but it’s a poor heart that never
rejuices; and you couldn’t very well blame those two
men for having a little celebration after losing their
wives like that.”
COASTAL BLOW
By MALCOLM MACDONALD.
RISING easily to the lift of a gentle ground swell,
the Starboard Light made her way through the
Heads and stood out to sea.
You never tired of this, thought the
skipper, letting his eye run over the clean beauty of
sail before and above him ; never wearied of the
sea’s moods and the changes of wind. Perhaps it
was the clean beauty that got you or the ever-present
threat of strife and turmoil that the sea and breeze
held out to a man ; but, whatever the reason, sailing
somehow got under your skin.
Some of ’em didn’t get it, though. Look at Fair-
well there, who read his sailing in a book, somehow
got the wrong angle, and then tried to tell a cove
how to sail his own boat. Young Haddon, too, had
missed the point of it. He saw beauty well enough,
but somehow he made it seem mushy and effeminate.
Then Bill Trask up for’ard, busy as always on some
bit of gear. Hard to say what old Bill thought about
it all. Never a man to waste words, but he was always
well and truly there when a job of work was to be
done.
The skipper knocked out his pipe, and, casting a
glance astern, estimated his sea-room as being ample
and his new northward course to Broken Bay just
enough on the wind to make for a minimum of roll.
“Stand by, all hands,” he called. “Break out the
spinnaker and knock that topsail off her.”
The crew tumbled about their duties, and, easing
the sheet away, the skipper put up his helm and
sent his craft circling northward.
The spinnaker drawing full and by, and the
crew settled again, Blake idly fell to watching a lone
porpoise easing along with him off to starboard and
to listening just as idly to snatches of conversation
without attempting to join in.
They’d just begun to feel the swell off Long
Reef when Blake felt a strange uneasiness, a subtle
alteration in the smooth tempo of things. He scanned
the windward horizon. The sky was overcast, but
had been all day—there was no apparent change
there. He looked to the north and west, but decided
that a wind could not back so rapidly. Then came
that unmistakable heavy-weather smell, the smell
landsmen laugh at, the salty, pungent tang that tells
a sailor of high wind not far away. Puzzled, the
skipper swung about in his seat, looking southward
again, and then he saw it.
Over North Head and Manly the south-western
sky had taken on an ominous blackness, heavy cloud
charging down with express speed, the wind lifting
the tops of waves and hurling them away in flying
scud, a driving rain rapidly shutting out the land.
No watching porpoises now, no time to dream of
sea peace. Eyes hard and mouth a grim line, Blake
swung about with a roar that jolted the crew into
action. “Shorten sail, and for God’s sake make it
fast. Get that spinnaker off her. Haddon, get
for’ard! Take that tops’l out of the gaskets and get
it below.”
Muscles bulging with effort, Trask had the strain-
ing spinnaker-boom out of its socket and was driving
it off to Fairwell, who had let the sheet go. Blake
could see fear in Fairwell’s eyes as he worked, and
began cursing him so that anger might give him
courage.
Hr HE boom stowed below, Fairwell and Trask were
A fighting down the bucking, blinding, whiplashing
spinnaker, when the storm hit. Down burrowed the
bows, the mast strained and bent, stays snapped taut
and began their gale song, the boat shook awhile in
a trough and then bounded away like an arrow, send-
ing far-flung sheets of spray scuttering out from her
(Continued on page 7.)
“What have you done with my wife?”


The Baron Von Big Recalls the Young Sir Henry
OUT OF THE
PAST
YOUNG MR. PARKES
J.H.M. ABBOTT
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY.
it x-VER since I came to this country in 1817,” wrote
r—the Baron von Big in 1867, “I have been
V . impressed by one very peculiar characteristic
which would seem to be common to all classes
in the community. From the bullock-driver to the
large landowner, or the longshoreman to the rich
merchant and banker of the capital cities, I find that
every citizen has his own ideas as to how to run the
country. There is something in the Australian air that
makes men argue about their rights and their wrongs.
I will own that I myself have absorbed something
of this into my blood, and that, though I have been
content to take no open and active part in them,
political movements of the many sorts that abound
here have always interested and intrigued me.
“Even in the days of Governor Macquarie, when
first I came here, there were cliques and cabals, move-
ments and counter-movements. Those, for instance,
who had come here as guests of Government always
regarded themselves as in some way superior to the
native-born, whilst the latter looked upon them with
a certain contempt as ‘newchums’ and ‘Johnny-come-
latelies.’ The prosperous landed proprietor looked
upon those who had become ‘free by servitude’ —
‘emancipists’ they were termed—as having forfeited
all claim to the rights which they themselves exercised.
The ‘emancipists’ regarded them, as it were, as inter-
lopers—people who had no real right in a country
that had been primarily settled for the disposal and
benefit of convicts. Curious that so much wrong-
headedness should have existed on either side —but so
it was.
“Then the free emigrants introduced another
element, bringing with them Old-World prejudices and
points of view which they were loth to abandon in a
community having little use, and no respect whatever,
for them. Such a one was my very good friend the
I found young Mr. Parkes agreeably interesting, as always.
Hon. Henry Parkes, member of the Legislative
Assembly and present Minister of the Crown in New
South Wales.
tt\ /ERY soon after his arrival in the colony I made
V the acquaintance of this gentleman during a
visit I was paying to my friend Sir John Jamison, of
Regentville, on the Nepean River, near Penrith. That
was in the latter half of the year 1839, and ever since
that time I have watched the career of this gifted
young man with the closest interest.
“Sir John introduced me to young Mr. Parkes
when the young Englishman came up to the house
on some business connected with the estate. I met
a somewhat fierce-looking young fellow of an engaging
ugliness and about twenty-five years. He had a rather
gaunt and combative countenance, an active body and
the eye of a dreamer and idealist. He had —and has
to this day—great difficulty when speaking in allotting
his aspirates to their proper places.
“Young Mr. Parkes had landed in Sydney with
a youthful wife, an infant which had arrived during
the voyage from England, and three shillings. He
knew nobody, and was unprovided with letters of
introduction, so that his position was difficult and
disheartening. By trade an ivory-turner, he had been
unable to find other employment in Sydney than the
poorly-paid billet in which I found him at Regentville.
His pay there was ten shillings a week, with a ration
and a half, a little hut to live in, and work on the
farm from daylight to dark. A miserable existence
for a young man of better ideas, but there was no
choice, and it was, at any rate, existence.
“He did not remain long at Regentville, and at
the end of the year returned to Sydney, where he tried
various occupations, including that of a Customs
House official, and then set up in business for himself
as an ivory-turner and toy-maker. I became one of
his patrons, and was glad to be able to introduce
his really clever workmanship into the circle of my
friends and acquaintances. He was a good trades-
man, but his real interest was in politics. He had in
England had a good deal to do in the district of
Birmingham with the Chartist movement and that
which had its culmination in the passing of the famous
Reform Bill of 1832.
“Young Mr. Parkes was particularly active in
the early ’forties in the popular agitation against the
system of transportation under which Britain’s Aus-
tralian possessions had come into being—a movement
which I, in common with a very large proportion of
the landed gentry of the colony, did all in my power
to discourage. We were in need of as much cheap
labor as we could get to develop our holdings, and
I was at that time proud to be associated with a party
having as one of its leaders that patriotic Australian
William Charles Wentworth. We were undoubtedly
misguided, but I did not think so then, and for my
part did all I could to procure the continuance of
assigned prison labor.
i < A LL through the eighteen-forties the dispute went
on, and young Mr. Parkes became one of the
most bitter and implacable opponents of transportation
with whom we had to reckon. In 1846 a select com-
mittee of the Legislative Council, presided over by
Will Wentworth, furnished a report recommending
that transportation should be revived, provided that
no convicts were employed in gangs or assigned to
positions in the towns, and that ticket-of-leave men
should also be confined to country districts. For
each male convict sent out a female, either a prisoner
or a free woman, was also to be sent, and as many
free migrants as convicts, and it was hoped that 5000
prisoners might annually supply the labor market.
“To us this seemed to be an excellent arrange-
ment, but its mere suggestion was received with a
howl of fury by the opponents of transportation, and
many public meetings of protest were held, in which
Mr. Parkes took a prominent part.
“One evening at the Royal Hotel in Sydney,
where some of us were dining together in a sort of
informal meeting to consider the question of the
dearth of pastoral workers, Mr. Wentworth observed:
‘The fellow’s a confounded nuisance! Can’t anything
be done about him? Who is he, anyhow? A
wretched immigrant who came here with hardly a
shirt to his back. Mr. Parkes, a damned bone-carver
from Birmingham! Be damned to him, say I!’
“That crafty pink-eyed fellow Robert Lowe,
sitting across the table, laughed in his unpleasant,
sneering way. ‘Ah, well, Wentworth, he’s to be
reckoned with, anyhow. He may not be colonial-
born, but he’s got brains. And he knows how to
use them. You won’t easily suppress young Parkes.
He’ll go a long way, that young man!’
“ ‘I wish to heaven he would,’ rejoined Mr, Went-
worth heatedly. ‘The further the better. What have
any of us done harmful to the country that we should
be so cursed and traduced by this young Mr. Parkes?
Damn the rascal —he’s nothing but an affliction.’
“ ‘Tut, tut, Will,’ I interrupted, being a little
concerned by Mr. Wentworth’s anger. ‘Leave Mr.
Parkes to me, won’t you? I think I can bring it
about that his interference with our plans for obtain-
ing convict labor may be nullified. Just leave it to
me, I pray you.’
“Mr. Lowe smiled at me, that ‘meaning’ smile
of his, and at once took up my remark. ‘Nullified,
my dear Baron! Well, you know, I’ve a notion
you’ll not find it so easy to nullify the actions of this
forceful young fellow. There’s nothing of the bull at
the barn door about young Parkes. He uses his head
to think with, not to butt at obstacles in his path. I
know all about him. I’ve employed him as a secre-
tary. Of course, as you’re all aware, I’m not much
in sympathy with you fellows’ views, but I really
couldn’t stand by and see you stultify yourselves by
trying on any little games designed to “ ’oodwink Mr.
’Enery Parkes,” as my young friend would put it. He’s
not to be caught with chaff, you know —or by putting
salt on his tail either. What were you thinking,
Baron?’
“ ‘Oh, nothing at all,’ I replied laughingly. ‘I was
only considering asking him to come and stay with
me for a few days at Castle Hill. To see if I couldn’t
convert him. I have a considerable number of men
working for me at Pampeluna, on wages now, who
were once my assigned servants, and I’m sure a little
talk with one or two of the more intelligent of them
would convince even Mr. Parkes that the assignment
system is not altogether an unmixed evil. I’m willing
to attempt his conversion, at any rate.’
“ ‘Ah, well—l wish you luck! ’ laughed Mr. Lowe.
‘For I think you’ll need it.’
'"THERE are more ways, as the refined English
* proverb puts it, of killing a dog than by hanging
him. Mr. Parkes might be ‘that rising politician Mr.
Henry Parkes,’ but he was also Young Mr. Parkes.
I know what young men are, having been one myself—
but I did not quite know Young Mr. Parkes.
“The following morning I called upon him at
his shop in Hunter-street and found him agreeably
interesting, as always. He could drop ‘the rising poli-
tician’ attitude on occasion, and had a fund of diverting
stories that were vastly entertaining. We spent a
pleasant hour or so, and I found him quite agreeable
to come and stay with me at Castle Hill over the
following week-end, from Friday afternoon, when I
would drive him out from Sydney. Having completed
this happy arrangement, I went to see my delightful
friend Fanny Fitzpatrick.
“Fanny was a lady who could be a lady or a little
less than a lady—as circumstances required. She was
very pretty, very agreeable, and not bigotedly moral.
Her husband was a whaling captain, and from the
nature of his calling often left Fanny to long periods
of grass-widowhood. She was usually able to get


stem, slicing through wave-tops, not deigning to climb
their peaks, and throwing up astern a wave that was
itself another of many tall waves.
“Nasty work,” thought Blake. “We’re running
before a heavy blow, carrying too much sail, with
a crew still on jobs. If one of ’em goes over there’s
not an earthly of picking him up. Thank God I
put that cruising mainsail on her to-day instead of
the big one. If the stays hold she’ll carry this for a
while, but I’ll soon need a hand on this tiller.”
A green howler, hissing with wind, bore down
on the Starboard Light, lifting her stem at a sharp
angle and driving her off her course. Blake fought
the bucking tiller and threw an anxious glance at his
crew. Slewing back to his tiller, he was met by the
slash of the boom as, driven by the drum-tight sail,
it gybed across, taking him on the shoulder and back
and sending him in a heap to the cockpit floor. Con-
tinuing on its way, the boom brought up short, its
end a few feet off the starboard side, checked by
the tangled sheet. The weight of sail sent the boat
broadside to wind and sea, where she lay over on
her beam ends, crushed down and shaking—every
timber of her complaining of the weight it had to
bear.
Fairwell had lost his armful of spinnaker and,
panic-stricken, was mouthing either prayer or foul-
ness as he clung to the weather chain-plates.
“Get up and ease that jib, blast you!” screamed
Trask as he fought free of the water-filled spinnaker.
“Ease the jib and get her into the wind.”
Terror kept Fairwell mouthing and inert.
“Fairwell, you yellow cur, stand up!” Trask
was free now and making his way aft to the belay
of the jib-sheet, but the straining sail had passed its
limit, and with a report that could be heard above
the wind’s howl the jib blew to tattered ribbons.
Eased of pressure, the yacht slowly righted and
came up into the wind, where she hung, rolling and
pitching heavily. Shouting to Haddon to stand by
the tiller, Trask seized the knife from the cockpit
sheath, swarmed for’ard and cut free the lashing
pennons of jib that clung to the forestay and set
the rigging and mast chattering. He dropped through
the hatch, appearing again with a storm jib which he
bent on to the stay, and then made his way aft.
Fairwell was shouting wildly at Haddon as. Trask
came aft. “You can’t run before this—she’ll run
under. Lower away and wait for it to clear.”
“This blow is from the sou’-west,” snapped Trask.
“It may be over in an hour or it may last days, and
it s sending us out to sea, Fairwell. I’m shaping a
course landward. Get below if you don’t like it.”
You’ll not run her free again.” Fairwell was
bordering on hysteria. “You’ll drown the lot of us
You”
Trask hit him between the eyes. “Get some of
that sheet in, Haddon. We’re going ashore to-night.”
He turned to the tiller and worked the bow away
to the nor’-west, getting a strange thrill of well-being
as she again became a thing of life and movement.
Blake was sitting up now, shaking his head and
gingerly working his shoulder. Trask watched him
awhile. “Right, skipper?”
“Nothing broken. Be damn’ sore for a day or
two, I expect. What’s wrong with Fairwell?”
“Had an accident. Don’t think he’ll be sailing
with you much longer. Seems to have lost interest
in the game.”
Blake eyed him comprehendingly. “Seems to
be clearing a bit in the west.”
“Um. Wind’s easing, too. Stinker while she
lasted.”
“If you’ll knock up some coffee royal, I think I
could take the tiller again.”
Trask slid below as Blake eased down by the
tiller. Blake lit his pipe and dropped comfortably
into one of his frequent reveries. As the westering
sun broke through scattered cloud to throw Barren-
joey into bold relief, the Starboard Light dropped
her anchor off Goddard’s Pier. The breeze came in
slight gusts from the south-east, gently ruffling the
surface of the bay.
“Hullo, Billy Trask!” from the pierhead. “Bit
draughty outside to-day, hey?”
“Yes,” replied Trask. “Bit draughty.”
through them very agreeably, and I do not mind admit-
ting that more than one of her temporary bereave-
ments had been somewhat consoled by that unselfish
alleviation of female loneliness Augustus von Big.
“The lovely Fanny listened to my proposals with
laughing good nature. Her pretty face dimpled with
merriment when I informed her of the part she was
to play in the conversion of Mr. Parkes.
“ ‘But, Baron,’ she giggled demurely, ‘do I go to
Pampeluna, then, to make love to dear Mr. Augustus
or to make Mr. Parkes reasonable?’
“ ‘A little of both, my dear Fanny—a little of
both,’ I replied fondly. She was a most charming
creature, of whom the rough whale-hunter was entirely
unworthy.
“So my pair of very dissimilar guests spent the
following week-end here at Pampeluna. Thirty years
a go, it is, and Fanny is dead, and Mr. Parkes Colonial
Secretary and Premier of New South Wales and a very
great man, as Bob Lowe said he was going to be,
but I can recall every incident of those three days
when I watched Delilah Fitzpatrick striving for the
soul of Samson Parkes and becoming peevish as the
result of ill-success. It was not often, I think, that
the fascinating Fanny had to admit herself beaten.
the Saturday night
after Mr. Parkes had
retired Fanny reported to
me. When I asked her how
she had got on with him dur-
ing the day—Mr. Augustus
having absented himself at
the Parramatta races—she
wrinkled her pretty nose and
made a face. ‘Oh, la, my
big Baron—not so well as I
get on with you! That ter-
rible young man! Not yet,
Augustus, have I even kissed
him.’
“ ‘Well, well —do not be
discouraged, my. seductive
one. I have not the least
doubt that by this time to-
morrow you will have Mr.
Parkes in your pocket. You
must let nothing daunt you.
We badly need this able and
energetic young man on our
side. And we rely on you,
niy compendium of all that charms and beguiles
to get him there. Pray, how did you plan your
approach?’
‘Well, after breakfast this morning I took him,
as you advised, over the farm and introduced him to
your overseer, Mick Costello, who duly told him the
tale of how assignment to your service had been the
making of him and of many others, and what a
splendid thing the assignment system was for all
concerned.’
“ ‘And what did he say to that?’
“ ‘l’ll tell you, Augustus.’ She was a most
accomplished mimic. ‘ “Hi don’t doubt it, Mr. Cos-
tello,” he said in that funny voice of his. “Hi don’t
doubt it at hall. But it won’t last much longer— not
if Hi know anything about it.” And then he gave
him a lecture on William Cobbett, and talked so much
that neither Costello nor myself could get in a word
edgeways. I gave up trying at last.’
“ ‘And in the afternoon?’
“ ‘ln the afternoon I took him for a walk out on
the Windsor-road. I declare we must have walked
almost to the Hawkesbury, and for the whole of that
dismal journey, there and back, Mr. Parkes talked
about nothing but lohn Bright and freetrade.
Augustus, the man’s impossible—l feel that I can do
nothing. He’s too much for me.’
“ ‘Nonsense, my darling Fanny—he’ll be as putty in
your hands to-morrow. Charm him as you charm me.
“But young Mr. Parkes was not to be beguiled.
The following night when she came to report the
lovely Fanny dissolved in tears and wept on my
shoulder.
“ ‘Why, then?’ I asked her. ‘My darling Fanny,
tell me why you weep. Is Mr. Parkes not human?
Is he not as any man must be when he comes under
your spell, sweet one?’
“ ‘Oh, Baron, I tried everything. Everything. I
assure you. Once I even swooned. We were down
by the creek, and he sat me against a tree, got
some cold water in his hat and actually poured it
down the back of my neck before I knew what he
was up to. 'That revived me, I’ll promise you! Baron,
the man is woman-proof. I give him up! ’
“I took her in my arms and comforted her in the
way it had been hoped young Mr. Parkes might have
done, and her sorrows of failure were soothed away.
She was proud of her charms, my lovely Fanny, and
did not like to find a man to whom they did not
apparently count for anything.
“U/HEN young Mr. Parkes departed in the morn-
v y ing, being driven to town in my dogcart by the
groom—Fanny not having yet risen—l asked him how
he had enjoyed his visit to Pampeluna, and had he
The seductive Fanny strove mightily.
not found Mrs. Fitzpatrick’s companionship delightful,
He looked at me queerly as he wrung my hand in his
strong grip. ‘Himmensely, my dear Baron —him-
mensely! The lady oh, the lady? Yes the very
hacme hof hinnocence, Baron Whv T don’t thini
she’d hever ’eard of freetrade before Hi do ”t
really! Charming—a most charming creature Baron’
So very hinnocent!’”


Build up a Library of Your Own for a Few Shillings.
Readers’ Union
A Wonderful New Development in Book-buying.
READERS’ UNION is a new English publishing venture that will appeal to all readers.
It is definitely not “just another Book Club.”
READERS’ UNION breaks a circle. Book publishers cannot cut prices until they
see a ready market. Readers cannot pay high prices. READERS’ UNION, through
its membership, guarantees demand, provides a market and brings books and intelligence
together.
Despite their price, READERS’ UNION editions will be a technical triumph. While
size must vary, uniformity of style will be achieved by a pleasant-looking page, a
smooth, tough paper, and (thanks to new production processes) a. pliable board binding
with overhanging edges, In short, READERS’ UNION editions will be real books,
easy to handle, colourful, very good looking.
RADERS’ UNION will supply to members only recently published books at a fraction
of their issued prices.
READERS’ UNION has no politics. Its monthly choice will be made from con-
temporary books on a wide variety of subjects: fiction, biography, travel, adventure,
history, reference, science, world affairs. R.U. will obtain for its members the best of
contemporary literature. No heretic burning doctrines will dictate its policy. It will
choose only those books which have a wide appeal. The keynote of its choice will be
interest and merit.
For further particulars ask your bookseller, or write to
Robertson and Mullens Ltd.
Australian and New Zealand Agents for Readers’ Union,
107-109-111-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .... . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman); Edward R. Knox; Owen E. Friend;
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E.; Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ROUNDABOUT
Wrestlers!
If ever the stewards take a hand and rub a few
of them out it should be for the sort of performance
Sammy Stein and Matros Kirilenko put on at Sydney
Stadium last week
Without the slightest hesitation, and in contempt
of the consequences, we brand theirs the most deplor-
able exhibition it has ever been our lot to witness
It takes something pretty stiff to drag this sort
of language from us, but this pair call for it. Our
Rubbed out.
only wish is that these days of namby-pamby, mealy-
mouthed journalism were past or not yet arrived.
Nothing would give us greater pleasure than setting
down here in plain language our frank opinion.
If anyone thinks we hesitate to do so out of
personal fear of either of them he is sadly mistaken.
Neither do we care a hoot a6out the police—what’s
another couple of murders on our hands?
Not that this pair didn’t wrestle. The whole
trouble with them is that they did. They didn’t do
anything else but wrestle. They began wrestling as
soon as the starting bell went, and they were still
wrestling when the match finished at the end of
round eight.
And then they shook hands!
Yet there were people around us so fatuous as
to declare them “pretty to look at.” A chap we’d
have thought would have known better —one who
“hasn’t missed a match since the season opened”—
gave out the childish opinion that it “was the finest
exhibition seen at the Stadium this year.
The washing-board act.
People like these must keep their taste in their
boots. It was no more according to the rules of the
game than we are spring chickens. It was an exhi-
bition of sportsmanship and nothing else.
As for those perpetrators of piffle the daily press
sporting writers —this sorry exhibition happened on
Monday night of last week, so reference to the Tues-
day’s papers will show
them at their psalm-sing-
ing worst. “Clever Wrest-
ling at the Stadium.”
“Stein Defeats Kirilenko
in Fast, Clean Match.”
“Splendid Exhibition of
High-class Mat-work.”
It would give a rebuilt moa a pain in the gizzard.
The plain fact of the matter is that Stein and
Kirilenko, separately and collectively, broke every
rule of the game. What the referee was doing in the
ring beats us. If he’d have been hanging around
when Mr. Joe Wallis was muttering to a pair of
the preliminary boxing boys, “Oh, come on —fight
up! ” he'd have got some idea of a referee’s duties.
To see him you’d think he had the delusion that
this was what we’d wangled a free ticket to come and
look at. Two other big stiffs doing nothing else but
wrestle! “Fast, Clean Match”! He must
think we’re a lot of mutts to be fobbed
off with this sort of stuff.
Why, there wasn’t even a fall in the
match! If anyone thinks we exaggerate,
let him turn to the spineless daily-press
accounts. That’s one of the things those
poor sops picked out for praise!
“Brilliant holds, applied by both men
with catlike quickness, and countering of
a kind that only polished wrestlers of
their calibre could manage.”
Eight rounds of it!
“Such fast and clever work—lightning move and
counter-move that it surprised nobody when the
eight splendid rounds ended with neither man able
to pin the other for a deciding fall.”
1 “The referee’s decision in favor of Stein on
points was no doubt the right one. Some of Stein’s
work was the swiftest ever seen at the Stadium. But,
though defeated, Kirilenko was certainly not dis-
graced. The Russian’s work was so quick that he
lost by only the narrowest of margins.”
As we said before, eight rounds of it!
Shades of Don Noland, Tom Lurich, Chief Little
Wolf, King Kong Cox!
Eight rounds of just straight wrestling! Not
an eye gouged, not a buttock bitten, not a tuft
of hair plucked from any part of either of them!
True, in the seventh round Kirilenko kicked Stein in
the mouth and he spat a bit of blood, and Kirilenko
finished up with a square inch or so of hide torn off
his back and another patch ripped off his arm ; but
we are prepared to take our oath there wasn’t a tooth-
mark between the two of them.
Kirilenko did rub his knuckles into Stein’s dial,
concentrating with a facial expression approaching
pleasure on the Steinish boko, and Stein did do the
washing-board act on the Aryan spine. They might
also have jumped on each other occasionally.
But did either hook his fingers into each side
of the other’s mouth and tug?
Did either come out from his corner with his
gob full of water and broken teeth and spurt it in
the other’s face?
Did either use the ropes, as they should be used,
for strangling purposes?
Did either boot the other from, and in, the rear ?
Did either pat himself on the brisket and stalk
round like a baboon that’s just heard the missus has
had twins?
Did they chase each other round and round the
ring like a couple of maniacs in a cowyard?
Did they grunt like a pair of prize Berkshires
when they got a hold on each other?
Kick in the kisser.
Did they, in fact, do anything that anybody with
any taste at all could construe as conforming to the
rules of the game?
No, fellow-gentlemen, they didn’t. They just
wrestled.
We assure you we know. We were there. We
were sitting at the ringside in the Stein corner. We
had heard a lot about this fellow, and we looked
forward to a pleasant evening. We were disillusioned.
He can’t spit for sour apples. We who, in this place,
have been accurately spat upon by all the aforemen-
tioned artists in this line, as well as by Leo Kelly,
we can say with authority that Stein never managed
to score on us once. And the people in the Kirilenko
corner didn’t seem to be faring any better.
And even when the hosts of Israel arose in their
seats -and called on their beloved Samuel to up and
smite the Philistine what did the Stein do? Got a
short-arm splits or an earlock or some other innocuous
matter on the Kirilenko!
What has been set down here up to now has
been written in the expectation that, though strange,
it will be believed. We ask nobody to believe that
when, at the end of each round, the ref. told them
to break whatever hold they happened to be apply*
ing at the moment, they did so at once.
True, but, we admit, incredible.
There was only
one exception to
this. That was when
at the end of round
four Stein happened
to have Kirilenko’s
ears boxed up be-
tween his (Sammy’s)
thighs, and Kiri-
lenko happened to
have his feet planted
in the Stein lugs.
The ref. did have to
speak to them rather
sharply that time,
but it was not wilful
disobedience, just
unfortunate circum-
stances.
Father of twins.
If we’d have paid anything to go in we’d have
certainly asked for our money back. The sorry truth
of the whole matter is that all this pair came to the
Stadium for was to wrestle each other, and wrestle
clean. That’s carrying imposition just a little bit too
far.


FOR
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
er
m
uiib
w
SI2II


ROYAL
PURPLE
ifv-
m
mm.
r?
*
«ies*
* «sca
.-. ■ ~:* .**
h I
...,>• ••••.» WMfmr, ,
»K? 1
KV ~*ZMXZrS.
- fw ** ■*«* ■**■
*s, » -«■ * ~., ~
**■-
jwiifl
H
■
JS**
•»*.
*
ife
mm
mm
■;■ ■< ,4&*c
;
s. *.
*/> J
m
v. ;
* '■- - ..
w&m
v
**Sn>s>*
■'
r **
m
.....: >.
1
■
Some of the wine-filled casks to be placed in one of the huge storage cellars.
r


The Bulletin
IT’S A LONG WAY TO LAMBING FLAT.
“The Chinese crew of a British steamer, under Japanese charter, refused duty at Newcastle, though an undertaking was given that they would be discharged at Manila.
They were acclaimed as anti-Fascist heroes by Reds, and six were smuggled to Sydney for further hero-worship.”
SPIRIT OF OLD AUSTRALIAN MINER: “Perhaps I've come to the wrong country.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 2 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE PEOPLE CHOOSE WELL
Elections the country must have, but it may well be
spared election campaigns like the one that drivelled
to its conclusion on Saturday. The thing began
dully, and from dullness it degenerated day by day
until it became completely fatuous. Its only redeem-
ing feature was its brevity.
By common consent, defence was the one material
issue. For that reason alone the campaign would
deserve to be forgotten, for the safety of the nation
and the means of ensuring it should never be dragged
into party fights. As the discussions proceeded the
two hundred and fifty thousand Australians to whom
war was a personal experience and is still a haunting
memory were entertained with the spectacle of elderly
politicians who were never within 6000 miles of the
nearest battle-front being set up as military experts:
Messrs. Lyons and Parkhill on the one side ; Messrs.
Lang and Curtin on the other. It naturally appealed
to the Diggers’ sense of humor, but amusement
changed to disgust when the disputants passed from
“authoritative” exposition to wild charges and counter-
charges, discovery of alarming plots and alarmed
denials and pledges.
The Prime Minister, it was insinuated, had agreed
at the Imperial Conference to further the dark designs
of warmongering British imperialists, and if his nefari-
ous Government were returned the manhood of
Australia might resign itself to being gathered up in
a body and deposited on foreign battlefields. The
crazy story could have been shattered by a simple
statement of facts and an appeal to his record in war
and peace; but the Prime Minister became panic-
stricken. In a shrill voice he said, “My Government’s
policy never has included and never will include
conscription” ; and, again, “There will be no con- ’
scription while my Government is in office.”
Mr. Lyons must be the first ruler who has ever
committed his Administration and party to such a
declaration. If Australia were invaded, he would
have to repudiate it; it is, in a way, a repudiation
of a vital section of the Defence Acts of 1903 and
1904, which made—and still make —“all male inhabi-
tants between the ages of 18 and 60 years liable
to serve in Australia with the defence forces in time
of war.”
The Labor “charges” were, of course, repeated
and embellished in Labor newspapers. U.A.P. editors*
sprang to the Government’s defence. Themselves
conscriptionist during the war, they recalled with
indignation at the calumnies of Mr. Lyons’s old asso-
ciates that he was an “anti” in 1916 and 1917. Look-
ing back through the vista of time, they saw merits in
the late Mr. Andrew Fisher which they were totally
unable to discover during his 15 years as a Federal
politician, and assured their public that Mr. Lyons
was discharging a historic mission—that of leading “the
grand old Labor party” under another name.
Aeroplanes and cars carried leaders and lieutenants
about the country, amplifiers extended the range of
speeches and wireless was nightly requisitioned by
both sides. In fact, mechanical devices were employed
as never before. The prepared stuff broadcast was,
for the most part, even sorrier than the rubbish hurled
from the hustings or consigned to newspaper columns.
One turn of the dial would bring the devastating
intelligence that “Mr. Lines is goin’ to send yaw sons
an’ brothers an’ husbands aw’y to an imperi’listic
waw.” Another twist would place the listener in touch
with the personal history of a family whose fortunes
were wrecked by the Labah pahty and salvaged by the
Yewnited Australiah pahty, though still dependent
upon the maintenance of the Yewnited Australiah
pahty in office. There were many variations on
this theme. The most affecting concerned a youth
who, rendered desperate by the consequences of
Labor misrule, broke into the house of a manu-
facturer, himself almost ruined by Labor, and,
as an alternative to departing with the little
money left in the business, was offered a job.
He took it, and in the fullness of time became the
now-wealthy manufacturer’s partner and son-in-law.
The scene closed on a cataract of rhetoric about the
wonders performed by the Yewnited Australiah pahty
and the everlasting devotion of the family.
The event has shown that this radio claptrap was
waste of money and breath. The people refused to
be stampeded by appeals to inanity and cold feet, and
returned a verdict which should be a warning to all
the parties that their political instinct is healthy and
wise. They definitely rejected the Labor programme
of isolation and aeroplanes, and New South Wales,
by refusing the Opposition any of the nine
additional seats it boisterously claimed, delivered
another warning to a party which should not have
required another that it is no use asking it to put
Federal Labor in office —or State Labor either —while
Mr. Lang is about. At the same time the N. S.
Wales electorate of Warringah administered a well-
deserved snub to the Government which bragged so
much of its paltry performances in the domain of
defence by polling a substantial majority against the
Minister, Mr. Parkhill.
The Warringah voting was a blow to pre-selec-
tion, as well as Mr. Parkhill, and pre-selection seems
to have cost the Government at least one Victorian
seat. Had there been two U.A.P. candidates for
Ballarat, as there were in 1934, their combined vote
would assuredly have exceeded the Labor total again ;
but Mr. Edmunds, whose preferences put Mr. Fisken
in three years ago, was on this occasion frozen out.
On the other hand, the abandonment of pre-selection,
late as it was decided upon, may result in Labor
wresting Adelaide from Mr. Stacey.
In Queensland Minister Hunter, though he may
still hold Maranoa, was in an unfavorable position after
the town boxes had been counted. In other Queens-
land electorates, however —particularly Lilley and
Darling Downs —there was a sharp fall in the Labor
vote. Westralia and Tasmania ran true to form.
Three of the five Westralian members are anti-
Curtin ; three of the five Tasmanian members anti-
Lyons.
The Opposition will be strengthened in the
Senate, where it has been much too weak for three
years. Victoria is sending ex-Senator Barnes back
to the Chamber of which he was a member for many
years, and his preferences may elect Messrs. Cameron
and Keane. Moreover, Labor chances of winning
seats look good in South Australia and Tasmania and
fair in Westralia and N. S. Wales, though somewhat
remote in Queensland. Assistant Minister Brennan
is in serious danger, and Ministers McLachlan and
Pearce are by no means out of the wood. In South
Australia Mr. James, the dried-fruits man, and two
associates received pretty good support in some
electorates.
Apart from the hopeless cases who spoilt their
ballot-papers, the people have chosen rationally and
well. They deserve fewer and better politicians; they
do not deserve appeals addressed to cold feet instead
of to cool heads.
Electioneering Hysterics.
Before the campaigning was over Mr. Lyons had
discovered that the “forces behind Mr. Curtin were
desperate” ; they were “gambling with death to mis-
lead the Australian people.” Elaborating on the idea,
Mr. Lyons took the roof right off'and showed what
these gamblers were hatching up for us in their den:
The horrors of war—gas, incendiary shells and
bombs, shrapnel, mines—all these things come to a
country which is attacked. In recent weeks we have
seen pictures of thousands of terrified old people and
their families fleeing in confusion from their attacked
Chinese cities. These are the horrors which the Labor
party, with its policy of isolation from the rest of the
Empire, would bring to Australia.
That was one of the juicy bits in as shameless
an exhibition of warmongering—by the “forces
behind” the P.M.—as Australia has had the misfortune
to experience. And the other side was every bit
as bad. An election had to be won at all cost,
and there were no heights in hysterical alarmist clap-
trap the politicians were not prepared to scale. The
effects of their efforts on Australia did not matter a
hoot.
Hitherto warmongering had been left to sensa-
tional newspapers and limelighting careerists, but these
never achieved anything so crammed with dire threat
as the politicians produced. By these gentlemen
alarmist hysteria was carried to lengths of extrava-
gance which six months ago would not have been
thought possible. .
The purpose served was the useful one of cover-
ing over the fact that none of the parties had a policy
that would lead to Australia being adequately
defended. This is a big job, calling for national states-
manship, and we are out of this commodity.
Mr. Curtin’s “isolation,” plus 300 aeroplanes, was
plain nonsense. We must stand in with the rest of
the British Commonwealth; we cannot afford to do
anything else. But Mr. Lyons’s “defence policy” was
no more a guarantee of the effective defence of Aus-
tralia than was Mr. Curtin’s.
Mr. Lyons’s “policy” boils down to leaning
most of our weight on Britain and doing little of
value ourselves. It is made worse by the fact that
Britain might be engaged* elsewhere when we most
needed assistance.
Mr. Lyons promised the spending of unspecified
sums of money on defensive measures; but nothing
is to be done about the preparing of Australians to
defend their country. When whatever money Mr.
Lyons has in mind is spent, Australia will still have
a half-trained force of comic-opera proportions, and
the rest of the available man-power will be as it is,
untrained and unprepared. And it takes six months’
intensive training, at the very least, to lick such man-
power into fighting shape.
Mr. Lyons, of course, was not alone in declining
to face this aspect of adequate defence. None of the
parties would look at it. It meant compulsory train-
ing, and compulsory training meant lost votes. And
that is exactly what all the hullabaloo amounted to.
It was this determination by all parties not to
touch on trained man-power —the real requirement
for our adequate defence —that made the hysterical
warmongering especially contemptible. It was all a
shabby blind drawn down regardless of what effect
the gloom cast by it might have on Australia.
Now that this alarmist hysteria has served its pur-
pose, the first business of the elected Government
should be to admit that it was cheap fake ; a desperate
resort of politicians bent on winning to office. But for
such hysterical alarms this country would now be
entering on a golden age.
An Indictment of Doctors.
[The writer of this defence of the medical profession is
himself a doctor.]
In a rambling speech in the Queensland Parliament,
Mr. Hanlon, the Minister for Health and Home
Affairs, charged Queensland medical practitioners
with conspiring to protect criminal abortionists in
their ranks from conviction and punishment. He
also charged the Medical Board with dereliction of
duty in failing to expose doctors who perform abor-
tions and to strike them off the register. As evidence
he quoted a case of a Brisbane girl who died recently,
allegedly from the results of a criminal abortion, in
respect of whom the police—also under Mr. Hanlon’s
Ministerial control —failed to produce evidence to
justify them in laying a charge. Mr. Hanlon alleged
that the reason for this failure arose from medical
certificates ascribing the death to other causes.
On Mr. Hanlon’s showing, the medical profes-
sion would seem to be responsible for all the abor-
tions in Queensland. The ridiculousness of such an
inference needs no emphasis. There is no country
in the world where premature induction of birth is
not practised, nor is a medical training necessary. Abo-
riginal women practised it centuries before a white
man ever saw Australia. Treatment of the conse-
quences of abortion, induced either by the patient
herself or by some other unqualified person, is an
ordinary feature of the routine of hospital or private
practice in Queensland and elsewhere.
There is a small residuum of qualified doctors
whose services can be bought for the commission of
what both the community at large and the medical
profession in general regard as murder. But no social
body has done more, or tried harder, to prevent the
dangerous attrition of the next generation by abortion
than has the medical profession. No individual citi-
zen has greater or better-informed condemnation for
the abortionist than has the average practising doctor.
Nor is there a civilised country where an unworthy
residuum of any other profession, from law to church,
cannot be found to perform, at a price, equivalently
unsocial and unprofessional actions. In the gaols
which Mr. Hanlon administers are samples of such
wrongdoers, detected by the police under Mr. Han-
lon’s control and convicted on evidence which has
satisfied a court of law.
Luckily, courts of law still require full and defi-
nite legal proof for justification of a conviction.
Whirling political accusations against an entire pro-
fession —accusations of failure in community duty,
of wilful protection of wrongdoers in order to save
collective face —make no impression on Judges. Proofs
are what they require, and where proofs are not forth-
coming, as in the case quoted by Mr. Hanlon, it is
useless to lay an information.
The Minister’s charges against the Medical Board
—a body under his own administrative control —are
equally ridiculous. Its main, practically its only, func-
tion is to oversee the registration of qualified medical
practitioners. Technically, it can deregister or suspend,
but right of appeal to the Supreme Court is still left
against its decision. Before it can do even that it
must have evidence of infamous conduct, habitual
drunkenness or habitual drug addiction. Infamous
conduct in that sense has never been legally defined.
Naturally, no board in its senses would take such
action except upon evidence previously established in
a court of law. The Medical Board is not a court of
law, nor does it exercise police functions. Moreover,
Mr. Hanlon has full powers to override the board if
he so desires, as Minister.
Mr. Hanlon’s fulminations thus amount to no-
thing more than an admission that present Queensland
law does not empower him to order action to be
taken by his subordinates for the effective detection
and punishment of what he and the Queensland
medical profession in general regard, very rightly,
as murder of a particularly atrocious kind. As the
Minister responsible for remedying such statutory
shortcoming, it is his clear duty to formulate imme-
diately, and to submit to Parliament without delay,
the requisite legislation for meeting such a situation.
The decision will rest with Parliament, but until that
body has granted' or withheld the desired powers the
responsibility will rest, not upon the medical profes-
sion or the Medical Board, but upon the Minister
himself.
SAKIT PRUT.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bad Week for the Left.
Last week was a dreadful one for M. Litvinov,
M. Maisky, “Pertinax” —whose ruling idea is that
the British Empire should defend France’s African
possessions—Madame Two-Blues, of “GEuvre,” and
the “Cronk-News.”
Gijon was taken, and the Red Asturian “miners,”
who share with the Red International Brigade the
transports of Left Wing writers, were obliged to exer-
cise their talent for dynamiting and firing defenceless
buildings. About the same time, a “loyalist purge,”
in sincere flattery of Stalin’s, was begun at Valencia,
and hasty preparations were made for transferring the
Red Government from Valencia to Barcelona, of
which Denzil Batchelor, of “S. M. Herald,” has written
an account which must have startled his old paper:
There were two hundred churches; now the cathedral,
preserved as a work of art, remains. There is not a
priest or a nun to be seen. Most were not merely
killed; they were shockingly, unspeakably mutilated;
often the death that rescued them from torture was the
bonfire The nuns were the only nurses Catalonia
knew... .Private feuds were settled in the same way....
The city is in the grip of a food shortage.
Worse still, the summoning of the Non-interven-
tion Committee resulted in the Italians making concilia-
tory proposals. They and the Germans agreed in
principle to the withdrawal of volunteers from Spain
on the British plan, withdrawal to be followed by
the granting of belligerent rights to both factions,
and suggested that an international commission be
sent “immediately” to Spain to ascertain the number
of foreign soldiers serving. M. Maisky weighed in with
sullen opposition, but even Mr. Eden, who had gone
to the Non-intervention parleys in a gloomy frame
of mind, saw in the Italo-German attitude a “welcome
advance,” affording a “real chance of solving the non-
intervention problem.” That also seems to be the
opinion of responsible British newspapers.
But the “Cronk-News” and Madame Two-Blues
are furious. Madame Two-Blues promptly dis-
covered that “Germany” had “seized the island of
Alboran, south-west of Almeria.” The “Cronk-News”
confirmed the Two-Blues lady’s report, adding on its
own account that “German and Italian troops” had
“occupied the Colombretes Archipelago, between the
Balearics and the Spanish coast, where there are
several deep inlets suitable for submarine bases.” If
this goes on, Madame Two-Blues and the “Cronk-
News” will have the Germans and Italians occupying
the Tower of London and the heights of Montmartre.
The Wrong Horse.
Sydney papers continue to tell flattering tales about
the “Workers’ Republic.” The wonderful Red Army
and the wonderful Red Air Force receive copious
attention, and even the Red Navy, though proofs of
its existence are not easily discoverable, has been
described in terms which would be considered profuse
if applied to the British Navy. And there is any
quantity of butter for Litvinov, and any Russian per-
formance in the aviation line is labelled “the Soviet’s
great gift to an expanding world” or something like
that.
Now and then the flow of panegyric is interrupted
by a note to the effect that more commissars have
been grabbed by their old pals, and that the number
of executions for counter-revolution, espionage or
“Trotskyist wrecking” is 300 a month or so. It was
mentioned also that three Russian airmen who fell
into the hands of the ferocious Fascist Franco had
pleaded that they were in Spain as soldiers under
orders from the Soviet Government. But these regret-
table remarks are generally brief and are invariably
relegated to back pages.
The London “Times” is not so considerate of
Communist susceptibilities. In its issue of September
29 it had two brutally*plainspoken articles, “Stalin at
War” and “Malaise in Moscow,” the latter a leader.
Stalin’s war, it was explained, is raging in Stalin’s own
country.
The civil war has never really ended. As in 1917 the
front to-day is spread over the whole of Russia.
In other words, “the Revolution” needs vic-
tims, and it is finding them “from the Baltic
and White seas to the Pacific Ocean” among
admirals, generals, Prime Ministers and Presi-
dents of Republics and “heads, or deputy-heads,
of the central departments of foreign affairs, defence,
police, justice, transport, communications, trade,
timber, agriculture and industry.” Communists all.
If brought into court they nearly all “confess docilely”
to “monstrous crimes” and are “sentenced and shot.”
Why all this ruthless butchery in a country whose
Code of Criminal Laws proclaimed the abolition of
the death penalty as far back as 1922? . It is necessary
to find scapegoats for the failure of the collectivised
farms and factories and of the Stakhanov shock-
system, and to distract attention from the deadly fact
that “the mass of the people are still underfed, over-
worked and badly clothed.” Necessary also to make
the Red Army tremble, the Red Army being “the
most obvious challenger of the Stalin regime.”
So, as the “Times” leader puts it:
The lives of prominent servants of the State are
cheaper than they were in the darkest days of Rome’s
decline.
And the effect on Red prestige abroad?
France contemplates without enthusiasm her alliance
with a country where treason appears to be a national
pastime. A note of complacency, if not of triumph,
echoes in Germany’s diatribes. Japan views a Sino-
Soviet pact with half the apprehension she would have
felt a year ago.
Father Bull has backed a few wrong horses in
his time. He backed the Turks in 1855, the White
Russians in 1920 and the Greeks in 1922. If he
decided to back this Red animal and there are
alleged Australians not above suggesting that he should
and will —he would find it the sorriest beast he ever
put his manhood and money on.
Rutherford.
It is a reflection on the prevailing indifference to
science that the greatest scientist yet produced in
these parts should have been lost to them at an early
age and that his work should have been done in other
countries.
Son of Taranaki people, Rutherford was born
at Nelson and educated at Nelson College, Canter-
bury College and the M.L. University. At 22 he took
an M.A. degree with first-class honors in physics and
mathematics.
Going to Cambridge, he was soon recognised as
one of the best scientific brains in England, but when
he had established his reputation it was McGill and
not a Maoriland or Australian university that
appointed him Professor of Physics at 27. Two years
later he married a Maoriland girl. At 32 he was an
F.R.S. and one of the world’s two or three leading
authorities on radio-activity.
Since then, almost every scientific honor in the
first rank has fallen to him. He won the Nobel Prize
for chemistry, became president of the Royal Society
and of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, and director of the greatest physical
research laboratory in Britain—the Cavendish, at
Cambridge. He was made a baron and decorated with
the Order of Merit. But he remained to the end
proud to be a Maorilander.
Rutherford was by no means the only front-rank
scientific worker who could find no career in Aus-
tralasia. W. L. Bragg, who won the Nobel Prize for
physics, and who ranks high in the X-ray research
field, saw no career for himself in his native Australia ;
and it is not long since this country lost the geographer
Debenham, now a professor at Cambridge. On the
scientific side British industry is constantly recruited
by Australians.
London calls these men, and our rulers don’t
seem to care whether they go or stay. Properly sup-
ported, the C.S. and I.R. would help to keep trained
scientific workers in Australia. But, although there
is immense squandering in relatively unimportant
quarters, the C.S. and I.R. is fobbed off with doles
insufficient to equip its facilities or to provide the
continuity of conditions and the rewards which first-
class research workers have a right to expect.
Refutation from Shanghai.
U.A.P. speakers missed one good chance of exposing
the fallacy of the Curtin-Lang contention that naval
attack can be effectively countered by an air force.
Just before election-day Australia’s old friend the
Idzumo was subjected by Chinese aeroplanes to the
latest of many attacks. The ancient cruiser has been
lying at anchor in the river at Shanghai for months,
and the number of bombs aimed at her from the
air must run into hundreds, perhaps thousands. Yet
there is no record of the stationary ship having been
hit once. On this showing—backed by any amount
of experiment by the British Navy and European
navies—the chance of an aeroplane hitting a moving
target is a poor one, though the target, like the part-
ridges in the story, might “fly into it sometimes.”
Libraries Before Loan Jobs.
It was a bad day for local government in N. S. Wales
when Mr. Spooner, the superfluous Minister (local
government can get along without meddling city
Ministers), discovered that he could relieve his Gov-
vernment of the burden of getting the unemployed
back into private industry by inducing local bodies
to borrow for “works.” Municipal and shire councils
which believe in paying their way resisted his blandish-
ments, but Mr. Spooner proudly mentioned at the
conference of Local Government Clerks that 234 coun-
cils had surrendered to them. “Total value of subsi-
dised works,” he said, was “£7,767,352.” Out of loans
and relief-tax revenue the Government is finding
£3,500,000 and interest in excess of 3j per cent. The
councils are biting ears for the balance.
Naturally, a disproportionate share is being bor-
rowed by local bodies whose finances were already
embarrassed before the subsidised works were con-
ceived, and which had massive accumulations of unpaid
rates. The Government Statistician’s Local Government
Bulletin doesn’t carry the story beyond 1935, but in that
year the old municipal tradition that revenue should
suffice for expenditure was departed from to the extent
of £6274 in Sydney suburban municipalities and £4717
in Newcastle and suburbs, though country municipali-
ties showed a surplus of £60,142. About Sydney,
Willoughby went £12,185 to the bad, and Kogarah
£5993. These concerns are going in for “subsidised”
works on a grandiose scale.
Possibly Mr. Spooner’s political conscience pricks
him now and then. Anyway, he told the Local Gov-
ernment Clerks he was going to ask country towns
“to lead the way in the establishment of municipal
libraries.” Going about the country, he finds “bright
buildings springing up for Country Women’s Asso-
ciation rest-houses, Scouts’ halls and men’s clubs,”
all without transmitting the bills to posterity. He
didn’t say that, but he said this:
Surely the establishment of municipal libraries, with
reading-rooms and a well-housed selection of books
under the control of a librarian with discriminating
tastes and the ability to encourage good reading, would
be a municipal service of the very highest degree. This
movement might well take its place alongside the build-
ing of freshwater swimming pools and the construc-
tion of roomy town halls and council chambers with
modern dancing floors.
It ought to come first.
From Bad to Worse.
The transport-strangulation policy will scarcely be
advanced by the annual report of the Queensland
Railway Department, even though the true position
is camouflaged.
Queensland has 6566 miles of Government line
open. The total investment in them is shown as
£38,616,000. But a few years ago, in happy imitation
of Micawber, £28,000,000 was written off, interest
being charged against general tax-revenue.
Over the whole lines “percentage of profit to
capital (opened lines)” is reckoned at £4 ss. p.c. But
interest eats it nearly all up (the “profit” claimed was
£7872), leaving interest on capital written off to be met
by taxpayers. The return from wool freights last
year was £385,000, against £499,000 in 1932-33, despite
an increase in the clip. And the Commissioner admits
that, though dry seasons have affected passenger car-
riage, “there has been a substantial loss by reason of
increase in air travel,” while in the North “improved
road facilities have much to do with the decline of busi-
ness on the Cairns railway.” In other words, private
motor carriage persists, though every measure short
of making it a misdemeanor is employed to stifle it.
A glimpse at the position of some individual lines
is enough to make an accountant or a taxpayer shudder.
Twenty-four sections return working expenses and
interest and a little over. Twenty find part of the
interest. Forty-eight fail to earn full working expenses.
Those in the last list are not all derelict political
ventures. They include suburban Brisbane lines to
popular watering-places and short railways into
the richest agricultural districts in the South—Rose-
wood to Marburg, Ipswich to Dugandan, Munbilla
to Mt. Edwards, Warwick to Maryvale and some
more. On 29 the loss exceeded the revenue.
Rosewood to Marburg is a fine example. Just
under nine miles long, it earned a whole £Bl4. Yet it
has one big market town (Ipswich) within a dozen
miles, and Brisbane markets less than 40 miles away.
It cost £36,000 to build.
There are dozens of small lines of that type in
Queensland, and a dozen more which run long dis-
tances to defunct mining towns, and have become
completely bankrupt. The Normanton railway in the
Gulf, for example, raked in £678 last year from 92
miles of rails. It cost £172,000, and the interest bill
is over £7OOO a year. Still it might possibly have some
military use. This is not true of short near-suburban
lines which could be served by bus and lorry.
The whole sorry list of sections which fail to
return working costs, much less interest, show an
aggregate loss of £575,000 a year. Most of them can
never pay. Every year sees them more deeply in the
mire. Those which road transport has rendered un-
necessary should be closed, but they will lag super-
fluous while political considerations prevail.
What "Eyewitnesses" Are Worth.
During the week a “mass” meeting of Sydney people,
estimated to number 1500, resolved to boycott Japan
because, as one speaker put it, the Japanese had
shocked what was left of the conscience of the world.
Among other things, they were called “murderers.”
When the plate went round, the enthusiasm of the
meeting in hard cash panned out at sd. a head.
Enthusiasm for the Chinese cause seems to be
worth as little as the say-so of “eyewitnesses” who
are feeding Australian readers with tales of horror,
like the following published in the Sydney “Sun” and
other papers on September 25:
The slaughter in Canton of 3000 non-combatants
at the rate of 200 a minute eclipsed anything that
occurred elsewhere. “Corpses lay as thick as flies on
flypaper in summertime,” says an eyewitness.
On October 17 the “Sun” published a letter from
a Mrs. Le Gay Brereton, an Australian living in Hong
Kong, dated October 1:
My husband has been to Canton to investigate the
extent of the bombing, the numbers of which are exag-
gerated. Tseng Yang-fu, the Mayor of Canton, told
him the death-roll there from bombing was under 100.
On August 14 Chinese ’planes bombed the Inter-
national Settlement of Shanghai, killing 450 and
wounding double that number. During the same
attack the Chinese ’planes attempted to bomb the
British cruiser Cumberland and the United States
cruiser Augusta. It was in this bombing raid—by
Chinese ’planes—that most of the horrors now being
shown on movie screens in Australia were committed.
These facts are not drawn from Japanese sources ;
they are from the London “Times.”
Australians’ sympathies in the horrible business
in China are with the country which has been
invaded and whose forces are being beaten. But,
as a fair-minded people, they would like to hear both
sides and judge for themselves, and they are getting
only one side.
Significant Air Trends.
The current year has been a great one for Maoriland
aviation, and it will finish with a worthy flourish.
A second Pan-American survey flight to Auckland is
planned for late December, and it is to be preceded
by a meteorological and radio conference which his-
tory may regard as the most significant 1937 event in
British aviation.
The U.K., Canada, Australia and Maoriland will
be represented at what' official circles already term
a South Pacific conference. Part of the agenda con-
cerns methods of weather-checking over areas of the
Tasman, and the relaying of this information to service
pilots flying the Australia-Maoriland route.
Maoriland’s Department of Industrial and Scien-
tific Research is extending its Apia observatory. Cur-
rent estimates include an additional £2lOO for “equip-
ment and office accommodation,” said to be necessary
to service pilots on the trans-Pacific air corridor. This
may be a courtesy M.L. intends extending to Ameri-
can airmen, but the chances are that it is also a hope-
ful preliminary to British air extension in the Pacific.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: Judge Curlewis is not the
only forthright character on the N.S.W.
District Court Bench. Judge Sheridan
is held in even greater awe by certain
barristers and witnesses, for when his
feelings are aroused he doesn’t seem to
care whose toes he treads on. An
aggrieved town-planner has complained
to the Attorney-General that “when giv-
ing evidence as an expert witness in the
Point Piper flats case” he had to sub-
mit to his association being “grossly in-
sulted” by Mr. Sheridan, the “gross in-
sult” consisting in the statement that
“the Town-Planning Association carries
no weight at all—nobody pays any atten-
tion to it.” It doesn’t sound very ter-
rible ; but worse was to come.
To a woman witness he said: “You give
me a headache.”
Lots of us would like to say the same
to ladies who give us headaches, only we
haven’t the pluck! It was Judge Sheri-
d.an who brightened the bodyline con-
troversy by writing a letter to the effect
that Larwood had, prima facie, com-
mitted assault and battery and should be
prosecuted. I shall always be grateful
to him for introducing a bit of humor
into that damnably dull argument.
* * *
“Ike Hollar”: Of 12 boys at Crown-
street public school (Sydney) who won
passes to Sydney High two were Greeks,
two Chinese and one an Esthonian.
Crown-street, which has glamorous
memories of Victor Trumper, was once
a high school itself; from 25 to 30 p.c.
of the junior pupils are now of
alien stock. The percentage is much
greater in Plunkett-street school, which
is right down in the ’Loo. The ’Loo and
Surry Hills have gone foreign since the
war, and it is the Italians, Greeks, Ser-
bians, Esthonians, French and others
who are producing the families there.
A queer change from the time when
“born in the ’Loo” was regarded as a
guarantee of solid Australian pedigree.
* * * *
“Xo”: Floods are the sort of sticky
visitations people prefer reading about
to seeing. After the recent four-day
downpour which averaged about sin.
over the Yarra catchment area and over-
flowed low-lying flats near the river,
there were miniature lakes as close to
the city as Kew, and in the Yarra’s upper
reaches there were water-swept homes
and flooded farms. City papers ran the
usual pictures of stock rescues and
families deserting threatened houses. So
on the Tuesday morning Collins-street
pedestrians were offered “Special Yarra
Flood Tours” at four bob return ; the
route was the visually good but road-
safe one through Kew and Doncaster
to Warrandyte and back by Temple-
stowe, about 38 miles. Starters? None,
except the regulars who would have used
the route, anyway.
* # * *
“Fare”: The poor little victim was a
Mosman (Sydney) schoolgirl. At the
inquest the coroner remarked that most
people knew that it was dangerous
to alight on the wrong side of a tram,
yet thousands did so daily. And they’ll
be saying exactly the same things all
over again at the next inquest held in
similar circumstances. In Brisbane, a
bar runs the length of the “off” side of
the trams, and passengers are liable to
penalties for disregarding its warning.
> * * * *
“Fi. fa.”: Most citizens accept a trus-
teeship for a friend’s estate, or for some
concern such as a sporting club, as a
purely nominal responsibility, and not a
few have found themselves caught up
later on in a whirl of consequences.
Any trustee, for example, is liable for
breaches of trust by a fellow-trustee,
although he may have been quite un-
aware of them ; responsible, too, for any
other act of a co-trustee which affects
the trust unfavorably. Legal interpreta-
tions of terms used in a will in their col-
loquial sense have embarrassed and dis-
mayed not a few trustees of the “friend-
of-the-family” kind when they have
found out that the widow is not included
under “family,” nor is she a “relation”
of her late husband, and hence is not
entitled to any share in a legacy or
corpus left for division among his family
or relations. In the latter case it would
probably be divided among his next-of-
kin, just as if he had died intestate.
* * * *
“Kingsland”: The ballad of “Kafoo-
salem” (B. 20/10/’37) must have been
rewritten for military consumption if
“Murihiku” is correct. When writer first
heard the song 50 years ago it was emi-
nently suited to Victorian drawing-rooms.
“M.” says the title of the soldier version
was “Kafoosalem, the Harlot of Jeru-
salem.” In the original the title and re-
frain ran “O Kafoosalem, the daughter
of the barber.” The alteration has been
clumsy, too, there being a redundant
syllable in the last line.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Regulars in city and suburban
police courts have become accustomed
to Melbourne’s women solicitors, but
some of Vic.’s country courthouses aren’t
so sophisticated. One of Melbourne’s
well-known legal women was appearing
“Mr. What's-your-name, come and give me a hand with this dress!"
for a country client in the local court
and breezed in to get her place at the
solicitors’ table ; the crier, grown quite
deaf in the name o’ the law, wasn’t let-
ting any woman sit herself there. “You
can’t do it,” he told her; “you’ll have
to move down the back of the court.”
She explained quietly that she was a
solicitor, but he wasn’t hearing any ex-
cuses. “Down the back,” he repeated
firmly. Her protests, growing louder
and louder, eventually attracted a con-
stable. “She’s a solicitor,” he bawled in
the crier’s better ear. “Eh, eh —what’s
that? What’s she soliciting?” And it
took some time to convince him that
her job was entirely legal.
* * * *
“Mak”: Victorians don’t have to leave
their own hearths to influence settlement
in the more remote parts of Australia
(B. 20/10/’37). Yarra-siders maintain
the Wyndham (W.A.) flying-doctor base ;
Dr. Allan King recently made three
flights to Hall’s Creek, about 240 miles
from the base, inside seven days; one
job was a maternity one, another was to
attend a 62-year-old man with a frac-
tured skull and the third was the periodi-
cal routine visit. Before the inaugura-
tion of the service a couple of years ago,
medical visits to Hall’s Creek totalled
two in 30 years.
* # * *
“Exdig”: Professor H. Whitridge
Davies recently told the “S. M. Herald”
that, with due anti-gas precautions, gas
in war-time becomes mefsly “a tiresome
inconvenience.” Maybe he was right.
There were thousands of gas casualties
in war-time, but most of them (except
the physically horrible mustard-gas in-
juries) took place before adequate gas-
mask protection had been provided.
There were hundreds afterwards, but
largely because men threw aside their
masks too early, underestimating the
risk. After a gas-shell deluge in the
vicinity of the Bluff the men moved
about as usual, the danger being re-
garded as past; in the morning, six
were found dead from gas-poisoning in
a dugout. Had they lighted a fire of
twigs, according to instructions, before
reoccupying their possie, the gas linger-
ing there would have been driven out.
It was incidents such as these that pro-
vided the casualties.
♦ * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. is proposing, after a
long interval, to provide pensions for its
Judges. In the far-back depression of
1886 they were cut out, but come back
on a sliding scale, with a maximum—
unless Parliament alters the bill now
before it —of £1250. It is also provided
that 70 shall be the retiring age in future,
but this is not to apply to the present
Bench, of whom Murray, C.J., is 74 and
Angas Parsons 65.
* * X *
“Kwakprak”: Two American scientists
have completed a four-year research into
the factors essential to an easy and com-
fortable shave. They find that prepara-
tion of the face, razor design and com-
position of soap govern the matter. The
face should first be washed with hot
water and a non-irritating soap for half
a minute or more, to remove sweat,
fatty secretions and grit. Shaving soap,
slow-drying and non-irritating, is well
rubbed in with the hand and plenty of
hot water for three minutes to make a
copious lather. This softens the face-
hair and permits it to stretch under the
razor stroke. The angle of the blade is
of prime importance, and if a. toothed
guard is used it needs a correction of
two or three degrees from a smooth bar
pattern of safety razor. Razor and face
should be thoroughly wet during shav-
ing, and lather maintained. A “dry
shave” will blunt an average blade, which,
with proper face preparation, will give
four or five comfortable ones.
sp * * *
“Loid”: From the Melb. “Herald”:
Hollywood (U.S.), Monday.
Mr. Will Hays, the film industry’s un-
official censor, said there was no basis for
the report that the Duke of Windsor would
accept the position of world film censor.
New Role for Dupe.—Page 2.
Seems an unfortunate juxtaposition.
% * * *
“T.”: A new Menzies (pronounced
Minyies) has shot up into at least fleeting
celebrity: “the Right Honorable Leslie
Robert Menzies, F.R.G.S., known as
‘Lucky Bob,”’ who has written a book
called Goldseeking Odyssey. The Right
Honorable Lucky Bob claims to have done
his goldseeking in Westralia, and men-
tions a banquet in his honor, attended
by the Governor, Sir William Robinson,
at which he was thanked for his services
in the name of King Edward VII. and
presented with the Royal Geographical
Society’s gold medal.” The “Daily Mail
has been informed by an official of the
society” that there is no trace of the Right
Honorable’s record on its books, and by
Colebatch, the Agent-General, that “there
is a Mr. Menzies, aged 73, residing in
Victoria, who discovered the Menzies
goldfield.” Very likely the reporter, and
not Colebatch—an old journalist and
always a careful one added a super-
fluous “s” to the name: gold was found at
Menzies by Menzie and McDonald in
1894. That Menzie, if my memory
doesn’t deceive me, was “Lucky Bob tor
a time. There is a legend in Perth that
years after the luck vanished he was a
disconsolate witness from the Esplanade
to the ceremony of handing over a B or_
geous yachting cup he had presented in
the days of his affluence to a club whic
had forgotten him. I daresay he came
from Victoria ; many of the men who
made lucky strikes in Westralia, among
them Bayley, Ford and
it from or by way of the Cab age
Garden. # #
‘ Paris » : Honor where it is due.
arsenical extract of pig described by
« Kwak k „ as a speciality of the
Borgias (B. 20/10/’37) was invented by
amiable Roman matron Tofana,
is cred ited with the
7 emoval * of h ' ndreds of Roman hus-
bands, the lady specialising in widow
manufacture. It is affecting to think that
her passion for research was rewarded
with boiling alive. Similarly, arsenic was
the standard poison used during the
epidemic of poisoning which rage * n
Paris during the Medici period. All the
stories of subtle poisons admimstere y
perfumes and prepared gloves have been
proved false. Arsenic was the recog-
nised ageht, and so well was this under-
stood that when the husband of a good-
looking wife —for the women, bless ’em,
were the chief patrons of the poisoners—
felt off color he immediately went on a
copious milk diet, that being much
esteemed as an antidote. It is stated
that the husband of the Marquise de
Brinvilliers practically lived for years on
milk, with the result that he outlasted his
downright missus.
$ * * *
“Rokko”: A nice sense of psychology
was shown by a big Sydney firm the other
d,ay when an unfortunate hurled himself
from the roof of its building. Stress-
ing the point that if the place of suicide
were to be disclosed others in temporary
mental stress would undoubtedly follow
the victim’s example, the company asked
police and press not to broadcast the
means of death, as the roof of the build-
ing, which houses business and domestic
tenants, is a popular and easily accessible
point with sightseers and others. It was
the same respect for psychology that
made Massey, when Premier of M.L.,
ban the press mention of poisons used
by suicides.
* * * *
“L. de F.”: That new Vic. woman
M.L.A. proposes some sweeping reforms.
For reducing extravagance and waste in
electioneering, for instance. Why, she
asks, shouldn’t all parties share neutral
campaign offices where rolls could be
checked and information sought from
representatives of all parties? And why
shouldn’t opposing candidates hold meet-
ings in the same hall on the same night ?
WIFE.
Nobody else could understand her ways:
She puts cold facts and logic on the shelf.
Her motives are a mystifying maze;
Unique is she, a law unto herself.
What other man could plot the course erratic
Her variable fancy’s prone to lead—
The baffling silences, the moods dramatic,
Who else could read?
Proudly I claim no other hand could steer
A craft so fickle to a given berth.
The practised smile, the calculating tear,
Who else could weigh them at their proper
worth?
Ardent, cold-blooded, lovable, inhuman,
Delightful, hateful, unsuspicious, sly,
Nobody else could manage such a woman —
And nor can I!
N.S.W.
ABIE.


“Jamwood”: Not only in politics and
sport is the most charming of Austra-
lian cities the Eternal Nark. At the
Anglicans’ General Synod, held in Syd-
ney, Sydney was roundly accused of
having blocked a draft constitution for
the government of the church as it
blocked the Commonwealth Constitution
Bill, only longer. Said Bishop Hart, of
Wangaratta:
In 1926 what was known as Bishop
Long’s constitution was accepted with
scarcely a dissentient voice—'except Sydney’s.
The revised draft sent out in 1936 has been
accepted by 18 dioceses. Sydney has re-
jected it. General Synod still has to have
patience with Sydney, but that patience is
nearing exhaustion.
The bishop concluded with a reference
to the fact that Sydney has lost the
Primacy— to Archbishop Le Fanu, of
Perth —and hinted that Sydney would
never get it permanently until it ceased
to be a nark. Then Archbishop Wand,
of Brisbane, had a go at the Sydney
“Morning Herald,” saying that in pur-
porting to convey certain views of the
Brisbane diocese it had published a
“false” report. The “Herald” was too
overcome to comment.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Sydney “Sun,” in
report recently of the finding of a young
woman’s body floating in Sydney Harbor,
continued: — <
An employee of a city hotel went to the
Morgue this afternoon in the hope of
being able to identify the body.
It reminds me. Some time ago our local
free daily at the end of a long report of
the death of an esteemed local mentioned
in detail people who “were amongst the
many who attended the funeral cele-
brations.”
* * * 3*5
“Jachris”: “The crowd next door are
pinching our ore” is probably an accusa-
tion as old as Ophir, but I never heard
of anyone going to law about it till a
Bendigo co., Central Blue Gold, claimed
£20,000 from an adjoining show, Little
180. It alleged that its gold had been
shifted to Little 180 through a “rabbit-
burrow” entrance, afterwards blown up.
Little 180 admitted working Central
Blue ground for two months of
1936, but pleaded that “such opera-
tions were carried on in the belief that
the boundary had not been crossed.”
“ ’And over that shanghai, you snipe!"
Evidence was given by a former
shift-boss of Little 180 among others
—that “we knew we were encroach-
ing” and “the dogs were barking
it,” but we “had to work for our living.”
After four days there was an adjourn-
ment for a conference. .Then it was
announced that, by consent, Central Blue
was to get £5OOO, with £l2OO costs. For
Little 180 it was explained that it had
“honestly believed it had a good case,”
but in the face of the evidence “the de-
fence was no longer tenable.” Justice
Gavan Duffy made no comment.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: Jean Batten and Broad-
bent are not the only claimants to air
records. What about our grand old
Australian Government, whose overseas-
letter rate is Is. 6d. per half-ounce —12
times the rate from
London to Cape
Town —and which
has been wrangling
for nearly two years
as to the terms and
conditions under
which the new flying-
boat service from
Britain will operate?
Hopes that it would
start in January
have proved illu-
sory ; it will be the
middle of next year
before we see those
boats. Meanwhile
the Dutch are nego-
tiating for an un-
subsidised service,
London - Sydney;
schedule time, eight
days. And the Aus-
tralian agents for the
U.S.A.-built Lock-
heed E 1 e c t r a
machines announce
the completion of a
new model, some of
which will go to the
Dutch for their
Javan service and
one to Guinea Air-
ways. These Lock-
heed Electras have
a loading capacity
about equal to
the machines at present used in the
Sydney-Singapore service. But their top
speed is 265 m.p.h., about 100 m.p.h.
faster.
* * * *
“El V.”: Queer things sometimes lie
in Sydney bookshops. A few years ago
I picked up a little book of French verse
decorated on the front page with two
or three notes in a historic handwriting
—they concerned appointments to be
kept—and above them the scrawl which
with Napoleon passed for a signature.
Another find a couple of days ago was
a rebound edition of the now rare Gleig
Life of Wellington. Bound into it is a
letter dated July 19, 1827, in which the
victor of Waterloo writes from Lincoln
to ask somebody to “be so kind as to
take his Majesty’s pleasure” on the
appointment of a new ensign to the 2nd
Regiment of the Lower Hamlets militia in
place of another junior officer who had
died. The letter, in Wellington’s hand-
writing throughout, was written at a
moment when he was in holts with Can-
ning, from whose Ministry he had re-
signed a few weeks before. It seemed
well worth the half-crown I paid for it.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Should Bris-
bane’s City Council go on with its scheme
for widening Adelaide-street into Petrie
Bight, it will mean the last of the famous
old house, set high on the crest of the
cutting, once the home of Dr. Hobbs,
later Brisbane’s first Government House,
and now the Anglican Deanery. The
doctor arrived in 1849 in the ship
Chasely, and became a figure in
the professional, political and social
life of the little community of 5000 or
so. He was the first man in Queens-
“Take this puzzle, George - it'll give you something to do on your
honeymoon !”
land to administer chloroform, which
had been invented only a year or so
before he left England. Dr. Hobbs mar-
ried a sister of Toby Barton, Australia’s
first P.M., and the fine old two-storeyed
house on the hill was widely known for
its hospitality over a generation. A
cherished boyhood memory is that of a
drive in the doctor’s famous four-in-hand
to his seaside place at Scarborough
Point, 27 miles away, on Moreton Bay.
* * * *
“Notaden”: A curious but scientifi-
cally important risk arising from the
Japan-China war is the possible destruc-
tion of the work on the archaeological
treasure field near Chou-kin-tien, just
south of Peiping. Here have been found
the earliest known remains of prehistoric
man, Sinanthropus, who lived half a mil-
lion years ago or more. It was dis-
covered accidentally in 1921 during a
search for fossil remains, and a thor-
ough excavation of the site, still proceed-
ing, was begun in 1927. Extensive
quarrying, blasting and sifting by a staff
of nearly 100 excavators and scientists
yielded three new skulls last year and a
quantity of other material. The work
has now reached its most promising
stage, and bombing or gunfire would
probably destroy material of the greatest
scientific value in the elucidation of the
history of man’s development.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Apart from the fact that
they are not permitted to leave the lazaret,
lepers at Little Bay (N.S.W.) are not
nearly so isolated as scarlet fever, diph-
theria or other infectious cases (B.
13 /10/’37). They are allowed visitors
at almost any time, who may sit and talk
with them in their quarters or walk in
the grounds. The days when lepers were
treated as “unclean” are past.
* * * *
“Coot”: Up to about three months
ago a house in our suburb was occupied
by a carrier whose advt. embellished the
front wall. After his death the residence
was rented by a ladies’ nurse who placed
her brassplate on top of her predecessor’s
notice. The plate covered all the advt.
except the last line. So now we have
this notification:
Mrs. ,
Qualified Midwife.
Delivery in any suburb.
# * * *
“Claremont”: Westralia’s “Six Fami-
lies” (B. 20/10/’37) certainly included
the Lefroys, whose most notable repre-
sentative, Hector Bruce Lefroy, was an
amiable and gentlemanly Premier in the
later war years. The Cliftons, too, and
the Drake-Brockmans might feel hurt if
they were omitted from the va'gue half-
dozen. The first mention of the latter
in Westralian records appears in con-
nection with the ill-starred Australind
venture in the early ’forties, but the
family was resident in the colony before
that. Of late years it has kept well in
the public eye.
* * * *
“Marsh”: There are not now many
stations that have been owned by the
same family for a hundred years. The
other day the Hopkinses celebrated the
centenary of Wormbete, in the Birregurra
(Vic.) district. How many families can
beat that record?
* * * *
“2 Ys”: The Yanks beat us badly for
commercialising any idea out of which
an honest penny may be turned. Ad.
from the New York “Times”:
Praying Mantis for rent by the hour to
eat the insects that are killing your house
plants. Experienced, gentle, harmless, fas-
cinating to watch.
* * * #
“J 2”: Now that Sydney pub-keepers
are in delighted agreement about the
necessity of doing away with the free
food some of them provide in bars, their
attention might be drawn to a few other
much-needed improvements. They might
start by sending a delegation to Mel-
bourne to see how much better the busi-
ness is run there. In the Vic. capital,
bars are designed for comfort; many of
them —ordinary bars—have lounges,
tables, filed newspapers, writing conveni-
ences and enclosed kitchenettes where,
for a penny or two, a man can have a
snack or a meal with his beer. The cus-
tomer is served either at the bar or at a
small table. He does not have to stand
and be jostled and stood on by the mob
fighting for a drink or, having secured
one, wander about with it in his dook
to get out of the traffic. On race-days
the non-bettors’ ears are not split by
the blaring wireless race-broadcasters
and tipsters as in Sydney. As for doing
away with the free counter-lunch, hun-
dreds of men who like a glass of some-
thing and a sandwich for lunch will drop
the hotel bar if they find it offers nothing
but standing room to slide a spot down
the neck. The increasing number of
coffee houses in Sydney would probably
benefit, and nobody would be much the
worse for it except Bung.
BRISBANE ANTHEM.
(Written when they went back to work.)
Rejoice, ye tongues of hyper-thirsty men!
Bespeak a keg or two for Sunday night,
For nut-brown ale has changed its hue again—
It’s white!
Ring loud, ye bells, in honor of this feat!
Wail, all ye wowsers! Let the organ blow!
Dance, all ye jazzers, on the old-time fleet,
Light toe.
Ye landlords who are banishers of woe,
Get busy, Bungs; and all ye bibbers, bib.
The strike is over; let the liquor flow
Ad lib.
Now bend the elbow and unbend the jaws,
And fill ’em up again, and make good cheer,
Whether it’s brown or black or white, because
It’s Beer I
VICTORIA.
SCOTIA.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
K
10 for 9°
20 for 1^
0382
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
w
m
THE
CIGAR E T T E
THIS
GENE R A T
POLITICAL POINTS
Lyons has won his third Common-
wealth election as leader of the U.A.P. —
he got in eight years ago as a Labor man
and would have gone out with Labor in
1931 or 1932 had he remained in his old
party—but his positive contribution to the
victory was small and his State’s share
was insignificant. And the Ministry will
have to be reconstructed. Parkhill looks
a gone coon in Warringah, and Tom
Brennan in Victoria. And though
Hunter, nearly 3000 votes behind Bed-
ford on Sunday, professed to be confi-
dent that outside boxes would, as
hitherto, put him ahead, McLachlan, the
P.M.G., wasn’t feeling well in S.A., nor
was Pearce altogether comfortable in
Westralia.
All the party leaders proved bad
prophets. But Lyons and Page, though
refused the additions they talked of,
didn’t lose a Representative in N.S.W.
(Spender, who may unseat Parkhill, is
anti-preselection U.A.P.), where Lang
and Beasley, dutifully echoed by Curtin,
predicted a gain of nine seats. In Vic-
toria the U.A.P. has seemingly lost Bal-
larat to Labor and Bendigo to the
Country party, with Wannon in doubt,
though Scholfield may hold it. When
this was written, Adelaide, Maranoa
(Q.) and Wide Bay (Q.) were the only
other doubtful seats.
“Thank you, Mr. Lang, for the fifth
time.” —(Signed) J. A. Lyons and B. S.
B. Stevens.
Apparently Tasmania has rejected
Lyons’s party and Westralia has rejected
Curtin’s party. It helps one to under-
stand why the Americans never choose
Presidential candidates from small States.
In 1922 Labor lost the House of Repre-
sentatives election, but won a dozen
seats in the Senate. The same, or some-
thing very like it, may have to be written
of this 1937 affair. On Monday’s figures
it would be base flattery to concede
Curtin 33 of the 74 seats in the House,
but a dozen in the Senate (19 were con-
tested) seemed quite a possibility.
Parkhill’s knighthood was no asset to
him in Warringah. Perhaps a title
doesn’t hurt a politician when the
owner is a mild and benevolent person
like Stewart, but in the case of one in-
clined to be bumptious it can be a serious
liability.
In most of the Queensland electorates
there has been so decided a slump in the
Labor vote that Senators Collings, Brown
and Courtice may lose. The decline was
particularly marked in Wide Bay, where,
with 20,000 votes or so to come in, a
Douglas Credit man, Nichols, topped the
poll, Corser, the C.P. member, being
second and the Laborite a poor third. It
was Douglas Credit’s one respectable
showing; in Martin (N.S.W.) its Rev.
Carruthers, for three years a Tas.
Assemblyman, lost his deposit.
South Australians are grinning at a
pre-selection comedy. Mcßride, the mem-
ber for Grey, decided that he would
like to transfer to the Senate, and the
party bosses promptly put him on their
Senate ticket, scraping Senator Badman
off it. To the annoyed Badman they
patronisingly said “Oh, you stand for
Grey.” He reluctantly agreed, and tossed
in his resignation as Senator (till June 30).
Two days before the general election, the
S.A. Parliament, Labor dissenting,
appointed Mcßride to the vacancy. Now
Badman is in for Grey and Mcßride
will very likely go out.
As Melbourne “Age” summed it up:
Every Liberal voter will deplore that,
instead of that adumbration and eluci-
dation of the several policy speeches
which is the true purpose of an election
campaign, there should have been substi-
tuted a series of irrelevancies, generalities
and calumnies whose sole purpose is to dis-
tort and to defame. The Liberal voter will
assess all the polemical sordidness at its
true and trivial worth, and, keeping clearly
in mind the broad fundamental issues with
which the nation is faced, will cast his
vote unswayed by any of the many
spurious issues by which it is, in some
quarters, being hoped his vote may be mis-
directed.
The “Age’s” Senate ticket was Dr. John-
son 1, Webster 2 and Roget (of the
Thesaurus) 3.
Attacked from all quarters, Roosevelt
has specifically declared that the U.S.A.
is “entering the Nine-Power Conference
regarding the Sino-Japanese War with-
out any commitment to other Govern-
ments” and is aiming at “a peaceable
solution.” This when the Sydney “D.T.”
“Sir Archdale Parkhill cannot be divorced from politics.”
—Melbourne “Argus” the day before the election.
“Judgment will be suspended for a day or two, but my present inclination is to
pronounce a decree nisi.”
positively announced that he was lead-
ing an international boycott of Japan
and that “Australia must stand behind
him”—and, of course, be in the boycott
up to the neck. Another idol down!
One Vernon Bartlett has unmasked
another devilish Italian plot—the organ-
isation of an Abyssinian army of
“3,000,000, with 300,000 men on the
active list.” Population? The States-
man’s Year-Book reckons it at “about
7,000,000,” the same as ours. Our adult
male electoral population—age limit,
about 108 —is a shade over 2,000,000.
Mr. Vernon Bartlett is one of the young
li-ons of the “Cronk-News.”
The repeated claim that “Labor built
the Australian Navy” brought Joseph
Cook out of his retirement to deny it.
Joseph wrote, in effect, that the first
H.M.A.S. Australia was the Australian
Navy, and that its purchase was decided
upon at a conference with Jacky Fisher,
to which the Deakin-Cook Government
sent Colonel Foxton.
This was the genesis of the ship, the
armored cruiser, which beat back the
German boats prowling round our coast.
It was a battle- cruiser, of course —an
armored cruiser would have been as easy
for the Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau
as the Good Hope and the Monmouth
were off Coronel.
Joe Cook’s description of our one and
only battle-cruiser, of glorious memory,
as an “armored” cruiser recalls that Joe
was always a bit weak on technical terms
though his heart was in the right place.
He once mentioned that it was intended
to go in for destroyers of the River class,
and was asked what special characteristics
destroyers of the River class possessed.
Joe replied smartly that they could go
up rivers.
Nearly all our Defence Ministers have
had to learn their job from the begin-
ning. Parkhill’s friends appealed to the
Warringah people to return him on the
ground that he had come to it with superb
intuition and mastered it in three years.
The Warringah people don’t seem to have
been greatly impressed.
An eleventh-hour Beasley warning to
this menaced nation:
If Russia clashed with Germany, if France
clashed with Italy, if Czechoslovakia were
made the cockpit of another Balkan in-
vasion, Australia is bound by collective
security to send men, ships and aeroplanes
to the European battlefields.
Czechoslovakia is rather remote from the
Balkans, and if ships had to be sent to
“the European battlefields” the R.A.N.
would be a bit late. In any case, the
League would meet such an emergency
by ordering out the Swiss Navy.
Haunting doubts as to Roosevelt
finance seem to have been the main
reason for recent weaknesses in Wall-
street, the effects of which have reached
Australia. Anyway, a Presidential ad-
mission that his 1937-38 deficit (it in-
cludes loans as well as revenue shortage)
will amount to $695,000,000, instead of
a previously estimated $418,000,000, was
followed straightway by another tumble
in stock and share prices. Loan-drunk
Australian Treasurers should learn some-
thing from this American experience;
but, of course, they won’t.
Nine months before the second Roose-
velt became President, the gross U.S.A.
public debt (Federal only) amounted to
$19,487,009,700. By June 30 it is ex-
pected to reach $37,119,858,700. In June,
1915, it was only $1,191,264,000.
Macfarlan and Holden, of the late
Country and Liberal group in Vic.
Assembly, now sit behind the C.P. Gov-
ernment. Both were elected on the
U.A.P. ticket. If Macfarlan had given
his constituents timely warning of his
intention, he wouldn’t have been re-
turned. He will never get in again, and
the finish may come sooner than he bar-
gains for.
As a reward for his services to “re-
form” or Country-party politics or some-
thing, Tunnecliffe, the Labor “leader,”
has been voted into the Speaker’s chair
in Vic. Assembly, Everard being voted
out. The U.A.P. put up Knox. He got
20 votes, Everard seven and Tunnecliffe
37. There are 65 members and 64 voted,
19 being Laborites and 20 Cockies. Dun-
stan has been left with an uneasy feel-
ing that two of his subjects twisted.
The French have their cantonal elec-
tions :
Sydney “D.T.”: Popular Front can-
didates gained an overwhelming victory.
The United Socialists gained 71 seats and
the Communists 31.
“S. M. Herald”: The Popular Front,
while it still commands a majority, has
lost some support. There has been a
definite swing-away from the Socialists and
Communists and Left Wing Radicals to-
wards the Right.
Anyway, these eminent organs agree on
one thing—that Mussolini and Hitler are
cows.
Since the kind Sydney Government in-
timated that it would guarantee co-opera-
tive building society overdrafts “up to
80 p.c. of the security” and up to 90 p.c.
when “acceptable borrowers” were short
of the ready, these co-ops. have sprung
up all over the place. The guaranteed
overdrafts now exceed £4,000,000, and
prices of building materials have
gone up gloriously. ' Bricks alone are up
15s. per thousand on last year’s price.
In fact, lots of people are already doing
famously out of this development ot
Government enterprise. The taxpayers?
Don’t mention them!
The last of Canberra’s wandering boys
to return from overseas is A. W. Fisken,
who, while M.P. for Ballarat, spent six
months touring the world on Australian
Meat Council business. He discovered
that if the high U.S.A. tariff can be
broken down “there is a great potential
market for Australian meat in U.S.A.”
The secession of Macfarlan and
Holden reduces the U.A.P. to 19 and
gives Dunstan’s C.P. a majority of one
over its old U.A.P. ally, with about half
the U.A.P. vote. Labor has as many
members as the C.P., also with about
double the C.P. vote. The alliance may
last till one-vote-one-value is dragged up
again.
In future U.A.P. politicians won’t be
so keen on royal commissions. Lyons
found the Banking Commission’s theories
an embarrassment, and the S.P. and Bread
Commission reports are periodical wor-
ries to Stevens. Every time the master
bakers think the public can stand dearer
bread they quote Herbert Gepp. Gepp
wrote that when flour is such-and-such a
price bread should go up a halfpenny the
41b. loaf. What the eminent mining ex-
pert forgot was that farthings are not in
circulation, and that the average house-
holder never buys 41b. loaves.
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George
street, Sydney, sign anything requiring a signa-
ture in this issue.]


A HOWLING SUCCESS.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ECONOMY DEPENDS ON
SPARKING PLUGS
rr
m
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
ECONOMY always results when new Champions are
installed. These better plugs give stronger sparks. They
get the full value from the fuel. Thus, fuel goes farther
and you soon save more than the cost of the plugs.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
<3
33
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
*Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Just returned to Australia to command
the sloop Yarra, H. B. Farncomb, the
first graduate of Jervis Bay Naval Col-
lege to reach the rank of captain. Farn-
comb joined the R.A.N. in 1913, served
with the Grand Fleet during the last two
years of the war and has since been
through the R.N. Staff College and the
Imperial Defence College. He com-
manded H.M.A.S. Australia when it took
the Duke of Gloucester home from
Australia.
North Queensland’s Anglican bishop,
J. O. Feetham, is the son of a Welsh
vicar, but a curacy in Bethnal Green did
not appeal to the lean, adventurous
younger Feetham, and in 1907 he be-
came head of the Australian Bush
Brotherhood, with headquarters at
Bishop FEETHAM, of North Queens-
land.
Bathurst (N.S.W.). In 1913 he took over
his present job, and is known from end to
end of the Far North. He writes a
scholarly prose, and is one of Australia’s
finest mathematicians —he was senior
optime in the mathematical tripos at
Cambridge in his University days.
Jack Cain, who succeeds to the leader-
ship of the Victorian Labor party on the
retirement of Tunnecliffe, has been in
the Assembly for 20 years. He became
deputy-leader in 1932 after terms as
honorary and Railway Minister during
the Hogan regime. The new deputy-
leader is H. M. Cremean, one of the
youngest members. He was elected in
1929 for Dandenong, defeated at the next
election, but regained his seat in 1934.
He is descended from a sister of Captain
Cook.
One of the oldest Australian politicians
—Tom Bridges, who sat for Nundah (Q.)
in the Queensland Assembly for a couple
of decades after 1896 —at 94 was still hale
and hearty enough to turn up at an open-
air Methodist conference the other day.
An Australian, A. E. M. Kirkwood,
has been chosen to fill the vacancy in
the professorship of English at Stellen-
bosch University (S’Africa). He was
educated at Melbourne University, went
to Queensland Uni. as a lecturer and
thence to Adelaide, where he functioned
under Archibald Strong before going to
London on a research expedition. After
Strong’s death Kirkwood had charge of
English at Adelaide for five years. He
has been relieving at Stellenbosch for
some months.
One of the few C.P. men to increase
his majority at the election is A. W.
Fadden, who won the Darling Downs
seat after the death of Littleton Groom.
Fadden is an accountant. He had his first
experience in politics as State member
for Kennedy (Q.), and proved himself
a ready speaker with a gift as a phrase-
maker. He once described Forgan Smith
as “the McDougall of deficits —the man
who topped the score.”
By the election of W. A. Jolly for
Lilley (Q.), the Federal House adds an
ex-Mayor of Brisbane to its roster
of experience. Jolly, Brisbane - born,
initiated the Greater Brisbane scheme,
graduating to the ludmayorship after a
six-year term as Mayor of Windsor. He
was in the chair when the present King
and Queen visited Australia in 1927, and
has a C.M.G. as a souvenir.
Paymaster-Commander T. E. Nave,
who has become chief interpreter in
Japanese to the British Navy in the
Far East, was in the R.A.N. and was
seconded to the R.N. because of his
ability with that language. The list of
naval officers holding interpreters’ certi-
ficates in Japanese never contains more
than two or three names.
Vic. Assembly’s new Speaker, Thomas
Tunnecliffe, was born near Ballarat in
1870 and started out to be a bootmaker,
but by 1903 politics had won him, and
he entered the Vic. House as West Mel-
bourne’s rep. With one brief spell, he’s
been there ever since. For 13 years he
held Eaglehawk, now Premier Dunstan’s
stronghold, but since 1921 has been Col-
lingwood’s Labor boss. Chief Sec. in
the Prendergast Ministry of 1924, he was
also Hogan’s Minister for Railways
and Electrical Undertakings from 1927.
For four years in the early ’twenties he
edited the “Public Service Journal,” and
from 1925 to 1927 sat in the same chair
of “Stead’s Review.”
R. J. Oehr, registrar of the Common-
wealth Institute of Accountants, has
resigned after 28 years on the job. He
has seen the institute’s membership grow
from 400 to over 4000, and has filled in
his spare moments working for the Mel-
bourne Philharmonic Society, the council
of Melbourne musical societies and the
Adult Deaf and Dumb Society.
“E.H.M.”: A par. (B. 20/10/’37)
named “the late” Dr. C. E. Wassell
as the physician who treated a
Thursday Island native mauled by a
shark. Actually, it was Dr. J. L. Was-
sell, his brother, who was at T.I. for
some time. C.E. is still living and in
practice on Wickham-terrace, Brisbane.
In his day he was a great rifle shot, a
member of the Brisbane Grammar School
team which won the Earl of Meath’s
competition against the schools of the
Empire and of the Queensland State
team. He served in the war as a colonel
of the A.A.M.C., won a D. 5.0., was
mentioned in dispatches and for a time
afterwards was senior medical officer at
Sydney Hospital and demonstrator in
anatomy at Sydney University.
The commander of the new P. and O.
giant the Stratheden, which will leave
London for Australia on Christmas Eve,
will be Richard Harrison, the commodore
of the co.’s fleet. Harrison followed in a
military father’s footsteps and added a
second D.S.O. to the family collection
during the war. He is an A.D.C. to the
King and a member of the R.N.R.
advisory committee.
Australia will receive a visit in Novem-
ber from Bunshiro Suzuki, a director of
the Asahi group of newspapers which
have a circulation running to millions.
A graduate of the Tokio School
of Foreign Languages, he was
correspondent for the “Asahi
Shimbun” at the Versailles and
Washington conferences, and
later became associate editor of
the Tokio edition of the paper.
George H. Lorimer, who last December
retired from control of the “Saturday
Evening Post,” is dead. Lorimer began as
a clerk in a Chicago packing factory and
joined the “S.E.P.” in Philadelphia in
the ’nineties when it was a 16-page sheet
with a circulation of 1600. When he re-
tired it was normally 60 pages of the
world’s best light fiction sprinkled with
articles on international politics, explora-
tion, biography and social subjects, and
it's 3,000,000 copies were printed by the
largest color-printing plant in the world.
Its advertising rates, too, were the highest
in the world, as were the rates it ordi-
narily paid to contributors.
Albert M. Doyle, acting U.S. Consul-
General in Sydney, served two years in
the war and afterwards seven years in
the Consular Service in the Netherlands.
Uncle Sam’s Representative.
Doyle has been nearly eight years in
Australia, the first two in Brisbane. He
is a keen golfer and motorist and a sound
linguist.
N. K. S. Brodribb, who this week be-
comes Controller-General of Munitions,
was one of the first Australians to join
- the staff of retiring controller A. E.
Leighton when the latter came from
“BRODRIBB makes the Bullets .”
England in 1909. Before this, young
Brodribb was a chemical engineer under
Vic.’s chief inspector of explosives. He
is well fitted for the new job ; last year
he went to England, via Maoriland, to
investigate the latest developments in
Government and private armament or-
ganisations.
Jean Batten has reached England, and
she made a new record. She landed
at Lympne at 3.45 p.m. on Sunday
(G.M.T.) —five days 19 hours 15 minutes
out from Darwin. The time was just
over 14 hours faster than Broadbent’s
previous best by a solo flier, and little
worse than the best ever (five days 15
hours) put up by Cathcart Jones and
Waller in the Comet. A fine flight—but
merely a stunt; and there should be a
job waiting somewhere to keep a pilot
of Miss Batten’s calibre from risking her
neck record-hunting. Broadbent, flying
the other way, was down on Monday
after a forced landing in the desert near
Bagdad.
The commission recently appointed by
the Canadian Government to examine the
financial and economic basis of the Con-
federation includes two Judges, two pro-
fessors and John Dafoe, the editor of
the Winnipeg “Free Press” and Chan-
cellor of Manitoba University. A
trenchant writer and an impressive
speaker, Dafoe is a sort of David Syme
in western Canada. He was in Australia
as a Canadian representative at the Im-
perial Press Conference in 1925.
“Angstrom Unit” on a scientific peer:
The late Lord Rutherford, first Australasian
scientist to be made a peer, came of small
farming stock and looked like a prosperous
farmer. He had a jolly face and a moustache
that properly belonged to the early nineteen
hundreds, and his hats and collars were of the
same period. With Professor Soddy, Ruther-
ford first established the nature of radio-active
transformations, and he and his assistants first
demonstrated the nuclear structure of the atom,
on the physical properties of which he was the
world’s outstanding authority. In the field of
radium, no one had done more than Ruther-
ford since the early days of the Curies. The
secret of his success was an extraordinary
patience and attention to detail. He was as
great a teacher and inspirer of other men as
he was a scientist, and he leaves research
workers of the calibre of A. D. Ellis and Chad-
wich—his collaborators in later years—to! carry
on his experiments. I travelled from Melbourne
to Sydney with him in 1925 when he was
making a second visit to Australia—he had been
here for a British Association meeting in 1914
—and found him simple, humorous and start-
lingly knowledgeable for a savant on matters
concerning stock and crops.


■
H
I ■
I
“I can tell
White Horse
For once you can take the word 6 di£fimSive’
at its full and literal value. White Horse has
a delicate aroma of its very own. It has its
own mellowness and its own smoothness, its own concert of characteristics
equal to those of a fine liqueur.
N.K.N.A.
A magnificent foundation for long, cool , summer drinks
Screw-cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM 'MINE TINK IT BEST'
“Dinkum”: Recently my galah de-
parted for a better world. After rewiring
the cage I transferred several canaries to
her recent abode. One little whistler de-
veloped maternal longings, and finding
an egg she proceeded with the usual job.
Imagine her surprise when a small voice
came from under, “Heh, ma, give us a
hand out of this shell.”
* * He *
“Ring Four”: If queer things turn up
in woolbales (B. 13/10/’37), queerer
articles come to light in the dumps and
mullock-heaps of mines. Tools, berets,
pipes and tobacco are everyday glean-
ings, sometimes thermos-flasks and crib-
bags and,' less frequently, spectacles,
watches and lamps. I ran across one
gruesome reminder of an accident in the
form of half a finger, and in one truck-
load I unearthed a set of false teeth.
«{» jjC 4*
“Ilak”: Even more remarkable than
the method employed by the catfish in
evading family responsibilities (B.
29/9/’37) is that used by Mrs. Seahorse.
Pa Seahorse is an obliging chap with a
zipper-like arrangement below his chest;
this opens when his spouse is ready to
deposit her eggs. The old man carries
them around in the pouch until the
youngsters incubate, then he releases
them a few at a time. Immediately they
attach themselves to any convenient part
of Pop’s anatomy, and he yanks them
around and cares for them until they
reach the age of discretion. In the mean-
time the lady of the species is away
selecting her next husband, who will
also be treated in the same shabby
manner.
* * * *
“Sprog”: The sparrow avoids build-
ing in our native trees (B. 13/10/’37) for
three reasons. It makes a large and
clumsy nest which demands plenty of
support in the way of twigs, brambles
and foliage; it is gregarious and likes to
make its nests in colonies, which de-
mands thick foliage to hold the homes;
and it is cunning, and likes to have the
nest in as much cover as possible. Most
native timber is sparsely branched and
wide open to invaders ; the spags like
boxthorn hedges best of all, with a
second preference for thatched roofs. I
have seen them nest in sugar-gums made
bushy by lopping.
# * * *
“Notaden”: If “James W.” (B.
6/10/37) can produce at any Australian
Museum a complete specimen, pickled,
preserved or alive, of his taipan snake—
a “venomous constrictor,” as he describes
it —there is a tidy sum of money await-
ing him. Apparently, a large venomous
snake does exist in the Cape York
country, but if so it is so rare that no
specimen has yet been authentically de-
scribed or classified. Incidentally, our
tiger-snake possesses the most potent
venom of any snake in the world, but
luckily its fangs are so relatively under-
developed and poorly designed, and the
poison glands so small, that a bitten
human seldom gets a full dose. Of the
two types of snake venom the colubrine
type paralyses the heart when carried to
it in the venous blood returning from the
bitten part; the viperine class clots the
blood—with sufficient dosage, extraordi-
narily rapidly and throughout the cir-
culation system.
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: The passing of the
petrol-tin may be a tragedy to the bush-
dweller (B. 6/10/’37), but the 44-gallon
containers in which the cocky buys his
gas and kerosene nowadays are nearly as
useful. They make handy tanks for the
sledge, weatherproof shelters for pigs and
dogs, and there is nothing better for wet-
pickling of wheat. Cut lengthwise they
are used as washing troughs and cradles,
and they make dry and mouseproof bins
for grain and potatoes. Of course, the
petrol-tin was given in free with the
spirit it contained, while the drums cost
four or five bob, but they are well worth
it.
* * * *
“Western”: It’s wonderful how some
of this “progress” hampers things. Back
in the old days of the W.A. goldfields,
when we contemplated matrimony we
got a load of bush saplings, or if “dead
flash” a few hundred feet of sawn 3x2.
A bolt of canvas from the store (a bob
a yard)—and we had a house! A bucket
“ ’E ate the ’orses.”
of whitewash, and it was a little palace.
Then followed a bed,' a table, a few kero-
sene-cases and a yard or so of cretonne
—the missus made her own furniture.
Nowadays Boulder and Kalgoorlie moan
about a house-shortage, rackrenting land-
lords and rent profiteers. There’s even
a cry for a Fair Rents Court. And build-
ings must be erected under the approval
of the town building committee. It re-
minds me of an old Bulletin ballad:
Stringybark’ll light yer fire;
GreenhideTl never fail yer.
Stringybark and greenhide
Are the mainstay of Australia.
Add another verse about canvas and sap-
lings, and you’ve got the reason why
there was no moan about the birthrate
40 years ago.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Mulga, who was well below
normal height, asked for a' job cutting
corn. The cocky looked him up and
down. “Yer a bit on the small side,” he
drawled. • Mulga glared at him. “Where
the hell d’ya cut the flamin’ corn in this
district —at the top?” he barked.
# * * *
“Nedlands”: Where did “Stralia” get
the theory that lack of “wing sockets” is
the reason for shags getting wet (B.
29/9/’37)? Do shags really get wet —
and why only individual birds and not
the whole roost? Have watched them
in thousands preying on the schools of
“whitebait” that periodically appear in
W.A. rivers, diving and flying alternately,
then miles home to roost —and never sign
of a bedraggled one among them. Have
watched individuals diving in 20ft. of
water by the hour —and not a feather
damp. Have also seen odd ones perched
with wings outspread as though drying
off My theory is that the wet shag has
taken a voluntary bath, just as a mus-
covy duck does. The shag or cormorant
is the world’s diver par excellence —the
fishing cormorant of the China Sea is
one of the species on our coasts. Prob-
ably no other bird has its plumage so
well protected from the incursion of
water; the shag couldn’t follow its
assigned method of catching a living
the pursuit of living, agile prey under
water }f hadn’t. ~
**’ * *
“MS"- Tell “C.-B.” that water can
be got from red mallee roots at any time
(B 13/10/’37). It is about the tallest of
the mallee, growing to upwards of 30ft.
high and having a smooth, bluish bark,
Close round the bole will be found roots
of lead-pencil thickness; cut them in
foot lengths, stand them upright in the
bfllycan, and m half an hour you 11 have
a fair drink. Did it myself in the 19
drought, nor-west ol Euston (N.S.W.).
„„ * _ ~* * * . ~
?;P : There s support for
Glimmers statement that Heietords
will only attack when alone (B.
13/10/ 37) in the fact that a man can
move with safety among the number or
merino rams, but it s a different proposi-
tion when some old ram is alone in the
pen. He 11 charge without provocation
len - * v *
„ _ ,
Doubting Willie : May I ask
“Colon” (B. 29/9/’37) if he ever saw the
butt of a wax candle fired through jin.
pine board without impairing shape or
usefulness? Once witnessed a Boer War
bellowdrama wherein the hero was put
well and truly out—by a stub of candle
with which some miscreant had loaded
the supposedly blank gun. But the in-
jury only amounted to a deep-seated
bruise ; the victim was strutting the
boards again next night. The candle was
considerably bent—the heat of the ex-
plosion was sufficient for that without
the impact. If I had a muzzle-loader, a
pine board and a piece of candle I’d try
the theory out; it’s probably like the
old-time one that if a live fish were
placed in a bucket brimful of water the
water wouldn’t overflow.
* * *
“F.Y.7”: Once uponla time black wool
imv separately soite (B. / / )•
Black sheep were not as uncommon on
Queensland stations in the eigij s
they are to-day, and their woo
always separately .baled. My da s .
one lot to the Ipswich Woollen Co. which
was woven into cloth without dyeing, e
natural color coming out a dm It k a i.
I: was wonderful cloth and indestruct-
lble to wear. I should know, for a roll
of it accompanied me when I went to
school in England, and its curious color
roused comment. Other pieces were
served out to various relatives, who
mostly had them made up into shooting
and covert coats.
* * * *
“Pauw”: “K-etc.-etc.” (B. 13/10/’37)
guesses badly when he says I evidently
don’t know the Australian plain-tufkey.
Acquaintance with the fowl began some
time in the ’seventies in western Queens-
land, and if I had a quid for every one
I've shot and devoured or helped to
scoff since then I would not in mine old
age have been left comparatively naked
to mine enemies. I repeat that the tur-
key will only squat for what he thinks
is protection in a good season when the
grass is long, the sun hot and the bird
pig-fat with plentiful food. When
drought conditions are the order of the
day, the grass gone and the short,
it is hard to get within decent rifle range
of the wary brute which, six months
previously, one could kick up from his
squatting place for a flying shot,
*** . * ,
Sheafstack : Abington station, on the
Armidale-Inverell (N.S.W.) road, has the
largest roadside letterbox I’ve seen. One
wet night I saw a light therein, and, in-
vest,gating, found a swagman stretched
out, readmg by candlelight. Apraise-
worthy fact is that bread and other food-
stuffs left in letterboxes is rarely inter-
feted with by the endless army of swag-
men - * # * *
“Hayband”: Lake Callabonna, * 400
m jj es nor t b G f Adelaide, is the Australian
mausoleum of the ages. As a lake, its
story ceased an estimated 30,000 years
ago ; and a wealth of fossil remains sug-
gests tbat there was a terrible struggle
f or tbe van i sb j ng wa ter. Excavations
bave re vealed a vast graveyard—’roos
tbat stoo( j 20ft. high, lizards 20ft. long
and horse-sized wombats. Most larger
an j ma j s G f that far-back day died with
j egs pointing straight down. The theory
j s that tbe y became bogged, and sank to
their deaths. Here and there a dingo’s
remains prove age-old residence.
* * * *
“CDI”: The trouble about getting
an emu-apple to grow where it will do
some good (B. 29/9/’37) is that,.accord-
ing to the old hands’ formula, the pips
must first take a cruise through the in-
terior appointments of an emu before
they can be induced to propagate ; hence
the name. One tree did grow from a cut-
ting, however—at Llanrheidol homestead,
W.Q. Old Ted Hines, the manager, stuck
it into a dreadfully hot, dry and rocky bit
of hillside, and then forgot to water it.
Probably deciding that that bit of treat-
ment was only a shade less rough than
being gobbled by an emu, the hardy little
blighter went ahead and grew—slowly,
The cutting was shoved in more than 20
years ago, but, though the tree has all the
emu-apple’s well-known beauty o'f form,
it has only grown about 10ft. to date.
.. C][ | F „. H * e had b * iu a ho * use on
our b ju bu t on a seC fi on that was 99 p.c.
hard d ’ y shortly after he moved £ j
saw b | m - n “g ar den” digging small
holes with an axe and dropping in
potatoes. I asked why he wasn’t digging
g efore planting . “ We U” he said, “I’m
tQ j d tbat p o t a toes will break up the soil
exce hently, and I’m going to let them
do d This ground’s too damned hard
fQr me tQ d - j»
* * * *
“Harry N.”: Ninety-five per cent, of
t he mortality among baby platypuses is
probably caused by large eels. Stealing
the young from duckbill’s burrow would
be easy work for a large eel, although
the slimy one would have tough opposi-
tion should Pa Platypus be at home. I
once caught tantalising glimpses of a
stoush between a platypus and a fair-
sized eel. Most of the set-to was con-
ducted under water, but whenever the
contestants came to the surface the platy-
pus seemed to be at least holding its own,
and was using its spurs in such a profes-
sional manner that I d bet it had lashings
of practice. *
A BEE TRAGEDY.
“Is it bees yer talkin’ about?” he said, and
sidled along the bar;
“Well, I ’ad a champeen swarm out West, an’
that’s where the best of ’em are.
There wasn’t a cove this side o’ Bourke (though
I’m not a bloke to crow)
’Oo could ’andle ’em near as good as me . . .
Thanks, sport... Oh! well, ’ere’s a go.”
“Why, s’welp me Bob! them insecks knew
ev’ry blasted word I said;
I ’ad ’em trained that well they c’d form a
pyramid on me ’ead;
At a word from me they w’d form fours, fly
or go at an easy walk;
They’d ’ve numbered orf from the right as
well, if they’d been able to talk.”
“They c’d count orf numbers I’d ask ’em to,
by buttin’ against me ear;
They’d stunt on me dile at the pub, an’,
’struth! they earned me many a beer.
But I made a horrible bloomer when I first
let ’em ’ave a spot,
For they took to the booze like sheep to grass,
, an’ started a-gettin’ shot.
One Saturday I was prop’ly screwed, after
puttin’ ’em through their tricks;
I’d staggered outside, but the swarms on the
spillin’s, gettin’ the larst few licks.
Then, suddenly, missin’ their boss, they made
a bee line f’r the door,
When across the street they spotted a bloke
with a black ziff passin’ the store.
“Them jealous cows (they thinks, o’ course,
there’s another swarm on me clock)
Jus’ gives a buzz like a circular saw —an’
didn’t they do their block!
The end of ’em? Well, s’welp me Bob! they
gits meshed in the old bloke’s nest.
’E does ’is nut, ’ops into the store —an’ a fly-
swat does the rest!”
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


“Old-timer”: “Bobtail” Smith, grape-
picking in Mildura (Vic.), found himself
under a woman boss, and the knowledge
was a thorn in his flesh. He did his
darnedest to annoy her, loafing on the job,
placing large stones in the fruit buckets,
being offensive, etc., but she ignored him
until the day he sent a frilled lizard along
with some grapes to where she toiled over
the dip. Mrs. Sultana came back on the
fruit-wagon, fell on “Bobtail” and smote
him hip and thigh, shoved the lizard in-
side his shirt and wiped his ear with one
of the galvanised iron buckets. He came-
to in a clean bed in the homestead, with
Mrs. S. fussing around strapping him up
with plaster and bandages. She’s Mrs.
Smith now, but she’s still boss, and “Bob-
tail” toils like a slave. Which goes to
show that a woman’s vengeance is never
satisfied. “Bobtail” has been sudden
death on frilled lizards ever since.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Odd fences (B.
6/10/’37)? A Gippsland (Vic.) butcher
has a sheepyard that is capped all round
with the skulls of bullocks. They are
spiked in position, and as the yard is
close to the road and the township the
locals get quite a lot of amusement watch-
ing the passing stranger trying to
manoeuvre his horse past the exhibition.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: “Milky mangrove” is the
variety, the sap of which affected the
eyes of “Lunar’s” Mackay Harbor clear-
ing gang (B. 22/9/’37). It grows only
on the edge of tidal swamps. Other
kinds, like white mangrove, black, red,
“Think I'd have time to dash across and get some cigarettes before the next train goes?"
silver, are harmless. A gang engaged in
clearing mangrove scrub north of Cairns
(N.Q.), under the P.E.S. scheme, for the
last 10 months has had no cases of eye
trouble, except when working where the
milky species grew. Then the use of
goggles made the chopping of these trees
safe.
* f.: !>
“Larrakeah” : No mention of the man-
grove is complete without some reference
to its unique method of reproduction.
The seed-pod first shows out as a small
bulbous growth on the lower limbs of
the tree, gradually lengthening until it
develops into a long thin shoot that
points down towards the water. When it’s
about 3ft. long it breaks away from the
branch and falls upright into the water —
always on an ebbing tide. Thousands are
carried to sea, but probably most return
on the flood and immediately begin to
throw out a phenomenal rootgrowth that
doubles their length in six hours. This
rapid growth is probably Nature’s pro-
tection against the young shoots being
carried out to sea on the next ebb.
* * * *
“Ake”: Cook Strait islands are not
the only places where that M.L. curiosity
the tuatara may be found. On the
almost inaccessible Chicken Islands, off
the North Auckland coast, the beasties,
some of great antiquity, still inhabit
their ancestral domain. One peculiarity
is that they frequently board with a
mutton-bird family, and apparently get
along on amicable terms in the burrow.
Some ornithologists hold that the lizard
is actually the householder, and enter-
tains the kindliest feelings for his noisy
tenants, frequently appearing at the front
door and scanning the ocean with an
anxious air as if to see if his friends are
anywhere near.
* * * *
“Kali”: At a recent Javanese science
conference native psychology was blamed
for the rapid dying-out of some Papuan
tribes, especially those in Dutch N.G.
Exactly what the savants mean by psy-
chology leaves me guessing, but if the
tribes are deteriorating I blame the ban
placed on a little innocent head-hunting
and the consequent tribal fights, from
time immemorial these Donnybrooks have
kept the natives virile and healthy; now
the tribesmen are a prey to ennui, the
worst of hells-on-earth. And they haven't
even the anodyne of work, the sago palm
alone being sufficient to supply food and
booze for the taking.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: Italian woodcutters have
a neat method of rolling heavy logs.
Giuseppe and his cobbers sit down
behind the log and place their feet against
it, the palms of their hands set on the
ground slightly behind them. A quick
heave-ho, with the legs taking the thrust
imparted by loins and shoulders, and
over goes the most recalcitrant log.
* * * r, *
“Stralia”: All the tosh about the dead-
liness of the hawk tribe sounds mighty
imposing on paper, but in actual fact it
boils down considerably. A goshawk,
nicknamed “chicken-hawk,” spent a day
hovering over the orchard near the
pigeon loft. Having no cartridges for
the gun, I had to be content with
keeping an eye on him. No startling
events were forthcoming, although the
pigeons passed in and out of the loft
right under his nose, and towards night-
fall he disappeared. Next morning I
found him perched in a corner of the
pen, where he had spent the night, and
the pigeons crouched on a shelf on the
opposite wall. Blocking up the entrance,
I watched him hurtle around inside like
a bullet. That convinced me. I opened
the door and shortly afterwards he faded
from view in the distance.
* * * *
“Incube”: It was a buck station in
W.Q., and there wasn’t one poultry ex-
pert among them. Being stockmen, they
knew young stuff had to be produced
to keep up the numbers; but the hens
just wouldn’t “cluck” and there were
eggs to spare. The boss and the book-
keeper went into conference. The result
was that they got a tin washbasin,
punched a couple of holes through the
sides, filled it with straw, laid the eggs
on top, caught a rooster, put his legs
through the holes and tied them under-
neath. Did it work? That bloke brought
“An' if We're passin' th' station at any time We'll tell 'em where you are!"
out settings of eggs in style, covering up
to 20 at a batch, keeping up his bodily
warmth with indignation at the task
thrust upon him, and getting that way
he didn’t even struggle or protest when
his foster babes were taken from him and
another setting of eggs put under his
bosom.
* * * *
“Jimmac”: Can endorse “Harry N.’s”
remarks on old-timers in sawmills (B.
6/10/’37). Some of them are early-day
pitsawyers—men who in a constrained
space can stand or crouch all day and
cut perfect flitches or boards with the
same old motion, each stroke of the saw
about Ift. (or less) at a time. Sou’-east
Queensland had a veteran named Duffy
who used a 71b. weight tied to the other
end of his saw ; he could turn out straight,
clean boards with the best of them.
❖ jr S '
“Deepsea” : Granted that a stream of
bubbles shot from the cuff of a diving-
dress will scare away the average shark.
But familiarity is apt to breed contempt
(don’t forget that there’s a stream of
bubbles ascending all the time from the
helmet), and the diver working con-
stantly in the one locality is likely to
find himself really menaced. Tending
Big Frank, busy at nailing copper sheath-
ing on the piles of a Nor’-Westralian jetty,
we got worried at his complaints of a
monster sea-tiger which prowled up and
down keeping an eye on the schools of
mullet and skipjack refuging among the
piles. “Dozens of times I’ve scared him
off with bubbles, but one of these times
when I stick my arm out he’ll bite my
hand off. He’s getting used to it.” With
a water-glass we could see the shark as
he patrolled from one end of the jetty
to the other, while proof of his voracity
was afforded in the impossibility of land-
ing a fish —we got the head, he had the
rest. One day Big Frank came up dead
scared. “No more until he’s gone. He’s
got used to the bubbles and taken to
stopping and watching me.” Work was
suspended for two days while we fished
for the gentleman—and it took our last
piece of bacon to tempt him. And we
didn’t land him either. Just brought
him to the surface and dynamited him.
Then the job proceeded.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: For occupational accidents
canecutting is probably the daddy of the
lot. Every season there’s a heavy crop
of mutilated fingers, broken collarbones,
strained hearts and backs and ruptures
sustained while loading. Cane boils, the
canecutter’s special curse, often put him
out of action for a time. Add to this
fever and sprew, which are prevalent
towards the close of the season, and it
will be seen why the canechopper him-
self advises nobody to take on cutting
unless he be broad across the shoulders
and narrow across the forehead.
* * * *
“Y Ting”: Have often spent summer
evenings spearing cobblers (B. 13/10/’37)
on the beaches at Cottesloe (W.A.), and
can vouch for the agony caused by their
stings. One chap had a dozen or so in
a sugar-bag which he unthinkingly swung
over his shoulder, and suffered eight
barbs in the middle of his back. He
spent six weeks in hospital Very similar
to, although much larger than, the bull-
rout and fortesque, Johnny Nobbier
when stripped of his leathery skin makes
a culinary delicacy.
* * * *
“Man Cook”: Crows spoil many pelts
of poisoned foxes by picking holes in the
flanks to. get the livers; those the medi-
cine doesn’t quickly knock get to the
timber, and if Kelly has been to water
and gone on to your next pelt there is no
sign of him in flight to lead you to the
carcass. Beat the black fiends this way.
Foxes have regular beats, chief being to
water, and along well-defined sheep- and
cattle-pads. Where one runs under a tree,
and the light isn’t so good (foxes’ eyesight
being poor) lightly bury your trap and
throw a dead branch slantwise across
the pad so that Reynard has to step over
it—into the trap. A trapped fox is too
lively a patient for a crow’s liver-surgery.
BUSH TRACK.
Shadows like wine-stains smear it with pale
amber,
And gums ghost-white and gleaming brood
above it.
Its curves are hid in clematis aclamber;
And brackens lip its length as though they
love it.
Little bush birds make dust baths in its
hollows,
And lizards sleep in ruts old wheels have
cut;
Beside it every year the blue wood swallows
Build in a blackwood tree their rough mud
hut.
Thousands of times the black swans darkly
flying
Have thrilled it with their passing clamor
brief,
Seeming to weave a legend through their
crying
Of barren lands, unblessed by breaking leaf.
Lovers have paced it in the dewy gloaming;
Children played down it all the warm noons
long;
Wagons have scarred it, and bronzed plough-
men homing
Have roused it from its slumber with their
song.
Forsaken now by man; no rough wheel cleav-
ing
Its silken dust with thin gold-glinting seams,
It lies at peace; the songs of bush birds weav-
ing
Their music through the magic of its dreams!
TASMANIA,
NORMA L. DAVIS.


Five reasons why a
private executor may
prove unsatisfactory
1. He offers no security.
2. He may leave the Country.
*l. He may. not live to carry out the Trusts.
4. He gives his spare time only to the
administration of the Estate.
5. He probably does not know the duties of
an Executor.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited offers ample security, cannot leave the
Country, goes on for ever, devotes its whole
time to the carrying out of the duties and has
acted as Executor and Trustee for nearly 6o
years.
It is better and safer to appoint a corporate
trustee and ensure perpetual fidelity to the
terms of your Will.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£• AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria in 7878. )
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits,
£955,805/10/8.
Trust Assets under Administration,
£29,399,725.
£20,000 has been lodged with the Colonial Treasurer of New South
Wales and £lO,OOO with the Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for
the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman),
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.. K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D.S.O.i
■R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager; K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
▼
T 2.16
Ik*
sfH
1 4
ft,
•- ,;v
5; other cowm
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The [?]
COLUMN
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 237,035 15 p.e. =116,060 120,975 1,553,688
Unexplained additions to reserves, £57,910 1,611,598
Reserves capitalised, £257,910 .. 1,353,688
1928.. 214,333 12.1 p.c.=124,657 89,670 1,443.364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
Written off premises, £20,000 .. •.. 1,523,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.c.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included, £9073. . 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1,672,766
10 32.. 194,443 13.3 „ „ 137,552 1 1G 891 i,689,657
Written off premises, £40,000 j
19 w '-ff 191,3 !? 4 13- - 3 P ' C ' = e an’nnn 1 13,752 1,703,409
Written off premises, £40,000 j ’
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£263.681 1,967,090
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
19 35.. 26!,538 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1 g 3 gB6 2,178,432
Written off premises, £30,000 )
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
1937. . t 327,788 13.7,, „ 141,850 185,938 2,530,775
As a holding proposition the scrip of this
65-year-old Auckland-controlled fire and
marine office has much to recommend it.
Of the £1,031,640 of paid capital
£907,000-odd has been transferred from
reserves, which were still nearly 2\ times
greater than capital at the end of August.
The lot is invested in sound securities,
returns from which have followed close
on the heels of advancing dividend
charges, leaving the underwriting sur-
pluses available to swell investments and
returns therefrom.
Last year’s £327,788 (up £17,831) of
profit was a juicy 31.7 p.c. on capital,
compared with 30, 25.3, 23.2, 18.5, 18.8
and 13.2 p.c. back to 1931. It was made
up of the underwriting surplus (£183,903),
equal to 17.8 p.c. on capital, and returns
from investments (£141,754), equal to
13.7 p.c. on capital, together with an
unexplained addition of £2131 to the
investment fluctuation reserve (now
£294,050). An'extra penny was added to
the div., making it 2s. 9d., or 13.7 p.c. per
share, leaving more than half the year’s
profit, or the whole of the underwriting
surplus, in the business.
The investment possibilities of the scrip
are thus largely governed by underwrit-
ing performances. Fish swim into the
co.’s net from all quarters of the globe.
The catch last year was the best yet, as
the following table shows:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4 ~ 27.7 „
1915.. 653,297 287,117 159,063 61.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 752,664 369,194 256,543 46.4 „ 32.3 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8 „ 34.6 „
1929.. 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 „ 30.2 „
1930.. 991,047 617,069 304,357 62.2 „ 30.6 „
1933.. 791,538 431,605 295,571 54.5 „ 37.3 „
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275.163 51.9 „ 33.8 „
1935.. 895,697 482,941 277,974 53.9 „ 31.0 „
1936.. 1,040,070 562,000 295,401 56.5 „ 28.4 „
1937.. 1,181,609 704,128 293,578 59.6 ~ 24.8 „
The sharp spring of £141,539 in net
premiums reflects continued improvement
in world trade generally. Losses, which
have taken an advancing proportion of
net premiums over the last three years,
gobbled all the increase and a trifle more.
But the larger business was handled at
£lBB3 less cost, leaving the underwriting
surplus £1294 better at £183,903. Un-
satisfactory marine business and motor-
car insurance, both under comprehensive
policies and third-party covers, appear to
have been the chief factors in bumping
up the loss rate. In Australia there has
been a readjustment of premiums for
motor-car insurance. As for the war in
China, unless specially endorsed the
ordinary fire policy does not cover
war risks; the marine losses to date
attributable to the conflict have not been
heavy. London underwriters have de-
cided to completely exclude war risks on
land from their covers. Loss of business
in China will affect the current year’s
premium income. The co. has a branch
at Shanghai, whether in leasehold or
freehold premises is not ascertainable
from the published figures.
The market prices the pound shares
(they are presently to be divided into two
shares of 10s. each) at 955. 6d. as against
91s. 3d. a year ago. At the higher figure
the return is 2.8 p.c. on a 13.7 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for 4.2
p.c. on his money counts on a 20 p.c. div.,
or a one-for-one bonus issue and a 10
p.c. div., which would then call for
£206,328, or £121,460 less than was
netted last term. The net' tangible cover
is £3 9s. 2d. per pound of paid capital.
Assets are in this form:
1936. p v e. 1937. p.c.
Premises .. .. £442,264 12.2 £470,990 12.1
Mortgages .. .. 147,307 4.1 208,326 5.4
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 558,074 15.4 554,515 14.3
Stocks, debentures, etc. 631,270 17.4 684.932 17.7
Municipal debentures, etc. 409,850 11.3 447,451 11.5
Government securities. 1,327,112 36.6 1.435,906 37.1
Book debts . . . . 108,112 3.0 75,122 1.9
When the books closed, policy-holders
could see net tangibles equal to 302 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, or more than
twice the amount that is usually con-
sidered adequate.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 7i p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1926.. 67,826 12.000 13,125 25,000 5,126 198,924
1927.. 77,998 15,647 13,125 32,195 5,668 210,287
1928.. 78,002 17,507 13,125 34,532 5,732 217,393
1929. . 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3 p.c.
1930.. 37,427 18,000 21,508 12,223 10,278 194,349
Loss.
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil Nil 10,311 137,968
1932.. 34,983 Nil Nil Nil 9,147 93,838
1933.. 29,071 Nil Nil Nil 8,650 56,117
Profit.
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,465 9,000 Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
Nominal
Reserves.!
Goodwill reserve, £72,378 .. .. 202,387
From internal reserves, £5732 .. 208,119
1937.. 57,868 15,000 8,622 Nil 7,477 234,888
Loss on shareholdings (£243,348),
. less ( £219,790) capital to be written
off = £23,558 211,330
Res. to be capitalised, £185,148 .. 26,182
+ Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Now that the outlook has cleared suffi-
ciently for the board to see more defi-
nitely where the business stands, the
capital account is to be reconstructed and
arrears of pref. divs. paid, partly in cash
and partly in ord. shares. The board’s
proposals, if agreed to, will put the ac-
counts on an even keel and, while earn-
ings continue as they are, open the way
for regular payments to both lots of
prefs., with the possibility of modest
distributions to the ords.
The trouble occurred in connection
with the co.’s subsidiary interests.
Shareholdings comprised the ords., or all
but a fraction of them, in Bon Marche
(Syd.) and Marcus Clark (Vic.). The
latter controlled Craig, Williamson
(Melb.) and Miller Anderson (Adelaide).
Craig, Williamson ceased trading on
March 25 last. At the close of accounts in
1936, shareholdings figured at £312,900,
and there was a contingent liability of
£30,000 for uncalled capital. The hold-
ings now appear at £lO,OOO. The amount
of capital reckoned as lost or unrepre-
sented by available assets is £243,348, of
which £17,827 has been struck off from
general reserves and £5731 from an inner
reserve. That leaves £219,790, which it is
proposed to wipe out by lopping 10s. off
each £1 ord. share.
As for the pref. divs., arrears amount
to £201,270 (£75,000 firsts and £126,270
seconds). This amount the board pro-
poses to pay £16,122 in cash (£7500 firsts
and £8622 seconds) and £185,148 by
the issue of f.-p. 10s. ord. shares (135,000
to the firsts and 235,296 to the seconds)
on a pro rata basis. Fractions will be
sold and the net proceeds distributed to
those entitled thereto. To make the dis-
tribution of f.-p. ord. scrip possible,
£46,197 of a reserve of £72,278 created
by capitalising goodwill has been tossed
in with previous savings from earnings,
thus leaving the co. with a reserve of
£26,182 to offset the goodwill item
(£72,378).
Issued capital is now £1,037,428 in
300,000 6 p.c. first prefs., 297,848
p.c. second prefs. and 439,580 ords.,
all of £1 each. The N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act has reduced the effective
rate of pref. div. to £5 p.c. and £5 16s. 3d.
p.c. respectively. Under the proposed
reconstruction the fixed cumulative rates
are 6 p.c. firsts and 6 \ p.c. seconds, both
free from statutory reduction.
If shareholders agree to all the board’s
proposals, which have much to recom-
mend them, capital will be £1,002,786 in
300,000 6 p.c. first and 297,848 6y p.c.
second £1 prefs. and 809,876 ords. of 10s.
each.
After allowing £7477 for depreciation,
shown as written off in the table, last
year’s net earnings were £6711 better at
£50,391. This was enough to pay
the prefs. 6 p.c. and 6 % p.c. re-
spectively (together £37,360) and show
3.2 p.c. on £404,938 of ord. capital. Tak-
ing the capitalisation into the reckoning,
each 1 p.c. of ord. div. will lift the
return to the prefs. by approximately
one-quarter of 1 per cent.
At 18s. the firsts return 6.7 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The seconds at 16.9 d.
(13s. a year ago) yield 7.7 p.c. on a 6\
p.c. div. At ss. (7s. 7d. a year ago) the
ords. would return 5 p.c. on a 2\ p.c.
distribution. The net tangible cover is
£3 3s. Bd. firsts, £2 4s. Id. seconds and
Bs. lOd. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1921. 1935. 1936. 1937.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 525,000 1,035,401 1,035,895 1,035,895
Mortgages .. 57,500 480,831 534,807 530,360
Other debts.. 311,874 128,782 115,192 114,094
Freeholds . . 154,758 599,194 656,612 656,687
Leaseholds . . £6,677 28,853 3,626 4,426
Plant, etc... 24,080 74,272 70.412 68,540
Stocks . . 320,325 161,035 180,273 191,117
Book debts.. 337,177 573,339 590,931 556,368
Shares in
other cos... 119,689 312,900 312,900 30,664
Cash, etc. .. 35,234 7,689 9,089 12,916
The outstanding feature is the reduction
of £282,236 in shareholdings, etc.—the
etcetera consists of £20,664 of advances.
The reduction of £34,563 in debtors’ bal-
ances and the growth of £10,844 in stocks
are encouraging features. Including ad-
vances but not shareholdings, the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£136,611) was £6317.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. Toward"'
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
43,545
1927.. 28,592 1462 74 p.c. = 15,228 11,902 31,643
Preliminary exes., etc., £2991 .. 34,634
1928.. 24,927 5068 8 p.c. = 16,911 2,948 31,686
Removal exes., £2438 . . .. 34,124
1929.. 22,895 5984 6 p.c. = 12,728 4,183 29,941
Removal exes., £36 .. .. 29,977
1930.. 20,426 6984 3} p.c.= 7,955 6,487 23,490
Removal exes., £293 .. .. .. 23,783
Loss.
1931.. 23,902 6984 Nil 53,669
6s. per share (£53,035) struck off
ord. capital .. .. .. .. 634
Insurance reserve taken in, £450.. 184
Reserves.
1932.. 7,669 5984 Nil 1,685 1,501
1933.. 10,410 5984 2.1 p.c. = 3,536 890 2,391
1934.. 24,194 5984 6.6 „ ~ 10,607 7,603 9,994
Added intangibles, £B9 . . .. 9,905
1935.. 27,553 5984 7.5 p.c. =11,933 9,636 19,541
Net addition intangibles, £7O .. 19.471
Share premiums, £3824 .. .. 23,295
, Pref. N Ord.
8 p.c. 6 p.c. 84 p.c.
1936.. .30,276 5984 2043 15,397 6,951 30,246
Net addition intangibles, £5Bl .. 29,665
9 p.c;
1937.. 32,331 5984 3012 17,750 5',785 35,340
The business keeps on expanding, and
at the same time is becoming more profit-
able, thanks to the tariff and a capable
and energetic management. The co.,
which manufactures much of its own
requirements, does a large wholesale
trade in motor accessories, bicycles,
radios, steel-tube furniture, etc. Head-
quarters are at Melbourne, where the
business was founded over 40 years ago,
and there are branches at Sydney, Adel-
aide and elsewhere.
For the four years after the public
became interested in 1926, enough was
netted to pay 8 p.c. on £74,800 of pref.
money and then show an average of
9.3 p.c. on ord. capital. With the big
change in conditions, a loss of £23,902
showed up in 1931. Promptly ss. per
share (£53,035) was snipped off the ords.,
enabling the p. and 1. debit, together with
£27,000 of goodwill (now £16,000, not
treated as an asset herein), to be wiped
out. Also the organisation was over-
hauled, outlets were stopped up, and as
conditions improved so did demand for
the co.’s goods, especially radio receivers
and pushbikes.
In 1935 new branches were opened at
Hamilton, Horsham and Sale (Vic.), and
new lines were added to the list of manu-


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
. APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
m
i
rfvp s
0*
h' te
G^
aasgs
*#»
us
V>ot*
V>vtf . {ot 0 \
\’>t>
> * * TSO **
&> "
> & e V*
\\
yX?l*
s
vm
V*V
*2S??~^
5
ClOl/30/SP
factures. To finance the expanding busi-
ness 50,200 £1 6 p.c. prefs. and 47,860
15s. ords. (the ords. carried a premium
of 2s. per share) were issued in October,
1935 raising paid capital to its present
figure—£32o,ooo in 74,800 8 p.c. and
50 200 6 p.c. cum. prefs., all of £1 each,
and 260,000 ords. of 15s. each.
During the last term, three more
country branches were opened, two in
Vic. and one in South Aus. Turnover
increased, despite severe competition in
the pushbike business. After setting aside
£6787 for taxation, net earnings, including
£225 slipped into the insurance reserve,
stepped up £2056, reaching £32,331, or
enough to pay both lots of pref. divs. and
show 11.9 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 12.1, 13.4, 11.3, 2.7 and 1 p.c. back
to 1932. Half a point was added to the
div., raising it to 9 p.c.
The lift in the div. fitted in with
market anticipations. The ords. at 21s.
6d. return 6.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The 8 p.c. prefs. at 275. and the 6 per
cents, at 20s. 6d. yield 5.9 p.c. and 5.8 p.c.
respectively. The year’s net earnings over
times covered the combined pref. div.
requirements. In net tangibles the back-
ing is £4 15s. 8 per cents., £5 11s. 9d.
6 per cents, and 17s. 7d. ords.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion of the business:
1929. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. .. £280,940 £320,000 £320,000
Overdraft .. .. 34,230 69,326 76,851
Mortgages and loans .. 90,957 9'8,416 120,135
Sundry creditors .. 68,850 81,414 100,402
Freeholds, etc 122,380 121,906 123,587
Plant, etc 23,964 36,016 45,535
Stocks . . .. . . 204,308 257,611 278,337
Book debts, cash, etc. 123,206 217,079 244,243
To carry an extra £21,405 of debtors’
balances (£212,861), add £20,726 to stocks
and £9519 to plant, the co. tacked £48,232
on to the debt. There was little change
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£225,192).
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
i Dividends N
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 102,506 12,000 28,000 40,000 200,188
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28,000 40,000 215,331
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40,000 227,351
„ 6 p.c.
1930.. 64,167 12,000 28,000 20,000 231,518
Prom inner reserves, £25,275 .. 256,793
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
From inner reserves, £18,490 .. 246,284
1932.. 11,106 12,000 28,000 Nil 217,390
1933.. 33,891 12,000 28,000 Nil 211,281
5 p.c.
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
6£ p.c.
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 80,000 ) 0 , 0 M 1
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ■ .. f 249,231
1937.. 101,462 12,000 28,000 ) „„„
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ..f 270,693
This big Sydney department store, which
has long continued to enjoy a reputation
for high-grade fashion goods, looks like
becoming a 10 p.c. proposition again.
Indeed, last year’s net earnings placed
10 p.c. within easy reach. Only once,
in 1927, has the co. shown a better
result. The £101,462 (up £11,275) of
profit claimed was enough to pay the
pref. divs. (together £40,000) and show
15.3 p.c. on ord. capital* compared with
12.5, 9.3 and 7.5 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms. But these are uncertain
days, when the world appears to be going
forward on the powder cart and com-
petition threatens to get yet more of an
edge on it. So only 1| p.c. was added
to the div., making 8i p.c. for the year.
Of the £26,462 that remained, £5OOO was
sent to the staff fund, and the balance
lifted the support and protection for the
million of share capital to £270,693.
Subject to economic and international
developments, conditions favor further
expansion of sales. There is still plenty
of money about, and the co.’s attractive
show windows, its well-directed advertis-
ing and the range and quality of its
keenly-priced merchandise continue to
bring more people to the store. Also, the
shop, which occupies the entire end of
one of the busiest blocks in the city,
has lately been further improved and
brightened by remodelling of the Pitt-
street end and by air-conditioning
throughout. Moreover, the recovery of
earnings to their present level leaves no
doubt about the management’s success in
assaulting its numerous and complex
problems. Still, costs are rising, com-
petition threatens to keep profit margins
narrow, and the point appears to be
approaching at which the recent upward
trend of earnings can be expected to
flatten out.
In front of the million of share capi-
tal — it is in 200,000 first 6 p.c. and
400,000 second 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and
400,000 ords. —is £500,000 of first mort-
gage debentures. Issued in *27 to help
finance the new building, they mature in
’39 and are secured by a charge on the
co.’s freehold. Interest has been reduced
by statute from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c., a saving
of £5OOO p.a. to the co. A sinking fund
(now £84,525), to which the co. pays
£lO,OOO annually, has been created for
the redemption of these debentures. Here
is the position as balance-sheet figures
show it:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures 500,000 500,000 500,000 500,000
Creditors .. 181,952 215,017 209,705 211,788
Freeholds &
plant .. 1,436,822 1,403,636 1,396,969 1,402,618
Stock * .. 313,077 326,959 331,648 347,191
Book debts 77,606 151,741 165,960 162,740
Cash and in-
vestments . 82,240 91,725 99,359 109,933
The year’s contraction of £3220 in
debtors’ balances (they partly repre-
sent the co.’s mail-order connection
in the country) and the growth of £15,443
in stocks and of £10,574 in cash and in-
vestments suggest brisker cash trading.
Stocks, the most vulnerable point in the
co.’s armor, are claimed to be conserva-
lively valued. Much depends upon this
and good buying. Excluding shares in
subsidiaries (£6999) and the debenture
sinking fund, more or less liquids ex-
ceeded the floating debt, which includes
an unspecified allowance for contingen-
cies, by £316,552 at the end of July, an
improvement of £7034 over the twelve-
month.
The ords. rose from 345. 3d. a year
ago to 365. 9d. in March, and then eased
in accord with the general trend of the
market. Last week-end they were at
335. 6d., at which figure the return is 5.2
p.c. on an 8| p.c. div. basis; 6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution. The first prefs. at
258. and the seconds at 255. 7d. return
4.8 p.c. and 5.5 p.c. respectively. Last
year’s net earnings more than 2} times
covered their combined annual div. re-
quirements. The net tangible cover is
£6 7s. firsts, £2 13s. 6d. seconds and 335.
6d. ords.
Golden Plateau (Q.)
For the year ended June 30 Golden
Plateau, Cracow (Q.), netted £155,663
(down £39,845), or 3s. 8.4 d. per share,
and three divs. of a shilling each
(= £126,000) were paid. Another shil-
ling per share has been sent out since
the close of accounts, and yet another is
to go out on Nov. 18, making total dis-
tributions to date £609,000. Paid capital
is £113,750 in 840,000 shares of 3s. 4d.
each, of which 210,000 are fully paid and
the balance paid to 2s. 6d. each. So
shareholders who got in on the ground
floor and held their scrip have nothing
to complain about.
The contraction in the year’s earnings
was due to a fall in the average grade of
ore treated and a rise in costs. The co.
put through 48,453 (up 3378) tons for
25,8340 z. (down 33780 z.) of fine gold
and 11,4710 z. of silver. After allowing
for a drop from 97 p.c. to 95.7 p.c. in
recovery, owing to harder ore from the
lower level requiring very fine grinding,
the average grade was 10.6dwt. as
against 12.9dwt. for the previous term.
All-in costs rose from 265. to 295. lOd.
per ton, owing to most of the ore now
being stoped (it was previously obtained
from opencuts) and introduction of a
40-hour week.
Plant throughput, which was lifted to
4500 tons a month, is to be further in-
creased to 5500 tons monthly by instal-
lation of a large new crusher and extra
agitators.
Ore reserves above No. 2 level (294 ft.)
are figured at 237,300 tons, containing
76,9120 z. gold, an average of 6.4Bdwt.
With the metal at £AB 10s. per ounce
and costs at 30s. per ton, the lot is worth
£297,802 net. The main shaft, however,
has been deepened to 444 ft., and drives at
this level have cut the western end of
No. 3 shoot, which is showing Bdwt. ore
over a 4ft. face, and No. 2 lode has been
entered at a long angle, the last 15? ft. of
drive showing stone averaging
These two shoots are together expected
to add 60,0000 z. of gold, or thereabouts,
to the quantity already proved to No. 2
level, and experience elsewhere on the
field suggests that there is a possibility
that both ore-bodies and values may live
at greater depth.
The market prices the scrip at 14s. 2d.
On this basis, the investor who looks for
his money back plus 10 p.c. p.a. counts
(Continued on next page.)


A copy of the Prospectus has been filed with the Registrar-General as required by Section 87 of the
Companies Act 1928.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
METAL OPTIONS (BROKEN HILL)
LIMITLD
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1928 of Victoria.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £20,000
Divided into 4000 Shares of £5 each.
2500 Shares of £5 each are offered to the public for subscription under the
Prospectus, payable £2/10/- per Share on application and £2/10/-on allotment.
1000 Shares of £5 each are to be issued as fully paid to the Vendor in full considera-
tion for his right, title and interest in an option of 160 acres at Broken Hill,
New South Wales,
500 Shares are held in reserve for further issue if necessary.
4000
NOTE. —Shareholders are advised that there is no further liability after paying their application and
allotment money.
DIRECTORS:
FRANCIS THOMAS COOPER, Director, Cooper’s Brewery, Ltd.. Adelaide.
WILLIAM MATTHEW ALFORD, Manager, Louis Dreyfus & Co., T. & G. Buildings, Adelaide.
JOHN SAMUEL HARRIS, Solicitor, Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
HERBERT MASSEY MOORE, Manager, 532 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
(One other to be appointed.)
BANKERS:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD., 38S Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS:
JOHN S. HARRIS, Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HENRY E. IRVING, 26 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Y. T. HANLY, Collins Court, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
AUDITOR:
MICHAEL T. KEELY, A.1.C.A., Government Licensed Company Auditor, 71 Cole Street,
Elwood.
OBJECTS:
1. —The objects for which the Company has been formed are, inter alia, te adopt and carry into
effect with or without modification the hereinafter mentioned Agreement, and to diamond drill the land
mentioned therein, or any part thereof, and generally to do all such acts and things as may be considered
necessary or convenient in order to ascertain the existence and extent of any metalliferous ore body beneath
the surface, and to develop any other property the Company may become possessed of for the benefit of
the Shareholders.
2. —To promote a Company or Companies to acquire all or any part of the said Mining Areas upon
such terms and conditions as may be determined,
3. To do such other acts and things as are more particularly set out in the Memorandum of Association
of the Company.
FOREWORD.
The rise in the price of lead is the main influence operating for the success of Broken Hill.
The Mines of the Barrier derive the largest portion of their profits from lead, consequently increased
activity has recently taken place in prospecting for further silver andi lead mines. Should any of the
new prospecting companies discover a new lode, it would give to Australia a product required by every
country in the world to-day.
No new sources of supply have been found for years, and the cost of production in Spain and America
has risen with the advance in wages there, as in Broken Hill, so that there is no competitive country
underselling Australia.
As an individual producer of silver, lead and zinc, Broken Hill is perhaps the most important mining
centre known.
Originally discovered on the Capt. .Sturt Expedition of 1844, it was not until 40 years later that
the fabulous silver-lead deposits were unearthed by the chance pegging out of 40 acres of ground on
the slopes of the Broken Hill.
Charles Rasp, boundary rider from the Mt. Gipps
cattle station, acting under the erroneous impression
that he had found a tin mine, pegged out this area
and subsequently formed a {Syndicate of seven to
capitalise and exploit his find. Shaft sinking gave
disappointing results in its early stages; assays of
10 ounces silver per ton dismayed the Syndicate, but
depression faded and hopes soared high when the high
silvern-chlorides were struck about one hundred feet
from the surface. Assays jumped from 10 to 1500
ounces of silver lead per ton. Rich chlorides were
soon discovered on the other parts of the property,
and in August, 1885, the Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
was formed to operate the mine on a larger scale.
From its inception until 1936 this world-renowned
organisation has mined 12,000,000 tons of ore, from
which colossal figure 185,611,139 ounces of silver and
117,793 ounces of gold have been extracted.
Production from the entire district during this
period is recorded at 70,000,000 tons of silver, lead
and zinc concentrates, valued at £155,000,000.
The amount of capital invested to date in the leading
mines is stated to be in the vicinity of £12,000,000,
whilst dividends greatly in excess of this figure have
been received by shareholders over the past fifty years.
Census figures taken at the end of 1936 showed 4370
workers in the employ of the five major producing mines.
rj JUNCTION Min*
which latter have recently reported ore-reserves approximating- 14,000,000 tons.
Truly, the romantic history of Broken Hill, third city of rank in N.S.W., has been inseparably
interwoven with the industrial development of the Commonwealth.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES AND BROKERAGE.
The Company shall, out of the funds of the Company, pay all expenses in connection with the
incorporation and establishment of the Company, including all legal costs, stationery, printing, etc.
The brokerage of 7| per cent, per share shall be paid by the Company to all brokers who are members
of any recognised Stock Exohange on all shares allotted in response to applications identified as coming
through them.
APPLICATIONS POR SHARES.
Application for shares should be made on the form attached to the prospectus and forwarded, together
with application money of £2/10/- per share, to the Company’s Secretary, Mr. V. T. Hanly, 370-6
Collins Court, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Directors reserve to themselves the right to refuse any application.
PROMOTION.
No sums or consideration will be paid or given by the Company to any promoter as such.
No Director is interested in the promotion of the Company or in the property or any part thereof
pioposed to be acquired.
FOUNDER’S SHARES.
No Founder’s, Management or Deferred Shares are being issued under this Prospectus.
Application for quotation of the Company’s shares on the list of the Melbourne and Adelaide
Stock Exchanges will be made by the Directors.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION.
The minimum subscription upon which the Company may proceed to allotment is four hundred (400)
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
It is intended in due course to apply for listing on the Stock Exchange. The Articles of Association
of the Company have been drafted to comply with the requirements of the Melbourne and Adelaide Stock
Exchanges.
APPLICATION FOR PROSPECTUS.
To Directors,
Metal Options (Broken Hill), Ltd.,
Collins Court, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sirs, —Please forward a prospectus of Metal Options (Broken Hill), Ltd., and oblige
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.A.S.: Demolition complete, but co. has
not yet sufficient capital to start building
R.McL.: Can’t say without full particulars.
House-purchase assurance, as written by some
of the big life offices, is a sound proposition.
.... Bacon: H01d.... P.C.G.: Co. voluntarily
liquidated some years back; write liquidators,
Troup, Harwood and Co., 20 Bridge-street,
Sydney.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* *■ * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
r per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed —and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia—it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
* POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
.
V
m
on divs. averaging a shade over 3s. per
share over the next seven years. Pro-
vided the mine lives up to what is ex-
pected of it, appearances are that this
will prove within the co.’s reach, with the
possibility of more pay-ore being proved
below the 444 ft. level. When the books
closed, there were Consols, deposits, cash
and bullion totalling £82,483 to meet out-
side liabilities of £2519.
For the 16 weeks since the close of
accounts, 17,795 tons has gone through
the mill for 80360 z. gold, an average of
B.9dwt.
1
Deborah, one of the most promising of
the present Bendigo (Vic.) shows, will
pay an initial 6d. per share on Nov. 19,
and chairman Herbert Gepp considers
annual distributions of 2s. per share are
within the co.’s reach. Early in the year
a 10-head battery was erected. Costs
have run out at around 3|dwt. per ton.
On a throughput of 12,000 tons p.a.,
4|dwt. stone is expected to return be-
tween Bs. and 10s. per ton net. If and
when sufficient ore is developed, another
10 head of stamps may be added, per-
miffing even lower-grade ore to be profit-
ably milled. The mine is on the little-
worked Deborah line of reef, between
the Sheepshead and rich Garden Gully
lines. A large fault reef is being de-
veloped at the 525 ft. level, but interest
centres mainly in the two big ore-bodies
at the 915 ft. (where a full face of stone
is showing in the north drive) and 1000 ft.
levels. Widths vary considerably, best
values being obtained in the contracted
portions of the ore in the vicinity of the
fault planes. The main shaft is to be put
down another 100 ft., and to speed up
development work generally, a lot of
which remains to be done before any
estimate of ore reserves can be made,
additional power is being made avail-
able. For the six months to July 31,
4820 tons was crushed at the new mill
for 14360 z. gold (average, 6dwt.). The
co. balanced £4537 on the right side ;
in the previous term a loss of £2137
cropped up. At balance date cash and
concentrates on hand were together
valued at £6462, which has since been
augmented by cash payments of £3047
from the North Deborah Mining Co., a
subsidiary, in which the parent holds
4000 10s. fully-paids, thrown off to pros-
pect the northern extension of the co.'s
leases. The div. declaration had been
anticipated by the market, the 15s. 5d.-
paids (61,000 are issued) sticking around
21s. 6d. Recent recoveries have been
above last term’s average.
* # * *
Putting down 74 bores, Cocks Pioneer,
Eldorado (Vic.), has proved its new lead
to contain 12,000,000 c.y., averaging Is.
a yard. About 80ft. of overburden has
first to be removed, but overall costs
aren’t expected to exceed 7d. per c.y., on
which basis, handling 1,500,000 c.y. p.a.,
annual working profits are figured at
£31,250 over eight years. To work the
deposit to bedrock (180 ft.) —the co. has
been working a 70ft. floor to date —
new plant and barge are required, and
nominal value of the 100,000 shares has
been raised from 10s. to 15s. to pro-
vide the necessary funds. With the £9OOO
already in hand, another £12,500 (2s. 6d.
per share) is expected to see the work
through. The lOs.-paids, which fell
sharply from 11s. to ss. on the market
following disclosure of a clay intrusion
in the co.’s original area earlier in the
year, sold at 7s. last week. Allowing for
calls forecast, earnings on the scale indi-
cated would be sufficient to repay the
present markef price inside two years.
* * * *
Two years ago shareholders in Lady
Shenton (W.A.) were told that 50,000
tons of positive ore, assaying nearly lyoz.
per ton, and 7623 tons of broken ore,
averaging about 18dwt., were visible, and
that 36,205 tons of probable ore was
partly visible. Twelve months later,
after some 5000 tons had been- treated
for a return of £A25,000, official esti-
mate of positive and probable ore com-
bined was 3300 tons, averaging 11.85dwt.,
and possible ore was calculated at 2300
tons. The directors’ explanation was that
a former authority’s computations were
inaccurate, an opinion which the market
held for some time previously. For the
year ended June 30 last the co. treated
6730 tons -of ore. At the date men-
tioned positive ore reserves were put at
1900 tons, averaging 10.5dwt., while
probable ore, “hard to estimate owing to
the continual faulting of the ore-body,”
is guessed at 2797 tons of 9dwt. value.
Receipts for the year aggregated £48,046.
Extraction and treatment exes, made off
with £31,192, and development £8397,
leaving £8457. After allowing for a debit
balance of £1637 brought forward, and
providing for diamond drilling (£1690),
special capital expenditure (£539) and de-
preciation (£4169), there remains £421 to
carry forward. Geologist G. Spencer
Compton says there are sufficient ex-
posures of stone in various portions of
the mine workings to justify an opti-
mistic outlook. The loss of the ore-bodies
in the past has been due mainly to
cross-course displacement. Cash at June
30 totalled £5750.
* * * *
Despite what critics have said or what
the market thinks of the venture, Ora
Banda United (W.A.) is, according to
chairman O. J. Parker, all right. After
a visit to the mine, he told London
shareholders that it had a great ore-body
and that Government inspectors con-
sidered there was not another goldmining
property in the West which had been so
well developed. Positive ore reserves
had been estimated by M. V. Weather-
all at 727,000 tons, of 3.Bdwt, value, but
he, the chairman, thought that ore down
to the 250 ft. level would average nearly
sdwt., while prospects at greater depth
were no less hopeful. Erection of a
treatment plant awaits a favorable
moment for the co. to obtain finance.
* * * *
Perth-controlled Mt. Ida Gold Mines,
Ltd., requires £25,000 to provide for in-
stallation of a treatment plant and further
development, and pay off a loan and
buy adjoining ground. Of this sum
£9200 is expected from a new issue of
shares, and it is hoped to raise the bal-
ance on mortgage. The board expects
to recover the cost of the plant (£14,000)
from the proceeds of gold won within
nine months after ore treatment begins.
The mine is small but promising.
* * * *
Provided creditors are willing to wait,
Yellowdine Option’s reconstructed board
proposes to reopen the Three Boys at
Southern Cross (W.A.). Operations re-
cently ceased owing to lack of working
capital. The co. paid £17,000 cash for
the property, installed a 10-head mill
and crushed for several months. Attempts
to raise further capital by calls failed —
of 272,000 forfeited shares recently
auctioned only 200 found a buyer —and
activities were confined to treating the
tailings.
* * * *
The Westralian Government has agreed
to help Tindals Gold Mines, Ltd. (W.A.),
to the tune of £30,000, at the rate of
£2500 a month, provided the co. obtains
a further £50,000 from shareholders for
plant. At flotation, less than two years
ago, the co. raked in £250,000 cash from
a public issue of 2,500,000 2s. shares.
* * * *
Someone has repegged the Westralian
manganese deposits north of Meeka-
tharra. These deposits were formerly
owned by a local co. in which the late
Bill Hedges and other Westralians were
the chief shareholders. A railway, since
pulled up, was built at a cost of £BO,OOO
to transport ore via Meekatharra to
Geraldton for shipment overseas. But
the market price of the mineral fell below
the figure at which it could be profitably
produced, and the undertaker was called
in. Shareholders got experience, and
debenture-holders a div. of 9yd. in the £.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms- for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 pm)
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers. N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia, and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SMOKE-OH!
“A good club player, she protested against
the selection committee’s decision to play her
in a lower grape.”
Well, wouldn’t that make anyone
wine!
4* *J* 4*
“The Italian Cabinet has imposed a levy of
10 p.c. on the capital stock of all Italian com-
panies.”
It is pretty certain that the German
Cabinet won’t follow Mussolini’s lead.
Levy isn’t a popular word in Berlin.
•i* 4* *i*
“According to a physician, scratching induces
mental and physical relaxation.”
Has the doc. ever tried to write out a
telegram with a post-office pen?
•F HE*
“Milliner names one of her creations the
Dream Hat.”
Most of the present ones look like
nightmares.
•I*
“In a-well-managed home there is no argu-
ment. Husband and wife learn to give and
take.” —Magazine article.
Exactly. Take my case, for instance.
There is never an argument in our house.
My wife and I had an understanding
when we were first married, and it has
worked all right ever since. It’s just
another case of give and take. In the
morning she does as she likes, in the
afternoon just for a change I do as she
likes and in the evenings we both do as
she likes.
W. P. T.
4* 'l* 4*
“There is the man who is frightened of the
shadows that lie in his path.”— “Sun.”
That type usually stands in his own
light.
•I*
You can always trust a man in busi-
ness if he has emerald-green whiskers.
■h "h 4* ■h
The Ideal Woman.
She is not talkative, and never argues,
quarrels or nags.
Dislikes new clothes.
Won’t come to theatres when invited,
and loathes chocolates.
Has no relatives, doesn’t get upset by
howling kids, and never smells a man’s
breath.
Is always cool and smiling, eschews
cocktails and cigarettes, and is always
the same.
And looks delightful sculptured in
marble at the Art Gallery.
Mac.
•J* ►[«
“For driving a car while under the influence
of liquor accused was fined fifteen rounds."
— “Telegraph.”
And no doubt he shouted with glee at
getting out of it so lightly.
Current Literature.
“The hero of the novel is a breezy indi-
vidual.” —Book review.
He would be just the type to blow in
at the right moment and put the wind
up the villain.
No doubt, to fan feminine interest, he
would come off the sea. This would
also enable him to regale us with some
breezy tales —provided the censor didn’t
regard them as too fresh.
He would probably conduct his love
affairs in a cyclonic fashion, and have
some very stormy experiences.
After sustaining numerous blows, which
would make us unable to forecast
weather or not he would survive, the
trouble would be sure to blow over, and
the heroine would refuse to give him the
air.
The stage would then be set for a
whirlwind engagement.
T. W. N.
+ 4* 4* 4*
“Heavy penalties will be imposed for assaults
on detectives.” — “D.T.”
Making the world safe for demonoc-
racy.
"Hey, that's your eighth sausage - don't you EVER drink?"
“Now and then; but it has a tendency to aggravate my dyspepsia."
“Wife in divorce said she had never been able
to discover where her husband kept his money.”
What a hide he must have had!
“President of the N.S.W. Industrial Commis-
sion said that because some women were diffi-
dent about entering a tobacconist’s chemists
were selling cigarettes.”
Well, aren’t women accustomed to
going to chemists to save their faces?
* * * *
“Japan has its internal troubles as well.”
But will it mean a change,of Diet?
•P *J* •£•
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
Among those unacquainted with the
timber-getter’s craft the belief is wide-
spread that his connection with and
interest in a felled giant is finished when
the valley reverberates to its crash.
Actually, the cutting-through of the
trunk is merely preliminary to the main
work he performs.
No sooner has the tree fallen than he
is on to it like a flash, so eager is he to
get on with the de-barking. Should the
tree fall on sloping ground he races
after it. If he is extra fleet he may beat
the tree to where it stops ; sometimes he
.gets there at the same time, and then
they have to get a new timber-getter.
For de-barking trees a telescopic cross-
cut saw is used. In contradistinction to
the ordinary crosscut, this saw is de-
signed to cut along the whole length of
the trunk. The bark only is cut through,
and this is then peeled off in one piece
and rolled up. It is used for the re-
barking of similar and under-developed
trees which have been ringbarked in
error and for the lining of basket ferns,
which are a feature and the pride of
every logging camp.
Where the bark is from an ironbark
tree extreme care has to be taken to get
it off undamaged, as there is a wide
demand for this type, particularly among
Torres Strait islanders for armored war
canoes. A big trade in it is also done
with the pig-raising industry. Here, with
a guard over their sharp, tough edges,
ironbark bark troughs can be used with
complete safety as swilling troughs; with
the guard removed, hungry porkers due
for marketing rush them and, with the
edges adjusted to the height of a pig’s
jugular vein, a cheap slaughtering opera-
tion is performed.
As ironbark bark can’t be rolled up
it has to be transported in one piece,
and where it is taken from a 200 ft. tree
this constitutes a considerable problem.
Being hard and unyielding it can be
carried by rail only where there are no
bends in the line.
As soon as the bark is taken off the
cutter walks slowly along the trunk tak-
ing “soundings” with his tuning-fork.
This is to determine which parts of it
are to be used for certain purposes. For
instance, should the butt of the tree give
an F in alt ring, this part will be cut off
and earmarked for the manufacture of
soprano ukeleles, first violins, oboes, the
treble halves of pianos and organs, etc.
Conversely, bass-note logs are set aside
for use as ’cellos, desks for heavy busi-
nessmen with rumbling voices, the left-
hand halves of pianos and organs, etc.
But the timber-getter’s rare and real thrill
comes when he strikes a part that yields
both bass and soprano sounds. This
denotes extreme flexibility, and usually
brings top prices and consequent utili-
sation for Austrian chair tops, roller-
desks and escalators.
Having marked the trunk off into its
allotted portions the next task is to cut
it up, and for this the ordinary crosscut
saw is used. Two timber-getters are
necessary for this work, one to operate
each end of the saw.
It naturally follows that without
proper co-ordination the stoutest efforts
of these workers would be vitiated. For
example, were they both to push at the
one time the saw would either buckle or
snap (it must be borne in mind that,
owing to the depth of most logs, each
man remains out of sight of the other).
On the other hand, if they both were to
pull together the saw might conceivably
come in two with two strong men operat-
ing. In any case, they wouldn’t be get-
ting anywhere.
To overcome these difficulties a co-
ordinator is employed. Mounted on top
of the log immediately above the cutters,
this individual must maintain an even
tone while chanting “push,” “pull,”
“push,” “pull,” pointing alternately at
one and the other.. Obviously an even-
ness of tone is essential, otherwise one
man would be doing more work than
the other.
With ordinary-sized logs he is visible
to both sawyers, but where the log is an
outsize one —no uncommon thing—he is
compelled to leap from one side of the
log to the other as he chants so that his
pointing finger may be seen. This work
entails not only a delicate sense of tim-
ing, but also great physical endurance.
Owing to the strains and stresses placed
upon their legs by leaping about for per-
haps eight hours at a stretch, co-ordi-
nators have a tendency to become
muscle-bound, and they are consequently
given treatment after each day’s work
by the camp masseur.
When the saw is so far through the
log that the sawyers are bending almost
double, thus risking not only a marcel-
wave in their spinal columns but, more
important, the soiling of their implement
through sawing into the earth, the trunk
is turned over and the saw reversed so
that the teeth point upwards. This allows
the men to stand up whilst working,
though with logs of great girth they may
have to mount stepladders to get through
it. It is, however, more hazardous to the
co-ordinator, and if he is not nimble he
may get the soles of his feet sawn
through.
S. W. K.
Simple Explanation.
“Sergeant: ‘You punched your wife, didn’t
you?’ ”
“Defendant: ‘Certainly not! That’s not a
habit of mine.’ ”
“Sergeant: ‘Then how did she get such a
bruised face?’ ”
“Defendant: ‘She ran into my fist.’ ”
Now the plain, unvarnished fact is that
he doesn’t make a practice
Of belaboring his missus—not at all!
To suggest he swung out wildly is, to put
it rather mildly,
Quite misleading—not for him the
scuffling brawl.
He admits there was dissension. But the
slightest contravention
Of a gent.’s behavior? That may be
dismissed
As a groundless accusation, for, despite
his exhortation,
She kept banging with her kisser at
his fist!
Bo.
’Twas Ever Thus.
Before the Election. —Speaking at a
public meeting held last night at the
Piffletown Shire Hall, Mr. Swank de-
scribed the election tactics of his opponent,
Mr. Bluffe, as a scandalous infringement
of all the principles of fair play and
decency. “Never in all my 30 years of
public life,” he stated, “have I encoun-
tered such a disgusting tissue of lies,
underhandedness and deceit as that con-
tained in the leaflet circulated by my
opponent.”
“My opponent’s method of conduct-
ing his campaign,” said Mr. Bluffe, “is a
perfect example of the extremes of cad-
dishness, pbttiness, trickery and crooked
tactics to which his party will go in its
desire to attain the Treasury benches.”
And After. —Mr. Swank (speaking at
the declaration of the poll): “....and
before closing I must pay a tribute to
the fine sporting spirit in which my op-
ponent, Mr. Bluffe, conducted his cam-
paign. Not a word of abuse, and no
unfair tactics were used. Mr. Bluffe
acted throughout with consistent good
taste and public spirit,” etc., etc., etc.
Mr. Bluffe praised his opponent in
similar high terms.
FIRST BLUE.


Travel Funds
To Meet Day-by-
Day Expenses
S#*»
xb
©*>
Large funds, in the form of cash, carry a serious risk of loss
or theft. Such losses are more frequent than is generally
realised. Travellers’ Cheques and Letters of Credit are,
without question, the safest and most convenient way to
carry funds. They are readily cashable at all the Bank’s
Branches and Agencies throughout the world. Travellers
who intend to visit Italy should obtain, from the Bank, Italian
Lira Tourist Cheques, at special concessional rates, which,
at present, represent a saving of ten per cent, on the amount
purchased. Full information and advice available at any of
the Bank’s Branches, or at the Overseas Travel Department.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Ltd.
(Incorpd. , in Victoria )
43/12/37
Book of the Month!
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson in one handy and comprehensive volume.
This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £l/1/-
Order now from the publishers—
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
A Wrong Cue from Abroad
For some time Australian markets have
been more world-conscious than self-
conscious, and this applies particularly
to shares. Though overseas conditions
do most decidedly govern the profit-
earning capabilities of our mines, includ-
ing the particularly important ones at
Broken Hill and Mount Lyell, and our
two chief land industries (wool and
wheat), so far as most other avenues of
manufacture, trade and finance are con-
cerned overseas influence is much less
direct. We have an internal economy
that is self-adapting up to a point; it re-
quires violent movements in our external
income to affect it greatly. Even the
tightening-up in bank credit during the
greater part of 1936, due to deficient ex-
ports compared with imports, had no
more than a steadying effect on business
conditions.
Our financial year begins on July 1
and ends on June 30. A wonderful wool
season was anticipated a few months
back, and if prices at present aren’t
exactly “wonderful” they are still good.
They are much better just now, in fact,
than the average for 1936 or previous
calendar years back to 1929. Clear-
ances are on the low side, perhaps, but
buying has been cautious up to the
present owing to Japan’s absence from
the salerooms; China’s invader isn’t
likely to stay out for the whole season.
In 1936-37 Japan didn’t start to buy
until about Christmas-time, and, though
that is really another story, what was
done during one season may be found
convenient to do again.
Wheat is still very firm by the stand-
ards of the past couple of years, and
recent rains have done a lot to add rosi-
ness to the picture in agricultural areas.
The chilled-meat trade is growing in im-
portance. So, notwithstanding the recent
collapse in base-metal prices—lead,
spelter and copper are still above 1936
level even now —from the point of view
of external income our outlook is far
from dispiriting. As things stand at
present it is very good, in fact. This
opinion can be expressed at the moment
without fear of creating false optimism
in the sharemarkets. Last year’s optimists
are last week’s confirmed pessimists.
The net effect of ebb and flow in
national affairs up to the present seems
to be a balance in. favor of the flow.
Manufacturing and building activity con-
tinues to increase, and at Sept. 30 the
banking position was still comfortable,
though not so easy as three months
earlier ; employment continues to grow.
Inevitably there will be cyclical fluctua-
tions, especially in the construction
trades, where the starting and finishing
of just a few big jobs have a telling influ-
ence on employment conditions. Usually
these ups and downs can be seen com-
ing. Broken Hill Prop.’s Newcastle steel-
works are just now working at the high-
est pressure in their history, and are un-
able to fulfil some orders.
So far as it has shaken the nerve of
sharemarket punters whose natural
habitat is Randwick or Flemington, the
check to optimism in Australia is all to
the good. It may bring unnecessary
worry to real investors, however, who may
be tempted to do unwise things in the
shape of turning really good industrial
stocks into bonds or cash. So far as
can be seen at present, wars or no wars,
good industrials are among the most
favored investments in the Common-
wealth.
Mines, as always, are a law unto them-
selves. The next interfering move by
politicians on the point of raising wages
(and costs) or increasing taxation cannot
be anticipated. But Australians are a
virile lot, and this characteristic shows
up in their industries.- The few failures
of industrial enterprises during the last
slump, when fixed interest charges on
bonds were “scaled” down, speaks
volumes for their inherent ability dur-
ing a struggle.
“The middle of next week” used to
have an .unpleasant meaning years back,
and the middle of the week —next week,
this week or last week—can generally
be regarded just now as a bringer of bad
news from overseas. “The weekly-
slump” (B. 13/10/’37) has been almost
as regular lately as wet weather at the
week-ends in Sydney. The opening of
the markets each Monday in London and
New York set the tempo of things all
over the world, it seems ; anyway, the
news gets out to Australia by about Wed-
nesday morning, and away the share-
market goes again, led always by the
metal stocks.
It was cabled last week that U.S.A.
steel production had dropped 7 p.c. in
about seven days, and 40 p.c. since last
spring. This sounds really serious so
far as the States are concerned—it seems
to indicate an actual falling-off in indus-
trial activity, and not merely speculative
panic. Nevertheless it points sharply to
the difference between conditions on the
other side of the Pacific and in Australia.
Here steel output has gone steadily up.
Copper and tin were worst sufferers in
last week’s metal crash ; the electrolytic
red metal slumped to £4B in London,
about £l2 below the average during Mt.
Lyell’s 1936-37 term, and about £7 ster-
ling above that co.’s 1935-36 average.
Opening quotes for Lyell last Wednesday
hit the low level of 365. in Sydney, then
recovered to 395. 6d. Tin hit £207, arid
most Malayan stocks were down a shade.
Australian sharemarkets on the whole
withstood the shock very well. They
may have been overshocked during the
preceding setbacks. Towards the week-
end there was general improvement.
* * * *
There was a sale of E., S. and A.
Bank scrip in Melbourne recently at
£5 Bs., after £5 7s. On a 7 p.c. (sterling)
div. basis, allowing for addition of ex-
change and deduction of English income
tax at 3s. 9d. in the £l, the yield ob-
tained at the price was a shade over 4
p.c., allowing for the div. payable shortly.
It is as high as the return available from
the Commercial of Sydney or the
Queensland' National, and just under that
from the National of Australasia, which
recently lifted its div. Buyers offered
£5 12s. for E., S. and A. shares on Fri-
day ; sellers asked £6.
3fc sk $ *
To those wanting pref. shares for
purely income purposes the firsts and
seconds in Arthur Cocks and Co., Syd-
ney, have particular merit. The firsts
(7 p.c., statutory minimum 5.4 p.c.) are
backed by £8 2s. Bd. in net tangibles and
yield 5.8 p.c. at 245., present div. basis;
the seconds (8 p.c., statutory minimum
6.2 p.c.) have backing of £l4 18s., and
return 6.8 p.c. at 235. 6d. Divs. were
paid right through the slump, and at
present the maximum rate being paid in
each case looks safe.
* * * *
Shares in Wests, Ltd., holding co. in
Greater Union, etc., were down to Bs.
in Sydney last week. This is the best
buy among the group of affiliated motion-
picture stocks.
* sic * *
Australia’s gold output for the eight
months to Aug. 31 amounted to 876,349
fine ounces, 137,5670 z. up on the 1936
corresponding figures. August output
was 116,3630 z., and if that rate is main-
tained to Dec. 31 the year’s tally will be
about 1,340,0000 z., up something
like 200,0000 z. on 1936, and worth
£11,450,000.
He He * H=
Broken Hill Prop, shares became ex
rights last week. The old scrip was quoted
at 685,; the rights, on which 30s. is pay-
able, opened at 31s. 6d. Yield when the
new scrip is fully paid would be just
4 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis—the old
scrip at last week’s price returns £3 13s.
per cent. The new scrip is to be called
up within two years.
On Friday B.H.P. fully-paids lifted to
695. 6d. on London inquiry, and the
rights sold at 335., representing about
80s. per old share. They could have
been got below 775. last week.
The excess of deposits over advances
made by Australian trading banks at
September 30 amounted to £42,470,000,
as against £51,526,000 three months
earlier and £17,752,000 a year ago. June
30 represents the end of the export year,
and very often there is a seasonal tight-
ening of credit from this usually flush
period by the end of the next quarter —
as has happened in this case. Actually
the “tightening” has amounted to little
more than an evening-up of an abundant
position It is still comfortable, though
advances are up again to near the high
level of a year ago. Much depends now
on how wool sells up to Christmas.
* * * *
In the middle of September Sydney
wool prices were well above those for
September and October, 1936, but not
so good as any of the average prices
realised between Nov., 1936, and August,
1937.
* * * *
Over the four months to the end of
August there were successive rises in
N. S. Wales factory employment, each
rise breaking a record. Building activity
and land sales have shown no dropping-
off yet, and the retail trade is busy.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Holeproof £1 ords. remained on offer at
285., no buyers. Yield offering was above
7 p.c. Prestige 10s. ords., also, could be
picked up at 17s. 6d. to show 5.7 p.c.
Australasian Paper scrip was stronger at
335. 3d.
Central Nell Gwynne (Bendigo) reported
a half-year’s profit of just under £4OOO. Plant
has been paid for in full. Average recovery
during the term was about 4idwt. The scrip,
up to 40s. in September and above 60s. early
this year, changed hands at 31s. last week.
Montana Western Extended, ex rights to
the Big Ben issue, sold at 6s. Bd. Saxon Mon-
tana appeared on the unofficial list at 2s. Id.
Normanby Tin was less active but steady at
2s. 4d. Opening-out of the paddock at Mt.
Poverty (Q.) has been completed, and results
from treatment of wash are now awaited.
There was little activity in George Farmer
scrip (B. 6/10/’37), either prefs. or ords.
H. B. Dickie scrip was firm at 255. 9d.
Davies,. Coop ords. were weaker at 21s. 6d.
Myer ords., after lifting to above 355.
they were pointed out as a bargain last week
at a lower figure—steadied at 355.
McWhirters (Brisbane).
The £1 shares in McWhirters,
Brisbane, look fair buying at 14s.
Last year’s div. was 4i p.c., just
about covered by earnings for the
term; on that basis the yield
offered is a shade under 6.1 p.c., or
5.7 p.c. if 4 p.c. only be paid for
1937-38. Shareholders had a div.
right through the slump, though it
got down as low as 2 p.c. in 1933.
Stocks look keenly attended to, and,
though competition is more serious
than it was in the good days be-
fore the slump, McWhirters’ shares
appear to be among the best of
the cheaper -shares offering just
now.


I
Jj®
% <*«"2 “
Famous the
World over
mm
IKON
O' o ' m
List on application to the
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
E. C. HEYNE PTY. LTD. ft ft 1 ™ 6 ”
Positions Vacant.
COMMONWEALTH OF
Examination for permanent appointment as
Lineman (in Training), Postmaster-
General’s Department, New South Wales.
A competitive examination for appointment
as Lineman (in Training), open to males who
are natural-born or naturalized British subjects,
and who were born not earlier than 11th June,
1918, and not later than 11th June, 1919, will
be held on Saturday, 11th December, 1937.
Practical tests will be held on subsequent dates
to be arranged.
Full particulars may be obtained from the
Commonwealth Public Service Inspector, Bth
Floor, Commonwealth Bank Building, Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Applications should be made on foolscap, and
should be lodged with the Secretary, Common-
wealth Public Service Board, Canberra, not
later than 4th November, 1937.
FT G. THORPE, Commissioner,
Commonwealth Public Service Board.
ICKERS
¥
When buying gin, make
sure of strength. Order
Vickers. Its strength is
genuinely satisfying and
unchanged.
Vickers upholds the oldest
and highest gin tradition.
No novice for popularity
of price, its quality*
heritage dates back in an
unbroken tradition for 187
years—an unapproachable
record.
1: 4%,
fu
-J 0 ' Cow
m
Distilled from the origi-
nal recipe under licence from
J. & J. Vickers & Co. Ltd., London
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
BILLABONG
AUTO-
OILED
ENCASED
GEARED
WINDMILLS
BUILT TO WITHSTAND THE
ROUGHEST STORM
u
m
i
m
m
m
SENSITIVE TO THE SLIGHTEST BREEZE
EMBODIES ALL THE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS IN WINDMILL CONSTRUCTION
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
Vi
e
0
F=>~rV. LTD.
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l,
and at
324-330 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
How some of the principal Australian
market stocks have behaved during the
past seven months:
March April July Oct. Oct.
16. 29. 29. 7. 21.
Carlton .. 64/- 63/6 67/6 63/9 65/-
C.-Perkins .. 26/- 26/9 26/9 26/- 26 3
Tooth .. 57/- 58/3 55/6 55/6 55 -
G., Mort .. 39/6 39/- 36/6 34 3 34 6
Winchcombe.-. 36/6• 36/6 36/-* 34/6 33/9
Adel. Steam 32/6 32/6 31/3 32/- 32/9
Q’land Insur. 60/9 60/- 60/- 60/9
A. Gas “A” £7.2 £7.3 £7.4 £7.3 £7.4
Assoc. News 24/3 23/7 23/- 23/- 22/9
Aus. Glass .. 93/6 90/- 95/3 91/6 91/-
Aus. Paper .. 39/- 35/- 33/6* 33/- 33/3
Aus. Cement 31/6 31/6 32/- 32/6 32/-
B. Tobacco,s3/- 50/- 50/- 48/6 48/6
B.H. Prop. .. 91/3 81/3 82/9 77/- 67/6*
8., Philp .. 80/- 73/- 72/9 58/- 58/3
El. Zinc .. 66/6 57/6 58/- 53/6 52/-
Fairymead .. 39/3 37/6 35/- 32/9 32/6
G. J. Coles .. £5.3 £5.2 £5.6 £4.7 £4.7
G. Gotch .. 52/- 52/6 51/6 54/6 54/3
H. Jones .. 46/- 46/9 50/- 50/- 49/3
M. “Herald” 74/6 71/- 69/- 67/- 65/6
Mauri Bros. 75/- 74/- 70/6 68/6 69/
W. H. Soul 84/6 85/- 90/- 90/- 89/-
Yarra Falls .. 43/- 42/-* 39/9* 40/- 40/3
North B.H. .. 89/3 70/9 76/- 61/- 58/3
B.H. South .. 58/- 46/9 47/9 39/- 40/9
Mt. Lyell .. 52/6 45/3 43/6 39/3 38/5
* Ex rights.
It has been a period of boisterous con-
ditions overseas, with wild ups and
downs in commodity and share prices.
So far as the above-listed stocks are
concerned, the market has shown a re-
markable and commendable cool-headed-
ness, the only shares marked down dras-
tically being those depending directly on
export prices, namely metals, sugar and
wool. In Fairymead Sugar’s case, it
needs to be mentioned also, special
rather than general factors have had most
influence. Carlton Brewery, Castle-
maine Perkins, Australian Cement,
Gordon and Gotch, Yarra Falls (now ex
rights) and Adelaide Steam, all recom-
mended here once or several times dur-
ing the seven months, have risen in
price. B.H. Prop, (now ex rights) and
Mauri Bros, and Thomson show a drop
on their 1937 “high,” but they were
recommended at prices below as well as
above the present market. Steadiness in
the industrials generally has borne out
the convictions of this page that these
represent the most trustworthy invest-
ments in the country just now.
Among base-metal shares Souths have
been marked down most heavily. Electro.
Zincs (semi-industrial) and Mt. Lyell
have stood the battering best in this class.
* * * *
Last Friday saw a wave of buying
and general better-feeling in the share-
markets. Metals recovered well in
London, and the overspeculation element
in previous rises and falls seemed to be
more generally appreciated. A feeling
is growing that U.S.A. should be put in
an isolation ward in the minds of in-
vestors ; the land of Roosevelt, Lewis
and the New Deal is a law unto itself.
As a buyer of metals, however, its ups
and downs in temperature must continue
to affect world parities.
* * * *
North Kalgurlis have been the steady
rock among Australian gold shares these
last troubled six months. They keep
above 16s. sterling in London and
around 20s. in Australia, having actually
risen about 4s. a share in four months.
With most commodity prices again on the
low side, gold should again become
more secure as regard price. North
Kals. appear to be among the most trust-
worthy of the Australian producers at
present.
* * * *
The 17s. 6d.-paid shares in Associated
Pulp and Paper have dropped back to
19s. 3d., after being up to 225. 9d. in
Melbourne during September. The
Burnie (Tas.) plant is going to run out
at a cost of about £200,000 more than
first estimates, owing partly to increased
prices of machinery, etc., but also be-
cause of additions and improvements to
the original plans. Production won’t be
reached quite so early as expected;
somewhere about the middle of 1938 the
products are now expected to be on the
market. The scrip looks interesting,
especially as paper-pulp prices have
soared overseas.
* * * *
Loloma shares were unsteady last week,
17s. being taken for a while on Wednes-
day, when 3400 shares officially changed
hands. There was some recovery later,
18s. 6d. being Friday’s closing sale in
Melbourne. The sharemarket is awaiting
results from the new treatment plant—■
roasting and cyaniding—which has given
trouble in the oil-firing section; and,
anyway, at stages in the past speculators
seemed to have been prepared to pay in
full for all the profit in sight or thought
to be visible in the ore reserves.
Emperor scrip (the co. is a little be-
hindhand with commencement of large-
scale operations, which were one time
scheduled to start last month) kept de-
pressed around 12s. last week until
Friday’s recovery, when 12s. 6d. was paid.
The Bulletin was taken to task by a firm
of sharebrokers early this year for criti-
cising the co.’s possibilities when the
scrip was around 225. It seems a fact that
the more goldmines become proved the
staler they become in sharemarket
interest.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam shares were popular
on all principal ’Changes last week.
There were a number of sales at 325. 9d.,
to yield 4.4 p.c. to buyers on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. It is a good shipping stock.
A. G. Healing, Ltd., cycle and radio
manufacturers, etc., has lifted its ord.
div. from p.c. to 9 p.c. In August
there were sales of the 15s. fully-paids
at 20s. and 215., and last week the scrip
was turned over at 21s. 6d. Allowing
for the div. (payable Oct. 31) the yield
available, providing distributions remain
steady, is 6.7 p.c.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
On an afternoon when winners were
fairly easy to pick Frill Prince (Frilford-
Soporific) landed the Moonee Valley Cup
at odds of 25 to 1. His tote dividend
was nearly 50 p.c. more. What made the
result particularly unpalatable to punters
was that the 5-to-2 favorite, Mala, ran
second.
Had the race been staged at Fleming-
ton, where there are long galloping
stretches, Mala may have landed the
spoils for Alan Cooper. He lost by less
than a length after being hampered on
two occasions and being compelled to go
round several horses on the home bend.
Navarino (from S.A.), Dictator, Fire-
man and Nightguard were pacemakers
to the six-furlongs pole, where Manolive
suddenly moved into third position.
There was little to choose between
Navarino and Nightguard at the half-
mile, where Frill Prince came promi-
nently into the picture and ran past
Navarino and Nightguard on the bend.
(Manolive broke down ; so, too, did Jack
Horner.)
Nightguard, who is in Bill Tindall’s
stable, struggled on courageously in the
wake of Frill Prince, but the latter pal-
pably had his measure. With a burst of
speed Mala beat Nightguard by a head
for second, but failed by three-quarters
of a length to reach Frill Prince.
The distance of the Valley Cup has
been varied frequently. This year it was
a mile and five furlongs, as in Peter
Jackson’s year (1933). Peter Jackson set
2min. 44sec.; Frill Prince occupied a
quarter of a second longer. Purser (1922)
and Princess Mernda (1923) each took
2min. 44sec.
Frill Prince recently entered the Caul-
field stable of F. G. Doran. He was
bred by his owner, L. O. Menck.
Soporific was the dam of Yarramba,
who won the Valley Cup of 1932
and captured the Williamstown Cup
that year after finishing second to
Peter Pan at Flemington. Before being
purchased by Menck for stud purposes
Frilford was trained by Jack Holt for
J. H. Flannagan, of Adelaide, who now
is a bookmaker and fielded in the pad-
dock at Moonee Valley.
Young Idea (2 to 1 favorite) was flat
out to beat the M.L. colt, Courtcraft, in
the W. S. Cox Plate. Charles Fox led
Courtcraft by two lengths at the bend,
but the Maorilander closed on him and
Darby Munro brought Young Idea along
with a rattle on the outside.
It ought to have been all over when
Young Idea hit the front, but Court-
craft put in another run and was really
going stronger than Percy Miller’s stal-
lion as they passed the box. In losing
by a mere head Courtcraft proved him-
self a worthy son of Limond. He has
come along with leaps and bounds since
racing at Randwick and may take beat-
ing in the Victoria Derby.
Though placed in an “outlaw pen” at
the start of the W. S. Cox Plate, Charles
Fox got among the adjacent horses and
used his heels on several. Black Mac
received a kick on the near shoulder, and
Ray Wilson, visibly alarmed, tried to
massage the affected part. Tailing off
when the barrier rose, Black Mac
appeared unable to stretch out until the
race was nearly ended.
The “stipes” decided to ban Charles
Fox from racing in the metropolitan
area. This is a big blow to the owner,
Sol Green, in view of Charles Fox hav-
ing won the Caulfield Stakes and being
in line for other victories at the carnival.
Normal, who narrowly vanquished Beau
Frere in the Debutant Stakes at Caul-
field, is small; but, though he was required
to carry 9st. in the St. Albans Handi-.
cap for colts and geldings, backers didn’t
hesitate to take 11 to 8 about him, and
J. T. Jamieson’s candidate did the trick
in fine style. Sir Rona (100 to 1) and
Brethren (50 to 1) filled the minor places.
The former, a Great Star colt, is trained
by H. Freedman, who has been very
successful with juveniles.
Bill Kelso told his friends that Politesse
(Lord Quex-Courtesy) was exceptionally
smart, but warned them that she had
been left at the post in a Sydney race,
though “quiet as a lamb at home.” Mel-
bourne punters are not averse from tak-
ing sporting risks, and Politesse started
at 9 to 4 in the event for fillies.
Politesse was the best-behaved of 20
runners. Unfortunately she did not jump
out smartly and was buried in the ruck
while Bush Bee (Baralong-Native Bee)
bowled along at the head of the field. The
speed at which Politesse came down the
short straight to be beaten by only
lengths suggests that she will not return
to Sydney empty-handed.
Bailey Payten, who trains Bush Bee
and has a half-interest in her, was not
present. Perhaps that contributed to her
going out at 12 to 1 after 20’s had been
laid. Bush Bee is out of Native Bee, the
dam of Bombus, a good miler in his day
on Sydney courses.
Divisions of the Dundonald Handicap
went to Night Gang and Mohican, each
of whom started at 3 to 1. Night Gang
shared favoritism with Sweet Memories,
but Mohican was a clear first choice of
backers.
If the distance had been seven fur-
longs instead of six Evening Mist could
not have lost her division. She “flew”
down the straight and ran Night Gang
to half a head. The judge caused a wild
outburst of indignation by failing to in-
clude Evening Mist in the placings. After
a long delay he rectified the mistake.
Mohican vanquished Heroic Faith with
such consummate ease in the second divi-
sion of the Dundonald Handicap that his
chance in the £2500 Cantala Stakes next
Saturday looks rather bright. The
Moabite stallion accounted for every rival
but Gold Rod in the Epsom, and he
seems to have improved since then.
* * * *
Those three fine colts Ajax, Hua and
Avenger have been seen in two exception-
ally interesting races this season, and
unless floods or some other acts of God
intervene they are to meet again in the
Victoria Derby at Flemington on Satur-
day, with John Wilkes, Courtcraft, Night-
guard, Bristol and others to keep them
company.
”••*•18
In the A.J.C. Derby Avenger was first,
Ajax second and Hua third ; in the Caul-
field Guineas Ajax was first, Avenger
second and Hua third. At Randwick,
Avenger finished the best of the three,
and he was also going faster than the
others at the end of the Caulfield mile,
after having been off color for a day or
two —the effect of a prolonged train
journey. Taking everything into con-
sideration, he ought to repeat his Rand-
wick achievement, especially as he has
done well nee Caulfield.
But so has Hua done well. He has
thoroughly satisfied Scobie, and the rac-
ing public has immense respect for
Scobie’s judgment. It is against Ajax
that he has not been seen at his best on
the Flemington track, having a distinct
tendency to run out wide. However,
this can be overcome, and if the pace is
such as Will leave him with a strong run
at the end he may avenge his Randwick
defeat. Anything is possible to a high-
class colt —and Aiax is high-class.
Avenger is not in the Melbourne Cup,
and if Ajax fails in the Derby he is un-
likely to start. Hua is a certain runner,
all going well, and a Derby success would
involve no penalty in either case —Hua
has 7st. 71b. and Ajax 7st. 81b. Other
three-year-olds in the race are Night-
guard (7st. 61b.), John Wilkes (7st. 41b.),
El Golea (7st. 31b.), Ronsardian, Pageant
and Only One (7st. lib. apiece) and
Bristol (6st. 131 b.).
This Page has a great respect for the
three-year-olds, and thinks it will be a
three-year-olds’ Cup. And, though it is
arguing against form, it has a fancy for
Bristol, believing that colt to be a real
stayer, as a son of Pantheon and, on
the dam’s side, a descendant of Bobadil
ought to be. The market rather despises
Bristol, but then it despised Sister Olive
(1921) and Lord Nolan (1908).
• • • • • P
The older horses are not wonderfully
impressive. The handicapper reckons
Allunga (9st. lib.) the best, but if
Allunga couldn’t win a Sydney Cup with
Bst. 101 b. he seems unlikely to win a
Melbourne Cup with 51b. more. Wotan
is a stayer, but 9st. seems more than
enough for him. Mala looks better ; if
he is as good as his owner thinks Bst.
121 b. shouldn’t stop him. Flood Tide
and Donaster (both Bst. 91b.) deserve con-
sideration.
Black Mac (Bst. 71b.) has been reserved
for the Cup, and has a brilliant weight-
for-age win to his credit. But his show-
ings at Caulfield and Moonee Valley
were disappointing.
The Trump goes up 101 b. to Bst. 51b.,
a substantial weight for so small a horse,
but he is a very good little ’un.
Sir Regent was first in the Metropolitan
with 7st. 21b., and Silver Standard second
with Bst. 71b. Now Sir Regent has 7st.
101 b. and Silver Standard Bst. 61b.; and
Silver Standard was second in last year’s
Cup. On Caulfield Cup, as well as
Metrop., running, Sir Regent cannot be
ignored; but he has been more or less a
casualty since the Caulfield Cup. And
Holt has had to go easy with Balkan
Prince (Bst. 61b.).
Of the lightweights other than the
three-year-olds, Gay Knight (7st. 21b.)
and Old Rowley (6st. 121 b.) read best.
Not a few Randwick watchers thought
Old Rowley unlucky to lose the Metro-
politan, and his indifferent showing in
the Waverley Handicap was attributed to
a twisted plate. This chestnut requires
a strong boy, and in the absence of
Knox —who might have made all the dif-
ference in the Metropolitan—the stable
has got one in Duncan. But it has to
be recognised that he ran indifferently at
Moonee Valley. On the other hand, Gay
Knight did well.
Bristol and Hua it is, with a slight
preference for Bristol.
* * * *
Three-year-olds once more! At War-
wick Farm they were first in each divi-
sion of the Maiden Handicap, second and
third in the Macquarie Grove Handicap,
third in the Varroville Handicap and first
in the Farm Stakes. A feature of the
betting at the Farm was a plunge on Ver-
berry in the Homebush Handicap ; he
was backed from sevens to threes. His
supporters again had the dismal experi-
ence of seeing Poison’s horse finish much
faster than the horses ahead of him —two
this time —when it was just too late.
AJ.C. committeeman E. J. Watt was
not present to see his colt, The Squire; a
well-grown son of Beau Pere-Helen, win
the Juvenile. The Squire (4 to 1) was
having his first race, but he acted like
an old-stager when hit with the whip, and
stalled off Aeolus and June, to score. The
colt is trained by George Price, and cost
1050 guineas in Maoriland. He is a half-
brother to Troy and Queen Helen.
Rosehill trainer Sutherland won a
double with Hammerhead (8 to 1) and
Verlina (5 to 1). The former beat some
smart sprinters in the Varroville Handi-
cap. He appeared lucky to win, as Man-
goola’s jockey, after getting to the front
on the little grey, left an opening on the
rails at the Leger. Hammerhead’s jockey
was not slow to take the opportunity.
Old Celebrate came home in whirlwind
fashion, and beat Mangoola in the last
couple of strides. Some Boy was fourth.
Goorka, the favorite, could not go the
place in the early stages, and finished
fifth.
Verlina (5 to 1) led throughout in the
Macquarie Grove Handicap, an event for
apprentice jockeys. * Young Harvey, from
Adelaide, who had had the mount on
Hammerhead, rode the winner expertly.
The fast-finishing Cathartes —too much
of a handful for his boy—and Denis
filled the places. War Machine refused
to gallop, but Cherry King ran well while
his condition lasted.
Autoland (9 to 2) was flat out to beat
High in the Homebush Handicap. Ver-
berry was a close third, and, with any
luck at all, must have won. Imbiber,
running his best race for some time, was
fourth, ahead of Journal, who made the
pace to the home turn but weakened
from that point. Billy Boy had the run
of the race, and was galloping comfort-
ably to the top of the straight, but did
not come on.
Roi Sion (11 to 2) outstayed Call Up
and Mort in the Farm Stakes. It was a
good performance, as he was wide out
over the last half-mile, and did not falter
when hard ridden up the straight. Minne-
sota, a half-brother to Chatham, was
fourth. Roi Sion was turned out in
capital trim by former jockey Bob
Abbott.
Mack Sawyer won the first heat of the
Maiden with Breeze, a daughter of Wind-
bag. She started at sevens and ran past
the pacemaker, Artsman, in the straight.
Silorest was third. Jan, from Cessnock,
was fourth. Lifebuoy, who carries the
colors of Mrs. Hunter White, and was
bred by her husband, was too fast for
his opponents in the second division,
though Atalanta showed pace in running
second.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The Cambridgeshire
was won by Major Glover’s Artist Prince,
a 13-to-l shot. This nine-furlong event
has long been noted for the heavy bet-
ting attending it, the temptation to
punters who have had a bad season to
get their own back on a final flutter being
irresistible. Also, it has been responsible
for the production of more dark horses
and the working of more ingenious
“readies” than any other event on the
English turf. Australian horses have
won the Cambridgeshire, but that was
long ago.
Young Eric Cremin, who a few weeks
ago beat V. S. Richardson for the Aus-
tralian professional title, has again
accounted for Richardson (4 and
3), and becomes N.S.W. professional
champion. Another youngster, Davies,
runner-up to Naismith in the Australian
open, won Sydney’s “champion of cham-
pions” event for Ryde-Parramatta.
* *. * *
“Stockton”: Something new in freak
golf matches was seen at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) when Keith Butler, of the Steel-
works club, took on Dr. Tooth, a bowls
enthusiast. The golfer played as usual,
allowing five strokes a hole to the bowler,
who rolled his wood along the fairway
and used a jack on the putting green.
Nine holes were played, and the bowler
won five up. The winner averaged 70
yards through the fairway, and never
missed the tin with the jack.
* # * *
“Aigburth”: The Spanish and Chinese
troubles were chased off the front pages
of the English papers when R. W. Robins
announced that it was likely he would
have to give up big cricket and would
thus not be in the running to captain
England against Australia next season.
Business claims are the reason advanced.
The days are gone when the English
amateur could play six days a week all
through the season and wax fat in the
process. Only the amateur who can get
a paid county secretaryship can afford to
do that nowadays.
’ * * * . *
“Backwoodsman”: Once more Aus-
tralian bowlers are in argument about
bowl-testing methods. These vary, but
in most of the States the test for draw-
ing capacity of the woods is done on a
more or less standardised table. N.S.W.
is trying to persuade the Australian con-
trollers of the game that the testing
should be done on the actual green. But
no two greens are alike, and the condi-
tion of a green may vary from hour to
hour on the same day.
x * * *
“Kooyong”: The Vic. L.T.A. an-
nounces a modest profit of £4ll for a
season marred by villainous weather and
without overseas attractions. The
weather may account for the fact that
the Kooyong bar takings showed a big
jump, with a nice profit of over £lOOO.
* * * *
Last week the Australian Rugby
Leaguers played a draw with Widnes (13
all) and beat Hull (22-12). They are
earning a reputation for “finishing like
lions.”
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Derby: Avenger, 1; Hua, 2;
Ajax, 3.
Mackinnon Stakes: Pamelus or
Allunga; next, Young Idea.
Cantala Stakes: Pamelus or
Evening Mist; next, Mohican.
Hotham Handicap: Gay Knight;
next, Donaster.
Cup: Bristol, 1; Hua, 2 ; The
Trump, 3. Best outsider: Gay
Knight.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Park Stakes: Cool Joy; next,
Minnesota.
Highweight Handicap: Stalin or
Moaenza (same stable); next, Night
of Love.
Canterbury Handicap: Celebrate ;
next, Imbiber or Jovial Son.
Ashbury Handicap: Imbiber or
Nabob; next, Maurice or Jovial
Son.


Beating all previous achievements
TEXACO announces the . . .
SAFEST 0
m
yet produced
wmm
by the Petroleum Industry
m
TPHE NEW TEXACO MOTOR OIL
gives you completely safe, effect-
ive and protective lubrication from
the time you put it in your motor
until when you drain it out at the
interval specified by your car
manufacturer. No other oil gives
this complete
margin of
safety .
Available also
in sealed cans
for your
greater pro-
tection.
£o
J
%
*
X.
9.0.487
o • o
Ask your Service Station Man
he will tell you more about
TEXACO
MOTOR OIL «. fc**
THE TEXAS COMPANY (A/SIA) LTD. (INC. IN N.S.W.) f **
At the Caulfield Cup
The Caulfield Cup postponement from
Saturday, October 16, to the following
Wednesday didn’t prove disastrous, as had
been feared. Turnstiles clicked for the
best mid-week attendance ever seen at
“the Heath” —44,000. At least a third
more would have been there on the due
date, but in the circumstances secretary
F. E. Elbeshausen was satisfied. .
Never again will the V.A.T.C. com-
mittee decide on a Cup postponement
until the last practicable moment. Its
action this spring was bitterly criticised
when the Saturday afternoon proved to
be fine, and subsequent heavy rain in-
volved the possibility of the Caulfield
Cup having to be put back until after
the big two-miler at Flemington.
V.R.C. chairman Alan Currie, con-
sulted by telephone at Ercildoune, em-
phatically vetoed the suggestion that the
whole spring programme be set back a
wel *- He declared'that the Mel-
bourne Cup must be run on the first
Tuesday in NoV ember.
.
All is well that ends even tolerably
we ll. The Caulfield Cup of 1937 goes on
the records as a successful and thor-
oughly enjoyable event. Victory went to
a gallant little horse, The Trump. The
Bulletin’s choice opened favorite on
the course, but drifted from 9 to 2 to
sixes through Silver Standard having
firmed from sixes to 9 to 2.
. • • • *
Rumors had been current that several
horses would not start because of not
being mudlarks. Actually Balkan Prince,
alone among 27 acceptors, failed to see
the post, and he had to be taken out on
account of a shoulder injury. In a few
days 590 points of rain fell at Caulfield ;
yet the soil there is sandy, and it recov-
ered rapidly,
......
With one exception—that of Talking—
all the Cup aspirants seemed trained to
the minute as they were given walking
exercise in the birdcage. Fred Williams
watched the saddling-up of Talking with
an anxious face, while owner Alan
Cooper looked on from the opposite side
of the stall. Talking’s off shoulder had
been massaged with an embrocation to
palliate his neuritis. “He’s all right,” de-
clared Cooper as the £19,000 stallion was
led away. But Williams remarked to a
friend that Talking might be different
with weight on his back.
Cooper’s optimism seemed justified
when Talking found his way to the front
with beautiful speed soon after the Cup
start, followed by Stevenage and King’s
Head. At the mile Maurice McCarten
eased the topweight when he found that
Keith Voitre was bent on sending Steven-
age to the van. Stevenage led Talking by
four lengths along the railway stretch,
but neuritis couldn’t have troubled the
Magpie stallion, as he was galloping
boldly. But near the home bend Talking
beat a retreat, having broken down in the
near hind fetlock.
It was a disastrous race for horse and
jockey. Talking will not race again.
McCarten, called before the stewards,
was found guilty of crossing to the rails
too sharply after the start (he had No. 10
berth) and was suspended for a month.
Stevenage weakened when Manolive
joined issue at the straight entrance, and
the Westralian horse momentarily looked
like a winner ; but he compounded when
challenged by The Trump, Donaster and
Sir Regent. Though well placed on the
rails, Silver Standard wasn’t putting in
sufficiently good work to be really dan-
gerous. However, he ran a close fouth.
Over the final half-furlong the issue
rested between The Trump and Sir
Regent. According to O’Sullivan, who
rode him, Sir Regent would have won
but for being carried out slightly in the
(Continued on next page.)


"silver
EDGE"
TRADE (/MARK REGISTERED
THE RAY BE ST OS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
'-:0
MOTORISTS
STOP?
CAN
YOU
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Model, ‘ \S*
rf MYWcjgjg-
A cheap tyre gauge is seldom accurate after the newness has
worn off. But a Kismet Gauge, being scrupulously
manufactured to the finest limits of accuracy, guaran-
tees years of reliable service. Although it is priced
a shilling or two more than an ordinary gauge, it
costs less in the long run, because it keeps
its accuracy and neat finish all the time.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia
w TYRE
Model,
STANDARD
GAUGES
CADET
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
straight; but jockeys are not the best of
judges in these matters. The M.L.-bred
gelding ran The Trump to half a neck
after a magnificent set-to; but The Trump
was going the faster at the finish.
Donaster—here selected for the 1936
Caulfield Cup—was third, a length and a
half off. Silver Standard was a good
fourth, Manolive fifth and Flood Tide
sixth.
On a track that ought to have been
dead, but wasn’t entirely so, The Trump
ran \\ miles in 2min. 28|sec. This time
is splendid, being only a second slower
than Palfresco’s record for the race, which
also is an Australasian record for the
distance. Dividends (for 55.) were £2
and £1 ; Sir Regent’s was £2 16s. —really
wonderful —and Donaster’s £1 18s.
The Trump belongs to E. (“Darcy”)
Eccles, who was amateur billiards cham-
pion once. Eccles has been in the rac-
ing game for many years. In 1914 he
won the Australian Cup with Wallalo.
Horses owned by him knocked at the
door on two occasions in the Melbourne
Cup, The Cypher (1922) being beaten by
King Ingoda and Yarramba (1932) by
Peter Pan.
Both the trainer and rider of The
Trump hail from Maoriland. Ashley
Reed, though getting on in years, is as
capable as ever. He settled in Victoria
13 years ago, and then had a retainer
of £5OO per annum to ride for A. T.
Creswick, whose horses were trained by
C. T. Godby.
Unquestionably The Trump is the best
galloper sired by Manfred, who romped
home with 9st. 61b. in the Caulfield Cup
of 1926 at odds of 5 to 4. Koanie, dam
of The Trump, is by Spearhead from the
imported mare Yaffle, by Junior (son of
Symington) from a half-sister to the dam
of Heroic.
Some critics were prejudiced against
The Trump because he is a yellow bay,
but there have been near-champions of
that color, notably George Frederick, a
son of Carbine. Though undersized, The
Trump was not the smallest Caulfield Cup
competitor. Viewed in his stall, Willie
Win, from M.L., looked a mere pony.
Lou Robertson pulled off a betting
coup in the Burwood Handicap, for three-
year-olds, with Pilot, a Marconigram colt
belonging to T. Hogan, who had a half-
interest in Marabou when that horse
captured the Melbourne Cup of 1935.
Backed from 20 to 1 down to sevens,
Pilot put in a magnificent finishing run
to defeat Bill Tindall’s representative,
Nightguard, by a head.
• •••«»
Proving that her form on Guineas day
was entirely wrong, Jewel (Simeon’s
Fort-Topaz) established her claim to be
considered the fastest juvenile filly in
Victoria by inflicting a three lengths’
defeat on Alan Cooper’s candidate,
Parrot, in the Mona Nursery. The event
for two-year-old colts went to Nuffield,
trained by Jack Holt for C. B. Kellow.
Nuffield (Heroic-Belle Gallante) was
bred by Kellow, who is Victorian repre-
sentative of Lord Nuffield’s motor-cars.
The rather small Heroic colt has excep-
tional speed and may be hard to beat
in the Maribyrnong Plate.
Piloted by Driscoll, who was a good
rider on the flat in M.L., but is known
in Melbourne mainly as a crosscountry
jockey, Pamelus reproduced his best
Queensland form by smothering Beech-
wood (9 to 4 favorite) at the finish of
the Windsor Handicap.
Pamelus figured at 4 to 1. He sprinted
six furlongs in lmin. which is
only three-quarters of a second slower
than the course record. Young Idea
started at 15 to 1 because of his poor
showing in the Caulfield Stakes. There
must have been something amiss with
Percy Miller’s horse on Guineas day.
He flew at the end of the Windsor Han-
dicap and was only half a head behind
Beechwood.
M.Q. and Rafferty
At Wembley the other night, Purcell,
the Sydney welter, was stopped by
Roderick in five rounds, and Strickland,
the M.L. heavyweight, was outpointed
by the German Neusel. The verdict for
Neusel was unpopular.
* * sfc *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: B. 13/10/”37
brought back 12st. 101 b. of sea-hardened
body, Frank Slavin training at the old
Red Bluff Hotel, St. Kilda, for the match
with Jack Burke. For the last three
days Frank went all out with no “beg
pardons,” and five of us went all out,
too, in one afternoon. Frank expressed
deep regret later, but explained that he
had to get fighting-ready for the Irish
Lad with such a reputation, and that he
“Don't give a damn if I AM on the green. I took up golf for exercise, and I'm goin' to have it .”
hadn’t really tried since Charters Towers
days at old Jack Ryan’s. He regarded
fighting then as a hobby with some
money in it which might provide funds
to enable him to become a qualified
mining engineer. Slavin had a definite
knack for draughtsmanship and, draw-
ing, could turn off a recognisable por-
trait in a few strokes of a pencil. His
great body and killer’s face had Burke
paralysed from the start. Jack —brave
lad! —came back for more while he
could stand. Which is the genuine pluck.
Ins and Outs
“Tenakoe”: Details of the All-Black
cricket tour of England show a high
degree of performance, and it is surpris-
ing the side did not win more matches.
Six of the side made over 1000 runs, and
a big surprise was provided by 18-year-
old Donnelly, who was second in the
averages with 38.77, scoring over 1300
runs. Donnelly had done little to war-
rant his selection and critics were acrid
before the side left. Fast-bowler Cowie
was the only trundler to get 100 wickets
—lO6 at 20.49. A sterling performance
in a season of fast, dry wickets.
* * * *
“St. Kilda”: The Victorian C.A. has
picked 18 players to practise for the
game against the Maorilanders which
begins on November 12. The selection
includes the full Victorian strength, and
all except one man have figured for the
State. The exception is F. W. Sides, the
young North Queenslander who, after a
most promising showing in the Banana-
land side, sought a better ’ole in Yarra-
ville.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: In the old days, when-
ever an All-Black Rugby team was
beaten in Australia the outraged islanders
rushed over reinforcements to repair
the damages. Something of the kind
has cropped up in cricket, Parsloe
having arrived from M.L. on his way to
join the All-Black cricketers at Adelaide.
Parsloe takes the place of Dunning, who
bagged 83 wickets on the English tour,
but is not available for the 'matches in
Australia. The newcomer is a six-footer
who does his fast bowling in glasses.
* * * *
“Galle”: The M.L. cricketers on their
way to Australia from Britain played a
one-day match at Colombo for a draw.
The locals made 221 for 8 and M.L. at
stumps had lost 5 for 177, Vivian top-
ping with 68 n.o. De Saram, who
played for Oxford in 1934-35, made 90
for Ceylon.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: An attempt is being
made to bring Ponsford back to first-
class cricket, the idea being that he will
supply the alleged lack of an opening
batsman. It is to be hoped that Pons-
ford, who showed commendable sense
in leaving big cricket before his powers
failed, will not agree. He owes cricket
nothing when all is said and done, and
some of his experiences have not been
pleasant. He might be a success on an
English tour, but his return would close
the gate to one of the promising young
players to whom we must look to pre-
serve Australian cricket's reputation in
days to come.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. State
cricket heads have followed the example
of the Board of Control and forbidden
players in Sheffield and other represen-
tative games to write or broadcast com-
ment on big matches or on team selec-
tions. Professional journalists are
exempted, but must obtain leave from
the N.S.W.C.A.
The S.C.G. trustees have fixed admis-
sion prices for big cricket this season.
For Sheffield and M.L. matches they
are: Ground Is. 6d. (youngsters 6d.),
grandstand 2s. 6d. (the young fry Is.).
For the Victoria-N. S. Wales second XI
match prices will be Is. and 6d. and
Is. 6d. and 9d.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: An unusual cricket
happening cropped up in the Balmain-
St. George match in the Sydney grade
competition when a chap named Craig,
the last man in, was given out for failing
to come in to bat within the prescribed
two minutes. Law 45 says that if a bats-
man offends in this fashion his side shall
lose the match. The N.S.W. authorities
have modified this by a local rule penal-
ising the batsman only. There was an
excuse for Craig—he had been held up
by a motor accident.
* * X *
“Aigburth”: Arthur Mailey, an emi-
nent authority on cricket, art and most
other matters, has put it on record that
he has always been sceptical of “the
value to Australian teams of medium-
paced bowlers.” This should shatter at
once the popular delusion that such
bowlers as Turner, Giffen, Garrett,
Boyle, Trumble and Howell had a share
in Australia’s position in the world of
cricket.
i’fi ' % 5|C #
“Avoca”: Lads in my Sydney suburb
are thinking of disguising themselves as
flappers and joining a girls’ cricket club.
Their district club grabs their entrance


'That's what I
call PERFORMANCE !
r 9
-- - i
m
m
m
A,
,v
ss*
IP
IT'S easy to see why the Hillman HAWK is the choice
of three important English Government Departments
H.M. WAR OFFICE, THE ROYAL AIR FORCE and the
METROPOLITAN POLICE.
There could be no greater acknowledgment of its outstanding Performance and
Dependability.
Its solid construction, its safe feel at the wheel no matter how fast the miles fly
by you, its amazing road-holding qualities have all been planned for the thrill
of speed with absolute safety.
In beauty and economy too, the Hillman HAWK offers value that has to be
seen to be believed.
Call for a demonstration.
UAWIf
laAVv hh
N.S.W.:
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
155 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
W. AUSTRALIA:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street, Perth.
S. AUSTRALIA:
WAYMOUTH MOTOR CO. LTD.
42 Waymouth Street, Adelaide;
QUEENSLAND:
John McGrath ltd.
358 Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
York Street, Launceston.
VICTORIA:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
222 Exhibition St., Melbourne, C.l.
World Exporters:
Rooted
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London
Australian and N. 2. Representative:
C. E. BLAYNEY
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.
fees graciously allows them a few
minutes’ practice of a sort on a couple of
Saturdays prior to the start of the season
-and takes no further interest in them.
I don’t know whether other district clubs
follow the same procedure, but it is no
way to foster the game. It means a loss
of both present players and future sup-
porters.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: N.S.W. professional
golfers have launched an ambitious
scheme —no less than a £lOOO tourney
in Sydney during the 150th anniversary
spree. The P.G.A. hopes to get the help
of the N.S.W. Golf Council, in which
case the tourney will be an open one.
Failing that it will be confined to pro-
fessionals. Archie Keane, who ran the
Kirkwood-Hagen and Sarazen shows, is
to organise this one.
* -f '■■■ .*
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida has an-
nounced his departure for the U.S.A.
early in the new year. He will wait for
the £lOOO tourney being promoted by the
N.S.W. professional golfers before he
takes wing. Von Nida left Queensland
for a good job in Sydney, but has given
this up. It left him little time for prac-
tise, and to this he debits his recent loss
of form, especially in putting. The ex-
caddie from Brisbane has already shown
himself one of Australia’s best golfers,
and a tour of the big Yankee tourna-
ments should make or break him.
jJ: :Jc *
“Tweed”: J. C. Mclntosh, of Lismore,
winner of the N.S.W. country golf cham-
pionship, has for years ranked high
among N.S.W. players, though he has
been unable to figure prominently in the
fierce light the Sydney press spills on all
sorts and conditions of metropolitan
golfers and near-golfers. This is his
second win in the event, and he has a
fine record in Queensland title events.
L. T. Stuart, the runner-up, partnered by
W. H. Bowler, also of Boorowa, took the
foursomes championship.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: The British international
golf tourney—England, Ireland, Scot-
land and Wales —was played this year in
Ireland, and was won for the sixth con-
secutive time by Scotland, which won two
matches and halved the other. England,
with two wins and a loss, was second,
and Ireland led Wales for third place.
This is Scotland’s second trot of six wins,
the last being from 1904 to 1909.
Miscellaneous
“Yarker”: The usually level-headed
North of England critics were sadly out
when they gave the Kangaroos “the
chance of a snowflake in hell,” as one of
them put it, in the first Test. The Kangas
had played half a dozen matches to-
gether, and had acquired combination,
as touring teams do. Their opponents,
on the other hand, were just 13 players
collected from different clubs and play-
ing as a team for the first time. In the
same way, the North of England clubs,
which have been giving the tourists such
a tough go to date, field sides which have
had even better chances than the Kan-
garoos of acquiring the team sense.
* * * *
“Gate”: The feud between the N.S.W.
and Queensland Rugby Leagues boiled
up again when it came out that Savage,
co-manager of the touring Kangaroos,
had asked permission to write for the
press. The Queensland delegates to the
board agreed; the Ma Staters jibbed.
The matter will probably be settled by
the casting vote of the board’s chair-
man, aN. S. Welshman. The N.S.W.
League, like the N.S.W. Rugby Union,
has always objected to anyone else but
itself running its brand of football in
Australia.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne League foot-
ball clubs collected a record dividend
from the four final matches. After levies
and other dues were deducted the aver-
age handout was £755. The grand final
panned out £6OOO.
* * * *
“Rover”: If all goes as hoped, the
V.F.A. will stage a revised brand of
Australian football in Melbourne next
season. Proposed changes are reduc-
tion of teams from 18 to 16, a kick-off
from the centre instead of the bounce,
abolition of the out-of-bounds rule, With
an immediate throw-in substituted, and
any method of passing the ball to be
allowed provided hands are below
shoulder-level. Some of the changes
suggest Rugby influence. Leading players
favor them, especially reduction of the
number of players, which will tend to
make the game faster as well as lessen
pay-sheet costs.
* * $ $
Died suddenly in Sydney last week —
he’d been at a regatta the previous Satur-
day—Bernie Williams, the best-known
N.S.W. rowing coach. He was for five
years sole selector of .the State’s King’s
Cup crews, and his lads had four wins
and a second ; but the man in the street
knew him as St. Joseph’s College coach,
crews he handled taking the Head of the
River title in 1932, 1934 and 1936.
Bernie began his own rowing career with
Leichhardt (Sydney) club and was later
captain of the S.A. Commercial club. He
favored orthodox methods in his coach-
jn g. jj e was on iy 43 when he crossed
frisking fi ne>
*
Wke
.Sprocket. Australia s greatest bike
™ad race the Warrnambool, was won
18 ,->' e f- 01 ?. Tasmanian, Trevor
Bro who had 24 minutes start. The
was vile in the extreme, and
Brooks was one of the many who de-
cided to chuck it; then a friend urged
him to keep going. Angus, of Oakleigh
(Vic.), took the fastest-time prize, with
i9 m j n 9 sec> o ft' scra tch—the de-
tance j s 155 miles, fhe winner’s clock-
ing was 7hr. 39min. 9sec. This is the
second time in succession Angus has
scored the time record, a feat hitherto
standing to Opperman’s credit.
* * * *
“Spike”: At long last it looks as if
Sydney is to get a decent athletic arena.
The City Council is going ahead with
its plans in Moore Park ; the area is now 7
levelled off and erection of stands has
been begun. The ground will provide
for all classes of athletics —there will
actually be cinder running tracks —and
will be floodlit for night events; and
dining-rooms and a canteen will be pro-
vided. The scheme is to cost £40,000.
Whether it will pay remains to be seen.
The council’s inability to make the
municipal links show a profit is not
encouraging.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: The English billiard
heads, who are always tinkering with the
rules nowadays, have evolved a new
handicapping scheme. This will be based
not on actual scores, but on average
number of visits to the table required to
tot up a fixed number of points. A
great idea. But what sort of gulf will
there be between the topnotch profes-
sional who breaks 1000 at one stand-up
and the ordinary dud who doesn't aver-
age two points to a visit while compiling
100?
* * *
“Wood”: Australian bowlers read with
cynical grins the assertion of the British
International Bowling Board that it can-
not get sufficient nominations from its
members to make up a team for the Aus-
tralian Empire meeting. Only 16 men
would be required, and there are 2500
registered clubs in the 1.8. Union. Appar-
ently the Britons haven’t burst themselves
in their attempt to get a side. Injury has
been added by the 1.8.8.’s airy intima-
tion that it has nominated a team of
eight players which is coming out pri-
vately for the Games as its representa-
tive, though it has nothing whatever to
do with the organisation or dispatch of
the tourists.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“A Day at the Races.”
With Marx, Marx, Marx and Co.
Those who have hitherto failed to be
amused by these curious originals will
possibly continue in the same state, but
it needs saying for this effort that it
looks like a calculated attempt to rope
in everybody.
For one thing, the film probably ex-
hibits every possible form of acted
humor.
Its brands of comedy range over the
smartest of dialogue with a razor-edge of
wit; whimsical fantasy likely to make
an onlooker feel that he, as well as the
Marxes, has been temporarily smitten by
a moonbeam; good honest human
humor, and the broadest of slapstick.
Anyone who can’t find something to
tickle his particular fancy in that range
of choice might reasonably be suspected
of being deficient in the means ; but even
one who can still fail to laugh at the
Marxes might yet find compensations in
this film.
Heart-interest fanciers, for instance,
are attended to —by the handsome singing
laddie Allan Jones, on the one hand, and
Maureen O’Sullivan, on the other;
though it must be admitted that if there
is a weakness in the casting it is most
likely Maureen.
Then, again, a good eye has been
kept on the pulling power of spectacle,
the best of this in a night Venetian-fair
setting against a background of spray-
ing fountains.
One item in this setting looks like a
deliberate attempt to do something in
opposition to the Sonja Henie ice-skating
of another current film. Here it is a
toe-dancer ; a clinker—how much so will
be evident to most in the mere fact that
she can make an onlooker think of
Miss Henie. ■
There is other good and more curious
spectacle stuff in a Pied Piperish inter-
lude, with Harpo, well and truly smitten
by moonbeams, as the Piper drawing
darkies out from their homes to song-
andance in the firelit night. A strange
patch of Arcadian fantasy.
Then, of course, there are the races,
with spots of sporting excitement and
most of the best and most boisterous
humor in the film, including an uproari-
ous skit on code-tipping, with Chico as
the code-supplier and Gropcho as the
victim. This is Marxian humor at its
very brightest—anyone who can’t roar
at it should give up hope.
The funny film, altogether, is possibly
better than “A Night at the Opera.” It
has livelier action and leaves a refresh-
ing taste of open-airness and not only
good humor but good-humoredness.
Main fault that strikes one Marxian
addict is a definite disjointedness. It
gives an impression of something done in
patches and pieced together afterwards.
Flowing continuity, which has been
brought to a high perfection in film-
making, has been as good as ignored.
The result is that it tends to progress
in jerks and jolts, though it certainly
does so at a terrific bat. The “plot” was
almost certainly made up as they went
along.
Also, Chico’s playing at the piano and
Harpo’s at the harp might have been
lifted from previous pictures. It is
splendid playing, and how Harpo gets
his harp is original enough, but it does
leave a decided impression of something
that has all been seen before. Still, it’s
repetition that isn’t hard to put up with.
For its other half Sydney St. James
has an excellent batch of shorts —a good
“Crime Does Not Pay” effort, a funny
technicolor cartoon putting a little darkie
on a pirate ship manned by frogs, and
an “Our Gang” venture into boxing.
“Thin Ice.”
Sonja Henie and Tyrone Power.
The best thing about this film at Syd-
ney Regent is, of course, the Henie
young lady’s brilliant ice-skating.
This is superb, and it is turned on in
large quantities, the setting for it the
lavishly appointed rink of a great snow-
resort hotel. Miss Henie’s beautiful solo
work on the ice is finely backgrounded
by a large ballet of ice-skaters so good
in their group effects that they almost
tend to dim the Henie lustre.
There are also some good stretches
of ski-ing, most of the love-making be-
tween Mr. Power and Miss Henie hap-
pening in the course of long runs in
alps conveniently left to them alone.
A light romantic plot, with Mr.
Power as a prince who does his loving
incog, and Miss Henie as the young skat-
ing instructress at the hotel, provides
sufficient excuse for the main business
at hand, which is to show that Miss
Henie can skate so wonderfully that even
in merely screen presentation it can be
satisfying entertainment. Her actual self
performing on the ice must be one of
the present wonders of the world.
“Dreaming Lips."
Elizabeth Bergner.
Directing which halts the action in
order to impress the Bergner visage un-
forgettably on the audience does its best
to ruin this strong piece of drama before
it gets properly going.
Miss Bergner has the part of the wife
of a violinist-leader in a London orches-
tra. To London for concert appearances
or very remarkable —a familiar enough
spot of illicit loving, in which that fine
old motto “Never introduce your donah
to a pal” is suitably emphasised and, in
accordance with time-honored rules, the
woman pays.
The Bergner’s acting invests that
simple matter with the quality of intense
tragedy, and the feeling of at least one
witness to her performance was that he
will now look forward hopefully to see-
ing her cast in some great drama or at
least allowed to act throughout some
lesser one.
“Dreaming Lips” is the main offering
at Sydney Mayfair.
GROUCHO: "Either you’re dead, or my watch has stopped. A Day at the
Races,” with the Marx Bros.; Sydney St. James.
with the orchestra comes an eminent
violin virtuoso, who, it turns out pres-
ently, was a student cobber of the chap
who’s now the Bergner’s husband.
To the concert goes the Bergner, and
the director of the film gets in his dirty
work by showing her facial expressions
in the course of her falling for the vir-
tuoso as he plays. These expressions,
registered apparently to coincide with the
Bergner soul’s reactions to the music, are
given in close-ups that look the size of
large mountains.
They are all the worse because, apart
from fine eyes —which, in some of the
shots, however, appear to squint—and a
beautiful set of teeth, the Bergner
features are more striking than alluring.
It isn’t until all this is done with and
the Bergner is given a chance to act that
the film begins to turn into a good one.
The Bergner differs from the huge
majority of film stars in that she is really
an actress. Most of them are all right
until they have to open their mouths
and do something ; she is wholly effective
only when she does open hers and acts.
When she speaks her somewhat angular
figure, shrewishly-cut hair and other
things that look to her disadvantage in
gaping close-ups are instantly forgotten.
In her voice alone she is a great dramatic
actress
In the film the attraction to the vir-
tuoso develops into an affair, with tragic
results. Saccharine is so much the main
ingredient of current films that that alone
makes “Dreaming Lips” an arresting pic-
ture. The plot is not either very original
“Vogues of 1938.”
Warner Baxter, Mischa Auer, Alan Mowbray
and Joan Bennett.
Starting this week at Sydney State,
and if it pulls ’em in on its merits the
tail-end of the queue should be out some-
where about Parramatta.
Its main aim is to live up to the
letter of its title—a forecast of what the
ladies (God bless ’em and provide ’em
with the necessary cash!) will be camou-
flaging their charming selves in next year
—but it’s handsome entertainment in
addition to that.
Finely done in color and set chiefly in
the New Yark frock house of Curzon,
it’s naturally strongest on the spectacular
side. Magnificently staged dress parades
contribute mainly to this, but the plot
allows for excellent dancing turns as
well.
These items come in naturally —part of
a scheme for saving the house of Curzon
when the mortgagee threatens. One
—a group dance by a bevy of sepia-
tinted young Harlem ladies —would merit
top lines in any variety company at large.
Next to spectacle the long film is extra
strong in comedy—smart dialogue loaded
with laughs, and such rib-tickling moments
as the coming unstuck of a dress of gold
beads worn by a haughty female at a
dress competition; Auer “composing”
frocks at the inspiration of Beethoven
and Chopin and Auer in superb com-
missionaire raiment attending to a lift;
and the Bennett consecutively wearing all
the best frocks about Curzon’s without
offending against the injunction got out
to prevent her parading herself in public.
Auer is such a good comedy man that
his name on a bill is enough to guarantee
lqud laughter. He is at his top first
as Prince Somebodyorother, opening
a frock house in opposition to Curzon’s
(on the villain’s cash), and later as
Curzon’s commissionaire.
But the key personality of the film —
in comedy as well as in heart-interest,
dress-displaying and all other main points
—is Joan Bennett. She is a supremely
good looker ; she is also an excellent
comedy actress.
She has here the part of a beauty who
has jilted the moneyed ’groom on her
wedding morning and attached herself
to the house of Curzon with undisguised
designs on its head. The fact that he
already has a wife with whom he
imagines himself in love, the wife s han-
kering for a stage career, and the dark
intent of the jilted ’groom to revenge
himself by taking it out of the house of
Curzon provide all the ingredients neces-
sary for a capital plot.
Miss Bennett’s interpretation of a
young woman who knows what man she
wants and is determined to get him is
a really high-class stretch of acting —
flat-out feminine wooing as convinc-
ing as it’s pleasantly diverting. The
part is so well played—and the Bennett,
as well, is so very easy on the eyes —
that her appearances become the most
important matter in prospect as the film
progresses.
Baxter, of course, is getting on bit
to be the best choice for romantic roles,
but the Bennett attack is so convincing
that it makes his part feasible, and he’s
quite sound as the head of the frock
house.
Mowbray gets a place at the head of
this appreciation for a very competent
bit of excusable villainy, and support is
first-rate to the last mannequin.
“Storm in a Teacup.”
Nothing out of the way, but quite
strong enough to make, with “Dream-
ing Lips,” a good solid programme at
Sydney Mayfair.
This one verges on melodrama, saved
from being quite that by a plentiful
ration of comedy, a certain lightness
about the plot and a not-over-serious
approach to their roles by a sound little
acting group.
Setting is Scotland, where a local pro-
vost is campaigning for a seat in Parlia-
ment, but forgetting the common
humanities, to say nothing of electioneer-
ing tactics, so far as to fall into petty
tyrannising of an old girL over unpaid
dog taxes.
Young reporter from England—who,
naturally, falls in love with prov.’s
daughter—starts a frightful hullabaloo
by getting the dog-tax story into the local
rag in the editor’s absence.
Results: heart-interest complications,
infuriated prov., rioting at prov.’s meet-
ings, prov.’s candidature in jeopardy,
court case, but—happy ending.
Main parts are soundly acted by Rex
Harrison and Vivien Leigh, and there's
solid work in support. Also, some bit-
ing satire at the expense of the legal
fraternity—a Judge and a barrister being
especially satirically handled.
“When’s Your Birthday?”
Joe E. Brown.
A very competent honest-to-goodness
comedian of the ripe old music-hall
school is young Joe. His humor has the
human touch —it’s never very far this
side pathos, yet it’s freely provocative of
loud and hearty laughter.
In this one at Sydney Capitol Joe
begins as a preliminary pug with an
astrological bee in his bonnet. His sub-
sequent career follows the course set by
“You can’t keep a good man down” and
“If you want anything hard enough you’ll
get it.” Joe, in short, becomes an
astrologer.
But Taurus or some other heavenly
scoundrel is agin him, and before it’s all
over he’s back in the ring fighting a
battle conditioned by the position of the
moon. In the balance hang both the
girl friend and the financial well-being
of his backers.
Funny fare, with some bright moments.
“Charlie Chan on Broadway’’ scores
more marks for its incidental touches —
such as Charlie’s triumphant recovery of
his missing collar-stud—than for its main
theme, a highly-colored murder mystery,
the solution to which comes as a surprise
only because every essential clue in the
case has been concealed from the audi-
ence. But Oland is as delectable as ever,
and Harold Huber, a thousand times a
gangster, tries a new role as a breezy
chief of N.Y. police and makes it sparkle.
At Sydney Regent.
“Artists and Models,” at Sydney Prince
Edward, is a curious jumble of straight
comedy, inconsequential songandance
and vast, ostentatious ballroom effects,
its saving grace some good touches in the
comedy, mainly provided by Jack Benny,
who does a capital job running an adver-
tising agency. But the producers have
been so bent on throwing every prop, in
their possession and every super, in
Hollywood into the big scenes that it all
leaves an impression of cluttered con-
fusion. )
“King of Gamblers” at Sydney Prince
Edward, is a good bit of melodrama,
with American gangster fruit-machine
racketeers as cause of the melodramatics
and shopkeepers who won’t instal the
machines and henchmen who fall foul
of the Big Shot getting what’s coming


df
a a;
w #
mm
m
:■ :
;
II
WSI
158 Lawson Street,
Redfern.
Messrs. William Arnott Pty., Ltd.,
HOMEBUSH.
Dear Sirs,
I am enclosing a photograph of my daughter,
“Fay Patricia," age 10 months. I have been feed-
ing her continually on Arnott's Famous Milk Arrow-
root Biscuits since she Was two months old. You can
see by this photo., which Was taken when she was
five months old, what they have done for her.
This letter may be used by you for any use you
have for it.
Yours sincerely,
( Signed ) Mrs. H. Fisher.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
CLrruottls
Famous
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Araott’s
“They are Better thaa Ever”
to ’em. In short, a “Crime Does Not
Pay” motif, eked out with heart-interest
between the reporter who does their job
for the police and a cabaret girl with
whom the Big Shot is also enamored.
Solidly acted, it’s worked out to a satis-
factory ending, with suspense well sus-
tained and some swift and dirty doings.
“Hotel Haywire ” is the sort of fantas-
tic farce that requires excellent character-
acting to put it over. For once in a
way it gets it. Lynn Overman as a den-
tist, Leo Carrillo as an astrologer, Spring
Byington as one of his dupes, Mary Car-
lisle and John Patterson as a breezy pair
of lovers, Benny Baker and Collette
Lyons as a vaudeville duo and George
Barbier as a heavy father all get laughs.
Carrillo’s supreme contempt for the Eng-
lish tongue and Overman’s falsetto
chuckle never had a more congenial
setting. At Sydney Civic.
"Victoria Regina."
Fay Compton and Bruno Barnabe
turned the colorful pages of a Victorian
scrapbook in “Victoria Regina” at Mel-
bourne King’s on Saturday night.
On the character of the Queen Laurence
Housman has hung 10 incidents that re-
veal the expanding England of her time.
The play demands much from its central
figure; one insincerity on the part of
Fay Compton when she is the young Vic-
toria, the middle-aged Victoria or the old
Queen in the wheel chair and it would
ficialiUes. 3 commonp,ace strm « of art| -
Miss Compton is always the Victoria
that Housman imagined, occasionally
domineering as becomes royal legend,
humorous once or twice, a loving but
jealous wife and much influenced by her
“foreign” Albert.
Bruno Barnabe goes where Miss Comp-
ton leads ; like the good Albert himself,
he plays second fifldle like a master.
Jack McNaughton is Lord Beacons-
field, in a garden tent scene at Balmoral,
when Miss Compton makes her first
appearance as the grey-haired, regal Vic-
toria still mourning her Albert and still
using her influence on the affairs of
state. Sound acting by McNaughton
eventually diverts attention to the pol-
ished language and penetrating observa-
tions of an English statesman whom
Housman uses to portray a type.
Guy Hastings plays the rugged John
Brown, kilted, bearded and Doric-
tongued, who asks Victoria if she rang
because she wanted him “or juist for the
fun o’ it.”
The final scene leaves Victoria in the
midst of her family—a well-cast family,
familiar enough in appearance to every
Australian who has seen pictures of the
seventh and eighth Edwards, George V.,
Alexandra, and Princess Mary when they
were kiddies. She is registering gratifica-
tion at the loyalty of Britain and the
Dominions on the occasion of her
Diamond Jubilee.
Australian stage-addicts will take fresh
heart from this rich J.C.W. production.
The Phil. Does “Faust.”
r>, ,
ann fu pr concert had
sentat ; nn Tr. FaU Tr 11 concert P re "
Hall.
• , P o °r-to-middling effort, seem-
ingly suffering from insufficient rehearsal,
particularly of the orchestra.
Lionello Cecil (Faust) and Heather
Kinnaird (Martha) were the pick of the
s °i°ists, an d a spot of interest was the
em ergence of Humphrey Bishop, who
ivir u , a h° use h°M word, to sing
e Ph ls tc>Pheles. After a quavery be-
-Bini\lnB he did very well. Howard Carr
conducted -
Mr. Hector's Color MUSIC.
Anthony Horderns’ art gallerv
been setting for an extraordinary daily
and no charge at the gate. V
leading character, Mr. A. B.
ector ’ hist made his bow in these
P a B e s some years ago. He is the inventor
who, working from the principle that
light and sound are correlated, has
blended them into a kaleidoscopic effect.
Over a fern-laden grotto every color
in the spectrum plays as its correspond-
ing note is struck on the piano, and when
this showman looked in Mr. Hector was
getting astonishing results with the legato
passages from the Intermezzo from
“Cavalleria Rusticana” and Beethoven’s
Minuet in G.
The sonorous chords of “Nearer,
My God, to Thee” and the fast-moving
“Glow-worm” further tested his inven-
tion, the best effect of which was prob-
ably that gained by Weber’s “Storm,” in
which the rumbling bass notes created a
realistic lot of lightning.
Mrs. Elizabeth Lowry was the pianist.
Creative Group’s Show.
This is at the Rubery Bennett Galleries,
Sydney. The grouping excludes neo-
primitive eccentricities and problems, and
the pictures are of a sort that allow the
average intelligent layman to grasp their
intention.
Norman Lindsay is represented by two
large water-colors, magnificent groupings
of nudes and costumed figures that have
been seen before, and one canvas, in
which the artist seems finally to have
mastered, to the last fine shade, the art
of flesh-painting in oils.
G. Lyall Trindall contributes two of his
beautiful studies of youth—“lnnocence”
and “Springtime of Life.”
Syd Long shows one characteristic
canvas, “By Tranquil Waters,” subject
culled from the banks of George’s River ;
the whole scene made magic by a
romantic little play of color.
Lawson Balfour, who is hardly ever
exhibited, but is one of the cleverest
technicians of the brush in Australia,
gives a dash of sunlight in a picnic scene
and a couple of impressive portraits of
ladies.
John Banks has been to Japan and has
brought back a panel of pictures of
geishas—gorgeous compositions that glow
like opals.
Fred Leist in “Summer Moon” gets as
near moonlight, in a coastal scene, as
ever has been put on canvas. In “Bank-
sias,” “Dryads” and “Phantasy” he treats
in a fanciful way some of the Australian
flora and fauna that painters neglect—
even kangaroos get an innings.
H. A. Hanke’s piece is “Reverie,” an
Orpenesque figure study which has been
seen before. Raymond Lindsay puts in
a portrait of Sir Henry Morgan and
some of his sinister heelers that might
have been painted by Norman in his
piratical mood.
Howard Barron’s Pictures.
An Englishman, Howard Barron, has
been painting the Australian rural land-
scape for several years and all the time
making progress in understanding its
essentials. Also, in the last year or two,
he has made many steps forward in com-
position, and has acquired the courage
to paint big canvases.
On the whole, he demonstrates, in his
show at David Jones’s gallery, Sydney,
that he can fill any size frame with
worth-while material.
A Barron picture is distinctive. It
always seems to have more white in it
or to be colder in tone than the work of
Australian landscapists. He sees the dif-
ference between the mellow lighting of
the English scene and the paler glint of
the Eastern Australian sun, but he still
overdoes the difference, and the peculiar-
ity is emphasised by the uncompromising
lighting of the David Jones gallery—
windows down nearly to floor level.
However, in such canvases as
“Hawkesbury Country,” “Afternoon,
Kangaroo Valley,” and “Burragorang
Pastoral” he achieves really impressive
pictures. There is also some very nice
water-painting in “The Araluen River.”
Mr. Barron’s most ambitious offering
is not a landscape, Called “Nation-
hood,” it depicts Sydney’s Martin-place
cenotaph at night with a ghostly back-
ground of a vast host of Diggers storm-
ing the heights of Anzac. A modishly-
dressed young lady does homage on the
steps of the monument.
Trouble about this sort of thing is that
it won’t stand doing twice. “Menin
Gate at Midnight” pre-empted the field.
But it must be said that Barron has
mingled the phantom and the real worlds
very skilfully.
Adele Younghusband’ s Show.
One of Mrs. Younghusband’s water-
colors in her current show at the Lode-
star Galleries, Sydney, is labelled “Tree
Trunks (Decoration).” There seems little
reason for this singling out, as the Maori-
land painter is a decorationist all the
time.
She finds bright-hued material for her
patterns in unexpected places—quarries
and brick-kilns in her native land ; pro-
saic buildings in Potts Point and the ’Loo
—and uses such material very effectively,
either in water-color or oils, while in
lino.-cuts her decorative sense demon-
strates itself in designs which please the
eye quite irrespective of subject.
A study of karaka berries, in water-
color, is the most satisfying item in the
show —botanically realistic and making
the most of the possibilities of the
medium. Sydney’s Anzac Memorial also
fills a panel brightly and effectively.
Best of a quintet of pencil drawings is
a head of a Maori girl, as graceful as it
is conscientious.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
M
m
mms■■
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
More comfort, much
more to see and do if you
go to Europe through
Canada’s Rockies and the
short Atlantic crossing.
QuiuJliaMQuifjic
'247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly• Co., Inc, in Canada
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lady Wakehurst wore one of the
Bayadere printed silk frocks to the recep-
tion given by Mayoress Parkes in her
honor. These Bayaderes resemble the
Paisley designs, and yellow and geranium
tones flashed in the vice-regal frock. A
black hat with a jaunty red flower and
silver fox furs were other items in a
springlike whole. Hermione Llewellyn,
with her, was smartly tailored in black.
The Mayoress, who received against the
Town Hall’s traditional massed glory of
flowers, was herself decked with orchids.
Her frock was of silk patterned in black,
green and ivory.
Sydney has put on some end-of-the-
season balls which will show Melbourne
that Cup Week isn’t all. One of these
crowded nights of glorious life was sup-
plied by the Imperial Service Club. Its
ball packed out the large Trocadero,
which was hung about with lifebuoys,
model aeroplanes, flags and battalion
shields. Lord Wakehurst came along
and smiled on an attractive clutch of
debs. Brigadier Goddard and Mrs. God-
dard received officialdom in a pleasing
manner. Particularly likeable were the
red, red roses in her frock and the lily-
of-the-valley in her hand. Mrs. Lane-
Poole brought her admiral, and Mrs.
Hardie her brigadier-general. Black
satin patterned in bright red flowers
suited Mrs. Hardie’s good looks; Mrs.
Lorenzo was another daughter of the
regiment, black lace and diamente her
choice. Mist-pink laces showed up Mrs.
Keith Morris’s warm brunette coloring.
The Pat Manleys, Captain and Mrs.
Vine Hall and the Walter Condons were
an animated group. Mrs. Condon’s pink
organza frock was pictorial with its
tucked skirt and its stiffened hemline. A
natty waist-length jacket of jade set off
the black moires worn by Mrs. Eakin.
Hazel King, who was in the Selwyn
Kings’ party, wore white satin patterned
in gold. Mayoress Parkes danced in
oyster-grey satin. White satin and arctic
fox enwrapped Captain Clark’s wife.
Mrs. David Lindsay was handsome in
gold lame.
The Nieuw Holland, white and glitter-
ing, was glamorous beside the Quay on
Saturday night. The Royal Packet Navi-
gation Company had done the handsome
thing, and beside lending its ship for the
ball had supplied supper and drinks for
the hundreds of dancers. These had
popped up the gangway intent on aiding
the Kenny Clinic hostel which is to be
built in the grounds of the Royal North
Shore Hospital. The decks were be-
gemmed with ruby and sapphire lights
and crowded with pretty girls in summer
material evening frocks. There were two
strolling-gipsy players to add a touch of
romance. Lucy Pronk’s fairness and her
primrose broderie Anglaise were the
right partnership. The equally fair Elaine
Bakker wore pale lavender linen made
with a bolero. Sandra Jaques came into
the picture with a white organdie frock
embroidered in blue and red. Blue and
red satin ribbons gaily bordered the
neckline and hem.
Treasurer Mrs. Tosi and secretary Mrs.
Shuter were happily busy. Deep lilac
were the laces in Mrs. Len Esdaile’s frock.
A cape of white arctic fox (there must
have been nearly a dozen skins in it)
kept any stray night breeze off Mrs. Mc-
Kerihan. Leonie Bond’s bronze satins
here and there flashed touches of gold.
Chrysanthemum-brown chiffons were
worn by Mrs. L. Scorgie. President Mrs.
David Knox, who gave a dinner party
before the ball, came on with her guests.
There were clusters of bronze iris em-
broidered on her lilac chiffon redingote,
which was worn over bronze taffeta. Her
hooded cape was of the lilac chiffon.
The Lammers couple (he was represent-
ing the company) brought one of the
night’s large parties. Puff sleeves were
the distinctive note of her graceful black
laces.
Perhaps the only exhibition in Aus-
tralia to show at the one time the work
of father and son is that of the Creative
Group in Rubery Bennett’s galleries.
Here are paintings by Norman Lindsay
and son Raymond. The show opened
itself last week, and women, during the
afternoon, were exclaiming over the silky
softness of John Banks’s “Tokio.” Lyall
Trindall asks 250 guineas for his “Spring-
time of Life,” but Norman Lindsay and
Syd Long don’t soar beyond the 200-
guinea mark. And this Letter might add
that if she had the money she wouldn’t
mind buying out the entire show.
Aileen Britton is the only girl in the
cast of “Dawn Must Break,” a drama in
blank verse soon to be presented by
Planet Productions at the Royal. The
author of this is a young man, Alexander
Connell, just around the corner from 20,
who comes from N.Q. The story of his
drama concerns Hannibal and Rome,
and those who have read it say the situa-
tions are powerful, the language poetic.
The play will be presented at a matinee
in aid of the Mater Hospital. Aileen
Britton is one of the girls you’ve
been admiring in “Tall Timbers.” She
plays second lead in the story set amid
the Gloucester scenery. Photograph from
Dayne.
The Major Thompson couple gave a
cocktail party to say good-bye to Sydney
friends. The two go off to Queenscliff
(Vie.), where Major Thompson has been
appointed to the 2nd Heavy Brigade.
The Queen’s Club was heady with a
cargo of flowers from the Percy Reynolds
garden at Richmond. The Buckland
family was well represented among the
guests, for the attractive little hostess was
before her marriage Rita Buckland.
Maoriland artist Adele Younghusband
is holding a show of her paintings and
pencil sketches at the Lodestar Gallery
in Rowe-street. This was opened last
week by the Langer Owen lady, whose
speech drew both applause and laughter
from the listeners. The National Gal-
lery Will Ashtons were there; so was
Harry Tighe, whose portrait, complete
with pipe, is lifelike. Jeanie Ranken also
came, and stood beside the pencil sketch
of herself for the photographer. There
were many Enzedders in the room,
among them Violet Roche, the artist’s
cousin, and black-and-white artist Fred
Rayner. Mrs. Younghusband wore a
brown ensemble, and had her hands filled
with lily-of-the-valley. Mrs. F. Burnell,
senior, and Mrs. Townsend McKee, the
mother of Mrs, Pao, wife of China’s
Consul-General, were among the noted.
Wherever churchmen of any denomi-
nation are gathered together, so also will
be a garden party. It may be an asso-
ciation of ideas with Eden, or just a love
of Arcadian simplicity, but anyway
garden parties and Synods are as hand
and glove. The present C. of E. Synod
is no exception, and there was a grand
rally on the lawns and flowering ways of
Bishopscourt, Darling Point, before the
serious work began. Archbishop and Mrs.
Mowll had not been too kindly treated
by the weather, and the sulky sky threat-
ened to burst into tears every moment.
But everything went in sprightly manner,
and the tea consumed in the marquee
on the tennis court proved, in spite of
what Mrs. Head said afterwards, that
other things besides cocktails are swal-
lowed in large quantities. Mrs. Mowll’s
silk frock was patterned in navy and
white. Gaitered legs from the West and
the South, from Victoria and Queens-
land, strolled amid the trees and flowers,
Australia’s Primate Le Fanu possessing a
pair of them.
Mrs. Greg McGirr, with Trixie and
Nonna, arrived in the Orion last week.
Her comments on her travels in Europe
are crisp and full of sparkle. Melons
and figs are for ever associated in her
mind with Florence. The Australians
reached the city on the Arno in breathless
weather when most of the population
seemed to spend their evenings in the
squares. Opposite their hotel, every
night, was trundled a melon stall. Its
proprietor and his wife would slit the
fruit open, and presently his customers
would arrive, sometimes poor and
shabby, sometimes very well dressed.
But, whatever their station, they ate their
slice of melon with complete unself-con-
sciousness, leaving the skin in the little
receptacle provided. The scene had a
Murillo-like fascination.
The mania for leaving initials persists
even in the most holy places. Mrs. Mc-
Girr saw one man and wife surrep-
titiously writing their names on the wings
of one of the marble angels in a cathe-
dral in Florence. On the fruit-stalls of
Rome a great display is made of prize-
size bananas —evidently from Africa. The
Mussolini Forum is one of the most
striking bits of modern Rome. England
was just a mad whirl pf entertaining
when the Australians arrived during the
Coronation gaieties. All the stately
homes of England echoed with the foot-
steps of overseas visitors. From dukes
and duchesses down, everybody made
the friendly gesture, and it was. hard
to cope with the rush of invitations.
Mrs. McGirr was invested with her
0.8. E. by the King. Her audience with
the Pope took place in his country home,
Castle Gandolfo.
Contralto Marie Gordon, who sings
to-night at Beaumont House, is known
to A.B.C. audiences. She has done a
good deal of broadcasting from national
stations and has been a soloist in pro-
ductions of “The Messiah” both in
Sydney and in Brisbane. Lionel Lawson
will play the violin and Hector Tinkler
the piano at Marie’s recital. Peter Pan
studio.
One of the largest reception-rooms of
the Australia rustled with silk and the
crispness of organza and stiffened net
when Alice Prowse gave her recital on
Friday night. The singer’s dramatic
mezzo rang out, sweet and strong, in
works by Purcell and Strauss. Eight
gipsy songs by Brahms and-a group of
Hebridean folk songs showed the voice
in fine contrasts. Alice was slim and
handsome in sweeping cyclamen crepe
sprayed lightly with rhinestones. Silver
leaves shone against hef* 1 russet hair.
Husband James Brash played her accom-
paniments. Lute Drummond, in ivory
chiffon of Grecian cut, did likewise for
Fraser Coss, whose baritone was in first-
class form.
The idea of having the recital at the
hotel was a great success. The women
liked it because they could sit in comfort,
knowing that' their fine feathers were not
being crushed. Afterwards there were
supper and lots of talk. Mrs. Rex
Bennett and Mrs. Hope Gibson, two of
the night’s hostesses, were a contrast in
white and black. The Norman Mac-
leods came, her Florentine-blue chiffon
frock having for company a ground-long
flower-patterned satin coat. Joan Levis
was like a palely-pink hyacinth in cool
organza. Beaupre Bassett was distinctive
in black-and-white checked taffeta. The
Charles Philip couple and Mrs. Ferrari
Passmore were an interested trio. Gwen
Ainsworth wore a rose in her hair with
her rose taffeta. Mrs. Pao’s black moire
coat had a stiffened shoulder line. Mrs.
C. G. Lambie and Mrs. George Earp
were among the hostesses.
The smart function of the Rawson
Institute Appeal Week was the dance at
Toft Monks, the Penfold Hyland home
at Elizabeth Bay. The gardens at Toft
Monks are beautiful with old trees and
sloping ways that go to the Harbor’s
edge, but the rain, in spite of a moon
that shone silverly now and then, pre-
vented any walkabouts. The Penfold
Hylands have gathered many art treasures
about them, including some Romneys
and Turners. These were duly admired
in the intervals of dancing. A diamond
or two glittered on Mrs. Hyland s white
satins. Black velvet and orchids were
Mrs. Horace Sheller’s de luxe contribu-
tion. Mrs. Victor White’s black, stiffened
organza was sprayed with bright leaf
and flower. Mrs. C. E. Jarcomb, an
English visitor to Sydney, and Peggy
Morgan, of Wales, who is visiting the
Alexander Gordon lady, supplied two
new faces. Pearls and lilac chiffons were
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s choice, and moth-
grey chiffons Miss Agnes Williamson s.
Trafalgar Day did not pass unnoted in
Sydney. Knight Thomas Buckland pre-
sided over the lunch of the Society of St.
George commemorating Nelson’s victory.
In honor of the same little admiral the
Sea Cadets placed a wreath on the Ceno-
taph just as day was turning into night.
In the evening itself Sea Horses ramped
at David Jones’s. The ball to which the
sea creature gave its name was in aid
of naval charities, and in consequence
the fleet was in evidence. The Admiral
Lane-Pooles gave a dinner in the Can-
berra, and arrived at the ball with a
glittering convoy of guests, among them
the Chief Justice Jordans, the, Bertie
Kellys and the Charlie Lloyd Jones
couple. Mrs. Lane-Poole’s frock was
ivory chiffon, her flowers yellow roses.
Picturesque was Ann Lane-Poole’s
hyacinth-blue tulle. There were 29 debs,
and more than 1000 dancers.
Ex-navy man S. Cooper did a horn-
pipe with the crisp agility that had on
former occasions won him applause from
Queen Victoria, Edward VII. and George
V. Captain Waller, the new skipper of
H.M.A.S. Sydney, and his wife had their
first big flutter since their recent arrival.
Pretty Mrs. Theophilus, in her blue-and-
white striped frock, was one of the deco-
rations of the official party. Mrs. Ross
Wheatley’s taffetas were bronze. Grey
lace swathed with cyclamen velvet was
worn by Mrs. G. A. Scott, who with her
captain had given a dinner-party at
Tresco before the ball. Rear-Admiral
and Mrs. J. B. Stevenson gathered a large
party around their table—a farewell
cheerio to Gwen Ramsay, who soon goes
off to India to marry her Thomas
Brooke.
Mrs. Edmond Meyer, whose husband
was Vice-Consul for France in Sydney
and is now acting-Consul for France in
Auckland (M.L.), went off in the Awatea
last Friday to make her home in Auck-
land. One of her griefs was parting with
four pet Persian cats, for which she
found good homes before she even
started to pack. The French Alliance pre-
sertted Mrs. Meyer with a silver rose-
bowl and a silver salver. The little group
known as the Society of the Ladies of
Lebanon gave her an opal ring to match
the pendant set with diamonds and pearls
given to her by the wife of Latvia’s
Consul, Norman Macleod. Mrs. Meyer’s
dinner parties have been a feature of the
Consular life in Sydney.
Mrs. Elizabeth Sole, who died recently,
was one of the grand old ladies of the
circus. Born at Bathurst and educated at
Ipswich Convent, at 23 she joined her
parents’ circus as a trick rider. On the
death of her husband in 1923 she
assumed complete control of Sole’s
Circus, now in Maoriland. Mrs. Mary
Lindsay (eldest daughter) has taken over
mother’s job.
The city got only a glimpse of Mary
Whiskard, daughter of Sir Geoffrey,
High Commissioner for Great 'Britain.
She arrived in the Moreton Bay one
morning, was met by father and mother,
and then taken off by car to Canberra.
Mary has been one of the secretaries at
St. Paul’s Girls’ School, Hammersmith,
London. Before she left England she
made a matrimonial tryst with William
Somerville, and she is dated to keep it
round about next Easter.


II
Waarom d met iederen
dag TUCKER VOELEN ?'
amd -Ficond fyun
IT/,
f S=
/ 5 '//
T
*s r
$ < hC/fS'.. *o
ViOVTt^
£
■■*
WNSNfflgK' k . A
K
1
t»
\
ifwl 'o tie, Dtdci) fjur. ..
Why not feel fit every day?
Women everywhere have found that Wolfe’s Schnapps enables them to
feel fit every day throughout the year. This purest of all gin spirits,
distilled in Holland, contains unique medicinal properties which invigorate
the whole system.
Wolfe s Schnapps eliminates many distressing disorders by cleansing the
kidneys and purifying the blood stream. Start taking a glass of Wolfe’s
Schnapps each day, you’ll notice the improvement in your general healih.
Get a bottle to-day there are three sizes, large, half and quarter bottles,
at prices to suit your purse.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
WS-6-S0 "For your health’s sake ”
™ HO tt
O'
WOLFE
SMifffi
SSCHIEMM
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND
jjgMATIC ALCOHOLIC MVERAOj
STsSSfiSS
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS is
obtainable in large, half and
quarter size bottles at all hotels


8 Bottles of Cough Remedy
for Cost of One.
Cough remedies, if bought ready-mixed,
cost a lot of money, but the following
recipe gives you eight bottles for the cost
of one. To sweetened water add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, thus making a supply equal
to about £l’s worth of the best remedies
money can buy for banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, whooping cough,
and influenza. HEENZO is delightful
to take, and wonderfully good for both
adults and children.
gd
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it vou will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
axe given away free for a penny
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George_ Street, _Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The postponed Caulfield Cup was run
in perfect weather in front of such a
multitude that there must have been post-
poned work in the majority of Mel-
bourne offices. Early arrivals came in
wintry garb, but those who waited till
after lunch were glad that a coolish wind
had been counterbalanced by a warm
sun, with .promptings for lightweight
woollen suits and coats. English visitor
Mrs. H. T. Morton, who accompanied
Mrs. Merson Cooper, wore a super-smart
ensemble in two shades of pearl-grey
check ; her accessories, brown suede bag
and shoes, were a news note that grey
and brown are still a compatible com-
bination overseas. With Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell were visitors from across the
Tasman, Desmond Davis and his mother,
whose horse Flood Tide gave them a
great thrill and a philosophic thought
about “better luck next time.”
Mrs. Ken Niall brought her daughter
Margaret, wearing a tailored suit of grey
tweed. Deirdre Grantham was in black,
Margaret Deravin wore grey and a
touch of scarlet on her halo hat, and
Margery Clarke’s brown tweed suit went
with a brown moire cap, its edges orna-
mented with twists of velvet. Lady
Huntingfield and “Vicky” Saumarez
were among the thousands who patiently
waited their turn in queues before the
Cup. The queues moved like snails, and
everyone in them seemed to buy dozens
of tickets for themselves and their
friends.
Election worries seemed far removed
from the Moonee Valley Cup. The Jim
Fairbairns were there, dividing their at-
tention between the saddling paddock
and prices offered, showing little con-
cern over how things were going (suc-
cessfully, as it turned out) at Flinders.
In spite of the sunshine, dressing was of
the winter suit or dark lightweight silks
variety. Hats were as giddy as ever.
Mrs. Len Buxton’s top-piece, which she
bought in America, was of white pique,
a diminutive drummer-boy cap in front,
with a band of the same material round
the nape of the neck and the whole cov-
ered with a wraith of black veil.
Iris Connolly brought her black hat
back from Sydney, and it was the most
broadminded halo this Page has seen.
Pat Wenzel’s, of navy oilcloth silk, made
up in the elongated jockey brim for what
it lacked in crown. Margaret Raws
came down to earth with her sporty
Alpine hat of white panama straw, its
brim turned up sharply at the back. With
it went a tweed suit of rust-colored coat
and check skirt.
Fortunately the weather cleared up for
the opening of Parliament so that
scuttling up a hundred steps in the rain
and finding corners in the cold marble
halls to deposit dripping umbrellas were
not among the trials of those who attended
the ceremony. As usual, the galleries were
crowded an hour or so before the open-
ing hour, and the latecomers’ share in
the spectacle was a feather apiece of
Lord Huntingfield’s cocked hat and a few
inches of bald head belonging to some
political gentleman. Mrs. Clarence Weber
has decided to be hatless while doing
her share in running the country. Her
frock was black and she wore a luxury
spray of gardenias. The Governor’s short
speech touched on many heavyweight
matters, including the Budget, Financial
Emergency Act, Kiewa hydro-electric
scheme, Companies Bill, Slum Abolition
.and a proposal for a reduction in rail-
way fares. Here, in spite of the solemnity
of the occasion, there was subdued
applause in one corner of, the sardine-
* packed upper gallery. Afterwards every-
body made for the Queen’s Hall to find
respective hosts and hostesses whose in-
vitations included tea.
If at the Lord Mayor’s Ball any bands-
man’s heart nearly thumped itself out of
its scarlet tunic during Lord Hunting-
field’s inspection it was not through any
feeling of guilt about buttons. For the
band of the City of Melbourne Regiment
had on its new uniforms, with buttons
as glittering as its brand-new instruments,
paraphernalia made possible by dona-
tions of several hundreds of pounds from
the City Council and other sources. The
organ loft disappeared, as completely as
if it had never existed, behind Glamis
Castle, its mellow walls made, with the
aid of brilliant electric lights, to appear
bathed in brilliant sunshine. Lawns and
terraced gardens in front of the castle
and over the stage were so realistic that
guests longed to go walking among them.
Fortunately the 3000-odd guests didn’t
all try to get on to the floor at once.
The galleries were popular throughout
the evening, and after the inspection of
the guard and royal salute buffet bars
were open on every floor and up on the
roof high above the twinkling city lights.
Supper was served with many courses
and several sittings, both up on the
second floor and down in the Lower
Town Hall.
Among wearers of beautiful white
gowns was Mrs. George Stephenson,
“Well, madam, y' shouldn't 'a' kept changin' y'r mind!"
whose blonde head was dressed with
such elaborate perfection of curls across
the front and swathes across the back
that she could not have had comb or
hat near it since leaving her hairdresser’s.
Mrs. Cecil Le Plastrier and Mrs. Der-
mot Conolly, both tall and regal to look
upon, were also in white. Among the
few naval folk present (the Fleet doesn’t
set its compasses for steering through the
Heads until Melbourne Cup Eve) were
Commander H. L. Quick and his wife,
whose hydrangea-blue gown was a-
twinkle with silver. Colonel and Mrs.
Sturdee were there, Mrs. Sturdee in black
and a purple shoulder splash of orchids.
Gengoult Smith wore the knee-breeches
of civic office, and his Cynthia had
orchids and a row of miniature medals
pinned to her chiffon gown.
Two brides-to-be were present with
fiances; Maurice Nicholas looked after
Phyllis Mein (their wedding is on Nov.
23), who wore pale-gold lacquered satin
cut with pointed tunic skirt, and Pat Car-
negie, whose orchid was of such magni-
ficent proportions that she wore no neck-
lace with her midnight-blue gown, danced
and trekked along the buffet stairs with
tall, dark Tony Fairbairn, who to-day
faces with her the altar of matrimony.
Scraps of Aero Club talk happened
around the L. Furze-Morrish couple, for
Furze’s latest hobby is flying, and he has
already got the kind of license which
allows him to carry passengers. Cheery
repartee from the balcony upstairs meant
that “Brew” Brewster, “the man who
feeds the navy,” was the centre of a
knot of friends.
At the opening of Dora Wilson’s ex-
hibition in the intimate surroundings of
her own studio, “Old Melbourne” caused
a number of questions and an interest-
ing variety of answers. It took the artist
herself to decide the correct locality of
Latrobe-street between Russell and Exhi-
bition streets. “King’s Cross” gave a
friendly pull to the hearts of those
present who love Sydney, and for folk
who had travelled abroad there were
rural scraps of England and France.
Dr. Ivan Maxwell made the opening
speech, and Mrs. Maxwell carried presen-
tation red roses which got on particu-
larly well with her lacquered satin coat.
Others in the studio included Drs. Hilda
Kincaid and Marion Wanliss; Dr. R. D.
Bartram and his wife, whose black frock
was elaborated with palest pink motifs ;
the Thorald Gunnersens, Mrs. Gunner-
sen’s white hair elegantly groomed above
her coronation-blue gown ; and the Esler
Barbour couple, Mrs. Barbour wearing
a long black velvet coat. Among the
younger folk were Phyllis Balfour, Betty
Adams in a tunic gown of flowered satin
and fair-haired June Tyson wearing a
frock of cornflower-blue.
This year for the first time the Vic-
torian Salon of Photography overcame
the difficulties of customs duties, with the
result that' in the International Camera
Pictures exhibition not only home but
foreign exhibits are for sale. The dis-
play is of such high standard and covers
such a comprehensive range of subjects
that it can be properly appreciated only
after several visits. Present on the open-
ing day were Dr. Julian Smith, whose
F.R.P.S. was noticed on four studies,
Russell Grimwade, Balcombe Quick,
Irvine Green and Dr. Harold Moore,
whose signatures were also on one or
more exhibits. Mrs. Grimwade accom-
panied her husband. Mrs. Julian Smith
brought an attractive niece, Ruth Knight,
who has only a few months to go before
she becomes a fully-fledged nurse.
One of the best dances of the year, the
Gunners’ Ball (known only for birth cer-
tificate and taxation purposes as Royal
Australian Artillery, 3rd Military Dis-
trict), took place with all its usual pomp
and circumstance in St. Kilda Town Hall.
This year there were no vice-regals, both
Federal and State potentates being
snowed under with round-about-race-
time fixtures, but the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress followed up the fanfare
of trumpets by dancing with Mrs. W. H.
St. Clair and the Colonel. Congratu-
lations were general for Captain and
Mrs. John McConkey, who had been
married the week previously (Mrs. Mc-
Conkey was Mrs. Walso). Lieut.-Com-
mander Stocks was there in, and a credit
to, the same uniform which he had made
15 years ago —his wife says his figure is
due to physical exercises every morning
before breakfast.
Captain Basil Bellgrove, Jack Work-
man, Jack and Alan Simpson and Gerald
Haynes were noticed around and about;
also Tom Alston, who arrived and de-
parted in his utility truck. Mrs. Stephen
Haynes wore beetle stripes in vivid con-
trast of yellow, black and crimson. Mrs.
J. A. McColl was in honey-gold satin.
Joan Ramsay, wore silver lace, Mrs. Aus-
tin Hepburn mist-grey chiffon, Vera
Whiting a gown of rose-dust lace and
silk sheer. Mrs. Bill McPherson’s white
satin frock appeared to carry a design
of hand-painted flowers, but on closer
acquaintance the blossoms were seen to
be composed of minutely-pleated tulle
appliques.
Among others present were Major
Carr in infantry uniform and his wife,
whose gown was of black velvet; Major
Briggs, of the Signallers, and Mrs.
Briggs; Captain Dick Swift, whose
commanding presence belongs to the
46th Battalion; Captain Jack Mc-
Naughton, who is getting talked about
for his fast play on the squash
court; J. D. Bates in naval trappings,
Captain Norman Jeffries, and Lieut. Mc-
Intosh, who believes that no army can
live by tanks alone and no horses. Also
present was Don Wright, who, if he can
catch either the Triaster or the Triona, is
off to Noumea next week.
An event in the history of things
theatrical was the first Australian pro-
duction on Saturday night of “Victoria
Regina.” For months, ever since it was
known that Fay Compton was coming
here, there have been daily requests, all
unsatisfied, at libraries for Housman’s
sequence of Victorian playlets. Only
one scene from “Victoria Regina,”
“Woman Proposes,” has been previously
performed publicly in Melbourne. Pro-
duction, scenery and make-up were part
of the outstanding performance on
Saturday. Young Peter Dearing’s con-
ception of a final curtain is a tableau
of players and their flowers, a restful
picture undisturbed by jerky bows,
nervous simpers or the ushers’ scurry of
unloading bouquets.
How times have changed since the
’seventies and the ,’eighties! Miss Comp-
ton’s Queen Victoria when aged 60 was
an “old lady” in her heart, clothes, ges-
tures, figure. Possibly in the first-night
audience there were many women of 60,
but no one looking at them would have
known it. Among those who enjoyed
the play were the Albion Walkleys and
Eddie Kennons, who shared a box, and
the pretty Bradford twins, both in blue
cloaks, of the same color but cut in dis-
similar fashions. Agnes Thomas wore
a charming ankle-length cape of cloud-
blue chiffon. Mrs. Fred Thiel entertained
a party which included her grand-
daughter Judith Chirnside, who makes
her debut at Government House next
week.
Dr. E. T. Brennan, Director of Medi-
cal Services in Rabaul, and his charm-
ing American wife are in Mel-
bourne on the last lap of their round-
the-world tour, which included the
B.M.A. meeting in Belfast. The couple
left Rabaul before the eruptions, and
are wondering how their house and
garden look, and how much pumice will
smother them when they unpack goods
they have stored away. Dr. Brennan
showed a shrewd head in getting in on
the ground floor with New Guinea pen-
nies, and took a nice little treasure of
these coins away to the U.S.A. with
him. The N.G. penny is the size of a
halfpenny, with the typical hole in the
middle for threading on a native neck-
lace. The only coin minted during the
reign of Edward VIII. its value has gone
up a bit since Edward’s abdication.


JUDGMENT
yrig SECURffy
in investment is paramount, especially when your capital
is small and cannot be easily spread for safety. That is
why you should investigate FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES. They give you a “spread”
over 20 famous companies, prospects of capital appreciation
plus a yield of about 5 % p.a. Sums of approx. £25 and
upwards accepted. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Action to-day will be wise—and profitable. Write for Booklet No. 1
to the Managers: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
SPRING FAIR
Begins MARCH 6,1938
Comprising General Samples,
Textiles, Office Equipment, Furni-
ture, Sports Goods, Photographic,
Engineering and Building Fairs.
Shop all Europe in one centre. Over
8000 exhibitors from 25 countries, in-
cluding Great Britain, assemble at
Leipzig for your convenience. Join
the 280,000 trade buyers who visit
Leipzig Fair twice a year.
Information (including: Travel Marks and Aski
Trading l Marks) and Letters of Introduction
available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commis-
sioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trad,e Fair,
Challis House, Martin Place, G.P.O. Box
3127 P, Sydney.
C. N. KEPPEL. Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, W.A.
Summer in Germany is the
Perfection of the Beautiful .
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Vulture Street”: The thought which has
occurred to almost every visitor who has
surveyed the wide and beautiful reaches
of the Brisbane River has at last pene-
trated the aldermanic mind, with the re-
sult that Lord Mayor Jones contemplates
the establishment of up- and down-river
ferry services, landing passengers at Vic-
toria Bridge and the Customs House
wharf. The only ferries which have so
far existed on the Brisbane have been
rowing boats operating drearily at re-
mote points, and one of the best reasons
why there have been no other is that
ferries would undoubtedly take away
business from tra'ms and buses. So his
Worship’s sensible idea may perish when
the Government hears about it.
* * * *
“Ebagoolah”: Cape York with its six
thousand-odd mixed inhabitants is suffer-
ing from one of the worst droughts in
history. Lagoons have dried up, bush-
fires have been raging, blacks have been
compelled to move their grounds and
cattle losses will be
heavy. Also, Cape
people suffer more
heavily in a crisis than
others. Their rents, any-
way, cannot be much re-
duced without disappear-
ing altogether, and there
are no kindly railway de-
partments operating to
reduce their freights,
which by sea and pack-
horse are heavy.
* * *
W. J. F. Riordan,
youngest and tallest of
Reps v has had none of the
boredom of city hustings
whilst electioneering in
his 311,000 square miles
of Kennedy electorate,
averaging a voter to each
six square miles, and ex-
tending from Charters
Towers to Thursday
Island. On a previous
campaign he was await-
ing the arrival of some
circus elephants to haul
out his bogged car when
a truck with a winch
happened along and restarted him on the
journey. At McKinley, 50 miles from
Cloncurry, he found a temperature of
117 in the shade and the free and inde-
pendent seeking coolness in various
states of deshabille on the linoleum-
covered floors of the local pub. At
Kynuna he inquired about the local
church for addressing constituents, but
discovered that it was up for sale. Nor
are electors cut to the stereotyped pat-
tern. One confided to him that if he,
the elector, could only get hold of his
husband-in-law he’d knock the cow’s
block off. Inquiry revealed that this
new variety of in-law was the bloke
wot’d run away with the truculent one’s
wife!
# Jfc * %
“X.T.”: The Queensland Railway De-
partment has adopted a Bulletin sketch
by G. K. Townshend for use in a safety-
first poster which is to appear on every
railway station to induce motorists to
keep a close lookout at level crossings.
The picture shows two old gentlemen in
a small motor-car, one of them giving
vent to his last words on earth as a rail-
way engine bears down on him: “Now
do you see what I am driving at?” And,
as a remark, it isn’t so far-fetched either.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: “Curate’s Egg” (B.
13/10/’37) is preaching through his epis-
copal headgear when he says that the
stone fishtraps on Darnley Island (T.S.)
were built by Torres and his men.
Torres never called at Darnley. His
route is clearly given in Prado’s account;
Prado himself was on board. Every
islander knows that the traps were built
by Kooss and Ahbob, the Papuan demi-
gods who introduced the coconut at the
same time, immemorial years ago. The
yarn about Spanish crown pieces used as
markers in a kid’s game originated in a
T.I. bar for the benefit of visitors, and it
was told, as happening at Stephen Island,
"'Oo 'it 'im?"
not Murray. No coin in Frank Jardine’s
“treasure-trove,” found at Bramble Cay
(not Somerset), was older than 1829, and
it mostly consisted of Chilean dollars.
Bruce searched on Stephen but found
nothing. He was looking for alleged
dollars from a ship wrecked to the east-
ward in the 1840’s, left by survivors in
one of her boats. All sort of queer ob-
jects have turned up on Murray Island,
but its inhabitants were the most enter-
prising traders and thieves in the Strait
for centuries.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Brisbane’s most cheerful
holiday-makers are a group of youngsters
brought in from the Queensland south-
west under the Bush Children’s Health
Scheme. They covered 140 miles from
Thargomindah by car and the rest by rail
from Cunnamulla. Most of the funds
are provided by local station people. The
far s.-w. is reasonably accessible to the
coast, unlike the north-west, but it has
the same troubles—sandy blight, lack of
fruit, fresh vegetables and milk. Until
these can be provided, the bringing up
of healthy western children will con-
tinue to be a problem.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
W. L. F. Murdoch, Professor of Eng-
lish in the W.A. Uni. and author of
sparkling essays, is in Brisbane to de-
liver the Macrossan Lectures at the Uni.
for 1937. Queensland Press Institute was
the first body to bid the Prof, and his
wife to a party, and the lady already has
Brisbane book-lovers interested in the
reading club which she started in W.A.
This year has seen an unusually large
number of engagements between Queens-
landers and southern lads. Latest Bris-
bane lass to look south is Helen, daugh-
ter of the T. W. Shanahans, of Mayne.
The young man is Arthur, son of Mr.
and Mrs. F. W. Mortley, of Glen Iris,
Melbourne. Wedding bells will ring
before this letter gets into its pink jacket.
At the opening session of the N.C.W.
Conference, president Mrs. Henry Rob-
ertson bewailed the fact that Queensland
possesses neither a member of Parlia-
ment nor an alderman of the female
species. But it doesn’t seem clear that
anything will be done about it.
Wedding bells pealed every day last
week. One of the most interesting of
the weddings was that of Edna Keane,
only child of Mr. and Mrs. M. M. Keane,
West End, to Dr. Lionel Atkinson, of
the staff of Brisbane General Hospital
and second son of Mr. and Mrs. Rupert
Atkinson, Toorak, Melbourne. The mar-
riage was celebrated at Wynberg, the
home of Archbishop Duhig, in the gold
room, which was bowered in lilies and
larkspur. Mrs. E. T. Real and the ’maids,
Yvonne Atkinson, sister of the bride-
groom, Lenore Fihelly, Kathleen Evans
and Betty Real, were responsible for the
decorations. The bride was gowned in
silver satin, with flowing train. She wore
a tulle veil and garland of orange-
blossoms, and carried a Victorian posy of
white flowers. The ’maids’ frocks were
white taffeta, and they wore veils of
white tulle finished with multicolored
posies to match their bouquets. After
the ceremony, there was a reception in
the green room at the Belle Vue, all the
decorations being carried out in white
and silver.
Same day, at St. Phillip’s Church,
Thompson Estate, Norman, son of Mrs.
Gunn, Ness, Isle of Lewis, Scotland, and
of the late William Gunn, was married to
Evelyn, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. O. S.
Donald, S. Brisbane. A princess gown
of embossed white satin, veil of Swiss
net and orange-blossoms were the choice
of the bride, and her ’maids, Thelma
Quesnell and Joan Bawden, were frocked
in Wallis blue, made on classic lines,
and wore plaited haloes.
Stan Hilderbrandt, who has done some
fine work with amateur players in Bris-
bane, has decided to abandon a com-
mercial career and take to the stage. He
leaves for London on Nov. 30, and will
make a final appearance here with the
Twelfth Night Players in “Loyalties.”
Talking of the amateur theatres, the
final Rep. production for this season is
to be Priestley’s “Duet in Floodlight,”
with Dulcie Scott in the leading role.
Jim Felgate and his wife, two popular
Repertorians who have been living in
N. Queensland since their marriage, have
been transferred to Brisbane, and great
is the rejoicing in amateur theatrical
circles. Son Anthony is too young for
any but a walking-on part yet, but if
he inherits anything of the ability of
either parent he should be a useful
juvenile lead later on.
Saturday afternoon is a busy time for
presswomen, but most of them managed
to get along to see former Inky Way
sister Mollie Shellshear safely wedded
to her Englishman, Bill Hancock. Mollie
is the only child of Dr. and Mrs. Cyril
Shellshear, of Sandgate. She wore navy
and white and a large white hat. Jean
Sellars was in beige georgette and a
brown hat. The reception was at the
Shellshear home, and afterwards the
newly-weds left for the North Coast.
Twelve hostesses —Mesdames Denis
Duigan, Frank Glynn Connolly, Hanni-
bal King, F. Morris, Carl Palmer, Misses
Wade Brown (two of them), Jeanette
Fullerton, Hazel Wearne, Daisy Echlin,
Molly Brenan and Isabel McCansh —
combined for the huge cocktail party for
Binnie Marlay at Mrs. Duigan’s Clay-
field home on Saturday. Binnie is off
to Sydney to marry Meryyn Crombie,
of Katandra station, Winton, and more
than 60 guests came to utter their good
wishes.
Royal Queensland Art Society is gradu-
ally reducing its debt, thanks, in the first
place, to Mr. Gough, who was instru-
mental in raising several hundreds of
pounds for the purpose. Another £3O
came along the other day as a result of
the bridge party in the Lady Mayoress’s
reception rooms organised by Mes-
dames A. E. Fowles, L. J. Harvey and
C. H. Lancaster.
Two old Queensland families will join
hands when Ruth Provan and Neville
Bassett marry. Their engagement was
announced last week. Ruth is a daugh-
ter of the John Provans, of Toowoomba,
and Neville a son of the W. A. Bassetts,
of Karoola, Roma. The Bassetts were
among the first in Queensland to make
wine, and their vineyards are the pride
of the district.


Amongst Mick Simmons' final quota
of American Firearms are a limited
dfgdgdfgfd
number of the new
REMINGTON
MODEL 41A
“Target Master” it is called,
and it is undoubtedly an aptly
chosen title, for this Reming-
ton is superbly accurate and
built with the kind of stock
dimensions that assist accur-
acy.
Remington Model 41A has a
27-inch barrel, white metal
bead front sight, and adjust-
able sporting rear sight, re-
bounding lock, and safety
catch; in fact all the most
up-to-date features one can
expect in a modern rifle
Price 57/6
(Postage, 2/3; Other
States, 4/-.)
W rite for Mick
Simmons’ comprehen-
sive Shooting Cata-
logue. Free and post
free.
MICK§IMMONSIm
712-22 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches: City, Suburbs, and Newcastle'.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 George Street, Sydney
(Near Bridge Street).
The leading Exhibition of
Australian Art—latest works
by the most prominent
Australian Artists always on
view and for sale.
OPEN DAILY,
ADMISSION FREE.
Telephone: 87971.
For Sale.
House for Sale.
A Country Home at the City Gates.
Situated in one of the best positions in the
favored North Shore suburb of PYMBLE,
within 12 minutes’ walk of station, handy to
good schools and only -jr-hour to city.
Gentleman’s Two-storey Brick Residence.
Standing in nearly 2 acres, with a frontage
of over 270 feet to the popular Pittwater Road,
there are 3 reception rooms, smokeroom or
study, 4 spacious bedrooms, billiard or ball-
room, all offices, 2 garages, 3 loose boxes,
tennis court, light, water, sewer. AN IDEAL
HOME for the retiring Country Gentleman
or as a City Residence for the family.
PRICE £5OOO. Inspection by appointment only
through O’SULLIVAN and CO., PYMBLE,
JX2422.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO JOHN WILLIAM EDWARDS, formerly
of South Yarra, Victoria, Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, NOVA
MAUDE EDWARDS, has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground of
three years’ desertion. Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
10th day of November, 1937, the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs. If you intend to defend this suit
you must also file an answer in the said
office on or before the 20th day of November,
1937.
WISEWOULD & DUNCAN,
408 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
NORMAN ARCHIBALD.
IF NORMAN ARCHIBALD, a son of James
Archibald, late of Smeaton, in Victoria, and
a nephew of John Archibald, late of Ballarat,
in Victoria, last heard of in Queensland, com-
municates with the undermentioned Company
he will hear something to his advantage.
THE BALLARAT TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
& AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
101 Lydiard Street North, Ballarat.
A. R. HAMILTON, Manager.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO JOYCE HELEN BRODIE formerly of 39
Wellington Street Petrie Terrace Brisbane
in the State of Queensland but whose
present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State of
Queensland No. 357 of 1937 by JAMES
BRODIE your husband in which he claims a
dissolution of his marriage with you and by
his petition filed herein he alleges that since
the Ninth day of November One thousand nine
hundred and twenty-eight you without cause
deserted him and have continuously so deserted
him for five years and upwards AND IT HAS
BEEN ORDERED that service of the petition
and writ of summons on you be effected by the
publication of this notice once each in the
“Courier-Mail” Brisbane the “Telegraph” Bris-
bane the “Sydney Morning Herald” Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” Sydney “Australian Women’s
Weekly” Sydney and “North Queensland Regis-
ter” Townsville and once in a newspaper cir-
culating in the Central District IF YOU
DESIRE TO DEFEND this action YOU MUST
within forty-four days from the date of the last
act done as aforesaid enter an appearance at
the registry of the said Court and in default
of such appearance judgment may be, entered
against you.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of Septem-
ber, 1937.
(L.s.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors, 236 George
Street, Brisbane.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1599 of 1937.
IETWEEN HELEN COURTIER BRASIER
Petitioner
And CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE
BRASIER (also known as JAMES CECIL
ROWLAND and JAMES CECIL BRAS-
SIER) Respondent.
:0 CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE BRASIER
(also known as JAMES CECIL ROW-
LAND and JAMES CECIL BRASSIER).
TAKE NOTICE that the said HELEN
:OURTIER BRASIER has commenced a suit
igainst you in this Court and is applying
or a Restitution of Conjugal Rights AND
rAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
in appearance to the said suit at the proper
iffice of this Court on or before the Twelfth
lay of January a.d 1938 and in the event of
r our not doing so within the time limited or
ibtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
:eed and the suit be heard and determined
r our absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
letition filed herein may be had on applica-
ion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of October, a.d.
937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
1a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mesdames Albion Tolley and William
Lowe were joint hostesses at an evening
bridge party as a. welcome-home to Mrs.
Ernest Good, returned after many
months in England. The supper-table
was arranged with roses in apricot and
pink tones in large copper bowls. In
the bridge-room, where there were 14
tables, the mantelpiece was massed with
rhododendrons, and bowls of mixed
flowers were distributed about the room.
Inspired by the success of the floral
pageant last year, citizens met in the
Town Hall to discuss plans for a floral
gala to be held in the autumn. Mrs.
Lance Lewis suggested that it was too
late to arrange a floral festival this year,
but that the committee responsible for
the lovely floral carpet last year could
be asked to arrange a similar one, and
prizes given for rugs on the same lines,
which could be placed on the lawns along
North-terrace. The Premier suggested a
floral pageant every third year and a
festival on a smaller scale each year.
He promised full Government support.
The annual recording of the Mothers
and Babies’ Health Association drew a
large crowd of women to the banqueting-
room at the Town Hall, beautifully de-
corated with mixed flowers. Lord Mayor
Barrett waxed fluent on the subject of
infant ailments. It was mentioned that
South Australia can boast the world’s
lowest infant-mortality rate.
At St. Peter’s College chapel Noral,
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. W.
H. F. Bayly, of Semaphore, exchanged
vows with J. Howard Phillips. A French
blue lace gown cut on princess lines and
a navy-blue hat decked the bride, who
carried a sheaf of delphiniums and was
attended by two matrons of honor, her
sister-in-law, Mrs. Vincent Bayly, and
Mrs. Charles Ferguson.
Wallace Sandford’s lady, who, with
husband and daughter Joan, returned in
the Orion, has visited 20 countries in 10
months. One of her most interesting ex-
periences was at Pietermaritzburg when
Gaumont-British was filming “King Solo-
mon’s Mines.” Such a gathering of
natives had not been seen since the Duke
of Gloucester visited South Africa. The
Sandfords had seats in the Abbey for
the Coronation, and later motored
through Austria, Southern Germany and
Italy.
The School of Arts and Crafts dance
in John Martin’s dining-hall was on the
lines of a Russian cabaret. At the back
of the band platform was a striking
poster on which four ballet dancers were
depicted. It was the work of art students
Dorothy Spencer, Marjorie Fisher,
Dorothy Harvie and Vanessa Lambe.
Very attractive was a dance for which
the room was made dark and the 200
dancers each carried a sparkle.
Elaine, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. O.
A. Klemich, of Tusmore, celebrated her
coming of age with a party, to which
she invited all the members of the
“Vagabond King” co., of which she is
a member. As one of her father’s birth-
day gifts had been a dozen bottles of
champagne, the party was a bright one.
There was a pale-pink birthday cake.
E.-S.U. members attended an at-home
at the residence of the G. P. Hodgsons,
Esplanade. The afternoon was warm,
and the guests, after being received in
the drawing-room, passed out on to the
spacious verandah facing the sea. Miss
Lambert, who arrived last week from
Canada, where she has resided for the
last nine years, gave her impressions of
Canadian life. When she was staying at
the Alpine Club in the Rockies she was
chased by a black bear.
Dr. Phoebe Chappie returned in the
Orion after seven months overseas. She
saw the Coronation and attended two
medical conferences, one in Edinburgh
under the auspices of the Medical
Women’s International Association. The
second gathering was the annual meeting
of the B.M.A. at Belfast. While in Eng-
land she was the guest of her three
brothers, Alfred and Ernest Chappie, in
Cambridge, and Dr. Harold Chappie, a
Harley-street specialist.
The old boys of Adelaide’s two oldest
colleges have had their annual week of
contests. St. Peter’s won the golf, base-
ball and lacrosse; Prince Alfred’s the
football and hockey, also the bridge—
which for a school that was, in founda-
tion at any rate, Methodist is not too
bad.
WESTRALIA.
The 200 Club wound up its activities
for the year with an outsize ball at the
Embassy. Alan Grant and Letty Feakes
filled lulls in the dancing with whirlwind
exhibitions of the rumba, truckin’ and
swing-time steps. Trixie Fienberg, hon.
sec., splashed brilliant flowers over her
white cloque, Dorothy Sutcliffe swung
palest pink redingote over satin sheath-
ings, and Joan Leake sprayed white gar-
denias in her hair and at the neck of her
black taffeta trappings. Mrs. E. Roberts
belted magnolia satins with glinting
sequins, Marcia du Cloux slipped a beaded
bolero over azure taffetas and Betty Ellis
swung a length of violet and green
drapery from her pink ninon pleatings.
The Karrakatta Club housed the guest
night of the Royal Schools of Music
Club, and Mrs. Cecil Mason, club presi-
dent, girt with fluttering eau-de-nil georg-
ettes, made the welcoming speech. Mar-
jorie Huddleston did secretarial duties in
tunic and skirt of black-and-white lac-
quered crepe. Trixie Shepherd, who has
just gained a two years’ exhibition
scholarship given by the Royal School
of Music in London, came in for floods
of congratulations, and Mrs. J. J.
Poynton presented this year’s diplomas
to a sextet of pianists. Musical offer-
ings on the programme included chamber
music quartets, two-piano work in
modern vein, some operatic arias and
fiddling of a high standard by David
Powell.
R.M.S. Chitral presented a gay wel-
come (and a charming posy of flowers
to each woman as she reached the head
of the gangway) to the guests at the P.
and O. Co.’s centenary cocktail party.
Buffet tables laden, with savory morsels
were scattered among the flower-
wreathed pillars in the lounges and palm-
lined decks, and every smokeroom and
lounge was a bower of spring flowers.
The v.-r. party were met at the top of
the gangway by the liner’s commander
(Captain Elliot Smith) and the local P.
and O. manager, John Pitt, with wife at
elbow in printed black sheer topped with
crownless plaited-halo headgear.
Guests at the Myola Club’s very suc-
cessful effort to swell the funds of the
Fremantle Free Kindergarten were en-
thusiastic about everything, from the un-
usually lovely spring flower decorations
to the diverting play produced by Mrs.
Hubert Momber and the musical pro-
gramme arranged by Mrs. T. O. Nicholls.
Flora Bunning ably operated the baby-
grand, Marian Mendelsohn lifted up
her silvery soprano, Mrs. A. J. Baird
and Mrs. Frank Cox duetted, and Mrs.
Reginald Long, Elsie McCallam and
Dorothy Mark collaborated on the elocu-
tionary side. Presidential greetings were
given in the foyer by Mrs. Balfour.
The James Hardies’ eldest daughter
Una kept a rendezvous at St. Andrew’s
kirk with William Lawson, of Laverton.
Embossed angel-skin, shirred and trained,
formed the bridal raiment, with clouds
of tulle falling from a cap-shaped anchor-
age. Jean Davey ’maided in delphinium-
blue matelasse, sashed and buttoned in
fuchsia tones, and a halo of delphinium
tips matched her bouquet.
Despite her recent marriage in London
to Aubrey Vacher, of Maoriland, Freda
Newton returned after eight months
abroad to carry out her three years’
contract as bacteriologist for Westralian
Farmers. This clever lass took a re-
fresher course in maths, and chemistry
in London, worked for some weeks in a
vast dairying institute in Germany,
attended several conferences connected
with her job and found time to be mar-
ried shortly before sailing for home.
Perth Art Gallery is proving a magnet
not only to genuine art-lovers, but to
those with only a superficial interest in
pictures plus a healthy curiosity, for it
houses the exhibition of modern Canadian
art being shown in Australia under the
auspices of the Carnegie Corporation.
Daily “Appreciation of Art’’ lectures are
a help to the amateur in understanding
some of the more rococo studies.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark went up
to Longford for the Show. Luckier than
Launceston, the Longfordians were
blessed with perfect weather, and the
attendance was a record. The western
district is at its best just now, with
hedgerows in blossom and wonderful
greenness, and all the stock showing the
results of a good season.
Nettlefold’s staff dance at the Con-
tinental was run in aid of the Red Cross,
and went off very well. There was bridge
in the Oriental room, under Mrs. Wishart
Smith’s management. The ballroom was
decorated with huge bunches of balloons.
R. Thynne and C. Excell made efficient
joint secs, to a committee of six.
Golfers visiting Launceston had a gay
time socially. The northern women
entertained their southern sisters at a
dinner at the Brisbane, while the men
followed suit at the Launceston. After-
wards all combined and went on to the
King’s Meadows golfhouse, where the
associates ran a very jolly dance. Ranun-
culi made the chief decoration, massed
in bowls in the main lounge and on the
supper tables.
Dr. and Mrs. Craig gave a sherry party
to a large number of the golfers before
the dance, and Mrs. Karl Stackhouse,
president of the Tas. Ladies’ Golf Union,
spread a lavish table for tea to all players
at the clubhouse during the matches.
Peggy Dick and Lieut.-Paymaster
Wilbur Jackson (H.M.A.S. Canberra)
were married at the Cathedral with the
usual naval trimmings. The bride’s
lovely dress of ivory satin had a woven
fern-leaf design in silver, and was made
with high close-fitting neck, furnished
with a little ruffle of net. Her shoulder-
length veil fell from a Juliet cap of
orange-blossoms and the train was lined
with tiny kilts of net. The ’maids,
Marweet Courthope, Barbara Atkins and
Ann Page, followed in heavy satin of a
vivid pink shade, full of skirt and plain
of bodice, with puffed sleeves. They
wore silver flowers in their hair. About
260 guests met at Hadley’s afterwards.
Doreen Mary Taylor and Michael
Eisdell were married at St. Joseph’s by
Father Cullen. The bride’s frock of ice-
white satin was cut on the cross and
made with a long train. Nell McArthur
(Melbourne) and Pat Walch were brides-
maids, dressed in powder-blue organdie
with full puffed sleeves, and little blue
ve jj s< The ’groom has a connection
w jtj l Tasmania in that his mother was
Kitty Parker, who married Hubert
Eisdell, the singer.
j oan Mary, elder of the J. Scott-
p OW er girls, and Jim Cameron, who
hails from Horsham (Vic.), but is at
present living in Hobart, announce their
engagement.


P£**qhwf ADELAIDE FOR XMAS!
_-- - _ A
<9
w,
• *
X
Golden beaches under blue skies and sunshine . . . mountain scenery in bewildering variety . . .
Adelaide’s many beauty spots offer glorious holiday opportunities this Christmas.
There are sporting attractions, too! . . . thrills of the Automobile Grand Prix—the Port Cup
Racing Carnival—Big Cricket.
SPECIAL LOW PRICED TOURS
i
Planned low-priced tours abolish your
travel and luggage worries and all
discomfort . . . you may spend a week
touring Adelaide for as little as—
£55-
(Fare covers a week’s accommodation and local tours, but
is PLUS FARES FROM YOUR TOWN TO ADELAIDE.)
FOR FULL DETAILS
Consult the South Australian
Representative at the Vic-
torian, New South Wales or
Western Australian Govern-
ment Tourist Bureaux—Mel-
bourne, Sydney or Perth; or
S.A. Government Tourist
Bureau, Box 664 G, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
'/mm
m
TOURS BV RAIL, ROAD, AIR OR
SEA !
The Long White Cloud"
“Xo”: Two enthusiasms among cadet
units in a number of Maoriland’s major
secondary schools have been the
machine-gun and light artillery units.
Few boys fail to get a kick out of learn-
ing to operate the spluttering Lewis and
Vickers jobs, while the noises that come
from the old 18-pounders have always
been a delight to their junior valets. Now
Defence Minister Jones says it is “un-
desirable” for boys to be handling artil-
lery and machine-guns, and these special-
ist units must therefore be scrapped. The
physical-jerks bug has bitten the Savage
Government, and Mr. Jones suggests
school corps should do more physical
jerks—which won’t do anything to popu-
larise Labor politics with boys who’ll
have votes in three or six years. All
he wants to do now to kill after-school
territorial recruiting, on which Maori-
land still relies for home-defence
material, is to wipe out the ammunition
grants that make it possible for school-
boys to blaze away a few hundred annual
rounds on the local butts.
* * * *
“Mak”: Pilots of airline machines
operating the main Maoriland services
are not exposed to the same weather
risks as less-experienced aero club fliers.
The big airliners are equipped with more
efficient instruments than the smaller
club ’planes, and their pilots, of course,
are much more experienced in the
art of blind flying. In addition to
these advantages, commercial lines oper-
ate two-way radio services which enable
pilots to give progress weather reports
and receive them from ’dromes along
the route and other machines in flight.
Moreover, each service operates to a
routine demanding that pilots observe set
precautions in event of certain weather
variations; thus the element of personal
doubt which the best instructors can’t
eliminate entirely from some aero club
pilots is practically decided before the
predicament described by “D.N.” (B.
20/10/’37) ever arises. And, in spite of
phenomenal weather changes over com-
paratively short mountain distances,
Maoriland’s air operators still cherish a
remarkably clean service record.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Motorists committed to
Maoriland’s schools for bad drivers get
more than class-room demonstrations of
road-safety principles (B. 20/10/’37).
Wellington was the first centre to adopt
this practical suggestion from magistrate
E. D. Mosley, and about 24 “pupils”
have already done the course; a few
have been taken through city streets for
demonstrations of good driving. This
doesn’t imply that they were really bad
drivers before they were sent along to
learn the fundamentals of road safety ; 1
it does mean that, like a lot of people
who still have to be caught, they were
road-selfish or lacking in some other way
a proper sense of responsibility towards
other drivers. “They are taught to realise
they are not the only people on the
road,” traffic-inspector P. F. Hazelden,
who runs the school, puts it. “Just as
they would not think of elbowing a man
off a tram, so they are taught that the
same rule of courtesy - applies in road
traffic.” Pity some Sydney and Mel-
bourne Sunday drivers can’t get a Mosley
sentence and six months’ Hazelden treat-
ment !
* * * *
“ML”: Previous public-works admin-
istrations in Maoriland concentrated the
bulk of their expenditure on the exploita-
tion of North Island resources, but most
of Labor’s current expenditure (B.
6/10/’37) is earmarked for South Island
developmental jobs. Among 19 principal
national works estimated to require more
than £9,000,000 this year, 14 are located
in the South, and two of these are rail-
way-line extensions. Major roading pro-
jects centre in Westland and South West-
land, where new timber country is being
opened up. Actual P.W.D. expenditure
will be £5 11s. per head of population
this year, which is only one shilling more
than in 1931 and only two shillings
greater than the Coates plaster of 1922.
The record still dates back to 1875, when
then Prime Minister Julius Vogel, vision-
ary and Otago journalist, spent the equi-
valent of £7 a head on public works.
But his 1875 total was only about
£2,300,000, and most of it went in jobs
designed to boost immigration as well
as develop natural resources.
* * # *
“Waitot”: The par. mentioning the
salary received by Maoriland’s Director
"It must be the animal in me, girls!"
of Internal Marketing (B. 13/10/’37)
wasn’t as kind to him as Labor is; he
actually drags down £2OOO a year —
£5OO short of the sum paid the Chief
Justice. Other Supreme Court Judges re-
ceive £2OOO, and the Sec. to the Treasury,
on £1650, is the only other official enjoy-
ing a better salary than the two radio
directors appointed by the Savage Gov-
ernment.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: It is just on 97 years since
Maoriland was released from the jurisdic-
tion of N. S. Wales—Nov. 16, 1840, was
the date. About a fortnight later the
name Britannia, which had been tagged
on the settlement around Port Nicholson,
was changed to Wellington. Up till that
time (1840) the three islands had been
known as New Ulster (North), New
Munster (South) and New Leinster
(Stewart). The most singular names the
North and South Islands ever staggered
under were Achy-nomawee and Tovy-
poennammoo. These weird jawbreakers
were set down on the 1771 charter of
the Dalrymple immigration scheme (of
which Benjamin Franklin, of U.S.A., was
a supporter), whereby it was intended to
benefit “a brave and generous race, who
are destitute of corn, fowls and all quad-
rupeds, except dogs.” The philanthropic
proposal never materialised, but in 1825
another English company chartered a
ship and dispatched her, crowded with
emigrants, for Hokianga and adjacent
islands. When the “brave and generous
race” in that locality got an eyeful of the
visitors the war-yells and bloodcurdling
hakas so terrified the emigrants that they
put about and made all sail for home
and mother.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: A sum of £105,000 has been
set aside for current activities of the
Department for Scientific and Industrial
Research —about one-third more than last
year’s vote. Of all investigation subjects,
plant research is to be most widely ex-
tended ; radio research and social science
investigation are a couple of additions io
the old list of jobs on hand. The number
of workers has been increased from 85
last year to 135, but only 33 of these get
professional classification. Their salaries
range from £250 a year to £715, with an
average of £430. Not a very encourag-
ing average, or limit, for graduates who
have spent years of time and hundreds of
pounds in qualifying themselves for such
detailed work.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Workmen and their families
in isolated Maoriland Public Works
camps have occasion to bless the solici-
tude of Minister Semple, who knows
from personal experience the boredom
they can suffer when wet weather means
enforced leisure. He has made available
to the Y.M.C.A. the sum of £lOOO for
bulk purchase of radio sets, and has ap-
proved a simple scheme by which P.W.D.
workers can buy these sets on a t.p. basis.
The Y.M. has already established recrea-
tion halls in 21 camps, and local reps,
are to dispose of the sets for a third
deposit and the rest in eight equal fort-
nightly instalments. In camps where
there is no Y.M.C.A. officer, the boss
engineer is to act for the association,
which is adding a 15 p.c. margin to cost
in order to cover administration charges
and bad-debt risks. It is certainly in
the interests of a Labor Government
lacking daily-newspaper support to see
that as many Maorilanders as possible
have sets capable of picking up the Par-
liamentary and departmental broadcasts
on which Labor is placing such reliance :
but radios on easy terms will be boons
to many lonely P.W.D. huts.
* * * *
“Fergus”: The Maori race was especi-
ally interested in the recent unveiling of
the Wellington memorial to Harry Hol-
land, the Australian-born leader of the
Maoriland Labor party from 1919 to
1933 ; he died while climbing steep Mt.
Taupiri as a mourner at the Waikato
burial of the Maori king four years ago.
Young Koroke, the present king, had
sent the telegram that took Holland to
Huntly for the tangi. A guard of Princess
Te Puea’s people accompanied the body
back to Wellington. Princess Te Puea
was down for the un-
veiling, and at a Well-
ington reception given
for her and Mrs. Hol-
land—over from Adel-
aide— she made what
she described as her
first speech in English.
“Harry Holland’s
photgraph hangs in our
pah, in a frame carved
by my own children,”
Te Puea said. Her
“children,” by the way,
are orphans whom she
is rearing, and her
present “family”
numbers 48!
* *
“James K.”: “Maori-
land” has a pleasanter
ring than “New Zea-
land,” but for even the
word that The Bulle-
tin coined strict accu-
racy can’t be claimed.
When the Maoris
arrived they discovered
the remnants of a race
far superior to them-
selves, the Moriori,
and in both islands are
to be found indisput-
able records of the Morions’ sojourn. At
the Awanui Swamp, north of Auckland,
there is extant an extremely ancient drain-
age system of miles of interlaced channels,
surprisingly regular in their measure-
ments of five feet deep by five wide.
According to Prof. Macmillan Brown,
these channels came into existence when
the Manukau Harbor was still connected
by straits with the Hauraki Gulf and
could have been dug only by veritable
armies of workmen. In this same neigh-
borhood was discovered an elaborately
carved lintel. Of it Macmillan Brown
has said: “It is to be classed by itself,
not merely for the spearhead roll of its
open work, but for the grotesque figure
that, with outstretched hands, holds the
two limbs of the carving in place and
forms its centre and bond.” And Lewis
Spence drew attention to the remains of
a long-gone agricultural community in
the Pelorus Sound district and traces of
stone-faced embankments like “great
staircases,” all distinct from Polynesian
influences.


EFFICIENCY
is the keynote
of the
HI-GAIN T.R.F
RECEIVER
This is an excellent Broadcast Receiver, and for
the discriminating Short Wave listener cannot
be bettered.
It is easy to build if you use a “RADIOMAC”
kit of parts. This kit is supplied with a com-
pletely drilled chassis and panel. All com-
ponents are best quality, and included is a set
of Radiotron Valves and a Rola Speaker. Coils
are ready wound.
RADIOMAC KIT,
AS ABOVE
£10/10/-
Completely assembled and
tested with batteries
£l6/10/-
We can supply all components for
Radio Receivers and Transmitters.
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
d. g. Mclntyre,
5 and 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Hi-Gain T.R.F. Receiver.
In principle this receiver is similar to
the Ideal battery-tuned R.F. four-valve
all-wave receiver as described B. 28/4 1*21 ,
with the exceptions that the R.F. stage is
primary- instead of capacity-coupled to
the regenerative detector and a resistor
network is used in place of iron-cored
chokes or transformers.
Advantages.
With primary coupling to the plate of
the R.F. stage there is less tendency to
interlocking in tuning, and, with good in-
terstage screening, more gain, plus better
selectivity, is obtained from the R.F. am-
plifier. The capacity method of coupling
is quite in order, but unless detector and
R.F. stages are adequately screened off
it may become necessary to use a very
small capacity in order to preserve R.F.
stability. Such coupling-capacity reduc-
tion inevitably sacrifices gain. For
primary coupling this means that the
plug-in coil for the detector must have a
third winding in addition to grid and re-
action coils. This provision gives very
little trouble.
In the case of the short-wave coils,
the primary is interwound with the grid
coil, and in each case consists of a wind-
ing of fine insulated wire wound between
the grid turns for two-thirds of the
length of the grid coil, and at the
“earth” end. For example, the coil for
the 40-metre range has about a 10-turn
grid coil on a Uin. former. The turns
are spaced the diameter of the wire
(usually 26 D.S.C.), and the primary-
coupling coil will have six or seven turns
of 36 D.S.C. wound in between, starting
at the “earth” or low-potential end.
The reaction coil is adjacent to the
“earth” end of the grid coil, with its
interwound primary, and has five or six
turns of 26 D.S.C., close wound.
Two extra pins are needed on the plug-
in coil former, and so a six-pin former
and socket mounting are used for the de-
tector and a four-pin former and socket
for the R.F.
The Circuit.
This is a perfectly straightforward re-
ceiver with a separately-tuned R.F. stage.
R.F. and detector can be ganged, but in
inexperienced hands the tracking at the
shorter waves is likely to be a trouble-
some business. It is no handicap to pro-
vide an extra knob for adjustment of the
R.F. stage, and in some cases it is actu-
ally an advantage to have the R.F. ampli-
fier separately tunable. Often, selectivity
can be improved on broadcast frequen-
cies by a little offset tuning of the R.F.
stage. It normally needs to be “on the
nose,” however, but the R.F. amplifier
tunes somewhat broadly and is not
finicky.
Six-volt valves are used with a 6D6
R.F. stage, 76 detector, 76 first audio and
41 or 42 output. It will be seen from
the diagram that 6C6’s are indicated
alternatively in place of the 76’s. Some-
what higher gain can be obtained thus,
and the 6C6’s are connected as triodes.
Plate, screen and suppressor are con-
nected together and used as the plate.
Battery or A.C. Operation.
For the benefit of the many readers
who made inquiries about the Ideal
The lower coils are for 1 ½in. diameter windings.
T.R.F. receiver, that model and this can
be used without any alteration with a
240-volt' A.C. power supply. Such would
be standard, as used with the average
broadcast receiver, but with good filter-
ing. For battery use, a six-volt accumu-
lator and 180 volts of B battery will give
full speaker operation on all signals.
A permag. speaker with a transformer
to suit the output valve is recommended.
No grid-bias batteries are needed, as
the valves are cathode biased. With the
exception of the tuning condensers and
the coil data, all values are shown in the
circuit diagram.
The two 50,000-ohm resistors in the
R.F. valve screen should be treated as
one 100,000-ohm resistor. It was in-
tended to show screen decoupling, but
the by-pass condenser between the two
resistors was omitted. In any case, the
.lmfd. condenser at the R.F. screen grid
is adequate.
Regenerative Detector.
The detector is used in the popular
Reinartz fashion, this being about the
easiest method whereby the beginner can
become accustomed to the action of a
regenerative detector.
The whole performance of the re-
ceiver hinges on smooth detector action.
If regeneration and oscillation control
should be harsh it will be very difficult
to handle most' short-wave signals. Grid
leak and condenser detection is used, and
about the only reason for possible harsh
oscillation in this circuit would be too
large a value of reaction coil. In such
case reducing the number of turns or
lessening the coupling distance between
reaction and grid coils should effect a
cure.
Condensers Cl are the main tuning
controls, and for these a good make,
such as Raymart or Eddystone
.00016mfd., are suggested, with good
Vernier dials. C 3 is a 15mmfd. (three-
plate) variable condenser in parallel with
the detector tuning condenser, and also
vernier tuned. This provides an easy
final adjustment on short waves, and will
give a good degree of bandspread for the
amateur bands. The .0002mfd. variable
condenser for reaction control needs only
a plain knob. A vernier dial is super-
fluous here. The .002mfd. fixed mica
condenser in series between reaction con-
denser stator and earth end of the re-
action coil is a protection against heavy
B-battery drain should the .0002mfd.
variable ever become “shorted.” It has
no bearing on tuning.
Volume level is controlled by a ,smeg.
potentiometer in the grid of the output
valve, and should headphones be used in
place of a speaker in the output this will
be needed. A headphone jack (double
circuit) could be included in the plate
circuit of the first audio stage, and
volume level would be about right. It
is simpler to use the output stage with
the potentiometer.
The aerial is coupled to the grid of
the R.F. stage through a 23-plate midget
variable condenser, but as only two pins
of the four-pin R.F. coil socket are used
the other two could be employed for an
aerial coil with each plug-in coil. The
condenser aerial coupling is simpler, and
has a selectivity advantage on broadcast
frequencies.
Coil data are shown for all short-waye
ranges for either Hin. or l|in. plug-in
coils. Only grid and reaction windings
are shown in this chart. Primary wind-
ings must be included as outlined earlier.
Primary connections are in the relation-
ship indicated in the circuit diagram.
The plate end of the primary is the end
nearest the grid end of the grid coil.
Constructional Suggestions.
The receiver can be simply made up on
a metal chassis with a vertical screening
partition between R.F. and detector.
R.F. and detector coil sockets should be
of the ceramic kind, and supported at
least an inch above the chassis top on
stand-off pillars. Keep grid leads and
leads from coil sockets to tuning con-
densers as short, rigid and direct as pos-
sible.
For use outback a receiver of the kind
is capable of a very satisfying perform-
ance, but it is not intended for metro-
politan use on broadcast. It is suitable,
however, for short-wave reception any-
where. If good quality resistors, mica,
by-pass and tuning condensers are used
there is little or nothing to go wrong.
Readers can obtain ready-made receivers
of this kind from specialists such as
Price’s Radio Service, Sydney. The
experienced constructor will have little
trouble in putting the parts together and
obtaining the results the writer obtained
with the original.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
The problem of securing stable trans-
mission on 56mc. for C.W. for ’phone
communication is by no means a for-
midable one. If a station has a good
crystal-controlled 10-metre transmitter,
there exists the makings of a good five-
metre transmitter. It is necessary only to
double in the final 10-
metre stage to five
metres, when a useful
output can be obtained.
VK2RA is an example.
This station is being
used extensively on 10
metres, and it was de-
cided to double to five
metres in the final and
note results. With the
usual Zepp aerial, the re-
sulting five-metre signal
was RB, T 9, clear across
Sydney, and it requires
no imagination to
realise what could be
done over a wide area
with the correct form
of directive aerial on
such a signal.
The receiver appears
to be the pitfall
for most 56mc. aspir-
ants, and this all-im-
portant part of a sta-
tion’s u.-s.-w. equip-
ment calls for more
consideration than it
is usually given. An efficient C.W.
and ’phone receiver covering the 56mc.
band will bring in stations not heard
with the usual super-regenerator, how-
ever good it may be. The super-
regenerator has inherent disadvantages
that are difficult to overcome owing to
the principle of detection. The building
of an advanced form of u.-s.-w. receiver
such as a 5000 kc. superhet with T.R.F.


m
Somebody's buying
a Better Radio now /
Mullard
MASTER RADIO
Prices front £!2 / tO / fi.
MASTER MANTKI,
StLVtDCRt l>3‘)
BtLVEOERt t*!
, Bclveocre
;» \ . ;■>< ,■ i
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
If
f 1
\
>
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
r*" 8t LVlCilfl l'X>* ElLvmtHt*'
BtLVfOSRC . ,I>XJ BtLVfOCKC K>
stage and noise silencer, plus beat oscil-
lator, is a job for the more advanced ex-
perimenter, but a straight C.W. receiver
is not so formidable. In this type of re-
ceiver, “acorn” valves are preferable, but
the metal valves of the 6K7 and 6J7 types
are almost as effective at five metres. At
higher frequencies, such as 112 and
224mc., the “acorns” are imperative.
To refer to 40 metres as a possible DX
medium when working, with the average
Englishman is like waving a red rag at a
bull. “Completely unworkable owing to
spitch” is the comment. The “spitch”
merchants (the heterogeneous collection
of French and other foreign ’phones) have
turned this band into a European babel.
It will be a pretty problem in a few years’
time, assuming that the sunspot cycle re-
stores 40 and renders 20 spasmodic and
10 defunct. What the outcome will be
after Cairo has delivered its verdict is
clouded in mystery.
A new VK-P.M.G. edict grants a
normal power rating of 50 watts instead
of the previous 25. The Morse exam,
for high-power permits fixes the speed at
12 w.p.m. instead of the mooted 16. Any-
body who cannot handle 12 both ways
is not worth his salt as an amateur
operator. Whilst other countries harass
and handicap their experimenters, VKs
are blessed with generous regulations.
The primary importance of efficiency in
telegraphic working is stressed in the
latest P.M.G. communication.
Fifty-six megacycles is sadly neglected
in VK2. It is high time late-night
schedules for the summer months were
organised, but probably little will be done
until the 20-metre ’phone and other com-
plexes have worn off.
Intense sunspot activity is reported by
observatories. It is quite likely that 56mc.
signals would get through to some dis-
tant locations, if only there were stations
on the job at those points. It takes two
stations to make a QSO, and investiga-
tion of signal paths on ultra-high fre-
quencies affords scope for amateurs to
prove that they are experimenters, and
not mere DX and QSL dabblers.
VK2NO.
Mullard 80A Dial Mechanism.
This receiver, briefly reviewed in B.
13/10/’37, is a recent release by the Mul-
lard Co., a dual-wave 240-volt A.C.
superhet with a particularly excellent per-
formance for a 4/5-valve combination.
The tuning dial has features unique in
Australian receivers, and probably in
tuning mechanism design anywhere. It
is arranged on the chassis for a sloping
panel on the cabinet, and one can sit
in comfort and read the dial calibra-
tions with ease.
In addition to the usual vertical mov-
ing indicator, the whole of the dial back-
ground also moves. As the indicator
moves right, the dial background moves
left, and vice versa. It has a calibrated
scale of 52in., the actual dial aperture
being 6in. by 2jin. The effect is to give
a wide separation between station call-
signs so that they are readable at a dis-:
tance of a few feet away, even with the
dial lamps extinguished.
In these days there are so many Aus-
tralasian stations to crowd into the tun-
ing space of a receiver dial that it is
difficult to locate and adjust a receiver
to a desired station quickly on an ordi-
nary dial. The Mullard design provides
a supplementary roller for thumb opera-
tion. A turn will isolate for immediate
reference the stations of each, capital
city in the Commonwealth. A small red
arrow points to the station selected on
the roller, and reference to the main dial
shows the corresponding position on the
main tuner. The dial is edge-lit, and on
changing from broadcast to short wave
a green glow illuminates the short-wave
indications at the top. On broadcast,
the frequency range between 1500 kc. and
550 kc. is illuminated at the bottom. All
in all, it makes for smooth and posi-
tive tuning.
New Radiotron for
Transmitters.
The valve illustrated, the 1608, new to
the Australian market, has been intro-
duced by A.W. Valve Co. especially for
amateur transmitters. It is an R.F. power
amplifier, oscillator or Class-B modu-
lator of the triode type, with coated fila-
ment, and is capable of giving relatively
high power output at low plate voltage ;
an important economy for the average
amateur.
In R.F. service the 1608 may be
operated at maximum ratings at frequen-
cies as high as 45 megacycles. The maxi-
mum plate dissipation is 20 watts for
Class-C telegraph and Class-B services.
This valve has a ceramic base and
takes a medium four-pin socket. Fila-
ment voltage is 2.5 at 2.5 amperes, and
as Class-C R.F. amplifier (telegraphy)
maximum D.C. plate voltage is 425 at
200 negative on the grid. Plate current
is rated at 95ma., and grid current at
25ma. Maximum plate input is 40 watts.
In Class-B modulator service (two valves)
at 425 volts on the plate, 15 volts nega-
tive is needed for the grid. Zero plate
current is 36ma., and maximum signal
plate current 190 ma. Price in Australia
is 355. •
D. B. K.
Dynamic Microphone.
A very good dynamic microphone may
be adapted from a permag. dynamic
speaker. Such a microphone, when used
with suitable amplifying equipment, is
The permag.
speaker is wedged
into the case with
sponge - rubber
and cot ton-wool
filling, with an
aperture for the
cone.
capable of excellent quality speech repro-
duction and is relatively inexpensive.
For most purposes, a midget permag.
dynamic speaker will serve the purpose
well, as the mounting is not unduly bulky.
The permag. speaker is fitted into a light
wooden box, which can be of three-ply.
The magnet is backed up against sponge-
rubber and the space surrounding the
speaker frame packed round with cotton-
wool, as shown in the sketch. It is not
necessary to pack the cotton-wool in
tightly. This, with the sponge-rubber,
gives better frequency response, and tends
to eliminate resonance.
The speaker is used without the usual
transformer, and connections are made
simply to the speech coil. Two terminals
with leads to the speech coil are mounted
on a bakelite strip on top of the case.
The voltage output of such a micro-
phone is not high and a stage of pre-
amplification will be necessary ; this can
be determined by trial. The microphone
will be connected to the amplifier through
the usual low-resistance primary—high
resistance secondary microphone input
transformer. In some cases, the original
speaker transformer may be suitable.
D. B. K.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
Tasma A.C./D.C. Dual-wave Superhet.
The Tasma model 455 receiver, a
dual-waver, is applicable to either 240-
volt A.C. or D.C. mains. It has been
difficult with A.C./D.C. receivers in the
past to secure the same richness and
volume of reproduction as with A.C;
only, owing to circuit limitations and
current demands, but there is none of this
handicap here.
A companion model, designed for
broadcast reception only, and identical
but for that, is No. 445.
The dials of these new Tasma models
require only a touch with the finger and
thumb to swing the indicator completely
around, which makes for speedy station
selection. When changing from broad-
cast to short-wave ranges, the color
changes and only one scale is visible at
a time.
Testing revealed a low noise level on
the broadcasting range, combined with
fine reproduction. On short waves
between 16 and 50 metres the receiver is
just as satisfactory.
Examination of the chassis shows a de-
parture from the usual practice of using
electro-magnetic speakers by treating the
job as a battery set, and fitting a large
permag. speaker. This is an important
point in an A.C./D.C. design, for it saves
the usual loss of voltage on the speaker
field and permits the use of higher
voltages on the plates of the valves. This
partly explains the increased output
obtained from the 455 and 445 models
in comparison with previous A.C./D.C.-
types. In every respect the perform-
ance is equal to that of the standard A.C.
receivers.
Dust has little chance to penetrate to
vital parts of the 455, as such items as
air-trimmer condensers are hermetically
sealed. This means that once a receiver
is lined up and passed through the test
department of the factory there is little
chance of peaked circuits going out of
tune.
There is full protection from shock
from the mains. At the rear of the
cabinet is a safety device. When the back
is opened the power is automatically
switched off. A recessed plug is used,
with no projecting pins, so there is no
chance of accidental shock from that
source, and care has been taken to pre-
clude any chance of the user coming into
contact with any metal part of the re-
ceiver.
There is a choice of cabinets for this
new design, the lowest priced a table
model at 29 guineas, with various con-
soles up to 38 guineas. The Tasma 455 is
a seven-valve dual-wave superhet that sets
a new standard in A.C./D.C. perform-
ance, and it is applicable at once in most
locations. Makers are Thom and Smith,
Ltd., Botany-road, Mascot, N.S.W.
Radiokes's New Factory.
The business of manufacturing parts
for the radio constructor is not as dead
as it is often stated to be. A large
number of people still derive pleasure
from making their own radio apparatus.
Proof that the constructor is worth cater-
ing for is illustrated by the growth of
Radiokes, the pioneer Australian radio-
parts manufacturing co. Early in 1938
the co. will move into a new factory
erected for it in Vine-street, Redfern
(N.S.W.). Latest machines and equip-
ment will be employed. The Radiokes
co. is now 15 years old. To-day, not
only constructors but many radio manu-
facturers are using Radiokes products
in receivers, and expansion is necessary
because the combined demand has out-
stripped the capabilities of the present
factory.
Radio licenses in force in Australia on
30/9/’37 were 985,983 —an increase of
18,129 for the month—with experimental
licenses at 1790. The ratio of licenses to
population is 14.43 p.c.
* * * *
A radio-telephone service between Aus-
tralia and Rabaul was inaugurated last
week by co-operation between A.W.A.,
Ltd., and the P.M.G. A.W.A. will pro-
vide the whole of the service at the
Rabaul end and the transmitting and re-
ceiving stations near Sydney, the Post-
master-General’s Department connecting
with its telephone network throughout
Australia. The service is open between
11 a.m. and noon on week-days.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
I have a Bandmaster A.C. I D.C. type re-
ceiver with A.W.A. 2000 -ohm speaker. Could
it be improved by connecting another speaker
—Amplion—as well? —605.
If the second speaker is a permag. or mag-
netic type it can be done very simply by con-
necting a ,lmfd. condenser from the plate end
of the first speaker transformer primary. One
lead to the permag. speaker is connected to this
and the other to che chassis or earth return.
If they are both D.C. dynamic types, calling
for field excitation, it would be better to drop
the notion, as the inclusion of the two fields
in the circuit would probably upset the voltage
distribution through the receiver.
* % #
(1) How can I connect a telephone micro-
phone to a four-valve 1932 mantel-model Radio-
leite ? (2) Is it possible to use a valve base
with pin spacings as shown in the sketch for
a connector? (3) Are 17/26 telephone trans-
formers suitable ? —606.
(1) If the microphone has high voltage gain,
it can be connected between the grid cap of the
second detector valve and the chassis, but a
microphone transformer may be necessary. In
such case the secondary will be connected to
the valve grid and earth return with the micro-
phone in the primary, in series with a
C battery. (2) No. (3) Not familiar with the
type, so can’t say, but there’s no harm in
trying.
* * * ¥
I want to charge car batteries from a house-
lighting accumulator, a Tl-volt Delco. I have
rigged up various resistances, and can send cur-
rents from one to nine amperes through the
batteries. What is the correct rate? —6o7.
This is usually marked on the batteries. If
not, the usual rate is two amperes for a medium
capacity battery, and up to five amperes for
a large capacity battery. If you keep within the
five-ampere charging rate you will do no
damage.
* ' * $ *
My dual-waver is satisfactory on broadcast,
but not on short waves. The stations can be
tuned, but there are a rising and falling of signals
in a regular rhythm. Various aerials have been
tried without success. Any suggestion ?■ —604.
A short-wave signal arriving from a distance
seldom remains at constant level, but with the
modern receiver a great deal of the apparent
surging effect is minimised by the automatic
volume-control system. It may be that the
A.V.C. is defective. Otherwise the only remedy
is to try directive aerial systems to take most
advantage of the signals. Such an aerial
scheme was outlined in B. 18/8/’37.


</amc f
Remember
that Radiol and “ Bone Radiol "
cure without Blistering, Pain, or
Removal of the Hair.
Radiol for soft swellings. Bone-
Radiol for fibrous, hard, or bony
enlargements.
A cure for lameness is guaranteed
with Bone-Radiol. Simply paint on
with a brush.
Write now for our Blue and Red
Booklets, 40 pages illustrated, free
on request, which will tell you all
about them.
Apply: The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd., Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
THE RADIOL CO., ENGLAND.
MINERALS FOR PIGS.
“Tri-cal”: You know those pigs were
not doing so well as they should ; I gave
them Tri-cal-os Bone Flour and can see a
difference already. I think I’ll get a better
price. They are going ahead splendidly—•
looks like early marketing. By the way,
I’m giving Tri-cal-os to the sows before
they farrow to ensure plenty of milk for
the suckers ; it’s the cheapest way to feed
them, isn’t it? You write to Davis Gela-
tine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Sydney, for their
folder about Tri-cal-os for Pigs.
Old Farmer.
Ui-
M
t? ■
✓4
VITA-LICK
MAKES LIFE IN WOOL.
Mr. E. M. Bowman, Oakham,
Yaraka, Queensland, writes: —
“I have used every lick on
the market, and in my experi-
ence I find that your great pre-
paration of Vita-Lick is on its
very own, not only in the life
of sheep’s health, but it makes
the life in wool, something in
Nature that cannot give the
staple life.”
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Quality in Crossbreds.
“Narooma”: The market for medium
crossbred wool is relatively higher than
for merino, and the demand for the
former is much keener. The unsettled
state of international affairs is largely re-
sponsible, as wars and rumors of wars
are creating activity in the manufacture
of serges for uniforms, for which a
medium type crossbred wool is most suit-
able.
But the demand for crossbred wool is
small compared with the demand for the
type of ewe that grows it. At a N.S.W.
sale the other day a big line of cast-for-
age merino ewes was sold with difficulty
at 3s. 4d. per head, while a small mixed
lot of crossbred ewes of the same age
brought 13s.
The greatest danger resulting from the
present shortage of crossbred ewes is
that people are breeding them from any
stock without regard to quality. Grade
longwool rams are mated with culled
merino ewes, and breeders continue to
talk of the future of the export lamb
industry as viewed from their own pad-
docks.
Practically every visitor to English
meat markets returns with a warning to
local fat-lamb breeders. There are enough
studs in Australia to supply the proper
type of Downs-ram for export lamb pro-
duction, and those breeders who pin
their faith to other sires are amply
catered for, but the industry will never
get anywhere unless these rams are mated
with suitable ewes. Experience has proved
that the first-cross longwool-merino
ewe is the best dam from which to breed
export lambs. But quality counts.
Breeding from a tight-skinned, wrinkly-
runt of a merino ewe is waste of time.
Big-framed, roomy merino ewes of the
western plains or S. Australian type are
ideal.
B.L. and Romney rams each have their
adherents for crossing, but it is a pity
that the Lincoln has become so scarce in
N.S.W. The breed is rapidly regaining
popularity in Vic., and the few remaining
studs in N.S.W. deserve more support.
The Lincoln and merino combined to
found the Corriedale, which is booming,
but, having done its part, the Lincoln has
been allowed to slip off the map.
Australia is due to receive some hard,
staggering facts on the state of its export
lamb trade. Drastic reforms will be
called for, and the greatest of these will
not be in organisation, or in supply, or
in the handling of carcasses, but in pro-
viding the right sort of ewe.
Carcass Branding.
“Lion”: It is high time carcass brand-
ing of lambs was introduced at killing
centres. This would enable those who
handle their lambs carefully from birth
to reap the benefits of their care. Under
the present system, no buyer knows
whether the lamb is bruised, swollen-
jointed or sound until killed.
Lambs bruised through poking them
up the races with sticks and by dogs
will fetch, if they seem in condition 1 at
sale, as much as well-cared-for lambs.
The system gives.no incentive to the care-
ful man to continue the good work.
If lambs could be trucked direct to
the abattoirs additional knocking about
would be saved while they were waiting
sale in the yards. The auction could
take place from the hook!
Such a system would increase the out-
put of export carcasses by 50 p.c. in a
short space of -time. As all breeders
would still be compelled to deal through
agents, the amount of livestock coming
into the abattoirs could be far more
evenly adjusted than at present.
Poor Classing.
“C.V.S.”: I agree that “more good
clips are spoilt in the woolroom than
anywhere else” (B. 13/10/’37), though
“ Thank goodness the warm weather is coming and We can throw off some
of this clothing!”
the fault is often not with classers but
with contractors who fail to supply
sufficient, shed hands.
' Inadequate woolrooms and bins are
another cause of poor preparation.
Double-ended bins are best.
Classing can be learnt from a college
course. All the colleges I know provide
a practical apprenticeship, students being
sent out each season to work in sheds
under competent classers. College work,
too, often embraces experience in wool
stores during the selling season. But
practice must be added to theory.
Minerals and Milk.
“Mookau”: Milk contains 75 p.c. of
minerals, of which, in turn, three-quarters
is lime-phosphorus compound. In every
three gallons there is slightly more lime-
phosphorus than in 21b. bonemeal.
Every time a gallon of milk goes to
the factory it removes from the farm a
quantity of minerals which originally was
in the pasture and the soil. The remedy
is fertilisation through the use of super,
and clovers to keep up pasture mineral-
content, a procedure far better than
doling out a lick with lime-phos. con-
tent, though licks do no harm and help
to keep animals contented.
Where lime-phos. is to be provided as
a lick it is better to give it apart from
salt. Varying appetite will soon indi-
cate what the animal most needs.
Dairy Production.
“Mookau”: Results- of the N.S. Wales
North Coast Agricultural Society’s farm-
production competition this year show
what can be done with a grade herd on
an improved farm.
The winner, H. C. Durrington, has 70
acres of river flats near Murwillumbah,
about 25 acres under maize, sugarcane
and other crops. Another five acres are
under fodder crops, yet with only 50 acres
of pasture the farm carries from 30 to 35
cows, and in summer stock sometimes
number 70, including horses.
The property-4-by Australian stand-
ards, tiny—is subdivided into 19 pad-
docks for rotational grazing. Some of
the land carries rye grass, and clovers
The average yield per cow was 366.71 b.
commercial butter.
Second was G. Reading, with a typical
North Coast scrub farm —167 acres in
20 paddocks rotationally grazed. In
winter natural, grass is supplemented with
maize, saccaline and oil meals. Winter
production level is only 13 p.c. below
summer level. The Reading herd has
been a “recorded” herd for 14 years.
Its competition-year average was
320.551 b. c.b. per cow.
A. J. Scheiler, who took third prize,
gave a fine lesson in,herd improvement.
In 1931 his herd averaged only 1561 b.
per cow ; last year it was 313.721 b. • He
makes it a practice not to keep heifers
from cows which record under 3001 b.
c.b.. His winter figures are within 6 p.c.
ot' summer figures.
If all dairymen would follow such
practices—culling, grazing rotationally
and keeping their animals up to stand-
ard in the. cold and dry months with
extra feeding and attention—Australia
would become the greatest dairying coun-
try in the world, and a lot of land now
used to feed large, poorly-producing
herds could be freed for new settlement.
War on Ticks.
“Ghanam”: U.S. tick eradication his-
tory, summarised recently by the C.S.
and 1.R., shows what can be done. In
1906 a quarter of U.S.A., covering 15
States, was declared a tick area in which
dipping every 14 days was enforced and
pastures on ’ which infected cattle had
been grazing were quarantined.
The northern section of the tick belt
was soon cleared. In the south, where
farms were less accessible, the clearing
was more gradual. At the end of last
year, only parts of the wetter States, such
as Florida, remained infected on any
scale. In more closely subdivided areas,
there is a dip within a couple of miles
of almost every farm. The job has paid
for itself.
The N.S.W. North Coast Tick Control
Board is taking a leaf out of Uncle Sam’s
book. It contemplates putting in 50
dips in the Kyogle and 36 in the Cop-
manhurst area before the end of July,
1938. But the test is not in building
dips, but in seeing that they are used
wherever the tick exists until no source
of infection is left.
Milk Fever.
“Silky Bag”: “Agamemnon” (B.
29/9/’37) is wide of the mark in his
ideas on milk fever. Calcium gluconate
cannot be merely inoculated into the
neck. It must be injected into the jugular
vein, and great care is necessary to ex-
clude air bubbles. An under-skin in-
jection may cause a lump like a football,
and the cow may die.
Jugular injection is prompt in action!
It takes only a minute for the blood to
do one circuit of the body, and the cal-
cium from the two pints injected passes
through the whole system immediately.
There is no means of prevention, de-
spite all theories on bonemeail and
dicalcic feeding before calving. Nor will
milking only small quantities from the
cow; for the first few days prove effective,
since milk fever may occur a month after
calving.
The disease is due to prostration fol-
lowing exhaustion of the blood-calcium
through the milk flow. Injecting glu-
conate restores the balance temporarily.
In a cow subject to m.f. every year,
some success may follow a precalving
injection of gluconate or one given as
soon as she calves, but not always. Milk
fever is a shock disease of the period
when the cow is adapting herself from
non-production to heavy milking. And
as the crisis does not come until the fever
develops, “preventive” measures are
shots in the dark.


j^nGiv
INTERNATIONALS
in
■*BB
SS
mu
Advanced, standards of performance,
comfort and modern streamlined style
■are established in these new Interna-
tional Utilities. In strength, power and
carrying capacity, they provide every-
thing that is required in a modern util-
ity-international quality throughout.
■uv^*v.v»v.v.v.v.
T ray body
on a IV2 to 2-ton Model D-30.
The new
International chassis
is ideal for any type of dump body.
Livestock body
mounted on one of the
new Internationals.
The new vigour and fluency of streamlined
style in the new Internationals proclaim
new achievements in engineering quality
beneath the surface, quality that will be revealed
in a new high level of performance for years
to come ... ■ ' '
Every purchaser, whether he has past experience of
Internationals or otherwise, will quickly sense the out-
standing merit of these grand new Internationals . . .
Invest in a new International check up on its performance
and you will soon realize its value in the improved showing of
your haulage costs . . .
The range of new International trucks is so diverse and complete
that you will find in the line the truck it will pay you above
all others to own ...
Communicate with us about these new trucks let us send
you a catalogue describing the new Internationals in detail.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
lINCORPORATED IN VICTORIA!
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA.
H 604
B
»
m
On the Hop Again.
“Zedo”: The ’hopper is on the move
again in N.S.W. Moree district has
struck one of the worst patches; the
reason given by A. R. G. Betts, of the
Moree Pastures Protection Board, is that
a number of graziers have “failed to
carry out any method of
“Vast colonies” of ’hoppers have been
bred on the sanctuaries maintained on
untreated properties and are now lim-
bering up their wings. At present rate
of progress they should be in the air
within a week.
Altogether 400 tons of bran bait has
been used in the Moree district—bran is
£7 a ton in Sydney and scarce. But
clearing up the hatching grounds is a
hopeless task unless baiting is done on
every property which has a nursery.
Moree’s difficulties are shared by
other districts. Around Gulargambone
(N.S.W.), where great crop damage has
been done, the Pastures Protection Board
is considering drastic action to compel
landholders to lay sufficient poison on
breeding grounds .
The g rassb opper certainly is a proper
m atter for drastic Government action,
cheap poison bait and plenty of it
properly distributed at the right time at
every breeding centre would wipe out the
pest in a year or two. But there is no
hope of securing a universal policy until
all affected States have a uniform law
providing a severe penalty for owners
who leave grasshopper-infested proper-
ties untreated. ~
. . . , ,
Artichokes for Pigs,
“Pappamosca”: To anybody running
a few porkers who has a corner of land
which has been fairly deeply ploughed
in winter and lightly ploughed in Sep-
tember, the Jerusalem artichoke should
be a safe bet for planting next month,
Artichokes need very similar treatment
to sweet potatoes—well manured land and
tubers dropped in rows 3ft. apart, with
2ft. between each tuber. About 4cwt. of
tubers per acre should go in ; large tubers
should be cut, small ones put in whole,
Weeds should be kept down in the early
stages with a light harrowing, and a cul-
tivator should be run between the rows
about once a month.
Late in April or early in May, the crop
flowers and begins to die off. Then
turn the pigs in to root, but don’t let
them clean out all the tubers. 'Lightly
replough the land and all is set for an-
other crop next year. Artichokes are
heavy yielders, and on good loams it is
hard to get rid of them.
For an artichoke, Dennis would desert
the finest truffle ever unearthed. With
grain, the crop makes a fine fattener for
young pigs. ; Its nutritive ratio is 1:8.6
against 1:7 for English potatoes, and it
has a higher protein content.
Legume Inoculation.
“Alfalfa II.”: Early next year will see
the 80th anniversary of Lachmann’s dis-
covery that the nodules at the roots of
lucerne and kindred plants hold bacteria
which feed nitrogen into the plants. It
took a long time to make the discovery ;
lucerne has been expertly cultivated since
ear j y Roman times
~ . . ...
, The bacteria supply the plant with
nitrogen. ■ The plant produces sugars and
starches in its leaves for consumption
by the bacteria in the nodules. When a
P la nt is prevented from producing sur-
plus sugar in its leaves through being
grown in a dark spot the bacteria attack
the plant in a desperate attempt to secure
carbohydrates,
Before the war the popular method of
soil inoculation was to take a large quan-
tity of soil from some field in which
lucerne had grown and harrow it into
uninoculated soil. Now, pure cultures
are grown on agar jelly, fed chemically,
dipping seed in a mature full of bac-
teria. Skim-milk with one part in ten
( Continued, on next page.)


Leather-lined Throughout
and “as tough as you make ’em.”
Truly a fitting companion
for the man on the land is
this Abbey Working Cos-
sack. Strongly made with
a heavy double sole, leather
lining and an upper made
of tough calf, it’s built to
last.
Try one on, and feel for
yourself its perfect comfort.
Made in Black and Brown
Calf in full and half sizes.
Black Calf 27/6
Brown Calf 27/6
Also order a tin of Dale’s English Dubbin
to keep working Boots soft and supple.
Price 2/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
"ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY .’
£
MONEY Works...
Through Its two main departmenfs
(Rural and Advances for Homes) the
Rural Bank sets money to work de-
veloping farms and building homes,
thereby contributing materially to
the progress and prosperity of the
whole State. YOUR idle money can
be made to work for YOU, through
the medium of an interest-bearing
Fixed Deposit, which will earn an
assured and reasonable yield, the
capital being returned at the end
of a specified period or it may
be reinvested for a further term.
Rural Bank
OF • NEW *ifiUTH • WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President). H. Rogers. P. Kearns
THE
II MITE n iNSURANCE
UNI I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
BEEBE
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
gdf
For use where Power is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity, weight .. 661 b.
5-ton capacity, weight .. 1101 b.
Illustrated folder with full particulars
obtainable from: —
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
T^e'^-aUdzmi
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
5
E
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St„ Sydne;
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC. INNOCUOUS.
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Hundreds
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 53 repeat
orders; Bank
, N.S.W., 15. In-
I stalled by Com-
■ monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools. Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gd
fg
df
gd
of lime phosphate makes a fine bath for
the germs.
Aterwards, the bacterialised seed is dried
and planted. Results, especially on light
soils, are sometimes astonishing. N.S.W.
trials have shown an improvement in yield
from 39cwt. green lucerne per cut per
acre on uninoculated, unfertilised soil to
172.8 cwt. on the same type of ground
treated with super, and planted
with inoculated seed.
Cultures can be had from State Agri-
cultural Departments to suit lucerne,
clovers, peas, beans, peanuts and lupins.
Summer Crops.
“Hortus”: Provide now for next year’s
hay, fodder and silage. Maize, sorghum,
millet, Sudan grass and cowpeas make
the choice fairly easy.
For maize, a good summer rainfall is
essential. But districts of good winter
rainfall are suitable on land in which
moisture has been conserved.
A free, deep, well-drained loam, well
provided with organic matter, is the ideal
soil. Basaltic soils will grow the crop,
but it will naturally be lighter. Many
growers fail through not cultivating
ground during winter and late autumn.
For grain, moisture at the tasselling
stage is necessary, and 81b. to 101 b. of
seed per acre is a fair average. Rows do
best 3ft. apart. Sowing on the square is
best. Soil can be worked both ways.
This not only clears weed-growth, but
keeps moisture in.
For fodder or silage, use double the
quantity of seed. Have rows still 3ft.
apart, but have plants 6in. to 9in. in
rows. Reed’s Yellow Dent, a leafy
variety, is proving a good fodder or
silage maize.
After maize, sorghums are next best.
They stand the dry conditions much
better than maize, and they make good
early-winter feed, as they retain their
succulence after maturity better.
Sorghum makes small demands upon
the soil. Most suitable lands are deep,
sweet loams or alluvial soils.
Plant maize on good patches and
sorghum on the less fertile ones.
Don’t have rows too close for
sorghum. Weeds are apt to trouble the
crop in early stages. Sow in rows 3ft. to
3ft. 6in. apart, with about 51b. seed per
acre. For silage, cut when grain is well
formed yet still in the “soft dough” stage.
Late summer and early autumn are
generally critical periods for sheep.
This is when the sorghums come in.
Saccaline and imphee are worth trying.
Mature sorghum is harmless. Don’t let
stock eat young plants, especially if they
are wilted through hot, dry weather.
Stunted sorghum may also cause death.
Immature plants that have been frosted
are also dangerous. Once the stem is
cut, however, the poison disappears.
Where a quick-growing summer graz-
ing or hay crop is needed, there is no-
thing better than millet. It does best
in a mellow soil, rich in humus. It is
very hardy, however, and will thrive in
loams with clay and sand in them, and
will stand drought well. It can be grown
on dirty land to get rid of weed-growth.
Sow in drills or broadcast, 101 b. to
151 b. per acre.
Millet does not like low temperatures
and frost. Don’t cut it too green, but
before seed begins to ripen.
Lime.
“J. Want”: Few people understand
the full effect of lime on soil. It acts
mechanically to alter the texture of the soil
—pour water on puggy clay and then
add lime ; dry off a bit of straight clay
and a bit of limed clay; the first dries
in a hard lump, but the limed clay can
be powdered with the fingers. Lime helps
make land tillable and increases its power
to absorb water. Land treated with lime
can be ploughed earlier.
On sandy soils, lime has the opposite
effect. It tends to bind the particles of
sand and increase its power to retain
water.
Lime acts chemically also. It develops
fermentation in dormant organic matter
in the soil, releasing plant food—hence
its use in improving land for lucerne. It
combines with insoluble phosphoric acid,
which by itself is unavailable, to make
it useful. It neutralises acids and
sweetens the soil. Moreover, it hinders
the growth of some fungi.
Lime should usually be freshly slaked
for application. Dressings should not
exceed half a ton to the acre even on
heavy clay soils; they should be made
fairly often, but particularly in winter.
For three weeks afterwards, the land
should lie untouched, neither seed nor
fertiliser being put in.
“Gumblegubbin”: When whitewash-
ing brick or cement walls, wet the sur-
face first with water, using a brush, hair
broom or garden hose. It makes the
whitewash go farther, work quicker and
gives a better surface:
“X.”: The N.S.W. Agricultural Dept,
doesn’t think dipping of heavy ewes has
serious effects. It reports 4296 head
dipped in the three days before Sept. 3, on
which date they began to lamb. There
were no losses. Another case was re-
ported of 19,000 flock ewes dipped im-
mediately before Sept. 6, which began
their drop on Sept. 15 and came through
without loss. Care in handling is the
secret of success in such circumstances.
“Wentje”: Through a decision of the
Friesian Society council, marking regu-
lations became uniform in all States.
From now onward no female will be
eligible either for the herd-book or roll
if it has any color other than black and
white, or is all white or has any black
on the switch. On the legs, black stretch-
ing from the hoof upwards does not dis-
qualify provided that any black spot or
spots touching the hoof must not exceed
one-third of the outside area of the hoof.
“Totadgin”: J. Y. Shannon, of Rodney
Downs (Q.), has an unusual method
of combating blowfly. He dips the
breach area, having a small section of
a race arranged to rotate downwards
into the dipping fluid, which contains
0.6 p.c. arsenic.
“T.D.”: This season, according to the
Government Statistician, 4,752,000 acres
of wheat will be harvested in N.S.W.,
all but 289,000 acres for grain. This is
about 10 p.c. more than last season, and
the largest area since 1933-34. The mid-
October rains have greatly improved
prospects in the dry areas.
“Zedo”: The United Graziers’ Assoc,
at Longreach (C.Q.) has asked the C.S.
and I.R. to conduct local tests to discover
whether Mitchell grass hay can be pro-
duced and stored at a cost to make it
worth while as drought fodder. They
might have added a resolution to test
themselves whether fertilisation of some
sort might be devised to increase yield
and keep the soil up to standard. There
is a delusion in the interior that inland
soils renovate themselves without the help
which coastal soils need.
“Teeka”: The much-advertised East
Coast red volcanic soils which lie tens
of feet deep and which seemed so fabu-
lously rich to the first settlers are not
standing up well to settlement. Much
of Atherton Tableland (N.Q.) is carry-
ing only a third of the stock per acre it
did 25 years ago, and Tasmanian red soils
have fallen in carrying capacity. The same
tale comes from the N.S.W. middle
North Coast. Originally the red country
carried heavy scrubs which fed it with
humus and protected it against leaching.
Its condition will prove a serious prob-
lem in another deeade unless it gets the
steady fertilisation which it' needs and
which most farmers have not given it.


MORE CAR FOR LESS MONEY!
No.l ECONOMY
M II "2SSS
SSISS
-^yr:,T,••
■■Sill
lllfilillill
«ssMi§@S#M
‘Yes, I can go 24 miles on that gallon
0 The thrifty motorist drives a Terraplane .. . and scores by getting the
best car value for his first outlay and saving all the time afterwards. A
full-size car, too . . . with greater roominess than any other low-priced sedan.
What are the facts behind Terraplane’s claim to No. 1 Economy? Why, before
it was publicly announced, Terraplane beat every leading low-priced car in a
famous all-comers’ economy run, and with five passengers and baggage put
up a record of 24.91 miles per Imperial gallon. Coasting was barred!
Coming to Australia a tried and tested economy car, Terraplane proved to
motoring editors and owner-drivers that 20 to 24 m.p.g. was its regular
ration . . . without special tuning and including hill-climbs and acceleration
tests in its trials. Now, just to clinch the matter, read the Terraplane
owner’s letter below ... it is a typical tribute to the No. 1 Economy car!
EVERY £ GOES FURTHER IN
THESE No. 1 CARS!
Compare Terraplane with any other car in its price field and you will see just how
much more your money buys in a Terraplane. Look at the exclusive Hudson-designed
Duo-Automatic Hydraulic Brakes and Selective Automatic Gear Change illustrated along-
side. There are many other features, too . . .Radial Safety Control and Tru-line Steering,
giving perfect wheel alignment over any surface at any speed . . . All-steel Bodies, for your
greater safety and comfort . . . Real Economy (see the letter below—a typical tribute to
these great economy cars) . . . Larger Wheelbase, 117 inches . . . Greater Power, 96 and
101 horsepower. No other low-priced car has such a wealth of features—that is why you
get better value when you buy Terraplane, a really complete, full-size car and the most
economical on Australian roads to-day. But come and see these cars, and drive them, too,
if you wish. We have them waiting for you.
IN
CARS
BUILT BT
HUDSON
mm
mmm
These exclusive Duo-Automatic Hydraulic
Brakes give you a reserve braking system
operating from the same pedal as your
ordinary brakes. In an emergency, you
simply press the pedal further down and a
second set of powerful brakes brings you to
a quick straight-line stop.
mm
NfftPK?
m
m
Another exclusive feature, the Selective Auto-
matic Gear Change, enables you to pre-select
the gears at your leisure, and then change
by just touching the clutch. Its wonder-
fully convenient, this new way to drive, and
safer, too, especially on winding hills, at
intersections and amongst heavy traffic.
BE THRIFTY...
DRIVE A 1937
1/56 OF A
PENNY
PER
MILE
I have kept an exact record of operating costs of three
TERRAPLANES purchased from you. They have done
50,000, 48,000 and 45,000 miles respectively. Petrol
consumption has averaged 17 miles per gallon. This is
quite satisfactory under taxi conditions, and indicates a
much higher figure on long runs. Oil consumption has
remained at the original figure, i.e., 3000 miles per gallon,
which is excellent. Tyres last approximately 30,000 miles.
Clutches, gear boxes, universals, differentials, axles, etc.,
have given no trouble and are all in excellent condition.
Total cost of all parts replaced on the three cars (excluding
tyres) is £lO/10/- in a total of 143,000 miles—an average
cost per mile of one fifty-sixth part of one penny.
(Original letter may be inspected on application.)
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in Englandi
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
TERRAPLANE
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
'Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street,
HOBART
Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY
CENTRES.


15 YEARS’
GUARANTEE
“INVINCIBLE”
SINCE
1900
INVINCIBLE
MARINE
ENGINES.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PRACTICALLY A CAREER
FOR £l/11/6
Write for details of the new remarkable
composite Short Story-Journalistic Course.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL OF
JOURNALISM,
6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To exchange Australian stamps for foreign.
—7501.
To buy The Devil’s Dictionary, by Ambrose
Bierce—7521.
Practical woman, N.S.W., knowledge of
typing, shorthand, riding, car-driving, gardening
and cooking, seeks congenial home. —7514.
Young man (25), Australia, 11 years’ exp.
with stock, sailing M.L. end of year, wants job
on sheep run South Island.—7522.
Young man (25), N.S.W., licensed car and
passenger-launch driver, good mechanic, wants
position.—7351.
Ex-plantation manager, Q., married, 22 years’
exp. ashore and afloat in all Island activities,
wants position in any capacity in any group.
—7538.
Whereabouts of Maton, believed to have been
lately at Quirindi (N.S.W.).—7574.
Information Sought.
(1) In what years did Steve Donoghue ride
winners in the Derby? Horses? Owners? (2)
Other notable jockeys? —7519.
(1) 1915, Pommern, owned by S. Joel; 1917,
Gay Crusader, Fairie; 1921, Humorist, J. B.
Joel; 1922, Captain Cuttle, Lord Woolaving-
ton; 1923, Papyrus, Irish; 1925, Manna,
Morriss. (2) Archer rode five winners: Galtee
More 1877, Bend Or 1880, Iroquois 1881, Melton
1885, Ormonde 1886. Watts rode four: Merry
Hampton. 1887, Sainfoin 1890, Ladas 1894, Per-
simmon 1896.
* * * ’ *
What were the averages of the English
bowlers in the innings when Bradman piled up
(1) 334 at Leeds ( Eng .) in 1930, and (2) 304 at
Leeds (Eng.) in 1934 ? —7550.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wkts. Avge.
(D-
Larwood ..33 3 139 1 139.00
Tate .. ..39 9 124 5 24.80
Geary ..35 10 95 1 95.00
Tyldesley ..33 5 104 2 52.00
Hammond ..17 3 46 1 46.00
Leyland ..11 0 44 0 —
(2) —
Bowes ..50 13 142 6 23.66
Hammond .. 29 5 82 0 —
Mitchell ..23 1 117 0 —
Verity .. 46.5 15 113 3 37.66
Hopwood .. 30 7 93 0 —
Leyland .. 5 0 20 0 —
* * * *
(1) What were the bowling averages of Turner
and Ferris when England scored 53 and 62 at
Lord’s in 1888 ? (2) How long did each innings
take 3—7560.
(1) First innings, Turner 5 for 27, Ferris 3 for
19; second innings, Turner 5 for 36, Ferris 5 for
26 (in this innings they bowled unchanged).
(2) First innings took lhr. 40min., second
innings lhr. 30min.
# ♦ sk *
(1) What is the playing time of international
and other matches in Rugby Union football ?
(2) Was the South African team within its
rights in asking for a short playing period in
M.L. recently ? —7557.
(1) Law 8 of “The Laws of the Game of
Rugby Union” states: “In international matches
two periods of 40 minutes each shall be played;
in other matches the duration of play shall be
agreed upon by the respective teams, or if not
agreed upon shall be fixed by the referee. Play
shall be divided into halves. At half-time there
shall be an interval of not more than five
minutes.” (2) Yes; but it had to be agreed
upon by the opposing side.
# * *
(1) How many Maoriland Rugby Union teams
have played matches in Australia ? (2) What
teams were undefeated, and their captains? (3)
What M.L. team scored most points in Aus-
tralia 3—7578.
(1) Sixteen. (2) 1884 (Milton), played eight
matches; 1903 (Duncan), played 10; 1914
(Roberts), played 10; and 1920 (Tilyard), played
seven. (3) 1932 (Kilby, captain), 308 points.
* * * *
Results of Farr’s professional fights and how
won or lost? —7530.
1929, won by knockouts against J. Jones and
Worton, won on points against Tommy Herbert,
K. Evans, Howley, B. Jones and Llewellyn,
drew two with Trevor Herbert and lost to
Pugh; 1930, k.o. against Morse, drew with
Pritchard and lost to Hadyn; 1931, k.o. against
B. Powell and J. Powell; 1932, points decision
against Bundy and drew with Daley; 1933, k.o.
against O’Brien, Chetwynd, Marshall, Harvey,
McCall and L. Evans, points decisions
against Eddington (twice), R. Jones (twice),
Bundy, Daley, Thomas, Smith, Ellis, Sim-
mons and Benjamin, lost to Thomas and
lost by foul to Steele; 1934, k.o. against Scott
and McAuliffe, points decisions against Winters,
Belanger, Harvey, Pierce, Bundy and Fontaine,
drew with Simmons, lost to Phillips, Casey,
Belanger and Carston, and lost by foul to
Phillips; 1935, k.o. against Pavesi, Novell and
Moody, points decisions against Abrew, Wens-
ton (twice), Brennan (twice) and De Boer,
drew with Moody and lost to Phillips; points
decisions against Loughran, Van Goole, Olin
and Lutz, fought Wilde twice for the Welsh
heavyweight championship, drew in the first
and registered a k.o. in the second; 1937, k.o.
against Zeman and Neusel, points decisions
against Baer and against Foord for the British
Empire heavyweight championship, and lost to
Louis.
* * * *
Defence expenditure for (1) Australia, (2)
Great Britain ? —7548.
(1) 1935-36: Central administration £24,149,
naval £2,323,085, military £1,908,078, R.A. Air
Force £804,922, civil aviation £240,952, munitions
supply branch £462,705, rifle clubs and associa-
tions £37,062, naval construction £676,922,
reconditioning and buying of aircraft equipment
£l4, arms, armament, aircraft, munitions,
equipment and reserves £720,689, defence works,
buildings and sites £372,500, development of
civil aviation £12,744, total £7,583,822. (2)
Navy £64,805,000, army £44,647,000, air force
£27,496,000, total £136,950,000.
* * * *
Particulars and personnel of Duntroon
Military Training College? —7s47.
The college was established in 1911 at Dun-
troon, F.C.T., to provide trained officers for
the permanent forces. It was transferred to
Victoria Barracks, Sydney, in Jan., 1931, but re-
transferred to Duntroon early in 1937. On
Dec. 31, 1935, Australian cadets in training
numbered 45, with an additional 11 cadets being
trained for the M.L. Government by arrange-
ment made in 1933.
* * *
(1) What was the personnel of the recent
Japanese Goodwill Mission to Australia ? (2)
Were any members of the delegation Japanese
Government officials? (3) What part did Mr.
Latham take in entertaining the delegation ?
(4) What was the cost to the Commonwealth?
—7424.
(1) The delegation consisted of Katsuji De-
buchi, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipo-
tentiary ; Yasundo Shudo, Commercial Secre-
tary of Embassy; Kaoru Toyoda, Third Secre-
tary of Embassy; and Mizuho Ishide, private
secretary to Mr. Debuchi. (2) Yes, all members
were officials of the Japanese Foreign Office.
(3) Mr. Latham entertained the delegation at
an at-home, September 6, 1935. By invita-
tion of the Commonwealth Government, he was
present at the dinner and reception given at
Canberra by the Commonwealth in honor of
the delegation. He travelled from Canberra to
Melbourne with the Ambassador, and attended
several receptions held in Melbourne in honor
of the Goodwill Mission. (4) Total cost to
the Commonwealth was £1330.
* H= * *
(1) Under the N. S. Wales Closer Settlement
Scheme, does the Government buy properties
and resell? (2) In what districts is the scheme
in operation ? (3) What acreage has been
purchased and sold? (4) When the Government
buys property, what is the method of determin-
ing its value for (a) purchase, (b) resale? (5)
Address of department in charge of scheme?
—7458.
(1) In the past the Government has acquired
properties for subdivision and resale, but no
estates have been acquired since 1930. (2)
Future acquisitions will be confined to safe
rainfall districts or areas served or. to be served
by water supply. (3) 4,028,694 acres have been
acquired and disposed of in 8967 farms. (4)
(a) Purchase price of an estate acquired by re-
tumption is determined by the Closer Settlement
Advisory Board and based on fair market value
at date of resumption, but owners dissatis-
fied with the board’s valuation may have value,
determined by the Deed and Valuation Court.
If acquired by purchase, price paid is fair
market value, fixed by agreement between Crown
and vendor. ( b ) Estates so acquired are dis-
posed of at price paid by Crown plus about
2s. 6d. per acre to cover cost of subdivision sur-
veys, road construction and administration pre-
paratory to disposal. (5) Lands Dept., Bridge-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Sources and yields of revenue from
taxation in Australia: (a) Commonwealth, (b)
States ? (2) In Great Britain ? —7546.
(1) (a) Commonwealth, 1935-36: Customs
£28,068,870, excise £13,368,847, sales tax
£9,432,483, flour tax £1,150,724, land tax
£1,326,991, income tax £8,775,562, estate duties
£1,472,860, entertainment tax £l3, war-time
profits tax £20,956, total £63,617,306. ( b ) 1934-
35: Probate and succession duties, N.S.W.
£1,693,966, Vic. £1,124.933, Q. £448,901, S.A.
£315,463, W.A. £74,076, Tas. £70,035, total
£3,727,374; stamp duties, £1,084,044, £826,056,
£501,910, £206,411, £251,868, £104,842, total
£2,975,131; land, £2,461, £494,593, £412,459,
£350,832, £121,895, £89,863, total £1,472,103;
income and dividend, £3,146,495, £2,603,512,
£1,800,477, £1,473,931, £551,800, £420,366, total
£9,996,581; unemployment relief, £5,262,621,
£1,694,571, £2,414,167, no special tax, £684,980
(financial emergency), no special tak, total
£10,056,339; family endowment, £37,778
(N.S.W. only); liquor licenses, etc., £307,332,
£192,682, £71,676, £30,815, £64,574, £16,942,
total £684,021; other licenses, £43,856, £85,387,
£38,070, £32,520, £5430, £20,381, total £225,644;
lotteries, Q. £66,750, Tas. £349,500 (including
income tax on lotteries £229,500 —£1 per head),
total £416,250; racing, £385,751, £319,389,
£79,260, £195,341, £74,367, £22,754, total
£1,076,862; motor, £1,908,130, £1,403,134,
£633,059, £565,279, £318,681, £110,586, total
£4,938,869; entertainments, £69,226, £228,195,
nil, £94,048, £73,096, £22,059, total £486,624;
other, £22,576, £21,266, £79,534, £2459, £215,309,
nil, total £341,144; grand total, £36,434,720.
(2) Great Britain, 1935-36: Income tax
£238,074,000, surtax £51,020,000, estate duties
£87,020,000, stamps £25,800,000, E.P.D. and
corporation profits £1,300,000, land tax, etc.,
£785,000, customs £196,642,000, excise
£106,700,000, motor vehicle duties (Exchequer
share) £4,977,000, total £713,218,000.
* * * *
Some details of the Borstal Institution ?
7552.
It is a reformatory in which juvenile offenders
are detained and receive industrial training and
instruction and are subject to disciplinary and
moral influences considered to be conducive to
their reformation. The institutions are not for
first offenders but for those who seem to be
drifting towards a career of crime. The mini-
mum period of detention is three years, and is
applicable to persons from 16 to 21 years of
age who have been convicted on indictment of
an offence punishable with penal servitude or
imprisonment, or convicted before a Court of
summary jurisdiction of a second offence pun-
ishable with at least one month’s imprisonment.
The name is derived from a large juvenile-adult
reformatory opened at Borstal, near Rochester
(Eng.), in 1901.
* * * *
(1) Legal definitions of the words “burglary,”
“housebreaking,” “larceny” and "theft” ? (2)
Any books relating to burglary insurance and
general accident insurance?- —7493.
(1) “Burglary” is defined as the breaking and
entering the dwelling-house of another at night
with the intent to commit a felony. Night is
considered to commence at 9 p.m. and conclude
at 6 a.m. “Housebreaking” consists of the
breaking and entering of any house in the day
with the intention to commit crime irrespective
of whether it is a dwelling or not. “Larceny”
or “theft” is defined as the wilfully wrongful
or fraudulently taking possession of the goods
of another with the felonious intent to deprive
the owner of his property in them. (2) There
are no Australian textbooks dealing specifically
with these forms of insurance, but they are
covered incidentally in Joske’s Insurance Law
in Australasia, about 255., from the Law Book
Cos., 140 Phillip-street.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the wreck of the Riverina?
(2) Wollongbar? (3) Any roads in the vicinity
of the wreck of the Riverina ? (4) How far is
Gabo Island from the mainland? (5) Overall
length, width, gross and net tonnage of the
Riverina, old Wollongbar, new Wollongbar,
Aorangi and Taroona? —7518.
(1) Sailing from Hobart to Sydney the
Riverina was wrecked near Gabo Island, April
17, 1927, by an abnormal current setting to
westward. No lives were lost. (2) The Wol-
longbar was stranded on the beach in Byron
Bay, May 14, 1921, when in heavy seas the
hawsers carried away at Byron Bay jetty. No
lives lost. (3) No. (4) 0.4 mile. (5) Riverina,
370 ft., 49.7 ft., 4793 tons, 2729 tons; old Wol-
longbar, 285.5, 40.2, 2005, 811; new Wollong-
bar, 285.1, 42.1, 2240, 874; Aorangi, 580.1,
72.2, 17,491, 10,733; Taroona, 338.2, 50.1, 4286,
1849.
* * * *
What is the verse containing the line “To
him misuse converts them into curses” ?
Author?— 7ss4.
Parents, a prosperous country, friends, birth,
riches,
All these take their value from the mind
Of the possessor. He that knows their use,
To him they’re blessings; he that knows it not,
To him misuse converts them into curses.
—Terence.
* * * *
Recipe for Welsh rarebit? —7549.
Heat gently until melted 3oz. cheese, lj table-
spoonfuls of milk or beer, l-teaspoonful of
made mustard and salt and pepper. When
melted pour over buttered toast and place under
a hot grill to brown slightly.
He H« ❖ *
Particulars of a musical instrument called cor
anglais?—7ssl.
It is a reed instrument, a sort of tenor oboe.
Its scale is two octaves and a fifth from bass
E, with the intermediate semitones. Music
for the cor anglais is written in the treble
clef, and the instrument transposes the sound
a fifth below. It was introduced by Gluck in
his “Orfeo,” Meyerbeer used it frequently,
Rossini employed it to advantage in the over-
ture to “William Tell,” Beethoven used it once,
and in Bach scores it is indicated as oboe di
caccia.
* * * *
I wish to make a duplicator for printing
handbills. (1) How is the pad made ? (2) Suit-
able ink for same ? (3) Any books on the sub-
ject ? —7434.
(1) Soak loz. of Cooper’s gelatine overnight
in enough water to cover it, taking care .that
all the gelatine is swelled. Dissolve 2oz. of
common salt in one pint of water. Heat 6oz.
of pure glycerine over the salt-water bath to
a temperature of 200 deg. F. Pour off all the
unabsorbed water and add the gelatine to the
hot glycerine. Continue heating for an hour,
stirring well and avoiding bubbles and froth.
Add 20 drops of oil of cloves. Now pour
the mixture into a shallow cake-tin and place
in a cool spot, free from dust, for at least
five hours. (2) Methyl violet 10 parts, nigrosine
20 parts, glycerine 30 parts, gum arabic five
parts, alcohol 60 parts. (3) Scientific American
Cyclopcedia of Formulas.
* * * *
(1) Are examinations for entry into the Dip-
lomatic Service held in Australia? (2), Where
can I get full information? —7495.
No; on the first Tuesday in May of each
year the prospective candidate must be passed
by the Board of Selection at the office of the
Civil Service Commission in London, which
decides whether he possesses sufficient qualifica-
tions to compete for the examinations. (2) Civil
Service Commission, Burlington Gardens,
London, W. 1., will, on application, supply full
details concerning the examination and the
selection board.
* * * *
Particulars of the prize being offered by the
Fellowship of Australian Writers for the best
brief thriller? —7520.
The prize is £5 for the best brief thriller story
not exceeding 1500 words. Entries, which close
on November 30, 1937, should be addressed to
the assistant-secretary, F.A.W., Box 3448 R,
G.P.0., Sydney, and must be signed by a pen-
name, and the author’s real name and address
should accompany entry in a sealed envelope.
All rights in winning entry are reserved to the
author. Entrance fee is Is.
* * * *
Particulars of classes in Australian literature
to be held by the W.E.A.?—JS\S.
The association proposes to hold a tutorial
class in Australian literature as part of its
summer programme. H. M. Green, librarian
at the Fisher Library, and Hartley Grattan,
American literary critic, will share the course.
Classes are to be held in the W.E.A. clubrooms,
449 a Pitt-street, commencing Monday, October
18, at 8 p.m.
How did the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Re-
public come into being? —74B6.
The Mussavet (Nationalist) party, which domi-
nated the National Council or Constituent
Assembly of the Tartars, declared the inde-
pendence of Azerbaijan on May 28, 1928, with
a capital first at Ganja and later at Baku. A
Government of 12 Ministers was formed,
which the British Government recognised as a
de facto administration in February, 1920.
On April 28, 1920, the “Hummet” (or Bolshevik)
party overthrew the existing Government. On
September 30, 1920, a military and economic
treaty was concluded between Azerbaijan and
Russia, and in the following year Azerbaijan
was declared a Soviet republic.
Brief Answers.
8.G.: You omit to state your sex, age or
occupation, all important points. As there is
still distress on exertion, it is probable that the
heart muscle is damaged and that you must cur-
tail your activities. Keep in touch with your
doctor, who will repeat the cardiograph if neces-
sary A.C.P.: It has been recommended as a
liniment for sprains, muscular and neuralgic
pains, etc. It has also been prepared in the form
of a salve for these purposes. Write to J. C.
Marconi, Bulimba, Q M.D.: (1) The manu-
facture of Lustre china has never been a
patented process controlled by any one firm;
Doulton and innumerable other potters have
made it. The only large merger in which
Doultons have been concerned was the purchase
in 1881 of the Burslem firm of Pindar, Bourne
and Cos., where the bulk of the high-grade
porcelain is still made, as distinct from the
pottery at Lambeth. (2) A matter of taste....
W. 8.: Permanent Way Material, by W. Cole
(215.), obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney....J.B.: Any married person who has
been domiciled in M.L. for two years at least
may petition for divorce. For a wife, without
just cause, to wilfully desert her husband and
leave him continuously so deserted for three
years or more is a ground for divorce in M.L.,
and the Court may be petitioned on that ground.
You will need the assistance of a solicitor to
draft the petition....J.H.G.: Phil Garlick is
a corruption of pilgarlic, which, according to
Webster, was “originally a bald head, as
humorously likened to a ‘pilled’ or peeled head
of garlic; later, a bald-headed man; now, a
man looked upon with humorous contempt or
mock pity; a poor creature” E.A.C.
Kiama (N.S.W.) means “a mysterious spirit”;
cannot trace other word C.M.: Write Aus-
tralian Museum, College-street, Sydney
D. : Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Dept., Melbourne... .T.P.L.: It has no value.
.... F.R.: Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street,
Sydney, may be able to help you J. 8.: No
correspondence course in the subject. Only way
to learn business is, to secure a position in the
trade W.P.: “The Great Australian Adjec-
tive” was written by W. T. Goodge, and
appears in The Bulletin Reciter, published by
the N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., Sydney V.H.S.:
From Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh- -
street, Sydney....J.W.G.: Sorry, but the' Service
Dept, does not undertake to solve parlor
puzzles... .R.G.; Figures available do not go
into such detail... .M.H.C.: No particulars of
the proposal have been received officially from
England. Enlistments for the British Army are
not effected in Australia. It would be neces-
sary for an applicant to journey to England at
his own expense and apply at a recruiting depot.
Before taking such action you might write to
the Under-Secretary, War Office, London, Eng-
land, asking for conditions of service and par-
ticulars of enlistment in the British Army
1.D.: Giftie is a Scotch word for gift
E. : Yes, write Anzac Fellowship of Women,
Hosking-place, Sydney M. 8.: Write Austra-
lasian Massage Association, 185 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney T.E.G.: Information obtainable
from Customs Dept., Sydney, upon furnishing
full details... ,1.D,: Yes, provided the correct
amount of postage for the weight of the news-
papers is paid... .K.T.C.: The towns referred
to in Dickens’s A Tale of Two Cities are
London and Paris... .J.W.: There is no such
breed as a Smithfield collie. The probability
is that the dog resembles one known as a
Border collie, or the English shepherd dog.
T. White, River-avenue, Ascot Vale, Vic., has
a number of Border collies. It might be
possible to breed from some of his stock and
get the type desired... .W.S.H.: Yes, German
can be self-taught if the student is intelligent.
Get in touch with Assoc. Prof. E. G. Water-
house, University of Sydney H.J.M.:
Method is described in Richardson’s Healthy
Eyes without Glasses, Angus and Robertson,
Sydney (18s. 6d.) D.A.W.: Matter of taste.
“Links” is a plural noun, though Webster notes
that it is “sometimes construed as singular.”
L.C.W.: Henry Lawson wrote “The Shame
of Going Back” E.HJ.: Presumably
“swain” has the same meaning as in Gray’s
“Elegy”... .F.C.V.M.: Write Dept, of Agri-
culture, Sydney, for pamphlet “Bacon Curing
on the Farm”... .A.G.L.: Scotland, like Wales,
is “under the rule of England” in the sense
that it is governed by a King and a Parliament
in London, but to represent a population of
five millions it returns 74 members, an average
of 67,567 constituents to a member, whereas
England’s 41,000,000 is represented by 492
members, an average of 83,333 constituents to a
member. Sik of the last 14 Ministries have
been headed by Scotsmen. In the circumstances
the cause of Home Rule for Scotland makes
slow progress F.J.T.: Whisky contains 40
to 47 p.c. of alcohol by volume; beer com-
monly varies in alcoholic strength between 4
and 7 p.c., though the figures for strong beers
and old ales may be slightly higher K.A.:
(1) Apparently C agreed to buy the property on
certain terms and was given possession under
such terms. He failed, however, to complete
the purchase, and the vendors now desire to
repossess themselves of the property. As the
partners remain owners of the property they
appear to be entitled to repossession. (2)
Cannot see how the question of interest affects
the matter if its payment was not provided
for in the agreement. (3) B could serve A with
notice of his intention to dissolve the partner-
ship, and would be entitled to his share of the
partnership assets (Many others mailed.)


The New PEPSODENT
alone contains IRIUM which
fhrillingly steps-up lustre on teeth
C
m
9
(^Af
b £ca
USB
t/Af
:W:s
Of
e^od
e */
a/o
p aj/ e
a oi
C °H(
°/. 9
a '/>t
DOUBLE THE THRILL
DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK
If Pepsodent doesn’t show up any other tooth paste you ever used... bar none!
The new Pepsodent alone con-
tains IRIUM, the spectacular new
lustre discovery. It works on a
totally new principle. It FLOATS-
AWAY film on teeth with a won-
derfully swift and gentle action.
The new Pepsodent, because it con-
tains IRIUM, thrillingly steps-up
lustre on teeth, yet is doubly safe
because it contains no pumice, no
grit! Doubly delightful because it
contains no chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM is the secret of its amazing
polishing power, its phenomenal
cleansing action, and the reason why
it gives teeth double lustre with
double safety.
Double Your Money Bach
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
PEPSODENT
‘The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTV. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
does not give you Double the thrill.
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used—bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Cn. (Aust.>
Pty. Ltd., Dept. No. 4, , Box
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
Name
Address
City..„ State
AU7374D
m
I? ''
E£m*
-
*, '
Jr
< *.v*
n i
U«r ..>,■"
m
H H
M
WS|MpiiWMK .ajia
pjpm2
JMfjj 8 ■ | ? .--■.v £;.•:■ .■ ■ ■>■
BHHBHh BBS ■ ■ 11- -0
,
■ ■••> .
COUNTRY LIFE! Where the days are long and strenuous,
and where the question of foot comfort is so necessary if
the day is to be finished without aching feet and weary body.
That is why
The "Zipp” Riding Boot
by Pike Brothers (Reg. Design No. 9292) is so popular
with horsemen. It is extremely comfortable, and its elastic
sides are so convenient, making the putting on or taking off
of the boot such an easy and simple matter. The service
of the boot is unquestioned. It is well made from
strong tan calf leather, with welted soles, and is obtainable
with “Zipp” fastener at side or front. The
“Zipp” Riding Boot is available in full or half
sizes at
3319
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street - -
- BRISBANE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
ho notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.E.L.: Sorry they won’t do. Topical verse
must have something more biting in it E.E.:
Two lines: —■
Let us sack the politician.
All the lot, with firm decision.
And get a worse 10t?... .E.R.M.: Not enough
in it for a beach rhyme R.G.: “The poem
enclosed is my initial effort in that line.” Better
make it your last unless you can get away
from such flowers of American speech as “How
come?” and “O boy!” D.F.: Disorderly
doggerel R.L.J.: Same answer as last week
—only more 50....A.8.: “On the Track” was
miles off the pad that leads to Parnassus
L.C.C.: No, we emphatically can’t find space
for 100 lines of that sort H.G.M.: A verse-
scheme that requires all that explanation is a
bit too intricate... .K.P.H.: For mercy’s sake,
let’s get away from elections and electioneering
for a bit... .J.W.O’K.: The point has been
dealt with before R.H.N.: Quite good of its
kind, but hardly our kind 8.W.: None of
that batch in our line D.G.: Doesn’t make
the grade... .D.D.McC.: We “remained un-
moved”... .F.M.W.: Smarten her up and we
might find “The Yellow Mare” a stable J.S.:
Slight... .D.F.8.: And yours, t00....C.8.:
Quite out of our ken....E.8.: Nothing new
about Picky... .H.A.L.: “The Presentation”
wasn’t worth the expense R.A.: Neatly
done, but the yarn itself is not up... .8.G.H.:
Dislike the damsel who “inspired heavenly
anthems with her snowlike purity” F.L.G.:
We couldn’t take it as a gift H.D.H.: Keep
trying; you should yet see print S.V.W.:
“Definitely No” is exactly how we felt about
it... .J.8.D.: Nothing outstanding in that batch
of antiquities... .M.S.R.: You quote Tennyson
and Byron fluently but to no purpose....
J.P.S.: If, as you say, that’s a fair sample,
we don’t want any G.D.E.: Your hero had
very little pep for a man who lived on raw meat.
... .H.L.: No, we can’t publish that or anything
like it... .D.J.E.: “Kangaroo” went out in one
bound N.H.V.: If we see that yarn again
we’ll know it by heart E.W.M.: “Flames”
burned well for a few pages, but soon flickered
out K. 0.5.: Try a church publication....
L.D.H.: Stale as last year’s eggs P.D.G.:
A collection of timeworn platitudes with no-
thing to bind them together 0.W.: Con-
centrate on quality, not quantity P.J.McC.:
“Tourist Boat” went adrift after the second
page.... R.L.: And “The Yacht” was wrecked.
... .J.M.: That weightlifter carried no weight
with us W.W.G.: Not very exciting, but it’s
an improvement on your last T.L.: “The
Scales” were overloaded with sentiment
8.L.C.: Can’t have “The Foundling” on our
doorstep F.P.G.: “Do you like these
sketches in the Russian manner?” No
T.D.: Three unexplained deaths, then two
suicides. You’ve sent it to the wrong place
M.C.: Just another borderliner —well handled
but weak on p10t... .H.E.L.: Concentrate on
the story, not on raising laughs, and it should
get through 8.N.T.: We got up to where
he’d fallen in love for the third time, then
went out to see what we could do M.P.S.:
“John was bored.” He wasn’t the only one.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC!
CORRESPONDENTS
T.P.: Our grandfathers laughed at that
wheeze F.U.L.: Drawing not bad, but we
don’t want the inky fingerprints in the corner.
H.O.: You’ve had one lesson; try us again
in 1947 K.N.: We take it the grin at the
top represents Mars, but what’s the sig-
nificance of the horde of apes?....G.A.: The
decorated border was quite g00d... .L.M.:
This week’s most horrible J.8.C.: The
Showman is emphatic we’d be open to action
for libel if we reproduced those chorus girls.
. ...P.N.S.: And your curate isn’t much better.
. ...M.8.: Drawings just a dirty smudge, and
gags none too clean... .T.E.R.: Haven’t you
ever seen a motor-car?... .G.R.: We had that
gag about a month ago C.D.: Not inter-
ested in Gandhi these days P.P.: The office-
boy copied that and we didn’t know one from
t’other T.R.G.: Liked the propeller, but j
the ’plane landed in the basket... .C.S.M.: That
swaggie again! D. 1.: Caricatures have to be
of people of importance....T.S.: Excellent;
but the original, line for line, came to hand in
the last batch of American magazines A.P.:
Yes, we buy jokes without drawings; but they
must be new L.C.F.: We’re not in the
market for fashion drawings... .M.O’K.: Send
them to the kiddies’ page of some daily
J. : Suppose all those scratches are meant
for rain, but what’s that hiding behind them?
. ...L.W.N.: Bring a truck to take away that
poster-size picture of the Queen Mary
L.R.W.: Scorfield made a better job of that.
....L. De C.: The sporting editor offers to
buy your cricketers as a warning to others
K. : Is there any chance for me?” None
on that showing... .P.F.: Plain gloom.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Erua”: A. J. Cronin is not the only
overseas author who has given Maori-
landers cause to smile —or sneer. Conan
Doyle bestowed on the country sea-
serpents, a road between Nelson and
Bendigo (Vic.), and indigenous cowboys
in huge plaited hats. Lowell Thomas, in
chronicling the escapades of Von Luck-
ner, due shortly to revisit the scene of
his M.L. exploits, mentions the “convict-
built” residences of one of his back-
grounds, and another scribe makes his
heroine eat strawberries “in the New Zea-
land fashion, with pepper”!
* * * *
“O.B.” visits the Philippines: Three
outstanding organisations account for
about two-thirds of Philippine gold-pro-
duction, valued at 2i million dollars last
year. One of these organisations is
American-controlled, another is domi-
nated by American-English interests, and
the third is bossed by Spanish-Filipino
investors. Benguet and Balatoc, the two
largest mines, produce about 1,000,000
dollars’ worth of gold a month. The
number of men and women employed in
the industry last year was 4500, and the
payroll exceeded 6,000,000 dollars. To
encourage legitimate development and
to protect the public, the Government has
created a Bureau of Mines. Manila, with
its luxurious hotels and clubs, its late-
hour cabarets (reputable and disreput-
able), its cockfighting “stadiums” and
overpowering heat and thirst, is only a
short distance from the principal produc-
tive area.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The re-establishment of
21 years’ service by the War Office is a
step for the better. The 12 years’ period
which succeeded it shared with the still-
later six years’ service the disadvantage
of turning loose men without trade or
profession, still in the prime of life, to
fend for themselves. It should be an en-
couragement to recruiting that the
Army again offers a career for life to the
man in the ranks, with a certain pension
on honorable discharge. The old 21
years’ system produced the men of the
Peninsula, Crimea and Mutiny, whose
long and intensive training gave them a
marked superiority over the largely con-
script troops they opposed in Spain or
marched with elsewhere. Long service
was a severe test under the old conditions,
but anyone who can remember the 21
years’ men who were once frequently met
with in Australia will certify to their all-
round efficiency and their worth as citi-
zens in civil life.
* * * *
“Landrost”: It might be added to the
account of Schlaghter Nek (B. 6/10/’37)
that the conspirators were tried by a
Boer jury before Boer officials and
turned off by a Boer hangman. That
the beam to which the men were hanged
broke is news. The usual version is that
the executioner bungled, having never
hanged anything more important than
Kaffirs. Anyway, after Judge Gregorow-
ski had sentenced the Jameson Raid
leaders to death at Pretoria, an ardent
patriot arrived from the Cape bringing
an ancient beam. This, he said, was the
one on which the Schlaghter Nek
martyrs had been done to death and
which had been preserved by his family
for just such an occasion as now offered.
He suggested that the Raiders should be
dangled from this very gallows, and
volunteered his services as Jack Ketch.
However, bound by a previous promise,
Oom Paul pardoned the condemned men
on payment of a £25,000 fine apiece, plus
a term in the tronk.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Controllers of profes-
sional billiards in Britain have shown a
petty spirit since the invincible Walter
Lindrum carried off the championship.
They now announce that Walter’s claim
that it is the rule to decide the title in
the holder’s country is all nonsense and
say it will be played for in England
whether or not Lindrum enters for it.
So if the Australian refuses to visit Eng-
land the title will go by default to
someone on the spot. As Walter has
the cup, the bauble will probably remain
in Australia. j
♦ * * *
“Yelpie”: English sporting papers are j
advertising a dog-whistle which, though
soundless to the human ear, emits notes
which can be heard by the deafest tyke.
Many shooting dogs, notably retrievers
and setters, are apt to be deaf, and the
new gadget overcomes their inability to
hear signals.


If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
With Phil May at Larry Foley's
When Phil May was on The Bulletin
he was a regular visitor to Larry Foley’s
gymnasium in George-street. He was as
great an admirer of Foley as, at a much
later date, David Low was of Les Darcy.
One night not long after he came to
Sydney Phil went to the “gym.” to see
Cansdell and McCaffery wrestle for £5O
a side.
McCaffery was a Californian, and had
crossed the Pacific in the train of the
Californian boxers Costello and Hergott,
who called himself “Young Mitchell.”
Cansdell was a most accomplished ath-
lete on Foley’s staff, a sort of pocket-
edition of “Professor” Miller. The “Pro-
fessor” had a few days before wrestled
SKETCHED AT FOLEY’S “GYM.” 52 YEARS AGO.
Donald Dinnie, Graeco-Roman style and
Scotch style, on the Adelaide Oval in the
presence of 4000 excited South Austra-
lians. Apt precursors of the present race
of grapplers, the “Professor” won the
Graeco-Roman and Dinnie the Scotch
style, and they divided the glory and the
dollars, which were naturally substan-
tial.
McCaffery and Cansdell did not have
4000 at their affair, but their share
of the gate-money was not to be sniffed
at.
The wrestling was preceded by a spot
of boxing, the combatants being Young
Stewart and McKenna, and during their
three-rounder Phil’s pen was busy. When
they retired for repairs the wrestlers
entered.
The betting at the beginning was 2 to
1 on the Californian. He was dressed in
a towel and red trunks, with knicks and
striped stockings. Cansdell was clad in
continuations —a combination of socks
and pants. The remainder of his raiment
was not worn by him. Norman Turn-
bull, who subsequently amused himself
by throwing weights about, was referee.
McCaffery stripped at 1411 b. Cans-
dell was a little lighter. Both men were
fit, and as they took their places on the
drugget shook hands with a seeming cor-
diality which was contradicted by their
subsequent struggles to throw each other
over.
At the word “Go” both men bounded
several feet from the sawdust and glared
upon each other with an expression of
intense and deadly hatred. Then they
clinched, and, after a short tussle, broke.
McCaffery fought for the armlock, which
Cansdell judiciously refused to allow
him. The French hug was put on several
times by both men, but nothing resulted.
Eventually Cansdell went down on his
knees, and Mac set to work to turn him
over. Getting a good grip of his head,
he worked it down till the Grecian nose
of the Australian pressed his knees, and
it seemed sovereigns to sixpences that
Mac would score. Just then, when ex-
citement was manifest among the on-
lookers, Cansdell threw a handsome
somersault and got away. But the Cali-
fornian pounced on him and put him
flat on his back.
The men retired, perspiring. Perspira-
tion and wrestling seem to be intimately
associated.
Barrington and Adamson entertained
the audience for a few minutes with the
gloves and put in some very good work,
Then Cansdell and McCaffery once more
faced the music. After a merry spin
Cansdell scored a good fall. Level peg-
ging.
Again they retired. Their place in the
ring was taken by a couple of dumbbells,
and more dumbbells followed. Then
Turnbull entered and, seizing two of the
lightest, 621 b. each, he amused himself
by playing catches with them. Then he
snatched a 1201 b. bell and lifted that a
few times. After fanning himself with
a chair for a brief space he elevated
1441 b. The reporter was going out to
fetch in the last foundation-stone laid
by Lord Carrington when Turnbull de-
sisted.
At 9.15 p.m. Cansdell and McCaffery
re-entered the arena. They shook hands
and went to work. At 9.40 Cansdell
placed McCaffery on the carpet and the
umpire called “Fall!”
Hats were thrown into the air and
handkerchiefs were waved. The reporter
snatched a hat from the hands of a
gentleman near him and threw it at a
mark in the ceiling. It arrived at the
gasolier and, catching on, remained sus-
pended.
When the reporter recovered his senses,
the referee was announcing that Cansdell
had won.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Toga”: Hitler has ordered two inches
to be docked from the backs of men s
shirts to conserve material. To the un-
initiated no great hardship appears to be
involved. It was a war-time economy
in England ; nor is it unknown in Aus-
tralia even now. I bought two shirts
for a trifle under ten bob. It was when
I put the first one on that the full
infamy of the manufacturer was revealed.
He had not only cut the price, but such
a considerable area off the tail that the
darned thing wouldn’t tuck in.
* * * *
It is refreshing to come across a pro-
fessor who can discuss a public ques-
tion without suggesting that Australians
should worship Russia or fight Germany
and Italy or boycott Japan. F. A. Bland
is the professor, and he said this the
other day:—
We must learn to place more responsi-
bility on our local authorities. The quality
of a nation depends upon the type of
local-government. Already there is far too
much overlapping.
Far too much, indeed, and vote-catching
Governments and private members and
ambitious officials are to blame for a
lot of it. More local self-government,
free from Big City meddling, is one of
Australia’s greatest needs.
* 4c * *
Comparatively genial after having
weathered yet another internal U.A.P.
leadership storm, Argyle says “attempts
by the Labor party to implement its
policy as part of the price of its support
to the Government will be stoutly re-
sisted.” With Dunstan in a ticklish posi-
tion the Vic. Opposition will get plenty
of opportunities for resisting.
* * * *
“Ologist”: Some learned persons,
whether in pride of knowledge or from
genuine desire to put us on the right
track, would have us abandon certain
spellings that have become firmly estab-
lished in the language for forms claimed
to be more correct. Mahomet is an
example. First “Mohammed” was wished
on us as the proper name of the Prophet;
now purists insist that the correct form
is “Muhammad” with a dot under the
“h.” Which brings me to a racy “Plain
English” article (B. 22/9/’37) wherein the
“Tartar” of common usage yields place
to “Tatar.” Fowler says curtly that the
latter spelling “may well be left to the
ethnologists,” and I agree.
* * * *
“Stratford”: My firm opinion is that
what Shakspeare really put into Dame
Quickly’s mouth when she was recording
the passing of Falstaff (B. 6/10/’37) was
“His nose was as sharp as a pen and he
tabled [i.e., banqueted] on green fields.”
Shakspeare wasn’t much of a classical
scholar, but however little Latin he had
he may very well have heard quoted that
passage in Virgil where .Eneas and his
followers regale themselves with food set
out on “grassy tables.”
* * * *
Elioth Gruner, back in Waverley (Syd-
ney), is still murmuring compliments to the
cherry- and apple-blossom in the orchards
of Armidale. The artist’s brush has been
capturing them in their spring finery. He
and secretary Brian Cannell discovered
one of New England’s art treasures, the
altar piece in the chapel of the Ursuline
Convent. It is of Italian marble, and
was a gift from the district’s well-known
Fitz Gerald family. The chapel has a
semicircular ceiling of oak.
* * * *
Rex Julius, son of black-and-white
artist Harry, is just back from a holiday
in Alice Springs. He took his brushes
and colors with him, and has brought
back some paintings that suggest the
desert as an artist’s paradise. Great
salmony-pink stretches flecked with the
pale jade of the young spinifex, the
primrose of the dried. Where the Todd
River cleaves the hills around Alice
Springs, gleam basalt and granite and
opal layers. According to the young
traveller the thing to do is to go up by
goods train. From Fort Augusta to
Alice Springs each man is his own pro-
vider. But everybody puts his cards on
the table —a newspaper spread on one
of the seats and you stretch for what
you like best.


1
SYDNEY
eean ■
AUCKLAND
w
WUUNGTO
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features Include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc. 0
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
HE WAS AS ROUND
AS A BARREL
Protruding Stomach Made
Him Look Deformed.
Excess fat is unhealthy and unpleasant—
for both men and women. It should be got
rid of whenever it appears, whether early in
life or late. This man, for all his three score
years and ten, determined to reduce his weight.
Read how he succeeded:—
“A few years ago I felt I was almost finished.
I was as round as a barrel, for I am not very
tall, and with my protruding stomach I looked
deformed. My weight was 15 stone 10 lbs.,
and on top of it all I suffered so badly with
rheumatism that I was no longer able to work.
I started taking Kruschen Salts, and now both
rheumatism and fat have disappeared. My
weight is now 12 stone 8 lbs. I can dig my
garden, and do my own work, in spite of my
70 years.”—V.R.
The six salts in Kruschen assist the internal
organs to throw, off each day the wastage
and poisons that encumber the system. Then,
little by little, that ugly fat disappears.
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA” sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. , . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall he
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUHXS,PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
w.
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £ 3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252IBB), Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Australia Second
Many thousands of Australians would
willingly give some of their time to train-
ing for defence purposes; but the
ambitious volunteer is not encouraged.
A camp of divisional signallers was
held. An employee of a motor-distribut-
ing firm, a key man, could not get leave
to attend; business was too brisk. A
tram conductor, another key man, wanted
to go. He also was refused leave, being
informed that traffic matters transcended
every other consideration. His employer
is, of course, a Government department.
God help us if war does come in the
night! No party is game to fight selfish
departments or selfish employers. —K.
(N.S.W.).
Cost of Coming to Town
I live in one of Sydney’s northern
suburbs, exactly four miles from my
office. I own a small British car which
uses one gallon to 40 miles of normal
running. Coming to the office with
normal traffic costs me 2d. for petrol
and perhaps another penny in wear and
tear on tyres, oil, etc. A third of the
petrol cost goes, of course, in petrol tax,
and the Government has a lot of other
taxes from the petrol and oil com-
panies, plus duty, plus taxes on the
profit from the sale of the car to me.
But this doesn’t satisfy it —it gets 6d. in
toll out of me to help pay for its
£10,000,000 bridge. So that my direct
charges when I come to town are:
Pence.
Paid to Government for petrol tax
. and bridge toll 6 2-3
For petrol (outside petrol tax) and
running expenses 2 1-3
No, I’m not growling. Like most
other Australian taxpayers I have long
ago learnt how much virtue there is in
the saying that blessed are the meek.
Some people are worse off than I am,
proportionally; they live only a mile
from the bridge.—E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
Blaming the Admiralty
Referring to the “attack” on H.M.S.
Basilisk by “an unknown submarine,” an
“Age” correspondent wrote: “The
Valencia Government, probably with the
object of straining Anglo-Italian relations,
reported that a torpedo of Italian manu-
facture had been found in the vicinity of
the attack. Now the British Admiralty
officially reports that no such attack was
made at all.” That was all right; but the
“Age” caption was “British Admiralty’s
Appalling Blunder”! I have got used
to suppressions and amplifications of
cabled “news” with the obvious intention
of creating bad blood internationally. But
to blame the Admiralty for the inven-
tion of some lopminded, red-eyed fellow
in Europe is really too much. It knocks
the breath out of you. —K. K. (Vic.).
Training of Air Pilots
Touching “The Training of Pilots” (B.
22/9/’37). Although £5O is asked for the
A-license scholarships, the “contract rate”
for the B commercial license is £5OO,
though a particularly apt pupil could get
flying hours only for about £250. Aver-
age is 15 to 20 hours’ dual instruction at
£3, and 100 hours’ solo flying at £2 per
hour.
The truth is that there are plenty of B
commercial licensed pilots who can’t get
flying jobs, some who have other jobs
and do joy-riding in the week-ends, and
some who are working for £6 per week —
a fine reward for intensive study, prac-
tical flying experience and large financial
outlay!
Many B pilots are willing to work for
nothing, and do so in order to get flying
hours in their logbooks—especially hours
on the larger machines. The “shortage”
is realised by the Civil Aviation Board
for what it is—namely, a glut. The last
theory examination for applicants for
the B license contained a question which
was of a much higher standard than any
set in previous examinations and took
30 to 40 minutes to do. The subject con-
tained 11 questions—the time allowed
was 2j hours!
What Australia needs is thousands of
militarily-trained pilots (the cost would be
comparatively small), assistance to men
already qualified who can no longer
afford flying—and short shrift for every
idiot who talks of co-ordinating aerial
transport with antiquated, militarily-
vulnerable, fixed-track methods. We
have enough commercial pilots for
present requirements; and some of them
have the seat out of their pants.—L. P.
(N.S.W.).
Penalising the Casual Worker
In Queensland a relief worker may,
casually and intermittently, earn up to
£1 6s. 9d. per week above the relief
scale allotted to him. All earnings other
than relief have to be declared weekly.
Heaven help the man “lucky” enough to
be able to show such earnings a few
weeks in succession! His relief scale of
payment is immediately reduced.
Should he take a casual job, he,
whilst in work, must contribute to the
unemployment insurance fund. When
the job cuts out he must wait three weeks
for payment from the fund.
At present, the only avenue of em-
ployment for the unskilled worker is on
costly municipal loan projects. Engage-
ment of labor is effected through Gov-
ernment Labor Bureaux, and preference
is given to the man who has the longest
registration as being out of work.
It has been suggested to the Minister
that local authorities be permitted to pay
relief workers the difference between
their relief scale of payment and the
basic rate, no mari in full-time work to
be dispensed with. No good! Un-
employed-relief tax collected in Queens-
land far exceeds the disbursements made.
—Candid (Q.).
Germany and Mandates
It is plain that the question of the
return of German colonies is becoming
an obsession with the Nazis, and obses-
sions about lost territories are inflam-
mable materials.
The South African Government has
taken a sensible view. Its Minister of
Defence has made an appeal for closer
German relations with S. Africa and the
Empire on the basis of a fair solution of
the colonial problem.
No nation which collected a mandate
or new territory after the war will gain
as much by sticking to it as by having a
contented and peaceful-minded Germany.
There are some colonies which will not
be handed back —those which have been
annexed by Japan. This makes it impos-
sible to think of handing back New
Guinea, which in any case is not pro-
ductive of the materials which Germany
most needs, nor suitable as an outlet for
its overflowing population.
In theory, mandated territories should
not benefit nations holding the mandates,
which are supposed to be exercised purely
in. the interests of the local inhabitants.
So, again, no mandatory Power should
feel anything but relief at being able to
transfer a mandate to somebody else.
It might reasonably be arranged for a
start to give Germany an African man-
date or two and see how it works out.
Germany is the only great Power
which has no colonies, and it is not likely
to put up with that position for ever. —
M.H.E. (N.S.W.).


(1) Henry Handel Richardson.
By M. BARNARD ELDERSHAW
IN the ever-lengthening list of successful Australian
writers it is safe to prophesy that there will be a
permanent place for Henry Handel Richardson.
Her work, which critics rank with the master-
pieces of contemporary European literature, did much
to break down overseas indifference to Australian
letters.
Henry Handel Richardson was born in Mel-
bourne, the daughter of a doctor, was educated at
the Presbyterian Ladies’ College, and early showed
talent for music and for writing. Her family fostered
her gift for music, and she went to Leipzig to study.
After three and a half years there she decided
that she would never reach the standard she had
set, and gave up music as a career.
She went to England, lived in a cottage at
Harrow, and there, and on the Riviera, she wrote
her first book, Maurice Guest, published in 1909.
Set in Leipzig’s student world, it tells, through 650
pages, of the tragic love of an English boy for Louise
Dufrayer, an Australian student.
It was a remarkable first novel, brilliant, mature
and complete. It had taken her five years to write
it, and a few connoisseurs recognised it, treasured it
and refused to let it be forgotten. Nothing was known
of the author, who shunned publicity, and there was
no doubt apparently in anybody’s mind but that it
was the work of a man.
A year later Hsnry Handel Richardson published
a second book very different in kind and quality, The
Getting of Wisdom, the story of a little girl, Laura
Rathbotham, at “The Ladies’ College” in Melbourne.
She had been working on it concurrently with Maurice
Guest, finding relief in minor tragedy from the major
tragedy of the senior book. Gerald Gould acclaimed
it as “the best of all contemporary school stories,”
but it won her censure as well as praise, and inevit-
ably revealed the fact that she was a woman. No
man could write so intimately of a girls’ school or
of the psychological development of the adolescent
Laura.
In 1912 Henry Handel Richardson visited Aus-
tralia to gather material for an Australian trilogy.
She was by now married to John Robertson, a pro-
fessor of London University, and it was in her study
at their home, a large upper room overlooking the
trees of Primrose Park and shut out from the world
by double baize doors, that she wrote The Fortunes
of Richard Mahony.
The first volume came out in 1917 during the
war and received little attention. The second, The
Way Home, published in April, 1925, suffered the
same fate as its predecessor, but four years later the
third, Ultima Thule, won instant recognition in Eng-
land and America. To the trilogy she added a post-
script in the title piece of a collection of short stories,
The End of a Childhood.
Mrs. Robertson is now a widow, childless, and
divides her time between London and her cottage in
Dorset, following in seclusion her natural bents
towards music, literature, philosophy. She has never
sought publicity in any way, has never joined a club.
She has travelled widely in Europe, and is an expert
linguist.
In thirty years she has produced six books (it
took fifteen of them to make the Mahony trilogy),
but they have come out of the core of her life. Her
work owes nothing to the stimulation of applause.
She has had the certainty of purpose to perfect each
book before she gave it to the world, the strength
not to exploit her talent but to keep it for her art.
The result is that the books have an air of having
been lived with and lived in. They are an evolution
rather than a fabrication, thoroughly matured in the
mind. This is the perfect way to write novels, yet
few have the stamina to do it. There are not many
novels'with which either their author or anybody else
would care to live for fifteen years.
Henry Handel Richardson is a writer of tragedies.
Each book in varying degrees of intensity describes a
losing battle against life. In The Getting of Wisdom
fie battle is only a skirmish. Laura loses her balance
And her integrity because she has not the strength
of character to maintain them against the influences
that surround her school life. In Maurice Guest
the tragedy is complete and the loss total. Maurice
is so undermined by his hopeless love that his mind
and character ravel away, and in the end he kills
himself. In this there is an element of accident, the
tragedy is external. Had he never known Louise his
life might well have been happy and successful. The
story of Richard Mahony is a more essential tragedy.
It is not dependent on outward circumstances ; the
seed of failure is in himself and comes to its inevit-
able flowering.
The Mahony trilogy is the author’s most im-
portant work. In it her philosophy of life is matured,
her great gifts are at their best, and she has found
the most sympathetic medium for their exercise. A
brief analysis of this long novel will best illustrate
Henry Handel Richardson’s contribution to literature.
A young Irish doctor of good family comes to
Australia to make his fortune on the goldfields. Fail-
ing to live either by digging or by his profession, he
opens a store. His life is poor, lonely and uncon-
genial. He marries, taking his wife from the house-
hold of a good-natured but vulgar innkeeper. In
such surroundings Mary’s childish sweetness and
refinement shine by contrast. They lose their first
child, and the store fails.
Mahony then practises as a doctor, is successful
and respected, but he finds the life insupportable and
longs for England. He sells his practice when it
begins to flourish, and they go to England. But Mary
is incongruous among her husband’s friends, and there
is no peace or happiness for them there. They return
to Australia, and Richard makes money, almost for-
tuitously, out of mining shares.
HENRY HANDEL RICHARDSON.
A son, Cuffy, and twin girls are born to them,
and it seems as if they will be happy. But not for
long. The money is lost through a fraudulent friend,
and Richard finds himself, ageing and delicate, at the
foot of the ladder again. He becomes involved in a
debt which he is too proud to reveal to his wife, and
the debt becomes a secret terror and exasperation.
He decides toJry his fortune in the country, and, led
astray by fine tales of a big mine about to be opened,
sets, up a practice, at Barambogie.
Here, too, things go badly. His pride offended,
his eccentricities frighten his patients; the practice
falls away. One of the children, Lallie, dies, and the
faulty setting of a boy’s leg, over which the father
threatens to bring a lawsuit, makes the place unten-
able. _
Mahony gets an appointment as. a port doctor,
and is for a time almost happy at the seaside resort,
but now his health begins to fail and with it his brain.
His collapse leave's the family well-nigh penni-
less. Mary is able to get a postmistress-ship in a small
country town. Mahony goes into a private mental
hospital, and, when Mary can no longer pay the
fees, to an asylum. Here his condition rapidly be-
comes worse, and Mary, horrified by the ill-treatment
to which he was subjected, moves heaven and earth
to get him out again. The last months of his life
Mahony spends in the tiny wooden dwelling attached
to the post office, happier in his illusions than he had
been in all the rest of his life. The book ends with
his death and burial.
To this in The End of a Childhood the author
adds a postscript. After Richard’s death Mary
struggles on as best she can to keep a home for her
children. When the chance to marry again comes
she refuses it, after much painful thought, for the
sake of the children. Whatever happens she will
never desert them. But she meets with an accident,
neglects herself (still for the children), and when at
last she sees a doctor it is too late to save her life.
Now all that she dreaded for them happens. They
are separated and thrown upon the unwilling charity
of relations. Detail by detail, the picture of their
forlorn helplessness is built up.
Hand-in-hand Cuffy and Lucie went back
to the garden and sat down on the wood of
the wood stack. There they stayed: they didn’t
know what to do with themselves, and the day
seemed to have lasted years already. Very soon
the rattle of the sewing-machine came out to
them; and this went on and on; for the first •
thing Aunt Tilly did was to sew mourning for
them, out of some old black dresses of
Mamma’s (the kind of stuff you didn’t ever
make boys’ clothes of!). But she didn’t know
that, or how to sew them, and the things she
made were simply awful: Mamma would never
have let them go out such sights. Lucie’s dress
pinched her under the arms, and one leg of his
knickerbockers hung down longer than the
other. But when he showed her it she didn’t
take any notice, and said a little thing like that
didn’t matter. (Never would he be able to go
to school in them!)
It ends, however, on a note of hope, small but
clear. Life is before Cuffy. In the coach leaving
home he sheds his secret tears. Then he smells wattles
in bloom.
And shutting his eyes, the better to drink
in the adored scent, he sniffed and sniffed, till
the dust all but choked him, and his head went
giddy.
And from now on his spirits continued
steadily to rise, hope adding itself to hope, in
fairy fashion. Just as mile after mile combined
to stretch the gulf that would henceforth yawn
between what he had been and what he was
to be.
This is the full and complete tragedy of Mahony’s
life down to its last consequence in the lives of his
wife and children. It works out with the inevitability
of a Greek tragedy and reveals as the essence of
Richardson’s philosophy the Greek proverb'“Char-
acter is fate.”
The trilogy has one theme only, the working
out of Mahony’s character to its logical fulfilment
in disaster. There is not a paragraph in the book
that is not focused to this end, hence its most satisfy-
ing unity. The background is shown perpetually
through Mahony’s eyes. It is not a picture of Aus-
tralia but of Mahony’s Australia. (For this the author
offers in some sort an apologia to the country of her
birth at the beginning of Ultima Thule.) The gold-
fields, Barambogie, the seaside resort where he is
port doctor, Gymgurra, where he dies, are portrayed
with harsh monotony. Here is the brief, biting pic-
ture of Gymgurra.
Gymgurra, two wide, ludicrously wide,
cross roads, at the corners of which were clus-
tered three or four shops, a bank, a hotel, the
post office, the lockup, one and all built of
an iron-grey stone that was almost as dark as
the earth itself. There were no footpaths, no
gardens, no trees: indeed, as she soon learnt,
in Gymgurra the saying ran that you must walk
three miles to see a tree; which, however, was
not quite literally true, for, on the skyline,
adjoining a farm, there rose a solitary speci-
men —a unicum.
The minor characters in the book are an exten-
sion of the background. Each convinces as a human
being, but in the long sweep of the novel they are
all seen in relation to Mahony, as obstructions in
his difficult path. They are not monsters but human
irritants. Even their good qualities, their kindness
and willingness to help, are turned by his abnormally
sensitive pride into manifestations of obtuseness. Like
the landscape; they drum on the reader’s nerves be-
cause he inevitably identifies himself with Mahony.
• The background, natural and human, is built
up of many small touches until it becomes a vast
cumulation. The action of the book is of the same
kind. Incident is laid to incident, natural, homely,
trifling, but in the mass terrible and overwhelming.
It is a triumph of persistence. The effect of the book
is cumulative, so quotation cannot do it justice.
The style is bare and plain. The author does
not claim to be a stylist. Prose and theme are closely
modelled to one another. The prose does not com-
pete with the narrative. It is in a way inconspicuous,
because it is so much part of the story. The narra-
tive is told largely from within, through the mind of
Mahony, Mary or, most poignantly, of the child
Cuffy. So most of the prose is in character ; as in the
first extract quoted, a great deal of it is in broken
sentences, the shorthand of the mind.
It is not enough to say that the Mahony trilogy
is a great tragedy. That is not the last word. It
faces towards life as well as towards destruction. As
Richard is defaced by life, so Mary rises with new
courage to face it. Her nobility shines in the dark
canvas. If the end is defeat the book is still racy
with life and action. The emotions it evokes are
not the ugly and barren ones of horror and repul-
sion but a nobler compassion. It is a contribution
towards understanding. That is the great test of a
tragedy.
Publications: Maurice Guest, 1909; The Getting of
Wisdom, 1910; The Fortunes of Richard Mahony: Australia
Felix (1917), The Way Home (1925) and Ultima Thule (1929) ;
Two Studies, 1931; Christkindleins Wiegenlied: a Carol,
1931; The End of a Childhood, 1934.


DANGER
9»
10%
AS*
&
o
:CS*
,c\
e*'
AC?
V>
O
d e<
?^ oV
o*
&
n-A
*£>,
?0
,t^ e
&&&&&'
•dip
<!»
V ?WC<
e*
\P5_
aj*S
es 6
.fc tf>
-C*v'
eS>
fr*!
o'
Jtpy
A*'
ol
*9
vs
A*
cc
*> e
e .
,vvO
JVjV
<*
xc&.
£&
VP
•o®-'
O^
,e^
Xfi'
o' v
c\e'
\A e
e*9
W
V»
fiP*
\A e
o*
*JP
\P
KP
A®*'
<*#
**
\t*
’vc'
m
4 c ’
*
j£. *> Z^e
A*
A>&
eje
k Vtv c
SP°V
A|o^
*£*
OA
cV?
\Xv’
feVo’YV* -
\£A<.¥S* .AdA
IW^'
s*>~ \ev» v
fiSsfe?
28.9.31
A*
# x.pa At
Safety First!
“Syd. Morn.
Vv Use irw\»
DOUBLE D
&umiufituA SxPuwt
it cleans quicker than petrol,
hut is not dangerous to use
Almost every day we read in the papers of people
being burned (sometimes fatally) by using petrol for
cleaning purposes. You should not run this risk—it is not
necessary, for Double “D” Eucalyptus (the purest and
strongest Eucalyptus sold in Australia) cleans quicker than
petrol, and is absolutely safe to use.
Double “D” Eucalyptus is particularly suitable for all
cleaning purposes because it is Double Distilled and is
entirely free of all impurities. Double “D” will clean spots,
stains or grease-marks from any type of material or
upholstery, and will do it quickly and safely without leaving
the slightest after-mark.
Warning: Be sure to use only the genuine Double “D” Eucalyptus
Extract for cleaning purposes, as ordinary eucalyptus OIL usually
contains many impurities, and therefore is not suitable.
17* tt rirvi no Thousands of people are now smashing Flu-Colds
**-*'-' ■CULUJ. overnight with the Double “D” 3-way Treatment.
Read the circular which is wrapped around every bottle—it will give you
full particulars and tell you dozens of other different uses. Never be without
Double “D” Eucalyptus in your medicine chest —it is Australia’s National
Remedy.
9d ENORMOUS SALES
1/3
Double “D”
&ucalujituA Sxtluct
Win your fight
against Rheumatism
take
DF SHELDON’S
GIN PILLS
-fT.
■J
: I
1
Make certain of winning YOUR
fight against Rheumatism by taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, the leading
Kidney Tonic sold in Australia.
D HEUMATISM is never serious
at the onset, but usually takes
months, sometimes even years, before
it becomes serious. Now the point
we want to bring home to you is that
it is in its early stages that you should
attack it, for it is then an easy matter
to drive Rheumatism right out of
your system for good and all, whereas
if you wait until it becomes unbear-
able it will take a far longer time to
dispel.
It is therefore obvious that the way
to win your fight against Rheumatism
is to attack it now—begin this very
day—call at your Chemist’s and buy
a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
and take according to directions.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are
made in one of the most modern
plants in Australia from the
highest quality ingredients
that money can buy. They
will assist the Kidneys to
quickly expel all excess uric
acid and other impurities
which have accumulated in
the blood streams and
which are the primary cause
of your Rheumatism. After a few days you will notice a decided
improvement—your Rheumatism will begin to fade away and your
general health will also greatly benefit.
Take the first step in completely ridding your system of Rheu-
matism by buying your bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to-day.
Every Chemist always stocks them.
DrSHELDONS
GIN PILLS
FOR THE RIDNE
27 Pills, 1/9 60 Pills, 2/9.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fg
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regulai
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
s v* '\' ov &x mt d&
% v 0° ft x
,io\ .••••
* ..,^>' 6 ••••>
r’
S #”
.•• o";' Vft"
■■■'^.P'>'b^ 0


RATIONAL RADIO offers
RATIONAL CONSTRUCTION—RATIONAL APPEARANCE
and RATIONAL PRICES
Rational Radio, as its name implies, is a sane, sensible receiver con-
structed to give practical, satisfying service.
It isn’t a radio requiring continual fixing. “Rational” is specially designed
for the home which requires untroubled radio enjoyment.
All Rational Models incorporate every worth-while feature —are engineer-
designed, and constructed with scientific accuracy—and, most important
of all, are sold at a sane price, using components which ensure efficient,
inexpensive operation.
Briton Console Cabinet (at right) features
the following models:—
MODEL 11.—5/6 Dual - wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C. and 12in. Speaker,
complete in Console Cabinet.
List Price 33 guineas
MODEL 12.—A.C./D.C. Dual-wave, 6-
valve and Baretter, Receiver, with A.V.C.,
complete in Console Cabinet.
List Price 34 guineas
MODEL 17.—5-valve Dual-wave Battery-
operated Receiver, complete in Console
Cabinet. Low battery consumption of 12ma.
List Price 33 guineas
MODEL 21.—5-valve Dual-wave Vibrator
Receiver, with 6-volt Accumulator, A.V.C.,
complete in Console Cabinet.
List Price . 36 guineas
m
~, >
L
Briton Console De Luxe (at left) features:
MODEL 19.—6/7 A.C. Dual-wave
Receiver, with 12in. imported Magnavox
Speaker, ELS output tube, built-in line
filter, complete in De Luxe Console
Cabinet. List Price ...... 39 guineas
MODEL 18.—-7 - valve Dual - wave
Battery-operated Receiver, complete in
De Luxe Console Cabinet with four B
Batteries and one (1) 145 amp. A
Battery. List Price ...... 40 guineas
Mantel Model Cabinet (at right) features
two Models:—
MODEL I.*-—“The Buccaneer,” 4/5
Dual-wave A.C. Receiver, in Mantel
Cabinet. List Price 18 guineas
MODEL 15.—4-valve Broadcast Battery
Receiver, with full A.V. control, 6in.
Permag. Speaker, complete in Mantel
Cabinet. Low battery consumption of
l ima. List Price . 21 guineas
The following models are featured in the Briton
Loughboy Cabinet (as above) : •-
MODEL 9.—4/5 Broadcast A.C. Receiver, with
A.V.C., complete in Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price 23 guineas
MODEL 10.—4/5 Dual-wave A.C. Receiver, with
A.V.C., complete in Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price . . 25 guineas
MODEL 13.—A.C./D.C. Broadcast Receiver, 5-
valve and Baretter, with A.V.C., complete in
Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price 23 guineas
MODEL 16.—5-valve Battery Broadcast Receiver,
with large dial and complete in Loughboy Cabinet.
Low battery consumption of 12ma.
List Price . 28 guineas
MODEL 20.—5-valve Broadcast Vibrator Receiver,
with 6-volt Accumulator, A.V.C., complete in
Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price 34 guineas
All Rational Radio Receivers are available on Rational Hire
Purchase Terms under a Rational Guarantee.
RATIONAL RADIO
BRITON
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO Pty. Ltd.
152-156 PARRAMATTA RD„ PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Victorian Distributor:
A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd.,
“The Brightest Spot in Melbourne,”
416 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
Telephone:
L 3621 (3 lines).
Queensland Distributor:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co.,
111 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
