

1
:
It
5?
i
r
! I I
HUH
ffll
3
/
w,
Through the dangers of city
streets the guiding hand of the
man on point duty safely directs
endless streams of traffic.
Hamilton s (Australasia) Limited
direct your investments to ensure
safety and security.
For particulars apply:
Hamilton* (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £250,000.
Head Offices KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W.—’Phone, Armidale 150; Box No. 123 Armidale.
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building,
89-9 1 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
* Bth Floor,
A.M.P. Chambers,
Edward Street,
Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 101 7N.
jH
QUEENSLAND:
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3008.
gj
Wednesday, October 6, 1937.
5S Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SCREEN STORY COMPETITION.
Entries for “The BulIetin”-Cinesound Screen
Story Competition * close on January 31, 1938.
Cinesound Productions, Ltd., offers a special
prize of £100 for the story most suitable for
adaptation as a screen play, and undertakes to
buy any other stories considered suitable. “The
Bulletin” offers prizes of £30, £15 and £5, with
a special prize of £5 for the best brief story of
1500 words, in addition to payment at “Bulletin”
rates for. all stories published; Stories must
not exceed 6500 words.
Entries to be addressed:—
Short Story Competition,
c/o “THE BULLETIN,”
Box 252IBB, G.P.O., Sydney.
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
{Near Bridge Street ).
Latest Pictures by leading Aus-
tralian Artists. Gallery now
reopened after renovations and
rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. J P u M ed
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates m additio to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid tor at
Australian resid ent or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which .must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished,, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume , and
nf the author must accompany each entry in a seaiea envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges.worthyofan aard
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the wrze win oe
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
THE VANISHING KOALA.
Ten years ago the Queensland Government
declared an open season for the koala or native bear,
mainly as a measure of relief for the unemployed,
and before the season ended over half a million had
been slaughtered. To-day the koala is in danger
of extinction in that State. The same is true of N. S.
Wales, where competent observers consider that only
200 remain in existence, and Victoria, where its num-
bers are estimated at 1000. It has become extinct in
South Australia, and in Westralia is known only as
a fossil.
This quaint and harmless animal, which, repro-
duced as a toy, has become popular throughout the
world, and whose value as an advertising agent has
been proved to be unique for Australia, was assuredly
doomed to the glass-case of the museum until Noel
Burnet a few years ago established Koala Park at
Pennant Hills (N.S.W.), and in the face of official
discouragement endeavored to preserve it from the
fate of flie dodo and the moa.
Burnet’s efforts, unsupported, may be too late
to save the koalas of Queensland and N. S. Wales.
There is more hope for the sturdier species of Vic-
toria, where the task of preserving the animal is
encouraged by the Government, and from there
comes the first serious literature on the subject outside
the records of learned societies.
Almost simultaneously, Robertson and Mullens
have published Koala, by Charles Barrett (25.), and
The Call of the Koala, by Ambrose Pratt (65.). Bar-
rett’s book is a small popular account of the native
bear and its' habits, with excellent illustrations, very
suitable for those who merely wish to have a general
knowledge of this interesting Australian. Barrett
is in error in assuming that the first white man to
record the discovery of the koala remains anony-
mous. His name was Barracks. He was a young
man who came to Australia and returned to England
with Governor Hunter, and he found the animal while
on a short exploring trip with a convict named Wilson
in the vicinity of Bargo. This was 10 years after the
foundation of the settlement, and proves that the
koala could not have been common in the vicinity
of Sydney.
Ambrose Pratt’s book is a more ambitious effort,
in which he has called in the aid of scientific colla-
borators without in any way detracting from its
general readability. Pratt advances the interesting
theory that the heavy mortality of koalas in zoos
and private sanctuaries, where it has always been
difficult to breed and rear them, is due to the cyano-
getic properties of certain gum leaves; that is, their
capacity at uncertain times to generate prussic acid, so
that, fed on these, the koalas in captivity have been
poisoned.
Advancing this theory, he claims that, whereas the
northern koalas prefer gum leaves that contain cineol,
the southern animals prefer the varieties that contain
phellandrine, and his explanation here is that, as the
koala does not perspire, the cineol has the effect of
lowering its body temperature in hot climates, and
phellandrine of raising it in cooler areas. The koala
may be killed by too much cineol, which produces a
state of coma. The theory is advanced seriously, but
is somewhat unconvincing, and is contested by those
who have spent years in rearing koalas. The real
importance of Pratt’s theory lies in drawing attention
to the fact that no research work of any conclusive
character has yet been done by scientists on these
important components of eucalyptus oils.
Pratt has wandered freely into the dangerous
realm of animal psychology with a declaration that
the mature male koala collects a harem. The experi-
ence of others is that the koala is promiscuous, and
mixed groups, even with a preponderance of males,
dwell together without disagreement.
As to the value of the koala to man, a chapter
is devoted to the abduction arm splint, used in cases
of infantile paralysis, which was devised by Sir Colin
Mackenzie after a study of the deltoid muscle in the
koala.
The Call of the Koala is something more than
an interesting study of an interesting animal, and by
reason of its diffusion of existing knowledge Pratt has
done material service in the effort to save the koala
from extinction.
T.D.M.
Making the Centre Familiar.
Soon Central Australia will be as well known
to Australians as Tibet, Japan, Chicago and other
remote places. Steadily a fine shelf of literature on
it is being put together. Coober Pedy, where the opal
gougers live under the ground, has become as familiar
as anyplace in Australia ; the ants that make distended
honey-bags of their bodies, the frog that fills himself
with water and the vanishing race that partly subsists
on such creatures must by now be as well known as
koalas.
t hese old friends and others appear once more in
the latest book inspired by visits to the Centre: J. H.
Croll’s Wide Horizons (Angus and Robertson ; Bs. 6d.).
That is the only striking fault with the book —it all
does ring very familiar, an impression emphasised by
some of the photographs that go with it. None the less
it is an excellent book about the Centre. Though
much of the ground has been covered and covered,
and despite the fact that he paid four visits before
setting the observations of his wanderings down on
paper, the author writes with an air of surprise which,
with his graceful manner of writing, makes charming
reading, and an enthusiasm that is quite infectious,
After his four long trips, he says, he is “still unsatis-
tied, still eager, still prepared for wonders” ; and after
reading this rich, glowing, pleasant account telescop-
mg those trips there will be many who will feel that
among things worth having would be the experience
Cro?l°has planned ° D
Croll has planned for himself. i
~ as ,^ as k een suggested, much of what
1 * r " u Crol L reC u ord , S S n 6 u 1 f ami * iar> the l-6 1S
much in the book that will be new to the most avid
reader of the literature of the Centre. That applies
to things observed, but much more so to Mr. Croll’s
comment on those things. He is very clearly descrip-
tive ; the whole place can be Seen in his always grace-
fully-written pages, and there are dozens of meetings
and incidents that nobody else has experienced, or,
at any rate, that nobody else had set down as he does,
This fine piece of observing and description is typical
of the book’s flavor:
t j w ‘ . . . . « ,
I had never before seen such a sight. At first glance
the air seemed full of Budgerigahs. They were 10 or
20 deep, and they came in a long procession which
stretched back farther than the eye could carry. Some-
times 20ft. up, sometimes just out of arm’s length, they
swept on above us in a green cloud which seemed end-
less. The crisp beat of multitudes of tiny wings produced .
a sound like the dry rustling of a swarm of locusts;
through it ran a faint lisping—the voices of the birds.
Unlike most parrots they did not scream as they flew,
but merely whispered softly.
How mate kept by mate in these hurrying thousands
and where they were all to find nesting hollows were
conundrums quite beyond our guessing.
Evidently they knew of this waterhole and had headed
to it for the morning drink. But we were a disturbing
factor, and they broke their ordered companies and
wheeled about the creekside in groups which changed
color each tinie they presented a fresh angle to the
light. Only when we began to move away did they,
squadron by squadron, light at the water-edge to quench
their thirst. The long lines of dainty heads dipped to
the water and rose, dipped and rose; other lines took
their places to repeat the performance; both ground and
air were alive with the charming creatures.
Meanwhile Jack had been busy. Sentiment is all very
well when the stomach is full; we had breakfasted but he
had not. Moreover there was a lubra over in the
wurley who had to be fed. Here was tucker. He
hurled a boomerang through the thick masses and we
saw a miracle: the ranks opened out and not a bird was
hit! He repeated the shot, with the same result. Then
one of our party threw a gibber; once more the birds,
incredible as it may sound, dodged the missile.
Desperate, the blackfellow picked up a big stick and
put all the power of his strong arm into a throw fair
in the face of an oncoming swarm. This time there was
a crash and five birds fell —Jack had his breakfast at
his feet.
A Tough Tale.
Edward Anderson’s Thieves Like Us (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d.) has its origin in America, and is appar-
ently a first novel. If so, it is a remarkable achieve-
ment. On the face of it, it is a picaresque novel, a
gunman story of three bank thieves, newly escaped
from prison—T. W. Masefield (called T-Dub), Mober-
ley (called Chicamaw) and Bowie Bowers. They rob
three banks —bringing T-Dub’s achievements in that
line up to 33 —and spend the intervals between in
flight or hiding. Bowie makes what looks like a com-
plete escape first in the Guadaloupe hills and then to
New Orleans with the girl Keechie, but T-Dub is shot
and Chicamaw captured by the police through the
indiscretion of T-Dub’s young wife.
Bowie cannot rest. He ventures back into danger
to arrange and pay for Chicamaw’s defence, and a
second time to rescue him from the prison farm where
he has been sent. This proves fatal. The police trace
Bowie and Keechie to a cabin in a tourist camp, sur-
prise them in the night and shoot them down. That
in crude outline is the story ; but the book offers much
more than that. Bowie is its great achievement in
the mingling of gentleness, loyalty and courage with
a take-it-for-granted attitude towards a professional
interest in his crimes. He is very human in his interest
in clothes and guns and his vague longings to be free
of the ugly side of life. It is always his finest qualities
that bring him back into it, however.
The style is as tough as the characters. The story
is told succinctly and objectively without recourse to
explanations, reflections or any other of the artistries
dear to the heart of the novelist. It is a plain tale, a
record of events without comment, and yet it is subtle,
sensitive and delicate. Out of the sordid tale there
rises a ghost of beauty. There is a feeling for life in
it that is wholesome and nourishing.
Thieves Like Us is written with strict economy.
It is a short book, but every sentence tells. The argot
of thieves —which almost amounts to a dialect —is
used freely, and yet the meaning is never obscure.
Very little space is wasted on description ; a sentence
or a brief thrusting simile suffices; “The wind began
beating the car like a hundred fly-swatters.” “The
cottonwood stumps squatted in the field like headless
toads.” In a moment of shock “Bowie’s face felt
like if he breathed his skin would crackle.” “The
road extended ahead, grey and slick as phlegm.”
“When Hawkins smiled his eyes became wrinkled
pockets.”
The strain and excitement that pervade the book
come to the reader through the characters. He listens
with them to every unfamiliar noise, notes every pass-
ing car (for it may be the police), is constantly aware
of the position of revolvers bulging in hip pockets,
slung less conspicuously under the arm or lying cold
in bed at a man’s side (not under the pillow, for it
would be too slow to draw). There is a constant,
pervading, unobtrusive awareness of the things that
matter to the characters. Nothing else exists. We
are not told, for instance, that Bowie is nervous wait-
ing with the car outside while his mates rob a bank,
only, “the bubble in Bowie’s stomach broke and
sprayed.” This direct method, taken in the mass,
covers more than the most laborious explanations.
It forces the reader to be a sharer.
Faith and a Fool.
Act of God; F. Tennyson Jesse (Heinemann;
Moore’s Bookshop; 7s. 6d.) is an examination of
various theological and moral doctrines in the shape of
a story. It holds together well, for the narrative is
dramatic and credible, and the characters have very
skilfully been made to father the writer’s polemical
intentions. In their discussions they keep to ideas
having direct and vital bearing on events. The book is
theirs, not the author’s, and their conversations are
well-informed.
The setting is a small town in the French Riviera.
The agent of ferment is Vera Fanshawe, described by
another character as a pathological liar. She is a
woman of fading charms, and is a thwarted egoist of
a particularly brainless kind. She impersonates the
Virgin Mother and appears to two shepherd children
on the hills above Fraxinet. The hoax succeeds
beyond her imagining. The place becomes a minor
Lourdes, with pilgrims and miracle cures. She returns
after five years to observe the result of her escapade
and gloat over her secret knowledge. The facts are
stumbled on by her cousin Toby Erskine, a close
friend of the local cure. He frightens her and arranges
her immediate return to England, but on the night
before her departure a band of Oxford Groupers arrive
in Fraxinet and hold a meeting, with public confes-
sions. The chance to draw the limelight is too much
for Vera. She dresses in the robes she previously used
and confesses from the platform.
The effect on the cure, a man of fine character and
simple beliefs, is catastrophic. The disclosure, coupled
with its repercussions in high ecclesiastical circles,
shakes his faith. Erskine tries to awaken the minis-
tering priest in the distraught man by revealing his
own tragic past, but without avail. A bridge across
the abyss is provided when a storm wrecks the town,
and the cure, roused out of himself, goes forth to
aid his stricken flock.
Act of God is a knowledgeable book. Its concern
with spiritual values gains by its author’s evident
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—-Always.
THE SENIOR STORE."
*
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
’
S
V:-
■
mmw
Su.Kis;:.'.
1
\
■
»3*P*
§s
m
m
§8 H
2SI
: :
wm
■
: •
hh
!|i
P
HB
■
Ready -to - Wear Suits
Sartorial wear for smart business men. Sac
Suits tailored ready to wear in All Wool reli-
able cloths. In good shades of Blue or Grey.
These are tailored in your correct fitting.
Price, suit 89/6
Cream Sports Trousers
For strenuous or spectator sports. Smart Cream
Trousers cut and made from unshrinkable
Cotton Gabardine. These are made with all
the newest style features. Price, pair . . 13/6
In Woollen Gabardine—
Prices 19 6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-
Lightweight English Suitings,
ideal for Summer Wear, now 84/-
Cool styles for summer! This summer you’ll be cool and com-
fortable in lightweight English Suitings tailored in our best pos-
sible manner. Two-piece suits cut from smartest lightweight
English suitings in shades of Grey and Fawn. Price 84 7 -
Eng. Alpaca Coats
Cut and made for comfort! Alpaca
Coats in English cloth. Wear one for
business! Good quality cloth in fast
Black colour. Price 30/-
i m
X
Wm
m
m
4\ x
\iM m
i
Special Reduction on
Action-back, Sports Coats
39/6 Value now only 35/-
An ideal Sports Coat sold ready to wear! New
features include Action backs—-pleated pockets—
and simply superb cut. These are made from smart
All Wool Tweeds and are in new and interesting
patterns. Price . . 39/6. Special Price . . 35/-
Men’s Clothing Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
SEE DISPLAY IN WINDOW No. 34, GEORGE STREET.
am
w
m
j3JT
/ is
m
y
\ A/
1 SI
m
5,-(
a*
-
“Hordura” Overalls
“Hordura”—the brand that stands foi
durability and quality! “Hordura”
Overalls in Blue or Khaki shades.
Double sewn seams. In strong British
Drills. Bib and Brace style.
Price
7/11
and SONS LTD
’Phone: M 2401.
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A Light-Hearted Serial
NO TRAIN ON TUESDAY
By J.B.BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
AUTHOR’S NOTE:
As far as I am aware there is no town
of Terrigan either inside or outside N.S.W.
If there is a billygoat named Baldy l have
never met him, and any resemblance which
he or any other persons may find in the story
to himself or themselves is entirely fortuitous.
CHAPTER XIII.
gfeMM ORONATION DAY, bright and fine ; and
* n evei Y Terrigan house feverish prepara-
I iP/sl tions were in progress for the first big
I rjjsips event of the day—the procession through
the streets. Children were decked out in
====l fancy dress, and many of their elders,
too, were in costume. Families from the outlying
farms soon began to flock into the town, and long
before the time fixed for the triumphal progress the
place was filled with people.
There was a splendid muster of outside visitors.
Ihe Royal, the Eden and the newly-completed Chalet
were filled to capacity, and almost all the other
boarding-houses were similarly crowded. The fears
that there would be no one left over to watch the
procession proved unfounded ; indeed, congestion in
the main street threatened to prevent the procession
from processing at all.
There had been much discussion in Cabinet before
the final plans had been agreed upon. Sir Hamish
was to watch the march past from a dais outside the
School of Arts —Parliament House —and Angus was
to support him. Further, it was thought that Mr.
Peperell and some of the Cabinet should be on the
platform. That was where the difficulty arose, for it
was also mooted that some members of the Cabinet
should drive at the head of the procession. The
question was which members were to perform which
of these duties, and this was bound up with the further
problem in which of the two duties lay the greater
honor.
Another problem was that, owing to the size of the
procession and the fact that Terrigan’s four streets
added together did not make a very long route, it
seemed very likely that the head of the cavalcade
would have reached its destination before the tail had
left the starting point.
St. Compromise, patron of all British communi-
ties, offered a single solution to both difficulties.
Through her mouthpiece, Jerry Bannister, she sug-
gested that, instead of the head of the procession
stopping when it reached the Sports Ground (where
the proclamations were to be read) and waiting
patiently for the rest of the train to arrive, it should
double around and fall in again at the rear. It would
thus be the last to arrive at the Sports Ground and
would have a triumphal entry.
She further suggested (still by the medium of
Jerry) that half the Cabinet should be on the dais and
the other half should lead the procession. After the
latter had passed the platform and turned round the
back of the hall the cars containing the Ministers
were to pull up for a moment, the Ministers were to
get out, hurry through the hall to the platform, while
their colleagues were to slip back and take their
places in the cars. Thus both sections of the Cabinet
would have the honor of supporting Sir Hamish at
the saluting base ; half would proudly lead the pro-
cession and the other half would equally proudly bring
up the rear and make an impressive entry at the Sports
Ground when all was in readiness.
The “Terrigan Times” described at great length
(though not in full) the historic march past, and most
Australian papers gave it some slight notice, but in
comparing the various reports some remarkable differ-
ences are to be noticed. This is explained by the
fact that the various observers were probably stationed
at different points on the route, and the scribe who
watched the procession move off saw it in quite a
different light from the one who waited for it at (say)
Peperell’s Corner. To those alongside the saluting
point it was different again, while if the first scribe
had hastened round to the Sports Ground to watch it
arrive there he would have found it hard to believe
that it was the same procession.
The reader would be wise, then, to watch the show
move off from its rallying point, which it did in bright
sunshine and high spirits at 10.25 a.m.
The official cars containing Messrs. Peperell,
Bannister (father and son), Pettigrew and Greville were
at the head. The division of Cabinet between dais
and procession had been decided by lot. Next came
decorated floats, on the preparation of which the
women had worked with great devotion.
The first was emblematic of Liberty breaking her
chains. Elsie Mutton, in classical white robes, was a
coy Liberty. True, her chains were only paper ones
and she didn’t actually break them for fear of spoiling
the effect, but there was no mistaking whom she was
meant to represent. Letters three feet high made
sure of that. Behind Liberty came Britannia —other-
wise Nora Bentham plus trident and coat of mail.
Both Liberty and Britannia were escorted by a bevy of
maidens clad in white raiment.
“The Emerald Isle” followed close on the rear
number-plate of Britannia, and was represented by the
Gilroy twins, one of whom was surrounded by huge
shamrocks, while the other held an outsize in harps.
At intervals her fingers clutched the strings, going
through the motion of milking a cow. The maiden
bodyguard on this float gave forth from time to time
such soulful melodies as “The Dear Little Shamrock”
and other Irish ditties.
Behind the floats, which were the prize exhibits
of the show, came motor-cars, buggies, sulkies and
drays all more or less decorated for the occasion.
Many visitors had lent their cars to swell the numbers.
Then came the pedestrian contingents—the
district’s returned soldiers, its Boy Scouts and its Girl
Guides. The Diggers had managed to muster a bugle
band of five or six players which would no doubt
have made a good showing had it not been followed
so closely by the Boy Scout buglers, who attempted to
help out their seniors by joining in with whatever tune
was being played. They had to listen for a bar or
so before they could be sure what the soldiers were
playing, and they insisted on starting at the
beginning of the piece when identified, irrespective
of what stage the Diggers had reached.
“Citizens, Plain and Fancy,” was the next item
on the printed programme. This section carried
banners and placards bearing legends such as “Terrigan
Is Free,” “For King and Terrigan,” “Long Live the
King,” “Secession Is Here.” The rearguard of the
citizens “plain” (the “fancy” having the place of honor)
were a little harassed by the leaders of the decorated-
bicycle section, who were well bunched together in a
concerted effort to leave a decent space between them-
selves and the decorated perambulators.
It had been the intention of the framers of the
programme that the latter vehicles should be confined
to dolls’ perambulators, but when several young Terri-
ganian mothers turned up at the starting point with
their offspring in gaily-decorated carriages no one had
the heart to gainsay them.
No such invasion had been made by parents into
the domain of the scooter brigade, although their
presence would have been an asset, for the procession
had not gone far when it seemed that the aim of
this section was to distribute itself evenly throughout
the whole cavalcade.
Next came “schoolchildren (rest of)” —that is to
say, those youngsters (very few) who were not Scouts
or Guides and did not own a bicycle, a doll’s perambu-
lator or a scooter (or a goat) for bringing up the rear,
and placed in that position for very obvious and
pungent reasons, were the entrants for the Indepen-
dence Goat Race.
\WHEN the leading cars reached Peperell’s Corner
** * the first mishap occurred —one of the cars contain-
ing the Ministers stalled. Liberty’s float pulled up with
a jolt which shook Liberty to her foundation garments
and broke her chains. The other floats in turn were
forced to a sudden halt. Britannia dropped her trident
and one of the twin spirits of Erin only with great
difficulty prevented her harp from toppling over.
The corner became very congested. The
Diggers, Scouts and Guides responded nobly to
training and halted as one man, but the banner-bearers
kept on until they found themselves badly mixed with
the pigtailed Girl Guides. Many of the cyclists pulled
up, but two lumbering old penny-farthings blundered
on, and, dodging miraculously through the sections in
front, crashed to earth amid the Boy Scouts.
Fortunately the recalcitrant car relented and the
train moved off again before the scooters and the goats
arrived on the scene. Britannia’s trident was handed
back to her by Police-Commissioner Dansie, and
Liberty picked up the longer piece of her broken chain.
For the next few minutes all went well, although
when the Hotel Royal was reached many of the
horses showed considerable disinclination to pass that
famous hostelry and looked back disapprovingly at
their owners when forced to do so, as though wonder-
ing why the habit of years should so suddenly be
departed from. A little farther along another small
diversion occurred. Two of the scooter brigade, dis-
satisfied at the snail’s pace at which they were being
forced to proceed, left their contingent and raced past
the perambulators ahead of them, disregarding the
protests of big sisters among the pram-pushers.
They threaded their way precariously through the
cyclists, then, separating, careered up one on each side
of the Guides and Scouts, came together for a moment
in front of the soldiers, and disappeared from the
view of spectators among the wheels and hoofs of the
horse turnouts.
Given up for lost and mentally pigeonholed as a
warning to other scooterists, they reappeared miracu-
lously holding on behind the dairy-industry float, and,
after a short breather, shot forward again past the
official cars to the head of the procession, which was
now within fifty yards of the saluting point.
There was consternation in the leading car.
“Good heavens,” cried Mr. Peperell, “they’ll pass
the dais before us! Sound your horn, driver! Sound
your horn!”
The driver did so, but the two young upsetters of
Ministerial dignity gave no sign that thery had heard
the signal, and it looked as though the official party
in the grand parade would have to be satisfied with
second place.
It was Terrigan’s efficient police force that saved
the day. Commissioner Dansie’s two young recruits
were stationed near the saluting point, and they sprang
forward and intercepted the gate-crashers.
THE BEGINNINGS OF THE REVOLT.
Terrigan, a small N.S.W. South Coast town,
has had its Tuesday train service discontinued;
at a meeting of protest the people of the dis-
trict decide to secede from New South Wales
and the Commonwealth.
Prominent figures in the new Dominion
are :
Hiram Pettigrew, an American million-
aire pickle-manufacturer, who has guaranteed
Terrigan’s share of the national debt.
Jerry Bannister, a young lawyer; he
started the whole thing as a joke. Sir Hamish
McTaggart, a staunch Jacobite, Governor of
Terrigan; he believes the appointment came
from Rupert {“the King-over-the-water”).
Pettigrew’s daughter Sally.
Mr. Napper, the schoolmaster; Mr.
Peperell, the shire president {now Chief Man);
the postmaster, Mr. Mutton ; Bannister
senior, the bank manager; and the station-
master, Mr. Buckenara, all of them Ministers
of the Dominion of Terrigan.
In Sydney and Canberra the Governments
are perturbed at the possibilities of the revolt.
To complicate matters, the Prime Minister and
the Minister for Defence are in London for
the Coronation celebrations. Terrigan prepares
to celebrate Coronation —and Independence —
Day.


“None of your De Groot tricks here,” admonished
one of the police as they hustled the two youngsters
out of the way of the cars.
“We was only havin’ a race,” whimpered a tearful-
faced desperado.
“Yes, and you darn’ near won it, too. Now you
just wait here till the rest of your mob comes along
and join in with them. And if you go rushing ahead
again the Governor’ll have both your heads chopped
off.”
The chastened lads stood obediently by.
The Ministerial cars now drew level with the dais
and the occupants turned their heads to the left in
salute. On the platform, decked out in the full glory
of his Highland dress and with a sword at his side,
Sir Hamish stood stiffly, if a trifle self-consciously, at
attention. On his right was Minister for Education
Napper, and on his left Postmaster-General Mutton.
Messrs. Buckenara and Taylor were just behind, and
on the extreme right of the group was Angus, whose
pipes were skirling forth a tune which bore some slight
resemblance to the National Anthem and doubtless
accounted for the comparative quietness of the crowd
at this point, as all along the route the parade had
been received with the utmost enthusiasm.
The head of the procession turned down the side
of the School of Arts, and the platform portion of the
Ministry shuffled its feet in readiness to be off. Liberty
and Britannia bowed their way past and the Emerald
Isle appeared. Sir Hamish inwardly regarded the
absence of a Scottish float as a slight upon his native
land, but he remembered his vice-regal dignity and
acknowledged the Gilroy twins’ curtsy with a smiling
nod. Not so Angus, who almost swallowed his mouth-
piece in indignation.
A 1" this juncture the change-over of the Ministry
look place and the Napper section passed quickly
through the hall to the waiting cars. The parade,
which was beginning to bank up in the side street,
then moved on again.
“Across the Sports Ground and out the other
side,” said Napper to the driver. “Then back to the
starting point. No need to hurry.”
“0.K.,” from the driver.
"Everything has started splendidly,” remarked
Mutton as the car crossed the Sports Ground. “It’s
going to be a great day.”
The car proceeded at a brisk pace until it
again reached the rallying point and turned once
more into the street. The crowd, which had closed in
behind the tail of the procession, opened out again
to let them pass. Presently cheers broke out behind
them.
“What’s that for?” asked Napper.
“Cheering Buckenara, I suppose,” said Mutton
glumly. “He’s pretty popular, you know.”
Buckenara and Taylor were in the second car.
“Not as popular as that,” replied Napper. He
looked back. “Good Lord! What’s happened?”
Mutton turned around also. Behind the second
car could be seen Liberty, followed by Britannia and
the Emerald Isle. The massed cars and buggies were
struggling through the crowd, and a distant sound as
of trumpets showed that the bugle band was not far
behind.
In making their plans for doubling up on the
procession none of the Ministers had thought to
explain the procedure to the procession itself. A word
to Liberty’s chauffeur would have been sufficient, but
it had not been uttered. Accordingly, when the Minis-
terial cars passed through and out of the Sports
Ground Liberty had followed, and the rest of the
cavalcade, acting on the principle that what was good
enough for those in front was good enough for them,
followed too.
Napper’s car turned Peperell’s corner and found
itself close upon the rearguard of the goat brigade.
There had been considerable lagging in the perambu-
lator and pedestrian sections of the parade, and the
goats, against the wishes of themselves and their
drivers, had been forced to proceed at a walking pace.
Thus the head of the procession had caught up with
the tail, and it was going round like an endless chain.
The spectators saw nothing amiss, and seemed
rather to appreciate the opportunity of seeing the
parade a second time.
“We’ll have to pull up at the Ground after all,”
said Napper, “or the blessed thing’ll never stop. Don’t
get so near to those goats, driver.”
“Can’t help it, Mr. Napper. They’re being pushed
back on us, and the others are pressing on behind.”
They were drawing near the saluting base once
more.
“Sound your horn and scare them a bit.”
The driver sounded his horn. Whether this had
the desired effect would be hard to say. The goats
were certainly scared, but it is possible that the driver
was not altogether responsible, as Angus chose that
very moment to burst forth into a wild Scottish lament.
With one accord the goats plunged forward. The
marching schoolchildren were scattered right and left,
scooters were borne down in the mad rush, and the
panicked goats found themselves among the decorated
perambulators, which were just passing the Governor.
Tearful little girls abandoned their prams and fled into
the arms of the spectators ; mothers seized their babies
and followed suit; the goat-drivers who had been
successful in keeping their seats during the stampede
struggled to control their animals, but the driverless
goats tripped over their harness and each other in
terrible confusion.
Dansie’s recruits and other young men among
the spectators were doing their best to establish order
and to restore driverless goats to their owners, while
frantic mothers were picking up and soothing the
children who had gone down in the stampede, when
Angus, a staunch believer in the power of music to
meet any situation, burst forth with his pipes once
more.
Most of the goats were under control, but a few
broke free again and caused local disturbances among
the crowd before they were quietened. Then a fresh
outbreak was noticed. The float representing Aus-
tralia’s woollen industry had somehow got out of posi-
tion in the melee and was alongside the official car
almost abreast the dais. It was an elaborate affair with
the golden fleece everywhere in evidence, and in the
centre two shearers were ostensibly shearing a sheep.
They were making a long job of it, as with winter
coming on they didn’t really want to leave the victim
without his overcoat.
A tough old billygoat who had broken from his
harness and was being held by one of the police
recruits broke loose again when Angus struck up, and,
bounding across the street, leapt on to the float. The
sheep, which had been lying docile in the grip of the
shearers, struggled free, took a flying leap from the
float to the dais, knocked Angus and his pipes head-
long to the ground, rolled over on its back across
the platform, recovered its feet, sprang to the ground,
and disappeared into Parliament House.
Meantime the goat who was the cause of the
disturbance resisted the efforts of the shearers to
co-opt him for the completion of their act, leapt to
earth once more and took cover beneath the platform.
To this retreat he was at once followed, to the accom-
paniment of much noise, by all the small boys who
were not engaged in holding their own animals.
Terrific scuffling which could be heard coming
from beneath the platform suggested that the hunters
were not having things all their own way, so reinforce-
ments rushed to their assistance, leaving their own
goats to the care of whoever might be pleased to
seize them. In their haste to join in the fun beneath
the dais the boys tore aside bunting and hessian and
ripped away boards from the supports. The structure
had not been built with a view to withstanding assault.
One moment it stood firm and intact; the next some
important part of its foundations had given up the
ghost and it had collapsed in the middle.
The onlookers saw the Governor and his sup-
porters stagger ominously and then fall backwards as
the platform sagged beneath them. At this moment
the goat, seeing daylight breaking in upon him, plunged
towards it through the break in the flooring, just in
time to intercept the Governor’s falling body. Sir
Hamish, clutching desperately, grabbed the animal
round the middle and, the spirit of the chase suddenly
entering him, cried out loudly “Ah’ve got him, mon!
Ah’ve got him!” as the two rolled over among the
wreckage.
Jerry and Pettigrew picked themselves up and
went to his assistance while the boys took charge of
the goat, who was ever after looked upon with rever-
ence by the youngsters of Terrigan as “the goat the
Governor caught.”
“Th’ crazy loons,” muttered Angus, who had
picked up himself and his bagpipes after his encounter
with the sheep but, fortunately for himself, had not
had time to reascend the dais before its collapse.
There was no more procession. Somehow or
other most of the cavalcade ultimately
assembled at the Sports Ground, but how
it actually got there no one ever knew.
PETER DANSIE arrived home fgr his
evening meal a spent man. The con-
fusion of the procession had worried him
considerably, but it had proved child's play
compared with the task that confronted him at the
Sports Ground in the afternoon,
F° r three hours he had worked tirelessly in an
endeavor to keep order in the largest crowd in the
history of the town, and he felt that he had done it
> altogether, Peter, though tired, and with the
prospect of a long night yet before him, felt rather
pleased with himself.
been a great day,” he remarked to his wife
as they sat down with the children at the table,
“Small thanks to you,” snapped his helpmeet,
"Making an exhibition of yourself and everyone in
the town this morning.”
“Exhibition! Why I only”-
“Only nothing! Aren’t you Commissioner of
Police? Wasn’t it your job to see the procession went
ab right?”
“I couldn’t help the goats running amuck.”
Couldn t help it? Course you could help it!
a | those two hobble-de-hoys of yours! A nice
thing it was for me the wife of the Commissioner
P°bce to have to see all that mess-up! ”
I wasn l to blame.
* Don t try to crawl out of it. You know you
were! You re the Commissioner, and it’s your respon-
sibility. And the children, too. Nice sort of father
* or them to l° ok LI P to - U s a wonder youve got
tbe nerve to show your face in public again.
t b ’ Mary, cut it out. I
. Why, I read in the papers once about a proces-
sion going wrong up in Japan, and do you know what
tbe Police Commissioner did? Ihe papet said he
went back to his home and had a bath and put on
a clean shirt and took a knite and cut hls 'tummick
°P en ' . .
d,s stomach.
T es 'r, think the papei caded i!.
What s up. Aren t you going to eat your dinner,
1 bad P usled h |S plate away and risen from
lhe tab , , , . ~ .
e , Thats rl S btk his wifes voice pursued him cut
ol die ro ° m ’ All that good food wasted aftei Ive
S°ne to the trouble of cooking it toi you.
, A t ? uart « r ot an hour later Georgie slipped from
lbe table and went to h,s father s room. Mrs. Dansie
was bus y m the kltcben when he came rushin S oack
In tea^- ~ . . ~. .. , .
£ad Is going to hottentot! Dad s going to hot-
tent° t !,\ 7 , f W im P^ re *
on earth are you talking about?
, **e s had aba h, an he s stropping his razor
an wben \ wen mto bl ? ro °™ be told , ™ e to ( ask
V™ whe v re h f„ clean sh,rt IS ‘ Hes S om to cut hls
s ummic up. . . , ...
Janie had joined m his tears, and the two chil-
, . , , • , . A ,
dren s loud weeping was now supplemented by a
b
“Alive got him, man. Ah've got him!”


piercing shriek from their mother, which brought Peter
rushing into the room, razor in hand. Mrs. Dansie
shrieked again, then rushed towards him.
“Don’t do it, Peter,” she cried. “Don’t do it!”
Dansie stood dumbfounded as his wife flung
herself at him and pinned his arms to his side.
“What’s the matter, Mary?” he asked in alarm.
“Don’t kill yourself, Peter. Don’t do it. I
didn’t mean it. You were wonderful.”
The policeman made no reply. He was too aston-
ished to find words. In a frenzy of terror, his wife
continued: “It wasn’t your fault the procession went
wrong, Peter. Really, it wasn’t. Come and sit down,
Peter, and I’ll get you a cup of tea.”
Dansie permitted himself to be led to the table.
He yielded up the razor, which disappeared into Mrs.
Dansie’s apron pocket.
“Now, what about eating some of this nice stew,
Peter? You need it after the tiring day you’ve had.”
Dansie obliged, the family watching every mouth-
ful he took. When he had finished his wife said
anxiously:
“You’re not going on duty now, are you, dear?”
“Yes,” replied Peter. “I’ll have to be on hlind
for the fireworks.”
“Of course, dear. I was forgetting. Now, don’t
overdo things. You’ve been working too hard lately.”
“Oh, I’ll be all right, Mary.” He rose. “Well,
I’d better be getting ready now. Could you get me
a” He paused.
“Yes, dear? What is it you want?”
Dansie hesitated. “Oh, it doesn’t matter,” he
replied, and he left the kitchen.
In the bedroom he surveyed himself in the mirror
and rubbed his chin thoughtfully.
“Guess that’ll have to do for to-night,” he mut-
tered. “And I’ll change my shirt to-morrow.”
CHAPTER XIV.
““IT HE Acting Prime Minister was very annoyed.
f “Well,” he rasped out, “now that you’ve
j thoroughly spoiled my day, you might as well
tell me everything. Have you got anything to
say, apart from this —this proclamation thing?”
He glared at George Brown.
George’s part in the rebellion had not been a
very prominent one, although he had always been on
hand when needed. His name would always be
remembered in Terrigan as the seconder of the famous
secession motion, and this may have influenced Parlia-
ment in giving him the honor of delivering the Seces-
sion Proclamation to Canberra. He stood his ground
and remained unperturbed by Dr. Gage’s fierce gaze.
“There’s not much else, sir,” he replied. “I was to
ask you to convey to your Governor-General the
best wishes of our Governor, Sir Hamish McTaggart.”
“I’ll see him damned first.”
“You are talking about the King’s representative,
sir,” said Brown evenly.
“King’s grandmother! An old Scotch Recha-
bite!”
“I don’t know anything about his religion, but to
us he represents the King.”
The Acting Prime Minister decided not to waste
any more time on this point. “Any more messages?”
“Yes. Our Chief Man sends his compliments and
expi'esses the hope that relations between our two
Dominions will always remain on a cordial basis.”
“You can tell your Chief Man —no, you can’t
tell him anything. I’m- not sending messages to a
damned impostor like that. And take your Proclama-
tion with you! No, leave it here! Cordial relations,
indeed! ”
He rang for his secretary. “Barnes, show this
gentleman around Parliament House. Damn it! What
am I talking about! I mean, kick this fellow out.”
A somewhat similar scene, making allowance for
differences in the actors and settings, was being enacted
in Sydney, so it was not surprising that within a few
minutes of Brown’s dismissal Gage received a frantic
’phone call from the New South Wales Premier, who
poured out an incoherent story and then began to
read out the Proclamation.
“Yes, I know, I know,” Gage cut him short. “I’ve
got one, too.”
“Oh, good! I mean, have you?”
“Yes.”
“Then I needn’t read this out?”
“No.”
There was a pause. Then the Premier tried a
fresh tack. “They sent some messages.”
“Yes, I got them, too. From their Chief Man
and the Governor.”
“Oh, did you?”
“Yes, the damned old Rechabite.”
“But he’s not.”
“Not what?”
“A Rechabite’.”
“Of course he is. Don’t you remember the cable
Joe sent Bengers?”
“He must have been mistaken.” The Premier
went on to relate the experiences of Messrs. Trimble
and Hotson.
Gage was puzzled. “I’ll have to ask Joe again.
Rechabite or not, he’s a confounded nuisance.”
“What are you going to do about the Proclama-
tions? Surely you’ll send troops down now?”
The Acting Prime Minister assured him that no
troops would be sent. The Premier protested that it
was essential to make a demonstration. The Acting
Prime Minister replied that it was impossible.
“1 doubt if the troops would stand for it if we
told them,” he said.
“Then I’ll send police.”
“You’ll be very foolish if you do. I strongly
advise against it, and if any trouble comes of it you’ll
have to take the sole responsibility. And don’t for-
get we’ve got an election coming off soon and you’ll
have one yourself next year. We’ve both got to watch
our step. The knock-back we got up in Gwydir last
Saturday ought to tell you that. It’s all very well
for our party secretaries to tell the public it doesn’t
mean anything. You and I know better.”
“Well, what are you going to do?”
“Give me time to ring Joe. And don’t you do
anything.”
“All right, but what about that Proclamation?”
“Ignore it.” >
“But copies have gone to the press, the messenger
told me. They’ll want a statement.”
“Let ’em want. Tell them you refuse to com-
ment.”
“AH right, all right! Anyway, I’ve got these
Coronation celebrations to worry about to-day.”
“Same here. Frightful bore, but we’ve got to
do it. I’ll ring Joe in London this evening.”
“You’ll have a job raising him, won’t you? He’ll
be at the Coronation and what-not all day.”
“So he will. Knee-breeches and all that at West-
minster Abbey—and Perky, too. I’d give quids to
see them with their swords on. I’ll have to leave the
'phone call till to-morrow night. I’ll drop him a cable
to-day.”
After the ’phone talk with the New South Wales
Premier the Acting Prime Minister went around to
the Attorney-General’s office and told Bengers of the
latest developments.
Bengers supported him in his refusal to send
troops. “That’s what I’ve been telling that ass all
along.”
In between their official Coronation Day duties
the two managed to concoct a cable to their chief in
London.
“Might as well give him something to think about
while he’s riding along in his carriage,” said Gage.
The cable read:
Terrigan district mentioned previous dis-
patches has seceded stop proclamation of
independence received to-day stop district has
elected own Parliament and installed Sir Hamish
McTaggart as Governor stop McTaggart not
Rechabite as previously advised stop cable in-
struction message ends.
This evoked, next morning, the following reply:
Instruct Terrigan action contrary to Aus-
tralian Constitution stop point out excellent
record of present Government unequalled since
Federation stop looking into Rechabite question.
The two digested this message, but did not derive
much comfort from it. They got even less from their
chief’s second cable received a couple of hours later.
It was very brief:
Jacobite, not Rechabite.
“Joe must be off his head,” protested Gage to the
Attorney-General. “The last Jacobite pretender died
a hundred and fifty years ago.”
“P’raps McTaggart hasn’t heard yet,” replied his
colleague. “They tell me news travels very slowly
in the Highlands.”
Gage was in no mood for jokes. “Can’t you
realise that this thing has become serious?” he
demanded. “They’ve flung this Proclamation in our
faces and we’re bound hand and foot. Thank God
the House is in recess or we’d never survive it.”
Bengers \yas more optimistic. “It can’t be as bad
as that,” he argued. “They claim to have seceded, but
what of it? They can’t pick the land up and cart it
away, can they? And they’re not likely to raise an
army and besiege Canberra, or carry fire and sword
throughout New South Wales.”
“Don’t be an ass.”
“I think you’re taking it too seriously. Let ’em
pretend they’ve seceded. Don’t worry about it. It’ll
blow over.”
Gage brightened up. “Anyway, it’s your pigeon,”
he said.
“What d’you mean?”
“Well, I just came up here for the Coronation
business. I’m going back home to-night. You’ll have
to deal with it.”
“Oh.”
“Of course you’ve been handling it all along while
I’ve been electioneering in Gwydir, so it’s really best
that you should finish it. You know all the facts
and you’re a constitutional lawyer. It couldn’t be in
better hands.”
Bengers completely agreed with this, but at the
same time he felt that Gage was arranging for him
to carry a potentially troublesome baby. However
he was not a man to shirk responsibility.
“I’ll ring Joe to-night,” he said.
“Good. And go steady, Reg. Anything within
limits I’ll stand by.”
WHEN the Prime Minister’s call came through that
evening, Bengers was alone in his room.
“That you, Bengers? Good! I’m speaking from
the Savoy. Great place this, Bengers. Perky’s with
me, and did we have a day yesterday! You should’ve
seen us at the Abbey. Perky looked a sight in his
glad rags... Ow! Cut it out, Perky... All right
I’ll tell him... Perky says l looked just as bad, Reg.
That’s jealousy, of course. Ha, ha, ha! ”
Bengers managed to get a word in. “About your
cable. This Terrigan business?”
“Oh, yes. I was just coming to that.”
“What d’you mean when you say Sir Hamish
McTaggart is a Jacobite?”
“Well, that’s what they told me here. Eden or
Baldwin or someone got the information for me. I
thought he said Rechabite, but it turns out he meant
Jacobite. And they’re giving me the freedom of
London. What d’you know about that?”
“But there aren’t any Jacobites nowadays, surely?”
“Oh, yes, there are. I’ve heard of ’em before.
Something to do with twisted legs or something. I
can’t quite place it, but I’ve heard of ’em.”
“What are we to do about the secession?”
Bengers asked.
“Secession? Oh, yes. Perky and I have been
talking this over. We reckon this is a lot more serious
than you seem to think, Bengers. This is revolution,
and there’s only one way of dealing with it. We must
be strong! Perky is quite in agreement with me.”
“What do you mean by ‘strong’?”
“We must send troops down and persuade the
rebels to surrender. I will not shrink from it.”
“You won’t shrink from it!” burst out Bengers.
“What about us? We’re the ones that have to take
the responsibility. It’s all very well for you to talk.
We’ve got to do the job and face the music here, while
you’re over the other side of the world gallivanting
round in tight pants! I’m not going to send troops.
Get that!”
The Prime Minister at once became the statesman.
“Now, look here, Reg,” he began, “I’m your
leader and don’t you forget it. I know just how you
feel on the subject. I feel the same myself. So does
Perky. But we can’t afford to be sentimental. Terri-
gan has seceded. Suppose we let them get away with
it. What happens then? West Australia and Tas-
mania and South Australia try it on, too! If we can’t
stop a little place like Terrigan, we can’t stop them.
We’ve got to be firm. Perky wants to speak for a
moment.”
The Minister for Defence’s voice came through,
supporting the Prime Minister, root and branch.
“Joe’s quite right,” he concluded. “We must nip
this in the bud. Where would America be to-day if
Lincoln had been weak when the South tried to
secede?”
In vain did Bengers reiterate his argument about
the attitude of the press and the public. Neither the
Prime Minister nor his Defence colleague seemed
able to appreciate it. The former seemed to have been
reading up his history a little.
“There’s only one way of dealing with a revolu-
tion,” he said. “It’s no good toying with it. There
was one up in Canada once, about fifty years ago, and
the military settled it in no time. It’s the same in
India when there’s any trouble there. No nonsense.
The trouble with us in Australia is we’re not used to
dealing with these things. We’ll have to stamp it
out! ”
“ ‘Delenda est Carthago,’ ” quoted Bengers.
“Eh? What’s that? Stamp it out, I said. It’s
the only thing to do, I tell you, and Perky agrees with
me.”
Bengers valiantly fought a rearguard action for
some time.
“Don’t forget there’s an election due soon,” he
said.
“I’m not forgetting it,” replied the Prime Minister,
“and a fat chance we’ll have if you allow every district
in Australia that imagines it’s got a grievance to
secede. If you’re not prepared to send troops down
I’ll send out the orders myself. And Perky’ll back
me up.”
The Minister for Defence added a few words in
support.
Bengers hung up in despair.
He crossed to the window and gazed out over
the lawns for some time in deep meditation. Then
he rang for his secretary.
“Get on the ’phone to Sydney,” he ordered. “Tell
the Premier I’ve spoken to the Prime Minister and
there’s nothing new to report at present.”
“Yes, sir.”
“I’m going across to the Kurrajong to see the
Commandant.”
Providence or some lesser power with a kindly
interest in Australia’s well-being had arranged that
the chief of the Commonwealth Military Forces should
on that day of all days be in Canberra on his way
to Sydney. Bengers found him in the lounge of the
Hotel Kurrajong, and, having rescued him from the
clutches of two permanent departmental heads who
were trying to ascertain what steps would be taken
to protect Canberra from air raids in case of war,
carried him off to a private room where he rang for
a bottle of whisky. He then recounted the events of
the past forty-eight hours.
The General was as strongly opposed to the Lon-
don orders as Bengers.
“It can’t be done,” he said.
“Just what I say,” agreed the Attorney-General.
“We couldn’t manage it.”
“No, it’s out of the question. I’ve told the Prime
Minister so, yet he still persists that it’s the only
course to take.”
“Now, look here, Bengers. I know I can talk
to you as man to man.. I’m not a politician. I’m a
soldier. You went through the war and I can talk to
you. The P.M. and Perky, what do they know about
running an army? They might be all very well with
their plans on paper, but what practical experience
have they had? None!”
“Quite! Of course, I don’t want to disparage the
P.M. behind his back, but he doesn’t realise the full
facts of this business.”


“That’s so.”
"He doesn’t realise that the public and the press
would be absolutely against it.”
“Well, it wasn’t that that was worrying me.”
“You mean that the troops would very likely
refuse to act?”
The General’s look of approval vanished.
“I don’t get you,” he said. “The troops are loyal
to their King and country and will do as they’re
told.”
“Of course—er —within limits.”
“Within no limits! Our forces are loyal to the
backbone. There’d be no refusal.”
Bengers was taken aback.
"Then what was your objection?” he asked.
“Well, an operation of that sort would require a
considerable number of troops, and we couldn’t spare
them at the present time. The annual camps start on
Saturday.”
Sir Hamish stood stiffly, if a trifle self-
consciously, at attention.
Bengers’s reaction to the
General’s argument showed that
not for nothing was he spoken
of as the brains of the Federal
Cabinet. He saw a way of sal-
vation —a plan which, while
satisfying the Prime Minister,
would also avoid the dangers
which ths latter’s policy threatened to involve.
“Annual camps?” he said. “Where?”
“Various places. We’re holding ’em in every
State.”
“Where will the New South Wales regiments be
going?”
“Down to Liverpool. The infantry, that is. The
artillery’ll go to Holdsworthy and the Light Horse to
Kyogle.”
“Any particular reason for going to Liverpool?”
“It’s a good type of country.”
“Any objections to going somewhere else?”
“Well, there’d be the extra cost. The arrange-
ments are all made.”
“Never mind the cost. Any objection to holding
your camp down near Terrigan?”
“No objection, if it comes to that. I’ve been
down that way—it’s good country for manoeuvres.
But it’d cost a lot more. A lot of extra work to be
done at very short notice.”
“I’ll fix the money side of it. Don’t you see, this
solves the problem! Send the troops down there for
their annual camp. We’re carrying out the P.M.’s
orders. If the press complains—well, the army is just
having its annual camp in a different district for a
change. No harm in that. And, as for Terrigan, it’ll
probably take the hint and come to heel.”
The General was not very much taken with the
idea, but Bengers was in the saddle and riding for all
he was worth. “What’s wrong with sending all your
units down there as well as the foot-sloggers? Let the
artillery and the Light Horse go as well. Hold general
manoeuvres down there. Don’t worry about the
money. It’s a good chance for you to give them some
real training.”
The additional offer had the effect of making the
General quite keen, and within half an hour telephone
and telegraph wires were buzzing as the necessary
instructions for putting the plan into effect went forth
from Canberra.
Bengers was his urbane self once more.
“Don’t you worry,” he said as he confided the
scheme to the New South Wales Premier. “This will
do the trick. And keep those blessed police of yours
out of it. We don’t want a good idea spoilt by
bungling.”
CHAPTER XV.
JT | FTER the sudden and unrehearsed end to the
f | procession, Terrigan’s big day passed off most
(, I successfully.
The Independence luncheon was, if the
“Times” can be believed, “a feast to rival those of
Lucullus and the most celebrated gourmets of Rome,”
while the speeches made the “Times” scribe wonder
“whether he had not been transported back to the
Golden Age of Greece.”
Those portions of the speeches that referred to
the King’s Coronation and loyalty to the Throne caused
Jerry Bannister a few awkward moments, but he
managed to steer Sir Hamish’s attention aside suffi-
ciently to save a catastrophe, and he tactfully prepared
the Laird’s speech himself so that no difficulty would
arise from that quarter.
The reading of the Proclamation was “greeted
with intense fervor,” despite the fact that most of the
citizens of the new Dominion had
heard it every Sunday since the Gov-
ernor’s arrival.
The sports, too, proved an un-
qualified success, and as the partici-
pants wended their way home to-
wards evening they felt, from Angus,
who clutched
proudly a certifi-
ca t e acclaiming
him winner of the)
Open Bagpipes
(All Comers),
down to Tommy Wilkins, whose goat had not won
the Independence Cup but had nevertheless earned
undying glory by charging Mr. Napper while that
gentleman was presenting the trophy to Willy Travers
(whose entry had been successful) that Terrigan’s inde-
pendence was a great and glorious thing.
For the maidens of Terrigan the best was yet to
come —the Grand Coronation-Independence Ball, pre-
parations for which had accounted for many of them
leaving the Sports Ground quite early in the afternoon.
The ball proper was to be held in the School of
Arts. This venerable building was used to being called
upon to act a variety of roles, but since the coming of
Progress to Terrigan it had surpassed itself. In addi-
tion to its functions of lending library and lecture hall
it had always been used for occasional dances, while
those religious denominations that possessed no place
of worship of their own used it turn and turn about
on Sundays. Now it had become the Dominion’s
Parliament House, and, in addition, the enterprising
owner of a picture theatre in Wygong was putting on
a show there two or three nights a week.
With the influx of visitors and the certainty that
everyone would want to be at the ball, it had soon
become apparent that the School of Arts would be
unable to hold everybody. The two church halls and
the dining-room at the Chalet had been pressed into
service to hold the overflow, and, in accordance with
Terrigan’s policy of pleasing all, it was arranged that
the debutantes should make an appearance at each
hall in turn, after making their bow to the Governor
at the School of Arts.
As soon as it was dark all Terrigan turned out
to see the illuminations and the fireworks.
Let the “Times” speak again:
The Fireworks Display, which was held on the vacant
land opposite the Hotel Royal, was a veritable triumph
of the pyrotechnic art. Rockets and other aerial pieces
described parabolas of ineffable beauty in the heavens,
while, below, Catherine wheels whirled with merry bril-
liance amid the din of crackers, cannons and double-
bungers. The grand climax was a large illuminated por-
trait of King George, and as the fire crept round the
outline of the picture and the King’s features appeared
through the flames a mighty cheer arose, leaving no
doubt as to Terrigan’s loyalty to the Crown.
There was certainly no doubt about the cheering,
but its value as an index of loyalty may have been
overrated, as even Sir Hamish, throwing aside his
vice-regal dignity, joined in, while Angus’s shrill shouts
made those near by wonder why on earth he ever
used bagpipes.
“Mon, it’s a gr-r-rand sight,” said the Laird to
Jerry. “Couldna we bur-r-rn the Prime Minister
too?”
“Hush,” warned Jerry in low tones. “Don’t
forget what I said about spies.”
“Aye, lad. Ah won’t. But it’d mak’ a gr-r-rand
sight,” replied the old Jacobite regretfully.
The official party watched the display from the
balcony of the Hotel Royal, whence Sir Hamish
had pressed a switch to ignite the royal portrait.
As King George’s regal lineaments faded away
the crowd surged over towards the Royal. Cheers
were given for the King, the Governor, Terrigan, Mr.
Peperell, the fireworks, secession, Mr. Napper, Tommy
Wilkins’s billygoat, Hiram Pettigrew (and one more
for Miss Pettigrew), the Tuesday train and Jerry Ban-
nister.
Nearly everyone on the balcony said a few words,
including Mr. Pettigrew, who was once more heart
and soul in the movement, and was on good terms with
everyone. He even seemed to have forgotten his
usual animosity towards Angus and Napper. At
length, when the cheering and speechmaking were
threatening to break out again, the official party left
the balcony as a hint that further cheering would be
regarded as a free offering without any suggestion of
its requiring a quid pro quo in the way of speeches.
The crowd moved back to the fires, where those
careful folk who had not yet let off all their fireworks
became the centres of envious groups consisting of
those who had.
'“THERE was one matter which had
* caused the women of Terrigan
much heartburning and regret. Sir
Hamish McTaggart, being a bache-
lor, there was accordingly no Gov-
ernor’s Lady to do whatever Governors’ Ladies are
accustomed to do. When arrangements for the ball
were being discussed it occurred to some of the com-
mittee that this was a matter which needed rectifying.
No one went so far as to suggest that the Laird
should take unto himself a wife —though if it had been
proposed there would doubtless have been several of
the more venerable maidens of the town prepared to
forswear spinsterhood in the interests of Terrigan—
but it was felt that an appointment should be made
for the night of the ball in the same way that a
bachelor Lord Mayor usually has one of his female
relations to assist with the social side of his duties.
The obvious choice would have been the Chief
Man’s wife, but unfortunately Mrs. Peperell had been
an . invalid for years. Mrs. Mutton, therefore, con-
sidered that the Postmaster-General’s wife was the
most suitable person to stand beside the Governor at
the ball to take the curtsies of the debutantes.
“Of course, I really don’t want to do it,” she
explained, “but it doesn’t seem fair for the poor dear
Governor to have to stand there alone without a
woman at his side —someone who has moved in society
and knows what ought to' be done.”
The request came to Jerry per medium of Mr.
Napper, and he reluctantly agreed to broach the
matter with Sir Hamish.
“Ah don’t like th’ woman,” said Sir Hamish
bluntly. “She’s muckle too big. Ah like a wee
woman. A bonnie lass.”
Jerry pointed out that there was no suggestion
that the Governor should marry the lady.
“Ah ken that,” replied Sir Hamish. “Ah ken that.
She wants to stand beside me an’ shake her head like
a goshawk to th’ lassies. Th’ auld cluckie! Ah’ll
no’ have her.”
Jerry suggested that it was usual and tactful to
have feminine assistance on such occasions, and hoped
the Laird would reconsider his decision.
“A’ richt,” said Sir Hamish, “if Ah must, Ah
must! But I’ll no’ have yon auld cluckie. Ah’ll have
Miss Pettigrew. She’s a bonnie lass, is Sally. She’ll
stand by me an’ tak’ th’ lassies’ bows—not Mrs.
Mutton.”
Jerry conveyed the decision to Sally, who was
surprised and delighted.
“0.K., Jerry,” she agreed, “I’ll be the Governor’s
Lady. And mind you fall on one knee when you
speak to me.”
“Save a dance for a low-born menial,” returned
Jerry. “That is if you’re not too busy dancing with
the foreign ambassadors.”
(Continued on page 50.)


acquaintance with the world of the flesh. All her
incidental characters, whether a touring Anglican
canon, a native of Provence, or one of the genteel
wasters who seem to form a large part of the popula-
tion or the Blue Coast, are glanced at with penetration
and a knowledge of their background. She introduces
a certain sort of Anglo-Indian:
Doll Cordover was of what has been termed the
"old Poonah-Poonah school.” He was that sort of
officer and gentleman who is snobbishly pleased to be
offered a Maharajah’s hospitality and then, while drink-
ing his champagne, gets in a corner with his cronies and
says: “Not bad for a nigger, what?” In short, he was
ol the type that has done everything possible to embitter
the Indians, and it is his kind who lose India because
of a storm over the teacups.
Here is a snapshot of Monte Carlo that differs from
the popular idea:
Colonel Erskine tried to pretend that he was going
to amuse himself before he went on his quest to
Diaginoules, but he found the place even more depress-
ing than it had been in the days of its prosperity.
Monte Carlo is a place where old people with small
incomes go to die. The town is clean, the policemen
charming, the (lowers bright—and floodlit with electricity
.it night and the spirit of death lies over everything.
Not sudden, exciting death, such as suicide after losses
at gambling, but slow, lingering decay. The colonel
went into that monstrosity of architecture, the Casino.
The moral argument of Act of God is too involved
to follow here ; it is enough to offer assurance that
the book has behind it a breadth of experience, toler-
ance and humane intention.
A Village Coil.
c/ h 9/ Stron §> in his new novel, The Swift
Shadow (Gollancz ; 7s. 6d.), has ventured into a sphere
little suited to his gifts. He is at his best in an idyll
such as The Garden, but this is a grim rural tale of
the blood-and-manure type, with a supernatural
element thrown in. The story, which is set in the
England of fifty years ago, is made up of conventional
ingredients imperfectly blended together. Esther Nan-
carrow is the heroine. We have the inventory of her
charms:
She was strong and generously built. Feminine in
curve and softness and in the fineness of her skin, she
had arms that were muscular almost as a man’s. Her
iace had a range of expression unusual in a country
girl s. She could look plain and heavy, or, when her
spirit lit up, really beautiful. Her color, under the deli-
cate skin, was variable and fugitive. Her hair was soft
and fine, with a tantalising gleam of gold. In contrast
to it, her brows were dark, and her eyes, normally
grey, could catch the tint of the sky and gleam with
blue. Her nose was well-formed, her upper lip short,
with a faint, fair down which showed only against
tfie light, her mouth strong.
She had three suitors, Arthur Brinsworthy (who
uniortunately, though well-to-do, had an inferiority
> Jago, a brutal farmer (intentions strictly
dishonorable); and Harry Stoneman, “a tall good-
looking fellow, 26 years of age. He was dark, clean-
shaven and of an easy, powerful build.” Esther
could not make up her mind, and was very enigmatic
a .kout Jt - A major situation arose when Jago’s mas
tiff killed Esther’s little Toby. It ended when Jago
and Harry came to blows at a tenant’s dinner, and
Jago gouged out one of Harry’s eyes and all but
killed him. Esther now found herself committed by
public opinion to marry her champion, which she did.
But after two years Harry continued to be an invalid,
and Esther’s mother, a terrible old woman, half gen-
teel, half bawdy, decided to poison him off. Esther
realised her intentions and thwarted them. Harrv.
however, dies of heart-failure, and the mother, coming
to collect Esther’s gratitude, learns with chagrin that
she is not responsible. We find that Esther has been
deeply happy in her unconsummated marriage, and
that for her fulfilment is to have someone totally
dependent on her. This conclusion gives a sour flavor
to the story.
Into this robust theme is mixed another concern-
ing a tree haunted by a demon called Dolly which the
vicar tries, unsuccessfully, to exorcise with bell, book
and candle. It is from this that the title is drawn, but
it has very little bearing on the main story—it is, in
fact, just a little extraneous grimness.
The book is well supplied with minor characters
cut according to approved patterns. There are the
other-worldly vicar (we are given a sermon in extenso),
the brusque doctor whose bark is worse than his bite,
the comic cook, the repulsive village idiot whom we
are encouraged to like, and a fair range of yokels.
In the drawing of the principal characters there is a
certain nebulousness that undermines the readers-faith
in them. Esther changes suddenly and completely
from a maiden uncertain, coy and hard to please to a
ministering angel. Arthur, who at one time looks
like being the hero, fades out, and so, having served
his turn, does Jago, while old Mrs. Nancarrow can
be explained only along the lines of a dual personality.
Reading The Swift Shadow leaves you with the lament-
able impression that Cold Comfort Farm was written
in vain.
Four Novels in One.
Ralph Bates’s Rainbow Fish (Cape ; Angus and
Robertson ; 9s. 6d.) is a proud and violent book that
concedes nothing to popular taste, but is bursting
with its own vitality. You enjoy it at your own
risk, but it is a book that cannot easily be driven out
of your mind once it has worked its difficult way in.
It is not one novel, but four —“Rainbow Fish,” “Death
of a Virgin,” “The Other Land” and “Dead End of
the Sky”—each a little jungle of life stories curiously
and cleverly twined together into an obscure but real
pattern. Each is an experiment in technique.
In “Rainbow Fish,” the longest of these com-
pressed novels, a number of separate lives from the
four corners of society are finally knotted together by
necessity and disaster. Each character—Robert
Freeth, whose hopeful young life had been shattered
by circumstance, who one night murdered a woman
in Marseilles and lost himself in the shifting under-
world of the Mediterranean ; Skinner, a captain who
threw away his ship on a reef; James Legge, whose
mistress had killed herself; Weisendonck, a Jewish
agitator ; O’Phelan, a gunman on the run ; Malatesta,
who could not conform to the new Italy—each of
these and others at the end of hope come to the last
resort of lost men, the sponge fishing fleet in the
Aegean. They die together when the company’s un-
seaworthy boat founders in a storm, and this is of a
piece with the harsh inconsequence of their lives. The
style is elliptical and enigmatic, much of the story
conveyed by inference only.
The rainbow fish are the symbol of beauty, the
moments vital, in that lost and ugly world.
The rainbow fish swam across the reef when
O’Phelan and Freeth were near the end of their breath,
the diver’s end, which is the second time the lungs begin
to hurt. But with hands on that reef of sponge neither
had thought of going up at the agreed time. The school
streamed over in a new formation, blue and red and
yellow and silver, flashing between their legs and arms;
they slid between Freeth’s fingers as he grasped at a
sponge, then the arrow burst into a cloud of flashing
prisms.
Death of a Virgin” is a simpler piece of work,
set in a fishing village on the Catalan coast. A revo-
lutionary is in hiding there and he watches the slow-
moving lives of a little group of people strung up to
tension by the death of an old paralysed woman who
owns two cottages. There is a sharp contrast, a light
and shade pattern, between the scenes of violence
from which Rafael, who tells the story, has fled and
to which he returns, and this quiet little drama. Yet
there is a connection. It is such episodes, base and
ugly, that slowly mature violence in man.
“The Other Land” is the kindest and gentlest of
the stories. It is set in London and is made up of a
number of different life stories unrelated to one an-
other except by the accident of propinquity. All men
are strangers, the life of each is a foreign country
to his fellow—the other land. The studies are all
sympathetic. We have, for instance, Pa Bryant, a
poor man with six children. He won £2 and decided
to take his family for an outing into Derbyshire.
Everything went wrong. The weather was bad ; it
came on to snow and they arrived home at last chilled,
exhausted and cross. But over the air, among the
news items, they hear that the snow in the Derbyshire
hills has been responsible for much damage and many
exciting scenes. They see their ruined day in the
light of adventure. It is transmuted to pure happi-
ness.
The last story, “Dead End of the Sky,” is the most
enigmatic. The same story—of the desperate friend-
ship and enmity of two men of genius “like comets
trapped in the dead end of the sky”—is retold five
times from different angles, by the men themselves
and by three women. The reader pieces events to-
gether as best he can, but the picture of wastage is
clear enough.
The Girl Who Climbed Like a Cat.
When Roald Amundsen sailed north after his
conquest of the South Pole his first port of call was
Lyttelton (M.L.). In the contiguous city of Christ-
church one evening during his brief stay the explorer
gave a “lantern lecture” outlining his achievement.
As he described it, the journey sounded about as
easy and unexciting as a ramble through a meadow
full of daisies. There is a good deal of the same
charming modesty in Freda Du Faur’s book The
Conquest of Mount Cook, first published in 1914, and
now given a second impression (George Allen and
Unwin ; 165.).
Miss Du Faur’s mountaineering record is unique
in many ways. A Sydney girl, she had never seen
a snow-clad peak till she visited M.L. in 1906 to see
the Christchurch Exhibition. In Christchurch, laid
out like a draughtboard, and as flat as one, all streets
running due north and south and east and west, the
Southern Alps, “like heaven after long, tired lives,” as
a poet has sung, rise glittering and ethereal at the
end of every westward-directed thoroughfare. Freda
saw them, and henceforth had a new aim in life.
I worshipped their beauty, and was filled with a
passionate longing to touch those shining snows, to
climb to their heights of silence and solitude and feel
myself one with the mighty forces around me. The
great peaks towering into the sky touched a chord that
all the wonders of my own land had never set vibrating,
and filled a blank of whose very existence I had been
unconscious.
In 1906 she spent two or three days at the Mt.
Cook Hermitage and essayed some small climbs. In
1908 she returned, accomplished various small climbs
with guide Peter Graham, and traversed Mounts
Kinsey and Wakefield. Small but sturdy, she had
an innate aptitude for the mountaineering craft.
Graham, early in their acquaintance, muttered that
she was a “blessed cat” —a thumping big compliment
from that dour Scot in the circumstances. Almost
the first time she climbed roped one of her party
slipped, and instinctively she whipped her ice-axe into
a crack with the rope round it and held the man.
After that she could do anything with Graham.
In 1909 Freda was back again among her be-
loved Alps. She conquered Sealey, the Nun’s Veil.
Malte Brun (the classic rock climb), the Minarets and
attempted Cook, to be foiled by a sudden change in
weather. Next year she renewed her onslaughts,
climbed her first virgin peak, tackled Cook, this time
successfully, and broke all previous records by two
hours —six hours up and six and a half down—a
marvellous achievement for any mountaineer. A
few days later she climbed De la Beche (the second
ascent in history), failed on Tasman, but made the
second recorded ascent of Green. Back again in
1912, she added Tasman, Dampier, .Lendenfeldt,
Sebastopol and two virgin peaks in the Cook group—
now Du Faur and Nazomi on the map—-to her belt
of scalps. Her great year, and her last, was 1913, when
she completely traversed Cook’s three peaks (a pioneer
achievement), and made the first traverse of Sefton —
hardest peak to climb in all the Alps.
Of all these feats the most spectacular and the
most daring was undoubtedly the Mount Cook
traverse. Aorangi’s three crowns are linked by razor-
back ridges sweeping down in vast loops. The bravest
of mountaineers shiver when they look at them. One
of the greatest of English Alpinists wrote to Miss Du
Faur concerning it:
That ridge of Mount Cook would be shuddersome
at the best of times. I have walked underneath it on
both sides and looked along it from the top, and I can
confidently say there is not such a ridge in Switzerland;
mixed rock and ice perhaps, such as the Teufelsgrat of
the Taschhorn and maybe others, but nowhere that
endless stretch of knife-edged snow perched far above
everything else in the world as it must seem.
Miss Du Faur, with reason, had a high opinion
of the Hermitage guides—Peter and Alex. Graham,
David Thomson and others. She says of them:
They are pioneers, these daring colonials, exploring
their own country, learning by hard experience what
generations of teaching has made comparatively simple
ior the European guide. Twenty years ago [this was
written in 1914] a few English mountaineers gave them a
lead, taught them the use of ice-axe and rope, and to-day
there is hardly a mountain in New Zealand up which they
have not found a route. Some day, if my dreams come
true, I hope to tackle some of the giants of the Hima-
layas, and I ask no better fate than to be led up them
by one of my New Zealand guides.
Fate, however, had other plans for Freda Du
Faur. She was to make no more new pages in moun-
taineering history.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
"That."
What a versatile word is “that”! It possesses
probably more variability than any other word in the
language. It is used as an adjective, “That story is
fine ’; an adverb, “I would not go that far” ; a con-
junction, “We know that he will come”; a relative
pronoun, “The very man that we wished to see”; a
noun, “That is an interesting word” ; an interjection,
“That! What shall I call it?”
Further, it is possible to use it an undetermined
number of ways in a grammatical sentence — e.g., “He
said that that ‘that’—that ‘that’ that that man used —
was wrong.”
There is also a puzzle passage for punctuation in
which “that” figures prominently among the few
different words of which it is composed. Here it is.
first with no points, then with marks of punctuation:
“That that is is that that is not is not is not that it it
is.” “That that is, is ; that that is not, is not; is not
that it? It is.”
And “that,” too, is the kernel of two or three
much-used colloquialisms, notably the now-common
“that’s that,” meaning “that is now settled or disposed
of ; so much for that.”
OLOGIST.


IT’S A THRILL TO ‘GO PLACES’ IN A CAR WITH
No. 1 Performance
m
Hudson and Terraplane appeal particularly to the younger man.
He admires the pep and power of their No. 1 Performance. What-
ever his demands . . . and he drives hard, far and fast . . . these
brilliant cars respond eagerly, effortlessly to his every whim.
That's not surprising, because the car he drives is a running-mate of
the Hudsons and Terrapianes which broke 40 official records in the
most punishing “torture test” ever given stock cars.
In addition, he likes their comfort and roominess; their economy is
easy on his pocket; he is supremely confident always because
Hudson and Terraplane are the safest of all cars on the road; and
he knows that their smart, distinctive appearance is suitable for
every occasion.
. mmm,
mimmil
’/£
W«WB»SXS»*»!
wi^mi
as
%%%%
iiimi
imp iiiipii ■ mu ’■•■:- -f •;
Performance? Yes, and everything else, too!
EVERY £ BUYS MORE IN
THESE No. 1 CARS!
Your money goes further in Hudsons and Terraplanes
because they offer you more features than any other cars
in their price fields. More Horsepower .. . 101 and 122 in
Hudson, 96 and 101 in Terraplane. Longer Wheelbase . . .
122 and 129 inches in Hudson, 117 inches in Terra-
plane. More Roominess ... 55 inches of com-
fort for three in the front seat. Greater Safety
. . . all steel bodies, including roof and floor; exclu-
sive Duo - Automatic Hydraulic Brakes, two braking
systems operating from the one brake pedal; Hudson-
designed Radial Safety Control and Tru-line Steering, that
frees springs of power and braking strains and gives per-
fect wheel alignment over any surface at any speed; new
Double-drop “2X” Frame with lower centre of gravity.
Greater Economy . . . with Terraplane’s up to 24 m.p.g.
and Hudson's 20 m.p.g. and over in Australian tests, with-
out special tuning and including severe acceleration and
climbing trials.
Change Gear with a
FLICK OF YOUR FINGER
The exclusive Selective Automatic
Gear Change (an optional extra)
enables you to pre-select the gears at
your leisure, and, when a change
becomes necessary, a touch on the
clutch pedal does the trick. The
fingertip control leaves both hands free
to steer and signal, makes driving on
winding hills, at intersections and
amongst heavy traffic easier and safer.
Try this new way to drive!
HUDSONS .nd TERRA?LANES
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
llncorporated in Englandi
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
[Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street,
HOBART
Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED
DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY CENTRES


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
'mmk
ifcr
rnSm-m*,. jam safe; m* mm mm mm -sm Mm WBBm
mmi •mam. mmm mm «n mm. mmt*
ASStS* ~ !
s£t . • *
,4|f!
** \;: \‘4
m
*g~i r Wi& 4|sf '
% wmk. *&sm mm&.. mum., mm..... mmr. jssr/.y.Sw®. w-J
S
BS :
mm m—»
—I
Ml
'SK*;*.;-* •*’■** •■»*•- *lf Mil
Pf§? f* w ****,»*„■*-*«* j f|jJr f 11 Jl I
* f 1 If! WV*& 4.W •*- rfj|B| I «■ I
::: s
i
.>>: :•
1
lilMllfl : ,~“ ~.s *;
■»-!■■ "Tty- !
m-
mm
■■
l
SI
H
te.
*
mm
dLt
jr*.
■
MB
m
11
ill.:
*
i ! ;
*.r
■
I 9 .
M
I ! :
msm
i
m
■
I :
■P"
v <p
in
mm
ii
MS} t te*
■ te.
fesiteis
1
HI
i
m
5 i
I
W.
■ •-; '
I ■:
■
if * -
w
; ; 'ii
«
m
1 - MIMMi
.lllllll
H SHIII ■IUKi■ 1 Hi Hi
■ >
;r.
mm
H
interior View of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars .
r


PEACE PASTORAL.
"To the whole world, which is anxiously asking what the result of our meeting in Berlin will be, war or peace, we can both answer, the Fuehrer and I,
with a loud voice, ‘Peace.’ ” — Mussolini.
“Is this a private party, or can anybody join in?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotcli ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
FROM THE MEANDER RIVER.
Listening to Mr. Lyons when he spoke his piece at
Deloraine was like listening to the reading of a
catalogue.
Our Prime Minister is so serene and inoffensive
that even his political enemies, who were his political
friends for so many years, find it impossible to hate
him ; but he is no orator. The sound of handclapping
came over the air when he paused for wind or water
or to consult a note or to let an interjector exhaust
himself in a sentence. Though dutiful, it was
never enthusiastic. As a Great Daily put it, “Delo-
raine is a sleepy little old-world town on the banks
of the Meander River”; and the speech had some
of the qualities of river and town.
There was nothing unexpected in it, just as there
was not an arresting sentence. It meandered through
flat fields of retrospect and prospect. The public
was told again how many people have “stepped from
unemployment to employment” since Mr. Lyons
began saving the country, and how “old-age and
invalid pensions, war pensions, public-service salaries
and wages” have been restored by “a Government
sound in methods, and, above all, sound in finance.”
It was reminded of the amount of national debt that
will “fall due for conversion in Australia in a little
more than 12 months,” and of the paramount neces-
sity of returning a Government “which can com-
mand more favorable money-market conditions and
lower rates of interest than can the Labor party.”
The public was likewise urged to remember that
“the Commonwealth Bank Board has £300,000,000
of assets under its control,” and invited to consider
the position that might arise if those assets were placed
“under the control of one man who would be subser-
vient to the Government of the day.” And that
recalled to the speaker a royal commission which his
Government had appointed, and which, contrary to
the practice of royal commissions—they usually
meander like the Deloraine river, and, after many
days, consign a litter of verbiage to the mighty deep
—presented an embarrassing report. Mr. Lyons’s
Government is going to make the best of a rather bad
business by “strengthening the banking structure on
the soundest possible lines” ; specifically, by “estab-
lishing a mortgage-bank branch of the Common-
wealth Bank that will be able to begin its activities
fully-fledged.”
Through no fault of the Prime Minister, who is
a living witness to the happiness which comes with
large families, the birthrate has gone to the bow-
wows. His Government, therefore, proposes “to
amend the maternity allowance” by raising the salary
limit, now £221 p.a., to £247 p.a., and making the
bonus £7 10s. for the fourth and each subsequent
child. It doesn’t seem much, and there would be no
opposition in any quarter if the salary limit were
removed. The cost would be a bagatelle compared
with what national insurance would cost, and the
Lyons Government proposes that —“insurance of all
employed persons, aged 16 and upwards,” except those
who can provide their own ; insurance against unem-
ployment and against sickness, “with pensions for
widows and orphans and superannuation.”
As for defence, the Government is for association
with other parts of the British Commonwealth, and
for “the protection of our sea-borne trade,” as well
as our own territories. That means “a strong Aus-
tralian Navy co-operating with the fleets of the
Empire.” Other than these obligations, there are “no
overseas commitments,” The statement should be
amplified by an undertaking that Australians will in
no circumstances be asked to fight for Red Russians,
Chinese, Czechs, Greeks, Yugoslavs, Spaniards or
Turks.
There is no mention of tax-relief in Mr. Lyons’s
plans, nor any reference to the need for changes in
the scheme of government. He and Mr. Curtin seem
to think that 6,750,000 Australians should be satisfied
to maintain seven Parliaments, seven Administrations,
seven Government Houses and seven lots of depart-
ments, whatever the drain on the national income,
and be content with an out-of-date Constitution, how-
ever badly it works. Just as both gentlemen fail to
perceive that Australia, once secure in its isolation,
can now be reached by enemy bombers in a couple
of hops, so they fail to realise that one Parliament,
with supreme powers, for the nation and local self-
government, without frills, for the provinces have
become necessities of our age and situation. Even
in the U.S.A., whence we borrowed so much of our
apparatus of government —so costly and clumsy and
uncertain—the Federal system begins to look rather
exploded. It is highly improbable that the party
leaders will be in a position to ignore these matters
the next time they go to the country.
Meantime the nation is called upon to make a
decision which can gratify only a minority of parti-
sans, whichever way it goes. It has to choose between
two very amiable gentlemen who are both living
in the provincial past. One stands on a bank of
the Meander River; the other paces the sands of
Cottesloe Beach with his head in the clouds.
Mr. Lyons on Defence.
Australia’s defence is on parade in the Gilbertian
role of a major election issue which neither side is
game to tackle. Neither Mr. Lyons nor Mr. Curtin
has a plan which, carried out, would make this a
reasonably well-defended country.
Australia’s front line of defence is well outside
Australia. It is a line sweeping across to the east
from Singapore. Our first protection is the Far East
fleet and its ’planes operating from that base. Any
scheme which leaves out of account active and sub-
stantial co-operation with that force is hopeless. Mr.
Curtin declines to see this. Australians, under his
scheme, are not to fight outside Australia until there
has been a referendum. He has had nothing to say
of an Australian Navy, except in disparagement.
It is a scheme that might have come out of a
kindergarten. Under it we would have for our second
line of defence—on Australian soil —Mr. Curtin’s 300
aeroplanes. Mr. Curtin might as well offer to defend
Australia with 300 kites. Any scheme which, for this
second line, leaves adequate trained man-power out
of account is merely childish. Mr. Curtin will not
touch this aspect of defence with a barge-pole. This
is not surprising: it was the Government of his
predecessor in the leadership of Federal Labor which
abolished compulsory training.
A conference of returned soldiers in Sydney has
unanimously decided that the reintroduction of com-
pulsory training is necessary. Through experience
which made them realists, the Diggers know the
absurdity of a defence scheme which leaves adequate
trained man-power out of account. And Mr. Lyons,
of course, leaves this out as thoroughly as Mr. Curtin
does. The one defence point on which he is not
vague is that compulsory training will not be reintro-
duced.
Lay the two “policies” side by side, and, save in
the number of aeroplanes, Mr. Lyons’s is identical
with Mr. Curtin’s. Where these gentlemen differ —
and there widely—is in the related aspect of foreign
policy. In this, Mr. Curtin holds out an isolation
policy for Australia which he knows Australia is far
from having the strength to carry out. There is
nothing in his defence scheme to give Australia that
strength; indeed, Australia might well find such a
policy beyond its resources 100 years hence. It is a
carrot, and not even a fresh one.
Mr. Lyons is sound, undoubtedly, in holding that
a policy of isolation from Great Britain would be
suicidal. If he would say now that his policy of co-
operation with Great Britain is one restricted to the
defence of the British Commonwealth and not a
general offer to help other people fight their wars, he
would be sounder still. There are people about who
remember with painful twinges the appalling readi-
ness with which he lately had Australia lined up as a
prospective combatant in a war that would have had
no relation to the British Commonwealth’s defence —
a war, in fact, that might have wrecked the British
Commonwealth. If Mr. Lyons has turned from the
fantastic mirage of “collective security” by which that
war was threatened, he should not keep it a secret. If
the Imperial Conference decided definitely on an iso-
lation policy for the British Commonwealth, he should
out with it. Or if we are still liable to be called out
to fight other people’s wars, then we should be told.
Whichever way the land lies, if Mr. Lyons would
next go on to state frankly what we really have to
offer in the way of fighting force he would edify a
lot of people and possibly deflate a lot of others who
badly need deflating—the armchair fire-eaters who,
having failed to arrange a war, with Britain and our-
selves in it, on behalf of Abyssinia, and again on
behalf of the Valencia Government, are now more
active than ever urging our going headlong into the
slaughter on behalf of China.
Mr. Lyons—completely vague in his defence
utterances, except in his “No” to compulsory training
—uttered this characteristic mouthful:
Only by close co-operation between a strong Aus-
tralian navy and the fleets of the Empire can we hope
to prevent the enemy coming within striking distance
of Australia.
He needs to add: Australia’s former navy of one
battle-cruiser, six light cruisers, 11 destroyers, and
gunboats, submarines, sloops and the like to a total
of more than 35 ships is now three cruisers (in need
of reconditioning), one flotilla leader, two destroyers,
two sloops and a survey ship. Mr. Lyons does not
propose to improve on this joke by even a sister-ship
to the Larrakia. Mr. Curtin, of course, has no place
in his scheme for a navy, either. He is airminded.
But at least he is not a humbug.
As to available man-power for co-operating with
Britain —or for bursting in on the wars our sickening
newspaper scaremongers and over-age warriors harp
on —by the last census we had over 1,000,000 males of
all shapes, sizes and conditions between the ages of
18 and 35. Of these, 35,000, according to Mr. Parkhill—
“the minimum number necessary for training in peace
and to provide for expansion in war” —are volunteers
for our militia training period of “six days in camp
and six days’ home training.” Mr. Parkhill finds
this “satisfactory”; so does Mr. Lyons; so does Mr.
Curtin. The right word for it is Lilliputian. It pro-
vides a comic-opera hobby for a Defence Minister,
and that is all it amounts to. A few extracts from
the Great Defence Estimates which are being trundled
about as an aid to winning the elections will further
help to»put this matter in its proper perspective:
Navy.—The Adelaide can be of considerable value in
the protection of Australian trade, and can also be a
valuable standby while the Australia and Canberra are
temporarily out of commission... .Consideration is being
given to the question of local construction of two
target-towing launches for the army The seagoing
personnel will be increased by 201.
Army.—The permanent forces will be increased
by 148 during 1937-38.
It would be funny in Nicaragua.
The Diggers’ conference of course, was right.
Compulsory training will have to come again, or else
all talk about Australia being defended will have to
be dropped as highfalutin’ and dangerously mislead-
ing nonsense. And why should not every able-bodied
man in this country be trained to defend it? Neither
Mr. Lyons nor Mr. Curtin will answer that question,
because there is only one answer to it, and that they
would find inconvenient to give. They will both
readily tackle any aspect of defence except this essen-
tial matter of adequate trained man-power, without
which there is no defence.
Just a Pioneer Unit.
South of Darwin population thins out. The Overland
Telegraph line, on its grey-blue metalled posts, runs
2100 miles to Adelaide. A rickety railway goes as
far as Birdum. Above, occasionally, the drone of
D.H.B6’s is heard bringing news from Europe.
Every night for hundreds of miles off the O.T.
line the local population of cattle stations huddles
round the radio and listens to A.B.C. Occasion-
ally an outbacker climbs into the saddle of a contri-
vance which looks like a bicycle and passes the news
into civilisation that old Bill or Burketown Tommy
is “crook,” and what can be done about it?
The last time I saw the Gulf side of this back
country there was no radio. Through some of
it we pushed—literally —the first motor-car. “Cut
lines” had not come; the “road” was marked
by a red, serpentine trail through the tall
grass, left by the last mailman and his erratic
packhorse six weeks before. There was nothing to
do for anybody who fell seriously ill but comfort
his last hours.
Because it was hot the funeral was hurried. They
dug a hole; the boss gave up his blanket, and there
was a muster of kerosene cases —precious cargo in
country where everything comes by packhorse, save
for one or two drays a year. The most erudite mem-
ber of the community mumbled some vague memory
of the prayer-book or of Scripture. Dust to dust.
Out of that era has emerged the age of Fenton.
I first heard of him in Wyndham. Fenton was a
man who never worried about fees. Fenton could be
depended on to go anywhere, any time. He drifted
to Darwin. He was the first medical man to recog-
nise the value of flying, medically, to the outback.
But he could not fly, and in his country there were
no tutors, no aerodromes that could be called by
that name in polite company. He taught himself the
rudiments of airmanship. To-day he holds the “B”
commercial license.
Medicine is supposed to be a profession which gives
great monetary rewards. Fenton has never had them.
He was not popular with the Administration.
Nobody is to blame for that. He often broke regu-
lations. He was accustomed to fly over country where
there were no lights, no night landmarks. Therefore
it was his habit, coming back from, perhaps, a 300-
mile flight over dark bush, to use the lights of Darwin
as practice points to give himself experience of heights
and angles. It was through this and not through his
actual work that he first attracted the attention of the
southern cities. The southern press, which usually is
unskilful in its choice of heroes, made him one. For
once it was right.
Fenton’s machines were usually ripe to be tied
together with string. He flew irrespective of season
and of the condition of engine or man. He landed,
rain or fine, on tiny station backyards behind the
woodheaps. He piled his splinted patients into over-
loaded ’planes and took them, single-handed, over
hundreds of miles of bush to Darwin or the nearest
A.I.M. nursing station.
Fenton’s last call was to Tanumbirini. It lies
between the O.T. line and the Gulf. It is so remote
that nobody but a Territorian knows how to pro-
nounce its name —Tanum brinni is the way to say it
—and all the newspaper maps mark it inaccurately.
Rdund about it run all the waters from north-of-the-
Barkly and beyond as they swirl to the sea in a maze
of flood-torn creeks. Nature has piled a little
of every kind of fauna, flora and geology in its
vicinity—lancewood, spinifex, jagged limestone out-
crops alive with death-adders, flats covered with long
grass which are a snare and a delusion, since they are
cross-runned with hidden gullies among the turkey-bush.
Tanumbirini itself looks, on the map, like a
major town. I remember it as a hut of rough-piled
stone with an iron shanty beside it. Bullterrier mon-
grels were tied, yelping, at every corner. Blacks
from beyond the Roper were to be heard “lu-luing’
in the distance as they made a leisurely way home
from their annual walkabout to the Weiran.
By the shortest practicable line Tanumbirini
would be 700 miles from Darwin—just a flight from
Melbourne to the Queensland border, or vice versa.
Fenton set out on that long lead to help one patient as
an ordinary medico would leave on a suburban trip.
He was discovered after a week in the wilderness,
alone, walking round in circles, in country in which
all the distinctive seasonal and directional landmarks
of further inland are missing. It was “good shoot-
ing” in a region where compasses behave like tee-
totums. He was, fortunately, safe.
There is an election campaign in progress m Ihe
Northern Territory. If Fenton were the candidate no
other man would have a chance. His is a case in which
public appreciation is based justly on performance.
BAUHINIA.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"As You Were" in Victoria.
To the end Victorians refused to get excited about
their State election. The preposterous “reform” issue
very palpably left them cold, and the only candidate
in whom they showed any particular interest was the
physical-culture lady who came out for Nunawading
as Independent U.A.P. At the beginning of the week
it looked as if she would get in.
The election was sprung on the people because
Mr. Dunstan, the local leader of a party (Country)
which is allied with Labor in State politics and with
the U.A.P. in Commonwealth politics, saw an advan-
tage for his group in anticipating the Commonwealth
election—evidently he didn’t mind embarrassing the
Federal wing of his party or his new State allies who
were his enemies in 1932-35.
This advantage Mr. Dunstan has gained, albeit it
will not endure. With Labor’s assistance, his group has
held all the 20 seats it had in the last Assembly, not-
ably those of ex-Labor-Premier Hogan and ex-Labor-
Minister Bailey, now members of the Dunstan Admin-
istration, though Mr. Bailey was rather hard pressed.
Yet it pleaded that its constitution forbade it to advise
C.P. supporters to give their preferences to Labor
candidates, and in Allandale it may unseat a Labor
M.L.A., Mr. Denigan, with U.A.P. preferences.
It was confidently predicted that the queer alli-
ance would hurt the U.A.P., but it has hurt Labor
more. Certainly Labor has gained Oakleigh and per-
haps Dandenong by small majorities, but it might
have gained them without an alliance. In other dis-
tricts, probably because Labor men resented the queer
association, its vote has not risen above the low level
of 1934, when it won only 18 seats ; in Essendon and
Ballarat there has been a definite slump. It is a bad
augury for the Commonwealth polls, especially as
Labor will have to try to wrest country seats from
C.P. members. The party will have 20 or 21 of the
65 seats in the new Assembly; if votes had the same
value—another principle on which its blundering
Tunnecliffe compromised—it would have 25 or 26 and
the Country party at most 14.
Meanwhile the Country party, which has no
metropolitan member, and did not even put up a
candidate for a metropolitan constituency, will con-
tinue to “rule” Melbourne, as well as the rest of
Victoria. When its minority Government falls, as
fall it must, country districts will be ruled by one
of the other minority parties, which are predominantly
metropolitan. It is a costly parody on local self-govern-
ment. What is now Victoria will never get that—
knowledgeable, responsible and economical local self-
government—until city and country acquire county
councils or provincial assemblies —labels matter little
—with powers expressly limited or delegated to it by
the national Parliament. In that Parliament Victorians
will always exercise a strong, sometimes a command-
ing. influence.
A Better Use for Breath.
It is ironical that the people in Australia who profess
most loudly to hate war are doing their best to drag
Australia into a war atmosphere. They inveigh against
Japanese “atrocities” in China and demand boycotts
of the Japanese. The noisiest fellows are, of course,
Red trade-union leaders. If they succeed in baiting
Japan into enmity the pacifists, their associates, will
have to kiss pacifism good-bye ; it will be necessary
in that case for Australia and Maoriland to arm to
the teeth.
The Japanese deny the “atrocities,” and their
representatives fairly ask the Australian nation, many
of whose sons they helped to convoy during the
war, not to judge them on reports of Left Wing news-
papers or the partisan accounts of Madame Chiang
Kai-shek —the lady whose husband was mysteriously
captured by a Communist general, was mysteriously
released, mysteriously pardoned his captor and has
since admitted a mysterious alliance with Russia.
Wars have long ceased to be wars of armies. It
is a nice question whether an arsenal suburb full of
munition workers who are busily engaged, man and
woman alike, in making rifles and high explosives
should be any more immune from attack than an
army in the field. But if the Japanese are bombing
open towns —and nobody here knows the full truth —
they can at least contend that European nations set
them an example in the Great War. To friends of
Russia, who are peculiarly indignant, they have an
ample reply by pointing to the fact that Voroshilov,
Moscow’s War Minister, has repeatedly declared that
the mainstay of the Red Air Force consists of “hun-
dreds of giant bombers,” which cannot conceivably
be used for any purpose which might not endanger
the civil population—a battlefield is no place for them.
And the “Times” is a witness that Russian bomb-
droppers were busy in 1934 in the Chinese province
of Sinkiang, with no declaration of war.
This Oriental war differs from countless other
Oriental wars only in the respect that the weapons
are deadlier. The ways of Orientals are not our
ways, and the worst things imputed to the Japanese
can be matched by Chinese precedents. There is not
a middle-aged Cantonese who does not remember
when daily executions in dozen lots were a tourist
spectacle on the potters’ fields ; when death by the
ling chi —the thousand cuts —was a commonplace, and
when it was no unusual thing to see a criminal chained
to a wall in a public place and slowly beaten to death
with a thick stick.
In the belauded Chinese Revolution tens of thou-
sands of men, women and children of all ranks and
ages, Manchus and Tatars, were slaughtered to the
strains of the Hsing han song, the “Marseillaise” of
the revolution:
Up with Han, slaughter the Tatar, kill the foreign beast;
Wipe out these two devils, tear up their wickedness by the
root.
Those who are breeding enmity towards us by
judging events on propagandist news —it all comes
from behind a heavy wall of censorship on both sides
—and interfering in an Oriental war would be better
occupied in working for Australian defence, so that
what has happened in China can never happen on
Australian soil.
These Sceptics.
Sydney’s “Morning Herald,” a very faithful recorder
of local events, has discovered with pain that it has
readers who don’t unhesitatingly accept all the foreign
news it publishes. Some of them “have expressed
doubt as to the reality and extent of Japan’s guilt
on the charge of ruthlessness.” The old paper allows
that “war-time news is often difficult to obtain,” and
that “accounts by the two combatants are liable to
be contradictory and unreliable.”
But the reports which are received by ourselves
come from the trained and reliable correspondents of
responsible newsagericies and leading British newspapers.
One of the “leading British newspapers” is the
London “News-Chronicle.” The Bulletin has fol-
lowed “News-Chronicle” accounts, cabled to Aus-
tralia, of what happened fin Abyssinia, what has hap-
pened in Spain, and what Hitler and Mussolini have
plotted against, the peace of Europe, and it says
deliberately that it wouldn’t hang a dog on such
“reliable” evidence. Indeed, it considers that the
efforts of British “Liberal” newspapers and politicians
these last two years have outdistanced the achieve-
ments of the old-timers who discovered the crucified
Canadian and the corpse-factory in France, and who
implored the British Army to reach the Rand in time
to prevent a wholesale slaughter of English-speaking
women and children by the Boers.
Going on the reports of “trained and reliable
correspondents,” the “Herald” accused “the Germans”
of having wiped Guernica off the map, and it
repeatedly refers to what it calls “the Guernica
horror.” Yeats-Brown, a representative British jour-
nalist and novelist, “spent a long time”, in Guernica,
“piecing together that tragic story,” and has written
his observations for the “Observer,” whose reputation
for faithful reporting stands as high in England as
does that of “S. M. Herald” in Australia. He writes
that “the original Nationalist communique that there
had been no bombing was a mistake” ; “it was thought
that the reports related to April 27, when, in fact, there
was no flying owing to bad weather.”
Guernica was bombed intermittently for about 31-
hours on April 26. How many bombs fell and what
destruction they caused it is now impossible to establish,
and the evidence of “eyewitnesses” some five or six
miles away or of civilians hiding in cellars is not very
reliable.
One of the “eyewitnesses” whose observations
were cabled to Australia was “a trained and reliable
correspondent.”
All the witnesses I questioned stated that the place
caught fire, that the fire brigade arrived from Bilbao,
and that it was sent away by the Red authorities.
Yeats-Brown’s conclusion is that Guernica was
burned chiefly by the Reds, and he submits this “as
a convincing proof.”
The whole of one side of the street is gutted,
while the other side stands intact, save for one house
which was bombed but not burned. How could aero-
planes destroy buildings along a straight line of over
200 yards?
The “Observer” man went to Salamanca, where
he was taken to “a large room full of documents
seized when the Nationalists entered Bilbao.” There
was “a telegram from Comrade Dimitrov, from the
Kremlin, appointing certain individuals to certain
positions in Vizcaya” ; there was a telegraph-book
showing cables forwarded from Bilbao to all parts of
the world, chiefly Moscow ; there were piles of mimeo-
graphed news-sheets sent daily by airmail from Moscow
to Bilbao, and “there was a correspondence between
an English M.P. —who, though supposed to be a
Liberal, leans well to the Left —and a journalist in
Bilbao who excelled himself in describing the Guer-
nica affair.” The journalist was copious.
Among other striking passages the following
occurred: “With regard to Spain, I have taken new
and very vigorous action and in the form which I hope
will produce results. It is in my view really there that
the best hope lies, as I have always told you. Here I
have tried to make trouble of every kind, and I think
in some directions I have been successful.”
The letter was, of course, written in confidence ;
but if other Left Wing writers and politicians were
as candid in their communications to the world they
would repeat the last paragraph.
No Reduction.
The A.J.C., which has had no luck of late years,
suffered two nasty knocks last week. It depends on
Derby Day for a good slice of its annual income —
which last year was £9600 short of expenditure—
and Derby Day weather was so unfavorable that the
attendance fell 8000 below the figures for the corre-
sponding Saturday a twelvemonth ago. Such climatic
reverses are philosophically borne, especially as many
members have country interests ; but the other stroke
of misfortune was sharply resented.
On the strength of apparently inspired newspaper
communications, it had been anticipated that the out-
rageous racing taxes would be reduced before the
spring meetings began. Reduced they were not, though
at an appearance of revolt on the part of some Minis-
terial members a sort of promise was given that
something would be done “before the beginning of
December.”
These racing taxes are the most extortionate levied
in any part of the world. On paddock tickets men
pay 3s. 4d., on tickets to the Leger Is. 2d. Tote.tax is
124 p.c. (the Government takes 9 p.c.), plus fractions
of sixpences and unclaimed dividends; and book-
makers, win or lose, pay 1 p.c. on turnover, plus
stamp duties on betting tickets. And Government
tram fares from the city to the course are double the
ordinary charge.
While people are thus skinned for going to the
races, the Government’s “campaign” against s.p. bet-
ting—which, incidentally, has cost upwards of £20,000
in royal commissions alone—will remain the sorriest
of jests. A reasonable all-round reduction could have
been included in the Budget, which was introduced on
September 21, and it could have been made effec-
tive before Derby Day. It would have been good
electioneering too ; and that aspect might have been
expected to appeal to the U.A.P. But the U.A.P.’s
“great” leader, Mr. Stevens, is really a clumsy fellow ;
and he would be lost if Mr. Lang didn’t win his elec-
tions for him.
Mr. Bell and His Trams.
City transport methods in Melbourne have been
under spasmodic fire for a long time, but in the last
year Tramways Board chairman Bell has made some
impression by his vigorous championship of his trams.
They carry more passengers more cheaply and effi-
ciently than any sort of bus, such has been his con-
tinuous refrain ; and under his drive more cable-tram-
lines have been converted to electric traction, and
the last of the relics are under sentence.
Melbourne isn’t sorry about this ; but it has won-
dered whether the authorities were justified in sinking
more borrowed money in electric tramlines when,
according to many critics back from overseas, other
countries are tearing up tram rails and substituting
different types of buses.
Mr. Bell knew all the answers. He said he was
in close touch with developments abroad. He dis-
missed trolley-buses with a wave of the hand as being
as route-bound as the better passenger-carrying tram
and more expensive to establish than the crude-oil
bus. Though neither tram nor bus, they would be
more costly to introduce than electric trams when
street-restoration costs v/iere considered, while for
efficiency in shifting peak crowds trams had no
peer . . . and so on.
When motorists’ organisations argued that trams
occupy far too much road in a modern city where
traffic congestion is ever a problem, Mr. Bell unrolled
several feet of statistics in support of his contention
that trams occupy less street per passenger than cars,
and that car-parking in city streets should therefore
be abolished. In fact, whichever wild swing the
controversy took, Mr. Bell conjured up another
argument until Melbourne really began to believe
there was something more in trams than the straps.
By way of proving that he is right, Mr. Bell
is to go abroad for six months’ study of transport
problems. He says he will look into the possibilities
of Germany’s Erren internal-combustion engine, re-
puted to run on cheap hydrogen, coal-gas or low-
grade fuels primed with oxygen. He is going to look
over the Roosevelt tram, said to have restored strap-
swinging to popular U.S. favor, and he will cast a
professional eye over Glasgow’s trams, which have air-
conditioning and upholstered seats.
Meanwhile, Melbourne conversions to electric
traction continue. _
Electoral Battles Long Ago.
“Il Vecchio” attends three :
The first was in Normanby (Q.). There were 750 electors
on the roll, and because of issues which were shaking men s
souls 400 voted. There were two candidates. One was a
pastoralist, who, as the case was put to us by the school-
teacher, had a Machiavellian plan for importing the entire
population of China and giving us scads of little Chinese
brothers. I was earnestly anti-pastoralist at nine. The thought
of adding half a dozen Cantonese to my bedfellows on the
verandah was unattractive. .
Of the second candidate, all I remember is that he paid
some of us to pin up calico signs which a publicity sense
quite unusual in those times had induced him to order from
a Rockhampton bookseller named Kidston, who afterwards
became Premier: “Vote for Peberdy and a White Queens-
land.” They didn’t help him.
My memory of election day is of a large marquee with
interior decorations of ballot-boxes, beer barrels and bread and
cheese. Our schoolmaster, who was a scrutineer, had three
hot rounds with the returning-officer over the merits of the
case for Kanaka labor. Next morning I was surprised to find
my father still on deck. I fully expected that his place would
have been taken in the night by Ah Sam, the gardener, and the
latter’s non-appearance somewhat shook my faith in politicians.
The next election I saw was in a timber camp. Here
again the issues were mighty: whether the Government would
supply free seed to allow us all to test the magnificent possi-
bilities of our fertile territory, and whether it would continue
to collect a royalty on timber. Everybody knew that there
was not a plough or an acre of crop within 50 miles of our
hamlet, but this did not prevent our making use of the free
seed —it was ground for porridge and used for illicit brewing.
The timber royalty was important, because nobody ever paid
it. A fettler down the line used to send a warning when an
inspector was on the way, and then everybody would “go bush.”
All letters from the Forestry Department were returned
marked “Addressee Unknown.” The postmistress was a
daughter of a man who owned bullock-waggons.
During that campaign we had a different kind of cereal
for breakfast every morning, and no inspectors came our way.
Both candidates promised us unlimited seed, and one earnestly
offered free agricultural implements. They were both against
timber royalties (which were afterwards increased). Both also
boasted that they had personally seen every elector in the
electorate, and, as neither was a rich grazier, the only tonic
available on election day was mead. If tales were true it
was a far, far better thing than beer. Everybody voted a
couple of times —once for himself and once for an absent friend.
Then came the first Commonwealth election. The cam-
paign opened in mid-January, 1901, and the poll was on
March 30. There was naturally great indignation at the
manner in which the Ministry was hurrying the people into
making up their minds within 2\ months to vote against a
dastardly innovation called the tariff and several other inven-
tions of the devil. This was all explained to us in detail
by a sandy chunk of Scotland named Stewart, who became
a Senator.
Feeling ran high at that election. I think even the station-
master’s horse voted. Anyway, the luck of the righteous
was out. They got their man in, and discovered when it
came to celebrations that he was a teetotaller with a frugal mind.
That, said the voters, shaking their heads, came of having
big electorates with as many as 5000 voters in them. It didn’t
give the salt of the earth a chance to see in person what they
were buying.


Society
" AND IT'S PRINTEO WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Edgar Christie : Our usually peace-
ful mountain community has just pro-
vided material for a first-class thriller.
The O.C. Farmyard Supplies reported to
the C.O. that a fox had forced a hole
through a netting fence in the night and
got away with 20 chooks. The C.O.,
having been much exposed to members
of the A.I.F. as a hospital nurse during
the war, decided to inspect the scene of
the crime. It struck her as odd that one
fox should have got away with so many
fowls and left not a feather of evidence.
Police were sent for, but, there being no
reporters or photographers about, de-
parted shortly saying they had a clue.
Next day the O.C. Farmyards resigned
and took his departure. A week later
his successor noticed something white
exposed by a rabbit scrape in some loose
earth in the near-by scrub. It turned
out to be a pillow-case in which were
three fat turkeys, plucked, drawn and
trussed for market, the fox having evi-
dently been unable to return for them
after the interment. The remains were
reburied.
* Hs * *
“J.D.H.”: The advertising of birth-
control specifics is legal provided the
advertiser keeps within reasonable limits
(B. 29/9/’37). Some years ago I had
business dealings with two partners in a
mail-order business of this type, and was
assured that they found it exceedingly
profitable. Advertising absorbed 30 per
cent, of their returns; postage, printing,
wrapping, office rent, etc., 4 per cent. The
drug in tablet form was bought whole-
sale for 2s. 2d. a bottle containing 1000,
and retailed in boxes containing 15 for
7s. 6d.
* * * *
“D.E.”: When I was a boy in the
’nineties that were not so naughty the
favorite indoor pastime of an active
nature was ping-pong, and the favorite
outdoor pastime was cycling. Now I am
old, or at least a thought elderly, the
most popular indoor pastime of an active
nature is ping-pong, and the most popu-
lar outdoor pastime is cycling. Sights
which were familiar 40-odd years ago,
and which I never expected to return—
crowd-drawing table-tennis tournaments,
tandems on the road and bunches of per-
spiring youths pedalling round tracks
for hours —have come again. The only
notable difference is that girl cyclists
get themselves up in shorts and slacks.
In the ’nineties they wore skirts and —
the really daring damsels—bloomers.
•I' 'l'
“Jobber”: Of the two , properties
owned by Digger Arthur Carter, and
referred to (B. 15/9/’37) as being named
after places he has reason to remember,
Lagnicourt is correct, but “Talaheena”
isn’t the name of any place anywhere. It
is what we used to yell at the Gyppos
when we wanted one to “come here.”
* t * * *
“Mudurup”; Deloraine, described as
a “sleepy, old-world town,” has obtained
the distinction of being the first place
in the Speck where a Prime Minister has
delivered his policy speech. Similarly,
Fremantle (W-A.) can claim whatever
kudos may attach to the fact that for
the first time in history a Federal Oppo-
sition leader has fired the first shot in
an election campaign there. The reason
in each case, of course, is that Tassie
never had a Prime Minister before
Lyons and Westralia never had an Oppo-
sition leader before Curtin. W.A. came
very near to the distinction once when
John Forrest, on Deakin’s retirement
“I know where you are —in the wardrobe."
“Guess again — you're getting hotter .”
from the party leadership, was only
beaten by a single vote for the job which
went to Joseph Cook. Had it been
otherwise, Forrest would ultimately have
become Prime Minister, as Cook did.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The mail-plane service be-
tween Adelaide and Darwin is opening
up trade in unexpected directions.
Already a live crocodile has been a pas-
senger. And a Katherine (N.T.) hotel-
keeper is now negotiating with an Adel-
aide catering firm for a three-course
dinner, for 10 boarders and staff, to be
delivered every Sunday morning.
jfj $ H*
“Nipper”: The only serious stoush I
recall in which the Porkanbeans were en-
gaged on the Western Front (B. 22/9/’37)
was with a battalion of the Ist Div.
A.1.F., which was at rest well in the rear.
Hostilities opened when a P. and B. dis-
patch cyclist, pedalling dreamily along
a towpath, had his front wheel playfully
interfered with by a Digger. Promptly
picking himself up, the P. and B. pro-
duced a dirk from somewhere and sought
revenge. He only got one ineffective stab
in, however, before a heftily swung boot
left him a casualty. The feud flared up
anew when some Diggers came upon a
bunch of our stout allies ladling into a
lone fellow-swaddie and put several of
the assailants in hospital. Then a rumor
spread that a Digger, homecoming from
leave, had been found in a canal with a
large stone tied around his neck. En-
raged, the more fiery spirits dragged a
machine-gun out, but the brass-hats got
wind of it in time. That was the last the
A.I.F. saw of the P. and Bs. They were
promptly shifted, and Fritzes in some
other part of the line trembled.
“Ding-Dong”: “Bo’s” story (B.
15 /9 / ’37) concerning the Porkanbeans
prisoners the Germans returned to our
lines with a note pinned to the tunic of
one of them is dinkum. I believe the
exact wording was “Returned with
thanks, being of no possible use to us.”
The incident happened at Lys Farm, ad-
joining the river of that name, and the
Fritz raiding party came down by boat
one dark night.
T * * *
“1.D.”: Humorous telegrams? While
the Mitchell Town Bore was being
drilled, the Christmas holidays came
along, and the men went on leave. When
they had overstayed it by a week the
boring company wired to its town agents,
“Are the men horizontal or perpendi-
cular?”
“Adelaide”: The girlish “tendency to
lie” lately noted by an Adelaide S.M.
has been pushed to the limit by a local
woman of 24, who told the police that
a male friend had been helping her to
wash the dishes while her gold ring
hung on a nail, and suddenly ‘‘the ring
was gdne, and so was the man.” As
he had not even been at the house that
day, the police, on a further interview,
received the calm statement, “My mother
doesn’t like him, and I was trying to
shield myself.” She appeared in court
wearing the ring, and cried so bitterly
that a kindly Bench let her off with 10s.
and costs. What would a mere man
have got for such an accusation?
*** * t
“Demo”: Here’s one from a South
Aus. weekly:
Mr. is a remarkable man, who
has travelled the world in windjammers.
He has been wrecked twice, once on the
rocky shores of Abyssinia.
Maybe the other shipwreck occurred on
the coast of Switzerland.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Let me endorse that par.
about Victorians as colonisers of Aus-
tralia itself, not to mention furrin 'parts
(B. 29/9/’37). I was born on an Upper
Barcoo (Q.) station almost entirely sur-
rounded by Victorians. My birthplace
was owned by Francis Murphy and Son,
with my English dad as managing partner.
Up the river was Landsdowne with the
Fairbairns and John Turnbull, and com-
ing down was Tambo, also Victorian-
owned and managed by a Cabbage
Garden Scot named Hamilton. At
Greendale were the Clarks and at Alice
Downs the Whittinghams. Powers
reigned at Lome, and the Govetts and
Olivers held sway at Portland Downs
and elsewhere down the river. Casey
and Wallace came to Terrick later, fol-
lowing the English Romes. Jackeroos, if
not English, were Victorians to a man,
and from this young element one heard
much of the wonderful achievements of
Victorian footballers, cricketers and race-
horses, the colonisers being noted in that
day for their high opinion of their native
“colony” and its inhabitants, bi- or quad-
ruped.
* * * *
“Doggie”: The Royal Navy also sits
while drinking the royal toast (B.
29/9/’37). Legend says that the custom
was due to the naval officer who later
became William IV. rising too in-
cautiously to his feet and nearly knock-
ing out his skull-filling against the low
deck beams of the battleship he honored
with his presence. When he got his wits
again he ordered that accidents of the
kind should be avoided in future by sit-
ting during after-dinner drinks.
if! * * *
“Oxmead”: It wasn’t only glasses
which had touched the future King
Edward VIII.’s lips that were liable to
be regarded as treasured possessions by
loyal Australians in 1920 (B. 29/9/’37).
I doubt if such an aura or halo ever sur-
rounded or topped a visiting royalty
before, or ever will again. I remember
meeting a quite hard-headed citizen of
Cottesloe (W.A.) who had just enjoyed
the privilege of a handshake with H.Rdi.
on his way from Fremantle to Perth. He
was regarding what writers
might term his “bunch o’ fives with an
awed reverence I feel sure he had nevei
bestowed on it before. That hand, he
told me solemnly, “has just been gripped
by the future ruler of the greatest Empire
upon earth.” And a story was current
of one of Perth’s fashionable matrons de-
daring that a dress which her daughter
had worn when the Prince s arm stole
around the waistline for a dance would
ever be regarded by her as a sacred tnmg,
n ot be profaned by any other touch,
Now j read that a cer tain Colonel Par-
tr jd gej w ho has been A.D.C. to three
British Kings, “thinks it hard to say
what reception Windsor would get should
he return t 0 England.” Sic transit!
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The widow and children
a man w h o died from a spider bite
haye been awar< ied £425, the case adding
one tQ the list of causes f or com-
;n;,]rv was re-
pensation payments. Th j y
ceived while the deceased was cleani g
up some papers in an untidy brickyards
office Another recent queer case
that of a manwho was g*
by a bee, partial blindness resulting.
apiarist employer had to pay.
THE SAVING GRACE.
I dreamed that 1 waited at Heaven’s door amid
the clatter and din
Of souls as thick as an army corps who sought
their way to win
Therethrough, $ie most of us doubting sore if
Peter would let us in.
’Twas the sort of crowd, I couldn’t disguise as
I took my place in the queue,
Would have gladdened a fight-promoter’s eyes—
a multitudinous crew,
Staring about them with wild surmise, chill
apprehension, too.
And I felt that of all of us sons of earth whose
days thereon were done,
And who sought to qualify for a berth aloft,
there was never a one
But thought of the query about his worth that
euchred Tomlinson.
And when at last came my turn to meet the
Janitor’s stern regard,
And to come across with the truth complete, I
fancied his eyes- grew hard
When I blurted out “Upon earth, St. Pete, I
was merely a doggerel bard.”
“And what did you write,” he asked me then,
in tones a shade less grim,
“To give you a lift from the haunts of men to
the shrines of the seraphim?
Came ever an anthem from your pen? Did you
ever indite a hymn?”
“Ah, no,” I faltered, “they wouldn’t sell. My
lines were on other roads.
Ballads and rondeaux and villanelles I ham-
mered out by loads,
Sonnets and elegies as well, and triolets and
odes.
’‘To songs of summer and lilts of spring I smote
my humble lyre;
Of rhymes that tinkle and staves that swing I
could quote to your heart’s desire,
But never, I fear me, anything that would do
for an angel choir.”
The Good Saint bent o’er a blotting-pad. Then
his voice came crisp and terse,
As one who knows that however bad you are
there are others worse:
“I’ll give you one more chance, my lad. Did
you ever scrawl free verse?”
“Never,” I told him. “And that,” said he,
“your other sins shall cloak.”
And I heard the click of the golden key in the
massive lock as he spoke.
But just as I edged expectantly to the Pearly
Gates —I woke.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nordbo”: The way of a maid with
a dog recently furnished a lot of enter-
tainment at a small railway station near
Cairns (N.Q.). A deadlock was reached
when (a) stationmaster refused lady per-
mission to take dog (Alsatian) into first-
class carriage, ( b ) lady point-blank de-
clined to have pet accommodated in dog-
box, and (c) guard objected to sharing
his van with lady and savage dog
(compromise suggested by s.m.). By this
time the train was half an hour late. On
threat of it leaving without her the lady
gave in. But then followed further com-
plications. The dog decided not to enter
the dog-box, and his attitude, backed by
showing of teeth and fierce growls, com-
pelled respect. Finally, the lady crawled
into the dog-box, followed by the Alsa-
tian, and the door was slammed. Then the
opposite door opened and the lady
crawled out. That door was slammed, and
the stationmaster stopped laughing long
enough to blow his whistle.
* * * *
“Wirihana”: Scratching for gold in
Westland (M.L.) my mate and I estab-
lished our main camp on a bush farm in
gold-bearing country ; and from this base
tramped many miles each day, prospect-
ing the surrounding area with very little
luck. The farmer offered us a job erect-
ing a mile of new fence. Although both
funds and provisions were getting low, and
my mate and I were experienced fencers,
we refused the job as being beneath our
dignity as prospectors. Eventually our
farmer friend got started on the fence
himself, and almost from the first post-
hole struck good paying gravel. At this
juncture, being completely broke, we were
thankful to get a job milking the farmer’s
‘ Let's play Cupid.”
cows, while he demonstrated the right
way to dig gold, surrounded by all home
comforts.
.** * *
“Vic. G.”: “Mayor Once ’ should be
the last to misinterpret small-town psy •
chology (B. 22/9/’37). In a country
afflicted with growing pains a “village”
or a “hamlet” is a potential town that has
failed to make good. I know of but one
township which modestly labelled itself
“village,” and its annals are not such as
to inspire emulation. Taabinga Village
just missed becoming the capital of the
South Burnett (Q.) —literally by a few
lengths. The railway, creeping down
from the north, baulked three miles
short, and in an empty, unsuitable hollow
the town of Kingaroy was founded.
* * * *
“Joseph”: Hatlessness in the streets
(B. 15/9/’37) concerns only the man who
prefers to go bareheaded, but in stores
and offices the fad is a nuisance. When
seeking attention a customer has to bail
up one marcelled youth after another to
find a member of the staff. Probably, if
the craze goes much further, shop assis-
tants and clerks will be compelled to
wear badges to show they are on duty.
* * # *
“Captain Pintle”: To a hemp-and-
canvas seaman’s eye, the prettiest sight
for years past in the Tasman has been
the schooner Huia, goosewinged
before a fair wind or reaching
on a long tack. Now her pretty
sister, the Piri, has escaped from
more humble activities to share
a sailor’s admiration and awake
old memories. Sydney-built in
1917 as a supply ship for the
Pacific Cable Board, she was
christened Tangaroa. After five
years, she was found too ex-
pensive, and laid up in Auck-
land until the Nobel Company
bought her in 1924 to carry ex-
plosives. The depression knocked
her back to store and lighter
work until July last, when in all
the joy of new outfit she made
a passage from Greymouth
(M.L.) to Melbourne in six days
22 hours with a full cargo of
timber. Even a 240-h.p. Diesel engine
does not spoil her beauty.
♦ * * *
“Ali”: When the N.S.W. Education
Department granted my application for
removal to another school, the following
departmental notice was sent to me, an
unmarried schoolmarm: — ;
Enter on duty immediately at Katoomba.
Infants at your own expense.
* * * *
“E.D.”: Touching those “Sydney
Coves” who made themselves so unpopu-
lar in the early days of ’Frisco and the
Californian goldfields (B. 29/9/’37) I
don’t think the Vigilantes of the early
’fifties were particular about reshipping
them to the country whence they came,
or were suspected of having come, so
long as they got rid of them. Some of
the unwanteds, no doubt, were escorted
under compulsion up the gangways of
ships returning to these shores, but, if
my memory hasn’t slipped with regard
to a passage in Charles Dilke’s Greater
Britain, at least one batch, regarded as
particularly obnoxious, was merely given
a free passage down the coast of South
America, under the charge of an accom-
modating and iron-willed skipper, landed
in Patagonia and left to shift for itself
in that inhospitable section of the earth.
It would be interesting to know what
became of the outcasts.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The misused aspirate
sometimes has an unexpected effective-
ness ; I remember a council debate re-
garding the building of a new town hall.
One councillor opposed the project on
the ground that the old hall was all right
as a whole. “It may be all right as an
’ole ; what we want is an ’all,” declared
one of the advocates of the scheme. His
way of putting it won the day.
* * * *
“Barney’s. Bull”: Rennie, who built the
Waterloo Bridge, London, in 1817, could
never have dreamed that portions of his
structure, after doing duty for over a
“One slice of Slimyu bread and an ounce of orange-juice, and she Wants
the orchestra stopped because music stimulates her gastric juices!”
century on the Thames, would go to the
other end of the world. Yet such will
be the case when the new 23,500-ton
Orient luxury liner R.M.S. Orcades
arrives in Sydney before Christmas. The
piles of the Waterloo Bridge, when it was
superannuated, were bleached a silver-
grey to provide elm wood for veneers,
furniture and doors for one of the flats
on the Orcades. The association is illus-
trated by a mural painting of Waterloo
Bridge on the cabin bulkhead, while
London scenes are painted on bedcovers
and curtains.
*■ * * *
“Garda”: The other Sunday evening,
in a broadcast talk from London, Frank
Gerald, who,
at 82, is Eng-
land’s oldest'
actor still on
deck, remarked
that the most
valued me-
mento of his
long-ago stay
in Sydney was
a clipping
from The
Bulletin
which charac-
ter stic a 11 y
stated that'
“young
Gerald’s per-
formance was
remark able
only for the
frequency with
which he for-
got his lines.”
“Twenty-seven”: Children as critics
have a taste distinctly conservative. At
Sydney’s Art Gallery recently, a number
of 12-year-olds studied the English loan
collection coldly, passed by the Austra-
lian section without comment and then
grew enthusiastic over some prints of the
Old Masters. They acclaimed the lace
on a Dutch child’s ruff as real lace ; an
Italian greyhound was like a real dog ;
and the “dear Little Baby” whose
original adorned the Vatican looked like
somebody’s small brother. I’m afraid
their views need educating before they
appreciate the moderns.
* * * *
“Moo”: “Runa’s” cows who took
possession of an Auckland shop remind
me of an incident at Rockingham (W.A.).
One evening a flurried female invaded
our camp and begged us to eject from
her cottage some miscreants who were
apparently indulging in an orgy of destruc-
tion. In the half-light we trooped along
to the cottage, three of us, keyed up for
any emergency. Armed with a picket I
stood by the window as the other two,
similarly equipped, vanished through the
door. Came an unearthly clatter, a chorus
of “Grab the , Bill!” “Got ’im!”
“The got away,” and suddenly a
head appeared through the window. 1
swiped blindly but truly. When Bill
came round he said, “Why’d you do that?
I only poked my head out to tell you that
Mulligan’s cow was jambed in the
kitchen.”
# H: *
“Hecate”: It’s little wonder that
women are not enthusiastic over dictators
who continually urge the propagation of
the species. “Giornale d’ltalia,” Musso-
lini’s semi-official organ, had a para-
graph recently which, translated literally,
runs: “Italians must not drink less wine
lest there be a corresponding decrease in
the birthrate. Wine is a moderately-
exciting beverage which creates the happy
abandonment that favors accentuation of
the phenomena essential to vitality. The
birthrate is lowest in countries where
wine is not the national drink.” But is
it? How about France?
$
“Oxmead”: Controversies on all sorts
of recondite subjects are waged in the
“S.M.H.’s” correspondence columns. The
latest to catch my eye was a scholarly dis-
pute between two Shakspearean commen-
tators about that much-discussed sen-
tence in “Henry V.”: “His nose was as
sharp as a pen, and a babbled of green
fields.” No. 1 defends the generally-
accepted emendation of “a babbled” for
“a table” (in the original version) on the
ground of Shakspeare’s consistent love
of England, but somehow I can’t picture
the fancy of Falstaff, even at death’s
door, turning back to the natural beauties
of his countryside—it would much more
likely have centred on a fat capon and a
skinful of sack. I like No. 2’s sugges-
tion much better: “His nose was as
sharp as a pen on a table of green
frieze,” though it is much too late for it
ever to dispossess the first. People will
go on disputing till Doomsday as to
whether the greatest of English poets
wasn’t occasionally mutilated in the First
Folio. I recall a humorist who once
suggested that “When the hurlyburly’s
done” was a corruption of “When the
early purl is done.” Loyal Shakspeareans
took him seriously and tore him to
pieces; then another humorist proposed
a further alternative in “When the Earl
o’ Burleigh’s done.” The controversy
stopped abruptly.
FOUR-AND-TWENTY JAYBIRDS.
“Twenty-four jaywalkers were each fined 4s. 6d.
in the Sydney Traffic Court. Several excuses for
absent-mindedness were offered unavailingly.”
Sing a song o’ sixpence!
Copped by the police,
Four-and-twenty jaybirds
Mulct in nine apiece.
Haled before his Worship
In the Traffic Court,
All for crossing thoroughfares
As they “didn’t ort.”
Sing a song o’ sixpence!
Picture them in line,
Four-and-twenty jaybirds
Handing over nine—
Costs would make it double.
Brothers, mind your feet,
Never leave the straightest
Course across the street.
Sing a song o’ sixpence!
Get it in your eye,
Four-and-twenty jaybirds
Bidding zacks good-bye.
When the court was opened
The birds began to sing.
Did excuses save them?
Not one little thing.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


m*
asi.
C| %^
m
10 fi
9 a
or
16
20/
or
WIBB3
ft
Smoker’s throat?
never , / smoke —
CRAVENA
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
% i
GENE R A T I
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS
ZQ
POLITICAL PONITS
It’s “as-you-were” in Victoria, except
that Labor leaders are taking headache
powders.
Tunnecliffe, who will have a niche in
Labor history as the one A.L.P. leader who
was content to play second fiddle to the
leader of a comparatively small sectional
“capitalistic” party, committed himself
to a prophecy before polling-day. He
said his party would gain Albert Park,
Essendon, Oakleigh, Prahran, Heidel-
berg, Dandenong, Hawthorn, Hampden,
Benalla, Ballarat and Castlemaine-Kyne-
ton. It may gain Oakleigh and Dande-
nong.
Cbrtin was in Melbourne on Sunday
and must have spent a bad half-hour
studying the State election figures. They
give him no chance of carrying Victoria
as Scullin did in 1929 and Fisher in
1914. Scullin’s party won 13 seats out of
19 in the House—there was no Senate
election. Curtin has to reckon with the
dismal fact that the party vote on Satur-
day was much the same as in 1934 ; in
Ballarat, Essendon and Footscray it was
definitely down.
Nomination-day gave Federal Labor
its familiar lead, Dr. Maloney (Mel-
bourne), Holloway (Melbourne Ports),
Beasley _ (West Sydney) and James
(Hunter) being returned unopposed. The
party isn’t contesting Barker (S.A.) or
Wimmera (Vic.), so it is only two up. It
suited the other side to set Beasley and
James free to open their mouths in other
electorates —the more the merrier and the
wider the better.
An Adelaide Labor writer mentioned
before nomination-day that' his party
couldn’t find a candi-
date for Barker, a
“really difficult seat for
Labor to win while the
present holder has it.”
A very unusual compli-
ment, considering its
source; but Archie
Cameron deserves it.
He is the sort of repre-
sentative who tells the
truth as he sees it and
fears nobody.
Tasmania, which is
getting £575,000 p.a.
from the good old
Canberra cow in
special grants alone, and which in sub-
ventions, bounties and what not received
£1,180,000 in 1935-36 (the population is
a bit over 200,000), is to draw more from
the animal than ever if Curtin becomes
P.M. A Hobart message to Lang’s news-
paper :
An undertaking that Federal Labor
would provide a deep-draught shipping ser-
vice between Tasmania and the mainland
was given by Mr. Curtin in conference with
the State Cabinet.
That means another £50,000 p.a. at least.
The conference was a private affair, tax-
payers being excluded.
There was never much love lost be-
tween Sydney’s Trades and Labor Coun-
cil and the boys of the A.L.P., and now
their relations are frostier than ever.
Just when the boys were heaving rocks
at the Lyons Government over the wool-
and-calico wrangle of last year, the T.
and L.C. comrades barged in with a de-
mand for a boycott of the Japanese “to
help China.” It cramps the boys’ style.
The chairman of Sydney “Sun,” one
of whose editors was recently reported
to have recommended the Empire to
stamp on Japan, is a boss of the Royal
Empire Society. Possibly to reassure ner-
vous members, the “Sun” came out with
an article headed “Red Navy IS Pre-
pared for Action.” To the general effect
that the Red Navy is as marvellous as
the Red Army and the Red Air Force,
it closed with the assertion that “in the
event of war the tragedy of the Russo-
Japanese sea-battles may be reversed—
certainly it will not be repeated.” Then
the “Sun” newsboys struck against a
reduction of halfpenny a dozen, and
people were left wondering how the
“Sun” finds out these things.
T. D. Kelly, who is Stevens’s Under-
secretary and vice-chairman of his Water
Board, is back with the news that “the
London financial magnates” learned all
about the Water Board from him and
were charmed to lend £2,000,000 at 4 p.c.
Mr. Kelly was equally charmed with the
financial magnates and with the prospect
of raising the wind again.
The way will be comparatively easy for
subsequent flotations.
The Loan Council will have something to
say about that. If it doesn’t it will de-
serve to be painlessly destroyed.
Professor Murdoch, who writes charm-
ing essays on other more or less charm-
ing writers, was foremost in the demand
for a boycott of Japanese goods. The
“All the parties are cultivating the civil-service vote. Parkhill has promised the imoe-
cunious Government loans, ‘at a low rate of interest—say 4 per cent.’ ”
“Say, why don’t you fellows line up in a queue?”
boycott would rebound on Westralian
woolgrowers, wheatgrowers and wharf-
laborers, among others, but the prof.’s
comfortable salary would go on as usual.
Perhaps he would refuse to buy Japanese
books.
One W. Minchington, “of Caveat via
Seymour,” to Curtin:
In the event of war, would you be in
favor of Britain taking a referendum be-
fore it came to the assistance of Australia,
if Australia were attacked?
Curtin has entered a caveat against hav-
ing to answer the conundrum.
Judgment for £101,996 has been en-
tered against Trautwein, the Sydney
M.L.C., who was sued by the Common-
wealth Taxation Commissioner for taxes
owing for six years, and penalties. Traut-
wein has paid £35,000 off a judgment
for £41,000; the £101,996 is additional.
He was one of the first 15 members
elected —by “old” Leg. Councillors and
Assemblymen—to the “reformed” Second
Chamber. Perhaps the department will
take part of the amount due in “fruit
machines.”
One of the new horrors of war is the
outbreak of professorial wordspinning
which follows every atrocity imputed to
“Fascists.” When it was alleged that a
Japanese submarine had sunk “a fleet of
Chinese fishing junks” (the Japanese
deny that German sailors alleged to have
carried the news to Hong Kong ever
spoke to a reporter there). Great Dailies
engaged Professor Charteris to hold forth
on the subject. Japan, the professor
wrote, was a party to the London Sub-
marine Rules Protocol.
As the Protocol is not in terms con-
tractual, it enures to the benefit of all
merchantmen, whether flying the flag of a
signatory or not As regards ships,
under the British flag, the sinking is an
international delict calling for reparation.
Shouldn’t papers employing professors
have their rigmarole translated?
N.S.W. Labor’s four-As Senate ticket
must be about the queerest stunt a party
has ever tried to put over. Outside their
own little A.L.P. circles the four As are
quite obscure ; the idea is that there is
a sufficient number of electors so igno-
rant or lazy that they will vote 1 to 4,
not for measures or men, but for letters
of the alphabet Whatever the result, it
will be a strong argument in favor of
an intelligence test. for electors if it
succeeds; for politicians if it fails.
Before the Victorian electors turned so
nasty, Curtin thought he could get a
majority in the House for which he has
been thrice defeated as a candidate (or
he said he thought he could), but he
demanded more.
Labor wants 19 Senators returned. If
that is not achieved a Labor Government
will not hesitate to appeal to the country.
That would mean a double dissolution.
Joe Cook and his Liberals tried it in
1914, having been in office for a year.
They came back with five Senators and
31 Ms.H.R.
With the abandonment of pre-selec-
tion by the A.L.P., S.A. is to have
a wider choice of Senate candidates than
ever before. Labor has nominated
six and the Ministry three, and the field
will be made up to thirteen by James,
the dried-fruits man, and two kindred
spirits and an “ungrouped” lady. In
1901 and 1914 there were 11 S.A. candi-
dates for the Senate, but on each occa-
sion there were six vacancies. In 1922
there were 10 nominees ; in other years
never more than eight.
There are Independents who can be
depended upon, and who are independent
alike of the malice of parties and the
caprices of constituencies. William Wat-
son, of Fremantle, was one; he twice
beat Curtin, and could probably have
beaten him again had he sought re-elec-
tion in 1934. The other is Jimmy Mc-
Lachlan, who has held the Gippsland
North Assembly seat against all parties
and comers for many years. He headed
the poll again on Saturday.
The leaders of the Australian Teachers’
Federation now recognise that “Educa-
tion has become a national question,”
which is something gained. But they are
not yet prepared to go the whole hog.
It is not sought by teachers that the
Commonwealth shall take over education
but that grants in aid shall be made.
In other words, the States are to retain
the power which they have proved them-
selves so incompetent to discharge, and
are to have Commonwealth tax-money
to spend without responsibility. That
won’t do.
Arguing that “whatever differences
exist in our ranks will be straightened
out later on,” the “Worker” demands
“an all-together shoulder-to-shoulder
vote on October 23.” Then it proceeds
to make the familiar remarks about the
wonders performed in “the great Workers’
Republic” (three columns) and about
“the frightful carnage on the Malaga-
road,” and about the “terrible butchery of
Guernica,” and about the ferocious pro-
ceedings of the ruler who, so far from
being anti-God like the “Worker’s”
Moscow hero, settled an old quarrel be-
tween State and Church, but whose
“realism,” it seems, is all “bombs,
bayonets, poison gas, murder, massacre
and wholesale plunder.” “All-together,
shoulder-to-shoulder —biff, bash, bang!”
A newspaper co. in which Theodore is
concerned, and which runs a weekly now
in its fourth year and a daily which has
almost qualified for the old-age pension,
reports “a net profit of £11,950 for the
period ended March 27,” after providing
£10,600 for depreciation. But “£77,000,”
it seems, was “charged to establishment
account.” It’s a wonder Theodore didn't
think of something of the kind be-
fore his political career closed —in 1930-31,
for example. It would have intrigued
the electors had they been told in July,
1931, that 1930-31 had closed with a
profit of £757,600 and that £10,000,000
had been “charged to establishment
account.”
Maoriland Labor’s repeated threats
that it will put Opposition newspapers in
their place seem to have unsettled edi-
torial minds. One wielder of the thunder
advised his readers to “consider the ob-
jectives of social legislation as propounded
by the Government.”
More money, a greater variety of com-
forts, less work and less respectability.
He had to explain next morning that he
had written “responsibility.”
A Lazzarini is M.H.R. for Werriwa
(N.S.W.), and a Luchetti is trying to
become Labor M.H.R. for Macquarie
(N.S.W.). Odd, for Werriwa and Mac-
quarie are predominantly coalmining
electorates (there are only two others in
Australia), and Italy, from which the
forebears of Lazzarini and Luchetti came,
is the one considerable country in which
coalminers don’t grow. Another Laz-
zarini, a brother, is a Sydney M.L.A., and
“enjoys” the distinction of having been
twice hoofed out by Lang and his friends,
though twice “readmitted with continuity
of membership.” They are natives of
Young. The Luchetti clan is said to have
been Australian for a century.
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George-
street, Sydney, sign anything requiring a signa-
ture in this issue.]


V' v I
wg GIRLS MUST
PIGHT POP. „
J OUR RIGHTS
PREPARING* FOR
APULU-ORESS OEBA.TS',
.. . /JN
*The &agi ,
u
CARRIED UMAHIMOUSLT ')
Brawn v B claim.
" Br/vm m has it [ u
Speavomq out op ms ,
Black ROO,
DOBS his BEST .
THE FEMININE TOUCH.
“The lady who may be elected for Nunawading (Vic.) is a physical culturist by profession. She advocated ‘Keep Fit’ campaigns.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in S'outh Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
"fti"*,!#
*5
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
If the hills slow your car down, if your en-
gine knocks and becomes hot—the cause
may be faulty ignition. See what a big im-
provement a set of new Champions makes!
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
llC’
ON
pi
Kl* e
SPAN
*
%
Si
W/M
win
0
WJI
*
V* 1
*fi
if S
i»*f
ip.
rf 3
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply cfealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
William Dixson, who has offered £2500
towards a library at the New England
University College proposed for Armi-
dale (N.S.W.), is the greatest living col-
lector of Australiana ; his collection is
second only to that of the founder of
Sydney’s Mitchell Library. A few years
ago Dixson gave about £25,000 worth
of Australian pictures, now housed in the
Dixson Gallery at the Mitchell, to the
State, and has promised his collection of
books, manuscripts, maps and pictures,
worth now over £70,000. He is son of
the tobacco Dixson whose fags were
known in their day as Dixson’s No. l’s.
Sydney’s new Consul-General for
Spain, Ricardo Baeza Duran, has trans-
lated English, French, Italian, Portuguese
and German authors into his native
tongue, and was for a time Professor of
Spanish at Cambridge. He is also a
doctor of laws, and at Valencia directed
Consul and Scholar.
the diplomatic bureau for Africa and
Asia. His previous Consular appoint-
ment was for Latin America, with head-
quarters at Chile. In Australia he will
retain his rank as Minister Pleniopoten-
tiary and Envoy Extraordinary.
Assassinated at the door of the Angli-
can Church at Nazareth on his forty-first
birthday, Captain Lewis Yelland Andrews
was a Sydney man who enlisted in 1914
and served as an Anzac. At the end
of the war he was given administrative
work in Palestine, and did so well that
he was appointed District Commissioner
at Galilee last July. Arbitration Judge
Drake-Brockman’s wife is a cousin.
Ray Parer, who, with Mclntosh, made
in 1920 a flight from London to Australia
which was one of the most reckless air
adventures to date, denies that he
is off to Spain to serve the Gov-
ernment. His father, who did very
well in Melbourne as a cafe pro-
prietor, was Spanish; his mother, Aus-
tralian-Irish, The ’plane in which Parer
made his journey is preserved in the Aus-
tralian War Museum, a thing of shreds
and patches. Parer was a pioneer of the
Papuan air services which now network
the country, but retained a very small
interest in the big concern he started.
Leopold Thomas Broinowski, editorial-
writer and associate editor of the Hobart
“Mercury” for 35 years, has passed on
at 66. Born in Victoria and educated in
N.S.W., he started teaching at Newing-
ton until he got caught up in the Federa-
tion movement and became secretary to
Edmund Barton. He took charge of the
campaign in Queensland, and was one of
the most active forces behind the making
of the Constitution. He had one shot
for the Federal Parliament —for Denison
(Tas.), in 1922—but ran fourth in a field
of five and never faced the electors again.
A brother is on the Federal Parliamentary
staff at Canberra.
Big Bill Folster, who engages Minister
Thorby in Calare on behalf of the A.L.P.,
is a former railwayman. Folster was in
the N.S.W. Assembly for 18 months, los-
ing his berth when Lang went in 1932.
He was chairman of a Select Committee
inquiring into Lucknow leases, and has
recently been engaged in writing the
mining history of the Orange district.
Crossed the bar at 77, Capt. Frank
Winzar, one-time harbormaster at Fre-
mantle. A Dorset man, he went to sea
in sailing ships before joining the A.S.N.
Co. as a master in the Australian coastal
trade. He joined the W.A. harbor service
in 1897, and was harbormaster first at
Gerald ton, then at Albany, until 1915,
when he became chief harbormaster at
Fremantle. He retired in 1926 after
bringing the M.V. Koolinda on her
maiden voyage from England.
Driven his last stage at Mitchell (Q.),
Fred Richards, the doyen of Cobb and
Co.’s drivers in Queensland. Eighty-seven
at the end, Fred drove in many parts of
the State for years until he left the box
to manage at St. George in 1914. After
the war he started on his own as a mail
contractor on the Mitchell-St. George
run, and was one of the first to change
from horses to motor vehicles. He left
behind him a flourishing business at
Mitchell which his sons carry on.
Wallace Charles Wurth, new member
of the N.S.W. Public Service Board, is
one of the Mudgee Wurths of 1896 vin-
tage. Fresh from Sydney High, he entered
the Lands Department in 1912, and, after
clerking in the Dept, of Justice and the
P. 5.8., went into uniform with the 7th
Field Ambulance. Returning, he did the
law course and got his LL.B. with honors.
An inspectorship of the board came
along in 1928. The next lift was to In-
dustrial Registrar, following Justice Webb
in the job. He had just settled down to
the ways of union secs, and their prob-
lems when the board appointment was
gazetted.
During the month in which George V.
was crowned, Victor Courtney became a
cub on the Westralian “Sunday Times.”
To-day he is editor and one of the pro-
prietors, his associate being Jack Simons,
now standing for the Perth Federal elec-
torate. Early this year Courtney took to
himself a bride, and went to see the
crowning of George VI., travelling also
in Italy, Germany and the U.S.A. He
was in Sydney on Monday on his way
back to help his pal. Their friendship
began when Jack founded the Y.A.L.
and Victor became one of the first Y.A.L.
boys, and in business —they made a suc-
cess of the Perth “Mirror” before they
bought the “Sunday Times”—as in poli-
tics and private life, it has never been
clouded.
M. J. Calanchini, Westralian Under-
secretary for Mines, has retired. Civil-
est of civil servants, Calanchini joined the
service at the age of 19 just 42 years ago.
His promotion was fairly rapid, and, after
successfully filling the job of warden on
several goldfields and chief clerk in
Perth, he reached the top of the official
(permanent) tree in 1914. Since leaving
the Government service he has joined the
boards of several goldmining cos. con-
trolled by the De Bernales group.
Headmaster of Ballarat Grammar
School in succession to E. V. Butler,
who retires in December after 16 years
there, is the Rev. H. P. Fewtrell. Born
in Queensland, Fewtrell was educated
there and at Durham (England). After
six years in the Bank of N.S.W. he
entered the church and served succes-
sively at Kennington, Eltham, London
General Hospital, Earsfield and Cam-
bridge before taking up the rec-
torship of Cessnock (N.S.W.).
He taught at “Shore,” took the
parish of .Yallourn (Vic.) and re-
turned to N.S.W. as chaplain of
The King’s School. He looked
like settling down at Broughton
Grammar School, Newcastle,
when the new appointment came
along ; he is 49.
W. Mac Diarmid is a familiar figure
in wool exchanges from Hobart to Bris-
bane. He was 16 years with Dalgety’s,
supervised Tas. repacking for “Bawra,”
was with the A. G. Webster Hobart
woolbroking firm, had a term with Nor-
man Bourke in n.-w. Queensland, was
nine months abroad for the Bradford
firm of H. Dawson and Co., and then
returned to Hobart as buyer for Robert
Nettlefold’s Tas. woollen mills. Now
he’s woolbuyer for and a director of
the three mills of Preston Textiles,
W. MacDIARMID.
Victoria. He was branded in 1913 with
the spear of a Camooweal abo.,
who mistook him for someone else, and
nailed him as he was climbing over a
station fence.
A. J. Tanner, member of the Sydney
R.A.S. Council and beef-cattle expert to
the Commonwealth Wool and Produce
Company, is guide, philosopher and
friend to many leading stud-breeders, in-
cluding Anthony Hordern, the Rey-
noldses, of Hobartville, and Mrs. Biddle-
combe, of Golf Hill. Tanner has helped to
Stock Judge.
nurse as many champions to victory as
any man in Australasia, has judged at
most Australian and M.L. Royal Shows
and is equally at home with sheep, cattle
and pigs. The last are his private hobby,
and he has taken the championship with
Berkshire boars at Sydney Royal more
than once. Last week he left on a busi-
ness trip to U.S.A.
“Retired Prelate”: Bunbury (W.A.)
has offered a mitre to Rev. L. A. (Toby”)
Knight, of St. Barnabas’s College, Adel-
aide. The new prelate, who will suc-
ceed Bishop Cecil Wilson, is 47, and
will be the first Westralian to wear
gaiters on his native heath. Sound
churchman, keen scholar and critic, he
finds painting in oils an agreeable hobby,
and has often exhibited at South Aus-
tralian art shows. In the past eight years
he has equipped dozens of men for
Anglican orders, and Bishop Thomas will
find him a hard man to replace.
Passing of a good Australian:
Bluff “Old Brig.” Ryrie, after a long illness,
has gone the way of all warriors. Ryrie had
a good start in life. His family were pioneers
of the N.S.W. southern tablelands; his father
was M.L.A. for Braidwood for 11 years, and
M.L.C. for 17, but young Granville was sent
out to jackeroo and mix it at 18. Quite early
he developed an enthusiasm for the army, raised
a troop of Light Horse artillery, and went to
South Africa in command of a squadron of
the 6th imperial Bushmen. Kitchener
made him a major, and he returned to
Australia as lt.-col. In 1914 he went to
the big stoush as brigadier in command
of the 2nd Light Horse, and was in
the thick of the fighting from Suez and
Gallipoli until Allenby’s push in Pales-
tine. He then commanded the Aus-
tralians in Egypt, until he returned with
military honors and a K.C.M.G. Ryrie
had an equally lengthy but less impres-
sive career as a politician. He repre-
sented his native district, Queanbeyan,
in the N.S.W. Assembly from 1906 to
1910, but failed to beat Holman at Coota-
mundra in the latter year. Within six
months he was in the Federal House, for
North Sydney. Here he stayed until
the redistribution of 1922, when he took the
Warringah seat, in which, in 1925, he scored a
record majority of 26,000. He was sent to
London as High Commissioner in 1927, and
stayed there until 1932. Seventy-two at the
last call, he was farewelled with a State funeral
in his native Michelago.


A VERY SPECIAL
VIRCINIA CIGARETTE An/ r
' spp r
!"*«/$*
M
3
'4
20 for 1 7 6 :10 for 9d.
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND 50’s
AND 100*s BOXES
6520-7.7
THE
CIGARETTE YOU
ARE PROUDER
TO OFFER


ABORIGINALITES
BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and Mat humped
our blueys into Willenabrina (Vic.) one
summer to find the local sports and races
in full swing. I stayed with the swags
while Mat prospected the sports-ground.
Presently he came back, accompanied
by a mounted trooper, to whom he spoke
excitedly and waved his arms about. Sud-
denly Mat rushed towards me, shouting
“Here’s the little runt, now, just makin’
a break!” Him and the trooper fell on
me, nearly tore me apart, then frog-
marched me into the village. My ravings
fell on deaf ears, and they got me in and
locked the doors. I could hear Mat out-
side telling the trooper I was the most
dangerous man in Victoria, and urging
him not to take his eye off the loose box.
About sundown a smart stranger arrived,
proved that there was no charge against
me, and the trooper went off to find
Mat. He failed in this, disgustedly re-
leased me, and caught the train back to
Jeparit. But we’d kept him away from
the course for three hours, and the sly-
grog man, the thimblerigger and the
two sweat-wheel conductors made our
share £lO each.
“Dougal”: Talk about animals being
color-blind gives me a pain. If they are,
why is it necessary for the zebra, say, to
be black-and-gold to harmonise with a
black-and-gold landscape and so protect
it from its natural enemy the lion? To
a color-blind person or animal every-
thing looks black, white or grey. Why,
then, does Nature go to the trouble of
protecting the weaker members of the
animal kingdom by coloring them every
tint under the sun when, if we are to
believe the color-blind theorists, different
tones of grey, black or white would do
just as well?
* ¥ * *
“Bogaduck”: In mourning the passing
of the petrol-tin, “Dungeness” (B.
15/9/’37) only touches upon what was
nothing short of a tragedy to the out-
back. At present honey-tins cost nearly
2s. apiece landed on the farm ; that isn’t
so bad when they are filled with first-
grade honey which fetches round 155., but
it’s a slug when you have to send them
away with banksia or other treacly honey
which nets you no more than ss. a tin.
Oriy a few years ago petrol tins could
be picked up by the thousand at 6d. each.
Any oil company that would put up
petrol in tins and cases once more, at
an extra charge of, say, 6d. per tin and
Is. for the case, would need no sales-
men in the outback.
* ¥ * *
“Lincoln”: “Some fellers have no
principle,” growled Dan. “Take the
cocky next door. The other day he tells
me mate that I put some of his timber
in the back of me new shed. So I writes
him a stiff letter, asking him what he
meant. He don’t even speak to me now.”
“He must have made a mistake,” I re-
marked diplomatically. “Course he
did,” said Dan indignantly. “His timber
was on the front of the shed—and he
couldn’t ’ve seen that.”
* # * *
“Ganger”: Two old S.A. German
farmers bought adjoining paddocks, the
dividing fence of which could no longer
be described as such. A new fence was
an obvious necessity, but no agreement
could be reached as to the number of
posts and amount of wire each party was
to supply, and, as they could not possibly
work together without scrapping, who
was to do the job? After several
wrangles the matter dropped, and the
next act was Ernst putting up the fence
on his own. He spaced the posts so that
there was room for another between and
ran two wires through at the top. Then
August put up another fence a couple of
feet his side of Ernst’s ; his posts were
placed between those of the latter and
his wires were the two at the bottom.
Now there is a two-foot no-man’s-land
between the two paddocks.
* * * *
“Stralia”: Out shooting with a young
rousy we chanced upon a pair of wood-
duck. Feigning injury they lit out for
the horizon, with my mate legging it as
hard as he could go in pursuit. Nothing
in my vocabulary was sufficient to con-
vince him that the show was not genuine,
and, as I watched, the fowls suddenly rose
and left him standing. Soon afterwards
the clutch, which had been crouching in
the grass, silently slipped into the water
and disappeared among the reeds.
* * * *
“Brig.-Gen. Bullsblood”: The strange
animal seen by “R.W.D.” (B. 15/9/’37)
and “P.D.” (B. 22/9/’37) was probably
a specimen of the flying two-toed kdinkg-
bats which I have often shot on the
Nullarbor Plain. Originally bred as pets
by the King of Iceland, the creatures ran
wild and migrated to the Sahara Desert
during a South American revolution,
later coming to Australia on the foremast
of Dampier’s ships, where they used to
roost and terrify the sailors. The animal
has a luminous tail, and, having some
"If I give the little dog sixpence, how do I know it won't be spent
on drink?”
“ 'E’s strict teetotal, missus .”
remote ancestry with the moth, it has
developed a habit of flying in circles in
pursuit of its caudal appendage, which
often results in the unfortunate beast
swallowing itself and vanishing in a
cloud of smoke. Like the platypus, it
lays eggs which have the distinction of
being triangular, and are probably the
origin of the pyramids.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: Not many manual jobs
carry as many old hands as bush saw-
milling. does. I know many whose ages
range from 60 to well over 70, still on
the jobs they held down in their more
youthful days. Mostly of the lean and
wiry type, the old ’uns owe nothing to
sentiment; ability and experience make
them valued members of the mill gangs.
* * * *
“Double Express”: The idea of the
old-time Boer bagging elephants by shoot-
ing them in the knee with a revolver
(B. 22/9/’37) is funny without being
vulgar. Piet’s elephant-destroyer in the
primitive days was a 6ft. muzzle-loading
flintlock “roier” firing a bullet of from
two to four ounces. I have handled many,
and nothing connected with the first
trekkers has filled me with more admira-
tion for those hardy pioneers. The fore-
head shot for the elephant—it should be
at the hollow between the top of the
trunk and not the skull-boss above it—
has long gone out of fashion. The target
nowadays is half-way between the ear
and eye where the skull is at its thinnest,
and I have met a man who has killed
more than one of the big fellows with a
standard .32 Winchester, an arm not re-
markable for its powers of penetration.
But if “Terrinjal” really wants to kill
elephants in a sporting way he can go to
the south-western Sudan, where the Arabs
ride up behind their quarry and “hough”
him with their razor-edged swords.
* * * *
“Hummer”: Camping out in the mulga
we were pestered by myriads of moths,
mosquitoes and other insects ; they kept
around our faces and blankets long after
the embers of the campfire had died.
After almost suffocating ourselves try-
ing to smoke them out we tumbled on
the idea of lighting our miners’ lamps
and hanging them on a sapling about 25
yards from the camp, a procedure which
resulted in peace at night and a litter of
dead insects every morning.
* * * *
“C.C.C.”: In the garden at Miegunyah,
on the bank of the Macquarie (N.S.W.),
is a bird-bath, a shallow bowl on top
of a 2ft. pedestal. Near by is a hedge.
About three o’clock each summer’s after-
noon the head of Miegunyah’s afternoon-
tea snake—a big old carpet—emerges
from the hedge. By 3.30 he is half-way
out. A little after four o’clock he has
made a sprint—crossed the intervening
6ft. path and wound a neat coil from
bottom to top of the bird-bath’s pedestal.
His chin —or at least the southern aspect
of his features—lies caressingly against
the cool, rough bottom of the cement
bowl, and a beady, calculating eye ob-
serves the doings of the dozens of parrots,
minahs and other small birds that come
to the bowl to drink and splash.
* * * .j
“Ads.”: One of the oddest fences to
be seen in W.A. is at Jardee, in the karri
districts, near Pemberton. It consists
entirely of a large paddock enclosed by
the severed halves of logs used in log-
chopping contests.
* * * *
“Tyke”: The dingo and greyhound
which became efficient sheep-dogs (B.
22/9/’37) remind me. Someone once
gave my dad a pedigree kelpie. The pup
became a pet in the “big house,” and con-
sequently was ruined for sheep. But we
were a shooting family, and quail and
snipe in season and bronzewing pigeons
of two sorts could be found within a
mile of the head station. The kelpie soon
adopted anyone with leisure to stroll out
on an off afternoon with a gun, and with-
out training or any particular encourage-
ment soon became a first-class retriever.
He never pointed, but anything shot on
the wing, whether falling in water or not,
was invariably collected by him, and
that without the “mouthing” which is
sometimes a fault even in pedigree gun
dogs.
* * * *
“Ursa”: I doubt if the bear’s habit of
marking time by lifting one paw after an-
other (B. 22/9/’37) is due to his instinct
for padding down snow. Many varieties
of Baloo dwell in countries where snow
has never been seen or heard of. Ele-
phants have the same habit when resting,
and the trick probably derives from a
fit of fidgets due to boredom.
* a: * *
“Saragigi”: The hammock—canvas in
this case —is the universal bedding of the
tourist in Papua —or was when I knew
it. Quickly slung under a fly it could be
twisted on its end-ropes until it was as
flat as a board or left sagging in the
usual fashion. No one dreamed of sleep-
ing on the ground in that sodden and
leech-infested land, and the making of a
stick bed, though native boys were clever
hands at it, was a far slower business.
When struck, blankets and clothes were
wrapped in the thick canvas with the fly
overall, and so off again on the next
walkabout.
# % * *
“Walkabout”: Talking of cattle-dogs,
I was on a station in W.Q. where there
were as many “heelers” and “nosers” as
there are weeks in
a year, each stock-
man having his
quota. During
the cow-and-calf
muster, a man
needed a horse that
could amble at the
rate of six miles an
hour to keep up
with the dog-
driven mob. Star
turn was when
beasts broke away
during yarding.
“G e t hold of
him” was enough
to send a pack of
tykes after a break-
away, and with a
couple of the
“nosers” fastening
their fangs about
the nasal organ
and others hang-
ing on the beast’s
hind legs it made
Yankee bulldozers
look like novices
as the dogs
brought their prey
to earth. Then a
very chastened
beast trotted back
to the mob. The
herd was dog-
spoiled, of course,
and riding along a pad one had only to
make a noise like a bark and the crashing
of mulga would tell of scared cattle tear-
ing away like mad things. The company
that owned the station wondered why
bullocks never fattened on it.
=5 * *
“Cudgerie”: Tell “Lunar” (B.
22/9/’37) that the sap of the ordinary
mangrove will not cause blindness. The
scrub-fallers on the Mackay (N.Q.)
Harbor scheme evidently struck a few
of the milky mangroves, commonly and
aptly known in the North as the “blind-
your-eyes” variety. These, fortunately,
are not common, and are easily distin-
guishable by leaf and bark from the
ordinary mangroves among which they
are generally found. Lugger boys cut-
ting wood for the beche-de-mer and
trochus shell boilers always avoid the
trees. Binghi, however, uses the pulver-
ised bark as a poultice for the treatment
of ulcers, and the sap applied to a
wound caused by the dreaded stonefish
brings relief almost instantly.
* * * *
“Bushy”: Old Harry had been on the
station so long that he had become a
proud part and parcel of it. Having
made a statement, whether in fun or
seriousness, and being told he was wrong,
he would back it up to the last word.
He was running up a new hut for a
couple of the hands, and when fixing on
the iron put the higher sheets on first,
and the lower ones last, so that rain
falling on the top sheet would flow under
the lower one. The boss pointed this
out, but the old chap was too cocky to
admit a mistake. Knowing the old boy’s
ways the boss put it in a different
manner. He told Old H&rry 1° take up
his residence in the new hut, and walked
away. The next morning the iron was in
its proper position.
MY MATE JACK.
It doesn’t matter what I’m at,
He’ll come along to see,
And from a handy fencing post
He’ll keep an eye on me.
He’ll watch me plough the whole day long
And follow in my track,
To pounce upon the worms I turn
And look for more, will Jack.
He wears a knowing sort of look,
Head cocked, upon a fence,
As though to say “I, too, worked once,
But now I’ve got more sense.”
He cheers me up on lonely jobs,
And often, coming back,
I’ll find a juicy grub or two
And throw them out to Jack.
I’d miss him if he wasn’t there,
He’s quite a mate to me.
And if 1 went, I often think,
How desolate he’d be.
He’ll chuckle if I make a pile
From all the work I’m at,
And if I fail I quite believe
He’ll even laugh at that. •
VICTORIA.
A.G.BURNET.


“Henry Henpeckle”: An alarm-clock
I’d ordered from the city failed to arrive,
so, being a heavy sleeper, I was com-
pelled to resort to the old bush make-
shift of placing wheat on a sheet of tin
beneath my bed. My hens, rising with
old Sol, made straight for the tin ; the
rattle of their beaks as they pecked
always wakened me. One morning I
didn’t wake until 9 a.m. and was puzzled
to observe that the fowls were half a mile
from the verandah, although the grain
had vanished. And there had been no
customary rattle on the tin. The same
thing happened again, and the egg-
machines even cocked hungry and indig-
nant winkers at me when I went to feed
them. Curious and a little perturbed, I
lay awake determined to solve the mys-
tery, About 2 a.m., hearing a faint
scuffle, I leaned over and flashed the
torch under the bed. There was Prunella,
my prize pullet, blinking guiltily at the
torch beam. Desirous of beating the
others to breakfast, she first of all
scraped the wheat off the tin with a tail
feather and then guzzled it!
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: My version of the origin of
the rifle-bird’s name differs from “Nota-
den’s” (B. 15/9/’37). Two timber-getters,
camped near the edge of a dense brush
in the Richmond River scrubs, near
Mount Lindsay (N.S.W.), often heard the
sharp, smacking note of the whip-bird,
which they likened to a rifle-shot. They
searched repeatedly, but never saw the
fowl, which is a shy and elusive denizen
living mostly on the ground and hiding
under thick undergrowth. Often, how-
ever, the searchers saw the bird of para-
“THERE, now! Have a LOVELY look at the big teddy!”
dise, which is a big, showy fellow, and
lives in the trees, and, attributing the
strange sounds to it, called it the rifle-
man or rifle-bird.
* * * *
“Sea Cow”: Am mightily interested in
“Coral” and his dugong which defeated
a crocodile in an all-in go (B. 22/9/’37),
but would like to know how it was done.
The dugong is a grass-eater, and save for
two rooting-tusks used for raking up the
stuff he feeds on has no dentures capable
of making a dint in a pat of butter. Also
he has no arms or legs to get a grip
with, and no sleep-producer in his tail.
The croc., on the other hand, has a
mouthful of fangs calculated to make a
“I think I’ve ’ad enough, dearie —the barman's beginnin' to look 'andsome."
shark shudder, a tail with a punch like
a steam-hammer, and a pair of claw-
armed front legs the marks of which on
stock are recognised all over North Aus-
tralia as his registered brand.
* * * *
“Rana”: There are indications that the
giant West Indian toads brought to
Queensland to deal with the cane-beetles
are marrying and rearing large families
all over N.Q. There was a lot of oppo-
sition to their introduction, but so far
they have shown themselves more adap-
table citizens than most other importa-
tions. Some of them have strayed from
the fields to the homesteads, where they
have practically wiped out the three-inch
cockroachs which are a curse to the N.Q.
housewife. •
* * * *
“Seyid”: “V.G.” slips slightly in his
story of the Camel and the Name (B.
15/^9/’37). Not the Prophet but Allah
is the owner of the 100 monikers,
How the camel comes in is an affecting
tale. After the creation, he went down to
drink and saw himself reflected in the
water. Sparking on all plugs, he returned
to Allah and asked what the Jehan-
num was meant by the dirty job of work.
The All Merciful, the Compassionate, the
Fountain of Justice told him the Hun-
dredth Name, which even the Twelve
Holy Imams who meditate for ever in
Paradise do not know. No wonder, then,
the camel is supercilious. Wouldn’t you
be if a Voice had whispered in your ear
the dinkum winners of the Randwick
spring double, while those about you
rushed the s.p. merchants backing Cats-
meat, Pacemaker and Hairy Goat?
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Though old, nearly blind
and doddering, “Jimmy the Painter” in-
sisted that he was as good a station-hand
as any of the younger fry on Tapalin, and
a better bushman than any of them. But
he was forced to admit that perhaps age
was getting the better of him one day
when, after grabbing a kerosene-tin and
banging it with a stick, racing past
the homestead yelling to someone to get
a sheet and a box, the boss pulled him
up and gently informed him that the hum
he chased was made by a ’plane, not a
swarm of bees.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: Scrub wallabies (B.
15/9/’37) can be trapped in two ways.
The animals follow beaten pads through
the scrubs when going to water and
feeding-grounds, and also when hunted.
On these tracks abos. set long, funnel-
shaped, basket-like traps, made with
Calamus cane. They are placed near a
bend and screened with foliage for waJ-
labies to dive into. This is most success-
ful when beaters send the animals speed-
ing along the tracks. When caught in
the trap the wallaby was helpless but
unhurt. The other method is the pit trap,
used for catching wombats alive. A hole
about 4ft. long, 18in. wide and a couple
of feet deep is sunk on a track. It is
covered with a nicely-balanced swing
lid ; when a wallaby hits it he tumbles
in, and the lid swings back, preventing
the animal scrambling out again. If
“Bogaduck” can’t manage the lid, he can
dig a deep pit, peg hessian lightly over
the top and sprinkle that with soil and
leaves. All earth taken from the pit
must be removed out of sight.
* * * *
“James W.”: “Roly” (B. 18/ 8/ ’37)
might have mentioned that we have in
Australia a cousin to the African mamba,
the taipan of C. York Peninsula. Though
not quite so deadly as the mamba, it
shades the rest of our venomous crawlers,
but is not so fast on the run. In striking
the taipan is, all there with the mamba
in speed and tenacity, and shares with
the African terror the distinction of being
one of the two venomous constrictors of
the serpent world. When Binghi cops a
dose of taipan-venom he does precisely
the same as does a Kaffir struck by a
mamba—runs till he drops. Even the
best remedies of modern science avail
little against this poison unless applied
immediately. To catch, kill and butcher
a mamba for its tiny gall-bladder in a
matter of seconds would exercise the best
skill of an expert herpetologist. For a
negro, already dying and frenzied with
fear, to manage it with the snake that
struck him is impossible.
* * * *
“Shorus”: Our local poultry expert was
culling his black Orpingtons just before
the local show, and placed certain prize
hens in a small enclosure for inspection
by a prospective buyer who was about to
start a fowl farm in the next town. One
of the youngsters escorted the buyer to
the pen, and later arrived panting at the
creek where Dad was building a dam to
say that the visitor declined to buy the
fowls on view, and had cast all manner
of aspersions on their birth and breed-
ing. Dad indignantly sped home to look
into the matter, took one glance into the
pen, and reeled to a humble near-by en-
closure, which was empty. By some error
the prize hens, valued at £3O, had been
placed in the pen reserved for unpedi-
greed birds about to suffer execution, and
their headless bodies were already at
market.
* *• * *
“R.W.D.”: Why is the bird com-
monly known as the blue-jay called in
our bird books the black-faced cuckoo-
shrike? It has a black face, certainly,
but there the suitability of the name
ends. It doesn’t even remotely resemble
a shrike—of which the magpie and
butcher-bird are well-known samples—
and has neither the appearance nor habits
of the cuckoo tribe. In comparison with
its size, the jay builds the smallest of
all nests, a trifle of horsehair and cob-
webs into which the hen bird can fit only
a square inch or so of her anatomy.
* * * *
“Willeroo”: Concerning the lifting-
power of the wedge-tailed eagle. A man
who was rabbiting on Auchmore estate,
near Bridgewater (Vic.), was losing a trap
or two nearly every day, and eventually
noticed an eagle flying off with a rabbit
that had a trap hanging to it. At the
butt of the tree in which the nest was
built he found another trap with a dead
bunny in it, and in the nest were nine
more traps mixed up with bones and
fur. Two hefty chicks had been gorging
on the latest catch. The trapped cotton-
tails were easy prey.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Binghi is adept at follow-
ing the line of least resistance with the
maximum of result, as witness the water
supply of the Torres Strait island of
Coconut, 90 miles n.-e. of Thursday
Island. The terrain being nothing but
porous coral sand, large clam-shells are
spread out nightly under coconut palms,
condensation of dews from the fronds
doing the rest. Thursday Is. itself is
probably unique in that it receives its
municipal water supply gratis from the
combined shipping companies, which
must replenish at the “first and last
port of Asia.” The reservoir was erected
by these companies with one important
reservation —that they have first prefer-
ence in case of shortage. This position
arose last year and some hardship en-
sued, most of the locals having allowed
tanks to decay since the reticulation
scheme was started.
BREAKING THE NEWS.
“And so the old man’s gone,” he said —
He’d known him fifty years
In droving camp and shearing shed.
“The old man gone!” He shook his head,
And fought to hide the tears.
“I’m getting on myself.” His eyes
Went roving down the track
To long-lost days and brighter skies,
The West whose glamor never dies,
The early years outback.
“Well, well, old mate, it’s come at last.”
He shook his head again.
He saw the plains, so grey and vast,
Where ghostly mates went tramping past
Through thin and clinging rain.
He laughed a moment quiveringly:
“I won’t be long, it seems.
The old man gone!”. . . He did not see
Either the drab old hut or me ...
I left him with his dreams.
VICTORIA.
P.T.FINDLAY.


SECURirg
"SPREAD” INVESTMENT
It’s the ideal, but difficult to obtain for people of moderate
means. Except, of course, by a purchase of FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES, which
give you an interest in 20 leading “listed” securities. Yield
approximately 5% p.a. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd'.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers : —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service combining: security and experience
1018 v J with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent jree, on request.
0. E. FRIEND '-feSST wV'Sf wck^d
cecil j h -w d Ta! _ “*•
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. _
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
N et To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1927.. 104,607 111 p.c. = 79,350 25,257 127,421
1928.. 87,019 10 „ „ 69,000 18,019 145,440
1929.. 90,117 10 „ „ 76,500 19,617 165,057
1930.. 77,003 8 „ „ 70,500 6,503 171,560
1931.. 51,272 5 „ „ 45,000 6,272 177,832
1932.. 66,625 6 „ ~ 54,000 12,625 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20,000 .. .. 210,457
1933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
1934.. 105,279 10 „ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 r.c. - 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
1937.. 109,466 10 „ „ 90,000 19,466 246,116
Now approaching its twentieth birth-
day, this leader among Australian textile
cos. will shortly have £1,000,000 of paid
capital, and the chances are that in the
future it will be able to maintain present
divs. as comfortably as most other Com-
monwealth industries. Since 1924, when
the scrip became listed, average div. has
been 9 p.c.—a splendid performance.
Lowest distribution during the slump
was 5 p.c. in 1931.
Profit disclosed for the year to June
30 was a record. Gross earnings
(£139,307) actually receded £3281, but
administrative exes., etc. (£29,841), were
cut back £5623, and the net result was
£2342 higher at £109,466 equal to
12.2 p.c. on capital, as against 11.9, 11.3,
11.6, 10.9, 7.4 and 5.7 p.c. back to 1931.
After repeating the 10 p.c. div. (in 1935 a
heavy flood loss caused a drop to 8 p.c.),
£19,466 was carried to reserves, now
visibly £246,116.
The co. was fostered in its early stages
by Australian Knitting Mills, and there
were later other interlocking share-
holdings. In 1936 a separation took
place; A.K.M. handed its Y.F. shares
direct to its own shareholders, and Y.F.
sold its A.K.M. shares to Y.F. share-
holders at par, and disposed of its hold-
ing in Julius Kayser (Aust.) to the Kayser
interests in N’York. Yarra Falls still has
over £400,000 in the Globe Worsted
Mills, Ltd., Sydney, a very sound invest-
ment. Over £70,000 was spent on addi-
tional manufacturing capacity at these
mills recently; early in the past term
the whole of the organisation was work-
ing full time, and at the opening of the
current year the position was reported to
be still satisfactory.
The balance sheet invariably shows a
sound position:
' 1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. .. £900,000 £900,000 £900,003
Calls in advance .. 42,432
Creditors and deposits 96,413 62,183 53,096
Freeholds . . . . 129,716 139,157 136,452
Plant, etc 205,156 206,604 219,846
Stocks 221,102 285,575 320,881
Sundry debtors.. .. 98,100 93,210 96,057
Advances, etc. . . .. 16,899 23,899 48,111
Cash, etc 114,068 64,361 40,597
Shares in other cos. .. 521,169 442,394 446,069
Just before the slump the co. worked its
debt down quickly, and it has never relied
much on outside money since. Last
term there was a further reduction of
£9087 in liabilities; the movement was
helped by £42,432 received in advance of
calls on the new issue of 100,000 shares
at a premium of 10s.; the scrip will be
fully paid in January next year. Despite
modernisation and additions, plant moved
up only £13,242 last term; freeholds
dropped £2705. Fixed assets, apart from
the investment in Globe, total only
£346,298 ; liberal provision for deprecia-
tion has always been a feature of the
co.’s financial policy. Most noticeable
movement during the year was a lift of
£35,306 in stocks; though wool prices
have dropped somewhat since the close
of accounts, the directors express no
fears about the valuation.
A new venture during the term was the
registration of Byfas Pty., to make piece-
goods in silk, silk-and-wool, rayon, etc.
Austral Silk and Cotton and Ballarat
Silk Mills are associated with the float.
At 40s. 6d. Yarra Falls scrip returns
just under 5 p.c., and represents very fair
buying by present sharemarket standards.
Net tangibles visibly amount to 255. 6d. a
share.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net - To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1927.. *B, <l5 10 p.c. “ 55,000 1 8 479 74 999
Taxation reserve, £15,236..)
1928.. 75,001 10 p.c. = 55,000 20,001 95.000
1929.. 75,000 10 „ „ 55.00 C 20,000 115,000
1930.. 65.000 10 „ „ 55,000 10,000 125,000
1931.. 35,750 64 „ „ 35,750 125,000
1932.. 27,500 5 „ „ 27,500 125,000
Loss.
1933.. 4,000 2 „ „ 11,000 110,000
Profit.
1934.. 22,148 4 „ „ 22,000 148 110,148
1935.. 26,200 44 „ „ 24,750 1,450 111,598
1936.. 22,348 4i „ „ 23,375 110,571
1937.. 23,331 4:1 „ 23,375 110,527
Following the slump McWhirters has
had to meet unusually fierce competition.
Nine or ten years ago the position was
very different, and the co. didn’t have
to worry much about chasing business—
Brisbane people were quite happy to go
to the Valley in order to shop at
McWhirters, which was the store.
After thus setting a standard of popu-
lar service, some other retailers, after a
long lean period, started to figure out
where they were slipping; and eventu-
ally some wakened up to such effect that
those in the centre of Brisbane began to
exert a pull on shoppers and drag them
away from the Valley. McWhirters is
probably no less popular now with
people who find it as easy to go to the
Valley as to Queen-street; but people
who have easier access to Queen-street
may at present find enough inducement
to stop them going further.
Keen management is still an outstand-
ing feature of McWhirters’ control.
Though the co. embarked on a building
programme just before slump indicated
that shorter sail was more in keeping
with the outlook, finances have been kept
in shipshape order:
1930. 1932. 1936. 1937. '
Paid capital.". £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
O -draft .. 7,817 109,395 54,451 69,258
Creditors . . 50,153 37,917 48,924 46,625
Freehold and
plant . . 324,506 453,000 445,900 444.862
Stocks .. 296,908 262,092 *237,642 *238,869
Book debts .. 109,710 115,484 90,556 103,579
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 40,665 5,772 4,06.8 3,949
* Includes goods in transit, previously lumped with
cash, etc.
Last year there was a net increase of
£12,508 in the outside debt, mostly caused
by a rise of £13,023 in credit-cus-
tomers’ balances (£103,579). Deprecia-
tion was provided for, and fixed assets
showed a drop of £lO3B. The more or
less liquid surplus (£230,514) was £1623
stronger.
Stocks were carefully checked at
balance day, and where necessary “dras-
tically discounted.” In volume they
were slightly higher than last year.
Nevertheless, though prices are on the
rise, the board put a value (£238,869)
of only £1227 greater on them, and then
wrote gross profits £7898 higher:
1928. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Gross profit.. £261,380 £168,615 £166,779 £174,677
Exes.* .. 186,379 142,217 140,431 146,846
Profit* .. £75,001 £26,398 £26,348 £27,831
* Before providing for taxation.
Costs lifted by an amount £1483 less
than the increase in gross ; the jump was
partly due to an intensive publicity and
business-getting campaign, of which keen
selling prices is the keynote. After set-
ting aside £4500 for taxation (up £500)
net profit was £983 better at £23,331. The
div., kept at 4| p.c., still called for
Slightly more than was visibly earned.
The management is satisfied with pros-
pects for the current year. McWhirters’
sales have improved, in spite of a swing
the other way in the general trend in the
northern capital. Few concerns keep a
keener eye on stocks and selling-prices,
and the rise in commodity rates overseas
is said to have been largely anticipated.
The scrip looks fair buying at 14s. 6d.,
yielding 5.9 p.c. if the 4 \ p.c. div. is
maintained, or 5.5 p.c. if the rate drops
to 4 p.c. Net tangible backing is 245. a
share.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 68,572 11J p.c. = 56,250 12,322 96,120
1928.. 76,074 74 „ „ 37,500 38,574 134,69-.
1929.. 53,914 10 „ „ 50,000 3,914 138.608
1930.. 84,303 10 „ „ 50,000 34,303 172,911
1931.. 53,471 8| „ „ 43,750 9,721 182,632
1932.. 42,807 5 „ „ 25,000 17,807 200,439
1933.. 47,761 2i „ „ 12,500 35,261 235,700
1934.. 52,165 10.7 „ „ 37,500 14,665 250,365
1935.. 59,642 8.9 „ „ 31,250 28,392 278,757
1936.. 67,710 14.5 „ „ 43,750 23,960 302,717
1937.. 62,937 20 „ „ 50,000 12,937 315,644
This co. has been hauling concen-
trates, mining requisites, passengers, etc.,
between Broken Hill and Cockburn —•
here its 36-mile track links up with the
S Aus. Government railways—for over
half a century. During that time it has
scattered £437,200 of bonus scrip, rais-
ing paid capital to £500,000, of which
£250,000 was returned during the two
years to the end of 1935.
The future of the business depends,
of course, upon the life of the big silver-
lead mines at the Barrier. It was because
of this that the board began to return
capital. Annually £12,500 was set aside
for the purpose, the idea being to return
the present £250,000 on the share regis-
ter in 20 years. Now the annual allow-
ance for amortisation has been cut in
half, making it £6250. At this rate, and
allowing for the holding of £63,940 of
cash and Government securities at June
30, enough will be accumulated to re-
deem capital within the next 30 years —
recent developments on the leases of Zinc
Corp. and New Broken Hill Consolidated
have considerably lengthened the life of
the Barrier; indeed, the diamond-drill
has repeatedly postponed .he early demise
of this field, which has been thundered
by the prophets since pre-war days.
The next table shows the quantity of
goods hauled over the co.’s line during
the last three years and in 1933:
1933. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Goods Carried. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Coal, etc. .. 8,692 8,318 10,360 11,497
Lead con’trates 228,456 255,586 258,331 292,454
Zinc. con’trates 203,484 225,577 290,205 228,278
Other goods.. 67,329 80,210 98,466 106,793
Total .. 507,961 569,691 657,362 639,022
The contraction of 61,927 tons in the
quantity of zinc concentrates hauled dur-
ing the last term is due mainly to the
fact that the 1936 figure was bumped up
by removal of stocks accumulated dur-
ing the slump. The slip in gross earn-
ings (£148,950) was £2696. Excluding
provision for depreciation (£5931, down
£892) exes. (£87,505) were up £3613.
After allowing for minor reserve adjust-
ments, the net result was £4773 lighter
at 24.3 p.c. on capital. The div. was
lifted from 14.5 p.c. to 20 p.c.
Plans to increase mill capacity at the
North and Zinc Corp. mines portend
increased traffic in the near future. Sub-
ject to industrial developments, the out-
look for this tramway co.’s earnings is
thus encouraging.
The market prices the fully-paid 10s.
shares at 365. as against 38s. a year ago.
The immediate return at 365. is 5.5 p.c.
on a 20 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
225. 7d. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £350,000 £350,000 £250,000 £250,000
Sundry
creditors .. 33,799 36,877 50,830 67,905
Fixed aSfeets.. 483,069 480,294 478,967 479,228
Fuel and stores 23,316 19,966 19,537 20,000
Sundry debtors 38,934 43,642 54,718 71,241
Cash, etc. .. 89,887 122,641 51,182 63,940
Leaving fuel and stores out of the
reckoning, more or less liquids exceeded
the amount coming to sundry creditors
by £67,276 when the books closed, an
improvement of £12,206 over the twelve-
month. The £67,276 was nearly all
represented by cash and Government
securities.
Trade Credits, Ltd. (Sydney)
Formed on June 18, 1936, Trade
Credits had raised £135,826 of share
capital up to June 30 last at a brokerage
cost of £10,046. Preliminary exes, then
stood at £2014, and goodwill at £6OOO.
These intangibles amount to 2s. Bd. a
share. The co. quickly got to work
financing certain types of trading tran-
sactions carried out by manufacturers,
wholesalers and some other limited cos. ;
as the name implies, the idea has been to
finance traders rather than the public.
In the period of its existence the co.
made a gross profit of £25,170 (after
deferring £7367 of interest unaccrued);
exes, took £10,113, £3074 was reserved
for taxation, and net profit is shown at
£11,983. This, the board claims, repre-
sents 14.1 p.c. on capital for the period
over which it was in use, but just over
11 p.c. on the capital on which dividends
were paid. A 10 p.c. div. was handed
out in respect of the term, and, consider-
ing all the circumstances, it was a liberal
distribution. Finance cos. can guar-
antee stable future earnings only by
building up reserves. Trade Credits’
board seems to be not unaware of this ;
“one of the chief objects... .will be the
provision of further and increasing re-
serves as soon as reasonably possible.”
In addition to the capital (£135,826)
already mentioned, the co. had the assist-
ance of £21,696 of outside money at
balance day. These funds, £12,526 in
“contingent bonus funds” (something in
the nature of a reserve against slow
payers and doubtful debts collections),
£7367 of deferred profit, £4495 p. and 1.
balance and £3074 in tax reserve were
represented on the assets side by sundry
debtors £164,688, furniture, equipment,
etc., £2022, cash £213 and the intan-
gibles previously mentioned.
Well handled, a trade acceptance con-
cern of this type may continue to find
profitable outlets for its funds so long
as good times last. The co. says it could
have used more money than it had avail-
able in the past term. Nevertheless, con-
tinued profitable employment of capital
depends on general economic conditions,
and, if business turnovers show a shrink-
age, this co.’s opportunities may be less
favorable. That is something which
applies with almost equal force to all
cash-order, motor-finance and general
discount and finance cos., and is one of
the reasons why high premiums are not
common on the shares, even in the case
of the soundest trading banks.
Trade Credits’ scrip isn’t listed. Net
tangibles, subject to a div. paid after the
accounts closed, are 18s. per £1 share
on book values.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 47,134 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,853
Depreciation reserve taken in, £32,000.. 107,854
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. .. 3,453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 Nil 15,563
1930.. 164.575 Nil 180,138
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,843
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,396
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6,108
1934.. 39,276 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,276 25,384
1935.. 30,128 6.8 „ „ 15,000 15,128 40,512
1936.. 35,680 9.1 „ „ 20,000 15,680 56,192
Contingency reserve, £13,500 .. .. 69,692
1937.. 45,385 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 25,385 95,077
The co. buys wool, hides and furred-
skins, etc., in Australia, largely on its
own account, and sells them overseas.
The time factor thus makes earnings very
vulnerable to price fluctuations. On a
rising market good profits are gathered,
but when a burst of liquidation or other
cause reverses the price trend it is diffi-
cult for the management to avoid sub-


{For information only, the whole of the shares having been underwritten.)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
KING ISLAND SCHEELITE NO
LIABILITY
(To be incorporated under the No Liability Provisions of Part 11. of the Companies
Act 1928.)'
NOMINAL CAPITAL, £75,000,
divided into 300,000 shares of 5/- each.
200,000 .shares are now offered for subscription at 1/- per share on appli-
cation, 1/- per share on allotment, and the balance in calls of 1/-
per share at intervals of not less than one month.
50,000 shares each credited as fully paid to be allotted to the Vendor
Company hereinafter named as part consideration for the transfer
of the Mineral Leases and Water Right hereinafter referred to.
50,000 shares to be held in reserve.
300,000
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
THOMAS BROUGHAM BIRKBECK, of 314 Collins Street, Melbourne.
JAMES HUME.-COOK, of 422 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HANS HENRY HECIIT, of 450 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HUGH WALLACE SMITH, of 3GI Collins Street, Melbourne.
ALEXANDER DONALDSON SPIERS, of 450 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RANKERS: ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD., 38S Collins
Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS: WALLACE H. SMITH & CO., 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS: ARTHUR PHILLIPS & JUST, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
CONSULTING ENGINEER: W. E. HITCHCOCK, M. Aust. 1.M.M., Tatana, Tasmania,
MANAGER: ALFRED RAYMOND BRTJHN, Chartered Accountant (Aust.) (John
Brandon & Company), 450 Collins Street, Melbourne.
REGISTERED OFFICE: Cornhill Chambers, 450 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY:
The Company is being formed for the purpose, amongst other things, of carrying on the
business of mining in all its branches and to acquire and take over (a) from Eliza Cummins
all that piece of freehold land containing 267 acres situate in the Parish of Kittawa in
King Island in respect of which as to approximately 218 acres thereof Mineral Lease No. 220P/M
and as to approximately 50 acres thereof Mineral Lease No. 219P/M have been. granted and
issued to King Island Scheelite Development Company No Liability (hereinafter referred to as
the Vendor Company), and (b) from the Vendor Company the said Mineral Leases Nos, 219P/M
and 220P/M containing Scheelite deposits, and Water Right Licence No. 2933/W apipurtenant
thereto.
It is intended to operate the property by open-cut mining methods followed by concen-
tration for the production of Scheelite. This mineral, akin to Wolfram, is a source of Tungstic
Acid (WO3). Tungstic Acid and the metal Tungsten serve a variety of purposes. Tungsten
is important for the alloying of steel, and also, because of its high melting point of 3400° C., has
a wide use for electric light filaments.
Metal market quotations are usually expressed as “Wolfram per unit” (Tungstic Acid) and
are applicable to both Scheelite and Wolfram. Scheelite, however, invariably enjoys a small
premium as compared with Wolfram.
The Mine was operated by the late King Island S'cheelite Company from July, 1917, to
August, 1920, and dividends amounting to £25,000 were paid to shareholders. During that
period, the price obtained for the sale of the Company’s product was 52/6 pier unit, the
figure being subject to the control of the Imperial Government under the terms of an Empire-
wide_ scheme embracing the sale of Wolfram and Scheelite. A brief history of the old Company
is given in the Engineers’ Reports attached to the full Prospectus, and it will be noted that
proved ore reserves at the cessation of operations in 1926 amounted to approximately 50,000
tons with an average value of 0.85% WO3.
After considerable preliminary investigation and sampling by Mr. W. E. Hitchcock, M. Aust.
1.M.M., King Island Scheelite Development Company No Liability was formed in June, 1934. for
the purpose of conducting further exploration work, and during the period from July, 1934, to
April, 1935, six bores were sunk by diamond drilling, the aggregate footage being approxi-
mately 800, two prospecting shafts were sunk and old shafts and workings were cleaned out.
The work was done under Mr. Hitchcock’s supervision, and, after completion, inspection and
sampling were carried out by Mr. Hartwell Conder, M.A., Cambs., A.R.S.M., London. Those
two engineers, in their respective reports, have stated that the results of the .exploratory work
showed that the estimates of the formr operating Company of some 50,000 tons of proved ore
were verified and that that figure could definitely be regarded as having been largely added to
in probable reserv.es.
The price per unit of Wolfram has substantially advanced during recent years, and particu-
larly during recent months, the last quotation on 25th September, 1937, being £6/2/6 sterling,
and whilst the expectation is not advanced that the latter will be maintained permanently,
it is anticipated that an average figure of £3 per unit sterling may be visualised with reasonable
confidence, and at that price operations will prove highly profitable.
REPORTS:
Reports upon the property by the undermentioned are available at the Company’s registered
office for the information of shareholders:—-
(a) P. B. Nye, Esq., Govt. Geologist, Mines Department, Hobart, dated 11th June, 1934.
(b) Hartwell Conder, Esq. (deed.), M.A., Cambs., A.R.S.M., London, dated 18th February,
1935.
(c) W. E. Hitchcock, Esq., M. Aust. 1.M.M., dated 22nd February, 1935.
GENERAL:
It is proposed to adopt Mr. Hitchcock’s recommendation that, at the outset, one unit of
Plant of 500 tons weekly capacity be installed, and that later, if the results of development
work are satisfactory, a second unit of similar capacity be purchased and put into operation.
The Working Capital to be provided by the present issue will be adequate, it is anticipated, to
cover all these capital requirements.
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGE:
Application will be made in due course for quotation by the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Melbourne, 28tli September, 1937.
mm
fSBiSSSf
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
OCTOBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
MARKET PSYCHOLOGY AND THE OUTLOOK.
Interest Rates.
Share Prospects and New Issues.
Mt. Morgan—Zinc Corp.—Montana Western—
Malayan Tin.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Nothing certain but
DEATH and the TAXES
«TU OTHING is certain but Death and the Taxes,”
said a realist. Clever! Clever! Yes, and
largely true! That is why the words have
lived.
Thoughts of Death and the Taxes will disturb a
man’s peace of mind, but unnecessarily. Quite unneces-
sarily, for through the A.M.P. a man can come (financi-
ally speaking) to laugh at Death and the Taxes that
follow Death.
Recently there died a certain suburban grocer who
had understood how to use his A.M.P. membership. He
left to his widow and son A.M.P. policies that enabled
them (1) to pay the heavy Probate taxes promptly,
without any hasty selling of his assets, (2) to pay off
a mortgage on the shop, and such debts as he had left,
and (3) to invest a goodly sum that will enable them to
make the business reasonably secure against such ups
and downs as booms and depressions.
Have YOU made such provision, reader? If you
want to laugh at Death and the Taxes, send to the
nearest A.M.P. office for an experienced adviser to
tell you how to do it! He’ll show you the road to Peace
of Mind. If you would prefer booklets, send for them.
Send to-day. Don’t put it off. There will never be a
better day than to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. \V. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
stantial losses, as the figures for 1921,
1925 and 1929 and the two following
years show.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts both the volume and
value of the co.’s turnover increased, and
so did the number of its overseas cus-
tomers. The Australian average for
wool was £2O 14s. 2d. (up £3 Is. lid.)
per bale, and there was a sharp rise in
the value of rabbit- and hare-skins ex-
ported, too. After striking off £5lBO
for depreciation, etc., the board wrote
net earnings £9705 better than the pre-
vious year’s at £45,385. That was after
dropping £13,500 from somewhere into
a contingencies account. Taking this
into the reckoning, net earnings sprang
£23,205, reaching 26.7 p.c. on capital,
compared with 16.2, 13.6, 17.8 and 11.1
p.c. back to 1933. The £38,885 that re-
mained lifted reserves to £95,077.
The need for substantial reserves and
the speculative nature of the business
are illustrated by what happened during
the slump. Owing to the headlong de-
scent of prices, a loss of £164,575 showed
up in 1930 (the worst of the trouble
occurred in connection with furred skins,
sold mainly in New York and London),
leaving £180,138 of the capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles—goodwill figured at
£130,000. The intangibles were rubbed
out by striking 9s. per share (£180,000)
off capital, reducing it to the present
figure of £220,000 in 400,000 shares fully
paid to 11s. each. Supplies continued to
press heavily on prices, and a further
loss of £19,705 was recorded in 1931.
It was wiped out by profits for the two
following years, and, after a five-year
wait, shareholders got into the picture
again in 1934, and have remained there.
The immediate outlook for the busi-
ness is bright enough, and nominal capi-
tal has been increased to £330,000 by
creation of 200,000 new shares of 11s.
each, but no indication is given as to when
the board intends to issue any of them.
The market notes the risks and prices
the scrip at 12s. 7d. as against 11s. 6d. a
year ago. At the higher figure the return
is 7.9 p.c. on a 9.1 p.c. div. basis ; the
cover is 15s. 9d. in net tangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it: —•
1930. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £220,000 £220,000 £220,000
Creditors' } 2W ’ 637 117 > 713 200,593 {
Fixed assets.. 190,493 180,054 177,192 175,294
Stocks . . 253,293 89,876 157,451 215.926
Book debts .. 73,102 48,701 160,856 150,849
Cash.. .. 610 686 1,287 1,592
Shares other cos. 12,851
The outstanding feature last year was a
growth of £58,475 in stocks, the most
vulnerable point in the co.’s armor. To
meet the outlay and invest £12,851 in
shares in other cos., debtors’ balances
were reduced by £10,007 and £20,843
was added to the debt. Excluding shares
in subsidiaries (£3000), the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£156,782) was £37,781.
Lancefield (W.A.) Gold Mine, N.L.
Above No. 12 level visible ore reserves
are now estimated at around 182,000
tons ; below that level probable tonnage,
which “may prove a conservative esti-
mate,” is put at 400,000 tons of average-
grade stone by mine-manager Ridgway,
following the putting down of three new
boreholes —the figure represents a shrink-
age of 450,000 tons on his previous
assumption. Following publication of
accounts, the 4s. shares have fallen from
above 12s. to 9s. seller. At depth the
lodes are pitching north, and to get at
ore indicated by the drills below No. 12
level an incline tunnel is being sunk
from the present main shaft, the ore to
be transported by a conveyor-belt. A
doubt arises as to whether this method
of ore-extraction will meet development
requirements in future years without a
substantial rise in costs or further capital
expenditure.
The immediate outlook for this Beria
producer, one of the most successful of
the recent Westralian resurrections, is
bright enough. For the two months July-
August, recoveries (495. 5d., including
o Continued on next page.)


“Let Atlas carry the burden.”
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000.
F ire—Accident—Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Svdney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
NO BEL- GLASGOW
E X PLOS IV E S
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL'S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
• ■ . AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. :Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
. MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: B. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith Sc Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Eederal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN,; TAS.: J. S. Blunro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: .Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety Sc Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgrety Sc Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety Sc Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, EIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.C.: Tantalum has a nominal value only,
not being quoted from day to day, as are some
other metals. Price is governed by purity of
ore or concentrate. For approved material,
value on June 16 would be about Bs. per pound
of tantalum content. Suggest getting in touch
with some such ore-buyers as Frank Hambridge,
Sydney, or Lempriere and Co., Sydney and Mel-
bourne S.G.C.: Yes, but for a spread of
risks plus security, we prefer First Australian
Unit Trust Certificates, though the yield is a
trifle lower Greensborough: Yes; 8 p.c. for
1931-33 and 10 p.c. for 1934. Share prices rose
from under par to 475. over that period.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untamishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
t per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
MINERAL DEVELOPMENTS
(FIJI), LTD.
Assayers, Mine Managers and Geologists:
Mining properties reported upon.
Diamond Drilling Contracts Undertaken.
’Phones: 8W5260. 19 O’Connell Street,
84439. SYDNEY.
WHO
PAYS
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to vast in content-
ment knowing thut their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
yield from the smelters) slipped Is. sd.
a ton, compared with the Tail previous
year’s experience, but costs (excluding de-
velopment) were got back 2s. 6d. to 20s.
Bd., and monthly throughput is now 1000
tons or so above last year’s average. Cur-
rent earnings will also benefit from re-
treatment of old tailings. Considerable
outlay on plant will be necessary to
handle the conical dump, which will
need fine-grinding, but retreatment of
the flat pile by high-pressure sluicing,
which has proved a success with the
Great Boulder dump, is expected to start
in about a month.
Last term a drop of o.49dwt. in the
head value of the mill feed was offset by
a reduction of o.3ldwt. in the loss
(0.93dwt.) in the flotation tailings and
a saving of Is. 4d. in costs. Gold pro-
ceeds, etc., turned in £313,251. After
charging £17,069 against earnings for
development, £7826 for shaft-sinking and
a liberal £15,163 for depreciation (to-
gether £40,058, up £15,875), the working
surplus lifted £10,643:
Year to Ore, Grade, Work’s Sur- , Divs.——-,
June, Tons. Dvvt. Costs.* plus.f Share. Amt.
1936. .106,218 7.81 24/6 £114,624 1/- £50,000
1937. .122,858 7.32 23/2 125,247 2/- 100,000
* Excluding development, f Deducting depreciation.
Shareholders got £lOO,OOO in two Is.
divs. —a further Is. 3d. was sent out on
Sept. 25 —and of the balance £7847 was
earmarked for the 1936 tax bill and
£13,500 to cover estimated liability in
respect of the year just closed.
The board is installing an additional
power-unit. At June 30 liquids totalled
£97,137 and outside indebtedness £9827.
Plant stood in the books at £155,954
(there is a reserve of £27,626 against this
item), property at £25,000 and intan-
gibles at £51,041. The £200,000 of share
capital is in a million 4s. shares.
If £1 a ton net profit (slightly above last
year’s experience) could be realised from
mining and milling in the future, on
the latest suggested extent of ore reserves
there would be a total profit of £582,000
(plus cash now in hand), as against a
market valuation of ’ £450,000. There
are queries on all three important counts
—tonnages, future recoveries and costs.
King Island Scheelite, N.L.
To take over a property on King
Island, Bass Strait, containing 50,000 tons
of proved scheelite ore going 0.85 p.c.
tungstic acid, which, with the metal
tungsten, has a wide use in steel alloys
and electric-lamp filaments, King Island
Scheelite, N.L., has been formed in Mel-
bourne with a nominal capital of £75,000
in 300,000 ss. shares. Both wolfram
and scheelite are a source of tungstic
acid, and when “wolfram per unit” is
quoted in the metal markets the refer-
ence is to the acid content, and it may
apply to either scheelite or wolfram.
The present mining proposition was
worked from 1917 to 1920 for 589 tons
concentrates from 67,710 tons ore, an
average yield of 0.87 p.c., and divs. of
£25,000 were paid. The co.’s product
fetched 525. 6d. per unit during the
period. With the 1920 slump in metals
wolfram dropped to 14s. a unit, and
operations ceased. In June, 1934, a
prospecting syndicate took over the show,
six boreholes were drilled, and W. E.
Hitchcock and the late Hartwell Conder
confirmed a previous estimate of 50,000
tons proved ore reserves, now “largely
added to in probable reserves.” Wolf-
ram was under £2 stg. per unit at this
time ; in January this year it was still
below that figure. Last month it had
soared to over £6 in London.
The present flotation pays £15,310 in
cash to the vendors in addition to 50,000
ss. f.-p. shares. The public was offered
200,000 shares (underwritten).
Hartwell Conder described the prop-
erty as a contact deposit, the main in-
trusive rock being aplite, a variety of
granite deficient in mica ; this forms a
definite dyke at one point. “The solu-
tions and vapors carry the silica, cal-
cium, iron, tungsten and various other
elements, which ultimately turn the slates
and sandstone into scheelite-bearing
garnet rock of every texture and con-
sistency.” The scheelite content is high-
est in the garnet rocks.
Conder considered that the property
could be worked by opencut throughout:
The conclusions arrived at are that
there is a large body of payable scheelite
ore on the property. The diamond-drilling
has shown that it extends to a considerable
depth below the old workings, while the
configuration of the country would enable it
to be worked readily to this depth. The
removal of overburden does not seem to
be in any sense prohibitive, while the
grade of ore seems to be well sustained
in the present exposures. The general
facilities in the way of access, transport,
etc., are far better to-day than formerly.
Water-supply is satisfactory, and conditions
generally are favorable.
The old mine was worked at an all-in
cost of 14s. 2d. a ton. This co.’s pros-
pectus figures exes, out at 175., and, on a
throughput of 15,000 tons a year, and
wolfram at £3 London, net earnings are
estimated at £17,850 p.a., rising to
£29,100, £40,350 or £51,600 a year if
the metal averages £4, £5 or £6 sterling
per unit respectively.
The proposition, which is promising,
seems to have been gone into with more
than usual thoroughness; that in the
long run may help to compensate for the
substantial vendors’ consideration —■
£27,810 altogether, equal to 44 p.c. of
the proposed paid capital. The market
for metals is too uncertain even to make
a guess at what wolfram prices are likely
to be in the future ; though present high
quotes shouldn’t be relied upon, some-
thing better than the average of the past
decade may be expected.
Placer Development, whose $1 shares
(730,000 issued) have taken a slide lately,
has a 30.6 p.c. share-interest in Bulolo
Gold Dredging, 34.48 p.c. in Pato Con-
solidated, 41 p.c. in Asnazu Gold Dredg-
ing and 64 p.c. in Rutherglen Gold
Dumps. Bulolo’s net profit for year to
May 31, before providing for amortisa-
tion, is 3,585,975 Canadian dollars. Pato
Consolidated’s two dredges dug 3,668,000
c.y. during the year to April 30, and
193,000 c.y. was hydraulicked. Gold
won fetched $554,530, and working profit
$307,000. Ore reserves are estimated at
600,000,000 c.y. dredgeable gravel averag-
ing between 14 and 15 cents, and
37,000,000 c.y. of hydraulicking gravel
averaging 25 cents. Dredge No. 3 is
now operating, while Nos. 4 and 5
should be ready early in 1938, together
with about half of the hydro-electric
power turned on. Asnazu, the other
Colombia (S. America) interest, dredged
1,542,000 c.y. for a recovery worth
$725,000 and working profit of $518,000
—5436,000 after deducting Colombian
taxes and all overhead. Gravel reserves
are put at 20,000,000 c.y. going 40 cents,
and 30,000,000 c.y. averaging 20 cents.
Installation of a second dredge is under
consideration. Rutherglen Gold Dumps
(Vic.) treated 149,000 tons in the year
to April 30 for a recovery of £56,558
(Aust.), and a profit, before providing
for depreciation and depletion, of
£34,061. A new co., Gold Dumps Pty.,
is being formed in Australia to take over
other dumps. Placer will own 50,000 of
the 60,000 £1 shares issued. A treatment
plant of 500 tons daily capacity has
already started.
* * * *
Briseis Tin (Derby, Tas.) hasn’t yet
reached production on the scale expected
by some of its backers. For September
60,000 yards, including 25 p.c. flood
debris, yielded 31 tons tin oxide, as
against 30 tons and 29 tons in the two
preceding months. The virgin ground
put through in September yielded 1.561 b.
per yard—still something below pros-
pectus estimates. Market for the scrip,
not particularly active lately, eased to
7s. 6d. last week.
Jjt H= *
Crushing 14,896 tons ore for 50060 z.
fine, Raub Australian, the Pahang
(F.M.S.) producer, announces a work-
ing profit, subject to depreciation, of
£12,936 stg. for the quarter to Aug. 14.
Compared with the full 1936-37 term,
costs (295. 3d.) show slight improvement,
but recoveries are down lydwt. The
slip is ascribed to the rich stone in the
Bukit Koman stopes, used to keep up the
grade of the mill feed, turning poor.
“Such occurrences have taken place in
the past, but the shoots have been re-
discovered or fresh sources of supply
opened up.” Prospecting, unfortunately,
is an expensive job, and cost of develop-
ment alone last year was Bs. 7d. per ton
of ore raised. The new 300-ton-a-day
retreatment plant, to handle current and
old tailings, is expected to start contribut-
ing to profits towards the close of 1937.
Meantime, interim divs. have been cut
from 6d. to 4d. per share, and the 55.-
paids are now on offer at 13s. 9d., as
against a “high” for the year of 225. 3d.
At the end of March, ore reserves
(55,000 tons, mostly sulphides) were little
more than a year’s supply for the mill.
They have never been much ahead of the
plant, however.
❖ * * ❖
After expensive misses at The Granites,
Centralia, and with the Great Northern
(W.A.), where £27,000 was spent on de-
velopment alone, Chapmans Gold hopes
for a change of luck with its latest ac-
quisition—the old Quartz Hill mine,
Chewton (Vic.), recommended by State
Geologist W. Baragwanath as “favorable
for prospecting.” In the old days an
80ft.-wide saddle-reef gave rich returns
to shallow depths, but subsequent parties
found little of interest down to 400 ft.,
the deepest workings. At June 30 share-
holders could see about £5OOO of their
money in cash.
* * # *
Main workings in the southern section
of the big Wiluna mine (W.A.) continue
in low values—from 3|dwt. to 4dwt. —
and, compared with widths in the higher
levels, there is a noticeable contraction
in the size of the lode. Visiting geologi-
cal experts are endeavoring to find new
and better-grade makes of ore.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) board has decided, with
shareholders’ concurrence, to pay a div.
as soon as possible and let the payment
of an 8 p.c. £3750 loan from some of
the directors stand over. Chairman A.
E. Weston mentioned at the meeting in
Perth on Sept. 24 that those gentlemen
were agreeable to wait. Net profit for
six months on present production, he
said, should total £9OOO, and a sixpenny
div. in January would absorb £6500, leav-
ing £2500 for development and plant re-
quirements. Managing director Walter
Clark was voted £lOOO for his services
during the past year, and the directors’
remuneration was fixed at £4OO.
* * * *
Leonora Central has got hold of some-
thing “showing encouraging results” at
Marda, between Bullfinch and Mt. Jack-
son (W.A.). This is the co.’s third at-
tempt. Two years ago shareholders were
told that “dividends on a fairly large
scale” were in sight in a Leonora prop-
erty. Discovering that this idea was all
wrong, the co. moved to Widgiemooltha,
and soon after it was stated that the
directors were optimistic regarding pros-
pects, and that London would sponsor
a big float before long.
*}: s.*: % ♦
At 2s. Id. on the market, the 35.-paids
of Central Gold (capital, £60,000) at
present pay 6d. a share annually. The
co. has a quarter-interest in the Cox’s
Find, Erlistoun (W.A.), one of the bright
lights in Western Mining Corp.’s firma-
ment. To June 30 the mine produced
12,4220 z. from 14,412 tons of ore (an
average of 17dwt.), Central’s whack or
the profits being £11,523. Recent de-
velopments have unearthed some 36dwt.
to 60dwt. stuff over good widths on Nos.
2 and 3 levels. Nearly everything de-
pends on how much of this and other
good stuff is available. Some reduction
in mining and milling costs, naturally
heavy during the early stages of stoping
and milling, is looked for.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Youn» Streets, Sydney
rz
m
&
■
mi
m
i
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2Q61 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines )
SMOKE-OH!
“Dental manager wanted for branch practice
at Canberra.”— “Argus.”
Doubtless in anticipation of the boom
in fang-wrenching after election jaw-
wagging.
+ 4* ■i 1
Is it all news from warmongers or
wars from newsmongers?
4 1 4* 4* 4 1
“American scientists rediscover lost world.”
Now it can definitely consider itself
lost.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Paradoxically, spirits can best be raised
by sinking them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sawmining Town’s Rise and Decline.”
— “S. M. Herald” heading.
“Yairs,” said the old-timer dreamily,
“them was the days.”
He sighed and was silent, thinking of
old scenes, old mates. Then he turned
his faded blue eyes to the immemorial,
brooding ranges, and, with the unquench-
able faith of the pioneer, uttered his un-
shakable conviction: “There’s saws in
them thar hills yet!”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lynch Law left with a three-year-old filly
in custody for Melbourne.”—' “Age.”
And didn’t he have to keep his winkers
on her!
4* 4* 4* 4*
* “After warring upon society for 14 years he
was sent to goal.” — “D.T.”
That was society’s kick.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Returning officers and poll clerks will take
the count.” — “S. M. Herald.”
So will some politicians.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Tired of his borrowings, his old friends
treated him as if they were stranglers.” — “D.T.”
Well, that should have choked him
off!
4’ 4* 4* 4*
“Modern dress is really only an imitation of
some long-ago fashions.”
Anyway, it is mainly a take-off.
4* 4* 4* 4*
I sometimes think that never blows so
red
The Communist as he who never bled
In revolution’s cause, but, armchair-
bound,
Burns out his bitterness with words
instead.
Zake.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Large men are sometimes very active and
can often squeeze through remarkably small
openings,” says a physical-culture expert.
Only the other day we saw a 16-stone
businessman dive into his pocket for a
cigar.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Conversation Piece.
(Overheard on a Bondi tram.)
“Warejagolarsnight, Joe?”
“Hopatßrontee.”
“Decent?”
“Yair, pretty decent. Met a decent
sort, too.”
“Yair?”
“Yair. She’s a decent dancer; meetin’
her Sat’dee.”
“Decent surf t’day.”
“Um. Hey, there’s a decent car!”
“Too right. You workin’, Joe?”
“Yair, on a bread cart. Decent lurk.
You workin’?”
“Nuh.”
“Aw, that ain’t too decent, is it?”
Then came my stop.
Unipo.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Editor and staff of a trade journal for
thieves and burglars have been arrested in
Warsaw.”
Charged, doubtless, with encouraging
criminals to break into print.
“A Japanese artist has painted a portrait of
himself in his own blood as a patriotic gesture.”
If some of our statesmen ever do that
they’ll produce water-colors.
*J* 4*
“A churchman says that short skirts lower
the status of women and lessen the respect
of the male sex.”
They certainly make it inadvisable to
put women on pedestals.
•I* *3* *b
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
Two of the most invaluable members
of any outback community are the well-
sinker and the water-diviner. Were it
not for their combined efforts settlers
would be compelled to drink their whisky
neat, run the vacuum-cleaner over them-
selves whenever they wanted a wash and
go in for paper-bag cookery, while the
stock would have to fend for themselves
for water.
They invariably work together. When
a farmer or grazier finds that all that
is coming from the last rung of his tank
are a few moribund tadpoles and some
liquid mud he immediately sees about
getting a well sunk.
First thing the water-diviner does is
select the fork of a coolabah sapling
“Bert, it doesn't seem right some'ow .”
which has a termites’ nest clinging to it.
This he cuts off at an angle of sdeg.,
taking care though to do it only when
the temperature is about 130 in the
shade, thus ensuring that the ants will be
nearly frantic with thirst. As a termites’
nest is always magnetic, he puts his sex-
tant against it until he finds where mag-
netic north is, and, holding the stick in
the wide space between the big toe and
the one next to it, he walks on fiis hands
in the direction indicated until agitation
by the termites causes the coolabah stick
to wobble violently.
This is where the well-sinker comes
in. He immediately makes back in the
opposite direction as far as he can go,
knowing that the water-diviner will have
come to a halt over the most arid por-
tion of the property.
Having thus selected the correct posi-
tion, the well-sinker sets to work.
Contrary to popular belief, wells are
built, not from the bottom up, but from
the top down. It therefore follows that
excavations must begin from where the
bottom of the well will be. The well-
sinker starts building his brickwork a
few feet above ground level, putting the
second course underneath the first and
so on, while his excavator is working
from the bottom of the well upwards.
Extremely accurate calculations are
necessary so that when they meet, which
is at ground level, there will be no over-
lapping. As soon as the excavator
reaches the surface long sugar-gum poles
are sunk. These serve the dual purpose
of taking the weight of the brick super-
structure and of sweetening the bore
water which seeps through the porous
bricks with which the well-bottom is
first lined. Thereafter it is a simple
matter to saw off a bit of the poles as
each downward course of bricks dis-
places them until the bottom is reached.
As the valuable water is oozing in all
the while, it follows that towards the
end of the job the bricks have to be laid
under water, the well-sinker using a
diving-suit for the purpose.
Old-time well-sinkers who built from
the bottom up used to suffer from per-
manent kinks in their necks through
having continually to screw upwards to
see if their brickwork was out of plumb ;
black eyes were also their lot through
sods of earth falling upon their upturned
orbs. The modern well-sinker has learned
from the mistakes of these earlier crafts-
men.
The well-sinker also puts up wind-
mills in his spare time. Whilst the actual
installation itself is a simple matter, the
selection of a site that will yield a maxi-
mum of wind calls for intensive re-
search. This usually entails the gather-
ing of meteorological data over a given
period. Flagpoles are erected at various
points and the well-sinker, a wet sponge
in his pocket, scales each one in turn
several times a day. By moistening his
index finger and holding it up in true
bushman style he can gauge the strength
and direction of the wind from each
vantage point. The one calculated to
yield the highest volume of wind per
windmill-hour is selected as the site, pro-
vided, of course, the prevailing wind is
blowing in the same direction as the
vanes are pointing.
S. W. K.
4* *!*
“A former putty officer in the navy, accused
admitted he had been on a prolonged drinking
bout.” — “Age.”
But it isn’t surprising that he is always
sticking around a glass!
“A gangster named. Diamond has been
arrested for having slashed his brother with a
knife in a New York night club.”
Diamond cut Diamond.
•b 4* *S*
“One of Dorothy Dix’s correspondents com-
plains that his wife treats him as though he
were not in the house.”
Complains ?
❖ •b *J* 4*
“A salute of 21 gins announced the arrival
of the Duce in his bullet-proof train.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Followed, doubtless, by the old “Gibit
tchillin’! ”
The War Day by Day.
Monday— The spokesman of the
Japanese War Office announces' that the
next move will be on Tuesday morning
at 7.30, when all the troops on the
Oh Go Awei sector will deploy on a
five-mile front with the intention of wip-
ing out the Chinese 745th route army.
The Committee of Thirty-eight of the
League of Nations, summoned to con-
sider China’s appeal against Japanese
aggression, has adjourned sine die so as
to allow experts from 17 nations to visit
China and submit reports.
Tuesday. —The spokesman of the
Japanese Foreign Office announces that
there is no war in China. The Japanese
army, purely as a defence measure, has
been forced to try to dissuade the
Chinese army from criticising Japan’s
peaceful aims. The Diet passes war
credits of 7000 million yen. Nanking
reports that the 745th army under
General Por Ho Bo has joined forces
with General Wun Bung Wing’s Very
Irregulars and will embark by rickshaw
caravan from Ho Ho province on the
1500-mile journey to strengthen the Oh
Go Awei sector. The correspondent of
the “News-Chronicle” reveals that, when
their sunshades were shot away from over
them, Chinese troops at How Now dis-
played typical Oriental stoicism.
Wednesday. —The spokesman of the
Japanese War Office announces that artil-
lery will fire at the Chinese lines at 10-
minute intervals between 9 a.m. and
10.30 a.m. on alternate days, commenc-
ing Thursday. In response to China’s
urgent request to expedite hearing of her
appeal, the League has given Dec. 10 as
a tentative date, subject to completion of
experts’ reports. The Secretary-General
admits the position is extremely delicate,
and a high League official says that the
opinion in League circles is that China’s
appeal has created an embarrassing situa-
tion.
Thursday. —The spokesman of the
Japanese Foreign Office announces that
a Provisional Council under the presi-
dency of General Inoyou has been created
to administer the province of Pong Hi.
This is purely to protect the Chinese
people from General Chiang Kai-shek’s
unscrupulous armies. Bombs fell dan-
gerously close to a British destroyer
patrolling seven miles out at sea when
Chinese airmen attacked the gasworks at
Wat Sup Sun. Fierce fighting at Sing
Song. Tokio claims Chinese in full flight,
leaving 18,000 dead, the Japanese suffer-
ing only one casualty when an n.c.o. fell
down laughing at the flight of the
Chinese. Nanking claims all attacks re-
pulsed with heavy losses.
Friday. —The spokesman of the Japan-
ese War Office announces that the army
will straighten out the salient near Bang
Shewent. Zero hour for the hop-over,
which will be preceded by an hour’s bom-
bardment, will be immediately after
morning rice on the 17th inst. The
“News-Chronicle” reveals that the morale
of General Heh Woa Bak’s crack 17315 t
route army is high, following modernisa-
tion of its equipment by an issue of Mar-
tini-Henry rifles and a distribution of air
cushions, fans and pet goldfish.
Saturday. —Chinese forces, armed with
broadswords, attack a Japanese Tank
Corps at Chow Chop Tup. Nanking
claims seven tanks put out of action.
Sunday. —The spokesman of the Japan-
ese War Office announces that a general
advance on the Hop Hi-Wah Tah Kow-
Sum Soo Wine line will be made next
Wednesday afternoon, provided there is
no wind blowing. The correspondent of
the “News-Chronicle” reveals that a
serious shortage of abdominal belts,
bottle-openers and pak-a-pu tickets is
hampering the movements of General
Bing Can Croon’s shock troops.
80.
Endurance’s End.
“Respondent in a separation case admitted
that he left his wife because she used to keep
him waiting for hours outside shops.”
He stood about, impatiently you bet,
The while his missus bought a bit of
stuff.
She’d take two hours to buy a yard of
net,
A nd so he packed his grip and did a get,
Convinced that he had stood about
enough.
K.
Obvious.
“What is the best way to stop a runaway
horse?” asks a correspondent.
One well-known method has stood the
test,
Its efficiency few will gainsay;
It’s simple and safe. Merely go and
“invest”
A quid or two on it each way !
C.R.U.


ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
NO WHISKERS
ON THIS JOB NOW!
-Once a hobby for the wealthy,
Art is now a well-paid profes-
• sion in which any with the
necessary talent may engage.
If YOU have latent drawing
ability we can bring you happi-
ness and affluence.
33MJ
XS3X
WE OFFER YOU
simple scientifically-prepared Test
Sketches and Questionnaire to try out
your natural sense of form, proportion
and color.
We will then analyse your efforts and
frankly inform you whether it would
be worth while your taking up Com-
mercial Art.
This service is valued at one guinea, but
for a limited period it may be availed oi
FREE and WITHOUT OBLIGATION.
POST THIS COUPON
toms?
a2ii«aa^
BcTsSnstonS; Melbourne
Please send me your Art Ability Tests
and questionnaire. I enclose 2d. for
registered postage.
Name .
Address
State
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Tuggerah Coal Fields Pty.
Early in 1934 the prospectus of Coal
Oil Australia, Ltd., was dealt with on this
page. It was a share-issue float, and
among its objects were to acquire 10,000-
odd acres of freehold coal property, near
Wyong (N.S.W.) and “bordering the
Tuggerah Lake,” at £5 an acre (total
£52,800), to sell the co.’s interest “at its real
economic value” by issuing £1,500,000 of
debentures, “to promote a co. fop the
benefit of the debenture-holders. . . .and
to act as managers and agents for that
co by establishing a modern colliery
and coal distillation plants”....
After this remarkable prospectus was
criticised—the co. proposed loading
vessels from wharves in Tuggerah Lake,
“with its six to seven fathoms of water”
-—little more was heard of Coal Oil Aus-
tralia in the Commonwealth, though re-
ports came to . hand that efforts were
being made to sell shares in London.
A booklet issued some time this year
by Tuggerah Coal Fields Pty., Ltd.,
brings back memories of that 1934 en-
terprise. The Tuggerah co. also has
10,000 acres of coal land near Wyong,
but on paper it doesn’t seem to be as
good as Coal Oil’s—that co. “estimated”
“over 400,000,000 tons” to be in its coal-
field, whereas Tuggerah Coal “computes”
“upwards of 200,000,000 tons.” Coal
Oil’s area was 64 miles from Sydney,
36 miles from Newcastle; Tuggerah
Coal’s field is “65 miles north of Sydney,
and 39 miles south of Newcastle by rail.”
Tuggerah Coal, however,, has some-
thing in common with Coal Oil. It de-
sires to thrust wealth on those who will
put up the money that is asked for.
“Readers. .. .will discover the door of
opportunity whereby small savings may be
passed into a wealth-producing estate cap-
able of yielding steadily increasing profits
throughout the investors’ lifetime, with
further benefits to their heirs for genera-
tions to come.”
The owners of this great coalfield —
probably one of the most valuable free-
hold coal estates within the Common-
wealth—have authorised Tuggerah Coal
Fields Pty., Ltd., to commercialise'the field
for the mutual benefit of the owners and
other Australian investors!
“The owners,” names not mentioned,
“have evolved a great co-operative plan
by which many small investors. .. .may
become joint , proprietors of this tre-
mendously valuable coalfield.”
But no small investor will be allowed
to make a beast of himself ; he can’t take
more than 100 acres (£5OOO-worth). The
“owners”
have released for private sale undivided
half-acre areas of the seams of coal at
£25 per half-acre, individual purchasers
being permitted to acquire from a single
half-acre up to 100 acres of the seams of
coal.
The repetition of “seams of coal” is
necessary:
Please Note. —Purchasers of Coal
Blocks do not become owners of the sur-
face of the land. They purchase that
which is of much greater value—the seams
of coal lying under the surface.
After all, it is perhaps foolish of investors
to expect the seams of coal to be found
kicking round on the surface.
Enter ye in at the strait gate? Don’t
be old-fashioned!
Here surely is the door of opportunity!
It is open. Beyond it lies a broad high-
way which should lead to the City of
Prosperity.
And now (ahem!) a matter of business:
£l2 10s. of each £25 of purchase money
received shall be held in trust, and
not later than 1/1 / ’42 it shall be paid over
to a co. to be appointed and applied in
and to the establishment, management and
working of a modern and fully-equipped
colliery and/or distillation and chemical
plant to produce benzol, petrol, oils and
other by-products of coal and/or for such
other purposes as may be deemed proper
to win and effect the profitable sale of
the coal. After the establishment of the
colliery and/or distillation and chemical
plant—and only then —this money (invested
in the operating co.) becomes the sole
and absolute property of the vendors or
their nominees.
No mention is made as to whether the
equipment “and/or” what not is to cost
£5OO “and/or” £5,000,000.
However, hiking gaily along the broad
highway that leadeth to —to “the City
of Prosperity,” contract-holders have no-
thing to worry about. “The owners”
contract to have the coal mined, and
will divide with purchasers (in propor-
tion to the number of coal blocks pur-
chased) sixpence per ton royalty for every
ton of coal recovered,- also 50 p.c. of the
net profits to be derived from works that
may be established for the treatment and
sale of coal and coal products.
But don’t let us get down to “may bes”
and legal jargon. How much nicer just to
dream of “wealth-producing estate....
steadily increasing profits... .benefits to
heirs for generations to come”....
Broken Hill Prop, is a stock far too
big for sectional sharemarket control,
though someone or everyone periodically
overemphasises the importance of the
Barrier mine in its profit-earning capa-
city. Possibly the very robustness of the
undertaking has had something to do with
its recent sharp market setback. Shares
were bought freely in anticipation of
higher prices coming with further bene-
fits ; it was unfortunate that the an-
nouncement of benefits came along about
the same time as a world-wide decline in
share prices, and the disappointment of
speculators in B.H.P. was expressed by
unusually heavy selling. Last week there
was a good recovery from below 775. to
over 795.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell turned out just under
13,500 tons of electrolytic copper during
the year which ended on Sept. 30, about
400 tons more than in the preceding term.
The average price of the refined product
during the latest period was in the vicinity
of £6O Bs., as against £4O 14s. Bd. Assum-
ing that stocks brought into account and
those carried forward balance each
other out, on the increased production
and better metal prices Lyell should be
in a position to show £350,000 more
profit for 1936-37 than it did for 1935-36.
That suggests something like £540,000
being put before shareholders, the
chances being enhanced if fertiliser, etc.,
investments turn in a little more. Last
week’s depressed London quotes for the
electrolytic metal were about £6 a ton
lower than the average for 1936-37.
* * * *
Castlemaine, Perkins (Brisbane) 12s. 6d.
shares went at the bargain price of 255.
during the brewery-workers’ stay-in strike
at the Milton premises. After the strikers
had been evicted there was a recovery
to 255. in Sydney quotations. The
labor dispute isn’t yet settled, but C.P.’s
past experience and present prospects all
point to a satisfactory future.
* si! * *
Loloma (Fiji) having at last set its new
plant going, the sharemarket has the
fidgets while awaiting results. Not so
long ago (in August) up to 275. was paid
for the Is. 6d. shares ; last week 20s.
9d. was taken at one stage. Still, that’s
nothing much in Loloma’s young life.
In July 18s. lid. went up on the sales-
board.
* - $ $ $
The heavy fall in metals last Wednes-
day in London sent Barrier mines and
Mt. Lyell toppling on Thursday. For
some reason Souths suffered most, fall-
ing 3s. 4d. during the day and closing
weak at 4ls. Bd. The London market
was about 2s. a share lower. Norths
dropped 2s. 6d. on a turnover of 2050
shares in Sydney (Melbourne ’Change was
closed for the Show), and last sale was
made at the lowest quote of the day.
Lyells fell 25., and at 40s. seemed a
bargain even if copper slumped to £5O.
On Friday, though metals in most cases
were slightly weaker again, sharemarket
support sent all base-metal issues up a
shilling or so —Souths this time leading
in that direction. As far as the imme-
diate future of metals is concerned,
a good deal depends on whether specu-
lative stocks have now been properly
cleaned up.
Producers and General Finance (Syd-
ney) ords. slipped back to 11s. 9d. last
week, the market discounting the book
value (15s. 6d.) of the net tangible assets
by 3s. 9d. per share. Sellers of the scrip
seem to be concerned about book values
and earning power, and the fact that the
scrip in the first case was sold at a very
high figure hasn’t helped to inspire con-
fidence. It is hard indeed in this case to
put a precise value on the shares.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
’Change was closed on Wednesday for the
Show, and the excitement following the London
slump in metals had to be borne by Sydney
and Adelaide. On Thursday share prices had
already taken a turn for the better.
In spite of chairman Eric Campbell’s opti-
mism at the co.’s meeting in Sydney, the
market for Mr. Morgan shares continued weak.
Owing to backward development, excessive dilu-
tion of ore mined with overburden has become
necessary, as pointed out oil, this page some
months back. Mr. Campbell speaks of bring-
ing into operation within six months a scheme
to mine inside of 20 years the whole of the
7,000,000 tons of ore estimated to average
4.26dwt. Some consider this scheme to over-
come development arrears to be optimistic on
the score of time necessary. However, “two
or three years” is the period over which the
£lOO,OOO to be expended on equipping the
opencut is aimed to be spread, and that may
be a fair indication of how long shareholders
will have to wait before the benefits of really
large-scale production begin to show up in
earnings. Values seem undoubtedly to be
there, but the cup-shaped opencut presents
a first-class mining problem. To cope with
it investigations in opencut mining are being
made abroad.
Davies, Coop ords. firmed to 225. 3d.
Montana Western (Zeehan) shares con-
tinued to change hands around 9s.
Drug Houses scrip continued firmer at
around 265. 6d.
George Farmer Prefs.
Times are hard in the ham-and-
bacon business—pigs are dear and
competition keen—and last year the
old-established concern of George
Farmer and Co. earned a profit of
only £l7B. However, the 8 p.c.
pref. div. was maintained, largely
out of reserves (it calls for £4BOO
a year), and the cash position is
still excellent. The £60,000 of pref.
capital has a backing of just under
545. a share, of which 30s. is in
surplus liquids. At 20s. last week
the prefs. looked highly interesting
as a spec. The directors report
slightly-improved conditions, and
cutthroat competition isn’t likely
to last for ever.


For Sale.
TWO COUNTRY NEWSPAPERS
FOR SALE
IN SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND.
Same ownership for eight’ years.
GOOD REASONS FOR SELLING.
Further particulars apply—
No. 285 Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Patents.
WINDOW CONSTRUCTION.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
4459/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
WHEN YOU BUY A
LUCAS
“KING t°h f e ROAD”
BATTERY
YOU CANNOT
BUY BETTER
A MILEAGE
1111
WITH EVERY GALLON
Free . . . with every gallon of C.O.R
Super Plus Ethyl Petrol . . . EXTRA
MILES PER GALLON AT NO
EXTRA COST! C.O.R Super Plus is
the only super grade petrol that also
contains BENZOL. One of the most
powerful fuels known with natural anti-
‘knock qualities benzol, when blended
J with super grade petrol, gives EXTRA
ENGINE POWER together with
EXTRA MILES PER GALLON. Next
'time;...:, get that Empire spirit . . . ask
• for C.O.R Super Plus Ethyl Petrol ... .
and obtain a bonus of more miles per
gallon FREE.
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Commonwealth Government & Anglo-Iranian Oil
Co. Ltd.)> Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE
' )
C99/30/SP
tn
mm
wm
4_J
s ”! n
ESS
fmg^i
Ko)>fflJ
Montana Western Extended
From John May and Sons, share-
brokers, Melbourne:
We have read with interest some of your
recent pars, on Montana Western Extended
(Zeehan, Tas.). We have been subscribers to and
supporters of your paper for many years, and
have usually been able to admire the fair way
in which you comment on the various mining
propositions that interest the market. We use
the word “usually” advisedly, for it must be,
of course, impossible for even a paper like
your own to be absolutely fully informed on all
mining propositions.
Your par. of 22/9/’37 is, although quite cor-
rect as a generality, perhaps not quite fair to the
mine under review. It is as true of Zeehan as
of Bendigo, Chewton or any mining field, gold
or metal, that one could name, that prizes are
few and failures many. If speculators were
only to be shown the average results and not
to be permitted to see the individual prizes then
there would be no speculation and no enterprise
and eventually no production.
We enclose a copy of a letter we recently sent
to our clients on the Montana Western. We
might mention that the circular was submitted
to and approved by the co.’s manager, Mr.
T. I. Dyson, M.1.M.M., who is a man of un-
impeachable character and who has an intimate
knowledge of the Zeehan field. We submit
that the facts stated in our circular show
clearly what is possible on the Zeehan field.
The geological feature referred to has a most
favorable bearing on the mine’s prospects. It
is doubtful whether this geological feature
was recognised when Zeehan was in its heyday,
although to the skilled geologist the line of
demarcation between the slate belt and the lime-
stone and pyritic belts is very plain. All the
ore-bodies in the pyritic belt were low in
silver—the rock, moreover, was intensely hard,
and in itself alone would probably have made
mining uneconomic even without the handicap
of values lower than in the slate belt.
Extracts from the enclosure:— r
Montana Western Extended is developing a
most promising mine on the Zeehan field on the
west coast of Tasmania. The mine is in its
infancy and is in a section of the field not
hitherto developed.
Three of the best mines on the field [in the
past] produced metal of a total gross value of
£2,286,880, taking to-day’s metal prices as a
basis. _ This production was achieved with very
little initial capital, the old Montana, for in-
stance, calling up from shareholders no more
than £4750.
The present Montana Western.... compares
favorably with the best mines of the past, at a
similar stage in their history. Already a shoot
of ore has been driven on for 150 ft., and width
and values are excellent.
To justify the comparison with the good
mines of the past, “we submit the facts that the
old Western mine, while waiting for the rail-
way to reach Zeehan, produced and stacked
1100 tons of hand-picked galena and 5000 tons
of seconds, and that the present mine, with a
very small amount of development work, has
already produced 100 tons of galena and 500
tons of seconds. It will be seen that the ratio
in each case is approximately the same; actu-
ally the grade is also the, same.
Geological considerations greatly favor the
mine now being developed. It is a fact that
the best mines of the past were situated in
what is known as the “slate belt,” as distinct
from the “limestone” and “pyritic belt.” Most
if not all of the failures at Zeehan were in
the limestone or pyritic belt. The mine under
review is situated north of Zeehan and in the
slate belt.
We feel confident that Montana Western Ex-
tended will respond to development and pro-
duce large quantities of payable ore. The
figures already quoted give sufficient illustra-
tion of the possibilities... .The funds for cur-
rent development are being provided by the
sale of hand-picked ore, of which the company
has already sold 80 tons at approximately £22
per ton.
We consider that these shares at current prices
are as attractive a speculation as is offering
on the market at the present time.
May and Sons has put it's case fairly.
But whether the shares “at current
prices are -as attractive a, speculation
as is offering” is a matter of. opinion,
or, rather, a matter which time and de--
velopment Will decide. This paper’s
comments' have been tempered by what
happened at- Zeehan in the past, and
by the recent'spectacular and for some,
time sustained rise in Montana Western
Extended shares, , which at one stage
reached 12s. 9d., giving- the show a,
market valuation of just-over. £95,000. It
was the Wcste rn S.M. th at : i n the' old days
distributed'£.lo2,ooo in divs. on a paid
capital of c £4750 (actually representing.:
share premiums). The present co. would
need to do better to. justify 125.. 9d. a
share, and 1 whether last/week’s price -of
Bs.-9s. a share is warranted depends on
how far a speculator is prepared to back
indications, however favorable, disclosed
by little more than preliminary develop-
ment.
Placer Development scrip hit a new
low level last week, when 70s. was taken.
Most gold shares slipped, but the un-
certain American market has precipi-
tated something like a crash in Placer,
which sold as high as ,1075.. this year.
The co. is an international goldminer, its.
scrip largely held in Canada, U.S.A. and
London, and its interests spread from
New Guinea and Australia to S. America
and the Celebes. Present quotes for the
scrip are little better than half the highest
during the gold boom.
* * * *
The London market has almost. daily
sales of North Kalgurli scrip. About the
time the shares were favorably spoken
of on this page, three or four months ago,
they could be got below 17s. Latest sales
in Melbourne and Adelaide have been
at 205.; London quotes are about. 9d.
higher. Latest figures for the. year now
current appeared in B. 22/9/’37.
* * * *
The £165,049 profit shown by David
Jones, Ltd., the big Sydney retailers, was:
equal to slightly more than 21.3 p.c. on
ord. capital, as against 19.7 p.c. in 1935-
36. The showing is far and away a
record for the store, or stores —there are
two of them, with a third, across the
corner from the main Castlereagh-street
property, now under construction. At
425. the ords. return 4.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
* * * *
The sharemarket again took Henry
Jones scrip to a high level last week when
a wave of confidence swept for a while
into support for certain stocks. Highest
price for Jones scrip this year has been
515.; last week 50s. Bd. appeared on the
list. Yield on the current div. basis is
around 4 p.c..


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
As often happens, better Epsom prices
could be got on the course than were
offered days, even weeks, before the race.
At the beginning of last week Talking
touched 7 to 4 and Gold Rod 5 to 2,
and during the preceding fortnight the
best prices were 5 to 2 Talking, 7 to 2
Gold Rod. At Randwick it was easy to
get 5 to 1 Gold Rod when the book-
makers opened their bags, though he
finished up at 4 to 1. Talking drifted
to 7 to 2, Prittle Prattle coming from
11 to 1 to 7 to 1.
Probably the prices of the favorites
would have lengthened in any circum-
stances, but 135 points of rain during
the 24 hours to 9 a.m. and the doubt
whether Talking and Gold Rod were at
their best orj a damp track assisted the
movement. The going wasn’t really
bad, though the sting had been taken
out of it, and it didn’t trouble Gold Rod,
who jumped away second to Red Thes-
pian and was in a good position to the
home turn. But it bothered Talking, or
something did, for before half the jour-
ney had been traversed his backers had
given up hope. The boom horse wound
up tenth.
Black Laughter ran an excellent race
for an outsider (he was 20 to 1) who
was No. 13 at the barrier. With a posi-
tion nearer the rails, a more favorable
start, and a jockey not anxious to win at
six furlongs, he might have done it; as
it was, racing towards the home turn he
passed most of his 20 opponents at a
great rate and had a clear lead into the
straight. There Red Thespian momen-
tarily showed up, but the Newcastle
horse had lost the advantage of his good
early position by getting into a bit of
bother about half-way. Anyway, he
couldn’t come on. It was reserved for
Mohican and Gold Rod to throw out
challenges to Black Laughter. Watt’s big
chestnut was the stouter finisher, and he
beat Mohican by three-quarters of a
length, Evening Mist coming from well
back to cut Black Laughter out of third
place. Tuckiar (fifth) and Panax (seventh)
were among those who came home well —
there were only a few.
McCarten was more patient on Gold
Rod than he had been on Ajax in the
Derby. He took Ajax to the front at
a smart pace, and trying to make his own
running against a boisterous wind for
half the journey was too much for the
Heroic colt. He showed real grit when
tackled by Hua and Avenger and refused
to let Hua pass him. As had been antici-
pated in many quarters, through Hua
challenging Ajax Bartle was able to get
in the last run on Avenger, and it gave
the Pantheon colt victory by a length,
Hua being half a head away. There was
nothing else in the picture, though Court-
craft, Bourbon and Bristol confirmed the
impression that they are not bad colts.
Avenger is owned and was bred by
Percy Miller, and carried the new Miller
colors dark - blue and pale - blue
diamonds. The Ring offered 6 to 4
, Ajax, 2 to 1 Avenger and 4 to 1 Hua.
It is alleged that it suffered terrific losses
on the Epsom, but it took care not to
lose on the Derby. Avenger lugged in
commencing the final furlong and ham-
pered Hua, who came in on Ajax. Prob-
ably it made no difference to the result,
but it was unfortunate for both second
and third.
The Epsom took lmin. 40isec., the
Derby 2min. 36isec. —equivalent to, say,
2min. 32sec. on a dry track. McCarten
certainly expected a great deal of Ajax.
When Allunga, Lough Neagh, Mala
and five others came out for the Spring
Stakes the sun had pierced through
the clouds, the wind had died down and
the track was much improved. As no-
thing else would make the pace, Shean
had to let Lough Neagh do it, but he
slowed down the field to such purpose
that it left the old chestnut with a good
run in him when it came to serious busi-
ness in the straight. Opposite the Leger
it looked as if Lough Neagh wouldn’t
be passed, but Allunga slowly crept up
and at the judge’s box was his own head
in front. Mala, favorite at 10 to 9, never
looked like winning, and it was all he
could do to get third, two lengths behind
Lough Neagh.
Brownfelt, a good cut of a horse from
Queensland, was fourth, and Gay Knight
(sixth) did pretty well considering that
he was racing out of his class. There
was a bit of money for Brownfelt at
tens. He will be no mean contender in
the Cups.
Because of Shean’s tactics the Spring
Stakes time was 2min. 42? sec. Perhaps
it’s a pity Shean wasn’t on Ajax.
E. Hunter Bowman, who races Allunga
in partnership with H. Oakes, gave the
bookmakers a clean sheet when his own
horse Rossjoy beat two well-backed ones,
Country Party and Old Rowley, in the
Trial Stakes. Rossjoy’s price was 20 to
1, but there was a bit of tote money for
him because Munro had the mount. Sir
Regent, the favorite, whipped away when
the barrier was released and took no
part in the race. Country Party had to
be checked on a couple of occasions, and
Old Rowley was badly placed most of
the way. He finished grandly.
The Newcastle-owned and -trained
Valbeau was made favorite for the Ken-
sington Handicap on the strength of a
good trial with The Marne. He went
out at 7 to 2. Beau Ercil (14 to 1) de-
feated him, but Valbeau was hampered
when making his run.
Supporters of Valbeau lined the en-
closure and urged Keith Cook to pro-
test. He was not slow in taking their
advice, and after a short deliberation the
stewards awarded the race to Valbeau,
and gave Knox, Beau Ercil’s rider, three
months for carelessness. Knox had just
completed a period of suspension. No
doubt he broke the rules, but it is very
doubtful whether Valbeau would have
caught Beau Ercil, who was always at
least a length to the good, had he had an
uninterrupted passage.
It was an eventful day for the Coopers.
H.V. owns Beau Ercil and Alan had
backed him. Alan had begun proceed-
ings by winning with his hurdler Hands
Up; then came his unfortunate experi-
ences with Talking and Mala. After the
races he was as voluble as ever in the
presence of reporters, and one attributed
to him the assertion that he would scratch
Mala for the Metrop. if the stewards
failed to do something or other. When
Talking—no, Cooper—saw it in print he
denied having said anything of the sort.
Saturday was a beast of a day, but
Monday was perfect—spring in its most
delightful mood. Satisfied that Victorian
form is good, punters made Beechwood
favorite, at 5 to 2, for the Shorts. He
had been taken out of the Kensington
Handicap because the stable thought lOst.
121 b. too much, even if the minimum was
Bst.; but Bst. 121 b. in a six-furlong race,
minimum 6st. 71b., was different.
Beechwood justified the confidence re-
posed in him. His jockey, Badger, waited
on the leaders until they were well into
the straight, and when he called on
Beechwood his mount came away. A
good tussle between Goorka and Gay
Chou for second place ended in Goorka’s
favor. Gay Chou was not well treated
in being asked to give a class horse like
Beechwood a pound.
Genetout’s effort was meritorious, con-
sidering that he got away rather badly.
If he meets with no more mishaps, the
French horse should do well in Aus-
tralia.
The berths Cooper was reported to
have booked to take self, two jockeys
and the boom horses to America if he
brought off the double with Talking and
Mala looked still more in need of can-
celling after the Metropolitan. Given an
excellent run in about fifth place in
behind Silver Standard for most of the
journey, Mala made a poor showing
under his topweight. It was Sir Regent
by a head to Silver Standard in a hard-
fought finish, with Vaalmore in third
place and Old Rowley close up.
El Senorita has won all the way at a
mile and five at Randwick, and the
tactics were tried again. Hitting the
front fast she quickly had a break of
three lengths, and along the back was
six to eight lengths out from Young
Crusader and Bobby, with Munro riding
Silver Standard a nice race in behind that
pair. Young Crusader was up with El
Senorita making the turn, and was in
front into the straight, but Sir Regent,
moving up fast from the middle of the
field, here shot to the front with enough
in hand to just hold off Silver Standard’s
strong run. Tens the winner. A stronger
boy might have won on Old Rowley,
who, nearly last most of the way, made
up a tremendous lot of ground in the
straight to finish the closest of fourths.
Pandava (Brazen-Ring Again), from
George Price’s stable, made short work
of the Breeders’ Plate field. Smartly out,
McCarten left the early running to Mil-
tiades, shot to the front again into the
straight, and easily led Limulet (Limond-
Anklet) to the post. Limulet’s was an
excellent effort. In trouble early he had
to make up impossible ground, and ran
a great race to beat the rest of the field
bar the winner. A protest on the strength
of early interference was dismissed.
Third place to Woolooga (Melfort-
Modern Lass).
Heroic Faith had an all-the-way win
in the Centennial Park Handicap, two
and a half lengths to the Queenslander,
Jocular ; Spearmeta next. Arabia struck
bad interference, and ended at the tail
of the field. Valbeau, from Newcastle,
made his wins four in a row, taking the
Grantham Stakes at his ease from
Herarde and Billy Boy.
* * * *
Young Idea’s withdrawal from the
Melbourne Stakes at Flemington robbed
that race of a lot of interest. He had
finished so well over six furlongs in the
Quality Handicap at Moonee Valley a
week before that a mile tussle between
Percy Miller’s stallion and Pamelus
would have been something worth
watching.
§•••••
Even with Young Idea out of the field
Pamelus did not come to a very short
price. The Melbourne barrister who
races as “G. Ornong” reckoned that
Pamelus couldn’t account for his three-
year-old, John Wilkes, on 101 b. worse
than weight-for-age terms. Support by
the K.C. and his friends caused John
Wilkes to shorten to 2 to 1, while 6 to 4
was obtainable about the Queensland
star.
Pamelus must be classed as one of the
unluckiest horses in Australia. Last
spring he was just touched off in the
V.R.C. Cantala Stakes and V.A.T.C.
Consolation Stakes. In the autumn he
went under to Gold Rod in the Futurity
Stakes and to Aurie’s Star in the New-
market. On September 25 Aurie’s Star
beat him by half a neck in the Quality
Handicap, and after the lapse of a week
he lost the Melbourne Stakes by a simi-
larly narrow margin.
Turoa, Webster ranks as the best rider
in Melbourne at welter weights. He
handled Pamelus admirably on Saturday
and looked to have the race won when
he cut down the pacemaker, Manolive ;
but Elliot cleverly manoeuvred a passage
on the rails with John Wilkes, who,
benefited by having the last run, pipped
his rival on the post.
John Wilkes was not entered for the
Caulfield Cup but holds an engagement
in the Melbourne Cup at 7.4. He is
by Baralong, who is half-brother to an
English Oaks winner and won at Ascot
(Eng) over two miles, carrying 9st. 101 b.
Golden Cello, dam of John Wilkes, is
out of a famous mare, Golden Slipper,
half-sister to Auraria and Aurum. Yet a
race like the Cantala Stakes, in which
he has 7st. 81b., might be the ideal objec-
tive for “G. Ornong’s” colt.
Simeon’s Fort, winner of the Doncaster
Handicap of 1928, sired one of the
gamest little horses that ever looked
through a bridle in Hostile, who landed
the Cantala Stakes two years ago. The
stud worth of the English stallion was
further testified to when Jewel ran away
from 18 opponents in the Maribyrnong
Trial Stakes for fillies.
Steve Murphy, who bred her, had tried
Jewel to be extra-smart, and stable money
brought her to pronounced favoritism.
She had two and a half lengths to spare
from Happy Dinah, a daughter of Ex-
citement, while Gorgeous Hussy, by
Parenthesis, was less than a length farther
off. It may be difficult to get 3 to 1
about Jewel when she next starts.
Dick O’Donnell, who was associated
with the Victoria Derby victory of Bal-
loon King in 1930, has not had the best
of luck since he settled down in Mel-
bourne ; but Pooh Bear, winner of the
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes for colts and
geldings, has brought him into renewed
prominence as a trainer. Although Pooh
Bear didn’t win as easily or gallop so
fast as Jewel in the fillies’ section he is
certain to develop into a useful colt.
Pooh Bear was bought for 700 guineas
at the Easter sales in Sydney by O. Ty-
son, whose father, the late A. E. Tyson,
raced many good performers and won
the Oakleigh Plate of 1924 with Royal
Thought. In addition, A. E. Tyson
achieved prominence as a breeder
through the agency of Carbinier.
Favorite for the colts and geldings’
race was Sir Robin, who, like Pooh
Bear, was sired by Christopher Robin at
the Kia Ora stud of Percy Miller.
Apparently the connections of Pooh
Bear had no fear of Sir Robin, as, though
the latter figured at 9 to 4, Tyson’s horse
was supported from 15 to 1 down to
sixes.
Frank Dempsey rode Pooh Bear right
out to win by a neck from Beau Frere
(Beau Pere-Chelae), who would have
won had he kept a straight course. Beau
Frere belongs to John Wren and is a
stable-mate of Ajax. He cost 750 guineas
as a yearling. Starting price of Beau
Frere was 7 to 1, two points longer than
that of Sir Harold (Burnewang-Miram-
beek), who ran third. Sir Robin should
not be condemned because of one
failure. Wayward at the barrier, he did
not settle down to galloping in the race.
Regarded as the best thing of the day,
Sweet Memories (7 to 4 on) was beaten
out of a place in the Edward Manifold
Stakes, and quite evidently isn’t of much
account beyond six furlongs. Ena
shaped like a prospective Oaks winner
by measuring strides with Sweet Memo-
ries to the straight entrance and then
fighting on gamely to resist challenges
from Prairie Moon (50 to 1) and Ortelle’s
Star (second favorite at 8 to 1). A. G.
Hunter and his friends supported Ena
profitably at tens. This filly is by Wind-
bag’s son Liberal, with whom Hunter
won the Victoria Derby of 1932 through
Peter Pan not having been entered for
that classic.
Dick Bradfield, whose son gained a
place in the Epsom with Evening Mist,
was represented by Lautus and El Bruno
in the Stand Handicap. Lautus went out
at 9 to 4, whereas 33 to 1 could be had
about El Bruno. The latter scored bril-
liantly, and was followed home by two
other outsiders in Ronsardian and
Pageant. Willie Win was backed but
didn’t run at all well for Voitre, and the
form of Lautus was too bad to be true.
Avenger, Ajax and Hua did not run
again at Randwick, being taken back to
Melbourne for the Caulfield Guineas on
Saturday. Their severe Derby race and
the train journey may have left tem-
porary effects on all three, and they will
need to be at their top with Lynch Law
and John Wilkes for opponents. The
Caulfield Stakes and the Herbert Power
and Toorak Handicaps will help to make
it a memorable day. It is a pity Caulfield
clashes with the last day of the A.J.C.
spring meeting, but it can’t be helped.
* * * *
“D.”: Had Alan Cooper waited until
the present season to lay out the large
sum of money he has invested in horse-
flesh, I think he would have got much
better value for it. I daresay he would
have been able to get Ajax, Avenger,
Hua and John Wilkes for what he spent
on Talking and Mala, and the probabili-
ties are that they would have given him
much greater returns. As soon as he won
the Epsom, Gold Rod was promptly
styled ‘‘the wonder horse” by an excit-
able newspaper. For my part, I think
there are three faster horses than Gold
Rod among the three-year-olds, and
name your own distance.
FOR RANDWICK.
Suburban Handicap: Red Thes-
pian ; next, Korimako.
Members’ Handicap. Cathartes;
next, Roi Sion.
Sydney Handicap: Old Rowley ;
next, Latharna or Golden Treasure.
Craven Plate: Allunga; next,
Gold Rod.
Randwick Plate: Bristol; next,
Allunga.
Waverley Handicap: Old Row-
ley ; next, Vaalmore.
Chester Handicap: Harlowe.
Final Handicap: Buzalong ; next,
Ver berry.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Guineas: Lynch Law, 1 ; Ajax,
2 ; Averiger, 3.
Caulfield Stakes: Pamelus ; next,
Young Idea.
Herbert Power Handicap: Don-
aster ; next, Diaphane.
Too r a k Handicap: Regular
Bachelor; next, The Chanter.


Contrasts Spice Adventure in
Ancient Indian pueblos and prehistoric cliff - dwell-
• ings line the high-speed railways of the colorful
Southwest. The great city of Denver lies a mile above
the sea . . . the Colorado River cuts a mighty chasm
a mile below the surface of the earth to form inspira-
tional Grand Canyon. From the ghost towns of Cali-
fornia’s Forty-Niners to the grandeur of gay, modern
San Francisco, from Zion Canyon’s Great White Throne
to New York City’s Great White Way . . . adventure in
America is spiced by thrilling contrasts ...
. . . just as travel is spiced by luxury throughout a
nation webbed by steel! Superb railroads . . . quiet,
smooth-riding caravans that glide 3,000 miles across the
continent in 75 hours or less with only one change of
cars—you may choose from a wide range of routes—
economy assured by low fares and generous stopover
privileges . . . trains that make their own weather as
they go, by cleaning and cooling or heating the air you
breathe! Smart club cars for social diversions; com-
fortable Pullmans for restful sleep; delicious meals;
radios, libraries, valets, ladies’ maids, shower baths and
barber shops! Trains with personnel trained to serve!
1
This swift, delightful, impeccable standard of travel is
previewed by the glamorous South Pacific route to Cal-
ifornia .. . just 18 days, via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Hawaii... in the great Matson-Oceanic liners Mariposa
or Monterey, whose appointments, diversions and ser-
vice are world-renowned. The start of the fastest, most
flexible route to England ... climaxed by a wide choice
of trans-Atlantic ships.
Our illustrated booklet—" England Across America”—
contains full details and may be had free upon request.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability]!
12 Bridge St., Sydney Phone B-7981-3
9R-2A
mumtmum
m
$
v:
sc
•k
f»«
V
Under the Whip
The Chanter looks like a racehorse ;
indeed, he resembles his relative Chat-
ham, Windbag’s most famous son. His
appearance and his gallops with Ajax
made such an impression on a Sydney
man who places commissions, a Tatt.’s
Club identity, that the latter predicted
that The Chanter would start favorite in
the Epsom. Actually, he had shaped so
disappointingly in race after race that
he did not start, being sent back to Mel-
bourne for the Toorak Handicap. He
won it last year with Bst. 31b. and has
Bst. 91b. this time. Where walk-up starts
and left-hand galloping obtain, he is a
dilferent horse.
* * * *
Bristol and Perimond did a Derby trial
with the colors up in the Kensington
Handicap at the course of that name last
Wednesday. The distance was a mile
and a quarter, and Bristol, with Bst. 91b.,
was favorite at 6 to 4 on; Perimond,
who had 7st. 111 b., was one of three at
Bto 1. Bristol got away pretty well,
but was interfered with when the pony
Soot lost her rider, and when the leaders
passed the six-furlongs post the black
colt was last, a dozen lengths behind the
leaders. He made up his ground so
rapidly that he led into the straight with
Perimond, who had been well up all the
way; but in the run to the post Peri-
mond raced right away from him, win-
ning by five lengths; Rocklee, an out-
sider, was third, a length behind Bristol.
The time, 2min. 9isec., was a record
for Kensington, which is one of the slow
courses. Earlier in the week Bristol had
been backed for the Melbourne Cup,
and, despite his failures on Wednesday
and Saturday, if he can get to the front
early in that race he will take some run-
ning down. Staying is his forte.
* * * *
“T.”: For the vacant seat on the
A J.C. committee there is to be a spirited
contest. Candidates are Rodney Dangar,
the owner of Peter Pan, and knight John
McKelvey. Friends of the eminent sur-
geon—it would be hard to count them —*
are hoping that the luck which came his
way at the Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick
will hold. He is a mild tote punter, and
going to one of the windows to back
his fancy for the last race he found the
girl in tears. “What’s the matter?” he
asked, and she told him —she had sold
a pound ticket on No. 17 to a man who
had come back with it, saying he had
asked for No. 14, and she had it on her
hands. “Don’t worry,” said John Mc-
Kelvey, “I’ll take it” ; and he put down
the pound. No. 17 was Kagal; Kagal
ran third, and the pound ticket was worth
£l4 14s.
* * * *
For the races that preceded the A.J.C.
spring meeting the concern at Kensington
found a whole £760. The Kohinoor
Handicap, or whatever it was called,
was actually worth £120; the average
per race was £69 Is. 9 9-1 Id. Ascot' (Mel-
bourne) had a date on the Thursday; it
preceded a Saturday meeting at Flem-
ington, not of the first importance. Ascot
put up £lOOO for one race, the Superior
Handicap, and £5OO for another, the
Gainsborough Handicap. For five others
the prize-money was £9OO. However,
Sydney racing people are expected to re-
joice, and Moverly, the M.L.A. for
Randwick, who was going to give a life-
like imitation of an infuriated lion, is
now eating out of Mr. Stevens’s hand
again ; for the Government has promised
to reduce racecourse taxation some day.
sH * * *
The offer of £lOOO for a six-furlong
handicap, weights made specially low,
enabled the Ascot people to get Regular
Bachelor, Aurie’s Star, Night Gang and
Charles Fox for its Thursday meeting,
along with four others of less note.
Aurie’s Star and Regular Bachelor were
favorites at 9 to 4. In the Quality Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley Aurie’s Star had
been first and Regular Bachelor third.
At Ascot the Queensland horse was a
good winner, Aurie’s Star being beaten
out of a place. Night Gang, also from
S. Aus., was a creditable second and
Charles Fox third.
Though he had had a very severe race
at Moonee Valley on the Saturday,
Stevenage was saddled up again for the
Gainsborough Handicap. He proved his
gameness by carrying 9st. 21b. and dead-
heating with a three-year-old, Chu Chin
Chow, to whom he was conceding 271 b.
in a gruelling finish, but running him was
questionable policy, even though the
reward was tempting. He will need to
be right at his top on Caulfield Cup day,
and two hard races in five days may seem
to be overdoing it at this stage of his
preparation. Stevenage was favorite at
3 to 1 ; Chu Chin Chow’s price was
7 to 1.
H* * * *
Sam Griffiths, the V.A.T.C. handi-
capper, was fated not to see another
Caulfield Cup. The illness which pre-
vented him from framing this year’s spring
handicaps carried him off last week, at
71. He was an interesting fellow and
had a full life. Born in Brisbane, he
was a jackeroo in the Riverina, an ama-
teur horseman there, an owner and
trainer at Caulfield, a buyer of horses
for the South African market, a press-
man in a handicapper in
India, a steward in Melbourne, Sydney
and Brisbane, a pressman again in Mel-
bourne and finally a handicapper—for
Moonee Valley and Williamstown, as
well as Caulfield, though after 1924 he
did the V.A.T.C. work alone. And he
found time to write two racy books, one
A Rolling Stone of the Turf.
“T.”: The late Sam Griffiths wrote
for the “Australasian” and the “Leader.”
Long ago he was “Special Commissioner”
to the “Sportsman,” dead these many
years. It was an excellent paper of its
kind, and according to the fashion of
the time it used to versify its tips, the
poet being a baronet’s son who could
sling rhymes with some facility. In those
days sporting journalism was particu-
larly well done by men like Nat Gould,
“Smiler” Hales, Tommy Horan and J. C.
Davis (still fortunately with us), and
Griffiths was no mean member of a dis-
tinguished company. But the “Sports-
man” in Griffiths’s time administered a
rude shock to its readers by allowing a
regular contributor to promise one week
that he would give them a long-price cer-
tainty in the next issue. The next issue
came out without the certainty ; in fact,
the contributor didn’t even mention the
matter. In the following issue he pitched
a tale to the effect that unfortunate cir-
cumstances, unexplained, had rendered
him unable to reveal the stone moral,
but it was Spindrift—an animal which
had been backed on the course at 16 to
1 to half those odds. Then there were
such fierce blasts of cursing from out-
raged readers that the “Sportsman”
almost shrivelled up. Even now, when
mugs are more abundant than ever be-
fore —consider the vogue of tipsters,
astrologers and floor-huggers you
couldn’t do such things and get away
with them.
Last week’s record of the touring
Rugby Leaguers was two losses —7-5
against Lancashire, and 12-2 against
Halifax. And there was a crop of
minor injuries. English critics are be-
ginning to turn nasty, but it’s rather early
for that.
(Continued on next page.)


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting ail
classes of File Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
"silver
EDGE*
TRADE (/MARK REGISTERED
THE RAY BE ST OS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
CO
MOTORISTS
STOP?
YOU
CAN
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with * RAYBESTOS BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: .JOHN ARNOLD, G.F.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
INSTANT IGNITION
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYBOX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Sheffield matches will
this year be broadcast in uniform fashion,
only Queensland standing out of the
agreement. The new method covers the
first 15 minutes of play, the first half-
hour after the lunch interval and the last
hour, with a summary during the lunch
and tea spells. Queensland is tied up
with a contract which permits the other
party to the deal to yap on the air from
the start of play to stumps.
* * ❖ *
There are to be 16 players in the
“eleven” for England ; the names will be
published on January 27. The manager
is to get £650 and each player £6OO, with
£2 10s. a week in Britain. The board re-
quires players to sign a contract similar
to that entered into last time. No member,
unless he is a professional journalist, may
write about the team for the press, and
even a p.j. must get permission. This
provision is to be permanent, and a ban
is also placed on players broadcasting
cricket comment —a rule that will apply
not only to international but to Sheffield
games.
“Tenth Slip”: The selectors have a
busy time before them prior to picking
the team on January 27. Dwyer, John-
son and Bradman are to chase up and
down the States watching the big games
from the first Sheffield on November 5
at Brisbane to the Victoria-N.S.W. game
in Sydney, which begins on January 21.
They will not all travel together, but at
least one member of the committee will
have an eye on every match.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian cricketers
will not play in Maoriland on their way-
back. However, the board will send a
representative team to M.L. in 1940, pro-
vided financial and other offers are satis-
factory. It is to be hoped that the fiasco
attending the last attempt to send an
Australian side to M.L., with its spec-
tacle of player after player chosen for
the team crayfishing for some absurd
reason or another, will not be repeated.
sp sp * =P
Badly knocked in a Nundah (Q.)
motor smash, and unconscious for a
fortnight, Ron Oxenham put up a great
fight against King Death. At the week-
end he had definitely improved, and there
were then high hopes of his recovery.
Queensland has never had a finer bowler,
and he is an excellent fellow.
* * * #
“Gabba”: Another Tallon boy, a
brother of Don, is showing promise in
Brisbane. Recently promoted from ware-
house cricket to first grade in the ranks
of the Colts team, he has been showing
marked ability as a slow bowler. He
won his club’s match with Eastern
Suburbs by taking 5 for 41 when it
looked as if the Colts were licked.
sp sp :p *
“Sticker”: A young gentleman playing
with a Sydney club, the Chatswood Oaks,
has given an exhibition of batting which
strikes at the root of all modern first-
class cricket tradition. Ribbons by name,
he made 314 runs in two hours three
minutes, hitting 23 sixes and 29 fours.
For the first century the batsman took
53 minutes, for the second 23 minutes
and for the third 42 minutes. This chap
should be dealt with at once.
*P =S
“Aunt Sally”: Complaints of the use
by some wicketkeepers of gloves in
which the fingers are joined by a web,
like a baseball glove, were made at the
Sydney meeting of the Board of Con-
trol. It is hard to see how this can be
objected to as unfair any more than the
enormous pads affected by batsmen in
the past few years, which obscure all
sight of the wicket and ’keeper to the
bowler. Gloves of the type have been
advertised in Sydney for some time past.
The first pair the writer saw were
brought here by George Duckworth, the
mitt being called after the vociferous
little Lancashireman.
* * * ap
“Old Q.”: “Plum” Warner’s “Cricket”
records an unusual happening. In a
match between Hampton and East Mole-
sey the latter scored 178. When Hamp-
ton had 178 lip for six wickets thfcy
looked home arid dried. However, a
young Maorilander, F. E. Smith, took the
last four wickets without a run being
added to the score, and the game finished
a tie.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s close cham-
pionship ended in a tie between the
holder, Anderson, of Wynnum, and
Walker, of Indooroopilly, each man re-
cording 142. The State Golf Council is
to fix a date for the play-off. Walker
won the title in 1934 and narrowly missed
taking the Australian open at Sydney
recently.
* * * *
“Molly”: Left-handed golfers are so
plentiful in the U.S.A. that they have
“Fes, you overdid that follow-through .”
formed a separate association. This
year’s southpaw championship of the
U.S.A. has attracted 250 entries, and new
members are coming in from all over
the country since the show was started
last year. We have comparatively few of
the breed in Australia, though some of
them, like Williams and Nettlefold, are
in the first class. But here, as in Eng-
land, if a boy starts as a natural left-
hander he is usually forced by coaches
to take up the right-hand game.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The usual argu-
ment has started as to whether Austra-
lians should challenge for the next Davis
Cup. Crawford is against it. Frankly,
unless the Australian L.T.A. is prepared
to spend the money on a coaching tour,
the idea of sending a team abroad is
foolish. Outside Quist, there is not an
Australian player worth the passage
money as a serious contender. In a year
or two, perhaps!
* * * *
“Chain Gang”: At long last the Aus-
tralian tennis heads are dealing with
amateurs who play the year round. There
are 15 points in their Declaration of
Rights, the chief being that clubs or asso-
ciations affiliated with a State association
must make all matches through that body
as well as supervise arrangements be-
tween clubs, associations and sporting-
goods manufacturers with regard to
players. No player may accept night
tennis engagements, and for tourneys
and matches he or she must get
the consent of the State association. A
player employed by sports-goods manu-
facturers may not figure in more
than 12 exhibition matches in a year, and
must pay entrance fees out of his own
pocket—this rule heavily underlined.
Names may not be used as advertise-
ments and those desiring to appear out-
side their own States must get permission.
Racqueteers employed by sports-goods
firms may not play in more than 14
tourneys a year or in more than three
matches in any one tourney. Whether
those concerned will pay the slightest
attention to the new rules remains to be
seen.
“J.8.C.”: Tell “Forest Hills” (B.
29/9/’37) that, though Dorothy Bundy
beat the 1936 U.S.A. champion, Alice
Marble, in a quarter-final of this year's
championship, she was herself beaten in
a semi-final. Anita Lizana, the Chilean,
is champion.
Miscellaneous
“Tenakoe”: The Springboks must have
undergone a change of heart as regards
the Maoris. They spent a short holiday,
in Rotorua to the satisfaction of every-
one, and vice-captain Craven announced
that his merry men had made a terrible
mistake in regarding the Maoris as an
ordinary “colored” race. All the same,
the match between the ’Boks and Maoris,
which was to have been the last on the
visitors’ original programme, was quietly
dropped.
* * * *
“B.”: Asked whether he thought All-
Black football had slipped and, if so,
why, ’Bok skipper Nel said he thought
it had. He blamed the Australasian ob-
session with League rules, especially that
regarding the kick into touch. The first
duty of forwards, Nel said, was to push
in the scrums. To make the pace under
the League-inspired rules the front-
rankers had to loaf in the pack. The
sooner the Australian and M.L. Unions
return to real Rugby the sooner the
downward slide will be arrested.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Overcoming their dis-
like of wet conditions, the Springboks
beat North Auckland 14-6 in their final
match. The tourists won 16 of their 17
matches in M.L., scoring 411 points to
104.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Springbok Rugby
side, now on its way home, is the fifth
to tour outside South Africa. Three
teams have invaded Britain and two Aus-
tralia. Their record against the British
unions and France is 12 won, one drawn
and one lost —against Scotland in 1906.
No match was played against France in
1931. Against Australia and Maoriland
the ’Boks have played eight “Tests”: two
in Australia, which were both won, and
six in M.L.; they won three, lost two
and drew one. The All-Blacks have
played 17 inter-
national games
abroad those in
Australia are not in-
cluded in this sum-
mary. Of these they
won 12 and lost five
—two to Wales, one
to England and two
to South Africa. The
Australian record
reads: 12 matches
in Britain, France
and South Africa,
six won and six lost,
the wins including
two over the ’Boks
in South Africa.
* * *
“Tenakoe”: There
may be some balm
for the Maorilanders
sitting among the
ashes of their ruined
Rugby reputation to
know that the tour
of the ’Boks will
yield a profit of
£lB,OOO, gross
“gates” running to
£55,000. Following
the usual custom for
Union tours the
’Boks take only
travelling and hous-
ing expenses.
“Canny Newcassel”: The match
played by the Australian Rugby Leaguers
against “Newcastle” marks another
attempt by the English League to estab-
lish its code in a Rugby Union fast-
ness. “Newcastle” is a bitzer club got
together from the remains of the two
professional clubs established ih London
a couple of years ago, for one of which
Nepia played. Years ago a Kangaroo
team was dragged up to Newcastle for
an exhibition game. The Geordies
turned the glassy eye on the experiment,
and the same fate seems to have attended
the latest show, since only 2813 spec-
tators watched it.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The curtain has been
finally rung down on the Sydney Uni-
versity Rugby League club. This leaves
the League with eight Sydney grade
clubs. Attempts have been made to
form others in Manly and Parramatta,
but these have been abandoned. It will
take the League all its time in future to
hang on to what it has got.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Australian
Soccer people, after deliberating between
the claims of another British team or
one from South Africa or India, decided


Extra Value with V-8 Utilities
All-Steel Construction . - . Complete Equipment
Make a thorough investigation of Ford
V-8 Utilities and see the extra value you
get at the delivered price. All-steel-
construction for greater dependability
and longer life. Equipment is complete
—— there are no extras to buy. (Note
list of standard equipment at right). In
addition, Ford gives you the power with
the proved economy of the famous V-8
engine . . . safety glass all round . . .
large loading space . . . passenger car
comfort. Ask your local Ford Dealer
to demonstrate the model suited to your
job with your own loads over your own
routes. Easy purchase terms available.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT OF
V-8 UTILITIES INCLUDES:
Front bumper. 4 adjustable double
acting hydraulic shock absorbers. Oil
bath air cleaner. Safety glass all
round (except Van rear door win-
dows)! Ventilating V-type windscreen
and clear-vision ventilation door win-
dows in closed models. Adjustable
seat. Genuine leather trim on seat
and seat back. Enclosed despatch
box. Utilities have ash-tray and cigar
lighter. Coupe models have, in addi-
tion, dual sun visors, dome light, arm
rest, large package tray behind
driver's seat and rear window blind.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
nmi. .jiiiiuiiK,
FORD MOTOR COMPANY QF . AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F199.24C
PROSE WORKS
HENRY LAWSON
l2^6
%<o iJo&mej, %46fMUj£j
What Burns is to a Scotsman and Kipling to an
Englishman, Lawson is to an Australian—the voice
of his land.
Most Australians know the writings of this master
Australian story teller, his brilliant tales of bush life
vivid with the atmosphere of the outback, matchless
in their sure delineation of the characters who live
and adventure there.
Here are delightful tales; tales of love, of strife,
of adventure; tales full of humour, homely tales;
stories for every mood—all alive with the magic of
Lawson’s genius: a genius which ranks with that of
the world’s greatest short story writers—O. Henry,
Bret Harte, Gorki, Maupassant. To Australians in
particular these stories must have a strong appeal, for
Lawson is Australian, knows Australia, and has here
captured the spirit of the people who are making
Australia great.
Until now, however, it has been difficult to secure
anything like a representative collection of Lawson’s
stories
Complete in these two volumes are his
nine famous books:—
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS—
First Series
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS—
Second Series
JOE WILSON'S MATES
ON THE TRACK
JOE WILSON
THE ROMANCE OF THE SWAG
THE RISING OF THE COURT
SEND ROUND THE HAT
OVER THE SLIPRAILS
The two volumes are bound in fine cloth,
with title and spine decorations in gold
and a facsimile of Lawson’s signature on
the front cover. Each volume measures
by is printed in large type
and will be a handsome addition to the
library of the most discerning collector.
ORDER FORM.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me a set of Prose Works of
Henry Lawson, Special Price 12/6.
(Postage, 1/-.)
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 6-10.
There is only a limited number of
these volumes available, and the
edition will not be reprinted. Do
not miss this unique opportunity.
POST YOUR ORDER NOW-
‘iej IniMxrVofutneJ
to invite Scottish amateurs to tour Aus-
tralia next season. Applications for
tours from overseas teams have been so
plentiful that it will be necessary to map
out a schedule for some seasons ahead.
Apropos, some idea of the profits made
by the private guarantors of the English
amateurs is conveyed in the Queensland
official announcement that a net £1537
had been made by the Queensland
backers alone —100 per cent, on the brass
they threw in.
J*c * Y *
“Shell”: It is definitely settled that
Britain sends an eight-oar crew to the
Empire Games in Sydney. The crew,
organised and coached by Jack Beres-
ford, leaves London on December 4.
Beresford was in his day one of the finest
scullers in Britain, winning the Diamonds
and Wingfields among many other first-
rank races. He was narrowly beaten by
the American Kelly for the sculls at the
Antwerp Olympiad.
$ :*c sjs Jf:
“Spike”: The unwillingness of ama-
teur athletes to support their sport with
cash was touched on by chairman Heath-
wood, of the A.A.A., at a Sydney meet-
ing to consider funds for sending a
N.S.W. team to Brisbane for the National
Games. This is the more regrettable as
the Brisbane meeting will be a trial of
candidates for the Australian team at
the Empires Games in Sydney. Only
one club, Randwick-Kensington, has con-
tributed to the fund with £l5. Others
apparently hope to get members into
the team by subsidising them privately,
while in other cases athletes wangle a
trip by paying their own expenses. The
disastrous results of this system were
seen in the case of the last Australian
Olympic team, and the chairman is all
for its suppression.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: The International
Bowling Board has cancelled its arrange-
ments to send a team to Australia for the
1938 festivities in January. However,
an unofficial side of four rinks will come
along, and no doubt will roll ’em up and
put ’em down quite as efficiently as any
combination with the official brand on.
* * * *
“Pepperbox”: I repeat that handball
is a poor imitation of fives, though
“Casan” (B. 29/9/’37) claims it as an
ancient Irish game. I played true fives
for years, and in Australia tried to take
to handball as a fill-up. I found it dull,
and no more to be compared with fives
than ping-pong is. to rank with royal
tennis.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Easy Living.”
Edward Arnold and Jean Arthur.
But for this bright spot at Sydney
Prince Edward the best advice about last
week’s new releases would be to go and
see some of the old ones.
It is far from being an outstanding
film, but it is lively light comedy; an
exceptionally rapid mover that gathers
speed as it goes along, and the faster it
goes the more plentiful the laughs.
Arnold carries through a first-rate piece
of acting. His role is that of New Yoik’s
third-biggest banker, afflicted with a wife
with a mania for fur coats priced 58,000
dollars or so. One of these the big man
throws out the window of their sky-
scraper apartments, and the wife lights
out for Florida. He also has a break-
fast row with son, who cuts himself off
without a dime and goes out into the
hard world to make a name for himself.
The fur coat, gyrating streetwards,
takes Jean Arthur, a poor woiking goil,
round the head on top of a ’bus, smash-
ing the parrot’s feather in her hat. Being
i an hahnest woiking goil, she at once gets
off the ’bus and tries to find the coat’s
owner, a search that leads to her being
established as a guest-boarder in the
swell apartments of a big hotel, which
white elephant is tottering from dearth
of fashionable patronage and about to
be carted off to the financial boneheap.
The hotel proprietor, of course, has
put the fur coat, the third-biggest banker
and the beauteous woiking goil together
and added up the worst, and when the
banker, fed up with going home to empty
luxury, moves into the hotel, and the
hahnest, and bewildered, woiking goil
encounters son working in a hashhouse
and brings him there as well the scenario-
writer’s troubles are over, and the fun
can be left to grow on its own account.
It does so uproariously, through an
excellent performance by Arnold, a pretty
good one by Miss Arthur, and one by
Luis Alberni that’s funnier still.
A tiptop example of American light
comedy, with directing of the rare sort
that insists on almost every foot of film
doing something—and something funny
at that.
“The Last Train from
Madrid”
The beleaguered Spanish capital is the
setting for this topical romance. Action
is packed into 24 hours. Various charac-
ters must travel on the last train to
yalencia —the last because the railway
line has to be destroyed for strategic
reasons.
Merits are the deftness with which
( characters are sketched by Lionel Atwill
' (military commandant), Lew Ayres
(American newspaperman), Helen Mack
(one of Lilith’s profession), Karen
Morley (a German adventuress) and
several others.
Handicaps are the switching to and
fro to cover the adventures of three dis-
connected sets of people and the stereo-
typed forms of melodramatic sentiment
applied to these adventures.
Action is brisk; suspense is effectively
evoked and the acting is efficient enough
to win sympathy for the would-be
escapees.
“Midnight Madonna ”
Confirmed gambler meets deserted
beauteous young mother and cheild and
sets them up in luxury apartments.
Cheild, inheriting fortune, is parted
from them through custody-of-cheild
court proceedings instituted by‘deserter-
husband and shyster lawyer out after the
windfall.
Judgment having been influenced by
evidence of witnesses beauteous young
mother had never seen before in her life,
and who testified that she was no better
than she ought to be, gambler kidnaps
Judge and takes him where he can see
these three gents in their natural haunts.
Judge reopens proceedings, returns
cheild, gaols all hands on the other side.
Baby sits on bench near Judge and dis-
cusses straight flushes. Mother sobs
gratitood. Gambler swears to never
touch another card as long as he lives.
On the same bill as “Easy Living” at
Sydney Prince Edward it possibly makes
that film seem better than it is by sheer
force of contrast.
“Saints in Exile”
George Bancroft and Wynne Gibson.
Bancroft, a gangster compelled to seek
a cool spot, sets up an evangelistic
racket; main source of income, black-
mail. But when the pure young girl who
plays the organ in his radio temple is
victim of an automobile accident, he
really gets religion and stands up to
bullets in defence of righteousness.
Well-grooved melodrama, of course,
but Bancroft puts it over in a masterly
way. Miss Gibson helps as a gangsteress.
At Sydney Lyric.
“Love Under Fire ”
Don Ameche and Loretta Young.
Waal, folks, y’ know-oh, since I’ve had
this jahb at Scahtland Yard I guess it’s
been a lahng break without a hahliday.
George Gee carries the show as well as the above burden in “Over She Goes”
at the Royal, one of Sydney’s brightest spots at the moment.
But now we’re ahf to Spain-oh! Prrrp!
Chu-chut! Waal, that was sure a smart
trip! Here we are-ha! My, but that
was a swell goil ahn the train! Myra!
In that room there now, just acrahss the
passage—of cahse she -is! And now for
that hahliday!
Tinkle-inkle-inkle! Hullo. Scahtland
Yard? Yes. This is Dahn Ameche—l
mean the part Dahn’s playin’ in this
ram-ance. What’s that? Ah, no you
don’t, chief! Naht this week! I tell
you I’m on hahliday! What’s that?
Poils? Goil named Myra? She’s stolen
them? 0.K., chief. I’ll have her back
in London in twenty-fahr hours. Ambi-
tious? Waal, maybe! Good-bye-hi!
So she’s a thief, eh! Waal, Dahn, this
is where you sure quit rom- ance! Ahn
with duty!
Yes, folks, and it’s mahrden Spain, too,
where Dahn’s just been speakin’ frahm.
Mahrden Spain, with bullets smashiiT
wm-dows! An’ there’s a priceless
diamon’ necklace, folks, as well as the
poils, to be gaht out of the country.
And is the Spanish army after them
diamon’s? We’ll say it is! An’ will
Dahn get Loretta—we mean Myra—out
of it? An’ will he marry the goil?
Waal, folks, ain’t he crooned to her?
Ain’t she put dope in his whisky? Ain’t
they aeroplanes an’ a little ole tramp
ship waitin’ for ’em.
There y’are, folks! If y’ like that saht
of thing don’t let us delay you from goin’
alahng! It’s at Sydney State.
“The House of the Spaniard,” at Syd-
ney Lyric, is an incredibly slow-moving
English film which seems to have been
intended as a thriller. Peter Haddon, in
his usual silly-ass role, and Brigitte
Horney, with a foreign accent that
comes and goes, are mixed up with
General Franco’s gun-runners, but the
assay runs out at four tons of inane con-
versation to 2dwt. of gun-running.
“One Mile from Heaven” is all about a
cullud gal who had a white baby girl
left in her keeping and didn’t want to
give it up when its millionairess mother
put in a claim. Claire Trevor is a female
reporter, Fredi Washington plays the
dark-brown lady, and negro tap-dancer
Bill Robinson, as a cop, steals the whole
show, such as it is.
“Women, Wine and Horses,” at Syd-
ney Capitol, has the virtue of being
topical in race-minded Sydney at the
moment, but suffers from the fact that
central figure Barton Mac Lane looks
more like an elderly Sydney M.L.C. wor-
ried about his income tax than a care-
free young plunger. In the film he mar-
ries a strait-laced girl (Peggy Bates) and
tries to reform, but the experiment, fore-
doomed to failure, ends in divorce, with
the hero free to marry a dashing female
gambler (Ann Sheridan). Quite a lot of
the footage is filled with gee-gees.
“Hot Water,” at Sydney State, con-
tinues the adventures of the Jones
Family. Dad stands for Mayor, evil men
plot to involve him in scandal, but
shrewd young Roger, by curing a sham
paralytic with bee-stings, turns defeat into
victory. Direction is excellent, and the
little domestic touches get as many
laughs as ever.
“Wild Money” is a fairly bright film
version of a Paul Gallico story about a
newspaper accountant (E. E. Horton)
whose censoring of expense accounts
drove the reporters frantic, but who
forgot his thrifty principles and became
a whole-hearted newshound when a
scoop landed in his own lap—a kidnap-
ping garnished with murder. Lynne
Overman and Louise Campbell as re-
porters help with some wisecracks. The
sameness of Horton’s characterisations
becomes a bit boring.
“The Toast of New York,” at Sydney
Plaza, is American period stuff consider-
ably more ambitious than successful. It
has first-rate scenes and some good
comedy, and manages very well a roman-
tic representation of the period, but its
length is out of all proportion to its in-
terest-holding content. Edward Arnold
makes a solid job of his long stretch of
serious acting as leading member of a
trio of itinerant gold-brick sellers operat-
ing in the southern States at the time of
the Civil War and rising to Wall-street
eminence afterwards. The main thread
of story has to do with his efforts to get
a young woman on as New York’s lead-
ing actress, he meanwhile falling in love
with her and she with a younger member
of the trio. But it’s a slow process.
Schneevoigt.
Before a crowded and tumultuously
enthusiastic crowd at Sydney Town Hall
Professor Schneevoigt said his musical
good-bye to Australia with Tschaikow-
sky’s Sixth Symphony, called, though not
by its composer, the “Pathetic.”
Tschaikowsky’s swan song is—outside
the immortal nine—probably the best-
known and best-liked of all symphonies.
Because of a fragment of the Russian
“Requiem” in the first movement the
work has been taken as autobiographical
by many commentators, his mother’s
death being the composer’s first deep
grief. But Huneker and Tschaikowsky’s
English biographer Edwin Evans saw
rather an expression of Russia’s striving
towards a juster social regime and a
prophecy of its accomplishment.
Schneevoigt, whatever he reads into it,
ruled out the self-pity theory, never let
the sentiment slop over, and gave each
enunciation of the ever-recurring theme a
more triumphant ring. It was a great
performance, though it possibly dis-
appointed those who like their “Pathetic”
suffused with sobs.
After the interval an old friend, Jascha
Spivakovsky, gave a rousing bravura
performance of the Schumann piano con-
certo, greatly assisted by Schneevoigt’s
skill as a balancer and blender. For an
encore the pianist played a Bach gavotte,
as crisp as frosted snow. The orchestra
then dived into the luscious meaty strains
of Isolde’s “Liebestod” and the “Meister-
singer” overture, after which, as the
audience refused to go home, Rubin-
stein’s pet warhorse the Ravel “Bolero”
was unleashed in a long steady cres-
cendo, and the bass drummer dreamt he
was a blacksmith forging chilled steel.
At last, in his clipped English, the little
Finlander made a little speech. Sad to
leave this good-hearted Australia, yes.
But glad to go home. Thanks to his
audiences, thanks also to the players of
the orchestra, who had done their best to
satisfy him. “Bot I am never satisfied;
not with myself.”
For once in a way the heart of the
A.B.C. softened towards its listeners and
it broadcast the whole concert.
The Don Cossacks.
These confirmed globe-trotters have an
extraordinary show at Sydney Town
Hall. There is beautiful and at times
magnificent singing, a surprising amount
of comedy, Russian dancing, harmonising
through which horses gallop, water
gurgles, wind rages and musical instru-
ments strike up, and, outstanding even
with that background, a performance of
directing by N. Kostrukoff which is a
notable entertainment in itself.
The show is not strictly comparable
with efforts of ordinary choirs. It offers
so much extra that an almost completely
non-musical audience could find it tre-
mendously enjoyable. There is a rough
folklore quality about it; a gusty primi-
tiveness and vitality which, despite the
surroundings, conjures up the setting
where many of these songs and dances
have belonged for hundreds of years.
Saturday night’s opening bill included
a rendering of “The Volga Boatman”
which, with simple lighting effects that
helped to convey the trend of the thing,
made it easy to forget that the piece had
ever been thought hackneyed. It was
a fine varied bill altogether, with a range
from delicate trifling to apparently fairly
broad comedy, this last so fully con-
veyed that it kept the audience roaring
with laughter, though not one in a hun-
dred present could have had any idea
what the joke was.
A Caucasian Cossack dance, in which
the performer dressed his head with long
daggers as heavy as bayonets, thrusting
them in about his neck, holding them in
his teeth and dancing with them as if
they were so many feathers, was one of
the lively spots.
Edward GolVs Recital.
Edward Golf continues to make musi-
cal history in Melbourne at the Wyces-
laskie Hall.
His latest concert included the Busoni
transcript of the Chromatic Fantasy and
Fugue of Bach, the Beethoven sonata,
Op. 81 b, and works by Byrd, Purcell,
Debussy and Grieg, and concluded with
the tremendous clamor of Brassin’s
arrangement of Wagner’s “Ride of the
Valkyrie.” In the last-named work Goll
captured more of the character of the
orchestra than it would seem possible for
a piano to convey.
Kathleen Castles — Singer.
Kathleen Castles —no connection with
the famous family of vocalists —turned
up at the Assembly Hall, Melbourne,
last week, and charmed an appreciative
audience remarkably.
She is a young singer whom pianist
Edward Goll discovered when she was
six years old. She is a lieder singer


for exporters and importers.
\
U^- 55
ft
!c9V
m
v~
FIMNCING TRADE
t&r&ua&eut tAe WerAtt...
The Bank of New South Wales provides the most
complete facilities for financing trade within Australia
and between Australia and all other parts of the world.
Remittances are made by mail or cable, credits are
established in all parts of the world, forward exchange
contracts are arranged. Experienced officers of the
Bank are prepared, at all times, to advise on exchange
problems.
The Bank has over 800 branches in Australasia, two
branches in London and over 2,500 agents and corre*
spondents throughout the world.
ESTABLISHED 1817
286 F. 1937
born, if singers can be born. Some of
the loveliest works of Schumann, Schu-
bert, Hugo Wolf, Brahms and Robert
Franz comprised her programme, a
model of artistic selection which might
be studied to advantage by some more
famous vocalists.
She sang effortlessly and kept well
within her compass, which as yet is not
very great. The little Franz songs were
extraordinarily effective. In the Brahms
panel the singer displayed sufficient
volume to suggest that she does not lack
a reserve of force ; but she did not try to
express vocally more than she felt, which
is a rare quality in singers of her class.
Nankivell’s Etchings.
Frank Nankivell, born in Creswick,
(Vic.), migrated to the U.S.A. 40 years
ago, there to make a name for himself
as a black-and-white artist in the comic
vein—he was on “Puck” for years—and
later as one of the foremost American
exponents of the various etching pro-
cesses.
Anthony Horderns’ gallery has on
show 33 of this artist’s plates, the sub-
jects ranging from portraiture—“Mark
Twain” and “Charles Evans Hughes” are
notable —through fanciful drawings of
nudes and such subjects as cows and
deer, to humorous sketches, such as that
of a pair of chess-players.
The special interest of these works is
for the etcher rather than for the lay-
man. Nankivell is a master of line,
mezzotint, aquatint and all the combina-
tions and permutations of these pro-
cesses, and frequently uses three of ’em in
one plate.
Vic. Artists ’ Society.
A generally-improved standard has
been achieved this year by artists exhibit-
ing at the Vic. Artists’ Society’s spring
show.
James Quinn, society president, sets a
good standard with a couple of portraits,
one a self-study and the other of James
McPhillamy; both full of character.
George Bell shows an excellent nude, and
A. Coleman’s quietly fresh study,
“Rushes and Reeds,” is one of the best
landscapes in the show.
There’s delicate color harmony in a
Dora Serle sketch, and W. Gilbert Collins
reveals a good sense of perspective in
“Rocks and Distance.” Arnold Shore’s
flower pieces are made striking by his
characteristic use of rich colors.
Keast Burke’s Photographs.
These are on show at the Kodak Salon,
Sydney. Keast Burke is co-editor with
Walter of that ilk of the “Australasian
Photo Review,” and what he doesn’t
know about what a camera can and can’t
do isn’t worth knowing. The eighty or
so bromide enlargements that comprise
his exhibition cover a wide range of sub-
ject. Completely equipped on the tech-
nical side with a nice taste in composi-
tion, Burke makes a picture out of any-
thing. Among his happiest achievements
in this critic’s eyes are “Boats for Hire,”
an elegant little picture, “Aftermath,” a
remarkable study of the Sydney Anzac
Day crowd breaking up after the
memorial service, “Kay at Six,” a good
straightforward portrait, and “Bogey
Hole, No. 2,” a study of swimmers and
the sea. There are also some excellent
landscapes and flower studies.
CISSY SHOW
Of course when the Editor said to me
look Gladys we’re in a bit of a jam the
Sundry Shows chap has gone on a stand-
up strike in the Crown and Angel so
we’d like you to do his job this week
and what about having a shot at a
wrestling match from the feminine point
of view how does it appeal to the fair sex
I couldn't very well refuse could I and
they told me to write short sentences
and make them snappy so it’s time this
one stopped I suppose only I must say
before it does that if I’d been brought
up like the woman in the next seat who
was doing a Mickey Mouse applique on
a layette between rounds I might have
emoted differently and wouldn’t have to
write down here as I have to to tell the
whole truth and nothing but the truth
that it was the cissiest show I’ve ever
seen since the curate shouted me a gin
and splash and I had to end up telling
Pretty.
him not to make a goat of himself and
if he thought he could go as far as that
on one gin he’d end up as a metho
addict full stop new paragraph
Of course I suppose I expected too
much for my money I mean from the
wrestlers because I’d heard them over
the wireless and seen them at the
movies but it didn’t say they did
it on a mat as thick as Mr
Spooner’s bathing suit which was
what gave me a suspicion in advance
that it was going to be ciss so I can’t
say that I was unprepared when a pretty
boy dressed in a leopard skin climbed
up into the ring and pirouetted like Pav-
lova in the dying swan under where it
said Matros Kirilenko 15-8 hereinafter
called Eric as they say in the divorce
court and another of that ilk only the
color of elephant’s breath nothing over
half a crown sheer silk I don’t think
went up in the other corner under where
it said Chief Little Wolf 16-1 hereinafter
called Little Lord Fontleroy dressed in
feathers like they wear in “The Covered
Wagon” and a blanket which they both
took off I mean the leopard skin too
and there they were dressed in what
they’re all going to be dressed in this
year I mean on the beaches Mr Spooner
or no Mr Spooner only when their red
ones got hitched up as they did some-
times and the woman in the next seat
screamed and brought out a pair of pearl-
shell opera glasses they had another pair
of white ones underneath and if that isn’t
ciss I’m a fan-dancer's grandmother full
stop new paragraph
Of course as the man in the next seat
who, smoked the nicest cigarettes I’ve
In the Crown and
Angel.
tried for a long
time and would
have liked better if
he didn’t have such
a bony knee said
it’s all done for
effect I mean the
wrestlers coming in
in feathers and
leopard skins but
if that was so it’s
pretty ciss when
Eric who’s a Rus-
sian Cossack could
have come cantering in on horseback
which is surely an idea for the Rus-
sian Choir and a critic is supposed to be
constructive and Little Lord Fontleroy
who is a Red Indian Chief could have
given a bloodcurdling war whoop at the
very least only I have my doubts I mean
about his being an Indian Chief because
who ever heard of an Indian brave cry-
ing out like a big ciss even when he was
being flayed alive on the prairies let alone
doing it just because another ciss like
Eric tickled him in the back which the
man in the next seat showed me is a
nerve centre and the woman with the
layette conscience snapped that I’d have
to pay for her glasses if I’d broken them
and someone at the back sung out sit
down Garbo or go back to Sweden and
just then as it happened it was Eric who
Dressed in feathers.
sat down on a
gentleman just
outside the ring
and Chief Little
Wolf put his
fingers up to his
nose in a menac-
ing manner and
said something
which I couldn’t
hear because the
woman in the
seat next to me
was twisting the
layette up like a
sausage and screeching out garn y’ big
stiff and the pandemonium was indescrib-
able which was the end of round one
full stop new paragraph
Of course in a manner of speaking
the show had its points I mean when
they came out in the next round what
better could the principal of a girls'
school want as a lesson in deportment
with the boy friend last stage before the
1 wills and confetti which the man in the
next seat explained was the headlock and
Idea for the Russian Choir.
after that there was what he said was the
Indian deathlock only it was not properly
applied and if it was Kirilenko would
never get out of it which he did by
doing something to the other ciss which
The Editor when I asked him if I could
put it in said no if they care to bite each
other in places like that why go into
unnecessary details be subtle so I suppose
I’d better and that rules out where Eric
kicked Little Wolf after Little Wolf had
put his fingers in Eric’s mouth and pulled
sideways also how and where Little Wolf
but it wouldn’t be
subtle to say so or
what the woman
in the next seat
said when she
put up her pearl-
shell glasses and
a bootee out of
the layette had
got over the end
of them so that
she couldn’t see
what was hap-
pening and
neither could
Sat down on a
gentleman.
I until the man in the next seat lifted
me up and there’s not much use in
going on because it was worse right up
Gam, y’ big stiff.
to where the man
in the next seat
said it was all over
and Chief Little
Wolf had been dis-
qualified and would
I care to join him
in a gin and splash
to steady my nerves
and so I knew he
was a curate in
disguise full stop
the end


The pleasures, the
comforts, and service of
Canadian Pacific travel
will live in your memory.
Go this way to Europe.
GwuJliaM.Qicifrc
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
ama
TJE
w
a
The Air-Conditioned State
There you will find relaxation amid scenery reminiscent of
the English counties—lush valleys, panoramic peaks, his-
toric buildings. Sport, too—including trout fishing. Hours
of sunshine, entrancing twilights, bracing climate. Truly a
Tasmanian holiday will be remembered with pleasure
long after you return to your workaday world.
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings,
fares and accommodation, on request.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
SYDNEY
Martin Place,
opp. G.P.O.
MELBOURNE
"The Block"
Collins St.
BRISBANE
196 Adelaide
ADELAIDE
12 Pirie
Street
PERTH
A.M.P. Bldg.,
William St.
ET
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Randwick on Saturday was no sar-
torial ode to spring. Leaden sky and
bitter wind had brought out a crop of
fur coats, umbrellas and even mackin-
toshes. Yet there was a sunny atmo-
sphere, created by mass cheerfulness and
sublime faith in ability to pick winners.
Youth, too, with its long bob with curled-
up ends, declined to be separated from
its spring bonnet, and hats bloomed
gaily, though feet often were in goloshes.
Lady Gowrie, who has just had her ton-
sils out, was not present, but the Gover-
nor-General entertained a large luncheon
party. Lady Wakehurst was hostess to
one also, while Lord Wakehurst was the
guest of the A.J.C. committee.
Lady Wakehurst’s thrilling moment
came when she placed the ribbon around
the neck of the Derby winner. And to
do this, because of the wind, she changed
the large hat she had worn for the first
race to a small brown cellophane affair.
Her frock was of beige and brown
printed silk, and she wore yellow tulips
in the lapel of her brown fancy-weave
cloth coat. Mrs. L. S. Bracegirdle’s mul-
berry suit was topped with a kolinsky
cape. Mrs. George Main, wife of the
newly-elected chairman of the A.J.C.,
relieved her black frock with pipings of
white. With her were daughters Mollie
and Jean, the latter wearing a cherry-red
velvet cravat with her deep-green suit.
John Kenna, of Orange, was there with
a bright party. Chief Justice Jordan’s
lady was in sapphire blue, Mrs. James
Dickson contrasted grey and green, Mrs.
Walter Burfitt’s black crepe frock was
worn under a black boucle coat, and
daughter Esmay’s crepe frock was dull-
red in tone. John McKelvey’s lady was
smart in mustard suit, shallow-crowned
straw hat and silver furs. Mrs. Hal
Capper wore an all-brown outfit. Midge
Nelson, Joyce Carpenter, Betty Tilley,
Lesley Turner and Mrs. John Bray were
a bright group. Joyce Beazley’s deep-
blue sailor had loops of red, green and
blue grass standing up at its left side.
Barbara Salenger’s black felt hat was
adorned with a tuft of soft feathers in
the front. Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s
black woollen frock was sashed in coral-
pink. Mrs. Roy Buckland’s suit was
grey ; Sadie Budge’s was in a soft shade
of blue. Forget-me-nots bordered the
edge of Jocelyn Josephson’s black shiny
straw bonnet. Petals of blue hyacinth
bordered that of Noreen Dangar’s black
grosgrain toque, and a tight little posy
of gay cottage flowers ending in long
black streamers finished the back of
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones’s black scuttle-
shaped hat. One of the wraps to be
noted was the hip-length coat of silver-
foxes worn by Mrs. E. Forsyth.
The red-and-white awning that
stretched from Macquarie-street to its
front door foreshadowed the Australian
Club’s welcome on Saturday. The mem-
bers had spread themselves for this once-
a-year opening of its portals to woman-
hood, and started off with the handing
out in the hall of sprays of green orchids.
The club’s president, W. D. Gordon, and
his daughter Margaret stood near by to
receive, Margaret wearing golden tulips
with her grass-green suit.
Pink and red azaleas, green elm
flowers, stocks and carnations were
banked at the foot of the stairway. They
bloomed and trailed up the stairway and
along the gallery, where the orchestra,
amid the ferny shoots, played softly dur-
ing the afternoon. Flower artists had
massed blue and purple iris, stocks, white
and pink watsonias. A huge windmill
brought the grist of admiration to one
table. This was of pink and mauve
flowers, and rose from a bed of rhodo-
dendrons and tulips. On the v.-r. table
there was a floral doll, an elm flower in
her hair. Her wide-spreading skirts were
of pink and red blooms. Governor-
General Gowrie and Lord and Lady
Wakehurst came on from Randwick.
Lord Wakehurst had a red flower in his
coat, and his wife carried a handful of
gold and red tulips.
The spacious rooms were crowded
with hundreds of guests, many of them
straight from the races. Commonwealth
Bank’s chieftain, Ernest Riddle, his lady
and daughter Enid were early arrivals.
Enid wore navy in hat and frock. John
Lane Mullins squired daughters Hilda and
Mrs. Bertram Norris. Mrs. Sep Levy’s
black pillbox hat showed a ruching of
turquoise blue. Alexander Gordon’s lady
brought her visitor, Parry Morgan.
Jocelyn Poynter wore a silver fox fur
cape with her black suit. The Consul-
General for China, Dr. C. J. Pao, brought
his wife. There were turquoise velvet
bows at the neck of her black frock and
on her hat. The upturned brim of
Valerie Bavin’s navy sailor showed a
white lining, and Clarice Faithful Ander-
son’s hyacinth-pink crepe frock was worn
with a navy net coat.
From Dorothy Welding’s studio comes
this photograph of Phillipa Ackland, a
Maoriland visitor to Sydney, whose hosts
are the Stuart Osbornes of Point Piper.
Phillipa is a daughter of the Henry Ack-
lands of Christchurch.
The party of the week was the fancy-
dress ball given by 14 bachelors. The
setting was Elizabeth Bay House, and
imagination and a touch of romance
were shown in the costumes. The turn-
out cost each of the hosts about £l5, and
the achievement was something that will
go down in social history. Two of the
most beautiful costumes were worn by
the Edward Macarthur Onslow couple.
Her frock was of beige taffeta striped in
satin, her jacket was of bright blue taf-
feta, and her large tuscan straw hat was
trimmed with violet velvet ribbon. These
actual costumes had been worn at Eliza-
beth Bay House 80 years ago.
One group came spanking up in a
barouche; a group of six pedalled
straight out of the “gay ’nineties” to the
doorway. The girls wore the white skirt,
high-collared shirt blouse and mannish
tie that marked the sex’s first step in
dress emancipation. Their partners, in
creamy flannels, perched sporty little
straw hats above their side-whiskers.
Dick de Gruchy discovered what looked
like Australia’s first bicycle, and made a
Seymour Hicks passage down the ball-
room perched on his high wheel. Dick
Allen, who came as a sailorboy, followed
on a tricycle. Neville Hall fastened two
glasses to his Eton coat and called him-
self “Eatin’ and Drinkin’.”
The Harry Meeks, Sam Hordern and
Lennox Bode couples might have walked
straight out of “Showboat.” The men
came as minstrels; the women wore
colored cotton frocks with white spots.
All had blackened faces. The conser-
vatory, which had been turned into an
Old Bull and Bush, had the real beer
atmosphere, supplied by J. C. William-
son props. The 14 hosts wore the white
suits, white caps and giddy little pom-
poms of the French navee, and in addi-
tion were awe-inspiring with tattooing,
done at Petty’s, where the 14 had started
the night with a little dinner-party.
The Chitral party in honor of the P.
and O. centenary was on as lavish a scale
as the one in the Mooltan. Gold was
the dominant note. It gleamed palely
in the sheaves of wheat that in tub and
basket on deck and in the lounge met the
eye on every side, and in company with
its good companions the cornflower and
rosy-cheeked apple it spilled from rush
baskets on deck tables. It glowed deeper
in the massed fruits that gave a harvest-
festival atmosphere to the corners of
the smokeroom, and deepest of all in the
rising sun of the company’s crest. In
fountain and baskets there were roses,
carnations and iris, and in unexpected
corners were tubs of red-, green- and
orange-lacquered leaves.
Lord Gowrie came to the party and
was welcomed first by the captain, H.
Elliott Smith, and then by the W. A.
Mackay and A. P. Case couples. Mrs.
Mackay wore pearls with her black suit,
and Mrs. Case’s black-and-white printed
silks were topped with a black hat.
Drinks, like the music, went round and
round. Dr. and Mrs. Crawford Robert-
son, her beige suit caped in mink, seemed
to know everybody at the party.
Mrs. Harold Bott wore navy in hat and
suit. Lady Poynter’s black suit had its hip-
length coat bordered in silver fox. Sadie
Budge’s hat matched her angora suit,
which was sky-blue. Hats were impor-
tant: Jocelyn Poynter’s had a narrow-
brim and a bow of rainbow tulle across
the front; Patricia Case’s was a haloed
affair of navy straw. Mrs. Douglas Levy
pinned some roses on a band of velvet
and wore that as a hat, and Elizabeth
Sharpe, who was one of the hatless ones,
pinned a cluster of flowers at one side
of the plait she wore coronet fashion
around her head. The Bertie Kellys were
late arrivals. They were going on to the
orchestral concert, which, by the way,
was one of the most brilliant of the
Schneevoigt season.
The attractive and vivid Robin Eakin,
daughter of Dr. R. A. and Mrs. Eakin,
mixes good works with social flutterings.
The R.S.P.C.A. is one of the causes dear
to her. Another is the work of the St.
John Ambulance. Robin is one of the
ardent young workers for the Twelve
Centuries Ball, next month’s big pagean-
try in aid of the association. A Bertram
Wills camera made the portrait.
There were two intervals in their pro-
gramme on Saturday night, and after
each the Don Cossacks appeared in dif-
ferent colored tunics. From the dark
blue or black Russian blouse of the first
they changed to royal blue, and lastly
to immaculate white. But their scarlet-
braided trousers and high shiny black
boots remained the same throughout.
The Town Hall, packed to the skyline,
took to their full-blooded infectious sing-
ing as a bear to wild honey. E. J. Tail
and Harald Bowden, sitting together up
front, became visibly exalted with the
whirlwind dancing and knife-throwing to
which the final number crescendoed.
A jewel or two twinkled and blinked
with fascinating effect on conductor N.
Kostrukoff’s left hand. With hands and
hard-working shoulders he leads his
choir. If there were any women in the
audience with bulging shoulders they
will probably take a slimming hint or
two home with them. Noticeable were
Mrs. Arthur Cheeke’s graceful black
velvets; Mrs. F. J. Davy’s sky-blue
quilted satin coat, worn with a tunic
frock of the same shade ; Mrs. Adrienne
Talbot’s black lace frock and hip-length
mink cape, and Mrs. Ernest Lashmar’s
trailing black satins.
The problems facing the hospitals all
over the State got an airing at the con-
ference of matrons and auxiliary dele-
gates at David Jones’s. The 350 women
who attended the two and a half days’
sitting had come from places as far
apart as Broken Hill, Cobar and Ten-
terfield, and some had travelled 680 miles
to be present. On the evening of the
first day there was a conversazione in
David Jones’s ballroom, when delegates
enjoyed some music. Lady Wakehurst
came to the party in a frock of forget-
me-not blue needle-run lace and a pink-
and-gold brocade coat with puff sleeves.
Her golden-striped tulips were tied with
a blue Velvet ribbon bow. Dr. A. E.
Colvin, vice-chairman of the Hospitals
Commission, and Mrs. Colvin, and Minis-
ter for Health H. P. FitzSimons and Mrs.
FitzSimons welcomed the vice-regal lady.
Mrs. Colvin’s frock was of midnight-blue
satin; Mrs. FitzSimons also wore blue.
Her frock was of delphinium lace, and
her toe-length coat of gold brocade was
flower-patterned.
In a note from Madresfield Court,
after telling that Lady Betty Baldwin was
the first to welcome him, and that he
had Brett Young and his wife as neigh-
bors, Lord Beauchamp says he is busy
seeing friends old and new, especially at
the end of the week, when parties of 14
and 16 come down, but he adds, as the
family numbers six, this isn’t so many ;
that week-end (the first in September)
Anton Dolin the dancer would be there.
He tells of a lunch with Lord Berners,
who, when he is not writing or painting
or composing, dips his white pigeons in
cochineal, Reckitt’s blue, and verdant
green ; and adds “they really look pretty
and surprising when flying about.”
More than 60 members came to the
party given by the Society of Australian
Authors and Composers at the Catholic
Women’s Association’s rooms to secre-
tary Glenn McGarrity and publicity
officer Nellie Evans. Dulcie Deamer and
Elsie Condon were the hostesses, and
each guest of honor was presented with
a basket of flowers by Lilian Mitchell
and also with a bouquet of roses by vice-
president Mrs. Satler. During the even-
ing the waltz “You Are My World,” com-
posed by Lilian Mitchell, was played.
Farewell parties to Major-General
Charles Rosenthal’s popular lady are in
full swing, and will go on right to October
30, when the Rosenthals are to sail for
Norfolk Island. To Mrs. Harrie Vale’s
party at Farmer’s only very old friends
were asked, many of them of over 20
years’ standing. Pink watsonias deco-
rated the table, and marking the guest
of honor’s place were a basket of heath,
roses and delphiniums and a small book
of verse, which everyone present was
asked to autograph. Mrs. Vale spoke
her welcome in a navy frock and a silver-
fox fur. Sydney’s Mayoress made
her speech in a brown frock and hat.
Mrs. Victor Conrick threaded the
afternoon with song, and Sheila Vale,
who came in just before the singing of
“Auld Lang Syne,” wore ruffling lace at
neck and wrists of her black frock.
The Crazy Ball at the Trocadero on
Friday is going to be a crazier affair
than the Mad Hatter’s party. You can
go in plain dress or crazy dress, but the
crazier you are the more merrily the ball
will trip along. There is to be a prize of
untold magnificence for the best deco-
rated (or maybe the most crazily deco-
rated) table. The advertising men of
Sydney are behind the effort, which is in
aid of the Royal Alexandra Hospital for
Children and the Mater Misericordiae
Hospital.


SHE DIDN'T WANT
TO FLY THE
PACIFIC
or star in the films. All her interest
centred round her home. Making jam, feeding
chi ckens, and looking after the children during
the holidays kept her busy and contented. Then,
for no apparent reason, these things began to pall
*pf~~
Oh
<
JPT
mm
Why are you selling
off the fowls
Mrs. Ellis ? You used to
take such pride in
them, particularly
the Rhode Islands
they need
such a lot of
looking after,
and I just don't
feel up to H
any more.
7%
SK
Sr*.
?a
> v>-
\ tired- 1 John
IH come f *
an hnme fo r+he I
S. hom holidays- >/
in the end I had to come
to you, doctor I used to do all
the work myself but now- well,
I even wake up tired. I feel
quite guilty
about it. . ||i|j
m
m
K
m
You see
Mrs. Ellis,
your trouble is
Night-Starvation
You’re not
replacing the
energy you use up
during sleep. Here’s
the way to create
the new energy
you need“
There’s Mrs. Ellis from the
Wyona Farm. Wonder what
she’s got in that parcel. Its
not meat, because they get it
delivered,and its
not library books
-they don t /'j
vuran them an. v
r''
I+s round, Maudie.
Its a jar or a tin,
Tha+s what it is. Now
What could e
Mrs. Ellis be <
buying
ft
wf
X
I
the
per^ ,|eS^tre^° r 1
Ev e 'nr s this e^ji
pick' s
she
cup
Missus
oe»
hot
she
mixe
befor®
true
as
he*
Thets
bed
ere
jtand' n 9
to
as
. reckon the
doctor put her
on it. My sister-
in-law seen her
going to the
doctors with
her own eyes.
SIX WEEKS LATER
Hang if, Mofher
this isn't a
steeplechase.
Give a chap a <
breather. I
Hurry up, Michael
Come on John, we've
miles to go, and it’s
< nearly teatime.
, — x
A
&
(«
l'l
*S-
TVy.V
THERE must be hundreds of people all over
the country who wake up tired and get
more and more tired as the day goes on. It
never occurs to them that energy is still used
up during sleep, so they do nothing to create
new energy in its place. The last thing they
suspect is "Night-Starvation.”
A regular cup of Horlick’s, taken hot before
bed, creates the new energy needed. It helps
you to wake up thoroughly rested and ready
to face the hardest day, and guards you
against "Night-Starvation.”
Prices from 1/6 economy size, 2/9.
Horlick’s Mixer, 1/-.
OFFER! tin Horlick's Mixer Measuring Spoon all for 2/-.
HORUCKS GUARDS AGAINST
NIGHT- STARVATION
THIS MEANS YOU SLEEP SOUNDLY,
WAKE REFRESHED, AND HAVE
EXTRA ENERGY ALL DAY.


HJLUOMJLN3M
ML a ms N3HI
£ ha u p h 5 04.
du+ ssauisng
j 'o h e p i'|o H
Whether your visit to Sydney
be business or social—stay at
the Wentworth. This fine hotel
offers you everything; comfort,
service, convenience. You will
enjoy your stay at the Went-
worth; wire or write for reser-
vations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.—-
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
WAKE UP! and take BARTZ
THE IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC SALTS
Bartz, Nature’s own remedy for Rheumatic
Pains, Giddiness, High Blood Pressure, Con-
stipation, Indigestion, Uric Acid, All Stomach
Disorders and Slfin Complaints, etc.
Mr. C. S. writes:
“I have been astounded by the improve-
ment in my health since I took Bartz Salts.
For years I have suffered from acute constipa-
tion and have spent a small fortune on dozens
of alleged cures. I can honestly say that since
I started using Bartz Salts a month ago 1 teel
a changed man. They have done for me m
days what I have strived to obtain for years.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
CHEAPER AND BETTER 1/-&2/-JARS
ROMANOFF
and RED KETA
CAVIAR
CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. h. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
8 Bottles of Cough Remedy
for Cost of One.
Cough remedies, if bought ready-mixed,
cost a lot of money, but the following
recipe gives you eight bottles for the cost
of one. To sweetened water add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, thus making a supply equal
to about £l’s worth of the best remedies
money can buy for banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, whooping cough,
and influenza. HEENZO is delightful
to take, and wonderfully good for both
adults and children.
Melbourne
Chatter
In spite of early-morning clouds no
drop of rain fell to dampen golfing en-
thusiasm at the Peninsula Country Club
gymkhana in aid of Royal Melbourne
Hospital. The fairways were inspirations
for good play, the fifteenth with its blaze
of golden wattle being a joy to the
aesthetic senses. And the dusting of
white blossom on the tea-tree made the
journey down and the walk around a
particularly pleasant occasion.
Until late in the afternoon it was
thought that Mrs. G. Price and Mrs. D.
Sargood would win the trophy for best
net score in the foursomes, but, as so
often happens at golf, the victors were
found right at the tail of the field and
came home in the shape of a real sur-
prise pair, Mrs. M. Westhoven and a
promising 13-year-old junior from
Eastern, Eileen O’Brien. Among other
competitors were Mrs. Ralph McMeekin,
Mrs. Robert Lane, whose )Spot of color
was a vivid yellow scarf, and Mrs. E. J.
Hamilton, who lives at Frankston in a
world of golf, for her father was veteran
Hugh Ross and her son Hugh is a
promising short-marker. Sister Laidlaw,
of the Orthopaedic Hospital, played in
navy and a scarlet blouse. A colorful
foursome were Joyce Dickson in a grey-
and-yellow jumper, Jean Ogilvie in a nas-
turtium medley of orange cardigan over
green blouse, Gwen Williams in
Gloucester-green tweeds and Mrs. Ken
Vial in brown.
Among the many who carried sports
vanity bags as part of the links kit were
Mrs. J. A. Anderson and Metropolitan’s
captain, Mrs. G. B. Cairns. Mrs. Cecil
Alley, who spent most of the day adja-
cent to the scoreboard, wore a culotte of
pavement-blue tweed. Mrs. Gordon
Hope ran the treasure hunt all in green
and a suede jacket. Mrs. J. P. Major
and Noel Fussell were grateful for the
coming warmth of spring, for their job
was to remain parked in a car at the
clubhouse gates to collect entrance
money. After the rush of the 300 was
finished General Grimwade, a sprig of
blue in his buttonhole, was noticed
carrying his clubs in pursuit of some
quiet practice.
The debs, who come out every year
at the Gloucester Ball, organised by com-
mittees of public-school girls, don’t quite
lose touch with one another, for many of
them join the Prince Henry Younger
Circle to work for the hospital’s girls’
ward. Last week a number of debs, and
ex-debs, christened themselves the Fifty
Hostesses and held a dance for their
favorite charitable work in the Ormond
Hall. Kathleen Lascelles, always to the
front row in Prince Henry shivoos, knew
that she was receiving a gift that night,
for she’d been asked to make her choice
and had selected a hatbox which will
carry her headpieces to England.
Pat Haynes, who can keep bankbooks
systematically, Alyson Wellman, Kathleen
Wilson, Margaret Johns and Lottie
McGrath, who know how to work tickets
on a card index system, were the organ-
ising committee and a bevy of Mel-
bourne Grammar old girls, for all of
them but Lottie, who went to St.
Michael’s, came from Grammar. The
young folk did things very well and
made special guests like Mrs. H. S. K.
Ward, Mrs. David Carnegie and Matron
Morgan so welcome that they lingered
over supper and didn’t think of departing
before midnight.
The Garryowen trophy for the perfect
equestrienne turnout was an event of the
Show-day holiday, when the weather was
such that competitors got wetter and
wetter. Finally, after an hour and a half,
for the judge’s task was particularly diffi-
cult, those taking part had toppers carry-
ing swirling rivers in their brims and
clothes cold and sodden as they trotted
off the arena with one kindred thought
-—hot drinks and hot baths. Highest
marks for points and paces, appearance
and general unity of horse and rider went
to Mrs. H. T. Coffey, up on the cham-
pion hack Tarzan.
Mrs. Coffey, who is of a short, sturdy
build, wore a black coat and hat, fawn
breeches and yellow gloves and waistcoat.
Among her rivals were Phyllis Bray, dis-
tinguished Diana from Adelaide, who
won the Garryowen trophy last year, and
Kitty Sutherland, a fine little rider noted
for her perfect hands. She won the prize
the first two years after its inauguration.
Molly McAulay, Peggy. McComas and
June Allen were competitors of the tall,
slim type. Barbara Syme and Mary
Luxton looked as if they had been
tailored in Bond-street. Nancy Doran,
Lily Wilkinson and Mrs. Pennell also
went through the proceedings with credit,
but Fairlie Hagenhauer had bad luck,
for her horse fell in the mud, as slippery
as an eel, and she had to withdraw. The
trophy is a memorial to Mrs. Violet
Murrell and her fine horse Garryowen,
who lost their lives as a result of a stable
fire.
In the Dickinson-Monteath photograph
is Betty Stephens, elder daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. Carl Stephens, who is one of
the ticket secretaries of the Victoria
League Ball to be held at the Palais on
October 15. Features of the dance, which
it is hoped will be as successful as the
Silver Jubilee Ball two years ago, are
Scottish reels and country dances and
no strict line of duty regarding parties.
Although the young folk are organising
their own parties it’s to be a programme
dance, and guests may sit where they
please for supper. Scottish enthusiast
Captain Moffat-Pender is rehearsing
those taking part in the rustic jollities.
He is particularly interested in the
Coronation Reel, composed specially for
performance at coronation celebrations.
It’s to be danced by 12 braw Scots in kilts.
Diggers in all parts of Australia and
even in far-away foreign places are re-
ceiving telegrams, radio messages and
postcards from pals they haven’t heard
of for years. The communications, sent
along where possible on decorated
stationery, were dispatched through the
Postmaster-General’s services at Eastern
Golf Links, for a field post office was a
feature of this year’s A.I.F. golf reunion
at Eastern. It’s a great day. No man
minds very much what sort of golf he
plays, how many balls he loses, how
often flour-bag bombs burst near by just
as he’s worked out a beautifully-timed
approach shot'.
Liquid refreshment was procurable at
canteens en route, and music interspersed
with orders and asides from the “field-
marshal” came through the amplifier and
kept the distant outposts acquainted with
what was happening behind the lines.
When the troops who had gone over the
top with the help of a hurricane lantern
before sunrise returned to headquarters
to find reinforcements pouring in and
ready for action with clubs and um-
brellas they found that the two-up school
at the 19th was a very good place in
which to spend their furlough for the
rest of the day. Five hundred Diggers
competed, and though many were re-
ported missing there were no casualties.
The wives of honorary physicians and
surgeons at St. Vincent’s Hospital have a
Cup Eve date, for St. Vincent’s Ball takes
place on November 1. It’s an annual
fixture held with a view towards making
Christmas week cheery for the sick poor.
Mrs. Ken Hadley, whose portrait is by
Broothorn, is among the ticket secs. She
is one of Melbourne’s musical young
matrons who don’t neglect practice of
the piano, and last year surprised
herself by sitting down and composing a
song, which was afterwards published,
“To a Chelsea China Lady.” Dr. and
Mrs. Hadley are very interested in the
beautiful home in St. George’s-road
which they purchased a few months ago
from Mrs. Ivan Gutmann.
After opening the Victorian Artists’
Society’s spring show Col. Tom White
and his wife did not linger long in the
vicinity, for it was election week and
they had propaganda to push out Caul-
field way. The show displays more spirit
than usual, and again the moderns are to
be seen on the south wall. Among guests
who looked and listened on the opening
eve were the Ernest Buckmasters, pre-
paring for another caravan journey to the
bush, and an engaged pair, striking
brunette Kathleen Clarke and Bill Mont-
gomery. Kathleen is of the Marcus
Clarke The Term of His Natural Life
family. From the same studio came Ina
Morris and a brace of Celtic friends,
Maudie McWhirter and Colin McGowan.
Jule Kiddle, wearing wine-shaded taffeta
a-sprinkle with white spots, had land-
marks pointed out to her by Ji m Govett.
Of a kindred group were Dr. Ethel
Osborne, Mrs. Bull in an Edwardian
bustle and Norma Bull girt about with
silver wings. Mrs. Bernard Hall’s daugh-
ter Alison wore camellias upon her cor-
sage and Little Miss Muffet’s spider, in
silver, in her hair. Mrs. Douglas Cop-
land’s accessory was a bunch of cottage
roses upon a gold satin coat. Mrs.
Marcus Martin wore a natural squirrel
coat, and Mrs. lan Macfarlan was in
dove-grey taffeta. Clotilde Atyeo came
along with a spot of news of cousin Sam
Atyeo, who is in Paris and still sharing
a flat and reflected glory with the son of
Augustus John. With her mother, Mrs.
Hylton Dale, was Mrs. R. D. Bakewell,
of Benalla, “down for the Show,”
although she hadn’t been near the show-
grounds. Husband Don, however, had
spent enough time there for two, for he
was one of the sheep judges, and was
looking out for a ram to buy for his
Benalla property.
Part of the Kirk’s centenary was “A
Hundred Years of Presbyterianism,” a
pageant composed by Mrs. Marjorie
McLeod and John Ormiston Reed. It
was produced in such a packed King’s
Theatre that the overflow stood along
the back walls of stalls and galleries.
Such is the toleration of modern times.
Scottish ancestors of a century ago would
surely have recoiled at the idea of a semi-
religious function taking place in a
theatre. The pageant commenced with
bonneted ladies and throttle-collared
gentlemen meeting at the first Presby-
terian service held in Victoria in 1837.
It glimpsed church work among miners
carrying nuggets and wearing long black
beards, and among the Chinese of the
goldfields; and along with the rustle of
crinolines of 1859 it produced tableaux
of the union of Presbyterian churches.
Dr. Paton’s mission to the New Hebri-
des was preceded by a grass-skirt-swishing
South Seas Island dance (lie quietly, you
Elders of long ago!), and contained an
illustrative bit of by-play with spears and
bead barter. For the Harvest Festival
of the ’eighties the young folk of Elstern-
wick made merry with scarlet poppies
and golden corn and, incidentally, the first
load of hay which has ever been brought
inside the King’s. Slum scenes and the
work of Providence House were done with
the gamining of children who showed no
sign of self-consciousness. The Victorian
Scottish Regiment portrayed the work of
Presbyterian chaplains during the war.
After a Flying Doctor and Inland Mis-
sion scene there came the grand finale :
tableaux of various church activities in
Victoria. Phyllis Mackie, Morag Watson
and Shirley McLeod were excellent assis-
tant organisers, Jean Picken was Victoria
and lima Aitken her lady-in-waiting.
Lance Nicholls explained the sequence
of events as a herald, and Pat Brain and
Gwenda Williams were a pair of attrac-
tive straight-kneed trumpeters.
Though Mistress Nellie Ibbott has
given nine years of fine service to the
Heidelberg Council, she was ruled out
when the time came to place the
Mayoral robe on new shoulders. Seem-
ingly there is no such thing as selection
by turn for these civic honors. How-
ever, Nellie takes the slight with a
shrug and a smile. She realises that
her fellow-councillors know that she
would not disgrace the rabbit-skin, but
prejudice shudders at the thought of a
Mayoral chain going round a woman’s
neck. Nellie hails from Essex, but has
been allied with public affairs in this
country for nearly 20 years. She has
seen Heidelberg pass from a shire to a
city, and acquire a Town Hall. There
is nothing petty about Nellie Ibbott, and,
although she was overlooked, she
beamed a welcome when Mister Sutton
donned the robe.
The chatelaine of Bishopscourt writes:
I am distressed for my garden-party guests,
as described in The Bulletin of September 22,
just received. “The tree-lovers,” I learn, “could
have wept into the teacups Many aged
trees have fallen under the axe to make way
for a vegetable patch for the bishop’s garden
The newly-formed pansy-bed rockeries were
strangely at variance with the famous historic
gum-tree and the old bluestone house.” I
could weep with them myself at the thought —
and indeed my eyes cloud now in sympathy
with all other lovers of Bishopscourt garden
as they envisage this devastation.
But may I give the comfmting assurance
that no “towering elms or luxuriant shrubberies ’
have been removed since I have known and
loved this garden, and that the “newly-formed
pansy-bed rockeries” are creatures of imagina-
tion? That kitchen garden, too—ruthlessly
wrested from many aged trees —is but the
same patch as before, though a new gardener
has just restored it to order and removed a
vast forest of neglected artichokes.
The change that has really happened is that
a new, but very pleasing, two-storey Deanery
has just been completed beyond Bishopscourt,
and a tiny new path and gate provide com-
munication between us. But the beauty of
our garden should be for Deanery as well as
Bishopscourt, so in front of the Deanery
windows a few yards of solid wooden fencing
is replaced by a wire fence. Eight weeks was
too short a time for the climbing roses and
other delights to have burgeoned into another
“luxuriant shrubbery.” But let not any of your
readers fear to revisit the old garden when next
in Melbourne. Only the crack of the storm, or
an expert’s plea for safety will take even a
branch from the “aged elms.” Might I also
whisper that even shrubberies and elm-trees
will look less “dense” when a garden party
takes place at a time when the leaves are not
yet fluttering in the breeze.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Phone (three lines): 87361.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
K. A. MANZEE, General Manager.
ROYAL ADELAIDE SHOW, September, 1937
pLu
105 AXES ON THE GROUND
' 99 WERE PLUMB AXES
PLUMB AXES WON FINAL IN EVERY EVENT
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: The Australian Inland Mis-
sion, unique of its kind, celebrated its
25th anniversary on September 26. Dur-
ing the 25 years it has dotted Central and
Northern Australia with hospitals, each
staffed by a couple of nurses, and has
built up the well-known flying doctor
service. To its initiative, too, is due the
development of station radio —its com-
pact sets were the first seen by many an
inlander. A.I.M. hospitals know no
creeds and no social distinctions. The
bagman caught by a falling limb is as
welcome to treatment as is the stray
blackfellow with a spear in him. Some-
times nurses or doctor travel hundreds
of miles on a case, and they can be de-
pended on to function no matter what
the weather. John Flynn, a Presbyterian
minister whom nobody would take to be
a parson, has been heart and soul of the
organisation since its foundation, and in
an earlier day when the camel was still
his means of transport he still found
time apart from his other duties to pro-
duce a fine periodical.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Queensland University, 27
years old, and due to be removed within
the next decade to an expansive site out-
side the city boundaries at St. Lucia, has
reason to feel warm-hearted towards
benefactors who have willed or given it
£359,000. The biggest slice came from
the Sam McCaughey estate (£161,000),
with £62,000 from Miss Mayne, £31,800
from the Walter and Eliza Hall Trust
and several gifts from other sources of
frbm £lO,OOO to £20,000. The latest
donation is from the estate of William
Robertson, of Brisbane and Mackay
(N.Q.), a well-to-do sugar-farmer and
grazier, which adds £20,333 to the funds
of the Agricultural faculty.
* * * m
“Kaloa”: Papua had a boom year in
1936-37. Its exports increased in value
from £275,000 in 1932-33 to £524,000;
its imports from £218,000 to £452,000.
Gold production has doubled, but Gov-
ernment revenue collections have merely
gone up from £152,000 to £171,000, ex-
pansion of Customs revenue being re-
sponsible for most of the amount. Ex-
penditure has moved in about the same
proportion. In the current year the
Budget is slightly smaller, with the con-
tinuance of a small deficit. Considering
the amount of pioneering work and ex-
ploration which has been done it is a per-
formance of which the Administration
need not be ashamed.
* * * * ,
“Dungeness”: Albert, a 40-year-old
full-blooded Arunta of Hermannsburg
Mission in Central Australia, is Aus-
tralia’s first native artist in the European
style. During one of Rex Battarbee’s
painting trips in the Centre he showed
some of his water-colors at the Mission,
and attracted Albert’s intense interest.
Two years later, on Battarbee’s return,
Albert was eagerly awaiting him for the
fulfilment of a promise of lessons in the
white man’s art. He became his camel-
boy, and was full of suggestions for
paintable localities. Battarbee told Basil
Burdett that in two weeks Albert had
picked his brains so far as color was
concerned. In four weeks Albert pro-
duced a landscape of remarkable rhyth-
mic shadow-effect which attracted Hans
Heysen’s keen interest. Shown at Bat-
tarbee’s own Adelaide exhibition, three
of Albert’s paintings brought in gifts
amounting to over £8 for buying painting
material. A Melbourne show of Albert’s
work is possible in the near future.
* # * *
“Friday Island”: Wasn’t Treacle (B.
22/9/’37), mentioned by “Dungeness,” a
Yam Island and not a Yorke Island
native? I met Treacle at T.I. in 1918, and
I understood then definitely that his scar
necklet had been presented to him by a
shark and not a groper. His picture
afterwards appeared in the “Australian
Medical Journal” through the interest in
his case of Dr. C. E. Wassell, whom
southerners know as a champion rifle-
shot.
# * * *
“Passage Pilot”: Islands being in de-
mand, Q’land Government departments
have a lot of fun with them. All islands,
under occupation and those which were
running loose, were gazetted bird and
animal sanctuaries. That was good as
far as it went. Other fellows took a hand
and made them timber reserves —a man
can’t fall an acre of scrub on which to
grow a few vegetables or put in a plot of
fruit because that might destroy “scenic
value.” Now all islands which are taken
up on renewed leases must be under the
“I Wouldn't dive too deep, Dad; y' might strike a snag."
National Park scheme, with priority
grazing rights to the fellow who takes the
island. Also, he must undertake to go
in for tourists and must expend a certain
sum within a given time in effecting im-
provements suited to the tourist trade.
But the Tourist Bureau frowns on any
more islands being opened for tourists,
and hints indelicately that they won’t
receive official sanction. In the mean-
time, such is the wonder of the islands,
they’re actually going ahead in leaps
and bounds in spite of all the Govern-
ment can do to retard their progress.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: World-wide scientific in-
terest attaches to the results from the
bore recently put down at Heron Island
by the Great Barrier Reef Committee of
Q. for the purpose of ascertaining the
depth of the coral formation. It reached
752 ft., but after 450 ft. no coralline
material was found, merely coherent
quartz sand, similar to that of N.Q.
beaches to-day. Ten years ago, similar
results were obtained from a 600 ft. bore
at Michaelmas Cay, 22 miles n.-e. of
Cairns (N.Q.), and 600 miles northward
of Heron Island. The Edgeworth David
bore at Funafuti, in the Ellice Islands,
found coral to 1114 ft. The scientific im-
portance of the results lies in the, fact
that, as none of the reef-building corals
survive at greater depths than about 40
fathoms, deepwater reefs must have been
built up from a steadily sinking sea-floor.
This was Charles Darwin’s theory.
Murray argued that they had grown up
from an originally shallow bottom, and
his followers suggest that the Funafuti
result was an accident due to boring
through a sloped fallen mass.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Linen frocks patterned with small sail-
ing-boats, nautical scarves and buckles
and the good old sailor collar of navy
blue made their appearance for the open-
ing of the sailing season. The Bluebird,
owned by A. S. Huybers, commodore of
the Royal Queensland Yacht Club, was
official flagship, and Mrs. Huybers and
Pamela helped to entertain the guests.
Mr. and Mrs. F. Z. Eager had a big
party aboard the Tangalooma, whicti
was launched only the previous Satur-
day ; Dr. and Mrs. Harold Foxton had
a number of guests on the Irex 11., as
did the Loves on the Sweetheart, the
Henry Hancocks on the Oenone and Dr.
and Mrs. Ernest Culpin on the Apache,
Florence, daughter of the late V. E.
Wehl and of Mrs. Wehl, of Roma, was
married at St. Paul’s in her home town
to Raymond, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
N. J. Pressland, Windsor (N.S.W.). Ivory
net over satin fashioned the wedding
gown, and the attendants, Mrs. P. Syd-
ney, bride’s sister, matron of honor, and
bridesmaids Merle Richardson, of Wal-
lumbilla, and Bette Pressland were in
futurity-red chiffon over satin, with
plaited coronets to match.
Members of the Presbyterian Women’s
Missionary Union spent a back-breaking
day packing 120 cases of Christmas gifts
to be sent to the four missions—Mapoon,
Weipa, Aurukun and Mornington Island.
Dress materials, cottons, mirrors and
combs, toys and books for the children,
shirts for the men, sweets and biscuits
were packed up in record time. One
gift which was handled very gingerly was
the rifle sent to a man at Weipa who
lost his gun when the boat overturned
after a hunting expedition. Father
Christmas also will provide him with a
supply of cartridges.
After the Coronation, Miss E. M.
Paten, a Queensland representative
nurse, went to France and visited the
war graves. Miss Paten was Queensland
delegate to the international congress of
Lyceum Clubs and visiting delegate to
the conference of the- Florence Nightin-
gale International Foundation. Over 4000
nurses from all parts of the world at-
tended the Nurses’ Congress in London.
A motor tour of Scotland with an Aus-
tralian friend and a stay of a few days
with Miss Fewings, formerly of the
Grammar School, and later principal of
the Brisbane Girls’ High School, were
pleasant spots in the trip.
The Don Cossack Choir was given a
celebration feast and dance arranged by
members of the Cossack Society and the
Russian community, and found tables
piled high with their national dishes.
Russian songs, a national dance (Agnes
Emelianoff in Cossack costume was re-
sponsible for this), toasts and com-
munity singing, in which the Don Cos-
sacks took part, were highlights of the
party. In the morning the Dons attended
the Russian church, and after the service
were besieged by their countrymen and
women, each family group carrying off
one of the artists to lunch.
The Rotary-Annes were guests at the
monthly luncheon given by Rotary at
Lennon’s Hotel, and the decorations were
most festive —gerberas and yellow daisies.
All the ladies wore their best bibs and
tuckers, and Mrs. R. L. H. Peterson, the
president’s wife, did the honors in brown
with a matching ballibuntal hat. Mrs.
E. E. Eorth (her first appearance as the
wife of a Rotarian) was in slate blue, with
a navy hat. A Sydney visitor, Mrs.
Monty Blair, was in black-and-white with
a floral design, with cyclamen flowers on
her black hat.
The Gatton sub-branch of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. undertakes as its special care
the saddest of all war casualties —the 50
or more men who are patients at the
Goodna Mental Hospital—and this year
members motored them to Gatton. The
Gatton Women’s Auxiliary provided lun-
cheon and afternoon-tea, and there were
a cricket match and a concert in the show
hall. O’Donnell and Ray’s Revue and the
Jeannette Gerrard Ambassadors pro-
vided the programme.
The Blue Funnel liner Nestor, gay with
lights, bunting and palms, was the set-
ting for a ball in aid of the Lady Good-
win Free Kindergarten, organised by the
Younger Set committee. There were
over 400 dancers, and Wills, Gilchrist and
Sanderson, agents for the line, very
sportily provided the supper. It was an
informal affair, but Captain J. W. Power
and W. T. Craig, the Brisbane manager,
and his wife were there.


&
gs?s
5
zzzzroo* o
C^i
**§
•V>
4§
✓P
111
gij
w
ĸ
:
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing-Aid—No Cords, No Batteries.
30Kl£ th.i Vibraphone
Write for Booklet.
B. NATH A N 87 Austral Bldgs.
115 Collins Street, Melbourne
■
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL JAMES KELLY, at one time of Hamil-
ton, Victoria, but more recently of Brisbane,
Queensland, Tailor, communicate with MESSRS.
CAMERON & LOWENSTERN, of Hamilton,
aforesaid Solicitors?
HONAN—WILL CATHERINE HONAN, also
known as McCluskey, widow of Michael
Honan, or any issue of Michael Honan, who
died aged 80 years at Lidcombe on March 28,
1935, or anyone knowing of their deaths or
whereabouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney?
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
No. 459 of 1937.
TO CASS FREDERICK DENHAM, formerly
of No. 65 Oakover Road, Preston, in the
State of Victoria, Mechanic, but now of
whereabouts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, MAY
JEANNETTE DENHAM, has instituted proceed-
ings against you for a divorce on the ground of
a repeated act of adultery. UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne in the State
of Victoria on or before the Twenty-sixth day
of October, 1937, and file an answer on or
before the Fifth day of November, 1937, the
case may proceed in your absence.
MAURICE GOLDBERG, of No. 305 Bridge
Road, Richmond, in the State of Victoria,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 196 of 1933.
BETWEEN NORMA ANNIE HIPGRAVE
Petitioner
And PERCIVAL CROMWELL GARNET
HIPGRAVE Respondent.
TO PERCIVAL CROMWELL GARNET
HIPGRAVE, late of Armidale.
TAKE NOTICE that orders were made on
the Twenty-fourth of March 1933 the 22nd
February 1935 and 3rd August 1937 by which
you are required to pay to the abovenamed
Petitioner alimony pendente lite at the rate of
Six pounds per week as from the 16th day of
February 1933 and permanent alimony at the
rate of Four pounds per week and maintenance
at the rate of Two pounds per week for the
children of the marriage as from 18th Decem-
ber 1934. Copies of the above orders will be
supplied to you on application to the under-
signed solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 28th day of September, a.d.
1937.
C. R. BIDDULPH,
Solicitor for Petitioner,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1315 of 1937.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS ETHEL REED Peti-
tioner
And AMBROSE JOHN REED Respondent.
rO AMBROSE JOHN REED formerly of Lis-
more in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
3THEL REED has commenced a suit against
in this Honorable Court and is applying
'or a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
hat you have committed bigamy with adultery
with ROSE VIOLET FRENCH AND TAKE
MOTICE that you are required to enter an
ippearance to the said suit at the proper office
rf this Honorable Court on or before the
ninth day of December One thousand nine
rundred and thirty-seven and in the event ot
tour not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ved and the suit be heard and determined your
ibsence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
:ion filed herein may be had on application
o the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of September,
ud. 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
SPENCER W. CRAWFORD, Solicitor for
he Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Size elevens in black patent pumps
trod a light fantastic with daintier san-
dalled shoes at the Police Ball, held at
the Embassy. Commissioner D. Hunter,
with wife at elbow clad in cornflower
crepes with diamente strappings, ushered
the v.-r. party to their box. The Mitchell
lady, in sweet-pea-patterned silver lame,
chatted with the Chief Secretary’s wife,
resplendent in pleated purple ninons, and
M.L.A. Needham’s other half, draped in
black cire satin, shining ’neath a silver
lame coat. Bobbie Roberts danced in
froths of white tulle sprayed with palest-
pink gladioli, swaying ostrich-feathers
caped Mrs. Alec Williams’s white laces
and Mrs. A. V. Penrose slipped cream-
spotted net over magnolia satin sheath-
ings.
Canon Stillwell presided at St. Mary’s
for the exchanging of vows between
Noelle Burkett, of West Perth, and Ernest
Harvey, of Mt. Lawley. A bouquet of
lilies cascaded to the hem of the ivory-
satin bridal drapings, which shimmered
in severely classical lines under clouds of
misty tulle held in place with a coronet
of traditional blossom. ’Maids Mona
Harvey and Joan Bassett wore the new
Windsor haloes of palest-pink tulle above
picture frocks of matching chiffon
girdled with love-in-the-mist taffeta
sashes, with long ends forming trains,
Bouquets of pink and blue hyacinths
completed the color scheme. The Karra-
katta Club housed the toastings, and the
Katoomba carried the honeymooners off
to Brisbane.
Women wielders of brassy and niblick
came to town from all corners of the
State for the golf championship. The
Ladies’ Golf Union teed off with a
cheery gathering at the Esplanade Hotel,
when divided skirts and brogues were ex-
changed for chiffons and sandals. Acting-
president Mrs. D. Bennett, girt with
black floral crepe drapings and caddied
by Barbara Evans, hon. sec. of the union,
did the welcomings. After cocktails and
a lengthy dinner, Jane Bunning presented
a programme contributed entirely by
talent within the ranks of the golfing sis-
terhood. Country championship trophies
were proudly carried home by Mrs.
McQualter, Mrs. McKenzie and Miss E.
Rose, the junior champion,
Bringing the tang of bushland air, the
annual wildflower show attracted crowds
to the Town Hall. Exhibits included
many popular varieties and a number of
rare types found only in distant parts of
the State. The Dedman family, who
carried off the palm in most sections,
travelled nearly 1000 miles in their quest
for blooms and put in the largest indi-
vidual entry of 250 specimens,
Only family and intimate friends were
at st. Mary’s, Colin-street, when Ken
Hatfield slipped a wedding ring on the
finger of Mrs. A. E. Male’s youngest
chick, Gwennie. The bride’s periwinkle-
blue crepe was built with edge-to-edge
scalloped three-quarter coat topped with
hat to match, and Mrs. John Keeling,
matron-of-honor, swung a redingote of
the same hue over blue-and-white printed
sheer silk. The Savoy saw the after-
rejoicings.
The C. J. Robertses, of Dandarragan,
noted for their hospitality, are soon to
} ose daughter Gwen, who has just re-
turned from a six months’ holiday with
t h e Rupert Mongers at Derby. Her next
departure will be for Batavia, where John
Nash has persuaded her to join him per-
manently.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At the 43rd-48th Battalion Ball at the
Palais Royal a picturesque touch was
provided by the guard of honor, which
received the official party garbed in the
1841 uniform of the Manchester Regi-
ment—white trousers, long tail-coats
with yellow facings, and high black hats,
There was much merriment when Briga-
dier Martyn inspected the guard. The
ball began late, as it was preceded by a
large dinner party at the South Austra-
lian. The guests were received by the
C. 0., Lieut.-Col. M. J. Moten, and his
wife. Conspicuous features of the deco-
rations were the regimental and King’s
colors, over which two sergeants kept
watch until after the reception of the
Commandant, when the colors were car-
ried away by four officers, to slow march
music, with a full escort of sergeants.
Quite the largest and smartest dance
of this season was given by Mr. and Mrs.
Gilbert Wood at their beautiful old
home at Burnside. The garden at Linden
looked like fairyland with hundreds of
colored lights festooned in the trees. In
the drawing-room, where the host and
hostess with their son Peter received the
guests, the decorations were white double
peach-blossom, arum-lilies, pale yellow
Iceland poppies and daffodils. The ad-
joining room, through which guests
passed to the dance marquee, was massed
with cinerarias and other flowers in the
same shade. On the dais in the centre
of the marquee where the orchestra sat
Mrs. Wood had made a floral harp about
6ft. high, the frame of arum-lilies and
the strings of single blooms of white
peach. In the dining-room, where supper
was served, the centre of the table was
occupied by a ship made of flowers.
Surrounding it were small yachts with
sails of silver. Light was supplied by
dozens of huge white candles in white-
enamelled candlesticks on table, side-
board and mantelpiece.
The marriage of David J. S. Thomas
to Barbara, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. David Leitch, of North Adelaide,
was celebrated in the early evening at
St. Peter’s College chapel. Chancel and
altar were decked with arum-lilies. The
bride was gowned in white brocaded
satin, the gracefully-cut skirt merged into
a long train. The bodice had a V-neck-
line and the long sleeves were tight at
the wrist. Her tulle veil, which only
reached the hips, was held in place by
a twist of the same material as the gown.
Bride’s sister Mary and a cousin from
Melbourne, Joan Leitch, were the brides-
maids, frocked alike in silver lame veiled
in silver-grey silk net, with full skirts and
large puffed sleeves.
Another wedding of interest in the
social world was that of lola, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Murray, of Capee-
dee station, Hallett, to Gordon Innes-Ker
at Scots Church. The bride’s white-and-
silver brocade was cut on princess lines,
merging into a train, the sleeves long
and tight-fitting, the round neckline
gathered. Her very long tulle veil was
held in place by a coronet of crystal
flowers and small upstanding leaves.
Esther Murray, bride’s sister, attended in
a frock of white chiffon, the full bodice
gathered at the neckline. The Murrays
entertained afterwards at the South Aus-
tralian.
Neville, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
Albert Conrad, entertained over 100 of
his friends at a bright dance at his home,
the fine old house built by his grand-
father, which boasts a fine ballroom. He
received with his parents. Pink and
white flowers in troughs decorated, with
festoons of balloons overhead. In the
supper room everything was tango —the
flowers Iceland poppies, amber crystal
plates and dishes, orange candles in
amber stands, and even amber jelly.
The Lyceum Club went floral with a
flower show for members in its sky-
scraper apartments. Harriet Stirling, a
foundation member of the club, per-
formed the opening ceremony, and Mrs.
Edward Godfrey and Miss Hodgson were
the judges. Tea-table decoration was a
feature of the show. The prizes were
blue ribbons of honor.
TASMANIA.
Mount Wellington put on a snowcap
for the benefit of the Rotarians, who
landed to the tune of about 180 (to say
nothing of the local contingent) and kept
things lively during their visit. A “get-
together” gathering at the Continental
marked the first evening, and the Gov-
ernor opened official proceedings next
day. President G. V. Brooks and Mrs.
Brooks bore the brunt of the entertain-
ing arrangements, daughter Gwen run-
ning the young people’s part of it. A
big official lunch was held in the City
Hall.
Rotary Week finished with a jollo at
the Continental to suit all tastes —danc-
ing and bridge, and a picture party to
which many members attached them-
selves and came back for supper. The
Governor and Lady Clark were at the
wind-up dance.
Mrs. A. E. Grounds (Launceston) lent
her home for the farewell dance got up
for Meg Grubb and Charlie Irvine, who
are off to South Africa this week.
Marion Grubb engineered the party, and
wore black velvet with little bolero ; Mrs.
Grounds was in pink crepe with short
jacket bordered on the sleeves with
skunk. Miss Irvine was in blue, and
Meg’s silk frock had big roses scattered
over it.
Mrs. A. C. Stourton on her return from
England had a fall which dislocated her
shoulder, so the “welcome-home” affairs
which were being arranged by various
societies in which she is an office-bearer
have been postponed.
Joan and Nora Scott-Power went all
rustic for their party in honor of four
prospective brides, and held it at their
brother’s newly-acquired cottage at
Taroona by the sea, with its acres of
spring blooms and beautiful trees. The
guests of honor were Peggy Dick, Marie
Dakin, Wanda Piesse and Joan Buchanan,
but the latter in spirit only, as she is still
in Sydney, so her future mother-in-law,
Mrs. Pixley, represented her.
Maisie Sharp and Harry Roberts were
made one at the Cathedral. The bride’s
dress of pale-pink and silver cloque lame
was topped by a voluminous veil of
palest-pink tulle. Her bouquet was of
orchids and carnations in two shades of
pink. Sister Tessie ’maided in a full
frock of hyacinth-blue organza over pink
taffetas, topped by a halo of hyacinths
in the same shade. After the knot-tying
the Robert Sharps entertained about 100
guests at their home in Sandy Bay.
Joan Shaw, formerly of Broken Hiii
(N.S.W.), now living with her parents, the
J. F. Shaws, at Queenstown, and Geof-
fry Francis Hudspeth, Queenstown, an-
nounce their engagement.


BRANDAUER’A
C*
at*
PENS
a
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BEiNDitJER A CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
gw
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
( Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Maekay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. '
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
NOZAC
Pens - Pencils - Sets
More and more people to-day
appreciate the quality of
Conklin and insist upon
Conklin writing instruments,
in preference to any other.
The Nozac filling system is
recognised as supremely
dependable. Sturdy construc-
tion and simplicity of
mechanism are the principal
features. Pencils, to match
are available.
Here are the seven superior
features which distinguish
Conklin Nozacs as the world’s
finest precision fountain pens:
1. Capacity. More than 9$
hours of constant writing, or
50 average letters. Scientifi-
cally gauged ink space, per-
mitting every drop of ink to
be used without fear of flood-
ing.
2. Visibility. Full length or
complete transparent ink
chambers.
3. Leak-proof. Inner cap
specially designed to prevent
leaking, yet the point will
write the moment it touches
paper.
4. Cushion Point. A revolu-
tionary advance in writing
ease and smoothness.
5. Stem-wind Filler. A simple,
efficient and dependable
device, proven by eight years
in the hands of the consumers.
Its operation compares with
the winding of a watch.
6. Controlled Feed. Insures
uniform flow of ink.
7. Beauty. Modern design
harmonises with streamline
styling.
Pens are Priced at 22/6, 30/-
and 40/-.
Pencils to Match, 17/6, 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presentation
Cases, 40/-', 55/- and 65/-.
From Leading Stores Everywhere.
The Long White Cloud
Up Goes Expenditure
Maoriland Labor’s pre-power boast
that it would soon “fix” unemployment
has been dissipated by its second Budget,
which provides for a £17,367,000 public-
works programme.
Higher costs, both Government and
trading, have robbed Labor’s “increased
purchasing power” of its theoretical
ability to help industrialists and land
men to give full employment. In spite of
repeated statements that it could “con-
trol” costs, the Savage Government now
finds it must further increase “purchas-
ing power” to keep up with them.
More money is to be spent on neces-
sary defences and still more on the doubt-
ful course of expanding social services
beyond their present wide coverage. Ad-
ministration costs are expected to be con-
siderably heavier—just one result of the
growth of State enterprises under Labor
rule.
Current estimates are £3,753,000 greater
than those of Labor’s first not-so-modest
Budget. Ordinarily., tax-rises would be
necessary to find this plaster from a mil-
lion and a half people. “Public credit”
is now getting an airing.
“D.N.”: Rarely since the days when
Dick Seddon swapped lusty yarns with
bearded prospectors in
West Coast taverns has
Maoriland been treated to
the sort of Tasman Sea
democracy exhibited the
other day when Prime
Minister Savage and three
members of his Cabinet
took off their coats and
threw furniture round for
the tenant of Wellington’s
first State house. Finance
Minister Nash, Defence
Minister Jones and Public
Works Minister Semple
were the others, and J. A.
Lee, Under-Sec. in Charge
of Housing, directed pro-
ceedings. Something like
this was needed to distract
public attention from the
fact that, since Labor
made housing an almost
complete State monopoly,
building costs have jumped from 12s. 6d.
a square foot to £l—which means that
State rentals are nowhere near as low as
Labor spokesmen led the country to
anticipate.
* * * *
“McL.”: The sage who contended that
men who never change any of their
opinions never correct any of their mis-
takes has a few believers on this side of
the Tasman—which is another refresh-
ing aspect of Labor’s administration (B.
29/9/’37). A recent illustration is
Defence Minister Jones’s about-face on
the subject of air inquiries. A few
months ago he was firmly convinced that
they should be conducted behind closed
doors because of the “special, highly
technical” nature of a lot of the evidence ;
now he has announced that future in-
quiries will be open to public and press.
This is a good move, as people know a
lot more about aviation and its language
than some departmental airmen believe.
It is the confidence of the general public
that is making possible the rapid develop-
ment of Maoriland’s successful internal
services—and the people who pay are
entitled to know just what caused any
crash.
* * * *
“Mak”: The ancient Auckland-Well-
ington rivalry has been renewed since
trans-Pacific traffic adopted the northern
city as its natural Maoriland port. Matson
line ships have always used Auckland,
and now Pan-American Airways has
staked its harbor claim on the Waitemata.
The chances are that the trans-Tasman
al link planned by British interests will
make Auckland the Maoriland terminal
to facilitate speedy connection with the
American service, and Wellington doesn’t
like the idea. There’s not much it can
do about it; the geographical facts that
made Wellington the ideal site for
Maoriland’s administrative capital favor
Auckland as the trans-Pacific clearing
house. Suva is near enough to the
general Pacific sea and air highway to be
taken as an example—and Auckland is
only 1149 miles away as compared with
Wellington’s 1476. The extra miles could
be the margin of airline safety ; they do
spell a difference in the operating costs
of both sea and air services,
*** - *
“Fergus”: Auckland Education Board
recently forbade teachers to smoke, the
idea being to guard against school fires.
The edict has now assumed a moral sig-
nificance. “Teachers should not set chil-
dren the example of smoking,” says the
board chairman. “Moreover, the spec-
tacle of teachers strolling round play-
grounds smoking their pipes is degrading
"All right! If you don't like the blazer I bought you, chuck it overboard;
BUT DON’T YOU TAKE IT OFF.”
to the profession.” It is a darned sight
more degrading to force responsible
adults into the school plantations pre-
viously used by bad boys with big
brother’s fags. And haven’t some wow-
sers queer ideas of respecting other
people’s liberties?
* * * *
“Kaha”: Maoriland’s Tasman sea-
board seems to be breaking out into a
whole epidemic of ports these days.
While gear is being prepared for the
new project at Jackson’s Bay, Wataroa
timber-mills are urging the dispatch of
a trial shipment of white pine from the
newly-opened Okarito harbor; the land
transport mileage could be reduced by
three-fourths, with consequent lower-
handling costs. The latest development
is the reopening of the Karamea River to
small coastal vessels. Ever since the
channel blocked with silt after the 1929
’quake, neighboring townships have been
periodically flooded; but the new stop-
bank and training-wall pushed the river
through the old mouth at the first big
fresh, not only making it once more
navigable, but practically eliminating the
flood danger.
* * * *
“W.C.R.”: The last-known living link
with Captain Cook passed away in 1853.
Te Taniwha was his name, and he was
paramount chief of the Maori tribes
settled around the mouth of the River
Thames on Coromandel Peninsula. In
1852 he had been instrumental in bring-
ing about an arrangement between Euro-
peans and Maoris whereby permission
was granted to the miners to dig for
gold on the newly-discovered gold-bear-
ing lands of Thames. Then a venerable
rangatira, as a boy Te Taniwha had stood
face to face with England’s great navi-
gator. He could tell of Cook’s first visit;
how the Maoris thought that his ship
was a whale fitted with wings, and that
his crew were gods ; how Cook spoke
little but patted the children, giving
them the first potatoes they had ever
seen. Te Taniwha used to say that Cook
on landing usually walked rapidly, wav-
ing his right hand to and fro. No doubt
he was scattering the first seeds of Europe
in Maoriland.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: The most southerly lamp-
post in the world has been moving gradu-
ally northward for the last 10 years until
to-day it has completely vanished. This
is not a topographical miracle, but evi-
dence of progress in the world’s most
southerly city—Maoriland’s Invercargill.
Solid, cast-iron standards carried Inver-
cargill’s gas lamps, and, probably because
city fathers of such Scottish ancestry saw
they were good for so many more years,
it was one of the last Maoriland centres
to switch to electricity. The post so many
visitors remember as being the nearest
in the world to the South Pole actually
disappeared some years ago, but Inver-
cargill was loath to lose this distinction,
so the next nearest assumed the title,
until the most southern lamp-post stood
outside the gasworks in the town itself.
Now this has been uprooted, and with
the others is up for sale. To avoid the
necessity for getting out new sets of post-
cards, some sentimental citizen should
plant an original where the most
southerly post stood for so many years.
* * * *
“Korero”: Complaints by manufac-
turers over here that goods of Australian
origin have been underselling locally-
made lines and still showing a good profit
(B. 15/9/’37) have been quietened by
recent Customs activity. Officials have
been examining imports from Australia
with considerable care, and are said to
be on the lookout for goods in which
other than Australian materials figure to
a sufficient percentage value to make the
articles ineligible for the special tariff
benefits extended under the trade agree-
ment made with Australia in 1933. Lines
have been refused the preference they
received automatically a few months ago ;
other have been held up long enough to
divert buyers to local manufacturers.
It shows how touchy the Savage Gov-
ernment is on the subject of Maoriland’s
rising production costs.
* * * *
“M.”: Tussock- and bush-burning on
Canterbury’s high-country runs has not
been confined to settlers who use periodi-
cal burns to get better grass takes (B.
29/9/’37). Shepherds usually have a
devil of a job getting scary mountain-
bred sheep down for lowland shearing;
the country is so rough that even the
hardiest dogs suffer from sore pads
before the annual muster is over. Sooner
than drift quietly down to valley-beds,
the sheep wait in patches of scrub, and
at the first opportunity break back for
the heights. Dozens of good shepherds
keep their mobs moving in the right
direction by putting matches to the scrub
in which they hesitate. These fires some-
times get out of hand and spread over
whole hillsides, which is another reason
why officials who fear the effects of
continued shingle-slides believe that high-
country grazing will have to be limited
before natural bush-growth will get a
chance to check erosion.
* * * *
“Motu”: Although he would probably
be the last to admit it, the average Maori-
land dairy-farmer likes work —or, if he
dislikes it, he doesn’t let the feeling inter-
fere with personal efforts to improve his
property, his herd and his production
figures. But when he does take a minute
or two off, he is inclined to resent the
fact that he works 70 hours a week for
a guaranteed-price basis of £5 10s., wage
and house allowance, when other men
work 40 hours for £4 10s. Finance
Minister Nash learned this when he ex-
plained the Government’s reasons for its
butter and cheese prices to Taranaki’s
dairy-farmers; and he must have raised
a chuckle or two when he replied that
if there were any way of reducing hours
of work in farming he was prepared to
help. The one way would be to fix a
high-enough butterfat price to enable
the small farmer to employ more labor.
And, if this price seemed too high to
the hard-headed dairymen, the scheme
would still flop ; they would work them-
selves and save the margin for the crash-
period. Minister Nash could have
crawled out of his Taranaki fix with
more prestige, by telling the farmers
they’d have to ask their bosses, the
cows, what they could do to shorten
working hours.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “Tlie Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney..
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number: the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . , .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
New H.T. Battery Supply.
The vibratory method of obtaining
high voltage from a low-voltage D.C.
source is well established, but ordinarily
180 volts is about the maximum avail-
able with a load capacity of about 50
milliamperes. Recently an American
manufacturer has designed a heavier-
duty vibrator unit giving up to 300 volts
at 100 milliamperes still employing the
vibratiqg reed idea.
“Radio Craft” (U.S.A.) gives details
of a new method of obtaining high vol-
tage from low-voltage D.C., allowing
high-current drain. As the circuit
diagram shows, it consists essentially of
Chas. D. Maclurcan operating 2CDM on board R.M.S. Tahiti, 1924.
a small motor with an eccentric cylindri-
cal metal cam fastened firmly on the
shaft. The cam “makes” and “breaks”
the four contact arms carrying tungsten
points. As the motor shaft revolves at
2500 revolutions per minute, circuit inter-
ruptions for each set of contacts are
produced at approximately 42 per
second.
As with vibrator units, the outside con-
tacts are connected to the outer wind-
ings of a 12-volt centre-tapped primary
of a 40-cycle-power transformer, the
centre-tap of which is connected in series
with the six-volt accumulator and the
two movable contacts. As the contacts
“chop” the battery current, six volts of
pulsating D.C. is present in the primary
winding. This can be stepped up to any
high value desired by the design of the
transformer, and can even be used for
very high voltages, such as those needed
for neon signs.
This motor-driven method apparently
has none of the failings of vibrators,
for the eccentric cam driven by the
motor will break the contacts apart even
though the points may be considerably
overloaded. Thus there can be no stick-
ing. In the original design the motor
itself consumes 1.9 ampere exclusive of
the load ,to the tungsten points. With
full load there is a total drain of 12.4
amperes from the six-volt accumulator.
At this rating the capabilities are 300
volts at 120 milliamperes.
The device is intended solely for heavy-
duty purposes, such as mobile public-
address systems or transmitters, and
there would be little object in applying
it to receivers. The unit could be made
up with a special transformer having an
additional 240-volt primary so that the
power unit could be used straight from
A.C. mains or a six-volt accumulator as
required. A discarded electric wind-
screen wiper motor would be suitable for
the basis of the unit.
D.B.K.
Looking Back-1924-1937.
The name of Chas. D. Maclurcan
looms large in the history of amateur
radio in Australia. Maclurcan’s callsign
was A2CM, and although he is no longer
active the call is retained in the P.M.G.
lists, evidence probably that some day
this old-timer may contemplate opening
up again.
A2CM can be considered as the father
of Australian amateur radio. He was a
foundation member of the W.1.A., im-
ported the first triode valve in 1913 and
was the first Australian to hear Ameri-
can signals, in April, 1923. In October
that year he communicated with M.L.
A2CM in 1924.
with the surprisingly low input power of
.0037 of one watt ; and in November of
the following year effected the first two-
way communication with G2OD in Eng-
land on 86 metres. Maclurcan was the
first Australian to communicate with
South Africa, on 20 metres in December,
1925; and he communicated two-way by
radio-telephony with G2OD in January,
1926.
Early in February, 1924, Maclurcan
and a young experimenter, Jack Davis
(A2DS, now an A.W.A. engineer), made
a trip to the Pacific Coast of U.S.A. on
the old Tahiti. They carried a low-power
transmitter and receiver, and the ship-
ping co. allowed them to suspend an
aerial from the
main mast. The
radio room was
rigged up near the
stern. Tests were
conducted on 200
and 185 metres,
and despite many
difficulties involv-
ing burning out of
expensive valves,
also a generator,
effective communi-
cation was estab-
lished with the 100-
watt transmitter of
A2CM at Strath-
field (N.S.W.) and
the more powerful
station of 6AKW
in California. The
ship station signed
2CDM.
Apart from the value of these early
tests, it was probably the first time that
an experimenter had been able to make
tests at a distance with his own home
station. The apparatus was crude, and
when it is realised that this pioneer com-
munication was done under severe handi-
caps, with low power, in the 200-metre
region, it is all the more remarkable.
Despite the advancement of years, sta-
tions have the utmost difficulty in com-
municating across the Pacific now on the
lower frequencies.
It was this kind of early effort that laid
the foundation stone of world-wide short-
wave communication as enjoyed to-day.
A2CM went off the air in 1927 owing to
pressure of business. To-day he is
managing director of Sydney’s Went-
worth Hotel.
D.B.K.
Belgian U.-S.-W. DX Tests.
The current issue of “QST” (U.S.A.)
announces a schedule by the well-known
Belgian short-wave experimenter J.
Mahieu, of Peruwelz, for 56 megacycle
DX working each week-end from
October to February. The frequency to
be used is 56,080 kilocycles. Times of
transmission will be Saturdays from 1400
to 1700 G.M.T.; Sundays from 0900 to
1000 G.M.T., and 1400 to 1700 G.M.T.
Fifteen-minute calling and listening
periods will alternate, the first 15 minutes
of each scheduled period being for
ON4AU’s calls, after which he will listen
for 15 minutes, and so on. At the same
time, ON4AU will also operate on 14,116
and 28,232 kilocycles, shifting to 56mc.
for tests with the stations worked on the
lower frequencies.
This type of summer test is the oppor-
tunity for which Australian 56mc. DX
men have waited, and the fact that the
times of transmission from the Belgian
occur in one period in the early hours
of the morning, when electrical interfer-
ence is at a minimum, makes the chance
of contact much more attractive.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
The enthusiasm for amateur radio of
many of the Americans compels admira-
tion. A man must be enthusiastic to
instal his station, as a Kansas ’phone was
heard to say, several miles out of town
to get a good location, and drive home
at 4.30 a.m. after working VKs, to start
Rear view of the 2CDM transmitter as used at sea in 1924.
work at 7.30 a.m. There is an attraction
about a location away from power lines,
BCLs and other radio troubles. On
most nights on 20 metres, Ws can be
heard saying that it is around 4 a.m. or
5 a.m. and “I had better get some sleep
before going to work.”
Something has happened to 10 metres.
When DX comes through, it is excellent,
but to-day 99 p.c. of the stations on this
band appear to be on ’phone. It is pos-
sible to call for hours on the key and
attract no attention.
During the 56mc. DX test day
(26/9/’37) few stations co-operated in the
Sydney area. The writer kept every
directional schedule, and during the
listening periods recorded nothing but the
activities of two local “pirates.” A new
beam array of the WBJK “flat-top” type
was erected. It was mounted vertically
on hinges at the top of a 45ft. mast, and
tests show the system to be more direc-
tional than the old twin dipole. A bam-
boo framework is used, and the dimen-
sions on five metres work out at 17ft. by
2ft. Feed is by a 500-ohm non-resonant
line and quarter-wave stub, with shorting
bar. Method of tuning is as described for
20 metres by WBJK in “Radio” for June
last. The long, narrow aerial offers less
wind resistance at the top of a high
exposed mast than two dipoles spaced
one half-wave.. This beam will shortly
be described, with dimensions and method
of adjustment. The lack of interest was
disappointing and is decidedly unfair to
ZLs and VK4s who were asked to co-
operate. The only licensed stations
heard were VKs 2ZN and 2ACB.
An effort was made to get a look in on
20-metre DX during the late afternoon,
but the week-end QRM on 20 has now
reached huge proportions, and the band
is like a beehive.
Ten metres is still patchy, with the
usual complement of fading Ws and
strong ZLs. Mid-October, when Euro-
peans may start to break through, should
bring a change.
VK2NO will shortly make a change
from modulated C.W. with constant car-
rier to keyed carrier on the 56mc. auto-
matic transmissions. Most of the DX
listening on five in England is done on
“straight” and not super-regenerative re-
ceivers, and it is considered that chances
of being heard are much better on C.W.
than on ’phone.
VK2NO.


i4i
%
U
VIS-7
RADIOTRONS
are sold in sealed cartons tor your protection. Each valve is
thoroughly tested before leaving the factory and comes to
you in perfect condition. Always insist on Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA)
LIMITED
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen St, Melbourne
National Electrical
Engineering Co.
Wellington,
and
Ltd.,
N.Z.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ti&b ELECTRIC
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Adelaide, Hobart
(Advertisements of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Limited.)
EXPLANATIONS FOR BEGINNERS.
Not every reader of “The Bulletin’s radio section is conversant with
radio principles and terminology. The following article is the first of
a series explaining the terms used in technical articles and the manner
in which the principles of radio communication are applied in practice.
Radio Frequency.
The letters “R.F.,” used so often in the
technical description of receivers or
transmitters, refer to the frequencies used
for the carrier-waves of radio stations.
Where an amplifying valve is used before
a detector valve, it is known as an “R.F.
amplifier” or “radio frequency ampli-
fier” —the valve amplifies the high-fre-
quency voltages received by the aerial
circuit before passing them on to the
detector valve for, rectification, still at
high radio frequencies. The same applies
to a transmitter: the oscillator- section
of the transmitter generates the R.F. cur-
rent, at a predetermined frequency, and
the amplifier stages amplify this current
successively until it is fed to the aerial,
or radiating system.
Frequencies that are audible below
15,000 cycles per second are called audio
frequencies, or “A.F.” Everything up to
the detector in a receiver (the second
detector in a superhet) is at radio fre-
quency, and everything following the de-
tector is at audio frequency. The gain
in signal strength when amplifying at
A.F. is greater than the gain at R.F.
since it is easier to keep A.F. currents in
check. R.F. currents are prone to
wander off, and at high current will pass
over or through anything but the best
insulator.
For coupling between valves, iron-core
transformers (not to be confused with
modern iron dust cored coils for R.F.)
can be employed. There are two wind-
ings round a single iron core. The iron
is magnetised much more easily than the
air surrounding the coils used at R.F.,
so that a good coupling is obtainable with
a big transfer of energy from one coil to
another.
In R.F. amplification air-cored coils
are used, but the recent introduction of
the iron-dust core has made possible
high R.F. gain with improved efficiency.
Showing R.F. transformer coupling be-
tween R.F. amplifier and detector valves.
Air-core coils are used here.
R.F. coils of this type are quite equal,
though very compact, to the old-time
large-sized “jam-jar” coils. Practically
every modern receiver uses the new iron-
cored R.F. coils.
Detector.
A detector gives in its output an A.F.
signal representing the modulated R.F.
applied to its input. It is the portion of
a receiver which changes R.F. power into
a suitable form of power for operating
an A.F. amplifier for use with head-
phones, loudspeaker or a visible indicat-
ing device.
There are various forms of detectors,
chief of which are the grid-bias detector
(plate current rectification), detector
with gridleak and condenser (grid cur-
rent rectification), and the contact de-
tector (crystal).
The simplest is the crystal type. Con-
tact between certain minerals' permits
electricity to flow freely in one direction
but opposes the flow in the reverse direc-
tion. A signal entering the detector con-
sists of an alternating current (at high,
or radio, frequency) with voltage rising
to positive, then falling to zero and drop-
ping to the same negative value as its pre-
vious positive value. A crystal of a
Illustrating A.F. transformer coupling
between audio amplifier valves. The
lines between the windings indicate the
iron core.
suitable mineral inserted in such a cir-
cuit passes the positive voltages, but re-
jects the negative. This leaves only the
one-way impulses to affect the head-
phones, and the sound becomes audible.
Galena (sulphide of lead) is used more
than any other material for crystal de-
tection, but nowadays crystal detectors
are practically obsolete.
Regeneration.
Regeneration is the action by which
part of the energy from the plate circuit
of a valve is fed back to the grid circuit
of the same valve. Plate and grid cir-
cuit energies are combined. By means
of regeneration, a valve is made to in-
crease the input voltage. Sensitivity is
thus increased.
D.B.K.
What's What in Radio.
In England a small cathode-ray tube
has been developed giving a televised
picture 2in. wide, which can be mag-
nified by an optical system and projected
on to a ground glass screen 3ft. square.
Reception is excellent. The small high-
voltage cathode-ray tube is arranged ver-
tically, and the light beam is passed
through a system of magnifying lenses
which throw the picture on to a mirror
set at 45deg.
* * * *
“Norwood”: Fresh light on the possi-
bilities of transmitting power without
wires may emerge from a legal problem
confronting the Hamburg magistrates.
The local broadcasting station runs on
100 kilowatts, and provident citizens have
been wiring up their house-lighting to
specially-designed receivers and securing
their juice for nothing. The principle in-
volved is simply that of the crystal re-
ceiver, which derives all its power from
the station’s signal, augmented greatly
in Hamburg’s case by nearness to the
transmitter. Whether such a use of
signal-power can be regarded as theft
remains to be determined. In point of
law the view will probably be taken that
the signal is the property of the trans-
mitting station until it reaches authorised
listeners.
* * * *
“Cluny”: For the information of radio
enthusiasts who may wish to carry on
their hobby in gaol the following hints
may be of value. Conceal two aluminium
plates inside the front and rear covers of
a book to act as condenser-plates. To
vary the capacity, change the angle at
which the book is held open and tune
accordingly. A fine coil and a crystal
detector are readily concealed between
the back binding and back cover of the
volume. For those who prefer to vary
their inductance for tuning-in, there is
another model. Select a small pillbox or
wax-vesta container and wind a 50-turn
coil of the finest wire available on a
cardboard former of slightly-smaller
diameter to fit inside. Tappings are taken
out through the box and led up to the
point where the lid fits on, where they
terminate in pinhead contacts. The lid
is equipped with a small brass paper-
fastener as a switch, rotating round the
tapping terminals. Inside the lid, crystal
detector and bits from a light-socket to
act as ’phone-terminals may comfortably
be squeezed under a false top on the
inside. Earth, aerial and ’phone prob-
lems, of course, vary with local condi-
tions.
* * * *
“Enno”: For years radio amateurs
using telegraphy have been able to under-
stand each other, even if of widely dif-
ferent nationalities, by means of the
international abbreviations. With the
advent of regular long-distance tele-
phony, notably on 20 metres, language
difficulties at first confined contacts to
formalities in the way of signal-strength
reports and a few spoken abbreviations,
but now it is a different story. Seldom
does the English-speaking amateur con-
tact a foreigner who cannot speak English
in reply, and speak it very well. Amateur
radio is rapidly establishing the English
language as the standard. It is a point
that could well be emphasised during the
Cairo frequency battle, due next year.
* * * *
A paper by Don B. Knock, “Aerials,
Associated Apparatus and Ultra-shorts,”
delivered before members at the last
meeting in Sydney of the 1.R.E., dealt
with experimental findings with ultra-
The modern vibrator-powered battery
receiver is designed with the vibrator unit
separate from the receiver chassis, as
shown in this example.
short-wave directive arrays, suitable re-
ceivers and transmitters for stabilised
forms of communication at 56mc., dipole
aerials in lower-frequency communica-
tion, and some aspects of aerials for
broadcast reception. It was illustrated
by screen projections.
Ultra-shorts for Airways.
Although long-distance radio communi-
cation is imperative for airliners, ultra-
short-wave equipment is very valuable
for picking up take-off and landing in-
structions from airport control towers.
The illustration shows one of the Hermes
transceivers used by Imperial Airways
on the new Empire sea routes. Jacks are
provided on the front panel for micro-
phone and telephones. The power unit is
in a separate case, and all internal leads
are brought to a non-reversible socket
fitted to the hinged lid in a recessed posi-
tion. The microphone is fitted to a
breastplate for hanging around the neck,
and the aerial is a half-wave dipole con-
structed from copper tubing with an in-
sulating support for attachment to the
transceiver case. The aerial can be us>ed
either vertically or horizontally.
For use in a ground station, such as
a control tower, a folding tripod is sup-
plied. Instruments of this nature are not
expensive, considering the valuable work
they perform, and something of the kind
is urgently needed for airport control in
Australia.
D.B.K.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) What are the qualifications necessary for
a ship or shore station radio operator? (2) Is
there a training course I could take at night?
(3) Chances of getting a job when qualified? —
596.
(1) First- or second-class P.M.G. certificate.
The examination is conducted by the Radio
Inspector’s Department. (2) Marconi School
of Wireless, Clarence-street,; Sydney, and Aus-
tralian Radio College, Broadway and City-
road, Sydney, give courses at night. (3) Very
good at present.
He H* * *
(1) What is the correct way to erect an aerial
for best reception from Daventry—in the same
direction or at right-angles? (2) Correct bear-
ing of Daventry from Rabaul? —598.
(1) If a long aerial is used it should point
generally in the direction of the station, with
the lead-in taken from the end nearest the
station. A short aerial would be better vertical.
(2) Approximately north-west.
* * * *
I am interested in the simple A.C. motor (B.
8/9/’37), and would like particulars of an
armature for use with the field specified, so
that a motor can be built to deliver one-
fiftieth h.p. or more. —597.
It will be necessary to design such a motor
with a more powerful field than the one speci-
fied, and the field laminations would have to be
arranged so that there is only a small air-gap
between the pole pieces and the armature
circumference. It could be done by recon-
structing an old fan motor. The armature
would have to be machine-made, with laminated
segments fitted into slots in the body of the
armature, which would be of insulating material.
The armature should be made as long as the
width of the pole pieces. It would be advis-
able to get an electrical engineer to do the job
if you have no previous experience.


LYS
m
.4. “
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
. ; j ;>■ ■ { '‘ •
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are '*
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
1.,w.:
m; \
Ui«~, ' r**W*A~»
ft*-'- -e.. ' *.
m
«sfi' „ :
; 1 **«&» '-i/jLaiXnii ‘ J ».'? ?«
-&■ sms
i^JLLLJuMs*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
S/tCIFY "jYSAGHT'S
WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC>
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Shortage of Shearers.
“Albarmount”: Amending the pastoral
award to make provision for one learner
to every four stands and tightening up the
definition of; “learner,” as “Miirrawong”
suggests :(B. 22/9/’37), would not; over-
come the shearer shortage.
Multiple-stand sheds are fast disappear-
ing. Small owners are realising, the
economy of having two-stand plants of
their own for. crutching and shearing. <v In
most cases, the shed work is done by the
owner and his boys, shearers only being
engaged.
Of 14 sheds within short radius of . the
writer, there is now only one four-
stander, and this is likely to go at any
time. There are three three-stand sheds
and 10 with two stands, the latter having
doubled in number in the last six years.
Unless very small flocks are to be shorn,
there is no room for a learner in a two-
stand shed.
There are plenty of empty showground
pavilions suitable for use as trade schools
in which shearing could be taught.
The Blowfly.
“Vet . Sci”: “Narooma” (B. 15/9/’3-7)
says that the majority of N.S.W. graziers
pin their, faith on crutching to combat
blowfly, while in Queensland jetting is
more widely practised. But in N.S.W.
sheep are usually crutched only once,
and that as close to lambing as possible.
An officer of the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department visited 50 properties to
gather information as to how fly strike
was being dealt with, and found, that on
29 properties one crutching only was
carried . out. On 20 properties they
crutched twice a year, and on the remain-
ing property there was no general crutch-
ing at all. 1
A double crutching is recommended
unless a thorough system of jetting is
carried out with the first crutching.
In crutching it is, of course, important
to shear/;the wool from over the folds
each side, of the breech and their pro-
longations to the crutch down to the legs.
Cutting away soiled and matted wool
below the breech is not sufficient.
Jetting, too, is often done carelessly—
with the result that the protection period
is short. At Nyngan J (N.S.W.) Experi-
mental Farm, jetting with various arseni-
cal solutions, including, calcium arsenite,
was found to prevent the development of
maggots. It takes from two ;to three
pounds of mixture to jet a sheep thor-
oughly.
“Narooma” says flytraps cause heavy
mortality, but does not state among what
sort of flies. If we could get rid of the
primary flies there would be no secondary
strike. Those graziers who have; aban-
doned trapping are probably awake to
the fact that it is chiefly! the secondary
flies that are caught in traps. The Blow-
fly Sub-committee’s opinion; is that dip-
ping cannot be relied on to prevent strike.
It is possible to breed susceptible sheep
out of the flock, but then the fly may
strike those less susceptible. Further, the
quality of the wool might suffer if the
“predisposition” factor in the sheep were
removed.
The statement that when ; /the fly is
really bad it will strike any sheep, wet
or dry, anywhere, requires further con-
firmation. Flies have been induced to
strike sheep in the insectaries at Can-
berra ; but conditions were made favor-
able, and, although flies were attracted to
many sheep, no eggs were laid- on- some,
while on others - they - were laid freely.
.Further, young maggots placed on the
skin of sheep failed to develop in a
number of cases. •
.V; . /'• f t. li 1; ' ..V?
/ Drought Sheep Rations.
. “Corriedale”: The Waite Institute (S.A.)
reckons the merino needs 1250 calories
daily, and this is amply covered by 31b.
of good oaten, wheaten or pastur? hay.
But under drought conditions the merino
can apparently get along nicely on 950
calories a day, or slightly over 12lb. of
average good hay.
Experimental station trials neglect the
fact that the sheep has a greater efficiency
in digesting foods when, these are at a
low intake than when well-fed. So 21b.
of hay under drought conditions will
“Get your coat, Casey—you're going to see an oculist!"
do the work of 31b. The ideal ratioq is
lib. of good average hay or chaff and
4oz. of grain. ~ 1
The old combination, maize and
lucerne, has the best record. Maize pan
often be, bought for 3s.' 6d. a busheTat
glut periods, and is the only safe grain
for ground feeding. Barley can replace
it, or oats or wheat, but then troughs are
needed. , ■ *
~* • r
Fat Lambs.
“Hortus”: If we are" to breed the fype
of lambs best suited-to the ;U.-K.--market,
British breeds must sire them. ; Y o
Archibald - Brownings Of Riverslea,
Yarraworiga- \(N^SrW.-),-"has 1 on several
different occasions topped the London
market, against the : best M.L. exports,/ He
uses comeback or first-cross ewes, and
mates them with Southdown rams. The
trouble with Southdowns is that they are
not dual-purpose sheep—their wool is
unpayable stuff.
There’s a rush now for re-infusion of
Lincoln blood. M.L. and S. American
flock-owners substituted Romney Marsh
for Lincoln or Leicester. Bradford
buyers of coarse-bred wools suggest a re-
version to others for crossing purposes.
Many flock-owners plump for a come-
back Border Leicester cross as the
safest meat-and-wool combination.
Romney Marsh cross with merinos to
produce a mother for fat lambs is still
popular. This cross is considered ideal
for fat lambs in M.L. The wool com-
pares favorably with any other, and the
cross inherits the Romney hardiness. It
resists footrot and fluke and it thrives
on heavy, low-lying lands.
Suffolks are the most popular mutton
sheep of all breeds in U.S.A. and Britain.
This breed was formed by crossing im-
proved Southdown with the now extinct
Norfolk Horns. Suffolks do well on poor
pastures. They show a large proportion
of lean meat and small wastage. Their
value lies in the fact that they produce
a high carcass weight at an early age.
Lambs at 10 weeks old average an ex-
port carcass of 361 b. ; eight to ten
months old, 801b.-901b. of lean, dressed
(Carcass. They .dress up,, to 68 p.c.:live-
weightand 3 the . meat is nicely. marbled,
"lean, without excess of fat.'/ { •; :
. - Lambsj from n three-quarter y Ryeland
/ewes are veijy'squat,and thickset.. They
■ are; heayiiy';fleshed, giving U-shaped car-
casses, -.attractive'; on :the . hooks to the
butchering trader. Ryeland wool is the
finest of British breeds." It is superior for
spinning purposes ’to nearly all others,
except the merino. . : / c ‘
Another cross,*' born and. fattened in
one of the worst; seasons'on record, did
well at Brisbane Royal. They are the
result of mating Border Leicester rams
with grade Corriedale -ewes. ’• The cross
matures earlier than pure Corfiedale, and
carries skins above the average value of
other long-wool crosses. It makes great
headway on improved pastures.
Still Another Breed.
“Sheepo”: The purchase in England
by a N.S.W. fat-lamb producer of some
Dorset Downs rams and ewes adds an-
other of the Downs breed to the half-
dozen or so already established in Aus-
tralia.
The Dorset Down must not be con-
fused with the Dorset Horn. By mating
Southdown rams with the larger Hamp-
shire and Wiltshire ewes, judicious in-
breeding resulted in a distinct type being
produced, which, although possessing the
principal features of the Hampshire,
showed lighter color and finer bone. Like
the Hampshire, the Dorset Down has
brown-black face, legs and ears.
To produce fat-lambs suitable for ex-
port, the Dorset Downs when crossed
with merino or crossbred ewes should
achieve some of the success that has
come the way of the breed in England,
but D.Ds. are not likely to improve
the types of inferior grades of crossbred
wools that have appeared and still
appear on brokers’ show floors. And
there is always the danger attendant on
the introduction of fresh breeds for
crossing purposes in the lack of uni-
formity in lamb carcasses.
Export Lamb-breeding.
“F.L.8.”: On 25in. rainfall country,
12 years’ experience of lamb-breeding has
answered for us many
questions raised on
the M.O.L. page.
Using Southdowns
on merino ewes,
lambs were fairly
quick maturing, with
typical So u t hdown
points, and having a
merino wool with
crossbred tip. They
grew a good class of
lamb’s wool, yield-
ing 31b. to 41b. per
head at four months.
So u t hdowns on
first - class English
Leicester ewes with a
fine crossbred wool
produced quick-
maturing lambs, but
percentages were not
too good. The lamb’s
wool was on the
coarse side. Carcasses
were good to excel-
lent export quality.
The sheep need plenty
of rich feed, and are
no good to keep after
the lamb stage.
Dorset Horns on
merino ewes gave
fairly good percen-
tages of good lambs,
quick maturing. Wool
was coarse and light
cutting, and the carcass typically D.H.
in appearance. A useful cross, but not
much good to keep after the lamb stage.
Lambing' troubles were often met in
the firsf." two. cases, occasionally in the
last/ Lambing ewes need plenty of atten-
tion.
Lambs from Romney Marsh on
merino ewes made good carcasses with
poor wool. They were strongly resistant
to ailments, showed good percentages
and were fairly quick maturing; but
there was too much loss at lambing time.
They grow into large-framed, coarse-
woolled sheep, strongly resistant to foot-
rot and worms. The R.M. is used to
wet-footed conditions, but is adaptable
to dry conditions, too.
There were good percentages with
Border Leicesters on merino ewes, which
drop good lambs with fair wool quality,
but - inclined to be coarse. They are
quick maturing. This cross grow into
large sheep. They need a lot of atten-
tion at lambing.
English Leicesters on merino ewes
gave an average of 94 p.c. this season,
(Continued on page 44.)


K
.ft
,JS
Hi
■" iJ?V :'
-
mm
m
m
s
m
wmm
wsmm i
YET IT COSTS
SO LITTLE
TO RUN!
STEEL
OR RUBBER
TYRES
SUNSHINE
MASSET HARRIS
The best power proposition for all
requirements.
£ f | ? II * |lJ§||| f
t; If 'liSiii
PLOUGHING.-—Sunshine Massey ‘ Harris Tractor
hauling a 6-furrow Sunrise Stump-jump Mould-
board Plough.
m
%
11
■
SEEDING. Sunshine Massey Harris Tractor hauling
a Suntyne Combined Grain and Fertilizer Drill and
Spring Tyne Cultivator.
Wii
»
n
HARVESTING. Sunshine Massey Harris Tractor
hauling a Sunshine Stripper Harvester, Type A.L.
Backed by the H. V. McKAY
MASSEY HARRIS three-point service:
1- —Highly qualified service and engineering staffs.
2. —Australia-wide organisation of practical field
experts.
3 - —Complete, constantly-available stocks of dupli-
cate parts.
Let us help you solve all your haulage and power
problems. Ask the local agent, or write direct.
Many engineering refinements combine
to make it l pre-eminent for ECONOMY,
RELIABILITY and all-round VALUE.
Consider these Points of Leadership!
by combination pressure metering and
splash system gives double protection.
LUBRICATION
Exclusive oil filtering.
BOILER PLATE U-FRAME po „ ibk Elimi „. te , „, ele „
weight—a big factor in low fuel consumption.
strongest yet lightest
PATENTED VAPORIZER ver^^ ery atom of fuel
AID F AWFU of the most efficient oil-flush type. Proved
98.8 p.fc. efficient in tests carried out by the
University of California. f • , ,
REMOVABLE CYLINDER SLEEVES- Ma ’ s e y
Harris
gave the industry this valuable feature. Machined and honed to
mirror finish.
are of super-quality (for long, efficient service.
Hardened and renewable exhaust-valve inserts.
Overhead mechanism is pressure lubricated and easily accessible.
VALVES
TRANSMISSION
is direct through a minimum number of
tial is ahead of rear axle—reduces load tremendously. Ring gears,
two master pinions and differejntial bevel gears are reversible to
give double wear. Twin master gear final drive. Higher efficiency,
less possibility of trouble. f
SIMPLICITY AND EASY RENEW ABILITY
of wearing parts enables you! to imake your tractor like new at
lowest cost for duplicates—which are always available.
These and other notable advantages ensure
that it gives you
Models to meet all needs .
: * ■>"
MSP
PACEMAKER, 16/26 li.p. Speed up to
8.5 m.p.h.; or on rubber tyres, up to
10 m.p.h.
MODEL 25, 26/41 h.p. Enll power for
heavy work.
NEW ORCHARD PACEMAKER. Row
set and streamlined —ample power for
speedy, effective working of all orchard
implements.
ĸ
k
H.V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS Pty.Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria )
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, W2O, VIC. Also at BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
27-39 Broadway, SYDNEY. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE. Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street; also Glenelg
Street, South Brisbane, Queensland.


USE COSSACKS FOR
COUNTRY WEAR . . .
USE ABBEYS FOR
QUALITY.
A fitting companion for
the man on the land is this
new Abbey Working
Cossack. Strongly made
with heavy double sole
and leather lining, and an
upper of tough wearing
Calf; it’s built to last.
The comfort, of course, is
the same as any other
Abbey model . . . perfect.
Made in Black and Brown
Calf in full and half sizes.
Prices: Black Calf, 27/6
Brown Calf, 27/6
If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a Good Shoe.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.
JOHN DOES THIS EVERY FEW WEEKS
HEAVY RADIO
CCUMUIATOR TO
TOWN AND
PAYS TO HAVE IT RECH URGED
EVERY FEW WEEKS .<?■
u
—but his neighbour
buys an
«>o'O
A - ** 0
Jf 11 ' . MO »*.«.«»»
I
i*3
n
is
1®
m
Va
Country folk need no longer
envy city people their All-
Electric Sets. Air Cell operated
Radio is every bit as con-
venient and reliable because
it is equipped with the new
Eveready Air Cell, which
needs no recharging—gives
over a year of trouble-free
“life” with normal use—main-
tains constant voltage at the
correct level for perfect re-
ception—and needs no atten-
tion at all.
Air Cell operated models are
available under the following
well-known brands
STROMBERG-CARLSQN
BRITON
STERLING
S.T.C.
TASMA
PARAMOUNT
ECLIPSE
KRIESLER
ZENITH
GENALEX
SYMFONA
LEKMEK
WELDON
BREVILLE
VELCO
ARISTOCRAT (E.S.M.)
WESTINGHOUSE
AIRZONE
i
XSEA33
k
k
FREE-
TO COUNTRY READERS
Send to-day for our big
32-page book on the
Eveready Air Cell and
Air Cell operated radio
sets. Sent tree on appli-
cation. Fill in and post
the coupon at right
NOW.
The Ever Ready Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Harcourt Parade.
ROSEBERY, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
Please send me your 32-page book on the Eveready
Air Cell and Air Cell operated radio sets. It is
understood that this will place me under no
obligation whatsoever.
NAME.
ADDRESS
0 THE EVER READY CO. (Aust.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
if any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
TTuTfy'!;<lZeti/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BEEBE
Por able
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
ķ
For use where Power is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity, weight .. 661 b.
5-ton capacity, weight '.. 1191 b.
Illustrated folder with full particulars
obtainable from: —
Ne T son & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
and little lambing trouble. The lamb is
not so quick maturing as some of the
other crosses and is inclined to be deli-
cate. If the lambs are not got off, they
grow into fine-woolled, big-framed, profit-
able crossbreds. The four-tooth ewes last
year cut an average of lffjlb. per head.
In Homebush three months ago I saw
a pen of Southdown lambs, far better ex-
port quality than our pen of E. Leicester-
merino cross lambs, fetch 2s. 7d. per
head less. Skin value made the differ-
ence. Southdowns are bought almost
solely on meat value.
What Pasture Improvement Can Do.
“Lion”: Several years of consistent
pasture improvement, both by supering
and with sub. clover and other pasture
plants, is showing us (in the Riverina)
handsome returns in the wool clip this
year.
Many of the sheep had to be hand fed
because of the bad season, but ewes
rearing lambs —90 p.c. at that—are cut-
ting 101 b. each so far, and not 1 p.c.
of the clip is tender. Crossbred lambs,
approximately months old, are cut-
ting 21b. to 31b. per head, and many of
them are fat. Much of the wool is a
sound 60-64’s warp.
An appraiser places the value of the
three-top lines 888 AAAA 23d.,
AAAAE 224 d. He estimates the yield
of the locks at about 46 p.c. ; the highest
yielding wool in the shed at 76 p.c.
We can see the steady increase in wool
yield each year, also more sheep are con-
sistently fat than ever before. This year,
off 2000 acres, we turned off 18 trucks
of fat sheep and lambs, 160 head fat
bullocks, and had 100 acres down to
crop. We have suffered less from worms,
and all stock are looking exceptionally
well.
The Spread of Bang’s Disease.
“Silky Bag”: U.S.A. workers suggest
that the house fly introduces contagious
abortion into herds. They have found
that the bulk of the disease is caused
through the conjunctival membranes of
the eyes. Previously it was believed that
contaminated pastures and food were the
chief sources of trouble.
In Australia, skin penetration at almost
any part of the hide effects contagion.
Aborted calves, foetal membranes and
discharges on infected cows are the prime
danger, since it is from them that flies
gather the germs.
Burning or burying with lime anything
likely to be infected is the best preven-
tive.
Balling in Horses.
“Horsey”: While not quarrelling with
the other treatment suggested by “Aga-
memnon” (B. 15/9/’37) he is off the
mark in condemning mine. It saved
three horses out of five and had no later
ill-effects.
Having carefully p.-m.’d the two
horses that died, I think that the vet.
and I might be allowed to know whether
they died from balling or impaction as
“A.” suggests. Had these two horses
been taken in time, as the others were,
they would have been saved.
The treatment has been effective on
different occasions.
Corns and Horses.
“Agamemnon”: Horses with flat feet,
high, narrow heels or sidebones working
on stony ground often develop bad corns.
Paring of the frog and bars, ill-fitting
shoes and overgrown feet are fruitful
causes.
The seat of the corn is between the
bars and the wall. There will be signs of
lameness at the time of injury. If un-
treated the com may become infected,
leading to acute lameness. Pus under-
runs the horn of the wall and breaks
out at the coronet, usually at the heels.
It may cause death of the sensitive struc-
tures and sloughing of the hoof.
On paring, the corn is moist and may
be bloodstained. The whole area should
be pared away with as little injury to the
bars and frog as possible. If pus comes
from the coronet, the wall must be
stripped. If carefully done with a hot
iron and searcher this should not cause
much bleeding. Hot antiseptic poultices
or hot foot baths regularly are the best
methods of treatment.
Excessive poulticing makes the horn
very soft. When the discharge has ceased
apply a three-quarter bar shoe with no
bearing on the seat of the corn and
pack with tar and tow under a leather
sole.
Proper shoeing and regular attention
to the feet will prevent the trouble.
Peanuts for Stock.
“Dimon”: Peanuts can be fed to
stock as meal or cakes. They are a
quick fattener for lambs, and increase
the yield of milk when fed to cows. They
can be given to farm horses, mixed with
ordinary stable feed. With a bran or
pollard mash peanuts are also good for
fowls.
The tops of the peanuts can be used
as silage or cut into chaff—a roughage
that goes well with grain, chaffed
sorghum or oaten chaff. In drought-time,
cane tops sometimes sell for £6 a ton, and
dry corn husks are eagerly sought.
Properly-stored peanut tops should be
superior to either.
“C.V.S.”: Close lock stitching of un-
pressed wool bales is unnecessary. Think
of the chap on the reclassing or show
floor and make wide stitches. Never
use binder-twine, which breaks up into
harsh fibres when cut. Bale fasteners are
preferable and secure even for unpressed
bales.
“Cooee-Bird”: The best bullock yokes
I ever saw were made of silky-oak (B.
l/9/’37). This wood is strong and not
too heavy, and it takes on a nice finish
without any special polishing. Fifty years
ago most S.Q. bullockies used silky-oak.
Another good yoke wood is scrub iron-
bark. This thin, spotted-barked wood
is light and very strong when dry, but
the difficulty is to get a tree (they don’t
grow to any thickness) straight enough.
“Told You So”: Crows a menace to
blowflies? I don’t believe it. You
can have all over your paddocks car-
casses which are a moving mass
of maggots and all the crows in the
countryside will be round the ewe
that gets “down” when lambing. That
only the white-eyed crow or raven does
the damage is wrong, too, though it may
be the worst. If stockowners want
dingoes and flies kept under control they
had better do it themselves.
“Colon”: To catch poisoned foxes in
situ there is no need to go around draped
with old tins like a tinker and leaving
drinks of water to delay them while the
poison tickles up there innards (B.
15/9/’37). Poke a hole in the ground
and drop in a bait, cover it up and put
another bait on the surface. His nibs
swallows the exposed one, and while min-
ing for the other turns up his pads on
the spot.
“Gumblegubbin”: The difficulty of pro-
viding butter-box timber will become
greater if steps are not taken soon to
grow supplies. The bulk of Australian
butter is boxed with M.L. wood, but the
natural forests across the Tasman are
rapidly dwindling, and if an export em-
bargo were placed on it Australia’s over-
seas butter trade, which depends on taint-
less wood, would be crippled. The re-
quired timber could be grown in N.S.W.,
and there doesn’t appear at present to
be any other solution to the problem.
“Runa”: Maoriland has begun an in-
tensive campaign for a sweet home-grown
grapefruit. The M.L. grapefruit, or
“poor-man’s orange,” though of good
size, could never be described as anything
but sour with a tendency to bitterness.
If some fruitful genius can produce one
thin-skinned, seedless and sweet-flavored,
an immense market is assured in M.L.


A Stirring Memory
of the Battles of
Peter and Rogilla
is r.
I ■ I
mm
''Mf
uv u
i>
A GOOD FINISH
DESERVES A
COOD DRINK -
At the Spring Meeting the Spring
Greeting is “Here’s To’ee”—and
the winner of the good health
stakes is out of Tooheys Bottle
by Grand Thirst...
Ejfyp .
CIIUjB
Mglgil
\v!* l .‘ Uriv ixmuut ; u *** l *?:* I
, r>nc*«n»> ArrtiPiv
CLUB LACER
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgetv & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E, Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra'(Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers. N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
-Q
c>
kort Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
( journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written?
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to wiite and how to Sell your stories and articles.
Full details s«nt on application to
I.C.S. School ofi Journalism
CO Elira'-eth Str.-et, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Jo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to. Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Typist, Sydney, executes envelopes and MSS.
neatly and promptly; also would attend office
part time. —7316.
Elderly Englishwoman (N.S.W.) offers com-
fortable home in return for assistance in all
duties. Four adults.—7284.
Young man (22), Sydney, wants position on
station, inexperienced, but willing to learn
and not afraid of hard work. —7267.
To buy letters and documents relating to
Surgeon Martin Mason and John and James
Williamson, pioneer settlers, and their immedi-
ate descendants. —7269.
To buy the “Art in Australia” books, one and
two, of Norman Lindsay pen-drawings; also the
Norman Lindsay number of the same journal.
—7243.
Words of recitation “The Green Eye of the
Little Yellow God.”—7308.
Words of “The Stockman’s Tale,” beginning:
The campfire was burning brightly.
Its glowing radiance shed.
The crackling sparks flew upwards
In the darkness overhead.
—7318.
Photographs and particulars of J. and W.
Bassett Christian, owners of Tenterfield station
in the ’seventies. —7283.
Information Sought.
(1) Who were the players selected for the
Australian XI to tour S. Africa in 1914 (can-
celled on account of the Great War) ? (2)
Result of Test matches between South Africa
and Australia before the Great War? —7285.
(1) W. W. Armstrong, W. Bardsley, T. J.
Andrews, C. Kelleway, C. Macartney, E. Baring,
J. Ryder, W. Carkeek, A. G. Moyes, E. R.
Mayne, W. J. Whitty, R. L. Park, B. J. Fol-
kard, with C. G. Campbell manager. (2) Aus-
tralia won two and drew one in S. Africa
in 1902; Australia won four and S.A. one in
Australia in 1910-11; Australia won two and
drew one in England (under the triangular
scheme) in 1912.
* * * Mi
(1) What were the ages of V. Trumper, C.
Hill and D. Bradman when they scored their
first centuries in Test cricket, and where did
they score them? (2) How old was Dr. W. G.
Grace when he played his last Test match ? —•
7292.
(1) Trumper—21 years 7 months; 135 not out
at Lord’s (Eng.), June, 1899. Hill —20 years
10 months; 188 at Melbourne, January, 1898.
Bradman—20 years 5 months; 112 at Mel-
bourne, January, 1929. (2) Grace was 50 years
11 months when he played his last Test at Not-
tingham (Eng.), June, 1899.
* * * *
(1) What were the bowling figures of the late
E. A. McDonald, W. Armstrong, Jack Gregory
and A. Mailey with the 1921 Australian XI in
England in Tests and all matches? (2) In how
many of the five Tests did McDonald get most
wickets ? —7299.
0)
Test Matches.
Wickets. Runs. Average.
McDonald 27 668 24.74
Armstrong 8 212 26.50
Gregory 19 552 29.05
Mailey 12 398 33.16
All Matches.
Armstrong 106 1555 14.66
McDonald 150 2409 16.06
Gregory 120 1982 16.51
Mailey 150 2967 19.78
(2) McDonald was equal with Gregory (eight
wickets each) in the first Test, most wickets in
the second (eight) and third (six), no wickets in
the fourth and most wickets (five) in the fifth.
* * # *
(1) Shortest and longest batting-time in a
Test match innings <by England and Australia?
(2) Longest Test innings? (3) Most runs scored
in one series of Tests? (4) When Australia
scored 729 runs for 6 wickets at Lord’s, July,
1930, who were the batsmen ? —7277.
(1) lhr. lOmin. by England (61 runs) at Mel-
bourne, Jan., 1902; lhr. llmin. by Australia
(58 runs) at Brisbane, Dec., 1936. (2) 12hr.
35min. by Australia (695 runs) at Kennington
Oval, Eng., August, 1930; llhr. by England
(636 runs) at Sydney, Dec., 1928. (3) 6826
runs in Australia, 1928-29—England, 3757 runs
for 87 wickets; Australia, 3069 runs for 90
wickets. (4) Woodfull 155, Ponsford 81, Brad-
man 254, Kippax 83, McCabe 44, V. Richard-
son 30, Oldfield 43 not out, Fairfax 20 not out.
* f *
What are (1) the largest attendances recorded
at a club (not inter-State) football match in
Vic.? (2) Daily attendances at the last Eng-
land v. Australia cricket Test played in Mel-
bourne, Feb. 26 to March 2, 1937 ? —7105.
(1) The largest V.F.L. attendance at an ordi-
nary club game was 46,000 recorded at the
Carlton v. Collingwood match on June 6, 1936.
The record V.F.L. attendance was 88,540 at
the grand final between Geelong and Colling-
wood at the Melbourne ground on Sept. 25, 1937.
The finals always draw more people, but
inter-State games are not as well supported as
ordinary club matches. (2) Fifth Test match
attendances were: Feb. 26, 52,342; Feb. 27,
77,181; Mar. 1, 63,340; Mar. 2, 31,137; total,
224,821. More people saw the third Test,
played from Jan. 1 to Jan. 7, 1937, attendances
being: Jan. 1, 79,630; Jan. 2, 65,235; Jan. 4,
(world record), 87,798; Jan. 5, 64,826; Jan. 6,
45,528; Jan. 7 (reduced prices), 7640; total,
351,026.
* * $ *
Some particulars concerning William Dutton,
an early whaler, and his connection with Port-
land 8ay?— 7345.
He was born in Sydney, probably in 1809,
taken while still an infant to Tasmania by
his parents, and at the age of 18 went to sea.
In 1828-33 he was serving in various vessels
engaged in sealing at Portland Bay, and, accord-
ing to his own account, built a house there in
1829 and lived in it for nearly two years in
all; on this ground he in 1873 claimed to be
the first permanent settler on Victorian soil,
antedating the Hentys by five years. In 1833,
returning to Portland Bay as master of the
whaler Henry, he enlarged his establishment
to include a vegetable garden, and his claim
to priority as against the Hentys depends on
the question whether this amount of cultivation
can be considered a bona fide settlement.
From 1834 onwards Dutton was commanding
vessels owned by a Tasmanian firm in which
James Henty was a partner, and was sent to
other fisheries, paying only five visits to Port-
land Bay between 1833 and 1845. By 1851,
however, he had abandoned the sea and settled
at Narrawong, near the head of the bay, and
there he died in July, 1878.
* * * *
What are the wealthiest industrial unions in
N. S. Wales?— 73l7.
Colliery Employees (Northern) Union, total
funds £40,398; Printing Industry Employees’,
£34,106; Public School Teachers, £26,045; In-
stitute of Marine and Power Engineers, £22,193 ;
and Amalgamated Engineering Union, £22,022.
Figures are as at December 31, 1935.
* * * *
Length, beam, draught, h.p. and speed of the
Commonwealth patrol launch Larrakia 3—7110.
Length 45ft., beam 9ft. 6in., draught 2ft.
44in. The vessel is equipped with three 100-
h.p. petrol engines, and has a cruising speed
of 19 m.p.h.
* * * *
What is the difference between an intelligent
and an intellectual person, and can you quote
an authority for your ruling ? —7324.
Fowler’s Modern English Usage says: “While
an intelligent person is merely one who is not
stupid or slow-witted, an intellectual person is
one in whom the part played by the mind as
distinguished from the emotions and percep-
tions is greater than in the average man. An
intellectual person who was not intelligent would
be, though not impossible, a rarity; but an in-
telligent person who is not intellectual we
most of us flatter ourselves that we can find
in the looking-glass. Intelligent is usually a
patronising epithet, while intellectual is a re-
spectful one, but seldom untinged by sus-
picion or dislike.”
* * * *
Francis Brett Young in his latest novel “They
Seek a Country” makes reference to an episode
in South African history which occurred at
Slachlers Nek. What was this incident and
when did it occur? —7332.
It happened in 1816 and arose out of the
British protecting the interests of the Hotten-
tots. A Boer farmer named Frederick Bezuiden-
hout refused to obey a summons issued on the
complaint of a Hottentot, and, firing on the
party sent to arrest him, was himself killed
by the return fire. This caused a miniature re-
bellion among the Boers, and on its suppres-
sion five ringleaders were publicly hanged at
the spot—Slachters Nek—where they had sworn
to expel “the English tyrants.” The feeling
caused by the hanging of these men was
deepened by the circumstances of the execu-
tion—for the scaffold on which the rebels were
simultaneously swung broke down from their
united weight, and the men were afterwards
hanged one by one.
* * * *
(1) How many regiments of Foot Guards are
there in the British Army? (2) Distinguishing
features of the uniforms? —7338.
(1) Five; the senior regiment is the Grenadier
Guards, which traces its origin to two regiments
of Royalist soldiery. The Grenadier title was
a reward for their performance against
Napoleon’s Imperial Guard at Waterloo. The
Coldstreams were raised at Coldstream in 1660
by General Monk. The Scots Guards were
formed by Charles I. in Scotland in 1642.
The “Micks,” or Irish Guards, were raised at
Queen Victoria’s command to commemorate
the gallantry of her Irish soldiers in S. Africa.
Lastly, there are the Welsh Guards, who first
went into action at Loos in 1915. (2) The easiest
way is to examine the buttons on the tunic
front. The Grenadiers have equi-spaced but-
tons, the Coldstreams are spaced in pairs, Scots
Guards in groups of three, Irish in fours and
the Welsh in groups of five.
•I* •I'
What is the connection between the expres-
sion “What the dickens” and Charles Dickens ?
—7315.
Actually there is none at all. The phrase
occurs in Shakspeare, “The Merry Wives of
Windsor” (Act 111, Scene 2), where Mrs. Page
says “I cannot think what the dickens his name
is my husband had him of. What do you call
your knight’s name, sirrah?” “Sir John Fal-
staff,” says Robin. The word is very prob-
ably a contraction of “devilkins.”
* * * *
Names of some doctors who, like A. J.
Cronin, have become men of letters ? —7327.
A few at random: Goldsmith, Keats, Robert
Bridges, Brett Young, Somerset Maugham,
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sir Thomas Browne,
Conan Doyle, Charles Lever, Roget, Thomas
Bowdler (hence “bowdlerise”), Axel Munthe,
Smollett, Samuel Smiles, Arbuthnot (coined the
expression “John Bull”), Henry Morley and
Beddoes. There are scores more.
* * * *
Who was the Witch of Endor? —7341.
The woman with “a familiar spirit” con-
sulted by Saul when forsaken of God and
threatened by the Philistines. At his request
she called upon Samuel, who prophesied the
death of Saul and the destruction of his army
(1 Sam. xxviii).
* * * *
Origin of the expression “send to Coventry” ?
—7350.
In the opinion of the 0.E.D., the origin of
the tag is indicated in the following quotation:
“At Bromingham, a town so generally wicked
that it had risen upon small parties of the
king’s, and killed or taken them prisoners and
sent them to Coventry” (then strongly held for
the Parliament). The sentence occurs in Claren-
don’s History of the Rebellion.
* * $ *
How and when did (1) tea, (2) coffee and (3)
cocoa first reach England? —73s9.
(1) Tea seems to have been introduced into
England from Europe after the year 1610,
having been brought to Europe by the Dutch
East India Company. Its popularity was of
slow growth, as the price was at first 10 guineas
a pound. (2) Coffee came to England in 1652,
being introduced by Daniel Edwards, a Smyrna
merchant, who opened the first London coffee-
house in St. Michael’s-alley, Cornhill. Partly
because of its greater cost, and partly because
few people make it well, it has never been as
popular in England as tea. (3) Cocoa (first
spelt “cocao”) was first brought to Europe by
the Spaniards in the early sixteenth century.
Although introduced at an earlier date than
either tea or coffee, it has attained a wide
popularity only of late years, and that mainly
through the enterprise of its manufacturers.
* sj:
(1) Wliat is the Queensland procedure for a
marriage before the Registrar ? (2) Fee ? (3)
Must birth certificates be produced? —7l97.
(1) The marriage must be celebrated in the
office of the Registrar for the district in which
the bride ordinarily resides, and the parties to be
married must complete a declaration to the
effect that they conscientiously object to be mar-
ried by a minister of religion, or that there is
no clergyman accessible. (2) £l. (3) Not essen-
tial, but certificates may be asked for if the
Registrar is not satisfied as to the accuracy of
the particulars furnished.
•1: * * *
How to grow staghorns, elkhorns and bird-
nest ferns ?— 7213.
Staghorns and elkhorns should be fastened to
logs of wood (about 12in. diameter) or pieces
of flat board. Between the wood and the ferns
pack plenty of spagnum moss or rotted leaves,
and add a little soil to the top af the moss
so that it will be carried down with watering.
Bind the ferns to the logs with canvas-covered
wire, being careful not to damage the unfolding
leaves near the bottom of the ferns. Bird-
nest ferns can be grown in boxes, pots or in a
shaded corner of the garden. With plenty of
moisture all these plants will quickly establish
themselves.
* * * *
In what aspect should a N.S.W. waratah
plant be placed? Will it grow in Euroa (Vic.)?
Kind of soil needed? —7214.
An easterly position, free from strong winds,
is ideal. As with all native plants, sunshine is
essential to force strong, hardy plants and bring
out the color in the flowers; it is not advis-
able to grow them in shady places. There is
no reason why they should not do well in
Euroa. Sandy loam free from animal manures
is most suitable. Unless there is a natural
fall in the land place a layer of stones at
least 3ft. down for drainage before setting out
the plants. Waratahs will not do well in a
waterlogged situation.
# * * *
(1) Suitable type of spark plug for a 1926
model Special Six Chandler car? (2) How
often should spark plugs be renewed? —7190.
(1) “L 4” Leggett’s plug (|in. thread) will be
suitable. If the car is a 1926 Chandler, as
stated, set the gap at 0.02 in., but if it is a
“Special Six” (model 43), of 1927 manufacture,
use the same plug but set the gap at 0.025 in.
(2) Every 10,000 or 12,000 miles.
* :!= ■-.■ *
(1) What does it cost to feed a saddle horse
in Brisbane? (2) Fair rental for stables foi-
ls horses ? (3) Cost of building wooden stables
for 15 horses? (4) Cost of 15 quiet horses
with about 10 years’ work left in them, not any
older? (5) Prospects in Brisbane of livery-
stable and riding-school business?-— 7175.
(1) About 15s. a week. (2) 2s. 6d. a box. (3)
Approximately £2OO to £250. (4) Poor sorts,
£3 to £lO each; good, £ls to £2O each. (5)
Poor.
* * * *
(1) Composition of an alloy whose melting
point is, approximately, that of boiling water?
(2) Composition of an alloy with the lowest
possible melting point ? —7276.
(1) Rose’s metal, containing bismuth 50 parts,
lead 28.1 parts, tin 24.1 parts, melts at 203 deg.
F. (boiling point of water 212 deg. F.). (2)
Wood’s metal, containing bismuth 50 parts, lead
25 parts, tin 12.5 parts, cadmium 12.5 parts,
melts at 149 deg. F. Alloys of this class are
used in sprinkler systems and stops to hold
steel fire doors open.
:J: *
How to get rid of bugs in clothes and
blankets? —6995.
Hang over a clothes-line fixed in a room or
shed, made airtight as far as practicable. In
the room, and clear of the clothes, place rock
sulphur or flowers of sulphur in a metal recep-
tacle, supported on bricks, in a tub contain-
ing a little water (so as to avoid risk of fire).
Use 61b. sulphur for every 1000 cub. ft. of
airspace in the room. Sprinkle the surface of
the sulphur liberally with methylated spirits, so
as to facilitate burning, and seal up all open-
ings to the room. After setting fire to the
sulphur the room should be left sealed for
six to eight hours.
Brief Answers.
P. McM.: (1) A is right; he can play the
joker at any stage and nominate the suit it
represents, provided that he has not previously
renounced that suit. (2) Not provided for in
the rules, as five hundred is properly a three-
handed game. You must make your own rules
for the points that crop up in four-hand play.
J.R.B.: Write State Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary’s Dept., Macquarie-street, Sydney....
L.M.M.: Send a copy of the book 'with the
passages you want translated marked... .B.D. :
If unobtainable from leading Melbourne book-
sellers, write Michael Joseph, Ltd., 14 Henri-
etta-street, London... .S.H.C.: There are
several reproductions of the work of Vincent
Van Gogh in the National Art Gallery of
N.S.W., Sydney... .H.C.P.: Invention does not
appear to be on the market yet A.H.S.:
No. He must have been resident 20 years in
Australia... .J.M.: The book is now out of
print and getting scarce. It is obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney; price, 10s
J.W.W.: (1) Fresh ink. (2) Declination is the
angle north or south of the celestial equator ;
it has no meaning applied to the earth and
nothing to do with time. (3) Angle of moon
north or south of the celestial equator is vary-
ing continuously, limits being approx. 29deg.
north to 29deg. south. (4) and (5) Not under-
stood... .X.Y.Z.: (1) Women’s Pioneer Soc.,
Shirley House, 61 Market-street, Sydney, is not
a residential club. (2) Qualifications for mem-
bership are a descent from a military or naval
officer, civil servant, landholder, explorer or
member of any of the professions who was
resident in the following places before December
31 of the year given: N. S. Wales (1825), Tas.
(1825), South Aust. (1845), Vic. (1845), West
Aust. (1845), Queensland (1849), Norfolk
(1857), M.L. (1855), Fiji (1878), Polynesia
(1879), Papua (1889). (3) To bring together
the women descendants of Australian pioneers,
to maintain the names and traditions of the
pioneers and to assist in the preservation and
recording of matters of historical interest....
A.L.M.0.: Wattle' bark sold in Sydney must
be chopped and in bags; may be sold to
Janies Hardie, 378 Kent-street, or through
brokers, such as the Farmers and Graziers’
Co-op J.L.: Laseron, 4 Bond-street, Sydney.
is prepared to inspect stamp collections. Unless
the collection is good it is not worth while
sending it to Sydney. Return postage should
be enclosed... .B.I.: There are only four to
the set: -Id., Id., 14d. and Value, unused
Is. 6d., used 9d., and likely to decrease
A.H.D.: Values of New Guinea pennies of
Edward VIII. range from Is. to Is. 3d., and
are not likely to increase for about 20 years.
. ...M.C.G.: (1) It could be heard locally
before the Supreme Court when on circuit.
(2) Impossible to forecast costs... .C.D.C.: (1)
The book is authentic. (2) Author now lives
in London. (3) Plantation no longer worked.
. ...D.S.: Write Government Astronomer,
Observatory, Miller’s Point, Sydney R.H.:
Worth about 2s. at Dymock’s, 424 George-
street, Sydney... .H.M.T.: Susan Coolidge was
the pseudonym of Sarah Chauncey Woolsey.
She was born in 1835 and died in 1905
J.D.: Home Doctoring of Animals, by Harold
Leeney... .E.G.: There are very few collectors
of war medals in Australia and no recognised
demand for them. Pawnbrokers are over-
stocked with them and generally give metal
value. Metal value of your medal would be
about 2s E.M.A.: The lines are from “The
Stockyard Liar,” by Will H. Ogilvie. The
poem is contained in his Fair Girls and Grey
Horses .... D.K.S.: See Yates’s Garden Guide
published by Yates and Cos., 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney... .J.M.G.: Lanford Reed’s The Com-
plete Rhyming Dictionary (95.), Clement Wood’s
The Complete Rhyming Dictionary (12s. 6d.) :
R. Swan and Sidgwick’s The Making of Verse
(ss. 3d.), A. Symons’s Studies in Prose and
Verse (15s. 6d.), E. de Selincourt’s Oxfom
Lectures on Poetry (155.), Gertrude Ford’s
Lessons in Verse Craft (7s. 6d.), and W. P.
Keer and R. W. Chambers’s Forms and Style
in Poetry (155.)... .C. 1,: Full particulars can
be obtained from the District Naval Officer,
Naval Staff Office, Edward-street, Brisbane
D. A list is obtainable in any ordinary
trade directory... .A.F.: Write to the Mitchell
Library, Macquarie-street, Sydney N.L.C.:
Cannot trace book giving particulars in that
form.. . .W.A.8.: Write Secretary, Fisheries
Branch, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney....
R.T.: The word geebung is a corruption of the
aboriginal name “jibbong”... .M.A.8.: Write
Society of Genealogists, Chaucer House, Malet-
street, London, W.C.I J.H.F.: No record of
any organisation of that name being registered
under the N.S.W. Charitable Collections Act.
. ...W.0.5.: Treatment depends upon which
gland is affected, which can be determined only
by medical examination. It is useless to swallow
any of the advertised preparations without
advice. Best plan is to write to the man you
mention... .W.W.S.: Figures are not available.
K.T.H.: Apply direct to any of the over-
seas shipping cos R.W.: Get in touch with
any of the patent attorneys advertising on the
“Wild Cat” page... .8.P.: Clinical Contracep-
tion, by Gladys M. Cox (11s.), Sex Ethics, by
John Ellison and others (195.) and Contracep-
tion, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes (17s. 6d.),
all from Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
E. : Impossible to state nature of the
trouble without examination, but arthritis affect-
ing the joints of the fingers is uncommon at
so early an age. A form of rheumatoid arth-
ritis, called Still’s disease, does occur in young
children. It is rare in Australia, and needs the
use of X-rays for its detection... .E.A.W.:
Baldness has two main causes. (1) It is due
to the infection which is manifested by the
presence of dandruff or (2) it is an inherited
trait, more common in men than in women.
For this latter variety there is no cure; the in-
fective' variety can be arrested by suitable treat-
ment. Your local doctor should be able to
advise you or to recommend a specialist
.... J.S.: Full information on the subject of
grass-tree gum may be obtained from the
Curator of the Technological Museum, Sydney.
(Many others mailed.)


FRIENDS MARVEL AT
HER FIGURE
Since She Lost 451bs.
of Unwanted Fat
Less than a year ago this woman weighed
12st. lOlbs. But she found a way to get
rid of her ugly fat, yes—4slbs. of it —and get
back her girlish vigour. Here is her letter:
“After giving Kruschen Salts a very good
trial, I take this opportunity to tell you the
way in which it has restored to me the good
health I used to enjoy as a girl. For many
years I was a victim of rheumatism, resulting
in a lot of expense for various treatments. I
also put on weight. Less than 12 months ago
I was 12st. lOlbs. Now I am down to 9st. 71bs.,
and all my friends marvel at my figure. They
say, ‘You must have that Kruschen feeling,’ and
I reply, ‘That is just what I have got, for T
have taken Kruschen in real earnest and now
1 would not be without it.’ ” —(Mrs.) E.M.G.
Kruschen is a saline —not a drug; it is an
ideal blend of mineral salts found in the aperient
waters of those European Spas which have been
resorted to from time immemorial for the relief
of various ailments, including obesity.
NEW'
mu
35m* I.*
1
.
No. 203,
'NARVON'
POLEY
SADDLE.
£l5/15/-
Complete with
N.P. Stirrups,
Stirrup
Leathers,
Folded Girth.
The Tree is
designed to
allow for a Full Free
Bar, the seat is London
colour hogskin, the
flaps and skirts are combined and are
of best quality Kip Leather.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with Order.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
PTY., LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
To.,
-morrow morning, w
you face yourself in llic
shaving mirror, be critical
of your razor. Are you getting
the best shave possible V
oj
hen
m
H
I
a
ll' it!
Hi
*K\
'VA.tlt;
m
%
\ 'i-'S
VALET
Shave with a ‘'Valet” —it is simple, quick and efficient.
For with a "Valet” there is nothing to take to pieces,
nothing to unscrew. Stropping and cleaning are a matter
of seconds, and every blade gives a perfect shave
for weeks on end. Get a "Valet”—the original self-
stropping razor —still the simplest and best.
The set illustrated is the No. 50 NICKEL SET. In highly
polished nickelled case with domed lid, lined with velvet. The
set comprises a heavily silvered razor, twelve tested "Valet”
blades and strop of selected leather in hinged /
container Mm ak m
OTHER SETS FROM 4/6 TO 65/- ... OF ALL DEALERS . . . BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.P.: We never heard of a bullock-driver
soliloquising in that strain... .K.E.C.: Yes, it’s
quite different from the type we print....
L.R.8.: Not enough of it to be worth while.
R.B.: It’s been done better scores of times.
. ...W.H.P.: It’s no recommendation to pre-
face your verse by an assurance that you don’t
expect payment for it —rather the opposite....
G.C.G.: Poor F.M.: You’re right not to
be daunted by failure. But success hardly strikes
us as imminent in your case... .F.L.: A jumble
of rough, harsh words... .A.R.: A hundred
lines of creaky doggerel, of which you tell us
“the chief merit is that every line is true.” If
that were a merit, one might find poetry in a
railway timetable M.M.: Try it on a Bris-
bane paper J.H.: “Gently, brother, gently,
pray!” EJ.S.R.: They leave us c01d....
F.C.F.: “The Aeronaut” made a forced land-
ing in the basket E.R.: Credible enough for
a beginner, but hardly up to publication stan-
dard L.R.L.: Sorry to learn that
They’re damming up the Kiewa up above Tamgamba-
langa,
And they’ll frighten all the feathered folk and scare
away the ’kanga.
But what can we do? J.M.S.: Satire pleas-
ing, verse stilted W.G.S.R.: Statement that
football matches were played up to the end of
last century at Rugby School, the home of the
game, without any limitations about numbers
is perfectly correct R.L.: Afraid it’s unsuit-
able. Typing isn’t necessary T.A.T.: “The
Storm” proved only of teacup size... .S.S.:
Four lines: —
And when my life is finished
And the last long journey done,
Bury me down by the. sea shore
With my face to the setting sun.
Consider yourself buried, then M.T.: It’s
right above our heads LJ.: Nothing fresh
in your treatment of that worn theme
W.J.S.: A fairly tuneful Tennysonian echo,
nothing more L.1.W.: Not quite hopeless,
perhaps, but far from hopeful E.L.G.: We
shooed “Blowflies” off the premises... .A.E.D.:
Afraid there’s little hope for you D.G.:
Wodehouse spun that yarn... .E.S.: No time
for those strikers... .A.P.: Clever enough, but
not for U5....8.A.: Might suit a daily....
A.8.C.: Not excited by “Much Ado About a
Snakebite”— .8.P.: A time-worn theme....
W.C.: Ancient bejlerdrammer... .W.G.: We
sacked “The New C00k”... .J.F.D.: Try some-
thing more original H.V.: Might find a
niche elsewhere V.K.: It doesn’t make a
yarn... .F.T.N.: Ma-in-law yarns fall automati-
cally into the w.p.b T.E.McC.: No use for
plays... .R.W.: It might make a par
E.D.C.: “Ambition” petered out.. ..F.C.: No
place for the chap who pepped up his ego
by gazing at bottle of whale blubber
H.F.H.: Nearly made the grade C.N.: Off
our beat; try a women’s mag E. 8.5.:
Missed... .D.S.: That yam used to thrill
flapper film fans before the talkies L.K.:
“Full Many a Flower” was born to blush un-
seen. .. .J.H.L.: Don’t like the chap with “love-
light beaming from his eyeballs” D.H.:
Not impressed by “The Impresario”
G.L.Y.: Impoverished poet commits suicide
without knowing he’s won the lottery. Out!
“The Fisherman” couldn't catch
a cold, much less a cheque... .N.M.8.: “The
Long Trail” ended in the w.p.b 0.L.5.:
Sorry for you, but can’t publish those yarns....
W.W.P.: Use ink and write on one side of the
paper only P.N.: This is a newspaper, not
a Papuan Year-800k... .8.F.: If you must
write choose a subject with which you are
familiar D.A.J.: “The Worldly Hope”
turned to ashes... .C.D.L.: If you’ve a lot
more yarns like that don’t send them to u 5....
G.P.: Resignedly awaiting further contributions.
B.N.D.: Same old spinster, looking under
same old bed!.... L.T.: Yes, it’s all right; but
it’s off our beat... .E.M.M.: You’ve a lot to
learn about yarnspinning... .R.H.A.: The last
one not for us... .C.H.: Well, “how could tons
of metal crush a man’s head and leave life”?
. ...K.L.-S.: Too rich.. .P.G.W.: You don’t
make it stick M.G.: The author explains
that Sir Hamish, in fact his whole family for
generations back, had been educated by private
tutors and that it was from these stalwarts
of the- Jacobite tradition he picked up his
accent G.L.: Something in it, but can’t
say where you might unload it... .F.W.V.:
“The Conquest” came nearest, but neither
of them quite made the grade.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: Unattractive drawings and barnacle-
crusted jests... .L.A. :• Ideas better than sketches.
S.G.H.: Your picture might appeal to a
gathering of undertakers E.T.: Dislike your
lumpy matrons....J.S.: Humor elusive, illus-
trations feeble... .J.F.M.: Send it to some
Cold Tea publication... .P.R.D.: Dad looks
to have been carved out of a slab of masonry
with a rock-drill L.H.T.: No anchorage
here for either steamer or yacht... .V.O’S.: A
down-at-heels trio, with three jests in keeping.
C.P.: What part of the world does the
gent, with the feather-duster beard represent?
L.B.: Don’t doubt its originality J.C.S.:
Faint signs of promise... .R.N.: The first ses-
quicentenary cartoon to hand was tossed out.
S.J.L.: Figures too dim and unsubstantial
for reproduction G.D.: We shall have to
enlarge the basket if you keep on at that rate.
J.W.: A cartoon should deal with one idea,
tersely expressed.... N.C.: The damsels are
shapely enough from the knees downward; the
rest is terrible P.S.F.: First time we’ve seen
that ancient umbrella gag illustrated E.R.:
Weak and indecisive lines; badly-posed figures.
. ...J.N.: Alleged gathering of swagmen re-
sembles a patch of dead timber... .G.T.: The
plank is well drawn W.J.F.: You have
overworked your eraser fruitlessly S.H.D.:
Sketch looks like a stray from an English
Christmas annual... .F.C.: Keep off Zoo jokes
until you learn to draw animals... .G. 8.:
Neat drawing handicapped by overdone gag.
R.B.: - That ancient tug-of-war cartoon
crops up every election time H.N.: You’re
creeping nearer to publication standard
E.V.S.: We had to pay 6d. in deficient postage
to gaze at that horror.
A MIXED GRILL.
Sydney police are campaign-
ing against the so-called “jay-walkers.”
The jay is a Northern Hemisphere bird,
and all my books about Australian birds
agree there is no member of the jay
family represented here. I have always
understood that, as an expert in walk-
ing sideways, the crab takes first prize.
What’s wrong with crab-walkers, which
is good Australian, and aptly descriptive
of the offence?
* * $ *
Graduates have elected Edward
Holden, of motor-body building fame, to
Adelaide University council after a brisk
contest with Hannan, K.C. and Crown
Solicitor. Holden is the only manufac-
turer on the council, and has a science
degree. The vacancy was caused by the
retirement of Walter Young, of Elder,
Smith and Co., who earned a knighthood
as financial adviser to the S.A. Govern-
ment in the depression, but is now a
martyr to rheumatism and has to reduce
his public duties.
* * * *
“Waitot”: “Tiny” Freyburg, the
Maoriland V.C. who is now an Imperial
Army major-general, and whom Barrie
remembered in his will, was actually born
in London, but his boyhood was spent
on this side of the Tasman. It didn’t sur-
prise Morrinsville, a Waikato rural
centre, to learn during the war that young
Freyburg had won his Cross through
being a plucky and tireless swimmer ;
if you remember, he swam ashore on
Gallipoli, painted black, and lighted the
Bulair flares that led Turks there to ex-
pect the attack that was really made at
Anzac. I don’t know how he became
friendly with Barrie, but more than one
Morrinsville resident has told roe how he
developed his swimming. For hour after
summer hour, he used to surge up and
down a bit of a stream just outside
Morrinsville town. Locals still remem-
ber to tell this as a preliminary to de-
tails of his V.C. exploit.
s * ❖ * *
“Canis”: The most dog-minded town
in Queensland is Proserpine. Nearly all
sugar towns have a canine complex—dogs
help to keep the wallabies out of the cane.
Proserpine, though, carries the craze to
extremes. No stray poodle has a chance
there. If a farmer doesn’t grab it, some
town-dweller will. A fellow who lays
baits in western towns where sheep-dogs
are having a spell lays himself open to
trouble. I never heard of anyone game
to think of laying baits about Proserpine.
When an odd obese poodle dies of fatty
degeneration combined with old age
there is such a fuss about its demise, ac-
cusations of dirty work at the crossroads,
that a man who did lay a real bait would
be taking his life in a banana-peel.
* * * *
“Establishment of social justice and
personal freedom, use of Australia’s
wealth for the people’s welfare, abo-
lition of poverty and economic insecurity,
building of a race of healthy men and
women and extension of the peace-and-
friendship hand to all nations” are just a
few of the aims and ideals of the
Women’s Movement for Economic and
Social Research now extended to Mel-
bourne. Negligible? Not on your life ;
the Vic. electoral roll shows there are
587,139 women to 552,781 men!


I
m
fhr
I m
m
i .
Wm
m
a
.
pwp
"•-v';.
:
s&£&x&xd§i
f~ "*? t , „ ,
, f * 3gf ' * 0;';
mm
vl
% 5 A - :
i t £ '/
Si • 1 * K
:S; ' ■ » £
* *£
i f V.S ■ ~
■
'' l ' . •-' X - *•• 1
' ;?v‘ &
7m
~„. -■»
COUNTRY LIFE! Where the days are long and strenuous,
and where the question of foot comfort is so necessary if
the day is to be finished without aching feet and weary body.
That is why
The "Zipp” Riding Boot
by Pike Brothers (Reg. Design No. 9292) is so popular
with horsemen. It is extremely comfortable, and its elastic
sides are so convenient, making the putting on or taking off
of the boot such an easy and simple matter. The service
of the boot is unquestioned. It is well made* from
strong tan calf leather, with welted soles, and is obtainable
with “Zipp” fastener at side or front. The
“Zipp” Riding Boot is available in full or half
sizes at
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street - - - BRISBANE
33/9
XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful 7i weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA" and AORANGI,
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares: — .
First Class. Cabin Class.
Per “NIAGARA” both ways g9/10/-
Per “AORANGI” „ „ • £Bl/10/- £57/iu/
Per “NIAGARA” one way and } £BO/10/- £57/10/-
“AORANGI” one way )
ApP UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
247 George Street,
Sydney
(inc. i
N.Z.)
or
59 William Street,
Melbourne
Victor Trumper's Greatest Year
No 12 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
A wonderful team went to England
from Australia in 1902: Darling,
Trumper, Noble, Hill, Duff, Armstrong,
Hopkins, Gregory, Trumble, Jones,
Howell, Saunders, Kelly and Carter. And
England put into the field teams almost
as great, drawn, as to the Test matches,
from MacLaren, Ranjitsinhji, Jackson,
Fry, J. T. Tyldesley, Abel, Jessop, Hay-
ward, Palairet, Hirst, Rhodes, Braund,
Lockwood, Barnes and Lilley. It is
doubtful whether the standard of play
has ever been higher in either country.
Yet a leading Australian critic, him-
self a cricketer, predicted failure for the
Australians when they set out. “I can-
not see how they can hope to hold their
own against England on any class of
wicket,” he wrote in London “Sports-
man.” “On one damaged by rain they
must go down. They haven’t a forcing
batsman, and very few of them have
any idea of batting when the ball is
biting.” In point of fact, they had to
play many of their matches on wet
wickets. They won 23 and lost only two.
England hadn’t seen a wetter summer
for 40 years. The continual dampness
badly affected “gates.” Those who
stayed away were the sufferers, specially
when Trumper was batting, for Trumper
was in magnificent form.
After a draw with London County on
the Crystal Palace ground, the tourists
gave England a taste of their quality
against Nottingham, inflicting on the
county side the severest defeat Notts had
ever suffered at the hands and feet of
Australians since tours had begun in
1878. The Australians scored 474 (Dar-
ling 128, Hopkins 80); Notts, 287 and
183. In that second innings Armstrong
took 8 for 47.
In the third match, at the Oval, Surrey
fared even worse. Perhaps inspired by
the memory of the corresponding game
in 1899 when he had got every Surrey
wicket for 28, Bill Howell went through
Surrey again, bagging 11 wickets for 56
altogether. Surrey was beaten by an
innings and 78 runs —in 1899 it had been
an innings and 71.
Easy victories over Leicestershire and
Oxford preceded an encounter with a
strong M.C.C. eleven at Lord’s. W. G.
Grace reappeared for M.C.C., and did
wonderfully well considering his age, 55,
taking 5 for 29 in Australia’s first innings,
which realised 271, and making 29 and
23. The M.C.C. totals were 240 and 8
for 280 (declared). The tourists had lost
3 for 217 when time was called. It
ASPECTS OF M. A. NOBLE.
robbed them of another victory. Trumper
came off with a sterling 105 and 86.
Then to Birmingham for the first Test
match. It meant a night journey by
train, and indicated to the visitors that
the itinerary had been very badly
arranged. Travelling from Cambridge
to London for the second Test match
wasn’t so bad, but the third match at
Sheffield involved a journey from Edin-
burgh, with an inadequate interval lor
rest.
On a pitch which was good when they
had first use of it, and very bad when
they handed it over to the Australians,
the Englishmen had much the better of
that match at Birmingham. The Aus-
tralians were without Trumble, and
missed him sorely when Tyldesley (138)
and Jackson (53) got
going,. also Lock-
wood (52 not out)
and Rhodes (58 not
out). While the
teams were resting in
the pavilion watch-
ing the rain fall on
the wicket and the
crowd, MacLaren
closed the * innings
with 9 down for
376.
Then there was a
dreadful batting
failure. At first
Trumper (18) showed
that the bowling of
Rhodes and Hirst
had no terrors for
him, but the pitch
rapidly got worse.
The rest was chiefly
a dismal procession
from dressing-room
to dressing - room.
They were all out
for 36, the lowest
score ever made by
Australians in a
Test match (Rhodes,
7 for 17; Hirst, 3
for 15). Fortunately
there was time only
for another hour's
play. During that
hour Trumper made 14, Duff 15 and
Hill 10 not out; two for 46 and the
match drawn. Hard luck for the Eng-
lishmen, who really deserved to win.
There was more rain for the second
Test at Lord’s, in which only two wickets
fell. They were those of Fry and Ranji,
and Hopkins got them both for blobs.
MacLaren (47) and Jackson (55) were
making a stand when all hands had to
bolt for the pavilion, which they reached
half drenched. They were never able to
resume. Another draw.
At Leeds in the meantime, conditions
being as usual —devilish damp and un-
pleasant —the tourists had been beaten
by Yorkshire. They led the . county by
24 on the first innings, scores being 131
and 107, but in their second attempt 10
wickets fell for 23 (Gregory 10, Trumper
7). Hirst (5 for 9) and Jackson (5 for
12) were the instruments of the rout; the
amateur got his last four wickets with-
out a run being hit off him. The York-
shiremen lost five wickets in making the
necessary runs.
“After this object-lesson,” a gloating
newspaper commented, “it is devoutly to
be hoped that at least one of the Test
matches may be played to a conclusion
on a good wicket.” The writer’s hope
was to be fulfilled at Sheffield, but not
his expectation.
In a return match with Yorkshire at
Bradford the Australians had their re-
venge, scoring 106 (Darling 40, Hill 34)
and 87 (Gregory 42) to Yorkshire’s 77
and 72. It was another soft wicket, and
the bowlers once more prevailed, but
Trumble (6 for 17 and 6 for 27), helped
by Saunders (4 for 58 and 2 for 26), did
better than the English pair (Haigh, 4
for 18 and 5 for 49 ; Rhodes, 5 for 49
and 4 for 22).
Another match at Bradford, the fif-
teenth of the tour, was actually the first
in which the weather was fine through-
out. The Australians revelled in the
conditions, Duff making 182 and Trumpet
113 (out of 402). Their opponents, an
English eleven, were dismissed for 240
and 203, the Australians winning by
seven wickets.
That 113, made on June 26, carried
Trumper’s total compiled in seven weeks
of the worst weather known in cricket
history to 1024. Already C. B. Fry was
pronouncing him “a batsman of batsmen,
able to play the same free-and-easy kind
of game on all sorts of wickets. It is a
great lesson in cricket to watch how
Trumper uses his feet. He has never
had a superior in attractiveness of style
wedded to thorough efficiency.” Those
words are as true to-day as when they
were published.
Darling had lost the toss at Birming-
ham and Lord’s ; he won it at Sheffield.
It did not avail the side much, and mat-
ters didn’t look hopeful when Trumper,
Duff, Hill, Darling and Gregory were
out for 55 among them. The others,
however, did better (Noble 47, Hopkins
27, Trumble 32 and Armstrong 25), and
194 was reached. Barnes (6 for 49) had
done most of the mischief.
Ranji was ill, and Abel had been in-
cluded in his stead-—the Surrey man’s first
match for England since he had led a
professionals’ strike for more pay six
years before. Abel (38) and MacLaren
(31) gave the Englishmen a pretty fair
start. Noble did the Australians good ser-
vice by breaking the partnership and dis-
missing the next man, Tyldesley (22), as
well. Nobody else could do much with
Saunders (5 for 50), and the Australians
began their second innings with a lead of
49.
Then Trumper gave the Sheffielders a
treat. Opening with Duff, who soon
left, he made 62 in 50 minutes. Hill
(119), Hopkins (40 not out), Gregory (29)
and Armstrong (26) carried on the good
work, and the Englishmen were set the
job of having to beat 338 in a fourth
knock. They failed by 143 (MacLaren
63, Jessup 55).
Rhodes had bowled finely (5 for 63):
but Noble (6 for 52) and Trumble (4 for
49) were a pair that the English batsmen,
strong as they were, could not master.
Darling and Kelly must look back on
that match with mixed feelings. Each
made, “a pair.” Fry’s contributions were
1 and 4—-a total of sin three Test


k
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance anti the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train —Eon-
don to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours. .
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full imrticulars to —
BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
1 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
5 YEARS’
GUARANTYI
“INVINCIBLE”
SINCE
1900
INVINCIBLE enginS.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 jVorth George Street. Sydney. N.S.W.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
FREE SETFMr. WMSffl
Selected steel, black handle
Extra quality steel, xyln. handle
Superfine steel, ivory handle .. .
ALL POST FREE.
12/6
15/6
31/-
Plura Razor Guards, to fit f and blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
The keen, hollow-
g'round Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa .
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
<4N\\
ii iwji
'mm
l M
&
/
H
m
I'
V/u
T,
W- *0 M
m
m
i i
w-
ll tNrr
f) \\
matches ; he had been , dismissed for a
duck at Birmingham as well as at Lord’s.
He must have felt that some apology was
necessary; anyway, he explained at Shef-
field that “it was almost impossible to
see the ball from the pavilion end. When,
after making a single off Noble, I faced
Saunders, I found I could not get any
sight of the ball. Playing purely at the
bowler’s arm, I missed the ball, which
was rather wide, lost my balance and
was stumped. It seems contrary to
cricket to make excuses, but the light
was very sorry.” So was the explana-
tion.
Other comments were rather agitated,
and the “Sporting and Dramatic” per-
petrated a rare collection of mixed meta-
phors. “The colonials,” it wrote, “won
the third Test match, so that on the series
of five games they became, in the lan-
guage of the golfer, one up with two to
play. England, of course, may yet secure
the rubber, but this one defeat at a criti-
cal time has driven far away the regained
laurels which appeared to be nestling in
the offing.”
The fourth and fifth Test matches
rank with the 1882 classic as the most
exciting ever played. The fourth, at
Manchester, was won by Darling’s men
by three runs; the fifth, at the Oval, by
MacLaren’s team by one wicket.
Darling won the toss on each occa-
sion. At Manchester the wicket was
SYD GREGORY.
slow and easy, and Trumper and Duff
found it so much to their liking that they
put on 173 for the first wicket. Trumper’s
share was 104 made in 110 minutes —
and Rhodes, Jackson, Lockwood, Braund
and Tate, Maurice’s father, were the
bowlers. Duff’s contribution was 54 ;
Hill and Darling helped with 65 and 51
respectively. The other seven made only
17 among them, Lockwood getting the
last four wickets very cheaply and wind-
ing up with 6 for 48.
The Englishmen found Trumble (4
for 75) and Saunders (3 for 104) equally
difficult at first. Indeed, the side was
saved by a great sixth-wicket stand by
Jackson (128) and Braund. (65), the total
being 262. Then a capital bit of bowling
by Lockwood on a wicket that had got
worse put Trumper, Duff, Hill and Noble
out for 11 among them. Gregory (24)
and Darling (37) came to the rescue, but
the tail-enders failed and the last wicket
fell at 86.
Only 124 to win and the wicket now a
bit better. Odds were laid on the Eng-
lishmen, and they shortened as Palairet
(17), Abel (21), Tyldesley (16) and Mac-
Laren (35) steadily reduced the leeway.
Ranji was given out l.b.w. to Trumble
for a duck, but Sundries and Jackson
added a few. Sixteen required and five
wickets to fall. Then Jackson (4) went,
caught by Gregory off Saunders; then
Braund (7), stumped by Kelly off
Trumble; then Lilley (3), caught by Hill
off Trumble ; then Lockwood (4), clean
bowled by Trumble.
Tate came out to join Rhodes, who
was batting steadily and had made four.
Tate faced Saunders, shut his eyes and
made a wild swipe at the first ball. He
hit it and it went to the boundary. He
tried to do the same with the next ball
and was bowled neck and crop. Saunders
had taken 4 for 52 and Trumble 6 for
53—the tall man’s last five wickets cost
only 13 runs.
A contemporary description of the
closing scene: “When Tate’s stump went
down, spectators were white-faced with
pent-up excitement. The reaction from
the excitement of the last five minutes
was such that some fainted away. The
wife of one of the Australians shouted
involuntarily at the top of her voice. For
the moment she was quite unconscious of
her outburst.”
It happened on a Saturday. On Sun-
day morning, John Hill, father of Clem,
and other members of the family were
sitting in an Adelaide church when the
verger entered with a note. It was from
the “Advertiser” office. John Hill read
it and a smile of triumph lit up his face
as he passed the note along to his boys..
The Hill family had another reason for
satisfaction, for Clem had become the
first cricketer, Australian or English,, to
make 1500 in first-class international
matches.
The “Times” in a post-mortem said:
“Darling seemed to upset the whole Eng-
lish side by the placing of his field. He
got his men close in, even for Jackson
and MacLaren, and his bowlers kept too
good a length to be hit. The Englishmen
seemed to become afraid. Instead of
going forward and hitting the bowlers off
their pitch, they played back at every-
thing. Trumble and Saunders were re-
markable for their length and break, and
the Englishmen, having once dropped the
game, could not recover it. The occa-
sion was too much for them, and it was
quite pitiful to see such a splendid side
go to pieces in the way they did.”
Followed some easy matches which
were availed of chiefly for batting prac-
tice. Against Essex, at Leyton, Trumper
made 109 and 119, the latter being his
eighth century that season ; against Sus-
sex at Brighton 580 was piled up for five
wickets (Noble 284, Armstrong 172 not
out).
Hirst was the principal factor in Eng-
land’s victory at the Oval. He dismissed
Duff, Hill and Darling for 69, and with
a slow one got rid of Trumper, when the
champion had made 42 in an hour and a
quarter—which was considered tedious
for him. Against Hirst’s bowling and that
of Braund it took Gregory (23) and Noble
(52) half an hour to make three. But
they and the others, notably Hopkins
(40), Trumble (64 not out) and Kelly
(39), plugged on, and the score mounted
to the respectable total of 324.
Once more it rained during the night,
and Palairet and MacLaren had to begin
on a damp pitch. It wasn’t actually bad,
but Trumble (8 for 65) was difficult.
When Hirst went in, the regular batsmen,
Tyldesley (33) excepted, had failed, and
a follow-on seemed certain. Hirst (43)
and Lockwood saved it by spirited bat-
ting at the rate of a run a minute ; and
the Australians had to go in on a wicket
that rolled out badly. Trumper was run
out for 2, and Duff bowled by Lock-
wood for 6. Hill (34), Darling (15),
Noble (13) and Armstrong (21) stopped
the rot, but in 2 hours 45 minutes the
side was out for 121.
TRUMBLE, JONES, DARLING.
Night and a break in the weather had
come to the home team’s assistance, but
the early batsmen failed to take advan-
tage of the improved conditions. Mac-
Laren was clean-bowled by Saunders
for 2, Palairet for 6 and Tyldesley for 0,
and Hayward was caught behind the
wicket off Saunders for 7. With Kelly
snapping up Braund (2), off Trumble,
five were out for 48, Jackson having
made a bit of a stand.
Then Jessop came in. English bar-
rackers who had given up hope recalled
that the smiter from Gloucestershire had
never done much against the Austra-
lians ; but he did wonders that day.
Stretching forward in that unique style
of his, Jessop thrice drove Trumble out
of the ground, one ball going clean over
the pavilion. His bat seemed like a huge
flat scythe that reaped a crop of runs
with every sweep. In 75 minutes he
knocked up 104 without ever moving
out of his crease ; then Noble caught him
off Armstrong. Jackson had gone, c.
and b. Trumble, for 49. Hirst was in
and batting manfully.
Trumble got the next two wickets —
Lockwood, 1.b.w., for 2, and Lilley,
caught by Darling, for 16. Eight wickets
down, and 19 needed.
Saunders had ceased to be dangerous,
and perhaps he was kept on too long.
Trumble had struck a length, and every
ball he delivered was watched by the
crowd with painful intensity. The York-
shire professionals were much cooler
than most of the onlookers, and runs
came in singles and twos till it was level
pegging. Then Rhodes hit the winning
single, and cheering thousands rushed on
the ground.
Hirst had scored 58 in 80 minutes- -
101 in the match, besides taking 6 wickets
for 84. Trumble’s bag was 4 for 108,
Saunders’s 4 for 105.
The Australians won or drew all the
remaining matches. Seven (Trumper,
Noble, Hill, Duff, Armstrong, Hopkins
and Darling) made upwards of 1000 runs,
and Gregory was one run short of the
thousand. Trumble took 140 wickets at
14.27, Saunders 127 at 17.07.
Trumper broke all previous records for
Australian batsmen by making 2570 runs
at 48.49 and hitting 11 centuries. It is
significant that his highest score was 128.
Time and again after he had passed the
hundred he gratified the crowd by having
a hit. Never once did he carry out his
bat.
Greater aggregates and averages have
been registered since, but, considering the
wickets he had to play on, Trumper’s
achievement in that wet 1902 season has
never been surpassed.


Sally laughed. “You’ll have to share one with
Angus,” she said. “A Highland fling probably, or
would you prefer a Scotch reel?”
“I’m not so sure I wouldn’t prefer to dance with
Angus altogether. Rather warmhearted, Angus.”
K A RS. MUTTON did not receive the news very
calmly, and, as the bearer of the ill tidings was the
Postmaster-General, her wrath was directed mostly
at him.
“I thought you had a little influence in the town,”
she observed bitingly. “What’s" the use of being the
wife of a Cabinet Minister when one’s treated like this!
Passed over for a brazen American girl whose father
can’t speak the King’s English. It’s outrageous!”
“My dear,” began Mr. Mutton, “you don’t under-
stand. This is not a matter for Cabinet. It’s the
Governor’s own choice.”
“Own choice, indeed! As if the Governor would
make a choice like that! It’ll make us the laughing-
stock of the country!”
“Oh, I don’t see”
“And a nice show it makes of me, too. Every-
one’s been taking it as a matter of course that I’d
be called upon. Fancy our Elsie having to bow to
that Pettigrew girl. It’s disgraceful! ”
“Oh, I say! It’s not as bad as that, you know.
She’s quite a nice girl, really.”
“There you are! I might have known you’d have
been against me. A pretty face simpers at you and
you don’t worry a scrap about your wife’s feelings!”
“Still,” she concluded, “it’s only what
one would expect. Money can buy any-
thing, and, of course, her father’s a million-
aire. Though I shudder to think what’s
going to happen to us when positions like
that are bought and sold.”
BEARING in mind the de-
feated one’s disappointment
and the prominent part she was
playing in Terrigan’s affairs, it
was not surprising that she and
many of her set came to the ball
not so much to see that the debs,
did everything right, but rather in
Goats came up in the rear.
the hope that Sally would do
something wrong.
However, she and such other
members of the committee as
sympathised with her disguised
their feelings as best they could
when Sir Hamish, looking every inch a Highland
chieftain, swept into the hall with the pretty young
American girl on his arm.
Mrs. Mutton curtsied low to the Laird and
bobbed a trifle to Sally, and the committee followed
her example in varying degrees according to their
respective feelings towards Mrs. Mutton. Little Mrs.
Weedon accorded Sally an even more respectful bow
than she gave the Governor.
“I’m glad it’s you and not that old cat,” she
murmured. “Serve her right.”
Sally smiled graciously and gratefully.
The vice-regal party moved to the end of the
hall, elaborately decorated with flowers and
bunting and with garish portraits of the King and
Queen. The National Anthem burst forth as they
halted. Sir Hamish was becoming so used to standing
at attention when “God Save the King” was played
that it must have been hard at times for him to re-
member it was “the King over the water” to whom
he really owed allegiance, and not the monarch for
whom the band intended the anthem.
He frowned a little as his roving eyes lighted
upon the portraits of “the usurpers,” but Jerry, as
usual, was quickly by his side to prevent an outburst
which might deprive Terrigan of its Governor.
“It had to be done,” he whispered. “Don’t for-
get it’s Coronation Day —and they were all supplied
free,” he added.
“Ah, weel! As long as they didna’ cost ony-
thing,” replied the Laird.
Jerry bowed low to the Governor’s Lady, who
responded by inclining her head slightly, yet with
great dignity.
“You look charming, Duchess,” murmured Jerry.
“Thank you kindly, young Mr. Bannister,” replied
Sally in haughty tones, but with a twinkle in her eye.
“I don’t see Angus here, madame. If he doesn’t
grace the ball with his presence, might I perchance
have his half of that dance as well as mine?”
“Perchance.”
“My humble thartks, madame.” He bowed him-
self away.
In the group near by Mrs. Mutton remarked to
Mrs. Gilroy: “Carrying on with young Jerry Ban-
nister! No sense of dignity at all. And that cheap
little black dress she’s wearing. With all her father’s
money you’d think she’d have got something distinctive
for our ball. Thinks anything’s good enough for us,
I suppose.”
Postmas ters’
wives are notori-
ously well informed,
but Mrs. Mutton
could hardly be ex-
pected to know that
the simplicity of
Sally’s “cheap little
dress” had been re-
garded by Norman
Hartnell as one of
his outstanding tri-
umphs, and had
helped to make Miss
Pettigrew the most-sought-after mem-
ber of her set when she wore it at the
Inauguration Ball in Washington.
Mrs. Gilroy nodded agreement,
but did not offer any comment as the
debutantes now made their entry, and
the honor of presenting them had
been allotted to Mrs. Mutton.
This ceremony passed off satisfactorily, on the
whoie. All had been well rehearsed and if the bows
of some of the debs.’ partners were a trifle awkward
that is no more than is expected on such an occasion.
The debutantes’ minuet, too, was not much stiffer
than usual, considering that several of the partners
were lads from outlying farms and had learnt it only
by hearsay and guess. This was possibly why the
partners of the Gilroy twins met w'ith such difficulty.
After every figure they would find themselves both
trying to claim the same twin, leaving Peg (or perhaps
Pat) out in the cold altogether.
„ “You ought to wear a red ribbon or something so
I’d know you,” panted one cavalier to Pat (or Peg)
when they had sorted themselves out after one such
confusion.
“Sure, if you don’t know me you needn t dance
with me,” retorted the Gilroy miss. “And, anyhow,
you’re not me partner at all. That s him with me
sister.”
After the debs, had passed on to one of the other
halls, Sir Hamish, who had not danced for thirty
years, led off a waltz with Sally. Hiram Pettigrew
danced with Mrs. Melhuish, and all the Ministry except
Napper took the floor, and the ball began in real
earnest.
Just towards the end of the supper interval—a
supper, by the way, which, thanks to Mrs. Melhuish,
will long be remembered in Terrigan—George Brown
approached the official table. Jerry Bannister quickly
made room for him. The special envoy to Canberra
had arrived back from his mission half an hour before
and, determined to enjoy at least a portion of the ball,
had hastily changed and hurried along to the School
of Arts.
“Deliver it all right?” whispered Jerry.
“Yes,” grunted Brown.
“How did they take it?”
“Pretty crook. Old Gage nearly ate me. He
said”
“Wait a bit. Don’t say any more just now,”
cautioned Jerry. “Have something to eat.”
“Thanks.”
A few minutes later the feminine portion of the
official party left the table in a body to repair damaged
complexions. Their departure was the signal for a
shower of questions to be hurled at George Brown.
He gave a brief account of his interview with the
Acting . Prime Minister, omitting, out of respect for
Sir Hamish’s presence, references to Gage’s remarks
about the Governor.
“Did he seem very upset?” inquired Peperell at
the conclusion of his story.
“Seem upset? I’ll say he did. I thought he was
going to have a fit!”
“So he didn’t really give you any reply at all?”
said Jerry.
“No! He seemed to convey that we could go to
hell and the sooner the better!”
“That might be construed as a general consent to
our paddling our own canoe.”
“I don’t think he meant it that way,” interposed
Peperell seriously.
Sir Hamish had been listening earnestly to the
discussion.
“D’ye think they’ll invade the toon?” he asked.
“Maybe we should be sending oot th’ fiery cross.”
Jerry assured him that there was as yet no like-
lihood of such stern measures being necessary.
“Ah think we should be prepared for a’ con-
teengencies,” the Laird counselled.
Chief Man Peperell showed some signs of alarm
at this talk, but the others were successful in convinc-
ing Sir Hamish that, until news of Canberra’s inten-
tions was forthcoming, it was of little use to make
plans.
“What about Sydney?” asked Napper.
“No news from there,” replied Jerry. “Young
Greville will be back to-morrow night.” „
Councillor Greville’s son had been chosen as the
Sydney envoy, and after completing his mission had
succumbed to the temptation to spend Coronation Day
and night in the city. His wire to Jerry had given no
reasons, but merely contained the information that he
would be back on Thursday evening.
“Anyway,” said Jerry as the ladies approached
once more, “it’s no good planning anything till the
other side makes a move. We’ve issued our Proclama-
tion. It’s up to them now.”
The others agreed.
A few minutes later, while they were dancing
together, Sally asked Jerry for news about the events
at Canberra. After he had told her she said: “Jerry,
I’m worried about all this.”
“Look here,” Jerry assured her. “There’s nothing
to worry about. Everything’s going to be all right.
They can’t do anything. We’re sitting pretty.”
“I don’t believe it and I don’t think you do,
retorted Sally.
“No,” she continued as he attempted to defend
himself, “don’t think I’m only thinking of pop’s
money. It was that at first, but now it’s more than
that. It’s”-
“Yes, Sally? What is it?”
Sally seemed confused, and it was some time
before she answered. Then she said, “It’s all these
people here. I like them —or most of them —and I
don’t want any harm to come to them.”
“But I tell you no harm’ll come to them.”
“Can you personally guarantee that?”
“Well, not especially, but”
“No. You hope this and you hope that. Every-
one in the town is living on hopes —your hopes. I
don’t want to see them let down.”
“You won’t.”
“I hope I won’t, but I’m afraid I will.”
“You don’t seem to have much faith in me. Any-
way, it’s decent of you to feel so deeply about the
affairs of the town.. After all, what does it matter
to you what happens to old Napper and Peperell?
“You sap! D’you think I care two cents what
happens to old Napper and Peperell?” she returned
softly. . .
“Sally!” cried Jerry, with a sudden light in his
eyes. „ ..
“Perhaps we’d better go back to the others, said
Sally. “The music’s stopped.”
“By Jove, so it has.”
They walked back to their table.
(To be continued next week.)


Men are Amajed
at their Strength/
I
i
1
1
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Australasia’s Leading Physical Director.
MAKE THIS TEST
TO-NIGHT!
DEFORE you step into your pyjamas
■*-'* to-night, stand in front of the mirror
and look yourself over. Are you proud
of the man you see? Is he a strapping,
broad-shouldered husky, with arching
chest and rippling hands of solid muscles?
Would you bet on him in a fight?
Be fair to yourself. You can’t expect the
respect of men or the admiration of
women if you’re a physical weakling. Let
me get to work on that body of yours.
Let me build a man who’ll be PROUD to
step out in a bathing suit. This free book
shows how EASY it is. You'll never know
what this book is worth to you until you’ve
read it yourself. It may change your
entire life. It’s a revelation in body-
building and muscle-building. It’s
crammed full of pictures and matter that
will make you open your eyes.
Thousands of men have thought it worth
while to send the “free book” coupon below
to get their copies. It won't cost you one penny
No obligation— no salesman will call. YOU b<
the judge hnd jury. Mail the coupon or writ
TO-DAY.
More Startling Proof
“I am fitter than ever before—your course is doing for me
more than I ever imagined.”—R.A. NORRIS, C., S, Africa,
“The development of my arms and shoulders has been really
wonderful, and it does my eyesight good to look at my bicep
and triceps, which are now becoming a ball of m l '*'' lo
wish I had taken your course years ago and so saved
myself much suffering and ill-health.”
0. J. CROS’BIE, S., Vic.
“I am very pleased with your course, and I fed
wonderfully fit —in fact, I’ve never felt better in
my life. All my friends are talking about my
derful physique. I thank you again
from the bottom of my heart for what
your system has done for me.”
—J. MORRISON, S., Scotland.
"Secrets of Muscular
Strength"—is FREE!
It’s the greatest book ever publi
subject. Crammed full of amazing photos.
It will show you the short-cut to great
strength and development. You don’t
want to remain in the ORDINARY class
now. Get this book and be a super-man!
After this FREE Book shows
Them the Way to Great
Muscular Power!
Whether you
strong—sickly
GET this book
are weak o
healthy—young or old—overweight or
underweight—regardless of WHAT
your condition may be, send for it
NOW. It will show how men just like
yourself have grown STRONG. It will
show you the way to a superbly built
body—to broad shoulders, powerful
muscles, a deep chest, slim waistline,
to splendid health and vitality in every
organ of your body.
YOURS if you
send now
✓
I
m*.
YOURS - IF YOU TEAR THIS N
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L,
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me, absolutely FREE, a copy of your latest book,
“The Secrets of Muscular Strength—And How to Acquire It,”
NAME
FULL ADDRESS ....
6/1 0/'37.
Famous ARTIST
Offers Startling; FREE
BOOK on DRAWING!
IT is now possible to try Brodie Mack's famous Cor-
respondence Art Course in your own home, under
any conditions you like, and if, after 30 days, you are
not perfectly satisfied that this wonderful short-cut
method will develop your talent, reveal to you the
secrets of black and illustrating, cartooning, etc.,
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING- -not one penny, but you
must hurry. This offer is for a limited time only—
post the coupon below to-day.
LET BRODIE MACK
TEACH YOUat HOME!
THIS course will amaze you with its possibilities
and the vast field it opens up to you. At last
you will be able to learn all branches of the black-
and-white art under the supervision of Brodie Mack.
This amazing short-cut method simplifies art. You
learn at home. If you have an inclination for drawing,
an inclination that many of us possess, then why com-
pete with the crowd in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for this fascinating
accomplishment. Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illustrations, advertising,
catalogues, pamphlets, books, comic strips, cartoons, etc.
Many have developed this fascinating hobby into a
highly remunerative profession, embracing magnificent
opportunities to those people possessed of the enterprise to
lift themselves out of the bundy-punching ruck of medio-
crity, and the dull, drab monotony of factory, shop or office
routine; in addition to its lucrative achievements it will
lift you from comparative obscurity to a position of import- |
ance in the public life of the community.
MAKE MONEY IN
YOUR SPARE TIME!
Brodie Mack lias made it possible by means of this remarkable
course for you to earn money in your spare hours. He shows
you how to “cash in’’ on his experience. He teaches you how
to rapidly develop your latent ability so that you are able to
produce striking illustrations and art work. The fact of you
reading this announcement points to you having a desire to be an
artist—then send for this amazing book and let us prove that we
can make you a skilled artist.
This FREE BOOK is FOR YOU!
Never before has a book of this nature been offered
free; that is why you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you how to draw—
develop your talent—how to cartoon, the secret
of illustrating, and how money can be made even
while learning. Fill in your coupon and get it into
the post now—at once, before you forget.
What This Free Book Tells You
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
RUSH
the
COUPON
ALONG
NOW!
Draw Fig
How to
ures.
Become
9 How to
Artist.
How to Make Money
Tf ils
S
YOU/
How to Develop
Latent Ability.
How to Cartoon.
How to Caricature.
Howto Sell Your Work.
How to Illustrate for
the Papers.
0 How to Sketch and Draw.
# Send for this FREE Book TO-DAY!
SEND NO MONEY!
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
|
6/10/*37. (
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ķ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
( Subscriber .v living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
.M
fa
<f
A -
<*
t ti
0
0
C o^
e
S eV
k\V *4
.# sS
°
V v nf
.-• oV, SV V<^‘
# s '
#•’


mi
m
mm
i
iß
r4v
f N, M Mm M
I wJ YVWa^B*
I >—■»■*• /\\Vi% <aMMB»
CU«K. *t»orthy (11091.
'i
N* ««-. naekina
C<M»9h*. M« mar* rill
LZA
/
\
/
tzr.
9
\TP
-A. «f CATARRH.
£5OO
IMMUNITY OFFER
Everybody knows the great work of Louis
Pasteur. He proved that the only correct
way to
COMBAT DISEASE
is to destroy the germs causing the disease.
In many cases it is not only the best way—
but the
m
m
m
Louis Pasteur.
ONLY
WAY
The living germs
are collected,
cultured in in-
cubators, and
finally killed by
a dissolving agent
which turns
them into a life-
less liquid. In
this way the
germs are' de-
stroyed, but in
doing this the
AN-
TIGENS
are released—in other words the antidote
to that particular disease is now ready to
be swallowed in a teaspoonful of water and
commence its work of combating that
specific disease which is
DESTROYING
the organic functions of your internal organs.
The Antigen so swallowed invigorates your
system to create its own natural resistance,
which in turn destroys the disease germs,
giving great relief and immunity for varying
periods up to two years. If taken periodically
the disease will not return.
DOCTORS
will tell you the above story is true accord-
ing to their knowledge as it applies to vac-
cines which are injected. Ordinary vaccines
have to be injected in the arm and your
system dissolves them if it is able. If your
system cannot dissolve them the result is NIL.
We
REMOVE THE DOUBT
by dissolving them first —all you have to do is
to swallow the dose. We save you pain, in-
convenience and expense from unpleasant in-
jections. We have given great relief and im-
munity from Colds, Catarrh, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, ARTHRITIS, and other ail-
ments when ordinary injections have failed.
Therefore we claim we can get better re-
sults and we challenge
ANY AUTHORITY
to prove otherwise, and will back our claims
with
A BOND OF £5OO.
HAY FEVER
Where Hay Fever Symptoms are present,
that is when the patient is suffering
from severe attacks of sneezing, we
recommend LANTIGEN “E,” which, in
addition to antigens against the organ-
isms of Catarrh, contains extracts of
mixed grass pollens, which will relieve
those suffering from pollen sensitivity.
pwm the JuwaqeA oft
Life long victim ... no relief for Charles Black . . . expensive treatment failed
...Harley St. (London) Specialist and winter in Egypt of no avail then
r
1
Amazing relief —no more thick headaches remarkable hearing improve-
ment better sight head clearer than since early childhood.
NO MATTER WHAT ELSE HAS FAILED
Tantigen >B’ WILL MAKE YOU WELL
ONE of the most amazingly successful cases in which
LANTIGEN has ended long-standing Catarrh is that of
Mr. C. Black, who suffered with Catarrh for no less than 20
years—l7s,32o hours of distress —and who writes as follows:
Sydney. 12/4/37.
Dear Sirs,—
l have beer, a life-long sufferer from Catarrhal trouble, and have tried
many expensive "Cures" including a course of treatment by a Harley Street
specialist, which included a winter in Egypt. None brought me any relief
until I commenced taking LANTIGEN “B" six weeks ago.
While it is too soon to gauge the permanence of the cure, l have
‘seen delighted with its early results.
Since taking this course my head has been clearer than it has been
since my childhood. My sight and hearing have improved to a remarkable
degree, and l have been entirely free of the '“thick" headaches which I
had come to regard as an inevitable and incurable part of my life.
On these counts then, / heartily endorse LANTIGEN “B” and sincerely
'.rust it -will bring to other sufferers the amazing relief l have experienced
: n the past few weeks from the first half bottle.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) CHARLES BLACK.
Thus it is clear that CATARRH, even of long-standing, can be positively
eradicated"\by the use of LANTIGEN “B,” and this is the way CATARRH
legins and how LANTIGEN clears it away—
m
r
MICRO COCCUS
CATARRHALIS
CATARRH
is caused by GERMS
Here is the micro-photograph show-
ing one of the actual organisms that
cause catarrh.
The germs attack all parts of the
body and breed literally in billions, causing all sorts
of troubles, which the average person does not associate
with Catarrh. The diagram at left above shows the
organs which are attacked and the symptoms which
indicate that Catarrh is present.
NOSE FIRST INFECTED
Usually Catarrh starts with the nose, which
s first infected when a simple cold is
neglected.
The cold becomes stubborn and protracted,
ihd the infection spreads rapidly as the local
irritation develops into a chronic inflamma-
ion; mucous dislodged from the nose falls
nto the throat, infects the tonsils and finally
he infection spreads to the stomach and in-
WHOLE SYSTEM ATTACKED.
Even the kidneys, bowels, bladder and liver
nay be attacked as the poisonous catarrh
germs are carried to all parts of the body by
he blood stream. The tissues are poisoned,
lestroyed, and the body is sapped of vitality.
LANTIGEN Attacks Each Germ Separately.
In every case of Catarrh these virulent
germs attack the body:
1. Pneumococci
2. M. Catarrhalis
3. B. Septus
4. B. Influenzae
5. Streptococci
6. B. Pneumoniae
(See Illustration)
Unless each of these organisms is dealt
with effectively and separately, it is impos-
sible to get a complete remedy for Catarrh.
WE STATE DEFINITELY THAT NO
OTHER TREATMENT ON THE MARKET
TO-DAY, EXCEPT LANTIGEN, SETS OUT
TO ATTACK AND FIGHT THESE GERMS
SEPARATELY.
LANTIGEN actually provides antidotes to
each one of these bacterial organisms, in the
form of antigene to each of the germs named.
With LANTIGEN, the body is not charged
with dead germs, but with the active principle
which attacks the living infective ones. When
LANTIGEN is taken in water by the mouth
into the stomach, and to the blood stream, it
begins immediately to create antibodies
which attack and fight the catarrhal germs.
GREAT AUTHORITY PROVES LANTI-
GEN’S VALUE.
The principle of oral immunisation against
Catarrh is not new. One of the most famous
specialists in the world writes in the British
Medical Journal of February 15th, 1936: “In
my experience the oral antigens have been
mostly employed for cases of catarrhal infec-
tions, rheumatic conditions and catarrhal
enterocolitis: CLINICAL RESPONSE HAS
BEEN QUITE DEFINITELY MARKED.”
This considered and professionally guarded
statement, however, heralds the dawn of a
great release for catarrh sufferers.
CATARRH CAN BE BANISHED.
It proves definitely that Catarrh can be
banished. Perhaps your Catarrh may not be
serious at present. But you must remember
that Catarrh does not get better without bac-
teriological treatment. It gradually grows
worse until it becomes a beastly and filthy
ailment itself, and it, may lead to one or other
of a group of serious, almost incurable, dis-
eases.
The Catarrh sufferer can never be populai
with his continual spitting and coughing
phlegm, his unpleasant breath, body odour,
and belching of wind from a diseased,
catarrhal stomach.
IMMEDIATE BENEFIT.
You may have tried to obtain a cure, but
ordinary measures can only alleviate Catarrh.
They cannot cure it! It is necessary to use
them all the time to get even a small measure
of relief. On the other hand, LANTIGEN gives
immediate benefit, but in a few cases the
Catarrh may be made to feel worse for a few
weeks, but this is only due to the process of
eliminating the mucous poisoning from the
system. In almost every case this is followed
by immunity for varying periods up to two
years. Nevertheless, we recommend you to
always keep a bottle of LANTIGEN "B” in
your home and take a few doses each month
until you finally eradicate the disease. You
can understand how LANTIGEN works if you
look at the illustrations at right.
LANTIGEN IS SAFE!
It contains NO DRUGS or anything which is
harmful or habit-forming. It may be given
in approved doses to children or adults. In
appearance it is a clear, crystalline liquid,
and it is without a doubt the pleasantest and
most convenient treatment, and medically
sound, for Catarrh ever developed, whilst at
the same time it is the only truly effective
treatment as well. The course of LANTIGEN
“B” comprises two bottles for the average
case. Thousands can now testify to the above
statement.
These Pictures Show How
Operates
e *
&
1. These are the
villi —small, sucker-
like protuberances
in the upper intes-
tine, which absorb
LANTICEN from the
gastric fluids, and
carry it into the
system.
%
2.—This slide shows
bacterial organisms
full, living and
vigorous.
>f the body
are permanent.
3. This picture
shows the effects of
LANTIGEN. It in-
cites the creation of
anti - bodies which
attack the germs,
gather them in
masses (see illus-
tration), and finally
destroy them
oxidation or
up in special
That is why the effects
Contains no drugs
IF
if
and is effective but harmless
"A"
for prevention and treatment
Colds and Influenza.
[antigen
c 1 ( v..—
"D"
of
foi Boils, Carbuncles,
Pimples, Eczema, etc.
for Rheumatism, Arth*
ritis, Spondylitis, etc.
iten "f"
-it ■
for WHOOPING
COUGH.
ĸ
for HAV
FEVER.
If you suffer from these
diseases, go to your
chemist and ask for
details of the LANTI-
GEN treatment. Don’t
postpone the matter
until your complaint
grows worse. Save your-
self suffering. Act now.
Price
£l/1/'
Per Bottle.
Obtainable from all leading
city, suburban and country
If your chemist has not supplies, write direct to-day to your nearest distributor. Edinburgh Laboratories, £ ( j? n j jurg j 1 Laboratories, A.M.P. Buildings,
Sydney. Victoria: Edinburgh Laboratories Pty., Ltd., 271 Lonsdale Street (G.P.O. Box 1241 L), e ourne. Ltd., James Place, Adelaide; A. M. Bickford
Queen and Edward Streets (G.P.O. Box 1983 X), Brisbane. South Australia: Wholesale H. tauldmgCfc •> New Zealand . Q.Jol Fluenzol
and Sons, Ltd., Curry Street, Adelaide. Western Australia: K. S. Andrus & Co., Ltd., 144 William Street (G.P.O. Box KM), r
Laboratories, Thorndon Quay, Wellington. (Please mention The Bulletin. )
