

m
m
i
df
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building,
89-9 1 Queen Street,
Melbourne,
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Commonwealth Bank
Building,
Queen Street,
Brisbane,
G.P.O, Box 101 7N.
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
NEW ZEALAND:
National Bank of N.Z.
Chambers,
Featherstone Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O, Box 562 Wellington.
BUILDING FOR THE
FUTURE
From the carefully conceived plans and specifications
of architects and constructional engineers a mighty
structure is erected .... a monument to skilful design
that provides for every strain and stress and ensures
STABILITY.
Investments should be planned with similar thoroughness.
Hamiltons (A/sia) Ltd. provides the foundations of
successful capital investment ensuring regular dividends.
Enquiries are invited.
(Australasia)
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers. Authorised Capital, £250,000.
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255).
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W. ’Phone, Armidale 150.
No. 123 Armidale. Colonial Mutual Life Building, Hunter Street’, Newcastle. ’Phone, Newcastle
Box
1942.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2988.
Old-time Boxers
Wednesday, May 19, 1937.
Price Sd,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Tain
illiki
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIE
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, aa
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name •
My Address
S.B, 337
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid tor a.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person bom in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will he
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
CHOP SUEY.
Twenty-five years’ experience in China as an
advertising agent and business adviser, testing that
extensive but difficult market with all classes of
commodities,''has given Carl Crow an unusual insight
into the ways of the inscrutable Oriental, and he tells
his story in Four Hundred Million Customers (Hamish
Hamilton ; 10s. 6d.).
Trade with China is not the simple business it
was when the China clippers raced out with Man-
chester cottons and returned with tea, and the manu-
facturer who has visions of fortunes to be made in
supplying the teeming Chinese market with his goods
will find the enterprise an extremely complicated
business in which the man of experience, no less than
the novice, is likely to burn his fingers.
The Chinaman is a man of fixed tastes and
definite prejudices and is an obstinate passive resister
to all forms of high-pressure salesmanship, though
conservatively loyal to a brand once it has gained his
confidence. But any alteration in the packing of
goods to which he has become accustomed arouses
his suspicions and ensures their rejection. Crow
illustrates this by the story of the Hamburg horse-
shoe. In the sailing-ship days a shipment of old
horseshoes was sent out as ballast. Skilful Chinese
blacksmiths turned them into Chinese razors, and
Hamburg horseshoes became a staple article of trade.
Other dealers then sent shipments from other cities,
but the Chinese refused to accept them. No horse-
shoes were genuine unless they came from Hamburg,
and the old discarded horseshoes of the world had to
be sent first to Hamburg to be packed there for
China. Loyalty to a brand is so keen that, though
they cannot read, Chinese will count the letters on the
packet to make sure the article is genuine. A Shang-
hai manufacturer once had to destroy, several hundred
thousand posters he had printed because the picture
showed nine cigarettes instead of ten.
There are some interesting chapters on food
which could be read with profit by those who think
of exporting foodstuffs to China. “Chinese enjoy a
wider variety of food and better cooking than is the
lot of the average Briton or American,” says Crow,
obviously referring to those who can afford it. At
the other end of the scale are the human scavengers
of Shanghai who keep the harbor of the second-
largest port in the world so clean that there are no
seagulls there. The use of cow’s milk is comparatively
recent and is restricted to the very young and the
very old; to butter they are indifferent, but cheese
they will not touch in any circumstances. Ninety per
cent, of their diet is vegetarian. Crow upsets the
general assumption that “chop suey” is the national
dish. “No Chinese ever eats it.” The term is applied
to the scraps scraped into the food-bowls of the
beggars, and literally means “beggar-hash.” The dish
originated on the Californian goldfields when some
rowdy miners burst into a Chinese restaurant after
hours and demanded meals. The proprietor went into
the kitchen and scraped all the leavings from the dirty
dishes and served the mess with a dash of Chinese
sauce. The hungry miners sent back their plates for
more, and in that way the great chop-suey industry
was established. Chop suey, as a perfectly whole-
some hotch-potch, is now served in Chinese restaurants
in every city in the world —except in China.
The book is very entertaining, and, as the East
is geographically Australia’s natural export market,
could be read with profit by Australian manufacturers
before they pack their bags to look for business in
China. Some of them would thereby save their fares.
In the Never Never.
Michael Terry, a young Englishman who had
seen service in the wilder parts of the Near East, came
to Australia a year or two after the war and fell in
love with the Never Never. In 1923 he made a motor-
car journey from Queensland across the Murranji
track and then west to Broome, which won him the
Cuthbert-Peek grant of the Royal Geographical
Society to help him in further expeditions. Since then
he has been almost continuously on the track. In
later years his objectives have been mainly a search
for metals and water sources in parts of the desert
country which a decade ago were virtually unknown
and the collection of data for the Waite Institute at
Adelaide, He has gathered into his expeditions some
of the best of the local authorities on the country and
its aborigines, and has become the most persistent
conservative chronicler of Australia’s centre.
His last long traverse was done in 1932 and 1933.
It took him out from Erldunda station, which lies just
above the 25th parallel, north almost to Capricorn and
to the banks of Lake Mackay, and then by a tortuous
route southward and westward across the Westralian
border to the Warburton Ranges. The second half of
it was through country north of Lake Mackay. In Sand
and Sun (Michael Joseph; 12s. 6d.) Terry covers the
adventurous side of two trips, but underneath the
conversational narrative a wayfarer’s vade mecum
shelters.
As a text on the psychology of the Australian
camel, Terry’s chapters on that beast are hard to
beat. As a discourse on the nature of man as bred
in Centralia, his easygoing characterisation of young
Ben Nicker has been well done. Ben’s father was
once the best-known hawker in western Queensland.
The son was born in Centralia and educated, as it
were, in two dimensions. Among the Arunta, speak-
ing their language with fluency, he is a polished native
gentleman, skilled in all the native arts of hunting
and tracking, and schooled in their traditions. As a
white man he is calm, cool, efficient and well read
beyond the custom of young men of his.age on farms
and stations. As a camel man he is in his natural
element. In his own region,' across an area as big
as N. S. Wales, there is no need to give his address,
and any coo-ee heard between Westralia and Alice
Springs may be his.
The desert lands which Terry pictures are chang-
ing lands, the nearer fringes of which the bushman
of half a generation ago would fail to recognise.
Gone from places like Erldunda, where the journey
began, are the log or ’dobe hut and the greenhide
beds. Instead,
chairs round the hearth; and carpets and pictures and
books, even silver candlesticks on the table and a large
mirror on one wall and... .Adelaide coming through
on the wireless.
From this atmosphere the party started with their
overloaded camels into a land of sand and Warra-
mullas:
There are two styles of travel. One is the old
Afghan style—an early start and an early camp, say,
3 p.m., without a break from breakfast; the other I
preferred—to start early, but to halt at noon for an hour
and a half before carrying on to night camp about
4 p.m.
Naturally, Lasseter enters into the picture. In
what he calls “the infamous Lasseter country,” Terry
estimates that about 500 men have wandered in search
of the “lost reef.” He deduces that the yarn was con-
ceived in Lasseter’s mind after reading Conrad Sayce’s
Golden Buckle, a purely fictional work, and Earle’s
Cave of Gold, the existence of which was reported
in 1895, though nobody has since been able to find
it. He calls the Lasseter yarn a “ridiculous myth,”
an opinion which most experienced Centralians share,
and says that if promoters would read impartial
geological and historical records the urge to search
for the eldorado would soon die:
The sole plea in favor of Lasseter is that he laid
down his life in Winter’s Glen. From afar that tends
to give credence to his tale; close up it carries no con-
viction... .Having lost his camels, wandering almost
naked he believed in his inexperience that he could
live like the blacks do on the game and herbage of the
country. Confident that sooner or later he would find a
golden reef he refused to be rescued by the blacks,
and....died at last in the Peterman Ranges, where his
lonely grave now lies. No hero of Empire lies there.
Only a poor misguided man whose lack of balance and
excessive imagination demanded of him that price the
unwary must pay in the scrub.
Terry’s book is an excellent antidote to the spate
of inexperience and excitement which has gone into
print about the Lasseter region. His party found
good seasonal waters in places, and saw what the
worst of the desert can be like in bloom. But their
prospecting experiences were not heartening to the
believers in caves of gold, and prove how heartbreak-
ing is the task of finding new Kalgoorlies in the
outlands.
EL V.
Lenin.
Born Vladimir Ulianov, the son of an inspector
of schools in the province of Simbirsk, Lenin was
given an excellent education, and at 17 was dux' of
the High School, and entered Kazan University. In
the same year occurred an event that shaped the
course of his life. His brother Alexander, a member
of the terrorist People’s Will party, attempted with
others to assassinate Alexander 111. and was hanged.
Seven months later Lenin was expelled from Kazan
University for taking part in student disturbances, and
thereafter pursued his studies with difficulty, though
he passed his law examination as an external student
of St. Petersburg University at 21.
From that time until his death in 1924 he was
constantly and increasingly engaged in revolutionary
activity, was imprisoned and exiled, but even from
Siberia was able to engage secretly and vigorously in
revolutionary propaganda. He adopted the name
Lenin as a pen-name in 1898, the year of his marriage
to a fellow-revolutionary.
On his release from exile he went abroad, and
his secret conspiracies developed apace from Geneva,
Munich, London, until in 1903 he was at the head
of the Bolsheviks. With the October strike in 1905
Lenin returned to Russia after a five-year exile, but
with the triumph of the counter-revolution two years
later he went into exile again, and remained abroad
for 10 years until the final disorganisation of the
Russian Government and the collapse of the monarchy
in 1917. When Kerensky became Premier, and
arrested Trotsky, Kamenev and other Bolsheviks,
Lenin escaped and worked for Kerensky’s overthrow.
On Nov. 7 the Proletarian Dictatorship was estab-
lished, and Lenin became President the following day.
His illness —haemorrhage of the brain—developed
early in 1922, continued throughout the following
year, and he died Jan. 2, 1924.
Lenin, a prolific writer, left no diary, nor wrote
an autobiography. Throughout his life he was con-
cerned with nothing but revolutions. About 1000
letters survive —thousands of others were written in
chemicals, thousands were destroyed. From those that
remain,, which have been printed in Russia, a repre-
sentative selection of 340 has been translated into
English and appears in The Letters of Lenin, trans-
lated and edited by Elizabeth Hill and Doris Mudie
(Chapman and Hall; 15s. net), covering the period
from 1895 to November, 1922.
They will be of interest to all political students,
but scarcely, one would think, to anyone else. A
third of the letters are addressed to his mother, for
whom he clearly had an abiding love, though even
these are so full of his work that he appeared to have
no time for tenderness. But to his wife, the devoted
helpmate who went into exile to marry him, and from
whom he was seldom thereafter separated, he relaxed
but once: —
I embrace you warmly, 1 ask you to write and
telegraph oftener. Your V. Ulianov. Obey the doctor:
eat and sleep more, then you will be quite fit for work
by the winter.
Cold and inflexible, with more steel than Stalin,
he believed in nothing but the literal interpretations
of the Marxian doctrine. He made himself the fana-
tical prophet of his belief, and any weakening of
purpose on the part of his fellow-conspirators enraged
him; they were then “suspect,” were to be treated
as enemies. Trotsky he despised, Radek he distrusted
—Stalin alone appeared to receive the full measure
of his confidence. Supremely confident, undeviating,
authoritative, ruthless, it is not hard to understand
how men could follow a man who so clearly knew
his own mind.
A Fine American Novel.
John Steinbeck, who attracted attention with
Tortilla Flat and held it with In Dubious Battle, will
lose nothing by his latest novel, Of Mice and Men
(Cape; 75.)- He is an American Maxim Gorky, and
that without suggesting that he is in any way deri-
vative. Of Mice and Men, like its predecessor, deals
with the Californian crop tramps —men and women
who swarm in freight trains, in broken-down cars and
on foot to the fruit and grain harvests ; vagrants with
an ever-thwarted longing for hearths of their own.
Two of them are in camp among some riverside trees:
Lennie said: “Tell about that place, George.”
“I jus’ tol’ you. Jus’ las’ night.”
“Go on—tell again, George.”
“Well, they’s a few acres,” said George. “Got a little
windmill. Got a little shack on it, an’ a chicken run.
Got a kitchen an’ an orchard. They’s a place for
alfalfa. Maybe we’d have a cow or a goat. Ever’
Sunday we’d kill a chicken or a rabbit. They’s a little
fat iron stove, an’ in winter we’d keep a fire goin’ in
it. We wouldn’t have to buck no barley eleven hours
a day. When we put in a crop we’d know what come
of our planting.”
“An’ we’d live fatta the lan’,’’ shouted
Lennie.
Lennie is . a gigantic half-wit. George is his mate
and keeper, tenderly devoted to him, yet aware o,
how much simpler life would be without him. At
the ranch where they join the barley harvesters they
enter, with the ancient one-armed swamper and
sweeper, into an arrangement whereby their dreams
of a fixed abode are brought within range of possi-
bility.
Among the characters at the ranch, all of whom
are so real that the reader feels he could speak to
them, is the wife of Curly, the rancher’s son, a young
woman who can’t leave men alone. Lennie’s weak-
ness is a passion for handling soft things and killing
them in an uncontrollable fear if they turn on him.
He will carry a live mouse in his pocket to fondle—
and kill when it nips him. He kills a puppy in me
same way. He and George had to clear hurriedly
out of the last town they visited because he frightened
a girl by putting his hand on her dress. In a fight
he grabbed a man’s hand and crushed it, not in wrath
but in sheer terror. On a Sunday afternoon, when
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING—and in every act.
THE SENIOR STORE ”
f
TssrrT „ paiL. 4
' - ■
' "■ ■ * -% ■ ; : ’ -i
» ■■' . '■ •-V-'* "; '<■ •*
" mm
■ • |4* ■ ■ ;
1 i
mm
i
©
so
/
SUPER HANDCRAFT
GOLOSH MODEL
For feet that walk with a purpose
in life. Whole golosh bespoke
model. Extra-wide welts, stitched
heels, full and half sizes.
Price, pair 42/-
* >
t :m
\
U
■‘■■A
mmm
tfc
i\ n
A
r if i 1
mmm*
mm
m
/\ !- : pQ
V \
¥, : i
ir - J
■ '
CO
0 &
■m
mtA
o/
/
in s
CTT ff
FOR MEN WHO DEMAND
QUALITY & COMFORT
SUPER HANDCRAFT BROGUE
“Tree” brand super handcraft brogue, made from genuine imported
Zug, Zebu and French calf. In Tan, Black and Brown. All have
extra-stout, genuine welted soles. In full and half sizes.
Price, pair
42/-
“TREE” BRAND GENUINE WELTS
Shoes that will still be popular after long wear. In Tan calf, Black
Box calf, Glace Kid, Patent Leather. All fittings and shapes. Genuine
welted soles. Price, pair 22/6
Also in Box calf Boots. Price, pair 22/6
THESE RIDING BOOTS WILL GIVE GOOD WEAR
r.
i
A
r>-
n
7f.
/!
X
V/
S
//
A JODHPUR BOOTS
■ . '
Boots that were made for stirrups. In grained
leather. Brown calf sewn, and standard
screwed soles. Full and half sizes.
Price, pair 30/-
B E. S. Riding Boots
Strong boots that will be comfortable even
after hours of riding. In oil-grained leather
or Tan calf. A good-fitting last. Full and
half sizes. Sewn, and with standard screwed
soles. Price, pair 30/-
49 Men's Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
'a
'
fry
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS LTD., SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Drama and Romance
THE PEARL BUTTON
by
PHLLIS McDONAGH
/.
THE trim little lugger stood-to, her sails neatly
stowed, the languid waves tapping her freshly-
painted sides with a monotonous slip-slap of
sound. The crew went about their work with
a practised precision. All through the torrid day the
diving operations had gone on. Now the first faint
breeze shivered through the mastheads and the sweat-
ing crew drew a sigh of relief.
Kinjo, No. 1 diver, stood at the rail preparing
for his last descent. Nakamura, No. 2 diver, had just
come up, and now, divested of his suit, was warming
his numbed hands in the still-blazing sun. Kinjo’s
squat figure looked grotesque in the inflated rubber
suit. He climbed on to the first rung of the ladder
while the tender fixed his helmet in place.
“Queer little nut,” thought the Swede as he set
the helmet in position. “Looks as if the devil has
him on the run.” He gave the screws a final twist,
then Kinjo seized the lifeline, and with a heavy splash
was gone from sight.
Above, the pumps took up their rhythmic work-
ing. ..
Speeded on by his leaden-soled boots and
weighted shoulders, Kinjo descended rapidly. His
face behind the heavy glass plate was curiously
relaxed. His eyes had lost the hunted look that the
Swede had mentally termed “his pursuing devil.”
This was Kinjo’s kingdom. Here he was safe, freed
from the terror that above stalked invisible by his
side. The thought had the power, even here, to
contract his muscles in a spasmodic fear.
For a year now Kinjo had been running away.
That the face of his enemy was unknown to him made
his terror the more real. It was like walking in
darkness with a hidden assailant waiting to strike.
Though the blow had not yet fallen Kinjo always
heard it pattering at his heels —and one day he would
not be able to outstep it...
An image rose suddenly before him. The
untroubled flower-face of Mena-San. Mena San, who
had gone On High, and from that far heaven still
looked down at him with her gentle, dovelike eyes.
IT was a year before he had met Mena-San, and
i straightway there was a flame between them that
burned in a clear-white lustre of desire. Nanji,
Mena-San’s querulous old husband, and the three
sons of his first marriage comprised the household
of Mena-San. None of them had suspected—until
it was too late. Kinjo and Mena-San had been gone
two whole days before Nanji and his three sons
caught up on their trail.
There came a
day when Mena-
San could go no
further. She had
caught fever from
an all-night exposure in a swamp,
and she lay now close to death.
It was in the little back room where they
had taken sanctuary that Mena-san died.
It was Kinjo who closed her eyes and left a
blossom between her tranquil hands. He had
taken a memento in return —a jade stick-pin from
her ebon hair...
When Nanji and his sons found her the following
day Kinjo was already gone. The old man swore a
death-pact. He was too old to follow revenge. His
sons should avenge the honor of Mena-San. In the
months that followed Kinjo led a hunted life, with his
invisible enemy always a step behind. Sometimes
the chase was close. At other times Kinjo thought
he had thrown off the pursuit, till some grim portent
brought his danger near. They were unhurried and
relentless.
Sometimes Kinjo knew despair. Added to this
was the terror of the unknown. Kinjo had never
seen Nanji’s sons. The man who ate rice at his
elbow might be his enemy, waiting to stab him to
death.
And always there was the frustrated, ceaseless
ache for Mena-San. Mena-San, whom he had loved
for such a little span, whom he had left at peace with
a blossom between her quiet hands. It was a vision
that tormented his days. It even blunted the fear of
pursuit. Dogged persistence, an instinctive cleaving
to life, drove him on.
ONE day he took sail from Thursday Island. In
Broome, with half a continent between them,
Kinjo knew for the first time a lessening of his fear.
Surely they would not find him here! But always
he was aware. He walked warily—“a funny little
nut —pursued by his devils”...
The offer of a diving contract with Captain
Sorenson had come as a blessed respite. Kinjo looked
the crew over and decided that here he was safe.
Nakamura, No. 2 diver, was the only other Japanese
in the crew, and after a period of suspicion Kinjo’s
fears were finally assuaged. Nakamura was a good
fellow and meant him no harm.
He had reached the sea-bed. Around him in
fantastic splendor lay sea-pinks and anemones, the
glowing beauty of the purple sponge and blue coral.
The seaweed dipped and swayed, trailing its long
green banners ; and between, like little pink lamps,
multicolored fish darted and passed. A yellow sea-
snake glided near with its vicious flattened head and
small glittering eyes. Beyond, a school of pike drove
past in ordered procession.
Kinjo pushed slowly on, leaden-footed, with
hunched back, following the drift of the boat overhead
around its anchor. He took his knife and set to
work. Presently the basket began to weigh heavy
about his waist. He worked steadily on, selecting and
discarding. Masses of the shell lay in rotting clumps,
destroyed by the ray and the crushing embrace of
the starfish.
At length Kinjo Was finished. He straightened his
bent back and tugged at the lifeline. He commenced
his slow ascent, a strange dangling figure sweeping
upwards through the green depths. Presently he
emerged, glistening and dripping, and the Swede was
waiting to help him across the rail.
F REED from the heavy steel helmet, Kinjo drew
in deep breaths of the fresh air. He climbed
out of his suit, thrashing his arms to renew the circu-
lation. , V \ ,
Kinjo looked round for Nakamura, but he was
nowhere to be seen. He stood a moment watching
the shell being opened. The swift flash of nacreous
lining with its exquisite gleam of multicolor reflecting
the level rays of the setting sun. Later it would be
sent overseas to be fashioned into little pearl buttons.
Kinjo felt strangely at peace. The past, even his
pursuing devil, had been outstripped. He was con-
scious of a calm that was curiously mixed with his
thoughts of Mena-San. She was near to him in this
hour, and her gentle presence pervaded the quiet
dusk. A warm, appetising smell wafted from the
galley. Kinjo drifted towards it. At the entrance-
way he paused a moment to lift his face to the sky.
A vagrant breeze stole across the water, shivering the
waves lightly as it went. Behind Kinjo the shadows
massed.
Kinjo still stood, his head lifted to the sky. An
expression of intense surprise transfigured his face.
He stayed unmoving a moment, then crumpled slowly
forward on his face...
When they reached his side a bright-red stain
was welling out on to the deck. Between his brown
shoulder-blades protruded the handle of a kris.
Kinjo’s face still wore that look of intense surprise.
In one hand, clutched tightly, was a little jade stick-
pin ...
The sun was setting in a glory of tropical
splendor. It struck an answering reflection in the
brilliant color-play of the nacreous shell. Back in
the shadow of the galley Kinjo lay in the congealing
stream of his life’s b100d...
//.
~TT HE alarm-clock jangled noisily with ,an insistent
f summons. The girl leant up on one elbow and
switched it off. Then she lay back with a
pleasurable sigh. She always stole this extra five
minutes. It gave her a sense of luxury. Dreamy
imaginings of tea and toast brought to her bedside
by a solicitous maid, frilly nightgowns, fragrant linen
—all those other delectable things that Mary-Ann,
through her brief span of life, had dreamt of and
never known.
Mary-Ann’s odd, three-cornered little face was
wistful now as she lay back on her lumpy, dishevelled
pillow. Sometimes life frightened her. It was so vast
and overwhelming. There were times when she felt
very small and alone. At nineteen Mary-Ann needed
all her courage and practical sense to meet the grim
demand of existence; but she did meet it.
When the Birmingham Pearl Button Manufac-
turing Co. advertised for extra hands Mary-Ann was
among the hundred or so more applicants who
clamored on the doorstep. She got the job. It
enabled her to exist. Mary-Ann was unduly grateful
for that. She was also grateful for the occasional
luxuries it provided—a fortnightly Visit to a picture-
show, an infrequent trip to the Gardens, the red-letter
day when her painfully hoarded pennies were
exchanged for a new hat or a pair of silk stockings.
At the back of Mary-Ann's practical little soul
something else lurked, something unnamed and dimly
felt —a vague reaching-up to some species of glory
hitherto unknown. She felt it most when the spring
days rioted and the sun and the light wind called;
, when the streets were gay with summery frocks and
laughter lingered in the air. The girls at the factory
jeered good-naturedly “Mary-Ann hasn’t got a beau!”
'“THERE had been someone, of course. There was
* someone. He colored very delicately the pale
grey of Mary-Ann’s days. His name was Tom
Holden, and he was employed in, the same factory.
In the months they had worked together they had
never spoken, but. between them something had
grown, something inarticulate and lovely because of
its unspoken meaning. Mary-Ann was always acutely
aware of him. And she knew, too, that he was
conscious of her in their swift and flurried passings,
in the brief clashings of their glances across the room.
Once she had stood by his side in the employees’ lift.
He had looked at the ceiling, at his shoes —anywhere
but at her. He was agonisingly shy. She knew that.
She wanted to reach out and touch him, but she did
not dare.
One day she made a rapturous discovery. The
girl who worked next to her knew Tom and his
family well. Encouraged by Mary-Ann’s avid
interest, she grew loquacious on the subject. For
three generations the Holdens had been associated
with the pearl-button industry. Grandfather Holden
in the early days had been a skilled worker and
operated his own lathe. Tom related with pride how


he could work ten to fourteen hours a day and produce
forty gross of buttons per week. When his son
Jack took up the work machinery had come into
its own.
It had been a bitter blow to Jack Holden when
he was forced to give up his prided trade. He did
not count a portion of his right hand that he fed to
a machine as a sacrifice. Young Tom automatically
filled his father’s place. In his veins ran the blood
of generations of button-makers. It was their tradi-
tion. It was young Tom’s passion. He studied the
history of the industry from its early beginning
in the Orient and its gradual spread throughout
Europe to America and England. He studied the
shell more minutely through a microscope. The
thin layers of shell appearing to curve and over-
lap in tiny undulations—like waves creaming on a
beach.
Like his father, he operated the machines. He
knew them intimately, like beloved children. The
cutting-lathe with its freight of freshly-washed shell.
The little steel saws that fashioned the blanks. Then,
when the skilled hand-slitters had completed their
intricate work, the grinding-machine equipped with
its abrasive wheels to file the blanks to an even surface.
Then to the old, friendly revolving chucks in which
the pattern was formed and the holes drilled. Finally,
the last process, the great tumbling barrels where the
buttons were put through a series of chemical solu-
tions and emerged polished and gleaming the
finished product.
To Tom it was a work of supreme art, a never-
ending wonder. It absorbed his days... Mary-Ann’s
informant thought it rather a pity. He was a nice
kid, and any of the girls would have been glad to be
friendly.
Mary-Ann wondered, too, and bent her flushed
cheeks closer to her work...
A CLOCK chimed, and Mary-Ann, with a little
guilty start, sprang out of bed. She had outstayed
her five minutes by ten. This meant grabbing a
hurried cup of tea, bolting into her clothes and racing
for the tram. She arrived at the factory three minutes
late.
As she hurried through the machine-room she cast
a little conscious look across to the cutting-lathe. Tom
Holden was feeding the machine and he did not see
her. She felt a pang of disappointment.
In the sorting-room the girls were busy at work.
Mary-Ann settled down at her table to the familiar
task of sorting and grading. To-day she worked
mechanically. This lot for the garment manufac-
turers.. Oh, why were they both so stupid? It
would be so easy to speak—just a little word. The
cottqn bags ready to be filled for shipment abroad.
Ten gross each bag. A lot of buttons. She loved
the way his hair grew back from his forehead. Some-
times it looked rumpled and untidy, as if he had run
his fingers through it. Cards to be sewn for the
jobbers. Twelve each card. She hated the old things,
anyway. What he could ever see. in them...
The overseer came to the door. “Miss Selby,
Mr. Davidson wants to see a sample of to-day’s ship-
ment.”
Mary-Ann rose and gathered together a handful
of buttons. Outside a long dim passage led to the
manager’s office. Someone was hurrying towards her.
They collided violently in their haste and the buttons
were jerked from her hand. She gave a little exclama-
tion of annoyance and dropped to her knees to collect
them. The man bent too. He was mumbling an
apology. Their heads were close. The recognition
was mutual.
“Oh!” said Mary-Ann.
The boy stared. A slow flush had mounted up
under his skin. “I —I say, I’m awfully sorry.”
“I’m glad!”
They looked into each other’s eyes ; then they
both laughed, swiftly, joyously.
“So am I.”
They started to collect the buttons, laughing a
little still, drawn close in their conspiracy. At last
they rose and faced each other.
He stammered “I hope you won’t think it a cheek,
but could I see you some time? We might do a
show—anything you like”...
She whispered shyly “I’d be glad.”
Walking back to her own room, Mary-Ann trod
on a rarefied species of air. She was still a little dazed
before the unbelievable miracle...
“Mary-Ann, pass over the clips!”
Mary-Ann reached for them mechani-
cally, then she stared in slow surprise. In
her hand, still clutched tightly, was a pearl
button.
111.
7" HE Flemings occupied the flat above Joseph
C j Hartmann the tailor’s shop. It was a large,
comfortable apartment, and, as Mrs. Peel
confided to Rosa Hartmann, “Too much good space
to be wasted on just two people.”
The Flemings had come from India. Rhea
Fleming’s health had broken down out there, and
Jim Fleming had given up an assured job to come
home and seek a precarious livelihood at whatso-
ever offered at the moment. His own job of
accountancy he found to be at a discount. Still, they
contrived to Jive in modest comfort.
Mrs. Peel often met Rhea Fleming as she went
out for her shopping. Beyond a reserved good-
mornjng she showed no inclination to be friendly, and
Mrs. Peel, herself a friendly soul, resented the other’s
distant attitude.
“Puttin’ on airs,” she sniffed to Rosa Hartmann,
“just because she’s been an’ lived in India!”
Rosa Hartmann nodded sagely, though she con-
served a mental note. One couldn’t afford to be
uncharitable. Joseph had just renovated three of
Mr. Fleming’s suits—nice new pearl buttons, fresh
pockets, new lapels—and some of Jim Fleming’s hard-
won shillings had found their way into the Hart-
manns’ coffer. No, one couldn’t afford to be
uncharitable.
The Flemings led a quiet life. They had few
acquaintances in London. Beyond Mr. Kendall, Jim
Fleming’s close friend, no other visitors came to the
apartment. Mrs. Peel could vouch for that.
Mr. Kendall was there very often, sometimes
every evening. The two men played some funny sort
of card-game together bezeke, or some name like
that. Jim Fleming had told old Joseph about it. Rhea
Fleming rarely joined in their game. She sat quiet
beneath the reading-lamp, her dark Madonna-like
head bent above her sewing. Or she would remain
idle, her long slim hands folded in her lap, her quiet
gaze set ahead. She did not share much in their
conversation. She was a silent woman. Jim Fleming
was all wrapped up in her. Anyone with half an eye
could see that. Funny how those sort of people always
got the best of things, while other hard-working
women with families to rear
Jim Fleming struck a bit of luck just lately. An
intermittent job that took him out of town an occa-
sional night in the week. Mrs. Peel was sure he
deserved the luck. He was a good, hard-working
fellow, and the jobs were not easy to find.
ONE evening Jim Fleming returned home to an
early tea. He was due to catch the 8.15 from
Paddington. Mrs. Peel and Rosa Hartmann watched
him bid his wife an affectionate good-bye and depart
in a taxi for the station. If they had followed his
subsequent movements they would have been surprised
and, without doubt, mystified. At the end of the
street Jim Fleming re-directed the driver, and a few
minutes later alighted at a somewhat dingy-looking
pub ill-timedly called the Fern and Flower.
If they had followed him inside their worthy
souls would have been further scandalised. Fleming
settled down at one of the dubious-looking tables and,
for a professedly sober man, started in on some steady
drinking. When the waiter had removed his eighth
glass Jim Fleming rose, glanced at the clock, then
stumbled rather uncertainly from the room.
Apparently he had decided to walk
home; but this was the curious thing.
When he reached Fenton-street his move-
ments all at once became stealthy and
aware. He made no attempt to enter the
house. Rather, he seemed anxious to*
remain out of sight. The darkened door-
way of a vacant house opposite served the
purpose very well. From here he could
look into the apartment across the street—
even through the thinly-curtained window
glimpse the outline of Rhea’s shapely
head ...
He did not have long to wait. A man’s
figure came quickly down the street. He
stopped a moment, glanced swiftly about,
then disappeared through the entrance to
the apartment. Two profiles moved now
against the blind. The silent watcher oppo-
site made no sign. He might have been
a carven image, a part of the impassive
doorway against which he crouched. Pres-
ently the light in the front room went out,
and one who was familiar with every inch
of the flat knew that the room beyond it
had been lighted.
The leaden hours dragged by. Ten
. . . eleven. Fenton-street had settled down
to respectable slumber,
In the apartment opposite the further
light still burned. Suddenly the front room
sprang once more into illumination. Two
figures merged for a moment against the
swaying blind. The watcher stirred. He
(Continued on page 7.)
The shadow of the post-box widened suddenly. He was on the other man before he had time to cry out.


Comedy of Miners
CHEESE m FOR CRlfl
By
Gavin S.Casey
ILLUSTRATED BY LOCK.
“7* HE slimes dump behind Daly’s
/ place was high and ancient.
v. > Its face was criss-crossed with
cracks and chasms, the result
of erosion which had found the weak
spots between the sandbags of which
its walls were built. It dwarfed the
house, but it would never grow any
higher, because it had been long
abandoned, and the Bonanza Pro-
prietary now pumped its slimes a
mile through pipes to flow out over
waste ground.
The house was small enough to
have been called a camp by anyone
who wished to insult its owners. It
was brown and drab and sat flat on
the ground, and three separate and
distinct sheets of iron on the roof
vibrated in sympathy with the din
when they were pulling dirt on the
Bonanza and the cracker was work-
ing.
Its inhabitants were not small and drab. They
were large and spectacular, noisy and arrogant, and
got money in all sorts of ways (even working for
some of it), but always got it, and just as invariably
spent it. The men were the despair of the women,
and the women, in their different manner, were the
despair of the men.
To-day the men were away about their various
affairs. The Old Lady was washing, and Peg, one
of the young ones, was hanging the clothes and
feeling very virtuous about it. Liz was spread out on
the couch in the front room absorbing the contents
of “Poppy’s Paper.” They all paused in their occupa-
tions occasionally to curse the dust in the frivolous
wind and the sulphur fumes from the mine treatment
plants.
Peg’s two toddlers, ambitiously named Hilaire
and Daphne from names in Liz’s magazines, were
outside in the yard, lost in contemplation of an exciting
spectacle which they had now witnessed on three
successive evenings.
A man, disreputable in his working clothes, was
wheeling a pushbike along the well-worn pad that
lay between the Bonanza and the Crescent dumps.
His “dynamite-cloth” crib-bag hung over the handle-
bars, and at a place in the dump where an aged and
rusty sheet of iron was half embedded in the slimes
he stopped and looked around him warily. He lifted
the tin and dropped half the contents of the bag into
the hole behind it. Then he wheeled his machine on
to the main road, mounted it and pedalled away.
“What does the funny man put his lunch in the
hole for, Hilly?” asked Daphne in a loud, shrill voice.
“Hussssh!” commanded Hilaire, who had, as well
as a profound conviction of male superiority, an
instinct for drama.
They lay quiet in their concealing gutter, listening
to their own heartbeats and thinking about the possi-
bilities of the case, until the man was well out of
sight. Then they discussed it.
“I. bet there’s a lot o’ things to eat in there,” said
Hilaire. “We seen him put stuff in three times.”
“I’m hungry,” said Daphne plaintively.
In some fear, but given sufficient confidence by
the fact that the man had not returned on either of
the previous evenings, they moved towards the dump
—and disappointment. For after a difficult scramble
to the hole, and a mighty pull to wrench out its con-
tents, there was not a single eatable as reward.
Nothing but silly, dull silver-colored bits of stone,
no use for anything and not even pretty, all stowed
away in another dynamite-cloth bag.
“Aw, c’mon!” snorted Hilaire in disgust, dragging
his sister by the arm. And she, womanlike, dragged
after her the bag which they had had so much trouble
to obtain and with which she therefore refused to
part, whether it was useful or not.
D Y the time the two large male Dalys and the
equally large Dan Phillips, Peg’s husband and the
father of Hilaire and Daphne, arrived home tea was
on the table, and the children, on the floor, had
originated a simple game which could be played with
dirty grey bits of stone. They were skidding the
pebbles all over the room, to the annoyance of the
Old Lady.
“Stones!” she said shrilly. “Dirty, filthy bits of
rock y’ve picked up somewhere! What you young
divils’ll bring into th’ house next, sakes alone knows.
Out with it, #in’ out with th’ lot o’ ye, too.”
Dan, who was reading the paper, looked languidly
over the top of it and his eyes goggled. His heart-
beats accelerated until their pace synchronised with
that of the throbbing Diesel engines on the mine.
“Goddlemighty!” he yelped, and then stopped
to do a little rapid thinking on the matter of just
whose children Hilly and Daph were, anyway, and
how little he owed to the Dalys, and the fact that he
hadn’t had “a break” for a long time.
“An’ what’s wrong with you?” the Old Lady
yelled. “Complainin’, like you alius are, I suppose.
Then try yer hand yerself at lookin’ after th’ damn’
kids an’ see if ye can keep ’em out o’ mischief if y’re
so clever.”
“Aw, shut up!” said Dan politely, treading on
both dogs and knocking the birdcage over in his haste
to be out in the yard with the kids.
But both the Dalys were in the yard too. The
yard seemed to be overflowing with vast Dalys, and
Hilly and Daph were already out of sight, planting
the stones in some ridiculous hiding-place of theirs.
Dan went into the house with the rest and sweated
and thought desperately through the meal.
When the food was consumed, the kitchen full
of smoke and the women reaching between the feet
on the table to take off the dirty dishes, Dan’s over-
worked mind suddenly saw the obvious way out of
its difficulty.
“Peg,” he said ingratiatingly, “what about a
walk? Nice night fer a stroll. We’ll take th’ kids
an’ go out fer a while, eh?”
The silence was suddenly too big for the room.
They all looked at Dan as if he had gone mad. Even
Peg’s jaw dropped, but she made a fast recovery.
“Walk!” she snorted. “It’s you that would be
talkin’ about walks when I’ve tramped a hundred
miles this day, hangin’ yer dirty damn’ clothes on th’
line. Walk yerself, if y’ want to.”
“Okay,” said Dan eagerly. “I’ll take th’ kids,
an’ be back in half a hour.”
“You’ll do no sich thing!” declared Peg. “Them
kids is due fer bed, an’ if y’ want t’ git a sudden crush
on their company y’ can git it in th’ daytime.”
“I’ll go with y’, Danny-boy,” said Bill Daly
with a smirk. “Sich a bonzer moonlight night fer jist
us two t’ ramble on th’ dumps, deary.”
“Aw, cripes!” grunted Dan in disgust. “Can’t
a man feel like a walk in this damn’ place?”
Hilaire and Daphne were put to bed, and Dan
continued to sweat icy perspiration with anxiety and
the effort of thinking so hard. There were many
possible solutions, but each had its fatal weakness.
It would be easy to get information from the kids if
he could confide in Peg, but Peg was still too much
of a Daly, and he could not be sure what she would
do. He could try waking Hilly in the middle of the
night, but it would be an extremely risky business
in a house so small and so full of people as theirs.
It would be no use getting up early to corner Hilly,
for everyone rose almost with the sun.
THE evening wore itself away in an infinite
succession of the largest minutes Dan had ever
known, and his night was one of planning and mutter-
ing and rolling about in the bed. Then his brain
astonishingly worked for one illuminating second, and
thereafter he actually slept.
In the morning he was gaunt and red-eyed, in a
condition which suited his purpose.
“I’m missin’ th’ shift,” he told the family at
breakfast. “I’m too crook. Never slep’ a wink.
Pains in th’ stummick an’ sore joints. If I don't git
better soon I’m orf back t’ bed.”
Sympathy was not freely indulged in in the house-
hold, but Dan didn’t want sympathy. He wanted
to see Bill and Tom out of the place and safe on
their way to work ; and in due course he did. A
feeling of contentment possessed him as he watched
them leave, and he lost no time in setting out to seek
the kids.
Hilly and Daph were trailing across the yard,
and the former had in his hand a black dynamite-
cloth bag, the sight of which made Dan’s eyes sparkle.
The man charged down on them and commenced
negotiations briskly.
“Where’d y’ git th’ bag, Hill?” he asked cheer-
fully.
“It—it’s th’ one we found,” said little Hilaire
doubtfully. “Th’ one with th’ stones, Dad.”
“H’m —good strong bag,” said Dan, congratulat-
ing himself on subtle handling of the position. “C’d
do with one like that meself. Tell y’ what—l’ll give
y’ sixpence fer th’ bag an’ th’ stones too.”
“Aw, naw, Dad,” said Hilly in what sounded like
desperate tones. “Lemme keep it, Dad.”
“Come on,” said Dan briskly. “Y’ don’t want
a silly old bag. I’ll give y’ a shillin’, an’ get y’ a better
one. Don’ cry, now, son. I’ll give y’ two bob.”
But when the bag was taken from him Hilly’s
lip trembled and tears hung on ms lashes. Dan was
surprised at the lightness of it, and a dreadful fear
attacked him.
“It wuz on’y a joke, Dad. It wuz on’y a joke on
Uncle Bill. We didn’t mean no harm, on’y Granny
guv us his crib to hang on his bike, an’ we jist wanted
a joke,” pleaded Hilly.
With despair in his heart Dan opened the bag,
and in it, sure enough, was nothing more valuable
than the arrangement of bread, cheese and cake that
Bill fancied for “crib.” His remarks brought tears
in floods from both his children, and abuse in torrents
from Peg when she heard the noise.
AT about the same time Bill, sliding down the shaft
of the Bonanza in a cage with five mates, was
suddenly aware that the lunch the Old Woman had
given him weighed like solid lead. Mystified, he
investigated when they reached the plat at “the 800”
and he was released from the pressure of the shoulders
and arms of his fellows. What he saw made him
giddy and destroyed his interest in work for the rest
of the day. Telluride! Lumps, hunks and junks of
it, and a whole damn’ bagful! Where it had come
from the Lord alone knew, but Bill quickly abandoned
surmise on that point and concentrated on trying
to work out how he was going to get it out of the
shaft and home. There was enough to buy a sheep-
station, but that, unfortunately, was too much to
comfortably carry about the mine in a bag. Bill
gave himself over to profound thought, and blunted
steel and annoyed his mate until crib-time.
The problem of crib was easily disposed of.
“Gawd, I feel crook,” said Bill, clutching his
midriff as they squatted under the plat lights to eat.
“Couldn’t stummick a mouthful if y’ paid me.”
“Somethin’ new fer you,” said Jones, the bogger,
and the matter was dropped until that worthy had
finished the contents of his own package. Then com-
plications commenced.
“A real boardin’-house crib,” said Jones as he
wiped his lips. “Stale bread, an’ not much of it.
Give us a sandwich if y’ ain’t gonna eat yours, Bill.”
“Naw! ” snapped Bill. “Y’ eat more’n’s good for
y’, anyway. I’m feelin’ a bit better, an’ I might have
a go at this durin’ th’ afternoon.”
Jones looked up in astonishment.
“Well, y’ lousy cow!” he said, and a coldness
developed between the pair which worried Bill not
nearly as much as the problem with which his mind
w'as already busy.
Eventually he decided that the bold course would
be the best one. To hide the telluride on the level
and take it away a little at a time would be asking
for its discovery by one of the untrustworthy,
avaricious fools with which the place was infested.
He carried his full and heavy crib-bag to the surface
at four o’clock, and heaved a sigh of relief when
he was safely off the lease. In hasty glee he pedalled
to the camp of old Fred Dawson, who was on after-
noon shift, and, concealed by the high iron fence that


moved stealthily forward and was lost again in the
dark shadow of a post-box. Fenton-street was very
quiet. Suddenly a door opened and closed and careful
steps descended to the footpath.
The shadow of the post-box widened suddenly
and disintegrated. He was on the other man before
he had time to cry out, even call a warning. There
was a half-uttered groan, a dull thud, then a silence
that palpitated like the jangling of a thousand bells...
Fenton-street did not even hear. In the gutter
the huddled form of a man slept on. Close to one
outflung arm something glittered, reflecting the dim
light of a street-lamp. It was a little pearl button.
IV.
HE great liner cut through the Atlantic as if this
f blue immensity had been a toy millpond. The
crowd of passengers who thronged the deck-rails
laughed and chatted in their enjoyment of the moment.
A girl and a man stood a little apart from the main
crowd, as if their glowing and radiating happiness lent
them an isolation that in actuality they achieved.
Amused glances were turned their way, and the
inevitable whispered comment was on many lips:
“Honeymooners! ”
The two would have been the last to deny the
assertion. They had been married four days. The
man should probably have known better. He was past
his first callow youth. But the girl was young and
lovely and glancing like a butterfly’s wing. They
were holding hands in the shadow of the rail, and the
man was asking the immemorial question that man
is asking the world over. “Happy, sweet?”
She nodded. A little upward shake of her head.
Soft lips demurely together.
He held her hand still tighter and their shoulders
touched. Michael was telling himself for the thou-
sandth time during the past four days what an infer-
nally lucky devil he was. What had he ever done to
deserve Elly? It had all been so sudden, so unpre-
meditated, that he was still a little dazed. Other
men led up to this peak in their lives by a process
of assimilation. He had none. No warning, no
preparation of any kind. He let his mind run back
over the incredible happenings of the past two weeks.
Two weeks? Good Lord! Other people had strung
out the experience as the leisurely process of a life-
time. And he and Elly had their lifetime before
them . . .
K 4 ICHAEL WHELAN was one of London’s rising
young barristers. He had been unaware when he
received the invitation to attend the engagement party
“ I’m backin’ Dan in this!” roared Tom, waving a massive fist beneath his brother’s nose.
of Elly Roberts to the Honorable Cecil Blake that this
little slip of cardboard was to alter the course of his
life.
He did not know the Hon. Cecil —but he knew
Elly—a long time ago. A half-dimmed memory of
a boy-and-schoolgirl love, fragrant, even now, as the
perfume of apple-blossoms where their youthful idyll
had been passed.
The party was quite a big affair. There was a
crush of guests, and when Michael reached his host
and hostess Elly was somewhere dancing. He made
a game of it. He would go in search of Elly. Try
to pick her out from the feminine crowd.
He heard “Michael!” and swung round. A
girl stood laughing up at him. Her eyes were
bluer than he had ever remembered, her hair a paler
gold. But, then, he had visualised a child, and here
was a woman.
He whispered “Elly!”
Their hands reached out and clung.
“Oh, Michael,” she said, “after all these years!”
They began to talk rapidly, in the sudden miracle
of their discovery. They were a little incoherent.
After a long time it seemed there remained
nothing more to be said. In silence they danced.
It was only then he remembered the Hon. Cecil
Blake. He mentioned it diffidently. Elly’s eyes were
suddenly dark. He never knew that blue eyes could
look so dark. She was a little pale. “He’s not a
particularly interesting young man, Michael. It’s
quite crazy, of course; but, you see, he —no longer
exists”...
He caught at her meaning, incredulous, demand-
ing. “Elly”
She laughed a little then and her voice was
choked. “When you went away and left me I thought
I’d die. I think I’ve been dying by little bits ever
since—till now. I’m quite shameless, Michael; I love
you, you see”...
j_J IS hand tightened on hers now as he remembered
* * those past days. Their essential rightness. The
sense of belonging.
Elly broke the spell. “Cigarette, please!”
He fumbled for his case, couldn’t find it. He
went through his vest pockets. A small round object
met his fingers. He brought it wonderingly to light.
It was a small pearl button. He chuckled as he looked
at it. “The past pursues me even here”...
She pressed close, curious, demanding. “It’s not
a pretty story, really, darling—just a little souvenir
of my first successful case”...
“Michael! Don’t be mean!’
He couldn’t refuse her. “In
France they call it the crime pas-
sionelle. In England the law
takes a sterner view. This un-
fortunate devil paid the penalty.
The usual story. An unfaithful
wife, the husband and his best
friend... He killed him all right,
admitted it after in the dock.
They might never have got him
but for this little pearl button.
Exhibit A. They found it in the
gutter beside the body, and later
matched it with a missing one on
the murderer’s coat. You know,
I never liked calling him that. He
was such a decent chap, and the
other probably deserved all that
was coming to him. It was a
pretty futile business all round.
The poor devil got the rope, and
she killed herself a few weeks
later.”
“How horrible! Let me see,
Michael; at least I can forgive
the button when it won you your
first case.”
His eyes were a little strained.
“At a price, darling”. . .
She reached for it, and sud-
denly Michael’s hand fumbled,
and the button went spinning
from his fingers down into the
blue depths whence it had come.
surrounded its yard, buried his precious burden in
a remote corner.
'"THEN he went home, whistling blithely and full of
* wonder as to how he had ever come to possess
the ore at all. On arrival at the house beside the
Bonanza dump he was soon informed.
“Well,” said a stern and nasty-looking Dan
Phillips, “where’s yer crib-bag? Did y’ git so hungry
y’ ate bag an’ all t’-day?”
Bill felt that the game was up, but he made a
fight.
“Wot’re y’ talkin’ about?” he asked fiercely. “I
fergot it —left it in th’ change-room, if y’ want t’
know.”
“Yes, you did,” said Dan. “You fergot it, all
right. An’ gobbled up th’ stone fer lunch, an’ never
knew th’ difference from cheese, I s’pose. If anyone’d
told me you was th’ kind o’ squib that’d try t’ do th’
rest o’ th’ fambly out o’ their shares o’ a parcel like
that I wouldn’t ’a’ believed ’em. Wot y’ done with it,
y’ cow?”
“Never mind what I done with it,” said Bill. “I
got it safe, an’ you’ll all git yer cut, same as I intended
t’ give y’ before y’ barged yer frame in. An’ it’s
where it won’t get none o’ us into trouble, an’ it’s
stayin’ there for th’ time bein’.”
“Oh, is it?” said Dan, and then Tom Daly
appeared on the scene, and the matter became in
every sense a family one. A lot of unpleasantness
occurred and was still occurring when the women
served the evening meal. Hilly and Daph were
amazed at the vehemence of their elders, even more
rowdy than usual.
“I’m backin’ Dan in this!” roared Tom, waving
a massive fist across the table beneath his brother’s
nose. “You’ll tell us where th’ stuff is, or by Gawd
we’ll put y’ in sich a state y’ll need it all t’ pay yei
horspital bills.”
“I’m backin’ him, too!” shrieked Peg. “Though
it’s a fine sort of a damn’ thing he is, comes t’ that,
what would’ve got orf with it himself if he could’ve.”
“Yer dad’ll turn in his grave if he knows what
y’re doin’,” said the Old Lady reproachfully. “T’
think that a son o’ his an’ mine’d ever come at it!”
“Y’orter be ashamed o’ yerself, y’ should!’'
snorted Liz. “Y’ never put in yer whack t’ th’ house
since y’ left school, y’ big loafer, an’ now y’ got
somethin’ y’ try t’ hog th’ lot.”
“Whose kids found th’ damn’ stuff, anyway?”
demanded Dan. “Whose nippers brought it home fer
a flamin’ thief like you t’ git down on?”
At this point in the battle frantic signs from Liz
sent those who had their backs to the door swivelling
in their chairs and brought the whole family together
to face a common enemy. Out of the night, without
the courtesy of a knock, Willis, of the Gold Stealing
Detection Staff, strode into the room.
“G’night,” said Willis, and the family, though
vaguely uneasy, was triumphantly aware that there
was nothing in the place for Willis to find. Bill
could not resist sending a grin of triumph around the
room, and little Hilaire was all eyes, gazing at the
intruder.
“Just want t’ have a look around,” stated Willis
conversationally.
“Look!” said Bill perkily. “But don’t strain
yer eyesight, ’cause y’ won’t find nothin’.”
“Sauce from you won’t do any good,” said Willis,
a trifle annoyed. “Fact is, it’s just to see what was in
that full crib-bag y’ brought up from the eight-
hundred t’-day that I called around.”
Yet another seeker after the contents of the bag
of which he and Daph had thought so little was too
much for little Hilly. The stuff must be dreadfully
important! Hilly could vision disaster extending into
the years as a result of his having found it. There
wasn’t much he could do now, but there was one
thing. With a gasp of suppressed excitement he dis-
appeared through the door and came back at a
run.
“Here’s some o’ th’ stuff was in th’ bag, mister,”
he cried, eagerly offering a handful of small and
roughly rounded slugs of telluride. “I dunno what
Uncle Bill done with the rest, mister, but these is
bits Daph an’ I hung on to fer playin’ tosses with.”
With joy in his eye and deportment Willis
watched the Dalys shrink visibly in their seats. “Well,
if that don’t win!” he muttered. “If y’ got so much
of it that y’ give it to th’ kids to play tosses with
you blokes’ll be well-lined when y’ come out, any-
way.”


the other men are playing quoits with horseshoes,
Curly’s wife comes to Lennie, who is in the barn
mourning over his dead puppy. She sympathises with
him, tells him of her imagined difficulties with Curly
and invites him to feel the softness of her hair. Then
she becomes frightened. Lennie claps his hand over
her mouth to stifle her screams, pleads with her not
to be frightened, and then, in his own fear, gives her
a shake that breaks her neck. He has been told by
George that if he does anything “bad”/ he is to go
to the riverside camp and wait. He does so. George
arrives ten minutes ahead of the search party that is
either going to lynch Lennie or see him put in an
asylum. He diverts Lennie’s thoughts to the little
shack they’re going to have some day, and while he
is laughing happily shoots him. Slim, the muledriver,
the most discerning of the searchers, leads George
away in search of a drink. “You had to, George.
I swear you had to. A guy’s got to sometimes.”
The strength of Steinbeck’s work, apart from
his understanding of humanity in general and the
types of which he writes in particular, is the sim-
plicity of his method. The reader watches with pity
and a growing sense of impending tragedy, but it is
entirely due to his own estimation of the characters
and the situation. The writer offers no explanations
and extends no obvious bids for interest. Palpable
devices whereby information necessary to the reader’s
understanding is wedged into the story are not for
Steinbeck. He has so mastered the craft of story-
telling as to make it seem, not a story, but something
carried direct from life to the printed page. It is
naturalism brought to a fine flowering. Further, in
dealing with both character and scene he whittles
everything down to what is salient and significant.
This is his introduction of the cripple, Crooks:
“The door of the bunk-house opened and the stable
buck put his head in ; a lean negro head lined with
pain, the eye patient.” There is very little descrip-
tion, yet he conveys a satisfying impression of the
ranch, the harvest and the countryside. This is from
his bone-bare yet richly connotative picture of the
camp where the story begins ands ends:
On the sandy bank under the trees the leaves lie so
deep and crisp that a lizard makes a great skittering if
he runs among them. Rabbits come out of the brush
to sit on the sand in the evening, and the damp flats
are covered with the night tracks of ’coons, with the
spread pads of dogs from the ranches and the split-
wedge tracks ■ of deer that come to drink in the dark.
There is a path beaten hard by tramps who come
wearily down from the highway in the evening to
jungle-up near water.
A Fate-preserved Traveller.
Victor Heiser, M.D., author of A Doctor’s Odyssey
(Cape ; 17s. 6d.), almost lost his life as a boy in a
flood that destroyed his home town in Pennsylvania.
He was saved only by his agility in scrambling from
one collapsing building to another. In subsequent
years his life was preserved four times by favorable
coincidence.
In Bagdad he declined an offer of a lift in a
car to Damascus. The car was ambushed by Arab
tribesmen, and the man in the seat he would have
occupied was shot dead. In New York he received
an urgent wire, “Return to Canada.” He took train,
and that night an explosion occurred in the subway
beneath the hotel where he had been staying, and
the. man in the bed he had vacated was killed. In
Rangoon the claims of work caused him to postpone
a projected visit to Mandalay. The train he would
have travelled by was wrecked. Over 50 persons were
killed and “several hundred wounded.” In Mexico,
during the Revolution, he bought a train ticket to
Mexico City, when he received a wire, “Services
urgently needed in Brazil.” He cancelled the ticket.
The train was held wp by bandits, and all the white
passengers taken out and shot.
He found the earthquakes rather bad in the
Philippines. “During a ’quake, when I used to look
out of my window in the narrow Calle Palacio, and
observed the houses swaying toward one another, I
would have the illusion that they were actually bump-
ing heads.” He has seen a bottomless crack streak
across the ground like a flash of lightning and split
a church in two. One church, to preclude such a
possibility, was built not on foundations but on
rockers. He saw Taal volcano erupt one night with
a noise audible for two hundred and fifty miles. After-
wards, he and other searchers found dead Filipinos
“stark naked, standing upright and embedded in
ashes to their knees, still holding protecting umbrellas
over their heads.” They had been escaping through
the rain of ashes when the vacuum caused by the
exploding gases had torn their clothes off —without
damaging the umbrellas. The doctor and a companion
got some fun out of the ’quakes, which occurred every
12 minutes. “When we amused ourselves straddling
the clefts and riding the ’quakes we would receive
an exaggerated up-and-down motion.”
He was generally equal to any situation. In
Italy he “evolved a stratagem” for dealing with drivers
of public vehicles who attempted to mulct him. He
invited onlookers to join the discussion. He did this
on a tram. The passengers took sides “with shouts
and gesticulations,” the driver stopped the car and
joined in. The service was held up.
In Sydney, after his personal effects had been
emptied from his trunks and inspected by a Customs
officer, he asked who was going to put them back-
The answer was, “You are.” Before he could think
of an effective rejoinder “there was a loud honking
from the street, and a brilliantly-apparelled officer
brightened the doorway. Ms this Doctor Heiser?’ he
inquired. M am the Governor’s aide. His Excellency
has asked me to look after you. Is your luggage
ready?’ ” The doctor and the aide departed together,
leaving “a subdued inspector meekly dusting, folding
and packing.” A proud boast of the author’s Aus-
tralian chapter —not of great interest —is that he
defeated W. M. Hughes in an argument. He was
much impressed by the efficiency of Maoriland Gov-
ernment departments.
A Doctor’s Odyssey —4so large pages of fairly
close print—is a scrapbook of travel in 45 countries.
The style is not remarkable, and the observations are
rather superficial, but it is easy reading because the
compiler has a good journalistic eye for items of
interest. He is at his best when describing his efforts
to check epidemics of infectious diseases, speaking
then with knowledge, wide experience and scientific
veneration for fact. The last page is given to a letter
thanking him for a life devoted to the public health,
most of it spent in the employ of the Rockefeller
Foundation.
Linklater's Chinese Farce.
Some years ago Eric Linklater created Juan
Motley, descendant of Don Juan, and sent him to
America, where he had every conceivable topical
adventure, thereby adding considerably to the merri-
ment of nations. In Juan in China (Cape ; Angus and
Robertson; 7s. 6d.), the same unheroic hero visits
China with the same result. Linklater has the knack
of these things. He gets a striking effect by jumbling
incongruous elements together and letting them make
their own fun.
The story of Juan in China is slight and farcical.
It begins brightly in a nudist camp in America, where
Juan is not happy. The sights he sees are almost
enough to make him a vegetarian for life ; so he
leaves the place in company with Kuo Kuo, a beauti-
ful Chinese girl. He goes to China with her for no
other reason than that she is beautiful. In Shanghai
they walk straight into a war. The war has some
vague relationship to the expulsion of the Japanese,
but is mostly composed of confusion and “contagion
of anger,” operatic killing and promiscuous thinking.
Kuo Kuo is a member of the Conquering Youth of
China, and a patriot in the best film-star tradition,
which enables her to wear captivating uniforms and
to escape injury. She is also an idealist. is
going to save her country by means of a Plan. She
got the plan from Lo Yu.
He used to be a bandit, and then a famous general,
but be fell into disgrace because he sold all the rifles
belonging to his army to another general. So he
became a hermit, and for many years he lived alone
studying the sages, and seeking the truth. He is now
well known for his piety and wisdom, and thousands
of people go to him for help and advice.
The plan was enclosed in a cylinder of bamboo,
but before anyone could read it the cylinder was lost.
The search for it enables Juan to have some surpris-
ing adventures and see China from many aspects.
When at last he recovers it all it contains are some
maxims of Confucius, which are apparently China’s
answer to every emergency.
On this slender thread are hung a number of
very odd characters: Hikohoki, the Japanese mei-
chant, who recurs like a repeating pattern, half-
Proteus, half-clown ; Fannay-Brown, the horse-coper,
who talks about everything, even his wife, as if it
were for sale; the Karamazov sisters, .Siamese twins
who have no particular part in the story, but intro-
duce a certain raciness; Major Flanders, who sells
jerrybuilt tanks to war-lords, looks like Falstaff and
talks in pseudo-Shakspearean idiom. Flanders stimu-
lates Linklater to his most sumptuous efforts.
The flavor of the book is picaresque. Chasms of
depravity open suddenly at the reader’s feet. There
are passages of great pictorial beauty where the prose
flows with an inner richness. There is this descrip-
tion of fugitives pouring into Shanghai:
The color of the fugitive throng was dark. They
wore tunics and trousers of sombre blue, or long black
gowns. The red banners above them were the brighter
by contrast. In many places the scarlet papers, printed
with greetings, with which they had welcomed the
New Year, were still stuck to the walls and windows.
And no matter what ill luck the future brought them,
their children and survivors would welcome the coming
years with the same arrogant'color of their hearts’ blood.
War and disaster were a transient thing, but the life of
China was eternal, and their eternal misery would always
be lighted with bursts of laughter like red banners in a
dismal street.
The publisher suggests that Juan in China has a
deeper meaning, that it is not “mere frivolity” ; but
it is difficult to see where he finds evidence of that.
The book is vaudeville. There are some new turns
and some old turns, and a great deal of inconsequent
hilarity. Those who like it will no doubt like it very
much and be pleased to reflect, with the author, that
there are still plenty of worlds for Juan to conquer.
Reviewed Briefly .
FICTION ...
Borderline: Patrick Greer (Heinemann ; 7s 6d.).
Another story of love and civil strife in Ireland. A
promising first novel, but the ground has been covered
by some of Erin’s foremost writers, which makes
unfortunate comparisons hard to avoid.
The Staff at Simson’s: Frederick Niven (Collins;
7s. 6d.). Set in Glasgow at the close of last century,
Follows the individual and collective fortunes of the
staff—all male —of a softgoods warehouse with
extensive foreign trade connections. Credible atmo-
sphere and some fairish portraiture. Quite readable.
The Bruiser • Jim Tully (Michael Joseph ; 7s. 6d.).
Love and the prize ring—but more than an ordinary
snrvrtinff novel There is a natural atmosphere and
an aff-foSnd feeling for life The write?, a Jack
Londonish characte?, was a “road kid” with Jack
Dempsey when they were both in their teens.
Dempsey wnen icy , rameron
Death in the Back Seat. obliging
Disnev (Robert Hale; 7s. 6d.). Just to be ooiigms
they drove 50 miles to pick up a friend of one of
their neighbors. When they returned he was dead
in the back seat. They were suspected. The helpful
wife adds to the complications while attempting some
sleuthing on her own account. A credible solution
and . touches of humor by the way.
Mercy Lane: Alan Gould (Collins; 7s. 6d.).
Tribulations of a man with a past living in fear of
recognition. In time for him to marry the girl in
the offing it turns out that he had done 15 years for
manslaughter, committed in defence of a woman's
honor. There are some pleasant pictures of Kentish
village life and some good character work. Alto-
gether the author’s ability is worthy of a less trite
story.
Nine Wives: Jasper Howlett (Philip Allan ; 7s.
6d.). Boris Karavansky, the greatest dancer of the
age, lay in his coffin with a woman’s picture over his
heart. By the graveside stood nine weeping women,
each of whom claimed to have been a wife to him.
Whose was the portrait? It was his dear old mother’s;
but that doesn’t come out until the life-story of each
woman has been told and one of them has raised
his che-ild to be his successor in the ballet. By then
she is happy just in understanding.
The Four Marys: Fanny Heaslip Tea (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.). Setting, American ;
atmosphere, domestic. Mimi falls in love with Alan,
recently married to her friend Elizabeth. Alan is
willing, but Mimi’s principles are as rigid as a picket
fence. She suffers for her virtues as she might have
done for her transgressions before Jimmy Kilmartin
convinces her that his other name is Mr. Right. Long
ago the author proved she had skill in mixing ingre-
dients to the popular taste. She still has it.
Coronet: Philip Hughes (Collins ; 7s. 6d.). Tells
how an allegedly charming and witty minx set a
village by the ears and secured herself a husband.
The setting is an immaculate Queen Anne village.
The characters have names such as Bevington-
Hartwell and Hope-Caradew, and, when not riding
to the hunt, sit about on genuine Chippendale chairs.
The author has been hailed as successor
of W. J. Locke. Need more be said?
VERSE . . .
Beginnings, by William H. Miller (Shakspeare
Head Press, Oxford), is a slim, paper-covered collection
of verses printed at Oxford and dedicated to Catullus,
who has been dead over 2000 years, and whose influ-
ence on the writer is hard to detect.
GENERAL ...
Where to Dine in London, “Bon Viveur” (Bles;
2s. 6d. net). Compact guide for visitors to London
who have the price of a meal, covering restaurants
de luxe to taverns and chophouses and night haunts,
including restaurants of 15 foreign nations.
Alone Across the Top of the World: David Irwin
(Robert Hale; 10s. 6d. net). Amazing story of a 3600-
mile tramp from the top of Alaska to Hudson’s Bay.
An epic of courage. Good bedside book. He will
never do it again.
Eyewitness in Abyssinia: Herbert Matthews
(Martin Seeker and Warburg; 12s. 6d. net). Story of
the New York “Times” correspondent with the Italian
Army throughout the Ethiopian campaign, ending
with the capture of Addis Ababa.
Simple Flying for Simple People: Nancy Lyle
(Angus and Robertson ; 3s. 6d.). In which the holder
of an A-class license notes down all the little tricks
in learning to fly and, more important, learning to
land.
Tale of an Old Soldier: William Crutchlow
(Robert Hale ; 7s. 6d. net). Author, now 45, was one of
the King’s guard at Delhi Durbar, fought on the
Western front, claims to be the first white man to see
the ceremony of the severed head at Ramadan, selected
for service with Lawrence in Arabia, saw revolutions
in South America and riots in Egypt, and wound up
driving a milkeart. Entertaining.
Which Way to Peace?: Bertrand Russell (Michael
Joseph ; 7s. 6d.). “War is not a convulsion of nature,
like an earthquake; it is a result of human volition,
and human volition can prevent it.” Russell sets out
the tangled world situation as it is to-day with clarity
and sanity, and comes to the conclusion that the way
to avoid war is “to abstain from fighting.”
Historic Glenroy : W. L. Havard and B. T. Dowd
(Blaxland Shire Council; 6d.). A documented account
of the history of the place where the first divine service
was held west of the Blue Mountains. It gives the
authors, both well-qualified research workers, the
opportunity to straighten out some of the legends of
early Australian exploration.
The Austral-Asiatic Bulletin: With the object of
keeping Australians and other Pacific peoples better
informed on questions affecting their relationship, the
Vic. branch’s Austral-Asiatic section of the Aus-
tralian Institute of International Affairs has issued the
first number of a bi-monthly review entitled “The
Austral-Asiatic Bulletin.” It is edited by R. L. Cur-
thoys, formerly editor of the Melbourne “Argus’’ and
now Australian editorial rep. of London “Times” and
New York “Times,” with Edgar Holt, a Melbourne
“Herald” writer and former “Argus” colleague, as
associate.
The Other Half: John Warby (Dent; Bs. 6d.
net). This is the book that James Douglas shouted
should be banned. It is the autobiography of a “Spiv”
—explained as one who gets his living by his wits
without working. Warby started at 16, and after a
few years as a hobo in America continued his game
in England. He seems to have met more than his
share of dirty people, and tells of his doings in sicken-
ing detail. Evidently there is a solid market for the
sordid —the book was reprinted three times within a
month. Warby has since married and been lionised
at a literary luncheon in London.


“Good work ,
partner! You
pulled that set
out of the fire .
You deserve a
prize, so-have
aduMaurier!”
“I’ve got a surprise for
4
“Oh -the
filter tip cigar-
ette , isn’t it ?
I’d like to try
•sn
V
/
l
!
JW
one .
\
I say, I rather like
this cigarette . .
50 nice and
cool . . ”
\
,
V
v
Do you know, I had
no idea tobacco
could taste
like this!”
i %r\
‘Nobody had,
till du Maurier
came along ! 99
Until you have smoked a du Maurier, tobacco
is keeping a secret from you. Hidden within
the smoke of fine Virginia* is the pure, essential
flavour of the leaf - a flavour only du Maurier’,s
filter tip reveals. Discover this flavour for your-
self, in cool, smooth smoke refined while
the cigarette burns. Light adu Maurier, and
find a new, keener pleasure in smoking,
BSi
im
4k
1
1
£
ass*
»
i
i
G.C. t 7.
du MAURIER v»*vt
CIGARETTES WITH THE FILTER TIP MADE IN LONDON
also obtainable: 10 for 9d r 50 for and 100 for 7'(>
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND: ST. JAMES TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS, 185 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF du MAURIER CIGARETTES


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
wmmm
m
m
Si
■
m
Ms
■
m
■''fci*.. "■
mmm
1
■i
SBH
■
gwMfc
m
es
*&*■’>»« • ;'#■> x . ■<? ,
: w <
i
?!l
&
m
:■■
m
m
H ■
1
H
Hi
mm
m
HH
Wine-filled Casks awaiting Storage in one of the Vast Cellars Available.
tfi’d If'jmcf'iate TnelloumejSatidlmiqfUd


THE GWYDIR STAKES.
“In spite of the Country party’s assurance that it had ‘given the producers £32,000,000,’ and of Premier Stevens’s promise of a grandiose water-supply scheme,
the Government lost the Gwydir by-election. Attorney-General Menzies describes it as a great reversal of form.
Disgruntled “Sports” (each to the other): “You and your infallible dope!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
FOR SOME PLAIN HONESTY.
As reported, Mr. Munro, of the Country party, found
the voting in the Gwydir by-election—won hands
down by Labor—“quite satisfactory from a Country-
party viewpoint.” One day a political roughrider will
describe this sort of result as, from his point of view,
“lousy”; it will then begin to look as if plain honesty
had returned to the world.
The world could do with it. Along with the
enormous increase of written and spoken speech as
a vested interest goes a staggering amount of twisted
talking and crooked thinking. In one aspect of this
we have become prettily genteel. In such things, for
example, as “mandates.” Honesty would call them
spoils of war. To gentility such an expression is
revolting. The acid test is easily applied.
In the polite fiction the people of mandated
countries are wards issued out to sundry benevolent
hosts under the League of Nations. In the distribution
Japan received various islands in the North Pacific.
Subsequently Nippon had a row with the League and
left it. Nippon, of course, hung on to the “mandates,”
and Geneva has had to leave it at that.
But Nippon is a polite country, and if others
want their little fictions it is quite prepared to indulge
them. So to this day Nippon, like Australia and the
rest, sends to Geneva its annual report giving “account
of its stewardship.” This has mentioned such facts as
that out of a total population of 17,800 on one of the
islands 14,000 are now Japanese.
It is worth recalling, if only for the benefit of
professors who swallow polite fictions as realities that,
though it was Jan Smuts who brought along this
particularly pretty one, he did some plain talking.
His resolution —carried unanimously—was:
Having regard to the record of German adminis-
tration in the colonies formerly part of the German
Empire, and to the menace which the possession by
Germany of submarine bases in many parts of the
world would constitute, the Associated and Allied
Powers are agreed that in no circumstances should any
of the German colonies be restored to her.
The meaning of that was plain to everybody at
the time, and has remained plain to all but utter
humbugs ever since. The spoils had been distributed.
Under the cloak the plain business of annexation goes
on. It does not go on as smoothly as it would in the
open; accepting the fiction at face value, Germany
makes periodical claims to the return of former
colonies as a right, and woolly thinkers, weak on
history, give their support. But the fiction, compared
with others equally prevalent, is fairly innocuous.
Another fiction, not nearly so pretty but related,
cloaks the attempt being made to revive the League
of Nations as a force in world politics. Britain having
belatedly faced the responsibility of its own defence,
the attempt is to resuscitate the League with the
weight of that rearmament as its biddable force. What
the Leaguers want now is what that user of plain
English Douglas Jerrold has called “an organisation
for supporting by force of arms the existing corpus
of international law.” They want a fiction armed
for the preservation of fictions. In plainer words
still, they want a means of waging war to preserve the
map of Europe as it is marked to-day.
The guiding fiction there is that international law
is a fixed and positive instrument. Its honest name
is a pretty dream. One momentarily flaunted fiction
arising out of the acceptance of that dream as actu-
ality is the pleasant idea that in the war which the
armed Leaguers would soon be waging it would be
possible to avert by agreement the bombings of civilian
populations from the air. The blunt truth is that
such bombings are now integral in all military tactics.
Between 1914 and 1918 England suffered 111 such
attacks. The air force in all countries was then a
comparatively primitive arm. It is now abreast of
the army and the navy. It is not there for decoration.
It will be used ruthlessly; and even, if agreements
are made and woolly-minded people are deluded by
them into false security, that will still hold.
Nothing contributes to the upholding of all these
and other related fictions so consistently as do those
traders in woolly thoughts the daily newspapers. They
support the League and all the fictions hatched by
it; they flaunt the “mandates” cloak, fostering the
fiction that these things are not possessions; they
grow hysterical over reported aerial bombings, as it
such things were other than commonplaces of war
now and for the future. When reports of these last
are made to them by frantic “correspondents” they
demand “action.”
In a plain-spoken world there would be another
word for what these newspapers demand, but even
“action” is strong for polite fiction. Their authority
for these is one of the most curious fictions
of all—that they are representative of public opinion.
What this fiction amounts to was lately seen here
when they threw their full force behind the side in
the marketing referendum which was utterly routed.
What it is thought of in England—whence come the
war-“news” cables —has more lately been indicated
by F. G. Humphrey, president of the National Union
of Journalists, addressing the annual meeting of
delegates:
Are we to stand by and see the traditions of British
journalism besmirched and the reputations of journalists
dragged in the mud?
Pointed comment has already been made in the
Commons ; an outraged public only wants an accentu-
ation of the complaint to renew its clamor ; and if we
do not clean up from within we shall have it done for us.
In other words, we are sure to get restrictive legis-
lation, and it will be an astonishing reflection on the
newspaper tendencies of the age if we get legislative
encroachment on the liberty of the press because of
the failure of a few folk to observe the decencies of life.
At this critical period in the history of human
affairs a serious responsibility rests upon the press of
every nation, not the least the press of this country.
That responsibility is to ensure that the enormous influ-
ence wielded by the press is used for good, not ill:
for peace, not war; and that efforts are directed
toward promoting international understanding.
Very different from Mr. Keith Murdoch’s clap-
trap about “veracity and great breadth of mind”!
But whoever may have been surprised by Italy’s
banning of certain English newspapers, English jour-
nalists were not. Under the fiction that it was repre-
sentative of English opinion instead of coloring for
English minds, there has been propagated for years the
fiction that Italians are a bloodthirsty, though a
cowardly, people, and their leader a lunatic and a
monster. There has been almost as vicious an abusive
campaign against Germany and Hitler. If anything of
the kind had been carried on by any country against
England and its King there would have been such
an outcry that armchair warriors would now be shift-
ing little flags over the map of Europe.
It is in line with all these fictions that the news-
papers which have carried on that vicious campaign
now foster the further fiction that Italy’s action is
directed against the British people. The arrogant
presumption is that a few sensational daily news-
papers are the British people, as their counterparts
here fancy themselves to be the Australian people.
How far this particular fiction diverges from the fact
can be instantly demonstrated. Who in Australia is
not fed to the neck with the insistent press campaign
for provoking international misunderstanding?
The whole boiling of all these fictions needs
dumping. Comic, like Mr. Munro’s; pleasant, like
“mandates” ; suicidal, like the armed League ; foolish,
like the hope about aerial bombings; vicious, like
the misrepresentation of other peoples and their
leaders; arrogantly stupid, like the presumption of
sensational newspapers that they are public opinion—
they are none of them honest; they are evasions, and
worse.
The King's Representative.
The crowning of the successor to the King who was
not crowned draws attention to the fact that the
Crown has vast, though vague, reserve powers. These
powers are delegated to the King’s representatives in
the Dominions, and in their delegated form are not
only exercised arbitrarily but have been exercised
inconsistently. Justice Evatt, of the High Court, has
in The King and His Dominion Governors written
an able book on the subject.
“The King reigns, but does not govern.” But
because these reserve powers have never been expressly
defined, and because fixed rules for the guidance of
Governors have not been laid down, the King’s repre-
sentative can govern and has governed. “The King can
do no wrong.” But his representative can do wrong. The
representative may be punished because his conception
of his duty in an emergency offends a Downing-street
Minister’s notions of constitutional propriety, though
it might be warmly approved by the Minister’s pre-
decessor or successor: he may even be broken for
having, in his fashion, resisted what he regards as
an invasion of popular rights.
That, the learned author suggests, happened to
Sir Gerald Strickland in 1916. The Holman Labor
Government was in power. It backed the wrong
horse at the conscription referendum, and was repudi-
ated by most of the Labor Assemblymen, who were on
the winner. They presented a no-confidence motion.
This was rejected in favor of an Opposition amend-
ment that a “National” party should be formed “to
ensure the successful prosecution of the war.” The
formation of a “National” party was entered upon,
a cardinal feature of the arrangement being that the
life of Parliament, then due to go to the country,
should be extended for a year. The Governor asked
the Premier, in effect, to return his commission.
Mr. Holman “refused to comply,” and appealed to
the Colonial Office. The Colonial Office supported
him and recalled Sir Gerald Strickland, who, “pre-
sumably by the British Government’s direction,”
meanwhile gave his assent to a bill prolonging the life
of the Assembly and transmitted “to my Ministers” a
Labor majority petition against it.
This incident might be taken to have established
the rule that a Governor is bound to act on the
advice of his Ministers, and has no business to con-
sider whether his Ministers are acting in defiance
of the majority that elected them. But in 1926
Sir Dudley de Chair refused to make appoint-
ments to the Legislative Council, advised by his
Ministers, and in 1932 Sir Philip Game dismissed his
Ministers. In each instance the advisers whose advice
was rejected had a majority in the popular Chamber,
and in neither did Downing-street interfere.
In 1907 Lord Chelmsford brought about a dis-
solution of a Queensland Parliament fresh from a
general election by rejecting the advice of the victorious
Ministers “that sufficient Legislative Council appoint-
ments should be made to ensure the carrying out of
their policy.” He dismissed Mr. Kidston and sent
for Mr. Philp, who was refused supply, and was
defeated at the ensuing election. In 1914 Sir Ellison
Macartney tried to bring about a dissolution of the
Tasmanian Parliament —he had refused one to a
Liberal Premier defeated on a no-confidence motion
and sent for the Labor leader conditionally on the
Labor leader going to the country, and the latter
changed his mind. Lord Chelmsford’s action was
tacitly supported by the Colonial Office, and he was
appointed Governor of N. S. Wales and, in later
years, Viceroy of India. Sir Ellison Macartney was
tartly informed that his action “was not in accordance
with constitutional practice,” and he was transferred.
After reviewing all these cases, and mentioning
others in which actions of Governors have resulted
in “funds” being “withdrawn from the Treasury with-
out any Parliamentary approval whatever,” our able
author suggests that “the best way out of the situation
is to ascertain, define, declare and enforce rules which
can be applied to govern the exercise of the reserve
powers of the Crown’s representative.” Agreed as
to Governors-General, but the problem could be
simplified by dispensing with local Governors
appointed by Downing-street and subject to its
caprices, and transforming States into provinces.
In South Africa, with its one supreme Parliament,
local self-government is never disturbed by difficulties
arising from subordinate Governors’ relations with
their Parliaments and with the Dominions Office, and
it is absurd and dangerous that Australia should be
racked by them from time to time.
Aboriginal Futures.
J. W. Bleakley, Queensland’s Chief Protector of
Abos., has put the whole problem of Australia’s
indigenes in a clearer light than it has ever before
been presented. His classification into primitive
nomads, the dispossessed and disturbed, the detribal-
ised and the crossbreeds sets out the question precisely
and comprehensively.
As a practical administrative problem, the whole
need of the nomad is sufficient country to support
him and protection from intrusion. It needs a lot
of country. Queensland finds that 8500 square miles
of Cape York Peninsula is not enough for the com-
paratively small number of genuine nomads who yet
survive in that State. Recent mineral discoveries on
the Peninsula make it appear that they are becoming
an economic impossibility, and must inevitably merge
with the second of the Bleakley groupings.
The dispossessed and disturbed groups are an
inevitable concomitant of pastoral development; to a
lesser extent, of mining. They are the principal source
of the crossbreeds, who have increased so disturbingly
within the last 20 years. Anyone who understands
the condition of outback stations and mining camps
will also understand why and how. No missionary,
anthropologist or politician can do anything about it.
But these groups are the easiest to help. They still
retain, dimmed, their clan sense and tribal decencies;
they are still at heart families and social units.
Already this class has made a very definite and
promising move in the direction of effective survival.
Twenty years or so ago the remains of two Peninsula
tribes, entirely of their own volition, formed a settle-
ment at Cowal Creek, near Cape York. It is now
a well-laid-out village of more than 200 inhabitants,
living in neat bark cottages, under clean, healthy
conditions, supporting and governing themselves with-
out any white influence or assistance. Long before
that, the late “Paddy” Cahill successfully organised
self-government and agricultural activity among
N.T. natives, and the evidences are still to be seen.
The detribalised are hopeless folk under present
conditions. Their whole social fabric and sources of
livelihood have gone by the board. They have lost
the equivalents of pictures, police, friendly neighbors,
dances, girl friends and social standing generally. They
drift inevitably to vagrancy and crime. Only insti-
tutional reclaiming and systematic re-establishment of
character and will-to-work can save them from
elimination.
Crossbreeds constitute the most pathetic and the
most difficult aspect of the whole problem. They
cannot be dismissed as mere social accidents, doomed
to inferiority from birth, and combining the worst
aspects of two races. Even were this humane, it is
not true. They have produced many useful citizens;
, more than one prosperous and respected outback
northern family has aboriginal blood in its veins.
They cannot be “taken away from the blacks” and
brought up as whites, for, in most cases, the only
family love they know is toward the colored mother
and her other children. Many of them have no white
blood at all. Of those who have, the vast and com-
plicated web of complexes and mental reactions
which, formed in childhood, dominates character and
conduct in after life will play a large part through all
their years.
Whatever may be the outcome for the existing
crossbreeds, every possible effort should be made by
Commonwealth and States alike to check, by the
imposition of stringent penalties against consorting
with aboriginal women by men of other races, the
alarming increase in their numbers which is at present
taking place. It would cover only part of the problem,
but would be a large part.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Liars.
The Coronation was John Bull’s affair, and if John
Bull chose to ask Abyssinians to attend it he was entirely
within his rights and acting in accordance with British
precedents. If the rulers of Italy chose to decline
invitations addressed to them, because Abyssinians
would be present, that was their business. Such things
have happened many times in British history, and
nobody was a penny the worse.
But a new touch was given to an old story by
the withdrawal of Italian newspaper correspondents
from London before the Coronation with orders to
return afterwards. It was alleged in anti-Italian
British and Australian newspapers that this was part
of an elaborate effort to boycott and belittle the Coro-
nation, though Italian representatives were present
at the Sydney and Melbourne ceremonies, and at
those in other parts of the Empire—if they hadn’t
been we should have been told about it. The Italian
version is that it was a protest against the anti-
Italian newspaper campaign, which has been distin-
guished by such childish allegations as that “the
Italians” in Spain have been beaten by peasants with
pitchforks and by fishwives with their bare hands, and
which culminated in pre-Coronation charges that
Italy and Germany, notwithstanding their indignant
denials of atrocities imputed to them, had conspired
to introduce fresh frightfulness into Spain.
“Germany and Italy are preparing an air terror
to break the morale of the Spanish people and give
Franco victory.” That was the Labor “Daily Herald’s”
version. The “News-Chronicle” (“Liberal”) fore-
shadowed “a terrific” German “bombardment of
Bilbao to terrorise the civil population,” adding that
the terrific bombardment was “planned for Coro-
nation Week.” The “new” Sydney “D.T.,” which
boasts an “Independent Cable Service,” went further:
FASCIST POWERS PREPARE TO INVADE SPAIN.
Germany and Italy Lay Their Plans.
Rome, Thursday [May 6].
Germany and Italy, it is learned authoritatively, are
preparing to drop the pretence of non-intervention and
openly to invade Spain.
There was no terrific German bombardment of
Bilbao during Coronation Week, and there has been
no open invasion. They were sheer inventions, minted
in minds like those of the “democratic” Ministers
and correspondents at Valencia who reported that the
British destroyer Hunter, damaged by an explosion
(unhappily, with loss of life) off the south coast of
Spain, was “torpedoed by an unknown warship”—
no, “bombed by an insurgent ’plane.” The Admiralty
states that the mischief was done by a floating mine.
Like the Foreign Office, and unlike a horde of corre-
spondents and a pack of newspapers, the Admiralty
has a lingering prejudice in favor of telling the truth.
Remarks from the Bench.
The scene is the Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
Melbourne. Business, the hearing of an application
for a basic-wage increase, which necessitates the
attendance of three Judges. A trade-union represen-
tative, amplifying “the proposition” to which the
American Republic is “dedicated,” that “all men are
created equal,” has just said that “every man is entitled
to a radio set.” Follows a flow of remarks from the
Bench.
Chief Judge: If I were a laboring man with three
or four children I would want higher wages to give
them better food and clothing rather than a radio set.
You will not do your case any good by bringing in
luxuries rather than necessities. A man on the basic
rate with three children is having a hard struggle. A
man with more than three children is in a desperate
position, and he does not want a radio. He wants
more meat, bread and decent housing.
T.U.R.: The luxury of a radio is not much.
Second Judge: I agree it is not a luxury.
Third Judge: I do not regard it as a luxury.
Napoleon had a fine idea for a Parliament —a
House composed of talkers who would argue all
round a projected law without voting, and another
composed of thinkers who would vote on it without
talking. It could not be adopted in respect of any
Australian Parliament without exposing a lot of legis-
lators to the danger of bursting from suppressed
verbosity; but it might work if applied to industrial
courts and royal commissions. It would assuredly
shorten the proceedings, which now have a tendency
to extend into months, sometimes years, if advocates
were restricted to advocacy and presentation of
evidence, within fixed limits, and members of courts
and commissions to silent deliberation. Certainly it
would prevent the flow of remarks from the Bench
which are apt to be remembered with bitter indig-
nation when awards are forgotten, even awards that
are followed by strikes.
One in 950.
Mr. Percy Pease, Deputy-Premier of Queensland,
may have been trying to pull his own leg, as well as
the public’s, in his comments on the recent loan flota-
tion, which was oversubscribed by £200,000 or there-
abouts. This, said the Acting-Premier, is gratifying
because “it is an indication that the people of Aus-
tralia are desirous that the policy of development shall
not be altered.” Subscribers to the loan numbered
approximately 7000 out of a population of nearly
7,000,000, so that “the people of Australia” who have
indicated that there must be further “development”—
of debt comprise, say, one in 950 of the whole
population.
Even so, if this could be taken as representative,
which, of course, it cannot, Mr. Pease has committed
himself to the dictum that public opinion on borrow-
ing is to be measured by subscriptions to loans.
During the last couple of years every flotation by the
Loan Council met with an inadequate response, the
amounts invited being short-subscribed. According
to the Pease sample of logic, those failures indicated
that “the people of Australia” disapproved “the policy
of development”—of debt.
Actually, of course, the May loan was successful
because the borrowers raised their terms, and because
the marketable values of the major export industries
had enlarged the financial resources of the community.
The average investor has no more admiration for “the
policy of development” than he had when he refused
the Loan Council what it wanted.
A Post-mortem on Gwydir.
A Country-party official conducts it:
The C.P. slogan “What we have we hold” has had a
melancholy airing in Gwydir. The blow was not as severe as it
would appear:, the swing-over to Labor represents only about
four p.c. of the voters. Even so, the party will need to do
some hard thinking if it is not to suffer worse things at the
general elections.
The Freer case had no effect on the result. Country
people are not interested in this affair, however it may
agitate city flapper papers. And there was nothing wrong
with the party organisation, which had been prepared
efficiently long before the issue of the writ. Moreover, the
trinity of candidates should have contributed to rather than
mitigated against success. They were good candidates with
considerable personal followings, and each of the three would
have had as much chance of defeating Labor as the retiring
member.
The trade war with Japan probably stuck in the gizzards
of many sheepmen, but this in itself was not enough to turn
them from their previous allegiance. The main reason for
the defeat was that the party presented no constructive
policy. People did not want to know what Lang did five
or six years ago. They wanted to know what the Govern-
ment had in mind for the future. In other words, there
should not have been an anti-Labor campaign.
The cry of people in the N.S.W. rural areas is for closer
settlement. Farmers’ sons and land-minded people in the
towns are land-hungry. Admittedly, this is a State matter,
but the Federal Government could at least be interested.
N.S.W. country electors would prefer Federal support for
State land-settlement (not loan-settlement) to the doling-out
of vast amounts for the relief of necessitous and often
inefficient farmers.
Another Little Ship Goes.
Another sad but splendid chapter was added last
week to the story of Australia’s little ships. In a
thick fog and a heavy sea the collier Minmi, appar-
ently carried off her course by a strong drift, hit the
rocks on Cape Banks, Botany Bay, and split in two.
There is no lighthouse on Cape Banks, but there
are garrison artillerymen. They scrambled down the
cliffs and found the ship fast on the rocks and break-
ing up. As news of the wreck spread police and
firemen joined them.
Fifteen men of the crew reached land on a rocket
line. Nine were trapped in the after part, which was
rolling fearfully; five came ashore, hand over hand,
on a rope tied to an iron stanchion, but one was
swept away by the boiling surf. The remaining three,
all elderly men, and in peril of their lives for six
hours, were saved by means of a bos’n’s chair, roughly
but securely contrived.
There was a second death. The second cook, twice
blown up during the war, had a weak heart, and
when the Minmi struck he fell dead. In circumstances
of extreme danger, seamen and rescuers alike showed
that calm courage and resourcefulness in emergencies
which have been exhibited by Australians on count-
less occasions—in recent weeks by Wonthaggi coal-
miners, when an explosion killed 13 of their mates;
by Bernard O’Reilly, the savior of the survivors of
the Stinson smash ; and by the three Circular Quay
railway workers, Lewis, Collins and O’Neill, who,
when a ’plane pitched into the harbor, dived into
shark-infested waters in their overalls and supported
the pilot and his passenger—they found the pilot
holding his man up—until all could be taken aboard
a launch.
Australia owes much to the men who go to sea
in its ships, little and big; but two-headed Authority
doesn’t let the debt “ride it of nights, like the mare.”
It forgot them even when it was distributing Coro-
nation medals; of 6500 issued in Australia,
nearly one per 1000 of population, not one went to
a representative—skipper, mate, engineer or A.B, —of
the mercantile marine.
Two Scales of Organisation.
In most parts of the British Empire organisation of
airports is in progress. At Singapore, £2,000,000 ster-
ling is being spent on grounds which will make the
island city a distributing centre for the air traffic of
eastern Asia.
In Newfoundland the British Air Ministry is
preparing a terminus for the imminent transatlantic
services. It is 150 miles from St. John’s, the
capital, and an army of men has been at work
on it for a year. Four asphalted runways have been
put down: the biggest is a mile long and 1200 feet
wide; three others are 4500 feet long and 600 feet
wide. Two channels have been made for seaplanes
on a lake a couple of miles away. Hotels and hangars
are being built, and the whole project will cost
£700,000. There are plans for expansion to double
the size within a decade.
Meanwhile, Sydney is niggling along with a few
acres of swamp land at Mascot, where there is a
single gravel runway the width of a suburban street.
It is proposed to set down the international seaplane
terminus at Rose Bay. But local Bumbles protest that
flying-boats might interfere with their plans for build-
ing an Olympic swimming pool, and might interrupt
the diversions of golfers and speedboat lizards, and
would certainly obscure the scenic glories of the local
flats and picture shows; and as an election is near
their objections will probably prevail.
All the aerodromes in Australia would fit into
the Templehof, which serves Berlin, as they would
into the Newfoundland terminus.
Peace-minded Japan.
The Japanese election results prove the existence of
a far more restrained and peace-minded national
spirit than political events of the previous twelve
months seemed to indicate. Japanese are by nature
an orderly people, and the centuries through which
the Tokugawa Shogunate regulated all social and
national life in the interests of internal and external
peace developed intensively this racial quality. It
still persists, having survived the contact with the
outside world which took place with startling sudden-
ness 70 years ago.
The 1936 military assassinations of eminent public
men shocked and alarmed all thinking people in Japan.
It was upon the Minseito party, the major one in the
Diet, representing the smaller industrialists and com-
mercial interests, with the salaried classes of the big
cities, that the outrages made the deepest impression;
but the other great party, the Seiyukai, devoted to agri-
cultural interests, abandoned its former friendship and
sympathy with Army leaders who were preaching
the doctrine of extending their Asiatic conquests at
all costs.
Nominally, the Emperor is the centre of national
politics and in supreme control. His Imperial
Majesty’s first effort to mend matters after the 1936
massacre was unsuccessful. Mr. Hirota was not
strong enough to stand up to the fire-eating General
Terauchi, Minister for War, although the Seiyukai
party ranged itself on his side. General Hayashi,
a strong and reasonable man, is now in Mr. Hirota’s
place. He was lucky enough to secure the financier
Mr. Yuki as Minister of Finance. Army interests
went lightheartedly after another dissolution. They
thought that they had only to go on long enough at
the game of dissolution-making and they would get
the sort of military government they wanted.
But they forgot that under the patience and
patriotism of the Japanese character lies a powerful
dislike of insincere and frivolous treatment of great
national questions. The Army had denounced the
politicians until it served their turn to use them. It
seemed on the way to destroy, or at least to paralyse,
constitutional government. Japan replied to the dis-
turbers by reinstating the Minseito Liberals and the
now anti-Army Seiyukai party in almost unimpaired
strength, with a notable increase in the smaller anti-
Army groups.
It is clear that the spirit of Japan to-day is
towards peace. A movement towards a cordial under-
standing with Britain is one of the welcome signs.
Whether the fire-eaters of Manchukuo have been
quenched altogether remains to be seen, but for the
present their influence is small.
Another Australian Industry.
In the making of scientific instruments Australians
have registered steady but almost unnoticed progress.
Twenty years ago the notion that Australia could
provide such things as high-power deep-ray therapy
plants would have been dismissed as an idle dream.
Now, outside the tubes and one or two other small
items, such plants are made here as a matter of
course.
In Sydney Hospital and the rooms of cancer
specialists in Macquarie-street, Sydney, they are almost
entirely Australian-made. There is even a small
export trade. The reputation of one Australian firm
of scientific instrument-makers stands so high that not
long ago its leading technical man was engaged to
manage one of the biggest London firms in the same
line.
At the same time, there is still a long way to go
before independence of imports can be attained. When
the Great War broke out Britain found that most
of the optical and medical equipment for army use
had been made in enemy countries. If Australia were
invaded to-morrow it would be still worse off. The
demands of modern armies for gun-sighting equip-
ment, range-finders, X-ray and therapy plants are
huge, and wastage is tremendous. The air force in
itself would keep quite a respectable scientific-
instrument industry going.
The precision industries should be given all the
protection required, and there should be a definite plan
for making the Commonwealth scientifically self-
contained. All the raw materials, together with the
knowledge and ability, are here.
"Add One-third for Freight."
A settler at Portland Roads, Cape York Peninsula,
has sent The Bulletin his last grocery bills: The
goods were bought in Brisbane and shipped by coastal
steamer: 101 b. flour, 201 b. sugar, 281 b. potatoes,
141 b. onions, four gallons kerosene, a tentfly and a
number of small items. Total weight was 1611 b.;
total price at the store, £5 6s. 5d.; freight rate from
Brisbane, £1 14s. 4d. For potatoes the charge was
double the price of the goods; for flour, -|d. per
pound more than actual cost.
Cape York and Arnhem Land are not easy places
to live in. Those who are prepared to live in them
and help to keep North Australia white should not
be fined fof doing the country this service. If private
steamers cannot really afford to carry stores to places
like Portland Roads at less than the rates charged
on the Portland Roads scale, no taxpayer would jib
at a reasonable subsidy.


Society
"AND IT 'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Querex”: Last Wednesday I ran over
the whole range on my receiver dial to
discover how many stations were re-
broadcasting the Coronation broadcast.
Only two Sydney stations were otherwise
occupied, and the strident jazz sounded
remarkably incongruous against the swell-
ing tones of Westminster Abbey’s organ
and the fanfare of kingly trumpets. What
a triumph this historic broadcast was for
the 8.8. C. engineers ! Not a single tech-
nical hitch, and the whole world at the
dials, hearing perfectly and visualising the
colorful pageantry in that distant place
where so many Kings have been crowned
—and buried. Experimenters with a know-
ledge of short-wave reception conditions
are well aware that during the period of
the ceremony little or no signal was
reaching Australia direct from the Empire
station. In the exacting job they did so
admirably engineers of our P.M.G.’s de-
partment and of A.W.A. kept in touch
with 11 stations, selecting whichever was
best at the moment from that now fading,
now strengthening series. Most of the
time the relay came via Hong Kong and
San Francisco.
“D. Empson”: Joseph Cook, once a
fiery demagogue from the coalmines, has
mellowed into a benevolent and distin-
guished-looking old man. The day be-
fore the Coronation he gave a midday
address on that ceremony to a Sydney
girls’ club, and when he got up to give
it lip and beamed on the assembled skirts
there were audible remarks of “Isn’t he
a darling?” After the former Prime
Minister had spoken his piece, one of the
ladies asked her sisters to drink his health
in what remained of their tea, adding
brightly that “Our guest has lived
through at least two or three coro-
nations.” Joseph’s gaze fell, not un-
kindly, on his cup. He can remember
two coronations, but the third took place
in 1838.
t “Oxmead”: An English parson has
thought it worth while to stigmatise as
“unkind, unworthy and untrue” stories
about the King’s physical disabilities,
and to chide people who give any cre-
dence to such malicious gossip. Baseless
calumnies no doubt they are, but the fault
is largely with those who write or pub-
lish articles representing royalties as some-
thing more than ordinary human beings.
Nobody wants to believe anything un-
pleasant about the subjects of these fre-
quently fulsome eulogies, but it is diffi-
cult to avoid the conviction that if there
were anything unpleasant it would be
smothered up —some quite recent history
is the best evidence of that. These thick-
and-thin panegyrists of royalties and near-
royalties have a good deal to answer for.
The Athenian who voted against Aristides
because he was dead-tired of hearing him
called “The Just” was, after all, no un-
common type.
“Clericus”: It is matter of history that
the Archbishop of York crowned Wil-
liam the Conqueror, but it must be a
very long time since, the right of Canter-
bury to perform the job has been con-
tested or even seriously discussed (B.
17/5/’37). “It is his privilege to crown
the Kings and Queens of England,” says
the Encyc. Brit. “The see was made,
superior to York in 1073,” records an-
other authority. Yet there is no disput-
ing that York is the older see. Probably
London is older than either —a claim to
that distinction is put forward in Tenny-
son’s “Becket.” Before the Saxons came
to England there were three archbishops,
who functioned at London, York and
Caerleon-upon-Usk. The first and last
lost the full dignity when St. Augustine
put Canterbury on top, but York re-
mained archiepiscopal.
“Archdeacon”: The Archbishops of
York and Canterbury are not the only
folk who have claimed the right to crown
the sovereign. Piers Gaveston, favorite
of Edward 11. (who later came to a
sticky finish), snatched the lid from the
What's the usual thing to tip the Judge ?”
ecclesiastic and did the job himself. Later
there were unseemly scenes between
Canterbury and the incumbent of the
see of Salisbury, a rival competitor for
the honor. Friction arose at two corona-
tions. At one Salisbury tried to grab
the crown, but was prevented. On an-
other occasion Canterbury was again too
quick and beat him to it, as the old
chronicler has it. Enraged at this, Salis-
bury took a swipe at the sacred emblem
with his crozier, and not only knocked
it off but donged his sovereign one. It
says a lot for the prestige of the Church
in those days that nothing unpleasant
seems to have happened to the wielder
of the crozier.
“Sixenate”: The N.S.W. Government
made a Coronation present to prisoners
of two weeks off their sentences all
round; one result was that police station
cells were crowded to their full capacity
on the eve of the Great Day. Men who
had been jibbing for months over the
payment of small fines, carrying the
option of a few weeks’ imprisonment,
came along cheerfully to surrender them-
selves to the Law, secure in the knowledge
that they would be released, all debts
paid, in the morning if the option was
only 14 days, and save half the time if
it was a month. At one police station
alone 70 warrants were “finalised.” It
was hard luck for any minor offenders
who did not know; but the John Hops’
pigeonholes, which are usually packed
with undelivered warrants, had the big-
gest clean-up on record.
“Boggo-road”: Coronation remissions
of prison sentences showed some surpris-
ing divergences in different States.
Queensland, too soft-hearted to hang the
most callous murderer, showed no con-
sideration for minor offenders, and no
prisoner was given a chance of viewing
the Queen-street illuminations unless he
had worked out his sentence. N.S.W.
was in much more expansive mood. It
conceded no clemency to lifers, but
about 100 men were released on a scale
commencing with 14 days’ remission for
the first 12 months and seven days’ for
each succeeding year. In W.A., remis-
sions were on an even more generous
scale. Twenty-six days were docked from
sentences up to 12 months, and 14 days
for each subsequent year.
* * * *
“Brix”: They were two youthful
engineers whose ambition was to start a
small garage. Seated on the bank of the
local river after a dip they encountered
a wayfarer who told a tale of crossing
the river 10 years before when it was in
fresh. He had been a passenger on a
motor-lorry that got into difficulties in
midstream and tipped him into the flood
in company with its only freight, a small
oil engine. He managed to reach an
overhanging tree, but the engine was
never recovered. His two hearers hired
a dinghy, with a pole located the engine,
hauled it up, worked months on it to put
it in running order, and sold it for £5O.
It started their garage. They put aside
a fiver for the sundowner, but he never
came their way again. ,
* * * *
“Tuart”: The decree absolute has been
pronounced, and to show her utter loath-
ing for the conduct of Mr. Simpson
(“You have stayed at an hotel in Bray
with a lady”) Mrs. S. has become Mrs.
Wallis Warfield until she is made Duchess
of Windsor. It is one of the privileges
of her sex; but in accepting an engage-
ment-ring from royalty and arranging a
marriage in France she has divested her-
self of another. In these matters French
law demands copies of birth certificates,
and the central fact disclosed in Mrs.
W. W.’s has been published. She was
born at Monterey, Virginia, on July 19,
1896.
$ v "i*
“Alar”: The death in a crash of
French aviator Rene Paulhan recalls the
sensation created by his father, Louis
Paulhan, when he won the “Daily Mail”
prize of £lO,OOO for a flight from London
to Manchester. Date, 1910; distance
flown, 186 miles. Twenty-seven years
later Scott and Black had to encompass
half the world to earn a similar reward.
The distance record prior to Paulhan’s
flight was Wilbur Wright’s 11\ miles, in
1908. On the same page as that con-
taining the news of young Paulhan’s
death one learned that Merrill and
Lambie were annoyed at having exceeded
18 hours in their recent crossing of the
Atlantic.
* * St
“Sailor Once”: Airs taught by early -
day missionaries (B. 12/5/’37) persist in
New Caledonia as well as in the N.T.
In the ’forties, when Britain was oppos-
ing the French annexation of the island
without putting forward any rival claim,
missionaries on the spot tried to make
up their country’s mind by running up
the Fritish flag and teaching the natives
to sing “God Save.” Then Napoleon
111. took a hand and Britain acquiesced,
New Caledonia becoming definitely
French in 1853. Forty-seven years later,
when H.M.S. Ringarooma was coaling
in Noumea, the natives doing the job
seemed to know only one air, and that
was our National Anthem. They sang
it well and without cessation until the
last lumps rattled into the bunkers. It
was a bit awkward for our skipper, as the
Boer War was in full swing, and the
French were quite out of sympathy with
us over that.
$*- * *
“Phlegmatic”: Most of the train-
jumpers I have met, especially the
younger ones, seem to take a real pride
in their achievements. In the camps they
brag about various fast crossings. One
would get from Port Augusta (S.A.) to
Mount Isa (Q.) in 15 days ; another has
been through Orange (N.S.W.) 23 times,
which is some accomplishment, as Orange
is a searching ground. Passing trains
seen from the camp are gauged and esti-
mated: one thinks “she’s a jump,” an-
other doubts him, and so on. To others
the aversion to gaol is that it keeps them
off the trains. Only the oldest men
appear to have outgrown this feeling. I
have seen only one woman “jockey”;
she, with her husband and 35 more of
the fraternity emerged from one train
near Shepparton (Vic.). She was no
veteran, however.
; I* Jfc
Souvenir le guerre : —
In 1915 B. A. Wood got into the A.1.F., was
issued his first tin of bully-beef and stowed it
away “as a souvenir.” Later he lumped it
about with the 56th Batt., and still had it
when he returned to Australia. He took it
with him to the Northern Territory, thence to
Centralia and elsewhere up and down the
land, part of the time wrapped up in a swag.
The other day he had word from his folk in
England that if he’d come home they’d shout
him a pub to run, so, deciding to get rid of
the total effects he had amassed in his quarter
of a century or so of Australian wanderings, he
thought it appropriate to bring them —or,
rather, it —into the Bully office for consecra-
tion by the Religious Editor before giving it
a decent Christian burial. There was no label
on the tin and some of the red paint had
been battered off it, but, like the several
Diggers who assisted at the consecration cere-
mony, it looked to be in a reasonably fair
state of preservation. When the key was turned
the relic lived up to the dictum of Bairnsfather
that “they always fizz before they go off” —
only more so. The beef came out in its solid
block, in appearance like a freshly-opened lot,
but smelling like stale French beer in a cordite
tin. Mr. Wood having to catch his boat for
England and the pub, and the officiating
Diggers feeling a sentimental urge to head for
a similar address nearer at hand, the remains
were wrapped in a copy of the “S. M. Herald”
and buried instanter.
PEPYS AT THE CORONATION.
“About 4 I rose and got me to the Abbey, where
I sat with patience till XI before the King came
in.... A most magnificent sight, and, after it all,
medalls of silver flung up and down, but I could not
come by any.... And so to bed, very drunk, while
the city still had a light like glory round about
it, with bonfires.”— Pepys’ Diary.
’Mid all these patriotic dissertations
And columns which our newspapers devote
To memories of bygone coronations
There’s surely something which old Pepys
wrote
(And handed down to unborn generations)
That strikes a singularly human note.
Where, in this era of pretentious flam,
Where could you find so frank a soul as Sam?
Was it those seven hours upon the treadle
Of weary waiting left him dry and jarred
And set his feet a-wobbling from the pedal
Of strict sobriety and lowered his guard?
Or was it that he failed to grab a medal
That made him hit the bottle over-hard?
All clues to causes such as these are hid;
We only know —what he admits he did.
Had he, as well he might, a down or derry
On dour Cromwellians’ Puritanic ways
That made him dip too deep in port or sherry
And in too many toasts his voice to raise
Towards a monarch to be labelled “Merry,”
Appropriately enough, in later days?
It may be so. But does it matter a jot?
The simple truth remains that Sam was shot.
Here’s luck, old diarist, whom no persuasion
Could turn from solid facts to airy bunk!
You bared your inmost soul without evasion,
You scorned to deal in euphemistic junk;
And if, on top of one supreme occasion,
You went to bed inordinately drunk
I find no fault in that or any blame.
There’s lots of us who might have done the
same.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bisi”: Take-down ads.? In pre-slim-
rning, pre-war France appeared an an-
nouncement that for the sum of one
franc ladies would be given an infal-
lible specific for making the bust stand
out. In went the francs in thousands
and back came the reply: “Walk on
your hands and knees!” The gendar-
merie looked into the alleged swindle
and decided that the answer was fair
enough.
3= * * *
“T. Tapper”: As one who has written
all over The Bulletin I recently drew
comparisons between its style and that
which is the vogue with public speakers.
With sundry elections flying about, it
has been impressed on me that little if
any of the spoken word would make
Bulletin “copy.” To one who likes his
information in reasonably direct form,
coming quickly to the point, most politi-
cal speakers are a positive infliction. They
run in circles, make a point, steer off it,
come at it from the rear, dodge and
waste words and time in beating about
the bush until the listener is bored to
tears. It’s bad enough for me, with the
“ There's nothing really Wrong with you , but you ought to take up a
hobby of some kind —something to get your mind off yourself."
right to leave when I can stand no more,
but how about those poor devils who
have to report such speeches? My sym-
pathy goes out to them.
* * * *
“Onion”: What on earth does Scor-
field mean by drawing his guardsmen
with white patches on the top front of
their bearskins? The “hackle” on
Guards’ bearskins and Fusilier busbies —
where there is such —is always at the
side and varies in shape and color with
the regiment. I notice also that Scor-
field must have been taking the Cold-
stream for his models, for his men have
their tunic buttons arranged in twos.
The grouping of the buttons is an in-
fallible way of telling what Guards regi-
ment one is looking at, when badges are
unfamiliar. Even in khaki they serve as
a guide to the neophyte. The Grenadiers
(Ist Foot Guards) have the buttons in
regular order down the front of the
tunic. The Coldstream (2nd F.G.) wear
them in twos and the Scots (3rd F.G.) in
threes. The Irish and Welsh Guards
have them grouped in fours and fives.
* * * ■ sfe
“C.S.”: The “S. M. Herald” pub-
lished (11/5/’37) an interview with R. W.
Robson, editor of the “Pacific Islands
Monthly,” about the expedition of Jack
Hides into previously unexplored Western
Papua. Extract:
On his journey up the Strickland and the
chain of lakes of which Lake Murray is the
principal he found a large and generally
friendly population. He had the pleasure
of visiting one important chief just when
a raiding party returned triumphantly with
37 freshly-severed heads.
“Pleasure” hardly strikes one as the mot
juste in this connection.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Our mob, when it got
a rum issue in Palestine, which was very
seldom, didn’t indulge in any bartering
business (B. 5/5/’37), but somebody hit
on the idea of inter-troop football
matches, the winners to take the losers’
issue. The troop I was in fell for the
stunt only once. Included in the team
we fielded were five total abstainers, and
if they weren’t non-triers in that match I
never saw any. They had evidently put
their heads together and decided that a
double issue of S.R.D. would be too
much for the troop’s rum-drinkers to
carry. We were content to mop up our
own issue after that, abandoning all
designs on the other fellow’s.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. now knows the risk
there is in not “striking while the iron is
hot.” Leaving its George V. memorial a
bit too late, it has had to beg hard at
the finish to make up even a minimum
£5OOO. The usual argument as to site
and form of the memorial has yet to
come, but the proposed equestrian statue
seems out of the running.
* * * *
“Slinger”: The Balearic Islands (B.
12/5/’37) strike one as having been in
the possession of more nations than any
other place in the world. The Greeks
founded colonies there; the Cartha-
ginians came next and ran the show.
After the destruction of Carthage, the
Romans reduced the islanders to obedi-
ence. The Vandals were the next con-
quering race to arrive.; they held sway
until the Moors booted them out. That
was in 1232; since then the islands have
successively been in the possession of
Spain, England (1708-1713), France, Eng-
land again (1769-1782), Spain, England
for a third time (1798-1803) and finally
Spain once more.
“Shorus”: All Australian epics don’t
earn screamer headlines. At the head of
the Deua River (N.S.W.) there lives a
woman farmer who, with the help of a
grown-up daughter, has built most of the
farmhouse and outbuildings on the prop-
erty. The farm is in the most rugged
mountain country imaginable, so when
an eight-year-old fell and required medi-
cal aid the problem was how to get him
“Not a bad show, but too many quotations for my likin'."
to a doctor. Taking his young sister
along, the mother started off to carry the
injured boy five miles to the nearest
neighbor, up and down tracks so steep
that it is almost impossible to walk over
them and crossing a river four times,
Only a packhorse can take supplies to
the isolated mountain farm, but the trio
travelled until they met a rider, who
went to telephone for a doctor and
arranged for a car to collect the ex-
hausted hide party at the end of their
brave trek.
* * * * *
“Alpha”: “Tabua” may possibly be
an authority on the lava-lava (B,
12/5/’37), but I have had to inspect too
many hundreds of kilts for military pur-
poses to concede that the kilt permits
knees, knubbly or otherwise, to be
flaunted in public. The kilt is worn cor-
rectly to the bottom of the kneecap, and
it is a point of precision to have it hang-
mg level fore and aft. A Highlander
shows less of his knees in the kilt than
the modern flapper does in the abbre-
viated version of the skirt which has
recently returned.
* * * *
“T.R.”: A Plain English article (B.
12/5/’37) enjoins sufferers from what
may be cancer, rodent ulcer or any of
the kindred but less malignant maladies
to which flesh is heir to seek the earliest
medical attention. “There is no need
for fear of the knife—the Common-
wealth’s £lOO,OOO radium stock attends
to the curative side.” Salutary advice,
of course, but radium can’t do all that is
claimed for it, even in cases taken early.
I know because I had two shots of it for
a not particularly troublesome-looking
ulcer in an outlying part of the frame.
Results nil. Then the surgeon’s knife
effected in five minutes, with a week or
two for absolute healing, what radium
had failed to do in months. The rela-
live cost of the operations was another
,hi„g worth thinking about.
*
“Archy Tekt”: It is not in Sydney
only that historical buildings are being
steadily demolished. Rebuilding on a
large scale is going on in London, and
much of this involves the destruction of
seventeenth-, eighteenth- and early-nine-
teenth-century structures. Among these
is No. 32 Soho-square, which once be-
longed to Sir Joseph Banks. The house
was designed by an unknown architect
of the Adam school, and nothing in the
neighborhood of the Adelphi was more
charming. In its noble salon fore-
gathered many Australian colonists of
the early days. But the house has been
gutted of everything saleable, and though
London is now swarming with Austra-
lian politicians one may doubt the pos-
sibility of a single relic from the build-
ing returning to the land with which
Banks was so closely connected.
* * * *
“Fisher”; I doubt if turbidus Ister
can be correctly translated “muddy
Danube” (B. 12/5/’37); turbidus means
“swift-flowing” more often than “silt-
laden.” Furthermore, the passage quoted
from the Georgies mentions the river
rolling down its yellow sands, which rules
out the suggestion of mud. Classics
apart, Nature isn’t in the habit of chang-
mg much in a millennium or two with-
out tbe ™ an > and the probabilities
are on tbe side of die Danube haying
been bluesince the beginning of time.
Possibly the Romans never noticed it,
hey were a race with a pronounced dis-
hke for water, anyway. *
“Oxmead”: Henry Parkes’s output of
rb y me must have been considerable; ac-
corc ji n g to his biographers his name
appeared on the title-pages of no fewer
than four books, published in 1857, 1885,
1889 and 1895. I have no doubt that
“Stoneleigh” (B. 12/5/’37) could find
them in the Mitchell Library, if nowhere
else. The Australian Encyc. describes
them as “small volumes of indifferent
#
« Selma ”. Q ur Sydney firm moved
into a new block of officeSj and next
morning the cleaner came along to in-
-e if all was welL she adde d that
sbg wou i dn ’t be round again, as our
office was done by one of her four
daughters> They were all, it appeared, in
the trade. They had a flat in a huge
new block in which they did all the
cleaning, and after that each one took
o,n the same work in city offices. They
owned a house at Bondi, which was let,
and a small car. “Y’ can only do it
working all together,” Mum explained,
“It’s us all sticking to each other and
working in when one’s sick or wants a
holiday that’s got us where we are.”
There were also two sons; they were on
the land, helped by the cleaning band,
*„ ttc * . ' . • , „ ■
Den . : Sextant is unfair to Prin
P enr Y the Navigator (B. 5/5/ 37) e
lie charges him with hogging the credi
oth^,^ s d Snathe
Hen fy <* ld lm J e seafaring himself the
services he rendered to maritime explora-
tlonJefe ° f the highest importance. He
established an observatory at his palace
££ „ftJS
guese nobility, had them taught the
sciences necessary for navigation, and
inspired them with the desire to seek
new lands. But for his enlightened in-
Merest and generous patronage it is doubt-
fui if the great Portuguese voyages of
that period would have been made,
* * * *
“Avoirdupois”: Are the scales used in
our post offices subjected to annual test-
ing by the Weights and Measures Depart-
ment of each State? I ask because I had
a parcel weighed on a retail store scales
the very day these had been tested. At
the parcels-post branch, my parcel
weighed lib. Boz. more, which made a
21b. difference in postage, as the depart-
ment doesn’t deal in broken pound
weights.
JOE’S SWORD.
“On the way to the Abbey the sxipporting
Mr Lyons’s sword gave way, and all through the
ceremony and the procession that followed he had
to clutch it to his side to prevent it falling.
The treacherous leather strained and snapped ;
Some portion of the harness went
Whereby unto his side was strapped
The unaccustomed implement.
It might have fallen to the ground,
It might have clattered on the floor
And spread a sudden scare around
The spot where George was being crowned,
The sword that Joseph Lyons wore!
It got detached and almost slipped;
He felt it bobbing like a cork,
But manfully he clutched and gripped
His Coronation toasting-fork.
Though quite unpractised in the use
Of weapons such as these before,
He realised its coming loose
Would queer his pitch and cook his goose,
The sword that Joseph Lyons wore.
A certain trouble in his eye
Might possibly have been descried;
And some may well have wondered why
' He pressed his hand against his side
So hard, and why his teeth were set
As if he faced some ordeal sore.
They never could have guessed, you bet,
The cause of all the fume and fret
Was just the sword that Joseph wore.
And will he bring it home anon,
You wonder, spite of sneer and scoff,
That trusty blade he girded on
And grimly stopped from gliding off?
A trophy, this, to be desired;
Proof of how well his part he bore
In scenes that left the Empire fired.
But I suspect it was acquired
Where “properties” like these are hired,
The sword that Joseph Lyons wore.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke — I
CRAVENA
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
E CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GENEBATI
10 for 9* 1
20 'forl%
WI883
POLITICAL POINTS
News from Canberra is that Lyons has
heard all about Gwydir and intends
hurrying home to save Australia again
by leading the forces of Light to a re-
sounding victory over the forces of
Darkness —anyway, he intends hurrying
home.
Gwydir is the first by-election the C.P.
has lost. Maranoa (Minister Hunter’s
seat) and Echuca were originally won at
by-elections, and because. Fadden arrived
similarly last year it was felt that the
luck would not change. But the feelings
of electors have changed, particularly in
N.S.W.
The Quirindi vote is the bitterest pill
the losers in Gwydir have had to swallow.
In 1934 it was 2602 C.P., 2234 Labor
(1928 Lang and 306 Fed.). In 1935,
Quirindi being part of the Assembly elec-
torate of Liverpool Plains, it was 2653
C.P., 2191 Labor. On May 8 it was
2695 Lab., 2192 C.P.
Strange how the idea of war lurks in
the minds of men of peace, even men of
God. Witness the Archbishop of Canter-
bury’s Westminster Abbey prayer for the
King—“ Lord give you fruitful lands,
healthful seasons, victorious fleets and
armies.” “Fleets and armies that will
not need to be victorious” would have
been a million times better.
Sydney members of the Motor Vehicle
Proprietors’ Association are preparing to
put Diesel-engined lorries on the roads
for carriage of goods to country towns.
Although road tax works out at £l4 10s.
a trip to Goulburn, £l2 10s. to New-
castle and £lO 10s. to Nowra, they are
confident that they can compete with the
Government railways, which pay neither
taxes nor rates —have, indeed, gobbled up
tax-funds to the extent of £28,000,000 in
10 years.
The Italians found only one railway
in Abyssinia and are building no more.
They are developing the country as they
conquered it, by car and lorry. Interest-
ing to Australian taxpayers, however un-
palatable to Australian politicians with
their railways and their transport strangu-
lation boards.
Percy Pease, now Acting-Minister
“for” Transport, has warned unlicensed
motor-carriers that there are far too
many of them in Queensland, and he will
deal severely with any who are caught.
This suggests that the Transport Strangu-
lation Board is unable either to enforce
its laws against people who flout them
or to protect those who obey them by
paying the exorbitant fees demanded for
licensing.
Queensland’s U.A.P. had its first con-
ference the other day, and one of Con-
ference’s first proceedings was to turn
down a resolution aimed at depriving
the executive of power to reject nominees
for selection as candidates without giving
reasons. This is precisely what the Labor
executive, the Q.C.E., does, and what ,the
U.A.P. recently denounced it for doing.
Delegates to the Sydney conference of
the Australian Public Service Federation
made some pertinent comments on poli-
tical appointments to boards and sweat-
ing of agricultural scientists, engineers
and the like. A Sydney man mentioned
the case of an engineer whose department
advertised for an assistant to him and
couldn’t get one at the price. Advertis-
ing again, it offered a salary higher than
the engineer was getting, and, with mor-
dant humor, he applied for the job of
assistant to himself. He was sternly in-
formed that it was against the rules.
As they approach the Commonwealth
election, the Victorian Cockies find their
breach with the U.A.P. increasingly em-
barrassing. When the pact operated they
could put up a man for the Senate with
the comfortable feeling that he would
probably win on U.A.P. preferences, and
that if he lost their prestige would suffer
little. Now they have to make a show
of running a C.P. ticket, knowing that it
can’t possibly succeed and that failure
will reveal that the C.P., though in office
and obliged to go to the country early
next year at latest, is the weakest of the
three Victorian parties. And the situa-
tion can scarcely be improved by failure
to nominate a team for lack of enthu-
siasts willing to sacrifice themselves.
About the unsteadiest job in Australia
is the general secretaryship of the Sea-
men’s Union. Jacob Johnson won it after
years of hard trying; lost it because
he opposed the last strike; stood again;
lodged an objection “to irregularities”
while the ballot was in progress; headed
the poll, but was denied the spoils of war
for numerous reasons, one being that he
never went to sea. He appealed to the
Arbitration Court for an order directing
“At the Imperial Conference Mr. Lyons proposed a non-aggression pact in the Pacific.”
“Ahoy, there —I mean, avast! We’ll promise not to attack you if you promise
not to attack us.”
the secretaries of three hostile branches
to recognise him as g.s., and was refused
it because the result of the election has
not been officially declared, the return-
ing officer having gone to sea.
When Page and Hardy were passionate
for new States, the former, returning to
Sydney after “a conference” with, the
latter, said “New England and the
Riverina march side by side.” The inter-
esting pair marched side by side in
Gwydir the other day and suffered a
dreadful doing, their party’s majority of
2517 being converted into a minority of
2265. If all the old enthusiasm hasn’t
oozed out of them, they’d better get
back to new States.
Perhaps in the delirium of Coronation
fever queer facts about the Spanish civil
war have slipped out. One is that child
refugees reaching France from Bilbao,
that beleaguered fortress of “democracy,”
give the Red Front salute; another, that
supporters of Franco and his mercenaries
are quixotically paying their own pas-
sages in refugee ships; a third, published
with every appearance of joy:
Aeroplanes, anti-aircraft guns and other
arms have arrived in large quantities at
Bilbao by steamers coining to embark
refugees.
If Bilbao were a “rebel” port and refugee
ships were arriving and leaving under
German and Italian escort, how the
cockeyed journalistic world would ring
with denunciations of that sort of thing
as a foul breach of the non-intervention
agreement!
A Great Daily allows a London corre-
spondent to say that “Britons bear
patiently, Budget after Budget, burdens
under which Australians would struggle
and shout.” This because J. Bull’s one
income tax is up 3d. in the £. Apparently
the rise will not affect family men
on £5OO a year and less, who last
year paid nothing on £225 to £4OO of
“earned” income, and only £3 3s. 4d. on
£5OO. Australians in the same position
pay three taxes. In N.S.W. one of the
three imposts is on gross income and is
deducted at the source, while another
actually taxes what is deducted. If Aus-
tralians on £4OO and under could get off
with even a £3 or £4 tax, they would
“shout” —with joy.
Minister Thorby, Nock, Collins,
Gardner and other N.S.W. country mem-
bers, U.A.P. as well as C.P., are studying
the, Gwydir subdivisional figures with
gloomy forebodings. The shattering of
the confident expectation that the out-
back boxes would wipe out Labor's
country-town lead has engendered the
dolorous suspicion that woolgrowers are
still angry with the Government for let-
ting them in-for the trade war with their
second-best customer, and are deter-
mined to get even, and also prevent any
danger of a repetition. Thorby is especi-
ally menaced, for he was a strident
champion of the trade war. He declared
that it had made no difference to the
price when wool was below a shilling.
Graziers knew better, and there are many
graziers in Calare.
Darkness has descended on the
“Times” correspondent at Bilbao, who
sank a rebel battleship with bombs,
although the effete Admiralty said she
was mined ; and who was flatly contra-
dicted by the “Times” correspondent at
Vittoria when he announced that “the
Germans” bombed Guernica into
smithereens. According to the gentleman’s
own account, he was twice machine-
gunned by “the Germans.” That alone
would make honest reporters suspect hint.
Many honest reporters have been in
perilous situations, but it never occurred
to them to invite sympathy on that ac-
count, much less to make themselves the
heroes of their stories.
As in the case of the Jubilee medals,
hoarse cries of rage went up when the
Coronation medal lists were published.
All the same, there were striking
examples of thoughtfulness or magnan-
imity or something on the part of the
persons responsible; for example, a
medal was issued to Trautwein, M.L.C.,
although there is a terrific judgment out
against him for non-payment of the
King’s taxes. It is alleged on the worst
authority that admirers of this eminent
legislator are planning a nation-wide ’’bob-
in,” the winner to pay the tax and get
the Coronation medal.
When the news about Gwydir was
broken to Tummas Paterson, he said it
was of no consequence.
The electorate is merely living up to its
reputation. It has never remained faithful
to one political party for more than two
consecutive terms.
The truth is that Gwydir has been
more constant than most other con-
stituencies. When the late Bill Web-
ster was Labor it elected him in
1903, 1906, 1910, 1913 and 1914; then
it put him in as a Nationalist for one
term. After that it elected Cunningham
(Lab.) in 1919, 1922 and 1929, and
Abbott (C.P.) in 1925, 1928, 1931 and
1934. Tummas will have to think up
another.
Reported that Lyons is accompanied
everywhere in London by one of Scot-
land Yard’s most brilliant young detec-
tives. Detectives are usually attached in
London to visiting potentates of two
classes —Balkan kings and Moscow Min-
isters whom their devoted subjects might
get, and simple nigger chieftains who
might get lost. It would be interesting to
know in which category the Dominions
Office places our P.M.
The national debt, reckoned at
£1,262,911,646 Os. Id., has been increased
by £7,500,000, a loan for that amount
having been floated ; interest, £3 19s. p.c.
It is understood that the odd penny would
have been redeemed out of the
£7,500,000 but for the urgent represen-
tation of Mr. Stevens that every bor-
rowed copper is needed for permanent
and reproductive works like the Olym-
pic swimming pools with which every
Sydney suburb has been or is to be
adorned.
Some disputation as to the merits or
demerits of public borrowing and spend-
ing has been going on between Percy
Pease, Acting Premier of Queensland,
and Russell (U.A.P.). The Auditor-
General is a suitable referee. His records
for the two years to June 30, 1936:
Loan service charges .. .. £12,534,555
Receipts from loan works and
services .. 5,649,227
Loss on the public debt .. .. £6,885,328
In two “recovery” years the Queens-
land Treasury received from loan
“works” £44 15s. per £lOO of the cost of
the debt. In the same period new loan
expenditure amounted to £9,005,330.
Loss on the debt was thus equal to £76
9s. 2d. per £lOO of new loan money
“invested.” By way of State taxation the
people of Queensland paid in two years
£13,869,291.
[Any election matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


No’ ho! P/xrsow, TH«ts £s.l.bhri,
THAffS EUXAOSTH »
IT’S IN THE AIR.


sm,
INSTANT IGNITION
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
2/3/37
AUTUMN FAIR
COMMENCES AUG. 29.
Comprising: General Samples Pairs,
Textiles, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Great Building Fairs.
250,000
TRADE BUYERS
from all over the world secure their re-
quirements twice yearly from 9000 inter-
national exhibitors.
It will pay you to investigate this huge
market fully.
LEIPZIG
International
Industries
FAIR
GERMANY.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commis-
sioner in Australia for the Leipzig International Indus-
tries Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, G.P.O. Box
3127 P, Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422
Collins Street, G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne;
H O ITTERSHAGEN. Shenton Park, W. Australia.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Listed among the knights in the new
honors, Aus. Trade Commissioner R. W.
Dalton is a Yorkshireman, son of a
Leeds doctor of divinity. He joined the
Board of Trade 30 years ago, and during
the war was sent to Maoriland as trade
commissioner. Six years later he was
back in England as sec. to the British
Empire Exhibition Inquiry Commission.
In 1924, when Britain decided to make
a bid for Australian trade, especially in
motor-cars, Dalton was picked as the
most likely man in the Overseas Trade
Department to stimulate the business.
He has been here ever since. His reports,
in their way, are classics —a healthy anti-
dote to Treasurers’ statements.
W. Douglas Wharton is a second-
generation Queenslander ; his father was
born at Gympie, and Doug, eldest of the
family, at Bowen. The father established
a string of stations from the coastal area
right through the west up to the Gulf,
WHARTON, of Winchcombe’s.
from where, in 1903, young Douglas
drove a mob of cattle to Birralee, the
journey taking five months. On his
father’s death he joined the board and
management of Winchcombe, Carson’s,
and settled in Sydney. At near-51, he is a
champion of the young man in business.
No one knows his Queensland better;
he was a neighbor (or near enough to it
as distances go out west) to the Lamond
family, of whom Henry G. is a Bulletin
bush-story writer.
Adelaide’s two new knights differ widely,
Robert Chapman was English-born but
Melbourne-trained Wesley finishing
with first-class honors in maths, and
physics at Melb. Uni. At 23 he was lec-
turer in those subjects at Adelaide, under
Bragg, ultimately specialising in engineer-
ing and becoming the first (and only)
prof, of that subject. He. has been con-
sulted on water schemes for many parts
of Australia. One son was killed in
Mesopotamia. Another is Chief Engineer
of Railways in S.A. Wallace Sandford,
Melbourne-born with Adelaide schooling,
is managing director of the merchant
firm bearing his name. He has been at
the head of the Taxpayers’ Association,
Agricultural Society, Wine Overseas Mar-
keting Board and Commission on Educa-
tion, is a trustee of savings bank and
hospital, and represented employers at a
Labor conference at Geneva.
Adrian Cole, who collected a C.B.E. in
the Coronation honors, has presence,
executive ability and an outstanding fight-
ing record —he is mentioned in the official
history of the Australian Flying Corps 19
times. He left Melbourne Grammar to
enlist at 18, and had his first air actions
on the Gaza-Beersheba defence line in
1916, working with a group of machines
in one of which Ross Smith was an ob-
server. In April, 1917, he was grounded
in a fight, but stayed to burn his ’plane
before a colleague picked him up. In
May he bombed Abu Hareira. In June
he landed with another Australian to pick
up a colleague who had been forced
down. A year later he was in the middle
of the fighting with German circuses in
France around Bray, and from then
onwards few hot scraps were complete
without him and his colleague, Murray
Jones, now De Havilland’s Australian
representative. Cole came back from the
war with the A.F.C. and the M.C., joined
the permanent forces and commands the
R.A.F. at Richmond (N.S.W.).
It was J. C. Goodhart who 30 years
ago painted the portrait of G. D. Delprat
(B. 24/3/’37), which is still in the artist’s
home at Broken Hill. Goodhart had two
of his etchings accepted for the Corona-
tion exhibition of Australian art in
London. The two pictures are “The
Giant Gum,” a gum-tree study in the
Silverton Creek, and “Klondyke,” a bit
of the old mill on the B.H. Prop.,
a proof of which was purchased by the
Melbourne National Gallery and also
hung on the line in the Paris Salon.
Isaac Isaacs bought the first proof of
“The Giant Gum” when at Broken Hill
for the jubilee celebrations.
“Wandella”: Away from the scene of
his tussles for championship of the world
honors, Jim Stanbury viewed the Head-
of-the-River races from a bank of the
Nepean. He’d have had thoughts of
brother-in-law “Sammy” Jordan, first-
grade Central Cumberland footballer,
cricketer and harrier in the late ’eighties,
for thereabouts Sammy was drowned in
1893. Born in 1868 at Dangar Island, on
the Hawkesbury, Stanbury was taken
in 1871 to Terara, on the Shoal-
haven, where the stretch of river
to Nowra necessitated his knowledge
of the art which later brought him
world fame. Ex-Chief Inspector of
Schools Hugh McLelland, then youthful,
taught him in his father’s school. Stan-
bury read his obituary notices in 1896
when a spill during a practice row on
the Thames sent a scare reporter to the
cable office with the news which later
flew the Sydney clubs’ flags at half-mast.
Nowadays Jim carries his Rolls Royce
chassis around his orchard at Hyde, but
still finds time to advise most of the
coming scullers of to-day.
James Grose, now retiring from the
g.m.-ship of the National Bank of
Maoriland, began as a banker at Towns-
ville with the “’Wales” in 1888, and
went to the National in 1928. Chair-
man of the M.L. Associated Banks 1929,
1932 and 1933, he was knighted in 1934.
He will become advisory director to the
bank; his place as g.m. has been taken
by P. R. M. Hanna, who joined at Auck-
land in 1905.
Boer War veterans when next they
meet will pay a tribute of silence for
Bishop Frodsham, who was an Austra-
lian chaplain in S’Africa. Frodsham
acclimatised very well in Australia, and
during his term as Bishop of Northern
Queensland from 1902 to 1913 was re-
garded as “a dinkum.” He had a good
deal to do with the establishment of the
Institute of Tropical Medicine at Towns-
ville. Since 1914 in England, he was
73 when he died.
The five-bob’s designers:
The new crown-pieces, just right for the tote,
bear on the obverse (head) side the initials
“H.P.,” on the reverse “K.G.” “K.G.” stands
for the designer, George Kruger Gray, who,
born Kruger, married a daughter of Archdeacon
Gray, of Hong Kong, and added her name to
his. An exhibition scholar from the Royal
College of Art, Gray is one of the most versa-
tile artists in England. In water : colors he does
portraits and landscapes; he designs and paints
stained-glass windows; does war memorials,
heraldic work, book illustrations, and cartoons
for “Vanity Fair.” He designed the collar of
the 0.8. E. and the badge of the K. 8., the
Imperial silver coinage and that of several oi
the Dominions, including Maoriland’s; he did
the reverse of the Canberra florin and that of
the Melbourne Centenary 25.-piece. The only
coins struck of Edward VIII. were the coins
of New Guinea, designed by Gray. The
pennies have a hole in the centre to enable the
natives to string them, and are now worth
Is. 3d. “H.P.” is T. H. Paget, who designed
the King’s head on the new coin, did the
special jubilee crown-piece and the Irish Free
State coinage. He got his commission for
the present job because of a splendid head of
Edward done for the master mariners’ medal.
It is a numismatic gem.
James Hutt, dead in Brisbane, was one
of the world’s best-known librarians.
Previously an assistant in the Bodleian
at Oxford for 15 years, from 1910 till
the middle-war years he was in charge
of the Liverpool Library, and left that
job to take charge of Portsmouth’s public
libraries and museums. Retiring in 1935
he decided to end his days in Australia
with his only son, but there was still
work for him, for, when he settled in
Queensland, the University asked him to
catalogue its books and establish an
index system. He has left the senate a
valuable collection of volumes on bibli-
ography.
Caviliere Ernesto Arrighi, the new
Italian Consul in Melbourne, reads the
Spanish war cables with mixed feelings.
During three years with the Italian Em-
bassy in Madrid, he met nearly all the
Leftist Government leaders in the course
of his job and, after hours, mixed socially
with General Franco’s followers. He came
to Australia after two years in Los Angeles
and San Francisco. Before joining Italy’s
Foreign Office, from which he was to
graduate to the diplomatic service, young
Arrighi was a newspaperman on the
Rome “La Tribuna,” and in what spare
time he had after attending university
law lectures did cartoons for several
Italian humorous papers —so Counihan’s
Italian Consul ERNESTO ARRIGHI.
caricature herewith is in for critical
study. Painting is now his hobby, and he
hopes to add some Australian landscapes
to work he did in Catalonia and Cali-
fornia. Arrighi has packed many things
into his 33 years, but marriage has not
been one of them.
Stanley Matthews Wreford is readier
with a quip than an overdraft, but is a
none-the-less popular banker for that. A
half-brother to the knight who was chief
manager of the National for many years,
STAN WREFORD, of the “National.”
Stan was born in South Aus., joined the
bank at Gawler, was with the Pitt-street,
Sydney, branch for many years, and
after several minor changes was made
State manager for Westralia. He was
with the A.I.F. in Egypt.
Unlike the Melbourne Art Gallery,
which is financially fed by the magni-
ficent Felton Bequest, producing about
£25,000 a year, Sydney’s Gallery has had
little in the way of legacies, but a small
windfall brought £250 from Elek W. G.
de Gyulay, who died last month. It
was given for the purchase of a picture
by an Australian artist depicting some
phase of Australian life —landscapes or
seascapes excepted. The donor was
born at Woollahra (N.S.W.) in 1863, a
son of doctor of law A. G. de Gyulay, a
naturalised Hungarian, and spent most
of his life in insurance, managing three
companies, the last being the Union of
Canton.
“El V.” on a trainer of soldiers:
The schooldays of Brigadier C. G. N. Miles
at Brisbane Grammar belonged to the era
when the school’s little cadet corps of less than
150 was in its prime under the rule of George
Gross, a Swiss, who was German- and gym-
nastic-master. Gross was a wonderful inspirer
of boys. Under his command the school twice
won the Earl of Meath’s rifle-shooting trophy
against the schools of the Empire and turned
out, within five years, half a dozen men who
now hold high commands in the C.M.F., among
them Miles, who now leaves the command of
Duntroon to become Queensland State Com-
mandant. During the war Miles won a bagful
of decorations, including a D.S.O. Gross him-
self did not live to see the war, which he would
have observed with some glee, since the
Hohenzollerns were his pet hate. He died in
1909, just on the verge of celebrating his jubilee
in command of his cadets. Six of his young
officers Joe Costin, F. G. Haymen, J. W.
Rigby, T. Robertson, T. W. Ford and Ray
Shirley—figured in the first casualty list from
Gallipoli.
J. Mai ton Murray, who has resigned
the gen, secretaryship of the M.L.
Alliance for Suppressing Pintpots, is
a Yorkie, well on in his fifties. He re-
signed because he couldn’t see a future
for prohibition. Murray was the keenest
and quickest controversialist any Cause
has had in M.L. He got free space in
every paper that opened the slightest
chink in its columns for a drop of
J.M.M. acid.


All over the British
Empire, every minute
of every day, millions of
keen smokers respond
to the call
TIME f OR A
APSTAM
The famous Capstan flavour comes
from Capstan's Own Blend of over
40 kinds of fine Virginia leaf.
/ HAVE \
YOU TRIED \
CAPSTAN OVAL
HEAVYWEIGHTS/
XLATELY?/


BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
' “East St.”: Dobbin is receiving an-
other blow through the increasing
mechanisation of the bush sawmilling
industry. Horses on many big plants
now number three or four as against a
dozen or more 10 years ago. A good
mill horse was worth big money then,
and to see a topnotch snig team racing
along a hillside, hauling a huge log, was
to witness an exhibition of equine intelli-
gence at its best. Often the log would
be chasing the team, and the big horses
could display an astonishing turn of
speed. The best snig-driver I ever saw
must have controlled his team by tele-
pathy, for they obeyed his every desire
implicitly, although his spoken command
was always the same, a stentorian, con-
tradictory : “Git up, whoa back, an’
come here!”
* * * X
“Salmon Gums”: It was a moony
night, with squally winds and sharp,
scudding showers just the sort of
weather to keep the ducks on the wing and
inspectors on the prowl. The bay for
which I was making was a sure spot,
but too well-known to be healthy, and I
was ready to bolt at the snap of a twig.
There were three ducks just 20 yards
out, all quiet and a perfect shot. I
lined up and was about to press the
trigger. “Don’t shoot my decoys,” came
an urgent whisper near my elbow. The
explosion blew the heads off three
wooden ducks and nearly broke my
shoulder.
$ $ *
“Three-an’-four”: The newchum jack-
eroo, riding the spavined night-horse into
Winton (Q.), pulled up at a fencer’s camp
for a swig at the waterbag. Cocking an
eye, over the dejected-looking nag, one
of the hard doers in camp observed:
“Not a bad sort of an ’orse you’ve got
there.” “No, indeed,” replied the weary
Egbert. “In fact, with a pair of horns
and an odd teat or two he’d make a
demned good cow.”
* * * *
“James K.”: Nature did a neat job
when designing the camel’s foot. It has
two big padded toes, from the nails of
which the bones go sharply up into the
leg, leaving the rear part of the foot a
rubbery mass of heel, which expands
when the camel’s great weight moves for-
ward, thus giving a greater standing area
and counteracting the otherwise, inevit-
able sinking in loose sand. Conversely,
the heel contracts when lifted, thus ob-
viating suction. Incidentally, expert Ber-
nard Rutley records a thoroughbred
camel’s capacity at 100 miles a day for
a week, or anything from 150 to 180
miles in 18 hours, without stopping.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: A couple of well-sprung
timber-workers staggered out of the pub
one Sunday evening and began an un-
willing 10-mile trek back to the sawmill.
As they lurched along the narrow gauge
tramway they asked each other why
they were such so-and-so fools, working
so far away from a pub and other
amenities. Then the rising moon, seem-
ingly centred between the steel lines
where they tapered off a couple of
miles away, attracted their attention.
“Cripesh, look,” said one, “here comes
the flamin’ loco.! Let’s put our heads
on the rails an’ let her cut ’em off. It’ll
serve us right for bein’ mugs enough to
work in this adjectival place.” Down
they fell, one on each side of the line and
adjusted their necks carefully on the
rails “to give ole Jack [the loco, driver]
a fair go.” But ten minutes brought
bibulous slumber, and a couple of hours
later some- of their cobbers found them,
still in that position, each snoring bliss-
fully.
* * * *
“Teed”: Perhaps the liveliest and
toughest horses in the world for their
age are those used by cattle musterers in
the high plains country of Victoria. A
stockman at the foot of Mount Cobbler
has a packhorse in regular use which is
30 years old. Part of its job is carrying
huge loads to the top of the mount (over
5000 ft.), and he makes it look like easy
“I wish you'd speak to these lions, sir—they Wont do nothink for me.”
work. The Higgins brothers, who run
cattle in the Bennison Plains area (over
3000 ft. high), claim as their champion
stock horse a black gelding aged 26
years. Most of the best cattle horses
in use on the Dargo and Bogong high
plains range from 12 to 20 years of age.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: My mate was what I
call a punter. We were camped to-
gether in the Cape York Peninsula, miles
from even a telephone line leading to a
bookie, but Tony always kept ahead of
his horses by perusing, nightly, a racing
paper left each week by the buckboard-
mail that ran to Wolfram Camp. If
the paper was forgotten, which was
often, Tony, after work, rode 18 miles
to get it, as his numerous bets on mounts
all over the continent, duly pencilled on
a large sheet of cardboard, needed atten-
tion. Prices of the previous week’s placed
horses had to be looked up and win-
nings and losings checked. Besides,
there was form to study before picking
the next week’s fancies. Once he backed
six winners at Onkaparinga; another
time he won a long shot at Randwick on
a protest, and he had a pound on Wotan
in the Melbourne Cup. But after 1-
months, when we left the camp broke,
wasn’t that punter disgusted! He’d won
282 quid off himself!
* * *
“Awani”: Here in nor’-west N.S.W.
that latest burr pest khaki weed has
spread so rapidly that it is imperative
for dogs to wear boots if they walk on
it at all (B. 28/4/’37). My sheep-dogs
have worn boots for a couple of years,
and they work just as well shod as un-
shod. Also, a couple of kangaroo-dogs
I use for keeping down the rabbits and
chasing foxes never go out nowadays
unbooted, and I haven’t noticed any
slackening of speed. Khaki is the daddy
of all burrs and easily the worst of any
on dogs’ feet.
“R.H.P.”: Dogs wearing boots? In
winter in the Speck working dogs wear
woollen underpants as well! You can
always distinguish a Tassie drover by his
horny hands, caused by having to sit up
late at night round the campfire knitting
and darning Towser’s undies. A dog-
fight is a serious matter, as the owners
of the respective tykes have to rush in
and remove the pups’ garments before
the brawl gets properly going unless
they want to do a month’s overtime
mending the tattered woollies.
* * * *
“Miner Wanst”: It isn’t often possible
to catch'Oswald Pryor out, but where
did he ever see a trommel turned with
a handle on the discharging end (B.
31/3/’37)? Such an arrangement would
mean Willyum’s hands being smashed,
not to mention his bluchers filled with
dirt. The other way round, Oswald—
handle on feed-end, feed being through
a hopper. Nor would Cap’n tolerate the
stone falling on the ground, to be re-
shovelled into the barrow. The barrow
would be under the discharge, automati-
cally filled.
# * * ‘i ;
“Flight”: For brolgas I nominate the
reaches of the Georgina River below
Urandangie (W.Q.). I’ve seen and
counted 92 in flight over the channels of
the river, and a glorious sight they made
in their arrow-head formation with their
bugle calls hurtling through the air. On
the flat itself, during the five-mile ride
across it, another fellow and I counted
307.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: An unusual fishy hap-
pening was the recent capture of a big
black marlin swordfish in shallow water
within 150 yards of Reef Point in More-
ton Bay (S.Q.). It measured lift. 2in.,
with a girth of over 4ft., and weighed
well over 4001 b. It carried no Zane Grey
honors for the captor —he shot it from
the shore with a service rifle, and the
beast was probably not at all well, or it
would never have come into such shallow
water. There are plenty of them in
summer and early autumn anywhere be-
tween Cape Moreton and Noosa Head,
as the mackerel fishermen know to their
cost in broken-out trail lines. They gen-
erally hang about sunken reefs, or follow
the mackerel as they harry shoals of
small migrating fish.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: I got a shock when 1
read (B. 5/5/’37) that a large trout had
been captured in a log snagged out of
the River Latrobe at Warragul. When I
was there six months ago the Latrobe
wasn’t within 20 miles of Warragul. It
runs through Noojee, some 25 miles north
of Warragul, and on the other side of a
fair-sized range of hills. Thence it breaks
through the hills in the neighborhood
of Moe, 20 miles further east. Did
“Mewt” confuse it with the Tarago River,
which runs through the hills about eight
or ten miles from Warragul? Or was
Warragul the town in question?
* * * *
“Sky Boy”: I have found wombats on
the Nullarbor Plains living in a maze of
tunnels. Huge piles of excavated soil
extended for miles across waterless
places. Moisture-bearing vegetation was
practically nil and dews infrequent. Do
the creatures burrow downward through
the friable limestone to permanent
soaks?
* * * *
“Warrigal”: “Nordbo” (B. 28/4//37)
must have struck an unusual tribe if it
contained a black named Warrigal, as
this cognomen is never given to an in-
dividual, as far as I can ascertain. Tribes
are divided into various totem-clans for
marriage classification, each division re-
ceiving its name from a familiar bush
feature, kangaroos, wombats and so on.
The dingo is too characteristic to be
overlooked for the purpose, and its totem
is practically universal, occurring in nine
tribes out of ten.
* * *
“A.L.P.”: Australian black swans at
Whipsnade, the big English Zoo, are
showing a nice spirit of compromise
about their altered seasonal conditions.
Loyal to Australian tradition, they keep
up the old customs by nesting in
November. Equally unwilling to appear
stand-offish, they join in the general
nesting movement when the English
springtime comes round. They brought
off a brood of chicks last November and
in March sat on a second clutch of eggs.
* =3= * *
“Flight”: In my young days Binghi
was hot stuff as a duck-hunter. First,
using fibres, roots
and odds and ends,
the gins would make
a net to about 12ft.
deep. This having
been hung between
two trees at a
narrow bend in a
waterhole of the
river, some of the
men would go up-
stream and others
station themselves a
shade above the net
on each side of the
hole. Those who
went up the river
would frighten the
ducks into hurried
flight downstream,
and as the birds
approached the net
the others waiting
there would whistle
the “hawk signal’
and at the same
time send bark
boomerangs skim-
ming in the air
above the flight.
Completely taken
in, the ducks would
dive from danger,
most of them into the net. As soon as
they hit it the boys would cut the strings,
the net falling on top of the catch.
* * * *
“Saddle-flap”: Before Huon pine
passes out of discussion it deserves to be
mentioned that in the Speck tombstones
of Huon still stand after 110 years in
the ground. Not bad in a climate which,
according to killed 50 p.c. of
the goats during the penal settlement
there.
* * * *
“Fritz”: In poking borak at the
dachshund (B. 7/4/’37), “Bull-ant Bill”
is insulting a fine type of sportsman. The
dach. has a wonderful nose, and will
run hares all day if necessary until puss
skies the towel. He’s deadly on rabbits,
though his insisting on digging out one
that has gone to earth is a nuisance. A
queer thing about this habit is that one
dog will dig until he is tired, and will
then retire to make room for his mate.
Alternate shifts are worked in rotation
until bunny is reached. For field shoot-
ing, not even spaniels excel the dach.,
which has the merit of picking up the
general idea much quicker than other
game dogs.
CARAVAN.
Romany rogues and vagabonds, Romany thieves
and liars,
Down by the bank where the willows grow
they have kindled their gipsy fires.
And here are lads with furtive eyes and men
with golden earrings,
And women stirring the blackened pots with
mutterings and peerings;
A gipsy dog with a bone to chew, and a crone
who begs for money;
A gipsy child with tangled hair and mouth
besmeared with honey;
Trash to sell and fortunes to tell, for the credu-
lous and the tipsy;
Horses to trade, deals to be made, in the age-
old way of the gipsy.
But there’s a girl like Sheba’s queen—oh, she
is straight and slender!
Her lips are curved in cool disdain, but her
amber eyes are tender!
What can she be but a vagabond, a roving
gipsy’s daughter,
Burned with the sun and blown with the wind,
driftwood on life’s wide water?
Her father is but a black-browed scamp, and
a mountebank her mother,
Yet she kindles a flame in my heart to-day that
never the years may smother!
Romany rogues and vagabonds, Romany thieves
and liars,
Down by the creek where the she-oaks grow
they have banked their gipsy fires,
Harnessed their horses, gathered their gear,
gone on their ancient questing;
Never a home for the gipsy heart—only the
wayside-resting.
Gone is the dusty caravan, gone is the painted
lorry ?
Whimpering child and snarling dog, and never
a soul is sorry.
But there was a girl like Sheba’s queen (my
heart, beat not so loudly!),
So like a lady in her mien, soft-speaking,
stepping proudly.
Her father brings from the fiddle-strings a
melody fierce and foreign;
Her mother clamors to read your hand and
whines for a silver florin.
I that was reared in a different home, how
could I think to love her?
Yet I shall not sleep for many a night for the
pain of thinking of her!
QUEENSLAND.
L. O’NEIL.


“Jindivick”: It’s not only English-
men and Talbot Mundy who don’t know
as much about Australia (B. 28/4/’37).
There are touring England a party of
Australian farmers who should rightly
be seeing their own country first. If
cable news can be believed, they “smiled
at single-furrow ploughs drawn by two
horses,” and “were amazed to see men
walking behind drills and cultivators.”
They could see those things in Gipps-
land (Vic.) and in many other parts of
the country at any time. On the M.I.A.
I saw fruit-farmers ploughing with one
horse in a single-furrow plough, with
one man leading or driving the horse
while the other chap handled the plough!
$ $ $
“N. Coast”: The poetic reasons given
by “Shamuseen” (B. 28/4/’37) for
Binghi’s partiality for sleep do not apply
in the Papuan’s case. Let a “polisi-man”
indulge in huge helpings of rice, bulla-
( .
“Dad says will y' keep ’im a bit o’ the pig y're killin."
macow, yam, taro and pig, with a chew
of betel-nut for a top-dressing, and'he
will fall into a condition close to com-
plete. insensibility. A severe kick in the
ribs will not even evoke a grunt. I’ve
known a sentry in camp at night in un-
tamed country about as much use after
such a blowout as a politician in a work-
ing-bee. As it happened, it didn’t matter,
His wild countrymen in the surrounding
bush were sleeping just as heavily, and
for the same reason.
“Whir-r-r”: With other methods than
those lately advocated for catching hares,
quail, also, can be stalked. When you
see one in the grass give a succession of
shrill whistles —the universal alarm
signal. That makes the quail crouch,
fearing a hawk overhead. Continuing
your whistling, walk towards the quail,
keeping your eye on it —that’s essential;
take the eye off it and the quail van-
ishes instantly. When the little cove
shows signs of getting restless whip off
the felt hat and send it spinning through
the air just above the bird, still keeping
the alarm whistle going. If properly
done you can go straight to that bird and
pick it up while it tries to efface itself in
the grass tussock’s roots.
$ ' $ * *
“Jabu”: The most finicky cove I ever
met was a sundowner near Mathoura
(N.S.W.). We tramped together for a
couple of days and, as my week-old
stubble (it’s fairly tough) was getting
uncomfortable, I asked him for the loan
of his blade razor. In spite of the fact
that he was always fooling round honing
it, and that he kept it carefully wrapped
in several layers of cloth, the darned
thing was so blunt on my bristles that I
had to spit on my shoe sole and try to
strop it decently. When I recovered he
was gone. I heard later he used to be
heavyweight champ, of the north-west.
* * * *
“Speargrass”: That opencut in the
Weld Ranges (W.A.) by Binghi for
mining red ochre (B. 5/5/’37) reminds
me that ample evidence of Black
Brother’s mining operations can still be
seen along the Leichhardt River (N.Q.).
Here the Kalkadoons quarried down
three and four feet for blue diorite.
What implements they used no one
knows. Old chipping grounds are also
common here, and imperfect or un-
finished axe-heads are to be found by
the dozen. The, Leichhardt country was
one of Australia’s storehouses for
diorite weapons, which were traded by
the Kalkadoons to tribes hundreds of
miles away.
* * * *
“Horseface”: The registrar for original
bagmen types can enter in the book the
name of Two-tin Dan. Armed with two
smoke-blackened kero.-tins and followed
by a mongrel dog, Dan attacks the
homesteads for a handout. The size of
the receptacles usually brings a knock-
back, whereupon Dan requests permis-
sion to fill the tins at the tank. Asked
why all the water, Dan says “To boil me
dorg, o’ course.” It always gets enough
for the two of us.
“Murrungurry”: I don’t know if the
liquid gum of the bloodwood has ever
been scientifically tested, but I have seen
it used by the blacks for snakebite. First
an incision was made over the punctures,
“ Didn't ’ave the ’eart t' Wake ’er up, boss.”
and the wound well squeezed and washed,
then the wine-colored liquid was applied.
A 10-year-old boy I saw treated in that
way was playing about soon afterwards.
The tree has numerous gum veins through
the wood, and sometimes a quart or more
will gush forth when a pocket or small
hollow is tapped by the axe.
H* H* H*
“Barangkali”: To some back-country
tribes of Bornean Dusuns the road to
heaven is no easy one. After death the
spirit leaves the body via the little toe,
a difficult proceeding except for those
who have lived a blameless life. Before
Sungat is reached all
must pass over a
bridge made from a
huge tree trunk, a pre-
carious path to
heaven, as it is always
exceedingly slippery.
Little children and the
pure of heart pass
over safely, but the
great majority lose
their footing and
plunge into a cauldron
of boiling water.
They are then picked
out by the keeper of
the bridge and placed
in a terrific fire that
reduces the soul to
ashes. Thus purified,
the ashes are weighed ;
if not sufficient they
take the low road that
finishes up in the
Bornean conception
of hell. Those that
pass the test are.
wafted into heaven,
where they magically
assume their human
shape, but with their
eyes turned back-
wards so they can
read their own minds.
They are then true
spirits and eligible to
feast from the
mem p h i tree, the
fruits of which include mangoes, ram-
butan, coconuts and mangosteens. The
memphi tree’s huge trunk is also covered
with small breasts, from which flow pure
milk for the benefit of the children.
* * * *
“Ophir”: A brown snake that I was
playing the fool with one night wrapped
itself about my forearm. As the hand
had a grip behind its head I didn’t mind
that until I started to unwind the thing.
Then I found that one hand wasn’t
enough to pull the twisted wriggler off.
I called Binghi, my boy, from his swag
to come and help me. “Putum ami
belong-it fire,” counselled Binghi. Almost
it seemed that the snake was made of
butter the way it went flaccid when I
passed my arm quickly over the flame.
Instantly it unwound and hung limp.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Beekeepers of Eyre
Peninsula (S.A.) are finding themselves
up against a serious problem—small black
ants which invade the hives at night,
carrying in small fragments of sticks and
grass, with which they build a nest among
the frames. Once established, they live
on the bees until the colony is exter-
minated, then use the hive as head-
quarters. The ants’ colonies are increas-
ing at such a rate that it is impossible to
carry on beekeeping in some areas;
poisoning is impracticable, and only by
keeping the ground ploughed among the
hives can they be given any check. Wild
colonies in trees, also, are fast vanishing
through ant attacks. Anyone who can
discover a method of eradicating the
pests will earn the gratitude of all
threatened beekeepers.
# * * *
“Double Dee”: To reach water tree
roots travel incredible distances. At
Yanchep (W.A.) an official of the State
Gardens Board measured a tuart gum-
tree root in the Crystal Cave and found
it to be 258 ft. in length to where it left
the cave through a fissure in the rock.
From the surface to the roof of the
chamber the root travelled 125 ft. It
went down 26ft. to the floor of the cave
and then travelled a further 107 ft. It is
still growing.
* * * =s=
“Gryllus”: ‘.‘Brock” displays the fact
that he has no honorable title to the name
when he says (B. 28/4/’37) that badgers
are not among the natural enemies of
rabbits in Britain. Where I got the idea
was from watching a captive badger eat
young bunnies. The British Commission
now investigating the rabbit problem
thinks the. same way, and deplores the
steady decrease. If, as “Brock” admits, a
badger will eat a mole, a larger and far
stronger animal than a young rabbit, why
should such a powerful carnivore hesi-
tate at tackling a full-grown bunny? As
for the Ency. Brit, reputation as a
“quiet inoffensive animal,” “Brock”
should see the strong-arm methods of
badgers during the courting season, ladies
and gents alike. Or sool his favorite
hound on to one. Inoffensive? My
colonial, no —not badgers!
*l» *!»
“Frank Motocar”: If you find your-
self running short of rations in the Far
Outback burn a large patch of grass.
Early next morning get your blunderbuss
and sneak up on your stomach. Any
game that is within coo-ee will be there
feeding on grilled lizard, roasted insects
and baked nuts and seeds. After a few
days, if green shoots come up, the dis-
trict’s birds and animals will make a
daily habit of coming there.
THE RIVER.
You’re bound to hear the call again when spring
is drawing nigh,
And small white clouds move softly down the
empty open sky;
When birds are mating in the bush and the
summer’s on its way,
You feel it’s time to roll the swag once more
and get away.
Time to get along the track, time to wander
further back,
When the long days call:
Work a month and camp a week, fishing, loaf-
ing by a creek,
Anywhere at all.
The long grey road is calling, the road to
further out,
The road to every sort of place, to every job
about.
Stobking up near Bendigo, sewing bags at
Nhill,
Digging spuds at Koo-wee-rup, ore at Broken
Hill.
Up and down and on once more, meeting
mates you’ve known before,
Years and months ago;
Picking fruit or making roads, piling stooks or
harvest loads,
Tramping to and fro.
Milking cows at Dandenong, picking hops at
Bright,
Pulling maize at Lindenow, anything in sight.
Saving up a cheque or two, then the Melbourne
train,
One wild week to cut it out ere you’re off again.
Up and down along the road, swag and billy
for a load,
Tucker bag before,
Tramping, tramping out of town. What’s the
use of settling down
At your own back door?
The autumn winds are in the air, the nights are
growing chill,
There’s mud upon the flats again and mist
upon the hill;
The camps beneath the bridge are cold, the
fire begins to call,
It’s time to leave the swag behind, the billy
on the wall.
Back between four walls again; listen to the
wind and rain,
How it moans and wails;
Fasten tight that draughty door; three short
months, then off once more,
Off to New South Wales.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
Tills Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors;
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
, F. E. Loxtori, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dee., Income. Claims, penses. OIT. Funds.
££>£>£, x?
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,'198
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,384
1930.. 1.903.314 951,986 314,949 3,870 1 , no
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. J odl >° a
1932.. 1.911.243 1,225,812 367,822 6,169 (
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..) 811|44U
1933. 1,159,531 400,192 3,358 1 ~,^0
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..(
Trans, from Accident Dept., £lo,ooo]
Profit revaluation securities, £495,357 [ ,
1934. 468,116 3,703 f
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
Trans, from Accident Dept., £12,000 ]
1935.. 728.0181.242.604 519,316 10,954 I nro
Staff bonus, £6185 .. ..f 961,059
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO . I
Profit on sale securities, £62,3351
Trans, from Accident Dept., £60,000 an 9
1936.. 146.251 1,569,795 :>isl,B2 , 4102 1 1,1z1,0u ' 5
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
The £12,820,389 (up £1,181,910) of new
Ordinary business put on the books last
year was a record, and so was the
£2,459,858 (up £347,820) of premiums
gathered. Group insurance, a line which
the co. pioneered, and its house-purchase
policies, introduced in 1934, and in
respect of which its investments now
total £1,069,817, are among the most
popular contracts in its prospectus. Con-
sideration received for annuities (£41,323)
was up £18,685, and interest, rents, etc.
(£645,070), turned in an extra £51,728,
making growth in total income
(£3,146,251) £418,233. Claims (£1,559,795)
ran off with £317,291 of the increase,
owing to a heavier crop of endowment
maturities (£738,519, up £280,848). The
number of deaths was only 50 p.c. of
expectation under the tables of mortality
used, and surrenders, etc. (£253,884), were
£6977 lighter. Including the tax bill
(£33,222, down £4952) the larger busi-
ness was handled at an extra cost of
£62,511, or £519,316 in all, and the
amount written off and allowances to the
staff (together £5162) were £11,977
lighter. Excess of incomings over out-
goings was thus £50,408 better at
£999,467. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing £62,335 dropped from somewhere
into the Ordinary revenue account —
there were “substantial profits from secu-
rities realised” —which also benefited by
transfer of £60,000 from the accumulated
surplus in the Accident branch. Includ-
ing a reduction of £457 in the Fidelity
Guarantee account (£543), £1,122,259 be-
came available, of which £1,006,620 was
added to the Life fund (£14,807,691), and
£115,639 to the contingency reserve
(£500,000). The net addition to total
funds in the Ordinary branch was thus
£1,121,802, raising them to £15,308,234.
Still there was a contraction of
£111,546 in the surplus available for dis-
tribution among participating policies:
1935. ' 1936.
Assurance Fund .. .. £13,801,071 £14,807,691
Liabilities under policies 13,239,109 14,367,275
Surplus .. .. £561,962 £450,416
Of the £450,416, £435,114 is to be distri-
buted, and will provide reversionary
bonus additions of £715,800. The dis-
tribution is equal to 17.6 p.c. of the
year’s premium income, as against 26
p.c. for the previous term. Still, policy-
holders need have no anxiety on that
score; they enjoy stronger protection
than ever before, and a life policy is a
long-term contract, which means that
ultimate rather than immediate benefits
should be looked for. The slip was due
to the large amount of new business
written, the low rate of interest assumed
in the valuation and the heavy crop of
maturities already referred to. A couple
of years ago the rate of interest the office
assumed its Ordinary funds would earn
was lowered from 3 } p.c. to 3 p.c. This
means that much larger sums are locked
up during the early years of a policy,
and released, together with interest, later
-on, the aim being fatter bonuses.
After deducting taxation, the net effec-
tive rate of interest realised in the Ordi-
nary branch was 4.2 p.c. as against 4.1
p.c. in ’35. Excluding the tax bill, and
allowing 3 p.c. for consideration for
annuities, exes, took 22.2 p.c. of the net
premiums as against 22.7 p.c. for the
previous term.
In the Industrial department the
figures have expanded in this way:
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ £ £ £
1922 .. 251,453 43,962 77,718 744,410
1930 . . 631,293 209,684 184,429 )
Written off, £53,184.. ..[ 2,143,093
Superannuation Fund, £9OO
1932 .. 592,052 140,114 170,458'
Written off, £24,380 .. ..[2,586,296
Superannuation Fund, £9OO
1933 .. 642,329 171,479 178,767'
Written off, £556 .. ..[ 2,876,923
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..I
Profit revaluation securities, £116,779
1934 .. 715,779 178,463 203,517 U o,«-, fl o
Written off, £438 .. .. f 3.3^6,163
Superannuation Fund, £9OO
1935 .. 768,006 178,868 215,378'
Written off, £431 .. .. o cna
Staff bonus, £l9lB .. 1 8,696,673
Superannuation Fund, £9OO
‘lncludes contingency funds, etc.
1936 .. 837,036 187,022 230,434)
Written off. £702 '4,114,651
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
* Includes contingency funds, etc.
Last year an extra £92,340 of new busi-
ness (£2,222,023 was put on the books.
Premium income (£660,826) sprang
£51,930, and interest, etc. (£176,210),
turned in an extra £17,100. The amount
added to funds was £417,978 (up
£47,467), raising them to £4,114,651, of
which £59,946 is earmarked for contin-
gencies, etc.
Owing to a reduction in the basis of
valuation from 3j p.c. to 3 p.c., there
was a contraction of £21,318 in the sur-
plus available for distribution (£96,072).
For reasons already explained, there is
no need for concern on that account.
After deducting taxation (£10,050, down
£1366), the net effective rate of interest
earned was 4.3 p.c., as against 4.2 p.c. in
’35. Exes, took 33.3 p.c. of the net
premiums, compared with 33.4 in the
previous term.
Funds are invested in this way:
Public securities 1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
anid debentures.. £9,135,779 49.9 £9,770,686 49.1
Mortgages .. .. 4,395,786 24.0 5,276,181 26.5
Freeholds .. .. 2,169,801 11.9 2,484,676 12.5
Loa..s on policies.. 1,552,396 8.5 1,534,513 7.7
Premiums and In-
terest outstanding 312,960 1.7 315,312 1.8
Cash and deposits.. 583,564 5.2 338,139 1.7
Other assets .. 146,479 0.8 178,264 0.9
Assets are worth more than their book
value. Chief additions last year were
£880,395 to mortgages, £634,907 to Gov-
ernment securities and £315,875 to free-
holds. In 1933 mortgages accounted for
17.5 p.c. and Government securities for
52.5 p.c. of aggregate assets.
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
, Dividends—— >,
Pref. To Re-
June, Loss. 6 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 516,474 Nil Nil 543
1932.. 349,914 Nil Nil 350,457
Dec.,
1932*. 2,721 Nil Nil 353,178
Profit.
1933.. 134,161 Nil Nil 134,161 219,017
Reserves.
1934.. 402,333 67,392 f Nil 334,941 115,924
Unexplained reductions reserves, £4509.. 111,415
1935.. 673,057 84,240{ 20 p.c. = 193,160 507,072
1936.. 746,672 33,696 65 „ ~ 627,770 592,278
* Six months. f Two years. I 27 years.
This highly-efficient organisation is the
largest motor-assembly, distribution and
body-building business in the Common-
wealth. It is a fusion, as from the middle
of 1930, of the interests of General
Motors (Australia) Pty., which set up
here with headquarters at Melbourne in
1926 to assemble the chassis units of its
American parent, and Holden’s, whose
big body-building works are at Wood-
ville, between Adelaide and the Port (S.
Aus.). The two old businesses had been
very prosperous, but the new co. was
caught with heavy stocks on a falling
market, and, since fashion changes
rapidly in the car trade, these stocks
could be cleared only at a heavy loss,
which was further increased by jazzing
currencies. The bodyworks, planned on
a mass-production basis, came almost to
a standstill. However, cars, lorries and
buses have become essential, and they
don’t last for ever. Excluding cycles, the
number of motor vehicles registered in
Australia per 1000 of population rose
from 15 at the end of 1921 to 89 at
June 30, 1930. Two years later the
figure had dropped to 79 ; it has since
gone up by annual steps to 93 at June
30, 1936. The sterling value of motor
chassis, bodies and parts impqrted
dropped from £10,677,344 in 1928-29 to
£436,096 in 1931-32, and then rose to
£6,519,633 for 1935-36, when the increase
was £2,030,000-odd on the previous year’s
figure.
It all helps to explain the stinging blow
slump dealt the co. and the remarkable
recovery of the business since. For the
two and a half years to the end of 1932
losses totalled £869,109, leaving more
than one-third of the ord. capi’al
(£965,800, mostly held by the parent) un-
represented by tangibles in the books.
Also, payments to the prefs. had fallen
£84,240 into arrears. Over the last four
years net earnings aggregating £1,956,223
have been declared, enabling the co. to
clear the prefs.’ slate, hand the ords. two
divs. totalling 85 p.c. (equal to an aver-
age of a shade over 13 p.c. for the 6\
years since the inception of the co.) and,
after wiping out the deficit on share-
holders’ account, put £592,278 on the
shelf to support and assist the £1,527,400
of share capital at June 30 last.
Last year turnover continued to bound
along in all sections of the business.
Headquarters were moved from South
Melbourne to Fishermen’s Bend, further-
down the Yarra. Here the new premises
also house the assembly plant for Vic-
toria and Tasmania, the co.’s chief spare-
parts store, and a commercial body-
building unit. At Woodville (S. Aus.) a
lot of new plant has been installed and
the layout improved, following the
change-over to all-steel bodies. Costs
benefited by the bigger turnover and
plant and other improvements. After add-
£132,366 net to the reserve for taxa-
tion (£422,058), and allowing whatever
was considered necessary for other con-
tingencies, declared net earnings sprang
£73,615, reaching £746,672, or enough to
hand the, prefs. 6 p.c. (£33,696) and then
show 73.9 p.c. on ord. capital. The div.
was lifted from 20 p.c. to 65 p.c.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
June, Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1931. 1933. 1935. 1936.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,527,400 1,527,400 1,527,400 1,527,400
Sundry
creditors . 617,993 107,711 1,032,515 1,316,193
Premises .. 607,527 549,561 541,099 715,290
Plant .. 496,654 262,658 139,778 184,150
Stock .. 779,724 409,325 2,405,752 1,772,470
Debtors .. 92,684 191,899 176,742 234,172
Advances,
etc. 1,040,140
Cash, etc. 212,519 77,508 93,308 298,026
The outstanding feature last year was
appearance of a new item, “advances and
deposits on contracts, £1,040,140.” To
meet the outlay and add £174,191 net to
the book value of freeholds, £44,373 to
plant, £57,430 to debtors’ balances and
£204,718 to cash, etc., stocks were re-
duced by £633,282 and the outside debt
was increased by £282,678. Of the
amount owing to outsiders, £1,012,256
(up £310,494) was coming to affiliated
and allied cos. for materials. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£2,028,615) was £385,338.
In view of the influence of the motor
industry upon Australia’s trade balance
with the U.S.A., and in order to encour-
age growth of local manufactures, the
Federal Government has asked the Tariff
Board to investigate the problem of mak-
ing motor-car engines and chassis here,
and to determine the customs duties
and bounties necessary to enable this
to be done profitably in competi-
tion with established works over-
seas. Upon the Government’s final de-
cision will depend whether G.M.-H.
further enlarges the scope of its activi-
ties here. Since the close of accounts the
co. has, in conjunction with B.H. Prop.,
B.H. Associated Smelters, Electrolytic
Zinc, Imperial Chemical Industries (Aus.)
and the Orient Steam Navigation Co.,
accepted the invitation of the Common-
wealth Government to establish an air-
craft manufacturing industry.
At 245., the well-protected and fully-
paid pound prefs. return 5 p.c. They
carry a fixed cumulative 6 p.c., and enjoy
priority as to capital and divs.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus To
to Con- Re— Re—
Mar., Profit. Dividend. signors, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 21,738 10 p.c. = 7,500 10,578 3660 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 „ „ 7,500 11,251 3653 41,036
1929.. 24,146 10 „ 9,981 10,548 3617 44,653
1930.. 7,489 7 „ „ 7,000 Nil 489 45,142
1931.. 10,598 7 „ „ 7,000 1,233 2365 47,507
1932.. 7,766 5 ~ „ 5,000 1,056 1710 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 „ „ 5,000 2,300 760 49,977
1934.. 16.611 6 „ „ 6,000 4,583 6028 56,005
1935.. 6,772 5 „ „ 5,000 2,731 55,046
1936.. 19,635 10 „ „ 10,000 5,341 3294 59,340
1937.. 18,419 10 „ „ 10,000 5,275 3144 62,484
Shareholders in this wool- and produce-
broking and fat-stock-selling business
have nothing to complain about. The
co. set up in 1910, and divs. averaged
5.7 p.c. for the first 11 years, followed
by a steady 10 p.c. for the next eight,
an average of 5.8 p.c. for the half-dozen
to the close of accounts in 1935, and 10
p.c. for each of the two years since. Also,
bonuses to consignors, who are mostly
shareholders, were interrupted only in
1930, though they are now on a lower
scale than they used to be.
For the 10 months to the end of April
wool averaged £2O 18s. lOd. per bale in
Sydney, compared with £l7 12s. 7d. and
£l2 10s. 4d. for the corresponding periods
of the two preceding seasons. Still,
owing to the heavy carry-over at the
close of accounts in 1935, the co. put
23,085 fewer bales under the hammer
last term ; actual receipts (71,722 bales)
were only 1949 bales lighter:
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1920 .. 35,998 287,138 12,314 £49,158
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1930 . . 88,707 392,371 14,632 73,581
1933 . . 91,457 411,830 11,673 65,825
1934 . . 82,541 340,801 10,938 78,750
1935 . . 58,100 341,480 13,862 65,921
1936 . . 87,267 276,4(16 12,589 93,317
1937 . . 64,182 366,202 20,008 92,726
So, although an extra 79,736 sheep and
an additional 7419 cattle were sold, gross
earnings were £591 lighter. Including
provision for taxation (£3500, down
£500), exes. (£74,307) were up £625. The
net result was thus £1216 lighter at
£18,419, of which £5275 was handed to
consignors in rebates of schedule com-
mission charges. Allowing for these re-
bates, enough remained to show 13.1 p.c.
on capital as against 14.2, 4, 12.1, 5.7,
6.7, 9.5, 7.4, 13.6 and 14.8 p.c. back to
1928, when wool averaged over £25 a
bale. The div. was kept at 7 p.c. and a
3 p.c. bonus was again added, making
10 p.c. for the year. Bonuses to con-
signors were equal to 5.2 p.c. on capital.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1927 1933 1936 1937
Paid capital.. £75,124 £100,124 £106,000
Mortgages .. 42,974 • —•—
Sundry creditors 63,506 103,283 58,459 104,176
Freeholds .. 93,884 146,523 146,523 148,249
Plant, shares in
other cos., etc. 10,150 12,372 5,366 9,825
Debtors & cash 125,704 102,488 79,909 122,086
Debtors’ balances (£121,877) increased by
£62,656, mainly owing to a carry-over
of 9807 bales (2267 bales at the previous
balance). To make the extra advances,
cash (now £209) was drawn upon for
£20,479, and the board went outside for
a further £45,717, raising the debt to
£104,176, of which £65,672 is coming to
the bank.
As for the coming clip, the world
statistical position of the staple and the
economic outlook suggest that supply is
not likely to run far ahead of demand, and
there appears to have been less specu-
lation in wool than in other commodities,
all of which ought to mean maintenance
of satisfactory prices. Also, immediate
seasonal prospects are favorable over
most of N. S. Wales.
The pound shares, paid to 10s., are not
listed on ’Change. They are covered by
16s. 3d. in net tangibles, and at 17s. the
return would be 5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 11,182 10 p.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 „ „ 9000 4101 45,367
1931.. 11,764 10 „ „ 9000 ) 17 „.
Provident fund, £lOOO S 1764 4 '> 131
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
1933.. 10.213 10 „ „ 9000 1213 50,504
1934.. 12 210 10 „ ~ 9000 f 2 010 52,514
Provident fund, £l2OO j
1935.. 12,186 10 p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936 12,828 10 ~ „ 9000 ) 2828 Gg 528
Provident fund, £lOOO )
1937.. 11,337 10 p.c. = 9000 2337 60,865
It’s a snug business, with very strong
connections, gained largely through the


Ttf |S
ttet
US*
t>e
tnt' cS
<«!>*■* <
b«j
tot** 1
rt»o
SUPER
ms
UPE
ETHYL
ETHYL
IBS
r Gel that
Empire Spirit
CB4/12/SP
Pitts BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
incorporating the new THIRD DIMENSION principle of sound reproduction
There is a pleasure in store for you when you hear the glorious
tone of this remarkable instrument, so different from any Radio
you have yet heard. The Westinghouse Third Dimension
Radio re-creates the original PERFECTLY.
Let us demonstrate in your home how London, Berlin and Paris
can be heard as clearly as local stations. There is a wide range
of Westinghouse Broadcast and Dual-wave Receivers, Battery
and Electrically operated, from which to select, each available
on easy terms.
E. F. WILKS & Co. Ltd.
124 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
Branches at NEWCASTLE, PARRAMATTA and CHATSWOOD - - - ’Phone, M6507.
Sub Distributors: A. R. TURNER & CO., ; agencies throughout
Asbestos Yo**k Svdnev. B5400. • THE STATE.
MAIL THIS COUPON FOR FULL PARTICULARS
Please send me particulars of the WESTINGHOUSE THIRD
DIMENSION RADIOS.
NAME :-J
ADDRESS ~,
B. 19/5/’37.
influence of the big parent organisation,
Elder, Smith and Co., whose name has
long been a household word in South
Aus. Shareholders have enjoyed an un-
interrupted 10 p.c. p.a. for the last 19
years, thanks largely to the wide margin
between earnings and distributions before
the slump, and to continued expansion of
the business, which helped to offset the
effects of the fall in interest rates and
values upon returns from investments and
corpus and other commission earnings.
Furthermore, they welcomed the oppor-
tunity to put up an extra. £30,000 of
capital at par in 1930, making the total
on the share register £90,000 in 360,000
pound shares paid to ss. each.
The next table shows how the business
has stepped along, and what it has cost
to handle it:
Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1928.. 8,685,889 36,744 26,230 71.3 „
1929.. 9,845,192 38,433 27,251 70.9 „
1930.. 10,307,327 41,371 28,270 68.3 „
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1932.. 11,124,002 40,252 29,092 72.2 „
1933.. 11,614,705 39,496 29,283 74.1 „
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 „
1935.. 12,509,078 43,395 31,209 71.9 „
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.8 „
1937.. 13,701,443 46,496 35,159 75.6 „
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the net growth in the value of
trusts on the books was £750,845 as
against £441,520 for the previous term.
Corpus and other commissions, which
range from 1 p.c. to 2\ p.c. on capital
values, and from 2\ p.c. to 5 p.c. on in-
comes, were £2414 better at £37,317.
Earnings from the trust section of the
business were thus at the rate of ss. sd.
per cent, as against ss. 4d. for the pre-
vious term and ss. Bd. in 1932. Interest,
etc., brought in £9179 (up £130), equal to
10.1 p.c. on capital. Exes, made off with
an extra £4 16s. of each £lOO of income,
leaving the net result £1491 lighter at
12.6 p.c. on capital, compared with 14.2,
13.5, 13.5, 11.3, 12.4, 13 and 14.5 p.c.
back to 1930.
The capital and reserves, together with
£3OOO in a taxation suspense account and
£13,880 coming to sundry creditors, are
invested £139,628 in Government securi-
ties ; £17,340, freehold, bought a couple
of years ago; £lOOO, equipment; £8826,
debtors’ balances; £5450, cash, etc.
The pastoral areas of the State are ex-
periencing an excellent season, good
lambings have been reported, and prices,
especially for wool and wheat, are right.
This and the substantial growth in the
volume of business entrusted to the co.’s
expert care augur well for the current
term’s earnings.
The market prices the scrip at 14s. 9d.,
at which figure the return is 3.4 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on his
money counts on a 12 p.c. distribution.
The cover is Bs. 4d. in net tangibles.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 24,658 12£ p.c. = 18,750 5908 40,638
1928.. 16,891 10 „ „ 15,000 1891 42,529
Bonus from holdings, £5460 .. .. 47.989
1929.. 16,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 1985 49,974
1930.. 13,198 10 „ „ 15,000 48,172
Loss.
1931.. 1,858 2$ „ „ 3,750 42,564
1932.. 2,530 Nil 40,034
Profit.
1933.. 3,181 If p.c. = 2,500 681 40,715
1934.. 8,846 5 „ „ 7,500 1346 42,061
1935.. 14,398 8§ „ „ 13,125 1273 43.334
1936.. 9,375 6£ „ „ 9,375 43,334
1937.. 9,091 6£ „ „ 9,375 43,050
Profits in this class of business are
governed largely by building activity and
delivery costs. The co.’s own works are
at Northcote, north of the Yarra, where
new building has not been so active as
elsewhere. Stiff, the co. gets its fair
share of city business, and it holds ap-
proximately one-third of the capital in
similar concerns operating at Blackburn,
Auburn and Oakleigh. The following
table, showing the value of building per-
mits issued in Greater Melbourne, helps
to illustrate what has happened in the
trade since the boom burst about eight
years ago:
Year to
March 31, Value. Index.
1929 £8,196,377 100
1932 1,429.431 17
1934 3,896,064 48
1935 5,058,216 62
1936 6,984,180 85
1937 .. .. .. 7,310,673 89
The spring of £326,493 in last year’s
figure was largely on account of steel-
and-concrete structures in the city. At
present there are 14 brick cos. operating
a total of 34 kilns in the metropolitan
area. Still, Northcote has been able to
maintain its sales, and during the last
half of the term a rise in the price of
bricks helped to offset the effects of an
earlier lift in wages and the price of
coal and reduction in working hours.
Also, owing to the growing demand for
special types of bricks, a new kiln was
erected at a cost of £l7OO and paid for
out of earnings.
Gross earnings were £349 better at
£12,991. Exes. (£3850) were up £642.
owing to extra provision for deprecia-
tion. Allowing for minor reserve adjust-
ments, the net result was £284 lighter at
a shade over 6 p.c. on capital, as against
9.5, 6.2, 5.8 and 2.1 p.c. for the four
preceding years. Although reserves were
tapped for £284 to maintain the div. at
6:J- p.c., immediate prospects are that the
co. will be able to earn more than enough
to cover that rate for the current term.
For the decade to the close of accounts
in 1929, divs. averaged 10.9 p.c., sweet-
ened with a small capitalisation (2s. 6d.
per share) in 1924.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1923. 1927. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £131,250 £160,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 2,949 4,823 2,205 2,492
Freeholds .. 101,981 88,230 90,021 89,742
Plant, etc. .. 31,122 34,725 36,951 38,411
Stocks .. 4,047 2,447 1,888 2,672
Book debts .. 3,884 11,861 4,055 6,119
Shares other cos. 11,345 36,361 41,821 41,821
Cash, etc. .. 15,196 33,060 24,662 22,903
To carry an extra £2064 of debtors’
{“Wild Cat ” continued on next page.)


Jtiaaaan;|.iiirKPi^iCTHTSl^B
W/a
m.
Wm
m
m
m
m
m
"You get him to
SEETHE A.M.P."
HER husband, she told her father, was not assured.
They had no savings. She had never thought
about what might happen to her if he were to
die.
“You get him to see the A.M.P.,” her father said.
“Get him to do it straight away. Get him to take out an
A.M.P. policy for at least £5OO. He can do it for a
few shillings a week. A policy of £l,OOO would be
better still. With that done you won’t have a worry in
the world.”
“Geuhim to see the A.M.P.” That is sound advice. The
A.M.P. is the largest Mutual Life office in the Empire. On
an average one family in every two in Australia and New
Zealand is protected in some measure through the A.M.P.
The Society has £106,000,000 of assets, and is as strong as
the nation itself. Last year it issued new policies totalling
£27,000,000! The A.M.P. grows from strength to strength
because it serves a great human need: it makes the family
secure.
The Society will be glad to send an experienced adviser
to discuss this “great human need” with any couple. A word
to the nearest A.M.P. office will bring him. Write or ’phone
to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.J.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
If you have ores for sale write:—
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram,- Tin ores,
’ . etc., etc.
Public Notice.
FORESTRY BONDS.—Those wishing to sell
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get highest prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
balances and add £1460 net to the book
value of plant, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £1649. The more or less liquid
surplus (£29,202, including stocks but not
shares in other cos.) was £912.
The fully-paid pound shares are fairly
steady in the market around 235. 9d.
The return at 235. 9d. is 5.2 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. The net tangible cover
is 255. 9d., mostly in fixed assets, worth
what they can earn.
Though costs were got back, Bundi
Tin, working a gold-dredging proposition
at Greymouth (M.L.), showed a net loss of
£2936 for the 12 months to Dec. 31 last,
as against a profit of £2199 in the initial
six months. Poorer values and a heavy
replacements bill, due to the hard
nature of the ground, were responsible.
The table summarises results to date:
1935.* 193 C. 1937 t
Yardage treated .. .. 518,500 912,460 114,889
Gold recovery, oz. .. 2242 2978 484
Average, gr. per c.y. .. 2.07 1.57 2.02
Value, per c.y. .. .. 8.73 d. 6.26 d.
Working costs .. .. 6.44 d. 0.21 d.
Net profit .. .. • • £2199 £2936t
* From June 13. t Four months. t Loss.
Values have improved since the close of
accounts, and better things are hoped for
once the Werf-Conrad dredge is raised
to Chinaman’s-terrace, where 1,679,000-
c.y., checkbored to average 5.54 gr., is
available. On the basis of early recov-
eries and costs, and turning over
120,000 c.y. monthly, this area was ex-
pected to yield an annual profit of
£17,000. The co. was originally inter-
ested in a Malayan tin venture, but
backed out at a loss of £44,726.
* * * *
At Batavia Diggings, Cape York Penin-
sula, Peter Larsen’s Consolidated Co.,
which took over the Duke leases (Prohi-
bitionist, Winner, Dole, Tinhare and
Rose), has spent over £lO,OOO on de-
velopment, and has about 2000 tons of
feed, expected to average 2oz. or more,
ready for the mill. The co. is also work-
ing profitable leases at Bairdsville, eight
miles from Batavia. Another Batavia
show, the Black Cat, is on a patch, 4ft.
thick, of soz. ore. The Government,
which recently built a new 19-mile road
connecting Iron Range goldfield (Claudie
River) with the coast at Portland Roads,
is considering extending the track to
Batavia, thus providing a much-needed
link between Coen, Batavia and Port-
land Roads.
* * * *
Maytown Prospecting, Ltd., a new
Queensland co. engaged on an extensive
gold- and tinmining programme in
country between Cooktown and the old
Palmer River field, has put up a 10-head
battery and other plant on a lease on
the Palmer conglomerate, and crushing
has begun. Dr. R. L. Jack, one-time
Government Geologist in Queensland,
contended that the gold found in the bed
of the Palmer came from under the con-
glomerate. Results are expected to aver-
age at least 6dwt. The co. is also busy
on old shallow tin workings at Cannibal
Creek, where some rich returns were won
by Chinamen in the early days. Follow-
ing a favorable report by Dr. Jensen,
Hayes Creek Development, another
Peninsula co., has erected machinery on
its leases, formerly held by the Nesbit
River and Campbell syndicates.
* * * *
Lolworth Creek, Charters Towers
(N.Q.), which has already yielded some
£lOO,OOO worth of gold, jshows no signs
of petering out. Congdon’s Midas con-
tinues to be one of the richest little shows
N.Q. has known for years (the last 69
tons yielded 117 oz. of gold). Mons Meg,
another profit-earner, has been optioned
by Golden Fleece (Cracow), N.L.; last
year 598 tons returned £865, with gold
at 85s. an ounce. In the Campaspe River
and Mt. Stewart districts, a number of
new shows are being worked, of which
the most promising is Brilliant Brumby,
which crushed 15 tons for 290 z. gold.
si= * £ *
Encouraging results are being obtained
by a few miners on the old Jordan Creek
goldfield, Innisfail (N.Q.), first. worked
nearly 40 years ago by Chinese, who won
a lot of alluvial, but lost the run of the
gold. The field is a favorite hunting-
ground for sugar-workers during the
slack season.
* Jf: * *
Hartwell Conder and W. E. Hitchcock
have recommended Sapphire Creek
(Papua) Development Syndicate to exer-
cise its option over a tin property at
Zeehan (Tas.). Details of their report
have not yet been made available. The
deposit, which is an unusual one, is on
a hillside, and most of the exploration
work can be done by adits. This
should also mean much so far as
costs are concerned. A lot will depend
on the nature, extent and value of the
formation underlying the oxidised zone.
* * #
Westralia’s output of the yellow metal
continues to expand, as the following
table, showing Perth mint receipts, illus-
trates :
Pine ounces.
/■“' \
1935. 1936. 1937.
January ... .. .. 52,520 55,859 64,084
February 21,277 55,502 73,949
March 18,465 57,350 70,147
April . . .. .. 53,054 63,939 75,531
Total 145,316 232,650 283,711
The estimated value of total receipts for
the first four months of 1937 is
£2,501,486, of which £1,296,360 represents
premium on the statutory price, owing to
depreciation of the Australian pound in
terms of sterling.
sj: & * #
Consulting engineer H. E. Nicholls
reckons resurrected Youanmi, on the
East Murchison field (W.A.), has 140,000
tons ore in sight, averaging lldwt.
sgr.—proved 33,500 (9dwt. 12gr.), prob-
able 69,000 (lldwt. 18gr.) and possible
37,500 (12dwt.). Since October, when
the 5000-ton-a-month oxidised-ore treat-
ment plant commenced running—a
second unit of similar capacity is now
handling sulphides—approx. 25,000 tons
of 4dwt.-6|dwt. stuff has been milled for
4000 oz. gold, worth £35,000, most of the
feed coming from Nos. 2 and 3 levels of
Pollard’s shaft. Plant absorbed a further
4000 z., while 500 oz. remained in circu-
lation. Now that both shafts have been
unwatered development is being speeded
up, and plant capacity is eventually to
be increased to 20,000 tons per month.
Between 1911 and 1922 331,000 tons of
12dwt. ore was taken out of the mine.
Diamond-drilling has proved the con-
tinuation of the two previously-worked
lodes, as well as disclosing three new
ones. The gold veins occur along the
shear planes of greenstone, London-
controlled, the co. has over a half-million
of capital to feed.
Another important development has
occurred at Yellowdine (W.A.), where a
drillhole cut the continuation of the East
lode 70ft. below the 200 ft. level, disclos-
ing 6ft. (true width) of ore, estimated to
average over 2oz. This lode underlies
west toward the main shaft, which is to
be sunk another 66ft. to a total depth of
320 ft., and crosscutting will be under-
taken from the 300 ft. level. The new
pumps are expected to deal effectively
with the water problem. R. Playter,
geologist to Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment and Lake View and Star, is to
make a complete survey of the mine.
sfc * * *
Marvel Loch (W.A.) has blocked
30,000 tons of ore, expected to average
about 9dwt., below the 200 ft. level. The
lode has been proved for a length of
350 ft., full width 14ft., with evidence of
further extension. A bulk sample of 30
tons returned s.9dwt. bullion over the
plates, with 3.ldwt. in the sands. Owing
to the hardness of the ore, alterations to
plant are necessary. The cost is not
expected to exceed £5OOO, nor are the
additions expected to interfere with
present mill operations. When complete,
the plant will handle between 6000 and
7000 tons of ore monthly.
* * *
On Paringa’s Kalgoorlie (W.A.) prop-
erty eight out of ten diamond-drill holes
intersected the main ore-channel, which
has been proved for a length of 1700 ft.,
width up to 50ft. in places. At the end
of August last ore reserves were esti-
mated at 107,660 tons, averaging
6.07dwt., with another 71,952 tons ore
in course of development. Costs are not
expected to exceed 28s. per ton. On the
basis of a 90 p.c. extraction, this would
leave a profit of approximately 18s. pet-
ton. A 50,000-ton-a-year plant is being
erected, and provision is to be made for
duplication of output.
* t- * *
For the March quarter of 1937 Lake
View and Star (W.A.) treated 148,785
tons ore and 177,813 tons tailings for a
gross return of £324,105, of which work-
ing exes. (£165,667) and development
(£21,952) together took £187,619. Of the
£136,486 that remained (down nearly
£7OOO compared with the previous
quarter), £31,456 was spent on capital
account —plant, etc., £18,998 ; special
development, £12,458.
■i’ 'l*
Controlled by American Smelting and
Refining Co., Big Bell, at Cue, the
largest low-grade proposition in West-
ralia, hopes to reach production in July.
Diamond-drilling under Government
supervision has disclosed an ore-body
80ft. wide over a length of 1000 ft., the
grade averaging approx. 3dwt. Over one
and a quarter million tons of ore has
been blocked out, and a further 3,500,000
tons is indicated. Plant to handle at least
25,000 tons monthly is to be installed.
On this basis costs are not expected to
exceed 14s. a ton, leaving a mine profit
of 11s. 6d., with gold at £8 10s. an ounce.
* * * *
Ora Banda United, formed in London
to work the Gimlet South and other
leases at Ora Banda (W.A.), puts its ore
reserves at 1,143,000 tons, averaging
3.Bdwt., of which 543,000 tons, averag-
ing 3.5dwt., has been blocked. A 10,000-
ton-a-month treatment plant is sug-
gested. On a throughput of 100,000 tons
a year, operating profit is estimated at
£A 102,000.
* * * *
After 15 months’ prospecting, Mel-
bourne - controlled Australian Gold
Flotations has commenced crushing with
a 50-ton-a-day plant at Mt. Wallbrook,
near Yarri (W.A.). The co. has 30,000
tons of ore, averaging slightly over 4dwt.,
that can be mined by opencut.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas, N.L. (W.A.),
launched during the boom at Yellow-
dine nearly three years ago, has taken
a further 12 months’ option over the
Golden Queen, Coolgardie, and is pre-
paring to drill the Golden Bar, next door.
* * * *
Golden Valley (W.A.), which shut up
shop some months ago, has declared a
first and final liquidation dividend of
Bld. a share on the fully-paid 2s. shares.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and* Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES 4: COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
° * * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Lite
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you —William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Youn® streets, Sydney
£
i mill
•
m
mil
111 l
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Drink is the curse of the working class,”
the temperance lecturer remarked.
“And work is the curse of the drinking
class,” an interjector shouted.
4* 4* 4*
“Railway travel always gives me a stiff neck,”
says a writer.
Well, he should buy a Bulletin of his
own to read.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jackeroo was chosen to speak for Australia
in Empire broadcast.”
English listeners were amazed to find
that it neither barked nor roared.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Word for It.
“The saxophone is really a terrible instru-
ment,” says a writer.
I fail to see it. It is not bad looking,
having neither the. insignificance of the
piccolo nor the cum-
brousness of the trom-
bone. Though it may
not be able to boast
the antiquity of the
mouth-organ, the zither
or the jew’s-harp, it
has nevertheless been
before the public for
many years. It is often
seen in good company,
such as the violin and
the ocarina. It seldom
tootles like the horn,
or squawks like a
clarinet, or grunts like.
a bassoon. Moreover, it has a quality all
its own, and is quite a tolerably respec-
table instrument —so long as it is not
played.
Jay.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A glance at the passenger list revealed such
names as Andronicos, Andreanotos, Kypriotis,
Caraconstantis, Aspropoulos, Megaloiconomous
and Pagiotopoulos.”— “S. M. Herald.”
In all that an Aspropoulos was cer-
tainly needed.
4. 4. 4. 4.
“Boyce gave a childish reason for refusing
to change his name.”' — Women’s paper.
Boyce will be Boyce.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mrs. Isaacs was an amiable woman in a
perpetual state of wonder. ‘Well, well, well T
she exclaimed when told of the meeting.”
— Woman’s paper.
Rebecca at the well, well, well again!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Pretend you know and it’s half as
good as knowing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The springing of cars has much improved.”
—Motoring note.
That of pedestrians, also.
•i 4* 4* 4*
“His excuse for not attending was a sceptic
throat.”— “Sun.”
Others believed it, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Great Moment.
Oh, sweet achievement! How it thrills
my breast!
Oh, bliss without alloy !
I sail victorious upon the crest
Of one great wave of joy !
I his is the greatest moment of my life —
My heart is full of song —
For, after three weeks’ argument, my
wife
Admits that she was wrong!
' T. W. N.
“I have trebled my sales by publicity.”
— Manager.
Ad. and multiply.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“On the eve of the tour the baritone turned
out to be a criminal.” — “Telegraph.”
A bass baritone.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A minister complains that some people
would rather miss church than sit in the front
pews.”
He should advertise his services:
“Come early if you want a back seat.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“His wife’s stumbling, halting speech sounded
very strange.”— Short story.
Any woman’s speech would sound
strange with pauses in it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The “D.Ts.”
“Months have been spent clearing away the
barrage of entangling litigation that snarled
the pathways of prosecutors.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
The entangling litigation raised its
horny head and breathed sulphurous,
Bosphorus smoke into the ranks of the
oncoming hordes. They fell back
flurried and broken, curried and croak-
in’, but undismayed. Why should they
be dismayed? They had been doing
this sort of thing for months.
“Ah me,” roared the king, riding
down pathways of prosecutors in his
agony. “Would that some brave felon
would rid me of this encumbrance, this
fearsome ‘entangling litigation’!”
"Don't be ABSURD, Jonathan — I'm knitting them for the church bazaar .”
Just then the entangling litigation
strengthened its barrage with a mighty
gesture, and snarled full long. The king
and his men huddled together in fear.
Again it snarled, snarling the pathways,
raking them with a snarlsome venom.
A mighty voice spoke. “Sire, I am a
felon of felons. I will rid you of the
entangling litigation. I desire no
reward.”
So saying he drew from his belt a
fearsome weapon, from his valise a more
fearsome weapon and advanced upon
the foe. The E.L., sensing danger, re-
doubled efforts to strengthen its barrage
and snarled full long and foul and
currysome. But F. of F. was not dis-
mayed. They engaged in combat (see
reports of sit-down strikers ejected by
police for running description of com-
bat).
At last, with a thrust of the weapon
from his belt and a circular sweep with
that from his valise, F. of F. stood victor
and the king stood drinks. E.L. would
snarl nevermore.
“Yon weapon, what is’t?” asked the
king, pointing to the weapon from the
valise.
“That, sire, is the subpoena.”
“And the other?”
“The affidavit, sire.”
“I would reward thee, my good felon.
I bestow on thee”
“Not the Order of the Darter,”
quailed the F. of F.
“Nay, nay, naught so paltry,” said the
king. “I bestow on thee the Decree
Nisi.”
E. M.
“Shirley Temple is the eighth richest woman
in the world.”
On the strength of this she might
consider increasing her mother’s allow-
ance.
4* 4* +
“It was the ring that ruined me,” said a
bankrupt.
Boxing, betting or wedding?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Adelaide Jockey Fined £3 for Shooting
Duck Illegally.”— News heading.
Now he’ll have to eat it if he doesn’t
want to weigh-in three pounds light.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The play concerns the life of a domineering
husband and his submissive wife.” — Critic.
The play has, of course, no reference
to any living persons.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A statistician announces that women in
Great Britain now spend £65,000,000 yearly on
cosmetics.”
Which proves that a woman’s face is
her chemist’s fortune.
*Z" «►% »?•
The Saving Grace.
“Blondes are more inclined to baldness than
brunettes,” says a hair specialist.
While l am certainly appalled
To learn, alas! that blonde goes bald
Before the average brunette
Or raven-coiffured donna; yet
Tm glad that girls with locks of gold
Are more inclined to be — well, bold !
Percival.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“We should have aeroplanes on the new
coinage,” states a correspondent.
To suggest that money flies?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Share another’s trials.’ Come and hear the
Rev. next Sunday.”— Church notice.
Is this an invitation to make the con-
gregation up to two?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Hints for Husbands.
IX. — Fathercraft : Baby-feeding.
It is the conviction of all wives that,
at handling babies, their husbands are
about as helpless as the infants them-
selves, and it is reluctantly that I record
my agreement. How many fathers,
ordered to look after a month-old baby
for even a week, could pilot it through
that period without its developing every
ailment except barber’s rash and ingrow-
ing hairs? None, I confidently assert.
Still, by noting these few hints by one
who is himself, through long practice,
an expert father, there is no reason why
even the veriest tyro among fathers
should not be able to do even better
than the mother. After all, a man’s
natural firmness and authority should
count for something in dealing with frac-
tious infants.
Feeding is most important. Obviously
a month-old baby cannot be expected to
eat a three-course meal—that won’t be
possible until it is at least four months
old, and even then dishes like roast pork
and porterhouse steak should be avoided.
Day feeding, of course, offers no diffi-
culties. It just depends on whether you
are an advocate of hourly or half-hourly
feeding. Whichever you prefer, don’t
stint the food—remember that babies
grow rapidly after a week or so, and
need adequate nourishment, otherwise
you will have trouble like rickets, hives
or atrophied stomach muscles.
Baby’s food is easily prepared. Just
put a handful (if you are a large man,
one ; if small, two) of some patent lac-
teal food into a saucepan, cover with
water and boil until it is the consistency
of boarding-house blancmange. Pour
into baby’s bottle and put the rubber
teat on. Should the baby start bawling
immediately after taking the first mouth-
ful it will denote that (a) it is hungry
and can’t get it quick enough ;or ( b ) it is
already full and doesn’t want it; or (c)
the stuff is too hot. There are also about
10 other reasons why it might howl, but
ignore these.
If (a), make the hole in the rubber
gadget bigger by ramming a skewer into
it (take the bottle from baby before
doing this). If it still can’t get it quickly
enough take the rubber top off and
allow the infant to suck it up through a
straw. If (b), put aside and reboil for
the next prescribed period. If (c), put
in the ice-chest for a while.
Always make baby drink it up quickly,
otherwise if you are on the half-hourly
feeding and it takes 25 minutes to drink
it, this will allow only five minutes for
digestion prior to the next feed, which
is not sufficient. Therefore, make baby
finish it in 10 minutes. If you have
trouble in getting this done, adopt a
stem attitude. Remember, if you let
baby best you now, what will it be like
at six months?
Night feeding is a different proposi-
tion. You want a sleep, which would be
impossible if you were compelled to get
up about eight times to prepare food.
So make enough before retiring for the
eight feeds in one. The ordinary feed-
ing bottle being obviously too small to
hold it, put it in a quart whisky bottle. It
might be as well not to wash this out,
as a few drops in the bottom will not
only add a slight (and doubtless wel-
come) flavor, but it will also act as a
soporific.
Such a bottle would naturally be far
too heavy for baby to hold up, but a
simple invention of my own will fill the
bill. This consists of a bracket fitted
across baby’s chest which supports the
bottle’s weight. This in turn is held to
baby’s mouth by a powerful spiral
spring; should baby go to pull the
bottle away it springs back to the posi-
tion at the lips. The whole contraption
is on a universal joint so that it is always
in position, even should the infant turn
over in its sleep. Thus the baby is en-
abled to guzzle all night to its (and your)
complete satisfaction. I shall be glad to
give more detailed particulars of my in-
vention to any interested fathers.
Always keep a supply of dill-water on
hand. Should baby turn a bright purple
and start to twist and turn, put your ear
to its stomach and listen keenly. Should
you detect a noise going on like a cyclone
it is a fair indication that baby is suffer-
ing from the wind. A glass of dill-
water given either just before or after
meals—or both —should ease this dis-
tressful condition. Turning baby over
on to its stomach and slapping it force-
fully between the shoulder-blades will
also be found beneficial.
S. W. K.
The Answer.
“There should be active participation in sport.
I am inclined to ask any man who is in trouble,
‘Do you play football?’” — Sydney employer.
Sir, in a life that seems one dreadful
scrum,
Where “rough-house” rules prevail and
kicks are rife,
I’m here, it seems, to take all knocks
that come;
I’m underneath in every swirl of
strife,
Tossed here and there, and sometimes
out of bounds,
But kicked back always where they
fight and brawl;
You ask a question that my soul
astounds:
Do l play football, sir ? Why, I’m the
ball!
H. M.


Australian Paper Prefs.
The rights of Australasian Paper
and Cumberland shareholders to
the 6 p.c. prefs. in the operating
co. could be got .at Is. 9d. last
week. When fully paid (May 31,
1938) the return will be £5 9s. Id.
per cent., compared with £4 18s.
5d. from Goodyear 8 p.cs., £5 p.c.
from David Jones p.c. seconds
and G.M.-Holden 6 p.cs., and £4
p.c. from British Tobacco 6\ p.cs.
Those people who like preference
shares will find this issue offers as
good an opportunity as any.
You Who Want
Security
y
EVERY person wishes for two things regarding his or her
i investments: First, security—secondly, as large a return as
possible. There are many people who absolutely depend upon
income derived from their small capital and savings, and they
cannot afford to run risks. Men or women in such a position
“play safe.” There are several methods by which this may be
done, but only one brings a reasonable income with the desired
high margin of capital security. This is through a purchase of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES.
These make it easy to apply the SAFETY-FIRST principle of
wide diversification to an investment—be it as little as £25
(approx.)—by spreading it over 20 of Australia’s strongest and
soundest Companies. The investment, moreover, is safeguarded
by Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd. (Union Building,
Bond Street, Sydney), as Custodian Trustees, and it is realisable
at any time. Here are the 20 companies over which your money
is spread—by one simple transaction:—
Commercial Bank of Aust., Ltd.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Australian Glass Mftrs. Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd
David .Tones, Ltd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Etd.
Electro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, Etd.
General Industries, Etd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Etd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Etd.
Kandos Cement Co., Etd.
Sargents, Etd.
VV. R. Carpenter & Co., Etd.
Yarra Falls, Etd.
Broken Hill South, 'Etd.
Remember— ONE Certificate, ONE Transaction
covers 20 Companies,
For full details and descriptive Booklet No. 1 apply to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY.. LTD.
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TEEEPHONE: 8521 M.
BOX 4028V.V.. 0.P.0
incorporated in England
by Royal Charier
in 1835.
1 835
' The liability of
the members is
limited.
TRAVELLERS
CHEQUES
When you go abroad, carry your money in a safe
convenient form by using Bank of Australasia
Travellers’ Cheques. These may be purchased
through any of the numerous Branches of the Bank
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and are
negotiable wherever you go ... . Issued in amounts
of £2, £5 and £lO.
Travellers’ Cheques in Italian Tourist Lire are also
available at special concession rates to travellers
visiting Italy or Italian possessions.
The Bank of
Australasia
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Wishy-washy Sharemarkets
Market leaders among investment
stocks had a waning support last Thurs-
day and Friday, partly because of profit-
taking on the low rates of purchase a
fortnight ago and largely because fair-
weather speculators have taken the k.o.
Many speculators are more emotional
than far-sighted, hence their custom of
patronising a rising, buoyant market and
shunning a falling one.
Movements in some typical Australian
equity-share investments have fluctuated
as follows over the past two months:
Mch. 16, Apr. 29, May 13,
Bank of N.S.W. £37/17/6 £3B/10/- £3B/7/6
National Bank ..£B/-/- £7/17/6 £7/17/
G’brough, Mort.. 39/6 39/- 39/
Winchcombe ' .. 36/6 36/6 37/6
Adelaide Steam.. 32/6 32/6 32/6
Q’land Insurance 60/9 60/- 60/
A. Gas “A” .. £7/3/- £7/6/- £7/6/6
Carlton Brewery 64/- 63/6 64/
C.-Perkins .. 26/- 26/9 26/6
Tooth .. .. 57/- 58/3 57/6
Ass. News .. 24/3 23/7 23/-
Aus. Glass .. 93/6 90/- 95/6
Aus. Paper .. 39/- 35/- 32/9*
Aus. Cement .. 31/6 31/6 31/3
B. Prop. .. 91/3 81/3 84/3
Burns, Philp .. 80/- 73/- 72/9
Electro. Zinc .. 66/6 57/6 57/6
Fairymead .. 39/3 37/6 38/-
G’borough, Mort 39/6 39/- 39/-
G. J. Coles .. £5/6/- £5/5/- £5/17/6
Mauri Bros. .. 75/- 74/- 74/
W. H. Soul .. 84/6 85/- 86/
Yarra Falls .. 43/- 42/-* 41/6*
North B.H. .. 89/3 70/9 74/3
B.H. South .. 58/- 46/9 50/3
Mt. Lyell .. 52/6 45/3 ' 47/-
COMMODITIES—
Wool, lb. .. 18.4 d. 17.9 d. 18d.
Wheat, bushel .. 5/5 5/2 5/5
Lead, ton .. £33/-/- £24/17/6 £23/12/6
Spelter, ton . .£33/5/11 £24/10/-£22/10/-
El. copper, ton.. £72/8/11 £63/-/- £64/10/-
* Ex rights.
On Friday (May 14) B.H.P. fully-paids
slipped back to 82s. 9d., G. J. Coles
dropped Bs. in Melbourne, while Aus-
tralian Glass, Goldsbrough Mort, British
Tobacco, picture scrip and base-metal
scrip were all weaker.
One thing that has made leading invest-
ments so touchy recently has been the
fact that many punters rely partly on
borrowed money for their dealings.
Stock-exchange business over the last
two years has been unprecedented in
volume ; it would not have been nearly
so big if finance facilities were not avail-
able. It probably started when the banks
were embarrassed with deposits three
years ago and had difficulty in putting
their funds out. Before the depression
dealing “on margin” was not a common
thing in Australia—not nearly so com-
mon, anyway, as it is now.
It is perfectly plain from developments
during recent weeks that stocks not par-
ticularly active, and therefore not subject
to particular speculation, have been
almost unaffected by market jitters. In-
active stocks are usually bought for
holding, and not for quick reselling, and
where ups and downs are of purely a
market nature their holders don’t worry.
The present outlook, apart from share-
market fluctuations, is the brightest for
years; whether it continues so depends
a good deal on those who among them
have power to control it. So far as
investors are concerned stocks of quality
and with prospects, well bought, should
not be hard to hold.
As predicted here a week previously,
the Commonwealth loan was oversub-
scribed. Conditions were all in its favor
—a much-improved banking position, a
sharp but passing period of doubt ill
the market for ordinary shares, and a
check in the upward rise of fixed-interest
rates all contributed. Success for the
operation was welcome, if only in view
of the large conversion operations (aggre-
gating around £80,000,000) due to take,
place next year. Lately politicians have
had it plainly brought home to them that
the throwing of loan money about is not
of itself going to save them their seats at
the next elections. Recollections of the,
late depression are not so dim that people
have lost their appreciation of sound
finance, or the burdens and anxiety that
prodigal boom-time borrowing brought.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, shares were
weaker towards the end of last week,
the fully-paids slipping back to 82s. 9d.,
which is about 10s. below the highest
point of this year and 3s. above the
lowest. The contribs. were in sympathy
at about 765. Australian ’Changes at
present are unusually susceptible to over-
seas conditions, and last week markets
in Britain were not at their brightest.
New York was nervy too. The strike
at Rylands’ wireworks has had a special
effect on B.H.P. shares, but the position
is in no measure alarming. Accounts
close in twelve days’ time (on 31st).
H*
In the Warden’s Court at Herberton
(Q.) a fortnight ago J. Malcolm New-
man and J. B. Ferris, through their soli-
citor, applied for six months’ exemption
on dredging claims Nos. 177 and 178, at
Return Creek, near Mt. Garnet. Reasons
for the applications were (1) that it is in-
tended to continue testing for sortie time
yet, and (2) that time is required to buy
a large bucket-dredge, to build a
300,000,000-gallon dam and to instal a
1000-kilowatt Diesel power plant.
Tableland Tin’s prospectus was issued
last week, and the information contained
in it was on all fours with that published
in B. 28/4/’37. There has been a rush
for the shares, which were oversubscribed
by brokers and others weeks ago.
* * * *
G. J. Coles ords. jumped sharply on
Monday of last week, consecutive sales
in Melbourne being at £5 10s. 6d. and
£5 16s. A merger with Woolworths is
mooted; though the ticklish question of
terms has to be decided before the seal
can be put on such a deal, there were
sales in Coles shares at £5 17s. 6d. on
Thursday—then £5 9s. 6d. on Friday.
* * * *
Motion-picture scrip is at a low level
just at present. Spencer’s shares sold at
4s. 9d. last week; even West’s could be
got at around Bs. To those who think
that the picture-exhibiting business
has a profitable future, West’s scrip looks
fair buying ; it is at least at a lower
price than has been seen for nearly two
years. Both in 1935 and 1936 there were
sales at above 125., with fairly wide fluc-
tuations from time to time.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) earned a net
profit of £129,537 stg. in 1936, compared
with £93,471 in 1935 and £125,313 in
1934. The drop in ’35 was due to the
miners’ strike. About 12,000 tons a
month is being milled. A div. of 6s.
stg. per 10s. share has been declared in
respect of the year, from which Aus-
tralian investors will find British income
tax has been deducted. Last sale of the
scrip in Adelaide was at 48s. 9d. Aust.
The co. regularly reports five years’
supply of ore in sight, though the grade
has dropped slightly—now around 7dwt.
**j * *
Lake View and Star shares came, back
in Adelaide last Friday to 245. 6d.; the
trend was in sympathy with the London
market for gold scrip. Boulder Persever-
ance at around 3s. has been a disappoint-
ment for many holders (a 25 p.c. div. is
payable on June 21), and Great Boulder
at 7s. 4d. is down a couple of shil-
lings on the price of a few months
ago. The latter has paid 25 p.c. divs.
(7|d. Aust. a share, less British tax) for
several years now, and aims to have the
first unit of its new plant (which will
eventually lift throughput to 360,000 tons
p.a., as against half that figure at present)
in operation by July this year. Ore
reserves have stepped up lately, and so
have costs to some extent. Improvement
should follow full production by the new
plant.
* * * *
Australasian Paper ords. at last week’s
325. 9d. would yield 4.9 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. That rate was paid last
year, the interim for the current term has
been maintained, and no alteration need
be expected when the final is announced.
The new £1,000,000 pref. issue by the
operating co. will become fully paid on
May 31, 1938 ; early that year the new
132 in. board mill at Botany (Sydney) is
expected to be in production, and it
should help substantially towards look-
ing after the requirements of the pref.
capital. The board appears confident of
the future, inasmuch as yet another paper
machine is to be set up ; “the uses of
paper and paper-board in Australia have
not yet been fully exploited, and there
are a number of fields into which the co.
is steadily extending its activities.” The
new paper-pulp mill, to be erected in the
Morwell (Vic.) district, is intended even-
tually to supply the manufacturing co.
with its pulp requirements, of which it
imports 35,000 tons annually. If those
in control make no more major issues
of new capital without taking share-
holders into full confidence the shares of
Australasian Paper at 325. 9d. look fairly
cheap. There is no doubt, however, that
sharp disappointment followed the an-
nouncement of the pref. issue and its
mode of allocation.
* 4: Jfc
Rothsay (W.A.) scrip weakened further
last week, sales taking place at Bd. in
Melbourne and Adelaide. It might do
some practical good to the enterprise
generally (and incidentally the market) if
an independent engineer were sent across
to look at the mine and give an opinion
on it. As mentioned here in B. 12/5/’37,
opinions of two authorities who have
seen the show differ widely as regards
tonnage. Perhaps mining-man Murdoch,
who knows something about copper diffi-
culties, might be able to do the job after
he returns from his commission to the
Moresby King and Sapphire leases in
Papua.
* :!= * *
In Melbourne last week:
The sharemarket was sluggish all round, even
G. J. Coles ords. slumping on Friday after their
spectacular rise. Australian Cement remained
firm at around 31s. 3d., with few sellers offering,
Electricity Meter 6 p.c. prefs. rose to 225. 4d.,
Felt and Textile ords. were strong at 355. 6d.,
but otherwise the marking-down in prices was
almost general, even bank scrip, outstanding in
its firmness for many weeks, being subject to
the influence.
Barrier scrip was again very weak, Zinc Corp.
particularly, and Mt. Lyell slipped back to 465.
7d. The most robust gold issues were Victorian
concerns like Wattle Gully and Chewton.
Borneo Explorations was on offer at £27 after
sales at that figure.


1
m
M
Vi
m
E.)
m » V -
Wi
RuJuJßuslL
OF • NEW •flfllUTH • WALES
Head Office .... Martin Place
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan 'President), H. Rogers. P. Kearns
Strmige
f11011EV....
o n the Island! of Yap, one o! the
Caroline group, the money used con-
sists of large, solid, thick stone wheels
ranging in diameter from one to
twelve feet. In the centre is a hole so
that the stones may he slung on poles
and carried.
In ancient India the cow was the chief
monetary standard and the early
Greeks and Trojans used oxen as a
medium of exchange.
It is a long cry from those, primitive
forms of currency to the convenience
of modern money and hanking. To-
day, despite the smallness and com-
pactness of our money, it is neither
necessary nor advisable to carry large
sums about on one s person. A chetjue
drawn on a hank is ihe safest and
most convenient way of settling
an account.
The Rural Bank, in both city and
country branches, offers a Checjue
Account service. It also accepts Fixed
Deposits on which it pays interest at
current hanking rates.
I his abridged prospectus is not to be regarded as an invitation to the Public to subscribe for
■hares; the issue of shares mentioned below having been fully underwritten, and ovter—subscribed,
it is only published for public information.
It does not fully comply with the requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1936 in
'•elation to a prospectus.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE OF 44,150 ORDINARY SHARES OF £1 EACH, PAYABLE 10/-
ON APPLICATION AND 10/- ON ALLOTMENT.
Schute Bell Badgery Lumby Limited
{lncorporated under the New South Wales Companies Act 1936 on Ist April, 1937.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL £150,000
Divided into 150,000 ordinary shares of £1 each.
44,150 shares have been already subscribed, payable as to 10/- on application
and 10/- on allotment.
30,750 shares credited as fully-paid are to be issued to the shareholders of
Schute, Bell and Company, Limited, in part consideration for the
transfer of their shares in such Company to this Company.
10,100 shares credited as fully-paid are to be issued to Badgery and Lumby,
Limited, its Liquidator or his nominees, in consideration of the transfer
of the undertaking and assets of Keith Badgery and Lumby, Limited,
to this Company.
65,000 shares are held in reserve.
150,000
DIRECTORS.
ELDRED ROGER MOSER,
Company Director,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JOHN WILLIAM WALKER,
Company Director,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
REDWALD P. RUWALD,
Company Director,
44 -Bridge Street, Sydney.
KEITH P. BADGERY,
Company Director,
56 Young Street, Sydney.
WALTER GOLDSMITH LUMBY,
Company Director,
56 Young Street, Sydney.
BANKERS.
Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office, Sydney,
SOLICITORS.
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY,
19 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
NORMAN C. OAKES & SAGAR,
14 Spring Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING ACCOUNTANT.
P. L. de MONCHAUX, F.C.A. (Aust.),
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY.
R. A. RICHARDSON,
Company Secretary,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE.
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS.
The principal object for which the Company has been formed is to take, over and amalgamate
the businesses of Schute, Bell and Company, Limited, and Keith, Badgery and Lumby, Limited.
This is being accomplished by the purchase of the whole of the issued shares of the former and
the assets and undertaking of the latter Company.
INTRODUCTION.
The business of Schute, Bell and Company, Limited, was first established in 1909, and since
then a successful wool- and produce-broking business has been conducted in an efficient
and profitable manner. Such business has shown remarkable growth and consist ent profits,
resulting in its present excellent reputation and standing.
The business of Stock and Property Salesmen conducted by Keith Badgery and Lumby, Limited,
was first established in January, 1933. This business does not handle the sale of wool and
produce, its activities being mostly restricted to the sale of stock —a line of business which
Schute, Bell and Company, Limited, has not previously handled. This Company’s business
has been maintained on a profitable basis and has a good clientele. Prior to joining forces,
Messrs. Keith Badgery and W. G. Jjumby had many years’ experience in the stock-selling and
wool—broking business, and are well known through the pastoral industry.
TRADING.
In the past Schute, Bell and Co., Limited, on behalf of its clients has sold their stock through
other organisations, and the clients of Keith Badgery and Lumby, Limited, have sold their wool
through' other channels.
The new Company will be in a position to handle wool, stock and produce direct for all its clients.
Taking this into account, the combined profit on the basis of the actual business transacted by
the two Companies during the past three years, apart from new business, would have been
sufficient to pay a dividend at the rate of 7 p.e. per annum on the present paid-up capital of the
new Company.
In this it must be noted that the opportunity for profit is greater at present than for the past
two years, owing to the higher prices ruling for wool and stock.
DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT.
The business of this Company will be imder the direct control and management of the present
Directors, three of ’whom were Directors of Schute, Bell and Company, Limited, and two Directors
of Keith Badgery and Lumby, Limited. AH of the Directors will he actively employed in managing
their respective departments and in constant touch with the Company’s clients. They are all
experienced and capable men, and thus good management, with a continuance of excellent service
to all clients, is assured.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING.
Application will he made as soon as practicable to the Sydney Stock Exchange for official quotation
of the Company’s shares.
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS.
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is 44,150 shares, on
each of which £ 1 per share shall have been paid to and received by the Company.
Complete prospectuses complying with the full requirements of the Companies Act, together with
application forms for shares, may be obtained from the Secretary, S'ehute, Bell, Badgery, Lumby,
Limited, 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
All applications for shares must be made on the official form accompanying the Prospectus.
However, as previously stated, the issue of 44,150 shares has been over-subscribed, and applications
for shares are not now invited.
Fmneror shares were down again in
Melbourne last week, sales being regis-
ieied at 16s. lOd. on Thursday. What-
ever the reason for the drop, it points
to the uncertain market existing for
"oldmining shares, especially where the
show is not in full production. Earlier
this vear The Bulletin was taken to
task by a member of a city Stock Ex-
change for commenting critically on the
Emperor when its shares were over 21s.
Full production by Emperor is scheduled
for September or thereabouts this year,
* * * *
r, i i Lqc
deda«d rS an uncLged interim div. of
7 p.c. p.a., payable next month. Reserves
last balance day were £125,615 against
a paid capital of £93,825. Sooner or
later some of those reserves will be added
to capital, especially as a larger share-
issue would bring underwriting advan-
tages to the co. At 325. the 10s. shares
at present yield £2 4s. per cent, on a
7 p.c. div. basis; but it should not be
forgotten that the 1935-36 profit could
have stood nearly three times that dis-
tribution.
* * * *
Brisbane investors seeking a stock for
holding, at present returning about 5 p.c.,
shouldn’t overlook Howards, Ltd. (B.
7/4/’37), a small, snug motor-trading,
household-appliance-distributing and in-
vestment co. When the shares happen
to be available around 335. 6d. (there was
a sale at that figure last week) they are
excellent buying, though turnover in
them is small, and for that reason they
do not suit the speculator. The co. is
one of the most conservatively managed
of its kind in the Commonwealth, and,
like John McGrath, was established on
General Motors’ agencies before that co.
formed its own Australian offshoot.
* * * *
Illawarra Fireclay and Brick shares
are being bought by some in anticipation
of big building developments around
Port ICembla in the near and not-so-near
future. Paid capital is £65,000 in £1
shares ; divs. for the past two years have
been 5 p.c. p.a., with earnings at 6.6 p.c.
on capital last term. Most recent sale
was at 20s. 9d., showing a present yield
of 4.8 p.c. Reserves amount to slightly
over 2s. a share. Just now the co. is
having its best run for many years.
* * * *
The final div. of Gibson and Howes
(B. 24/3/’37), which made 8 p.c. for the
year, was followed by a firming in the
scrip to around 325., yielding a shade
over 5 p.c.. allowing for div. accrued.
H' $
John McGrath, Ltd., agent for Hill-
man cars in Sydney and Brisbane, body-
builder and investor in drop-forging and
polish-manufacturing cos., is on the
market for £75,000 in £1 ord. shares, one
for two to existing shareholders. Prior
to publication of the announcement the
existing scrip had risen sharply from
465. 6d. to 515.; at that figure, provided
the div. is kept at 10 p.c., the return
when the new issue is fully paid will be
5 p.c. T. J. Richards and Sons, body-
builder, of Adelaide, also announces the
imminence of a new issue, in which the
Chrysler-Dodge people as well as exist-
ing shareholders will be asked to partici
pate. Arrangements are being completed
for a long-term body-building contract
with the Chrysler-Dodge distributors.
Richards’s shares sold at 475., then 505.,
on the day of the announcement. In
Sydney there was a sale at 50s. 7fd., a
lift from 455.
* * * *
In 1935-36 the average number of
persons employed in Victorian factories
was 183,390, up 21,751 on the previous
record number (of 1926-27), and 57,374
more than the; low. point of. the slump
period (1930-31). Cessation of overseas
borrowing has been a big help to Aus-
tralian factories generally. The present
represents only the beginning of our fac-
tory expansion.
Interim dividend of Tooth and Co.
(Sydney) has been kept at the unchanged
rate of 10 p.c. p.a. Last year the market
was disappointed with the distribution for
the term; there had been sales of the
shares as high as 605., with a sharp drop
following announcement of the final.
There was a weakening of a shilling in
the scrip last week after sales at 58s. 3d.
—this year’s “high.”
* * * *
Metals weakened towards the holiday
last week, as did London Stock Exchange
and, the day after the Coronation, most
Australian ’Changes. The pressure of
previous overbuying of many things—
commodities and shares particularly—has
made markets touchy, especially as prices
have at no time since the big scare of
April come back to a level that would
enable speculators who bought at the top
to get out at a profit. When dealings
mostly represent a loss to the seller —
who often is compelled to sell —specu-
lative dealings lose, their zest for all par-
ties until forced selling is over. It is
likely that there will be periodical un-
loadings on “carried” speculators’ ac-
count till the unsatisfactory features of
the just-past gambling boom are cleared
up.
* * * *
Bricks and Mortar, Ltd., is a little. Syd-
ney building-investment co. with a paid
capital of £9492 as at June 30 last. It
then owed £9577 on mortgage and £2547
on open account and overdraft. With
£lO7 at credit of p. and 1. account (after
paying 8 p.c. for the year), the co. was
able to show £20,886 in freeholds (cost),
mostly terraces and flats, £196 in Consols
and cash, £9l in debtors, stationery, etc.,
and £550 in preliminary exes. The co.
is an incorporated landlord, investing in
quick-letting and mainly industrial resi-
dences. It is seeking more capital in
order to improve finances and enable ex-
pansion, and is economically managed. It
is intended to keep the div. at 8 p.c. until
reserves accumulate. The co.’s present
outlook is something like that of an
individual landlord carrying a 50 p.c. or
60 p.c. mortgage on his investments.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Spearflash (Spearhead-Valotte), who
cost Harry Boan, of Perth (W.A.),
1250gns. as a yearling and was sold by
him for almost an old-song price, has
won three times and been placed on
two other occasions in his last half-dozen
starts. His success in the Coronation
Handicap at Epsom on Saturday was
most impressive.
Spearflash has Carbine blood in his
pedigree. He put in an overpowering
run in the final furlong to beat Strymon
(14 to 1) on the post by half a neck.
Bonus —who, like Spearflash, started at
6 to I—was1 —was a close third after being well
in the picture throughout and leading
into the straight.
Black Mac was paid the high compli-
ment of being sent out a 2-to-l favorite
with Bst. 131 b. up. Through his jockey
trying to engineer a passage on the rails
the topweight got into hopeless trouble.
It is more than possible that Black Mac
would have won with a clear run, instead
of being deprived of fourth position by
Art, who, by the way, shaped in some-
thing like his old style. This was the
only occasion on which Black Mac had
been unplaced in eight successive starts.
The present owner of Spearflash is
R. P. McFarlane, whose pastoral prop-
erty adjoins one of A. T. Creswick’s sta-
tions on the Lachlan, in the neighbor-
hood of Balranald (N.S.W.). McFarlane
used Spearflash for a season at the stud.
A blister was applied to the affected leg,
which now appears to be quite sound
again. J. C. Bott, who holds Spearflash
on lease, is the son of a former driver
of Cobb and Co.’s coaches at Balranald.
J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C. committee,
saw his colors carried to victory by Man-
rico (Manfred-Lucina) in the first divi-
sion of the Hume Juvenile Handicap.
Backed from 6 to 4 down to 5 to 4 on,
with bookmakers disinclined to do busi-
ness on any basis at barrier-rise, this
brother to Studio never gave the opposi-
tion a look-in. He reached the judge six
lengths in advance of Myfield and
Kevastar, who dead-heated for second.
The time, 591-sec., equalled the course
record for four furlongs and nine chains.
Holt, acting on behalf of C. B. Kellow,
gave 450gns. for Cleopatra (Heroic-
Desert Song) at the 1936 Sydney yearling
sales. The pedigree appealed to him, as
Desert Song is by Spearhead and runs
back to Chelandry, the granddam of
Heroic. Up to date Cleopatra has been
rather a washout. The stable wasn’t
enamored of her chance in the second
division of the Hume Juvenile Handicap,
and Cleopatra eased from 9 to 4 to 4 to
1. She ran only a moderate third, Great
Eastern (who won at Ascot on the pre-
vious Wednesday) romping home in ad-
vance of Waetere.
Ted Temby landed the Beach Hurdle
with Marshland, a mare that he bred in
Westralia. She is a sister to Isle of
Astur, who won many valuable events
in Groperland (including a W.A. Derby)
before being taken to Melbourne. Isle
of Astur, too, has scored over the battens
in the Victorian capital. Rising five
years old, his sister is rather weedy; but
she jumped like a stag on Saturday and
kept a straight course. On a previous
occasion Marshland ran off when leading.
E. A. Underwood, who bred Sidcup
and races the colt in conjunction with his
brother, sustained severe injuries in a
motor smash last week. It would not
comfort the Warlaby studmaster to listen-
in at the Windsor Handicap defeat of
Sidcup. Odds of 7 to 4 were freely ac-
cepted about Sidcup, who had been un-
luckily beaten by Araunah at Moonee
Valley a week before. This time he ob-
tained plenty of galloping room, but tired
after being third into the straight. Lord
Jevington (4 to 1) won as he liked from
two rank outsiders in Waltz Time and
Golden Light. Place backers of Waltz
Time on the tote received £5 ss. 6d. for
a “dollar.”
Jack Holt imagined Mooramong to be
pretty nearly as good a thing in the Royal
Stakes as Manrico had proved at the
outset of the afternoon. Hal Laidlaw’s
four-year-old might have “brought home
the bacon” with average luck. Begin-
ning slowly, he was rushed from the rear
into third place on the bend, went out
wide and disappeared from the picture.
Craigavad, whose brother Adrift won an
Oakleigh Plate back in 1925, had victory
assured from start to finish. Hostile came
home with an amazing burst of speed to
defeat the M.L. horse Amakia by half
a head for second money.
Irving, once trained at Randwick by
Bailey Pay ten, but now in the Mentone
stable of F. W. Hoysted, attracted a lot
of notice by his third in the Westminster
Welter. Weakly supported at his first
appearance in new ownership, the Sal-
magundi gelding appeared in need of a
public gallop. He did not show up until
the straight was entered, but passed horse
after horse at whirlwind speed. Spoils
went to Gunambah, whom H. E. Con-
nolly, his brother Eric and their friends
backed from 10 to 1 down to favoritism
at “threes.”
* * * *
The Brisbane sprinter High Speech is
a smart galloper on his day. Unfortu-
nately, it is difficult to divine what is his
day; those who thought it had arrived
on Saturday week in the Flying Handi-
cap at Randwick saw him finish twelfth
in a field of 15. At Rosehill on Satur-
day, however, he was backed from tens
to eights for the Auburn Handicap, and,
ridden behind Moonray and Bonnie
Legion, he cleared out in the straight.
High Speech won by a couple of
lengths from Bonnie Legion, Moonray
being a length away third. There was a
commission for Windbird, but he could
not go the pace set in the early stages,
though he came in fourth. Bull Ant,
from the Curator stable, was favorite.
Boxed up on the rails, he could never
get clear. Punters should give him an-
other chance.
The Newcastle-owned and -trained
Bobby (3 to 1) is by no means a bad
horse; nevertheless, he seemed lucky to
beat Linklet in the Rosehill Handicap.
He got a run on the rails while Linklet
was forced wide at the top of the
straight; to make matters worse. O’Sulli-
van, the rider of Frank Alldritt’s Limond
gelding, lost his whip. Linklet is a lazy
galloper, and, lacking the persuader, he
went under by half a length. Oro, battling
on gamely under his big weight, ran third.
He has earned retirement. Frassadale
ran pretty well, and old Magnitas was
galloping nicely when it was too late.
The Joe Harris-Jamieson partnership
has a good three-year-old in Dutiful —
an Epsom horse in the making perhaps.
Favorite, at 5 to 4 on, for the Novice
Handicap, the chestnut romped home
from Royal Melody and Earl Joy. Quiz-
zical was heavily supported. When in a
hopeless position, she struck herself and
trotted back to the enclosure.
Alf Papworth,who has recently won two
races with Curator, and has Distinguished
and Golden Chance in work at Rosehill,
saddled up Gold Spark in the first divi-
sion of the Maiden Juvenile. Backed
from tens to fives and ridden expertly
by Max Papworth, the little filly won
with her head on her chest. Correct
was second; Lifebuoy and Love from
Maggie, a badly-named Marconigram
colt, ran a dead-heat for third. The
second division proved a good thing for
Goulburn pastoralist Jim Carr’s Pan-
theon colt Red Sails (3 to 1), who made
short work of Bachelor King when it
came to racing. Heraway, third until the
last few yards, was beaten for the posi-
tion by Imago. Red Sails, a leggy fellow,
is still capable of improvement, and may
have to be considered in the spring.
Barak, for whom S. E. Chatterton,
Tatt.’s Club treasurer, paid 1600 guineas
at the dispersal sale of the Mackinnon
estate, has returned him a bit at last.
The race was the Parramatta Mile, and
the price 4 to 1, but Darby Munro had
to use the whip on Barak for nearly a
furlong before he would do his best. The
field closed up at the Leger, Barak got a
run on the inside and Munro did the
rest. Punjab (7 to 1) was a good second
—like Barak, he seems to prefer Rose-
hill to all other courses —and Rubens
third. Rose Gem, who made the pace,
was fourth.
* * * *
Curator has certainly come good since
he entered Papworth’s stable at Rosehill
and has been ridden in work and races
by Papworth’s 15-year-old boy. Many
punters had grown tired of backing
Curator, and testily dismissed him as one
of those handsome deceivers, but in his
last two races at Randwick he has shown
himself thoroughly honest. In the James
Barnes Plate he seemed lucky to beat
Verberry, though he galloped resolutely
when tackled ; but there was no luck
about his victory in the Coronation Cup
on Wednesday. After going a mile and
three furlongs, the distance of the James
Barnes Plate, he came right away from
the field, Sculptor and Latharna prov-
ing the best of the weary lot behind him.
The backing of Soft Step, another of
those ageing stallions for whom
romance seems to have greater attrac-
tions than racing, made a good market
for followers of Curator, and they got
6 to 1 at the close of the betting, sevens
here and there. The tote paid £2 Is. and
13s. 6d. for ss.
Ridden behind the leaders instead of
out in front with High Speech as on
the Saturday, Aureus (7 to 1) won the
Royal Plate from Shackleton and Cane-
grass. Rosmead, after beginning so
slowly that he was not sighted when
they straightened up for home, was a
close fourth. At seven furlongs or a
mile he should be a fair thing the next
time he is started.
In spite of a recent failure at a mile
and a half this Page still has an impres-
sion that Kinsfolk will be suited by a
distance, especially if allowed to make
her own running. She did this in the St.
James Plate, but the journey was only
nine furlongs; and, in no wise brilliant,
the filly could not go faster when Friar’s
Switch (favorite at 5 to 2 in a field of
five) tackled her. But she beat Sally
Instep (third) and the others by lengths.
In the Buckingham Welter, Frank
McGrath had his first win with Hastate.
A Queensland horse by Spearfelt-Lady
Kunioon, Hastate, who was ridden by
Hickey, was well back when Bonny Royal
was attending to the pacemaking, with
Punjab in hot pursuit. He came through
the distance and finished too strongly
for Village Maiden and Vaalmore, who
nevertheless earned place-money for their
owners. The Raider proved a false
favorite, and the Hastate people got fives
and sixes. Dividends for ss. were £1
15s. 6d. and 13s.
The Bulletin's outright selections for
the four races surveyed were Curator,
Hastate, Kinsfolk and Rosmead, with
Aureus next.
* * * *
Sons of Caledon seem to like, to go
to the front. Young Crusader, Barramul
and Diaphane have won good races run-
ning that way. But it takes something
out of a horse, and after the Melbourne
Cup—in which, of course, he was asked
to do far too much —Young Crusader
cracked up badly; so did Barramul in
his last engagement. Diaphane may be
made of sterner stuff, but he was a
dead-weary horse at the end of Ascot’s
Coronation Cup; favorite at threes, he
was third, three lengths or so away, to
Keeping Watch (6 to 1) and Black Mac
(8 to 1). Petit Fils, Upoko Ariki (fourth)
and Desert Chief were among the 14
runners, and Petit Fils and Upoko Ariki
were backed.
* _ * * *
Adelaide for sprinters! The once-
Holy City swears that it has another
Aurie’s Star in Night Gang, a three-
year-old bay gelding by The Night
Patrol-Some Opera. For the S.A.J.C.
Goodwood Handicap Night Gang went
out at evens in a field of 15, one of the
hottest favorites in the history of the
race; and he landed the bacon. Not
easily: Dextral was only a head behind
him and Merrymaker was another half-
head away; but in these matters a head
is as good as a hundred yards. It was
Night Gang’s seventh win in succession.
He has entered upon a spell.
Donaster, a disappointment on Mel-
bourne courses in the spring, has again
proved himself a good autumn horse in
Adelaide. At Morphettville a year ago
he won the St. Leger, the Baker Handi-
cap and the King’s Cup, the last by half
a dozen lengths in good time for the
course (2min. 31sec.); on Wednesday, he
won the Adelaide Cup, carrying Bst.
111 b. Highardo, second last year and
favorite, with Prince Sion, on the
strength of that performance and more
recent ones, was runner-up again, but
was beaten with ease by Donaster, who
went out at 8 to 1 ; Mutable was third.
Donaster, who is by Great Star-Donna
Marie and was ridden by Breasley, cut
half a second off the record for the race,
which is now 2m in. 43isec. That would
be considered fast time anywhere in the
world. Travel obviously agrees with
him; it does with some horses.
* * * *
“Tussock”: “D.N.” (B. 17/2/’37) does
not tell half the story. Maoriland cer-
tainly swarms with illegal bookmakers,
and they flourish in spite of the odds
they pay. On big meetings their “limit”
is usually 7 to 1, no matter what the
moke may pay on the tote in excess
of that amount; on smaller meetings the
“limit” is reduced to 3| to 1, and some-
times less, with still further reductions
when the field dwindles to three or four
starters. And the odds offered in
“doubles charts” would make an angel
weep. If the Government allowed the
wiring of money to the tote it would go
a long way towards exterminating illicit
bookmaking.
* * *
“Happy Valley”: Racing is making
such progress in Japan that there is
nowadays a demand for Australian brood
mares, only horses foaled in Nippon
being eligible for the Japanese Derby and
other classics. For some time English
nags have been in demand, but buyers
are finding Australian mares cheaper and
better at the price, while transport is a
lot less. Years ago the Japanese were,
heavy buyers at the Charters Towers
sales, then the biggest in Australia. They
were then after cavalry remounts and
gunners, and, as they were satisfied with
lighter types difficult to dispose of to the
Indian Army, their buyers were popular
with breeders.
Footbrawl
Collingwood, Melbourne and St. Kilda
were the unbeaten teams when Mel-
bourne League football began on Satur-
day. After a desperate last-quarter
struggle, Melbourne just headed St.
Kilda, 12-23 to 12-18 ; but Saints went
down gallantly, and will come again.
Richmond, 17-10, showed its best form
of the season in defeating Fitzroy, 12-12.
Collingwood experienced little difficulty
in accounting for Footscray, 16-14 to
11-11. Already it seems evident that
this wonderful club will be in “the four”
again. Essendon, 16-13, beat Hawthorn,
11- North Melbourne, 10-14, just
pipped Carlton, 10-12; and Geelong,
12- kept South Melbourne, 7-11, at
the bottom of the ladder.
* * * *
Coming to Sydney with a lead gained
at Brisbane, Queensland lost the rubber
to the N.S.W. Rugby Unionists at Syd-
ney. On Coronation Day it was well
beaten, but on Saturday, with forwards
working as a pack in the loose and backs
standing well up on the N.S.W. inside
men, it had the better of the play, though
not of the scoring.
The N.S.W. backs did much as they
liked on Wednesday. McShane,. home
from Oxford, was in as half, Richards
was the five-eighth and Towers at outside
centre. The ball travelled cleanly from
scrum to wing, and for once Kelaher
got a chance to run with it. He got
through for three tries ; two others and
three goals made it 21 to 11.
There were changes all round for
Saturday. Gibbons (half), Collins (five-
eighth) and Rankin (inside centre) went
in next to the N.S.W. scrum, and the
Maroons also altered their line-up. The
outstanding feature was Walker’s display
at full. He’d done well on Wednesday
except in defence, and he tightened that
up; his catching, kicking and running
with the ball were first-class in both
games. The. Queenslanders scored three
tries and converted one; Towers con-
verted the Blues’ solitary try and added
three penalty goals, so Queensland went
down 11-14.
Towers’s 17 points in the two games
brought him a record for N.S.W.: 125
points, five better than Stan Wickham’s
30-year-old figures. Towers has also
made most appearances for the State, 45,
and scored most tries, 22.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Bay View Handicap: Desert
Chief; next, Art.
Gellibrand Handicap: Kanuri;
next, Hostile.
Beach Welter: Quasimodo ; next,
Banquet.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Flying Welter: Bronze God or
Brown Baroness; next, Poponaise
or Stuart M.
Rockdale Mile: Rosmead ; next,
Brown Baroness or Poponaise.
Moorefi.eld Handicap: Verberry ;
next, Silver Coat.


I XIW lIOTORIWfi IXBIIHKV
Illustrating the De Luxe Club Coupe
'HE Club Coupe and tlie Club Roadster, intro-
duced with the brilliant Ford V-8 series for
1937, are the latest and smartest ideas in motor
ear design . . . Their advanced style sets a new
fashion in motoring. The Club Coupe has the
appearance of an ultra-smart coupe and yet seats
all six passengers inside the body. It has All-Steel
body with one-piece steel roof and Safety Glass all
round. The interior is a triumph of modern design,
both as to comfort and convenience. The rear seat
may be removed providing exceptionally large carry-
ing space right through to the boot. With new easy-
action brakes and finger-tip steering, driving is
effortless. And this exclusive Club Coupe has all
the features of design and equipment that have
made the 1937 models the greatest of all Ford V-B’s*
The Club Roadster is the open car version of the
Coupe —a distinctively smart model which, at the
same time, is particularly utilitarian in design. See
these models and others in the fine Ford V-8 range
for 1937. They are now on display at your Ford
dealer’s, and he will gladly arrange to place a car
at your disposal for your own test on the road.
Easy and convenient terms may be arranged.
FOl D V-8 *-I 9 3 7
BUY FROM YOUR. LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F171.27V
Two Splendid Lathes for Small Work!
Ti
mm
ty/vT,
<-' • ■m*
&
fL
Ideal
for the
Home
Craftsman
3iin. Centre
Screw-cutting
Lathe
Bench Pattern Hollow Spindle.
HEADSTOCK is arranged with 3-step cone. Spindle
is of steel and has fin. hole. Bearings are of phosphor
bronze.
SADDLE is fitted with rest which will swivel to any
angle desired; large slotted table for boring.
COMPLETE with face plate, 9 change wheels, includ-
ing 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 62, 55, also counter-
shaft. Foot Motor can be supplied as extra.
DIMENSIONS: Height of centres length of bed
2ft. 2in., diameter of work admitted over boring
table sin., diameter over bed 7fn., nose of spindle Jin-
diameter. Headstook and tailstock centres conform
to No. 1 Morse taper.
Diameter of cones 6in., 4in., by 2£in. by lin. Flat
belt.
Admits between centres 14in. Diameter of face plate
6in.
Price with Countershaft £l3
Price with Foot Motor £l4
"Adept" Bench Lathe
A real English Lathe, less than 12in. long; simple yet complete
with essentials; and priced to suit every hobbyist, home mechanic
and car owner.
lfin. centres, 6in. between centres, overall length 11-Jin.
Screw tailstock, lead! screw, compound slide rest. Price, as
illustrated 45/- (Plus Sales Tax)
With sliding instead of screw tailstock, 47/6 (Plus Sales Tax).
Fitted to treadle or small motor, these wonderful little lathes
will solve many of the Tool User’s difficulties.
We stock 3-jaw Dog Chuck to suit.
Our new No. 37 Catalogue illustrates and describes all the tools and supplies that model-makers and hobbyists need.
Have you sent in your name yet?
c
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst St., Sydney,
546 Collins St., Melbourne,
and at
Adelaide and Perth.
"Adept" Foot Motor
Light and' easy to operate, this foot
motor will give a steady drive to small
lathes and other machine tools. Two
speeds can be obtained.
Price . . 35/- (Plus Sales Tax)
Footbrawl
“Jolimont”: Melburnians take their
football as seriously as ever. Of late
the leather-chasing world has been rent
with commotion over some feeling which
has arisen between Diggins, of South Mel-
bourne, and his club. The climax came
when coach Cazaly, of “Sowth,” broadcast
a message: “I want to let Diggins know,
if he is listening, he is wanted at South
Melbourne. All he has to do is to come
along and his place in the side is as-
sured.” Evidently a veal banquet is
preparing to welcome the returning
prodigal.
$ * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.L. con-
tinues to be torn with dissension over the
decision of its parent, the V.F.A., to
continue to demand a bonus for every
player pinched from its ranks by League
clubs before it will sign transfer papers.
Every club in the League has taken
refuge behind the Coulter law forbid-
ding the payment of bonuses, though this
is a League enactment which does not
bind the Association. When one has
been nicking other people’s property for
years free of charge it is disheartening
to find the owners insisting on payment.
% H* &
“Fitzcray”: Last season the Victorian
F.A., delighted to find that attendances
had increased, announced that it was
born again, and on the way back to its
old-time pedestal. Unhappily, there has
been a sickening slump this season:
only 11,000 people saw six matches in a
recent round, and total takings were
£l3O, the highest being £4O for Brighton
v. Northcote, and the lowest £8 for Port
v. Oakleigh.
# * * #
“Stand Off”; The N.S.W. Rugby heads
seem to 'be determined to treat the visit-
ing Springboks with the utmost hos-
pitality. If they continue on the lines
of selection and tactics displayed in the
games with Queensland they are making
the Afrikanders a present of the Test
matches on a lordly dish. The most
flagrant folly is their persistence in play-
ing the matches with Queensland and
their club games under League rules,
when they know the ’Boks will refuse, to
entertain anything but international rules.
The two games are as different as oil
and water, and to expect our men to
turn out and make a decent showing in
a type of football they have had no prac-
tice in for a couple of years is wild
optimism.
❖ sjs * H«
“Birkenhead Park”: The N.S.W.R.U.
is talking of introducing seven-a-side
games as curtain-raisers to the Spring-
bok matches. These are popular in Scot-
land, where regular competitions are
played in the season ; there are three for-
wards and four backs. The. games last
10 minutes, and the pace is tremendous.
Games, of the sort were played in Bris-
bane years ago. The weather was found
to be a bit too sultry for them.
❖ * sis *
“Cash Amateur”: After a couple of
seasons of snoring the attention of the
N.S.W.R.U. has been called to the fact
that its mid-week offspring has been in-
cluding League players in its teams every
Wednesday. Practically any League
crack who wants a practice gallop can
don the jersey of one of the mid-week
clubs and hop in. The R.U. has told
the mid-week crowd that it must stop its
naughty practices, which infringe the
Union rules as to professionalism—which
the Union never publishes for anyone’s
information, by the way.
Queensland is to be remonstrated with
for its extremely casual methods of rein-
statement. In this case a curious situation
arises. Queensland is not affiliated with
the British international board, and
therefore has no power to reinstate.
Someone pointed out that N.S.W. cannot
interfere in Queensland domestic foot-
ball politics, and the only body able to
do that would be an Australian Union.
He was arguing in favor of this when the
nightmare suggestion was ended by the
adjournment of the meeting, the very
mention of an Australian controlling
body being anathema.
“Past Grammar”: Queensland Union
footballers claim that their scrum half,
Horan, of Toowoomba, is the smallest of
his kind, being only sft. 4in. and weigh-
ing 9st. 51b. Up to the present the
record, as far as the writer’s knowledge
extends, was held by “Skeeter”
Humphries, of the 1897 and 1903 All-
Blacks. He towered a good inch over
Horan and bumped the scales up to
9st. 71b.
❖*- * *
Mak”: Coaches of the Victorian
Rugby Union side to meet the Springboks
in Melbourne on June 12 are going to


SEE
SSI
The first Quadruple-acting Tyre Pump to be made —the Eenrut
“Quad” —surpasses all attempts at imitation. Its robust design,
the meticulous accuracy in manufacture, the fine quality of
materials used: —these mean years more of reliable and satisfac-
tory service. The “supercharger” action pumps more air into
the tyre at each stroke-—halves inflation time and makes the
job far easier. . .
Fitted with accurate Pressure gauge. Price Vo/-
Less Gauge. Price 60/-
R E N R UT
*#
QUAD
M
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers: ,
WTT.T.TAM Tt T BNF,R & BEO., LTD.. Evre Works, Sheffield, 1, England
"silver edge' 1
BRAKE LINING
t
TRADE MARK U REGISTERED . THE RAYBESTOS CO.
SAVE
REGISTERED . THE RAYBESTOS to.
money/
There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD. G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
have a busy month. There were some
good individual players in the trial game,
but forwards loafed and sparkling back
movements were scarce. Things made
clear are that Doxey, St. Kilda’s
half-back, is every bit as good as Cum-
ing, the University and State rep.,
and that Hammon (St. Kilda), Carpenter
(Footscray) and Dick (Navy) are the best
inside-back combination; unfortunately
Dick goes to sea before the S’Africans
arrive. Unless Dorr (St. Kilda)
moves into outside centre, Talbot (Power
House.) should stroll in as one or other
of the State centres. If coach Evan
Jessep can infuse some devil into the
forwards, Vic. will have a fast and heavy
pack to contest possession with the
’Boks.
Si! * * *
“Hotham”: It looks as if Victorian
R.U. football has got a winner in Car-
penter, of Westralia, referred to in a
recent par. as being chased by League,
Association and Sydney Rugby League
codes on his arrival in Melbourne. Play-
ing three-quarter in the Springbok trials,
the ex-Groper was the outstanding player
on the field. In his native land he has
represented in tennis, athletics, hockey
and Rugby. Unfortunately he will not
be seen in inter-State football, N.S.W.
having cut Victoria out this season. He
is the type of player badly needed in
our representative teams, shirking nothing.
* * * *
“Cato”: The red line on the Too-
woomba football ground an innovation
(B. 5/5/’37)? It has been in vogue at
many of Sydney’s G.P.S. for—well, 20
years at least. I suspect that some bright
lad from one of these schools wakened
the Downs capital from its slumbers.
* * * *
“B. and G.”: The Australian Univer-
sities Sports Union is to invite a Japanese
R.U. team to visit Australia next seasou.
The Union game, largely played by Uni-
versity students, is on the up-grade in
Japan, and both the Australian and M.L.
Universities on their last visits to Cherry
Blossom Land found the opposition more
than a match for them on several occa-
sions.
* *
“Gate”: Rugby League football has
suffered a nasty knock in the decision
of Vic Hey, the best League stand-off
half, to play with Leeds. Hey’s contract
with the Tykes demands that he must be
in England in July, and he leaves Aus-
tralia on May 26. He will thus be unable
to play with the Australian team leav-
ing for England in August, and his going
will leave the team without a real star,
now that Brown is also in England. Hey
gets a £l4OO bonus, £6, £5 and £4
for win, lose and draw, a guarantee of a
job in his trade and return fares for him-
self and wife at the end of his four
years’ contract. Queensland Rugby
Leaguers are not taking the news kindly
and are talking litigation.
a(e $ #
“Hooker”: Cabled that two English
Rugby League clubs were to meet in an
exhibition match to try a new scrum,
with two men in front and three in the
second row. The cable says this dis-
penses with the hooker. It doesn’t, but
substitutes two hookers for one, as was
formerly the case in M.L. and Queens-
land football. This system made for a
clean escape of the. ball out of the scrum
which modern players who have not seen
it would hardly realise. It is hoped, the
cable adds, that the innovation will do
away with present difficulties of getting
the ball into the scrum and so prevent
scrumming being the farce it often is.
The accepted method of the old style was
for the two front-row men to sweep for
the ball simultaneously with the outside
foot, but there were several ways of
working the oracle. The best hooker I
ever met devised a method whereby the
man furthest away from the ball hooked
it back with his outside foot after his
mate had blocked the. opposition sweep
by advancing his left leg into the oppo-
sition line and blocking their swing. The
player, a Queenslander, used this method
with success against M.L. and N.S.W.
teams, and it was only one of several
successful variations he devised.
* :!= * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Australian
Rugby League team for England is now
to travel via Panama, so that it may
play three matches in Auckland. This
will give the tourists early team prac-
tice, and Auckland is M.L.’s League
centre. The team will leave Sydney
on July 31 and play in Auckland on
August 7, 11 and 14. M.L. offers 50
per cent, of gross gates, less taxes.
* * * *
“County”: In the English Rugby
League final at Wembley Widnes, a
chemical town in Lancashire, beat Keigh-
ley (Yorkshire) 18-5. An unusual feature
was that the Widnes team was composed
entirely of local lads while Keighley in-
cluded eight ex-Union players from
Wales. Widnes must stand almost alone
among the 32 League, clubs in thus rely-
ing on home-grown goods.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Hopes of bringing
out a team of golf professionals for the
150th anniversary spree have been
“I tell you these are the Worst links I ever played on!"
“Links? Why , we ain't bin on 'em f' the last three hours!"
dashed by the organisers of the cele-
brations, who repeat that on no account
will professionals in any sport be allowed
to compete. They can hardly be blamed.
If the door were opened to one type of
professional sport a dozen others would
try to butt in.
* $ * *
A patriarch of golfers was W. S. Cook,
whose death in Sydney, at 82, is reported.
An Englishman, he learned golf at Hoy-
lake, and when he came to Sydney 50
years ago was one of the pioneers of the
game in N.S.W. For many years he
played regularly at Manly, doing a round
weekly until quite, recently. He was also
a foundation member of the Killara club
and its first captain. A peculiarity was
that to the last he stuck to the old-
fashioned spliced wooden clubs. He had
them specially made for him, claiming
that they gave superior service to the.
modern socketed variety.
;|S S»J ❖ *
“Hermit Park”: Judge Macnaughton,
dead in Brisbane at 78, was a pioneer of
golf in North Queensland. As a young
barrister in Townsville in the early nine-
ties he induced two or three friends with
whom he “batched” to try their hands at
the game on an improvised course under
the shadow of Castle Hill. Their efforts
were received with contumely by the
small boys of the. neighborhood, who de-
lighted in filling up the holes and making
the rough greens rougher still. Interest
flagged until organised clubs were formed
at Townsville and the Towers years later.
* * * sS
“Divot Digger”: Eric Apperly has
been commissioned by Sydney City
Council to prepare plans for a fresh
layout of the Moore Park municipal
course. The. alterations will, it is hoped,
bring the course up to championship
length and generally modernise it. Some-
thing of the sort is overdue. For years
the badly-kept wilderness has been a
costly white elephant, while elsewhere in
Australia such courses have been a
source of revenue to councils running
them.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The faithful are
reminded that the Australia-U.S.A.
Davis Cup fixture commences on May
29 at Forest Hills. So far our lads seem
to be in good condition, the effects of
the Mexican trip having worn off. Pro-
vided the team is judiciously selected
Australia should come out ahead.
* * *
“Centre Court”: Germany, Yugo-
slavia, France and Italy emerged trium-
phant from their Davis Cup matches in
the second round, European zone. M.L.,
outed by South Africa, had hard luck;
its best player, Stedman, retired injured
after beating Farquharson in the open-
ing singles. Andrews took his place in
the doubles with Malfroy, but Farquhar-
son and Kirby won in three straight sets.
The. third round must be over by June 8 ;
in this the strong Yugo side will meet
South Africa.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: “Bunny” Austin, who
has been talking a lot of nonsense about
the U.K.’s splendid chance of hanging
on to the Davis Cup, has crayfished from
his original position. He now says that
unless Lee—a third-rater, as Australia
knows him—comes to the rescue as
second singles-player, the game is up.
He says Lee could be relied on to beat
McGrath, Parker and Henkel, which sug-
gests “Bunny” is talking in his sleep.
* * * *
“Milton”: Brisbane metropolitan
tennis championships drew a good entry
of leading players, including Schwartz, of
S.A., who took the singles title. The
visitor partnered Hurley in the doubles;
but they were beaten by Moon and Han-
cock. Volatile Mrs. Westacott was in
great form, partnering Moon to win the
mixed doubles and taking the Women’s
singles and, with Mrs. Kamp, the
women’s doubles.
* * # *
“Antbed”: N.S.W. hardcourt tenniseers
are thinking of establishing an Australian
hardcourt championship, and the other
States are to be asked to swing into line.
Considering that in Australia hardcourt
players outnumber the grasshoppers by
twenty to one at least the move is over-
due. In every other tennis country of
importance where grass courts are used —
in America and England, for instance—
there is a hardcourt championship, while
countries which use hard courts for the
general run of their tennis feature cham-
pionships under cover and on wood
planking.
Miscellaneous
Xavier is head-of-the-river again in
Victoria. The Yarra not being as capa-
cious as the Nepean, this boatrace has
still to be run in heats, and on Thurs-
day the Geelong schools were put out of
it, for the first time since 1932 —Geelong
Grammar by Wesley and Geelong Col-
lege by Xavier —Melbourne Grammar
also eliminating Scotch. Melbourne
Grammar rowed the mile in smin.
17 3-ssec.; it was only third in the final,
covered in smin. 38 2-ssec., but condi-
tions on the two days were vastly dif-
ferent. Xavier beat Wesley by a couple
of lengths. First and second were big
crews, Xavier averaging list. B£lb. and
Wesley a pound more. Nearly as heavy
as the adult South Australians who car-
ried off the King’s Cup: they averaged
list. 131 b.
* * * *
“Blade”: Maoriland is to send over a
full rowing complement, an eight, a
four and a sculler, to the Empire Games
at Sydney. Nothing has been heard
from the other competitors about row-
ing, though Canada’s contingent is pretty
sure to include an eight, and Ceylon is to
be represented by a sculler. The Aus-


A REAL OLYMPIAN!
V. ISO HOLLO the great Finnish
athlete established a new world’s
record of 9 min., 3.8 secs, for the
3000 metres Steeplechase at the
Berlin Olympic Ga?nes.
This great performance indi-
cated unusual powers of physical
endurance coupled with speed.
In this branch of athletics
all-round physical soundness,
strength, and tireless perform-
ance are the essentials, and such
qualities also characterise the
champion—
Olympic Cyres
for Cars, Trucks and Cycles!
Disfiguring
Skin
Outbreaks
NOW BANISHED BY
NEW SCIENTIFIC METHOD
Skin specialists have now traced the
real cause of pimples, blackheads
and other complexion imperfections
to self-poisoning 1 , i.e., a clogged
colon. Due to inactivity of the colon
(large intestine) all the food waste
left over from digestion is not passed
out of the body. Instead, it encrusts
on the colon walls and there decays.
Virulent poisons and bacteria, and
irritating acids, seep into the blood-
stream which carries them to the
face, neck and other parts of the
body. These poisons break down the
“alkaline reserve” of the blood. It
becomes “acid” and in an endeavour
to free itself from these poisons
(which should have been got rid of
through the kidneys and bowels) it
forces them through the pores of the
skin. This results in open pores,
pimples, blotches and other dis-
figuring’ and embarrassing 1 facial
blemishes.
You cannot clear your complexion of
pimples and blotches until you check the
cause—self-poisoning. You must remove
the decaying encrustations of food waste
from the colon walls. Normal bowel move-
ments do not do this—the walls become
sluggish. Opening medicines only purge
the lower end of the colon, so drink warm
water and ‘Coloseptic’ every morning. This
simple scientific plan cleanses the colon,
tones up the colon walls giving them back
their power of normal movement. ‘Colo-
septic’ neutralises acidosis of the blood.
With the restoration of blood alkalinity,
pimples dry up, open pores close in and the
complexion regains its clearness and fresh-
ness. ‘Coloseptic’ also stimulates the action
of the kidneys, thus aiding the elimination
of body poisons through these natural
channels. ‘Coloseptic’ overcomes these evils
of self-poisoning in a simple, revolutionary
yet scientific way. Get ‘Coloseptic’ from
your chemist to-day. Individual size, 2/9;
Economy size, 5/6.
FREE SAMPLE
Send 3d. stamps for postage; a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you. COLOSEPTIC (AUST.)
LTD., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Patents.
REFRIGERATOR CABINET.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
12929/33 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
,*nd Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of AV.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
S3k
I
r '
'M/;<
'i* *•*»!» flßiliU
Hot acid here re-
moves all grease
and scale prior to
galvanizing.
LYSAGHT
foRSI
AUSTRALIA
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
IN the production of Lysaght's
Red Orb Galvanized Iron, at
every stage the most scrupulous
care is exercised by skilled work-
men, for every sheet which carries
their brand is guaranteed by
Lysaght's. This is your assurance
of long service and absolute satis-
faction. Look for the Red Orb on
THE rigid roofing sheets, used all
over Australia.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write for your copy to
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 19G D.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd,
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
L 3
NO LEAKS
In a Diamond P. 5.
Radio Battery 1
PERFECT INSULATION
PREVENTS POWER WASTAGE!
A new washer will fix a dripping tap, but you
can’t fix a leaky “B” Battery. The best thing
to do is to buy Diamond P. 5. Then you can
he sure that you don’t pay for costly power
wastage through internal leakage.
In Diamond Radio Batteries a spiral tube
heavily treated with two inner coatings of
special insulating compound completely insulates
each cell against internal leakage from its com-
panion cells. And not only are its sides thus
permanently insulated but also the bottom of
each cell.
IST
An illustration of the
Diamond Spiral tube
stripped to show its
TfFO layers of insu-
lation.
When the battery is as-
sembled each cell is thus
sealed and perfectly insu-
lated from every other
cell. There is no weak
spot. It is because of these
features that you can he
sure that Diamond P. 5.
Batteries will give up all
their great reserves of
power without waste.
DIAMOND P. 5.
RADIO BATTERIES and TORCH REFILLS
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTY. LTD.
Cr. PARK AND WELLS STREETS. S. MELBOURNE, 5.C.4.
Tel. M 4601-2
N.S.W. Agents: REG. ROSE AND CO., LTD., 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
l ei., 8W2114. D.S. *I.A.
tralian crews will not be selected until
after the Henley-on-Yarra regatta in
November, when the four will be picked
and probably the sculler, though here
Pearce practically picks himself. The
eight will be a composite one, but the
financial question arises. Selector Keary
wants the crew boated on the Nepean at
least six weeks before the race. The
oarsmen will be coming from every
State in Australia, and the cost of their
transport and maintenance in Sydney will
be heavy for the always impecunious
rowing organisations.
?! * *
“Shell”: Articles have been signed for
a sculling race, £2OO a side and the pro-
fessional championship of Australia, by
the holder, “Snowy” Burns, and Evans
Paddon, son of the old-time world’s
champion of that ilk. The race will be
rowed at Woodburn, on the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers, on June 19. Burns is
33, and his opponent 10 years younger,
and both men are being backed in a
style recalling the palmy days of profes-
sional sculling.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Sydney Uni. dropped
£l6O on the Combined Universities match
with Allen’s men in Sydney. The loss
will be divided among the guarantors,
Adelaide Sports Union and Sydney Uni.
* *• * *
“Aigburth”: The Maoriland cricketers
made a good start in England. Weather
compelled the abandonment of their
match with Surrey when they were in a
good position: M.L., 233 ; Surrey, 149
and four for 127. Surrey last season was
sixth among the counties.
* ■* * *
“Bramall Lane”: Wisden’s five best
cricketers of the year include only one
overseas player, Merchant, of the Indian
team. Merchant was the great success
of the last Indian tour of Britain, averag-
ing over 50 and scoring a Test century.
Gover, the Surrey fast bowler wfao failed
to gain selection for Allen’s side, Barnett,
Copson and Worthington make up the
quintet.
* * * *
“Hove”: An English cricket team led
by Lord Tennyson, who is getting old
enough to know better, is to visit India
in October. Members of Allen’s team
invited to go are Hammond, Verity,
Barnett and Leyland, and Gover, the
Surrey fast bowler who last season took
200 wickets —the first speed merchant to
do so for 40 years—will also make the
trip.
* ❖ * *
“Susie Swattit”: Patsy Hendren, one
time of Oireland, has besmirched the
national reputation for gallanthry with a
furious attack on women cricketers.
Patsy says their performances in all de-
partments of the game are a joke, ana a
very poor one at that. Not everyone will
agree with Patsy. Some of the women
players we saw in Australia when the
English girls were here were well able to
fill a place in ordinary club cricket with
credit. As their detractor says, they are
incapable of fast bowling or of stand-
ing up to it, but the same can be said
of many batsmen.
:j: -r * 5P
“Blade Sight”: The Australians for
Bisley left for, England in the Largs Bay.
They should do well; for one thing they
are to be. allowed to use the heavy Lith-
gow rifle barrel, which has less “whip”
than the lighter British article. As a set-
off, they will shoot at smaller bull’s-eyes
than are used in Australia.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: The Ashton brothers,
helped by Curtis Skene, came out of
their first match in England with dis-
tinction. Playing the Maharajah of
Bhopal’s team and given 3 \ goals, the
Australians won by 11 goals to 3. In a
return match they were beaten, 1-6. The
Bhopal team is one of the best in India ;
most of its ponies hail from Australia.


kort Story
Writing
tyree Lance
‘journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course,of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School o£ Journalism
140 Elizabeth Stre.et, Sydney
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
HUDSONS
"EUMENTHOL" ■*
JUJUBES
A
medicinal
preparation
—not a
confection
SHADOW
SHOWS
‘‘Stowaway.”
MATCHMAKER .... Shirley Temple
PLAYBOY TOURIST .. Robert Young
THE GIRL Alice Faye
The ingredients of this opus are suffi-
ciently saccharine to ensure that it will
be lapped up avidly by sentimental chil-
dren of both sexes between the ages of
eight and eighty. The Chinese setting
allows Shirley to get about in a coolie
garb and rattle oft' Chinese. Opportunity
is there, of course, for the youngster to
to do some songandance ; a caper with
a dummy partner is clever enough. An
amateur tryout in a Chinese theatre is
the venue, and such is the cosmopolitan-
Helen Westley in “Stowaway,” at
Sydney Regent.
ism of that ancient land that the Chinese
audience laughs heartily at the witty Eng-
lish words of her song. For the rest, the
child star does all that' is asked of her,
support is strong and there are convinc-
ing Chinese settings, especially on the
junk-packed Yangtze River.
That Miss Temple portrays a wistful,
appealing orphan goes without saying.
This time, her missionary parents (from
whom, of course, she learned tap-dancing)
are killed by bandits, as also are her
foster parents. Wandering around
Shanghai she pals up with a wealthy
American playboy. She secretes herself
in his car, which is hauled aboard an
America-bound liner. Thereafter her
adoption by the bachelor playboy is de-
pendent on his wresting an engaged goil
aboard the ship from goil’s dull lover
and dull lover’s eccentric mother. Can
Shirley succeed in recasting romance?
Can she possibly fail?
Robert Young gives a solid perform-
ance, and just to look at Alice Faye
crooning is almost to forgive the in-
ventor of crooning. Helen Westley is the
cranky ma, Arthur Treacher buttles with
accustomed correctness and lugubrious
mien, and Robert Grieg is a rotund,
genial captain. Eugene Pallette is the
playboy’s bibulous crony and J. E. Brom-
berg the Reno Judge who matchmakes
in conjunction with Shirley at the
rather weak finish. At Sydney Regent.
“We Have Our Moments.”
SCHOOLMARM Sally Ellers
SLEUTH .. James Dunn
QUARRY Thurston Hall
This detective thriller is a bit shy on
thrills, and if all Uncle Sam’s public
enemies conducted their nefarious acti-
vities with the lack of logic depicted the
G-men could clean them up between
snoozes; but there’s a fair leaven of
comedy.
When a romantic young school-teacher,
pondering matrimony with a bovine gent,
whose chief interest in life is food,
decides on a last fling by “blowing” her
wad on a trip to Yurrup, she lands into
a mysterious affair on board the liner,
with some “hot” money from a bank
robbery as the centre of interest, and her
two admirers trying to get it, from dif-
ferent motives. It naturally follows that
the lady and the honest one suspect each
other, which adds to the comedy but
gets no nearer the solution. The skir-
mishing continues when all the parties
arrive in the Riviera, which allows the
introduction of glamor and a comic
French detective with a passion for dis-
guises. From the rather foggy details
one gathers that the comic detective does
most of the solving, while the leading
sleuth gathers the reward — i.e., the girl.
James Dunn uses his mobile face and
humorous eye to advantage, but increas-
ing avoirdupois is seriously menacing his
suitability for romantic leads. Sally Eilers
gives a sparkling performance, but
Thurston Hall is rather heavy as the
villain. Mischa Auer emits some weird
Gallicised English. At Sydney Regent.
“Fire Over England.”
ROMANTIC COUPLE, Laurence Olivier
and Vivien Leigh
QUEEN ELIZABETH .. Flora Robson
LORD BURLEIGH .... Morton Selten
LORD LEICESTER Leslie Banks
PHILIP OF SPAIN .. Raymond Massey
SPANISH GIRL Tamara Desni
According to the blurb-sheet this am-
bitious historical film, made in England,
is “presented” by Alexander Korda,
and is an “Erich Pommer production,”
the director being W. K. Howard. Who-
ever is most responsible for it, the pro-
duction is not wholly satisfactory. The
sea-fights are puerile affairs, a short-
coming not compensated for fully by the
general excellence of costuming and land
settings.
The story is a simple one of a young
English courtier sent to Philip’s Court in
Madrid as a spy and his emergence with
the names of Englishmen who were plot-
ting to assassinate Elizabeth. This is
mingled with rather an overmeasure of
stereotyped romantic love scenes. The
coming of the Armada and its defeat are
sketchily represented—it would have been
better to let that happen offstage.
As for the acting, Flora Robson does
her best with the weaker side of a too-
sentimental-and-squeamish Elizabeth, and
shows in some rousing passages what
she could have made of a more robust
concept of a great figure. Selten’s pic-
Shirley Temple in "Stowaway.”
ture of old Burleigh, with his worldly-
wise philosophy, his cunning statecraft,
his keen eye for shams and his genuine
affection for his queen, is a masterpiece,
and Banks makes a good job of the
much-less-subtle Leicester. Massey’s
Philip of Spain is an effective represen-
tation of that gloomy, suspicious, indus-
trious fanatic, and the young people of
the cast, Oliver, James Mason and
Misses Leigh and Desni, are quite com-
petent. At Sydney Embassy.
“They Wanted to Marry.”
PRESS PHOTOGRAPHER,
Gordon Jones
MILLIONAIRE’S DAUGHTER,
Betty Furness
HER POP Henry Kolker
The cameraman crashed the gate at
the millionaire’s home with a borrowed
ticket to a wedding and took photographs
exhibiting the old man, who hated pub-
licity, in undignified postures. So, of
course, daughter fell in love with him.
On three separate occasions cameraman
and girl were thrown into gaol together,
and at last they got married. This effort
seems to have been intended as comedy,
but although all hands work hard for
Eugene Pallette in “Stowaway.”
laughs they do so with little reward. At
Sydney Embassy.
“Tarzan Escapes.”
TARZAN Johnny Weissmuller
HIS MATE Maureen O'Sullivan
COMIC PARTY ..... Herbert Mundin
A first-class exposition of the theorem
that stars don’t matter much. Mr. Weiss-
muller occasionally grunts short sentences
in words of one syllable ; his admiring
bride, who has given up civilisation to
dwell in the treetops with a super-
gorilla, spends most of her time express-
ing avid enjoyment of the experience. If
there is any sense in Edgarriceburroughs-
ism it is in the direction of preaching that
civilisation is a washout, but audiences
don’t take it that way.
The jungle stuff is well done from a
Hollywood, though not from a zoolo-
gist’s, point of view. Elephants, giraffes,
orang-outangs, lions and tigers are rife,
and there is a great deal of fighting be-
tween an expedition sent to find Tarzan’s
bride and a horde of most fearsomely-
painted savages. Dialogue is utter piffle,
but that doesn’t matter, for the kids in
the audience are bound to drown it. At
Sydney Mayfair.
“Espionage.”
MALE NEWSPAPER SLEUTH,
Edmund Lowe
FEMALE DITTO Madge Evans
MUSICAL MILLIONAIRE, Paul Lukas
In this opus the nonchalant Mr. Lowe
and the hard-as-nails Miss Evans are on
a train, representing rival newsagencies,
spying on a great munitions manufacturer
whose movements are supposed to be of
the utmost international importance. As
a sideline the munitions czar is a musical
composer; Lowe is a versatile musical
amateur—fiddle and piano—so it isn’t
difficult for him to strike up an acquaint-
ance. There is the usual tangle of errors:
Lowe and Evans, who for passport
reasons are travelling as man and wife,
are suspected of plotting to bomb the
millionaire. Lowe escapes from custody
of the millionaire’s armed guard, with
Evans’s connivance, and turns up again
disguised as a Tyrolean guide. All
through there is light-hearted comedy-
fluffy stuff, but very laughable, winding
up with Lowe and Evans before a for-
midable French magistrate, listening to
a blistering anathema that seems to pre-
lude a heavy sentence. The millionaire
is there, begging for mercy for the ac-
cused. But it appears the awful charge
is leaving a tandem bicycle on the street
without a tail-light. Fine five francs. At
Sydney Mayfair.
“Midnight Taxi.”
DISGUISED G-MAN, Brian Donley
GENTEEL COUNTERFEITER,
Alan Dinehart
HIS ASSISTANT Frances Drake,
This slickly-done melodrama moves
briskly and is brightly acted and directed.
If the story lacks originality it is at least
tolerably feasible.
It is apparently an axiom among
creators of counterfeiting plots that the
guiding brain should be a respected
citizen in the palatial-yacht class who
gives orders to the Next One Down.
In the case under review the second
gent., himself a secretary - and - four-
telephones man, runs the show, pass-
ing the ill-gotten gains to the Big
Boss, who is known to none except the
No. 2 man, and then only by fake initials.
The snide currency is unloaded by a
taxi-driver, whose pal on the rank, un-
known to him, is a Federal man. The
rest of the film is devoted to the latter’s
method of getting to the Big Shot by
playing one member of the gang against
the other, thus saving on his own cart-
ridge bill. Of course, the lady counter-
feiter saves the G-man’s life a couple of
times, thus ensuring that she’ll become
the sleuth’s bride instead of doing a
deserved stretch in chokey.
Brian Donlevy, specialist in word
economy, keeps his nose to the trail with
admirable relentlessness. Alan Dinehart
has done the dastard stuff so often that
he must wear his teeth out through
gnashing them in his sleep. Frances
Drake does her little piece with distinc-
tion. At Sydney Capitol.
‘Time Out for Romance.”
HONEST MECHANIC, Michael Whalen
BEAUTEOUS HEIRESS, Claire Trevor
CROOK Douglas Fnwley
TERRIBLE CHILD .. Bennie Bartlett
When she discovered that her mother
had paid Count Rumptifoo a cool haff-
million, the. newly-wed countess jumped
into her roadster, tore to a beauty
parlor, had her hair changed from black
to gold, and set out from N'York 10
find her daddy, cruising somewhere in
Californian waters in his luxurious
steam yacht Mamma immediately had
warrant' issued for girl’s arrest on
ground of insanity (no reference to
medical authority or to the girl’s father
was necessary, apparently), so the poor
dear, who was penniless, had to lead a
hunted life. She fell in with a traus-
Robert Grieg in “Stowaway”
continental motor caravan, hitch-hiked
a ride with the goodhearted Mr. Whalen
(motor mechanic headed towards a
Western Coast job), was suspected by
him of being a fugitive criminal, and
suspected him of being ditto. Both
land in prison cell at Los Angeles, where
papa comes to the rescue. He has
annulled the marriage at a cost of a
further haff-million, and insists on
daughter’s immediate remarriage with
honest mechanic. That’s the stuff on
which to feed a democratic nation.
Some mild comedy enlivens the pro-
ceedings, acting is smooth, and there is
plenty of incident. At Sydney Capitol.


PS 3
:
■I
/ f**#'
m
m
'
„ G
: ■
8888
II
m
Vv\^
m
mM
SffiS
/»/£
/«
SQSS
I/"
k*
1£
C*s2
£»»*
identical with the cigarettes
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
M
XM
ALSO BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT —THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
“Mind Your Own Business.”
HENPECKED NATURE
EDITOR Charles Ruggles
HIS WIFE Alice Brady
HIS EDITOR Lyle Talbot
It was the wife who hatched the bright
idea of running her husband’s column,
“Our Wild Friends,” as a collection of
pointed personalities with zoological
trimmings. Soon poor Charles was being
pursued by murderous gangsters, but his
friends the Boy Scouts (the aid of this
organisation is cordially acknowledged)
came to his rescue and tracked him to
the lonely ranch where he was held a
prisoner. Ruggles is the same well-
meaning, puzzled but logical soul as in
other films. His strength is his ability
to invest the wildest flights of nitwittery
with an air of conscientious purpose, and
even of dignity. Miss Brady fusses round
in a manner reminiscent of Grade Allen.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Dodge City Trail.”
BAD-MAN BELTER .. Charles Starrett
SINGIN’ BRONC-BUSTER,
Donald Grey son
TENDERFOOT GOIL, Marion Weldon
HER PAHP Russell Hicks
Waal, folks, this yere pinto-pony opery
is an all-fired rip-snorter, with two-gun,
crimson-gored he-guys blowin’ holes in
the welkin and in every goldarned skunk
who pokes his snout out of cover. There’s
plenty of fast ridin’, an’ a real slap-up
orchestry concealed in the mesquite to
accompany the cow-punchin’ hombres
when they sing—and they shore agitate
their tonsils to some order ; yes, sir !
A bunch o’ real bad guys, but cold-
deckers who do most o’ their shootin’
from the lip, are cuttin’ loose an’ chisellin’
in on the profits of honest citizens. Kain’t
nothin’ be done? Sez yew! What’s the
big-jawed trail-boss doin’—him that’s
nuts on the dame whose old man directs
the gang? Kain’t he shuck a gun an’
swing a lariat for law an’ order? An’
don’t he burn up the arroyo with his
cayuse’s hooves as he rounds up them
chicken-livered coyotes? Yore tellin’
me! Once he buckles his Colts on they’re
as good as plumb full o’ lead. There’s
a bang-up, all-in woozer at the last, with
the old man coppin’ a slug to himself.
But the dame can blubber on the s.q.
trail-boss’s hairy chest, so what?
Charles Starrett is the bozo with the
surplus inside, an’ Donald Greyson is
his warblin’ side-kick. Marion Weldon
rolls a goofy orb at the puncher, and
Russell Hicks gnaws a little zonker as
he schemes. This yere rip-snorter’s at
Sydney Civic.
STAGE SHOWS.
“Lover’s Leap.”
This snappy comedy, which made its
Sydney bow at the Royal on Saturday,
is a play of the one-scene-throughout
type. Its humor is restrained save for
one brief, violent and funny domestic
upheaval. Many of the, lines are witty,
there is a sprinkling of original wise-
cracks, and, the play being ultra-modern,
the dialogue is sprayed with “hells,”
“damns” and suchlike.
Only four people are involved: two
sisters, one whose Egyptologist husband
returns for a divorce after seven years
of tomb-desecrating ; the other, with a
family tradition of connubial discord in
mind, calmly deliberating whether she
will live with her young man with or
without benefit of clergy. The young
man, being under the spell of this mas-
terly female, lets her make up their
minds. The married sister, horrified, en-
lists her newly-returned husband’s aid in
influencing the decision in favor of
orthodoxy, and most of the comedy turns
on the resultant situa-
tions. The snap ending
snaps a bit too soon ;
instead of the play
finishing on a high
note, there are about 10
minutes of redundant
thread-gathering.
Enid Hollins as the
long - neglected wife
gives a clinking per-
formance, especially in
the second and third
acts, which afford her
much more scope than
the first; Betty Tail
reveals ability in the
role of a poker-faced,
cynical young woman
with no illusions;
Campbell Copelin gives
a polished reading of
a part that fits him;
Kenneth Tuckfield
moves easily from shy
embarrassment to con-
fident assertiveness as occasion demands.
Sydney Wheeler buttles with grave dig-
nity—a neat cameo.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Budapest Quartet.
The Budapest Quartet has come back,
but not the same four, Boris Kroyt hav-
ing replaced Stefan Ippolyi as viola. The
players still do Beethoven as well as
ever —their performance of the “Rasou-
movsky” at Sydney Con. on Saturday
night was within a hairbreadth of per-
fection —and they put more dash and
fire into such numbers as the Elgar quar-
tet, full of unrest and excitement. Two
Haydn numbers —the D Major, Op. 64,
No. 5, and the G Minor —were prettily
played.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
The Norman Lindsay Show.
It must be as long ago as the ’nineties
since Norman Lindsay exhibited paint-
ings in oils. In his current show at the
Macleod Gallery, Sydney, he has 12 can-
vases, all very striking, as goes without
saying, but in none of them is the effect
obtained in any way superior to* that of
the artist’s water-color delineations of
similar subjects, while in one or two in-
stances the, painter’s flair for grouping
seems to have deserted him, so that the
three or four figures seem to have no very
coherent relationship. However, the
flesh painting is excellent anywhere
along the Lindsay gamut (which ranges
from white through pink, yellow, green
and chocolate to purple), and there is
“Hot. Blood," water-color by Norman Lindsay, at
the Macleod Gallery.
some very snappy painting of gorgeous
fabrics in “Queen’s Courtesans.”
In the oils as well as in the water-
colors, pen-drawings and, etchings, nude
women predominate, either engaged in
saturnalias or Dionysian revels, disport-
ing themselves in Oriental settings, or
just posing. The remarkable court of
Micomicon makes its reappearance;
there is a harking-back to the sacking of
Porto Bello, and pirates and other
desperadoes of the deepest dye figure in
such pictures as “Mutiny” and “Spoil”
(in oils) and “Hot Blood” (water-color).
The comic vein in which Lindsay excels
finds expression in such drawings as “The
Baron’s Lady” and “Knight Errant.”
Only the profoundest and most curious
of archseologists could pretend to say
how far Mr. Lindsay’s reconstruction of
scenes in Ancient Rome, the empire of
Kubla Khan, mediaeval Europe and the
era of powder and patches can be justi-
fied. Perhaps they are all part of a realm
of pure imagination, in which case it
becomes a matter for comment that in
the last quarter of a century its bounds
have been very little, if at all, extended.
As matters stand a signature is superflu-
ous on any Norman Lindsay drawing.
It bears on its face the guarantee that
nobody else on earth could have done it.
Among early buyers were the Trustees
of the. N.S.W. Gallery, on whose behalf
red labels were stuck on “Bow Street
Runners” (oil), “Dogs for Comfort” and
“Argument in Micomicon” (water-colors)
and “Life in the Temple” and “Tryst in
Arcadia” (etchings).
•J 1 + +
A Young Modernist.
In the show of Frank Hinder at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, a place on
the wall is occupied by a selection of
aphorisms by sages, Aristotle included,
containing warnings against judging the
un-understandable. This prepares one to
find cats outlined in fuzzy penumbras,
dark-red mountains, human figures
drawn as a series of acute triangles, and
inchoate designs of the sort that are
rightly labelled “Abstraction.” Mr.
Hinder, though an Australian by birth,
has spent some time in New Mexico, and
so far as his art shows any definite ten-
dency he seems to be struggling between
expressing things in the squat terms of
Aztec architecture and giving rein to a
love of the flowing curve. One or two
pencil-drawings from the nude exhibit a
line of almost Flaxmanesque grace and
certainty, but the rest of the show is a
series of less successful experiments.
Buckmaster’s Adelaide Show.
Ernest Buckmaster, who had not
shown in Adelaide for several years, sur-
prises by the versatility of his collection
at the Society of Arts Gallery. Fruit
and flowers, good; landscapes, better;
portraits, possibly best, as befits a winner
of the Archibald Prize. He is wisely
susceptible to good influences —Streeton
in wide landscapes, Lamorna Birch in
running water, Bernard Hall in one in-
terior scene. The Art Gallery of Adelaide
has bought a river-valley scene, the
character of which is indicated by its title,
“Smoke Haze.”
This show stresses the old question of
a guard-rail. From the middle of the
room a lot of masterpieces; get close in,
and the signs of hasty work appear. But
should the onlooker be allowed close in?


sw
ilia
•MSg
/S,>
xnin
m
!!‘S
STAY AT
SYDNEYS
Finest HOTEL
When you visit Sydney—stay at the
Wentworth. At the Wentworth you
will get everything you desire, a
homely atmosphere, perfect service
and convenience to business and
social centres.
Wire or write for reservations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY.'PHONE BW 1361
CO. MACLURCAN MNfi. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEW, Manager.
Bariz Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARIZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/. and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. 'Phone: BW66W.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Thousands poured into the city
churches for the services which opened
Coronation Day. At St. Andrew’s
Cathedral the ritual and ceremonial were
as close as possible to those which sur-
rounded the crowning of the King and
Queen in Westminster Abbey. Arch-
bishop Mowll and Dr. Pilcher and 50
or more of the clergy took part in this
official commemoration service. The
interior of the church blazed with
flowers, with touches of gold, with the
uniforms of the Navy and the Army and
the scarlet of Judges. Here were aca-
demic hood and gown, here were poli-
tics, here were simple people, but only
one voice in the calling of “God Save
King George,” which was preceded by
the roll of drums and followed by a
fanfare of trumpets. The Governor and
Lady Wakehurst attended this service.
The bells of St. Mary’s chimed and
clashed through the still morning air
heralding the Mass which was heard by
12,000 children from the schools of the
archdiocese. Archbishop Kelly addressed
this gathering of youth. Crowds packed
the Assembly Hall, too, for the Presby-
terian service, and the Synagogue drew
a large congregation.
What the decorations of Sydney streets
lost in design they gained in spontaneity.
From an important building cascaded
long and wide banners of red, white and
blue; expensive flags waved proudly.
Over the doorway of the modest shop
opposite a smallish coat-of-arms was the,
only decoration. Here was a shop picked
out expensively in electric symbols, there
was one whose just-as-intense loyalty was
expressed in strings of small flags. But
from the Quay to Central railway station
everyone had done something to be fes-
tive. Bridge-street, the noble, suggested
some rich galleon in full sail when the
wind on Coronation Day filled out the
red, white and blue drapings of the taller
buildings.
Anthony Horderns’ crested Brickfield
Hill with light and color. Crowns, rich
and gold and purple, were at the entrance
of many of the big stores. Everywhere
there were illuminated pictures of the
King and Queen. In showcases slim
ladies were posed in regal fashion, their
frocks again striking the purple and gold
notes. One store had the royal coach,
complete with outriders, silhouetted
around its balconies. In every cafe
patriotic music was played and replayed
to bursts of applause. “Land of Hope
and Glory” and “God Save the King”
were dominant among the waves of sound
which carried the city on its week of
rejoicing.
Government House was all spangles
and waves of light for the Coronation
reception given by Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst. Floodlights and rainbow electrics
from a little distance gave a dream look
to the building. All the long doors on
to the terrace had been flung wide, and
through these could be seen the bursting
stars of rockets and the harbor, smooth
and unruffled, on which illuminated war-
ships gleamed like elaborate examples of
the glass-blower’s art. The terrace was
arranged with carpets and cushioned
chairs, but only the hardy sat. Most
people walked about. Even Pipe-Major
T. Mackay kept moving, the skirl of his
pipes and the swing of his kilt a brisk
note along the paths. On the lawn there
was a band, and on the buffet that ran
the length of the windows of the ball-
room there was champagne —innumer-
able bottles of it. In one room there
was a broadcast of the Abbey service.
It was a party without one yawn in it.
For simple line and stunning effect
Lady Wakehurst’s silver lame frock was
unbeatable. It was floor-length in the
front and swept into a train. It was
sashed in ruby velvet, the ends of the
sash falling almost to the hem of the
skirt. Her jewels were pearls and dia-
monds. Lord Wakehurst, too, had a
bit of dazzle in epaulettes, medals
and star. The two received the long
line of Cabinet Ministers and Con-
suls, churchmen, soldiers and sailors,
ladies in sweeping velvets, satins
and laces, many gleaming purple,
gold or deep red. Lieutenant-Governor
Street and his wife were among the
guests. Her Coronation-blue frock had
sleeves of lacquered lace. Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy’s cape of sable was the
right accompaniment to her burgundy
satins. Sir Hugh Poynter came with his
dark-haired lady. The long train of her
rose-red velvets was studded with gold
and glinted with rhinestones. She topped
this richness with a tiara of diamonds.
Harry Budge’s lady had her mignon-
ette-green and silver made with a shoul-
der cape. The Alexander Gordon lady’s
brown laces were crusted with gold. Mrs.
Warwick Fairfax’s frock was silvery.
The wife of China’s Consul-General Pao
wore her noted jade necklace and brace-
lets with her brocaded white satin. Dame
Mary Cook and Dame Mary Gilmore
were there; so was Kate Ogilvie, being
congratulated on her Coronation honor.
Brown ostrich-feathers made the Hordern
lady’s cape. The Premier came with
Mrs. Stevens; the Commander Owen
couple and Captain Scott and his wife
were among the many. The Consul for
Belgium and Mrs. Segaert were there ; so
were Latvia’s Consul Macleod and his
wife. Her frock was deep rose in hue.
Mayoress Parkes caped grey satin in
ermine ; Mrs. A. V. Maxwell combined
gardenias and blue velvet. Lady Wake-
hurst’s secretary, Hermione Llewellyn,
was attractive in pink satin —very pale,
like a winter rose. There were Mac-
arthur Onslows, of course.
Hibiscus, roses and gladioli were in the
rooms in massed profusion. At intervals
along the supper-tables occurred great
floral crowns carried out in tones of gold
and mounted on purple satin with a touch
of near-ermine. But the principal flower
composition was the fountain in the
middle of the ballroom. This was
fashioned of sweet-peas and ran from
pale pink to deep lilac. Throughout the
evening its sparkling jet of water plashed
into a fern-fringed basin in which water-
lilies grew.
The military review was thrilling, es-
pecially when some of the bombers flew
just above the heads of the crowd. How
they zoomed and bit the air! Centennial
Park gathered 200,000 on its green sward
for this pageant. Many had made a
whole day of it, brought a picnic basket,
and waited expectantly till three o’clock
came. Others took a fly on the gees at
Randwick before turning their cars
towards Centennial. Ten thousand men
took part in the display, men in Army,
Navy and Air Force uniforms moving with
a mechanised precision that was almost
not human. And how the crowds thrilled
to the bands! There’s something heart-
ening about the swing and bravura of a
band when you’ve been standing on the
stretch for a couple of hours. Lord
Wakehurst, in the uniform of a captain
of the 4th Sussex Regiment, inspected the
troops, and later took the salute, while
the Union Flag was lowered and the
Royal Standard run up, furled, to be
broken when the bands burst, all
together, into the National Anthem. Then
came the exciting feu de foie, and then
the hoisting, once again, of the Union
Flag. Lady Wakehurst and Hermione
Llewellyn watched keenly from the dais,
which was populated with importants of
Church and State.
When Sydney arrays her waterfront in
gala dress, no Neapolitan or Venetian
carnival can outdo her in beauty and a
sense of romance. For Coronation night
she sparkled and scintillated as never
before. In the blue-white of the flood-
lights how unreal and faery seemed the
bridge! On the waters that flung back
a thousand points of light great warships
rippled into silvery gleam. From the
little stone island that is Fort Denison up
soared the fireworks, sending a track of
rainbow radiance along the still, cold
terraces of air. In between was the fenc-
ing display of the searchlights. Thrust,
riposte, crouch and spring again. To
Kirribilli Point, just by Admiralty House,
was given the glory of the final cres-
cendo. This was a set piece with pic-,
tures of the King and Queen outlined in
fireworks.
Ruth Pearce-Jones is off to Vienna
and Leipzig to gain a knowledge of the
Bach tradition at first hand. It is her
intention, after her studies, to bring her
knowledge back to Australia. Ruth has
the musical background necessary for this
special study. Since she was a small girl
she has worked at the piano with relative
Lottie Hyam, and later with Alfred Hill.
Ruth will give her farewell recital —which
is, incidentally, her first —at the Con. on
May 26. Photograph from Lupton.
The Mayor gave a party, and all Sydney
(or so it seemed) went to it. This, too,
was to the glory of the Coronation, and
the Town Hall had been swept and
garnished in honor of the occasion.
Golden cypress had been woven with
deep green and swung in garlands be-
tween the balcony pillars. These had
been turned into columns that looked
both marble and Grecian. From the
green-and-gold garlands swung crystal
bells that shed their light on vivid cottage-
garden posies that their bright-green tubs
were just large enough to hold. These
tubs were set on low stone pedestals.
The window-boxes outlining the gallery
were brilliant with red and yellow
flowers. But the stage dominated every-
thing. Here the city’s coat-of-arms, all
gold and blue flowers and amber lights,
shone out against a background of palms
and cypress and flax-leaves.
Two thousand five hundred invita-
tions had been sent out, and it’s
fairly safe to say the two thousand
five hundred entree-cards were handed
in. The procession took over an hour
to pass the funny little fenced-off en-
closure before which stood Mayor Howie
and Mayoress Parkes, the Mayor in all
his golden glory of robe and chain.
Handsome describes the hostess’s frock,
which was of royal blue, with gold leaves
in the corsage and at the neckline. At
half-past nine the vice-regal party arrived.
Lady Wakehurst’s gown of ivory velvet
was supple as satin. It was draped
slightly at the left side. Her shoulder
cape was of white fox, her flowers pink
roses and carnations, her tiara burned
with diamonds. Black velvet and ermine
wrapped Mrs. Stevens, who was there
with the Premier. Archbishop Mowll’s
wife had green shoulder scarves to her
black frock.
The Admiral Lane-Poole couple, the
Brigadier Hardies, the Town Clerkly
Hendys and the Chief Justice Jordans
were in the official orbit. Good-looking
Frank Crane, who is the very efficient
Town Hall aide on such occasions, whis-
pered to this writer that his Coronation
baby Susan was just five days old. Hand-
made lace of the same hue trimmed the
Poynter lady’s midnight-blue chiffon
frock, which had a slender, pointed train.
Mrs. Garnet Halloran’s furs were Arctic
fox, her velvets ivory. Periwinkle-blue
velvet was worn by Mrs. Wilfred Fair-
fax. Persimmon gold gleamed on Mrs.
Norman Macleod. New knight Sam
Cohen brought his lady, who was dignity
in black velvet. Mrs. Val Osborne
brought her pretty daughter. Other
young things noticed were Katharine
Burdekin, Margaret Hamilton Lewis,
Peggy Fraser from Melbourne in emerald
satins, Beatrice McGirr and Dickie Dett-
mann, who came with her father. Mrs.
Harry Bundock was in the Coronation
picture with a trained frock of gold lame,
an ostrich-feather fan and pearls.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s hand-made lace and
black velvet caused a stir. Miss Kate
Egan mingled Coronation purple and
silver. Dame Constance D’Arcy was in
exquisite black lace. Turquoise chiffons
were worn by Mrs. Ardill. Miss Hilda
Marks’s black and gold brocades were
notable; so was the ostrich-feather cape
on the Hordern lady’s shoulders. Mollie
Walder was a sparkling little figure in
white satin. The Charlie Lloyd Jones
couple came with their dinner guests. J.
J. Mulligan walked and talked. The
Norman Lowes were a handsome couple.
Mrs. Toby Browne brought her sheep-
growing husband and wore a woven-wool
frock of deep purple and silver. Mrs.
Wunderlich brought ice-blue satin to the
color-scheme. Colonel Hyman and his
wife were in a group with China’s Consul
and his wife. The David Knox couple,
the C. M. C. Shannons and Miss Fairfax
were among those glimpsed.
The spoken word came back to the
stage of the Royal on Saturday night.
It is mostly a bitter word, pointed by an
uncomfortably sharp wit. Sydney turned
up in force at this first night, and the
Conservatorium was equally crowded
with listeners to the Budapest quartet.
Gladys Moncrieff’s entry to the Royal
was the signal for a monster handclap.
Two nice young things in the audience
were Shirley Poynter, in delphinium
velvets, and Robin Eakin. The frocks
worn on the stage were for once better
than those in the front of the house. The
Con. orchestra and a choir of 400 voices
put the sound of revelry into the Town
Hall. To this Coronation concert came
the Governor and Lady Wakehurst, the
Philip Streets, Mayoress Parkes, Arch-
bishop Mowll and his wife, Cabinet
Ministers and Consuls.
Its initials on the lawn were in Coro-
nation purple, the flowers along the rails
were gold—horticulturally the A.J.C. had
done its bit towards the day’s festivities.
For last Wednesday’s meeting all the
cars wore red, white and blue streamers,
small flags and crowns. Ladies flew the
patriotic colors in knots on furs and
shoulders. Purples, reds and blues were
woven into the dressing. Randwick was
one with the rest of the 'Empire. The
Sam Cohen lady greeted the day in an
ensemble of amethyst boucle. The long
coat was fitting. Her toque was in the
same shade, and her bag was decorated
with gold. Mrs. Alexis Albert’s grey
angora frock had black sleeves and a
small black collar. Mole collar and
revers set off Mrs. Sam Hordern’s soft
woollen suit of green, and the McKel-
vey lady, her Arctic fox dyed cinnamon,
worn with a slim black suit, was one of
the smartest. Red-and-blue quills stabbed
the front of Marie O’Brien’s small
velour. When she lifted a white-gloved
hand to it she rounded off the color
scheme. Mrs. Sep Levy was all mink
and black velvet. Mrs. Sam Hardy wore
blurred checks in blue and white ; so
did Mrs. Parsons.
Mrs. Moore Cosgrave, the wife of
Canada’s Trade Commissioner, has be-
come a personality in Sydney’s social
world. She was one of the recurring
figures in last week’s gay pageant.
Dorothy Welding photograph.
One party which King George and
Queen Elizabeth would have heartily
approved was the lunch in the lower hal!
of the Town Hall. There were 1000
guests, and their hosts were the aider-
men of the City of Sydney. Each aider-
man had the giving of 50 invitations.
Men, women and children took part in
the celebration. An orchestra played
throughout the meal, and at the end there
were handkerchiefs for the women, cigar-
ettes for the men and sweets for the
youngsters, all in special Coronation
boxes. The Governor, who was going
to spend his afternoon with the military
and his evening with official “Who’s
Who,” paused to spend half an hour or
so at this lunch.


r ;
■■
H I
Mm
m
%
u
H
1
■
m
n
■
v
m
m
m
m
i
■
zb. b:
m
M
mmmm
•
m
■
mi
m
1
an
i ‘\
ill
IN YOUR HOME
Your g'uests will appreciate the delicate aroma
of this Fine Australian WhisKy, and their judg-
ment, liKe yours, will acclaim its soft mellowness.
It is a satisfying drink!
“A really charming spirit
This specially-selected Australian Malt WhisKy
is guaranteed Pure Pot Stilled, and won First
Prize at the Royal Centenary >Show.
MILNE’S WHISKY
is sold at a price to suit your purse, because there is no
primage or exchange and duty is little more than Half
that of imported whiskies.
6a.
a nip
7/9
per bottle
in Metropolitan Area,
Country Slightly Higher .
New South Wales Distributors for the House of MILNE •
CAWSEY MENCK T. & S. LTD.,
447 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
%m:jAUY S&LECTO-
- ■ m$
AUSTRALIAN
msmims


Missing Friend.
COLE. —Will ELIZABETH ANN COLE,
maiden name DOWNING, who left England
for New Zealand with her husband about 1878
and later, it is believed, returned to England, if
still living, please communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA.
LIMITED, lO Queen Street, Melbourne, Aus-
tralia? Will any person who can furnish in-
formation concerning her or her daughter
please write to the same address?
KNAPE. —lf the relatives of ELIZABETH
KNAPE (widow of Richard James Knape), for-
merly of Bendigo and Williamstown, will com-
municate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
they may hear something to their advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 366 of 1937.
BETWEEN ALEXANDER JAMES LODDER
Petitioner
And GLADYS LODDER Respondent.
TO GLADYS LODDER late of Dumaresq
Street Gordon and Toobeah Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALEXANDER
JAMES LODDER has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the fourth day of August 1937 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of May, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
C. P. Dignam, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 692 of 1937.
BETWEEN MARY JANE ELIZABETH
DOOLAN Petitioner
And THOMAS STANLEY DOOLAN
Respondent.
TO THOMAS STANLEY DOOLAN,
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY JANE
ELIZABETH DOOLAN has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of your desertion of the said
Mary Jane Elizabeth Doolan AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Fourth day of August One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-seven and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 7th day of May, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A WACHSMANN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TO LANCELOT PATRICK TRYE husband
of ELIZABETH TRYE of Inaha Tara-
naki New Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at New Plymouth citing you to appear and
answer the petition of ELIZABETH TRYE ot
Inaha New Zealand wherein she prays that she
be divorced from you on the ground of deser-
tion and such citation intimates that in default
of your so doing the Court will proceed to heai
the said petition and to pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence NOW
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within thirty days
after the date of the last publication of this
advertisement on the 19th day of May 1937 to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the
Supreme Court Office at New Plymouth and
there to enter an appearance without which you
will not be allowed to address the Court at
any stage of the procedings. A copy of the said
citation and petition will be supplied to you on
your applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at New Plymouth.
DATED this 19th day of April, 1937.
L. W. LOUISSON,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement. _ , ,
JOHN HOUSTON, of Hawera, New Zealand,
is the Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address
for service is at the office of MESSILUKo
CROKER & McCORMICK, Solicitors,
Brougham Street, New Plymouth, New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
There were two things which most
people did during Coronation Week:
they listened to the broadcast of the cere-
mony in the Abbey, and they drank the
King’s health with full measure of loyalty
in anything from champagne to plonk.
Decorations in Melbourne were few and
unexciting, and the only celebrations of
the Wednesday public holiday were races
at Ascot and the review of units of the
Navy, Army and Air Force at Royal
Park.
Invitations to the review were sent out
in the name of the Minister of Defence,
but did not secure for card-holders a
view of the proceedings. The official
enclosure was a myth, and people who
hadn’t roofs of cars to sit or stand on
saw only the ears of several horses, the
heads of mounted officers, a twinkle of
bayonets and, if they were lucky, a few
cocked hats belonging to the Navy. Many
women used small mirrors as periscopes,
and one inventive genius tied her open
compact to the handle of her umbrella.
Jumbled up together on the equal
plane of “standing room only” were
Consuls and civic dignitaries complete
with wives, bowler hats, gloves and
sticks, Diggers, both in and out of
uniform, their chests blazing with
medals, the general public and a small
raggedy boy shouting lustily for his
chum, one “Snozzle.” A man who really
could see something owing to his extra
inches was well-known engineer Briga-
dier W. A. Scott, who had a splendid
record at Gallipoli. Also noticed were
Colonel F. J. Anderson’s determined jaw
and Flight-Lieut. “Rusty” Rae giving a
shoulder-grandstand seat to his small
daughter. “Rusty” belongs to the Cater-
pillar Club, whose members must have
done parachute jumps, not as stunts, but
to save their lives; his leap occurred
about three years ago, when his ’plane
lost a wing in mid-air.
The acting Lord Mayor rose to the
occasion of Coronation Week with a re-
ception, simple and informal, with neither
barricades nor crowds round the porticos
of the Town Hall, very little official re-
ceiving, and no dancing until the carpets
were moved and the band provided the
first music of the evening at 11.30. There
were several bars, but supper was sand-
wiches and coffee.
There was an absence of tinkling foun-
tains and lavish decorations, the only fes-
tive array being enormous portraits of
the King and Queen, single-bloom chry-
santhemums in pots on the stage, bunting
draped over the balcony, young trees
stuck into the steam-heater pipes and an
artificial breeze to keep two flags flying.
Mrs. Lem Callaway, who acted as
Mayoress, wore a gown of pansy-blue
lace over purple-grape taffeta. Among
the 2000-odd guests were the Frederick
Mann couple, the acting-Premier and
Mrs. Old, who expressed her loyalty for
the occasion with a royal-blue satin
gown covered in silver crowns, the Town
Clerk, noticeable for his wig and black
grad, gown, who was accompanied by
Mrs. H. S. Wootton, in white and a pink
feather cape. Alderman Stapley was
there, but in ordinary evening dress, not
his knee breeches. From the expression
on Norman Carlyon’s face it was doubt-
ful if he were pleased or self-conscious
at his brand-new councillor’s plumage.
Noticed also were the Horace Mackennall
couple, she in purple and a tiara, Mrs.
Vinton Smith and Mrs. Ben Cox, both
wearing black and silver foxes, Gwen
Hutchings, in a gold lame cloak, Mrs.
Ellis McCausland, whose floral taffeta
gown was attached to plaited blue
shoulder straps, and Colonel and Mrs.
George Stephenson, Mrs. Stephenson
wearing her fair hair in plastic rolls above
her beautiful white foxes.
Most of the boatrace thrills happened
on the heats afternoon, for watching the
finals everybody knew who the winners
would be as soon as the boats passed the
bend in the river. On the first day it
was calm and windless, and spectators
had little need of their rugs and heavy
coats, but on Friday a chill wind and a
threatening sky turned the riverside
lawns into a midwinter landscape. Later
in the afternoon, when hundreds of en-
thusiasts walked across Princes Bridge
back to town, soda bars and milkshops
were packed with small boys, and chairs
were more precious than rubies in hotel
lounges. In the evening, boys and old
boys having got the ghosts of voices back
into their strained larynxes, there were
dinner parties of all shapes and sizes,
followed by pictures, theatres or
dancing.
As a result of Archbishop Mannix’s
edict against drink at dances, boatrace
night saw the first “dry” Xavier Ball.
Many people were doubtful about the
effect of the innovation, and had visions of
“niners” on trucks outside in the rain
and of bulged hip pockets, but on the
whole they agreed that the scheme acted
fairly well, and was an improvement on
the old days when crowds of unknown
irresponsibles abused the privileges of a
free bar.
There was a Coronation interlude
before supper, when the band played
“Land of Hope and Glory” and God
Save the King,” and Marcus Burke, the
winning crew’s coach and president of
Old Xaverians for the third year in suc-
cession, made a speech. His mother,
Mrs. T. M. Burke, who wore black and
a fur cape, discovered in her presentation
bouquet of gladioli a butterfly of scarlet-
and-black enamel. Noticed in a room-
ful of curled heads was the straight, dark
coiffure of an Echuca visitor, Sadie
Stokes. Mrs. Jack Mulvany wore a
black frock and her blond hair coaxed
into ringlets. Mrs. John Clarebrough
chose black spattered with gold, Yvonne
Swift wore orchid chenille georgette,
Mrs. T. J. Ryan attached lily-of-the-
valley to a lily-green frock, and Mrs.
Jack Bowen wrapped herself in mid-
night-blue satin. Among the dancers
were a noticeable number of young legal
men and several members of the crews
which rowed Xavier to victory in 1928
and 1929. Among special guests were
representatives from all public schools.
One of last week’s brides was Mar-
garet Prytz, of Maffra, who with her
husband, Paul Whitehead, is now aboard
the Niagara en route for a honeymoon
in Fiji. For the marriage friends and
relatives gathered from Gippsland, the
Western District, the Riverina (the
’groom’s family live at Urana) and from
as far north as the George. Wentworths’
property on the borders of Queensland.
The evening ceremony at St. Patrick’s
was followed by a reception at Scott’s,
which few people thought of leaving
before 1 a.m. The bride’s travelling rai-
ment, to which she changed from tulle
veil and gown of ivory cloque flecked
with gold, was a black velvet dinner
frock and a long black velvet cape which
reached her toes and was lined with
scarlet moire. Three white orchids were
pinned in her dark hair. Broothorn
photograph.
The University students’ revue “Rhodes
to Glory” travelled through some good
and some very bad hours. The first per-
formance finished at five to twelve, but
as the five nights’ season progressed some
of the items were eliminated. Particu-
lar credit was due to the ballet, its danc-
ing, costuming and thorough rehearsing
by trainer Jerry McErlean, to Jessie
Brookes for her sense of comedy as an
inhibited postmistress and to Elizabeth
Pitt for her acting in a couple of crowd
scenes and the way she put over her
Hawaiian number by charm and stage
sense alone. Fred McNaughton, who in
real life is studying for a diploma of
physical education, was the Rhodes
scholar when grown up, also the aquatic
hero 6f “Swimming under Water with
the Lord Mayor’s Daughter.” In child-
hood the prodigy of the play was edu-
cated by Mollie Shackleton, a boned-
corseted schoolmarm. Later he became
stroke of the school crew and a hero,
but not for his rowing; at a masked ball
he was a dull swot treated with disdain
by Keith Macartney, Fred Thoneman and
Sue Broadhurst; in a broadcasting studio,
to secretary Dorothea Dixon and assorted
applicants for auditions, he. was only a
worm. Gangsters flourished unhung at
classics lectures about the time the
Rhodes selection committee met in a place
that looked like the forest of Arden. The
finale was the deck of the s.s. Edina
with the Rhodes scholar, the flapper
winner of a newspaper competition
(Maidie Flint) and other notorieties sail-
ing off to the Coronation.
Squeezed in among the two dozen odd
numbers was Keith Macartney jumping
in and out of various parts, including
that of Mrs. Lot and her pillar of salt.
There were points about the newspaper
skit when Sam Cohen, Cynthia Sutton
and Bob Johnson, taking their daily
papers seriously, chirruped with glee or
plunged themselves deep into gloom on
account of breakfast-table news.
“Hamlet” as Noel Coward might have
written it was performed with John Park
as the N Prince of Denmark, practical
version, June Burnside as Ophelia, a
bored bit of work, and a lot of other
aristocrats. Terence Crisp, producer and
part author, and Jerry McErlean, pro.
dancer, were, the only people taking part
in the revue whose names are not on the
University Registrar’s rolls of students or
lecturers.
The Australian Club gave a lavish
late-afternoon party on Boatrace Day.
In honor of Coronation Week red, white
and blue garlands of flowers swung from
the necks of white swans floating on syn-
thetic ponds upon the buffet tables.
Otherwise the decorations were not
limited to Empire colors, as has been
the fashion at so many parties lately.
Reds, russets and golds were clustered
together in bowls and baskets of chry-
santhemums, gladioli, begonias and
branches of burnished leaves which
Nature provides with such generous
abandon at this time of year. A foun-
tain tinkled in the dining-room to the
accompaniment of a string orchestra,
heard but hardly seen behind its grove
of maples. The president and Mrs. Nor-
ton Grimwade received the guests, Mrs.
Grimwade wearing an oatmeal-tinted
gown of fine woollen crepe, a brown hat
and, pinned to her furs, her presentation
spray of mauve and white orchids.
Among the guests, who numbered nearly
700, were Major Geoffrey Walker and
his wife, who was noticeably well
tailored, all in brown. Rosalind Par-
bury spent a busy hour introducing to
her friends her fiance from India, lain
Aitchison.
An American girl, Elizabeth Pitt, is the
tall brunette whose photograph is by
Ronald Pierre. Her principal contribu-
tion to “Rhodes to Glory” was “Malihini
Mele,” a comedy told in song and
dance of a Hawaiian youth who wooed
his beloved with the wrong words, for he
didn’t know much of her dialect. Eliza-
beth had the opportunity of studying
Hawaiian folklore when she recently
spent 18 months in Honolulu, where she
commenced an arts course at the Univer-
sity. This year, her first in Melbourne,
she is living at the Women’s College and
is studying music at the Conservatorium.
She is the only daughter of the Dale L.
Pitt couple, of the Big Bell Mine, Cue
(W.A.).
The Society for Prevention of Cruelty
to Children, which has been doing good
work in a quiet way for over 40 years,
is coming forward in the biggest effort of
its career with a ball to be held at Earl’s
Court on June 11. Among preliminary
meetings was a gathering at the Colin
Frasers’ beautiful home, Whernside,
where morning-tea was followed by a
discussion of plans round the log fire in
the lounge. Among those with sugges-
tions to offer were the hostess, who is a
past-president of the society, Harry
Gullett’s lady, whose keen sense of
humor toes the mark with her efficiency
as president of the ball committee, and
Mrs. Frank Andrew, who booked a table
for a party which is certain to include
the Andy Chirnsides.
The S.P.C.C. would far rather take up
its weapons as a friend of the friendless
than as a prosecuting agency, for it is
not only a protector of the children of
ignorant or abusive parents, but is a
problem-solver for those in need of
advice. Through its offices good perma-
nent homes are found for unwanted or
neglected children of the poor, and tem-
porary homes for young folk whose
mothers are ill or working long hours
for a living. Friendly talks between the
society’s officers and young “uncontrol-
lables” and “real bad lots” have often
resulted in lifting loads of worry from
the shoulders of distracted parents and
better behavior through a developed
sense of responsibility in their offspring.
The society’s influence also works well
in the cleaning up of slum homes.
Two well-known girls announced their
engagements recently. Pat Carnegie,
daughter of the W. H. Carnegies, is be-
trothed to Tony Fairbairn, son of the
Clive Fairbairns, of Woomargama,
Albury. Sheila Bellair is following in
the footsteps of her sisters Betty and
Barbara, both married within the last
couple of years. Sheila’s fiance is Bob
Anderson, and her ring is a beautiful
emerald surrounded by diamonds.


BRANDALIERS
PS
c*
♦A'"
PENS
a
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBANDAUKK * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.')
2 O’CONNELL afKi&ET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies., never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman): Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. fVice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(I WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
PASTURE SEEDS.
Write to Hawthorne Bins. Pty., Ltd., Kerang,
Vic., for price list of Wimmera and Cert. Perr. Ryes,
Sub. Clovers early and late, all other seeds, and
save 7i% to 10%. AVe pay freight.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: If Herbert Gepp’s hopes of
reopening the Croydon goldfield come to
anything it will mean a lot to the Gulf
country. Less than a generation ago
Croydon was the biggest town in the
North next to Townsville, Charters
Towers and Mackay, and it was because
of it that Burketown flourished. Its
revival, with 3000 or 4000 people on the
field, would be a great stimulus to Car-
pentaria coastal settlement.
* % * *
“M. Turlutu”: A. E. Harte, of Bris-
bane, dead at 74, was a useful and active
Queensland citizen for over 60 years. As
a lad he began in Charters Towers (Q.)
journalism under that lovable original
Thady O’Kane, of the “Daily Northern
Miner.” Stockbroking followed for a
few years, then the secretaryship of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange Club. In 1902
Harte was appointed secretary of the
National Agricultural Association, and a
year later manager of the newly-estab-
lished “Daily Mail.” Thence he went
into the real-estate and commission busi-
ness, and revived a keen interest in
soldiering which later took him to
Egypt and France as a captain. Return-
ing as a major, mentioned in dispatches,
he resumed sharebroking and accoun-
tancy. A man of the highest integrity,
he acted as umpire in innumerable differ-
ences of business opinion. Commercial
lawyers were wont to accuse him of hav-
ing kept more good paying cases out of
court than any man in Brisbane.
*■■*■**
“Bisi”: The pace must be a cracker
in Darwin, where the speed limit is 25
miles an hour. In Rabaul and Kavieng,
the only two towns in Mandated New
Guinea possessing roads, the limit for
cockroaches, pigs, pedestrians, cyclists and
cars is 15 per, and notice-boards warn
you at the entrances to those great cities.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A Cedar Crossing (S.Q.)
farmer recently got some fine mixed fish-
ing in Emu Creek, landing over 150
golden perch and Murray cod in less
than an hour. He did not use any fancy
tackle, either; he did the whole job with
a garden rake. It proved a particularly
handy implement, as the stretch of fish-
ing water measured only 6ft. long, 3ft.
wide and less than 2ft. deep. The fish
had evidently been trapped in the pool
while making their way upstream dur-
ing a recent flood.
* * * ■ *
“Marsh”: Sixty-five points a record
fall for a sunshower (B. 7/4/’37)? Must
have been dew. Travelling overland with
horses to Innisfail (N.Q.) we ran into a
real sunshower—4so points in less than
a quarter of an hour! And the cloud up
above was only a hand-size in an other-
wise cloudless sky. But it does know how
to rain up that way.
* * * *
“Are”: Something like what happened
after the prickly-pear was introduced into
Australia as a “pretty garden flower”
is going to happen on the Darling Downs
(Q.) if the wild verbena is not quickly
stamped out. A species of heliotrope, a
native of Argentina and Southern Brazil,
it, too, was originally brought here as a
garden plant. It is a creeper, and seeds
in great abundance. Already the pest has
overrun a large area of grazing and farm-
ing country on the south-eastern Downs.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Here’s how the
Queensland railways help the country-
dweller. Freight on 24cwt. of roofing
iron for 62 miles from Brisbane is £2 Bs.
-—roughly, 9|d. per mile. Booked by the
department’s boasted co-ordinated service
for delivery 16 miles from nearest station,
it was discovered on arrival five days
later that the contractor had chucked up
the job months before, but the news
hadn’t reached Brisbane. The local
carrier delivered it for 10s., involving a
climb of 600 ft. and much rough, steep
road —7£d. per mile, and two handlings.
He pays heavy license fees and risks his
own vehicle, as well as doing all his own
work. Despite his willingness to pay
up to £lOOO p.a. in licenses, his other
two trucks were seized last year by the
State Transport Strangulation Board.
Before that he would have delivered the
iron door-to-door for 355., and then
made a fair profit, with a total mileage
of under 60 by road.
% * * *
“Dungeness”: Now and then one sees
a romantic reference in the flapper press
to the lonely white gravestones marking
the last resting-places of our northern
pioneers. Don’t you believe it. Any
that were put over graves in the real
northern outback have been long since
chipped into spearheads by the abo.
“Bradshaw’s Tomb,” on the Victoria
River (N.T.), is a hill; those who buried
the four murdered men there knew too
much to put up any stone. On the Daly
is a grave over which a big stone cross
was raised in memory of a departed
prospector. Within a year more than
half of it had been taken. Soon after-
wards two prospectors, one a former
mate of the dead man, were badly
wounded by spears whose heads were
formed of chipped stone from that
memorial cross, worked to a razor edge.
"I thought I'd help you, darling, and get some of these oily marks off!"
“Mac Fergus”: This enervating
Bananaland climate! Bill Tarrant, of
Maryborough, who started in the motor
business in the “one-lunger” period,
recently attended a Brisbane conference
of dealers, terminating at midnight. Im-
mediately the pow-wow ended Bill
settled himself behind the steering-
wheel, stepped on it, and was home the
following morning in time to take his
place on the mounds among the local
crack rifle-shots. He won three of the
four prize shoots. Then, without waiting
for the pay-out signal, he joined a deep-
sea fishing party and topped the tally
over two days’ sport. Clermont (C.Q.)
was his birthplace, some time around the
’seventies.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Brisbane began its Coronation celebra-
tions the day before the affair, with a
Government House garden party and, at
night, the big Naval, Military and Air
Force Ball. Most of the gala dress had
been put on the town and its main build-
ings, and the eight debs, and their escorts
drove to the ball through beflagged streets.
Flags sprouted from every building,
crowns ablaze with lights decked every
second facade, and the Government
buildings were floodlighted. Apart from
the man-made decorations, every garden,
public and private, every square and
park blazed with the royal scarlet of
poinsettias.
The Governor, under a black um-
brella, and Lady Wilson, under a crim-
son one, greeted many of the garden-
party guests in a heavy downpour. Hav-
ing made their bows to the King’s repre-
sentative, the guests scattered and fled to
the shelter of trees and to the mar-
quees where tea was to be served. The
garden party was both a Coronation ges-
ture and a good-bye salute to Queens-
land before the Wilsons took wing to
Singapore.
Green and blue, red and purple, rose-
pink and floral umbrellas sheltered from
the downpour the party frocks of the
women guests. Even sopped uniforms
could not quell the verve of the 9th/49th
Battalion band. Lieut.-Commander N. S.
Pixley, Major A. V. Stark, hon. As.D.C.,
and Captain Reggie de M. Leathes,
A.D.C., were in attendance, and John
McDonnell, private sec., announced the
guests, for whom Boy Scouts found seats
and Girl Guides served tea. Lady Wilson
wore delustred navy satin, with silver
clips at the neck, and a shady navy hat,
with a bow and buckle by way of trim-
ming.
The Coronation decorations at the City
Hall must have been a help to the deco-
ration committee of the Naval, Military
and Air Force Ball. The tall clock-tower
was outlined with colored lights, and the
building bristled with flags. Flags were
everywhere inside the hall, and shields
bearing the royal and Commonwealth
coats of arms. Over 700 attended the
affair. The Governor, with Captain
Reggie M. de Leathes and John
McDonnell in attendance, was there, his
entry heralded by a roll of drums. Briga-
dier J. L. Witham, C.M.G., D. 5.0., and
Mrs. Witham, Commander E. C. Rhodes
and Mrs. Rhodes received the Governor,
Mrs. Witham in black georgette with
bands of gold and Coronation blue at the
hem, Mrs. Rhodes in a classic frock of
loganberry georgette. The Chief Justice
and Lady Blair, Jos. Francis, M.H.R.,
and Mrs. Francis, Captain C. B. Withy,
M.C., and Donald Cameron also were
members of the reception and official
group. The official alcove was a rallying
spot for naval, military and air men dur-
ing the evening. The eight debs, were
Helen Margaret Wilson, daughter of
Major and Mrs. L. R. Wilson; Marie
Mclvor Clowes, daughter of Major and
Mrs. A. S. Clowes; Bettye, daughter of
the Percy Cox couple; Clarice Sergeant,
daughter of the A. Sergeants; Enid
Carter, daughter of Lieut, and Mrs.
W. R. Carter; Molly Simpson, a Glad-
stone lass; Betty Blair and Verity Jones.
Mrs. J. L. Witham was matron of honor.
All the girls were frocked in whjte, but
there was a diversity in hair-trimming.
Some pinned orchids above the ear, some
powdered their trim coiffures with gold
dust.
Hundreds flocked to the same address
next morning for the citizens’ service,
and hundreds more to the services in St.
Stephen’s and St. John’s. His Ex.
attended the latter and was represented
at the former.
While the Governor snatched a bite
of lunch Colonel Slansfield wrestled
with hundreds of decorated vehicles
which took part in the procession.
Trains poured a scurrying multitude
forth at Central and South Brisbane
stations, all hastening to town to see the
display. Children waved .flags and
mothers and fathers wore Coronation
brooches and buttons. It took over an
hour for the procession to make its way
from George-street to
the Exhibition grounds
To while away the time
for the early birds who
had filled the grounds
and stands long before
the procession even
moved off there was a
boomerang- and spear-
throwing display by
some Binghis from Cher-
bourg (C.Q.); they
wound up with a corro-
boree.
After the procession
had circled the show-
ring his Ex. climbed into
the saddle and reviewed
the naval and military
forces. Then he read a
description of the Coro-
nation service, and
finally went to North
Quay and planted a tree.
It isn’t North Quay any
more, but Coronation
Drive —which is a shame.
The name North Quay
is early Brisbane history.
At night at the Exhi-
bit i o n the Governor
lighted the flare for the
Boy Scou t s’ signal
beacon, which panting
relays then carried to the
top of Bartley’s Hill.
Soon beacons flamed
from every peak round
hill - encircled Brisbane
and chains of beacons
from Coolangatta to Thursday Island
blazed along the Queensland coast. At
Cooroy the Scouts cut a track from the
bottom to the top of Mt. Cooroy, the
highest point on the North Coast, and
their beacon was seen for miles around.
A massed choir of 1000 voices and
an orchestra of 80 gave a programme at
the Exhibition after the runners had fled
into the night with their flares. Then
there were the fireworks.
Before the big military (etc.) ball
there was a huge dinner-party at Len-
non’s. Brigadier and Mrs. Witham, the
Consul for America and Mrs. J. P. Rag-
land, various naval and military big-
wigs, a good assortment of medicoes and
their wives and a bunch of country visi-
tors were at it.
Colonel and Mrs. D. E. Evans gave
a pre-ball dinner at the Belle Vue, as did
the F. Z. Eagers, and the E. M. Tooths
dined a party before going on to the
ball.


THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street)
Latest works by the best Australian Artists
on view and for sale.
Including a Special Exhibition of Oil Paintings,
Water-colors, Pen Drawings and Etchings by
Norman Lindsay.
ADMISSION FREE
mm
m
N -
y' *■ .
m
i&msm
fWSI
ms
&B Stim:
*'•-. '• '■’• - :
:,# s¥**** W»
•»i>o<-:>yvcs>^'--
Vie better you sleep
-the better you work
TO awake gloriously refreshed with abundant energy and
vitality for the day’s work, regular hours of sound sleep
are essential.
There is nothing to equal a nightcap of delicious “Ovaltine”
for ensuring deep, refreshing sleep, every night. And during
sleep, the valuable nutritive elements which “Ovaltine” so
abundantly provides restore worn ceils and tissues and build
up new reserves of strength and vigour.
Scientifically prepared by exclusive processes, “Ovaltine” is
a complete and perfect tonic food. It supplies, in the most
easily digestible form, every nutritive element needed to
ensure perfect physical health and nervous vitality.
Remember that even when made entirely with milk, “Oval-
tine” is the most economical of all food beverages. It is
packed in three sizes and the nett weight has now been
INCREASED 12i per cent, in all cases. For value, there-
fore, as well as for supreme quality, always insist on
“Ovaltine”.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of “Ovaltine”, sufficient
to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps, to
cover the cost of packing and postage. See address below.
Small Size Medium Size Large Size
l/9 9oz. 2/10 18oz. 5/-
OVA LTIN E
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY
09.18.3;
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
A mirrored centre reflected the autumn
tonings of foliage and berries on the v.-r.
table at the Karrakatta Club May Ball,
a crowded affair with the president, Mrs.
W. H. Vincent, doing the honors in black
sheer crepe agleam with jet. Ornate
chairs were provided for James Mitchell
and his lady, who were parked in front
of the dais for the presentation of the
debs. Thirty fledglings, their plumage
white as driven snow, held their be-
flowered heads erect as they stepped with
fneasured tread to make their curtsies and
take up positions for the lancers. Mrs.
Max Rutter had the chicks under her
blue suede velvet wing, and- Mrs. A. W.
Jacoby showed as artistic an eye. over
her choice of angel-sleeved embossed
white velvet as she did with the arrange-
ment of the club’s floral decorations.
Mrs. John Love’s silver-dotted green
mousseline was collared with pink mara-
bout, Jeanne Forrest’s necklet of violets
was a fitting adjunct to her amethyst
georgette, and Joan and Eileen Bovell
had feather trimmings on their twin blue
lace frocks.
Tiny tucks opening out into wide flares
ran down the back of Margaret Leckie’s
fluffy white chiffons when she became
Mrs. Harley de Burgh Morrison at St.
George’s Cathedral. The many-layered
tulle veil with its flowered earpieces
floated over a bodice almost concealed by
a wide, drooping collar. Sister Barbara
came along aft in rustling ivory taffeta
with flat frills forming a semi-berthe and
graded flat frills widening towards the
hem. Toasts were honored in the com-
pletely pink-flowered music-room of the
Leckie home.
Plans were well drawn for the embryo
architects’ rally of friends at the Embassy
for the T-Square Ball. The ground
floor was embellished with balloons,
colored lights twinkled at the balcony
level and streamers wafted overhead.
June Irvine’s sunray pleated georgettes
billowed over silver lame as she danced
an exhibition tango and swing rhythm
with Aubrey Badger. The students
staged a burlesque dance and a mock
bullfight. Frocking was gay and youth-
ful, even the matrons, for the most part,
foregoing their customary black. Zoie
Bennett attached gold flowers to Viking-
blue taffetas, Dorothy Wood’s almond-
green satins ran to a three-tiered skirt,
and Tertia Nisbett’s white tulle was
stitched with satin stripes. Betty Cuth-
bert was sheathed in purple ring velvet,
a matching net cape swung over Jean
Clune’s pale-green flat crepe and a
cluster of tuber roses nestled at the waist
of Edna Heath’s white chiffons.
To make contact with old, new and
prospective members before the opening
of the hunting season the Myola Club’s
auxiliary committee arranged an evening’s
fun. Sidney Johnson had a victory in
the steeplechase, taking off at the brush
hurdles and artificial water jump with
great aplomb. There were topical competi-
tions, dancing, and Edna Smily’s presen-
tation of a sketch, “The Rehearsal.”
Mrs. Theodore Pelloe, the club’s earliest
member and president of the women’s
auxiliary, gave out the prizes.
A Honiton lace veil, worn by her
mother at her wedding, crowned Dolly
Bolt’s bridal rig when she kept her date
with Eric Moore at Wesley Church. Her
shimmering parchment satins were
hitched to a pearl-studded georgette
yoke, and were flounced into flares
’neath the pearl-encircled waist. At the
end of her long train came little June
Milne, in tiered pink organdie, carrying
a muff of pink flowers. Violet Major
and Ivy Golding brought up the rear,
the boat-shaped necks of their pleated
amethyst georgettes appliqued with
violet, and their matching head flowers
arranged in a semblance of peeresses’
coronets.
The audience at Benno Moiseiwitsch’s
recital at His Majesty’s Theatre made up
in enthusiasm what it lacked in sartorial
elegance. Gleaming shirtfronts were out-
numbered by daytime ties among the
menfolk, and ornamented coiffures were
rare among the fair sex. Mrs. Grace
Cooper’s diamente halo was a highlight,
a golden butterfly alighted on Mrs.
Athol Coppleston’s brunette curls, Betty
Merryweather banded her sleek fair
head with a halo plait of her own hair,
and Jessica Harcourt matched her black
sequined net gown with a petalled head
ornament.
From Melbourne comes news of the
engagement of Shirley, elder daughter of
the H. G. B. Reads, Warroora station,
Carnarvon, to Dr. Conrad Ley, Warra-
gul (Vic.). Nearer home an engagement
which has set telephone wires buzzing
with good wishes is that of Betty Hilton
Wood to the J. Manners Hills’ younger
son Geoff.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Hospitallers’ Club’s ball at the
Town Hall had as its inspiration the
financial needs of the St. John Ambu-
lance Brigade. The Governor was re-
ceived by Drs. Roy Burston and S. L.
Dawkins, representing the club and the
brigade respectively. The centrepiece
of the supper-table decorations was the
eight-pointed star of St. John of Jeru-
salem, carried out in pink and mauve
flowers. Mrs. Burston and Mrs. Dawkins,
who welcomed his Ex. at the dais, were
both in white and gold. Lady Mayoress
Dunstan chose petunia-toned chiffon, and
Premier Butler’s wife wore her presen-
tation gown of flesh-pink satin, veiled in
chiffon with diamente. trimming. The
Parsons lady topped her frock of fine
black lace with a diamond tiara, and
Mrs. E. W. Holden wore deep magnolia
lace.
The Piccadily was crowded for the
Music Salon’s soiree. Decorations were
Coronation-flavored —plenty of bunting
and red, white and blue, flowers. C. H. A.
Lienau and his wife received the guests.
Visitors were Essie Ackland, her hus-
band (Reginald Morphew) and Binna
Addy. Margaret Pirie, who recently
returned from overseas, was the star turn.
She sang three songs by Brahms. Acting-
Premier George Ritchie brought daughter
Isobel.
For the well-attended Coronation Ball
at the Palais Royal decorations were
mostly streamers of red, white and blue.
All the racing clubs were represented in
the official box. Dr. A. V. Benson’s wife
was gowned in dark-green chiffon velvet.
Mrs. R. L. Butler wore black satin
beaute, with pearl ornaments. With her
came Jean, in white matelasse. Mrs.
Whitmore Carr combined with her black
lace a silver fox fur cape. Mrs. R. Hynes
chose black chiffon velvet, with coat to
match, collared with white fox fur.
The Government’s Coronation Ball was
held in the Centennial Hall, Way ville, and
about 4000 went along to it. Innumerable
red, white and blue electric lights were
festooned in strands from an immense
crown in the centre of the ceiling, and
the effect was quite blinding. The dais
where the Ministry entertained official
guests was resplendent with scarlet and
gold crowns. Acting-Premier George
Ritchie and his lady received, she. gowned
in black satin, with a gold rose on the
corsage. Isobel touched a frock of
apricot crepe with turquoise blue. At
9.15 the Governor arrived with Lady
Dugan, whose white and silver brocade
had a touch of apple-green and a band
of the same supporting her diamond
tiara. She carried a pale-green ostrich
fan. Mrs. J. O. Haselden’s black self-
striped taffeta was cut on diagonal lines.
The Angas Parsons lady chose black
striped velvet and chiffon cut on princess
lines and merging into a train. The Hudd
lady sported Parma-violet georgette over
mauve satin, the bodice made with cape
effect, and the Bonython lady’s black
satin gown was lined with flesh-pink,
which showed in a panel down the back.
Lady Mayoress Dunstan’s frock was of
gold lame, merging into a train. Senator
McLachlan’s wife danced in dark-silver
crinkled lame, with touches of emerald
green, and her waist-length cape was of
ermine. Mrs. R. L. Butler’s black satin
beaute was moulded to the figure, and
Mrs. S. W. Jeffries was gowned in white
matelasse with silver hair-stripe.
TASMANIA.
Caroline (Car) Wall, daughter of the
i r, j A t Wall qnd
late Rev. and Mrs on ” d . Wa J!’a
R. H. Chalmers, Clifton Vae ’ A y . ’
were married at the Pontville Anglican
church. The bride’s heavy magnolia
satin frock had a ruched neck trimming
of old family face, and the tulle veil fell
from under a circlet of orange-blossoms.
Sisters Kate and Ruth and the groom s
ni P «\ Cruickshank, maided m shot-
gold taffeta frocks with ruched hems. A
reception was held at Mrs. M. cutler s
house, Brooksby.
The Tasmanian Aero Club ran a jolly
at-home in the clubhouse at Weston
Junction, Captain and Mrs. Gayton
Kirkman being the chief movers. At
supper the winner of the Holloway Cup,
J. A. Moloney, received his trophy.
The J. J. Gatenbys have returned to
Hawke’s Bay, Maoriland, after a long
stay in the north of the Speck. Mrs.
Gatenby was farewelled at sundry
parties, one of the most recent being an
afternoon affair given by Mrs. Cam Hin-
man at the Launceston Hotel.
A monster bridge party was run by
the auxiliary of the Blind, Deaf and
Dumb Institution at the Belvedere,
About 100 tables were filled. Mrs. C.
Oldham was hon. sec., and Dora Grant
hon. treas.
Essie Ackland’s concert and that of
the Orpheus Club fell on the same night,
which was a pity, as music-lovers would
have liked to hear both. However,
audiences were large and enthusiastic at
each performance. Miss Ackland is very
popular. Her second recital was
crowded.
The Town Hall was crammed on the
night of Brian Richards’s play, “No
Greater Glory,” produced by Mrs. Brett,
Both playwright and producer are mem-
bers of the Rep. Soc. N. P. Booth, Kitty
Cook and Linus Donelly had the three
lea^B^ 61 !!' , . , R , ■
The D. Holt-Dickinsons, with Budgie
nd Peter, are off for a trip to see Eng-
lish relations, but Budgie sprang upon
them hgr engagement to H C . Salmon,
Stonor House, just before leaving, so
s h e w jjj he hack before the others,
The Vyvyan Greens (Launceston) cele-
brated thdr silver wedding by tw o
p art j eSj one con fi ned pretty well to the
famfl and nearest relatives , a nd one to
which
, ~ . , - fto
'™ s at their own house, gifts were
showered on the pair,
Viti Allardyce, elder daughter ot one
of the Speck’s former Governors, has
become engaged to Lieut.-Col. J. F. Cor-
lett (Eng.). Miss Allardyce has been
living in Melbourne for some years. She
will be staying at Femtree with her
sister, Mrs. C. T. Butler, shortly,
tends to be married in Hobart.
The Norman Knights (Common-
wealth Bank) are being transferred to
Sydney from Hobart. He has been
selected to attend the conference ot
bankers in England later,
Mother Gertrude, the venerable
pioneer of Catholic education in the
Speck, celebrates her diamond jubilee at
the Presentation Convent, Launceston,
this month. She came out as Mary Sudi-
van, a girl of 18, and now holds the
Presentation prder record. She still knits
and reads without glasses, and is naie
and active.
Will Lawson, who has been in the
Speck for the last three months collect-
jng material for his Blue Gum Clippers,
sailed for Sydney after a farewell given
him at the O’Mays’ home, Bellerive, by
members of the Shiplovers Society.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
S he’s a sparkling
success notv .,.
m
At one time people thought her dull
because she seldom smiled, but she’s
not afraid to smile now since someone
told her that powder polished teeth
to perfection. All dentifrices contain
some powder that’s what does
the cleaning, but Calvert’s is ALL
POWDER that’s why it makes your
teeth gleam and sparkle ALWAYS.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
The Long White Cloud
Providing for Apprentices
Australian youth-employment surveys
reveal sharp depression-period drops in
the number of apprentices in the skilled
engineering and building trades. Maori-
land, with 10,500 trade apprentices in 1923
and 3000 in 1936-37, has amended its
legislation touching apprenticeships with
the idea of averting what would other-
wise be a certain, acute shortage of skilled
tradesmen in less than two years.
Minister of Labor Armstrong was
given power last session to approve
apprenticeship contracts on terms that
would have been illegal before the
amending legislation was adopted. Youths
older than 18 can now be apprenticed for
shorter periods at slightly higher wage
rates. More than 100 of these special
contracts have already been approved.
Australian engineering shops, like their
Maoriland counterparts, need more
skilled men, but there are fewer appren-
tices completing contracts than in pre-
depression days. The Maoriland provi-
sion not only paves the way for future
labor supplies, but diverts into useful oc-
cupations many hundreds of young men
who missed employment opportunities
because they were emptied on to the
labor market at a time of industrial
chaos.
The apprenticeship amendment has
other points to recommend it. Because
older youths must be paid slightly higher
rates, employers are not overlooking
younger lads seeking apprenticeship—but
older youths are being sought to fill in-
complete quotas. Final responsibility
rests with the Minister.
The measure is one for which the
Savage Government deserves every credit.
Like the Labor parties on this side of
the Tasman, Maoriland Lqbor refuses
titles, but it doesn’t share the A.L.P. hos-
tility to recommending them. Since
Savage and co. took charge at Welling-
ton there have been New Year and
Coronation knights.
“Ticker”: Southland, home of the
Maoriland Scots, is perturbed about its
lack of bairns ; Education Board figures
reveal a serious decline in school rolls,
and members agree that a falling birth-
rate is mainly responsible. Since 1932
the total roll has decreased steadily to
10,312 in 1936 ; a few years ago it was
13,000. Still, it should be a few years
yet before the Southland Rugby Union
suffers a dearth of husky representative
candidates. And the Springboks will
have been and gone by then.
* ■ * ❖ *
“M.”: A whole local body, except
surfacemen and office girls, took to the
air in Maoriland the other day. Cook
County Council, over Gisborne way,
chartered two ’planes from East Cook
Airways and made history by placing
them at the disposal of councillors and
chiefs-of-staff for a territory inspection.
The aerial tour took one morning and
cost £25 ; the same job by road would
have taken the 13 councillors four days
and set the council back nearly £5O.
* * *■ *
“D.N.”: One effect of European arma-
ment building on Maoriland industry has
been sadly noticeable in coalmining areas
in both islands. Miners have suffered
slack time because, according to Minister
of Mines Webb, the Railway Depart-
ment hasn’t been able to supply sufficient
rolling-stock to take coal to would-be
purchasers in other parts. It has been
unable to get its construction iron from
Great Britain; otherwise most of the
Maoriland mines would have been work-
ing at high pressure for some months.
Mr. Webb didn’t say whether or not the
Railway Department had tried to get
suitable iron from Australia; perhaps
some trade-embargo reason, obscure to
everyone but the politicians, prevented
even a trans-Tasman query. Or perhaps
the department, soon to hold a virtual
Maoriland transport monopoly, just
didn’t think of it.
* * * *
“Korero”: Native Land Courts deal
with many Maori problems other than
those relating specifically to land-owner-
ship. At the Otiria Court, in the Bay of
“The rainy season isn't far off now —I can feel it in your bones.”
Islands, ownership of two slabs of crude
greenstone and two handsome greenstone
meres, or war clubs, was recently dis-
puted by North Auckland and Poverty
Bay natives. Evidence dated back to
an 1818 wedding by which a Mahia Pen-
insula chieftainess became the bride of
a North Auckland chief, and the green-
stone treasures were sent north with the
bride as peace tokens from her people.
Years later, descendants of the royal
couple returned to Mahia, but the north-
ern tribe refused them the greenstone
gifts. The quarrel between the two tribes
continued until, at Otiria, the Court gave
half the crude greenstone to each tribe
on the understanding that it was to be
turned into Bay of Islands and Mahia
tribal-friendship memorials. One mere
was handed to each tribe to be held in
trust as further evidence of the 1818
union.
* * * *
Most Maorilanders regard
Aurora Australis as an interesting but
harmless novelty. A recent brilliant dis-
play, however, was blamed for a dis-
turbance in the Christchurch-West Coast
telegraph service. Telegraph signals, sent
along a single wire with a return through
the earth, are interrupted by earth cur-
rents ; on such occasions operators find
it necessary to resort to complete metallic
circuits. Earth currents do not always
coincide with Aurora Australis, but the
recent experience reinforces the opinion
that they are most noticeable when this
phenomenon is observable. Past distur-
bances have been noted over two-yearly
periods with spells of five years separat-
ing them. On some occasions, of which
the last was an example, the whole
country felt their effects. Telegraph
engineers plan a multiple voice-frequency
system on a complete metallic circuit
to eliminate interruption.
* * * *
“Mak”: Westralian Minister for
Public Works Millington, in a recent
Maoriland press interview, expresses
amazement at the similarity of Maori-
landers to Australians. “I can walk along
the streets of one of your cities and
scarcely realise that I am not in Mel-
bourne, Sydney or Perth,” said Mr. Mil-
lington. Evidently he doesn’t know that
among the people over the Tasman whom
he found so like Australians there are
more than 65,000 who call Australia
home. In Ministerial circles, he prob-
ably met more Australian- than Maori-
land-born members of the Wellington
Parliament —a realisation that might
have made Mr. Millington less jovial
about “our little trade differences.” They
are not little, but they are absurd. And
if ever there were a day when Maoriland
provincial newspapers ran the famous
par., “An Australian passed through the
district yesterday: nothing stolen,” it
passed long before Mr/ Millington ven-
tured on a sea trip that is shorter than
the land trip between Perth and Sydney.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: South Island runholders
aren’t satisfied with Maoriland methods
of “culling” the thousands of deer which
every year head for the lowlands and eat
out areas sheepmen have reserved for
wintering their flocks. Hundreds of deer
have been shot by the small army of
Maorilanders employed by the Govern-
ment, but men with highland properties
say the killing will have to be more in-
tense if any semblance of control is to
be obtained. Deer-stalkers have driven
herds to lower country, where they are
damaging pastures and enjoying crops
earlier this winter than ever before.
Station managers believe this early low-
land trek is entirely due to an insuffi-
cient number of stalkers being compelled
to work one altitude at a time. First
snows were later than usual, and, ordi-
narily, deer would have been satisfied
until later in the year with the feed
offering further back in the hills.
* * * *
“Motu”: There is another levy on
Maoriland primary producers, but this
time they have asked for it; in future,
they will pay 2d. a pig to provide an
advisory and instructional service for
pork and bacon suppliers. The tuppenny
levy applies to every pig-seller, and for
another ss. he can participate in a system
of voluntary litter-testing; for that, a
Department of Agriculture officer weighs
and records the litter of any purebred
sow two times in eight weeks. By study-
ing the recorded weights, pigmen hope
to track down thrifty and prolific breed-
ing strains and, in the words of Minister
of Agriculture Martin, “use them to es-
tablish a solid foundation of pig im-
provement.” So every time that old
sow rolls on some of her progeny, she’ll
at least save Hori tuppence a suffoca-
tion ; the levy is payable only on all pigs
slaughtered.
* * * *
“Tomo”: While most whites and
natives also use modern weapons for the
lively sport wild-pig hunting provides in
M.L., there are still some who cling to
the old hunting method of a knife and
dogs. One Maori on the east coast of
the North Island is famed for his skill as
a pigsticker. Hunting in the Urewera
country not long ago his dogs bailed up
a huge boar, and at the opportune time
the Maori darted in and fatally knifed
the animal. Then he discovered, deeply
embedded in the thick skin near the left-
hand front leg, about three inches of an
unusual but familiar knife blade. It was
the weapon he had used several years
before, and which had snapped off when
the pig wheeled and bolted —to some
purpose, for the scene of the first attack
was over 150 miles from that of the
second.
* * * *
“M.”: South Island acclimatisation
societies are spending so much money
keeping down the number of trout-eating
shags that there is a move afoot to
appoint a permanent shag-killer to super-
vise operations from Nelson in the north
right down to Southland. This is an-
other Maoriland job to stir the imagina-
tions of boys already interested in stories
of the men earning their livings by stalk-
ing wild deer. Hunting wily shags mightn’t
sound as exciting as killing mountain-
bred deer, but they are nearly as hard to
shoot, and they breed in country just as
wild and inaccessible. Reason for the
acclimatisation society move is that shags
have been taken with as many as 150
young trout in their stomachs—and fry
costs money to raise and liberate. Boys
in some country districts are making
good pocket-money cleaning up shag
rookeries; societies pay up to 2s. 6d.
a head for birds and 6d. for eggs.
* * * *
“Falconer”: Few would expect to find
supporters of the Jacobite cause in such
a young country as M.L., but the move-
ment has its partisans there, and even an
official organ. The “Jacobite” is a little
four-page journal published in Welling-
ton whenever funds permit; since its in-
ception in 1919 there have been 51 issues.


For. men who spend long hard days in the saddle, Riding
Boots that give extra comfort and are easy and quick to put
on and take off are a necessity. Such a pair of Boots
are the “ZIPP” Fastener Riding Boots. The “ZIPP” Fastener
adds considerably to the convenience and comfort of ordinary
Elastic-side Riding Boots, and in seconds instead of minutes
they can be put on or taken off.
Thousands of horsemen already have taken advantage of the
additional comfort the “ZIPP” gives—why don’t you?
The “ZIPP” can be had at front or on side elastic, whichever
desired.
The “ZIPP” Riding Boots are an exclusive Pike Brothers’
product, Reg. No. 9292, and are made of strong tan calf
leather with sewn soles to ensure extra service. Available in
full and half sizes. Price 33/9
As leather prices are on the increase it
would be advisable to order a pair of these
excellent boots to-day from
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
m
i
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Sydney's Short-wave
Exhibition.
The N.S.W. Division of the W.I.A. de-
cided this year to do things on a bigger
scale than that of the wholly amateur
1936 show, and Sydney’s Town Hall was
chosen for the. location. The attendance
was excellent. Both amateur and trade
stalls showed apparatus and accessories
that reflected the progress of short-wave
radio. Sydney’s various radio clubs
affiliated with the W.I.A. had staged an
impressive display by members, and much
of the apparatus entered in competition
was comprised in their show.
A great attraction was a 6ft. radio-
controlled model cargo vessel made by
D. Mclntyre. It was in a tank on the
stall of Price’s Radio Service. Near the
stall was a small radio transmitter. A
touch on the key sent the vessel forging
ahead, veering to port or starboard or
reversing at the will of the operator.
The 'model contained a two-valve re-
ceiver, six-volt motor and accumulator,
relays and contact-breaker.
The A.W. Valve Co. exhibited the
new Senior amateur receiver, which
features the new Eddystone dual-ratio
amateur tuning dial, 465 kc. vacuum
crystal filter and Lamb noise-suppressor.
This receiver will shortly be described
fully here. Other points of interest on
this stall were large and small cathode-
ray oscillographs and a fine array of
transmitting valves. A clever demonstra-
tion model made visible the electron
flow in a valve.
The Philips organisation displayed a
vast array of receiving and transmitting
valves of all types, a Radioplayer chassis
in an inspection cradle and a 60-watt
Maxiwatt amplifier with F443Ns in the
output.
The A.W.A. display of marine and
aviation short-wave transmitters and
receivers included the automatic distress
transmitter.
Gladstone and Ferranti equipment was
shown on the stall of Noyes Bros., and
the automatic lighting equipment for
emergency purposes engineered by Keith
A. W. Valve Co.’s stand at the 1937 Amateur Radio Exhibition recently held in Sydney. The back-
ground depicts the “Cavalcade of Communication.” The Senior amateur receiver is visible behind the
showcase in front.
Jones (of Gladstone) attracted much
attention.
Trade exhibitors endeavored to strike
a strictly short-wave note in their stalls,
and in this respect E. F. Wilks and Co.
were outstanding. A large map of the
world, with a number of QSL cards,
suggested by flashing lights various
amateur stations in contact. The idea
called for an intricate wiring system, and
the designer is to be congratulated on
his ingenuity. On this stall were also a
complete Westinghouse dual-wave re-
ceiver and a cradled chassis.
Geo. Brown and Co. revealed for in-
spection the internals of one of its
excellent all-wavers and also showed a
complete job. The composite parts of
Rola speakers were also displayed here.
W. G. Watson, Ltd., makers of Trip-
lett meters, showed a great array of
testers, analysers, modulation meters,
electric clocks and motors and two types
of electric hand-engravers. Vesta bat-
teries for all purposes were also on this
co.’s stall, and a smart little electric rail-
way ostensibly hauling Vesta batteries
to Australian States.
The P.M.G.’s Department went to a
great deal of trouble to instal a multiplex
telegraph system. Radio-inductive inter-
ference and the means of curing it were
shown on a cathode-ray tube. Damaged
high-voltage insulators exhibited on
this stall showed one of the many causes
of unwanted noise in broadcast receivers.
The Paton Electric Instrument Co. and
Slade Radio had on their stalls a wealth
of Palec and Calstan equipment of all
kinds. Of interest to the transmitting
amateur was the new Calstan R.F.
thermo-coupled meter, very reasonably
priced.
Lekmek labora-
tories exhibited some
high-quality audio
equipment, receivers
and laboratory dials,
and also some
nicely-made experi-
mental u.'-s.-w. gear.
Other trade stalls
were sponsored by
John Martin, Ltd.,
Hammarlund and
Regal, components;
Kauiokes, Ltd., coil
kits and accessories ;
Ducon Condensers
P ty., filter con-
densers, resistors and
ceramic moulded mica condensers;
Swain’s, Ltd., textbooks and magazines
covering all phases of radio; “Australa-
sian Radio World” and “Wireless
Weekly.”
An exhibit of great interest was the
aviation homing equipment of Radio
Transmission Equipment, Ltd. (London),
handled in Australia by Mullard Radio
Co.
These trade stalls were in support of
the amateur apparatus, which included
VK2TI’s complete 20-metre ’phone-
and-key station (working); VK2JU’s
mobile, five-metre ’phone station ; a cast-
aluminium oscillograph assembly shown
by G. Wells, of Waverley Club ; VK2EH’s
beautiful and efficient transmitter in a
cream-colored table cabinet; VK2MQ’s
multi-stage five-metre crystal transmitter ;
transmitters by VKs 20W, 2ABS, 2HF,
?EG, 2CI and 2LZ; receivers by VKs
2QK, 2BG, 2UY and 2EM ; 2JU’s new
10-valve superhet; 2XL’s battery-powered
transmitter; and a host of intriguing
accessories.
Although a fair amount of u.-h. f. gear
was shown, this was rather disappointing
in the aggregate. Only a few showed
evidence of graduation to modern
apparatus, but no doubt next year will
show an improvement.
A suggestion worth consideration for
1938 is expansion of the scope of the
show so as to make it a combined
Amateur Radio and Hobbies Exhibition.
There is a close alliance between the
radio constructor and the model engineer.
Their aims are similar, and a combination
display of such a nature would be
extremely popular.
D. B. K.
Exhibition Prizewinners.
Sydney’s 1937 Amateur Radio Exhibi-
tion included competitions for various
types of amateur
radio apparatus, and
this year the stand-
ard of workman-
ship and general
efficiency was not-
ably high. The
judges had difficulty
in making decisions,
and in the receiver
contest only 10
points stood between
the first four final-
ists. Results for all
sections were:
Best complete stall
exhibit for clubs affili-
ated with the Wireless
Institute of Australia
(“Wireless Weekly”
Cup): Waverley Radio
Club, 1; Lakemba
Radio Club, highly
commended.
Best apparatus on
club stand: A. Furze
(VK2HF), Manly, trans-
mitter, 1; G. Wells,
Waverley., oscillograph,
2; G. Patterson, Waver-
ley, Morse key, 3.
Most efficiently de-
signed and correctly
built multi-band trans-
mitter (individual ex-
hibitors) : B. Dim mock
(VK2OW), 1; J. Howes
(VK2ABS), 2; A. Furze (VK2HF), 3.
Special prize for transmitter ■ showing origi-
nality and economy in design: Manly Radio
Club (VK2MR). , ,
Most efficiently designed and correctly built
amateur receiver (individual exhibitors): A.
Preston-Srnith (VK2QK), 1; H. Clay (VK2UY),
2; C. Bischoff (VK2LZ) and B. Glassop
(VK2BG), equal, 3.
Most compact and complete portable station
(including ultra-high-frequency apparatus and
transceivers): C. Fryer (VK2NP), 1.
Ultra-high-frequency receiver: A. Sutton
(VK2EM), 1; W. Smith, 2.
Ultra-high-frequency transmitter: W. Mc-
Gowan (VK2MQ), 1; C. Winch (VK2IF), 2.
Best piece of apparatus (excluding apparatus
and components eligible for other sections): E.
Spicer, microphone, 1; J. Cowan (VK2ZC),
oscilloscope, 2; G. Wells, oscilloscope, 3; C.
Bischoff (VK2LZ), testing equipment, 4.
Dual- or all-wave receiver (home-constructed):
C. Brigden, 1.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: “Cluny” (B. 12/5/’37)
replies that “with a single-valver of
A.W.A. display at the Amateur and Short-wave Radio Exhibi-
tion of the Wireless Institute of Australia, held at the Sydney
Town Hall, May 3-8.
antique design it is still possible to haul
in incredible DX in the wee sma’ hours,
but there is too much jambing to do so
in comfort.” This surely refers to bands
other than the 200-1000-metre broadcast
range? Not much jambing is in evi-
dence in Eastern Australia on the broad-
cast band between, say, 2 a.m. and 5 a.m.
E.S.T., and with a single-valver or any
other receiver it is a case of hunting hard
for real DX, such as Europe or U.S.A.
Admittedly at some times of the year
medium waves cover great distances with
comparative ease, but not regularly. Con-
sider another aspect. In the early ex-
perimental days, Australian and M.L.
amateurs worked each other on ’phone
with amazingly small inputs and quite
inefficient gear. Charles Maclurcan did
it with a fraction of a watt —and this was
on 200 metres. Try it to-day, and you’ll
have to keep on trying! Selectivity has
been put ahead of sensitivity in receivers,
but the fact remains that there are thou-
sands of transmitters on the air continu-
ously at all useful frequencies to-day,
whereas in the times referred to in B.
14/4/’37 broadcasters were just taking
root and short-wave international com-


*n..
o
7
1
fIW
V
?
"National Melodies" over 2CH at 9.20
p.m. (Fr'days); 2SM at 3.30 p.m.
(Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays).
Valves can make or mar your set. To be
sure of clear reception, fit your receiver
with Radiotrons; universally acclaimed
the most reliable valves in the world.
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney
167*169 Queen Street, Melbourne
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
munication was almost non-existent.
Beyond abnormal sunspot activity and
cosmic influences, the absorption theory
is not to be lightly discarded as unac-
ceptable. Radio is so young that there
is plenty of room for speculation as to
the real cause of some phenomena, and
25 years of active radio listening at least
lays a foundation for conjecture.
“O. W. Waireki”: The radio had set
up a continuous wail, and Dad, after
some unsuccessful tinkering, savagely
switched off the set. “It’s that Norah
bin listening to them blanky sopranos,
he said angrily. “They simply ruin all
th’ valves.”
* * * *
“Querex”: Doubt has been expressed
regarding the efficiency of police “pocket-
wireless” introduced a year or so ago in
England, but the latest example of its
utility should convince sceptics. At
Brighton (Eng.) a housebreaker had,
escaped, but, making deductions from
bloodstains, the central police station
sent out a call for the apprehension of a
man with a badly-cut hand. A constable
on duty heard the alarm-bell ring in his
pocket and listened to the broadcast in-
formation. A few minutes later a man
answering the description and with blood-
stains on his tie passed him. He proved
to be the wanted man.
* * * *
“Enno”: The chief of a leading Ameri-
can broadcasting system asserts that tele-
vision cannot be stopped. The motion
picture stands to-day in regard to tele-
vision in much the same position as the
ice manufacturers who fought automatic
refrigeration and the railroads that
opposed motor buses. Both would now
be in enviable positions if they had had
the foresight to aid and encourage the
new developments in their fields.
Star Amateur Operator.
The first contest for the. Crawford
Trophy, inaugurated by W. T. S. Craw-
ford, Senior N.S.W. Radio Inspector, to
give amateurs an opportunity to show
their mettle as emergency telegraphists,
was heard in Sydney during exhibition
week, and was won by R. A. Priddle, B.E.
(VK2RA). The standard set by the first
holder of the trophy was a very high one.
Every detail counted ; accuracy, spacing
(within reason) and legibility in writing
in reception. Second place went to C.
Fryer (VK2NP) and third to W. Nash
(VK2WW).
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
If amateur radio exhibitions were
more frequent the DX bands would per-
haps get more relief. Casual examina-
tion of the 20-metre band in Sydney on
the second night of the exhibition re-
vealed only two st? 4 ions. On 9/5/’37,
the day after the show closed, the familiar
bedlam was again let loose; 20 and 40
were both seething.
Fairly good five-metre work was ob-
tained from the Sydney exhibition and
a mobile car station, but electrical inter-
ference was intense. There is really no
possibility of simulating average amateur
station working conditions, as enjoyed in
most home “shacks,” in a hall abound-
ing with and surrounded by flashing
neon signs and electric motors. Under
such conditions attempts at working ex-
hibits with DX ’phone as the aim are
better forgotten. But conditions must
be very bad to rule out effective
DX telegraphic communication —another
good reason why amateurs should be
able to read Morse both ways. Morse
code is vastly more useful in all emer-
gencies than the human voice with its
varying accents and dialects, to say no-
thing of possible technical reasons.
VK2NO.
Trans-Ocean Radio
Ceremony.
Speeches covering the world were a
feature of the opening of the W.l.A.’s
second annual amateur and short-wave
exhibition at the Sydney Town Hall.
At 9 p.m. on May 3 Prof. E. C. Wood-
ruff, president both of the International
A.R.U. and the American R.R.L., de-
clared the exhibition open, speaking via
Station W2XAF, Schenectady, New
York, and the receiving station of A.W.A.
at La Perouse, Sydney. E. T. Fisk, chair-
man of A.W.A., spoke from London,
and J. S. Duncan, Deputy-director of
Posts and Telegraphs, replied from the
Sydney Town Hall.
The aviation homing device displayed at
the exhibition by Radio Transmission
Equipment, Ltd., London, represented in
Australia by Mullard Radio Co. (Aust.),
Ltd. As the model ’plane was rotated
the dial indicator registered ON or OFF
course according to the carrier direction
of the broadcasting station selected.
I.R.E. Council.
Newly-elected officers of the Institution
of Radio Engineers (Australia) are:
President and chairman of council, E. T.
Fisk ; vice-presidents, L. P. R. Bean and
N. S. Gilmour; hon. treas., C. FI. Nor-
ville; hon. asst, treas., Phil S. Parker;
hon. sec., O. F. Mingay; councillors, R.
Allsop, J. N. Briton, S. V. Colville, T. P,
Court, W. T. S. Crawford, L. A. Hooke,
Major R. Kendall, R. J. W. Kennell,
A. S. McDonald, F. W. P. Thom, C. W.
Tyrrell and D. G. Wyles.
The institution’s Sydney division com-
mittee consists of D. G. Wyles (chair-
man), T. P. Court (vice-chairman), J. R.
Edwards (hon. sec.), K. H. M. Denny
(hon. treas.), A. W. De Courcy Browne,
V. H. Dudman, R. Huey, E. E. Tree
and C. W. Tyrrell.
Reasons for Shielding in
Radio Receivers.
Shielding is used in every modern
radio receiver, where it serves two dis-
tinct purposes: (1) to reduce interstage
reaction, or the effect of any stage upon
the adjacent ones within the receiver
itself; (2) to prevent direct pick-up, by
the coils and wiring, of the signals of
near-by transmitting stations.
The first of these two purposes is the
more important, and for this reason each
radio-frequency amplifying stage of the
receiver is usually completely enclosed
within a metal can, with small holes to
allow wires and control shafts to enter
and leave.
To accomplish the second of these
purposes, the entire receiver is sometimes
completely enclosed as a unit within a
second metal box. This is necessary
only in the case of proximity to power-
ful transmitting stations, and even there
the interstage shielding is sometimes
sufficient.
In either case, however, the shielding
works in two ways—as an electrostatic
shield and as an electromagnetic shield.
As an electrostatic shield, to limit the
extent of fields set up by the capa-
city of any one piece of apparatus
to any other, each acting as one plate
of a tiny condenser, its functions
are simple. These capacities are small
at best, and almost any thin sheet of
metal is ample to nullify the effect. Even
an open wire mesh is sufficient.
In the case of electromagnetic fields,
however, the job of the shield is more
difficult. These are the fields which exist
around coils and wires through which
currents are flowing, and they may be
relatively quite strong. Shields to limit
the effect of these electromagnetic fields
should be almost airtight to be entirely
effective, and whatever holes are neces-
sary in them must be as small and as
nearly metal-filled as possible.
These electromagnetic fields possess
the power of generating electric currents,
termed “eddy currents,” in any metal
within their field, including the shielding.
Because of this, the shielding must be
of low-resistance metal —a good electri-
cal conductor —and it must be of suffi-
cient thickness so that its resistance is
negligible. Even a good conductor, such
as copper, will have considerable resist-
ance if it is very thin.
For this reason, the shields in radio
receivers are generally made of copper,
aluminium or brass, copper being the
best conductor of the three. For
mechanical strength, however, sheets of
No. 20 gauge or heavier are used, and
with these thicknesses any one of these
metals may be used. There is one other
important effect of shielding. This is
the increase in the r.f. resistance of a coil
due to adjacent shielding. This is a
detrimental effect, but with proper design
ir may be made small enough to do no
harm.
This increase in coil resistance de-
pends upon frequency and upon the near-
ness of the shield to the coil. It will be
negligible in most cases, however, if the
shield is at least an inch from the sides
of the coil, and not within two inches of
either end. The reason for the larger
distances at the ends of the coil is that
the electromagnetic field of the coil is
stronger there than at the sides, and
must therefore be given more room.
Q.
Film Radio-Gram.
Combination.
The Duo-Trac Sound Projector, a sys-
tem of recording on film introduced in
England, is in effect a radio-gramophone
combination in which film is used instead
of discs. The system has been described
in “Wireless World.”
Two sound tracks ' are used on
the film. During reproduction the
film unwinds from
one spool to an-
other, playing one
of the tracks. On
completion of this
the driving mechan-
ism reverses auto-
matically and the
film winds back on
to the first spool,
reproducing the
second sound track
in the reverse
winding direction.
A spool 7in. in
diameter will play
for 20 minutes in
each direction. An advantage of the
system is that no rewinding is neces-
sary, as the spool is ready on com-
pletion for the next playing. The record-
ing material used is an Ozaphane ribbon
4mm. wide, and so strong that it can be
driven without sprocket holes. In mak-
ing the film, a special light sensitive dye
is first applied, and the sound tracks are
produced by photographic process. There
is no emulsion coating as with an ordi-
nary film.
The instrument is now being produced
commercially in England, the assembly
including the sound and radio sides in
the one combination cabinet. For sound
reproduction a small pre-amplifier is
brought into use to boost the audio stages
of the radio receiver, and reproduction
is derived through a light-sensitive cell.
D. B. K.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
Many constructors with ready facili-
ties for battery charging must have con-
sidered building a vibrator-powered re-
ceiver. To-day there is nothing formid-
able about this. The vibrator unit has
long passed the experimental stage, and
now Radiokes has produced a perfected
vibrator unit with a special voltage
divider that enables the vibrator unit to
be used with any battery receiver without
difficult alterations.
The vibrator unit is doubly shielded,
and is claimed to be free from “hash”
and silent enough for short-wave opera-
tion. Only one cable is necessary, and it
is provided totally shielded and wired to
a five-pin plug in such a manner that the
switch on the receiver also controls the
vibrator. This also acts as a safety
measure to prevent the vibrator f*om
being operated without load. Internal
construction is strong, and the power
transformer and filter choke are rated at
60ma., thus giving an ample safety factor.
The output from the unit is 150 volts at
40ma., powered from a six-volt accumu-
lator. The vibrator itself is of the syn-
chronous type and is easily replaced if
necessary, as it is designed to plug into a
socket like a valve. At no load on the
output, the unit draws 0.6 amperes from
the accumulator and rises to 1.8 amperes
with variations in load. Design is such
that the unit is satisfactory for Class-B
use, as the regulation of currents between
15ma. and 30ma. is very good.
This new Radiokes vibrator is known
as the type VB-10, and can be obtained
direct from the company at Tracy House,
Cleveland-street, Redfern, N.S.W.
* * * *
To ensure the continuous supi 'y of
“Radiotronics Bulletins” to readers the
A.W. Valve Co. notifies that on receipt
of one shilling, with name and address,
the “Radiotronics Bulletins” will be
mailed for a period of one year. Name
and address should be written in block
letters.
The Question Box.
l have 224 T, 47 and 80 valves. Could these
be built into a receiver similar to the Wide-
World Two ? If so, please supply a circuit dia-
gram ? —541.
The valves can be used. Diagram is given
of a receiver very similar to the Wide-World
Two; a difference is that the detector is not
of the electron-coupled type. Regeneration is
controlled by a .00035mfd. variable condenser
or by a screen-grid potentiometer. The dia-
gram is an old one, and a few obvious modifica-
tions can be incorporated as in the W.-W. Two.
The coil data chart in B. 28/4/*37 will supply
coil specifications.


Hfss 100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
LYS
PROOF
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the - Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
Fencing Wire
sgpigfjrg:
»,:.a
it.
a-
-0M
%?>'A
f r ■?*:■"' 'i-y- WlLm
:|,';>iP> t’' v ~ WmmL&r
sww
. , "
mm®
§£&
:
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head oif ice: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT' S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Avoiding Bar Bales.
“Dead Finish”: I disagree with
“C.V.S.’s” clock-watching method of
obviating bar-bales at the cut-out (B.
7/4/’37).
It would take a mob of sheep classed
to the 72th degree to muster into the
woolshed with a tail equal in quality to
the lead. Every sheepman knows that
•the strongest sheep will always take the
lead, and these because they are
stronger —invariably carry a better fleece
than those hanging on the tail. It is
always the better-class sheep that walks
first into the pen when the penner-up
opens the gate to fill up for the shearer.
On top of this, the shearer may pick his
sheep for its easy-shearing qualities and
leave the harder-woolled ones in the
hope that another will be landed with
the “snobs.”
The rate at which any wool-bin will
fill cannot be gauged by time. It rests
on the frequency with which the catch-
ing-pens are filled, and this depends on
the number of shearers employed, their
pace and the size of the catching-pens.
Any classer who sets his standards by
the first few fleeces on. the table when
starting a fresh line of sheep, without
making provision for what may come
after the first flush, must get into trouble.
There is no rule-of-thumb to follow at
a cut-out.
Bar bales are objectionable, and every
effort should be made to avoid them.
During shearing surplus wool should be
carried into and blended with the suc-
ceeding line, allowances being made
when working out the average weight
per head. As shearing finishes it is
good policy to work down. Whatever is
left in the top line should go into the
next-lower grade, care being taken that
it is not dumped into the top of. the
bale. Better to take a little trouble and
mix throughout the bale. The same pro-
cedure goes on with each succeeding
lower grade. A few light bales at the
conclusion of the job will help to dodge
bar bales.
The Small Man’s Classing.
“Spinner”: While agreeing with “Mur-
rawong” (B. 28/4/’37) about shearing
costs and the need of careful classing,
it seems to me that if the small man
with only a few hundred sheep started to
class his clip he’d , have to send the dif-
ferent classes to the' market in paper
bags. • - ;
My advice, based on years of experi-
ence, is to send the lot to a reputable,
agent, keeping separate only bellies and
stained pieces. It costs 4d. a pound to
have that lot sorted and reclassed. Those
who do the job know exactly which way
the market is jumping. They know what
is in demand and' what had better be
mixed with something else. They know
how to get up a small clip to advantage.,
I get all of 3d. a pound more for niy
wool by spending a ha’penny on having
it reclassed than if it went to the market j
as I would have the time and facilities to
class it.
Woolroom Details.
“C.V.S.”: In a large shed there should
be a basket at-the end of the classer’s .
table to receive odd pieces of stain, etc.,
missed by the skirters. The classer should
quickly inspect each fleece, instead of
tossing it into the bin after a mere glance,
for, however painstaking the skirters may
be, they will occasionally miss some-
thing. This applies particularly to “boot-
laces” of skin, which are frequently found
when shearing wrinkly sheep, and which
may be accommodated in the stain.
Piece-pickers should also be instructed
to remove skin pieces.
When sheep off scrubby country carry
“crow’s-nests” on the withers, rollers
should skirt in the normal manner, and
then remove the wither, in the shape of a
V, skirting down from the neck instead
of ripping straight across , from the
shoulder.
Shanks cling to the pieces from hoggets
and other young sheep that are woolled
to the toes, and should be removed by
the piece-pickers and thrown into the
locks. Topknots or caps are also better
left in the locks ; although ' they look
bright, the wool is short, hairy and gener-
ally inferior.
The broom cannot be overworked in
the woolroom, and locks should not be
“ Lunch-oh, Ma !”
allowed to blow about into the fleece
bins. If there are .over, four rollers, a
wcolroom “broomie”. should be em-
ployed to sweep up and carry pieces and
necks to : the pickers. r ■
Pressers should also sweep round the
press after each bale, a., small basket
being provided for the locks. See that
there is a box on or near the press for
string. . V. , , ,
By stacking fadges, of ' locks, stain,
lambs, etc. 7 in'their .different classes, the
amount of each- line may be seen at a
glance, reducing mistakes fo a minimum.
Skeleton Weed for Sheep.
“B-gar”: When the weed began to
show itself- in earnest graziers were as
. greatly concerned as wheat-farmers ; but,
whereas the weed plays the very devil’
with' the latter, it is being found in some
districts that sheep will fatten on it. At
a certain stage they seem to prefer it to
natural grasses, especially when grasses
are dry.
In one case I know of, sheep on the
weed are doing better than sheep near by
depastured on lucerne.
Confined to grazing areas, skeleton
weed would be an asset, but a benefit in
one phase of pastoral life is too often a
curse in another. For that reason, if
it is not eradicated, the weed’s spread
should be prevented.
S.A. Lamb Industry.
“Rusticus”: Typical of a great deal of
South Australian country, Eyre Penin-
sula has shown the way in the fat-lamb
business. In four years, from 1933 to
1937, the number of lambs exported from
E.P. through Port Lincoln has jumped
from 8551 to 64,733.
Until 1933 all S.A. reasonable rainfall
mallee areas concentrated on wheat. It
was the only logical way of making clear-
ing pay —the stubble was used for the
burn. The wheat slump gave the lamb
business a start.
The whole of S.A.’s export for 1935-
36 was 344,000 lambs, but this figure
included a big percentage from the more
fertile areas. If such a small portion of
the mallee area can speed up to 64,000
lambs a year so quickly, there seems to
>be sound justification for a change from
wheat to sheep in other districts.
Does Feed Influence Test?
“Rusticus”: The notion that feed in-
fluences butterfat test is still cherished,
though American and European experi-
menters have proved conclusively that it"
cannot' exercise any. permanent influence.
The. composition qf, a cow’s milk is .gov-
ern,ed solely" by : her heredity.
A greater output ,of b'Utterfat is made
possible only by increasing the quantity,
of milk,".-A change in"feed may alter the
fat content for a day or so, after which
it reverts to normal. Grain will put it
up slightly, and succulent pasture has the
reverse effect.
There is.no, hard-and-fast rule. Varia-
tions take place from day to day for no,
apparent reason. ,There is also con-
siderably more difference in the tests of
various herd members than is generally
realised—a powerful argument in favor
of, universal herd-testing.
A. cow’s formation is indicative of her
ability as a milk producer, but her test
cannot be assessed by looking her over.
Factors which influence test tem-
porarily are irregularity in intervals be-
tween milkings, the particular stage of
the - milking period, whether cows are
coming in season, weather conditions. A
cow’s milk will vary considerably during
the first few days after calving. As
colostrum is used only for calf- and pig-
feeding, this is of no importance. A
cow’s age does not affect her test,
although it does influence her yield.
Selection and breeding are the dairy-
man’s only means of raising or lowering
his herd average.
Baby-beef Fattening.
“J. Want”: There is a good industry
waiting to be exploited in small-area beef
fattening.
The South Coast of N. S. Wales, parts
of the same State’s Hawkesbury country
and some of the Lockyer (Q.) country
should produce fed baby beef profitably,
especially in seasons when produce prices
are low.
About an acre of good grass with
l-31b. cottonseed or linseed meal and
101 b. to 151 b. of corn silage per animal
should put store yearlings into top-of-
the-market condition in 150 days or so.
It isn’t a large-scale proposition —
merely a useful addition to the money-
earning resources of a mixed farm.
A good plan would be to time the
turnover for Christmas sales, when prices
are high and there is a good demand for
young prime cuts.
It helps to have plenty of red clover
in ,the paddocks. There is no better hay
feed ; for fattening beef; it has all the
requisites,* is tasty, medium fine in tex-
ture'and rich in protein. As it is mildly
laxative,* it- should be fed only in its
proper place.
Lampas.
“The Breaker”: Lampas may affect
old as/well as:young horses (B. 28/4/’37).
Indigestion may cause the complaint as
well as; teething. I have known grass-
fed horses; to develop lampas on being
corn-fed for the first time.
When a lancet has not been available
I have used an ordinary horseshoe nail
—sterilised, of course. After a mouth-
wash of weak solution of Condy’s
crystals, except in chronic cases, the
soreness vanished in a couple, of days.
As “Agamemnon” says, the old-time
method of burning the palate is bar-
barous.
Mustard for Wireworms.
“Hortus”: Try scattering mustard seed
among the potato rows, putting the hoe
through at earthing-up time. You’ll get


/
/
/
/
/
W:
W 1
A'Cg&ggft&S % $
wimMiii" ,ur
■ i
ssssskv^
WHEN you own an International
truck you know that you have
made a good bargain. There is the
practical experience of a host of
International truck users to assure you
that it always pays to own an Inter-
national. With an International the
first cost and the maintenance cost
lumped together at any time are far
less than any string of cheaply made
trucks can ever show.
Which cost do you count
fl B
or the last?
fd
INTERNATIONAL trucks are the most
economical trucks that money can buy
because they are built throughout for
truck work . . . Wherever rough-tough jobs are
to be done International heavy-duty trucks see
them through with an amazing consistency of
low-cost performance . . . In the medium and
light delivery fields Internationals provide swift,
flexible, economical truck power . . . All
Internationals reveal their thorn ugh quality in
their thoroughbred lines . . . Invest m an
International—couple its name, fame and
efficiency with your own.
There’s a truck in the International line for you .
The comprehensive International range includes
the following models:
Utilities and l/ 2 -ton vans (113 and 125- 2-ton, 160-in. wheelbase.
3- 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4- 156,170 and 185-in. wheelbases.
5- 190-in. wheelbase.
inch wheelbases).
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 133 and 157-in wheelbases.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton capacities in various wheelbases.
CHASSIS PRICES
from
£277
(plus tax)
Call on us for full information on any truck in the International line.
n
imniH h
inimii
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
D3T6
fd
clean tubers, free from all trace of wire-
worm attack. , u .
Experts declare that potatoes do best
on virgin soil and newly-broken-up grass-
land. In many cases this is also the
kind of soil wireworms delight in.
The mustard plants perform the addi-
tional service of protecting the potatoes
from frost.
Growing the Best Grass.
“Sandy”: The best way to build a
good sward and retain nitrogen in im-
proved pasture areas is to use the mowei
and light pasture harrows. It is, of
course, proven that droppings are best
spread during or after a good rain.
Grass contains its highest food value
when 4in. high. Adjust the mower-knife
to cut at 4in. and always keep grazing
pastures at that level. The clippings are
allowed to lie and are incorporated in
the soil, assisting it to retain moisture.
The pasture becomes succulent, soft
and springy, and the method is much
better than mowing only the rank growth.
It is especially applicable to good land
when there is prolific growth in the
spring.
Super, is applied yearly, but the other
work can be done by the farmer at only
labor costs.
One leading Victorian Jersey breeder
is allowing two silos to stand empty in
favor of mowing and grass hay.
Silage in North-west N.S.W.
“Owen Linden”: The silage experience
of R. J. Doolin, of Myall Downs (n.-w.
N.S.W.) suggests that silage is a profit-
able business on “the dry edges.”
The pits were made 66ft. by 12ft.
and sft. deep, with a batter of three to
one at the ends, and the work was done
by two men with a bullock team and
plough and scoop.
The cost of excavating at a wage of
£3 a day worked out at Is. Id. a cubic
yard, and, as a space of two cub. yards
will hold a ton of well-made silage, the
storage would cost 2s. 2d. a ton. It was
easily worked soil.
For convenience and economy the pits
were made in pairs, end to end, with
enough space between to allow the
wagons to pass into and out of them.
The crop harvested was a dense stand
of Sudan grass, cutting 10 tons to the
acre. As it was too tall (in places to
10ft.) for the reaper and binder, it had
to be cut with a mower, and this made
the removal of the crop slower and more
costly.
Wagons without sides, but with a
frame in front and on the sides extend-
ing back and sloped to the level of the
floor at the tail of the vehicle, were used
in drawing in the crop. They were, taken
over the stuff already in the pits as they
came in loaded. The usual method
recommended by departmental heads for
unloading was tried —having a rope
fastened behind and trailed along the
floor of the wagon to the front, and then
brought back over the load, to pull the
stuff off. This resulted in a rolled and
tangled heap—obviously it is no good for
Sudan grass.
With a rope under and over the load,
the ends brought together behind and
the team fastened to it, the loads came
off just as they were on the wagons.
Handling was then comparatively easy.
The total cost of making the pits, cut-
ting and carting the crop, and complet-
ing the covering ran to 6s. a ton of
silage on 200 tons stored.
Victorian Wheat.
“Hortus”: The State harvest had a
record year, average yield of 17.9
bushels being the highest since 1869-70.
New blood has been introduced. Old
Federation has to be. satisfied with
eleventh place on the list now. More
(Continued on next page.)


Here’s a Better Riding Boot
Made of Brown Willow
Calf and Leather - lined
throughout, this Elastic-
Sided Riding Boot cer-
tainly has that shape and
fit necessary for comfort
during long hours in the
saddle.
It has a light, flexible sole
and is made for long and
rough wear.
When ordering Boots or Shoes
also order a Tin of Abbey's
Polish or, better still, a com-
plete Polishing Outfit in a Tin :
Box. Price 2/6 |
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE ST. 224 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
/
s\e". mA S»'\ aU »v* %x _ o' ‘ \v'
«;»«'*! ®» W » s '
Yrf
(.<•>]
■<;.• •
n^\ws
kt\w^
vCv^ Y
uav
ev
o'
vvV*
•\A
fto
vio'
t\V
YvN V ' \ V)"'
69 6')”/:.*
rt»"
t
r
wm
■■■■
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
May Issue Now on Sale.
GOLD—DOLLARS—STERLING
OUTLOOK FOR COMMODITY PRICES
AUSTRALIAN PROSPECTS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
TTuT&nlleZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
prolific varieties, bred on research farms,
top the poll.
Ghurka was chosen on 45.15 p.c. of
the total area under crop, and proved
itself a very prolific short-strawed wheat.
It topped variety test plots in all parts
of the State.
A rival to Ghurka, Ranee, was sown
on 22.31 p.c. of area. This wheat would
be held in greater favor than Ghurka
only that the latter is more disease-
resistant. Ghurka very rarely falls a
prey to flag-smut. This is a great asset.
Ranee 4H is a taller grower than
Ghurka. What’s more, it’s more valuable
in weed-infested land. But here again
Ghurka wins by its resistance to rust,
which is Ranee 4H’s failing.
Free Gallipoli was next in favor, with
Sepoy running fourth.
The Wimmera easily won the district
competition. Area under crop was
756,259 acres, total yield 17,853,893
bushels. Not a bad average —23.61
bushels.
Redgums and Clover.
“Bogaduck”: This being the time when
tree-poisoning and ringbarking start in
southern Australia, landowners would do
well to think twice before using the axe
and poison-can on redgums. The red-
gum is the easiest of all trees to kill,
but it takes a century’s growth to pro-
duce one of the huge, wide-spreading
“old man” trees, and it is now becoming
apparent that this tree is a wonderful
asset to sub.-clover growers.
When redgum country is top-dressed
and sown with clover, the clover makes
its best growth near the trees, especially
under the down-drooping branches, dew
drips from which keep the soil moist
when the open ground is drying out. It
is not uncommon to see clover still
green and growing around the trees when
the feed on the rest of the paddock has
browned off in early summer. In some
of the drier areas, redgum paddocks are
the only ones where clover can be
grown.
Binnum station, near Naracoorte (S.A.),
which was among the pioneers in pasture
improvement and top-dressing, preserved
its redgums. To-day the Binnum clover
paddocks look like a beautiful park, and
carry as many head of stock as any
country in the district, with many big
stacks of grass hay dotted among the trees
, to show that there has been an abun-
dant surplus of fodder for conservation
into the bargain.
When this type of country is ring-
barked outright there is a good growth
of fodder for a few years, then the pas-
ture starts to go back.
Clover’s Credentials.
“Rusticus”: “X.T.” (B. 21/4/’37) gives
a good reason why grasses and clover
make a pasture balance ; there are other
reasons for the popularity of clovers.
There is no finer soil-improver known;
desert sand is not top poor if sufficient
nitrogen is supplied.
On a parallel with its nitrogen-fixing
ability is its high protein content. The
most expensive part of the animal’s
ration to supply is the protein, and there
is none more essential. On it depends
milk production, the development of lean
meat and the supply of energy in young
animals. In the absence of sufficient
carbohydrates or fat in a ration, it can
be converted to do the work of these
elements.
Analyses of the three main clovers
give an average of 4 p.c. protein, 8 p.c.
carbohydrates and 0.8 p.c. fat. For com-
parison, perennial rye grass is 3.6 p.c.
protein, 13 p.c. carbohydrates and 1 p.c.
fat—a much wider ratio of protein to
the other components, and not nearly so
rich.
Pastures closed up for cutting remain
green much longer if there is a big per-
centage of clover. A deep mat of
thickly-entangled growth does not give
much chance for the moisture to dry out
too quickly.
Clovers make first-class grass-hay, and
their presence ensures a sufficient protein
supply. Buried clover burrs will give
sustenance to sheep long after the last
vestige of feed has disappeared. Moder-
ately-grazed fields yield from 2501 b. to
3001 b. of seed to the acre. These seeds
are concentrated nutriment. As the pro-
tein content of the leafy portion of the
plant recedes from 29 p.c. in the early
stages of growth to about half that figure
at maturity, so the protein is stored in
the seed.
Experience demonstrates that clover
pastures are rich; the rate at which
lambs grow and fatten and the immedi-
ate response in milk yield are practical
evidence. It is so rich that the practice
of supplementing clover pasture with a
little hay or straw during peak spring
growth is gaining favor.
Another aspect which concerns live-
stock men is that subterranean clover is
less able to vary the percentage of phos-
phorus in its composition than are
grasses. Good growth of grasses on poor
soil is not so nutritious as a less spec-
tacular growth of sub. clover. Supply
the requisite phosphate and the clover
will eclipse its co-worker.
Peanut Production.
“A. Hyp”: Nothing better pays for
manuring than peanuts; a prevalent fal-
lacy is that they succeed only on rich
volcanic soils with a high rainfall.
Any soils which suit other legumes
will do, but peanuts have a preference for
light ground, rich in phosphorus and
potash and well-limed. Clay or very
moist ground is unsuitable.
Treated properly peanuts are one of
the best of self-supporting crops. The
tops, ploughed back into the soil, do a
great deal to restore it to richness, but
it is the practice in more experienced
countries to add up to 4cwt. super.,
lcwt. potassium chloride and lcvvt. dried
blood to the acre.
With this sort of treatment yields in
some other countries run up to four tons
to the acre.
If the Diesel engine comes into vogue,
Australia might easily see large-scale
growing of peanuts for oil fuel. Diesel
himself advocated it. The oil content of
the nut averages about 42 p.c., and Diesel
found the oil quite satisfactory for engine
operation—it contains about the same
thermal units as lower-grade petrol.
“Sandy”: Cream-cans can be filled to
within one inch of the rim without loss;
the cream isn’t thrown about as in a can
containing less.
“Kerang”: How’s this for a carrying
record? On W. Green’s 147 acres at
Cohuna (Vic.) 260 cattle—including 100
milkers —50 calves, 60 pigs, nine horses
and 500 sheep are carried. But Green is
a man who, besides having irrigation,
gives his permanent pasture, regular doses
of 3cwt. super, to the acre.
“Notaden”: City people usually asso-
ciate peanuts with lemonade and theatres,
or, salted, with liquid refreshment. To
the small Queensland farmer they are a
useful catchcrop—particularly, being
nitrogen-fixers, for preceding peas or
beans. Just now many parts of rural
S.Q. are busy harvesting, women and
girls doing most of the work, and appar-
ently enjoying it as a more or less profit-
able outing from housework and kitchen.
Where there are any Kanaka family-
relics in the district, the dark faces, bright
headgear and cheerful chatter of tongues
give the job a real way-down-upon-the-
Swanee touch.
“X.T.”: The goat may yet in Aus-
tralia provide a milk and cheese industry
of its own —and what about the sheep?
The first man I saw milking a ewe was
a Dutchman. He had a Texel-Lincoln-
Friesian cross and swore by his woollies.
Easy to handle, said he ; could be tied
up and had none of the playfulness of
Stinker. Ewe milk has a butterfat con-
tent average of nearly 70 p.c. (goats
about 4.6, cows about 3.5 on a good
farm), and much heavier casein content
than more fashionable kinds of milk.
Also, you can shear sheep. '
“S.T.S.”: Sydney’s underground mush-
room-growing has been copied on a big
scale by an Adelaide man. When the
“viaducts” which used to be the terror
of passengers on the Melbourne line in
the Adelaide hills were discarded, two
tunnel approaches went out of use. A
lease of these has been secured, and, with
both ends boarded up, temperature is
equable and the harvest is big, especi-
ally now that air traffic gives a market
by delivering the same day in Melbourne,
Broken Hill and even Perth. It is not
all easy, however. There is a special
“mushroom-fly” to be dealt with ; and in
1936 something (supposed to have been
brewers’ hops in the manure) forced a
heavy growth, but in weird shapes which
the markets refused to recognise as eat-
able.


These Men Started by
Reading this BOOK!
6 INCHES GAIN ON CHEST!
“I have now a 42in. chest, 6in. increase since
taking your course, and I have grown all over.”
J. KIRKWOOD, C., N.S.W.
COURSE THE FINEST AND BEST!
“Your course is the finest I have ever seen to
so quickly build up strength and muscle, and I
thank you again and again for what it has done
for me.”—J. McGOVERN, T.A., N.Z.
COURSE MARVELLOUS!
“I don't think there is a more pleased man in
this State than myself,
and I am more than
proud of my body
every time I see its
reflection in the mir-
ror. I can only say
it is marvellous.”
—W. TIMBLETT,
P., W.A.
FAR SUPERIOR
TO OTHER
SYSTEMS!
“I am con-
vinced your sys-
tem is the pick
of them all.”
—J. T. HALL,
T., N.Z.
f
WM Gives a GORILLA
the STRENGTH of 10 Men?
READ the most sensational book on strength ever published. This book will amaze
you with its facts—startle you with its possibilities. You don’t know you’re alive until
you get this book in your own hands. Do you know what gives a gorilla the strength of
10 men? Do you know why strength and virility are connected? It will answer questions
you have hardly dared to ask yourself, and you can get a copy FREE—if you hurry. Fill
in the Coupon NOW, this minute, and post it TO-DAY! k==
“The Secrets of Muscular
Strength”—FßEE
750 Copies to be sent ONLY!
ou have never seen a book like this
before. No publisher has ever dared
publish such a book. Its truth is glaring, its
secrets are startling—it is the most amazing
book that has ever appeared in Australia.
The moment you turn over its pages you
will be enthralled, you won’t blink an eyelash
until you have read every word. It is
crammed full of startling pictures—true life
photographs—startling text —amazing facts,
and yet for a while you can get this wonder
book FREE, if you hurry I 750 Copies ONLY
will be sent in response to this advertisement.
If your enquiry arrives too late you may
never get an opportunity again. It is NOW
or never. Rip the coupon out and post
TO-DAY!
What This Amazing Book
Tells You!
9 How to Add Inches to Your Chest.
9 How to Strengthen Your Back.
S How to Treble Your Strength.
9 How to Get Strong Nerves.
# How to Get Great Strength.
# How to Develop a Muscular Body.
9 How to Cultivate Personality.
9 How to Be Successful.
9 How to Attract Friends.
9 How to Do Feats of Strength.
9 How to Be Always Well.
9 How to Get Endless Endurance.
Post
Now!
W+-
G. SMITH,
R.. N.Z.
O’CONNOR,
N., S.A.
W
W. WILKES, S., N.S.W.
TEST THIS COURSE FOR 30 DAYS
NOW you can test this famous course yourself—try
this remarkable system in your own home—under
any condition you like, and if it doesn’t add inches to
your chest, broaden your shoulders, develop your arms,
legs, neck and back within 30 days, it COSTS YOU
NOTHING. But you must hurry; this offer may never
be repeated. It places you under no obligation what-
soever; all you have to do is send the Coupon NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L.
107 P'TT ST., SYDNEV, N.S.W.
<lll $ OFFER EXPIRES
Tn SHORTLY .
MSH COUPONAIONG NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send
me, absolutely FREE, a
copy of your latest book,
“The Secrets of Muscular
Strength—And How to Acquire It
NAME
ADDRESS
l9/5/’37
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
HURRY
COUPON
ALONG
AT
ONCE.
Become an EXPERT ARTIST, Quickly!
Brodie Mack’s Amaz’ng FREE BOOK Offer to all “Bulletin”
Readers with the Inclination to Learn Sketching.
Let BRODIE MACK
Teach You At Home.
Make Money in Your Spare Time.
FOR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-and-white artist, is offer-
ing, absolutely FREE, a copy of his new book, “How To Be An Artist,” to all
readers of “The Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
This Book will amaze you with its
possibilities and the vast field it
opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the
black-and-white art under the
supervision of Brodie Mack. This
amazing short-cut method simplifies
art. You learn at home. If you
have an inclination for drawing, an
inclination that many of us possess,
then why compete with the crowd
in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for
this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illus-
trations, advertising catalogues,
pamphlets, books, comic strips,
cartoons, etc. Many have developed
this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, em-
bracing magnificent opportunities
to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the
bundy-punching ruck of mediocrity
and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop or office routine; in
addition to its lucrative achieve-
ments, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of
importance in the public life of the
community.
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means
of this remarkable course for you to earn
money in your spare hours. He shows you
how to “cash in" on his experience. He
teaches you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact
of you reading this announcement points to
you having a desire to be an artist —then
send for this amazing book and let us prove
that we can make you a skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy, Rapid Way.
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men
and women how to draw by easy natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished
drawing—the drawings that bring in good
£s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw
by post successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives daily are ample proof of this. Many
famous illustrators learnt this way—they were
not born famous. This is your opportunity
to become a real artist capable of making
faithful sketches that will surprise your
friends, delight yourself, and take you out of
the small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR
opportunity—are you going to pass it by .'
Then get that coupon into the mail —this moi
FREE! To all "Bulletin"
Readers.
Post Coupon TO-DAY.
> t»e Art #
e*o»* ***
BOW
£)«»■
gjp\a\uiTig
B
tf :■
Orre*po nd,rt
of Ar»
[struct**
: &
M
ment. NOW!
What This FREE Book
Tells You!
9 How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make M.oney in Your Spare Time.
« How to Develop Latent Ability.
0 How to Cartoon.
• How to Caricature.
• How to Sell Your Work.
• How to Illustrate for the Tapers.
• How to Sketch and Draw.
• Send for this FREE Book TO-DAY!
“HOW TO BE AN
ARTIST” IS FREE!
Never before has a book of this
nature been offered free; that is why
you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you
how to draw—develop your talent —
how to cartoon, the secret of illus-
trating, and how money can be
made even while learning. Fill in
your coupon and get it into the post
now’—at once, before you forget.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School
DESK 43, LOMBARD CHAMBERS, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FREE BOOK COUPON—POST NOW!
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me FREE and without
obligation my copy of your famous book, "How lo
Be An Artist,” I enclose 2d. in stamps to defray
postage.
Name
Address
l9/5 / ’37


OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Widow (40), N.S.W., thoroughly domesti-
cated, good cook, wants position in charge of
home, town or country.—s 663.
Saddler, Sydney, first-class exp., used to
station work, also good plain cook, good refs.,
wants employment anywhere.—s7ol.
Tutor, N.S.W., well educated, exp. book-
keeper, wants position on station anywhere.
Refs.—s 676.
Information Sought.
(1) Were Jack Johnson and Young Griffo
flat-footed fighters, or did they box on their
toes ? (2) Names of famous flat-footed fighters ?
—5461.
(1) Johnson and Griffo were both flat-footed
fighters. When Griffo used to wager that no
6ne could knock him off a pocket handkerchief,
he always stood flat-footed, and swayed his
body or head away from blows directed at
him. (2) According to fistic history, such clever
men as Jim Corbett, Jem Driscoll, Abe Attell,
Gene Tunney, Freddie Welsh and Sam
Langford, as well as many others, preferred
the flat-footed style to toe-dancing.
* * * *
(1) Are the Arnhem Land rivers suitable for
crocodile shooting? (2) What equipment is
necessary, and cost? (3) Average value of
hides? (4) Method of curing hides? (5) Where
is the market for hides? (6) Do English firms
buy them in any quantity? (7) What are the
chances of making a living at the game? (8)
Are there parts of the crocodile of value apart
from the hide ? —5077.
(1) No. The lagoons are best; in the rivers
the water is generally too dirty for the reptiles
to be seen, and shooting them is practically out
of the question. (2) Half-inch steel arrow-
headed harpoons 12in. long, .303 rifle (H.V.
barrel), about 100 ft. l£in. manilla rope, butchers’
knives, steels and a motor-truck, which is
essential to move camp from lagoon to lagoon,
Total cost depends mainly on price of motor-
truck. (3) and (5) Johnson and Sons, Ltd.,
203 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, or Frank L.
Cox, King House, Queen-street, Brisbane, can
supply this information. (4) Best results are
obtained by removing the hide as soon as pos-
sible after killing, immediately salting and
allowing to remain five to seven days before
folding. The more salt used for hide the
better price it will realise. Hides must be kept
in the shade; allowed to remain long in the
sun they suffer damage. (6) Not known. The
information might be obtained through Aus-
tralia House, London. (7) Worked on a proper
basis, there should be a good living in croco-
dile shooting or trapping. With one excep-
tion, this industry has never been tried on a
large scale. It should be said, however, that
there are only two or three aboriginals in
Arnhem Land skilled in spearing crocodiles,
and as this seems the only method of obtaining
a lair living it would be wise to consider the
venture well before deciding to take it up.
(8) No.
* s!? * *
(1) What 12 Sydney municipalities had the
largest population at the 1933 census? (2)
What six municipalities had the largest density
of population? —s6Bl.
(1) Canterbury 79,050, Randwick 78,957,
Waverley 55,902, North Sydney 49,752, Mar-
rickville 45,385, Willoughby 42,511, Ashfield
39,356, Rockdale 39,123, Woollahra 34,727,
Kogarah 30,646, Leichhardt 30,209 and
Drummoyne 29,215. (2) Paddington 58.50
persons per acre, Darlington 55.93, Newtown
52.38, Redfern 46.14, Glebe 38.11 and Erskine-
ville 35.65.
* * * *
(1) Width of Newcastle (N.S.W.) harbor at
the entrance between the breakwaters ? (2)
Width and depth of the navigable channel?
—5660.
(1) 1500 ft. (2) 600 ft. wide; minimum depth
of 25ft. 6in. at low water ordinary spring tide.
Vessels drawing 29ft. can enter at high water
spring tides under suitable weather conditions.
Works are in progress with the object of in-
creasing the depth at the entrance to 32ft.
* %: * *
(1) How many inhabitants are there on
Willis Island during cyclone months? (2)
How many at other periods? (3) Is the island
land and rock or just of coral formation ? (4)
What is highest altitude above sea level? (5)
Is there a permanent fresh-water supply ?
5556.
(1) From the establishment of the meteoro-
logical station in October, 1921, until the end
of the 1930-31 cyclone season, there were three
officers on duty there from November to
April inclusive. Since then the staff has con-
sisted of two men, relieved once a year. (2)
At periods other than cyclone seasons between
October, 1921, and April, 1931, and at all
times since April, 1931, two men were on duty.
(3) The island is a grass-covered sandheap of
elliptical shape, measuring approximately 470
by 150 yards. The sandheap is surrounded by
a wide beach adding approximately 100yds.
to the length of the island and 60yds. to its
breadth. The beach is continually shifting its
position. The sandheap and beach rest upon
a foundation of reef breccia, which extends
some few feet below mean sea level beyond the
limits of the island, particularly on the windward
side, where it forms a natural breakwater. (4)
25ft. (5) No. The supply is stored in tanks
from rainwater run from roofs.
* * * *
(1) Is kaolin used in the manufacture of pot-
tery ? (2) Names of firms in N. S. Wales that
use this material? (3) Chemical analysis re-
quired of commercial kaolin? —ss44.
(1) Yes. (2) R. Fowler, Ltd., Fitzroy-street,
Marrickville, and Bakewell Bros., Mitchell-road,
Erskineville (3) Chemical analyses of kaolin
vary considerably. A practical test is the best
guide to market value. Either of the above
firms or the Department of Mines will make
tests.
Titles of books of verse, with place of publi-
cation and date, published by Australian verse-
writers J. S. Ryan, Walter Snadden, Bernard
Ingleby, R. J. Cassidy, James Lindo Webb,
Lala Fisher, Eardley Turner and W. T.
Goodge ? —5687.
Webb, Snadden and Turner did not publish
books of verse. J. S. Ryan, Splinters on the
Wall (Sydney, 1909); Bernard Ingleby, Poems
(Auckland, 1917); R. J. Cassidy, The Land of
the Starry Cross and Other Verses (Melbourne,
1911) and The Gipsy Road (Sydney, 1919);
Lala Fisher, A Twilight Teaching and Other
Poems (London, 1898), Grass Flowering (Syd-
ney, 1915) and Earth Spiritual (Sydney, 1918);
W. T. Goodge, Hits! Skits! and Jingles!
(Sydney, 1899).
* * * *
(1) Value of imports into Australia from
Soviet Russia for last five years? (2) Chief
articles of import from same country and re-
spective values for last financial year? (3)
Value of Australian exports to Soviet Russia
for last five years ? —5580.
(1) 1931-32, £53,600; 1932-33, £86,031; 1933-
34, £50,139; 1934-35, £57,783; 1935-36, £94,663.
(2) 1935-36; Fish £BO5l, dressed furs £33,999,
hair and fibre £5434, hides and skins £12,371,
timber, veneers and plywood £BO, all other
articles £34,728. (3) 1931-32, £190,143; 1932-
33, £267,279; 1933-34, £88,678; 1934-35,
£84,180; 1935-36, £10,700.
* * * *
Rates of entertainment tax in (1) N. S.
Wales, (2) S.A., (3) Westralia and (4) Tasmania ?
—5576.
(1) Exceeding Is. 6d. and less than 25., ;
2s. and over, Id. for first 2s. and id. for every
6d. or fractional part thereof by which the pay-
ment exceeds 2s. (2) Up to but not exceeding
6d., exempt; exceeding 6d., Id. for every 6d.
or fractional part of 6d. (3) From 9d. to Is.
(inclusive), 2d.; exceeding Is., 2d. for the first
Is. and Id. for every 6d. or part of 6d. by which
the payment exceeds Is. (4) 9d. to Is., Id.;
exceeding Is. but not exceeding Is. 6d., 3d.; ex-
ceeding Is. 6d. but not exceeding 25., 4d.; for
eveiy additional 6d. or part over 25., id.
•N 4* *l®
Quantities and values of wheat exported by
Australia to different countries for the year
1935-36 ?— 5662.
United Kingdom, 28,065,629 centals, valued
at £8,601,624; India, 291,921 centals, £86,330;
Irish Free State, 2,846,661 centals, £876,321;
Malta, 310,151 centals, £98,531 ; New Zealand,
240,004 centals, £78,205; South Africa, 196,140
centals, £64,579; other British countries,
317,880 centals, £98,326; Belgium, 1,457,303
centals, £457,468; China, 3,031,674 centals,
£868,864; Egypt, 337 centals, £9B; France,
24,368 centals, £7880; Greece, 1,613,193 centals,
£522,287; Italy, 1,041,998 centals, £32#,990;
Japan, 6,626,166 centals, £1,923,596; Norway,
28,000 centals, £8867; other foreign countries,
104,451 centals, £31,009. Total, 46,575,814
centals, values at £14,050,975.
9*: $ $ *
(1) On what date was the present British
House of Commons elected? (2) Strength of
the various parties and number for and against
the Government ? —5678.
(1) November 14, 1935. (2) Conservatives
387, Liberal Nationalists 33, National Labor 8,
Nationals 2, Independent 1, total for National
Government 431; Labor 154, Liberals 17, Inde-
pendent Liberals 4, Independent Labor party 4,
Independents 4, Communist 1, total against
National Government 184.
* * * *
(1) Australian birthrate for each of the last
10 years for which figures are available? (2)
What six countries have the largest birthrate
according to latest figures?— s6l3.
(1) 1926, 21.98 births per 1000 of the mean
population for the year: 1927, 21.62; 1928,
21.27; 1929, 20.25; 1930, 19.86; 1931, 18.16;
1932, 16.86; 1933, 16.78; 1934, 16.39; 1935,
16.55. (2) Soviet Union 42.7, Egypt 42.6, Ceylon
37.2, Rumania 30.7, Japan 29.9, Portugal 28.3.
Hs Hs * *
What caused the 1935 inter-State shipping
strike in Australia, and how was it ended? —
5640.
The dispute related to conditions of a new
award of the Federal Arbitration Court, and
vessels were held up at the principal ports
for several weeks. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment appealed to the seamen to reconsider
their action, but without avail. Consequently
the licensing system was introduced on Decem-
ber 10; all ships called for volunteers, and by
the end of the month most of the ships were
manned.
if % # ij:
What is the method of repacking a military
.303 rifle barrel with asbestos? How far from
the muzzle of the barrel should the packing be ?
—5559.
Military rifles are not packed in asbestos; the
barrels are bedded on the wood. To use
asbestos in repacking the rifle would spoil
the stock fore-end, as it would require to be
cut away so much that the wooden covering
would be reduced to a mere paper thickness.
if * * *
Particulars of life and career of Daisy Ken-
nedy, the violinist? —5684.
Born at Burra, South Australia, she studied
at Adelaide Con.; was Elder scholar, 1906-08,
and gold-medallist, Adelaide Uni., 1903. In
1908 she studied the violin with Professor
Sevcik at Prague, later entering the Meister-
schule, Vienna. She made her debut at Vienna
in 1911, and appeared at Queen’s Hall, London,
the same year. She has played at principal
concerts throughout the United Kingdom, and
toured Australia and Maoriland, 1919-20. Her
first marriage with Benno Moiseiwitsch, the
pianist, was dissolved, and she later married
John Drinkwater, English playwright and poet.
She has two daughters by her first marriage.
# * * *
Biographical details of Emil Ludwig, the
author ? —5602.
Born in Germany in 1881 of Jewish extrac-
tion, he was educated at Breslau and Heidel-
berg. He became in 1932 a naturalised citizen
of Switzerland. A biographer, playwright and
political essayist of note, his publications in-
clude works on the ex-Kaiser, Napoleon Bona-
parte, Bismarck, Goethe, Scfiliemann, Abraham
Lincoln and Hindenburg, and a play, Ver-
sailles.” He has also translated Shakspeare s
sonnets and the works of Brillat-Savarin.
* * * *
In a paragraph (B . 17/3 / ’37) mention is made
of “Handley Cross.” What is the author s
name, and what's the story about ? Is the
book read much nowadays? —s297.
The book is by Surtees, a well-known
writer on hunting subjects in Victorian days
and one who (vide Professor Saintsbury) had a
strong flavor of Dickens in him. The story
is long and complicated, with hordes of charac-
ters. Surtees probably is not read much in
Australia nowadays, but he has a place in most
country-house libraries in England.
* * * *
What works have won the James Tait Black
Memorial prize for the best biography of the
year since 1930?—5588.
1930: The Stricken Deer, by Lord David
Cecil. 1931: Bengal Lancer, by Francis Yeats
Brown. 1932: David Hume, by J. Y. T. Grieg.
1933: The Life of Mary Kingsley, by Stephen
Gwynn. 1934: The Book of Talbot, by Violet
Clifton. 1935: Queen Elizabeth, by J. E.
Neale. 1936: Thomas More, by R. W.
Chambers.
* * * *
Translation of the Latin phrase “Beneficia
eo usque Iceta sunt, dum videntur exsolvi posse;
übi multum antevenere, pro gratia odium red-
ditur” ? —5672.
“Benefits are pleasing up to that point when
they seem to be capable of requital; when they
far exceed that possibility hatred is returned
instead of gratitude.”
* * * *
How to make a water rheostat for an accumu-
lator charging from a 32-volt supply? —s694.
A four- or five-gallon stone jar is two-thirds
filled with water to which two tablespoons of salt
has been added; a little more might be neces-
sary. A square sheet of lead is placed in the
bottom of the jar and forms one terminal.
The other terminal consists of a similar sheet
suspended vertically in the liquid and so
arranged that it may be immersed to a greater
or lesser extent. The current will rise or fall
according to whether this plate is lowered into
or taken out of the liquid. The two plates
or their connections must not come into con-
tact, and the plates must have sufficient area
to prevent overheating. Fresh water should be
added as required.
* * * *
How is a gloss produced on men’s white semi-
stiff collars ? —5680.
Make up the following starch glaze and keep
tightly corked in a bottle. Dissolve loz. soap
and borax in one pint of hot water; add
4oz. white starch slightly rubbed down with
cold water to prevent lumps, one dessertspoon
glycerine, one dessertspoon turpentine and one
teaspoon common salt; mix well and add half-
pint more hot water. To use, apply the glaze
to the collars with a slightly damped flannel,
then spread it more evenly with a dry linen
rag and polish vigorously with a hot iron.
Glazing powders can be bought from most of
the large stores.
v * * *
(1) Origin of the word “tobacco” ? (2) Was
tobacco used as a narcotic before Raleigh’s
, time ? If so, what are the facts ? (3) Did
Raleigh first bring tobacco into England ?
5739.
(1) Believed to have been derived from tabaco
or tabac, the Haytian or Carib name of the
instrument in which the leaves were smoked
by the natives. (2) It is believed that it was long
cultivated in New Guinea before Europeans
found their way there, and it is possible that
the Chinese had long been accustomed to
smoking it. Tobacco smoking was in full force
in America when discovered by Columbus.
(3) No. According to some historians, Sir
John Hawkins introduced it into England in,
or about, 1565. Raleigh may have brought its
use into public notice in 1586, but he was not
the introducer. Lobel’s Stirpium Adversaria
Nova (Lond., 1571) mentions that tobacco was
cultivated in England and in Scotland at that
time.
* * # *
(1) Difference between a magnetic bearing
and a true bearing? (2) Meaning of magnetic
variation ? (3) How to convert a magnetic bear-
ing into a true bearing?- —5723.
(1) A true bearing is the angle measured from
true north to any given line. A magnetic bear-
ing is one taken by a compass whose needle
does not point to true north. (2) It is the
angle made between true north and compass
(or magnetic) north. In Sydney this angle is
about 9deg. 35min. east of true north. (3)
When the variation is east of true north it
must be added to, and when the variation is
west it must be deducted from the magnetic
bearing to give the true bearing. For example,
if the compass bearing is 84deg. and the varia-
tion 9deg. east, the true bearing will be 84
plus 9, or 93deg.
* * * *
(1) Do all regiments carry colors? (2) How
many colors do infantry regiments carry? (3)
Upon what occasions may they be carried?
(4) Should civilians remove their hats when un-
cased colors pass them? —5712.
(1) No. Household Cavalry and Dragoon
Guards carry standards; Dragoons carry
guidons. (2) Two: the King’s and the regi-
mental color. Rifle regiments, originally in-
tended for outpost and skirmishing duties,
do not carry colors, since these might disclose
their position. (3) The King’s color is car-
ried only on ceremonial parades held in honor
of the King’s birthday and at the presentation
of the colors. The regimental color is carried
on all inspections or reviews. (4) It is the
correct thing to do.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning the small perch-
ing birds known -as white-faces ?—5621.
White-faces, found in the inland districts,
are tame little birds associating in small parties,
and hopping actively about on the ground or
among bushes in .search of insects. The four
species are all dull-colored, brown above and
dull-white below, with a white patch in front
of the eyes. The black-banded white-face of
Centralia has a narrow black band across the
breast; the chestnut-breasted white-face of
northern South Australia has a broader chestnut
band on the chest; the chestnut-bellied white-
face of the eastern areas of W.A. has chestnut
coloration on the sides. The common white-
face of inland eastern Australia is without any
of these distinctive markings. The birds build
large domed nests of grass, moss, dead leaves
and other materials, lined with grass and
feathers, with an entrance high up at the side,
and lay four or five pinkish-white eggs covered
with reddish spots and smudges.
Brief Answers.
J.G.E.: (1) It would go through a secre-
tary’s hands no matter how endorsed. (2)
Care Morris Motor Co., London A. 8.:
Silicate of soda, used in the glass and cement
trades, is not likely to have value as a water-
proofing material for fabrics. In dozens of
formulas for waterproofing there is no mention
of it....H.G.: (1) The latter has a readier
sale, but well-written works of the former class
are always in demand. (2) 50,000 to 65,000
words... .H.W. and N.S.: Write Correspon-
dence Teaching Division, Sydney Technical Col-
lege, Harris-street, Ultimo, Sydney ... .W.A.G.:
The volume appears to be a pirated edition
issued in the same year as the first edition.
As the first edition has sold as low as 20s. in
London it would not be possible for the volume
to command any large price, especially as it is
without the back cover. The value as it stands
is probably about 5s A.8.C.: See no reason
why the pipi should not prove to be a palatable
article if put up in the same way as the M.L.
toheroa. The Economic Zoologist, Techno-
logical Museum, Sydney, has long held the
opinion that it has commercial possibilities if so
treated, and considers the project worthy of
serious consideration A.W.A.: Send in-
quiries to the Director, Meteorological Office,
P.O. Box 722, Wellington, M.L A.M.:
Peter Jackson, born in the West Indies in
1861, learnt his fighting craft in Sydney from
Larry Foley. His first fight was in 1883, and
was followed by a long string of victories, cul-
minating in his winning of the Australian cham-
pionship from Tom Lees. He fought Jim
Corbett in 1891, when the contest was stopped
by the referee, and defeated Frank Slavin at
the National Sporting Club, London, in May,
1892... .A.E.M.: According to Thomas
O. Callaghan, in Nantes of Victorian Railway
Stations, the meaning of the aboriginal name
Pyalong, applied by A. E. Mollison to his
station property in 1837 and later given to the
town, is “two small waterlioles excavated by
gins with yam sticks” L.8.F.: The popu-
lation of Newcastle (N.S.W.) and suburbs at
the 1933 census was 104,485; the last estimated
population was 107,100; that of East and West
Maitland 12,329, last estimated 12,500; Cess-
nock 14,385, last estimated 14,620 C.D.M.:
The verses “The Great Australian Adjective”
are by W. T. Goodge, and were published in
his book of collected verses, Hits! Skits! and
Jingles! published by The Bulletin in 1899;
they were also included in The “Bulletin” Re-
citer. .. .T.McC.: Talbot (Vic.) was named after
Lord Talbot, a prominent British Cabinet
member of the period; local council may be
able to supply fuller particulars... .H.H.; Leo
Carrillo’s address is care William Morris, 701
7th-avenue, New York City, N.Y., U.S.A
C.T.: Beenbean is a N.S.W. a bo. name for a
woodpecker E.J.K.: N.S.W. industrial
awards are for sale at the Government Printer’s
office, Bent and Phillip streets,' Sydney, and
the Department of Labor and Industry, 142
Phillip-street, Sydney... .P.M.: Alteration in
the name would require a deed poll, adver-
tisement in newspapers and registration. The
deed could be drawn by any solicitor. No
fixed fee, but cost probably would not exceed
a couple of guineas... .M.D.; Akehia quinata,
purplish flowers; Lonicera sinensis, a variety
of honeysuckle, bearing white and red sweetly-
perfumed flowers G.H.G.: Your queries
were referred to an astronomical authority, who
says he cannot answer them. He suggests you
should refer the matter to a professional
astrologer... .S.C.: Write Department of Agri-
culture, Melbourne D.R.: Lady Julia Percy
Island was so named by Lieut. Grant, of
H.M.S. Lady Nelson, in 1800; Lady Julia
was a member of the Northumberland family.
. ...G.0.: Address of Christies’ is 345 Fulham-
road, London, 5.W.10 W.P.J.: The badge,
11304, A.R.P., 34, on the carrier pigeon found
is that of the Australian Racing Pigeon Society,
care the “Poultry Newspaper,” 13 Goulbum-
street, Sydney, which has, however, no record of
this particular sale. Your best plan is to arrange
for the insertion of a paragraph in the press.
... .W.F.: (1) Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-street,
Covent Garden, London. (2) Usual fee is 10
p.c. of sales effected... .8.G.: (1) Angus and
Robertson, Sydney. (2) Camden (N.S.W.) dis-
trict. (3) Try Mitchell Library, Macquarie-
street, Sydney... .D.H.F.; Write to the Regis-
trar in Divorce, Supreme Court, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, giving him wife’s name in full
and such details as you possess, together with
approximate date of supposed divorce
E.M.C.: Should he refuse to pay the increased
rental you may terminate the tenancy by giving
him one clear week’s notice to vacate the
premises. The notice should date so as to ex-
pire at the end of a clear week of the tenancy.
If he then fails to give up possession you may
take proceedings to eject him through the local
Court of Petty Sessions by laying an infor-
mation or through the Supreme Court, Sydney,
by the issue of a summons in ejectment
G. : A strong solution of caustic soda will
remove the paint; apply with a rag on a stick,
as it is hard on hands. One part oil of turpen-
tine and two parts ammonia, mixed in a
bottle and shaken to milkiness, is a quick re-
mover; apply and let stand for a few minutes,
then scrape 0ff....H.M.: (1) Joyce and Wat-
kins, 24 High-street, Fremantle. (2) Burns,
Philp and Co., 7 Bridge-street, Sydney. (3)
Federal Milk Pty., 530 Flinders-lane, Mel-
bourne. (4) Marrickville Margarine, 74 Edin-
burgh-road, Marrickville (N.S.W.) M.S.:
A letter care of The Bulletin will find him.
L.M.: Austin, all recent models; Ford
V 8; Lincoln Zephyr (’37); Lincoln Vl2 (’37);
Pierce Arrow, 8 and 12 (’37); Willys (’37);
Packard 8 (’36); Packard Super 8 (’36);
Packard 12 (’36) S.M.: Australian Student
Christian Movement, 182 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne J.P.: The “Australian Museum
Magazine” (quarterly, Is. per copy), obtainable
from the Australian Museum, Sydney
H. : Wheat, maize or any other cereal
should not be fed whole to pigs. Crushed,
ground or boiled it will give appreciably better
results. Whole grain may be given if it forms
only a small portion of the ration and it is
mixed with it A. 8.: That work is worth
about £5....H.G.M.: Not available from this
office. Try photographic department of one
of the dailies....M.V.: Probate duty, where
the net value of the estate amounts to £3OO and
upwards for every £lOO or part thereof £1;
succession duty, from £5Ol to £lOOO, in the
case of a widow and children £l, husband £2,
other relatives £3 and strangers in blood £4 for
every £lOO or part thereof T.H.: Cannot
recommend any particular one. Department of
Labor and Industry, Sydney, will furnish you
with a complete list... .A.W.: The Commis-
sioner of Railways in W.A. is J. A. Ellis, and
the Chief Traffic Manager J. H. Railton....
(Many others mailed.)


7
people
in 10
have
GUM
LINE
NORMAL
ISENSITIVE SPOTS
99
gums
at 35!
Gums may start to shrink back ( recede) as early as 20. By 35
most mouths show 3 to 4 “recession” spots at gum line. These
spots are highly sensitive when brushed.
Three common mistakes hasten "shrinking," according
modern dentists. Three things to do if you want to retard
premature “ ageing” process.
As gums grow old they naturally
t \ recede. Your first warning is
that certain teeth are sensitive to
brushing.
To harsh, abrasive dentifrices, to
ineffective cleansing and to wrong,
ways of brushing are laid the
prematurely receding gums of
modern times. Thus, to retard
unnatural "shrinking” of the
gums, follow these three simple
rules.
1. BRUSH PROPERLY
Brush away from the gums,
upwards on the lower teeth and
downwards from above.
2. USE A PROTECTIVE TOOTH PASTE
—When gums recede, the part
exposed (cementum) is much
softer than enamel. Thus, your
cleansing material must be softer
than "cementum.” Of the leading
brands only Pepsodent is softer
than this more delicate portion of
the tooth.
3. YOU MUST REMOVE FILM
—it contains germs associated
with decay.
Film also combines with lime
salts to form tartar, whose sharp
edges may irritate the gums,
cause bleeding and make gums
recede much faster.
Pepsodent Removes Film
Pepsodent is a special film-remov-
ing tooth paste. Scientists devel-
oped a new softer, safer cleansing
and polishing material. This
special film-removing material is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively.
PEPSODENT
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING
TOOTH PASTE
NOW IN A
NEW 10%
LARGER TUBE
MORE TOOTH PASTE
FOR YOUR MONEY
THE 2/. SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
WRITERS!
Freelancing and Short Story Courses
include Editorial Criticism and Place-
ment details.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
r, Dailey SI., Sydney. OF JOURNALISM
The best
SAFEGUARD
against
COLDS, FLU,
WHOOPING
COUGH and
V
Each year these ailments take their
toll of adults and children, and unless
care is taken to fortify the system,
bodily resistance becomes less, with
the result that more serious diseases
obtain a foothold. It is truly said
that a well-nourished body is the best
protection against illness, and the cer-
tain way to secure this is a course of
Roboleine at intervals throughout the
year. Roboleine is the best protective
and strengthening food, rich in natural
vitamins. A teaspoonful three times
a day supplies the body with that
extra nourishment which tones up
the system and increases resistance to
epidemic diseases.
Roboleine is made in England
ROBOLEINE
The best protective and
health restoring food
COVffO*
S«° ,
Kent
mpi®
419
lot
Ltd
tamp®
’Sen
lose
e» c
S 7 d &e* e
s.s
You will
END
Your
RHEUMATISM
WITH THIS NEW
GERMAN TREATMENT
. . Tests proved it successful
A new natural
treatment Is now
available to Aus-
tralian sufferers.
It lias proved
amazingly suc-
cessful abroad,
being recom-
mended by 2,385
European spec-
ialists. Prom all
over the world,
joyous ex-suffer-
ers write telling
how it has
brought magical
relief from rheu-
matism and allied
complaints such
as swollen joints,
lumbago, sciatica and neuritis.
REMOVES THE CAUSE.
This new rheumatism corrective,
which was perfected by Carl Von
Ehrlich, removes the underlying
cause. That is why its relief is per-
manent! It stimulates the blood to
dissolve the razor-edged uric acid
crystals which cause such fiery agony.
That is why it brings such amazingly
quick relief from pain.
SCIENTIFIC —VET SIMPLE.
Alagen is a rheumatic treatment which
is entirely free from habit-forming
drugs, liniments, planters and elec-
tricity ; a treatment which is perfectly
simple to use—yet so scientifically
planned that it is ABSOLUTELY
EFFECTIVE. Thousands of sufferers
have been successfully treated with-
out any interference with their daily
occupation.
CDCC 3-DAY
iKCC TREATMENT
To let Australian sufferers prove for
themselves the remarkably quick way
in which this simple treatment starts
to clear up rheumatism, lumbago,
neuritis, sciatica and gout, 10,000 trial
treatments are being distributed
FREE. Post the coupon for yours,
to-day. With the treatment you will
be sent a copy of the informative
book, “All About Rheumatism,” which
tells of Von Ehrlich’s epoch-making
researches. The trial treatment is
free, the book is free. There is no
obligation whatever. Clip out and post
the coupon—and start on the road to
health—NOW!
CUP HERE
Charlton Sinclair Ltd., Dept.„?J®‘.(--
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FREE a sample of the
Alagen Treatment and a copy of the
book, “ All About Rheumatism.” /
enclose 6d. in stamps for packing and
postage. lam under no obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
wwwwwwwwwvww
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Japan’s Population
It is increasing at such a rate that it
is beginning to fall over the edge. The
suggestion has been made by a former
Japanese Under-Secretary for Overseas
Affairs that to relieve the congestion,
which has not been relieved by expan-
sion in Asia, a lease should be obtained
of portion of Dutch New Guinea.
About 2,250,000 Japanese are born
every year—32.6 per thousand of popu-
lation. The deathrate is high—l6.7B, but
natural increase is vast. Australia's
birthrate is about 16.4 and its death-
rate 9.3.
At the beginning of the century the
net gain in Japanese population was an
even 500,000 p.a. Since 1932 it has been
over 1,000,000 a year. Every seven years
the Japanese people increase by a num-
ber more than equal to the whole popu-
lation of Australia.
With a falling deathrate, another gen-
eration will see Japan with over-
-100,000,000 in its own main islands, in
which there are now 70,000,000, as
against 44,000,000 in 1899.
Australia, at its present rate of
progress, will have an almost stationary
population of 7.500,000 in 1967. —
E, H. M. (N.S.W.).
Italians as Settlers
Why this outcry against Italian
settlers? About 40 years ago the S.
Aus. Government brought out a number
of Italians, with their wives and fami-
lies, and settled them in the hills, beyond
Magill, to grow olives, almonds, grapes
and other Mediterranean productions.
They were a picturesque colony. I do not
think any of them could speak English.
To-day their descendants are good Aus-
tralians.
The Italians can not only teach us
much about viticulture, wine-making and
suchlike material lessons, but love of art,
music and song is something we have
yet to acquire. Their culture is older
than the British, and, as for manners, they
can show us a courtesy that many young
Australians might emulate with profit.
For the most part, Italians do not return
to their home land ; they stay here and
adopt a higher standard of living as they
prosper.— New Moon (N.S.W.).
Two More Forms
Much ink and breath have been ex-
pended on the diminution of Queens-
land’s artesian-water supply. The Irri-
gation Department (“Irritation” to
westerners) has become so concerned
that it has issued two entirely new
forms which demand, among other such
idiocies, to know the name of the head-
driller of bores put down in ’B9. Some-
one has periodically made the sugges-
tion that the Burdekin and other eastern-
flowing rivers be dammed near their
source with the object of diverting the
waters to the west. This proposal would
be expensive, and by the very nature of
things could benefit only a limited area.
The only practicable method of replac-
ing the lessening artesian supply is by
surface conservation.
Western Queensland graziers are in
urgent need of two things— tax remis-
sions and more water. Dithering around
with white and yellow forms and a colos-
sal pile of very approximate data will
not help. If tax remissions were allowed
to every grazier who makes an earth-
tank of not less than 10,000 cub. yards
capacity, at any approved site on his
holding, something tangible would result.
—Birre Gurra (Q.).
Overpaid and' Refunded
As everyone knows, it is difficult to
get a repayment of the smallest sum
paid in error or misapprehension to Aus-
tralian Income Tax departments; in
England, I think, they are much more
ready to rectify injustices. A friend.of
mine owns a small property in Somer-
set on which the usual income tax had
been paid for years, as if he had been
a resident proprietor; then an alert soli-
citor came on a clause in the Act which
provides that if a landholder is paying
income tax anywhere in the overseas
Dominions he can claim substantial re-
ductions on his English liabilities. The
claim was immediately put in, backed
by Australian income-tax receipts, as
promptly and freely admitted, and a
three-figure refund made —all inside a
few months. From my experience of
our circumlocution offices, the petitioner
would have risked being strangled in red-
tape before any finality was reached.—
Oxmead (N.S.W.).
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
/
H.W.L.: The basket got it C.C.: “White
rails running with staring faces” is a weak
echo of Gordon... .S.E.: Why so hard on
architects? E.H.P.: No appeal 0.T.G.:
Sapless A.G.: There’s a lilt in it, but the
theme has been overworked lately... .P.C.:
Sketch unacceptable; verse more so J.K.:
As a rhyme it’s on the disorderly side... .L.P.:
Regret our inability to appreciate its worth.
There’s romance everywhere, if you only look
for it, from Nashville (Tennessee) to Peckham
Rye and the ’Loo Jack K.: Feeble.... 5.8.:
Sounds as if some inexpressive she had turned
you down L.A.S.: No swing in it
S.W.: We never noticed any fragrance in the
mulga R. 8.: “Do you want any poems in
the style of the enclosed specimen?” N 0....
G. : Very slight C.C.M.: No offer for
“The Spinster” R.G.P.: Could find nothing
appealing in what you describe as “alleged
poems” M.H.: Have another try a few years
later V.J.M.: “Man without Hope” re-
sembles the verse... .Micky: Much better than
most we read, but still not up.... R.G.H.:
We’re not fond of its kind, but it has point
enough to be worth giving a fly elsewhere....
M.R.: The thought in your “Counsel” is all
right, but we can’t say as much for the verse.
M.A.: No space for your night fears
Jason: “The. Door” was shown another
A.J.M.: Poem terribly bumpy; jest a very old
one L.W.: If you could put it into verse it
might pass; mere chopped lines are not verse.
N.R.Y.: Gives the impression o|C the
rhymes making you say things to suit them.
J.C.L.: If you want to parody Gray’s
“Elegy,” four of your lines carry a foot too
many H.M.D.: “The Early Birds” caught
nothing L.P.C.: Sorry, but none suited
J.C.S.: We hazard a guess that you’re not
related to the poet whose surname you bear
D.M.: One verse from your poem about the
two gallants who fought to the death for the
love of a lady appeals to us: —
“Oh! Alee, you have killed poor Reg,”
Was all the woman said.
“Yep, sweetheart,” said the rival one,
“The blackguard dog is dead.”
... .K.W.McD.: You have a good vocabulary
and the sense of humor is there, but the sub-
ject matter doesn’t quite make it W.E.A.: j
Storm description excellent, but why drop the
Dresden-china girl before you’d even bowed
her on? M.A.8.: The type of melodrama
which made grandpop wipe away a furtive
tear is unsaleable nowadays... .R.W.: You’ll
need to find a better plot to stem your flow of
rejections G.F.N.: Sorry; can’t find a niche
for that article L.T.: Characters don’t ring
true; Anyway, why set the yarn in S’Africa?
N.A.E.: Some crisp humor, but the story |
failed to survive a second reading R.K.: j
You harp overmuch on death and disease; j
why boggle at a little cheerfulness? F.C.T.: [
Word-spinning seems to have sent you giddy. \
L.P.: Admired your opening sentence of
seven words, but couldn’t make sense out of the
other 4993 M.N.A.: No, don’t give up;
study the best authors for a few years and
then have another shot 8.L.R.: “Ermyn-
trude’s lips were raised in a pout, but Trevor,
blushing furiously, just pecked at her cheek.”
Now, none of these wild goings-on! A.J.:
Gold-digging female rings true, but the story
degenerates 1.M.: Not improved since its
last submission F.C.: Dramatic, but very
untrue to life A.S.C.: That radio being left
going is an old dodge... .L.V.A.: The gentle
old composer who expires after penning his
work of genius dedicated to his long-lost wife
faded out of fiction in the grey ’eighties
A.K.L.: Welcome to Arbuthnot, the “marcel-
waved, straight-limbed youth.” We promise, if
we meet him in a lift* to hoist our lid.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.W.H.: You didn’t explain why the de- |
formed Oriental on stilts is perched on top of !
the anthill P.M.: We could smell that old ;
gag about Dad and the pigsty long before
it arrived E.L.: The flapper’s dress looks
to have been made from sheet-iron C.R.M.:
Even your offer to part with them at cut rates
failed to tempt us... .G.H.P.: You didn’t tell
us that Mum and the family had been frozen
to death K.W.: Faint glimmer of promise,
but you’ll have to put in several years of study.
JJ.: Foodship cartoon struck a mine at
the entrance to 252 George-street... .R. 8.: We
needed a strong pick-me-up after one look at
it A.C.: It is no use turning in a cartoon
three months after the event....W.B.: As an
artist you resemble the chaps who write the
Lord’s Prayer on threepenny-bits 8.F.:
Dismal sketches, antediluvian humor C.J.:
No encores for large and jerry-built sketch of
bush fire-brigade 0.M.K.: Figures seem
to have been painted on the floor T.G.: A
collection of yawn-raisers E.J.8.: The office
morgue contains the whole six A.P.: Leave
art-editors alone until you have picked up the
rudiments of the game... .G.W.P.: The aged
billygoat was turned loose among a stack of
empty sardine-tins and told not to stray our
way again... .E.L.H.: As a creator of fantastic
blots and smudges you’ll take some beating
W.D.: One look at it necessitated a visit to
an optician K.P.: Polish your work and
think up brighter gags J.S.: That particular
wheeze is on our pension list C.H.H.: Suit-
able for an autograph album C. 8.: Picture
of joust between Archdale and Frederick might
have passed if you had been able to draw (1)
men in armor and (2) horses A.L.N.: Clean
linework, but draughtsmanship is very shaky
H. : The three dwarfs are now trudging
home to Mudgee J.J.M.C.: Give large and
detailed picture of prawn and lobster in con-
versation to your local fishmonger T. 8.:
Ended among the stragglers.


-
M*,
LEARN,
■from the Squirrel /
When nuts are plentiful (and nuts
are the riches of the squirrel
world), the wise animal eats what
he needs. But, little by little, he
builds up a store of food against
the lean future.
This plan has stood the test of
many thousands of years. So,
why not act in like manner ?
From your earnings, put aside
something however small
but REGULARLY. Put that
regular something where it will be
safe but always quickly available.
Let the growing fund earn a
steady profit for yoii in interest.
Start a Savings Account, at once,
and you’ll feel happier and
safer.
commontuenuH
SAUMGS BAIIK OF AUSTRALIA
PACIFIC
CANADA
and
ATLANTIC
TO
C^CFWp£
lu CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA W AORANCI "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
IN
N,Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
Ryan, Barron, Dunn and Hegarty
No. 17 of a series of articles on the great days of the Australian Ring.
The Victorians once thought they had
lhe makings of a world champion in Tut
Ryan. He was a very good middleweight,
so good that he boxed two draws with
Dan Creedon when Daniel was in his
youthful prime. One lasted eight rounds,
the favorite duration of a limited bout
in those days, and the other 30 rounds.
But Ryan grew out of the division,
which anyone who could not get down
to list. 41b. was held to have done then,
and for the rest of his career he had to
fight men sometimes 301 b. to 401 b.
heavier. It would not have mattered if,
like Fitzsimmons, he had been a heavy-
weight from the loins up, but his weight
4vas unfavorably distributed. He had an
unfortunate tendency to become pot-
bellied. It was no result of dissipation,
as Ryan was always an abstemious
fellow: like Burge, he neither drank nor
smoked. In spite of this aptitude for
putting on weight in the wrong place, no
opponent ever found him soft.
Ryan whipped Jim Quigley when
Sydneysiders were saying of Quigley
what Melburnians were saying of Ryan—
that there was world-championship
timber in the young man. His two
strenuous fights with Joe Goddard at
Johannesburg have been mentioned.
Going to the U.S.A. he fought a thrilling
10-rounder with Gus Ruhlin, before Jef-
fries had taken the starch out of
that 15-stoner. When he returned to
Australia, he became champion of this
country, meeting Dooley, Doherty, Felix,
Nolan and others more than once.
Ryan was very game, and something
of an original character withal. In Johan-
nesburg and on the Westralian goldfields
he fought for tidy purses, and, as he
had lived thriftily, he must have had a
fairly comfortable bank balance when,
early in the present century, he retired
from the ring.
Mick Dunn.
It was the practice of the old S.A.G.
(Sydney Amateur Gymnasium) club to
have obscure or unknown aspirants to
boxing matches put through their paces
at lunchtime in the presence of a picked
lot of members. The other party was
generally Mick Dunn.
Mick was an accomplished welter-
weight, and, though he inflicted no un-
necessary punishment, he shattered the
hopes and ambitions of many. He was
kept busy with ring engagements also,
and on his long list at this period were
defeats of Herb Sinnott (10 rounds), Pat
O’Toole (nine rounds) and Jim Pettingall
(four rounds), all three bruisers of some
local celebrity ; and six-round draws with
Jim Hall, Billy McCarthy and “Star-
light.”
Dunn suffered a reverse when he went
up against Dan Creedon at Sydney in
1892. Creedon knocked him out in a
couple of rounds. He nevertheless set
out on what was to prove a world tour.
In a review of his career when he had
retired, The Bulletin wrote: “Mick
Dunn has fought in every continent but
Asia, and always left a clean trail
behind.” He boxed Billy Edwards, Mel-
bourne’s “sewerage champion,” in Johan-
nesburg, Frank Purcell in San Francisco,
Billy Willand in London, Ted White and
Joe Walcott on Coney Island, Freddie
Woods in Philadelphia and New York
and his fellow-Australian Shadow
Maber in the same city. His fight with
Walcott he always regarded as his great-
est effort in the ring, and he always
thought he should have been declared
the winner.
Before a bullet fired by another darkie
shattered his right arm, Walcott came to
be regarded as invincible among the
welterweights, and, going out of his class,
he beat Creedon and Choynski.
After three years of world wanderings,
Mick Dunn returned to Australia in 1895.
In Kalgoorlie that year he whipped
Mick Mclnerney, a Victorian, who
was reckoned one of the prettiest fighters
of his time and who might have gone far
but for having bad hands. Back in Syd-
ney, Dunn, who was now in the thirties,
dropped out of the game, but returned at
the end of 1899 to gain his first title, the
championship of N.S.W., at the expense
of Jack Conlon, a dashing footballer but
not so dashing a boxer. He had put on
weight during his retirement, and was
now a real middleweight. Conlon he
settled in six rounds.
Larry Foley refereed that encounter,
and Dunn’s lower limbs were cased in
green trunks. Chatting afterwards to an
evening-paper reporter, also green, Foley
said confidentially “You know it went
dead against the grain, me being a red-
hot Orangeman, to give the fight to a
man wearing green trunks.” An adjourn-
ment to a pub followed ; fight was talked
again and a crowd gathered round.
Having had sufficient drink to make him
talk a bit, the scribe chipped in with:
“Well, there’s one thing certain —Foley’s
the fairest referee living. What other
Orangeman would have given the fight
to a man wearing green trunks?” Then
the audience nearly choked.
The scribe or a friend got even with
Larry. Forthwith a friendly weekly
came out with a par. concerning “a
venerable gaffer from outback with the
querulous voice of age and a senile
trembling in his limbs who was intro-
duced to Larry Foley. ‘Glad I am to
see you,’ the ancient wheezed. ‘I can
remember, just as if it were yesterday,
me father (rest his soul!) taking me
when I was a little boy to see you belt
the soul-case out of Sandy Ross. And
you’re wearing well, Mr. Foley, wearing
well.’ ” Larry was then 48, and still
capable of beating more Australian pugs
than could beat him. He took the
riposte in good part.
When just on 36 Mick Dunn met a
real tornado of a fighter, Otto Cribb,
from Maoriland, and was thumped and
wrestled and roughed to the floor in the
eighth round. They had a return match
on July 21, 1901. Cribb had in the
meantime visited the U.S.A. and con-
tracted a disease there. He concealed
his condition from even intimate friends,
and, though by no means severely
punished, he was dead to the world in
the ninth round. Next day he was
literally a dead man.
Poor Dunn was greatly cut up.
Though the game had become prosperous
again and he had good matches in pros-
pect, he straightway announced his
retirement from the ring, and never
fought again. He has been change
clerk to a Rand wick bookmaker for
many years, and is so well preserved
that he would be more than a match for
any average customer half his years who
tried to get away with the bag.
Jim Barron.
Jim Barron was a very good but a
very unlucky boxer. Of no other pug
of his time or any other can it be
written that he knocked out a former
featherweight champion of the world,
fought a draw with the man who,
although never acknowledged to be
champion, was supreme among the light-
weights, and went ten rounds, also to a
draw, with the greatest of American
middleweights.
Barron did all this, and yet he was
miserably rewarded for his achievements.
He never made a navvy’s wages at fight-
ing, and was often hard put to it to keep
his wife and family.
At Sydney in 1893 Barron beat Billy
Murphy in three rounds. In the same
year he and Griffo boxed a 25-round
draw. Had this happened a year or two
before each pug would have received at
least £lOO, perhaps more; but the de-
pression had arrived, boxing had slumped
for other reasons, and there was only
£45 in the house. When hall hire had
been paid—the hall was the old Darling-
hurst skating rink —there was very little
left for either. As for Barron v.
Murphy, Murphy had not long before
fought Jim Burge 35 rounds for a purse
of £4O, so it can be imagined how much
Barron got for knocking Murphy out of
time.
Going to the U.S.A., poor Barron
found conditions no better. In some
respects they were even worse. A victim
of bad matchmaking, he had to fight all
sorts and conditions of pugs and take
his chance of being knocked on the head
by a partisan of the other fellow or
robbed by the referee.
Middleweights Barron licked in the
U.S.A. were “Black Pearl,” who had
fought Fitzsimmons, Bobby Dobbs, after-
wards a success in England, and Charlie
Turner, one. of two brothers (colored)
w’ho were very good fighters.
A paragraph printed when he returned
to Sydney—he had been away two years
—thus described his experiences: “Bar-
ron fought 13 battles in America, winning
11 and drawing two. He would have
won one of the drawn affairs had not a
high official leapt into the ring and,
flashing a revolver, threatened to pump
lead into Barron’s second. The other
draw was with Kid McCoy. In landing
on the middleweight he cracked the
bones of his right hand, and a doctor
says he will never be able to close it
again.”
To break even with the middleweight
who was to beat Doherty, Creedon,
O’Donnell and Choynski was one of the
finest performances ever achieved by a
lOst. man, but Barron got very little out


IT WAS AGONY
TO STOOP
Backache Made Him Feel An
Old Man at 31.
This man of 31 was prematurely aged by
kidney trouble, when he should have been
enjoying the best years of his life. Here he
tells how Kruschen gave him back his health,
after months of pain:
“I was in hospital for ten weeks, owing to
kidney trouble. When I was discharged I felt
like an old man, although I am only 31. If I
stooped to do anything it was agony to
straighten up again. Several people advised
me to try Kruschen Salts. I tried them and
found they gave me relief from pain and I
felt better in every way. I cycle 28 miles a day
to and from work, and shall keep up the
daily dose of Kruschen because I can now do
the journey to and from work and a night’s
work, and not feel any the worse for
it.”—S.V.C.
Unless the kidneys function properly, cer-
tain acid wastes, instead of being expelled, are
allowed to pollute the bloodstream and produce
troublesome symptoms: backache, rheumatism,
and excessive fatigue. Kruschen Salts is one
of the finest diuretics or kidney aperients
available for assisting the kidneys to excrete
acid impurities.
SADDLER-MADE
HORSE
RUGS
WITH
' STAYS-ON
FITTINGS.
A “Stays-on” Rug
(as illus.), made of
super bleached
flax canvas and lined with fleecy wool,
is the best rug made. It lasts for six
or more seasons, making it the
CHEAPEST IN THE LONG RUN.
No. A "Stays-on” Rug, sft. 6in. 42/-,
sft. 9in. 43/6, 6ft. 44/6.
Post, 2/9 per rug.
Write for Horse Rug List.
Samples of canvas and linings sent
on request.
WALTHERi. STEVENSON ltd
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
°IU
en
eotac 111 was
T
I\ut
ii.
as
17
r
Open! ii g o f the
FIRST BANK
This old coin was minted in 1817 in the reign of King
George 111. In that year the first hank in Australia, the
Bank of New South Wales, commenced business.
Then, and for some years after, the continent of
Australia was known as New Holland. It was no!
until the end of the reign of the next King, George IV.,
that the name Australia was officially recognised.
The Bank, in the 120 years that have passed since it
was opened, has played an important part in the
development of all States of the Commonwealth.
This Bank now has 800 branches throughout Australia,
New Zealand, the Pacific Islands and London, and
through this network provides the most complete
banking service.
yjuf.
ESTABLISHED
The largest Bank in Australasia
26 IF. 1937
of the fight. He returned to Australia
with his arm in a sling and with very
little more silver than he took away with
him. The fracture bothered him for the
rest of his boxing career, and when it
mended sufficiently to permit of his look-
ing for matches he found promoters
reluctant and the police suspicious.
He got a fight in September, 1898, a
10-rounder at the Golden Gate, Sydney,
with Herb McKell. It was described as
“a rattling set-to” and was declared a
draw. The reporter mentioned inciden-
tally, but significantly, that “the police
have not interfered with these mills since
the general election [of July, 1898], which
may be accounted for by a simile made by
George Houston Reid when being bom-
barded on the hustings with stale eggs:
‘This, boys, is as unfair as jumping into
a ring and interfering with a fair and
square go between well-matched men.’ ”
In these matters The Bulletin’s old
political enemy was always a “sport.”
Barron and McKell (who was to die
in Sydney of appendicitis at the age of
30) met three times that year. The third
was the only decisive contest. It was for
the lightweight championship of N.S.W.,
and in the twenty-fifth round Barron had
to give in because his hand had gone.
It is recorded that the honest fellow
prepared everyone for this by announc-
ing from the ring before, starting that
the hand was liable to go back on him.”
January 21, 1902, was the date of
Barron’s last fight. He was then just on
40, and his opponent, “Cocker” Tweedie,
was not much more than 20. Tweedie had
been hailed as another Griffo, and he
was certainly clever, but the principal
points of resemblance were that he had
been a newsboy and was fond of beer.
He had nevertheless become lightweight
champion of N.S.W. The old man lasted
seven rounds, and had Tweedie groggy
more than once, so accurately did he ply
his one good hand ; but after 20 minutes
Nature deserted him. He fell from ex-
haustion and the referee closed the pro-
ceedings.
Barron’s subsequent appearances in
boxing halls were as second and referee.
For many years he was boxing instructor
at The King’s School in his native town
of Parramatta. His name was mentioned
recently to a man at “King’s.”
“I have heard he is still about Sydney,”
was the reply. “We haven’t seen him at
the school for a long time. We should
like to see him again—old Jim Barron
was one of Nature’s gentlemen.”
Tim Hegarty.
No Australian boxer has crossed the
Pacific with a better record than Tim
Hegarty had when he landed in San
Francisco in the latter part of 1901. Jack-
son, Fitzsimmons, Hall and a dozen
others had all suffered defeat at least
once, and even “Griffo” had failed to
gain a decision in half a dozen fights
with “Pluto” ; but Hegarty had in eight
years as a professional beaten every
featherweight and lightweight who had
gone against him. And he had never
been off his feet for a count; his close
friends swore that he had never even
been hit hard enough to inconvenience
him.
Born in Ireland but taken to Mel-
bourne when he was a child, Hegarty did
all his boxing in that city till he crossed
the Murray in January, 1900, to meet
Hughie Napier. Napier was a feather-
weight who in the early ’nineties had
fought with some success in England and
the U.S.A. (incidentally, one of the Eng-
lishmen he beat was a young brother of
John Burns, then known as a Labor
leader, afterwards to be more famous as
one of the Ministers who left the Cabinet
in 1914 as a protest against the German
war), but was now in the late thirties. He
was a milk-carter, and the trade was
present in force with its pockets full of
Napier silver.
Hegarty was a cadaverous-looking
fellow, pasty-faced and as thin as a rake.
His Melbourne idolators admitted that
his appearance was disappointing, but in-
sisted that he was so clever and elusive
and so accurate a glove-thrower that
there wasn’t his equal in the world at his
weight, Bst. 121 b. He certainly proved
too fast for old Napier, but The Bulle-
tin’s sporting man’s first impressions
were by no means favorable. “He
shaped,” it was said, “in a peculiar
crouching style, and now and then swung
‘blind-eyers’ for the head. He leaves him-
self very open, times badly and whenever
he hits out of distance rarely moves back
to avoid the onslaught which should
come from his opponent, but never came
from Napier. His crouching habit and
fashion of keeping his eyes almost on
the floor will always get him into diffi-
culties when he faces a clever man ; but
have we any clever boxers as we knew
them 10 years ago? ‘Griffo’ in his day
would have gone through 20 pugs like
Hegarty and Napier in the one ring.”
This criticism offended Hegarty’s ad-
mirers, and it was predicted that he
would make it look foolish at the ex-
pense of American “fedders” and light-
weights ; but he never did. However, it
seems clear that The Bulletin man never
saw him at his best. With repeated vic-
tories his methods had grown careless,
and he had gone in for high living, which
his frame could not stand; and in
America he fell into the hands of men
who arranged bad matches for him, being
concerned only to exploit “the foreigner”
while there was money to be made out
of him. It was not their business, these
harpies reasoned, that he chose to go
to the devil in his own way.
Hegarty got more American celebrity
from a gymnasium exploit than from
anything he did in U.S.A. rings. He put
on the gloves with the gigantic Ruhlin
while the latter was training for one of
his fights with Jeffries, and hit Ruhlin
so often without a return that the 15-
stone man lost his temper. Pulling off
the gloves, he roared that he would kill
Hegarty and everyone else in the room.
The onlookers scattered immediately, and
the small man who had done all the
damage darted to safety through an open
window.
Hegarty’s first match in California was
to have been with a tough fellow named
Callahan for a $l5OO purse. He had the
misfortune to break a bone in his right
hand when training, and the bout was
called off. When the hand was right
again he signed articles to meet Kid
Lavigne. It was an ill-advised match,
for Hegarty was still a featherweight and
Lavigne, fighting as a welterweight, had
beaten the great Joe Walcott. It was
only 17 months since Lavigne had lost
the lightweight championship to Frank
Erne, who got the decision on points,
and there was still one good fight in
him, as Hegarty was to learn.
This is how the news reached Aus-
tralia : “Tim Hegarty went under to Kid
Lavigne, erstwhile lightweight champion
of the world at Oakland, California, on
December 12, 1901. It was a hard, fast
fight. Hegarty administered a great deal
of punishment for three rounds, but the
American stood it all and the Australian
tired. In the fourth round Hegarty left
an opening of which the experienced
Lavigne took instant advantage—‘came
at me with his bloody cross,’ the Aus-
tralian afterwards ruefully expressed it —
and Hegarty went down and out.
Hegarty, always a stand-off fighter, tried
to win swiftly and convincingly in order
to qualify for a title bout with Young
Corbett, and paid the penalty. Had he
kept away and boxed at long range he
would probably have won.”
Promoters must have been of the same
opinion, for Hegarty did not go short
of engagements. Six weeks after he
suffered defeat for the first time, he
fought and beat a Mexican, Aurelio
Herrero, at Bakersfield, California. The
fight was described in a sporting sheet
as “one of the prettiest and cleanest ever
seen in California.” Hegarty got the
decision at the end of 20 rounds; and
another 20-rounder with Herrero was
declared a draw.
These were good performances, for
Herrero was one of the best lightweights
in America and a persistent challenger
for the championship ; but Hegarty’s next
engagement was disastrous. It was with
Jimmy Britt, previously the champion
amateur, who was now in quest of the
professional title, which he eventually
gained. Hegarty took the match at
short notice, trained only eight days, and
was knocked out in eight rounds.
Here again he had a good lead on
points till the fatal blow came over —a
left hook to the chin ; and the same was
said of his last fight in America, which
was with a colored welterweight named
Rufe Turner, brother of the Charlie
Turner whom Jim Barron beat. Turner
knocked him out in the seventh round.
“Hegarty,” a local paper said, “was fight-
ing like a whirlwind when he was sent to
the mat.”
When he returned to Australia at the
end of 1902 Hegarty had plainly deterio-
rated. Bob Turner, who died in Sydney
the other day, knocked him out twice
After the second defeat little more wa r
heard of Hegarty as a fighter. He died
a few years later, wasted to a shadow.


“Percy Pawnticket”: As a flat-dweller
I am used to the prohibitions with which
landlords plaster walls and doors, but
I struck something new in my latest
abode. The proprietress is the wife of
an ex-journalist whose experience was
gained on country papers where there
is little check on literary verbosity, and
his hand is to be seen in various notices.
One that faces me in the bathroom runs:
“While it is not for a moment doubted
that all tenants will use their best en-
deavors to maintain the good order es-
tablished in these premises, etc.” If not
an editorial, it is .at least a subleader.
The ordinary flat-owner would have ex-
pressed it: “Don’t Wash Clothes in the
Bath.”
* * * , *
“Mak”: Melbourne people at a subur-
ban picture show the other night found
themselves part of a cosmopolitan audi-
ence. Mussolini strutted across the. Lib-
yan scene amid sustained applause ; the
King of the Belgians appeared, and an-
other section of the theatre clapped and
thumped; then, just when Vic. citizens
were getting a bit anxious, Queen Mary
obliged by inspecting a London hospital,
and the commentator’s voice was com-
pletely lost in the din. Melbourne then
settled back in its seat, grimly satisfied
at having shown the “aliens” their
places.
$ * * *
“Schnorrer”: A German statistician
gives the number of Jews in the world
as 16i millions, 9,700,000 in Europe and
5i millions in America. Britain’s tally
is put at 334,000 and Australia’s at
28,000. The chances are that the figures
include only Jews who have preserved
their synagogue attachments. There is
no country where the Jews have enjoyed
more freedom than ours; in America
masses of immigrant Jews formed sepa-
rate communities and remained apart
and aloof from the mass of the people,
but in Australia assimilation has gone on
apace. The number of Australians with
pronounced Jewish blood in them* must
far exceed 28,000.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Years late, but
more than ever welcome, is the official
decision to instal wireless transmitting
and receiving sets at all light stations on
the Queensland coast. Hitherto such
lonely posts as Lady Elliott Island, North
Reef, Pine Islet and Dent Island have
been entirely cut off, dependent in any
emergency on signals to passing vessels.
Some years ago a North Reef keeper
nearly died of a sudden illness before a
ship could be signalled to have a launch
sent out to get him to hospital. The
wireless plants are to be pedal-operated
seven-watt .jobs for telegraph or tele-
phone, working on 43.1 metres wave-
length, with emergency provision for
change'to'normal ship’s 600-metre wave-
length. Cape Capricorn is to be the key
station, connected by land line to the
Australian telephone network.
* * * *
“Shaktu” (from Mir Ali, on the n.-w.
Indian frontier): I wonder if many
people realise how many British officers
have been killed in action in these parts
during the present “unrest,” as the offi-
cial communique calls it. We have lost
12 officers in the past five months and as
many wounded. The Mohmand, of
course, is not so wily or enterprising as
his Wazir and Mahsud brethren are, but
he can pick out the enemies who count
most, and the officer is markedly con-
spicuous, as there are only five or six of
him in an Indian battalion. One method
of guarding against this discrimination is
for the officers to wear pagris (turbans)
like the men, but it hasn’t been of much
use so far, and something more than the
Great War idea of omitting “stars” is
wanted. Even the darkest of Caucasians
shows up at 400 yards; furthermore,
most of the men have rifles —the officer
hasn’t. Short of blacking his face and
carrying a rifle like any Sepoy, I don’t
see what more he can do. Any ideas,
you old campaigners?
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Passengers are often
heard asking why the Queen Mary
doesn’t make another bid for the Atlan-
tic record. Possibly her owners are wait-
ing for the most suitable weather period
over the transatlantic track, which is
the northern autumn. Recent strengthen-
ing of the huge steamer’s hull will allow
her 200,000 h.p. to be used all out for
the whole crossing. It will be a terrific
experience for deck and engine-room
alike. Liking my comfort nowadays, I
would personally prefer the grubbiest of
coal-burning cargo-bruisers that ever
wallowed to that 82,000 tons of vibrat-
ing steel flinging every mile behind in
less than two minutes on a record-
breaking run. In any case, the Atlantic
record is not a profitable asset to ship-
owners, so that Cunard may quite likely
leave it to the Normandie.
H= * * *
“Centurion”: It is doubtful, strictly
speaking, whether the action of the Brit-
ish and French in evacuating civilians
from besieged Bilbao is not an infringe-
ment of neutrality. Up to quite recent
times it was axiomatic that a non-com-
“I think I'm on the verge of a discovery that'll shake the world!"
“What a nuisance! I wanted you to rock the baby."
batant population in a besieged town was
a heavy handicap for the defenders and
a considerable help to the besiegers by
reason of the food it consumed. Far-
seeing captains, as soon as they saw they
were in for one of the marathon sieges
of those days, turned all non-com-
batants out of the town. As it was
against policy to permit these to wander
all over the surrounding country and
mop up supplies needed for the besiegers,
the refugees were often refused passage
through the lines, and were left to perish
between two fires. Cruel as this may
seem it was only hastening the inevitable,
for the non-combatants, if they remained
in the town, perished of starvation with
the rest of the garrison or, if the town
was stormed, were put to the sword,
combatant and non-combatant alike,
man, woman and child.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: I don’t know
whether hoboes like or dislike to sur-
render to the police for food and shelter
(B. 5/5/’37), but I recall a meeting a
few years ago when a group of men who
had found nothing better than casual
harborage in the Sydney Domain decided
to march to the Central Police Station as
an alternative to cold and hunger. They
had some notion of raising a rough-
house unless their demands were com-
plied with. On the way, however, they
encountered a hot-dog merchant and
raided his goods. At the first warning
cry of “Nit! The John Hops!” the mob
lit out for freedom.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: If the Areostatica (B.
5/5/’37) was drifting with the stream
she wouldn’t answer to the helm because
her speed would be that of the surround-
ing water. Rudders operate by putting
a drag on one side or the other of the
hull: if there is no passage of water past
the hull no drag is possible. “Rambut
M.’s” steamer was at anchor in a strong
tideway, just as Torres was in September,
1606, north of Mulgrave Island (Torres
Strait), when he had to put two hands
to the wheel to check the heavy sheer-
ing which threatened to carry away his
cables. Just, too, as I was, some 290
years later, in the same place, with the
descendants of the same mosquitoes eat-
ing all hands (when I read. Prado’s
account I realised why Torres named
Mulgrave Isla de las Ccintharides), on\y
our gear did carry away,, and until we
got sail enough on to gather steerage
Way things were lively. - ;
"-• # " ‘
“M.H.E.”: So Mandated New. Guinea
has issued a King Edward penny (B,
575/’37)? Something, must ‘be going
wrong with the Territory. In my day
the mark was the current coin. Every-
thing cost multiples of a mark, and if
you didn’t have any rrfarks on you, you
wrote a chit. Pasted together, the un-
cashed chits in New Guinea would wrap
up the Commonwealth national debt in
three layers of paper. The Germans
issued coins current ranging from the
“dreier,” or threepenny, bit, upwards, but
they were not the first people to produce
currency in New Britain. Ages before
they, came the Treasurers of -Nakanai
used plaited, money, in the- shape of
hoops. When you. had twopence you
could park it on your arm. A bob was
conveniently carried round the neck, and
the week’s wages could just about be
rolled through the door. And then, of
course, tambu, or shell money, ran cur-
rent.
* * * *
“Titun”: Walkerville (Vic.) may have
a brighter future ahead of it (B.
28/4/’37), but it won’t be as a place for
high-speed car-racing. Apart from half-
mile stretches of sand, its beaches are
shingle. “Horsetailer” is in error, too,
in saying that Walkerville is inaccessible
by car. The mailman motors over the 17
miles from Fish Creek twice a week.
When the rough beach section has been
eliminated (and sustenance men are now
working on a deviation) the village should
be popular for the excellence of its rock-
fishing and the beauty of the picture-
postcard bays which break the coastline
toward Cape Liptrap.
* * * *
“Suburbia”: Will “Colonel B.” (B.
21/4/’37) tell me where is that statue of
Captain Cook in London which had to
be boarded to the knees for protection
from the Coronation crowds? The only
one I know of near Admiralty Arch is a
bust.
sp ❖ A *
“Karaway”: A projected luxury boat,
to be called the Queen Mary of the
Murray, is being hatched by a syndicate,
backed by the S.A. Government, to carry
tourists and other passengers ort the big
river. One of the earliest of the Murray
steamers was called the Queen. She was
built at Goolwa in 1865, and after
ploughing her native waters for over 60
years was burnt to the water’s edge at
Mildura in 1928; her hulk still rots
in the mud. In the boom days she car-
ried passengers and cargo, and when she
was fully laden on the downward voyage
the passengers had to sleep on top of the
wool bales piled on deck. Two of her
early contemporaries were the famous
Jane Eliza and the Lady Augusta, the
first boat to reach Echuca, after a. tight
race with William Randell’s little Mary
Ann. As with the Queen, Murray mud
has claimed both hulks.
* * .* *
' “Biltong": The Kaffir beer mentioned
by “Der Jong" (B. 5/5/’37) tastes some-
thing like thin gruel with a Taint kick jn
it. The stuff has the unusual property
of being to some extent a food as well
as a drink, so that after a generous brew
has been disposed of, generally a matter
of days, the native kraal which has been
celebrating finishes up little the worse
for its orgy. I have known white men
who could drink it, pot ■perhaps with
appreciation but by no means with an
ill grace, when there was no other .stimu-
lant procurable. I can recall seeing a
Boer farmer, after fighting a veld fire
for hours, mop up a frill quart of Kaffir
beer without taking his. lips' from the jar.
* * * *
“J.”: We still have circuses in
Australia, but where have the Blondins
gone? There was a time when tight-rope
walkers were among the most popular
entertainments in Melbourne and Sydney,
the great boom, of course, getting its
impetus from the original Blondin. He
toured Australia in 1874, when he was
.50. In Sydney he had a tent capable of
holding 15,000 spectators erected in the
Domain, and there he showed to capacity
business. He made a fortune out of the
tour. Australia produced several intrepid
Blondins, notably L’Estrange, who
crossed Middle Harbor, Sydney, on a
tight-rope (not so tight), balancing with
a pole weighing 601 b.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: From the “Wanted"
ads. in Melbourne “Age":
Seamen, experienced sail, Bay shellgrit
schooner”
It shows how men disappear as the ships
go. Little more than a decade ago when
the Yarra’s famous Little Dock was the
home-port of 20 or more Victorian
ketches—stout little ships that traded
around Port Phillip, to Westernport and
onwards —the many hands on them
always rushed jobs in the Bay shellgrit
trade, reckoning it an easy life. But
good roads and motor transport have
long since killed the Little Dock and its
progeny, except for a fleet of three sailers
that load “shell" around the Port Phillip
beaches for the glassworks at Spotswood.
In fact, there art? only four steamers now
trading out of Melbourne around the Vic.
coast —three. Bay excursion boats and the
Wannon, which replaced the ill-fated
Coramba on the run to Western District
ports. - •
;*j :'fi s£ *
“Fisher” : An impressive memento ot
the evacuation of Gallipoli is in the pos-
session of Colonel W. C. N. Waite, an
Adelaide man. It is a gong made front
the shell-case of the last shot fired at
Anzac. The inscription reads:
Last shot fired from Anzac at 5.5 p.m.
on 19/12/T5, at Olive Grove from No. 4
gun, eighth battery, A.F.A. detachment.
No. 1778 Sergt. S. G. Brearley, No. 2097
' CpL J. E. Butler, No. 4291 Gunner F.
Cunningham. Battery Commander, Capt.
W. C. N. Waite.
Brearley is piloting a ’plane in Westralia
these days, and Butler is a police ser-
geant in Adelaide. If the question ol
who landed first on Gallipoli were as
easily settled as that of who fired the
last shot, Diggers would be robbed ot a
juicy bone of contention.
BALLADE OF A PENURIOUS POT-
HUNTER.
“Thou Shepherd Boy 1 love to hear thee shout."
— Wordsworth.
Wordsworth desired to influence
The world with his philosophy,
Denying man’s instinctive sense,
His mental elasticity.
Mine is a simple theory,
Proclaimed where’er I move about:
Refuse not hospitality,
Rejoice to hear the landlord shout!
Music hath charms for souls intense;
1 do not think it infamy
Or intellectual pretence
To rave of classic melody;
And. some respond most tenderly
To sacred tunes, divine, devout!
1 blame them not. But as-for me,
] love to hear the landlord shout!
The tones of measured eloquence
In mediaeval tragedy -
Deploring shattered innocence
Enthral the stalls and gallery.
But what speech sounds more goldenly
When closing time presages drought—
“lt’s on the House!” That means no fee.
I love to hear the landlord shout!
L’envoi.
This is my utmost subtlety
When quaffing whisky, beer or stout:
The best drink is the drink that’s free—
r love to hear the landlord shout!
VICTORIA.
ARUNDEL DENE.


r y. his masterpiece is
p the spirit he always serves.
i» •
r»l\
m
>
4,V\i
m
"87“
m
m
&
m
jAz jVa/ne
r
\ ?. v
JS
;:1
CdJiiWlHlinniiiiinwin ilU"in ininn r . -i..-»..^)«nm«niiiiinni‘iM«»iimjn^ia.ittin
(DTxiUuro’s
fi**-
(IFGdUims
Scots CUhisky
sMT**
t••**'#**•* (fWK*«*
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO 'THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers outside Australia and New
© v> e '
o
SI
X
?< s s f* < Sn""'3 5 e o< V> •■•■■"
W° ,ce‘ • ..••■ .-•• ..
>3°
.-• ••••
(S e •••• .-
\\ gi >’V "‘ .••••"
.t * ..• .♦* i *> C / 8 (
A l>Z°'
A


Life
Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life
For the
BUILDING OF
YOUR HOME,
EDUCATION OF
YOUR CHILDREN,
LIQUIDATION OF
THE MORTGAGE,
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
%
iiwaEnf®r lilt
mmmmww
if««
i
~.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER.
HUNTER AND BLlGfl STREETS, SYDNEY.
Life
Assurance
The only Business
Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF
ESTATE OR
BUSINESS,
FAMILY INCOME,
SALARY CON-
TINUATION.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy
Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves.
Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
