

A
MAKE THIS
B
OtS^ ;
v-^
N/t
/vKODA K
IhhiAtmai
KODAK FILM
GIFT PACKAGES
Pairs of Kodak Verichrome Film
in gay transparent wrapping. Five
popular sizes.
Prices 2/8, 3/2, 3/8
THE KODAK BULLET
All-moulded folding style Kodak, with lens
on threaded draw tube. Loads with No. V 127
Kodak Film. Price 12/6
See also the Baby Brownie. Price 6/-.
SIX-20 / SIX-16
What more seasonable thought than one of
these smart modernistic Brownies! Still the
same low prices, but they’re better picture-
makers. Prices .. 14/6, 17/6, 19/6, 24/-
SIX-20
KODAK
JUNIORS
Here’s modern picture proficiency in a
Kodak that you'll be proud to give and
proud to carry. Values are simply
amazing. Prices from 39/9
KODAK
RETINA I
Provides all the advantages of work on
36 exp. 35mm. film at low cost. Has
automatic film winding, fast f/3.5 lens
and Compur Rapid shutter. Chromium
finish. Price £l2
Hji*
1
f
©
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (A/asia) PTY,, Ltd.
379 George Street, Sydney; 252 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Cl; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; 37 Rundle Street,
Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street. Hobart; 93 Brisbane Street,
Launceston; 662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
East Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville. Also
stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 162 Queen Street,
Auckland; 40 Princes Street, Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay,
Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch. •
■
■
m
m
I
i
i
-
wm
.
■
«
I
-’; ■
*
I
m
1
■
:
m
Mxsmm
m
i /
”'fW
fl» 111
Ulii
m
':
:
' J
" ; •
’
£>
■ .
,
HH
A Kodak is the Christmas
Gift that is just overflowing
with holiday spirit —always
the happy reminder of the
giver. It’s exciting on
Christmas morning, and
gives true enjoyment all
through the year.
Give a Kodak!
Write or call for your copy of the Kodak
Christmas Folder.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3013.
Wednesday, November 10, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
THE COWLING COMPLAINT.
A few weeks back Professor Cowling, of Mel-
bourne University, devoted a long article in the “S. M.
Herald” to deploring the lack of Australian books suit-
able, in his opinion, for inclusion in school libraries.
Overlooking the fact that literature is organic,
and being a thing of growth cannot repeat its past
phases, he was almost hurt to think there were no
new books available in the mode of Conan Doyle
and other minor romantics of a generation ago.
Right at the end he glanced at Australian litera-
ture for books suitable for school use, and dismissed
it with a wave of the hand. Beyond an odd volume
or two that didn t appeal to his taste, there was no-
thing even worth critical consideration.
Such an attitude by an Australian professor of
literature in the public press couldn’t go unchallenged,
and challenged it was, by Miles Franklin in the Red
Page and others elsewhere.
Now Professor Cowling compares Australian and
American literature. At the end of a catalogic survey
of American work in which there isn’t an idea that
isn’t traditional—except that he, personally, finds
Polly anna and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes seriously
mentionable —he complains, without mentioning a
single local book, that Australian work is lacking in
the critical element.
Professor Cowling evidently doesn’t see that any
novel that stands up to life is essentially critical.
Coonardoo, Working Bullocks, The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony, Plaque with Laurel, The Swayne
Family, Redheap, Legend for Sanderson, Back to
800 l 8001, No Escape, Tiburon, Such Is Life, Flesh
in Armour, Landtakers and a score of others are all
critical.
Professor Cowling further says no Australian
would dare write a Babbitt. An Australian cousin of
Babbitt was neatly turned off in Richard Lome, the
leading character of John Dailey’s Only the Morning.
He also says it is impossible to write a historical
costume novel with motives of love and honor in
Australia. Why? Not that it matters even if true.
And, finally, Professor Cowling, after treating
of Australian literature only in what he says is its
lack, pleads for more criticism of Australian life,
“liberty to criticise freely and with helpful intent,
rather than to maim or injure”!
GRATTAN ON TOM COLLINS.
Written in 1934 at the request of Kate Baker,
American critic C. Hartley Grattan’s introduction to
the third complete edition of Such Is Life— which
didn’t eventuate —has come to light in the “Australian
Quarterly.” Intended for overseas readers, it is
explanatory in tone, and mostly traverses ground
already familiar, but where he touches on Collins’s
social ideas he makes some interesting points.
He infers that Collins, reflecting the social con-
flicts of his day, offers direct contribution on present
problems, in other countries as well as here. He
sees Collins as a non-doctrinal socialist — i.e., non-
Marxist —and says that, though the ideas he stood
for have suffered distortion and reverses, they are
still the healthful element in the thought of the Aus-
tralian masses to-day.
Taking this to mean that Collins would never
have subscribed to a social formula, to the abnega-
tion of the individual’s privilege of thinking for him-
self, Grattan is right. He also notes that Collins’s
ideas do not protrude from his book like “bare bones”
as with many a modern “crude proletarian novel,”
but are an integral part of the image of life he offers,
“illustrating the difference between an ideology
derived from hard experience and long reflection and
one learned by rote and applied without understand-
ing.”
Altogether a hard jolt, both for those who think
the social millennium can be got on order like a
supply of groceries and for those who think social
discussion in fiction a jumped-up thing of recent
years, and one in which Australian literature is pain-
fully lacking.
"THE YOUNG DESIRE IT."
Seaforth Mackenzie, author of The Young
Desire It (Cape; Angus and Robertson), is the
Kenneth Mackenzie whose iong blank verse poem
Our Earth was the subject of recent Red Page com-
ment by its illustrator, Norman Lindsay.
The novel, too, lives up to Lindsay’s high opinion
of Mackenzie’s gifts. It is of the same flesh as the
poem. It transcends by its sincerity and freshness
the bonds and difficulties of its genre and subject.
It is the story of an unusual boy in the mill of
a great public school. There have been many school
stories ; but The Young Desire It shakes off the callow
tradition and begins again in a field long staled. It
is also a love story with a double theme. Charles
Fox, 15 years old, sensitive, clever, ill adjusted to his
environment, attracts one of the masters, Penworth.
The nature of their relationship is illumined by
another emotion. He falls in love with and is loved
by Margaret, a girl as young as Juliet.
Mackenzie has on his hands two situations that
are extremely difficult to handle: love so young,
passionate and innocent as to tremble on the verge
of the incredible —a situation to be saved only by the
poet’s vision which he must somehow create in his
reader—and a conflicting motif traditionally con-
ceived as ugly or grossly comic. He meets his first
problem with a poetic fire that make this youngest
love not only convincing but imparts to it a quality
of the eternal. The second theme he handles with
a delicacy and an understanding that transmute it to
tragedy.
Beauty is a living presence in the book. There are
lovely descriptions of a hot February, of an old
orchard, of thoughts at night, of the first spiritual
ecstasies of love, of quiet interiors; and there are
slow, loving descriptions of small, familiar things, a
row of books, Margaret’s hands, a woman playing
patience.
Mingling with the beauty of these, there is the
recurrent image of pain. The book trembles in its
own fire and delicacy, and its problem is that of the
long poem—the difficulty of sustaining its pitch, of
keeping intact its feather edge.
It doesn’t always succeed. There are blank
patches. These are not surface blemishes but a failure
of those tissues beneath that feed the surface. Sud-
denly the slow-moving story sags of its own weight,
its fluency hardens to mere youthful brilliance, it
becomes too clever and too conscious, then, just as
suddenly, the life-current picks it up again. It is a
poet’s book—carried on a wave.
NEW FICTION.
Pie in the Sky, by Arthur Calder-Marshall
(Cape), belongs to the increasing class of novels that
are dramatised social surveys. It is a picture ot
industrial England to-day, of the straits of the unem-
ployed, of employers driven by competition and almost
helpless before their own difficulties ; of social move-
ments, Communist and others, that seek remedies and
achieve only self-intoxication on jargon and slogans.
The story, a complex one of many characters,
is very well managed. The characters include such
diverse types as Carder Yorke, the owner of a knit-
ting mill, an amorous old man whose tragedy is none
the less real because of some despicable traits in his
nature; his sons, Bernard, the earnest stammerer,
and Fenner, the freelance journalist; Henry Bolton,
who takes to the roads after months of unemploy-
ment ; Alexey Deuteropopoff, who tries both Com-
munism and capitalism as ladders to success, falls off
both and finds his level running a small tobacconist’s
shop with a secret trade in Communist literature;
Robinson, the prince of go-getters ; Turlin, the agi-
tator, and his reactionary little boy; a family of
Russian Jews, and many others.
Two women—Caroline, Bolton’s daughter, and
Wynne Morris, old Carder’s mistress, who troubles
the lives of both his sons —act as hinges in the plot.
Pie in the Sky is thoroughly alive in all its parts,
and is—very deceptively—without appearance of
literary devices. The story, both in outward form and
in interior detail, has the natural fall of life. It is
good reading, both as fiction and as social discussion.
Good in its way, though its way is rather leis-
urely, is Revolt on the Pampas, by Theodor Plivier
(Michael Joseph), translated from the German
by Charles Ashleigh. It deals with the experi-
ences of Klaus, a runaway German boy, first in sail-
ing round the Horn in a windjammer, then in partici-
pating in a revolt among Chilean nitrate workers. He
has as partner in adventure Achazb, a young Chilean
Indian sailor and revolutionary.
Klaus is a stowaway aboard the Cap Finisterre,
and from the moment he hides in the chain-locker
until he jumps ship in the port of Buenviento he has
a lot to learn about life aboard a sailing vessel —
which the reader can learn, too, if his interests incline
him that way. Similarly, from the moment the ragged
and vagrant lad is clapped in gaol—on general prin-
ciples, apparently—until he sails again for Germany,
his Chilean sojourn is an education in the causes,
methods and results of South American revolt.
It is all soundly done—the forces involved being
well personified and dramatised—but a trifle pro-
tracted. The best parts are where the writer gives
glimpses of life among the nitrate workers and fisher-
men, not for the obvious social moral, but for the
sake of life itself.
Pampas, for the benefit of those who envisage
green and rolling plains, means, like our bush, any-
thing outside the towns, in this case a blistering coastal
desert of rock and nitrate deposits.
Villainy is the content and vigor and speed are
the qualities of You’re in the Racket, Too, by
James Curtis (Cape). Everyone in it is trying to
do someone else down. It is an experiment in the
sordid, yet it is alive, and, notwithstanding the human
grubbiness it purports to expose, it is entertaining if
taken in a cheerful spirit.
Snowey is a young London cracksman. His girl,
Pidgy, has a young lover, Dicky, not wealthy but of
promising prospects. They arrange for Snowey to
catch Dicky with her in very compromising circum-
stances. Snowey will pretend to be her husband, and
will subsequently blackmail Dicky. The bait offered
her for double-crossing Dicky is that afterwards she
and Snowey will marry and live a more respectable
life —a promise that Snowey has no intention of ful-
filling.
Dicky, though carrying on with Pidgy, is engaged,
for purely material reasons, to Kathi, daughter of
Krebs, his employer. Krebs, for reasons of his own,
condones his wife’s affair with another man ; their
part in the general racket is that they believe they
have kept their relationship a secret from him. Krebs
is a company director who proposes to use Dicky,
with the latter’s full consent, as a dummy in a new
company that will swindle his present co-directors.
Dicky, to suit a change in his circumstances, drops
a hint to one of them. In the meantime. Snowey,
while waiting for the blackmailing enterprise to
mature, burgles Krebs’s house. The police are put
on his track by another thief, and, using means as
unethical as those of their victims, follow one lead
after another and end by exposing the shadiness of
all.
As the title indicates, biting satire is intended ;
but the bite goes too deep. Farce develops. The
book, however, is saved by the writer’s strong narra-
tive gift. Situation grows swiftly out of situation,
there is suspense, excitement, a chuckle now and then
—and a qualified credibility. Offered on one plane,
it is acceptable on another.
BROWSING AT LARGE.
In one of the rapier passages of The Crown of
England (Dent) the Hon. Ruaraidh Erskine of Marr
speaks of “those famous Letters on the Study of
History which Lord Bolingbroke wrote to charm the
taste of his own age and shame the style of this.”
His own style seems fashioned with a like intent.
It is sonorous, outspreading and at times magnificent.
But it strikes the ear as even more overmannered than
when first encountered in his essays on Edward VII.
and others. Somebody may dig it out of a museum
a few hundred years hence and reckon it glorious, but
just now it moves a bit tediously. For the matter, it
is a study of the Crown of England in the course of
its change over the centuries from dictatorship, the
dictatorship in decline, the Parliamentary Crown anc
the present state of the Crown, which he describes as
the Imperial Crown. His overmannered style apart,
he has a great gift of solid sense, a sardonic humor,
and he is a terrific puncher when in the mood.
A month or two back the cables made a great
song about the frank exposures of the medical pro-
fession in A. J. Cronin’s The Citadel (Gollancz).
Some years ago Dr. Cronin wrote a highly promising
novel in the sombre vein called Hatter's Castle.
Meanwhile he has written one or two others that
failed to get within long-distance gunshot of that
promise. One of the worst aspects of authorship in
times when there are so many at it and so high a
premium is placed on Success is the necessity of
striving to keep up a reputation. That mightn’t be
Dr. Cronin’s present inspiration, but his book does
read like a deliberate attempt to startle the ground-
lings. It makes its song about the medical profession
having its quota of misfits, numskulls and char-
latans, and it purports to reveal that general practi-
tioners get a sidechop on business they hand on to
specialists. In a word, that there are doctors who
are a credit to their profession and doctors who are
not.
At the price (7s. 6d. net; say, about 10s. here) a
large tome of Titian Paintings and Drawings turned
out by Allen and Unwin is a bargain piece. There are
350 reproductions in it, eight of them in color, includ-
ing the vigorous self-portrait emphasising the strong
nose, the arrogant mouth, the stern eye. Also, with
his allegorical painting of a man young, middle-aged
and old, Titian got in a trifle ahead of Norman
Lindsay’s “The woman I was, etc.” In Titian’s rare
mood of caricature is a burlesque of the Laocoon
group, done in monkeys. Some of his most marvel-
lous works have been chosen for the color-prints.
What more needs saying about Winds of Evil
(Angus and Robertson) than that it’s another Arthur
W. Upfield popular mystery romance, complete with
abo. sleuth Bonaparte and back-o’-Bourke setting?
Upfield does this sort of thing very well. His bush
atmosphere’s as true as the best of them manage, and
he’s always strong on plot and action. In this one
he has windstorms synchronising with murders by
strangling—surely a splendid way of committing such
peccadilloes. There are three of these stranglings—
great value for six bob.
To our deep dismay, we find that the title of
Denise Robins’s Set Me Free (Nicholson and Watson)
is the heart’s cry of poor Vicky, bullied into marrying
the wrong chap. Can she escape from his clutches
into the tender embrace of the better bloke? Well,
what’s your guess?... .And do girl and lucre go to
the deserving parties in Victor Bayley’s Pathan
Treasure (Hale)? Once more, we’re all right. Here
it’s gold, love, intrigue and hatred among the Khyber
Hills, a part .of the world the writer seems to know
pretty well. Plenty of brisk action in this 0ne....
And what should it be, marriage or a career, for
Loueen, of Monica Ewer’s Beauty's Rose (Hale)? Not
so easy, this; what with Stephen only a struggling
architect, and Loueen with a little beauty shop, and a
prosperous lover who has a beauty salon putting
business in her way. Anyway, Loueen, after some
backing and filling, declares for home and husband.
“Top Feller”: These days Rolf Boldrewood reads
like a Tory of the pure-merino school. The senti-
ments he put into the mouth of Dick Marston, George
Storefield and others of his working-class characters
would make a present-day bush worker splutter. Yet
in his day he was an advanced Liberal; a man who
was regarded by his own crowd as being just a shade
too sympathetic with the aspirations of the horny-
handed.
“Caller”: Curious how little work will serve to
contain all that is essential of a man. The single
volume of prose and verse that Dowell O’Reilly left
—exclusive of his letters —is still fresh to read, but
if he had written no more than the short stories
“Twilight,” “The Ta-Ta Woman” and “His Photo, on
the Wall” he would still be present in the spirit, and
worth knowing. He destroyed work many times
greater in bulk than the amount he published. It was
his creed that a writer should tear up all but his best
until nature tore him up, all but his best.


“THE SENIOR STORE.”
TRUTH IN AD Vt RTISiNG” —A (wars,
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
gd
And here is another very
useful Table for the smoke-
room. It is chromium-plated
and has a glass top, in
Green, Black or Orange.
At Anthony Horderns’, 69/6
If preferred, it is also com-
plete with smokers’ set as
illustrated. Price .... 87/6
fg
The Bonzo Ash Tray will be
popular in every home. All
smokers look around hope-
fully for somewhere to deposit
their ash. Be sure your guests
find one in your home.
Chromium ash tray with
coloured dog. At Anthony
Horderns’ 3/6
Antique brass tray .... 2/9
Here is a useful and ornamental
gift . . . and one that will be appre-
ciated by the smoker. Graceful
Chromium Smokers’ Stand in a
distinctly different style.
At Anthony Horderns’ 35/6
i
As well as a gift for the smoker
this Brass-top Table is a useful
acquisition to the home. It stands
on collapsible legs, and when not
needed can be easily stowed
away. Consider this useful table
as a gift.
At Anthony Horderns’ . . . 55/-
df
■
-* J
Put your most-treasured volumes between these
Fascinating Book Ends. Beautifully modelled
horse heads. Price, pair 3/11
I
IL
The dog-lover will be glad to put flowers in
this attractive Vase, with an ornamental
decoration of two dogs.
At Anthony Horderns’
1/11
88 mm.
Always in good taste . . . and a gift that
is not likely to be duplicated. Original Water
Colours of Australian Scenery, in antique gold
burnished frames. Several subjects for selection.
At Anthony Horderns’ 25/-
m
Think of the number of times you could
use such a gift . . . and think of the
time it would save you. Chromium
Crumb Tray and Brush.
At Anthony Horderns’ 8/6
Also finished in Grecian Bronze tone.
Price 7/6
% Fancy Goods—Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs
Take one of these on your next
picnic—the set contains 4 handled
mugs, 4 spoons, 2-cup vacuum
flask and one sandwich tin. Com-
plete in strongly-made carrying
basket.
At Anthony Horderns’ . . 15/11
m
This Fruit Stand, piled high with colour-
ful fruit, will look very festive on your
sideboard. Cut glass bowl in stand
with antique brass finish.
At Anthony Horderns’ 15/6
MS
MM
WZ
tel
yi i
As a gift His Master’s Voice Gramophone will
be very popular. This portable gramophone will
be greeted with enthusiasm on launch picnics and
all holiday parties. At Anthony Horderns’, £7/7/-,
£ll/11/-, £l2/12/-. Columbia, £4/10/-, £6/10/-.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
SYDNEY
BOX 2712 C. ’Phone M 2401.


£155 for Stories
“The Bulletin” wants short stories for its fiction section,
and. Cinesound Productions, Ltd., wants stories suitable
for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story. .... £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both sections. In
addition to the prizes, all entries published will be paid
for at “Bulletin” rate;*.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500 words is
the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpublished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will attend to
that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any entry con-
sidered to have a chance will be paid for and published
as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed: —
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
To the Dogs
DON'T GO NO FURTHER
By
A.C. Headley
DRAWINGS BY LOCK .
IT is the unsuspicious places that always seem to
get Skinny and me. This was one of them. It
was one of those little towns up north where the
scenic beauty consists of a racecourse, five pubs
and a dog-track. At the time we were dispensing
philanthropy in the shape of Dr. Bullbery’s Elixir of
Life and Varnish-remover, one large bottle of which
was given free to any customer paying 10s. 6d. for
the booklet of instructions. We were repainting the
treasury at the rate of 1000 per cent. But, being
with Skinny, I knew it couldn’t last; and when I’d
missed him a few nights and learned that he’d picked
up one of the yokels as a guide I had a feeling that
a fly had crawled into the anchovy.
Skinny introduced his friend. His name was
Hextall. He was a little feller with pink cheeks,
a passion for hair-restorer, and a cheque-book. And
maybe if the first qualities had no appeal for Skinny
the last promised compensation. At least
that was the way I figured it out.
I must say, though, that my early
acquaintance with him was very pleasant.
He took us along to the dogs and, by tell-
ing us which dogs not to back, managed
to steer us into a clear profit. He cer-
tainly knew how many legs a greyhound
had, and how quickly they touched the
ground.
The next thing I knew was Skinny
in the middle of what he called making
me see reason. It was about two nights
later, and Skinny was talking at me as
though he was selling shares in a gold-
mine.
“Stands to reason,” he said. “You
take it this way. A horse has a bigger
stomach than a dog ; it eats more. That’s
more feed you got t’ buy. That’s money.
And, what’s more, it don’t cost half as
much to train a dog neither, and there’s
no jockey’s fees.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and there’s ten dogs
in a race and nine of them lose. One
profit and nine losses isn’t my idea of the
correct distribution of chance. Make it
nine profits and I’ll be interested.”
Skinny polished his shoe on the back
of his trouser-leg.
“There was a dog once,” he said,
“that won twenty-two out of twenty-three
starts.”
“Yeah,” said I, “but that ain’t the
dog you can afford to buy. And, anyway,
who put this dogracing idea into your
head?”
“Hextall,” said Skinny. “He wants to sell me a
dog. He’s got a stable or a kennel or whatever it’s
called, and he’s thinking of selling out. And this is
his best dog. We can’t go wrong, Scut. The money
we pay for the dog is practically our only outlay. All
we do is enter it in the right races and wait for the
judge to fly the colors, and it wouldn’t make no
difference even if he was color-blind.”
“Skinny,” said I, “something seems to tell me
that you’ve been mixing with the yokels too long.
Tell me that you ain’t well. Tell me you feel the
urge of hot pavements and cold beer. Tell me the
great city is calling”
Skinny didn’t even hear me.
“Hextall says,” he announced thoughtfully, “that
we ought to run the dog on the local track. He
reckons that there’s nothing around this district that’s
likely to run second less than ten lengths away.
And you’ve seen how well they bet here. The local
bookies don’t seem to know the value of money.
And this dog ain’t raced here before. It’s a cop,
Scut.”
Well, as far as I can see, I never seem to get any
results by going against Skinny’s ideas. I think he
gets the idea that anything I’m against is sound on
principle. Nothing was said for a space, and then
Skinny piped up and proved that the preamble was
unnecessary. “I bought the dog, anyway.”
“I might have known,” said I. “And what size
hole did it inflict in the bank?”
Skinny polished the toe of his shoe once
again.
“A matter,” he said indifferently, “of ninety quid.
It’s a gift at the price, Scut. I ain’t foolin’. I seen
this dog run. It’s so fast that, if you watch it start
it beats your eyes by lengths to the finishing-line.”
“All right,” I said. “And so what do you know
about dog-training,?”
“Nothing,” Skinny grinned. “I don’t need to.
Hextall’s goin’ t’ train it for me. He reckons it’ll
clean up all the local mongs. Tell you what, Scut—
you come and see it in the morning.”
NEXT morning Skinny dragged me from the cot at
an hour that was practically the middle of the
night, and we made tracks for the paddock where
Hextall ran his dogs. Hextall was there with a couple
of dogs in tow —a black and a brown.
Straight away Skinny jabbed his finger
at the black one.
“There she is! ” he yelped. “Ain’t she
a beauty?”
As far as I could see, it didn’t look
any different from the other —-or another
thousand greyhounds—except for the
color, but 1 nodded again. I didn’t want
Hextall to think that between the two of
us our knowledge of greyhounds amounted
to what it did. If you don’t show your
ignorance no one knows.
“What’s its name?” 1 said when I’d
finished looking at it like a difficult billiard
shot.
Hextall wrinkled his nose.
“Flat Feet,” he said. “But that’s a
joke. You’ll find that out when you see
it run. It moves so fast you can’t see its
feet. It’s like one of them retractable
undercarriages on an aeroplane ; it pulls
’em up so it can go faster. Watch!”
I watched. The paddock was long,
and at one end Hextall had fixed up a
tin-hare arrangement q bicycle-wheel
with wire and a hare. There was a boy
down the end to work it. Well, they
showed the two dogs the hare, and then
Hextall gave the signal and away they
went. And right then I lost all my doubts
about the wisdom of Skinny’s purchase.
I haven’t seen many prettier sights than
the way Flat Feet moved. He just romped
away from the other dog, and the boy
winding the hare must have raised a
sweat. Flat Feet got there and sat down
to see who came in second.
“Well,” said Hextall, “what’d I tell you?”
“Orright,” said I. “You tol’ me all I want to see.
But what I want to know is why you want to sell the
dog. It don’t make sense. You got a dog that’s as
good as pence in the pocket and you sell it. It don’t
read right to me.”
The Hextall bird looked down at the ground and
shuffled his foot.


“It’s me mother,” he said after a spell. “She’s
been at me for years to give up me gambling ways.
I’ve just realised how wrong I was to go agin her.
No one ever had a better mother.” He paused, and
gave his foot another shuffle. “Maybe I’m a fool,
but when I remember all she’s done for,me I just
ain’t got the ’eart to go agin her.”
Skinny sucked his tooth. “I honor you for it,
Mr. Hextall. When do we get a chance to run the
dog?”
Hextall’s bottom lip jumped up and took a punch
at his nose.
“Well,” he said, “that’s difficult to say. She needs
a bit more preparation yet. You can see for yourself
she’s a bit above herself. Not that she couldn’t win
a race right now. She could; but there ain’t no
sense in takin’ a chance. Maybe in about three
weeks.”
Well, there wasn’t any particular hurry. We were
doing a big turnover with Dr. Bullbery’s Elixir, and
by this time I was beginning to feel as keen as Skinny
about the dogracing industry.
“Suits me,” said Skinny, answering for both of us.
During the next three weeks mornings found us
down at the paddock nearly early enough to know
what the dawn looked like, and I developed a
mechanical mind and twirled the bicycle-wheel. My
arm used to get sore trying to keep the hare from
being savaged out of existence.
Between watching the dog and dispensing the
Elixir we filled in the time and our pockets pretty
well, so we were holding a bit of coin when Hextall
informed us that Flat Feet was entered for a three-
hundred-yard maiden.
“It’s a cinch,” he said. “There’s some good dogs
in it, but that don’t mean nothing to Flat Feet. She’d
win if she was racing a tin hare. The only thing is
she’s so fast she might get mixed up with the placed
dogs in the race before.”
“I hope you’re right,”* said Skinny, “because
there’s a loose wad of money we’ve got that we’d like
to get the local bookies to mind for us.”
Hextall wrinkled his nose. “I was goin’ to talk
to you about that.”
“And you were going to say” said I, a little
curious.
“I was goin’ to say,” said Hextall, “you ought t’
let me handle your commission for you. You know
what it is when a couple of strangers start slapping
their money around the ring. You’ll get better prices
if you leave it to me.”
“Maybe you’re right,” said Skinny.
They fixed it up between them that the morn-
ing of the meeting Hextall was to come round and
take charge of the coin. And, sure enough, he turned
up, at the right time and place. Skinny passed over
the bunch of notes. Hextall winked at him. “After
this afternoon you’ll need a larger wallet.”
THE afternoon came and we drifted along to the
track. Flat- Feet was entered in Skinny’s name,
but Hextall had fixed it so that he had someone
to lead it in, and all we had to do was stand around
and count how many lengths it won by.
And that was the case when the race came off.
Flat Feet jumped out of the box and the race was
as good as over. I’ve never seen nine greyhounds
look so slow as the ones that were in against it.
Skinny gave a yell and tossed his hat in the air.
Hextall must have got at least five to one for our
money, and there was the stake to be collected. We
were turning around to look for Hextall, and the crowd
was milling around. I took a look at the judge’s box,
but the result hadn’t been posted yet. The crowd was
gathered about the bookies just waiting for that. Skinny
and I spent a few minutes congratulating each other.
Then all of a sudden a roar went up from the multi-
tude. Everyone was looking at the judge’s box. Sud-
denly Skinny grabbed- me by the arm.
“Look!” he yelped.
I looked, and felt sick in the stomach. There
was a notice up, and it said “All bets off,” and beneath
it another message that said “Mr. Hazlitt’s presence
is required in the stewards’ room.”
At that moment up dashed Hextall, all worked
up with excitement.
“Listen, Mr. Hazlitt,” he piped, addressing
Skinny, “something’s happened. They’re talkin’ about
the dog bein’ a ring-in!”
Skinny gaped. “It can’t be! We got it from you,
and you said it ain’t raced before.”
Hextall looked serious. “That was as far as I
knew —but I don’t. You see, I bought her from a
feller who was passing through here. Maybe it was
stolen. You’d have a lot of trouble proving it wasn’t,
because I ain’t goin’t’ be brought into this. It’d break
my poor old mother’s heart. The best thing you can
do is get out of town as quick as you can. I’ll get
your money back from the bets and send it to you.”
“How about the dog?” said Skinny.
Hextall shrugged his shoulders. “That’s your
bad luck. I couldn’t help it. Anyway, it might easily
have been me. I’m glad I took notice of my dear old
mother. Anyway, Mr. Hazlitt, if I was you I’d skip
out of town as quick as I could, unless you want to
spend a season in the local clink. And that’s what
it means. There’s about half a dozen offences you
can be charged with. You can rely on me sending the
money. I won’t let you down.”
Well, that was that, and we took him at his
word and skipped. When we were in the train Skinny
just sat down in a corner and sulked, and I wasn’t
game enough to say “I told you so.”
\\ /E still had a couple of quid left when we hit the
“ “ city, and the we had in Hextall sending the
betting money. But about three days later,, and the
money hadn’t arrived, we bumped into Tibby
McClaud. At least Skinny picked him out from the
centre of a crowd where he was selling studs, with
the old formula “Here goes number one, a double
bone-backed repelling and propelling speil.”
As soon as he saw Skinny he closed his business
premises for the day.
“Listen, Skinny,” he said, grabbing him by the
arm, “you’re the very man who wants to see me. I’ve
got a first-class line that only needs the lend of a tenner
to finance it.”
We knew Tibby, and we knew the tenner was
safe with him, but right then we could have done
with a tenner ourselves.
Skinny shook his head. “Listen, Tibby,
if I had it you could use it. Maybe later
on in the middle of the week. You see,
Tibby, we’re expecting some coin.” He
paused and looked at the stud outfit.
“What happened? The last time I
saw you you were rolling in
wealth.”
Tibby spat into the
gutter. “I’m expecting
money too. I been
expecting it for three
months. On account
of a dog I bought.”
That’s a coincidence,” said Skinny. “We’re
expecting money on account of a dog we put some
bets on that was disqualified for being stolen, and
all the bets was called off. There’s a feller goin’ t’
send the money.”
Tibby just looked at us and started to laugh. We
stared at him. As far as I could see, there was nothing
particularly funny that had been said. But presently
Tibby got his breath back. “Was it a dog that was
sold to you by a feller whose mother wanted him to
give up gambling?”
Skinny’s mouth dropped open.
“How did you know?” he yelped.
Tibby grinned. “That’s what I did with the wealth
I was rollin’ in. I bought a dog from the same feller.
Was his name Barrett?”
“No,” said I, “Hextall.”
“It don’t make no difference,” said Tibby ; “he
changes it.”
“Look!” he said, and dived into his pocket to
fish out a newspaper cutting. “It’s from the local
paper,” he explained.
And there it was in black and white how a Mr.
Barrett had informed the stewards of his suspicions
regarding a dog, just after the dog had won, and
which later, being verified, proved that the dog had
been stolen from him. He was also complimented on
his observation when it was revealed that the dog had
been stained to remove its markings. There was a
lot more, too, about how a Mr. McClaud, who had
entered the dog, had vanished.
Skinny looked stunned.
“This Barrett,” he said at last. “What did he
look like?”
Claudy grinned.
“That’s easy,” he said. “He was nearly bald, for
one thing, and for another”
“You needn’t go no further,” said Skinny.
Oh, Marvellous Morning.
Oh, marvellous morning that has come to me
Between the dark night and the furnace day,
Keeping night’s quietude, that does not flee,
But clings, like memories, soft to every ray;
Happy with bird-calls and the bells that ring,
Wining the windless air that flows to me.
Soft is the light upon the leaves, where cling
Cool shades of night, two gifts to every tree.
Oh, morning, filled with cool and calm of night!
Oh, morning, whence is born the ardent day !
Free as our thoughtlessness while yet the might
Of the new knowledge searchlights its dust-hot way.
Oh, marvellous morning, brimmed with all delight
From sleep and waking, whispering “I do not stay.”
W.A.
N. WILLIAMS.
“Listen, Mr. Hazlitt, something’s happened."


"Maggie Had Longed for the Mountains”
TO THE MOUNTAINS
By MYRA MORRIS
DRAWING BY SHELLEY.
Maggie was silent, ironing with a
dreadful, mechanical precision.
“Next year!” she repeated in a
choked voice.
She looked out of the window, and
the mountains, airy and fantastic against
the sky, seemed mysteriously to have
retreated.
EVER since she had come, at twenty-eight, to
Cooper’s Corner, Maggie had longed for the
mountains. She could see them from the sunken
plain—a blue wisp blown across the lower sky
as faint as the breath on a frosted pane. In the winter
they lifted white, austere peaks that glinted rosily
where the sun caught the snow. They seemed incal-
culably distant, the outposts of an enchanted world
that lay temptingly just beyond her reach.
“Some day,” she would tell herself as she clat-
tered about the farm, her thin shoulders bent under
the weight of creaking buckets, “some day I shall
get there. I’ll smell the cold smell of the snow and
the warm air in the valleys. I’ll feel the hardness of
the black rocks under my feet.”
It would have been possible to make the journey
from the farm. There was a rattling old car in the
buggy-shed that Hen had bought for a few pounds,
It made heavy weather of carrying the bags of chaff
and cases of fruit into the township, but still, with
a little coaxing, it would go, and the mountains were
not so far away reckoned in miles.
It was a matter not so much of distance as of
time and money that prevented Maggie from getting
to the mountains. Somehow the farm—and Hen
along with it—could never be left. It was possible
on rare occasions to visit her sister Alice, who lived
two townships down the line—but the Alps! That
was another matter altogether. It would have been
a costly thing, a holiday trip to the mountains. There
was a hostel there at Lobb s Lookout. An imposing,
many-windowed hostel that Maggie had seen on
innumerable railway posters. Its very magnificence
was intimidating. That and the pictures of s i-ing
girls in gay sweaters and young men wit lean, rown
faces like two dead leaves pasted toget er.
“But 111 get there somehow, Maggie would tell
herself and go on year after year staring at the moun-
tains through the kite en win ow, growing eac
season a httle more pine e -oo mg, a 1 e mor
1- J A * I,
AGGIES face was the kind that shows adv -
the side of the house. It went dry and caked and
cracked in a hundred infinitesimal cracks like the
ground outside. Her eyes, little tired blue eyes that
were filmed with a haze like the haze over the moun-
tains, retreated further and further into their purplish
shadows. Her mouth, when she laughed, showed poor,
discolored teeth. The struggling life of the farm
was in her face.
It was a small farm that had a little of every-
thing—wheat, cows, fruit and poultry. The house
was shabby and crying for repairs ; a pinkish weather-
board the color of freshly-cooked ham, with an ant-
riddled verandah covered at one end by ragged
dohehos. Around it the fences were broken, the
sheds caving in. The trees in the orchard looked as
if they had just scraped through a succession of
diseases. Inside, the house had low, flapping walls
and windows, stuck with paint, that would not open,
It smelled of dust and cheap pine furniture. The
kitchen floor was made of dark, uneven bricks. It
was always cold there—so cold that it seemed some-
limes as if the waters of the swamp that flooded in
winter must be lurking somewhere underneath,
Maggie complained of her aching feet, but Hen did
nothing about it.
It wasn’t that Hen was lazy, that he didn’t work.
He worked hard, but it was empty effort, like digging
a hole in loose sand and watching it fill up again.
Things were always going wrong. The machinery, the
feed, the animals. Sometimes the grey swamp, big
with rains, would overflow and coil in little pewter-
colored rivers through his crop.
Sometimes things would be better. There was
the year that Hen did well out of his corn. Maggie
bought herself a new red frock at the township store
and began to daydream at the kitchen window. It
was then that the letter came from her sister Alice.
Alice’s husband was a carpenter. He was going now
(wrote Alice) to a job at Lobb’s Lookout. It was a
long job that might keep him employed at the hostel
all through the spring into the summer.
“Remembering as how you’ve always been keen
on the hills, dear,” she had added, “I’ve wondered
if you’d care to come up with us and stay. Joe
is patching up a little cottage back from the big house
and we’ll be living there. It’d do you good. You
ask Hen.”
Hen, a big, shambling fellow with a red face and
bewildered blue eyes, took some time to assimilate
the news. When he had got it all clear he gave in
reluctantly. It was a damn-fool idea, he growled.
There’d be all the extra milking and the fowls for
him to see to. All this crazy gaddin’ about
Maggie did not listen. She went round with a
little secret smile on her mouth, looking up at the
distant mountains every time she emptied the dish-
water at the back door, and thinking how mysteriously
near they had come.
I T was a clear, cold afternoon the day before she
' was to leave for her journey. There was a dazzling
gleam of snow on the mountaintops. The almond
bloom outside the window moved with a tugging
impatience. Sun was on the swamp, turning it to
limpid silver. Maggie dragged her feet over the icy
bricks of the kitchen singing under her breath.
“All my life,” she thought, holding the flat-iron
to her flushed face, “all my life I’ve waited for this ...
What’s that about the feet of the wind on the moun-
tains? . . . To-morrow it’ll be my feet!”
She looked out through the window, the smile
on her face suddenly fixed. Hen was coming up from
the orchard. He was walking dejectedly, his long arms
swinging like the arms of a puppet. Maggie put
down the iron very gently, her heart beating up into
her throat. What was wrong? Something. Hen
wouldn’t walk like that unless
“What’s the matter, Hen?” Her voice, always
slightly hoarse, had an added hoarseness.
Hen pushed his way in and threw himself down
on the broken-springed couch.
“It’s them cows,” he said, with his face so pale
that the red veins showed out like little rivers on a
map. “They bin into the yard where I spilt the
poison stuff for the rabbits. The silly bitches,” he
shouted, “the silly bitches! They’re laying there
now all blown up. Two of them gone”
Maggie stood twisting her hands.
“I’ll get the vet. out at once,” Hen was saying
in a furious voice. “P’raps if we work at them”
“To-morrow,” said Maggie foolishly. “To-
morrow everything will be all right. To-morrow
everything will be all right. To-morrow”
“What’s this about to-morrow?” mumbled Hen,
snatching his coat from a hook on the door. “Can t
you see, Mag, it’s all off now? It’s not for you or
me to be going away with this thing happening. I
can’t drive you—see? And, anyway”—he turned at
the door with a fumbling kindness —“you can always
go again. Next year”
BUT it wasn’t next year. Of course, she had known
that. Alice and Joe had returned from the job
in the mountains, and there was no longer any tangible
help to be had in that direction. It was a wet winter.
The swamp flooded the crop. All night long, while
the plovers screamed across the drowned pastures,
there was a stealthy, chuckling sound of water find-
ing a \yay between alien stems. The apple-trees in
the orchard were white with woolly aphis. Two cows
died of milk fever.
“Gor blime,” said Hen with bewildered eyes
looking out of a mud-caked face, “it’s always the
same somehow.”
The following spring a little money came to
Maggie, a legacy of forty pounds from her old Aunt
Sophie, who had died in Melbourne. Forty pounds!
It wasn’t a fortune, but still
She screwed the lawyer’s letter into a ball and
tossed it into the stove with an expressionless face.
“Didn’t the old skinflint leave you anything?”
asked Hen with sympathy.
“Not a penny,” said Maggie hurriedly. “Not a
penny . . . Well, it doesn’t matter”
She would put the money into the savings bank
and say nothing about it, she thought. If Hen knew
that it was there he would want it for something about
the farm. New cows, fencing, a cheap little machine
that yanked out troublesome trees. As it was, she’d
be able to draw on it later with the tale that she had
saved something from the egg-money. She could go
to the mountains. She needed that holiday. She had
a bad cold that wouldn’t leave her —a hard, uneasy
cough that shook her chest.
A couple of weeks afterwards she found Hen in
the uncleared paddock with blood spouting from his
foot. He had been chopping out a stump with an
axe, and the axe had slipped.
“If I had had that little gadget for pulling ’em
out it would never have happened,” gasped Hen.
“It’s always the same . . . And if I’m laid up I can’t
afford for the Anderson lad to come”
It was raining, and Maggie stood in the rain
staunching the flow of blood with a strip of rag from
her skirt. The sight of the welling blood frightened
her —the sight of Hen’s grey, drained face. She loved
Hen. They had been through all sorts of things
together, and now perhaps Hen would die. It would
be her fault if he died, because she had been secretive
about that money ...
“It’s all right, Hen, dear,” she assured him
hoarsely. “I’ve got some extra money laid away. It’s
what Aunt Sophie left me.”
“And you never told me,” said Hen reproach-
fully. “I wouldn’t have thought that of you, Maggie.”
She got him home somehow, and sent for the
doctor. She was still in her wet clothes when the
doctor had finished with Hen.
“He’ll do all right now,” he told her briskly.
He was a squat little man with tired, kindly eyes.
“But you want to look after yourself, Mrs. Kennedy.
That cough! It’s damp, this place. Very damp.”
“I’ll be all right,” she said vaguely.
BUT she wasn’t all right. Long after Hen was
limping round, looking better for his enforced
rest, she was shattered with her cough. She slept
badly at night now, dreaming interminably of the
mountains that rolled away from her as far as she
could see. White mountains, and mountains of rose
and unearthly green that lifted in strange pinnacles
against the sky, that built themselves into fantastic
shapes of fairy castles, like the castles she had seen
in children’s picture-books. It was as though she
were finding in her dreams the country to which she
could never go, for now, with Hen’s accident and
a paid hand about the place, it seemed that her pre-
cious money had a great hole in it.
She laughed at Hen’s growing anxiety about
her cough, but one day, frightened by her utter


exhaustion, allowed herself to be driven into the
township to see the doctoi;.
In the doctor’s room she undressed a little defi-
antly, ashamed of her thin ribby body and the vari-
cose veins in her legs. She liked the doctor, with his
kind eyes and gentle voice and patient thoroughness.
When he was finished she went back into the waiting-
room and smiled a little breathlessly at Hen. Hen,
drawn by an imperious gesture from the doctor, tip-
toed after him into the surgery, and Maggie sat flick-
ing the pages of an illustrated paper, feeling herself
in a dream.
Hen was a long time gone. When he came back
there was a funny disbelieving look in his eyes. He
listened with an air of helplessness when the doctor
spoke, and patted Maggie’s knuckly hand. Maggie
peeped at the doctor’s baggy knees and Hen’s great
turned-up boots. How silly dear old Hen looked!
She had first met him, she remembered, at a Sunday-
school picnic away across the river.
“See here, Mrs. Kennedy,” the doctor was saying
in his kind, clipped voice. “We’d like you to g 4 et
away for a little holiday before spring’s gone. Some-
where high and dry! It’s damp where you are.
Damp! ”
Maggie looked down at the carpet with its pat-
tern of blurred red roses. “I’d like to go to the
mountains,” she said timidly. “Up to Lobb’s Look-
out! I’ve always wanted to go there.”
She glanced up at Hen, half-expecting him to
make some objection, but Hen was nodding and smil-
ing, and the doctor was smiling too.
N / AGGIE couldn’t believe it. It was all fixed up.
* * * Hen had fixed it. No flash hostel for her, where
they’d be dressing themselves up like sore fingers all
the time. He had made inquiries, and she could get
the little cottage that Joe and Alice had lived in. And
there was a girl—the daughter of the cook at the
hostel—who could come across and sleep at night
and help with the work.
Even when she drove up the long climbing road
with Hen there was still that element of doubt cloud-
ing her delight. It couldn’t be! It simply couldn’t
he ! It was only when they passed into the mysterious
blue mountain dusk and saw the little house nestling
against the slope that she realised it was not all part
and parcel of a dream.
Hen stayed for a day and a night. Maggie
(ashamed of it a little) was glad to see him go. She
wanted to be alone with her mountains, and only
listened abstractedly when he assured her that he
would be back in two weeks to see how she was
getting on. The little house was thin and hollow as
a shell, with queer singing noises. From every win-
dow you looked out on to blue-drowned valleys and
soaring peaks that still held the frosty glitter of snow.
Maggie snuffed the air like a horse, and was afraid
to cough for fear of splintering that pure, chilly
silence. ,
Each day the rough country girl came across
from the hostel to help her. Maggie laughed. She
had never been helped before. It was something new
in a new enchanted world that was made up of sounds
and scents and color.
There were people at the hostel. Curly-headed
girls and muscular young men left over from the
winter sports. They went for long walks with skis
clamped hopefully to their backs, or rambled among
the rocks by the secretive black river. Maggie envied
them their ability to do these things. Five—four—•
three years ago she could have done them too. Now
she tired easily, and was content to roam within easy
distance of the house, obeying doctor’s orders. Every
morning she walked across to the little store attached
to the hostel and brought back the milk and the bread
and the meat that the butcher had left.
But it was strange how small her appetite was
even with the fillip of the doctor’s nasty medicine.
Everything tasted the same. It had the same nothing-
ness as the smell of the snow. Not that that mattered,
Maggie would think, sitting comfortably near the fire
that the girl had lit. Her feet at last were on the
mountains! The mountains were close to her. If
she coughed at night and her chest still hurt, that was
nothing to make a fuss about. It was only the fact of
her cold hanging on that had brought her here at
all. That and the doctor, who had seemed to know
at once what she wanted.
She’d been there more than a week when she
walked down to the black river below the slope. It
was warm walking. The sun was on her back, burning
through the thick wool of her knitted jumper. There
was a glitter in the bent-over gums, a sparkle in the
dark rock boulders that made them look like lumps
of coal.
Maggie stretched herself on a flat slab behind
the bushes. “My chest doesn’t hurt now, really,” she
assured herself stubbornly. “I’m all right.”
She lay half-sleeping. Two girls from the hostel
were scrambling down the path. They were talking
gravely as they came, their heads close together.
Maggie listened. They were talking about some
woman. They were talking about her!
“Might we take her across some books?” sug-
gested the elder girl. “She must be lonely there in
that little house. T.B. and not a hope, they say.
That’s why they sent her up here, though it seems
a funny sort of place. Her husband told our car-
driver. Poor man”
Maggie lay motionless, stunned with the shock.
Then the full implication of what she had heard drove
in on her. She began to cry hopelessly, drearily.
""THE mountains! The mountains! She thought of
* them that night as she lay awake in the muffling
silence. The mountains, they were all about her,
closing her in so that she couldn’t breathe. She got
out of bed and pattered across to the window. There
they were, humped up in the darkness, brooding and
sinister and frightfully aware . . .
She got back into bed, shivering, her mind turn-
ing and awake. It couldn’t be true —any of it. She
simply had—what they had told her—a neglected
cold . . . Then she saw again Hen’s unhappy, be-
wildered face and the kind eyes of the doctor. And
all the time the mountains were closing in on her,
stealing her breath as a cat’s breath is said to steal
a child’s. And she couldn’t bear it . . .
“I’ll go to-morrow,” she thought with piercing
clearness. “The service car—and I can link up with
the mailcoach at the river.”
IN the car next morning she sat with eyes staring
1 steadily ahead. She thought of the little house on
the sunken plain; and Hen perhaps hanging a blue
shirt on the line . . .
The car lurched forward with a grinding of gears.
She smiled and relaxed. At last she had her back
turned to the mountains.
THE CELEBRATIONS
BY LES ROBINSON
ON my own behalf and inditing simultaneously,
I feel sure, the views of many other enlight-
ened citizens whose yawns, like mine, were
indicative of disinterest when the programme
as so far drawn up by the organisers of the one
hundred and fiftieth celebrations was made known,
I feel that just for once, if never again, adequate and
superabundant measures might be taken to make the
occasion really memorable.
Let us commemorate in a unique but fitting
manner as we have never commemorated before. To
do this the enthusiasm of the populace must, first
of all be aroused, and it won’t be to more than a
fragmentary and half-hearted extent by processions,
illuminations, firework and floral displays, athletic
competitions, tournaments, speech-making, eistedd-
fods, band recitals, the minting of sixpenny com-
memorative medals, the printing of badges or the
massed production and distribution of other souvenirs.
It is the substance most people crave, not, as usually
considered quite sufficient for them, even at times of
national rejoicing, and especially by officials, the
shadow.
Having sampled official entertainment of one kind
and another on alleged festive occasions, we have, to
be brutally frank, found it rather dry hash. We’d
sooner, any day, entertain ourselves. All we desire
is to be enabled, absolutely unhindered —assisted, in
fact, instead, to an unlimited even though unprece-
dented extent —to do so. If things are done that we
actually want our enthusiasm will be unbounded.
Nothing need be done about the price of bread, for
instance. Who, except perhaps bakers, poultice-
makers and those who are in the habit of casting it
upon the waters, possibly for the mullet that therein
do dwell, is even faintly interested in bread?
But the prices of cake, ale, crustaceans and shellfish
should indubitably be reduced.
YOU’LL see in a minute what form the celebrations,
* if they were organised differently and with a
view to giving immense satisfaction, would inevitably
take. Petrol, as an incentive to joy-riding, might be
reduced to about sixpence a gallon. Steamship pas-
sengers might be brought at freight rates (so much
per pound avoirdupois) from anywhere else to Sydney.
Landlords should unanimously and magnanimously
consent to accept no rent during the celebrations, thus
increasing tenants’ chances of actually participating
in them, instead of, as usual, merely being lookers-
on. Six o’clock closing, all restrictions and bans, all
forms of censorship, it is most essential, before doing
anything else, to abolish without delay.
The great and universal rejoicing this would
cause might reach its peak in a special feature, on
fireworks night, entitled “The Burning of the Inani-
ties.” On a huge bonfire effigies of the various officials
connected with censorship and other blights, seated
upon piles of proclamations warning all and sundry
of the legal proceedings certain to be taken against
them if their conduct chanced to be such as to give
rise to the belief that they had formed the illegal
opinion that this is a free country, soaked in kerosene,
could be incinerated. Oxen might afterwards be
roasted on the pyre, and consumed by the exultant
masses sans fear of raids, fines or arrest. Then, if by
some oversight it had not been done previously,
wowsers, economists, depressors, cash-in-advance-
idealists, misanthropes, militant pessimists, Jonahs,
wet blanketeers and other vermicular incubii should,
with all possible haste, be rounded up and sent to
concentration camps, prepared for them beforehand,
or marooned on a desert island somewhere, which-
ever they didn’t prefer, and they should be kept there
for the duration of the celebrations and perhaps for
months or, better still, for years afterwards in order
to give us a long and much-needed rest from their
obnoxious activities.
Steps should be taken as well to see that a great
deal of work is provided for citizens who are addicted
to or fond of it, but park regulations should, at the
same time, be rescinded, thus enabling philosophers
and others whose favorite “occupation” is lying down
under trees to do so for weeks, if such is their inclina-
tion, undisturbed.
P\ UTIES, excise in particular, and taxes would, of
course, already, by a Government really anxious
that the people should enjoy themselves, have been
lifted until much further notice.
All boards of inquiry, except such as are endeavor-
ing to find excuses for subsidising leisure, thus lower-
ing the cost of it and of living as well, or that are
intent upon eliminating boredom and fatigue, steadily
increasing pensions, raising the basic wage and the
hopes of optimists by similar laudable, if rather too
sporadic and circumlocutory activities, to such a height
as to cause them to imagine that the beginnings, as it
were, of the millennium are in sight at last, to be
adjourned indefinitely. A moratorium and Govern-
ment loan scheme combined (perhaps this is where
the subsidising of leisure might come in) should un-
doubtedly be inaugurated and maintained' until the
celebrations cease and our spirits sink back to normal
again.
The sight of prisons, prison-vans, flying squads,
penal settlements, asylums and reformatories has such
a depressing effect upon some people, and the sight
of bundies is so disheartening to others, that some-
thing should certainly be done, if jubilation is to
become rampant, to keep such grim and disturbing
aids or goads to enforced circumspection, zeal, gravity,
ceaselessness, haste, stultifying uniformity and dulling
routine—indeed, to keep as many as possible of the
outward and visible evidences of human bondage
hidden pro tem., or, if nobody becomes annoyed about
it, pour longtemps. Perhaps creepers could be grown
over them.
Strikes (in the brewing trade especially) must be
averted at all costs. This could be accomplished quite
easily by acceding, or seeming to accede, to toilers’
demands or requests. Rebukes, revocations, recrimina-
tions, renunciations, denunciations, etc., could, unless
regarded as superfluous, be saved up, by exercising a
certain amount of self-repression or restraint, until
the festive period was over.
Too much enjoyment is supposed to be bad for
people, though I don’t think it likely that, during the
sesquicentenary celebrations, if the programme at
present drawn up is adhered to and the improvements
to it herein suggested are, as pessimists predict,
ignored, you and I and a lot more like us are destined
to be inconvenienced to an at all noticeable extent by
a too great and utter boundlessness of bliss. Clinics
at which treatment for commemoration mornings-
after could, at trifling cost, be obtained might be
established nevertheless.
Nor would it be detrimental to the best interests
of all concerned if unfavorable weather reports, while
the commemoration joybells are tinkling, were cir-
culated solely among the observatory officials (pledged
to secrecy) themselves, and it is even more necessary
that rain-bringers be pounced upon as soon as their
pestiferous dowsiness has been detected and exposed,
and with inexorable promptitude and relentless haste
be sent far, far away into the drought-stricken
interior.
YOU see the idea. Lighten our burdens, reduce our
blights, or, in other words, give us adequate justi-
fication for it, and the amount of nineteen-thirty-
eightish sesquicentenarian whoopee we’ll make, with-
out further provocation, official assistance or letting
the authorities suspect beforehand, of course, that we
intend doing anything of the kind, will be a record.


m
*
<s?
/ADELAIDE for XMAS!
Golden beaches under blue skies and' sunshine . . . mountain scenery in bewildering variety . . .
Adelaide’s many beauty spots offer glorious holiday opportunities this Christmas.
There are sporting attractions, too! . . . thrills of the Automobile Grand Prix—the Port Cup
Racing Carnival—Big Cricket.
r / I!
% ft I
f i*
Planned low-priced tours abolish your
travel and luggage worries and all
discomfort . . . you may spend a week
touring Adelaide for as little as—
r-,. .•
■:£ :
(Fare covers a week’s accommodation and local tours, but
is PLUS FARES FROM YOUR TOWN TO ADELAIDE.)
SPECIAL LOW PRICED TOURS
£ 5/5-
FOR FULL DETAILS
Consult the South Australian
Representative at the Vic-
torian, New South Wales or
Western Australian Govern-
ment Tourist Bureaux —Mel-
bourne, Sydney or Perth; or
S.A. Government Tourist
Bureau, Box 664G, G.P.O.,
Adelaide.
a d
U R 5
B V
RAIL. ROAD, AIR OR S-E A
ROUND ABOUT
A.W.A.
We didn’t, of course, ask them what they really
thought of a couple of warts barging in and watching
them work. And they were nice enough not to volun-
teer any audible opinion on the matter. No wisecracks
as far as we know —followed our progression.
Perhaps they take this sort of thing philosophi-
cally as something that can’t be helped when you work
in a factory that surrounds itself with ten acres or so
of lawns, gardens and ponds of water-
lilies and goldfish.
Or it might be that they’re com-
pletely absorbed in their work. As far
as we could judge, they’re so absorbed
that way that they can concentrate on
some part of a wireless set's tangled in-
side even though, more often than not,
each bloke has to do his concentrating
fair opposite as nice a parcel of feminine
goods as was ever wrapped up in a set
of overalls.
Probably something about wireless
gets ’em like that. For example, the chap
who saw us through. He works at wire-
less all day long, so many days a week,
so many weeks a year. Well, he told us
that wireless is his hobby !
At all events, very nice to us these
A.W.A. people were. Much nicer than
a.w.l. people we remember. That lot
threw us into a guard-tent, had us mend-
ing roads for splaw-footed camels to
walk on, and, after a week of it, sent us
back with a small piece of paper inform-
ing an incredulous unit —and none in it
more incredulous than ourselves —that
we, the undermentioned, were free from
vermin.
And it isn’t, by the way, only the familiar ring
of initials that breaks in here to bring that up. In
the office where we waited for our guide hangs Amal-
gamated Wireless’s own souvenir le guerre: framed
“Along this
way” ....
there on the wall together, two
of the first —or, if memory’s
right, the first —wireless mes-
sages to Australia. They came
from somewhere round about
where the discussion with Fritz
was then taking place. And
what messages!
One is from Billy Hughes;
full of fight; a spirited war-
horse of a message even now ;
a clarion and a bugle and a
trumpet-call in one vigorous
blast.
Here is the other; date, Sep-
tember 22, 1918:—.
Royal Australian
Navy is magnificently
bearing its part in the
great, struggle. Spirit of
sailors and soldiers alike
beyond praise. Recent
hard fighting brilliantly
successful, but makes re-
inforcements imperative.
Australia hardly realises the wonderful reputa-
tion which our men have won. Every effort
being constantly made here to dispose of Aus-
tralia’s surplus products.
Joseph Cook, Minister for Navy.
Good old surplus products! C’est le
guerre! .
And now: Good afternoon. Will we come
in through this door? Perhaps the best way
will be to begin at the beginning and work
through. Right-oh, along this way. Not super-
stitious about walking
under ladders? Lot of
alterations going on just
now.
Getting ready, we
gather, for increased pro-
duction. Back in 1934
they were turning out 800
wireless sets a week. Now
at it harder than ever. Probably to do with the next
outbreak of Test matches. Anyway, in this hall car-
penters belting away just now like billy-oh.
Hall is right. This one a hundred or two yards
long ; tables running lengthwise with it; fellows and
girls at tables conjuring and twisting with their fingers
at all the gadgets, wires, fakelorums and what nots
which go into a wi: eless set, and about which, no
Ernest Fisk: he started all this.
doubt, you know every
bit as much as we do,
which is nix.
But it’s in this fur-
ther hall we begin;
here where the men are
men and the machines
they work are whop-
pers. Great, solid, hulk-
ing, slow-moving mon-
sters ; patient, plodding
beasts, fed by their
keepers on steel, brass
and suchlike hard tack.
This one rises on its
haunches; its keeper
feeds it a flat face of
metal; deliberately it
comes down, crushes
hard, recovers itself
and goes slowly up
again. The metal plate
is lifted out, the worse
for the encounter by
upwards of 200 holes,
of all shapes that holes
are known to take.
And that, we
gather, is the basis of
your wireless set; the
first step towards your being thrilled some day by
For you it is very ro-man-tic,
But for me it is just — too — bad....
to be terminologically precise, your chassis —or, at
all events, that of your wireless.
In appearance, things that Frankenstein himself
might have moulded, these pretty creatures of
machines are not all alike in soul. This one here,
now, is as lively as a heavyweight kitten, doing its
jig on an inch-or-so wide strip of metal which is fed
into it, and which comes out with as nice a filigree
pattern cut in it as the artiest doter on design could
wish to set eyes on.
Of course, we are greatly impressed—mistakenly,
it turns out. What we’ve been admiring is the waste.
(Don’t let them have you with this one if ever you
get out to A.W.A.’s Ashfield, Sydney, factory.) The
bloke in charge of this kittenish Frankenstein now
boots the beautiful filigree aside. It’s for the insig-
nificant bits cut out while making that delicate pattern
that they nourish this particular monster.
And what about this one? A huge, black, mon-
strous bulk, down it comes, as if it were going to
flatten out the earth itself. And touches its bit of
metal with the caress of a butterfly! Frankenstein,
we hate to think it of you, but it strikes us you have
here fathered a ciss.
Concentrating under difficulties.
Then there
is this lesser
monster, play-
ing away by
itself here,
shaping and
snip ping off
little half-inch
gadgets from
the end of a
brass rod.
Leave this
fellow alone
and it plays
like that by the
hour.
Ranks of
these chaps.
One over there
having a
high old time
making Cathe-
rine-wheels of
sparks; an-
other with his
paddy up tear-
ing into his
feed of metal
at a gormand-
ising bat; an-
A spirited war-horse.
other taking his meal with a fine old manorial dignity
—he may have got in here on the old Frankenstein
school tie.
In this other hall, now, the skilled workers —
blokes, not machines. We have no doubt whatever
that we are improperly intruding here. We haven’t
seen such a look of concentration on the separate and
collective human dial since old Rosie had us out on
the floor for six cuts. If they could only put into
picking winners the degree of concentration they here
put into shaving, shampooing and massaging shapes
of moulds out of metal what a wonderful world theirs
would be!
More halls.
Machines; running, overhead belts; tables of
gadgets and fakelorums in ’em all, of course.
Seen in passing in one a bent bob of brown hair
with a shot of red through it that Mrs., or even Miss,
Potts Point would burn her boats to own. Yet the
blokes concentrate on gadgets even here without
A not her head fell ....
while the Paris rabble
yelled itself hoarse.
noticeable strain.
In another, a boy
not far removed from
his last essay on “My
Dog,” with a job that
none but a boy
could do with that
gusto. Up goes his
hand, and slash! down
comes the big knife.
Squares of paper?
Surely, no. Swish!
Another head fell drip-
ping from the guillotine
while the Paris rabble
yelled itself hoarse!
Swish! Hah, skunk, so
you’d betray the pirate
king, eh? Swish!
Traitor, your plot to
take the throne is foiled —varlets, off with his head!
vSwish! Swish! Swish!
On the way, too, tough-looking strong rooms.
And, no, it isn’t in these that Ernest Fisk, who came
to Australia early this century as a wireless operator
on a ship and eventually started all this, stows the
Fiskian boodle. In these strong rooms they are hard
at it testing the loudspeakers: hardy souls prob-
ably themselves tested to begin with by heaven knows
what assaults of bagpipes—sitting in there taking it:
and now by courtesy of
the master mind of the turf, Mr. Rufe
Naylor....
every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday....
speaking of trousers, have you seen....
a specially reduced line in shop-soiled stock-
ings —
defaited Mrs. Blug, seventay-faive, seventay-
naine....
Well, they can take it;
and probably their ears are
no less pretty than Chief
Little Wolfs.
We walk down the drive
through the waving
borders of antirrhi-
nums, past the water-
lilies and goldfish, the
hedge on one side of
us cut to represent a
wireless wave, and on
past the Keeper of the
Gate.
Skilled worker.
There behind us are all those bright Fiskian
doings—all those machines and nimble fingers putting
together copper, brass, steel, paper, glass, wax, cotton,
nickel, bakelite, silver, rubber, a chemical or two and
a patch of vacuum, twisted and turned and shaped
into the 1285 separate piece parts which, we have
gathered, go to the making of our wireless set.
And we are hit with a feeling that when we get
to that set and turn the knob our luck will indeed
be in if all that doesn’t represent —crooner.


9
FOR
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
c r
w
SI2II


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
THE TRUMP
Winner of the Melbourne Cup
1937.
Owner Darcy Eccles
Trainer S. W. Reid
Jockey Ashley Reed
Weight Bst. 51b.
Time 3min. 21 Jsec.
Age 5 years
1.
■KmIHp
%
o
I
—B
i
Vi -V ■
mmm
liillilllili
B HHH| HI
imaraM


“BELTED” KNIGHTS.
"Three knights were worsted at the Commonwealth election."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 ,25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per cdpy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
BOYCOTT IS MADNESS.
The chairman of the Australian Woolgrowers’ Council
has raised a warning voice against the boycott of
Japanese goods recommended by the bosses of the
Australasian Council of Trade Unions, a Sydney
housewives’ organisation and some clergymen.
Nothing could be more foolish or dangerous,
said Mr. Dalziel Kelly. Trade diversion was bad
enough ; but a one-sided stoppage of trade would
invite retaliation, and that might lead to a woolmarket
collapse.
Continental countries are at present the mainstay
of the market, but their credits are by no means un-
limited. American support is at the moment negligible.
Japan is only just entering the market, which has
recently shown some weakness.
Mr. Dalziel Kelly recalls that “no country
suffered more than Australia as a result of the futile
imposition of ‘sanctions’ against Italy.” But what
Australia lost because of that lamentable surrender
to the illusions of the chatterers at Geneva would be
a fraction of what it would lose if the Japanese decided
that boycott was a game for two. Maoriland would
also in that case forfeit a trade which has suddenly
become valuable ; for Australia has no monopoly of
pacifists who clamor for provocative action. Four days
after the A.C.T.U. executive demanded a boycott
of Japanese goods “as a protest against the ruthless
slaughter of non-combatants and women and children
in China,” the Wellington Trades and Labor Council
passed a similar resolution.
It is unusual to find Maorilanders quarrelling
with their bread and butter. How greatly their coun-
try has benefited from the advent of Japanese ships
and Japanese woolbuyers is indicated in a bulletin
“issued by the authority of the Hon. D. G. Sullivan,
Minister of Industries and Commerce,” and the dis-
cerning reader may judge for himself how serviceable
this new factor has been to a Labor Government
whose programme necessitates the raising of huge
tax-revenue.
“In former years,” the secretary of the department
writes, “the development of New Zealand’s export
trade to certain Eastern countries” was so “handi-
capped by lack of direct shipping services” that “it
was almost impossible for firms to obtain and hold
the essentially competitive markets of Netherlands
East Indies, Malaya, India, China, Japan and other
Eastern countries.”
The establishment of direct shipping services by two
Japanese lines considerably improved the opportunities
for exporters to develop a market in Japan.
The Osaka Shosen Kaisha line has three vessels in
the direct monthly service between Japan and N.Z. —
the Sydney Maru, the Brisbane Maru and the Melbourne
Maru. The Yamashita Kisen Kaisha line has recently
placed the first of three new ships on the run between
N.Z. and Japan, this being the motorship Kozan Maru,
and the second new ship, the Naniwa Maru, arrived
in N.Z. waters bn August 24. These two vessels replaced
the Manju Maru and the Keifuku Maru; the other
vessel in the service, the Chifuku Maru, will be re-
placed by the Muku Maru, probably in December.
When the Japanese woolbuyers were out of the
Australian market, they bought briskly in Maoriland.
Largely because of their operations, Maoriland sold
nearly all its 1936-37 wool, estimated at 767,132 bales,
at an average of £22 6s. Bd. per bale, “an increase
of £9 os. 3d. per bale over the average realisation
for the previous season and the highest recorded
since 1927-28. The average value per pound for
1936-37 was 15.71 d. as against 9.13 d. for 1935-36.”
For the 12 months to June 30, 120,813 bales of
wool went to Japan. Other items forwarded to the East
were butter, tallow, casein, milk powder, frozen meat,
tinned meats of various kinds, sheepskins, calfskins, hides
and pelts, baby foods and honey.
Fairly large quantities of scrap iron and steel, tin
and tinplate clippings, aluminium and battery lead have
also gone forward, more especially to Japan. The export
of apples has been developed to a remarkable
extent.... and 1200 head of sheep went to Japan.
Exports of Maoriland wool to Japan amounted
to 71,176 bales, valued at £NZ1,048,462, in 1935-36 ;
the 1936-37 exports of wool were valued at £2,750,388.
Exports of all produce to Japan were valued at
£1,259,518 in 1935-36 and £3,146,285 in 1936-37. For
the first six months of 1937, they reached £2,733,102,
being nearly three times the value of the exports to
Australia (£965,432).
Australian trade with Japan is, of course, on a
far greater scale. In 1935-36 Australian exports to Japan
were valued at £14,100,784 sterling, wool naturally
being the principal commodity, though wheat, flour,
tallow, hides and skins, frozen beef, iron ore, scrap
iron, casein and tinned milk were considerable items.
Imports from Japan were valued at £4,969,571 ster-
ling. In 1936-37, the trade-war year, exports to Japan
declined to £7,749,092 sterling, and imports from
Japan to £4,001,597 sterling.
The volume of our trade with Japan is not so
important as that the trade shall continue without
hostile checks. As the president of the Graziers’
Federal Council puts it, “a boycott is an economic
declaration of war against that nation whose goods
are boycotted.” As Mr. Abbott says, also, it differs
little from a blockade, and the result sooner or later
may be waf. And neither Australia nor Maoriland
is organised for war. Japan is.
Mr. Dalziel Kelly and Mr. Abbott lay stress on
the fact that the quarrel between Japan and China
is no concern of ours. It is a typical Oriental war
with modern trimmings. It differs from other wars of
which China has been the theatre only insofar as
the weapons are deadlier, Moscow is playing a sinister
part, and the resources of sensational journalism have
been placed at the service of the losing side. Of its
origins we have been told nothing coherent; but the
course of the campaign has been described in the
vein in which the Abyssinian war was related, and in
which the triumphs of the Red Spaniards were chron-
icled until it became expedient to effect diversions such
as the porpoise that torpedoed H.M.S. Basilisk. Pro-
phecies of victory for the press-championed cause
were not perhaps quite so express, but the art of
the press-agent has been employed just as lavishly.
Madame Chiang Kai-shek has been “presented”
much as if she were a reigning film actress. “Girls in
smart uniforms” are “shot” by press photographers.
A Suicide Battalion, a Red Napoleon and a Famous
Communist Army succeeded to the celebrity of “the
terrible Gofas,” “the creeping Fanno hunters” (every
one of whom used to get his Italian at mid-
night) and the Red International Brigade of Madrid.
The Suicide Battalion, after singularly small losses,
surrendered to the British, and when last heard of
the Red Napoleon and the Famous Communist Army
were making good time towards the Gobi Desert.
Mad and bad things are done in all wars, declared
and undeclared. Foreigners and non-combatant
Chinese have been slain by Chinese soldiers aiming
at Japanese; non-combatant Chinese and British
soldiers by Japanese aiming at Chinese with arms in
their hands and at military positions.
The British Government has asked for and received
apologies and promises of reparation for the loss of
its soldiers ; but it doesn’t propose to go to war to
avenge them. It has left war-talk to the Commu-
nists and the disarmament cranks, who are always
ready to fight Japan, Germany and Italy by deputy.
A “Liberal” member became their mouthpiece in the
House of Commons. The “Cronk-News” is under-
stood to be carrying on a boycott in Fleet-street and
Mr. Hugh D. Mclntosh in the milk-bar trade. But
sober-minded Britons, led by Mr. Chamberlain, are
not going to humor these worthies to the extent of
sacrificing another generation of British manhood for
the Chiang Kai-sheks. They realise that it was not
by backing certain losers like Abyssinia, Red Spain,
Red China or Red Russia—if the cowardly world-
revolution policy, nominally abandoned since the
Bear’s tail went down, lands Red Russia in war—that
their Empire became great and powerful and univer-
sally respected.
The relations of Australia and Maoriland with
the Japanese are a challenge to and will be a test of
statesmanship. Japan’s rapid industrial development,
a development forced on it by population pressure,
has given rise to problems which await solution ; and
God knows they are difficult enough without having
a boycott tacked on to them. Deliberately or igno-
rantly, those who are crying out for a boycott are
playing Moscow’s dirty game and imperilling their
own countries in the process. They abominate con-
scription, but if they succeed in making an enemy
of a nation which hitherto has been friendly they
will bring conscription upon us. Neither Mr. Curtin’s
aeroplanes nor Maoriland Labor’s physical jerks will
suffice. It will be necessary to spend not a twentieth
nor a twenty-fifth but a third of the public revenues
on defence; and the guiltless will bear the burden—
the guilty will have escaped.
What an inheritance for Young Australia —the
enmity of Japan!
Overgrowth of Regulation.
Writing for overseas readers —chiefly American
Australian Alan Villiers has given the port of Sydney
probably the most scathing trouncing it has ever had.
In advertising value it rivals the scorn heaped on the
same place by the American visitor who told a news-
paper reporter that, no, he guessed he was not goin
to say that Sydney was one of the finest places he had
ever visited.
The American’s plaint was that the place went
dead at nightfall. Here as a tourist, he could find
no reason after dusk for leaving his ship. On the
contrary, he found strong reasons for not leaving it.
He could not get a drink without breaking local laws ;
he could not get a meal after the early Australian
dining hour, and even at that hour only in a few
places ; he could find no night life of any kind;
streets, even parts of such main thoroughfares in the
heart of the city as King-street, he found ill-lit and
forbidding. He contrasted all this with the brightness
of the place by day, snorted something about wowsers,
and left, muttering his determination never to return,
with a rider to the effect that he. would do his best
to prevent fellow-Americans from being similarly
“taken in.”
Not long after this outburst moves began to be
made to have Sydney’s childish licensing laws
amended. These laws were introduced as a war-time
measure, and as such were possibly a national benefit.
They have long since outlived that purpose, and are
now nothing else but wowser-imposed restrictions.
On present indications they are going to remain in
full force, the Sydney Government having rejected
even the mild amendments proposed by the Licensed
Victuallers’ Association to have lounge licenses
granted to certain selected hotels.
That proposal, with Sydney’s sesquicentenary jolli-
fications due next year —just a month or two hence
was thought almost certain to be granted. It is an
extremely mild proposal, and the granting of it might
have warded off considerable trouble boiling up for
this N. S. Wales Government whenever Labor comes
to its senses and drops Mr. Lang. In any event, it
might prove a costly bit of obstinacy, the intention
of the Licensed Victuallers to fight the issue having
been emphatically announced. Meanwhile, those who
do the voting will have some time to reflect on the
standing danger of ever handing over to officialdom
any fragment of hard-won liberty.
In any case, it is a sweeping misrepresentation
to suggest, as the gloom-lovers do, that the sort of
criticism given gratis . by that American, and by many
other visitors attracted here as tourists, is inspired only
by their inability to get a drink —even a drink of tea
—in a hotel after dark. A city’s night-life is not
measured out only in drinks. What irks the general
run of tourists is the prevailing curfew-atmosphere;
the abandonment of the place by municipal and
Government authority to the wowser will. Being
unable to get a drink at night is only an item of it.
The more recent scathing report on this same
place by Mr. Villiers has little to do directly with
the things that riled that American. The Australian
goes out of his way to emphasise how well Australians
treated him. He suggests that the “necessity for clos-
ing the front doors of bars at six o’clock” is over-
done, and “the frigid ferocity of the average waitress”
struck him, returning from other parts, as odd. But
for the hospitality accorded him and all aboard his
good ship Joseph Conrad when they put into Sydney
he has words as kindly in return.
What got his back up was the treatment he
reports was meted out to him by that section of offi-
cialdom which has to do with port affairs. Some of
his listings under this head are so fantastic that from
anyone less trustworthy they would have to be dis-
missed as incredible.
In Sydney a survey, “strict almost to the point
of savagery,” was made of everything aboard. An
inventory was made so that duties could be claimed
on all that was used or consumed “food, paint,
ropes, canvas; everything.” Had he cut a sail from
his canvas while the ship lay in port he would have
had to pay duty on the canvas. Had he painted his
ship he would have had to pay duty on his paint. Had
he bought fresh eggs in the port and fried them in
American lard he would have had to pay duty on
the lard. As a result of all this, and much more, he
had to see that work aboard ship in this port was
restricted to such as would not involve the consump-
tion of dutiable goods. An expert in Sydney’s Cus-
toms House —-“that well-populated temple of parsi-
monious precepts by Circular Quay” —even tried to
charge him with light dues for the Bahama Islands!
Comparatively human was the treatment accorded
him in Melbourne. There officials took the view that, as
the ship spent about £llOO in that port on fresh food
and sea stores, enough had been contributed to the
country’s wealth without bleeding the visitor for
duties on this, that and the other piffling item of
stores consumed. What warmed his heart to the
Melbourne brand of officialdom more than anything
else, however, was that it did not insist, as in Sydney,
on his going through the “whole wearying rigmarole
of checking and rechecking” an inventory which
covered over four square feet of paper.
Mr. Villiers adds that Sydney —as he had
“gathered without difficulty”—’“wants and almost
demands tourists.” Yet, he points out, it is a curious
fact that, of all countries, Australia is least visited
by wandering vessels. He finds as the reason “over-
growth of regulation,” which, after all, is what our
irate American got so hot under the collar about,
touching a slightly different sphere. Mr. Villiers winds
up:.—
In a country possessed of so many advantages, popu-
lated by a carefree but resolute people noteworthy
for their courage, their hospitality and their resource,
it is a pity that such minor blemishes, which a little
commonsense could easily remove, should be allowed to
continue.
Until the “overgrowth of regulation” is pruned
he sees no hope for Australia ever being attractive to
tourists. All the attractions we have must remain
nothing if we ourselves are dead —among other ways,
dead to the sort of advertisment we are continuously
getting overseas through the “overgrowth of regu-
lation” which an otherwise admirable trait of toler-
ance, more than anything else, is responsible for
encouraging.
Occasionally there is a kick—when wowserism
is carried to such extremes that even such a tolerant
people cannot put up with it—as in the completely
successful blunt refusal to obey the stupid law ban-
ning shorts from beaches. Government not over-
ridden by wowserism would take that as a sign that
people are getting utterly fed up with all this “over-
growth of regulation.” They want to be legislated
for as average sensible adult human beings, not as
occupants of a kindergarten.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Out Goes Parkhill.
Mr. Robert Archdale Parkhill became secretary
of the N. S. Wales Liberal League in 1903. He has
been closely associated with party organisation ever
since. As secretary, he survived all the changes which
turned the Liberal into the National party, and was
one of the midwives when the National party was
reborn as the U.A.P.
In 1922 Mr. Parkhill developed Parliamentary
ambitions. To his chagrin, Mr. W. M. Hughes beat
him to the safe North Sydney seat; but in 1927, when
Granville Ryrie became High Commissioner, Mr.
Parkhill succeeded him as member for Warringah.
In 1932 Mr. Parkhill joined the Lyons Govern-
ment. He was Minister for Home Affairs and Trans-
port for three months, and Minister for the Interior
(Home Affairs, Transport, Works and Railways) for
six months. Having spent nearly all his life in
Sydney, Mr. Parkhill knew little about the Interior,
so he went on a 6000-mile pilgrimage through the
North to educate himself. No sooner was this done
than he was made Postmaster-General.
This promotion necessitated a trip to “the Uni-
versal Postal Congress, Cairo,” and places more expen-
sive and more remote. Back from the Universal
Postal Congress, Mr. Parkhill was chosen from
among a coalition in which there were 25 returned
soldiers, and more coming in a few months (Brand
among them), to administer the Defence Department.
Mr. . Parkhill’s administration of the Defence
Department will be remembered chiefly for the flving-
boat argument, which dragged on for years, and for
his refusal to revive compulsory training. He pas-
sionately avowed himself an anti-compulsionist, like
his chief. Apart from his total ignorance of war, he
had the wrong kind of training. Half a lifetime spent
among the sort of people who foregather in party
organisations and draw up vote-catching programmes
is no preparation for the job to which Mr. Parkhill
was called.
The accident of circumstance made defence the
major issue at the general election. It was
naturally expected that the voice of Mr. Park-
hill, now a K.C.M.G., would have been heard through-
out the Commonwealth proclaiming his defence
policy. -Mr. Parkhill, however, remained in Warrin-
gah, as if his main defence policy were the defence
of his seat. Mr. Spender was his most dangerous
opponent, and he dwelt at length, and with asperity,
on Mr. Spender’s shortcomings—how Mr. Spender
didn’t live in the electorate, and wasn’t supported by
other K.Cs., and was against pre-selection, and there-
fore against the U.A.P.; and so on.
Partly because of this petulant parochialism, and
partly because he is opposed to State Parliaments as
well as to pre-selection, Mr. Spender got in. He won
on the third count by 31,446 votes to Mr. Parkhill’s
29,138. There were 34,016 primary votes against “the
senior New South Wales Minister,” as he called him-
self, 26,568 for him. This in the State in which every
other Ministerial M.H.R. was returned, in no case
by less than a four-figure majority, and in the elec-
torate which used to be regarded as about the softest
snap in Australia for the choice of the U.A.P.
machine.
The Government won on the defence issue, but
his own electors refused a mandate to the Defence
Minister.
A Man Without a Country?
The Duke of Windsor offended powerful interests by
going to Germany and accepting the hospitality of the
Nazis, who showed him features of their industrial
system. He arranged to visit the U.S.A. with his
Baltimore-born wife, entrusting the organisation of
the tour to a certain Mr. Bedaux, a manufacturer.
Mr. Bedaux, it transpired, had antagonised U.S.
factory unions by introducing speeding-up methods
reminiscent of the Taylor card system, the cause of
or pretext for the 1917 N. S. Wales Government rail-
way strike. Organised labor promptly trained its
guns on him and on the Duke. The Baltimore branch
of the American Federation of Labor affected to see
in the proposed “slumming party” a “threat to free
democracy,” adding that “when the Duchess of
Windsor lived in Baltimore she showed not the
slightest interest in the poor.” A New York news-
paper discovered “circus characteristics” in the pro-
gramme, which it attributed to “a little Baltimore
girl’s desire to swank round in her home country.”
In other quarters the Duke’s “Fascist sympathies” —•
effectually concealed at the crisis of his career, when,
“bred in the constitutional tradition by my father,”
he wouldn’t even countenance a Court party—were
denounced. In the circumstances he did what any
other husband would have done —cancelled the tour.
No doubt the Duke has made some queer friends
and had some bad advisers ; all the same, millions of
people will resent this treatment of him. Americans
among them will regard it as a shabby departure from
the hospitable traditions of their Republic. Others
will give him credit —this man in whom the world
will always be interested —for a healthy refusal to lead
a loafer’s life, for a sincere interest in the lot of the
toiling masses, and for an honest desire to do what
he can to improve the relations of the English with
nations from whom they have drawn apart. Such people
will regret that his first efforts in that direction have
started a hue-and-cry against him. If he comes this
way—and there is no reason why he should not be
invited to Sydney for the sesquicentenary celebrations
—Australians will show that they have not forgotten
the relation in which they stood to him for so many
years, and the Diggers will never let him feel that
he is a man without a country.
Road Murder a Grim Lesson.
There is a grim warning for Australian road hauliers
in the murder of John Thomas Demsey, the Victorian
truck-driver, and the theft of the load he was trans-
porting from Bendigo to Melbourne on October 11.
The four-ton transport and its driver disappeared for
more than three weeks before two young campers
tumbled on the truck in a lonely bush gully at West
Kinglake, 42 miles from Melbourne by another road.
Police discovered the bullet-riddled body of the driver
in a shallow grave some yards away.
Demsey was one of Victoria’s hundreds of trans-
port drivers daily engaged on long-distance jobs. He
left Bendigo in the afternoon and cleared Kyneton,
about 50 miles from the city, at 6.50 p.m. Another
driver believes he passed him near Keilor, only a
few miles from his Essendon home, about 9.30. What
happened to Demsey from then until he was killed
is still just newspaper conjecture.
But the Kinglake discoveries point to the im-
portation of cold-blooded gangster methods, and,
unless Australian roads are to become more danger-
ous than they were in the leisurely Ned Kelly days,
the criminals must be brought to book.
Concerns engaged in road transport can protect
themselves by protecting drivers working long hours..
The Demsey holdup could scarcely have occurred
in the daytime. If business reasons necessitate the
shifting of valuable goods by night, there should be
two men in the cab.
The Case of Macfarlan.
In April, 1935, Macfarlan, M.L.A., was challenged
for his Victorian seat (Brighton) by another U.A.P.
man and just scraped in, the voting being 12,786 to
12,258.
In September, 1937, Macfarlan, M.L.A., sat
behind Argyle, the U.A.P. leader, when the latter
delivered his policy speech and, according to the
sympathetic “Age,” “declared that the speech repre-
sented the undivided view of every member of the
U.A.P. Parliamentary party.” So Macfarlan got the
U.A.P. vote at the election on October 3, a Com-
munist being his only opponent.
Without giving his constituents the slightest warn-
ing, Macfarlan, M.L.A., twisted. “Defending” his
twist in the Assembly, he said: —
I left the sacred U.A.P. and became an Indepen-
dent I am independent, and I am, therefore, free
to do anything I like about any legislation that is
brought into this House.
It would be a case for the recall if Victorian State
politics hadn’t become so shabby that the recall would
be wasted on them. It will be time enough for the
recall when these sorry State Parliaments are wiped
out.
Ruled by Its Servants.
“Boards and commissions have been established to which
Parliament has delegated the powers that it still retains, wholly
or partly, over railways, the conservation of water and its
distribution, land settlement and some other activities. There
has never been a definite move in Parliament, or from the
people, for Parliament to part with these powers.”
A brief extract from the annual report presented to
the Victorian Assembly by its retiring Auditor-
General, J. A. Norris, The report was written long
before the downpour which lately flooded Koo-wee-
rup, 41 miles from Melbourne, and sent residents
into a refugee train ; but it could have been written
with the Koo-wee-rup situation in mind.
In 1934 this township was seriously flooded.
Property and stock suffered extensively. Residents
then complained that water rushing from the hills
could not easily escape to the sea a little more than
a mile away because the South Gippsland railway
embankment blocked it. The State Rivers and Water
Supply Commission, in effect, verified this by suggest-
ing that the trouble would be practically overcome if
the Railway Department cut the embankment.
But the Railway Department declared it was part
and parcel of the flood problem, and therefore the
responsibility of the Rivers and Water Supply Commis-
sion. An independent engineer investigated the position,
and in March this year presented a report to a sym-
pathetic and spineless State Assembly. The offending
parapet hadn’t been pierced when Koo-wee-rup was
flooded again, with further losses to property-owners
still struggling under 1934 burdens. He declared the
cutting job should receive the “serious attention of
the Railway Department.”
Why couldn’t the Government have ordered one
department or the other to cut the embankment? The
answer lies in the balanced and responsible report of
the retiring Auditor-General. Victoria’s State Parlia-
ment, like others in Australia, is giving away so many
of its powers that it is parting with its own excuse
for continued existence.
Our Battlefields.
Years come and go, but motor accidents grow. An
average week-end list, only serious affairs considered:
Sydney: Head-on collision on Blue Mountains road;
two hospital cases. Motor cyclist fatally injured in col-
lision with stationary car. Two women hurt in col-
lision. Five persons injured in car out of control.
Melbourne: Doctor injured when car sheered into a
fence. Six-year-old boy killed in truck which overturned.
Youth, aged 21, killed in motorcycle-car collision.
Tasmania: Man 26 and girl 19 killed in level-crossing
collision between car and train.
Adelaide: Two men injured in motor-cycle collision.
Girl fell off bicycle and wheel of motor-cycle passed
over her head.
Queensland: Man knocked down by car and picked
up dying in Brisbane. Two seriously injured at Pialba
when truck overturned. At Richmond (C.Q.) a boy
killed and six persons injured in truck accident.
Mr. Bruxner, the Transport Minister, says that in
four years 1795 persons have been killed and 26,121
injured on N. S. Wales roads. Analysed by the Traffic
Department, 52.6 p.c. of the accidents, 41.3 p.c. of
the deaths and 56.5 p.c. of the injuries reported last
year occurred in Sydney suburbs.
Per million miles of running, the proportion
of accidents in which buses were involved was
15.2 taxi-cabs 28.5 p.c., private cars 7.4 p.c.,
lorries 4.2 p.c.
The proportions of accidents [for each class of
vehicle] per 1000 motor vehicles registered were: Cars
36.9, lorries 41.9, cycles and side-cars 102.2, taxi-cabs
1425, buses 429.6.
Account must be taken of the fact that buses and
taxis operate in congested areas and run considerably
heavier mileages than cars or lorries. At the same
time, most taxis are mechanically governed so that'
they cannot exceed a certain speed, and bus speeds,
also, are regulated.
In 81.2 p.c. of cases, the driver, a passenger or
pedestrians were responsible. The rest of the mishaps
were charged to vehicle defects, weather, road defects,
animals or unavoidable causes. And 35.3 p.c. occurred
at intersections.
It is a problem difficult of solution. Speed limits
are to be introduced in N. S. Wales. But Brisbane
authorities almost every week prosecute drivers for
proceeding on certain main roads at speeds above 12
miles an hour and for crossing intersections faster
than four miles an hour. Brisbane still has its
fatalities.
Many of the cases put down to human faults no
doubt are contributed to by imperfect and ancient
vehicles. On a 300-mile drive during the week-end
for which figures are quoted a member of The
Bulletin staff counted 54 vehicles which had no right
in the world to be on a suburban road in fast-moving
traffic. One sample: —
A 1924 model English 14-h.p. car with two-wheel
brakes in very poor order. It had bad wheel wobble
in the front wheels and its steering was imperfect.
It had three persons crammed in the front seat, the
driver edged so that he was compelled to drive with his
elbow out of the car. In the back seat three more
adults and three small children were packed. It was
carrying, therefore, about lOcwt. of passengers, or about
lewt. more than the static load which it was designed
to carry when built 13 years ago. In the congestion
following an accident on a main road, it was gaily
cutting in on powerful U.S.A. model cars capable of
speeds of 80 miles an hour and fitted with hydraulic
brakes.
There should be rigid condemning of old cars and
limitation of passengers. Furthermore, police tests—
in Sydney they may consist of a mile or so of easy
15-miIe-an-hour driving round a park and an expedi-
tion for a few hundred yards into uncongested Mac-
quarie-street—need stiffening up. And there should be
an annual eyesight test and heavier penalties for
the careless and wanton driver and the drunk and the
half-drunk. The indisposition of juries to convict
might be overcome if dangerous driving were made
an alternative to manslaughter. It is in England ;
and a rich huntin’ and shootin’ girl whose car killed
a motor-cyclist and his passenger while she was drunk
has been sentenced to imprisonment for eight months.
Under the Japanese Mandate.
The contrast between the manner in which the
Japanese deal with their equatorial islands and the
manner in which we deal with ours is marked.
The Japanese mandate covers the Mariannes,
Carolines and Marshalls, about 1500 small islands,
with, altogether, an area less than half that of Vic-
toria —many of them almost useless for any com-
mercial purpose. Yet there are over 25,000 Japanese
already settled in the islands, against 70,000 natives
In the Australian mandate, the white population
numbers 4500, including a generous supply of civil
servants. New Guinea is three times as large as
and immeasurably more fertile than the Japanese islands
and has abundant gold and timber and well-watered
country, with a temperate climate on the Papuan
mainland plateaus.
Some time ago, Palau was turned into a head-
quarters for South Sea fisheries, including the pearl
fisheries along the North Australian coast. Without
such a depot, large-scale operation as far south as
Australia would have been difficult.
Now, according to a report of the Pacific Rela-
tions Institute, a new South Sea Development Com-
pany has been formed. Its capital will be £1,200,000
Australian, and a controlling interest will be held by
the Japanese Government.
As a beginning, it is proposed to send 1500
Japanese agricultural families to the islands, fully
financed and equipped. The co. proposes to work in
with the great financial firm of Mitsui, which already
is interested in the pearl fisheries and other industries,
to form an aluminium company to mine bauxite at
Yap—there are said to be 5,000,000 tons there —and
to increase the phosphates output at Anguar Island
from 20,000 to 90,000 metric tons p.a., while a further
50,000 tons p.a. is expected to be available on Fuais.
Nearly £150,000 is to be put into pineapple
plantations, and pearlshelling is to be developed to
a point at which annual production becomes 2000
tons.
Lastly, the concern will have the status of a
chartered company and manage the Treasury.
From the Marshalls to the Admiralty Islands,
the most northerly large group under Australian con-
trol, is only 300 miles.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Wodgil”: Sydney has a new thrill —
night-time lottery drawings. The most
respectable and most prosperous daily
paper in Australia was so excited that it
devoted a whole .poster to the announce-
ment that it would have the full results
next morning, adding its circulation
figures in red ink. It seems rather a
comedown for Conservative journalism,
especially as it is no secret that, because
of the lottery, the dogs, the gallopers and
the trotters, at least 20 p.c. of Sydneians
aged 20 to 35 have mortgaged their
wages to cash-order concerns and dress
in cash-order clothing.
s{: t- *
“Mak”: Four subscribers who were
connected with the original Melbourne
telephone exchange 57 years ago retain
the numbers first issued to them; others
of the first 43 are still telephone-minded,
but their numbers have been altered.
Australia’s first telephone was a Mel-
bourne novelty of 1878, and the first ex-
change was established three years later ;
it wasn’t until 1887 that the newfangled
convenience had made sufficient head-
way to persuade authorities it was a
profitable object for State control. By
then Melbourne had 887 telephones;
to-day there are more than 600,000 Aus-
tralian connections.
ip * * *
“Jamwood”: Sydney’s “D.T.” quotes
London’s “Evening Standard” as saying
that “the Brussels Conference is like a
mule, which has little pride in its paternity
and less hope for its posterity.” How can
a mule have any pride in its paternity or
hope for its posterity? It reads like a
misquotation of Macaulay, who wrote of
“those unhappy beings who are denied
the pleasures of love and the hope of
posterity.” Apropos, the “Saturday
Evening Post” tells a good yarn of a
film actor, presumably Victor McLaglen,
who was pursued by a sob-sister until, at
the earnest request of the management,
he volunteered to see her and to reveal
the secret of his house. “I’m a eunuch,”
he confided; “and my father and his
father were eunuchs. It has been the
curse of my life and the abiding sorrow
of our family.” The sob-sister rushed
back to the office to write her article,
and to receive a first-hand impression of
an editor hitting the roof.
;j; ;jc Sjt »j'
“S.T.S.”: The returning prosperity of
S.A. is reflected in its drinking figures.
Just under £4 a head is last year’s
official estimate, as against £5 7s. in the
boom time 10 years back. Beer con-
sumed was five million gallons, nearly
all of local make ; and of spirits only
about one-third is other than Australian.
But S.A. will not acquire the habit of
drinking the good wine it makes; the
year’s draught was only three quarts
each. Convictions for drunkenness
steadily decrease: about four per 1000
of the population now, less than half
that of 10 years back, and only one-
third of pre-war drunks.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Why is it that life-
saving clubs don’t take on stern-drogues
for surfboat landing? The drogue is
only a canvas bag, kept open by a
hoop, hinged if necessary for easy stow-
ing, cone-shaped and open somewhat at
the apex, towed astern to keep the boat
from broaching-to with a following sea.
Properly handled it will not foul the
steer-oar, and a much shorter one can
be safely used. Captain Slocum has
given all the technical information
needed for its design and handling, also
clear and well-written accounts of prac-
tical experiences in using it. Drogues
are included in Board of Trade require-
ments for ships’ lifeboats, mainly for
riding head to sea, but also for surf
landings on occasion. The lifesaving
clubs should investigate them, if only as
a means of preventing damage to boats
and men from quite unnecessary cap-
sizes.
* * * *
“K 3”: In what Melbourne pubs did
“J 2” (B. 27/10/’37) spend his holiday?
Of the 100-odd in Melbourne proper,
there may be three which on race days
do not tune into broadcasts from the
courses. If there are more, “J 2” can
name his poison in each and all of them
at my expense.
* * * *
“Esters”: Those sceptical of the
powers attributed to experts in wine-
tasting are laughing at a joke played by
an English chemist who sent a sample
of an unknown wine to France for iden-
tification. After much cogitation the ex-
perts said they judged it a light brown
sherry, but could not pronounce on its
birthplace. The English joker—he is
the wine expert of the University of
Bristol, a city long famous as an im-
porter and blender of sherries —then ex-
plained he had made it himself from
strawberries, and found that after being
“ We’ve lost the scissors , lady , so Would y mind ’ackin the ribbon with this?”
properly matured it lost all flavor of
strawberries and took on the sherry
taste. An English firm proposes to
make the wine on a large scale, and a
preliminary trial lot of 4000 gallons has
found a ready market. Home-made fruit
wines used to be plentiful in England,
but most of these were really a liqueur
type compound of fruit juice and brandy.
Exceptions were cowslip and elderflower
wine—not the more familiar elderberry
concoction both natural sparkling
wines.
* * * *
“2 Ys”: Sydney’s ’Loo (B. 27/10/’37)
is not the only district which has gone
foreign. Years ago Carlton was one of
Melbourne’s fashionable residential
suburbs, but now it is being converted
into a factory area. Rents have fallen,
and the number of foreigners has grown
so much that on a warm Sunday after-
noon the Exhibition Gardens suggest
the League of Nations.
* * *
“Voter”: An elderly dame of much
social tonnage in our district, her name
being off the roll, was assured by a
pre-election canvasser that he would
deliver a re-enrolment card if she signed
one. Sign one she did; but “I object
to that term ‘domestic duties,’ ” she said.
“I’ll leave that blank.” Her thousand-
pound car rolled majestically up to our
polling-booth on election day, and pres-
ently arose a great commotion at the
table she had selected to check her roll
number. The canvasser was present.
“Cripes,” said he, wiping his brow and
taking refuge behind me, “hear her going
on! Some people are never satisfied.
And she told me she wouldn’t have
‘domestic duties.’ ” I glanced at the lady’s
name on the roll to see how he had
overcome the difficulty. She was de-
scribed as “retired lady.”
* * * *
“Neil”: Monaro (N.S.W.) can produce
two rivals for the Hopkinses, of Worm-
bete (B. 27 /10/’37). Crisps, of Jimen-
buen, and O’Hares, of Corrawong, have
been in continuous possession of these
two stations on opposite banks of the
Snowy River since 1835. Their record —
two neighboring stations in the hands of
the same two families for more than a
century —should take beating.
“Snigglefritz”: The Weeding family,
of Weedington, Oatlands, Tasmania,
dates back to 1823, when James Weeding,
accompanied by his wife, took up the
grant. It is the only property in Tas-
mania still held and worked by direct
descendants of the original pioneers.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The gentle spirit of the
lamented Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., who
preached the doctrine of milk long before,
as N.S.W. Minister for Health, he was
able to give his ideas a push Ministeri-
ally, is probably rejoicing; the Water-
side Workers’ Federation has decided to
demand a supply of milk every two hours
to workers engaged on dusty cargoes
such as wheat. The idea of wharfies
clamoring for milk seems grotesquely
humorous; but lumpers are not what
they used to be. There are milk bars
adjacent to all the wharves nowadays,
and they are well patronised. Water-
front hotels have long ceased to be the
goldmines they were once. I waited in
a pub for a boat to come in and an em-
bittered Bung told me about it. Twenty
years ago the crew, directly it was free
for shore leave, would fill his premises.
“If three blokes come in to-day—that’s
from the crew —I’ll be lucky,” he said
bitterly. Later I saw direct from the
boat a rush for trams and the quick path
home.
* * * *
“Admiral”: Our Queensland drill hall
was being converted into a polling booth,
and argument was running hot among
the troops. “Vote for Douglas Credit,”
the O.C. advised. “They have the best
defence scheme; and that is what con-
cerns us most.” To inquirers after de-
tails of the scheme he explained “They’d
make the country so darned poor that
nobody’d want it.”
* * * *
“Dolly Pot”: A recent visitor to Perth
was the bride at Coolgardie s first wed-
ding, of which the lafe “Smiler” Hales
w-ote a colorful account for “Billy”
Clare’s Coolgardie “Miner.” Old-timers
still remember the hilarious proceedings,
and some of them even recall “Smiler’s”
descriptions of the finery: The bride
wore a rich cream quartz-colored silk
with orange-blossom outcrops”; and a
bridesmaid “was dressed in a reddish
substance with sandstone - colored
leaders.” Miners swarmed into Cool-
gardie for the great day, and continued
to make things willing long after the
happy pair had disappeared. There was
almost a total lack of long-haired part-
ners, but pioneer prospectors danced
with each other until another day had
dawned.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: “Jamwood” is unfair to
Sydney when he accuses it of being the
Eternal Nark because it won’t adopt the
draft constitution for the Anglican
church in Australia (B. 27/10/’37). There
are two schools of thought in Anglican-
ism ; those who refuse to regard the
break with Rome as final, and those
whose desire is for reunion with other
Protestant churches. Most of the Angli-
can bishops belong to the first-named ;
Archbishop Mowll, of Sydney, and nearly
all his leading clergy to the latter. Syd-
ney claims it is fighting to maintain the
essentially Protestant character of the
Anglican church.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Another suicide-by-
delay came in to-day. A lumpy, deep-
dimpled breast, hard enlarged glands in
the armpit, limited lung movement, a
sallowing skin, rapidly decreasing weight,
all at 49. The husband told the story.
“More" than 12 months since she first
noticed the lump, but she said nothing
about it. It didn’t pain, and she thought
it would go away. Told me about six
months ago, and I told her she ought to
see the doctor, but two of the kids got
whooping-cough, and her mother got
crook and had to be nursed till she
died, so she kept on putting it off in
case she might have to go into hospital.
She felt all right till just lately ; no pain,
just a bit of indigestion. Nothing serious,
is it?” It’s a beastly business having to
explain that even six months ago it
would, at worst, have meant a compara-
tively small operation, 12 months ago no
operation at all, but now —no reason-
able hope. However, cancer clinics do
work miracles, and she went off to the
nearest by the first train.
* * * *
“T.”: The history of the Sydney
suburb of Mosman and waves of enthusi-
asm to which its aldermen have sur-
rendered are revealed in the names of
some of its streets. In one of the older
neighborhoods the streets bear Crimean
War designations, such as Raglan, Can-
robert, Inkerman and Redan. In an-
other, settled in the ’eighties and ’nine-
ties, cricketers are immortalised —there
are Spofforth, Murdoch, Bannerman and
Boyle streets, also Iredale-avenue. Thurs-
day’s newspapers oddly recorded (1)
the defeat of Mosman’s Federal represen-
tative, largely by preference votes polled
in a Raglan-street booth, and (2) the
committal of an Alec Bannerman on a
charge of ferocious assault on a Mosman
lady and her baby boy.
ENGLISH UNDEFILED.
“A ‘club founded for the exclusive study of
English ’ refers to its premises as a rendez—vous,
and appends ‘R.S.V.P.’ to its invitations.”
You bid me to a rendez-vous
With pious souls who say “How do?”
To discourse (strictly entre nous)
In Anglo-Saxon ; oui —
T’d love to come; yet must I rue
Your forte, idee, penchant or gout,
As Anglo-Saxon fou the noo —
Allez! R.S.V.P.!
Sub rosa, here’s a quid pro quo,
Or tit for tat —that’s vulgar, though—■
You well may cry “Quo animo ?”
Or “Draw it mild!”
But tantum quantum I’ll bestow
On such as foreign rubbish throw
In British wells—the wells, you know,
Of English undeliled.
VICTORIA.
SCOTIA


“Shorus”: Bright Young Things know
their answers. A constable was interro-
gating one in our village after she had
swerved her car suddenly across the
street, just missed a telegraph pole and
reduced the barber’s shopfront to match-
wood. “But when you found you were
heading for the pavement,” he asked
severely, “didn’t you do anything about
it?” The young woman looked at him,
tears of reproach in her eyes. “Of
course I did, constable ; I screamed like
anything! ”
* * * *
“Ichabod Crane”: The annual report
of the N.S.W.. schools’ savings bank
shows that the palm for thrift goes to
Scots College, where 180 boys have
stacked together bawbees to the tune of
£752. Incidentally, Scots is the only
Great Public School that figures in the
list.
* * ■ * *
“Dougal”: Met an old acquaintance
the other day outside a suburban mater-
nity hospital. “Life’s a funny thing,” he
told me. “Here’s me been married 15
years and the wife’s just had her first —-
and it’s premature!”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Had it beer
possible to choose one’s place and con-
ditions of birth, I’d have plumped for
some well-to-do family in Denmark.
Copenhagen may still have cobbled
streets, but it has some of the world’s
best music and the world’s very best
beer, peo.ple gayer and more friendly
than even pre-war Vienna, beautiful sur-
roundings, the lowest rates, taxes and
living costs of all European cities. Ger-
many is just across a ferry, France and
England a short ’plane hop away. It is
more than 70 years since war touched
the country. Hans Andersen was a
Dane, but none of his fairy stories is
stranger or quainter or more attractive
than is living Denmark to-day.
"Aren’t you going to knock off for lunch?”
“Wasmith”: Glass distinction is not
dead. A notice appears on a foreign
ship at present in Australian waters to
the effect that in case of fire
first-class women and children will be
saved first, then first-class men, then second-
class women and children, then second-
class men, then the crew.
“D.J.W.” (England): It was like seeing
a ghost, watching Australia’s old acquaint-
ance Tom Mann raise his clenched fist
in the Communist salute while a brass
band played “The Internationale” at a
Communist demonstration at Sheil Park,
Liverpool. But I could hear that once
mighty voice only fitfully. The demon-
stration, a combined affair, representing
all the Communists of crowded, indus-
trial Merseyside, brought no more than
a thousand people to Sheil Park. Off
the platform Tom seemed still almost
his old self—-the same wealth of gesture,
the same vivacity, the same bright brown
eyes. He had a great welcome from the
crowd, but they seemed to regard him no
longer as a firebrand and a portent.
“A. Tryer”: That barber (B. 20/10/’37)
has an opposite in one I wot of. While
wa iting my turn recently I heard him
try bard tQ en g a g e j n conversation a
. , c .. , . .
P at 'fn‘ occupant of his chair. Various
awaken interest. Finally he said, _ Shave
subjects were introduced, but failed to
yourself, sir?” “Yes,” came the answer.
“Talk to myself, too.”
* * * *
“J 2”: The demolition of the famous
old Bath Arms Inn, on the Parramatta-
road, removes one of the few remaining
relics of the coaching days. About half-
way from Sydney to the river town, it
“ Matter? There’s a sheilah stowaway in me bunk!”
was a rambling old house, with extensive
stables, used by mounted police when
holdups on the historic road were more
or less common. The Bath Arms sign,
to go up on new premises, has luck in
not being changed. Practically all the
other romantic names have gone—Coach
and Horses, Cottage in the Grove,
Horse and Jockey, The Bird in Hand,
The Bush Tavern, Speed the Plough and
others.
* * * *
“Old Boy”: “Kafoosalem” (B.
27/10/’37) took Britain by storm about
70 years ago when I was a schoolboy.
Everybody sang it, whistled it and
danced quadrilles to it. I believe it
originated in a London pantomime. Few
knew the rest of the words, but everyone
knew the refrain: “Oh- oh! Kafoosalem,
Kafoosalem, Kafoosalem. Oh- oh Kafoo-
salem, the daughter of the Baba” (not
barber).
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: When the teak hull
of H.M.S. Research, now under con-
struction at Dartmouth for the
British Admiralty, has its last
bronze rivet in place and
its elaborate research appa-
ratus ready for action, it will
be able to carry on work
which has been in abeyance
since the Carnegie was burned
at Samoa a few years ago. The
Research will cost £lOO,OOO,
and is to look into questions
of terrestrial magnetism and
their bearing on navigation. Her only
non-magnetic seagoing predecessor was
built by the New York Carnegie Cor-
poration for similar purposes, and
carried out magnetic surveys of world-
wide importance during her 18-year
life. The Research will probably be
commissioned in about two years, and is
expected to visit Australian tropic waters
on her second three-year cruise. She
will also do other special work in
oceanography.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Courage as supreme as that
which “T.” (B. 3/11/ ’37) warrantably
attributed to the surf-club man who
pulled his mate from the jaws of a shark
at Coolangatta (Q.) was shown a few
days later by a Telegraph Department
linesman at Leeton (N.S.W.). A street
pole crashed, bearing to the ground a
linesman who had been lashed to it with
a safety-belt and his mate. The latter
fell clear, but, with a hurt back, a shat-
tered heel and a twisted knee, he went
to the other’s assistance, seeing that he
was in a bad way and in imminent
danger of being electrocuted. It meant
clawing at live wires with bare hands, but
he did it, and beat off Death, though his
hands were badly burnt. Other men,
rushing up, lifted the pole off the pros-
trate man, and an ambulance carried
him and the hero to hospital. In sheer
pluck and devotion to duty, no section
can give points to the Australians who
“piece and repiece the living wires.”
* * * *
“Plymouth Hoe”: While certain sec-
tions of the Sydney press were lashing
themselves into a frenzy over the Euro-
pean situation, Neville Chamberlain,
Britain’s Prime Minister, was quietly
noting the habits of birds and insects in
the garden of his new home at No. 10
Downing-street. The results of his ob-
servations have been embodied in a
placid informative article which recently
appeared in the English “Countryman.”
It should convey more than a lesson in
natural history. The Chamberlain de-
tachment and refusal to fuss deserve to
go down in history with Drake’s game
of bowls.
* H: *
“Bkali”: Freelances are notably im-
pecunious. I know one who never seems
to be more than two jumps ahead of his
debtors. Going home lately he had no
sooner entered the front gate than two
men, who had been lounging opposite,
walked across the road and followed
him in. This called for quick
thinking. Knowing his wife was out,
he walked to the front door and
rang the bell, at the same time pull-
ing some papers from his pockets. By this
time the other two had arrived and
crestfallenly remarked that they had mis-
taken him for Blank. “That’s not bad,”
replied Blank; “I’ve been chasing the
cow for weeks.” After a few more
abortive attempts to summon a reply
they all called it a day and departed.
Blank accompanied them up the street
and then sneaked home via the back
lane.
* * * *
“Composite Regiment”: Some cable
expert has spared time from manufac-
turing war fiction to tell us that Italian
settlers are successfully bringing a lot of
land under crops in Tripoli. This is
the ancient Cyrenaica, the granary of
Rome under the Empire. The coastal
belt of North Africa from Alexandria
westward is good light loam, and on it
the inhabitants grow quite fair crops of
barley by the usual earth-scratching
methods. In good seasons there is graz-
ing for thousands of camels, sheep and
goats. The Romans dotted the country
with water cisterns which still exist,
and towards the west, where enough
water is available, irrigated it with the
aid of aqueducts. The Australian
mounted troops in the campaign against
the Senussi were surprised at the carry-
ing capacity of what they had imagined
to be a barren desert. They saw it dur-
ing the rains, when, as the “dead heart”
of Australia is known to do, it blossomed
into good pastoral and agricultural
country for a time. There seems a lesson
for Australia here. The climate, per-
haps, has changed for the worse since
Cyrenaica supplied the bread for the
Roman plebeians, but even in those days
the Romans must have had to help
Nature with water conservation. Appar-
ently their descendants have found a
way to carry on.
THE VISION SPLENDID.
“In the last seven years.... £151,7t54,044 has
been spent on drink. Can you picture it?”
—Temperance speaker.
Picture? It’s something to dream on and gloat,
Shutting the eyes in an ecstasy fine,
Fancy the liquor run soft down the throat,
Whisky and beer, brandy, gin, rum and wine!
Quantities stacked in magnificent piles;
Barrels of joy-juice extending for miles!
Cases of whisky and rivers of gin;
Casks of good wine by the barrel, the vat!
Hogsheads that run from where’er you begin
For ever and on—what a picture is that!
Barrels and barrels of sparkling good cheer;
Barrels and barrels and BARRELS of beer!
N.S.W.
H.M.


m
\ofor9 A
2<Wl'6
WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke
craven a
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
THE
CIGARETTE
THIS GENERATI
□E I
I J
POLITICAL POINTS
Warringah has definitely rejected
Parkhill, and Senator Tom Brennan, who
was Page’s assistant in the Commerce
Department, has failed of re-election in
Victoria. If McLachlan goes in South
Australia and Pearce in Westralia, the
Government will have lost all its Min-
isters in “another place” and perhaps its
Senate majority as well. But preferences
should save McLachlan, and Queensland
figures suggest the capture of one or two
Labor seats there.
There were 147,833 informal votes in
the Victorian Senate election, and Tom
Brennan has been left with the gloomy
feeling that two-thirds of them were
U.A.P. The Westralian informals have
drawn an agonised comment to the same
effect from Pearce. In other days U.A.P.
lions cherished the impression that all
the ignorant, indolent and flustered
people were on the other side.
Lang’s newspaper in an eight-column
headline,
British Arms Ring Beat Parkhill.
Then it dismissed its own theory as fan-
tastic rubbish by showing that “only 691
of Mr. Salter’s preferences” went to Park-
hill (Salter was the Labor man) and 9020
to Spender.
Italy has become a party to the anti-
communist pact which the Germans and
Japanese signed last year. As a counter-
blast, the Communist International has
issued a manifesto to the effect that
“German and Italian Fascism must be
crushed in Spain, and Japanese Fascism
must be beaten back in China.” By the
British Empire, of course. No, Bolshie ;
we’re not going to be the mug.
On McPhee’s record as the only de-
pression Premier who didn’t lose an elec-
tion, he was expected to regain Denison
(Tas.) for the U.A.P., especially as
Mahoney’s majority three years ago was
a mere 117 ; but he failed rather badly.
In the meantime he took a title, and per-
haps that accounts for it. In Victoria
the knighted Argyle has lost the last two
State elections as leader of the U.A.P.,
though when plain Dr. Argyle he did
pretty well. In Westralia the knighted
Mitchell led the Nationalists to a fearful
licking and lost his own seat. Now the
knighted Parkhill is out and the knighted
Pearce has abandoned hope.
“A king can mak’ a belted knight” ;
but it takes the electors to belt ’em
properly.
A Sunday paper’s staff discussions of
ParkhilPs defeat must have been interest-
ing. The leader-writer mourned in print
as if it were a blow from which the
Empire might never recover, but the man
who “did” the declaration of the poll
wrote in this lively strain:
Sir Archdale Parkhill did not shake
hands with Mr. Spender. He was last
to arrive and first to leave. He was
without his customary spats.
Apropos, Bruce alone wore spats and
got away with it. And even he lost his
seat at last —the only P.M. to whom it
has happened.
Spender, M.H.R., to “S. M. Herald,”
which had asserted in a snarling leader
that he had “appeared on the Gordon
by-election platform to declare that ‘the
public mind was not so deeply stirred
by the evils of pre-selection as some
people asserted.’ ”
I never made such a statement, or any-
thing even remotely like it, at any time or
place. I never appeared or spoke at the
Gordon by-election for anybody.
This was the “explanation”:
The inadvertent error noted was de-
tected and corrected in time for our final
editions.
So barefaced misrepresentation is merely
an “inadvertent error”!
Tas. Premier Ogilvie’s ability to make
the best of a weak case was well to the
fore in the Federal elections. Labor meet-
ings were the only ones that scored big
audiences and any sort of enthusiasm.
Ogilvie did nine-tenths of the speaking
at these gatherings, leaving the candidates
little to do but drape themselves along
the platform seats and endeavor to look
as little unlike strong silent statesmen as
possible.
Sectarianism or something led to amaz-
ing results in Queensland. In Griffith
Baker, the Labor member, received 27,776
primary votes, Clark (U.A.P.) 23,706 and
Moore (Douglas Credit) 6082. (Three
years ago it was 28,184 Labor, 18,494
U.A.P. and 6076 D.C.). Of Moore prefer-
ences Clark got 4927 and Baker 1155,
so that astonished young man’s majority
slumped to 298. In Wide Bay the first
count gave Nicholls (Douglas Credit)
20,325, Corser (C.P.) 19,395 and Watson
Parkhill Gets a Good View of “a Politician Named Percy.”
(Labor) f 1,618. (In 1934 Corser had
26,254, a Labor man 15,857 and Nicholls
5723.) Labor votes put Corser in again;
he got 6542 and Nicholls 5076. Corser
and Watson had recommended an ex-
change of preferences.
Victorian Labor, which is keeping the
Dunstan C.P. group in office at Mel-
bourne, polled 473,664 primary votes in
the Senate election. The C.P. group’s
score was a miserable 66,661, of which
Budge got 57,435. In the contest for the
third seat, Laborites Jack Barnes and
Don Cameron having been elected,
U.A.P. Minister Tom Brennan received
50,930 of Budge preferences (80,035).
They didn’t save him, but they made
nonsense of the Dunstan group’s conten-
tion that the farmers are anti-U.A.P.
When Dunstan’s “allies” raise the one-
vote-one-value issue, it will be all up
with Dunstan.
In his usual fortnightly lecture to other
nations, Mr. Anthony Eden made the
significant admission that “enormous
quantities of material” have reached Red
Spanish ports “throughout this year
and that these imports have apparently
increased “as a result” (“though it wa.i
not the aim”) of his Nyon agreement.
Also,
....a Russian army publication contained
accounts of the crushing superiority ot
the Republican air force in Spain, though
it did not state whence the very up-to-
date machines had come.
In other words, though Mr. Anthony
Eden did hot say so, since Russia is back-
ing Valencia and Barcelona, Italy is war-
ranted in backing Franco to prevent the
establishment of a hostile Moscow-bossed
republic a few hundred miles from its
coasts.
In spite of “the crushing superiority”
claimed for the Red air force by the Rus-
sians, the Reds have lost all North Spain
and are preparing to quit Valencia.
Curtin should make a note of it.
In special grants, grants for roads,
forestry and mining, bounties, manure
subsidies and contributions towards in-
terest, sinking fund and payment of
farmers’ debts, Tasmania received
£1,198,764 from Canberra last year. Yet
Dwyer-Gray, the unnecessary Treasurer,
wants more. In his Budget speech, de-
livered before the Federal election, he
said:
Federal Labor is also pledged to special
subsidies to the States for education and
public-health purposes.
In other and better days, Federal Labor
was pledged to abolish superfluous
Governments like Dwyer-Gray’s.
La Guardia, the Mayor of New York,
has been re-elected after another hot
fight with Tammany, which was backed
by Farley, Roosevelt’s Postmaster-
General. La Guardia is an Italian.
Sydney’s anti-Italian press was a prey to
the gloomiest feelings till somebody re-
membered that there is Jewish blood in
him on the maternal side and that he has
no use for Nazis.
It came out on the same day that the
N.S.W. Commissioner for Road Transport
and Tramways had vetoed an application
for 50 more taxi-cab licenses in Sydney
—where a public tiring of a Government
tramway service to which time is no
object has taken to taxi-riding at 6d. a
mile —and given an order for 102 oil-
burning buses. Vetoes and blank
cheques for buses and buildings are
placed at the Commissioner’s disposal by
Stevens, and the public is expected to
pay and suffer and look pleasant. Stevens
claims to be anti-socialist and to be de-
voted to government by the peepul.
Mulcahy, who was re-elected for Lang
(N.S.W.), said this at the declaration of
the poll, as reported in the “Labor
Daily”:
The Lyons Government is only in office
because of the manner in which-the elec-
torates were gerrymandered.
It is a gross libel on the capable public
servants who, when the occasion arises,
rearrange boundaries under as fair an
electoral law as exists anywhere in the
world, providing as it does for equal
electorates, with an allowable margin of
one-fifth more or one-fifth less than the
quota. Mulcahy ought to be called to
account for it in the new House.
Lots of worthy people are telling the
Government it will really have to
introduce proportional representation in
time for the next Senate election. They
forget that it might conceivably mean that
the party in a minority in the Senate as
reconstituted on July 1 would be in a
minority in the next Parliament. No
party in that position is likely to intro-
duce a P.R. Bill, or to support one if
introduced.
Dr. Hornabrook, letting himself go at
the declaration of the poll in Henty
(Vic.):
Pre-selection is the curse of party politics.
Compulsory voting is forcing the elector
to vote for a candidate he has had no voice
in choosing, and simply becomes a menace
to clean government.
The spectacle of a Minister being per-
mitted to retain office after he has ac-
cepted seats on the boards of public com-
panies is a” disgrace to our country.
No candidate is supposed to spend more
than £lOO on his electoral expenses, and he
is asked to sign a form detailing his ex-
penses. There is no member who can with
rectitude sign, and I must decline to do so.
Very awkward for Authority, the doctor
being the sort of man who will see the
thing through.
Like Dunstan in Victoria, Tas. Premier
Ogilvie is having a quarrel with the Leg.
Council. Little the public cares. The
sentiments of a growing number of Aus-
tralians are “a plague on both their
Houses”!
Forgan Smith has installed in front
of his official seat in Queensland’s only
hall of legislature a massive contrap-
tion resembling a cross between a Chip-
pendale sideboard and a pulpit. In addi-
tion to all sorts of compartments and
pigeonholes, it contains a species of
cocktail bar out of which the Premier
produces what appear to be glasses of
water wherewith to lubricate his oratory.
But its chief glory is the polished top,
built to form a sounding board, with
whose aid Forgie punctuates his periods
and accentuates his points by resound-
ing slaps and thumps.
From the North Shore:
Parkhill might possibly have saved his bacon
had he gone out of Warringah after one speech
and left all the electioneering to be done for
him by well-chosen friends. He could have
said that defence was the election issue, and thal
it was the Minister’s duty to champion his
Government on it over as wide a field as time
and transport permitted him to range, what-
ever the consequences to himself. It would
have been an adroit appeal to chivalry, in
which constituencies like Warringah are not lack-
ing, and would have passed for high courage.
Instead, he remained in the electorate and
alienated more people by small-minded carping
at Spender—"He doesn’t live here” —and by
showing petulance on the platform. At an
open-air meeting he threatened to call the
police to a returned soldier who had asked a
pertinent question which was clumsily answered.
Old as he is at the political game, Parkhill has
never learned that good temper is a priceless
asset in representation as in legislation. He
was the architect of his own political ruin.
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George-
street, Sydney, sign anything requiring a signa-
ture in this issue.]


THE PHILISTINE.
“An epidemic of holing-in-one has been a feature of Sydney golf recently."


The Commonwealth Genenl
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Coiling Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ik
fm
Win
it
mm
mu**
BJiUJJL
mm
Urn
■
SPEED DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
DEPEND ON Champions
SPEED that only a smooth-running engine can give.
SPEED that takes you on your way with safety and
economy. SPEED that makes the hills seem level. Get
SPEED the way racing champions get it . . . with
CHAMPIONS. An Empire product—made in Windsor,Canada
/y
y
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Australian Supreme Court
Benches lost one of their most picturesque
occupants when the lean, bearded
Herbert Nicholls retired from the Tas-
manian Chief Justiceship recently.
Nicholls is a Ballarat native who went
to Tasmania in 1883, joined the Post
Office staff, worked his way through his
law examinations with top marks, and
began practice in 1892. He entered
Parliament in 1901, was Attorney-
General in the Propsting Ministry, led
the Opposition for a time, became a
Judge in 1908 and Chief Justice in 1914.
In his youth he was a fine rifleshot and
oarsman, and latterly has played com-
petition golf for Royal Hobart. Nicholls
several times has been Acting Governor,
and has written extensively on Australian
constitutional history.
Tasmania loses its chief authority on
grasses, R. H. Bevin, who returns to his
native Maoriland as a lecturer in agri-
culture at Canterbury College. Bevin
has been in the Speck since 1926, and
will be remembered for his pasture-im-
provement schemes and the organisation
of the State certified-seed schemes.
In R. E. Powell, who is taking over
Greek at Sydney Uni., the Common-
wealth gets one of the world’s youngest
professors. Only 25, he is a Fellow of
Trinity College, Cambridge, and has an
international reputation in his line.
Adelaide’s new Town Clerk, A. J.
Morison, has been in the council’s ser-
vice since 1895. For 14 years he served
as mayoral secretary, and was appointed
Deputy Town Clerk in 1915. He is an
authority on S. Australian history.
Dead at 68, F. H, Corke, a man of
Kent, who, as secretary to the N. S. Wales
Timber Merchants’ Association for 25
years, fought the case for the employers
during the timber strike of a decade ago.
He was the head and front of all timber
organisation in N. S. Wales, a vice-presi-
dent of the Sydney Chamber of Com-
merce and a councillor of the Employers’
Federation. A stern fighter in industrial
differences, Corke was a mild-mannered
man in his private hours, devoted to
cricket and the collecting of stamps.
Arved Kurtz, the Berlin-trained
teacher of violin at Adelaide Conser-
vatorium, has resigned after less than
three years’ residence. He will complete
the University term, spend Christmas in
Sydney, and then move on to the U.S.A.
H. P, Beaver, who starts a year’s leave
before retiring at 70 from the Town
Clerkship of Adelaide, is the third of
the chain in that office: Worsnop 29
years, Ellery 16 and Beaver 22. A skilled
accountant, he took the post when Ellery
was promoted to Melbourne in 1915.
Dead recently at Leura (N.S.W.)
Father Paul Lynch, Roman Catholic
chaplain to the Ist Brigade A.I.F.
Father Lynch left Sydney in the first
convoy, was on Gallipoli and later in
France, where, early in 1918, he was
caught up in a gas attack. Only 56 at
the finish, he never completely recov-
ered from the effects of the gas. He was
the first Sydney padre to hear the last
call.
The rise of Sam Copley, dead in Eng-
land at the week-end, reads like a fairy
tale. In the ’nineties he was a barber in
Fremantle, and with his “shavings” he
dabbled in real estate, pulling off a big
deal with Robinson, afterwards W.A.’s
Attorney-General. In 1912 he started the
W.A. Insurance Co.; when war broke
out he rushed back to England (he was
a Yorkshireman) and plunged into
marine insurance, backing the British
Navy to the limit. The Westralian co.
grew enormously. Later he laid out
over a million in Huddersfield. When
he revisited Australia in 1927 to look
over his investments he was called a
prophet of gloom because he predicted
the slump. At the finish he still had
large interests in Westralia, and his de-
scription in the cables as a millionaire
seems no exaggeration.
George Murphy, custodian of Sydney’s
Cenotaph, is a small, lean terrier of a
man with a twinkle in his eye and end-
less fight in his jaw. Before the war he
was keeping schoolboys in order, a job
for which he was trained at a Pyrmont
school and Sydney University. On
Anzac, he proved himself both a fighter
and a leader. He was a captain when
he landed on Gallipoli, and quickly rose
to the command of the 18th Battalion.
He commanded the rearguard on
Plugge’s Plateau and on the Beach dur-
The Custodian of Sydney’s Cenotaph.
ing the evacuation, and was later on the
Sinai Peninsula, in France and in Bel-
gium. He was mentioned in dispatches
seven times, won the D.S.O. with bar and
a C.M.G., followed the tail-end of the
war into the Rhineland and came home
a simple Digger with a soft spot for the
rank and file. He took a job on the
N.S.W. Supreme Court staff, from which
he has risen to be Sheriff of N. S. Wales
and a leading light in the Legacy Club,
which looks after the offspring of dead
soldiers.
L. A. Knight, the new Bishop of Bun-
bury (W.A.), is but going home, for he
was born in that State. He was soon in
M.L., however, studied at Canterbury
College, lectured for the W.E.A., and
was vicar of Hororata before going to
France as a chaplain. In 1928 he moved
to Adelaide as head of St. Barnabas's,
succeeding Carrington, now a Canadian
bishop. Knight is a prize-winning
painter in his spare time.
„ , . , . A ,
Herbert Austin, the Australian-trained
mechanic, has certainly made good in
Britain. Austin served his apprentice-
ship at the Langlanas Foundry, Me -
bourne and was with several small con-
cerns betore he joined the Wolseiey
Sheep Shearing Co., which sent him t°
England in 1890 to take charge of the
manufacture of their machines. In 1900
he transferred to the management of the
Wolseiey Motor Co., and five years later
began to make cars on his own account.
His first was a 25-h.p. tourer model,
and, with a capital of £15,000, he made
about 120 a year. In 1920, the first Baby
Austin appeared. Last year, with 20,000
hands employed, he turned out 80,000
cars. He was raised to the House of
Lords in 1936
Ernest Fisk,' Australia’s leading radio
man, has been elected a vice-president
of the Institute of Radio Engineers of
America. It is a signal honor, given only
to men of world reputation in research
and organisation.
W. E. Aylett, who topped the Senate
poll in the Speck, is a farmer on the
n.-w. coast, and was an unsuccessful can-
didate for Darwin at the State elections,
C. A. Lamp, who goes in with him, is
a railwayman at Launceston, and saw
war service. Darcey, the third winner,
is a busy little Hobart watchmaker and
optician. He has a host of friends, and
is not without ability, but has probably
left it too late in life to really enjoy him-
self amid the storms and baffling cross-
currents of national politics.
Scores of newspapers must be cursing
the necessity for getting a new stock-
block of G. H. Wilkins, without any
beard at last. For years the man has
been a worry owing to his habit of trim-
ming the collision mat which once
sprouted in careless luxuriance. The first
pruning took place after his Arctic flight,
truncating the foliage to spade shape.
With his submarine expedition it as-
sumed an indefinite outline, apparently
on account of space exigencies in such
cramped quarters. A year after mar-
riage it developed a Captain Kettle cut
and tilt, but married men may recognise
added reason for self-assertion. Now
the celebrated ziff, after which was
named Beaver Island, on our own
Barrier Reef, has vanished. The result
has a touch of Wallace Beery, tinctured
somewhat by Geeves. It will take a
long time for the average reader to re-
cognise it as Australia’s own Wilkins.
P. A. Micklem, originally an assistant
master at Harrow and later head of
Queensland’s Anglican Theological Col-
lege and rector of the fashionable St.
James Church, Sydney, has topped off
27 years of Australian experience by
being appointed Dean of Derby (Eng.).
He is succeeded at St. James by a young
Australian, Edwin Davidson, trained at
Moore College, Sydney, and a canon of
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, since
1932. Davidson at present is assistant at
St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
William Moore, dead in Sydney at 69,
lived a full life. Born a Bendigonian, he
was an actor in his early years, and
toured Britain and U.S.A., and num-
bered Henry Irving, Frank Benson and
Ellen Terry among his friends. He
wrote several one-act plays, and founded
the Australian Drama Nights, once a
feature of Melbourne theatrical life. In
London, showing with Granville Barker
when war came, he served in the
British Army Service Corps. In 1921 he
became theatrical critic to the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph,” and began to prepare
material for his monumental two-volume
history of Australian art, the most com-
prehensive and analytical thing of its
kind yet written. Three years ago the
Society of Artists awarded him its medal
for distinguished services to Australian
art. In 1933, Moore married Dora Wil-
cox, the poetess. He belonged to a type
fast dying out; his ideals were old-world,
his knowledge of art and literature en-
cyclopaedic, and he made conversation
an art.
H. L. Anthony, the C.P. candidate who
defeated Roland Green in Richmond
(N.S.W.), is one of the largest banana-
growers on the Tweed. In 1935 he was
sued by a banana-growing concern for
£20,000 damages in respect of an alleged
libel in which his republication of a
Bulletin article figured largely. Plain-
tiff got nothing out of that article; a
ha’penny was awarded on two other
counts. Anthony, like Green, was a
Digger.
E. F. Gilchrist, offspring of an old
Hebridean family, retires after having
been Brisbane City Engineer for 20
years. All his early life was spent in
Victoria, where he was educated at
Scotch College, Melbourne, and rose
gradually from a shire secretaryship to the
position of engineer to Prahran Council.
He had a term as chairman of the Roads
Standing Committee of the Australian
Institute of Engineers, and in his spare
moments is one of Brisbane’s most per-
sistent golfers.
A slice of history:
Going back to the land of his forefathers,
the ex-Viscount Taaffe, whose title was taken
from him during the war, in which he fought
against Britain, is one of several peers whose
families have long lived in exile on the Con-
tinent. The original got his title for putting
down an Irish rebellion and kicking the
Spaniards off the Hibernian coast in the days
of Queen Bess. The second Viscount, after
having been made Earl of Carlingford, fought
for the Royalist cause against Cromwell and
lit out for the Continent just in time to save
his head. His son became chancellor of the
Holy Roman Empire and a marshal, his grand-
son was made a Roman count for his services
at the siege of Belgrade, and another descen-
dant was a president of the Austrian Supreme
Court. In 1860 the Privy Council decided that
the line still held their status as British sub-
jects. In returning to his homeland the Count
follows another Stuart-period exile, Lord Reay,
head of the Clan Mackay, who is a Dutchman
born.


c
4ES
BSSr II \
mm®
1060—G e n u i n e
Badger Hair Shaving
Brush, superfine
quality, latest design
Handle. Vari o u s
markings.
Small size ... 17/6
Medium size. . 19/6
y -
O/Ug
77—W. JNO. BAKER FINEST QUALITY AND
FINISH EXTRA FULL-HOLLOW GROUND
RAZOR, with black handle. An excellent blade
without the extra finish of No. 33.
•Jin. wide
fin. wide
fin. wide
11/6
11/6
11/6
I!
7
mom
m
Horse Hide.
S5B Length overall, 25in.; width, 2in. GENUINE HORSE HIDE RAZOR STROP,
excellent quality, well finished and worked up. Double-sided with Clip Swivel.
10/6 each.
1059—Good Quality
Shaving Brush,
mixed Badger and
Bristle, Horn Handle,
7/6
mm
Cl—W. JNO. BAKER RAZOR IN
LEATHERETTE-COVERED CASE. One
of our best Hollow-ground Razors. Black
Handle, 13/-.
C2—With Xylonite Handle, 18/- per
case.
—_
C3—TWO RAZORS IN FLAT CASE.
Best quality Hollow Ground, with Xylonite
Handles, in Leatherette-covered Case.
Price, 33/6.
C4—Fitted with 2 Black Handle Razors,
23/6.
\
E.P.N.S. SALAD SET, in presentation case,
18/6
' TQOPWt- JKMfE
16—GENTLEMAN’S FOLDING MANI-
CURE SET. Case made of fine Roan
Leather; size when folded, 6£in. x 4Jin.;
containing finest quality fittings, strong
Nail Scissors, Toe Nail Nipper, Corn
Knife, Hair Tweezer and Nail File.
complete.
COMPLETE LADY’S SCISSOR CASE,
made of fancy leather. 7 pairs nickel-
plated scissors and penknife. 62/6
LADY’S SCISSOR CASE, fancy leather,
containing 3 pairs nickel-plated scissors.
25 /■
060— MOTORIST’S KNIFE, 41in. Metal
Haft. Contains Spear Blade, Pen Blade,
Screwdriver, Crown Bottle Opener, Tin
Opener, 1 Tester, File, Screw Wrench,
Corkscrew, Leather Gouge, Gimlet and
. Shackle. 22/6 each.
Wm,
709 —The Scalper. Smooth Horn Haft.
5/- each.
POST FREE FOR CASH
WITH ORDER.
I, I
POCKET FOLDING SHAVING OUTFIT.
Case made of Fine Grained Leather, with
Leather Lining made to last. Containing
W. Jno. Baker Razor, Downy Tan Strop,
Shaving Brush, Shaving Stick and Comb.
Price with Hollow-ground Black Handle
Razor, 32/6. With Xylonite Handle
Razor, 37/6 each.
6006—Three-blade Stock, with Castrating,
Sheep and Long Skinning Blade, 4in.,
Smooth Stag Horn Handle. Each 8/6
,vv.
IMPROVED EMPIRE MODEL
WILKINSON SAFETY RAZOR.
New features include Double-stropping
Gear, stronger Frame and new Blade
Holder.
This is a Self-stropping Razor, without
removing the Blade from the frame.
No. 10 Complete with Strop and 5
Hollow-ground Blades, in Oak Case, 18/6.
No. 7 Same as above, with 2 Blades,
14/6.
FLOWER SCISSORS. Cuts and holds the
flower; 7 inches, nickel-plated.
9/6 each.
Nso—Strong Nail Nipper, Nickel-plated,
overall. 6/6 each.
®TP
0
Ply.
Ltd.
5 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY


ABORIGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PURRY GOOD"
“Curate’s Egg”: With our
heads bursting and our
cheques busted Spinifex Sam
and I downed swags some
four miles out from the
Shearer’s Arms. In the sparse
shade of a hoary old gum we
tried to snooze in the shim-
mering afternoon heat, but a
fairly regular fall of dry
twigs from aloft continually
stirred us to wakefulness.
Spinifex Sam then directed
my attention to two de-
bauched-looking crows on a
topmost branch, and at the
same time enjoined me to
remain inert, whilst watch-
ing Kelly through half-closed
eyelids. This we did, and the
fusillade of twigs became
more constant. Then the
reprobates commenced de-
scending the tree in stages,
while watching to see if we
remained motionless under
the barrage of sticks. Just as
they made the lowest bough
Sam burst into blasphemous articulation,
thereby convincing them that we were
not the thirst-killed corpses for which
they had tested with dropping twigs, an
old dodge of Kelly’s according to Sam.
* * * *
“Yeno Ham”: Old Mulga Mick
camped beside Long Harry near the billa-
bong, and after he had finished tea asked
if Harry would object to his playing
cards. Harry said it was all right with
but with whom did Mick propose
to play? Mick said he played four-
handed crib with his dog, billycan and
swag. Dealing out a hand, he com-
menced playing cards from the hands of
partner and opponents. Suddenly he
jumped up and landed a kick at the billy
which put a dent in it. Harry, startled,
asked the reason. “Cripes, the cow
oughter be kicked,” was the reply. “I
caught ’im lookin’ at the dorg’s hand!”
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Although the abo. will
eat almost anything, I have never yet
met one who would come at goatflesh—
among Territory tribes, anyway. Further
north the same dislike is exhibited by the
Dusuns of North Borneo, who are pre-
pared to sacrifice all hopes of the happy
hunting-ground rather than tackle Billy
or Nanny. Their fathers before them
had looked on the practice with loathing,
although “long pig,” roasted rat and
python figured prominently on the menu.
Birds also are never eaten by the Dusun ;
they won’t drink milk, considering that
there is something rather disgusting in
the tipple—it might render the boozer
liable to take on the shape and habits
of a cow when he entered the spirit-
world. But there is nothing more palat-
able to the average Dusun than a tin of
condensed milk!
9k * * *
“Gidya George”: Several years back
Cummings, one of the then owners of
Carandotta (W.Q.), introduced what he
called the African fodder plant. This
thing is a giant mimosa of the acacia
family, and, provided it has care for the
baby years of its life, thrives under dry
conditions. It has a thorn —yea, it has a
“Next gentleman , please .”
spike like unto a four-inch nail. I’ve had
one go through the single sole of an
elastic-side boot, and when racing past
a tree one day a thorn went clean
through the upper, grazed the skin of my
foot, and projected through the sole. Yet
repeatedly I’ve seen camels feeding on the
stuff. I’ve torn off a bough with spikes
like bayonets and fed it to a cow-camel
that took it with glee, chewed it with
gusto, rolled its eyes and plainly asked
for more. I still want to know what’s
tougher than an oont’s tongue.
* * * *
“W.”: “J.” (B. 27/10/’37) has mixed
his drinks or his crops. During my
association with corn-cockies, the pull-
ing of the cobs and not the “cutting” of
the crop was the modus where-
by a man made his few bob. In
some crops “J.’s” short-statured cutter
wouldn’t have been a very apt cob-
puller.
* * * *
“Maryell”: Don’t know where that
chap got the idea that fowls don’t suffer
from inbreeding (B. 13/10/’37). At one
station on the Downs (Q.) where I
worked there were over 100 hens, all
inbred for years. Ernest, the grandaddy
of most of them, had gone at the knees
from old age. Scraptin, the great-great-
grandmother of all of them, including
Ernest, was 11 years old and bald in
patches. The egg yield was about half a
dozen a day in the height of the season,
and the odd chicks were a pathetic lot —
all shapes and sizes, some with extra
beaks and toes, and one with two heads.
« * * *
“Nordbo”: Twenty-odd years ago a
North Queensland cyclone blew a house
off its blocks. No other damage was
done, and the lady, an old pioneer, living
in it was uninjured, and calmly con-
tinued her occupation of the stricken
dwelling. She still lives in it, and the
house is still off its blocks. “God blew
it off,” she explains with simple faith.
“His will be done.”
* * * *
“Naturalist”: That bird of prey that
hovered all day over “Stralia’s” orchard
but ignored his pigeons (B. 27/10/’37)
was probably nothing more aggressive
than a kestrel, whose diet is mainly grass-
hoppers, small lizards and mice. All
three species of the goshawk (the brown,
the grey and the white) are bold chicken-
snatchers, and will attack singly and kill
a full-grown fowl. Have known a pair
of brown goshawks (the Australian
variety) to kill four matronly hens in one
afternoon. Darting down from a hidden
perch, the hawks attack by alighting on
an unsuspecting chook’s back, quickly
killing it with a bite at the back of the
head. So quick does the goshawk work
that a fowl is often killed close handy
without attracting attention. A spring-
trap set on a post or on a stake driven
in at the site of the kill and the slain
bird tied a foot or so below it is the
best way to deal with a fowl-killing gos-
hawk.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: At the recent Lismore
(N.S.W.) show it was proposed to erect
a statue to Melba XV., the A.I.S. cow
that established a world’s record for
butterfat production. It won’t be the
only animal monument in the district.
On Disputed Plains estate the graves of
two hunting horses are surmounted by
marble headstones. The inscription on
one reads: “Here lies Alick, Son of
Sirius, died 22nd March, 1909. A cham-
pion hunter in many contests, with never
a swerve or a baulk. As he lived, so he
died —game. Then put the golden sliprails
down and let old Alick in. Erected by
his owner, Maggie Armstrong.” ,
* * * *
“Gam”: A man living at Mt. Gambier
(S.A.) brought home a cow that had
been running on coastal property 18
miles away. When he had had it for two
years it became sick and died. The
beast was skinned and the paunch
emptied on to the ground. Now there is a
patch of coastal grass and weeds grow-
ing on the spot. Those seeds must have
been carried in Strawberry’s innards for
at least two years before they got a
chance to germinate.
* * * *
“Rob Roy”: I’ll lay “Macfergus” (B.
13/10/’37) the odds that he wouldn’t
wipe out a decent ’hopper plague even
with trenches and molasses. In the
present infestation on the Downs (Q.)
egg-beds six inches deep with young
’hoppers in the larval stage, and cover-
ing an area of 10 acres, have been experi-
enced. In a day adult ’hoppers have
been known to wipe out 20 acres of
wheat in one sitting, leaving only the
stalks. Bullocks on some properties have
run amuck, owing to the pests crawling
in their ears. One old cocky, in reply
to the visiting parson’s injunction to re-
member Job and be patient, said:
“Stone the flamin’ crows, he had an easy
spin compared with us. He could go
crook about his troubles, but if I go out
and look at my crops I can’t even curse
or I’ll swallow a bushel of the !”
* * * *
“Slim”: When Strawberry broke one
of her horns a few days before the Show
her owner, a Vic. cocky, wasn’t discour-
aged. He matched another from an old
skeleton, and a pocket-knife and a tube
of adhesive did the rest. The job was
so well done that it was noticed only by
those in the know.
sjc ;}c •!■ ■!•
“James W.”: “Notaden’s” scheme for
cancelling the toad concerts (B.
20/10/’37) would be very effective —in
fact, too effective. Those fellows dislike
travelling under their own power and
seldom go far from their own breeding
pools. Covering these nurseries would
wipe them out in short order. The yarn
about immersing the hind legs is a
Kanaka fetish. I’ve heard Hawaiian
toads beefing it out in spots as dry as
last year’s “Hansard,” long before any
appeared in N.Q. Of course, they’re
more vociferous in the wet because every
wet spell is a mating season. Covering
all pools within earshot of houses would
mean covering half the water in N.Q.
On a still night a toad chorus can be
heard for miles.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Snakes might be able to
mesmerise birds, but they themselves are
apparently not immune from the same in-
fluence. When killing a snake a fox will
circle around it, gradually drawing closer
in. It will keep this up for several
minutes while Joe’s head goes in a cir-
cular movement as it follows Reynard
round. Then, when the wriggler is
motionless as though in a trance, the fox
makes his spring, to pin his prey behind
the head.
* * * *
“Cautious”: An enraged harvest-hand
had attempted to run Cowbails through
with a pitchfork. Next day the cocky
gave the storekeeper and his wide-eyed
shopboy a hair-raising account of his
escape from death. As he concluded the
boy, surveying the pitchforks on display
in the shop, remarked: “Cripes, you were
lucky. One of them forks wouldn’t kill
you, either; you’d just die of agony!”
* * * *
“Smore”: Hammocks, is it? I’ve
waited to see who would come forward
with a much more patent reason for
their non-use than merely the lack of
trees or plethora of same or the camper’s
love of Mother Earth. Use your wits,
you landlubbers. Reason in one word—
ants! Did you ever stop at midday to
boil your quart and try to find a shady
tree, near water, of course, where there
were not already several thousand
aggressive ants in possession? Did you
ever see experienced bushmen lay their
swags at night underneath trees? Have
a peep at the average mustering camp
arranging their “bedrooms” for the night
and you’ll see swags all over the land-
scape—only the young ’uns camp near
one another —but none actually under
the trees about the camp. The hammock-
swinger would soon find out just how
much the busy little whatnots sleep. They
are never too tired to have a go at any
handy sleepers, and a hammock would be
just the “shiny bob.” Hang your meat-
bag from a tree branch and forget the
hobble-rings in your scheme of suspen-
sion and I’ll bet the ants get it before an
hour has elapsed. No—rule out ham-
mocks.
BESIDE THE CREEK.
Day has sunk to its last red ember,
Twilight settles across the land;
The cooling wind of the late September
Fondles my brow like a soothing hand
As I stand alone in the gathering shadows
Watching the glory of sunset wane,
And 1 feel as 1 gaze o’er the darkening
meadows
A vague regret that is near to pain.
Thirty seasons, like birds of passage
On soundless pinions, have swept along,
Yet the wind still murmurs its mystic message,
The creek is crooning the old, old song
That I heard long since when I lingered,
dreaming,
A barefoot boy in the afterglow,
Till the mopoke called and the stars were
gleaming,
And the bats went wavering to and fro.
But, ah! the song has a different meaning,
And the message borne on the wind is
changed,
And far in the forest like mourners keening
The curlews are crying: “Estranged!
Estranged! ”
The dreams of my boyhood arise to haunt me,
They linger still round this quiet scene,
And 1 feel in my heart that they do not want
me —
I have changed too much in the years be-
tween !
O dreams of my youth, I am old and altered,
The years like swallows have fledged and
flown,
And my faith has failed and my feet have
faltered
Since last I stood in this spot alone.
We all have our separate path to travel,
And whether we travel it slow or fast
It is vain to fret, it is vain to cavil,
Since death must swallow us all at last.
But standing here in the darkness musing,
Gazing back o’er the road I’ve trod,
Was the way, I wonder, of my own choosing,
Or a path predestined, ordained by God?
Our birth, our station, our times condition
And mould our actions for good or ill.
How much do we do of our own volition?
How much is shaped by a stronger Will?
I cannot say, and it’s vain to ponder,
For it’s little even the wisest know,
But the moon drifts over the treetops yonder,
The wind is rising and I must go.
The cry of a plover abrupt and scornful
Startles the echoes and breaks the spell,
And a mopoke hooting, aloof and mournful,
Seems to bid me a last farewell.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


“Peter Pascoe”: Overheard on the
jetty at Portland Roads (N.Q.), between
two lugger “boys.” “Hey, Toby! When
your boss bin take that pfeller engine-
boat belong ’im longa mission?” “Aw,
might be nex’ week, sometime.” “Sup-
posin’ you bring back that little pfeller
pig belong me?” “’E might be too
much trouble.” “Oh, crikey, no, ’e no
trouble. ’E quiet pfeller. Supposin’ ’e
get hungry ’e cry.” “Hum-m-m, sup-
posin’ we get hungry, we eat ’im, then ’e
no more cry. Orrite, I bring ’im.”
* * * *
“Burong”: Sydney ornithologists were
all of a dither last year when it was dis-
covered that a pair of lotus birds had
taken up residence in a swamp not far
north of the city. Now they are in rap-
tures over the recent discovery of seven
nests in the same swamp, thereby extend-
ing considerably the known breeding
grounds of the fowls, which are tropic
dwellers. Also known as the “Lily
trotter,” this bird has very elongated
feet, in a fully-developed male bird the
claws being longer than the actual body
and well adapted for running over
the vegetation and leaves usually found
floating on the surface of swamps.
* * * *
“The Ghost”: Queer fences? At Mal-
vern Hills (C.Q.) the head station horse
paddock, a couple of thousand acres in
extent, was fenced entirely with gidya
trees laid on edge as brush. There was,
I suppose, a reason for building it that
way. In the early days wire and similar
fencing material were dear. The horse
paddock—or the area selected for it —was
thickly timbered. The grass would im-
prove if the trees were taken out. If left
to lie on the ground they’d last for years,
stake horses, be a nuisance generally. By
pulling them into the one place and lay-
ing them in a line, they served as a fence.
Labor then was cheaper than wire,
especially Kanakas and Chinese, as it
was then.
* * * *
“Imbaga”: That account of how the
relentless Australian abo. pursues the
mild and nervous crocodile (B. 20/10/’37)
moves me to pity for the unfortunate
quarrv- In a part of Papua I frequented
many years ago a much more humane
method of capturing poor old Porosus
was followed. When the Mamba River
was in flood, which was often, the croc,
used to seek peace out of the raging tor-
rent up the narrow creeks and backwaters
running out of the main stream. His
example was followed by fish in plenty,
so board as well as lodging was assured
until the river went down. When a croco-
dile was located in a creek the narrow
mouth was staked to make escape impos-
sible. Then the shallow water was
prodded with sticks until the beast was
located,' now thoroughly frightened and
lying still on the bottom. This done, a
native took one end of a long rattan in
his hand and, diving down, tied it round
the neck of the unresisting prey, which
was hauled to upper air and in due course
eaten.
* * * *
“Kali”: I see that elephants are again
being shot in Arabia, which seems to me
to be tough luck on the roc, which, ac-
cording to Arabian folklore, followed the
elephant to extinction. Although this
fabled bird was of tremendous size and
had a gigantic wingspread, it never ven-
tured far afield in search of prey, the
favorite titbit on its menu being a
“Miserable little worm, I HATE you!”
“Do you , darling?”
medium-sized elephant. Naturally the
supply of jumbos eventually gave out,
and, lacking initiative, the fowls perished
miserably of starvation.
* * * *
“Rob Roy”: There’s no need to wait
for cocaine when you get into holts with
the business end of a cobbler (B.
13/10/’37). Boiling water, mixed with
mud into a paste, will do the trick. Just
get the plaster and slam it on the affected
spot. It’ll fix the pain. I know ; 1 sat
on a cobbler by mistake.
* * * *
“Ring Four”: No, I won't have that
the 44-gallon drums are nearly as useful
as the old petrol-tins (B. 27/10/’37). In
the first place, who can carry a couple
of oil-drums on a bar slung across the
shoulders Chinese fashion? Secondly,
“Go and get one for yerself."
who’s going to cut a drum in halves to
make a couple of hens’ nests? Thirdly,
I’d like to see anyone tackle a drum with
a pocket-knife, scissors or even a can-
opener. Lastly, what farmer’s wife is
going to put a 44-gallon drum over the
fire to boil the kids’ clothes or use it to
make a stock of home-brew, and how
in the blazes can a man scale his neigh-
bor’s fence with a couple of clumsy oil-
drums under his arms?
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Notwithstanding the claims
of the kookaburra beak when it comes to
toughness (B. 22/9/’37), I nominate the
snout of the far-northern kingfish as the
stoutest of Nature’s fibres. It is no un-
common thing for one to shear clean
through a lugger mainsail without even
slowing-up his skyward career. And it is
on record that a giant “kingie” dissipated
the lethargy of a dinghyful of Binghies
when it landed snout foremost in the
stern sheets of their craft, leaving a hole
in the bottom before it made contact
with blue water by this direct route.
* * * *
“Groper”: Sorry to find “Smore” so
literally up a tree (B. 13/10/’37), but he’s
got my “topper” mixed with the other
Aboliar’s “tail-stumper.” W.A. “toppers ’
drive in a line of springboards all the
way up the tree (one they are standing
on, one just above the knees, one just
chin high, and so on, which gives fair
ease in climbing), and leave them there
until the tree is down. Thus getting
down is no trouble at all. Still, I’ve
seen a topper go up 70ft. with only the
two boards and a light rope—did it for
a bet. To get down he looped the rope
around tree and top board and, using the
notches as footholes, came down with
ease. I advise “S.” to have a rope shot
up per rocket, and with its support come
down per the notches.
* * * *
“Yarri”: Ramornie station, on the
Clarence River, near the mouth of the
Orara (N.S.W.), where some of the best
Hereford cattle are bred, is now
approaching its centenary; it was taken
up by Dr. Dobie in 1838. It was this
old romantic station that set the wheel
of progress going for the North Coast
pastoralists. They had no market for
their cattle, and several stations had boil-
ing-down works on the Richmond River,
where thousands of head were treated
every year for their tallow. It was when
Tindal started the meatworks at
Ramornie that a new era dawned.
* * * *
“Marsh”: Mention of black wool (B.
27/10/’37) brings to mind that various
charitable institutions outback receive
through its agency some very respectable
amounts. In many districts graziers send
the wool from black and piebald sheep
to the local institution favored, the con-
signments sometimes consisting of large
bag- and buttfuls. I know of one centre
in W.Q. that sold over £lOO worth, and
with a like amount in subsidy from the
Government it placed the institution in
credit for the first time on record. In
the N.S.W. Riverina donations of black
wool yearly assist towards the mainten-
ance of that worthy institution the Bush
Brotherhood.
.** * *
“Nordbo”: A resident of Little Mul-
grave, near Cairns (N.Q.), hearing his dog
bark one night, flashed a torch in the
direction of the disturbance. He saw six
brown snakes congregated before his
front steps. He shot five of them and
killed the sixth with a rake-handle. The
smallest of the wrigglers measured five
feet, the largest over seven. Any Aboliar
suggest a reason for this gathering of the
brownie clan?
jp * * ▼
“James W.”: I never saw a dog pick
up cast-iron (B. 20/10/’37), but I knew
one from whom no can of fish was safe.
As a pup he had often been given a
herring or salmon tin to lick out, and
soon learned to distinguish them from
other cans unopened. Perhaps he could
recognise these cans by sight, but it is
more likely that he remembered the dis-
tinctive smell of the labels. He had
Hudson Bay blood in him, and to punc-
ture a mere can was no trouble for
teeth and jaws so powerful as his. He’d
lick up the oil as it dribbled out and
leave it at that. Apparently the same
sagacity that taught him to puncture the
tin made him realise the futility of try-
ing to reach the fish inside.
AUSTRALIAN BUSH.
Why are these grey, moon-misted trees
So bent and yet so proud?
How can the pale stars love them when
So grim and massive-boughed?
Why do the cool winds linger where
Such scraggy foliage hangs upon the air?
How often, camping in the bush,
Amid the cricket-din,
And sleepless mopokes near and far,
And myriad leaves that win
No rest from talking, have I tried
To know the spirit of the tribes that died!
In hot noons, tramping over hills;
In desert evening-light;
And where, against a lonely coast,
The starred waves sound at night:
A thousand thoughts I’ve sent to seek
This south land’s brooding heart, to make her
speak.
Yet, while I probe the secrets of
This land so hoar with time
That, though she whispers back to me,
She still outreaches rhyme,
Small brown koala in that tree
Understands the things that puzzle me.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.


Private executorship
demands sacrifice !
The demands of knowledge and sacrifice
which a private individual is asked to face
as an Executor or Trustee are such that he is
rarely, if ever, able to completely fulfil them.
Moreover, the intricacies of estate adminis-
tration often lead to the neglect of the
trustee’s own affairs.
But while the private individual may find
his appointment an intolerable burden, the
functions he has been asked to fulfil are the
everyday work of corporate trustees. If you
wish to surrender a trusteeship or act in an
advisory capacity only, consult us—an inter-
view can be arranged at any time. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited has had nearly 60 years’ experience
in the administration of Estates.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
C. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria in J 878.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne . . . 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits.
£955,805/10/8.
Trust Assets under Administration,
£29,399,725.
£20,000 lias been lodged with the Colonial Treasurer of Nevy South
Wales and £lO,OOO with the Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees tor
the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman),
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.;
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
T 1.16.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£££ - £
1926.. 782,106 95 p.c. = 665,000 1 IQO 613 1813 g2s
Written off, £16,493 .. 1
1927 529 038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928 ' 369 882 40 , , 280 000 89,882 1,907,846
19!!'.". 528,646 424 ~ ~ 297’,500 231,146 2,138,992
-1 qqo 275 668 50 ~ ~ 850,000 2,064,605
1931 ' 103 571 8f 61,250 42,321 2,106,976
1932 205 752 25 175 000 30,752 2,137,728
1933 196 565 15 , ~ 105,000 91,505 2,229,293
1934.. 303,355 ,, 192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935 420 683 40 ~ 280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936.'.’ 666,940 70 ” ” 176,940 2,658,771
1937.. 940,628105 ~ ~ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
It was the rise in the price of metals that
put the spring of £273,688 in last year s
record profit. Sterling averages on the
London Metal Exchange compare as
follows:
Silver
Average— Lead. (lfine). Zinc.
5 years June, 1929.. £2O/8/- 2/6.9 f. 30 / 7 / 1
12 months June, 1932.. £l2/16/7 1/6.4 £l2/18/9
12 months June, 1934. . £ll/16/6 l/8.0 £l,>/12/-
12 months June, 1935.. £ll/6/- 2/3.8 £l2/16/7
12 months June, 1936.. £l6/4/5 2/2.3 £l5/3/11
12 months June, 1937... £23/2/8 1/9.9 £^o/_/1
Allowing for exchange (£AI2S = £S100),
last year’s average prices in Australian
currency were lead £2B 18s. 4d. (up £8
12s. lOd.) and zinc £25 2s. 7d. (up £6
2s. Bd.). Also, sales of lead exceeded
the year’s production by 7846 tons, re-
ducing stocks to 13,192 tons at June 30 ;
the figure was 41,998 tons three years
earlier. The co. has thus reaped a de-
ferred reward from its policy of rela-
tively high production during the worst
of the slump years. Zinc concentrates
are sold to Electrolytic Zinc and Imperial
Smelting Corp. on a long-term contract,
under which about 60 p.c. of any rise in
the price of the metal above £l5 per ton
goes to the mining co.
The sale of mine products turned in
an extra £553,229, and the return from
investments was up £3254:
Revenue:—• 1933. 1936. 1937.
Mine production. . £619,822 £1,347,111 £1,900,340
Investments .. 111,584 123,806 127,060
£731,406 £1,470,917 £2,027,400
Expenditure:—•
Mine .. ..£493,157 £643,309 £774,267
P. and 1. items.. 71,684 190,668 342.505
£564,841 £833,977 £1,116,772
Net profit .. .. 166,565 636,940 910.628
The rise of £130,958 in mine exes, was
mainly on account of the wages bill,
which went up with the price of lead,
owing to payment of a lead bonus. The
increase of £151,837 in the p. and 1.
items was due to allowance for taxation
and royalty (£276,000, up £146,000). Each
year the p. and 1. item includes £30,000
for depreciation, treated as profit in the
introductory table. The £910,628 was
equal to 130 p.c. on capital as against
90.9, 54.3, 39 and 23.7 p.c. back to 1933.
The div. was lifted from 70 p.c. to 105
p.c., the distribution for the two final
quarters being at the rate of 120 p.c. p.a.
An extra 31,557 tons of crudes was
raised —58,599 tons from the British and
375,577 tons from the North mine. The
British, which had been idle since June
30, 1930, came into production again on
Aug. 10, 1936:
1930. 1936. 1937.
Crudes raised, tons. . 450.157 402,619 434,176
Mining . . . . 245. 8.2 d. 19s. 10.9 d. 235. 6.7 d.
Development . . . . 2s. 2.7 d. 2s, B.ld. 3s. 6.7 d.
Milling . . . . 10s. 9.3 d. 7s. 9.5 d. 7s. 6.1 d.
375. 8.2 d. 30s. 4.5 d. 345. 7.5 d.
The growth of 4s. 3d. per ton in aggre-
gate costs was due to payment of a lead
bonus averaging 275. 6d. per. week as
against 9s. per week for the previous
term. The average number of men em-
ployed during the year was 1454. Milling
costs, down 3.4 d. per ton, should be
further reduced when the new concen-
trating plant comes into production
about September, 1938. It will be paid
for out of accumulated liquids, not out
of current earnings, the chairman says.
Excluding shareholdings (£952,360), the
liquid surplus at June 30 amounted to
£978,555. Cash and Consols totalled
£574,534.
The ore contained a little less of each
metal, the average assay being 14.4 p.c.
lead, 8.750 z. silver and 10.64 p.c. zinc—
British ore is lower-grade and more diffi-
cult to treat than ore from the North.
Milling results compare as follows:
Ore f Concentrates — >
Treated, t Lead \ c Zinc ,
Tons. Tons. Assay. Tons. Assay.
1931.. 293,069 59,990 72.5 p.c. 13,730 51.6 p.c.
1932.. 306,052 61,430 73.6 „ 58,140 52.5 „
1933.. 313,782 60,130 74.6 „ 57,746 52.8 „
1934.. 395,577 76,810 74.8 „ 67,180 53.3 „
1935.. 396,175 79,060 73.5 „ 74,370 53.3 „
1936.. 402,097 79.330 73.6 „ 77,070 53.0 ~
1937.. 434,865 80,310 73.9 „ 74,740 52.3 „
Recoveries were a trifle lighter at 94.8
p.c. lead, 87 p.c. silver and 84.6 p.c.
zinc.
Ore reserves are put at 5,021,000 tons
—4,046,000 North, 775,000 British and
200,000 Junction—or about 12 years'
work for the mill on the basis of last
year’s throughput. A lot more ore, how-
ever, has been disclosed by the diamond-
drill, and more still is believed to exist.
No. 2 shaft is now down below the
2300 ft. level.
For the three months to the end of
September lead averaged £22 10s. 2d. in
London. Last week-end the figure was
£l7 ss. What the future holds for metal
prices largely depends upon what happens
in the U.S.A. Following announcement
of a quarterly div. of Is. 3d. per share,
payable Dec. 8 (previous distribution
was 2s. per share on Sept. 30), the price
of the 55.-paid shares fell sharply in the
market from 58s. 3d. to 555. 3d., and
then eased to 535. 3d. last week-end. The
peak price for the year was 675. 3d. The
return at 535. 3d. is 9.4 p.c. on a> 100
p.c. div. basis. The investor at 535. who
looks for his money back plus 8 p.c. p.a.
counts on divs. averaging 137 p.c. over
the next 20 years, or 120 p.c. for the next
30 years.
United Provisions, Ltd.
,— I—Dividend 1 —Dividends —— s To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, •serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 123,466 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 100,854 22,612 628
1929.. 112,094 8 ~ 8 „ 112,000 94 722
1930.. 102,964 8 ~ 7 „ 102,500 464 1186
1931.. 36,205 8 „ Nil 36,000 205 1391
1932.. 35,611 8 „ Nil 36,000 1002
1933.. 22,090 5 „ Nil 22,500 592
1934.. 35,652 8 ~ Nil 36,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve, £830.. 1074
1935.. 67,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. 68,500 386
1936.. 55,326 8 „ 2 „ 55,000 326 712
1937.. 36,087 8 ~ Nil 36,000 87 799
* Including 3 p.c. arrears.
This is the holding co. through which
J. C. Hutton and Foggitt Jones, the well-
known ham, bacon and food-canning
people, who own nine factories in Aus-
tralia and a subsidiary in Maoriland,
amalgamated their interests in 1927.
Long before the merger, each of the
operating cos. had established growing
trade connections with Southern and
Eastern Asia, the Dutch East Indies and
the Pacific Islands, and the Maoriland
factory, part of the Hutton business, does
a substantial export trade in frozen pork
with Britain.
There is £1,400,000 of capital to
feed in 450,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 950,000 ords. At Sept. 30 the lot,
together with the handful of reserves,
was represented by shares in the two
operating cos., £1,355,008 (cost); ad-
vances to the pups, £63,840 ; cash, etc.,
£223. The price paid for the pair (com-
bined face value £716,700) included
£638,308 for reserves, of which £463,000
was inner reserves disclosed by a re-
valuation of the assets.
For the three years preceding the
merger net earnings of the two cos. com-
bined averaged £131,000-odd p.a., or suf-
ficient to pay the holding co.’s pref. div.
and show 10 p.c. on its ord. capital. For
a while it looked as if the holding co.
might become a steady 8 percenter. But
so deeply have slump and competition
cut into earnings that, for the last half-
dozen years, it has been a struggle to
keep up payments to the prefs. The
trouble lies in destructive competition,
which takes the form not only of cut-
ting selling prices to the bone, but of
bidding up for pigs and other raw
material supplies. The physical volume
of turnover has continued to expand with
the improvement in conditions generally,
new lines have been added to the list of
manufactures, plant is efficient and up
to date, debtors’ balances are reported to
be sound, and so are stocks, which are
taken into the sheet at cost, market or
replacement value, whichever is the
lower. However, until those in the trade
decide to bury the hatchet elsewhere
than in themselves, there won’t be the
profit in the business that there used to
be ; a trade war does neither the public
nor the cos. engaged in it any good in the
long run. Meanwhile, an efficient organi-
sation, up-to-date plant and sound finan-
cial structure will count for much.
During the last term, the combined
turnover of the operating cos. increased
by 3.7 p.c. But gross earnings (£221,254)
were £7127 lighter, owing partly to price-
cutting and partly to increased costs,
following wage lifts and drought in the
Queensland coastal districts. Including
provision for taxation (£12,500, down
£1500), exes. (£174,397) were up £6l,
leaving the net result £7lBB lighter at
£46,857, as the following table shows:
Groas Net General
June, Profit. Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£- £ £ £
1935.. 228,778 55,546 9.7 p.c. = 69,500 293,980
Bad debts reserve disclosed. £19,414 .. 313,39’4
General additions, £16,145 . . . . 329,539
1936.. 228,381 54,045 7.8 p.c. = 56,000 327,584
Specific reserves disclosed, £25,430 .. 353,014
General additions, £15,366 .. 368,380
1937.. 221,254 46,857 5.1 p.c. = 37,000 378,237
The interlined additions to reserves are
mainly in connection with provision for
depreciation, which aggregates £198,565
since July l, 1927. The £46,857 was 6.5
p.c. on the operating cos.’ combined capi-
tal as against 7.5, 7.7, 2.8 and 3.1 p.c. for
the four preceding years. The div. dropped
from 7.8 p.c. to 5.1 p.c. Over the last
four years, the operating cos. have dis-
tributed in divs. £21,542 more than the
profits claimed. To enable the holding
co. to meet its pref. div. the operating
cos. need to pay 5.02 p.c. on their com-
bined capital. Each further increase of
1.325 p.c. in their div. represents 1 p.c. on
the holding co.’s ord. capital. So, for
the holding co. to pay its pref. div. and
2 p.c. to the ords., the operating cos.
would need to pay a shade over 7.6 p.c.
At 225. the holding co.’s prefs. return
7.2 p.c. The ords. at 7s. 3d. would return
5.5 p.c. on a 2 p.c. div. basis. Excluding
provisions for depreciation, the net tan-
gible cover is 395. lOd. prefs. and 9s. sd.
ords.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion of the business:
Operating Cos/ Combined Figures.
1928. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £716,700 £716,700 £716,700 £716,700
Overdraft . . 98,239 47,707
Creditors .. 171,705 117,196 120,693 124,512
Premises, plant,
etc 514,996 596,793. 606,732 631,432
Stock .. 344,954 193,893 214,626 243.228
Debtors .. 366,310 149,149 183,160 205,190
Shares other cos.,
etc. . . 94,506 202,723 211,731 215,025
Cash, etc. . . 4,936 82,908 27',956 4,457
To add £24,700 to the book value of
fixed assets, £28,602 to stock and £22,030
to debtors’ balances, cash was drawn
upon for £23,449, the co. went to its
bankers for £47,707 and £3819 was added
to the amount coming to sundry creditors.
The more or less liquid surplus (£280,656,
excluding shares in other cos.) was
£24,393 lighter than at the previous bal-
ance, owing to the outlay on fixed assets.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
1928.. 10,116 3 p.c. = 12,673 7,095
Ship property written down £140,808 by striking
off ss. per share.
1929.. 33,346 10 p.c. = 28,161 5,185 12,280
1930.. 10,695 7 „ „ 19,713 12,262
1931.. 14,168 5 ~ ~ 14,081 87 12,349
1932.. 18,651 5 „ ~14,081 4,570 16,919
Surplus on liquidated subsidiary, £23,556.. 40,475
1933.. 15,984 5t p.c. = 15,489 495 40,970
1934.. 23,411 7 „ „ 19,713 3,698 44,668
1935.. 29,491 8 „ ~ 22,529 6,962 51,630
1936.. 22,575 8 „ ~ 22,529 46 51,676
1937 , 37,617 8 ~22 529 ) 10 ogB 61 , 764
Workers’ com sat ion fund, £SOCO 3
Opening of the Sydney Harbor Bridge in
1932 has had little visible effect on this
co.’s virtual monopoly of passenger
traffic between the Quay and Manly;
nor is it likely to while the bridge toll
continues to be levied. Thanks to the
speeding up of services, closer attention
to passengers’ comfort and conversion
of the Bellubera from steam to Diesel-
electric drive in an assault upon costs,
the co. continues to maintain the cheap-
est and one of the most efficient trans-
port services in the metropolis. Its erec-
tion of one of the most attractive bath-
ing enclosures in the State, not directly
revenue-producing, but adjacent to its
Manly wharf, has done much to popu-
larise the Village. Lately savings fol-
lowing establishment (at an unstated
figure) of its own repair workshops at
Neutral Bay have helped restrain the
rise in running and repair costs.
Disclosed earnings have fluctuated
considerably, partly owing to seasonal in-
fluences. Last term the weather smiled,
and, helped by improved conditions,
both casual and permanent traffic in-
creased. After providing for taxation
and contingencies, including £15,140 for
depreciation (disclosed for the first
time), the board figured £37,617 of the
year’s receipts (£189,237) as profit, a
sharp spring of £15,042. The result was
equal to 13.3 p.c. on capital, but money
was wanted in the business, and the div.
was kept at 8 p.c. Of the balance £5OOO
is to be sent to a staff fund and £lO,OOO
to plant renewals reserve. Whether any-
thing in connection with the last two
provisions has been charged against earn-
ings before arriving at previous years’
profits is not ascertainable from the pub-
lished figures. Half-way through the
year one of the Diesel craft, the Bellu-
bera, now about to enter service again,
was burnt to waterline, with loss of two
(i Continued on page 24.)


■sSSr;
W
'jot////
' '7
V
/
•v
«
//,
BBS
SMS
'777:;
///.,
■■v.7
1
7.V'
,77
KB
w
:7778777'
m
W&&!r!k
5568 6
||SI
I ■->,
\H
WsBHm
■77.77.
MB
.
m.
m
1
It’s Always Good
Going on Goodyears
and here are two reasons why :
1. THE GOODYEAR MARGIN OF
SAFETY—the proven ability of
G-3’s centre-traction grip to bring
your car to a quick straight-line
stop.
2. LOWEST COST PER MILE—The
broader, flatter, thicker, tougher
G-3 tread gives you thousands of
honest extra miles.
Go further and safely on Goodyears.
Two reasons why more people ride on
I
/^v
-rr
I n
T
'htMdi
MiWM
■ A A } Hi
than on any other tyres
5-C26-37.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Liinoli from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M4GOI.
The LUDOWIGI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
gd
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab” Melbourne.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
r per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
' T i - i - r ' 7r ~
'i
m
z
i
Magnetic Ore Separator
The Electro Magnetic Separator for treating
ores permeated with strongly and feebly
magnetic minerals is being recognised as a
necessity in t.he concentration of ores whose
specific gravities are too much alike to allow
of separation by means of concentration on
tables and the like. We introduce the
"RAPIDITY,” a new separator with higher
speed and greater capacity.
WE ARE THE SOLE MANUFACTURERS
OF THE "CURVILINEAR” CONCENTRAT-
ING TABLE. SEND FOR OUR BULLETINS.
Sole Agents:
GUTHRIDGE Pty., Limited
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
lives. The damage was apparently cov-
ered by insurance.
The accounts are now more informa-
tive :
1932. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £281,616 £281,616 £281,616 £281,616
Liabilities .. 3,511 6,083 9,907 13,819
Ship property 185,6831 f 185,723
Freehoids, pknt, [ 328,635 339,453 ] 7624 ,,
Investments .. 64,138 ] l 97,442
Stocks .. 5,941 7.113 6,594 8,118
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 7,203 14,846 8.416 5,936
Investments (£76,245 in Government
securities and mortgages and £21,197 in
shares in other cos.) are now separated
from fixed assets. Together the two
showed a net advance of £19,957 last
term, partly reflecting cost of a new
wharf in course of erection, following
work on the extension of the City Rail-
way to the Quay; a new steamer (mak-
ing eight in all), which it is hoped to
have in commission for the 1938 summer
season, has also been ordered. Exclud-
ing shareholdings, the more or less
liquid surplus was £76,480.
An issue of 32,768 new 10s. shares,
one for 16 at par, to bring in £18,384,
has just been announced. The old
shares stand at 19s. 9d. in the market,
to yield 4.1 p.c., after exercise of rights.
Visibly, the cover is 12s. 2d. in net tan-
gibles.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 24,510 3496 8 p.c. = 20,684 329 24,024
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 „ „ 18,929 20.588
1929.. 25,931 3499 7 „ .. 19.010 3422 24,010
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 „ „ 13,580 20,985
Loss.
1931.. 4,531 3500 Nil 12,954
Profit.
1932.. 3,432 3500 Nil 12,886
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 12,397 1750* Nil 1,261
1934.. 21,113 Nil Nil 22,374
Reserves!.
Capital written off, £27,161 .. .. 4,787
Assets written down, £4787 .. .. •
Profit. 12.5 p.c.
1935.. 8,057 6250 f Nil 1807 1,807
5 p.c.
1936.. 8,295 2500 2 p.c. = 4,889 906 2,713
1937.. 4,534 2500 Nil 2034 4,747
* Half-year, f Includes arrears.
The co. is in the drapery trade, the
store fronts Queen and Adelaide streets,
a large mail-order connection has been
developed in the country, and a 52 p.c.
interest is held in Stuparts (paid capital
£52,595), a drapery concern in Mary-
borough. For the half-dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1930, the business
expanded by absorptions and otherwise,
and shareholders averaged a shade over
7 p.c., with little to spare. For the next
four depression years the net trading
result was a loss of £34,609. The corner
was turned in 1935, and, to clear the way
for the resumption of ord. divs., 2s. per
share (£27,161) was struck off ord. capi-
tal, and the pref. div. was lowered from
7 p.c. to 5 p.c. After that, competition
from chain and other stores stood in
the way, and the management has been
unable to squeeze much profit out of the
•business.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, conditions generally in
Queensland improved, though a dry spell
in the southern half of the coastal belt
affected dairying, sugar and other farm-
ing interests there. In Brisbane unem-
ployment continued to decrease, and
there was plenty of money about. But
competition sharpened, and the co.’s
gross earnings (£126,035) slipped £B7BO.
There was a saving of £5019 in exes.
(£121,501), leaving the net result £3761
lighter at £4534, or enough to pay the
pref. div. (£2500) and show 0.8 p.c. on
the £244,453 of ord. capital, compared
with 2.3 p.c. and 2.2 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. No div. was paid ; the
previous year’s 2 p.c. has been the only
distribution since 1930.
The market, which notes all this and
the slender prop for capital, prices the
pound prefs. at 17s. 6d., at which figure
the return is 5.7 p.c. Last year’s profit
was less than twice their annual require-
ments. The ords. at 9s. 3d. would return
5.8 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis. The pref.
div. and 3 p.c. to the ords. together would
call for £9833, or £5299 more than was
netted last term. The net tangible cover
is £5 19s. Bd. prefs. and 18s. sd. ords.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £321,615 £294,454 £294,454 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 82,925 86,993 87,739 91.587
Sundry creditors 52,467 37,851 34,726 39,205
Premises & plant 231,972 220,886 218.586 214,546
Stock.. .. 162,977 131,342 135,554 145,830
Shares other cos. 21,296 21,546 21,546 21,546
Investments .. 550 550 550 550
Book debts .. 62,063 41,727 41,978 40,877
Cash, etc. .. 4,042 6,803 tf,556 7,892
Stocks were up £10,276, while debtors’
balances are down £llOl. The out-
side debt, which includes £77,087 (up
£3848) coming to the bank, increased by
£8327. Excluding shares in other cos.,
which represerits the holding in Stuparts,
the more or less liquid surplus amounted
to £64,357, up £llB4.
Placer Development, Ltd.
This big holding co., which is regis-
tered in Vancouver, is interested in prop-
erties in New Guinea, Victoria, Colom-
bia and California. At the end of April
paid capital was 730,000 dollars in dollar
shares, held mainly in Australasia,
America and London. Reserves and un-
distributed profits totalled 13,836,057
dollars, which includes 3,612,137 dollars
of share premiums. The amount coming
to sundry creditors was 24,233 dollars.
In dollars, cash and debtors totalled
1,634,219; advances, 332,198 ; share-
holdings, 11,865,348 ; deferred charges on
properties under examination, 28,525.
The year’s income was 957,919 (up
198,562) dollars’ of which 945,319 (up
195,835) came from divs. and the balance
from interest, etc. After paying the tax
bill, the net result was 847,975 (up
161,294) dollars, or 116 p.c. on capital
as it now stands. Divs. totalled 110 p.c.
as against 98, 60 and 24 p.c. for the three
preceding terms.
The co.’s shareholdings are as follows:
Issued Held
Capital. byPiacer.f Div.l
Bulolo .. . . $5,000,000 $1,531,390 56 p.c.
Pato . . . . 2.900,000 900,000
Asnazu .. .. 1,500,000 615,000 10 p.c.
Holden Queen . . 100,000 10,000 -
American Placers Inc. 250,000 249,995
Placer Management 20,000 19,998
Rutherglen Gold Dumps £50,000 £32,000 20 p.c.
Gold Dumps, Ltd. 60,000 50,000 —•
tAt April 30, 1937. t Paid during 12 months to
April 30, 1937.
During the year Placer increased its
holdings in Bulolo by 92,572 dollars (face
value), and in Asnazu by 15,000 dollars.
American Placers was registered in
Washington (U.S.A.) toward the close
of accounts. It took over the parent’s
holding of 199,995 dollar shares in Cana-
dian Exploration, Ltd. (a prospecting
concern which has not yet hit upon any-
thing worth while), and is on the hunt
for likely properties in the U.S.A. Placer
Management has been formed to take
over other of the parent’s activities in
the U.S.A. Gold Dumps, Ltd., is an-
other Australian offshoot, formed since
the close of accounts to treat two slum
dumps near Ballarat (Vic.).
Placer sold its interest (16,000 shares
of no par value) in Pan-American Engi-
neering Corp., which has testing and re-
search works at Berkeley (California),
for 64,000 dollars in 5 p.c. notes, secured
by a second mortgage.
During the term Pato’s two dredges
(Colombia, S. America) dug 3,668,000
c.y., and 193,000 c.y. was hydraulicked.
Gold won fetched 554,530 dollars; work-
ing profit was 307,000 dollars. No div.
was paid. Proved ground is put at
600,000,000 c.y. of 14-15 cent stuff to
be dredged and 37,000,000 c.y. of 25-
cent hydraulicking gravel. No. 3 dredge
is now operating, and Nos. 4 and 5
should be ready early in 1938, together
with the first 5000 h.p. of the new hydro-
electric plant.
Asnazu, the other Colombian show,
dredged 1,542,000 c.y. Recoveries were
worth 725,000 dollars, of which 436,000
dollars was net profit. Dredging re-
serves are put at 20,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing 40 cents, and 30,000,000 c.y., aver-
aging 20 cents. The co. paid 10 cents per
share on Oct. 15. Installation of an-
other dredge is under consideration.
Rutherglen Gold Dumps (Vic.) treated
149,000 tons of slime, carrying about
22grs. of gold per ton, for a profit of
£34,061, before providing for deprecia-
tion. It paid a 20 p.c. div. on Sept. 16.
There is still 1,047,000 c.y. of the stuff
to treat, or about five years’ work for
the plant.
Of the two heaps at Ballarat (Vic.) to
be treated by Gold Dumps, Ltd., one
(Carisbrook) contains about 600,000 short
tons, recoverable value one dollar, esti-
mated working profit 70 cents, and in
the other (Jubilee) there is about 129,000
short tons, averaging 1.70 dollars per
ton, of which the dollar is expected to
be working profit.
Nechi Consolidated Dredging, Ltd.,
registered in Vancouver in November,
1936, is still in the doldrums. It was
formed by Placer and Oroville to take
over, test and work the Restrepo options,
on the Nechi River, Colombia (S.
America). The co.’s rights were ques-
tioned and upheld in the Colombian
lower courts, but the matter has been
carried by way of appeal to the Superior
Court, and there it stands for the
present.
Since the close of accounts, Placer has
declared an interim div., payable Decem-
ber 10, of 60 p.c. To non-residents of
Canada, divs. are subject to an absentee
tax of 5 p.c.
Placer’s $1 shares, which are very sub-
ject to overseas Stock Exchange influ-
ences, fetched 106 s. on the Australian
market in March. They fell to 68s. a
few weeks ago, and then rose to 78s.
last week-end, partly owing to pressure
of London buying.
Bulolo Gold Dredging, Ltd.
Floated in 1930 by Placer Develop-
ment, by which 30 p.c. of the issued capi-
tal of $5,000,000 is held, this co.’s leases
aggregate some 15 miles on the Bulolo
and Watut rivers, New Guinea. No divs.
were paid for the first two years’ opera-
tions, but distributions have been on a
gradually increasing scale each year
since, and better appears to be in-sight.
Four dredges are now in operation, and
the property is being equipped with three
more, two to handle the deeper ground.
Nos. 5 and 7 will dig to 125 ft. each, and
No. 6 to 40ft. Dredges 5 and 6 were
expected to set in some time this month;
No. 7, late in 1938.
Dredging reserves amount to
202,000,000 c.y. of an average value of
approx. 33 cents per yard (gold at $35
Canadian per ounce), with the possibili-
ties of further pay-dirt being developed.
In addition, there is some 20,000,000 c.y.
of hydraulicking ground, recoverable
value 14 cents per yard, which the board
figures can be profitably worked. With
working costs, including royalty, at 12
cents per yard, a working profit of
$42,420,000 ($42.42 per share) is in
sight from the dredging gravels alone.
With the new units in operation, how-
ever, working costs, excluding royalty,
are expected to run out between 7 cents
and 8 cents per yard, compared with
the 9.88 cents averaged last year.
During the last term 60,000 new $5
shares, which brought with them
$911,306 of premium money, were put
out to heln nav for the new plants. A
record yardage was handled, and values
picked up, too:
Aver, per c.y.
Year to Treated, Recovery, oz.-> , J ' ——»
April, C. Yds. Gold. Silver. Gold.* \alue.
1932.. 558,800 6,891 3,541 5.96
1938.. 4,551,800 63,355 32,287 6.94 $0.37
1934.. 6,674,300 89,737 44,351 6.50 0.4 a
1935.. 9,920,700 127,901 56.653 6.24 0.40
1936. . 10,915,500 121,352 52,652 5.37 0.39
1937.. 11,197.000 137,325 59,038 5.92 0.43
* Includes silver values converted into gold.
Owing to the bouldery nature of the
wash encountered, however, No. 1 dredge
worked to only half-capacity, and field
expenses averaged 1.33 cents more per
yard:—
Year Dividends
to Proceeds. Costs, r~‘ Net Profit.! —\ r A
April, Bullion, c.y.* Amount. Share. Share. P.c.
$ Cents. $ $ $.
1933 1,696,394 1,200,001 1.57 Nil Nil
1934 2,995,561 9.15 2,085,699 2.73 1.20 24
1935 4.447,870 10.87 3,167,651 3.37 2.10 42
1936 4,359,057 10.70 2,973,320 3.16 2.80 56
1937 4,870,991 12.03 3,263,342 3.26 2.90 58
* Including royalties. t Allowing for amortisation.
After earmarking $322,634 (up $105,104)
for amortisation, the net result, which
includes $61,764 of interest, etc., sprang
$290,022, reaching 65.2 p.c. on capital as
it now stands. The div. was raised to
$2.90 per share, the final being of $1.50.
An interim of similar amount in respect
of the current term is payable on Dec.
10.
No. 1 dredge will close down for some
months during 1938, pending removal to
a new location, and erection of the plant
and superstructure on a new hull.
Finances are comfortable. Liquids
totalled $4,537,510 at last balance, sub-
ject to sundry creditors of $68,814 and
final div. of $1,500,000. Allowing tor
fipal div., free and specific reserves to-
gether then aggregated £10,055,109, of
-which £6,575,203 represents share pre-
miums.
On Sydney ’Change the $5 shares fetch
£6 18s. On a 60 p.c. ($3 per share) div.
basis return at that figure is approx. 11
p.c. For the three months following
close of accounts, the dredges dug
2,614,000 c.y.' for 32,0850 z. fine gold, a
recovery of 4.9 gr. per yard, excluding
silver content, or approx, the same as
last year’s average.
Lake View and' Star (W.A.) will pay
two p.c. (6d.) divs. on its 4s. shares
on Dec. 16. One is a final, making the
total distribution for the year to June 30
last 50 p.c., as against 52£ p.c. for the
previous term. Since formation in 1910
to acquire Lake View and Hannans Star,
the co. has taken over Chaffers (in 1915),
the Ivanhoe (in 1924), the Horseshoe (in
1929) and Associated (in 1934), and has
distributed £1,287,000 in divs. Original
capital was £200,000 ; the figure is now
£560,000. Ore reserves, which are at least
six years ahead of the mill, keep on ex-
panding. For th'S three months to the end
of September the co. treated 155,878 tons
ore and 174,444 tons tailings for a return
of £345,455, of which £141,666 was called
profit.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co, (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
• ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street. Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTV.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
# * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Houris field
“TENS’OMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Str-ppt Svdnev.—Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
“Some of the Hollywood stars speak half a
dozen different languages quite well.”
—Movie magazine.
One or two have even mastered Eng-
lish.
•F *F *F *F
“Some householders will throw their rubbish
anywhere so long as they get rid of it,” com-
plains a suburban alderman.
That’s over the fence!
•F *F *F *F
“Her average milk-yield was 633 gallons
daily.”— “Sun.”
A fair cow!
•F »F •£.
“Man half-strangles woman in dancehall.”
—News item.
It was only the ferocious expression
on his face that made the other male
patrons realise at last that he wasn’t just
dancing.
•f* *l* *!* *{*
“Many wives have to supply food for the
home.” — Woman's paper.
Others merely provide feud.
•F *F *F *F
“Divorce: Free v. Free; Foote co-respondent.
Petition granted with costs.”
So Free at last is really free;
And, sundered from his Jill,
Free from the care of costs goes he
For Foote must foot the bill.
H. M.
•F *F *F *F
“The man who takes up salesmanship should
not be content to remain one of the rank
and file.” — “D.T.”
No ; he should go after his commis-
sion.
•F *F *F *F
Liquidating an Escape.
“His consolation was that the door was
stout and would hold back the pursuers.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Not only that, but when they had got
through that stout door the porter would
further delay them. With this reflection
he continued his way in good spirits,
laughing at the jinn his imagination
had conjured up. By the time his pur-
suers reached the spot he would beer
long way away. What a lot of mugs
they were!
Hamer.
•F *F *F *F
“Tokio newspapers forecast a drastic re-
organisation of the Cabinet.” — “Sun.”
No doubt with a view to including a
full-time Minister of Regrets and
Apologies.
•F *F *F *F
“On Unimpeachable Authority.”
“The longer the campaign goes on the
better for the Chinese. Like Russia, China
presents a tremendous problem for invading
armies, as Napoleon found to his cost.”
—Wagga (N.S.W.) “Advertiser.”
The veil of secrecy hitherto preserved
over Bonaparte’s Far Eastern campaign
is lifted at last. From the personal let-
ters of Marshal Ney to Senator Hardy,
washed up in an oilskin package the last
time the ’Bidgee was in flood, the follow-
ing significant extracts are taken:
“After the Old Guard had taken pos-
session of the Imperial Palace, the Em-
peror had himself declared Suzerain of
all China, and it seemed that Asia, like
Europe, was his. But figure to your-
self, my General, the insidiousness of
these Celestial peoples.
“While professing the utmost friendli-
ness for Napoleon, the wife of the Dic-
tator here, working en alliance with an
American named —how you call it, the
knickerbox, hein?—sent special dis-
patches to an Australian paper. There
was another who sent messages to ‘Le
Cronk News,’ a journal in perfidious
Albion, so that the Archbishop of Can-
tab., parbleu, called meetings for the
boycott.
“This caused the Emperor grave annoy-
ance, what you call concern, and, fearing
that the sale of French almond rock
might be affected, he ordered withdrawal.
“Of the horrors of that march you have
heard, mon generate, how pak-a-pu broke
out in the army until many had scarcely
a sou; how we climbed the Siberian
Steppes, constantly harried by Soviet
propaganda ; how at last we came into
Russia, only to learn that M. Blum had
resigned and the franc was jigging again.
Figure then to yourself how mon cher
“Just in time , Edna—those hats are going like hot cakes!"
Emperor, landing at Moscow and find-
ing the place closed up, broke down,
went on the booze, sacked the whole
flamin’ bunch and declared his intention
of selling out and going to the bush.”
Sansculotte.
•F *F *F *F
“Charitable Institution Wants Perambu-
lators.”
Has it thought of applying to the
museum?
•F *F *F *F
“Residents of a Melbourne seaside suburb
have complained that parties swim at the beactf
at night in the nude.”
Strips that pass in the night.
*F *F *F *F
“Before the Caseys came into their inheri-
tance they were on the friendliest of terms with
the Hennessys. Now they walked past them
with their noses in the air.” —Short story.
Circumstances alter Caseys.
•F *F *F *F
“Petitioner said that her husband, Ernest
, regularly went on wild drinking bouts.
He had also lied to her that his drinking com-
panions were men. Actually, they were women.”
Now we know what the poet meant
when he referred to the “storied Era
and animated bust.”
“The man, who refused to give his name,
escaped serious injury, but he suffered many
cats about the face and hands.” — “Sun.”
Claude, then, was probably his name.
•5*
“Feminist leader says, ‘There is no logical
reason why a woman should not get a man’s
wages.’ ”
Well, doesn’t she?
•F *F *F *F
“At comparatively little expense, people dis-
satisfied with the shape of their ears can now
have them altered,” says a medical writer.
It can be done even more cheaply.
Just stamp hard on the toe of a burly
navvy as you get out of a tram and tell
him for two pins you’d dong him for
being so clumsy.
•F *P *F *F
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
Oyster farming attracts many hardy
souls along our vast coastline.
It may be argued that it is not so
much an occupation as a recreation. In-
deed, the popular conception of an
oyster cocky’s life is that he strolls down
to his “farm” every morning, yanks off a
few bags of oysters, eats nearly another
bag himself and then goes home to sleep
it off, happy in the knowledge that his
stock is working gratis for him 24 hours
a day by steadily growing, and that he
can give the horselaugh to droughts, fires
and the h.c. of fertiliser. Nor has he
even to resort to hand-feeding in a lean
season.
Although this is to a certain extent
true, it must be borne in mind that fill-
ing in his spare time isn’t his only prob-
lem. In any case, with the spawning
season lasting sometimes as long as six
weeks, he is compelled to work fever-
ishly during this period. Nor does he
just loaf around for the other 10|
months. He usually sets himself rigid
hours of work; say, from 12 noon to
1.15 p.m., with only an hour for lunch.
It is in the spring that the oyster’s
fancy, like the young man’s, turns to
thoughts of amorous dalliance. Having
seen that all the bivalves on his “farm”
are suitably mated, the cocky leaves
them to their domestic bliss while he
plays solitaire, collects stamps or pur-
sues any other hobby to which he may
be addicted. Some oyster farmers have
even been known to work during this
period of suspense—and real suspense it
is, for on the outcome of it depends his
future welfare.
In due course he goes to ascertain,
not without a certain trepidation, the
birthrate statistics for the season. If all
has gone well he will have plenty to do
for a few weeks, for he has to work fast.
If his calculations have not been astray
the eggs Will have been hatched out and
the tiny bivalves will be disporting them-
selves in the water under the proud eyes
of their parents. Should they be left to
their own devices, however, the small fry
would fall victims to lurking submarine
enemies or become engulfed in the mud
as they practised swimming strokes —a
natural urge which all young oysters
have to make the most of their natatory
opportunities, knowing they are fore-
doomed to spend most of their lives
clinging to something.
It is to save them from their own folly
that the farmer sets about capturing
them. Not only must he be fleet of foot,
but he must also be as light as a ballet
dancer on his feet, otherwise he might
crush his future means of profit as he
pursued them with his fine-meshed sieve
on a long pole.
Having pushed some rocks or man-
grove sticks vertically in the water (some
farmers put in their spare time arrang-
ing these artistically in the form of
grottoes, etc.) and close enough so that
the oysterlets can see each other and thus
won’t peter out from fright or nostalgia,
the cocky then ties each minute bivalve
to either rock or stick according to its
preference—this he finds out by experi-
ments conducted beforehand. This and
the tying on constitute the most tedious
work. Stout binder twine is used. It
must not be drawn too tightly, other-
wise the shellfish’s respiratory organs
might be adversely affected. The asthma
from which so many oysters suffer in
later life can often be attributed to this
cause.
It might be thought that, once the
oyster secured a firm grip on rock or
stick and had resolutely shut its face, it
would be immune from the attacks of
enemies. Far from it! One of the worst
enemies is the boring sponge, and humans
have at least a fellow-feeling for the
oyster which has
to put up with it.
But, whereas the
human variety can
be knocked back,
the marine sponge
keeps on boring
until it breaks the
shell. This is stiff
for the oyster, and
stiffer still for the
farmer.
Other enemies
are mussels, worms
and the oyster-eat-
ing trevally. Where
worms are in evi-
dence the oyster
has to be given a
strong dose of
castor oil or a
worm powder. The
trevally, to get at
the oyster, must
first crunch up the
shell. Thus he gets
a lot of grit with
his oysters, the
same as diners do in Greek restau-
rants. This accounts for the high
mortality among trevally from dyspepsia,
but the mortality among the oysters
attacked is higher.
Against all these enemies of his
charges the cocky must be constantly on
his guard. As the enthusiastic gardener
gives nocturnal chase to snails and slugs,
so does the oyster farmer pursue his bug-
bears ; in his case, however, he can make
quite a profit from his pests. Any prowl-
ing sponges caught are squeezed out and
graded, and sold to car-washing firms or
school requisite shops, according to size.
Mussels are put in the bottoms of bags of
oysters to make up weight, and the worms
are used as bait to catch the trevally,
which forms the other article of an
oyster farmer’s diet. Nothing, therefore,
is wasted.
It is during a sudden cold snap that
the farmer is busiest. The bivalve is
attached to its shell by a powerful muscle,
and when cold currents abound this often
becomes affected with muscular rheumat-
ism, thus seriously hampering the open-
ing and shutting of its shell. A brisk
massage is necessary to restore it to
normal.
Experiments have proved that oysters
which lead a calm, unexciting life thrive
best, and that they respond quickly to
music. This accounts for the luscious
examples secured by Italian oyster raisers
who sing “Funiculi Funicula.”
On the other hand, farmers on the
son. On the other hand, farmers on the
N.S.W. Macleay River who tried to play
accordions under water have met with
heavy losses.
So that their feet will not become soft
during the period in which it isn’t neces-
sary for them to tend the oyster beds,
farmers keep in form by walking for
several hours a day over specially pre-
pared strips of broken bottles, coral and
tacks.
S.W.K.
Not According to Plan.
Acording to a palmist the study of a man’s
hands gives a sure indication of his future
activities.”
He may be right, but, still, I ha’e ma
doots ;
In fact, I wouldn’t give a brace of hoots
For this advice. I tried it once — that’s all.
’Twas during — well, you might call it a
brawl.
A fellow in the pub, large and aggressive,
In language rather coarse but most ex-
pressive
Called me a kind of adjectival wart,
A pie-faced ape, or something of the
sort.
But when he waved a large fist near my
head
I then recalled the words the palmist
said,
And kept my eyes glued on his hands, to
prove
It possible to tell his every move.
But —damn the palmist and his theory !
A n upward-rushing boot I failed to see !
BO.
The Announcer.
Blabsworth’s great chance had come.
Dashwords had taken suddenly ill, and
he, Blabsworth, had been asked to act
as the station announcer. It was a posi-
tion he had always fancied, but now he
felt strangely nervous. Several times he
had rehearsed, but his voice sounded
hollow and unreal.
It was almost time now, and he tried
to brace himself for the ordeal, but the
effort brought a cold sweat to his
brow.
A light flashed on, and he made a
final effort to master his foolish nervous-
ness.
A rushing sound filled his ears, lights
flashed before his eyes, his tongue cleaved
to the roof of his mouth. He almost
fell, and then, strangely enough, his
voice rang out loud and clear: “Woop-
ville. Eight minutes for refreshments!”
O.W.W.


B.H.P. Rights.
B.H.P.’s affairs are mentioned
elsewhere on this page, and there
was a reference last week. The
rights to the new issue, at 305.,
may be bought to give an antici-
pated yield of £4 2s. per cent. A
holding should turn out well over
the next couple of years.
To-day, Elasta-Strap Sports
Trousers are even better!
df
INTRODUCED only a few years
ago, Elasta-Strap Self-Supporting
Trousers quickly proved themselves
the greatest modern improvement in
men’s wear. Don Bradman wears and
recommends only Elasta-Straps. A
the leading players at Tennis, Cricket,
Golf and Bowls are enthusiastic sup-
porters of Elasta-Straps. What more
does any player want ?
>NJ
Always celebrated for the Comfort,
Ease and Freedom of Action so
essential to the vigorous player, Elasta-
Straps have added yet another advan-
tage. The inclusion of the New
Tauttex Shirt-Controlling Feature in
the Plus Models means that your
old bogey the "bulging shirt” is fin-
ished. When even a silk shirt is
pulled out by violent action, Tauttex
works it back into snug and com-
fortable position. _
PRICES:
Elasta-Strap Pius Models .. front 17/6 55/ -
Elasta-Strap Regular Models, from 14/6 to 28/6
(according to type and quality of material)
Available in GREYS, CREAMS, FANCIES, etc. —the largest range ever offered
in Australia. . . . The Elasta-Strap Patent is obtainable m Shorts and Suits.
-Xt/iafp
INC TROUSERS
'TAUTTEX'
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and AH States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson in one handy and comprehensive volume.
This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has mad,e other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £l/1/-
Order now from the publishers—
Tb© Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
North B.H. and Souths
The reduction in the quarterly div. of
North Broken Hill recently, from Is. 6d.
to Is. 3d., was accompanied by a special
marking-down of that co.’s scrip in the
sharemarket. Broken Hill South kept its
rate at Is. 3d. During the past few days,
owing to weaker metals in London, the
drop in Norths as compared with Souths
shrank a bit by reason of the greater
weakness in Souths. On the day after
North’s div. announcement its scrip
sold at 555., down 2s. 6d.; South
shares changed hands at 41s. 3d., down
3d. There are 2,800,000 ss. shares in
the first-named co., 3,200,000 in the
second. Towards last week-end North
shares were at 535., Souths at 395. 6d.
Actually North, on a revenue basis, is
better equipped to pay its old rate of
Is. 6d. a quarter than South is to hand
out the present Is. 3d. every three
months. If metals keep at the prices
averaged during the first four months of
the present financial year it is possible
that 1936-37 results will be maintained.
But last week lead was about £7 a ton
below 1936-37 rates, zinc £5 below.
A comparison of the sources of in-
come, the outgo, net earnings and divi-
dend distributions of the two chief Bar-
rier cos. in respect of 1936-37 is inter-
esting :
North B.H. B.H. South.
Mine income £1,900,340 £1,653,261
All exes 1,116,772 994,631
£783,568 £658,630
Investment income .. 127,060 109,686
Net profit £910,628 £768,316
Divs., 1936-37 840,000 660,000
Forward £70,628 £108,316
Ore developed 8 yrs.
Lead, ton, 1936-37 .. £23 2s. Bd. stg.
Zinc, ton, 1936-37 .. £2O 2s. Id. stg.
Div. p.a. at last rate £700,000 £BOO,OOO
Lead, ton, July-Oct. .. £2l 9s. stg.
Zinc, ton, July-Oct. .. £2l 12s. stg.
Share prices—
-1937 high 925. 9d. 60s. 9d.
Oct. 27 575. 3d. 41s. 3d.
Nov. 5 535. Od. 395. 6d.
The 6s. a share paid by Norths last term
(2s. after the accounts had closed)
was Is. p.a. above its present (lower)
rate ; it called for all but £70,628 of the
year’s disclosed earnings. South paid
4s. for the year, which left £108,316
for reserves; last quarterly rate was lOjd.
p.a. higher. Though South, because of
its higher carry-forward at last balance-
day, can momentarily afford to be more
generous than North, it must soon fall
into line and reduce its div. —unless
metals recover sharply.
If the last divs. declared by North
and South were continued in respect of
the four quarters of this year, North
would distribute £700,000, South
£BOO,OO0 —100 p.c. in each case. To ex-
pect South to keep its div. up under
conditions which have compelled North
to reduce is absurd. Such a ratio
between cos. has never been main-
tained in the past, and isn’t likely to be
in the future —North is invariably the
bigger profit-earner, besides having
one-eighth less capital than South to
spread divs. over.
If South averages Is. a quarter this
year (calling for £640,000) and North
Is. 3d. (£700,000), immediate yield would
be, at last week’s market quotations, 9.2
p.c. Norths, 10 p.c. Souths. The former
mine, plus investments, etc., was valued
at £7,560,000 last week, the latter at
£6,400,000. Not for a long while have
they been so near together, and for less
real reason. The longer proved life of
the North (3£ years) and the greater
earning capacity (£142,000 above South’s
last year) are appraised on a capitalisa-
tion basis at only £1,160,000.
Following the subdivision of both cos.’
shares just a year ago, Souths sold at
40s. (about last week’s price), Norths
at 635. (9s. higher than last week’s quote).
Lead and spelter, averaged together, were
then a pound or two above last week’s
quotes. Though Norths have sometimes
appeared to be too high compared with
Souths, market ideas seem to be run-
ning the opposite way just now with a
vengeance.
Wool sold in Sydney during October
averaged 13.9 d., against J4.6d. in Sep-
tember. During the four months of the
season now elapsed 297,729 bales were
sold in the chief wool-market at a mean
price of 14.9 d. a pound, as against
355,401 bales averaging 13.8 d. in the
same period of 1936-37.
* * * *
Neon-sign scrip has been weaker
lately. It is a hard type of business for
the layman to understand, the signs being
manufactured at considerable cost and
rented to shopkeepers, etc., the cost
representing perhaps three, four or five
years’ rent. Made to his special design,
the value of the signs to the hiring co.
obviously depends on the shopkeeper’s
ability or willingness to continue paying
rent. It requires almost an actuary as
well as an accountant to estimate the
' true profit at the end of each year.
Where it takes several years for a co.
to recoup the cost of its signs before
clearing any definite profit it is neavily
handicapped, and often considerably in
debt.
* * * *
The first clean-up by Loloma (Fiji)
returned 1228 fine ounces from 1280
tons, exclusive of residues and loss in
plant. Head values were 34dwt., recov-
eries averaged 19.2dwt., tail values were
11.3dwt. The plant is expected to be
properly run in in about three months;
up to date the roaster has given much
trouble, and alterations and adjustments
are being made. All plants are likely to
give difficulty to start with; the wisdom
of feeding Loloma’s new mill with some
of the richest ore in the mine (overall
average grade is 26.8dwt., including pos-
sible ore) is doubtful. The sharemarket
did some skipping following the an-
nouncement of results. Successive sales
in Melbourne: 19s. 3d., 215., 19s. Id.,
19s. 9d., 19s. 2d., 195., 17s. 4d., 17s.
* # * *
Cumberland Paper ords., at about
28s. in Sydney last week, looked par-
ticularly good buying. This is the lowest
price for years. Return on an 8 p.c. div.
basis is 5.8 p.c. Australasian Paper ords.
are around 325. 6d.; the difference be-
tween the two issues isn’t justified. Cum-
berland participating prefs., also, have
special attractions.
# * # *
Producers and General Finance ords.,
after lifting to 14s. for a short while,
came back to 1 Is. last week.
* * * *
Output by B.H.P. steelworks showed
the first slackening in some months dur-
ing the four weeks to Oct. 24 ; steel pro-
duction (59,130 tons) fell off about 5000
tons. During the 20 weeks of the new
term which have now run, however,
aggregate steel figures (307,905 tons)
show an increase of 13.7 p.c. Broken
Hill Prop, scrip was just a shade weaker
last week, and the rights (30s. to make
them fully paid) sold as low as 305., as
against 665. for the paids. The differ-
ence of 6s. is not justified by the time
and div. factors, and to those buying
into B.H.P. for future benefits the ad-
vantages of the rights are obvious. The
new scrip is to be called up within two
years; in the meantime, if buyers have
the call money in hand already, it can
probably be invested to return 4 p.c.
until the co. asks for it. B.H.P. old scrip
returns £3 16s. p.c. on a \2\ p.c. div.
basis; the rights at 30s. would show
£4 2s. p.c. when fully paid, at the same
div. basis.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Mt. Morgan shares slipped back to 11s. Id.,
after rising to above 12s. Lancefields toppled
further, to 6s. Bd., following publication of
poorer monthly working results. Emperor
scrip showed a strengthening on the week at
13s. Id.
North Broken Hills were sold heavily.
B.H. Prop, paids and rights also had a large
turnover.
Australian Glass (higher) and G. J. Coles
(lower) were traded in extensively. Holeproof
ords. (B. 3/11/’37) continued to change hands
at 275., and looked interesting at the price.
King Island Scheelite 25.-paids slipped
back to Is. 9d. following a substantial fall in
the London price of wolfram. The prospectus
didn’t expect the prevailing high prices to be
maintained, but maybe speculators did.
Normanby Tin was less active following the
slump in the metal.
The Napoleon (8.M.L.) and Nell Gwynne
(8.M.L.) mines announced a suspension of
operations owing to poor mining results and
weakened finances.
Flotation of the Big Ben (Zeehan), an off-
shoot of Montana Western, would be pro-
ceeded with, it was announced. Titles are now
said to be in order. Montana Western
scrip sold down to 6s. sd.
Placer Development scrip improved to
745.
Golden Plateaus were slightly weaker
around 14s.
E., S. and A. Bank shares sold at £5 13s.
United Provisions ords. could be picked
up at 7s. 3d., and at that price had some
attractions. Though no ord. div. was paid last
term, the operating cos.’ figures were down
by only £7OOO-odd.


The finest
and
Safest
Oil qet
produced
by the Petroleum
Industry
Ash your Service
Station Man —he
will tell you more
about
JAe /tea/
MOTOR OIL
120.48?
THE TEXAS COMPACT (AUSTRALASIA) LTD. (INC. IN N.S.W.)
Whakatane Paper Mills
The Whakatane (Bay of Plenty, M.L.)
works are being designed to turn out
12,000 tons of groundwood pulp and
20,000 tons of paper-board a year. Cost
is estimated at £500,000, operations to
commence during the current term, which
ends on June 30, 1938. At date of last
accounts £148,312 had been laid out on
the buildings and mill proper; the other
£350,000 involved is partly covered by
cash in hand (£186,893), Government
securities, etc. (£28,456), and partly by
uncalled capital (£180,380).
The building programme is reported
to be well forward, most of the mill
equipment having been delivered ; finish-
ing touches will be put on early in
1938, the board hopes. The co. is lucky
in having ordered its plant before
the big rise in prices. Experimental log-
ging has been carried out on one of the
plantations, and large-scale operations
are planned to start with the running-in
of the plant.
Just over 12 years have elapsed since
the co. started off, selling bonds to
finance plantings of Pinus insignis in
Maoriland. Timberlands Woodpulp,
Ltd., was the name taken in 1929, and a
change to the present title occurred in
1933, when a commencement was made
on the conversion of bonds into
shares. With the exception of a few
bonds still outstanding in A and B series,
capital is now all represented in shares.
Many and varied have been the tales
of promise told by forestry-bond sales-
men over the last 15 years; in Whaka-
tane’s case the testing period is right at
hand. From a financial point of view
the co.’s position and that of its sub-
sidiaries could be summed up as follows
at the last three annual balances:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital £1,620,513 £1,774,457 £1,892,649
Land debts .. 51,250 36,250 21,250
Trust fund .. 20,456 17,552 16,240
Other debts .. 6,163 1,229 1,557
Forests, etc. 1,010,622 1,055,697 1,054,009
Plant, railways,
etc 14,638 46,553 185,452
Debtors .. 2,440 480 919
Shares.. .. 1,920 1,920 1,920
Consols, etc. .. 188,829 119,512 28,456
Public Trustee 20,456 17,552 16,240
Cash .. .. 52,780 152,665 186,893
Establishment 409,447 436,111 459,805
Bonds to start with brought in £2O per
acre, rising to £55 as time went on.
Land and forests, now written up to
£1,054,009, cost something more than
£400,000. In the revaluation that fol-
lowed conversion of bonds into shares,
55 £1 shares were exchanged for each
bond. Of 69,000 acres of forest owned,
41,000 acres represent the original plan-
tation, 21,000 acres were planted later,
and 7000 acres are native timber bought
in 1933. The more mature trees from
the smaller block will be milled first; it
is 25 miles up the Rangitaki River from
the mill. To June last £29,680 had been
spent on a railway.
The co. is facing a period of higher
costs and charges, thanks largely to the
Savage Government’s administration, but
world prices of wood-pulp, etc., have
also lifted. The value of the Whaka-
tane undertaking as an investment clearly
depends on the co.’s ability to make a
technical success of its products and to
sell them at a profit. The value of the
plantations as well as the £500,000 mill
will depend on that. On a selling-up
basis, for the £1 ord. shares to be worth
20s. cash, fixed assets would need to
bring £459,805 (the total of establish-
ment, etc., exes, capitalised) more than
their written-up book value. The Com-
monwealth has about a 50 p.c. interest in
Whakatane’s share-register, Westralia
figuring noticeably.
At Australasian Paper and Pulp’
annual meeting someone suggested that
shareholders wouldn’t have paid ss. a
share premium when the last issue was
made if they had known the £1,000,000
6 p.c. pref. issue by the operating co.
was contemplated. He also said that
existing shareholders should have been
given an opportunity of taking up the
whole of that pref. issue, thereby saving
underwriting exes. Chairman Hugh Deni-
son replied that when the pref. issue was
made a Commonwealth loan and several
public co. issues were about to be floated.
“Actual applications made by share-
holders have shown that if the co. had
relied on their subscriptions there would
have been a deficiency of £400,000.” The
reply doesn’t hang together well. At
the time of issue it was announced that
the 100,000 shares offered to the public
were “heavily oversubscribed” —3£ times,
to be exact; it is a fact also that this
scrip was selling at a premium of 2s.
before applications by A.P. and P.
shareholders had actually closed. The
whole dissatisfying business was criti-
cised here in B. 12/5//37.


FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Cup: Ajax, if started,
wise: John Wilkes, 1 ;
Crusader, 2 ; Nightguard, 3.
Altona Trial: Campaspe.
Ozone Highw^ight:
Lad ; next, Judean.
Other-
Young
Thurles
FOR ROSEHILL.
Clyde Handicap: Beaupre ; next,
Stalin or The Marne.
November Handicap: High ;
next, Forestage.
Novice Handicap: Palarang;
next, Heracles.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Darcy Eccles and his trainer, S. W.
Reid, are walking on air as a result of
The Trump’s sequence of spring vic-
tories. Apart from what he won in
stakes and straightout wagers, Eccles
was laid £13,500 to £lOOO by a man who
drew The Trump in a sweep. Eccles’s
horse has been hailed as the greatest
galloper for his inches in Australian his-
tory. He may even be conceded that
honor, though Diffidence, winner of the
1899 Sydney Cup, could have competed
in 14.2 events. The Trump, however,
marred his reputation by finishing last in
a field of five for the C. B. Fisher Plate.
Never had there been such a farcical
contest for that Plate. It wasn’t so much
that the 1| miles occupied 2min. 42sec.
Phar Lap (1930) took 2min. and
Nightly (1934) was 2min. 53isec. on the
journey. But in those years the spectacle
didn’t occur of horses piling on each
other at the turn out of the straight,
where four jockeys “strangled” their
mounts and even the slothful Black Mac
was pulling hard.
Fifty seconds ticked off before the first
three furlongs was traversed! Astounded
spectators yelled their disapproval. At
length McMenamin took the initiative by
rushing Sarcherie to the front, and the
grand old mare drew out for a lead of
six lengths at the half-way stage.
The Trump and Allunga were nearest
of the others. Black Mac, because
of the muddling pace early, had been
able to take up a much handier striking
position than is usual in his case. Com-
ing to the half-mile pole Black Mac made
a brilliant run on the outside. Close to
Sarcherie as they swung into the straight,
he wore her down and scored by 1|
lengths, with Sarcherie a neck in advance
of Allunga. Two lengths farther away,
Prince Quex defeated The Trump by
half a length for fourth.
Horses returned to scale amidst hoot-
ing from hill and flat. Paddock punters
seemed too dazed for speech. It was a
result to gladden the hearts of ringmen.
Oodles of money had been stacked on
The Trump at 6 to 4, with strong sup-
port for Allunga at 9 to 4, and Sarcherie
far from neglected at fives. There was
no difficulty in securing 10 to 1 about
Black Mac; actually double those odds
was laid.
It may be that The Trump was feeling
the need of a spell. All his wins had
been achieved by narrow margins and
under distressing conditions. Certainly
there was no fire in the little gelding’s
finishing effort on Saturday.
The merit of Ajax’s achievement in
the Linlithgow Stakes on Thursday was
enhanced by Young Idea in the Final
Handicap. Percy Miller’s stallion equalled
the Flemington record for \\ miles and
beat his rivals as decisively as Ajax had
beaten him.
Young Idea completed a double for
Miller, who had annexed the Flemington
Stakes earlier in the afternoon with Good
Boy (Constant Son-Flimsy). This colt
was bought at the Easter sales by Steve
Murphy for lOOOgns. Murphy sold Good
Boy back to Miller (his breeder), recently,
but continues to train him. The young-
ster is out of the dam of Panto and
Olympian, two high-class Westralian per-
formers.
Last day results at Flemington were de-
cidedly in favor of bookmakers. Night-
guard (11 to 8 favorite) annexed the
opening event, On Approval (11 to 4) was
the second choice of backers in the
Ottawa Stakes and Young Idea (6 to 1)
went out next in request to Genetout
(6 to 4) in the Final Handicap. But the
other four winners spelt disaster to
punters, Good Boy starting at 12 to 1,
Black Mac and Old Rowley each at
“tens,” and Pride of the Plain at 8 to 1.
Old Rowley was this Page’s tip for the
Metropolitan. Half a dozen jockeys were
tried on him without success until, in a
happy moment, Scully, the owner-trainer,
engaged Badger to ride the chestnut in
the V.R.C. Handicap. It meant putting
up 21b. overweight, but, galloping more
kindly for Badger than for any of the
others, except Knox (and the suspension
of Knox obliged the stable to make
other Metrop. arrangements), Old Rowley
gained a notable victory. Coming with a
great finishing run, he cut down Silver
Standard and beat that dreadfully un-
lucky animal by half a length, Willie Win
and Donaster breaking even for third,
three-quarters of a length away. Willie
Win was favorite. Old Rowley ran the
mile and three-quarters in the excellent
time of 2min. 58sec.
In the Metrop'. Old Rowley gave 14
horses a start into the straight and fin-
“Bob Polly, bob Digger, bob Saucy Sal, bob Willie Win —is this a race
or a bobbin?"
ished a close fourth, lengths ahead of the
fifth horse. Possibly if Knox had ridden
him he would have won. Silver Standard
(second) conceded him 161 b. that day.
On Saturday the difference was 181 b.
Evidently the right jockey means more
to stayers like Old Rowley and Bristol,
who have to be driven along all the way,
than a weight advantage gained by put-
ting up another boy. So far only
McCarten has been able to get the best
out of Bristol. And Kelso couldn’t put
McCarten up in Melbourne, for obvious
reasons.
* * * *
Bookmakers lost on the Flemington
meetings, but not nearly so much as has
been alleged by sympathetic newspapers.
The two-Cups double was a source of
great profit to them ; very few laid The
Trump twice. On Oaks day Sackville
(Windbag-Golden Beauty) came to their
rescue in the Carnival Handicap. He
started at 14 to 1 and paid £5 17s. for
each ss. toted. Pilot, the 5-to-4 favorite,
failed to gain a place. Liberty, a Pan-
theon colt of whom more will be heard,
made the running. Sackville was some-
what lucky to score by half a neck from
Pantoon, who came from a long way
back at the half-way stage and beat The
Trump’s stable-mate Ronsardian by half
a head for second.
“Tracker”: Liberal’s daughter Ena was
dreadfully unlucky in the Oaks Stakes.
Leaving the straight she encountered in-
terference, stumbled and dropped back
second to last in a field of 10. She put
up a splendid effort to run third, 2\
lengths behind Ortelle’s Star, who lost to
Prairie Moon by \\ lengths. Breeze
was another unfortunate one ; McMena-
min’s saddle slipped forward near the
home turn. McMenamin essayed to steal
the race, and the Sydney filly held a
commanding lead when things went wrong
with the gear. It was a disastrous day
for McMenamin, as Gay Blonde broke
down with him in the Veteran Stakes
when going well.
“0.K.”: Scobie stated before the
Melbourne Cup that Hua never had been
ridden in strict accordance with his in-
structions. He remarked, “In the classic
races Ajax has been allowed to lead,
and whenever he eased up the other
horses would drop back also. I wanted
Hua to be with him all the way. My
colt had speed enough, and his stamina
was superior.” But in the Cup, though
Hua led into the straight, he immediately
started to hang out and soon was beaten.
“Double”: Sydney visitors profited by
their loyalty to Young Crusader in the
Veteran Stakes. Adopting tactics that had
enabled the Caledon stallion to win the
Metrop. of 1936, Preston drew out for a
long lead. Prince Quex (topweight and
favorite) suffered by having to lead the
pursuit. He did well to finish 2\ lengths
behind Young Crusader. Young Cru-
sader carried the colors worn by Blue
Metal when he won the Australian Cup
of 1902. The late “W. T. Nowlan” had
two sons. By mutual arrangement one
adopted his father’s nom-de-course and
the other his colors. Young Crusader is
owned by “W. Biey.” His brother, the
present “W. T. Nowlan,” is Bill Long-
worth, amateur billiards champion of
New South Wales.
* * * *
The Baralongs are showing that they
can gallop. Asolus, one of the Baralong
two-year-olds, has won two races for
Randwick trainer Peter Riddle. He
scored at Canterbury and again at
Moorefield on Saturday—at 7 to 4 on.
zFolus has started on six occasions, proof
that he is tough. His dam is Queen of
Night, a Comedy King mare related to
The Trump and Heroic. Riddle got him
for 150 guineas at the Easter yearling
sales; he came into the ring third, when
big buyers had not arrived.
Another of this year’s bargains was
Jovial Son. Former jockey C. Ryan
gave 200 guineas for him on behalf of
Mesdames Burnstein and Gilewich. He
has won three races in their colors, and
looks like winning more. Starting at 5
to 4, he donkeylicked El Senorita and
Sheila March in the Moorefield Handi-
cap, and on that form he now looks a
Summer Cup proposition. El Senorita
was beaten for the lead by Sheila March,
and finished a very tired horse.
Korimako (evens) was not allowed to
make the running in the Carlton Mile
as she did at Canterbury. George
Browne, who is riding in good form,
waited with her until the three-furlongs
pole was passed, and the rest was a pro-
cession. The Marne, after meeting with
a check along the back, ran on to get
second place without extending the mare.
Flamari was third and Grand Warbler
fourth.
Stalin was always favorite for the first
division of the Flying Welter. Five to
two was offered, but the handsome fellow
started at 7 to 4. He defeated Night ol
Love and Moaenza with ease, with
Cooranga fourth. In the second division
Idle Words led from barrier-rise to box.
The Magpie mare gave the Ring a
“skinner.”
Sedunum (8 to 1) was another who led
throughout—the Kogarah Stakes it was.
He looked all right, but eased in the bet-
ting from fours. Holbein and Prender-
gast chased him over the last half-mile,
but were outclassed. Sedunum is trained
at Warwick Farm.
Kweiling (8 to 1) captured the first
division of the Maiden Three-year-Old,
but had Goliath secured a run early he
might have scored. Goliath, a big geld-
ing by David, did not manage the small
track well. Magsman (5 to 4) jumped
out in the second division, and won in
taking style. He is a promising gallope*
who can still be improved. His sire,
Magnitude, by Magpie, cost 500 guineas
as a yearling, but never raced.
* * * *
Another good Spearfelt has come to
light in Queensland —Spear Chief, by
Spearfelt-Serevale. He is owned (in part)
and trained by W. A. Tucker, and Queens-
landers are already predicting that he will
equal the deeds of his sire. The Guineas
race was easy for him, and in a slow
Derby on Saturday the colt was never
in trouble. Roi Sion represented N.S.W.,
but could not get a place, Spear Chief
being followed home by Desolation (The
Buzzard-Inclination) and Buoyant Son
(Buoyant Bachelor-Miss Alison).
Spear Prince, an odds-on favorite for
the C. A. Morris Stakes, a 10-furlongs
w.f.a. race, failed badly. Ribbleson
(Seremond-Ribble), the outsider of the
party of four, stole the race, winning by
seven lengths from Direct Lady and First
Buzzard. The Brisbane Handicap, an
excellent betting race, went to Myall
Prince (6 to 1) from Backare and Brink-
burn. Old Milantheon and Verdun—
who had shown some form since his
return from his disappointing trip to
N.S.W.—were among the unplaced lot.
(Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
The first of the season’s Sheffield
Shield matches began in Brisbane on
Friday, but by Monday morning there’d
been less than two hours’ play.
N.S.W. —playing Queensland, of course
• —batted first. Fingleton (10) went early,
and three were down for 33. Then Mc-
Cabe, dropped before he was in double
figures, went for the runs. He had 23
to his name when they knocked off on
Friday, and was still there with 70 (44
in fours) to begin on Monday morning.
There was a late start on Monday
(more rain). But when they did get going
McCabe made after the century; he got
it, with the score at three for 153.
* * * *
In Adelaide the Maorilanders met
S.A. They had first use of the wicket,
and were all out for 151 at the end of
the first day,' Grimmett (three for 21)
and Ward (four for 59) troubling most
of them. Weir (38 —two sixes, one off
Grimmett and the other off Ward,
among them) did best, and Maloney (25)
and Page (21 n. 0.) helped. At stumps
South Australia had lost two for 64,
with Badcock (34) and Bradman (11) to
open on Saturday. Badcock got a single ;
then Bradman was out first ball, caught
behind off Cowie. For a time Badcock
went into his shell, but with Hamence
(56) he took the score to 238 ; then he
was out himself —114. Waite added 45.
It finished at 331 Ward, 41 n. 0.;
Cowie, three for 72; Vivian, three for
84. The Maorilanders’ fielding was good;
the bowling was just accurate.
{Continued on naee 30.)


No man over 40 can ignore the danger curve!
Immediate results in Health and
Appearance are apparent to the wearer
of a modern, scientifically-designed
“CLASSIC”
REDUCING BELT
By a perfect gentle massage action the “Classic”
Belt gradually converts useless bearing down fat
into strong muscles. Easy . . . comfortable . . .
inconspicuous to wear.
Priced from .... 12/6
SPECIAL SILK
ELASTIC SLI P-0 N
ENGLISH MODEL,
£3/3/-
Expert fitting by Prin-
cipal.. .Private Fitting
Room . . . satisfaction
guaranteed. Pharmacy
and Surgical Supplies,
ground floor.
r
MICK SIMMONS Ltd.
lIAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC. INNOCUOUS.
df
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Hundreds
in use. She'll Oil
Co., 53 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals.
Schools. Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SAVE £5O WITH A
MASTER
DE
LUXE
CHEVROLET
You Want An All-Steel Body
CHEVROLET MASTER HAS IT—the
finest, most expensive all-steel body made
—the Holden Unisteel Turret Top Body.
You Want Thrilling Performance
CHEVROLET MASTER'S BLUE FLAME
ENGINE HAS IT—You can’t credit till
you drive the Master that an engine so
luxuriously smooth could be built into so
low-priced a car.
You Want Complete Safety
CHEVROLET MASTER GIVES IT—with
Unisteel Body, Perfected Hydraulic
Brakes, Independent Front Wheel Spring-
ing as used by all European Racing Cars
for better road holding and greater safety,
and Armourplate Safety Glass in Wind-
screen and all Side Windows.
You Want Maximum Comfort
CHEVROLET MASTER GIVES IT! For
Chevrolet Master gives you Independent
Front Wheel Springing instead of cheaper,
old-type springing which some higher-
priced cars still obstinately retain.
You Want an O.H.V. Engine
CHEVROLET MASTER HAS IT! Every
record on sea, land and air is held by an
overhead valve engine.
You Want Most Miles per Gal.
CHEVROLET MASTER GIVES IT. In a
recent test by a leading oil company
Chevrolet gave 24jJ miles per gallon.
You Want Perfected Hyd. Brakes
CHEVROLET MASTER HAS THEM-
Hydraulic Brakes of It inch instead of
other cars’ 10 inch drums—and with
doubly-articulated brake shoes. You get
full contact between shoes and drums . . .
even wear . . . better braking with
lighter pedal pressure.
You Want High Resale Value
CHEVROLET MASTER HAS IT—in a
degree possessed by no other. The Used
Car Columns prove that.
General Motors - Holden’s Limited
Buy on the
Convenient
Confidents
G.M.A.C.
Payment
Plan.
55
u
And revise
.. QC t MORE
You don’t »' eceSSar ‘ V Ust e CVievrolet-
tWs: u , WlostT * L Master
a ° ESS. You
Mas' sr
W9V»«r P*—ou' actua'W °> eV Spring^
<« """ ‘* ToveAe-J V »!:‘i"Vi *•*'•
Ma sVer 7 , s*° r Y- . oV/n
? art ° -save V* oV,n
i Finer*
S nW P a
ho* Y oU
can
3523
L#^'-
mm
C 575.33
The MASTER CHEVROLET
Consult your local Authorised
Chevrolet Dealer
Under the Whip
Flemington Reflections.
A great little horse won the 77th Mel-
bourne Cup and amply compensated his
owner, Eccles, for previous misfortunes in
Cup races. The Trump is Australian-
bred, like his sire, Manfred, and in his
veins courses the blood of Cyllene, Mar-
tagon, Persimmon, Carbine, Ladas, La
Fleche and Chelandry. A bay gelding, in
his sixth year he has everything except
size—speed, stamina, gameness, docility
and cleverness in a field. He resembles
Windbag in being able to get up top
speed in a few strides and in taking a
breather, as it were, when he has done his
job. No unnecessary exertion for this
knowing little animal!
It was 31 years since a horse —Posei-
don, it was —carried off the two Cups,
and The Trump has made racing history
by winning the Toorak Handicap, the
Caulfield Cup, the Mackinnon (formerly
the Melbourne) Stakes and the Mel-
bourne Cup in the same year. And on
that first Tuesday in November nearly
every one of the 98,000 people who
passed through the Flemington turnstiles
•—there were thousands more on the ris-
ing ground beyond the Saltwater River —■
agreed that if those four races could
have been run over again he would have
done the same again with a clear run in
each.
In the Melbourne Cup race he had 27
horses to beat. Weight of public money
brought him from 7 to 1 to 11 to 2.
Hua and Sir Regent were at the same
price, it being 10 to 1 (Mala and Balkan
Prince), bar the three. The Trump, who
was admirably ridden by Reed, did not
hit the front until he had travelled 15
furlongs, but he had always been well
up. In a few strides he had cut down
Willie Win and made the race his own,
his advantage at the finish being half a
length, though he could obviously have
made it more. A great race for second
between Willie Win and Sarcherie (each
was 40 to 1) ended in the Maoriland geld-
ing’s favor, but a mere half-head pre-
vented the mare from establishing a
unique record —that of being runner-up
for the third time. In line with the judge’s
box as she passed it was Shadow King,
who was second twice and third twice
in Melbourne Cups. Looking quite gay
the old fellow stood on the steeplechase
track, ridden by a mounted constable.
Fourth was Allunga—a sterling per-
formance with 9st. lib., especially as the
time was very fast (3min. 2Hsec.).
Behind the topweight were Donaster and
Gay Knight, who was finishing faster
than anything in the race except The
Trump.
The three-year-olds didn’t run nearly
as well as this Page expected ; but their
time may come. John Wilkes was sixth,
and at one stage his rider thought he
was going to win, but the K.C.’s colt died
on his run. Hua took charge of his
jockey. Starting on the extreme outside,
he was in front when they had gone a
furlong or so, and had the lead again
half a mile from home. He ran wide at
the home turn, and that was the end of
him. Elliott was suspended for a month
f or crossing too sharply. Bristol was gal-
loping rather nicely until he got into a
scrimmage going out of the straight—•
Vaalmore was another sufferer—and
dro pp ed back into the ruck, from which
never eme rged. He beat about as
man y as beat him.
Balkan Prince, Black Mac, Silver
Standard, Wotan, Mala and Old Rowley
were disappointments. Sir Regent dweit
at the post, and his chance had gone
when he condescended to leave He
wrenched a stifle and will have to be
spelled for some months.
That the three-year-olds are a better
j ot than t j lose Q £ j ast y ear ’ s vintage—
Mal Gold Rod} Xa i k i ng an d the rest-
was indicated by Ajax when he won the
Linlithgow Stakes on the Thursday like
a c b a mpion miler. Pamelus tried to
make a race Q f it with the chestnut, but
wa§ ou tdassed, and it was reserved for
Yo ung Idea and King’s Head to chase
home. The bookmakers demanded
tQ They had had a gruelling on
G day when four favorites won,
among them Mohican, whose victory (at
5 2) in the Yan Yean stakes was his
third in succession on Melbourne courses.
Mohican ran his mile in lmin. 36}sec.
Ajax cut that time to lmin.
The Allies are not bad either. Prairie
Moon, winner of the Oaks, did her mile
and a half in 2min. 32sec.; she was
second favorite at 3 to 1. All the same,
she would have been beaten if she hadn’t
nearly knocked Ena (third) off her feet,
an offence for which Wilson, Prairie
Moon’s rider, was suspended for a month,
Incidentally, the riding at Flemington
was, on the whole, nothing to write
home about, and so far there have been
no successors to Pike and Duncan.
Cup dividends were: The Trump, £1
17s. 6d. and 18s. 6d.; Willie Win, £2 Is.
and Sarcherie £4 10s. 6d.—all for ss.
Considering that Sarcherie was ridden
by McMenamin, the most fashionable
Sydney jockey, a dividend of £lB 2s. for
£1 was astonishing—it would have been
nothing like that had the race been run
at Randwick. The amount toted on the
Cup race was £35,471 55.; on the six
£l N^n l ul 0S «toe Olh we« S AJC
committeemen and Sidney politicians'in
the crowd, and it is to be hoped that they
will be able to convince their Sydney
Government that it is largely because of
55.-each-way tote betting and a 10 p.c.
(not 12£ p.c.) deduction that Melbourne
racing is so much more prosperous than
Sydney racing-that and _ the extirpa-
lon 0 P ro P ne ary c u s.
t
“L-A.S.’ : Further to my par. (B.
20/10/ 37), the Rockhampton betting
shops were open on Melbourne Cup Day
for the first time since the closure. Prior
to the publication of that par. not one
Australian paper had published a word
about the unfair incidence of the new
Act on country-town punters who can’t
attend capital-city race meetings. It
expressed in a few sentences what thou-
sands of decent Queensland citizens have
been thinking on the subject. They had
been ruthlessly deprived of a convenience
to which they felt themselves as much
entitled as punters who bet on capital-
city courses. Now, perhaps, the Queens-
land Government will make legislative
provision for registered country-town
shop-betting. Before the embargo most
wem mLTon tyXey” and °L“
"ces. There had for years been almost
a country punters boycott on Brisbane
races, because the iorm was so mcon
( Continued on next page.)


<<P
G' S '
9^
&
"silver edge"
BRAKE LININGI
BRAKE TROUBLES
/
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brakt
lining or mal- adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYJ3ESTOS” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.PiO. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic
&
ACCUft Acy
An accurate tyre gauge is a real asset. A gauge
you can rely on for years is worth far more
than one that is unreliable after a few
months’ use. Pay an extra shilling or
two for a Kismet “CADET”
and enjoy those extra
years of accuracy.
f 1
rtf
7'6
K
TY
Calibrated 0-501 b. in
lib. units clearly
marked. In neat
leather wallet.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
P.O. Box 71,
Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER &
BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffie’j,
England.
sistent. Anyway, Queensland shops will
open again, whether the press parrots
the wishes of bloated race clubs or not.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: England’s long-distance
handicap the Cesarewitch, run at New-
market over two miles and a quarter,
was won by Punch, a four-year-old
horse by Lancegrave. Fet was runner-
up ; he won last year, but this time was
beaten by a length. Solar Bear, the
favorite, was third. The winner went
out at 17 to 1 and Fet at 20 to 1. An
Australian horse won this marathon
event —Merman, in 1897.
Ins and Outs
“Jachris”: Ponsford has Been chosen
for the Grimmett-Richardson testimonial
match. He’s in Richardson’s lot, and
will probably partner Badcock, with Mc-
Cabe following. Richardson has ajikely
lot of bowlers, too —headed by O’Reilly,
Grimmett and McCormack. Bradman,
for his part, has Fingleton and Brown —
neither of them has shown much form
so far this season —with FI.-Smith, Ward
and Lush to do the trundling. It begins
in Adelaide on November 26.
* * * :J:
“Five Ways”: Queensland colts made
an abject showing against their N.S.W.
opposite numbers at Brisbane, going
down by an innings and 102 runs. Banana-
land scored 108 and 140, skipper laoxton
topping with 53 in the second innings,
while Mahoney showed grit in making
36 n.o. and 38. N.S.W. ran up 350,
McCauley (81), Saggers (63), Beattie (54)
and Stapleton (50) contributing. Fast-
bowler O’Brien provided a headache for
the Bananalanders, taking 3 for 25 and
6 for 22.
* # * *
“Aigburth”: The announcement of the
terms offered the Australian cricket ama-
teurs for the next English tour of the
Australian eleven has produced the
periodical protest from the English press
ag'ainst these players, paid a £6OO bonus
and £2 10s. a week while on tour, con-
tinuing to pose as “amateurs.” There
was something in the squeal in the days
when the professionals in England were
herded off from the amateurs and stayed
at different hotels and us'ed . separate
dressing-rooms and exits, but to-day
most of those snobberies have gone.
The professional has come to be re-
garded even in England as much of the
same clay as the amateur, and about the
only distinction remaining is seen when
the English press prints scores showing
the professional as “Jones” and the ama-
teur as “J. B. Smith.”
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: In a lecture in England
Sutcliffe asserted that Bradman, while
the best batsman in the world on good
pitches, has never done much on rain-
affected ones. There is not an Austra-
lian batsman to-day of whom the same
cannot be said, and the reason is the
same —covering of wickets. In the days
before wickets were covered any number
of Australian batsmen could make big
scores on the vilest of pitches; Mc-
Donnell, Graham, Worrall and Trumper
were only a few of them.
* * * * .
“Aigburth”: Some of the English
papers see dark design in every sugges-
tion put forward by Australian cricketers.
London “Daily Sketch” has unearthed
a typical instance of Australian villainy
in the suggestion that Test matches in
England be extended to five days. Wails
the rag, “History shrieks that we are
just the sort of philanthropic mutts to
hand over this aid to our enemy with
a bow and our compliments.” In con-
clusion, “If the M.C.C. shuts off its
wireless and listens hard it will hear
them cheering in Australia, especially
Bradman, who has not abandoned the
youthful dream of making an innings of
400 on English turf.”
V * * *
The N.S.W. Cricket Association’s
Annual for 1936-37 is one of the best
sixpennorths that ever came out of a
printing press. In addition to all the
usual features, this edition contains full
details of the tour of the last English
eleven through Australia.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandy Gallop”: A number of poor
but deserving golfers had their hopes
dashed when the Queensland Golf Coun-
cil discussed extending the handicap
limit from 2'5 to 27, this last figure being
the limit in N.S.W. and Victoria.
Visions of handing in cards less reminis-
cent of Bradman’s cricket scores faded
when some nark pointed out that in
Britain the limit is 24. The council de-
cided that the original limit should stand.
* * * *
"Prestwich”: British professional
golfers have decided that, in stroke play,
a ball on the putting green shall not be
lifted as heretofore. The rule states
the ball can be lifted or played at the
option of its owner when requested by
his playing partner. In future the ball
nearest the hole if blocking the line of
“Thais what y' get fr not backslammin im wen I give y ’ th’ office !”
the other is to be played first. The
reason is that lifting often gives rise to
argument over replacement in the cor-
rect position of a lifted ball. And there
are other drawbacks.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Though Norman
Brookes and Gerald Patterson have ex-
pressed themselves against the sending
away of a Davis Cup team next season
the bellow press is insistent that this be
done, it being the job of others and not
themselves to make bricks without straw,
The A.L.T.A. has weakly decided to ask
the State associations for an opinion. As
one Sydney paper remarks, “The answer
is likely to be in the affirmative, for the
States know the head body has plenty of
Davis Cup funds.”
* * * *
“Baseline”: The American tennis
girls are in Sydney, and nice young
things, too. Norman Brookes has said
that he gave a special undertaking in the
U.S.A. that they should not be unduly
worked. The A.L.T.A.’s idea of a nice,
easy time can be seen from the itinerary
fixed for Miss Bundy and Miss Work-
man. After playing in the N. S. Wales
championships, they go to Brisbane and
then return to Sydney. Melbourne will
then see them in the Victorian cham-
pionships ; and so to Tassie and back
to Melbourne. Then a short jaunt to
Perth, to be followed by a visit to Adel-
aide for the Australian title events, start-
ing January 21.
*“* * *
“Milton”: The courts on which the
Queensland tennis championships were
played were wet when Bromwich (con-
queror of Quist) and McGrath met in
the final. Bromwich won hands down,
the fact that he played in spikes
while McGrath had none making little
difference to the result. Bromwich and
Quist' won the doubles. Queensland
scored in the women’s doubles (Mrs.
Westacott and Miss Hardcastle) and the
mixed doubles (Wilkinson and Miss
Niemeyer).
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Germany must be added
to the list of those tennis countries ask-
ing for an alteration of the Davis Cup
rules. The suggestion is that qualifying
matches should decide the best eight
teams, as far as Europe is concerned,
these playing off for the championship of
the European zone. An “overseas zone”
would see America, Australia, South
Africa and Japan competing for the right
to meet the European winners to decide
the challenging nation. The impracti-
bility of the latter scheme rules it out of
court. As for the European zone, the
qualifying system has already been tried
and thrown overboard after two years'
trial, the minor countries strenuously ob-
jecting to it. Not because they thought
they had Buckley’s hope of winning the
Cup under any system, but because the
obscure qualifying preliminaries were
conducted out of the limelight and thus
deprived them of “face.”
*** / *
“Maitland”: Folk who consider the
intrusion of women in sport a calamity
will writhe under the announcement that
the South Africans will not send a man’s
team to Europe for the Davis Cup be-
cause they haven’t any of the lords of
creation good enough, but will send a
batch of women to Wimbledon instead.
The team will be led by the picturesque
lass who used to be known as Bobby
Heine, but is now Mrs. Miller. The only
tennis the lady gets nowadays is on a
lonely farm with her hubby, but every
year she emerges from the wilds to carry
off the Union championship—indeed,
there are many Afrikanders willing to
bet real money Mrs. Miller can beat any
man in South Africa.
* * * *
“Marija”: Tilden has been blabbing
about his income. He reckons he’s raked
in £lOO,OOO in the six years since he
turned pro.—made up of (apart from
tennis) £lOOO a year for allowing his
name to be put on racquets, £l5OO a
year for newspaper articles and £l2OO
for “numerous testimonials.” He says,
too, the matches with Perry have re-
turned him £l7OO, and he gets “£2OOO
every tipe I go to Europe.” Nevertheless,
he admits he hasn’t “got much money.”
Cost of living for tennisers must be
abominably high.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: Recent athletic-club com-
petitions give Australia a chance in some
of the Empire Games events. At Syd-
ney Sports Ground Metcalfe cleared
6ft. 2}in. in the high
jump and Dickenson
24ft. l|in. in the
long; in the hop,
step and jump Met-
calfe did 50ft. lOjin.,
the best recorded
from anywhere this
year. Keith Pardon
also was to the front
with hammer throws
of 148 ft. 9|in. and
150 ft. 3in.
* * *
“The Galf e r”:
One objection to the
holding of the Em-
pire Games in Aus-
tralia was the re-
moteness of the place
and the consequent
difficulty for amateur
athletes of obtain-
ing leave of absence
from toil. The Aus-
tralian controllers of
the Games report
that 15 countries
have definitely undertaken to send teams.
There were only 11 at the Hamilton
(Canada) meeting in 1930 and 14 at the
London gathering four years later. So
much for the remoteness bogey.
* * $ *
“Grouch”: The people who preside
over the activities of female athletes an-
nounce that the Australian track and
field championships for the sex take
place in Cupville on December 8, 9 and
11. Stress is laid on the fact that the
meeting will be regarded as a trial for
candidates for the Empire Games. All
the usual athletic events save the shot
putt are listed. Conspicuous by their ab-


Great Cough Remedy
Wonderful Money-saver.
For the last twenty years millions of
Australians have saved much money by
making their own family cough and
influenza remedy with HEENZO. It is
so easy to add a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened
water, and thus make a large supply
of cough remedy equal in quantity and
superior in quality to about £l’s worth
of the best of the ready-made-up
remedies for chest and throat ailments.
The purity of HEENZO makes it an ideal
cough remedy for babies as well as adults.
Legal Notice.
JOHN ALFRED DOUGLAS HILL, late of
Bicheno, in Tasmania, Mail Contractor,
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania dated the 23rd day of July,
1937, in the matter of'the estate of JOHN
ALFRED DOUGLAS HILL, late of Bicheno,
in Tasmania, deceased, intestate, who died on
the 19th day of July, 1936, AND in the action
PEARL MARGARET HILL against His
Majesty’s Attorney-General for Tasmania,
whereby the following enquiry was directed:
An enquiry who were the persons en-
titled by virtue of or according to the
Statute of Distribution or otherwise to the
Estate of the said John Alfred Douglas
Hill deceased intestate in the originating
Summons named living at the time of his
death and whether any of them are since
dead and if so who are their respective
legal personal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquiry
are on or before the 18th day of March,
1938, to send by post prepaid to the Regis-
trar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Mac-
quarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania, their full
Christian and surnames, addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claim, or in
default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the said order unless the Court
or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
solicitor before his Honor the Judge at his
chambers, Franklin Square, Hobart, on Friday,
the Ist day of April, 1938, at 10.30 o’clock in
the forenoon, being the time appointed for ad-
judicating upon the claims. A claimant not
residing in the State of Tasmania must send
with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in the State of Tasmania
to whom notices for the claimant can be sent.
Enquiry is made for Lucy Maria Hill, the wife,
and Herbert Alfred Hill and Vera Lucy Hill,
children of the deceased, who left Tasmania
25 years ago.
DATED the 3rd day of November, 1937.
PAGE, HODGMAN, SEAGER & DOYLE,
of National Mutual Building, 119 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania, Agents for S. F.
Evans, of St. Helens, in Tasmania, Solicitor
for the Plaintiff.
Personal and Missing Friends.
BATCHELOR, Alfred Joseph, formerly of Wan-
garatta.—lnformation as to whereabouts of
abovenamed, or as to when and where was
last heard of, requested by NOTCUTT &
PURBRICK, Solicitors, Wangaratta, Victoria.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Public Notice.
TRITON GOLD MINES, NO LIABILITY.
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
4th) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been de-
clared on all the issued shares in the capital of
the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Friday, the
17th day of December, 1937.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 25th day of
November, and reopen at 10 a.m. on Saturday,
the 27th day of November, 1937, and share-
holders registered on Friday, the 26th day of
November, 1937, will be entitled to receive the
dividend.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
4th November, 1937.
DELORAINE TASMANIAN AXEMEN’S CARNIVAL
30th OCTOBER and Ist NOVEMBER, 1937.
All Finals won with PLUMB Axes
World’s Championship Chop, 48in. Standing Block:—™
Won by J. Foster.
Second, R. Radford.
Third, W. Johnston.
All competitors in this event used PLUMB Axes.
r
LOSE UGLY
FAT-.hi,
new Scientific,
SAFE WAY...
. . . “ACID CONDITIONS IN INTESTINAL TRACT
(SELF-POISONING) IS REAL cause of the deposit
of adipose tissue” — Dr. 0. McClaskey, New York.
COLOSEPTIC —the scientific way to re-
duce unwanted fat and create natural
slimness.
Self-poisoning (autoxima) overthrows the
body’s alkaline reserve and develops acid
conditions which impair the normal functions
of the body. Instead of the body eliminating the fatty
acids (which result from digestion) in a natural way,
these fatty acids arc absorbed into the blood stream
with other waste residues. Nutrition is impeded and
water fat is allowed to accumulate in the system
causing deposits of fatty tissue, thus increasing the
weight, and developing many unpleasant symptoms
such as bloating, indigestion, palpitation, constipa-
tion, acidity and fullness.
—Coloseptic overcomes acidity, 1
activates nutrition, dehydrates I
the excess moisture weight, 1
breaks up the fatty acids, 1
sweeps the intestines clean of 1
all heavy fermenting residues 1
and other acid products and
passes them smoothly out of the
system. It also activates the
dehydrating action of the other
vital eliminative organs—the
kidneys, pores of the skin and
respiratory apparatus.
Coloseptic is the one natural, safe
way to permanent weight control.
If helps the body to extract the
flesh-building minerals and vitamins
from your daily food. It acts to
overcome the cause of overweight
—excess fat, and unwanted fat.
FREE LIBERAL SAMPLE
OF 'COLOSEPTIC . . .
NOW 9s *‘ 3lbS *
A/AS 10s*. *lbs.
Dec. 23, 1936-
sto yo«r r, uer in health. * , had
r rs sSr-rtij: r j-r- -
“ >ins Col “ s "'"‘ c e - Miss ,| *
i , nU st havf
to effect
MAIL COUPON
FOR A FREE SAMPLE . . .
Learn more about this vital subject. Mail the coupon for a free
sample of ‘COLOSEPTIC’ to-day, and you will receive a book
telling you all about this scientific way to lose fat.
Learn how you are unknowingly developing an acid
condition that gives rise to fatty deposits, lowers your
vitality, and makes you miss the best in life. „
Don’t delay mail the coupon NOW.
AT ALL CHEMISTS : INDIVIDUAL SIZE, 2/9 . . . ECONOMY SIZE, 5/6
If unobtainable locally write to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BETTER INTERNAL OLE ANNE S
FOR
1C
AIDS NUTRITION
> CHICKS
SHF - POISONING
ACIDITY -- BUILDS HEALTH
COM BA
TO
0 %
cP v
sence are the sweeping, bedmaking,
family-washing and baby-changing cham-
pionships.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: England’s rowing eight
for the Empire Games in Sydney will
now include Sturrock, an Oxford
blue who has obtained last-minute leave
from the Royal Engineers. Sturrock was
stroke of the winners of the Stewards’
Cup for fours at Henley, and is rated
one of the finest oarsmen in England.
Funds have not come in as freely as
expected. Though the crew will bring
out a new eight, it expects to have to sell
this in Australia in order to pay for it
in England.
* * *
“Blade”: The N.S.W. rowing heads
have filled the vacancy caused by the
death of Bernie Williams by appointing
A. C. Lambert sole State selector. Lam-
bert is captain of Sydney R.C. and was
stroke of the N.S.W. eight that won the
King’s Cup in Brisbane in 1933.
* * * *
Sydney yachting lost one of its enthu-
siasts when “Nick” Johnson died. An
oarsman in the first place, Johnson was
in practically all . the N.S.W. eight-oar
crews for the inter-State races from
1882 to 1891. Later he owned and
sailed the Irex —Mark Foy took her to
England and sailed her successfully
against the Maid of Kent —and Effie,
well-known 22-footers of their time.
When there wasn’t a wind Johnson
usually turned to cricket and Rugby
Union for his enjoyment.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: The Maoriland rifle
team for the £lO,OOO prize shoot in Syd-
ney in February will consist of 14 men.
Among them will be captain-manager
Masefield, who has been seen on this
side, and has shot at Bisley, and C. J.
Nix, this year’s M.L. King’s Prize winner.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L., which for
years has called down on its head the
execrations of other States for stealing
their best players, has been undergoing a
ferocious raid itself, Westralia, which in
the past has lost many of its best to Mel-
bourne, being responsible. Star after
star has been seduced from Melbourne
teams by Perth clubs, led by Subiaco,
which recently sneaked Bunton, darling
of the League. The Melbourne body is
now attempting to counter by refusing
transfers to the deserters. “Clumsy sub-
terfuges of clubs in other States” and
“the baiting of Victoria’s champions” are
only a couple of expressions used by
Melbourne “Age” in dealing with the
piratical horde in the West.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Maoriland’s Rugby
Union is to be asked to reconsider its
cancellation of the Australian tour next
season. One reason urged is that failure
to visit Australia will mean upsetting the
international programme, which has been
fixed some years ahead. Also the absence
of the All-Blacks will rob the anniver-
sary celebrations of what was intended
to be one of the star attractions, as well
as deprive the Australian Unions of a
chance to lay the foundation of a team
to tour Britain in 1939-40. Opinion in
Australia is that a tour of this country as
originally arranged will do more to help
the All-Blacks to rebuild their team than
any amount of private rehearsal.
* * * *
“Berea”: The Springboks, as might
have been expected, received what was
practically a national welcome on landing
at Durban. Interesting to Australian
Rugby men is skipper Nel’s comparison
between Maoriland and Australian teams,
which was surprisingly in favor of the
Australians. In the backs he considers
M.L. has no players the equal of
McShane, Richards and Pauling, but he
has no time for forwards whose ideas are
concentrated on “dribbling in the loose.”
The All-Blacks, he says, have deteriorated
forward and back.
H* % Jji
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
has decided to invite both a M.L. and
a French team to Australia next season,
and in doing so has given hostages to
fortune. The Frenchmen will be in-
vited only if they make a good showing
against the Kangaroos when the latter
visit France. The League decision met
strong opposition, but will stand.
* * * *
“Pipe Dream”: N.S.W. Rugby League
hurled out with contumely the sugges-
tion of manager Sunderland that the
Kangaroos should be accompanied on
their way home by a French team, the
two to play exhibition matches in the
U.S.A. and Maoriland. Presumably the
matter must be settled by the Australian
Board of Control, and as the Queens-
land section of that board is the origi-
nator of the scheme there may be a dead-
lock on the question, with N.S.W. hav-
ing the casting vote.
* * * *
“En Avant”: A Rugby League foot-
ball match between the British Empire
and France in Paris saw the crowd on
which the sun never sets come out on
top by 15-0. The Empire was repre-
sented by players from Lancashire and
Yorkshire, Auckland (M.L.), N.S.W. and
Queensland.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Yet another Aus-
tralian footballer has been bought by a
North of England club —Bailey, a New-
castle (N.S.W.) three-quarter, who has
not played for his State. Huddersfield
offered him a £5OO bonus, with the
usual £5, £4 and £3 for win, lose or
draw, and a £2OO fine to the Australian
Board of Control. Bailey bit.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“They Gave Him a Gun”
Spencer Tracy, Franchot Tone, Gladys George.
In this strong film at Sydney St.
James, Spencer Tracy has the part of
the solid Doughboy type —he was to be
met in every platoon of Diggers—the
rough, easygoing sort—man from hat
to boots and all the way through—who
took the war in his stride.
Where they escaped physical damage
such chaps were not much harmed by
the war. It may have made them a bit
more what Americans call hard-boiled,
but even that mostly on the surface;
scratch any of them deep enough and
you’ll probably find a soft-hearted senti-
mentalist.
It may, too, have made them a bit
agnostic, but it did not make them
sophisticates: besides the sort of sophis-
ticated young men —and women —that
any city breeds up—disillusionment per-
sonified —Diggers of that type are
moralists.
Tracy represents the type splendidly
—in camp, at the war (1917) and back
to his job in the U.S.A. afterwards: his
job is running a circus, though that has
little to do with the matter, except that
Tracy is less convincing here than else-
where in the film.
Tone represents the antithesis of that
Digger type. He is the hollow sort: it
is a fine effort in creative psychology
that depicts him being impressed by the
sergeant at bayonet drill with the fact
that it’s the gun in his hands that
matters, not the type of man behind it.
This is to be cleverly worked out later,
when, in the course of a charge at a
German machine-gun possie, the weak
imitation soldier finds out for himself
the truth of the sergeant’s dictum, clean-
ing up the machine-gun nest and win-
ning a couple of medals in the process.
But back in the U.S.A. he fails —as the
type does —to readjust himself. The
war has enhanced no good qualities in
him —he has few—and it has stirred his
worst. They gave him a gun and told
him to kill men, and they gave him a
medal for it: he takes a gun, uses it in
gangster racketeering, and gets gaol.
Through weakness he has evolved to
viciousness.
Behind all this, helping it to be a
story, is a cross-purposes love plot, well
worked out, with a girl who was a nurse
in France attracted by the genuinely
heroic quality of the finer man, but
trapped by circumstances into being the
other’s wife, unaware of his activities,
back in U.S.A. It is, of course, worked
out to a satisfactory—as they say, a
happy—conclusion.
Where the picture fails—and this, as
far as its entertainment merit goes, is of
no importance whatever —is in its theme,
the implicit, and stated, purpose of
which is to make a sardonic comment on
war. The attempted implication—and
one that many good moralists, no doubt,
will take to their hearts as proven —is
that war was responsible for the moral
collapse of the chap Tone represents.
For one thing, this purpose is completely
defeated by Tracy’s representation of the
opposite type: if war was shown dis-
integrating a character of the Tracy type
the theme would be thoroughly justified.
That moral element of the theme is
further weakened by Tone’s representa-
tion. He makes it patent that it is cir-
cumstances —not necessarily war cir-
cumstances, but any circumstances cal-
culated to find a weak character out —
which shape his destiny. He would
have come out of a hundred, or a thou-
sand, imaginable sets of circumstances
exactly as he comes out of those of war.
Tone’s sustained interpretation of his
part is a masterpiece of acting. Gladys
George in the woman’s part is a weak-
ness.
“The Road Back”
Parading pretty well the same general
theme as “They Gave Him a Gun”—the
effects of the war on men who fought
in it —this version of Remarque’s novel,
showing at Sydney Plaza, has some ad-
mirable acting in it, too, though no single
part so outstanding as that superbly done
by Tone, or even that of Tracy, in the
other picture.
For the serving of its dramatic pur-
pose it is all the better on that account.
In “They Gave Him a Gun” the status
of the drama of war is reduced to a
drama of a couple of individuals. In-
terest is focused on these to the exclusion
of all else. They are certainly stock
representative types, but they are so pro-
jected that it is only in them personally
that the interest centres. Compared with
the dramatic breadth of “The Road
Back” it is imaginatively Lilliputian.
“The Road Back” is the mass drama
of the whole German army; more than
that, of the entire German people in
their national collapse after losing the
war. Its dramatic breadth is greater even
than that. It speaks for the men of all
nations who fought in that war.
Its directing puts the emphasis always
on the scene, the surroundings, the cir-
cumstances ; has these completely over-
shadowing the mere individuals, so that,
though the burden of the acting is car-
ried by about half a dozen men, none of
these stands separate, either from the
others or from the setting.
Even these half-dozen are never em-
phasised enough to make them outstand-
ing from the general mass. The impres-
Laurel and Hardy in “Way Out West”; Spencer Tracy and Franchot Tone,
“They Gave Him a Gun.” At Sydney St. James.
sion conveyed is that they are the whole
army, and more. Their lives are merged
into one another, and they become not
merely the defeated German army, but
the whole of humanity suffering the only
return of war, even for the “victorious”
—defeat.
It makes a moving and dramatic pic-
ture. Its surface theme is that the war
left its brand on all who took part in it.
It suggests that the greatest heroism of
these was in adjusting themselves after-
wards. That, of course, has particular
point in the broken, revolution-racked
country to which the defeated Germans
returned. It had point to many in
countries even more happily circum-
stanced.
Underlying that theme, and far more
convincing, is the greater theme of the
futility of all war.
The picture depicts Germans in the
line on the last day of the war, doing a
hopover and being annihilated even
while the General Staffs —of course un-
known to them—are arranging the
Armistice. Then it shows the ordinary
soldiers incredulous at the news that the
war is over, and next on the road back—
to a country taken over by revolution-
aries ; to their homes, which, like them-
selves, have suffered war changes ; to the
at first utterly bewildering business of
adjustment to the normal life of human
beings.
The difficulty of all in this, as well as
their general state of mind, is repre-
sented through the action of one who,
romantically attached while at the war
to a worthless type of girl, finds her one
night wining, half-undressed, with a war
profiteer and promptly jerks out a re-
volver and shoots him. At the trial one
of his comrades makes an eloquent plea
on his behalf, mainly on the ground that
the war and those who sent men to be
brutalised by it are responsible for the
murder, which, speaking for the whole
returned army, he says “any one of us
in similar circumstances would have
committed.”
Sweeping or not, it is certainly very
effective dramatically.
In its much wider theme, as a con-
vincing sermon on war’s futility, it is
brought right up to date by an anti-
climax pointing to the recent colossal
arming of all countries.
“They Gave Him a Gun” is a strong
film, but this one has great imaginative
power, dramatic weight and deep sin-
cerity. As a statement on war it leaves
“They Gave Him a Gun” at the recruit-
ing depot. Beside “The Road Back” the
other picture, though a really good enter-
tainer, seems artificial.
“Big Fella.”
Paul Robeson and Elizabeth Welch.
Though the voice is what matters in
Robeson films—and it’s there, splendidly,
in plenty—this pleasing picture at Syd-
ney Mayfair has the further advantage
of providing Robeson with his most
natural part since “Sanders of the River.”
Here he’s a drifter round the Mar-
seilles waterfront —big-hearted Joe, just
knocking around with fellow-spirits,
doing nothing in particular, except sink
a few in the cafe where Elizabeth Welch,
his heart-interest, does some singing. He,
of course, also sings, on the slightest
provocation, to the entertainment of his
fellow-spirits and the glory of the film.
Plot enters into it when the police send
for him and enlist his well-meant, if
blundering, aid in finding English tour-
ists’ small boy, who’s disappeared—kid-
napped, everybody, of course, suspects.
Joe finds him all right, and though he
isn’t the Tartar depicted in one of O.
Henry’s funniest yarns, from which the
idea could have been lifted, he’s well
enough equipped that way to do much
as he likes with big-hearted Joe. As this
includes listening while Joe sings to him
it’s all to the good.
Robeson acts the part with such
naturalness that you might think it was
his own self. He has some fine songs,
and nobody will need telling that he
sings them superbly.
Robeson’s is one of the very few
screen voices that give this showman the
impression that they are present alive in
the theatre. Listening to Robeson him-
self can’t be more than a hairbreadth
different from hearing him via the
screen. He is considerably better thus
represented than he is on gramophone
records. His voice sounds like a living
presence in the theatre.
“WaiOaTWest”
Laurel and Hardy.
That there’s plenty of laughs from
good honest fun in this goes without
saying. But why is it that this illustrious
pair of tomfoolery merchants somehow
slightly miss being enormously better?
Most likely it is that there’s nobody
can do a scenario capable of working
their peculiar talents to the limit. Even
in this one —which is above-average
Laurel and Hardy—there are flat places.
Not enough to do any damage from a
sore-ribs point of view ; just enough to
make the film seem afterwards some-
thing in the nature of yet another pot-
boiler.
Still, there are doings that would
make a granite statue of the first Puritan
burst out laughing. Showing at Sydney
St. James, it produces roar after roar
that nearly splits the theatre itself in two.
There is a quality about this laughter
very different from that lately—and
briefly—produced at this same address by
the Marx Brothers. It is more spon-
taneous ; it simmers, gurgles up and ex-
plodes in a roar. It is worth while being
in the theatre merely for the pleasure of
hearing a whole lot of people unrestrain-
edly enjoying themselves.
For ourselves, we roared most at the
scenes wherein this pair of great goofs,
these unmitigated prize angoras, use rope
and pulley—and donkey—in breaking
into the saloon way out west to get back
the goldmine deeds they’ve given away
by mistake.
Their first appearance with donkey,
trudging along the road to incidental
music, has the genuine stamp of great
comedy. If all parts were as good, it
would be a world-beater. As it is, it is a
good Laurel and Hardy, and that should
be enough for most people.
“Angel”
Marlene Dietrich, Melvyn Douglas and Herbert
Marshall.
Basis of this Lubitsch-directed Para-
mount film, at Sydney Prince Edward, is
a modern Continental stage play, but
the plot antedates Moliere.
Beautiful, enigmatical, slightly-foreign-
accented wife of rising English diplomat,
feeling herself just a teeny Jittle bit
neglected by her energetic husband, who
is always dashing to Geneva and bring-
ing off spectacular coups “against twenty-
one nations” (so different from the career
of the equally well-dressed Mr. Anthony
Eden), flies secretly to Paris during one
of her husband’s many absences, and is
made love to in the moonlight by de-
lightful-mannered man.
. She, preserving an incognito, half-
promises to throw her hat over the
windmill. She will take a week to think
it over.
Before the week is up her husband
brings the other man home to lunch —
old war pals. The triangle skitters about
on the thinnest of thin ice for 20 minutes
of delicately polished acting. Finally
there is a showdown. Wife gives hus-
band an ultimatum that has a little of
the flavor of Frank Stockton’s “The
Lady or the Tiger?” But he ends the
play in his own way—to tell how would
be to spoil the whole 90 minutes in
which the audience is kept uncertain
and, because uncertain, interested.
Dietrich’s gift of poise was never
better exploited. Marshall as the hus-
band, good-tempered, quick-witted and
only towards the end compelled to en-
dure the “well-bred suffering” which is
Herbert’s perennial fate, walks through
a pie part. Douglas has never fitted in
so smoothly. E. E.'Horton has a small
part as a valet and makes it shine.
“Confession.”
Basil Rathbone, Kay Francis.
This effective bit of drama at Sydney
Capitol, “based on the papers of an
actual lawsuit in Europe in 1930,” has
Rathbone in a rather thin part, though
the little he has to do he does very well.
The thing is held together by Miss
Francis almost throughout, and it’s easily
one of her best performances.
It begins with Rathbone as a great
concert pianist temperamentally luring a
young girl to a concert of his and after-
wards to a night club with the worst
possible intentions.
At the club Miss Francis is a singer.
She is going gaily through her turn when
she sights Rathbone and girl, faints,
recovers, shoots the dress-suited sheik,
and is arrested. In a cleared court she
makes her confession, which harks back
to when she, too, was snared by the
.pianist, in about as dastardly a manner
as could be imagined.
That, too, was only a circumstance to
the personal tragedy that followed for


IH
■ HE HM
MHI
■I ■
f™
wg
p/X- , V' '.. ?
\sb#r /V
v-- y/ / ; , * , ;,-
■b
.
H
n:
■■
, ll<
HI
'J.V.&K
wmmm
llllli
■I
■
■
BIBBBi
: . f ■ : :
■
Hi
■
; ■..: :
-
p|
■
i:i: ;:
HI
■
E. H
■ ■-:
■ K "^UiC-
fiiMi
I" : s
L
m
r "■
I
Wmm
19 Edward Street,
SUMMER HILL.
Messrs. William Arnott Pty., Ltd.,
HOMEBUSH.
Dear Sirs,
I am sending a photograph of my son, “Arthur,”
aged 2 years, which I have much pleasure to send
as he looks so Well. He Weighs 2 stone 4 pounds.
He has been fed on Arnott’s Famous Arrowroot
Biscuits ever since he Was six months old and they
still form part of his diet.
Yours truly,
( Signed ) Edith B. Makin.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Cirnjotts
Famous
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Amott’s
“They are Better than Ever”
her when, despite her rebuffs, he per-
sisted in his attempts to add her perma-
nently to his string.
All this past is re-enacted, leading back
once more to the trial scene, with a good
twist of plot and a natural ending. Miss
Francis acts the varied part from young
wife to confessed murderess very soundly.
“Blonde Trouble,” support at Sydney
Prince Edward, exhibits Johnny Downs
as a sanguine young writer of what are
indulgently called lyrics who goes from
Schenectady to N’Yark to make a for-
tune as a song-writer. He evolves two
verses of doggerel which are set by sonje-
body else to a feeble tune, and in conse-
quence of this remarkable achievement,
is seen en route for Hollywood with his
bride (Eleanor Whitney) and a three
years’ contract at five hundred smackers
a week in his pocket. Seems to be pro-
paganda for Tin Pan Alley publishers.
For any other purpose it’s a complete
washout.
The thieves in “When Thief Meets
Thief,” at Sydney Lyric, are Douglas
Fairbanks, Jun., and Alan Hale, rivals
for the hand of a spectacular adventur-
ess (Valerie Hobson). A long, tangled
story leads up to the murder of the mil-
lionaire in the library, the trial of his
wife and the final happiness of two
loving if rather lawless hearts.
“Outlaws of the Orient” cashes in on
what interest there may be left over from
“Oil for the Lamps of China.” Jack
Holt is boss of an oil-boring show in the
Gobi Desert, much pestered by brigands
(chief brigand Harold Huber) who ac-
cept pay from him and a rival co. impar-
tially and double-cross both once a week.
After many stirring scenes the hero mar-
ries the female bookkeeper (Mae Clarke).
At Sydney Lyric.
“Okay for Sound,” support to “Big
Fella” at Sydney Mayfair, is a hotch-
potch English burlesque on talkie pro-
ducing, in which half a dozen coves
whose talents bring them a poor crust
singing in pubs and alongside queues get
into an ambitious but near-bankrupt film
studio to do a turn as representative citi-
zens, are mistaken for backers who
happen to be also due and are given
carte blanche to do as they like. Result is
a succession of impromptu turns which,
when eventually strung together, make
the film of the season. That’s more than
“Okay for Sound” manages to be, though
it has its funny moments, the best of
them a burlesque on wrestling-broad-
casts.
“Venus Makes Trouble,’’ support at
Sydney Plaza, is a frightfully noisy
American comedy, with the raucous-
voiced James Dunn bellowing through
the part of a small-town go-getter who
finds small-town both too small and too
hot for him, shifts to New Yark, lives
on peanuts, but eventually makes good
until Venus starts to make trouble, land-
ing him with a vast slice of real estate
MAX MELDRUM.
fathoms deep under water. Dunn’s so
noisy that this showman’s thoughts were
concentrated more on where he could get
a good set of earflaps than on the pic-
ture.
Comedy Harmonists.
A.B.C.’s clever half-dozen dress-suited
importations returned to Sydney Town
Hall for three nights and packed the
premises.
Why?
Their work’s uncommonly pleasant on
the ear. As a group of five harmonising,
with one at piano, they’re as pleasing as
you might wish to hear. Also, they salt
their programmes well with “Humor-
esque,” “Blue Danube,” overture to
“Barber of Seville” and suchlike things
that everybody knows. They do them in
their own very clever and original way,
and as a 20-minute variety turn they must
be among the world’s best.
But this scarcely explains their crowd-
ing the Town Hall to absolute capacity,
The audience the night this showman
looked in was not ordinary Town Hall
concert audience. From overheard con-
versation it seemed that it was almost
purely A.B.C. audience ; a gathering of
radio listeners who had heard such of
the Harmonists’ programmes as A.B.C.
broadcasts, enjoyed them, and came
along for the “fan”-pleasure of seeing
these performers and listening to a whole
bill of theirs.
It all makes evident what an over-
whelming advantage A.B.C. has over
the private entrepreneur.
For one thing, it can import artists
regardless of initial expense, having huge
public-subscribed revenue to do it on.
rr, .. f
Then it gets it both ways fr
artists for if they fail as concert attrac-
tions they can at least serve as radio-
programme turns.
But by far the greatest advantage is in
the most important aspect of the entre-
preneur s business publicity. No pn-
vate promoter has anything like A.B.C.’s
means of boosting aitists. At no cost
on the contrary, at a revenue gain by
doing so A.B.C. can reach the ear of
all Australia. The private entrepreneur
can’t hope to cope with opposition like
This particular set of artists make un-
accustomed hearing at the Town Hall.
They are “popular” entertainers. You
see their like doing turns,in a thousand
screen scenes of cabarets and night clubs,
Theirs is artistry rather than art. It is
very neat artistry.
Max Meldrum’s Paintings.
~ , . .
It would be too sweeping, perhaps, to
say that Max Meldrum is the only Aus-
tralian painter who has founded a
school, but he certainly is the only living
one with faithful disciples.
Meldrum believes in painting what the
eye sees, not what the brain thinks is
there or ought to be there. At first
glance a picture painted by the Mel-
drum method has something in common
with an out-of-focus photograph. High-
lights tend to spread and assume a
globular appearance ; shadows are accen-
tuated.
But good Meldrumite pictures yield
up few of their virtues at first glance,
Sit down as far from one of these can-
vases as will make the objects in the
painting the same size as they would
occupy on the retina if you were looking
a t the ac tual scene depicted. Gradually
the composition knits itself together,
clothes itself in atmosphere and light and
reproduces the intangibles that made the
painter choose it as something worth
while recording.
. Exactly how these effects are produced
a curious matter, of not much interest
1° the layman. But the method works,
applied to landscape, seascape, pot-
trahure, still-life oi what you will. More-
over ’ ]t 18 lo § lcal and lts practitioners are
sincere.
tn the show ol Meldrum s paintings at
avid Jones s gallery, Sydney, particu-
. / woith attention are the Parisian
pictures—“Le Pont de St. Cloud,” for
instance, which from the baldest of cold,
p er f unctor y statements of a white bridge
£ nd a dv J devel into warmth an / a
host of detail . Xhe P portraits (notabl the
self-portraits and that of Mrs. Meldrum),
the still-lifes (“The Spanish Doll” is a
ft ne excursion in gay color) and the Aus-
traiian bush scenes from the ne j ghbor _
hood of Olinda all have the same quality
They go on saying a ]ittle more and a
little more as long as you care to look
at thfem.
Sydney Bush Walkers.
Sydney Bush Walkers took advantage
of the rainy season to hold their once-a-
year stage show last week, and it was
as bright and as much enjoyed by the
players as ever.
The lads of the club portrayed the
Bold Bad Girls of History, from Eve to
Mae West, not forgetting Salome and
Cleopatra, and matched them with
Hamlet, Paul Robeson and other stout
fellers.
Playlets, “The Last Will and Testa-
ment” an d “Calling the Tune,” brought
to ij ght a surprising amount of acting
ability, and the second part, “The Wreck
of the Esperus,” with desert-island set-
ting and an invasion by Popeye and co.,
gave all hands a chance to sing.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
y§
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
drammar Primal
oriymil ijmtaa
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927, conducted
under the direction of the Trustees by a School House Board.
Early application for 1938 is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
It wasn’t a mere storm in a teacup, it
was a regular whirlwind on the after-
noon of the Melbourne Cup, At
women’s clubs excitement ran to fever
heat, and sweeps were whipped up as an
expert housewife might whip up a
sponge sandwich. Long before three the
hallway to the Women Pioneers’ abode
was packed, and getting into the rooms
was a corkscrew motion. The day’s treas-
urers were Miss Da Silva Waugh, her
brown beret stabbed with a rakish green
quill, and Hilda Childs, her navy frock
smartly cravatted. There was admiration
for the straight-brimmed navy straw hat
with its posy of white flowers centre
front worn by president Mrs. Lingham,
and for the nut-browns worn by secre-
tary Carlotta Doyle. A very young
member, Jean Jones, defied the day and
wore white linen, her cravat a rash of
navy and white spots. From Cooma
came Joan Balmain. The Countess de
Vilme-Hautmont, who will be hostess to
a travel party to Europe early next year,
was there. After The Trump had
snatched the Cup from Willie Win the
conversation buzzed about the club’s
sesquicentenary celebrations. The big
items are a reception at Elizabeth Bay
House and the Pioneers’ Ball.
About 600 gathered at the Rose Bay
Golf Club to play bridge and hear the
Cup results ; the same programme kept
crowds entertained at the Kirribilli
Yacht Club. The Lennox Bodes were
among the private hosts ; so was Mrs.
D. Olding. The wintergarden of the
Hotel Australia was one huge din, and
couldn’t have held one person more.
Singer Alice Prowse was giving a party to
the four hostesses of her recent recital.
One of them, the wife of Professor
Lambie, is facing a journey to Europe,
so the party was an au revoir to her.
Another Australia hostess was Mrs. Nigel
Barker. She had the Gloucester room
reserved for her 40-or-more guests. The
Geoffrey Hughes couple were sighted
presiding over a group of great size.
Now that the Governor and Lady
Wakehurst have daughter Henrietta (her
name is the Hon. Henrietta Loder) with
them there will probably be some parties
for the really young at G.H. Henrietta
arrived in the Orontes, and with her came
her school friend Catriona Maclean, of
Ardgour, Scotland. Owing to the infan-
tile paralysis regulations at Melbourne
the two did not land, but Lord and Lady
Wakehurst spent as much time as pos-
sible in the ship. Sailing, golf and tennis
are the chief amusements of the two
girls. Catriona is the heir to the family
estate, Ardgour, which is on the west
coast of Scotland. Another vice-regal
guest is Mrs. Geoffrey Lubbock, Lady
Wakehurst’s mother. She also travelled
to Australia in the Orontes, but, luckier
than the girls, she left it at Melbourne
for the Cup festivities.
If you’d like to see a delicate little
Chinese poem given form and color by
an artist’s brush, go to the Max Mel-
drum show and take a look at his
“Almond Blossom.” Just a spray of the
spiky stuff in a blue-and-white vase, but
every woman and man who saw it lost
a bit of the heart to it. There are long
cool vistas of French parks and gardens ;
there’s a Spanish doll, all yellows and
golds, that would make a joyous Christ-
mas gift for any woman. The Gallery
did not buy because it has already three
perfect specimens of the Melbourne
artist’s work, and the pictures in this
show are rather small, the Heads think,
for Gallery exhibits.
Norman Carter opened the show,
which is at David Jones’s George-street
store, with a speech as knowledgeable
as the artist’s brushwork. Daughter Ida
was there in the flesh, while another
daughter on canvas drew many a gaze.
Also at the opening was John Farmer,
whose portrait became the property of
the National Gallery recently in ex-
change for 350 guineas. Max is more
like the traditional artist than any this
Letter has met. Most of them, as B. E.
Minns used to say, look like successful
bankers. This visitor from Melbourne
wears a beard,* has a gentle voice, and
has a dream behind his eyes. He intends
to stay in Sydney for five weeks, and he
hopes in that time the grey skies will go,
and that he may get some days of sun-
shine to paint—yes, Our Harbor.
The Twelve Centuries Ball is the big
goldfish that is stirring up the social
waters. Everybody seems to be taking
part and taking parties. The pageant
is to be great and glowing—it will posi-
tively throb with color. Led by the
founder of the Order of St. John, Ray-
mond de Puy (Bertie Kelly), groups
representing the fashions worn by
humans in the 12 centuries since the
humane Order had its beginning will pace
the Town Hall.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly has put months of
work and all her talent into this display.
Under her direction costumes have been
designed and sets formed so that tall
ones will walk together and the smaller
and slimmer go side by side. One of
the most glittering bits of the evening
will be the formation of a great diamond,
each point one of the queens of the
pageant. This will enable the onlookers
in the gallery to take in the detail of
the regal robes. Great garlands of roses
have been woven to link the sets. The
boys from Westmead, dressed in the uni-
form of the Papal Guard, designed by
Michelangelo, will be in the picture,
and Queen Victoria will take her part.
Mrs. John McPhillamy, of Bathurst (seen
in this picture), has arranged the
thirteenth-century set. In this cerise
velvets and gold tissue will be an exciting
color scheme.
Velvets, satins, gold and silver cloth
have been used lavishly in the costumes,
and good-lookers such as Mrs. Mick
Dalton from Orange and her two daugh-
ters, Mrs. Hugh Poate, Mrs. Cuthbert
Sheldon, Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Robin
Eakin, Gloria Cosgrave, Mrs. Ellis Field-
ing-Jones and Ruby Adams are among
those who will wear the clothes and man-
ners of a former time.
What with the Italian ships in port
being dressed with their national colors
and the friendly feeling that positively
lilted through the Littorio Ball, Italy’s day
in Sydney was a great success. This day
commemorates the Fascist march on
Rome, the Italian armistice and the King
of Italy’s birthday, and the King’s sub-
jects gathered in numbers in Horderns’
ballroom and sang “Giovenezza” with
great fervor. With just as great fervor
they sang “For She’s a Jolly Good
Fellow,” meaning Mrs. Ferrari Passmore,
who had organised the ball. The red,
white and green made brave showing in
the decorations, and there was a great
display of banners and emblems.
Acting-Consul Marocco’s wife wore
flowing white, sashed in cyclamen velvet
that toned from pale to deep. Mrs. Fer-
rari Passmore’s frock of deep-red crepe
was worn under an organdie redingote
rose-red in shade. She was presented
with flowers, and' in turn presented a
bouquet tied with the Italian colors to
Mrs. Marocco. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s con-
tribution to the night’s frocking was
lilac chiffons served with diamonds.
Mrs. Norman Macleod’s Madonna-blue
chiffons were worn with a gaily-flowered
satin coat. There were many Consuls
present. In the official group also were
Mrs. Merlino, Mrs. Stassi and Mrs.
Fiaschi, the last-named in flowered
chiffons.
Mollie Walder, only daughter of the
knightly Sam Walder couple, will be one
of next week’s pretty brides. Mollies
betrothed, John Hanbury Human, a
young Englishman, arrived from his
native land some little time ago, and by
now everything is almost ready for the
wedding at St. Andrew’s Cathedral on
the 18th. This will be an evening wed-
ding, and five ’maids, one small flower
girl and two equally small pages will
follow the bride.
Who does more towards art education
in Australia than Howard Hinton, trustee
of the National Art Gallery? During
the last six months he has given 42 large-
framed color prints to the S. H. Smith
House at Armidale, about 150 girl
student teachers reside while attending
classes at the Teachers’ College in Armi-
dale. These color prints are fine copies
of the works of modern artists, Brang-
wyn, Munnings, Campbell Taylor, Laura
Knight, Lamorna Birch, Von Menzel,
Brundrit, Degas, Fred K. Whiting,
George Lambert, Hughes Stanton and
many others.
Members of the Lyceum Club gave a
cheerio afternoon rally to their tall,
slender president, Mrs. A. G. Thomas,
just back from Melbourne, on Friday,
opening proceedings to the tune of “She’s
a Jolly Good Fellow.” Clad in the
sheeny beauty of a floral silk frock with
spring blossoms all over it the lady from
Wahroonga moved about in the centre
of a big gathering which included Mary
Gilmore, vice-president Elizabeth Allan,
armed with a long knife to cut the birth-
day cake, pianist Esther Kahn, who
sent crystal cadenzas flying up and down
the ivory keys in a Chopin waltz, the
much-travelled Mary Jay, who leaves
Sydney in the Ulysses next month to
linger three months in South Africa be-
fore going on to England, and Winifred
Moore, from Brisbane. Others there
were Mrs. Foster Mattei in black, hon.
sec. Mrs. Marian Darsow, the club’s hon.
treas. Clara Rodd (smiling because
finances are plump and healthy), and
Mrs. Martin Mcllrath, who carries a
learned Uni. degree with the deprecating
smile of a schoolgirl.
The new P. and O. liner Strathmore
has, in addition to its name, one or two
reminders of England’s smiling Queen
Elizabeth. The most striking decoration
in the dining-room is a large tapestry
panel showing Castle Glamis surrounded
by the fertile and wooded plain of Strath-
more, the hazy outline of the Grampian
mountains for background. There is also
a portrait of the Queen by Simon Elwes
in the library in a recess between two
fine walnut bookcases. The Duchess of
Kent is not overlooked in the decorative
scheme, as Marina green is the predomi-
nant coloring in the furnishing fabrics
of the library and writing-room. The
Strathmore is simplified in its scheme.
There is no striving after period and
traditional effects. Nor will the pas-
senger be swept from Spanish lounge to
Dutch smokeroom ; from Early English
reading-room to Florentine cardroom.
Walnut from Australia, maple from
Canada, and Indian hardwoods are used
throughout with decorative effect.
Twelve hundred people in less than a
fortnight have visited the Charles Bryant
Memorial Exhibition in the Manly Art
Gallery. This gallery is right on the
harbor beach near the shark-proof en-
closure, and is one of the prides of
Manly. Dominating the show is the mag-
nificent “Within the Heart of the
Empire,” depicting Ludgate Hill, above
which rises the majestic dome of St.
Paul’s. This was one of the Royal
Academy pictures a year or two ago.
The Seine, the Thames, the Parramatta
River—the artist loved and painted them
all. His G.P.S. regattas are painted with
the same spirited movement, the same
care as his Cowes Regatta. Charlie, a
native of Manly, worked hard for the
creation of the gallery, and now there is
a movement to perpetuate his memory
by buying one of his paintings. This
would be inscribed and presented to the
community through the gallery.
Lady Milbanke, who before that was
Lady Loughborough, and before that
Sheila Chisholm, of Sydney, arrived at
the Mascot aerodrome in pouring rain.
Evidently expecting some November
sunshine, her attire was dark-blue linen
slacks, a linen blouse and sandals. Her
companion, Mrs. Thursby, was dressed
likewise. She was Poppy Baring. Lady
Milbanke took the trip to see her mother,
Mrs. Harry Chisholm, who has been in
indifferent health for some time. Just
after the war Lady Milbanke, then Lady
Loughborough, was one of the gay circle
surrounding the Prince of Wales.
Winifred Moore, one of Brisbane’s best-
known journalists, and for many years
social editor of the “Courier-Mail,” is
making Sydney the brighter for her pres-
ence. Winifred has been revelling in the
beauty of the Burragorang Valley. This
week the Blue Mountains claim her.
One of the happy incidents of the
week was Gwen Selva’s recital at the
Forum Club. In addition to a notable
voice Gwen is an artist who desires
always to give a flawless interpretation.
Her Italian, French and English pro-
gramme was well balanced and in just
the right shades of contrast. Her friend
Freda Franks was at the piano and
played with a delicate charm.
A mazer and a sugar-bowl of bird’s-eye
maple and silver in the Society of Arts
and Crafts show suggest another deco-
rative use for our Australian woods.
These are in the exhibit from London.
A splash of color in this collection is
made by the scarves. Each has its
name: Coronation, Eastern Temples,
Tropical Snow. Rosalie Wilson has
arranged an interesting historical group.
One half of this is on loan, the other
half is for sale. Rosalie shows some of
her cleverest needlework in a traymobile
cloth, a spirited scene of ‘'‘’the landing.”
Near by a Sirius tile has caught the
illusion of adventure. Ethel Atkinson
and Mrs. Francis Darsow show the
march of time in their 150th anniversary
bookmarker.
This year the show is arranged as a
series of rooms. There’s a bedroom, on
the dais, which had its origin in Joan
Maughan’s brain. In the dining-room,
a luncheon table is spread, ivory and
amber tones predominating, and cool
splashes of green occurring in the water
jug and salad bowls. Nance Mackenzie
and Ernest Quick are responsible for a
nursery gay with “titwillow” curtains,
farmyard tablecloth, duck toothbrush-
holder. Florence Sulman’s loan exhibit
includes fringed cloths from the Indus-
trial School for the Blind in Naples.


Age 40!..
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About 40 life’s
fight begins. Danger symptoms show —weak, dizzy,
depressed spells; backaches, rheumatism (often affect-
ing heart); attacks from kidney germs, acids and
poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
This important fact vitally affects every grown man and woman.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle - age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men of
health; while Kidney and
Bladder breakdown afflicts
about 65 men and women in
every 100—though many never
know why they ail! Seventy-
five per cent, of poison wastes
and uric acid deposits are filtered
by the kidneys in too concen-
trated a form. The overbur-
dened cells cannot, stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, puffiness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians, are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
m
■
“Unless / can end these pains and get back my strength
1 feel I cant go on .”
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison's Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
.> \vY*> •' .4^*
i®
<
>. . \
<><*
<v>
li
m
&
xx<
m
M
vm
■
»=B*::K
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
'
Diaqram shouiinq Tqpes or
Needle-point Uric Acid c.n)stalsj
g
With every movement —TORTURE! Tiny painpoints that with every
move make you gasp and limp—weaken you and spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney-failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; heal your raw., weakened kidneys—by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time
sufferers who have failed to get benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
Weary Bodies Revive YOUTH Returns
as Harrison’s Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new porfer
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness.
Feel your step gain new youthful elasticity;
hear your friends remark at the vast improve-
ment in your spirits and your bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs, —-My daughter has suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s Pills. They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too highly of them —they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) O. E. McKellar.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN!
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson.”
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks —thanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know. —(Signed) J. Taylor.”
Future will be so Interesting
LIFE MAY HOLD SO MUCH
A REAL
(frtvarante
IMMEDIATE RESULTS OR
NO COST
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will he returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial—if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails —it is free! ,
If any difficulty in procuring, order by post from
Amalgamated Laboratories, Daking House, Sydney, N.S.W.
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Bladder and Acid Ills With
HARMSOHS PILLS


GoLF on top of the world
at Banff, in Canada’s Rockies,
on your way to Europe. New
experiences plus Canadian
Pacific Service all the way.
QuwdliaMGkcifrc
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
C. E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
18
m m
Australia s Leading
Specialists in Travel Goods
Gents’ Zipp Dressing
Sets, as illustrated,
70'-
Others from 32'6
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
Mebourne
Chatter
At the Melbourne Cup weight tells
not only among the Cup candidates but
in the queues, where the punters who
managed to stand steadily upon their
feet survived the pressure of the ring and
the jostling queues. The totes (as hap-
pened also on Oaks Day) were not able
to accommodate all those anxious to bet.
In the members’ enclosures things were
easier, but outside hundreds who were
slow about making up their minds and
finding early places in the queues saw
shutters snapped down before they
secured their tickets. All ages were
present. A baby that couldn’t have
been more than three months old slept
on its mother’s arm as she fought her
way to one of the “Outer” tote windows
before each race. The old folks (i.e., those
who were beginning to take notice of
things 80 years ago) climbed the stands
with pertinacity, if not speed.
It was a very well dressed Cup, for
which clothes were chosen with restraint
rather than exaggeration. Freaks and
fancy-dress apparitions of other years
seem to have switched their original ideas
into more conventional tailored channels.
So rare were picture frocks of the home-
made variety that two girls in grass-
sweeping white organdie covered with
black daisies secured themselves a spare
piece of lawn wherever they moved —
the crowd standing back for a better
look at such a rare sight.
The Bunny Hammonds’ Cup cocktail
invitation came decorated with Bunny’s
comical drawings of Cup starters and
“There’s room at the barrier for you.”
The event of the evening was a snail
race, course and snails Bunny’s handi-
work, and names and pedigrees the pro-
duct of his imagination. Mary Kingsford
Smith was the winning “jockey” and
Alan Tully the successful “owner.”
(Their partnership is to become perma-
nent, for their engagement was announced
during the week.) In the field, though
not in winning mood, was “Speedy Tra-
veller” by “Jonah” out of “Piccadilly,”
owned by Ernest Jones, lately returned
from a business trip (fuel supplies for
more and more ’planes). He flew from
Australia to England, and from England
across to Egypt and down through Kenya
and Mombasa to the Cape, doing only
the last lap across the Indian Ocean by
ship. “Jonah” recommends South Africa
for a visit, particularly the 70,000 square
miles of National Park, where lions and
tigers roam at will and visitors may go
provided they don’t leave their cars or
drive off the track. “Jonah,” ordering
his favorite drink, beer, in the clubs of
Durban, discovered some interesting
statistics on the tastes of members ; for
every nine pints of whisky consumed
only 16 pint-pots of beer are pushed
across the bar.
A warm windless evening, a house
with a garden and a view, the immi-
nence of the navy and the presence of
a hostess who managed a special word
of greeting and inquiry for each one of
her guests —such were a few of the
features which went to make the Tom
Hudsons’ cocktail party an event of Cup
Week. Among the guests was Vice-
Admiral Sir Ragnar Colvin, recently
arrived in the Orontes in succession to
Admiral Hyde. As well as a fine naval
record the new First Member of the
Naval Board is blessed with charm, and
is certain to be very popular. Notice-
able in the throng was tall young Lord
Ranfurly, who had the view from the
verandah pointed out to him by Bunty
Govett. Bunty’s hat was ornamented
with little nobby bunches of green ber-
ries, and her patterned frock made an
intriguing picture puzzle of gesticulating
figures and “Tres Bien” printed in large
white lettering on a black ground. Mrs.
F. O. Bilson, who has lived in Paris and
always manages to have a French instinct
about her dressing, wore black organza
and a black cockade hat mounted with a
seagull’s wing. Commander and Mrs.
Pearson were there, Mrs. Pearson in the
kind of tailored checks she wears so suc-
cessfully. Commander and Mrs. Spurgeon
were kept busy answering inquiries about
Mrs. Spurgeon’s sister, Cecily Wilson,
who has had a stage career in London
and recently returned to Geelong.
Showing no sign of wear and tear on
the muscles used for keeping the human
body erect on its two feet, hundreds of
people came to the Navy League Ball
from afternoon engagements at the
G. garden party and calls at several
cocktail parties. There were also many
dinner dates that had to be kept. At
the ball one nautical lad who supported
himself on a pillar during the blue
jackets’ sailor’s hornpipe said that the
only rest he’d had for three days and
nights was lying down in his bath, where
he’d got into the dangerous habit of going
to sleep and nearly drowning himself.
The Navy League did things well, and
everybody was in such hearty humor that
there were no rebukes for the folk who
manged to get mislaid out of their par-
ties and turned up after supper with
strange peace offerings under their arms.
These, a varied assortment from the
novelty stall in the ballroom, included
china dogs, phpto. frames, reading
lamps, scent sachets, or useful products
of the bottle department which, later in
the evening, did nicely with champagne.
The Gowries, the Wakehursts, the Hunt-
ingfields, the Whiskards and Admiral
Colvin were among special guests, most
of whom were noticed dancing. Captain
Bracegirdle seemed to have more medals
than ever across his chest. Among com-
mittee people with responsibilities were
Commander and Mrs. Crellock Price,
sec. W. R. Bryant, treas. George Paxton
and ticket secs. Mrs. Lionel Grimwade
and Mrs. C. L. Nicholas. Major and
Mrs. Briggs were noticed ; also the Andy
Chirnsides. A foursome consisted of the
Ray Bruhns and the “By” Gowans.
Mervyn Sprague was in the same party
as his sister Zelma, who wore a bunch
of Queen Alexandra curls across her
forehead.
Among those who were welcomed by
Mrs. Louis Nelken at her cocktail party
a few met again during the same late
afternoon at Mrs. T. J. Hudson’s party,
also of large proportions. Others went
home to change into evening apparel,
and later found themselves in adjoining
“stalls” during the dinner party given
by the Richard Turnbulls, for which
daughter Anne had thought out season-
able invitations promising that “the bar-
rier would be raised for nosebags.” “I
think we met earlier in the evening” was
the general greeting at Mrs. Purves
Smith’s Venetian cabaret, which com-
menced a few hours later, round about
midnight, at No. 9. It was a very pic-
turesque party, redolent with Cyprus
groves and golden oranges, with a setting
of romantic moons shining into a Doge’s
palace and an imaginative glimpse of a
canal and a flower-filled gondola.
Guests sat where they pleased at small
cabaret' tables placed round the dance
floor.
The inevitable double banking hap-
pened right through Cup Week, so that
by the time the horses were up and over
the last jump on Steeplechase Day both
the givers and receivers of parties felt
a reaction, a longing for early nights
and ardiet of plain lemon juice and the
popular fad of the moment, vitamin B.
Fashion impulses are limitless. In a
week that bristled with new ideas and
clever notions created in the minds of
clever dress designers, the wearers of the
interesting clothes still had the last word
—the way they tilted a hat, the manner
in which they tied a bow or chose an ac-
cessory, spelt success or failure. At the
Blinded Soldiers’ Association’s Ball Lady
Gowrie carried a lovely fan of swaying
ostrich-feathers and her coiffure was de-
lightfully simple, a halo of laurel leaves.
At Government House Ball Mrs. Clive
Fairbairn wore a beautifully cut ice-blue
satin gown, its distinguishing note being
an off-the-shoulder decolletage. For the
garden party Mrs. Tom Patterson secured
a color feature for her tobacco-brown
chiffon frock with a chou bow of blue
taffeta upon the corsage. At the Oaks
Mrs. Rupert Wertheim wore a white
sailor hat and navy veil, but the veil
came floating from underneath the brim.
For Mrs. Tom Hudson’s cocktail party
Phyllis Mein matched the tiny veil upon
her hat with a scarf of the same stiff
white mesh tied under the chin in a
pussycat bow. Mrs. Geoff Smith should
have backed The Trump after the veil
she wore to Mrs. Louis Nelken’s cocktail
party, which was sprinkled with hearts,
diamonds, spades and clubs.
The Australian Club Ball, most mag-
nificent and exclusive private function
of the year, which is also the most ex-
pensive, was the grand climax of the
week’s entertaining. The decorations are
flowers in and out of season, champagne
bubbles all through the evening, food
consists of choicest dishes evolved into
artistic achievements by master chefs.
Pheasants and other rarities come from
England as special ice-packed orders. If
a guest asked for peacocks’ tongues there
is no knowing that they would not be
placed before him on a silver salver.
Flowers and yet more flowers hid the
solid masculine soul of the building. In
the hall no ceiling was visible between
the roses. The billiard-room glowed with
reds and soft pinks, the dining-room,
used for dancing, glinted with pink and
silver and clear cool yellow. A fountain
tinkled on the stairs, and on a higher
landing was a miniature Shrine of Re-
membrance, beautifully made of sugar
and illuminated with tiny hidden globes
of light.
The Countess of Bective, pictured here
by Broothorn, leaves Melbourne this
week on her way to England. Lady Bec-
tive appeared at many functions through
Cup Week. One of the parties she gave
was at the Embassy in honor of the
eighteenth birthday of her son, baronet
Rupert Clarke.
For the reason that in the past it has
been difficult to judge with any exacti-
tude numbers to be catered for at the
vice-regal ball and garden party, invi-
tations this year for both functions left
Government House containing enclosures
politely requesting guests to return tickets
if they didn’t mean to use them. Few
people omit to use their ball tickets,
except those who are absent from Mel-
bourne and a handful of diehard hus-
bands who give into their wives on most
things but are adamant about dances. A
much larger number, again mostly hus-
bands, give the garden party a miss.
The ball was packed with people and
glittersome with jewellery—the real stuff,
diamonds, sapphires, emeralds and pearls.
Tiaras and earrings were particularly
elaborate. Every matron present seemed
to have something of value to take out
of the family chest, while many girls
wore their twenty-first birthday strings of
pearls and flowers of more extravagance
than usual. It was really a night for the
debs, and the older folk—the “in-
betweens” have a taste for more fun and
less formality. The crush was enor-
mous, especially outside the supper-
room doors, where ladies and gentle-
men became as hungry lions and tigers.
“I’d hate to be near you in a shipwreck,”
one angry and very pretty young woman
was heard to hiss through her teeth at a
strange man who pushed his elbow into
her two guineas’ worth of orchids.
The decorations were in the lovely
glowing colors of thousands of flowers
from Government House and the Botanic
Gardens. Garlands hung from the bal-
cony, and at intervals round the walls
were diamond-shaped plaques, their
frameworks of lattice, to which the
blooms were secured. The secret of these
flowers, still fresh next day at the garden
party, was that their stems were able to
reach water in small gilded tins, cleverly
hidden by leaves and petals. In the
debutante bouquet were 17 young things,
all smiles and flushes of excitement.
Judy Chirnside had the deepest flush of
all, for owing to traffic delays she arrived
late and had to make her curtsies all
alone to the three couples of vice-regals.
But all was well, acknowledgments from
the dais were sympathetic and father
Gordon Chirnside was quickly at her
elbow ready to dance the first dance with
his just-grown-up daughter.
Owing to perfect windless weather in
which there was no necessity to clutch
large hats, Government House garden
party was a particularly pleasant race-
week function. The women looked
pleased at being able to wear really sum-
mery gowns (some swept the grass in
trailing draperies) and the men didn’t
look quite as miserable as usual, though
a few of them, in brand-new toppers,
had a hunted look about their eyes and
a hot flush under their collars. One pair
who were quite at home and seemed to
find life a pleasant thing generally were
brothers Norman and Walter Bayles, who
strolled about the lawns together!
Strawberries and cream disappeared
with amazing speed in every tent, but
the buffet in the ballroom was a different
story. Those who got to the tables early
stood their ground eating everything
they could lay hands on, while others on
the outskirts slowly died for the want of
cups of tea. Hordes of young girls
present with their mothers slipped through
parental fingers as soon as possible, with
the excuse of looking for ices. They
got quite furious at being introduced to
dozens of strange women, all of whom
said the same thing with the same empha-
sis: “Hasn’t she grown.”
The sudden heat of Oaks Day covered
the Flemington lawns with flowers grow-
ing in extravagant and futuristic profu-
sion on printed silks and sheers. Shades
of crushed mulberry, purple grape and
red-violet were seen in many riotous
designs. Sunshades, in spite of the
weather, were almost as rare as frocks of
ankle-length. The demise of the parasol
has been noticeable since the advent of
ladies’ totes as part of members’ stands
on Melbourne racecourses. The Oaks
crowd packed the stand all the way on
either side of the v.-r. box, in which all
gentlemen wore Anthony Edens in place
of the toppers with which they honored
the Cup. Those who delayed in finding
seats until a quarter of an hour before
each race climbed the high back stairs in
droves to the top stand. Even though it
meant puffing and blowing, a beautiful
breeze coming through the grilles made
the effort worth while.
Among special Oaks luncheons was the
Melbourne Club’s gala meal spread on
long tables in the old stand, to which
members brought their wives and various-
sized parties.
Among people who looked particularly
cool all day were Mrs. E. F. Harrison,
whose white silk gown was strewn with
lifesize green elm leaves, and Mary Bail-
lieu, whose white frock with its cleverly-
fluted sleeves went with all-white acces-
sories. Mrs. Alex. Russell chose corn-
flower-blue for her gown and hat. A
white hat and coat accompanied Mrs.
Clive Leonard’s fondant-pink frock.
Pamela Armstrong’s off-the-face hat was
of the same ripe-corn color which made
the background for - her navy spotted
gown. Betty Minnett, of Sydney, and
Mrs. Gordon Challingsworth wore frocks
patterned in identical figurings of fuchsias
and greens, though in such a swirl of
flowered silks it was improbable that
anyone but themselves picked the “twins.”


»«wf ettvtotßt■■ -'
»»".] Uin'a-J'U-jM' C-isjjmi liv
■‘ '•' 1 '• ’ ■
BtLVfOtßt r> -' 1
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
* §/
P'P/J'A,.. P ’ / %// A/// AL,,/
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
«••*» Bclveoere i-s" Belvederes Belveocre: fgj»; ..
So BELVEDERE PS"
Belvedere pm Belvedere pw
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s’’ criticism (10/l/’34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., IjTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Leirum”: Tolerance blossoms like a
rose in the mild and friendly climate of
Queensland, and when the brethren at a
temperance meeting in a church had had
their say there was no protest when a
husky singer rolled up his larynx and
burst into “Down Among the Dead
Men,” proclaiming vigorously that “love
and wine their rites maintain.” He an-
nounced that he was determined to ex-
plore thoroughly “smiling Bacchus’s
joys,” rounding off with the assertion
that “he who will this health deny, down
among the dead men let him lie.” But,
after all, his performance was no more
incongruous than that of a crusading
band of hope which turned up at a Cen-
tral Queensland township a couple of
years ago to find the local pub on fire
and joined heartily in a successful fight
to save the locality’s only fountain of the
Demon Rum.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: The Australian Inland
Mission has now 21 pedal wireless sets
on lonely stations in the N.T. The
G.P.O. graciously allows the owners
to send and receive telegrams, and
registers them as telegraph stations in
the Post Office Guide. In seven months
this year over 1200 messages were
handled, on which the P.M.G. has
rebated £47 in payment for carrying the
traffic. This goes to the A.1.M., but
Territorians sometimes wonder whether
it wouldn’t be a fair thing if the P.M.G.
spent some of his £2,000,000 average sur-
plus to provide sets free for every station
that needed one. The cost is so little
that the department would scarcely feel
the strain and it would feed traffic into
the post office. One privilege which
might be granted is the right to transmit
to the nearest air-mail route, by radio,
business letters which would be tran-
scribed by the P.O. and remitted by mail
for a small charge. This would often
save weeks in transactions.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Queensland’s new
Federal Reps, should prove well capable
of weighing and analysing facts and
figures. Particularly figures, as three of
them, Jolly (Lilley), Fadden (Darling
Downs) and Hunter (Maranoa), are ac-
countants. Two are ex-deposition clerks,
versed in legal phraseology and detail,
Francis (Moreton) and Baker (Griffith).
Riordan (Kennedy) is studying for the
Bar. Forde (Capricornia) is an ex-
schoolmaster and electrician ; Corser, of
Wide Bay, the only farmer. The re-
maining two, Lawson (Brisbane) and
Martens (Herbert), were union secre-
taries.
* * * *
“Aero”: Australia’s largest aeroplane
is now being assembled in Melbourne for
service on the Brisbane run. It will carry
23 passengers and a crew of three, and
will make the Brisbane-Sydney journey
twice a day, covering 2000 miles. Next
year it is expected that one of the Douglas
DC4’s, carrying 40 passengers, will be
in service.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Dead at 65, Dean O’Connell,
one of the best-known priests in Queens-
land. Born in Dublin, he came to
Queensland in 1903 and served a short
term at Maryborough. A little later his
jogging sulky became a familiar sight
on the roads round Toowoomba. In
1915 he was transferred to Kangaroo
Point, Brisbane, and soon achieved a
reputation for one of the kindest hearts
and most eloquent tongues around the
capital. His brother and two nephews
serve the church in Queensland.
* * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Aged ex-
warriors have been getting quite warm in
Brisbane papers lately concerning the
origin of the emu feathers in the Digger
hat. About 1893 I listened to an ex-
regular major who had been in the
Queensland forces during the Shearers'
War of 1890 commenting abusively on
the scandalous colonial-mindedness of his
former C. 0., Colonel French. “No idea
of discipline,” he snorted; “actually
allowed a set of beastly colonials calling
themselves Mounted Infantry, from some
beastly place called Gympie where they
get gold or something, to disfigure the
uniform with the feathers of some beastly
emu birds. The rabble had been on
escort duty with wool wagons, and ex-
“Marvellous! It's pointing at the tank behind the shed.”
pended Government ammunition which
should have gone into the beastly
shearers if I’d been in command, and the
Gympie lot into clink.” Lucky for
Queensland that French was “colonial-
minded.” He ended the “war” by per-
suading the shearers’ main body to break
camp and get back to work.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Queensland Land Act used
to be one of the chief sources of Parlia-
mentary contention. Governments con-
stantly altered it, often to insert some
retrospective provision to ensure the win-
ning on appeal of actions against lessees
which had been lost in a lower court. The
position became so bad that the Act was
reorganised on lines laid down by W. L.
Payne, a barrister official of the depart-
ment. Payne was put in charge as chair-
man of the Land Administration Board
in McCormack’s day, and from then
onwards Queensland land administration
became a model for the world. Red-tape
was swept away so that rents and areas
could be adjusted to meet any conditions
with a minimum of fuss. The prickly-
pear was taken seriously, and several
millions of acres were freed of it or
settlement, adding 10,000,000 to the
sheep-carrying capacity of the middle
west. Payne has sat on the Common-
wealth Wool Industry Commission. He
has recently acted as chairman of the
commission which inquired into Northern
Territory affairs, and has framed a 25-
year policy of development for the North,
Now the Government has decided once
more to amend the Act to transfer him
to the presidency of the Land Court,
There will be protests from all over the
State, since it will be hard to find a sue-
cessor of equal firmness and ability cap-
able of keeping land outside the arena of
political control.
lI A
Australia Jane s Budget
Mrs. Forgan Smith is head of a com-
mittee arranging a fete to be held next
year when the Montrose Home for
Crippled Children moves to the new and
larger premises, Ardoyne, Corinda. Lady
Wilson is patroness, and the vice-presi-
dents are Mesdames H A Bruce, J W.
Greene and W. K. McLuckie. Montrose
was opened in December, 1933, and to
date 160 children have been inmates.
There are 65 there at present —60 at
Montrose and five elder boys occupying
quarters at Ardoyne. Of the 100 who
have been discharged many have been
completely cured, and all the others have
benefited considerably by the treatment.
The Rotarians make the home. their
special charge, and at present are glean-
ing sufficient cash to provide a swim-
ming pool.
About 140 women gathered for the
first group meeting of the Southern Divi-
sion of the C.W.A. which took the form
of a luncheon party, and at which Mrs.
Edward Farmer, president of the
Southern Division, was able to meet
members of metropolitan and country
branches. Mrs. Graham Mylne, the
State president, came; and there were
flowers for her and for Mrs. Farmer.
Joan White, just back from England,
where she was secretary to the Associated
Country Women of the World, had a lot
to talk about.
Dr. and Mrs. C. A. Street are back
from America, whither they went to see
daughter Helen safely married to her
Texan, Manning Gibson. They travelled
in the Mariposa.
There was a roll-up of almost 300 for
the pre-Cup bridge party arranged by
the Brisbane Charities Bridge Club.
President Mrs. A. Locke received, and
the Blair lady presented the prizes. Mrs.
Corbett and Jean Morgan were the win-
ners. Politicians’ wives were much in
evidence.
The Cilento lady’s grounds were lent
for the children’s Hallowe’en party in
aid of the funds of the Mothercraft
Assoc. Mrs. Forgan Smith went along
to open the fete, and was received by a
guard of honor composed of Girl
Guides. Boy Scouts and members of
Toe H lent a hand with the arrange-
ments, and a covey of pipers in kilt and
plaid played Highland music. Dr. Shir-
ley Lane and Miss H. von Ploennies
looked after the arrangements for the
children’s catering.
Another Hallowe’en party was ar-
ranged by Mrs. E. B. Harris to help
boost the funds of the Travellers’ Aid
Society. Ghosts and witches formed a
procession round the dimly-lit room,
which was decorated with all the appro :
priate symbols. It was a nice party, and
should benefit the society quite a lot.
During Diggers'
Week in Longreach
Mr. and Mrs. Nor-
man Murray produced
“Canaries Sometimes
Sing,” which Brisbane
has seen only as a
film, with Ralph Lynn
starring. Mrs.
Murray, Olive Fergu-
son and one of the
Ide men were the
other important
people in the cast.
Dr. Dorothy Hill,
research scholar in
the geology dept, of
the Uni., has gone
to N. S. Wales to do field research wojk.
Fossil corals in the Murrumbidgee dis-
trict, near Yass, will occupy her atten-
tion first. Dr. Dorothy has just finished
seven years’ research work at Cambridge,
and corals are her pet particular line.
Freda Bage, principal of the Women’s
College within the University since first
it was founded, is taking a year’s leave
of absence, and intends to spend most
of the time in the U.S.A. She has been
away on long trips twice before, once
to Geneva and a conference, and again
on a trip round England and Europe.
As this is the golden jubilee year of
the Royal Queensland Art Society, there
was a reception at night, as well as the
official opening performed by Acting-
Governor Blair in the afternoon. The
Blair lady wasn’t able to attend, so Major
Stark, A.D.C., took charge of the sheaf
of flowers the committee had got ready
for her. At night president Dr. Jimmy
Duhig and his wife received the guests,
including Mrs. Edgar Foreman and L.
W. K. Wirth, two foundation members.
Jean Wells, whose father is Judge in
the N.T., has announced her engage-
ment to John, elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
M. J. Kearney, of Echuca (Vic.). Jean
has a lot of friends in Sydney who will
be interested in the news.
An attractive northern girl whose en-
gagement was recently announced is
Mabel, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W.
Wright, Bootooloo, Bowen, who sprang
a surprise on the guests at her twenty-
first birthday party by exhibiting her new
ring. Lucky lad is Harold Anderson.


l!S§li®l«i§»pt
-S-.k SSSkijSS f ■ I
s' S ' l*'-
VMNpMNI
If you
m
value
fllifi
' ' >3
your
health
i£4 H
m
YOU WILL PAY
THE LITTLE EXTRA
FOR GORDONS GIN
Jedicmm! ™ at haS
*wm PROPERTIES
Gordons
HrittiMNHNi
-
PUKE WHITE
TOM ATO!
“White Beauty .'**' ,r Amaringi
new pure white HEALTH!
TOMATO. Guaranteed IOOj
per cent. NON-ACID (a
sensational achievement)
DELICIOUS FLAVOUR.
Large fruit (l£lbt.).Heavy
bearer, disease free, grows any-
where. Selling on sight U.S.A.
markets, replacing red varieties.
BIG MONEY for first grow-
ers in Australia. This seed can
be sown until Christmas. 2/6)
packet, posted. _
NJ3.W. SEED CO.,
NEW EVER-BEARING
CLIMBING TOMATO!
Large, solid red. Size of fruit 3*
x 2*in. RAPIDLY GROWS TO 12
FEET, and will reach 20ft. Can be
grown on 12ft. stakes or trained
along a fence or trellis. The most
productive of all Tomatoes, yield-
ing TWO BUSHELS PER PLANT.
Bears continuously. Can be plant-
ed almost any season. ENTIRELY
NEW. The big ‘ money-maker!
2/6 Packet, Posted.
PITT STREET. STOREY.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 558 of 1937.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH MARION HOBBS
Petitioner
And CLIFFORD BERNARD HOBBS Re-
spondent.
TO CLIFFORD BERNARD HOBBS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
MARION HOBBS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse and that without any such cause or excuse
you have left the Petitioner continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the 3rd day of February 1938 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of November, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. E. DALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1671 of 1937.
BETWEEN EMILY MILLICENT GRIFFITH
Petitioner
And JOHN JAMES GRIFFITH Respon-
dent.
TO JOHN JAMES GRIFFITH late of Wagga
Wagga.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMILY
MILLICENT GRIFFITH has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-first day of January One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-eight and in the event
of your not so doing the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of October,
1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
JOHN K. CUTLER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs. Graham Wald, of North Adel-
aide, was hostess at a large afternoon
bridge party at her home. Huge bowls
of mixed flowers were in the reception-
room, and afternoon-tea was served in
the dining-room.
Mrs. Luther Scammell, of Brougham-
place, North Adelaide, gave a tea-party
in the lounge at the South Australian,
where she had a corner of the room
reserved for her 18 guests. Her daugh-
ters-in-law, Mrs. Alfred Scammell and
Mrs. Robert Scammell, were among the
guests.
Barbara, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. P. F. Mills, of Medindie, gave a
picture-theatre party to celebrate her
coming of age. Marjorie Stevens was
the hostess of a similar party the same
week (not a birthday celebration), and
she presented each of her friends with
a floral spray to match the recipient’s
frock.
Dr. and Mrs. H. R. Letcher entertained
a hundred of daughter Peggy’s friends
at a cocktail party at their home. The
guests danced in two of the reception-
rooms and overflowed on to the veran-
dah. Mrs. Letcher gave dainty
floral posies to Pat Spiers-Jackson, Mary
Toll and Margaret Mitchell, whose
birthdays all fell on the day of the
party. Miss Mitchell had been hostess
that afternoon at a birthday party
of her own at the Wentworth, when she
entertained about 40 young friends and
cut a large birthday cake. Later all went
on to Peggy Letcher’s and joined in the
fun there.
Pat Spiers-Jackson, so as not to clash
with the other parties, held her birthday
celebration a couple of days later at the
home of her mother and stepfather, Mr.
and Mrs. Louis McCubbin, Medindie.
Kathleen Martin gave a sherry party
at her home, Kensington Park, to cele-
brate her coming of age. The young
hostess, who designs her own frocks,
chose a white chiffon gown made on
Grecian lines. }
Mrs. John O’Connor (Miriam Ralph
that was, who was visiting her parents,
the F. W. Ralphs) was the guest of honor
a tripoley party. As blue is Mrs.
O’Connor’s favorite color, the flowers,
china and glass at the supper were all
in that shade, and she wore a blue chiffon
frock.
Mrs. Campbell-Smith, of Wayville, has
received an account by air mail from
her niece, formerly Lola Stuart-Smith,
of Perth, of her marriage to Wing-Com-
mander J. P. Coleman, of the British Air
Ministry. The ceremony was performed
at the British Consulate at Marseilles,
and Judith Birdwood, daughter of the
Anzac general, was bridesmaid. Mr. and
Mrs. Coleman are- spending their honey-
moon motoring on the Continent.
Joan, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
John Knuckey, North Adelaide, was
married at Christ Church, Claremont
(W.A.), to P. C. H. Reynolds, younger
son of the late Rev, and Mrs. A. H.
Reynolds, also of Adelaide. The bride
wore misty-blue chiffon with a picture
hat of a deeper shade. Mrs. F. Waldeck
was matron of honor, frocked in sheer
crepe worn .with black accessories. The
future home of Mr. and Mrs. Reynolds
will be at the Rothsay mine in the Peren-
jori district of Westralia.
WESTRALIA.
The Ivan Campbells’ twin daughter
Peggy kept a matrimonial date at Perth
College chapel with Laurence Ellis, of
Crawley. The bride’s transparent over-
dress of white chiffon floated into a long
train over a moulded sheath of ice-blue
satin. Clouds of misty blue veiling fell
from an orange-blossom halo, and a bou-
quet of delphiniums carried on the color
scheme. The three ’maids, twin sister
Betty, Isabel Smith and Betty Ellis, wafted
down the aisle in misty-patterned palest
blue satin cut on Grecian lines and veiled
with blue tulle caught at the back of
their heads with miniature sprays of
tinted arum lilies.
Smooth green lawns and masses of
blooms in the gardens were back-
grounded by the stately Uni. buildings
when James Mitchell’s lady opened the
Village Fair for the Women’s College
Fund. An exhibition of posters collected
overseas by Prof. Whitfeld, ballets by
Linley Wilson’s pupils, and an early-
Victorian playlet helped to rake in the
shekels, and a busy trade was plied at
the picturesque thatch-roofed stalls.
Women undergrads, put on a cabaret
dance in the refectory at night', when
colored lights were strung from the trees
and reflected in the lily pond.
After busy week-ends spring-cleaning
their boats yachtsmen gathered at the
Freshwater Bay Yacht Club for the
opening-of-the-season ball. The gardens
of the Keane’s Point clubhouse were
festooned with lights and set about with
chairs and tables under the trees, and
wavelets lapped against the newly-bur-
nished boats below. Commodore L.
Glaskin was at the helm with wife trail-
ing silver-encrusted sea-blue ninons in
her wake. The rear-commodore, Dr.
Meathrel, had Mrs. Meathrel alongside
wrapped in blue and silver lame, and
Pauline Read hoisted vieux-rose organza
over her satin sheath.
Katherine Munford, principal of the
National Park Junior College for Young
Women in Washington, U.S.A., is spend-
ing part af her leave with Mrs. F. L.
Rogers, of Mt. Lawley. The National
Park College is pioneering a new form
of education: classes are unclassified and
instruction is mainly individual, A pre-
scribed minimum of work is required, but
students may go ahead as they wish. The
school is unique in America.
Despite the wandering willy-willy which
struck Perth about the time of her de-
parture the Centaur had a full passsen-
ger list for Malaya and Java. Mrs. John
Pestell, who has been holidaying here for
some months, departed for her home in
Ipoh, Mrs. Freddie Waterhouse collected
small son and amah for the return trip
to Singapore, Pat Gordon is heading for
Sarawak after picking up sister Nancy
in Singapore, and Dorothy Swain packed
her trunks for warmer days in Penang.
John Van Druten’s play “The Dis-
taff Side” was put on by the Repertory
Club for a three-night season in the Club
Theatre. Molly Learmonth, Kay Kin-
nane and Molly Dunphy shared the
major acting honors, with able support
from the minor characters.
Dark-haired Valmai Wood, only
daughter of the F. J. Woods, of Mount-
street, has decided to forsake Perth for
Toodyay. Kenneth Stevenson, who hails
from Christchurch, M.L., is the reason,
and wedding-bells will ring quite soon.
TASMANIA.
Show Week festivities are a bit on the
shelf perhaps for description just now,
but there were so many that it was im-
possible to record them all. The dance
at the Continental was the third of its
kind in the week, but was enjoyed none
the less for that. Twenty-seven girls and
17 men, with Barbara Atkins and Helen
Lord as joint secs., formed the com-
mittee. Appropriate badges, if satirical
(for Show Week), showing a pig sketched
on a little disk, made the distinguishing
badge of the committee. Most of the
guests were drawn from the younger set.
Launceston Players staged Dodie
Smith’s “Call It a Day” at the National
Theatre, Launceston, with great success.
Nine scenes mean a tremendous lot of
scene-shifting and -changing, but nothing
hung fire. The big cast was well chosen,
Mrs. T. H. Humphreys and N. H. Roff
taking the leads, Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre
and F. Fry were joint producers. Young
Rosemary Casner came off with honors
for her playing of the girl Anne, who is
one of the most attractive persons in the
play.
The E. N. Pringles gave a party to
celebrate daughter Betty’s having cut her
twenty-first notch on her life’s stick.
About 100 guests were bidden to Hill-
crest, Davey-street, where cocktails and
savories were served in the dining-room.
Betty’s rust-colored suit had paler
etceteras to relieve it.
The Queen Mary Club had a big
gathering of members and guests the
other night, bridge and other games being
the chief features in the entertainment.
Lady Clark was there, and a good
number of country people. The flowers
as usual were a show in themselves—
chiefly sunset and orange shades in
azaleas and roses of every color and size
on the supper-table.
The Misses Maxwell were hostesses at
a very extensive tea-party at Hadley’s,
and friends from country and the town en-
joyed their hospitality. Tea was served on
small tables so that people gathered with
their chief friends, and the whole affair
was bright and informal. Mrs. Kath-
leen Hay gave some charming songs to
Mrs. B. Saunders’s accompaniment after
everyone had fed. The flowers were
massed on the mantelpiece and in large
bowls about the lounge.
Rae Calder and Ken Hogg were mar-
rje(j a t St. John’s, Launceston, in the
evening. The bride’s frock of heavy
magnolia lace was mounted on satin,
and her matching tulle veil fell from a
circlet of orange buds. Mrs. Tom Hogg,
the ’groom’s sister-in-law, was matron
of honor, and wore a floral satin in light
green and bronze. At the reception,
held at Leichhardt, St. Leonard’s, the
bride’s aunt and uncle entertained about
50 guests, her aunt, Mrs. W. R. Bennett,
wearing a black-and-silver flared coat
over a trained dress of black soft satin
and httle tulle toque. The going-away
tT° c k °f floral silk was worn under a soil
greyish-green coat, with a hat in match-
in ° lones -
Mrs. T. P. Davern was hostess at a
tea-party at Hadley s to bid farewell to
Mrs. Tasker and daughter Cynthia, who
are by now in b° un d t° r
tbe f H “ b - - , Dave t rn ™ ore fi a black
short Persian lamb coat and a fine white
S ( raw hat. Mrs. Tasker was in hyacinth
blue.
X/r •, , „ „ i u
Molly David has gone back to Sydney
after a short vistt to her sister, Mrs W.
M . cl " y ,n’ f Launceston She is
P lease d at lh t e ,> ns,a . nt f ce Pt a nce E y the
publishers ot bet book, a life of th
Stand 0 man ’ Edgewotth David, her
tather -
Dorothy and Ciceley Radcliff have
started homeward from England but are
Co l mi ?S via India, where they will put in
a 'die time with relations.


OttA.7hi£^man^euf4
We keep nearly 100 cows in regular
employment providing our milk and cream.
It's a big job, this Victoria job You ask Straw-
berry—Her quota is just 600 gallons Of course
the Victoria is the largest, most modern hotel
in Australia It accommodated a quarter million
guests last yearl Tariff from 4/- to 7/6 Single
room. 8/- to 16/- Double room
201-229 LIT COLUNS STREET. MELBOURNE. C 1 (Ne«t Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
SECURrry
Good Income plus Safety!
You as an investor want Safety and good Income in addition
to potential capital appreciation. Obviously you must inquire
to-day about FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTI-
FICATES. These spread your money over 20 leading,
“listed” securities. The yield is approx. 5 % p.a. Cus-
todian Trustees for investors: Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
The Long White Cloud
Maori Humor and Red-tape
A son of the Maori people will some
day become Maoriland’s Mark Twain.
Many of them have a natural gift for
poking glorious verbal fun at the
pakeha and his laborious works, and
most of them are blessed with good
humor even when in the snares of official-
dom.
The philosophical vein that makes the
Maori so scornful of red-tape and so
humorous at the expense of the imper-
sonal departmental methods of the
pakeha also lifts his quips above the
average. But most natives capable of
the nonsense criticisms that put a dent
in pakeha vanity even while they inspire
hearty pakeha laughs rarely commit
them to paper unless driven by material
reasons. They are as casual in this re-
spect as the white man is lethargic in
seeing that his Government departments
really interpret the wishes of his Parlia-
ment.
Labor recently promised housing
assistance to the natives, and an east
coast Maori farmer applied for a sub-
sidy—and applied, and applied. All the
satisfaction he received before resorting
to his pen was a long-range promise
that his “special circumstances” would
be looked into. So he wrote this plea,
read in Parliament:
May the warm rays of the approaching
summer sun thaw the cold bloodstream that
courses through the hearts of those in
authority Time went by, and I waited,
and in waiting I slept, and in sleeping I
dreamt that I was at the races taking part
in a steeplechase. As I got over one hurdle
there appeared another, and then another,
and another, each bigger than the last.
When I had got once round, 1 heard the
loudspeaker saying, “Call the Maori —call
the Maori off. We must look into his
special circumstances.”
So without the aid of the
gods of night I now send you
this reason for applying for a
house: If you had no seat in
your pants, would not that be a
special circumstance for a new
pair? Well, I have no roof to
my old house.
This is a fairly true reflection
of the general Maori attitude to-
wards the detailed administra-
tion of pakeha Governments.
Some native Cabinet Ministers,
better educated than many of
their fellow-members, have
fallen into past departmental
disfavor by the unorthodox
methods —to pakehas accus-
tomed to red-tape—which they
have adopted to get things done
quickly and simply.
“M.K.”: The current year
will go down in Maoriland’s
newspaper history as one of
constant trial and continuous
criticism. Labor is still attacking dailies
for their attitude to Labor politics and
threatening reprisals; commercial radio
is cutting into advertising revenue ; the
national service, following the lead of
its bosses, recently delivered a philippic
against the press ; and now the patient
public is beginning to doubt the accu-
racy of news cabled from overseas.
Much of this 1937 criticism has been
unfair. Maoriland journalism has a
long record of impartial accuracy good
enough to withstand the more irrelevant
local attacks. But cable news, hairy
with generalities and stuffed with views
instead of corroborated facts, must be
causing newspaper proprietors more
worry than Labor or radio gibes.
* * * *
“The Hittite”: The words “village ’
and “hamlet” might be dropping out of
use in Australia (B. 22/9/’37), but in
Maoriland the former is quite usual. A
native settlement is invariably called a
Maori village, never a town or town-
ship. The word “hamlet” never gets
past the amateur theatrical stage, and
“township” is falling into disuse.
* # * *
“Waitot”: Of recent weeks ladies from
the United States have delighted critical
South Island newspapers with acid tour-
ist-department comment, and Minister
Langstone has felt obliged to answer.
Americans are notoriously fussy about
getting what they want, and, as every tour
boss knows, they are whales for facts and
figures and photographs. The South
Island papers credit the Yankee ladies
with statements that tour officials in the
North Island weren’t altogether glowing
in their advocacy of southern scenery.
This will take some swallowing by
people who have been serviced
through the Los Angeles, London,
Sydney and Melbourne offices of
the Maoriland department. But
there’s a departmental lesson in it.
Even tourist men can grow par-
ochial when left for years in the
same town or city ; it would be for
the good of Maoriland generally
“You ladies like to buy a dawg to mind yer clothes?”
if local and overseas transfers among
junior men in the service were more
frequent than at present.
* * * *
“Paekiri”: Auckland, although it sup-
ports M.L.’s one and only archbishop,
has no Anglican cathedral, and Auck-
landers are at last going to do something
about it. The site is there—Bishop
Selwyn saw to that. All that is required
is £150,000 for the building.
% * * *
“Kiwit”: The standard of living
survey which Maoriland’s Bureau of
Social Science Research is carrying out
in rural districts is expected to assist the
Labor Government when dealing with
policy matters relating to the dairy in-
dustry. It should, too. The survey covers
such problems as nutrition, child and
female labor, rural housing, educational
and recreational facilities; and Labor
spokesmen who have been scoffing at
allegations that easier public works
money has robbed many dairy farmers
of reliable employees are due for a
shock. Moreover, dairy farmers in some
districts have been complaining that the
guaranteed prices they receive for their
produce are not high enough to cover
costs and provide a reasonable profit;
the research men are pretty sure to find
that many of the more cautious cockies
have called their wives and kids back to
the cowyard.
* * * *
“Xo”: Reference to the 48 orphan
children Maori Princess Te Puea is caring
for at her Ngaruawahia pah (B.
26/10/’37) may have conveyed the wrong
impression that she is a rich woman.
Hear her on this subject:
I have many children. My first family
was 60 orphans. I am not a rich woman
and I worked for them. To keep the
children, I take contract work —road-
making, drainage, flax-cutting, tea-tree and
gorse clearing. People of my tribe do the
work, and without them I could not carry
on. We also give concerts, and the money
from them helps to feed and clothe the
children. At present my family numbers
48. I have no income but that which we
work for, and I would rather work than
that the money should come for nothing.
There, in the last sentence, is the secret
of Te Puea’s really good influence on
the character of the Maori race; she
knows it is better for her “children” to
work their own land than live idly in
seashore pahs on rents received from
white people.
* * * *
“Mak”: Recent reference in a Maori-
land daily to dogs being kennelled on
back-paddock boundaries to prevent
sheep from wandering recalls how one
Maoriland youngster helped in the
annual muster. He wasn’t much bigger
than the mongrel pup which followed
him about, and by late afternoon the
boss was beginning to regret having taken
him into the hills. To save his short
legs, he was posted at the bottom of a
lonely spur with orders to turn the
sheep up the home gully when they
were driven down from the flats above.
It took longer to muster that section
than the boss anticipated, and it was get-
ting dark when he got back ; the sheep
seemed to have gone the right way, but
there was no sign of the kid. The boss
eventually found him asleep in the scrub
beside the track. Appeared he doubted
his ability to stop the sheep when he saw
them coming, so co-opted the pup. But
the pup didn’t like the look of the sheep
either, and refused to oblige by barking
decently until the youngster had tied him
up and left him ; then his frightened
howling did the job. The boss still
chuckles over that, and the kid—who
didn’t become a farmer —still wonders
whether the pup was really the more
scared.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Japanese newspaper editor
Bunshirow Suzuki has been shocking
Maoriland interviewers, some of them
inclined to be facetious, with doubts of
the accuracy of atrocity news from the
China front. “When newspapers in Aus-
tralia were publishing reports that
Japanese aeroplanes had killed 5000
civilians in an air raid on Canton,” Mr.
Suzuki said, “I was having lunch with
some of the staff of the Melbourne
‘Herald.’ I said news of the bombing
must be greatly exaggerated. Someone
said, ‘What proof have you of that?’ J
replied that, from experience of the
earthquake in Tokio 14 years ago, it
was impossible to obtain accurate
casualty lists in a time of great havoc.”
If any corroboration is required, Maori-
land journalists who covered the Napier-
Hastings ’quake of 1931 can supply it.
The Canton casualties were not more
than 100, according to the South China
“Morning Post,” a British newspaper,
which sent a reporter to find out.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Films of Maoriland “places,
personalities and events” are being pre-
pared by the Tourist and Publicity De-
partment for overseas exhibition, and
Maorilanders are getting the opportunity
of seeing them in local theatres before
they leave the country. Home release
of these films should give locals the
chance of judging for themselves whether
or not the Government motion-picture
studios are doing work that can com-
pare favorably with overseas shorts on
the same programmes. But' even the
most critical stay-at-home Maorilander
should remember that other places have
other tastes; he would probably roar
with scornful laughter if shown a Gov-
ernment publicity film of gorse-covered
hills, and heard the commentator talking
of the glories of the golden furze. Yet
one woman tourist from western
America, self-possessed enough to inform
Maoriland it was “time the Tourist De-
partment took a tumble,” complained
that she had never heard of the lovely
gorse, and that, while it might' be a
noxious weed to Maorilanders, it was an
attraction for people from other
countries. Pity they couldn’t take it
away with them, did I hear you say?


Somebody's got
a Better Radio
Now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Itrirps tram £l2 19 0.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of XOOO
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers ?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Explanations for Beginners.
III.
A Battery.
The A battery provides the current
for the filaments of the valves used in
a battery-operated receiver. It may be
either of the storage battery (accumu-
lator), dry-cell or primary wet-cell type.
Accumulators usually have a working
capacity from 60 to 100 ampere-hours.
The dry-cell A battery is used only for
very small receivers, but the wet primary
type is suitable for four and, in some
cases, five-valve receivers. The Car-
boncel and Air-Cell are primary wet
cells, but with a different application.
B Battery.
The B battery may be either of the
dry- or wet-cell type, but the latter is
now rarely used. This battery provides
the voltage for the plates (anodes) of
the valves in a battery receiver. Dry-
cell B batteries are made in different
capacities for a given voltage, the usual
type being in the form of a 45-volt
block. Three such units are used to
give a total of 135 volts or four for 180
volts. In Australia, where B batteries
are usually called upon to give service
in isolated places, the triple capacity B
battery, such as the Ever Ready Super-
dyne, is a standard.
C Battery.
This is a small dry-cell battery of 4{,
nine or more volts to supply a biasing
voltage for the grids of amplifying valves.
Apt to be neglected, but as important a
factor in receiver performance as the A
and B batteries.
Chassis.
Chassis is the name applied to the
structural framework of a radio receiver.
Nowadays the chassis is usually of plated
or lacquered steel, but aluminium, brass
or copper may be used.
R.F. Choke.
This is a coil of high impedance to
limit the flow of A.C. or pulsating cur-
rents of certain frequencies through part
of a circuit in which the choke is con-
nected. Where R.F. chokes are used in
conjunction with fixed condensers (by-
pass condensers) a circuit containing
high and low frequency, also direct cur-
rents, may be divided to send the low
frequency current through one path,
D.C. through another, and high (or
radio) frequency through a third path.
Such chokes are of the air-core type and
are designed to have the least possible
distributed capacity. Lumped capacity
R.F. chokes would pass the high-fre-
quency current across the choke and
render it ineffective.
D.B.K.
Radio and Surgery.
Very few listeners realise that the radio
waves that bring broadcast programmes
into the home are, in other applications,
saving many human lives every year.
For some years now the medical profes-
sion has made use of high-frequency
treatment by radio-frequency oscilla-
tions in concentrated form, and as far
back as 1899 important biological effects
were demonstrated by Tesla, using the
spark-gap principle. Though a few
diathermy machines on that principle are
still in use they are rapidly being dis-
placed by the modern valve oscillator.
The usual therapy wave until five or
six years ago was above 200 metres, but
developments in valve design have made
it practicable to construct short-wave and
ultra-short-wave oscillators capable of
producing an intense field. In most types
of apparatus the power leads from the
oscillator are concentrated between two
small electrodes, thus forming a minute
arc, which cuts easily through living
tissue. Short- and ultra-short-wave appa-
ratus has the advantage that the radiation
can be more easily localised and the
depth of penetration can be closely regu-
lated by choice of frequency.
In 1927 the G.E. Co. of U.S.A. con-
structed a six-metre oscillator generating
15kw., but that figure is easily exceeded
to-day. Water in a small copper vessel
placed near a high-power ultra-short-
wave oscillator will boil without any vis-
ible source of heat, and any metallic
object within range is likely to become
so hot, merely by induction, that it can
not be touched by hand. Experiments
primarily conducted upon animals
showed that the heating effects did not
begin on the outside surface exposed
to the high-frequency energy, but started
simultaneously inside and throughout
the entire body.
Radio surgery is well past the experi-
mental stage, and the radio knife is an
important tool in the trained hands of
the surgeon. It is widely used for opera-
tions on inaccessible body cavities, es-
pecially the brain. The radio knife re-
moves the fear of complication or
infection and avoids loss of blood.
In diathermy the oscillations from the
generator unit are not concentrated into
an arc as for cutting purposes in an
operation, but are made to traverse the
body in a wide stream. There is no de-
struction of tissue, but merely a general
rise in temperature, its extent depending
largely on the intensity of the high-fre-
quency field. At ordinary body heat
many gterms grow and multiply readily,
but by raising the temperature by the
simulation of a fever heat at the re-
quired location the germs are killed.
Some interesting facts have been noted
in connection with the employment of
ultra-short waves for diathermy pur-
poses. The human blood is heated most
by a wave-length in the vicinity of 21-
metres, and heating of the entire human
system takes place most readily under
the influence of waves between three and
four metres. It is thought that the
human body has a natural electrical fre-
quency in this vicinity, being about four
metres for adults and slightly less for
children. The absorption of energy and
consequent rise of temperature differ with
individuals, owing to condition of skin
and general health factors.
Diathermy and therapy equipment is
to-day well advanced, and the patient
need have no fears that he or she is being
made the subject of a doubtful experi-
ment.
D.B.K.
A.B.C. 1938 Concert Season.
The A.B.C.’s engagements for next
year include Dino Borgioli, a lyric tenor
who was heard in Australia during
Melba’s 1924 season. Australian Lauri
Kennedy, the ’cellist, will play in orches-
tral programmes and will give public and
studio recitals with his wife, who is an
excellent pianist. Alexander Kipnis,
Russian bass-baritone, will open an Aus-
tralian tour of 20 recitals in Sydney on
April 2.
The biggest plum in the basket is
Richard Tauber, who, it is expected, will
be accompanied by his wife, the Eng-
lish screen actress Diana Napier. His
season of over 25 concerts will open in
July, and he will appear with orchestra
in Sydney and Melbourne. Sigurd
Rascher is coming also. He is a pro-
fessor at the Royal Danish Conserva-
toire and an exponent of the saxophone.
Professor Georg Szoll, Viennese con-
ductor, will arrive at the end of April,
and for three months will conduct the
A.B.C.’s Symphony Orchestras in Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and
Perth. Dr. Malcolm Sargent will return
in July for a 17 weeks’ season.
Radio Comment.
“Volta”: A line of investigation that
should be worth while on these days of
radio is the electro-thermic pile of my
40-years-ago student days. Disks of zinc
and copper kept apart by some incom-
bustible non-conductor such as mica or
asbestos, and coupled in series as in a
battery, when subjected to heat gave off
an electric current. With so many more
metals now available greater electric
volume could perhaps be obtained. It
would be a boon to the isolated radio
owner if he could charge up his storage
battery simply by placing his electro-
thermic pile on top of the stove. There's
room for a minor Marconi in the de-
velopment of the idea.
* * * *
“Crump”: Another Bulletin contri-
butor has been “on the air.” Henry G.
Lamond discoursed to 4QG listeners on
“Women of Western Queensland.”
* * * *
The world’s highest frequency broad-
casting station is WIXEG at Storrs, Con-
necticut, U.S.A. Wave-length is 0.75
metre.
* * * *
“Ohm”: “E.M.P.” (B. 13/10/’37)
speaks of a home charger using zinc and
copper elements and worked with blue-
stone (copper sulphate) and Epsom salts
(magnesium sulphate). This is the
Daniell cell, once used in thousands to
run the telegraph. No need for a porous
pot even. Make a gravity cell. Take a
glass pot, the larger the better, lay a
sheet of copper or flat spiral of copper
wire on the bottom. Connect with
rubber-covered wire, passing up inside.
Hang a cylinder of thin sheet zinc around
the inside top. Fill the pot to within an
inch of the top with a strong solution of
Epsom salts. Drop in a few crystals of
bluestone, sufficient when dissolved to
cover the copper element with two to
four inches of blue. This, owing to its
higher specific gravity, will remain so
if not disturbed. Having low internal
resistance the cell is very efficient, and it
lasts indefinitely with occasional re-
newals of zinc and bluestone. The zinc
should be raised above the solution when
not in use. Such a battery costs nothing
to run; bluestone being redeemed as
copper plated on that element. I have
built banks of such cells—pickle-bottle
containers, pennies for copper elements
and zinc from the lining of packing-case.
Heard on Short Waves.
These notes come from the user of the
original Ideal battery T.R.F. all-wave
receiver (B. 28/4/’37), and serve to show
what kind of reception can be obtained
in outback locations with a “straight”
receiver. Another receiver of similar
design and capable of equal results is the
Hi-Gain T.R.F. receiver, described B.
27/10/’37. Fie writes from Hughenden
(Q-).
“The selectivity problem seems to have
been solved by using 12ft. only of in-
door aerial. Volume at night is more
than enough, and the stations can be
got more easily, and no bother about
cutting in. I find that answered better
than using a longer aerial with no earth
connection. Of course, in daytime, the
indoor aerial is not enough. This refers
to the broadcast range. On short wav
the long external aerial works well on all
bands. At 8.45 p.m. I picked up Daven-
try and Berlin on 13, 16 and 19 metres
on the indoor aerial, quite strong
enough, but the external aerial increased
the volume a bit. The 31-metre stations
roar in on the indoor aerial. Flave had
an excellent week of reception.
“On 17/10 / ’37 heard RNE Moscow.
From 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. this station is very
powerful, and one can always enjoy the
programme. The RNE Wednesday night
programme in English has been altered
to 9.30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Between 7 a.m.
and 8 a.m. this station is also very
strong, and usually the best on the air
at that time, although OLR4A, 2RO and
TPA3 are first-class on the 25-metre
band.
“JZJ varies from poor to fair, and in
the mornings GSB is very good. A sup-
posed Danish station just below GSB is
still stronger.
“The 19-metre stations are not so
good now. In the afternoons DJE opens
well at 3.5, but the other Germans are
not at their best until about 4.30. TPA4
is not a shadow of its former self.
“Five p.m. brings Daventry. It can-
not be faulted on G, O, D or B. D is
probably the best, but B is as good as
VK3LR. It is much better than Berlin.
B fades out by 7 p.m., but D hangs on
until closing at 7.15 p.m., by which time
G and O are the best. At night they are
all good, even 2RO at 11.20 p.m. on the
25-metre band, JZJ is excellent, and a
Cuban or South American comes in very
well around 25.6 metres about midnight.
The 10 p.m. news in English from Berlin
has many interesting items. ‘Food for
Thought’ from Daventry is an excellent
session.
“Short waves are worth while for
Daventry alone, and at present we can
get as much, as good and as varied en-
tertainment on short waves as on broad-
cast. One morning before breakfast, I
got one station on 16 metres, nine on
19, nine on 25 and five on 31 without
effort. I wonder how many different
short-wave stations could be logged in
say an hour before breakfast, an hour
in the afternoon and at night.
“6WB is quite a good station here,
better, I think, than the Westralian
nationals, and the T.R.F. receiver is per-
forming most creditably. I am experi-
enced enough now in tuning to get a
station as quickly as on any superhet. As
for a bunch of close stations, by using
the bandspread one can easily run
through the lot without missing any.
Static is not very bad yet, but it won’t
be long before many receivers close
down for the summer in these parts. Not
this one though!”
Amateur Chatter.
Following on the recent reception of
56mc. telephony transmissions from
VK2NO by Mr. C. Mellanby in Pwllheli,
North Wales, comes an interesting report
from the same source of harmonic re-
ception. On 4/9/’37, VK2UC, of Lis-
more (N.S.W.), was in 20-metre com-
munication by telephony with G2PU.
During this tuansmission, Mr. Mellanby
logged the fourth harmonic (five metres)
of VK2UC —further proof of the ten-
dency for ultra-short-wave signals to
travel between Australia and Europe over
the North-Western Great Circle route
during the late afternoon in eastern Aus-
tralia. Those interested in 56mc. DX
owe a debt of gratitude to Mr. Mellan-
by for his keen interest and encouraging
reports.
• • • •
Activity on 56mc. in N.S.W. is at the
lowest ebb recorded in the last three
years, and it is high time an ultra-high-
frequency organisation was formed to
maintain stations on the air consistently.
The burst of enthusiasm of a few months
ago has suffered from the reaction due to
the discovery that there is a wide differ-
ence between serious experimentation
and mere dabbling. The only stations
actively engaged in such work in the
VK2 H.Q. district are VK2ZN, VK2ABZ,
VK2EM, VK2AZ and VK2NO. Stations
putting in an appearance recently are
VK2IP and VK2YV. VK2MQ is re-
building.
Recent visitors to Sydney have been
VK3ML, “Bob” Cunningham, Victorian
Eddystone agent, and VK3KU, Howard
K. Love (ex VK3BM). Much activity is
reported in Melbourne on 56mc. by
VK3ML, who on return from a trip to
VK4 will start things moving with late-
night inter-State tests during summer
week-ends.
Those accustomed to punching a key
for DX on 10 metres can bid farewell to
such QSOs at the low-frequency end of


f oRDSON FOB
ECOHOMV
in
PLOUGH** 16
combining
harvesting
u
N 6
H IVVJ
L l
Cut the cost of every job...use
Economical Fordson Power
14-26 H.P. (Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. Univ.)
Fordson does every job around
farm or station quicker and
more economically. 13,000
owners throughout Australia
have proved the all-purpose
Fordson saves money. See
your local Fordson Dealer
about a working demonstra-
tion on your own property.
Convenient purchase terms are
available under the Fordson
finance plan.
FORDSON FEATURES:
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
“HOT-SPOT” FUEL VAPORISER
GOVERNOR CONTROL
OPTIONAL SPEEDS
OPTIONAL GEAR RATIOS
STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS
BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE
STARTER
REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF
(optional at extra cost)
TRACTOR
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge and
Young Streets, Sydney
LISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina & Tas.:
MALCOLM MOORE
LTD.. City Showrooms:
601-3 Lt. Collins St., Me>b.
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
LYNAS MOTORS LTD.. Kay Street,
Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA. .PTY^_M^_(lNCOWPgRATEP_ltL_V!eTgmA)
the band. U.S.A. has appropriated it for
’phone. New regulations by Uncle Sam
allot 28,000 to 28,500 kc. for ’phone only,
and 28,500 to 30,000 kc. for C.W. only. It
won’t be long before the lower frequency
end of this band will be as chaotic as the
middle of the 20-metre band, where
Wurlitzer organ recitals rage day and
n jght.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
Ultimate Fifteen-valve De Luxe All-wave
Superhet.
This, the latest product of a well-
known Maoriland radio factory to be
submitted to The Bulletin for examina-
tion, is the kind of thing even the hard-
ened radio engineer gets enthusiastic
about. The receiver, the largest of the
Ultimate 240 A.C. series, is handled in
Australia by George Brown and Co.
Pty., Ltd., 267 Clarence-street, Sydney.
The receiver has a very attractive
appearance in its handsome cabinet, and
the assembly of the two individual
chassis, for R.F. and audio sections,
shows fine finish and attention to detail.
Every metal detail in both chassis is
finished in shining nickel.
Chassis and speaker were submitted for
trial, and thus an opportunity was
afforded of going thoroughly into the
mechanics of the job. The valve arrange-
ment includes 6K7 R.F. amplifier, 6K7
mixer, 6K7 I.F. amplifier, 6C5 oscil-
lator, 6H6 diode detector, 6L7 first audio
and volume expander, 6C5 second audio
stage and tone compensator, 6F6G
driver, two 6F6Gs in Class AB push-
pull, 6C5 volume expander amplifier,
6G5 Magic Eye tuning indicator, 6H6
volume expander rectifier and two 80
rectifiers —15 in all, used in an advanced
circuit.
There are improvements over the
earlier Ultimate models, the first point
of interest the R.F. coils. The broad-
cast coils are only one-sixteenth of an
inch wide, Litz-wound. The secondary
windings for the short-wave coils are
wound in grooves on the actual formers,
and evenly wound and fixed in position
so that they cannot move and upset
calibration. The I.F. transformers, at
460 kc., have also been improved to in-
corporate low-capacity Litz windings and
isolantite insulation.
The wave-change switch, under the
tuner chassis, is a new design in which
contacts are provided to short out the
unused coils completely. This means
elimination of “dead spots” in tuning, so
often caused by “floating” coils. The
tuning dial is a comprehensive smooth-
running mechanism. There is no back-
lash in tuning, and the action is velvety
smooth. The dial lettering is engraved
on the glass scale, and the dial is edgelit.
There is a small “logging hand” which
travels 16 times faster than the main
double-ended pointer. This makes short-
wave tuning much easier, giving a gap
between stations that cannot be dis-
cerned with an ordinary single pointer.
When changing bands, done by a twist
of the wave-change control, an arrow
appears in red, white or green on the re-
spective wave-band.
The speaker is a Rola Gl2 of the latest
pattern. This is a very high-grade
speaker, and with the excellent Class AB
audio channel provided in conjunction
with volume expansion, it does a super-
lative job of reproduction. It has a
diameter of 12|in. and a voice coil ffin.
in diameter. The tone control shows no
attenuation of the high notes, as was
well evidenced when playing a render-
ing by a Berlin orchestra on 19 metres.
The tonal quality shows no sign of
“boominess.”
The volume expansion feature of the
receiver is well in evidence when using
it on gramophone recordings with a
pickup. The louder passages are auto-
matically suppressed, and there is a
marked absence of needle scratch. The
audio power obtainable is in the vicinity
of 18 watts without any sign of “blast-
ing” or distortion with volume full on.
Thus the receiver is a small public-
address system on its own. This is not
a conventional dual-wave receiver, for
it takes in a much wider short-wave
coverage than the usual run of receivers.
On the shorter wave-band, the coverage
is from 12 to 44 metres, and the medium
band includes 42 to 120 metres. Thus
all the important channels, 13, 16, 19, 25,
31, 45, 49 and 70 metres, are taken care
of, including the amateur bands up to 80
metres.
A noticeable feature about short-wave
reception with this receiver is the absence
of frequency drift. In some receivers,
such drifting of a station is noticed when
first switching on, and a minute or so
elapses before the receiver settles down.
The Ultimate
model can be
switched on, tuned
immediately to a
station such as
Daventry or Berlin
and left with the
knowledge that it
will remain tuned.
The first test was
run on the broad-
cast band with a
large outside aerial.
Despite the close
proximity of the
2BL transmitter
there was no splat-
tering. The A.V.C.
does its job prop-
erly. Comparative
tests on short
waves with the
large aerial and a
few feet of wire in-
doors showed that
whatever station
could be picked up
on the external
aerial could be
played with
absence of back-
ground noise on
the short wire. The
Ultimate 15-valver
definitely makes
first-class entertainment of stations near
and far on all bands. In short, it is a
credit to the M.L. engineers respon-
sible. Particulars of price and any
further details can be obtained from the
agents.
D.B.K.
Voltage Dividers.
The voltage divider is almost umver-
sally used in mains-powered sets, and is
a safety device as well as a convenient
me thod of selecting voltages lower than
the £ull out , of the r ck .
.... . ,
kere indirectly-heated power valves
(forming the greater part of the load on
the power supply) are used, the voltage
divider, by taking a steady drain, pre-
vents dangerous peak voltages from
building up after the rectifier has
, , A r .
warmed up, but before the power valve
as one so -
The clips on voltage dividers should
not be tightened to such an extent that
the fine resistance wire is damaged,
They should make firm but gentle con-
tact with the wire. To prevent the nut
on the underside of the clip from turn-
ing with the screw, a spot of solder
should be applied, fixing the nut in posi-
tion on the clip. One manufacturer
turns up one edge of the clip to form a
“lip” against which the nut is held
securely.
Where a voltage divider has been
damaged in one spot and the wire cut a
temporary repair may be effected by
wrapping a piece of thin brass or copper
right round the divider and so “bandag-
ing” the break and bridging it across. The
resistance of the divider drops, of course,
but the component can usually be used
until a replacement is obtainable.
In sets and amplifiers where one or
, , rr , - .
more tappings are taken off at points
down the length of the divider, the top
portion, nearest the high voltage point,
has to carry considerable current. Not
only must it pass the bleeder current,
but in addition must carry the total cur-
rent to all the taps lower down. As a
result, the average divider gets quite
warm at the high voltage end while
operating at a lower temperature at
other points along its length. Some
enterprising manufacturer might well ex-
periment with a divider made up with
heavy gauge resistance wire for, say, one-
quarter or one-third of its length and
with standard material for the rest. The
junction of the heavy and light resist-
ance wires could be marked by a fixed
clip.
R.H.A.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Do you consider an Air-Cell or vibrator
model receiver most suitable for country use ?
(2) Is the Kriesler 503 batteryless receiver suit-
able for country use? — 611:
(1) Depends upon your location. Both types
are excellent in their class. The Air-Cell re-
ceiver fills a need where access to accumulator
charging is difficult or non-existent, and the
vibrator-powered receiver is a reliable per-
former where a heavy capacity six-volt accumu-
lator can be kept up to the mark. (2) Can’t
say. No Kriesler make of receiver has been
tested by this Page.
* * * *
■Name of a textbook explaining tests for cir-
cuits, condensers, grid leaks, transformers, etc. ?
—6lO.
Servicing with Set Analysers, by H. G. Mc-
Entee; also The Book of Practical Radio, by
John Scott Taggart. From Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney.


KEEP WOOL PRICES UP.
USE
VITA-LICK
Messrs. L. B. Borland and A. T.
Perrett, Roma, Q., write :
“We are more than pleased
with your Vita-Lick; have
been using same for the past
two years. We find it reduces
fly trouble, keeps sheep nice
and healthy, improves the
growth and quality of wool.”
PROFITS IN PIG-RAISING.
“Tri-cal”: Those points about profits
in pig-raising all depend on balanced
rations ; of course, I know that pigs must
be fed properly, and I can tell you that
I’ve been getting large and healthy litters,
and losses before weaning have been re-
duced to a minimum since I paid more
attention to the mineral part of the ration.
To make a long story short, my pigs are
now profitable. I don’t believe in keeping
good things to myself; I’m feeding Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour—told you about it be-
fore. Write to Davis Gelatine (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd., Sydney. They’ll send a folder
telling all about Tri-cal-os for pigs.
Old Farmer.
m-
Wi
«*Hs
£l*s
XHh H»*CPI
TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
{
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
It pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYItEX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 AH Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 50/-
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table , Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
More Rugging Results.
“Bungaree”: Latest results of sheep
rugging indicate that while certain bene-
fits from rugging are common to all dis-
tricts results vary according to climate
and season.
An experiment by a western N.S.W.
glazier awaits the sale of the clip for
actual figures, but there is no doubt that
the rugged fleeces will give much better
returns than the unrugged. The latter
were heavily affected by red dust, neces-
sitating the removal of the backs. The
fleeces protected by rugs were clean to
the tip, better grown and nourished, but
fairly heavy skirting was necessary to
remove the necks and other unprotected
portions.
Whether rugging is worth while in the
deaner-woolled, sound, good-rainfall
slopes districts has yet to be proved.
Results at Brae Springs, Gerogery
(N.S.W.), showed that the rugged fleeces
had better length of staple, better body
and bulk, were denser and had more
character and also more condition. But
the gain may not justify the cost and
special attention. Valuations of un-
rugged wool were slightly higher than
those on rugged wool.
Much interest was displayed in an ex-
hibit of rugged sheep from Glendon,
Manilla, at the last Sydney Sheep Show,
and lan Montgomery, of the C.S. and
LR., recently attended Glendon shearing.
A run of 50 lambs which had been
Jugged for 4\ months—from weaning
to shearing— cut .691 b. more wool than
unrugged lambs and were in better con-
dition. The yield from both flocks was
similar, but unrugged fleces were
little finer.
The fleeces from a line of rising six-
tooth ewes rugged since the previous
shearing showed an increase of
per head oyer unrugged. The wool was
better quality, softer handling, with no
tip and no vegetable matter.
It is anticipated that the return per
fleece of the rugged sheep will be approxi-
mately 2s. more than the unrugged.
It has been stated that rugged sheep
should not be dipped in an arsenical dip
until they have a few days without the
rugs to allow the skin pores to close and
obviate arsenical poisoning. This diffi-
culty could no doubt be overcome, but
the value of rugging sheep immediately
after shearing for protection from change
of weather must be recognised.
It seems that even better figures could
be obtained by experiments carried out
on the colder tablelands. To date,
figures have dealt chiefly with wool
weights, but such increases are commen-
surate with the improved health and con-
stitution of the animals concerned.
“K.Mc”: Frederick McMaster after
his experiments on Dalkeith (Cassilis,
N.S.W.) is firmly convinced that rugging
pays. He intends to rug 13,000 sheep
next year, and considers that to the.smail
owner rugs would mean as much as
doubling his flock.
Rugs prevent losses from cold, and
when put on breeding ewes increased
lambings are obtained and the lambs are
better developed. Sheep also fatten more
readily, thus saving feed, and the wool
is clean, practically free of tip and in-
creased in quantity.
S. Williams, the S. Australian grower
who was one of the first to experiment
with rugs, reports that while the wool on
control sheep running on Kangaroo
Island and West Coast was mean, straight
and thin —evidence of malnutrition —the
rugged wool gave every sign of good
health, character and soundness.
Fat Lambs in Queensland.
“Ghanam”: Queensland is making a
bid for the fat-lamb export trade. A
number of animals have already been
distributed by the Government, and an
official is now in N. S. Wales assembling
another 100 Romneys, Border Leicesters,
Ryelands and Dorset Horns. They will
be allotted chiefly to farmers in the Darl-
ing Downs and Maranoa districts, but
some will go to the South Coast, a few
to Kingaroy Plateau and others as far
north as Mackay and Atherton.
If fat lambs can be turned off at
Mackay, it will be a real achievement,
but there should be a chance on the high
Atherton.
In the Callide Valley (C.Q.) one farm,
using Rhodes grass for pasture, is to
have 500 ewes with Border Leicester
rams.
The danger of the scheme is that
farmers will take up the business in un-
suitable areas and that the price of
second-class carcasses will have to be
made up. Australia’s only chance of
extending its fat-lamb business is to
breed better fat lambs. The mere turn-
ing out of more second-quality carcasses
is of no use.
Dipping Hints.
“F.L.8.”: Some wool men don’t give
enough attention to dipping. Careful
observations for five consecutive dipping
years have shown a marked difference in
the brightness of the clip right through,
irrespective of seasonal conditions. This
year, after a bad hand-feeding season,
our wool is as bright as possible, show-
ing healthy “life” throughout. Odd
heavy-conditioned fleeces were also
showing plenty of “life.”
Start with a clean dip and keep it
well skimmed. Yard the sheep over-
night. In hot weather give them a drink
before dipping to avoid the risk of their
drinking the dip.
Keep the crush, race and penning yards
wet. Once wet they need little water
to keep them so. The lack of dust
keeps the dip clean, the men better tem-
pered and makes work easier.
Sheep always suffer when there is a
shortage of workers.
Don’t dip too fast, and make sure that
all heads are immersed. Muster cleanly.
One dirty sheep can reinfect a whole
mob.
Read directions carefully, and measure
replacement water accurately. Guessing
here has caused much loss. It. is just as
bad to dip under strength as over,
although “over” may mean serious loss.
One man who failed to keep accurate
check on replacement water lost 506
sheep out of 750 dipped.
Don’t dip wet sheep, and don’t dip
during the heat of the day.
Don’t travel sheep until dry. Allow
them to drain before turning out into
any paddock. A sheep should be at least
1| to two minutes in the dip itself for
best results.
"She's stopped, Ma — mus' be milkin'-time."
Meat Board Reports.
“Mookau”: This year’s report of the
Australian Meat Board stresses a point
which The Bulletin has been hammer-
mg at for years—that expansion of the
chilled meat trade depends on turning out
lgh-quahty meat which beside its other
advantages, carries much better on the
long voyage to Europe. The board is
trying to have the time of the trip, at
present 45 to 50 days, shortened.
Lamb exports last year showed a de-
crease from 1,769,000 cwt. to 1,522,000-
cwt. 4 p.c. But quality has improved
owing to the spread of Downs crosses.
At the same time, there are hardy opti-
mists who still think the merino an export
an H nal - . , ,
grade and 4.9 third grade. Victoria
ranked next with 42 p.c. first grade.
Westralia turned off 31.32 p.c. first grade.
Next came S. Aus. with 26 p.c. first
grade, 48.5 second grade and 25.5 third
grade. It is not an inspiring record ; the
condition in some States brings a blush
of shame to Australian visitors to Smith-
field-
Pig meat is a developing industry. The
66,000 cwt. sent abroad in 1933 has ex-
panded to an estimated 320,000cwf. in
1937. But this should still be improved:
Denmark’s ham trade is worth more than
the Australian butter industry.
The board is concerned with finding
new markets, particularly in the Orient.
There is no need for new Oriental
markets. What is mainly needed is to
produce at least 90 p.c. of first-grade
beef, mutton, lamb and pork, so as to
capture British markets from the
foreigners.
Milk Fever.
“Agamemnon”: In disputing my ideas
about milk fever “Silky Bag” (B.
27/10/’37) makes many mistakes.
Calcium gluconate properly dissolved
and injected never causes sloughing, but
if any of the salt is undissolved unsightly
thickening of the skin may take place.
To avoid this, boiling water must be
used and cooled to 115 deg. F. before in-
jection. The needle is thrust well into the
loose subcutaneous connective tissue and
the skin massaged lightly towards the
head after injection. I have never seen
a death take place as “Silky Bag” sug-
gests.
Intravenous injection has no advan-
tages over subcutaneous, and in untrained
hands is difficult and may even lead to
festering. It may be very difficult in the
early stages when the cow is still on its
feet. The jugular must be distended by
compressing the neck with a tight cord,
The exclusion of air bubbles is mainly a
theoretical consideration, as large amounts
c f a j r have to be injected to cause death
in cows J
’
Dual-purpose Shorthorns,
“wnMr”- “rw o
n /m'/’V7'v ™ , Pu ” ch (B-
*')> ln " ls resume of the beef
breeds at Melbourne Show, missed the
Dairy Shorthorns, to my mind an ideal
dual-purpose breed. It was the only
num e berT tion d lha ‘ fdT* “ TT in
numbers ’ nd included animals fit to
show anywhere.
1 judged the section this year, and am
the oldest living foundation member of
the Dairy Shorthorn Association. The
only other still alive is the president, Mr.
J- Lidgett, of Braelands, Myrniong (Vic.),
Some recently imported bulls were
shown, and it will be interesting to see
the effect of the infusion of new blood
The animals were selected from the lead-


nilAI ITY K
\(UnLI II IO
SUPREME
IN EVERY FEATURE
°F THE
Urn INTERNATIONALS
Illustrated: International
Model D'3s with special
van body.
D-35, the sturdy, handsome 2-2*4 tonner of the International Line
is the truck that experienced hauliers and truck-users everywhere
have been waiting to see and to purchase here is a truly
adaptable truck, setting a new standard of economy in handling
either solid or bulky freights . . . chassis, available in 149 and
161-inch wheelbases, give ideal load balance and take a wide variety
of conventional or special dump, tray or van bodies.
D-35’s six-cylinder valve-in-head engine has replaceable cylinders
and combines increased power with new economy in fuel consump-
tion . . . large oil-bath type air cleaner excludes dirt and adds many
thousands of miles of useful life to the engine reciprocating parts
... Floating-type oil-pump intake allows only clean oil to enter bear-
ings . . . Rubber-sprung damper takes up crankshaft torque vibra-
tion . . . hydraulic brakes with vacuum booster give marvellous
control at all speeds.
D-35, like every truck in the new International Line—there are
12 models and 17 wheelbases has new quality in every detail.
Write to us for a catalogue or better still come in to our showrooms
and see the new Internationals for yourself.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA.
SOME D-35 FEATURES
.vJv.N
Jsv.v.
OIL RESERVOIR
OIL INTAKE
|TO manifold//
master cnmm' V% //v
AIK CLEANER
VACUUM TOWER UNIT
Large oil - bath type
air cleaner adds many
thousands of miles of
useful life to engine
reciprocating parts.
Floating - type oil - pump
intake receives oil high in
the pan assuring delivery
of clean oil to the bearings.
Crankshaft equipped
with damper to elimi-
nate torsional vibra-
tion periods.
Vacuum power brakes
give complete braking
control with minimum
of foot pressure.
K 694
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ing studs in the Old Country, and have
fine milk and butterfat records to back
them.
The champions and reserve champions,
both male and female, were a credit to
breeders, and were quite equal to any
in past years. The “fat-steer” class
showed what can be done in producing
baby beef from Dairy Shorthorns.
If D.S. breeders go in wholeheartedly
for herd-testing the breed should soon
take its place as the leading dual-purpose
breed and show good results in both
butterfat and baby beef.
The Wheat Position.
“Nabawa”: First of the N.S.W. new
season’s wheat made ss. Bd. a bushel in
Sydney, including a premium of 3d. This
does not necessarily mean an abnormally
high market price.
A look at the world position indicates
a price level a little below that of last
year, if we accept an average of 4s. 6d.
a bushel. Newspapers made a great to-do
about a climbing price a few months ago,
but by that time most of the ’36-’37 har-
vest was out farmers’ hands and the
profits were being taken by merchants,
Leaving out Russia, world supplies in
sight this year appear about the same as
those for last year. However, last year
U.S.A., owing to the effects of drought
and restriction, imported grain from
Canada, whereas this year the U.S. crop
is pretty well back to normal, and that
country will be an exporter, with possibly
125,000,000 bushels to get rid of.
It is now expected that world produc-
tion will be increased by 50,000,000
bushels and that carry-overs will go up by
10 million. More domestic production in
importing countries may cause a drop of
up to 100,000,000 bushels in world trade
in wheat and flour. Exports will depend
on the availability of foreign exchange
and the extent of restrictions in import-
ing countries,
The U.S. Bureau of Agricultural Eco-
nomics, a well-informed body, expects
higher domestic wheat prices within the
next few months as a result of stronger
world markets, and bases the forecast on
a lower world production and improving
European demand. But it expects a big
drop in Australian production. Actually,
the Austi alian crop will be about normal
this season. ... , ,
During 36- 37, world prices advanced
sharply as a result of short supplies and
increased demand. This year demand
may continue to strengthen, but supplies
will not be short. Moreover, Russia may
suddenly spring millions of bushels on
the market, or it may use all its wheat
internally.
Taken by and large, the headers will
go into the N.S.W. crop m the next few
weeks backed by a strong statistical posi-
tion and an opening price level that can
fairly safely be assumed at 4s. a bushel
wh P o a se a c op P has SdTfafT
whose crop has had a fair go.
N. S. Wales Potato Crops.
t4e ~, ,
Spud : Departmental reports on
N.S.W. potato crops show them below
average. Yields are disappointing in the
north. Late plantings in the central area
will improve with rain, but early plant-
ings are too advanced to benefit much,
The Hawkesbury and Maitland dis-
tricts give the best promise. Around
Murwillumbah, particularly on unsprayed
areas, the yield will scarcely pay for the
see d on many farms. Blight struck the
Richmond pretty hard along with the
dry weather. Around Nimbin and Kyogle
there were frosts, though late seedings
will show better results than the small
percentage of crop already harvested,
Drought has hit the Clarence areas,
resulting in low output and undersized
tubers, but conditions are better on the
Dorrigo. Macksville is producing be-
tween three and four tons per acre. On
the Manning, the season is fairly normal.
The »™“* normal y idd
throughout Australia is about 2\ tons, ft
j s . the l^ st in . th ® world - ° ther , cou ?-
tries which go in tor potatoes seriously
J
o Continued on next page.)


3248.
This model made in full and half sizes
with medium and wide fittings. All
featuring the special ankle strap hold-
ing the boot firmly to . the ankle.
Price 45/-.
“IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE IT’S A GOOD SHOE.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
An All-Purpose Boot
No matter what kind of
work, in the yards, in the
saddle, or tramping the pad-
docks, this Abbey Country
Boot will serve you well.
Every essential for rough,
hard wear is included—a
strong, tough Ooze Calf
Upper, stout, heavy sole and
leather lining throughout.
It’s an ideal Boot for country
wear.
Write for a Catalogue.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
Irb
mm
tkk
yJJ 0
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm, Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
NOVEMBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
ECONOMIC TRENDS IN JAPAN
FINANCIAL POSITION OF CHINA
WILL PRICES RECOVER?
STOCKS WORTH CONSIDERATION
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £1/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., King St„ Sydney
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BEEBE
ALL STEEL
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
For use where Power is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity., weight .
5-ton capacity, weight .
Illustrated folder with full
obtainable from:—
661 b.
1101 b.
particulars
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
count on from five to nine tons. But, as
with wheat, a lot of Australian pro-
ducers are in the habit of farming on
ground and in districts not normally
suitable year in and year out for
potatoes.
A Word for Cowpeas.
“Hortus”: Now’s the time to put them
in. They grow well on the coast, but
will thrive inland, especially under irriga-
tion. Cowpeas are tender. They are
good for soils where lucerne does poorly.
It’s best to sow seed about 9in., in rows
2ift. to 3ft. apart, at rates, according to
soil, from 101 b. to 201 b. per acre. It
depends whether you grow for seed, for
grazing or for green manure. Sow about
2jin. deep.
Seed has brought 30s. a bushel in the
market. And its yield is up to 15 to 20
bushels on good soil.
Black is a popular variety. The grain
is large. Pods are from 7in. to Bin. long,
and easy to pick, ripening evenly. This
necessitates fewer pickings, which is an
asset. Black also gives heavy yields of
green stuff. Poona, Groit and Brabham
are gaining favor. The first is a late-
maturing type, but it does not ripen pods
evenly. The seed is small, light-brown
in color, and the pods are only 4in. long.
Cowpeas are an excellent grazing crop
with a high feed value. The crop is
ready for grazing in 50 days or so. Yields
of from 12 to 14 tons an acre of green
fodder may be produced in 70 days.
Victor makes a good growth of fodder.
It is the only variety resistant to eel-
worm pest.
Growing maize, sorghum and millets
with the cowpea is a good practice. Sow
seeds together in rows 3ft. apart. Usual
quantity is maize 101 b., sorghum 61b. and
millet 31b., mixed with 81b. to 101 b. of
cowpeas per acre.
On N.S.W. North Coast a good scheme
is to sow cowpeas down between rows
of early corn. Sow with a maize dropper,
or broadcast immediately after last cul-
tivation of maize.
If wanted as a green-manure crop feed
off before ploughing under. At least 50
to 75 p.c. of the manure value will be
returned to soil.
Putting Clovers into Grass.
, “Stump Jump”: In nine cases out of
ten, if a plot grows only grass either the
soil is poor in phosphorus or the grass
is not grazed closely enough.
Dairy cows and lambing ewes need
one part of protein to five or six parts
carbohydrate, and few grass plots alone
can give it. Pure clover plots have a
nutritive ratio of 1 to 2 or 3, which is
too rich and may cause bloat. A mix-
ture of grass 50 p.c. and clover 50 p.c.
is ideal; it does not matter if it is phalaris
or Wimmera rye and sub. clover, or
perennial rye and white clover.
Clovers are the first plants to go when
phosphorus falls, and the quickest to re-
appear after a dressing of super. A cwt.
is needed annually on 25in. country
inland, and up to 3cwt. on the coast.
Nowadays, when white clover is spread-
ing naturally, it will in many cases appear
without sowing a year or two after
supering.
In any case, a pound or two of clover
seed can be broadcast and harrowed in
after the top-dressing with good results.
Grass allowed to grow too long will
choke the clovers out, as they thrive on
close grazing. Usually, however, stunted
clovers can be seen in the roots of the
grass, and these will come away into
useful, broad-leafed plants if plots are
cropped closely, supered and put into
rotations.
Tomato Seed Hints.
“Hortus”: Select your plants just be-
fore you pick the first fruit. Look for
medium-sized bunches of even-sized and
well-shaped fruit. Watch shape particu-
larly.
The bottom branches are the most
profitable. Don’t go for large bunches of
bad shape. See that the second and third
clusters of fruit are well pollinated.
These bunches should be relatively close
together on the stem.
Don’t pick any plant with any sign of
disease. Look at the top bunches of
flowers. They must be healthy. They
will show whether the top of the plant
has heavy-yielding features or not.
The fashion for tomatoes is to have
four to six fruit per pound.
In certain varieties like Red Marhio
and Break o’ Day, don’t go for bunches
of three or four large fruit. Choose
plants throwing bunches of six to eight
medium-sized fruit.
Don’t take bottom bunches for seed.
They contain little seed compared with
top fruit.
The disease bogey is always present.
These plants may contract fusarium wilt.
Leave the plant until third bunches
mature. Let the fruit remain on plant
until it is overripe.
After picking, cut in halves and squeeze
the seed-pulp into a large basin. Leave
this pulp for three or four days, when
it is slightly fermented.
Then wash in water several times.
Quick drying in the sun is a secret of
success.
Peanuts in Queensland.
“Long ’Un”: “Nothung’s” optimism
(B. 20/10/’37) is well founded.
This year peanuts treated at the
Queensland Cotton Board’s oil mill have
yielded a high-class oil for culinary use
and a rattling good stock food.
Even though the whole of the shells
are included, peanut meal gives 30 per
cent, protein and is highly palatable and
suitable for all stock. A ready market is
assured, and it should pay the Peanut
Board to instal its own plant at Kingaroy,
in the middle of good dairying country
where the feed could be utilised to ad-
vantage, with a saving in railway freight.
The main problem is the disposal of
the oil at a satisfactory price. There is
little danger of overproduction of meal
and cake, as these find a ready market in
Europe after Australian requirements are
satisfied. But export should be unneces-
sary, since at the present time it is almost
impossible to buy sheep-feeding nuts in
Queensland, and supplementary nut feed-
ing is worth while where sub. clover
cannot be grown.
The One Hundred and Fiftieth Anni-
versary Celebrations Committee is to
supply all N. S. Wales show societies
with a commemorative set of award
cards. About 150 shows will be held
during the celebration period, and an-
other 50 will take place later in the year.
The cards designed by the Fox Advertis-
ing Service are the most elaborate yet
seen in Australia: the championship cards
are being printed in 12 colors, and pic-
ture all the leading primary industries.
“Totadgin”: Fill a ring of corrugated
iron with sand and you have an economi-
cal tank stand. The ring must be well
riveted, and it is advisable to strengthen
it with some hoops of fencing wire
twisted up close to the iron. Give the fill-
ing a slight crown so that the full tank
will sit level. A wash of coment on metal
that touches the sand will give longer
life.


! m
m
Mil
■
888
m
NOW THAT’S A
SPLENDID IDEA!
I’LL GIVE HIM A
VALET
SAFETY RAZOR
im
m m
m
mm
A MAN'S BEST FRIEND IS HIS "VALET"—i he original self-stropping
razor. Gives a keen, new edge for every shave. Stropped in a few
seconds. Cleaned in a few seconds. Nothing to take to pieces.
Nothing to unscrew Surely this is the perfect gift!
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Nobody but Swan
can offer a choice like this!
WV/fcS
Whatever you want in a fountain pen,
one of these two fine models the most
modern in the world— will certainly
v’
r/v
give it to you !
Yes ! Swan will give you
the advantages of Big
Capacity and Ink Visi-
bility or double-quick
filling— together with
a guarantee of trouble-
free service for all time!
Though reasonable in price, Swans are univer-
sally accepted as the best pens money can buy. Go
to any good Stationers or Jewellers and judge
for yourself. Whichever you choose, you’ll have a
thoroughly reliable and up-to-the-minute pen —one
you can be really proud to own !
PRICES— The VISOFIL Swan, with clip and mount
of rolled gold, 32/6. Ladies’ Size, without clip, 27/6.
LEVERLESS Swans from 21/-. Other Swans from
15/-. Blackbirds from 11/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils
from 7/6. All available in black or colours. Made
throughout in England.
THE VISOFIL
o on your left)
Not only holds MORE ink,
but shows it to you—allows
you to see at a glance just
when the ink is running low.
flew?
yM
&
gd
THE LEVERLESS
(on your right)
Double-quick filling is the great
feature of this pen—two half-
turns of the top and you are
back at work with your pen
filled in a flash!
m
The VISOFIL and LEVERLESS
Swan Ink is best lor
all kinds of pens
—both fountain pens and ordinary pens
write better with this, the world’s top
quality ink. In Blue-black (which is
absolutely permanent, NEVER fades)
and red, blue, green or violet. Prices from
6d. Also special large economical sizes
for offices, schools, hotels, clubs, etc.
Mabie, Todd & Co. ( Australia ), Ply., Ltd., 6, Primrose Buildings,
255 A, George Street, Sydney.
A. 4.37
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Frank Debenham, N.S.W.-born and an
old boy of King’s, has temporarily left
hi- iob as professor of geography at
Cambridge to deliver a series of lectures
to Australian teachers. Debenham was
geologist to Scott’s last polar expedition,
and produced the maps and surveys of
that ill-fated enterprise. He was for five
years during the war with the 7th Oxford
and Bucks Light Infantry, rising to a
main,.
*****
“Ex-Mister”: Queensland’s Barrier
Reef, by far the world’s largest coral
hes* is becoming widely known as a
tourist resort, often to the accompani-
ment of silly “blurb,” but only recently
has the question been settled as to how
it got its name. The Admiralty hydro-
grapher has informed the inquiring Bar-
rier Reef Committee that the present
official name of Great Barrier Reefs was
first used on an Admiralty chart on
January 1, 1814, by Captain Hurd, R.N.,
then Admiralty hydrographer. Hurd had
been in communication with Matthew
Flinders during and after his survey trips
round eastern Australia in the Investi-
gator, and in October, 1802, Flinders
referred in his diary to reefs in 21deg.
15 2-3 min. S. and 150 deg. 34min. E.
(about off Mackay). He considered that
they “formed part of the same barrier to
the coast” as had others already reported
by one of his officers.
****
“Tovarisch”: There are moments when
even Australians must long to be Rus-
sians. One of them was when our
glorious press announced the arrange-
ments for the U.S.S.R. elections, at which
the masses of the lumbering aggregation
of “republics” are to be asked to “Vote
1 for Stalin.” Polling booths are to be
fitted up with carpets and aspidistras, and
are actually to be equipped with chairs
and tables. Nothing is said about ballot
papers, but they are a superfluity, any-
way, in a country in which anybody who
is not for Stalin runs a strong risk of
being shot.
* * * H=
“L. de F.”: Italian poet Gabriele
d’Annunzio, having reached a ripe age,
has decided to die in an unhackneyed
manner —and coolly. After toying with
the idea of being fired from a cannon or
being dissolved in a bath of chemicals,
he has arranged that when he feels the
Reaper’s approach he will be transported
by ’plane to Arctic wastes and dumped
in the snow to await the end. Other
men, other manners. I would prefer
a farewell party, with music, good cheer
and good company, wit, a little homage
and appreciation (it being my day, as it
were), and then euthanasia.
* * * *
“Kidhar-hai” makes a discovery:
India boasts an exalted potentate whose
moniker is Bira Sri Gajapati Goudeswar Nabako-
tikarnatotkala Biradhibirabar Bargeswaradhiraj
Bhutavairabsadhusasonotkirna Routaraj Atula-
balaparakram Sanmgramasahasrabahu Kshetria-
kuladhumaketu Maharadhiraj Sri Sri Sri Raja
Ramachandra Deb Raja of Puri. He’s quite
a modern rajah, too, this one. He has even
installed electric light in the Temple of Jugger-
naut, which happens to be within his territory.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: There were poets before
Homer, and Englishmen who landed in
Australia before Dampier ever sighted
these shores. According to Major
Brooks, of Mount Macedon (Vic.), whose
researches among the records of the
India Office appeared some months ago
in the “Argus,” a certain John Brooke,
master of the Trial, sailed from Ply-
mouth on September 4, 1621, with a
complement of 143 and a complete cargo
for Java. In May, 1622, he looked on
the coast of Australia, just south of what
is now Point Cloates (W.A.), and three
weeks later was wrecked on a reef at the
“Tryal Rocks,” between the Montebello
and Barrow Islands. Evidently the crew
got off safely, for their narrative reached
England, and is still recorded in the India
Office records. As Dampier didn’t arrive
in the Roebuck until 1688, Brooke has
a margin of 66 years over him.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orld, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
fg
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
Our Service Dapartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Retired businessman and wife want extended
holiday on N.S.W. pastoral property as paying
guests. Refs. —7644.
To buy about 50 second-hand copies of
Church Hymnary, old edition, small, with
music, also one new edition with music.—7639.
To buy s.h. or new Things Seen, Glimpses of
Three Nations and With the Conquering Turk,
all by G. W. Steevens. —7633.
Information Sought.
When did the Kelly gang operate, and how
did the members die? —7625.
In 1878 Ned Kelly formed the gang: himself,
Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe Byrne. Their
end came on January 29, 1880, when
a hotel at Glenrowan in which they were
besieged by the police was set alight. Ned had
escaped and was shooting at the police under
the protection of his armor of plough mould-
boards, but was shot in the legs, captured and
taken to Melbourne, where he was hanged
November 11, 1880. The bodies of the other
three, probably self-slain, were found in the
ruins of the hotel.
* * * *
Informatipn concerning Halley’s comet ?
7642.
Halley first fixed its identity when in 1682
he observed that its elements were almost
identical with those of cometary appearances
in 1531 and 1607. From this he calculated
that it would reappear in 1757, and his pre-
diction was fulfilled, although the comet did
not pass through its perihelion until March,
1759. It was observed in 1456, and Cowell and
Crommelin of Greenwich have carried it back
with certainty to 87 b.c., and with reasonable
possibility to 240 b.c. It was last detected by
Max Wolf at Heidelberg on plates exposed
September lk 1909, and subsequently on Green-
wich plates of September 9 in that year.
* * * *
(1) Inventor of the incandescent electric
lamp? (2) Metal used for the filament? —7641.
(1) Many inventors worked at it, including
F. de Molyens (1841), J. W. Starr (1845),
J. J. W. Watson (1853) and W. E. Staite
(1848), but none of them produced a practically
u'seful article. The problem was finally solved
by Edison and Sir Joseph Wilson Swan. The
latter exhibited a lamp in 1878 at Newcastle
(England). (2) In nearly all early attempts
platinum or platinum-iridium wire was the
material used, owing to its high melting point
(about 1700 deg. C.), but the difficulty lay in
bringing the wire to brilliant incandescence
without melting it. Edison solved the problem
when h,e gave the material a filamentary form
and carbonised it. He patented this process
in 1879.
* * * *
Some information concerning poisoning from
carbon monoxide given off from the exhaust of
a car? Treatment ? —7602.
The .running of an internal-combustion engine
in a closed garage is always dangerous. The
time necessary to produce a fatal result depends
on the age of the subject (children are more
sensitive than adults), the rate of the engine’s
revolutions and the amount of air available in
the closed space; but a concentration of 1 p.c.
or less of the gas in the inspired air is cap-
able of producing death. Patient should be
removed into fresh air, and if disorder or ces-
sation of breathing has occurred artificial
respiration must be applied, that of Schafer
being commonly used. In hospitals and first-
aid stations respiration is stimulated by the em-
ployment of a mixture of oxygen with 5 p.c.
carbon dioxide. Information is contained in
any good book on toxicology, such as Morrell’s.
=£ * V *
What progress has been made with the pro-
posal to construct a channel tunnel between
England and France? —7666.
The scheme was first suggested to Napoleon
111., and all its possibilities were considered
about the middle of the nineteenth century.
After the approval of engineers an English
Channel Tunnel Co. began operations in 1872,
but progress was obstructed by Parliament, which
with military authorities regarded the scheme
as detrimental to the safety of the country.
Since then the defence factor has obstructed
development of the project, which was again
defeated in Parliament in 1930. Approximate
cost of a 30-mile tunnel would be £30,000,000.
* * * *
Construction and operation of the ordinary
portable fire extinguisher ? —7662.
The extinguisher consists essentially of a
lead-coated or copper-tinned metal case con-
taining a solution of water and sodium bicar-
bonate or potassium carbonate and a small
bottle of sulphuric or hydrochloric acid sus-
pended by a cage in the upper portion of the
container. This bottle has a small lead stopper
or ball which remains in position so long as the
extinguisher is kept upright. In case of fire
the container is inverted, thus causing the
stopper to fall from the neck of the bottle and
allow the acid to mix with the alkaline solution
and produce carbon dioxide. The resulting
pressure forces through the nozzle of the ex-
tinguisher a solution of carbon dioxide, which
will usually smother small conflagrations.
* * * *
(1) Who designed the Cenotaph? (2) When
was it erected ? (3) Cost ? (4) Inscription ?
7667.
A cenotaph is not one particular construc-
tion but any memorial raised in honor of one
whose body is irrecoverable or buried elsewhere.
You doubtless refer to the Cenotaph in White-
hall, London. (2) Edward Lutyens. (2) 1920.
(3) £lO,OOO. (4) “To our glorious dead.”
* * * *
Is there any record of Goethe having met
Mozart ? —7671.
No record, but Conversations of Goethe has
a mention: “I saw him” (Mozart), said
Goethe, “at seven years old, when he gave a
concert while travelling our way. I myself
was about 14 years old, and remember per-
fectly the little man, with his frisure and sword.”
* * * *
What is a saraband? —7665.
Of Moorish origin, it is a Spanish dance for
a single performer who accompanies himself
with castanets. The music is in three-quarter
time, but the dance is slow and stately, with
strong accent on the second bar. Originally
it was accompanied with singing. The saraband
was often used as a movement by Bach,
Handel and Scarlatti in their suites for the
harpsichord and clavichord, the sequences
usually being: Prelude, Allemande, Courante,
Saraband and Gigue.
* * * *
Brief description of the bagpipes? —767s.
In general construction the bagpipes con-
sist of a leathern bag formed from the skin of
some small animal, which contains wind con-
veyed from the mouth through a tube and pre-
vented from escaping too rapidly by a small
valve. The sound comes from three pipes, two
of which, united, are called the drone and
produce but one note each, the key note and
its fifth. These notes sound continuously.
The third pipe, or chanter, is furnished with
a reed and bored with seven holes in front and
one behind which are stopped by the fingertips
of the player, playing the scale from middle G
in the treble clef to A above the stave.
* * * *
What is a pibgorn? —7663.
It is very rare and considered a traditional
musical instrument of Wales, and has been
associated traditionally with shepherds. The
only three authentic specimens in existence
were recently on loan to the Welsh National
Museum. One was presented to the London
Society of Antiquaries in 1770, and reported
as being unique to North Wales, excepting
Anglesey. Another of the eighteenth century
is from Voelas, Bettws-y-Coed, Carnarvon-
shire, and probably from Anglesey, and an-
other was bought in a North Wales cottage.
In the latter a wooden mouthpiece contains
two reeds, and each of two wooden pipes,
bound together, have a horn at the end. In
the two former specimens the reed is enclosed
in a mouth horn. In all specimens each
wooden pipe has six finger stops. Its tone
has been described as similar to that of an oboe.
* * * *
Who controls the harbors of Sydney, Bowen,
Hobart and Perth ? Was the Sydney Harbor
Trust recently transferred? —7659.
On January 31, 1936, the State Navigation
Dept, and the Sydney Harbor Trust were dis-
solved and the powers, duties, obligations,
authorities and functions of both were trans-
ferred to the Maritime Services Board of
N.S.W. This board consists of three full-time
commissioners appointed by the Government
for a term of seven years or until attaining
65, and two part-time commissioners appointed
for three years to represent commercial and
shipping interests concerned in the administra-
tion of the ports and general maritime affairs
of the State. The Bowen Harbor Board,
Queensland, has two members elected by Gover-
nor-in-Council and five elected by the electors
of Bowen and adjacent shires. The area within
the boundaries of Bowen, the shires of Proser-
pine and Wangaratta and division 1 of the shire
of Ayr are under this board’s jurisdiction.
The Marine Board of Hobart comprises nine
wardens elected by shipowners of the port of
Hobart and exporters and importers to or from
any port within the jurisdiction of the board.
Fremantle Harbor is controlled by a board of
five commissioners appointed by Governor-in-
Council.
*** * .
Particulars of Queensland schools ? —7660.
Under the State Education Acts 1875-1912
and the Technical Instruction Acts 1908-18
education is conducted at the following types
of schools: Primary schools, consisting of rural,
intermediate, State, provisional, special and
kindergarten; secondary schools, comprising
State high schools, State commercial high
school and college, industrial high school,
domestic science high school and technical col-
leges, and a Teachers’ Training College opened
in 1914 to replace the pupil-teacher system.
Correspondence schools were commenced in
1922, and practical education for country
children is provided by travelling schools.
Grammar schools are established under the
Grammar School Acts 1860-1900. There are
10, six for boys and four for girls. They are
semi-State in character, controlled by boards of
trustees, operated under subsidy from the State
and inspected annually by the Dept, of Public
Instruction. There are 217 private schools and
business colleges in Q’land, denominational and
undenominational, not under State control.
There are also 30 abo. schools under the con-
trol of the Aboriginal Dept.
* * * *
(1) Who controls education in the N.T. ?
(2) How are teachers appointed? (3) Are
teachers trained by the N.S.W. Education Dept,
accepted ? (4) Any other information ? (5)
Information concerning vessels carrying cargo
and passengers to Darwin and intermediate
Queensland ports? —73s7.
(1) The Education Branch of the N.T. Public
Service is under control of the Supervisor of
Education, who is directly responsible to the
Administrator. (2) and (3) As the curricula of
schools in the N.T. are based on those of Queens-
land and S.A., teachers for the northern and
southern portions of the Territory are taken
from the Education Depts. of the respective
adjacent States. (4) The annual report on the
administration of the N.T. contains statistical
information relating to education, etc., price
2s. 4d. from Dept, of the Interior, Canberra,
F.C.T. (5) Burns, Philp and Co. conducts a
monthly shipping service from Melbourne, Syd-
ney, Brisbane and intermediate ports to Darwin
as part of its Australia-Singapore service.
The two vessels employed on the service are
s.s. Marella, with accommodation for 155
saloon and 60 second-class passengers, and m.v.
Merkur, with accommodation for 86 saloon
and 10 third-class passengers.
* * * *
How is silk screen printing done ? —7259.
A stencil is cut for each color and placed
under a piece of silk stretched on a frame
hinged to a baseboard. Paper is laid in register
on the board, the frame lowered on it, and a
squeegee dipped in paint drawn over the silk.
The process is repeated for each color. Suit-
able silk is procurable from flourmill suppliers,
but in experimental stages organdie muslin is
cheaper. Squeegee is a straightedge of rubber
set in a wooden bar. Paint grease-proof paper
with shellac for stencils. Books on the sub-
ject are Silk Screen and Roller Process, by F. A.
Baker, and Silk Screen Methods of Reproduc-
tion, by Bert Zahn.
* * * *
Where is Bouvet Island and what is the
history of the dispute between Norway and
Great Britain regarding its possession ? —7508.
This uninhabited island in the Southern At-
lantic was discovered in 1739 by a Frenchman,
Pierre Bouvet, but no flag was hoisted till,
in 1825, Captain Norris raised the Union Jack.
A neighboring island, Thompson Island, has
been reported, but its existence is seriously
doubted. In 1928 a diplomatic dispute arose
between Great Britain and Norway as to the
claim to Bouvet, particularly in connection with
the occupation since December, 1927, by a
Norwegian whaling expedition and the Nor-
wegian decision to erect a wireless station on
the island, and Great Britain decided in Novem-
ber, 1928, to waive its claim. By law of Febru-
ary 27, 1930, it is stated that Bouvet Island
belongs to Norway as a dependency.
* * * *
Qualifications necessary for a doctor to prac-
tise in Harley-street ? —7488.
Strictly speaking, any person in possession
of a recognised medical degree is as fully en-
titled to practise in Harley-street as anyone else.
But the position to-day is that Harley-street
houses specialists on every conceivable subject
from infant feeding to senility. Many of these
men have taken higher degrees—those of the
Royal Colleges, for instance—or have other-
wise increased their knowledge by advanced
study and by experience. Examinations for
these various diplomas are so searching that
no one can hope to pass them without a
thorough training, but such qualifications are
essential if the consultant is to be successful.
An honorary appointment on the staff of a
metropolitan hospital is also an enormous
asset.
* * * *
Recipe for a diabetic ball for horses, contain-
ing (1) potassium iodide and nut galls and (2)
opium and nut galls? —767o.
(1) lodine 30 grains, potassium iodide 60
grains, powdered nut galls 1 drachm, sugar of
lead 15 grains, powdered nux vomica 30 grains,
white sugar 1 drachm, and enough glycerine to
make a ball. (2) Nut galls 2 drachms, opium
30 grains, sugar of lead 20 grains, powdered
caraway 5 drachms, and enough syrup to
make a ball. In both cases one dose daily.
* * * *
A few details concerning a bird called the
coot ?—' 7428,
The coot ( Fulica atra ) belongs to a sub-
division of the rail family, and is characterised
by the possession of webbed toes, each toe
being separately webbed, as in the grebes.
Coots, as might be expected from the structure
of their feet, are more aquatic than other rails,
usually frequenting large sheets of fresh water
and obtaining their food by diving. The coot is
black, with a white shield on the forehead,
and is found from Australia to Europe.
Brief Answers.
E.R.: Best way to secure good furs from
water-rats is to trap or snare them; the use
of poison is not recommended W.S.: (1)
Flies will breed in stable manure or any de-
caying refuse. (2) A female may give rise
to over a million descendants in one summer.
(3) See Simple Aids to Sanitation, obtainable
from the Government Printer, Sydney, price 2s.
3d 5.8. H.: Both the Grant Park Municipal
Stadium, Chicago, and the Sesquicentennial
Stadium, Philadelphia, have 125,000 seats. The
Coliseum accommodated 50,000 seated and
20,000 standing... .T.8.R.: All books obtain-
able from Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney.
... .M.C.L.: Bimetallism is an economic theory
that gold and silver should be kept at certain
proportions as bases of currency N.A.:
Active bonds are those bearing a fixed rate
of interest, payable in full from the date of issue,
and include most bonds negotiable on the Stock
Exchange... .J. 8.: Frith cartoon, 155.; Lind-
say front page, £3; Lindsay small cartoon, 30s.
D.S.B.: In 1934 an amendment was made
to the Charter of May 8, 1920, which embodies
the Constitution of Iceland... .D. 1.: Cannot
quote any instances of fishes coming down in
rainstorms, but many persons vouch for the
fact; a possible explanation is that they go up
in waterspouts P.G.S.: Seeds and bulbs are
obtainable from Yates, 184 Sussex-street, Syd-
ney.... R.K.: The Rubaiyat of a Scotch Ter-
rier, by Sewell Collins, obtainable through
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, price about 4s.
. ...L.L.T.: Take the dog to a vet P.R.S.:
Yes, the Administration and Probate Act (Vic.),
passed September 29, 1934, provides that be-
quests, etc., to the Lord Mayor’s fund shall
be exempt from duty A.D.8.: Yes. It has
always been the custom for officers of the regu-
lar army to use the title of their rank after
retirement should they wish to do so. By a
special Order in Council, issued at the com-
mand of George V. after the Great War, tem-
porary officers Were granted the same right.
. ...L.A.D.: (1) Yes; it differs only in local
details of pronunciation and phrasing, e.g., the
tendency of Austrian-speaking Germans to do
away with gutturals and soften pronunciation.
For instance, they say “i” instead of “ich.”
(2) About five W.P.L.: No, yellow car-
nations are by no means unusual, and such
varieties as Saffron, Glorious, Mrs. Bagnall,
price all Is. 6d., and Canary Bird, price Is.,
are obtainable from Yates, 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney L.S.T.: The Hurricane was wrecked
on the Uluma reef, near Samarai, New Guinea.
P.T.G.: Hard to say without examination of
the prints. Probably your hypo, solution is
too weak; mix 20oz. water to 4oz. hypo
T.R.: Write Under-Secretary, Mines Dept.,
Bridge-street, Sydney W.H.: (1) From The
Frogs, by Aristophanes. (2) “Aye, but he’s
speaking to the dead, you knave, who cannot
hear us though we call them thrice”
H.L.D.: Introduced in the House of Commons
by Sir Auckland Geddes, January 14, 1918....
H. 1.: Both objects would land simultaneously.
. ...W.O’D.: If you propose to build the belt
yourself, suggest you obtain Belt Conveyors and
Elevators, by F. Hetzel, price about £2;
Norris Johnson, 14 Victoria-street, Alexandria,
Sydney, specialises in machinery of this nature.
R.R.C.: Section 7 of the N. S. Wales
Water Act reserves the rights to the use of
certain works, etc., without obtaining a license,
provided that the occupiers first inform the
commission of their intention to take and use
water for (a) stock watering by means of one
pumping plant with motive power not exceeding
5 b.h.p., (b) domestic purposes, (c) watering
a garden not exceeding five acres and used
solely in connection with a dwelling-house.
You will need a license, so apply to the Water
Conservation and Irrigation Commission,
Farrer-place, Sydney W.J.: Chunuma and
All-About, by Mary and Elizabeth Durack,
obtainable from The Bulletin, 3s. 6d. each,
post. 4d 8.P.K.: January 26, 1938, will
fall on a Wednesday and will be a holiday
S.V.S.: Stradivarius died 1730, so the violin
could not be a genuine Strad. Value would
depend on condition T.R.S.: A textbook
on the subject prescribes equal parts of whisky
and boiling water, ignited, then thrown (not
shaken) and drunk while still alight, but the
experiment isn’t recommended.... H.C.G.: (1)
Know of no aquaria-makers in Tasmania.
They are supplied wholesale by the “Mikado,”
183 George-street, Sydney. (2) Goldfish
Care and Culture, Is. 2d. posted, from the con-
cern mentioned 1.5. G.: Ross Smith and
party left England in a Vickers-Vimy ’plane
Nov. 12, 1919, and landed at Darwin Dec. 10,
1919, to win £lO,OOO offered by the Australian
Government... .D.T.N.: Yes, Capt. Murphy,
of the Imperial War Graves Commission in
France, took a number of hardy gum-trees to
France and Belgium for planting in cemeteries
associated with the A'.I.F N.P.: Curtis
Brown, 18 East 48th-street, New York
S.E.C.: Approximate figures for W.A., Chevro-
let, cars 5596, motor vehicles for transport of
goods 5508, buses 13; Ford, 4494, 4215, 3;
Dodge, 2687, 1251, 7....L.D.C.: 1914, Aug.
to Sept., Cook Government; 1914-15, Sept, to
Oct., Fisher Government; 1915-17, Oct. to
Nov., Hughes Government; 1916-17, Nov. to
Feb., Hughes Government; 1917-18, Feb. to
Jan., Australian National Government; 1918-
23, Jan. to Feb., Australian National Govern-
ment... .R.0’8.: White is made up of several
different colors from which blue is most often
absent; the addition of blue lends purity to the
whiteness... .8.D.F.: (1) The Registrar-General,
Wellington, M.L. The fee payable for a search
in any index or record in the office of the
Registrar-General when the exact date is not
given is ss. Fees are payable by money order.
(2) By advertisement in newspapers circulating
in the districts where the children were born.
(3) Registration would be in the mother’s name.
... .C.A.S.: Lady Cynthia Asquith married the
Hon. Herbert Asquith in 1910. She was for-
merly Lady Charteris R.M.: Write Mr.
Grant, Australian Museum, College-street, Syd-
ney, who will furnish information concerning
-the stuffing of alligators. There are no buyers
of shark skins in Australia, but Culverwell
Brook, 59 Mark-lane, London, E.C.3, and the
Leather Finance Corp., 25-37 New York-avenue,
Newark, New Jersey, will buy salted shark
hides... .L.H.H. : The connection should be as
short as will avoid car and trailer colliding at
corners. It is impossible to give definite
measurements without knowing dimensions of
car and trailer 8.L.H.: The specimen for-
warded is a Phoenix species, but exact determi-
nation is impossible without a description of
the palm and a small piece of leaf H.M.:
(1) Perfumes are made in Australia by several
firms, and also imported in great variety. (2)
Practically all perfumes are made synthetically.
(3) Apply to any large Perth bookseller; other-
wise try Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (4)
Not understood... .T.H.: No, rates for con-
tract work are made by agreement and vary
with the type of ground and many other con-
ditions... .W.S.N.: 1937-38 estimates show
that 4,752,000 acres of wheat were sown
in N.S.W., an improvement of 10 p.c. on last
year. Wheat was grown on 16,839 holdings.
. ...M.P.A.: 416,809 Australians enlisted,
343,250 embarked and 59,342 were killed on
active service. Approximate number surviving
1936, 215,000... .C.A.: The Men 1 Killed, by
Crozier, from Dymock’s, Sydney, 9s. 6d., post.
5d L.F.: Cannot recommend such prepara-
tions (Many others mailed.)


Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
"The Macleod Gallery ”
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street ).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
HOMGKOMG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall he
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
S. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
9
91
■
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
DOUBLE * THRILL
..DOUBLE YOUR MONET BACK!
If Pepsodent doesn't show-up any other
tooth paste you ever used ... bar none!
The New Pepsodent alone contains IRIUM
which Thrillingly Steps-up Lustre on Teeth
Because it alone contains IRIUM,
the new Pepsodent works on an en-
tirely new principle. It dissolves
film on teeth with an amazingly
swift but gentle action.
It thrillingly steps-up lustre on teeth,
yet it is Doubly safe because it con-
tains no pumice, no grit! Doubly
delightful because it contains no
chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM brings flashing lustre to
teeth—freshens the mouth—stimu-
lates gums—yet does so with the
safest action ever known in tooth
pastes.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.> PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used—bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso--
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.>>
Pty. Ltd., Dept. -No. 4. Bo*
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
Name....,...,
Address
City
AU 7372 D
.State.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
8.J.T., L.M., P.D. and all you others: Don’t
send stuff addressed personally to the editor,
or to any other member of the staff J.G.:
Your Melbourne Cup “ode” arrived too late
anyway, it wasn’t up... .K..P.: You can’t * be-
moan the fate that stultifies endeavor” here,
M.C.: “Harold crept stealthily past the
door of the room in which lay the sleeping
bride, continued on his way down the dim
passage,” then hurried out of our ken
K.L.S.: “What’s wrong with this one?”
Everything 8.5.5.: “Soap and Water” won’t
wash with us T.D.C.: “I missed two lunch-
hours to write this yarn.” We quite believe it.
H.S.N.: Afraid there’s no hope unless you
can get away from old themes. ...W.L.D.: We
don t mind Cleopatra or Mae West but your
heroine went out immediately A.S.G.: He
may have “expanded his manly chest and
thrust out his aggressive jaw to attract the
lasses on the sands,” but he didn’t impress us
C.Y.: A little late for an Easter yarn, even
if it was worth printing J.T.R.: You’d have
to tickle our necks with a feather to make us
laugh at that yarn R.T.8.: The Service
Dept, may be able to tell you “Why Smith’s
Dogs Died” L.W.O’N.: Airman crashes on
lonely farm, farmer’s daughter drags him
from the burning ’plane, love at first sight,
patches up his ’plane, flies to the city and gets
money to pay off the mortgage and save the old
home. Hooray 1... .D.L.C.: Although “he
covered a lot of ground with bookies, punters
and tipsters,” he couldn’t last the distance with
us G.T.E.: “The Singing Shepherd” was
silenced and sent home... .E.H.8.: It was
outed as soon as we saw the title... .V.McC.:
Right off our beat N.D.N.: Not stunned
by the chap who “hurtled through the air and
devastated the rotter with a terrific b10w”....
P.W.W.: And we’re tired of elections....
S.H.S.: Cut in half, eliminate several unneces-
sary characters and try a daily... .1.M.: From
“the thunder of galloping hoofs and the swel-
ling roar of a cheering crowd” we assumed
it was a racing yarn, but we’re still wondering
why you introduced the fishing trip... .F.L.T.:
An accompanying letter of excuses and explana-
tions doesn’t help a yarn.... J.F.D.: “One
Thousand Miles Away” was too far for u 5....
M.F.L.: Its sole interest lies in your knack
of creating impossible situations... .L.Y.:
We’ve yet to meet “the Australian drover who
lolls gracefully in the saddle, crooning poignant
melodies of the magnificient outback”....
R.C.D.: Afraid you 11 never be a star in the
Inky Way. •. .D.H.R.. That mooning maiden
must have been sunstruck 8.P.T.: We
couldn’t make head or tail of “A Two Shilling
Piece ”... .8.8. T.: We waded through several,
but to no avail C.M.W.: Could follow “The
Long White Road” through only a few pages.
. ...D.M.L.: And we lost “Wandering Billy”
long before that R.S.C.: Grandma used to
send us to sleep with that yarn.
_______
T 0 ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.W.: No use for that collection of flappers.
J.S.: Gags are all dull—and 01d....0.C.:
You’ll never get anywhere by copying an-
other man’s style N.A.M.: Decorated
borders don’t make a joke drawing... .G.T.:
Which did you use most, pencil or rubber?
. ...8.E.P.: Haven’t yet been able to decide
where the top-hatted gentleman in the back-
ground keeps his arms... .D. 8.: We gather
it’s a kangaroo chasing a koala round a tree,
but why ?... .S.P.R.: You’re the sixth to send
in that railway-crossing gag in the last two
weeks—we published it three months ag0....
C.V.E.: With perserverance you should some
day be able to make your figures look like
human beings... .J.R.G.: Why make your
wash so muddy? The blockmaker couldn’t
distinguish between those tones W.W.: But
we thought the Abyssinian affair was history.
. ...8.Y.F.: No place here for poster-sized
sneer labelled Roosevelt... .R.D.R.: There’s
promise right enough—of signwriting ability.
J.M.: Don’t like any of that batch, but
get hold of some brighter gags and try again,
—.N.8.: Norman Lindsay made a better job
of that idea 20 years ago... .T.E.G.: You ve
earned one distinction; yours was the only
wife waiting with a rolling pin to arrive this
week... .L.C.U.: Smutty gags and untidy line-
work... .R.L.: Good fashion drawing, nothing
else... .R.N.G.: Thirteen, is he? Our guess
was ten....1.K.: So that’s cubism... . G.S.:
Once again, gags must be new.
A MIXED GRILL.
State batteries are a blessing to pros-
pectors and a source of revenue to
the Government in Westralia. About 16
of these mills are operating. They treat
several thousand tons of ore monthly
for returns totalling up to £50,000. Harry
Gregory, when Minister for Mines, in-
stalled the first more than 30 years ago.
* * * *
Shirley Ann Richards spoke from the
stage of the Majestic just before the cur-
tain went up on the first Melbourne
showing of “Tall Timbers.” Shirley Ann
is quite unsophisticated and very ingenue
in her manner in spite of the fact that
she’s starred in three films. She con-
cluded by expressing the hope that if
people who have seen her recent films
come face to face with her on the screen
in about 10 years’ time they will murmur
to one another, “That Shirley Ann? I
saw her in ‘Tall Timbers’ when she was
only 19 ; how she has improved”
* * * *
“Crackerhash”: About 40 years ago,
when I served my time “in sail,” steam-
ship men were already beginning to
object that lads like myself had to learn
all the many names connected with yards
and rigging when there were more im-
portant things to be taught. If that was
so it puzzles me why my son, now serv-
ing his time “in steam,” has to learn
wireless telegraphy and engineering, even
to the most advanced stages. Training
in sail teaches a boy self-reliance and
seamanship more thoroughly than any
steamship, and England might very well
follow the example of Germany, Bel-
gium, Norway, Denmark, Finland and
many other fine seafaring nations and
build school ships for training purposes.
* * * *
Mrs. Seydell is a columnist whose work
appears regularly in the “Georgian
American.” Every year Mrs. Seydell
takes a long journey to tell her readers
about people and lands they are unable
to visit. This year her readers requested
her to visit the Antipodes. So here she
is. In between Mrs. Seydell finds time
to be a novelist —Secret Fathers is one of
her works—and she has two writing
friends whose books are known to Aus-
tralia. They are the Ripley (not the
“Believe It or Not” chap) who wrote
They Died with Their Boots On, and
Peggy Mitchell, whose Gone with the
Wind made quite a splash. Peggy took
eight years to write it.
* * * *
“Avian”: Airman Mollison, whose
“experiences” have been published in
Australia, says that when he visited
this country last year “Smithy,” Pethy-
bridge, Hinkler, Ulm and Melrose were
“gone.” He adds: “There is practically
no well-known Australian pilot left who
flew in the great days when I knew Aus-
tralia first.” None the less, to mention
just a few, Lester Brain, “Scotty” Allan
and Ray Parer were in the front-rank of
Australian flying and Jimmy Broadbent
was getting that way when Mollison was
a route pilot with the original Australian
National Airways. Although they are not
so well known, Eric Chaseling and Eric
Chater, who flew with Mollison in
A.N.A. machines, were still doing solid
flying jobs when he passed through last
year. And there are a few others, in-
cluding Joe Francis, now in charge of
the new A.N.A. school at Essendon, who
are worth a word.
* * * *
“J. Want’: The results of the first
cruise of Brisbane’s big-game fishing club
augur well for the £lOOO competition to
be held next year. The giant catch was
a hammerhead shark which took a 141 b.
bait and fought for \\ hours. To this
were added a 9ft. tiger shark weighing
2191 b. and a huge assortment of
minnows ranging from sft. jack mackerel
down to 301 b. red bass. As the standard
line for this sort of fishing is 36 cord,
about as thick as the lead in a pencil
and with an 801 b. breaking strain, real
skill is involved in the sport.
* * * *
“Peter Prospect”: How is this for ser-
vice in business? The Saturday meat
delivery ’plane from Wau (New Guinea)
ran into a hawk. Result —a smashed pro-
peller and the ’plane a complete write-off
in the bush, some hours’ walk from near-
est ’drome. Next morning the same
pilot delivered the damaged “freezer” —
still eatable —and a new issue, all orders
having been duplicated at the aero com-
pany’s expense.
* * * *
“Daljean”: Who originally wrote or
said “The more I see of men, the more
I like dogs”? Madame de Stael, says
the Sydney “Sun.” Benham’s New Book
of Quotations, however, ascribes it to the
many-headed “Anon.,” adding that it is
“attributed to Madame Roland” and
appending a footnote as follows:
In a letter to John Forster (1850) Count
Alfred d’Orsay wrote [in French]: “Lamar-
tine said to me yesterday, ‘The more / see
of the representatives of the people, the
more I admire my dogs.’ ”


df
Reputed for
their comfort
and wear ...
The “Bruce”
Riding Trousers
For hard work or long days in the saddle, the
“Bruce” Riding Trousers really hold pride of
place. They’re so comfortable, serviceable and
smartly made.
Available ready for use, the material is of a super-
grade Wool Saddle Twist, and is obtainable m
shades of Fawn or Grey.
Pair, 29/6. Two Pairs, 56/6.
Riding Breeches 10/- extra on these prices.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street - Brisbane
And at Toowoomba, Townsville and Roma.
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
When Warner’s Team Won the Rubber
In 1903 came an interesting band of
cricketers who figured in English news-
papers, first, as Mr. Warner’s team ; then,
when they had won a few matches, as
the M.C.C. team ; and finally, when they
had proved successful beyond expecta-
tions, as the English eleven.
They were young as cricketers go—
Lilley, the wicketkeeper, was the veteran,
and he was only 36—and they got on un-
commonly well together. This was due
in no small degree to the fact that, for
the first time in English cricket history,
amateurs and professionals stayed at the
same hotels, an innovation for which
Pelham Warner was himself responsible,
’ The strength of the batting was shown
m the first match at Adelaide. R. E.
Foster had dazzled the Adelaideans with
his work at the nets, but in his first match
on Australian soil he was run out for 2.
However, Hayward (157) and Lilley (91
not out) were equal to the occasion, and
with 8 down for 483 Warner found him-
self in a position to close the innings,
Thanks to Clem Hill (115) and Jennings
(77 not out), South Australia managed to
make a draw of it. Jennings, who was
only 19, made 103 in the match without
losing his wicket, and a great career was
predicted for him.
George Giffen, then 43, took part in
that match. After a quarter of a century
in first-class cricket, he still held a very
subordinate position in the Adelaide
Post Office, and when invited to play he
said he would be charmed to comply if
he got £lO as “compensation for loss of
time.” The S.A.C.A. offered him £5.
“As a compliment to our visitors,” Giffen
cased his limbs in the old flannels and
gave the fiver to the Children’s Hospital,
At Melbourne against Victoria the
Englishmen got into the fifth hundred
again, and again Warner closed the in-
nings when eight wickets were down,
They won that match by an innings and
71. At Sydney on a wet wicket which
found the N.S.W. batsmen, Trumper (46)
excepted, all at sea to Rhodes, they won
by an innings and 10. Tyldesley (76 not
out), Warner (46) and Foster (35) did the
bulk of the work with the bat.
At Brisbane, the tourists beat Queens-
land by six wickets. But the Queens-
landers, who were not then in the Shef-
Add Shield ring, did very well, had a
lead of 27 on the first innings, and, ac-
cording to the testimony of Murdoch, the
English manager, fielded better than
any other team I have seen on this tour,
Warner’s men had an unbeaten recor
when the Y met the Australians in the
first of b ve Tests, play beginning on
December 11. For the first time since
February, 1895, the Australian captain
won the toss, and Trumper and Dutt
opened for the home team in w at was
to prove one of the most strenuous
matches ever played,
, The first ball of the second over
(Arnold’s) was edged by Trumper into
the slips, where Foster brought off a
wonderful one-arm catch. He had to
thrust the arm at full length, and he
tell; but, with the ball tightly gnppe , e
kept his hand off the ground. The first
ball °f Arnolds second over rose sharply,
and Duff snicked it into Lilley s hands
behind the sticks. Then Hill was trapped,
He tf ied to cut one Hirst, an l ey
snapped it up.
The three best batsmen in Australia
out f° r Don a perfect wicket ! The
male onlooker leaned on his neighbor s
shoulder and swore softly under his
breath. Golden-haired girls in the ladies’
stand looked as if they wanted to cry.
But Armstrong and Noble were now
together, and those two cool fellows pre-
vented a collapse. By the pluckiest of
batting they took the score from 12 to
118, when Bosanquet got an off-break
past Armstrong (48). The second cen-
tury and Noble’s hundred arrived simul-
taneously. At stumps seven wickets were
down for 259 (Noble 132 not out,
Hopkins 29).
Next day, with only a run added,
Arnold (4 for 70) got one past Noble ;
and though Saunders, who was reckoned
the worst batsman that ever played in
international cricket, amused the crowd
by hitting up 11 without losing his wicket,
the innings closed for 285.
Warner, opening for England, was
caught by Kelly off Laver without scor-
ing. Tyldesley, the next man in, got
going immediately, knocking up 30 in
25 minutes, but after he was dismissed
for a well-played 53 the scoring became
slow. Hayward (15) had preceded
Tyldesley, and Arnold (27) had gone too.
Foster and Braund were the other bats-
men. Batting steadily, but in no exhila-
. Jr* of= SPORT *
7-ne KfsHCAiroo -
K f/Kcr is , oIP • r\KN
r*\ y
r*OW »
rating fashion, they had put on 126
(Foster 73) when proceedings were
closed for the day, the board showing
4 for 243.
Old gentlemen in the members’ pavi-
lion said they didn’t think much of
Foster’s batting. “Too slow,” they com-
plained. It was too fast for them on the
third day, when Foster slogged magni-
ficently.
Saunders, Laver, Howell, Armstrong,
Noble and Hopkins were tried without
avail. Noble even called upon Trumper
and Gregory, to no purpose. Three
records went— Ranjitsinhji’s 175 for Eng-
land v. Australia at Sydney in December,
1897, Syd Gregory’s 201 for Aus-
tralia v. England at Sydney in December,
1894, and Murdoch’s 211 for Australia v.
England in August, 1884 ; and still Foster
kept going. A mighty cheer proclaimed
that he had taken his own score past
Australia’s. Perhaps it disconcerted him ;
anyway he lifted one from Saunders to
Noble and was out for 287 —one of the
grandest innings ever played by a
cricketer. Braund was bowled by Howell
for 102. A very fine all-rounder, he
did not take a wicket that match, but he
had done his bit. A spirited last-wicket
stand (Relf 31, Rhodes 40 not out) car-
ried the score to 577.
The Australians made a great effort
to pull the match out of the fire. The
close of the fourth day found them 75
runs to the good with five men still to
bat. Going in fourth wicket down, after
his old partner
Duff (84) had
marred a splendid
innings by a feeble
stroke, Trumper,
when he got his eye
in, thrashed the
bowling and had
133 up in half the
time it had taken
Noble and Foster
to score that
number.
Trumper and
Hill (51) were put-
ting a different
complexion on the
game when they
tried to run an-
other for an over-
throw, and Bob
Crockett gave Hill
out.
The South Aus-
tralian stood at the
crease and looked
at the umpire. As
he walked away
disconsolately hooting began in the
members’ pavilion and was taken up on
the Hill. For minutes it was infernal,
and it broke out again spasmodically till
stumps were drawn, whereupon Crockett
came in for more.
The crowd exhausted its vocabulary in
trying to find suitable expressions for the
umpire. At last a raucous voice was
heard above the din: “You ought to
stand for the Senate.”
Trumper carried out his bat for 185,
made in 3 hours 50 minutes. The total
was 485 (Rhodes 5 for 94). Thanks
chiefly to Hayward (91) and Hirst (60
not out), the Englishmen got the re-
quired 194 for 5 wickets. Foster took


AWAKE ALL NIGHT
WITH INDIGESTION
Now Sleeps Like a Top
—Thanks to Kruschen.
This man used to pass night after night
with hardly a wink of sleep. All the remedies
he tried failed to help him, until he started
taking a daily dose o£‘ Kruschen. That was
what he needed to put him right, and his letter
is a real proclamation of victory: —
“I first started taking Kruschen Salts three
or four years ago. For years previously I had
suffered agony with indigestion. Night after
night for weeks on end I had very little sleep,
and I was becoming a wreck. Then I started
taking Kruschen —half-heartedly I will admit
—but after the first few doses my attacks grew
less and less. I kept on, and they com-
pletely disappeared, and I have been a regular
‘Kruschenite’ ever since. I am now 50 years
of age, and I can eat anything at any time
without any ill effects. 1 sleep like a top —
thanks to Kruschen.” —J.H.C.
Kruschen is a combination of six natural
salts which stimulate your liver, kidneys and
digestive tract to healthy, regular activity.
They ensure internal cleanliness, and keep the
blood-stream pure.
PHILIPS
SHORT
UJfIVE
STRTton
HILVERSUM HOLLAND
BRO
A
am
&
•tfO
t o* ‘
ss
SB
M
<s*«»
T.»
l \W ot&
IS
": -v.'; i
l %:^-
,'?S
iiff'* 5
DON'T miss this wonderful pro-
gramme the finest entertain-
ment yet offered on short waves.
You can buy a Philips Radioplayer
NOW, and be in time for this remark-
able broadcast. Listen for special
announcements during this outstand-
ing broadcast.
LISTEN WITH A
7R29
fradiqfckym
: m-
m
SYDNEY
eean'
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
OUCKLOND
UJULINGTO
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2\ DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
( Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
59 minutes to make 19, and was uncer-
tain all the time. .
In the second of the series at Mel-
bourne, the English skipper won the toss
and his team batted on a good wicket.
The Australians had to splash along in
the mud to certain defeat.
On the good wicket England made 315
(Warner 68, Hayward 58, Tyldesley 97
and Foster 49). Foster was taken ill
and had to retire with his wicket intact,
nor could he bat a second time ; but it
didn’t matter. Trumble had been
brought back into the Australian side:
he took 4 for 107 ; but Howell did better
—4 for 43.
In its first use of the bad wicket,
Australia made 122, Trumper’s contribu-
tion being 74. “The effort of his life,
a critic said, and an admiring public
agreed until other efforts were remem-
bered —292 n.o. v. Tasmania, 300 n.o. v.
Sussex, 25 in 5 minutes v. The Players,
335 in 160 minutes for Paddington v.
Redfern ; and so on. It was a dazzling
performance all the same, and it saved
the follow-on.
Tyldesley was again the star among
the English batsmen. At home on all
wickets, the plucky Lancashireman hit
62 out of 103. Trumble (5 for 34) and
Howell (2 for 25) again did the bulk of
the bowling. On a pitch that was worse
than ever, the Australians were dis-
missed for 111 (Trumper 35, Noble 31
not out, Hill 20 ; Rhodes 8 for 68), a
deficit of 185.
In Adelaide the luck went the Austra-
lians’ way. At all events, they won the
toss and collared the bowling. Duff
made 79 with ease and grace ; Trumper
—methodical for once, Duff scoring
nearly twice as fast —weighed in with
113, Hill with 88 and Noble with 59.
The others went cheaply, but 388 proved
sufficient.
In this innings Bosanquet, who had
been too out of sorts to play in the
Melbourne match, gave the Australians
a taste of his quality. Although the
wicket was too fast for his “googlies,”
as they were now called, Bosanquet took
3 for 95 ; Hirst got 2 for 58, and Arnold
3 for 93. The expression “googly”
wasn’t really new; years before, the
curly ones of Clarrie Lynes, an East
Melbourne man contemporary of
Albert Trott —had been called “googly
snakes.” But Bosanquet certainly ushered
in a craze for “Bosie” bowling, though
the thing seems now to have run its
course.
By contrast with the exhibitions of
Duff, Trumper and Hill, the English
batting was cramped and slow. Hirst
(58) was an exception ; the Yorkshire-
man played with confidence and vigor,
and Warner (48) contributed a good
captain’s knock. Trumble (3 for 49) and
Hopkins (3 for 48) shared most of the
credit for keeping the English score down
to 245. Hopkins rendered the very use-
ful service of getting Tyldesley for a
duck with one of his swerves.
Trumper (59) and Noble (65) came
off again in Australia’s second innings,
which realised 351 ; but it was reserved
for Gregory to top the score. In 125
minutes the little fellow made 112 by
all-round-the-wicket play, without the
semblance of a chance. He was parti-
cularly severe on Bosanquet, who never-
theless took 4 for 73.
Warner (79) and Hayward (67) gave
their side an excellent start towards vic-
tory, but Hayward went l.b.w. to Hop-
kins, who also got Tyldesley caught at
the wickets for 10. Then Charlie McLeod
bowled Foster for 16. It was the begin-
ning of the end, and the tenth man went
at 278; beaten by 216 runs. Hopkins
took 4 for 81, Howell 2 for 52, Trumble
2 for 7'3.
Bosanquet had his troubles on that
tour. In a letter to the “St. James’s
Gazette,” he poked fun at the Mayor of
Adelaide and was called to account by
his Worship. “Bosie” apologised.
The Englishmen had a pleasant trip
to Tasmania and a queer match against
Victoria before going to N.S.W. for the
fourth Test match. For Victoria
McAlister played himself into the Aus-
tralian eleven by achieving a stylish cen-
tury —133 out of 299. The Englishmen
were 51 behind on the first innings. But
rain came again, and on a sticky wicket
the Victorians fell for 15, seven of them
failing to score ; and they were beaten
by eight wickets. N.S.W., for its part,
was defeated by 278 runs. Warner’s
team lost no match against State teams.
Then came a game against fifteen of
Bathurst, one of the fifteen being Jack
Marsh, the aboriginal express. Warner’s
comment on Marsh was: “He is a shier,
and Bob Crockett would no-ball him.”
But the black wasn’t no-balled at
Bathurst.
Again in the fourth Test match Warner
won the toss, and he took first use of a
wicket that was a trifle slow. The bat-
ting was extremely slow. After four
hours and a half the board showed a
mere 207, seven wickets being down.
Knight was the slowest but the most suc-
cessful —he carried out his bat for 70.
Of the others, only Braund (39) was at
all comfortable against Noble. “Mary
Ann” rarely bowled better, and took 7
for 100 ; the total was 249.
One of the trundlers who failed to
come off was Tibby Cotter, who 13 years
later died a soldier’s death in Palestine.
Friends protested that he wasn’t well
enough to take part, but Tibby couldn’t
miss the chance of playing in his first
Test match in his own city; and he
vowed that he was all right. His con-
dition improved as the match went on,
but he was below par that first day, and
didn’t get a wicket.
There were tedious intervals on the
second day, which was cloudy and
dreary, and frequent protests from the
multitude. Once the Hill had to wait 80
minutes in drizzling rain, and it relieved
its feelings by barracking the umpire.
When play began again it barracked
Rhodes. Wilffed had a peculiar style of
bowling ; he took four quick steps on
the edge of his heels with his toes stuck
up stiffly. The crowd kept time: “One,
two, three, four.” It was funny, but it
disconcerted the bowler, and bothered the
batsman more.
During another shower 30 or 40 boys
scrambled over the fence and were waved
back by four constables. A trifle, but it
moved the London “Sportsman” to refer
to it darkly as “a canker threatening the
best interests of cricket,” and London
“Sporting Life” morosely wondered
“why the Sydney larrikin doesn’t turn to
cockfighting.”
Trumper was a sick man that match.
With his flashing bat failing for once,
the side was dismissed for 131 (Duff 47,
Hill 33 ; Arnold 4 for 28, Rhodes 4 for
33). The Australians batted in a bad
light, but the light was just as bad when
Hayward and Foster went in, and Foster
made 27 and Hayward 52.
There was only two hours’ play on the
fourth day. On the fifth, Warner (31
not out) and Rhodes (29) lashed out and
put on 55 for the last wicket. Cotter,
now in good fettle again, took 3 for 41,
McLeod 3 for 42 and Hopkins 2 for 31.
The conditions had become favorable,
and nearly everyone expected the Aus-
tralians to get the runs. But they were
crushed with responsibility ; the bowling
got them down and the fielding bottled
them up. Bosanquet fell upon them like
the Angel of the Lord on the Old
Dragon. Hill, Gregory, Hopkins,
McLeod, Trumble and Kelly all faded
before him for 51 runs. It was dreadful.
Noble (53 not out) and Cotter (34)
made a plucky stand—-the most produc-
tive of the innings. That last wicket cost
57 runs. But when Cotter was bowled by
Hirst (2 for 32), the team was 157 behind
and the rubber was lost. Three of
Bosanquet’s victims were stumped, and
the other caught, by Lilley.
Trumper, Cotter, Trumble and the
clerk of the weather won the fifth Test
match for the Australians. When the
wicket was good, Trumper made a mas-
terly 88 out of 247, exactly half of his
runs coming in fours. McAlister, who
had been tried again, though his Sydney
scores were 2 and 1, contributed a useful
36, and Hopkins came to light with 32.
Bosanquet did not take a wicket, but
Braund got 8 for 81.
Braund’s success was compensation for
a heartrending experience he had under-
gone. A handsome young fellow in those
days, he had been invited to swar-
ries at the house of a sporty young
matron who presently figured in a divorce
case, a medico being the third party.
Braund’s visits were mentioned during
the hearing; and the name of the house
was “Novar.” When Len bowled his
first scoreless over on the Melbourne
ground a rude spirit with a prodigious
voice shouted “Maid-en No-vah.” The
cry was taken up by other rude spirits,
and poor Braund had an appalling time.
He bore his tribulations manfully ; and
he was too good a cricketer and too
good a fellow to be in the black books
of the Melbourne crowd for long.
The wicket was bad when the English-
men batted, and Cotter (6 for 40) and
Noble (4 for 19) went right through them.
Only Foster (18), Bosanquet and Tyldes-
ley got into double figures, and there
were four ducks ; all out 61. On a pitch
improved a trifle, the Australians got to
135 (Duff 31, Hopkins 25 not out, Kelly
24; Hirst 5 for 48, Braund 1 for 6).
Trumper and Cotter were ■ bowled by
Hirst for a duck.
In the first match of the series, Rhodes
had gone in tenth man. His batting had
improved so greatly that in that Mel-
bourne match he went in first with Hay-
ward. Hayward could not bat in the
second innings, and Rhodes could get no
one to stay with him, except Foster
(30). Though the Yorkshireman made
only 16, he kept his wicket intact—no
mean feat on a bad wicket with Trumble
(7 for 28) on the spot and Cotter (2 for
25) rocking them in. Only 101 was the
score, the last five batsmen making a
miserable five among them. So the Aus-
tralians won by 218.
Foster closed a memorable tour with
an aggregate of 700 and an average of
46.66, topping each list. Rhodes was on
top also in his department with 62 wickets
at 14.61. Excellent as the cricket was,
so much rain fell that season that the
tour was a financial failure.


AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
By M. BARNARD ELDERSHAW.
(3) Frank Dalby Davison.
FRANK DALBY DAVISON, son of Fred
Davison, publicist, man of business and author
of two sociological novels, was born in Mel-
bourne in 1893. Difficulties with a teacher resulted
in him leaving school at the age of twelve. Followed
three years in the bush, first on his father’s property
in the Plenty Ranges and then on farms in Gippsland.
In 1908 the family went to America and lived in
St. Louis and Chicago, in which cities Frank Davison
served an apprenticeship to typesetting and began
writing. In 1913 he went to New York ; 1914 found
him in the West Indies, and at outbreak of war he
went to England and enlisted. After the war came
four years on the land in the Maranoa (Q.); then
business life and freelance journalism in Sydney.
The greater part of Forever Morning and of
Man-Shy was first printed in the “Australian” —later
“Australia” —a magazine owned, edited and published
by his father, in Sydney, in 1923-24-25. In 1930 Fred
Davison produced Forever Morning as a first venture
in book publishing, and brought out Man-Shy —-
awarded the Australian Literature Society’s medal —
in 1931.
Frank Davison was first moved to attempt writing
through reading Henry Lawson’s short stories and
Harold Hansell’s Dewdrop Danby in his boyhood
days in the bush. The “Lone Hand,” which started
just before the family left Australia, was a further
stimulus, and so was reading, in America, E. J.
Brady’s King’s Caravan. He owns to a strong auto-
biographical content in his work, none the less real
for being often, for artistic reasons, at several re-
moves from the literal truth.
To date Frank Davison has published six books,
one in collaboration with Brooke Nicholls. Beyond
these there is a scattering of short stories, rare both
in incidence and quality, which have appeared in The
Bulletin and elsewhere. The six volumes do not
arrange themselves in any progression or hierarchy,
they do not even follow one another with the primitive
logic of Brown’s cows. Each book is an individual,
standing on' its own feet (two or four, as the case
may be), and they refuse to be lumped together in
any way. '
Forever Morning is a first novel and bears the
obvious mark of it. The story is a conventional
romance in a bush setting. The characterisation of
the women is often weak, but the men make up for
that; they are not only lifelike, they are real. The
background, too, is of the authentic bush. In its set-
ting, in its pictures of homely things, of men working
—the chopping down of a tree, a boy driving a dray,
a ride across a flooded plain, the arrival of a new
stockman —and in its portrayal of the bushman’s
brotherhood Forever Morning makes a contribution to
national understanding. These things are good and
racy, genuine Australian rhythms.
Forever Morning is a romantic book, but it is
something more. It is a thank-offering for the good
things of life, great and small. Everywhere there is
a sharp sense of beauty and of its wholesomeness, its
nearness, its comfort. Jim Brunton, when he knows
that he is dying, takes refuge in the reassuring whole-
someness of small things.
Among the animats, and in the insensate
life of the bush and the paddocks, among the
things that did not know about him, he found
he could best recapture the illusion of well-
being : or, if not that, a condition of contempla-
tive calm. His thoughts were rarely of him-
self. The sound of the sheep cropping the short
grass ; the murmuring patter of their hooves ; a
lizard regarding him with beady black eyes
from its place of rest on a sun-warmed rock ;
a kookaburra hooting from the top limb of a
ringbarked tree ; the feel of the reins in his
hand ; and the smell of the horse that carried
him —dropping its head occasionally to bite a
mouthful of grass. He found peace in these
familiar things.
He asks himself, as a man in his position must,
if his life has been worth all the effort he has put into
it, if he has achieved anything. And he finds an
answer:
The image before his mind was of a great
army. An army of all ages; men and women,
youths and girls and children. They seemed
to be marching forward into an eternal dawn.
There was no halting in the steady beating of
their feet. Ever fresh hearts pressed forward
to sustain the burden of old hopes. The strength
of that army was tremendous. He saw in it the
figures of his father and his mother; all those
whom he had known, and all those whom he
had felt. There was no evening for that army,
the light into which it marched was the light
of forever morning. He had a daughter in its
ranks. He marched with it himself. He would
march with it until the last hour of life.
It is a triumphant answer and a sustaining creed.
It is this passage which gives the book its title and
expresses its philosophy of brotherhood and the good
world.
Man-Shy, the second, the most famous book, is
something between a long short story and a universe.
It is an epic-in-little of freedom. Its heroine is a cow,
a red heifer, whose mother is bogged and drowned
when the calf is four days old. By a happy chance
the calf finds a foster mother and grows up with the
herd. Her first contact with man is in the branding-
yard, whence she escapes with the courage and initia-
tive of terror to the hills where the wild cattle, the
scrubbers, roam.
A second time the red heifer escapes when the
wild herd is rounded up by the station manager. Then
come happy days of freedom and plenty until a new
terror arises, a solitary horseman with his gun come
to see what profit in beef and hides he can pick up in
the ranges. One by one the scrubbers fall to his gun
or are ambushed at the waterholes. Then a new dis-
aster —the station being cut up, the waterholes fenced
in.
This is the end. Only one, the red cow, escapes
with her calf. She has her freedom and nothing more.
She wanders the ranges:
She had reached the last and highest of
the camps. The reedy pool from which she and
her mates used to drink when camped high on
the mountain was now dry—its bed criss-
crossed with a thousand cracks. Fenced out
from all other water, the end was not far off.
From the plateau where she stood the
range fell away fold on fold of green, to the
level lands below. Behind her the ironstone
FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
cliffs rose sheer in the blue. Over her head
the scant leaves of the box-trees turned in the
faint air with dry rustlings.
The sun rose higher and beat more hotly
down as the hours passed but the red cow did
not move.
Gaunt and solitary she stood, waiting to
join the shadowy company of her kind —the
wild herd that had passed from the ranges for
ever.
Man-Shy is short and complete, a series of inci-
dents set forth in clear and simple statements build-
ing up into a whole that is more, much more, than
the sum of its parts. The prose is simple, racy with
the idiom of the things written about, natural. It is
as unobtrusive as a pane of glass, and yet its music
infuses slowly through the mind. There are many
memorable passages. The book speaks best for itself.
Take this description of the seasons:
In the rainless sunny winters, when the
grass was dried to straw, they knew where the
green pickings were to be found under the banks
in the higher reaches of the creeks, and where
the saltbush lay in yellow tracery on the floor
of the scrubland. When the rains came, and the
winter broke early as it sometimes does —too
early for the grass to grow—they knew where
the crowfoot and wild carrot would be spring-
ing fetlock deep, and where the open brigalow
would be yellow with daisy burr.
Winter nights, when the coldness of the
void between the worlds came down behind
the departing sun, they camped under the
stunted belahs, where the ground was deep
with the warm needles, and the low-hung
branches screened them from the seeking fin-
gers of the frost. Summer nights, when the
stars blinked sleepily in the warm sky, they
made their camp on some ridge thrown high,
to catch the coolness of passing airs.
That is beauty founded firmly on knowledge.
Man-Shy is a great tragedy and a very lovely
book.
The Wells of Beersheba is a book in different
vein, very short, beautifully shaped, a wave in bronze,
rising with a slow inevitable movement to its great
crest, curling over and dropping into the peace of
attainment.
Its story that of the taking of the Wells or
Beersheba by the Australian Light Horse under
Chauvel, it is a transcription of facts, though it is
called a legend. It is the stuff that legends are made
of, for it is the history of one of those moments
when life, unified and purposeful, sweeps with one
clear movement towards its fulfilment.
Two names only are mentioned, Allenby’s and
Chauvel’s. The book is the record of anonymous
achievement, of the brotherhood that made the
achievement possible and of the grim and simple
necessity, the watering of the horses at the Wells of
Beersheba, that drove the men on to victory. Here
the accent falls not on the hatred but on the brother-
hood engendered by war.
The book begins with a roll call of the horses,
then, in a crescendo of quickening rhythm, the
bivouac, the night march, the battle. The great and
successful charge sweeps the last pages of the book,
told with clarity and infused with the quality of great
music, the climax then quiet.
One passage —a picture of action ; the battle seen
in its totality from a distance:
Everywhere men and horses moved to
their objective. Wherever they passed,
columns of red dust rose to stand between
earth and sky. The pattering of hooves spread
far into the distance and came back soft and
continuous, like the sound of running water.
Gun teams passed at a labored gallop
between hill and hill—little gun teams dragging
toy guns and ridden by little men crouched
with arms swinging as they plied the flaying
whips. Little ammunition limbers followed
them faithfully, rolling and bounding, with shells
bursting in their path. The little guns wheeled
into action below the crests of the ridges. The
little teams were unhooked and departed for
cover at a trot. From the muzzles of the guns
tongues of flame, half seen in the bright sun-
shine, shot out and back. Little men toiled be-
side the breech-blocks.
Into the middle distance a regiment gal-
loped. It stopped. Something took place.
Its horses, most of them riderless, turned and
were led away at a canter. The field they had
occupied was taken by little men running to-
ward the foot of a hill. From the top of the
hill came a rally of rifle and machine-gun fire.
The little men lay down among the rocks and
bushes. They got up and ran forward a short
way, then dropped down again. They seemed
to have some desperate need of attaining the
top of that ridge. Half-way up, they were still
dodging and running; but not all of them.
There were some who lay still among the rocks
and bushes of the lower slopes. They looked
as if they had forgotten about the battle.
Blue Coast Caravan and Caribbean Interlude
represent another big change in kind. These are travel
books. The first is the story of a journey from Syd-
ney to Cairns by car and by train, an intimate day-
to-day record of places visited and of people met
upon the way, of incidents sombre, gay and irritating.
It is the picture of a countryside, alive with many
sensitive descriptions and also, by way of a tonic,
some astringent criticism of man-made ugliness. It
is a long book with plenty of entertainment, variety
and challenge.
Caribbean Interlude is the story of a voyage in
the Santa Juanita to the West Indies and back in the
early summer of 1914. It is full of life and light, the
feel of strange places, the feel of the sea, racy with
stories of the glory hole and the long shore, bright
with the glamor of history lightly wakened from its
shallow sleep on those coasts; it has quick por-
traits, laughter, a touch of romance, the outline of a
friendship, a dash of astringent satire, all piled eagerly
together, and through it all the authentic flavor of
youth.
The sixth book, Children of the Dark People, is
a folk tale of the days before the coming of the
white man to Australia, wherein two children, Jackad-
gery and Nimitybelle, wander lost in the bush and
have many magical adventures before they come safely
home again. They are children in the childhood of
the world. The talking animals, the mythical charac-
ters,, Old Mr. Bunyip, Grandfather Gumtree, the
Brumbies’ boy, and the rest are not only authentically
Australian, but they link up also with the recurring
myths common to the childhood of all races. Children
of the Dark People, for all its simplicity, is a notable
and an original book.
In these six books there is great versatility: a
romance, a tragedy of classic purity, a tale of action,
two travel books in different vein—one a challenge,
the other a record of youth—and a folk tale. Yet
they all have something in common —the author’s
intense feeling for life.
Davison is, as he describes one of his characters,
“a man who does simple things on a high plane.”
Publications: Forever Morning (1931), Man-Shy (1931),
Wells of Beersheba (1933), Blue Coast Caravan (with Brooke
Nicholls, 1934), Caribbean Interlude (1936), Children of the
Dark People (1936).


“Take up Pelmanism and give
your life a new beginning” —Sir Herbert Barker,
mm
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Course. It is
impossible to speak
too highly of it.”
gd
fg
The Baroness Orczy.
“ Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
m
£
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for thp elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
d
fg
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
v
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
■ Si
Is
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly ’’
m
I>ortl Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
Pelmcmism trains you
to distinguish be-
tween the essential
and the trivial, be-
tween what is urgent
and what can wait,
between what mat-
ters and what does
not matter.
Pelmanism is a train-
ing* This cannot be said
too often. It removes
bad, careless and slovenly
habits of mind and
memory, and substitutes
for them good, reliable
and exact habits.
Pelmanism makes work
easier and life pleasanter.
It makes the individual
more capable—-it make 3
him extremely capable.
It trains him to distinguish
immediately the essential
things and to dismiss the
trivialities. This not only
gives him time for more
work, or leisure for more
enjoyment, but it also in-
duces a freedom of mind
that makes all his wort:
good and productive,
and all his pleasure real
and unhampered.
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:—
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
—lnitiative
—Will Power
—Decision
—Originality
—Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
Courage
—Self- C onfidence
—Self - C ontrol
Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and. personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later—and perhaps sooner than
you expect—it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 35,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a worM-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and Its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it lias been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It-teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,”
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dfgd
f
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o c t he Bulletin every
week for one year so tnat I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full paymenL
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
N v
<o e
««- e
J&&S'
*'*■>>' ■"**
„* <wr 0°
<? y.js*
‘c.^SV'
s e
<*•
~\X
e'
t‘
,«*
\* e
<i
1
,s $
••
» «
#•’
#*■
$
c*


Revealed Through Independent Tests by
FULLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR!
Extra Minerals Secret of Nerve Building Power
Dramatic proof by scientific tests conducted and certified to by a
leading doctor of medicine is now available, proving beyond all
shadow of doubt that run down, nervy or anaemic men, women or
children can recover full health, vitality and happiness merely by
taking BIDOMAK.
We approached a leading specialist in dietetics and asked him to
make a careful check of the effect of BIDOMAK on a wide range of
people. He demanded an absolutely free choice of patients and
complete freedom to conduct his tests without interference. This we
readily agreed to.
THIS IS HOW
BIDOMAK OPERATES
k
V
4i
». Greatly magnified,
here are the villi
small suckers on the in-
side of the small intes-
tine. After uniting with
gastric juices, the vital
minerals of BIDOMAK
are absorbed by the
villi directly into the
blood stream.
0
h
p
2. By the blood, the ptec
>ou» minerals ore carried
to every cell of the body.
CALCIUM builds bone,
tissue, keeps teeth strong,
POTASSIUM Kelps build
red blood
SODIUM stops irritability,
clears the ‘ brain Kelps
digestion.
PHOSPHORUS prevents
nerve disorders. Kelps
build red blood lessens
fatigue.
FERRUM males new rich
red blood-
o
3. This is a section
of the spinal
cord, In its red
bone marrow fer-
rum in BIDOMAK
creates new, vig-
orous red blood
corpuscles.
i. Here ore magni-
fied red blood cor-
puscles o' cells
These carry oxygen
from the lungs to
burn up poisonous
wastes in the system.
You feel better and
lose that sense of
depression, you do
not feel tired, irri-
table 3)r run-down.
s. BIDOMAK makes more red corpuscles. There-
fore, more oxygen can be carried from the lungs
by the blood Hence poisons are eliminated more
quickly ond their unhealthy effects avoided. Ner
vous and chronic disorders are all rapidly
alleviated. The more red corpuscles, the more oxy-
gen corners are available
&
Iff!
•» Two sections of
nerve tissue one
shrivelled, poisoned,
painful the other
healthy, vigorous and
vital. Mineral Starva-
tion causes one con-
dition, extra minerals
in BIDOMAK restores
health in full. Get
BIDOMAK to-day !
PI
Bidomak is a product of the Douglas Drug Co., Sydney,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
Sole wholesale agents for Tasmania: L. Fairthorne and
Son Pty., Ltd., 42-48 St. John Street, Launceston.
New Zealand Distributors: Q-Tol Fluenzol Laboratories,
FOR “NERVES,” BRAIN-FAG AND
THAT DEPRESSED FEELING
CASES
CHOSEN
By advertisement and by
selection of patients from his
practice he then chose a num-
ber of individuals for the test.
These individuals were debili-
tated and in a condition of
nervous depression several
were sufferers from serious
insomnia and chronic head-
aches. As a check on the
scientific progress of the test,
the red corpuscles in their
blood were counted by means
of a haemocytometer.
Red Blood
Corpuscles
A normal healthy male individual
has an average of 5,500,000 (female
4,500,000) red corpuscles in every
cubic millimetre of blood. Yet in
the cases investigated this corpus-
cular count, as it is called, was as
low as 3,000,000, and never higher
than 4,000,000. Even when the
number of red cells was compara-
tively high, the blood was pale in
color and not rich and red.
BIDOMAK given
for six weeks
Each patient was given BIDOMAK
for six weeks. At the end of that
time they were again seen and the
condition of their blood again ex-
amined by the doctor. Not only
was there a dramatic improvement
in their general health, but an
astonishing improvement in the
condition of their blood as
measured by scientific instruments.
The exact improvement in the
blood condition is given by the
doctor’s report of some of the cases
which is shown below, and which
proves conclusively the wonderful
benefit BIDOMAK brings to all
who will use it in accordance with
the simple directions.
How BIDOMAK
Works
BIDOMAK works through the
blood stream and the spine, which
is the centre of the nervous system.
It is assimilated by the blood stream
through the villi, an innumerable
series of small suckers on the in-
side, of the small intestine. Through
the blood stream itself its precious
freight of minerals is carried to
every cell of the body. In particu-
lar it carries the food assimilable to
the bone marrow of the spinal
column. It is here that the body
manufactures the billions of red
blood corpuscles which guard
against anaemia. BIDOMAK pro-
vides the necessary ingredients to
build up these red cells and in-
crease their production. Thus the
blood is enriched and is able to
carry more oxygen to every part of
the body to clear away waste
tissues and toxins from the system.
Renewed Glan-
dular Activity
As a result, the activity of the
glands is improved and increased,
new life flows through the body.
Nerviness and lassitude disappear.
You are no longer burdened with
“that depressed feeling.” Quick
fatigue, low vitality, mental slug-
gishness and depression disappear.
The activity of the glandular
system is improved, and the cells
and tissues of the body are gradu-
ally but permanently restored to
their full health.
BIDOMAK is produced according
to the very latest scientific formula,
and its restorative and stimulating
qualities are provided without harm
to even the most delicate system.
It does not affect the heart. There
is no fear of injury or enslavement
to habit, and no reaction in later
years. On the contrary, it builds
up the system and provides future
health and comfort.
New Way
When other treatments have failed
do not despair. BIDOMAK has
produced wonderful results. It
creates energy with a degree of suc-
cess that has been denied to other
forms of treatments. It makes you
fitter and helps you to resist dis-
ease and illness. For nervous de-
bility it is unequalled. The tonic
properties of BIDOMAK maintain
and assist Nature in many ways,
and the mental and physical con-
ditions begin to improve immedi-
ately you start to use it.
df
& V 3
LARGE SIZE
BOTTLE
New Z land
3/6
-
nil
■;
i
»' '•* JvT
tel
W-C-M-M
WXX'W-
K'X-.v*^;
