

Đ
i
E IN AUSTRALIA.
AT
V///CV '
?mm 1
immu
11*11
Kff *¥
BHisIMI
lii
f ! .
■
g-m-sr <
fjpP&J' \£./'s■ ft; -v
■ ■
H ; -' .
HraHHpi
i>* < **
? >
mmam
K 1
m _,
f '- ,< •« *'%
*wm#^±
If i
%
; .Ai-
>•
mM
&m -
■ .
A
L'ff *
BATTERIES OPERATING SUPERVISORY CONTROL EQUIPMENT, SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKING.
THE LARGEST ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKING IN THE
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE, CAPITALISED AT £21,000,000,
AGAIN CHOOSES ERG BATTERIES FOR THE SIXTH YEAR
IN SUCCESSION.
ERG make a size and type to fit every motor-car and radio set.
ERG DISTRIBUTORS AND SERVICE
NEW SOUTH WALES
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
QUEENSLAND
TASMANIA
NEW CALEDONIA -
NEW ZEALAND - - >
FIJI -
ERG BATTERIES, LTD., 156 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
DAVID L. PRESCOTT, Factory Representative, 91 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED, Adelaide.
H. J. TOLHURST, Factory Representative, Box 1731 W, G.P.0., Brisbane.
HODSON & McDOUGALL, LTD., Barry Parade, Brisbane.
DAVIES PTY., LTD., 88-90 Wellington Street, Launceston.
HAGEN FRERES, Noumea.
AUSTRALASIAN BATTERY CO., LTD., Auckland.
COTTON BROS., LTD., Christchurch.
MURRAY ROBERTS & CO., LTD., Wellington.
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO., Suva.
Write to your distributor for details and price lists.
ERG BATTERIES, LTD., 156 Goulburn St., Sydney
FACTORY: ROSEBERY, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2985.
Forward\ the Professors!
Wednesday, April 28, 1937.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
D
pH
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIE
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name •
My Address
5.13. 337
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion, of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
"PETER LECKY." BY HIMSELF.
Once the privilege of the old, autobiography has
become the theatre of the young. Bright young men,
one gathers, are living their lives in forethoughtful
adventurousness to be able to write an autobiography
at the earliest possible minute, just as they go travel-
ling in uncommon and needlessly inconvenient ways
to write a travel book. The practice all too often
increases our natural antipathy for our fellows and
creates nostalgia for a world without shop-windows ;
yet now and then in this spate there is a book that
brings not an unknown enemy but a new friend into
the house. Such a book is Peter Lecky, by Himself,
published by Cape last year.
Peter Lecky is the record of a man, romantic
in outlook, adventurous in habit, who, under pressure
of suffering and adversity, became a mystic. The
book is full of variety, incident and anecdote. He
shows us two worlds —one known, one unknown; the
world we share with him and the world he has dis-
covered for himself. They are so interwoven that
each illumines the other by contrast.
Peter Lecky is a man of our times. Born into a
well-to-do middle-class English family, he was filled
with the usual adolescent hungerings after adventure,
preferably among cowboys, but he translated them
into fact by setting out for Canada with £l6 in his
pocket to see life on the “earn while you learn” plan.
He lived with cowboys, went trapping, and traded
with Red Indians. He realised his romantic dream
and had a lot of realistic experience thrown in —as
mule-skinner, bartender, even prison warder. But
• his romantic shell was proof against these experiences.
He could face them with zest while his mind occupied
itself with the Grail legends.
He returned to England and fought through the
tour years of war. But now his romantic shell was
pierced and stripped from him (the metaphor is his)
by his war experiences, by his father’s illness that
ended in dementia and death, and by an unhappy and
humiliating love-affair. He had lost his natural pro-
tection, he was left permeable to influences which had
scarcely existed for him before. He lived now in a
curiously transparent world, and became more and
more conscious of the old life of Nature working
beneath the surface of the visible world. His
heightened awareness, he admits, was at least in part
due to agonising chronic asthma, the legacy of a
gas attack during his active service. This affected
him very much as tuberculosis affects its victims, in
that periods of exaltation and supersensitiveness
alternated with periods of distress. Of his illness he
says:—
After some meditation I have come to the con-
clusion that _my nervous system, keyed up by four
years of tension, seized on my slight gassing as material
out of which to build itself a substitute for that
external tension to which it had become accustomed.
In other words, it refuses to forget the war.
Further on he adds:
The remainder of this autobiography will strive to
show the fluctuations of this subsequent and purely
personal war in which I have found myself engaged
ever since.
This second half of the book is the more vital
and interesting. We are with the living man. The
earlier part is made up of his memories, vivid enough,
of the boy and man he was; now he describes the
man he is and the things in which he is still, at the
time of writing, vitally interested. This gives to the
following chapters an extra lustre of conviction, a
stronger and more intimate grasp ; it even, as strong
emotion does, heightens and purifies the prose.
Though the mystic element strengthens, the adven-
tures continue. Peter Lecky comes to Australia, to
Perth, enters journalism, becomes a freelance artist,
joins a pearl lugger as shell-opener (this chapter, called
“The Circle of Abred,” is the finest in the book, full
of exact and brilliant description and deeply pene-
trated by its own mystery), works on stations in the
nor’-west as yardman, boundary-rider, jackeroo. We
are hot left with a mouthful of windy mysticism ; the
external narrative continues as vigorously as ever. In
the teeming tropic seas he finds the original of the
life-in-death cycle of the Druids, the Circle of Abred.
“I reviewed these tropic seas as one vast cauldron
where evolution worked its equations in a seething
pother of murder.” In the aboriginal he descries
the descendant of the satyrs, what you might call the
Pan principle in life. “Here, then, is that underworld
to which the main satyr rout has fled, leaving long
misinterpreted, myth-distorted memories in its Old
World nursery.” Everywhere he traces vestiges of a
lost world that may yet be recovered.
We may not agree with Peter Lecky, we may
find his arguments unconvincing, and yet we must
agree that this streak of mysticism enriches the book
just because it enriches and excites the mind of which
it is a picture. This is not a scientific treatise. The
only truth we have a right to demand of it is sincerity,
and no one reading it can doubt the presence of that.
It is also interesting from a human point of view as
portraying mysticism in its content, the growth of a
philosophy amid events.
The book is full of life and of living people of
all shapes and kinds —the tragic misfit Buchanan, the
Japs with the pearling fleet, the old men in the ward
for the dying, the unclean boundary-rider, the scape-
goats in the gaol—of laughter, kindness and beauty.
There are many beautiful and sensitive descriptions,
as, for instance, this tropic vignette:
At length the tide turns. Back comes the racing
waters. The lugger rights herself, slowly at first, then
with a series of jerks and then one final shuddering
spurt: soon the water is deep enough for some heavily-
breathing thing, which sounds like a snoring man, to
plough upstream under our bows. I strain my eyes but
cannot make out its shape—a dugong, perhaps. As the
channels fill, the gurglings and wanglings diminish, and
the riotous babblings of the tide race grow fainter
and fainter, like a carnival riot that has racketed off
into some distant quarter. The mangrove forest is
rapidly submerged as the grey light of dawn replaces
the till-just-now blinding moon.
And there is a happy ending. Peter Lecky makes
his communion with the mystic presence that informs
his world. “Had I not by some rare chance estab-
lished a secret connection so intriguing that no
material reversal could ever again seem more formid-
able than the posturing of phantoms?” In other
words, he finishes his book with a quiet, happy and
peaceful mind. What if Solon said “Call no man
happy until he is dead”?
M.B.
Amiet's Australian Essays.
The measure of national culture goes as much
by its depth as by its breadth—which is to say, as
much by the genius of its isolated thinkers as by the
prevailing standard of enlightenment. Proof that
there is healthy activity in Australia’s outposts of
thought comes in periodic volumes from the enter-
prising pen of W. A. Amiet, barrister, of Mackay
(N.Q.).
Amiet is an individual thinker, and all his works
are conceived on original lines. This applies in a
particular degree to Literature by Languages and The
Practice of Literary History, the two works most
expressive of his peculiar genius—a genius directed
primarily to clarify and consolidate rather than to
create.
“An English Doxology is nearer to an English
Limerick than a French Doxology,” he remarks in
a characteristically enlightening preface to Literature
by Languages, and on this principle proceeds to group
the foremost literatures of the world, not by nation-
ality or locality, but by their speech families, with
branches and groups, and including many minor
literatures, as Catalan, Albanian, Fijian, usually
omitted from compilations of this sort. There is even
a fanciful chapter devoted to the “chipography” and
“lipography” of the Australian aboriginal. The
author’s piquant mode of presentation makes the
complexities of intermingled tongues and distinguish-
ing idioms surprisingly pleasant in assimilation.
The Practice of Literary History is an acute
analysis of the functions,, methods of selection (with
comparisons and illustrations) and necessary quali-
fications of the literary historian —the middleman of
literature, as the author describes him, with a pic-
turesqueness not to be suppressed even in this highly
technical thesis.
It is a book that every literary craftsman should
read, if only as a tribute of appreciation to a branch
of the craft on which he is in such large measure
dependent for his immortality.
Between the publication of these two works of
erudition (1932, 1936 respectively) appeared two
volumes of essays. The gospel of astronomy accord-
ing to Jeans and Flammarion and Eddington is the
subject, with a few whimsical variations, of Starry
Pages, in which, most persuasively, Amiet tempts the
reluctant lay mind to drink of astronomical waters
filtered clear by a mind equipped with a complete
grasp of its subject and a Clever knack of imparting
it. These essays are perfect miracles of compression
—veritable literary bullets—the author’s energetic
mode of attacking his subject making interesting com-
parison with Murdoch’s invariable pose of gentle
dalliance. (I have often wished to see Australia’s
best-known essayist, coat off, shirt sleeves rolled up,
in the mental attitude of Amiet.) Readers of these
fascinating essays will look forward to a companion
volume now in the press.
A Shakespeare or Two is a concise yet compre-
hensive category of the leading literary talent of some
39 countries great and small, such obscure names as
Variboba, the Albanian poet-priest, and Zorut, the
Singer of Friulia, finding equal favor with the illus-
trious names of Virgil, Moliere and Gothe, the object
being to assemble the figures who bear the same rela-
tion to their own countries as Shakspeare does to
England.
The broad intellectual sympathies that charac-
terise all Amiet’s works are directed in this one
towards, says his modest preface, “the movement, if
any, for an international mind.” Towards this desir-
able consummation he brings a tremendous capacity
for research, a compelling directness of mental aim
and a picturesque power of expression. Amiet’s
books are published by Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
JACK HIGH.
A New Barnard Eldershaw.
M. Barnard Eldershaw’s latest book, Plaque with
Laurel (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.), is a nourishing brew. It
proves, very happily, that the writers can bring that
sensitiveness which is a quality of their previous work
to the Australian natural scene and life here in the
modern day.
Plaque with Laurel is a sophisticated work—in
the best meaning of that term. It is a studied novel,
a novel of artistic devices, of calculated implications.
The posthumous hero is Richard Crale, who succeeded
as a writer but, in his own opinion, failed as a man.
A lieutenant in the A.I.F. with a good fighting record,
he had increased responsibility suddenly thrown on
him during the confusion of an unsuccessful attack
at a time when his men were exhausted. Acting on
his own judgment, he retired when ordered to
advance, and his company was cut to pieces. The
affair was hushed up, but he was sent home.
The occasion of the story five years after his
death—is a three-day visit of the Australian Writers’
Guild to Canberra to unveil a memorial to him. His
history and his worth as a soldier, a man and a writer
are revealed to the reader retrospectively through the
thoughts of his acquaintances—his friend Jim Walters,
his wife Ida Crale, and Jenny Tarrant his mistress.
Each of them sees him differently. Walters is the
force behind the literary convention, his heart
passionately set, not on the vindication of Crale, for
he believes there is nothing requiring vindication, but
on his affirmation as a man.
The feeling of Walters for Crale is the sound,
sweet core of the book. Though possibly not the
writers’ prime intention, it is a study in mateship—
an idea that has a real place in the Australian out-
look, a wholly masculine conception whose qualities
have never been better defined than in the present
instance. Ida Crale would have been happy in
obscurity and in the companionship of a commonplace
man. Richard was not a satisfactory husband and
father. She is happier as the relict of the noted author
than she was as his wife. For her the plaque with
laurel is an emblematic promise of a tranquil and
distinguished widowhood. To Jenny Tarrant he was
not a completely satisfactory lover. It was after
the war that she met him, and though she loved him
she could never get between him and his memories.
There was something she could never possess. For
her —and Walters taxes her with it in the end —the
unveiling of the memorial is the last act of forgetting.
These conceptions of Richard Crale are measured
by that of Walters, and his is expressed not so much
in anything he says as in the urgency of his actions.
It is because Walters is the man we can see him to
be that his estimate of Crale’s worth has validity for
us, although his attempt to affirm Ricfiard in the
manner chosen must necessarily end in futility. Jenny
is a key character and is well conceived and presented.
She has her share of beauty and has charm of
presence—the type that makes instant appeal to the
masculine in men. It is doubtful if her essential
ordinariness was ever apparent to Crale.
Plaque with Laurel, though a serious and, in
fact, a passionate book, has a surface glitter of
malicious wit, largely at the expense of the personnel
of the Writers’ Guild. No living persons are recog-
nisable, but the quality of literary societies is authentic.
There are a few bluff old boys who have done their
stint of writing and fallen back on poker, and a
number of young things fluttering round the candle
of creative effort. They are dealt with in their
amorous and platonic relationships. Among others
there are: Gwendoline Dixon, the perfect inter-
viewer ; Rev. Archie Osbistion, the muscular Chris-
tian (Nature articles); Virginia Summer, poetess
(tawny love); Shad Mcßean (outback ballads); Chris-
tina Nelson (thrilled when she gets a triolet into the
“Sydney Morning Herald” magazine-page); Odette
Clark, novelist (strong stuff, brutal and clever);
Douglas Solway (travel books); Mrs. Helena Joseph-
son (pink-sugar serials and matrimonial designs on
Connolly Moate); Bruce Crist, dramatic critic (one
novel, immature but promising); Ailsa Rowe, verses
(a charming and gifted youngster). They are amusing,
pathetic or annoying, according to the varying depths
of their characters. Scarcely any of them have read
the books of the man whom they have assembled to
honor.
The incidental descriptions of Australia’s little
bit of make-believe, Canberra, and of the surrounding
bush are highly individual, sensitive, convincing, and
couched in prose that is a delight. One word of
warning to the reader is no more than fair. The
(<Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
/ <
t 1 At ?
M
t '
'•'l, %• ... 'V
**»« J 4
******
-: r '
y*»
m
#* 'A?
f
2i
/
YARD
p
2881.
.•■•;•-
rm.
m
SBS
/.
. il
YARD
2882.
H
/
S>,
YARD
2883
%
2884
/-*/
YARD
2&B 6
sr*'
<r®
2885
SP
2*^
■
e?
Si
%
il
2Es
&
i
4V
4*
fefc*
Ď
9 Carpets—Fourth Floor. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs only,
will make your Home
Cosy this Winter
Perhaps no other single item in your home commands as much attention as
your Carpets. They are the very heart of your rooms. And if quality,
beauty and economy determine your choice you will buy your Carpets at
Anthony Horderns’.
27in. British Axminster Carpet, per yard
2881.—1 f you want Carpeting that is distinctly different we recommend
this British Axminster. It is noted for its long-wearing qualities and there
is a pleasing range of designs. Width 2 7in. body. Price, yd., 16/9. I Bm.
border. Price, yd., 13/3. 27in. stair. Price yd., 16/9. 36in. stair.
Price, yd., 25/6. 45in. stair. Price, yd., 32/6. 54m. stair. Price, yd., 38/6.
169
British Axminster Hall Carpet, per yard
2882. Here is just the Hall Carpet for those who want something attractive,
long-wearing and inexpensive. A British Axminster quality.
Widths, inches, stair '8 22£ 27 36
Prices, yard 7/11 9/11 11/9 18/6
7'w
Non-Crush British Wilton Pile Carpet, yd.
28B3.—Built to stand many years of hard wear. Non-Crush British Plain
Wilton Carpet. Choose it in rich tonings of Fawn, Green, Brown, Rust,
Blue or Rose. A popular type of Carpeting, moderately priced. 27 inches
wide. Price, yard -12/9
IQq
British Wilton Stipple Carpets, per yard
28B4.—British Wilton Stipple Carpets firmly woven to give many years of
satisfactory service. You will be delighted when you see the effect of this
Carpeting in your home. Blue, Brown, Fawn, Green and Rust tonings.
27 inches wide. Price, yard 1 10/7
10 9
British Axminster Rugs and Mats
No. 7 Grade—
-2885. —Rich and luxurious in texture and priced very moderately. Woven
in many attractive designs, and there is a size to suit all rooms. bize
27 x 12 inches. Price, 6/9. 30 x 15 inches. Price, 9/6. 36 x 22 2-
inches. Price, 16/6. 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 3in. Price, 27/9. sft. 3in. x 2ft. Bm.
Price, 39/6. 6ft. x 3ft. Price, 50/6.
166
No. 2 Grade —
Sizes 3ft. 9in. x 2ft. 4ft. 3in. x 2ft. 3in.
Prices 13/3 16/9
sft. 3in. x 2ft. Bin.
24/6
sft. Bin. x 3ft.
29/6
British Seamless Axminster Squares
2886. —There is a delightful range of the very newest designs in 07/7/A
this group of British Seamless Axminster Squares. m M J
Sizes
9ft. x 6ft
9ft. x 7ft. 6in. • .
9ft. x 9ft
I Oft. 6in. x 9ft. . . .
12ft. X 9ft
1 2ft. x 1 Oft. 6in. . .
1 3ft. 6in. x 1 Oft. 6in.
15 ft. x 12ft.
No. 1.
£7/7/6
£9/5/-
£l l/2/6
£l2/19/6
£l4/17/6
£l7/5/-
£l9/10/-
£24/15/-
No. 2.
£6/17/6
£B/15/-
£lO/7/6
£ 12/2/6
£l3/17/6
£ 16/5/-
£lB/5/-
No. 3.
£5/19/6
£7/10/-
£B/19/6
£lO/10/-
£ll/19/6
£l4/2/6
£l5/19/6
£2O/10/-
No. 4.
£4/17/6
£6/2/6
£7/2/6
£B/7/6
£9/12/6
£ 11/5/-
£l2/12/5


Handsome Harry Again
THE ORDER OF
THE
MALLET
BY
CON DREW
VOU birds would be too young to remember the
crop of White Hopes that sprung up after
Johnson beat Burns for the heavyweight title.
Nearly everyone had a White Hope under
his pinion in them days. All sorts and conditions
of would-be champions was roped in. They were all
right in the gym., but when the real acid was put on
them in the ring it generally found a flaw in their
make-up.
Me and Handsome Harry had a foreign bloke
named Fritz who was wished on to us by Banana
Harris. Banana had got him off a Norwegian ship
or somewhere, an’, thinkin’ he might have the real
stuff in him, brought him to us for instruction and
trainin’. He was a hefty gent, with enough hair
on his chest to fill a mattress, but he didn’t have
much grey matter under the bone that carried his hat.
Banana was an easy speaker, and when he handed
him over to us he made a few farewell remarks.
“What you’ve got to do,” he says to Fritz, “is to
pay great attention to what these two gents here tell
you. You won’t be asked to do nothin’ that they
wouldn’t be willin’ to do themselves. If they ask
you to go all-out and win do your best to win. If
the dice ain’t rollin’ too well and it becomes necessary
to ask you to do a dive do it and don’t ask no
questions.”
“Do a dife?” says Fritz. “Vhat ees doin’ a dife?”
“Doin’ a dive,” explains Banana, “means takin’
a flop.”
“Fellop?”
“Yes, flop.”
“How I take a fellop?”
“There are several ways of takin’ a flop,” explains
Banana. “One is to just waltz along quiet until”
“Valtz?”
Handsome Harry looks at Banana.
“Is this bloke barmy?” he asks.
“He is not,” says Banana.
“If he don’t know what doin’ a flop means,”
says Handsome, “he can’t be too intellectual.”
“He’s as sound as a bell upstairs,” Banana come
back, “but he don’t speak English too well. Now
listen, Fritz,” says he; “a lot of things that you
don’t quite get the hang of now will be explained to
you later. In the meantime I’m leavin’ you in these
gents’ hands, and I want you to pay particular atten-
tion to your trainin’. You can rest assured,” he winds
up, “that they won’t ask you to do nothin’ that would
affect your reputation either as a boxer or a gent.”
\ WELL, I’ve got to hand it to Fritz that he did pay
* attention to his trainin’. We put the acid on
him pretty solid, let me tell you, but he came up
smilin’ each day. He was green, of course, but game.
Anyhow, after we’d had him two months he was
fit to fight for the Russian crown jewels. We didn’t
intend to make the mistake of matchin’ him with
someone who would cut him to ribbons for his first
kick-off, so I went and saw Gorilla Grogan. Gorilla
was a bit too seasoned for our bloke, but I thought
that if we could arrange for Gorilla to carry him
along for his first important battle it would give him
a bit of confidence.
“This foreign bird of yours,” says Gorilla when
I’d explained matters to him ; “what weight is he?”
“Thirteen stone,” I tells him.
“Can he take a thump without hittin’ the canvas?”
“He can,” says I.
“Well, if he can,” says Gorilla, “what’s the idea
of askin’ me to carry him along?”
“Because,” says I, “we don't want the heart
knocked out of him in his first scrap. He’s a real
good boy, but he ain’t properly seasoned yet.”
“I see,” says Gorilla. “Where do I come in?”
“You come in,” says I, “to the extent of sixty
per cent, of the chop-up. We take forty per cent.”
“That’ll do me,” says Gorilla. “There’s a vacant
date at Ike Flynn’s next Saturday night. I’ll whip
right over there now and arrange for Ike to put us
on.”
THAT was on Monday, so we had four clear days
to put the final polish on Fritz. Of course we
didn’t tell him that we’d arranged to slow Gorilla up
for him. We wanted him to make a real good showin’
so that next time he fought he would draw a cracker-
jack house.
On Saturday night when we took him down to
Ike’s he was trained to the very second. It was a
character of a place all right. The ring was on a
stage at the end of the hall. It had originally been
a very big stage, but the back part of it was curtained
off to provide livin’ quarters for the caretaker. He
usually watched the fights through a hole in the
curtain, and the boys called him Peepin’ Tom. I’d
been able to do him a good turn once, and he was
always tellin’ me how he’d even things up some day.
As we squeezed our way between the back ropes
of the ring to get to our corner he came to his spy-
hole and wished us good luck. It was a terrible poor
house, owin’, no doubt, to the match bein’ put on 4o
fill a gap. I had a feelin’ of trouble ahead as soon
as I seen it. When Gorilla came in he looked around
and I seen that he wasn’t too pleased.
“It’d be funny,” I says to Handsome, “if Gorilla
was to twist on us.”
“Why would he?” says Handsome. “He’s gettin’
sixty per cent, of the chop-up, ain’t he?”
“He is,” says I, “but look at the size of the house.
It’d pay him better to shove a few quid on himself.”
“Bah!” says Handsome. “He’s two to one on
in the betting.”
“He might ease in the bettin’ later,” says I.
“There ain’t no tellin’.”
Just then the referee came in and called the men
to the centre of the ring for instructions. As they
stood together you could see that Gorilla was about
half a head shorter than our boy, but he looked
more rugged. On top of that he’d had about a hun-
dred fights, whereas Fritz was makin’ his first public
appearance. Still, Fritz looked chock-full of con-
fidence.
After a bit the ref. sent
them back to their corners, and
while they was waitin’ for the
signal to commence Handsome
says to Fritz: “We’ve done all
we can for you, son, and now
it rests with yourself. Keep
that jaw of yours covered and
don’t let him hang a punch on
it. If you find things gettin’ too
hot for you, smother up like we
showed you and keep smothered
up. There goes the bell. In
you go, and good luck to you.”
]C RITZ made the pace a
1 cracker from the start, but,
as per agreement, Gorilla went
steady for a while. He ducked
under our boy’s punches or
caught them with his gloves.
Fritz kept up the pressure and
pumped in a consignment of
hooks and jolts, but Gorilla
took the sting out of them by
movin’ with the punches. Now
and then, when things got too
warm, he sent in a punch or two
and steadied Fritz down. Fritz soon geared up again,
though, and returned to the attack more vigorous
than ever. It was real smart work on Gorilla’s part
and it fooled the crowd.
Of course Gorilla wasn’t always receiver-general.
Once durin’ a rally Fritz whipped in a snifter to
Gorilla’s head. It hurt Gorilla, and he returned the
compliment with interest. He eased up again soon
afterwards, though, and took things steady again.
This sort of thing went on all through the first
round and continued durin’ the second. In the mean-
time Gorilla had eased considerable in the bettin’.
Jackals who at the start had been callin’ his price
at two to one on were now offerin’ to take six to
four about his chance of winnin’. In some places
he had eased to five to four on.
Just before they went in for the third round I
seen a little rat-faced gent, come up to the foot of
the stage and say somethin’ to Gorilla’s chief second.
Whatever he said, there was a big change in Gorilla’s
tactics when the bell went for the men to resume
hostilities. Fritz had hardly got to his feet when
Gorilla was on him like a devastatin’ tornado.
For a start he sent Fritz staggerin’ back with a
straight left to the mouth and caught him a second
later with a solid right to the chin. Our boy tried to
clinch, but Gorilla punched him off.
“Smother up! ” yelled Handsome. “Smother
up! ”
Fritz attempted to smother up, but he was a
split second too late. Quick as a flash Gorilla got in
a terrific right to the jaw, and Fritz flopped to
the floor. He was up again at seven, and was
promptly knocked down again. This time he looked
like stayin’ down for the count, but he struggled to
his feet in time to carry on.
Then the slaughter began in earnest. With
weighty hooks and jabs Gorilla belted our boy from
pillar to post. Fritz took it all like the game ’un he
was, but it was easy to see that he couldn’t last much
longer.
“If he gets knocked down again,” says Handsome,
“I’m slingin’ in the towel.”
“Why not chuck it in now?” says I. “He ain't
got no chance.”
“We’ll wait another few seconds,” says Hand-
some, “and see how it goes.”
Just then Fritz, who was lookin’ mighty seedy,
put all he had into a final desperate effort and rushed
Gorilla to the back ropes. His back hit the top rope
with such force that he nearly went clean over the
top and.his head went hard up agen the curtain.
Fritz saw the chance of a lifetime and sent in a punch
to Gorilla’s chin ; and, to the amazement of the crowd,
Gorilla slid down off the ropes to the floor. There
was absolute silence for a tick, but when the referee
started to count Gorilla out the mob went wild.
“Schlenter!” they yelled. “Get up, you big loafer,
Schlenter! ”
To tell you the truth, me and Handsome was a
bit puzzled too, but it wasn’t our business to argue
the point. As soon as the ref. had finished the count
we hurried Fritz to his dressin’-room under the stage.
While we were helpin’ him to take off his gear Tom,
the caretaker, barged in through the door.
“Hearty congrats, to all,” says he. “I see you
got the verdict.”
“We did,” says I, “but it didn’t come any too
soon.”
“I couldn’t make it any earlier,” says Tom.
“You ?” says I. “What had you got to do with
it?”
“Nothin’ much to speak of,” says Tom. “I seen
that you were in serious trouble, so when Gorillas
head came up agen that curtain I banged it with a
carpenter’s mallet. He was only out for twenty
seconds, so it didn’t do him no permanent harm.
You did me a good turn once,” says Tom, “and I ain't
forgot it.”


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
LEGEND for SANDERSON
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter X.
o Continued. .)
“Neil! What ever’s the matter, Neil? Taken
bad, have you?”
Noiselessly a shape approached, enveloping him
in an atmosphere of chocolate and cheap scent, laying
a timid hand on his arm. Through a mist he saw
the slim figure, boneless and fluid in its dark-red
sheath. He pulled himself together. “I’m all right,
Myra. Got a touch of fever, perhaps.”
“Fever?”
“It’s nothing much. Charlie wanted me to lie
up, wanted to play the nurse... Been to the
pictures, have you? I started out to go myself.
‘Green God,’ eh? Or was that a week ago?”
“You look all queer, Neil. I been watching you
across the road. I thought it was someone drunk.
You ought to be back in bed.”
“Perhaps. A hot whisky and a good sleep might
work it off.”
“You can’t walk home—you’re nearly dropping.
Just wait a minute.” She flew across to the stand
where the sole remaining driver was drowsing in the
back of his cab. Returning, she helped Neil in, gently
wrapped the rug around his knees, climbed in beside
him. His body sagged among the cushions, the lids
fell over his eyes. She edged closer to him, took
some of his weight upon her, let his lolling head come
to rest upon her shoulder.
Chapter XI.
/.
44 V 5233 T is a tropic night,” Laura Clune was reading,
g “In the colored quarter of the town lights
wink furtively from dingy hovels of tin and
| hessian. Hovels whose slits of windows have
™ S the look of slanting, buttonhole eyes. The
air is heavy with decaying rubbish, exotic
scents. Shadowy figures flit batlike through the unlit
lanes or disappear into caverns from which come the
tinkle of outlandish music, the low murmur of
women’s voices. Let us peep through the broken
lattices of one of these dens that front the hot, steamy
backwaters. A dimly-lit interior. Wicker furniture,
trophies of shells, of swordfish. On a battered lounge
a young man lies inert, looking with drugged eyes at
a half-caste girl who squats at his feet playing a
ukelele. His whole attitude is one of abandon, of
surrender to something fatal and seductive in the air
about him. Where was the word ‘combo’ coined?
What has made sinister pictures arise at its sound?
The broken-down white. The young Ulysses gone
native, abandoning the traditions of his caste, his
color, finding in the embrace of a pair of brown arms
complete Nirvana. Here we have one whose father
was a pioneer, an old-timer, with a name marked on
the maps and a reputation”
Laura could not read on. It was the drawing
that really held her: it took up nearly the whole
page, projecting itself outward, curling around the
blurred print, embracing with its slimy tentacles the
decorative title “Northern Nights.” The boy on the
lounge fascinated her with his drowsy head, drugged
eyes, half-bared torso. No need of words to explain
what was happening to him. That was plain in the
languid body, from which all energy and will had
leaked away. Something tugged at her heart as she
watched him, gave her a pleasant ache of uneasiness,
as if she herself was partly responsible for his doom.
For he was doomed: there could be no doubt
about that. The girl with the mesmeric eyes and
python body would never let him go. She would
drag him down, down, till he had lost every shred
of his manhood and self-respect, till he had become
a combo, hanging about the backwaters, shy about
mixing with his own kind again. Those brown arms
weaving their fatal spell, that alluring smile and full-
lipped mouth. What a hateful thing mere sex was
in a woman!
“It’s young .Sanderson, of course,” she was
thinking. “The life’s got him under like 1 knew it
would. It’s horrible —sheer waste! He was out of
his depth among that crowd there: he hadn’t anyone
to look after him... My God! Why didn’t Jimmy
tell me?”
She had recognised Corcoran’s style. Lately he
had been doing sketches of northern life for the
Sydney papers: she knew that from what he had
told her; and there was the evening not so long ago
when he had gone down to Luggertown searching for
native singers for an entertainment at Cayley’s. It
was his own idea. He had always been urging that
a group of colored people doing their own songs and
dances would be an attraction for tourists, and he
had been disappointed when he couldn’t persuade
them to come. But what had made him keep quiet
about Sanderson’s son? Had he been afraid of hurt-
ing her? Then why write about him in this open way
so that no one who saw the paper would fail to
identify him?
“That’s Jimmy all over,” she told herself. “He’ll
be considerate of you one minute, say something
spiteful the next. And he’d show-up his own mother
if he thought it would make a good story.”
But though she read over the words again it was
the full-page drawing that brought the reality home to
her, awakening her imagination, pricking old memories
into life. Hadn’t that dissolute boy on the lounge a
look of Chris when he was drunk and sentimental?
Years were rolling back, uncovering the past. That
evening in the hotel at Sourabaya after the struggle
on the balcony. Sanderson lying exhausted on the
bed in his pyjamas, stroking her hair as she sat sobbing
on the floor, his hand slack, his voice penitent:
“Scared you, did I, little woman? A devil gets into
my head sometimes, tells me to scrap the whole
show. But after this . . . going to give up the drink,
make myself over. Yes, it’s a promise. No need to
worry. Plenty of good days ahead of us yet.”
It was only when he was spent with hard drinking
that he looked inwards, saw himself as a failure, broke
into fits of destructive violence or maudlin remorse.
A month or so on the water-wagon and he was him-
self again. But was it likely that this son of his had
the same capacity for renewal?
SHE rang up Corcoran, and was annoyed to find
that he had gone on holiday.
“Tell him I want to see him as soon as he comes
back,” she said peremptorily.
She felt desperately dependent on Jimmy, with
his shrewdness and his knowledge of the town’s by-
ways. He was the only man she knew who could
give her the full truth about Sanderson’s son and
advise her how to approach him. There was under-
standing in his bright, shoe-button eyes, resource in
his quick brain: hadn’t she often noticed his easy
tact in dealing with people waiting to scalp him
because of some waspish thing he had said or written
about them? And he didn’t, after all, merely use his
ingenuity for himself. No one could say Jimmy lived
on malice. He took at least as much pleasure in
helping people as in landing them in trouble.
But, moving about the hotel, lying in her darkened
room during the long afternoons, she knew she
couldn’t wait for his return. Snake-like writhing of
slender limbs, arms that waved like tentacles, drowned
body of youth being drawn down to find oblivion
among the weeds. Impossible to remain still and
watch such waste of life: something must be done
and done quickly. This boy, hopeless, broken in will,
wasn’t likely to resist her as he had done before: how
could he resist her? No, once they met face to face
there would be a melting of all that stoniness in him,
complete reconciliation. She could cast her mind
ahead, hear the accents of his voice: “God knows
what would have happened to me if I hadn’t met
you, Laura. I’d let myself go, drifted with the tide:
soon I’d have been swamped altogether. There’s
nothing pulls a man together like the Love of a Good
Woman. I’m sorry for all the rotten things I said
about you before: try and forget, won’t you? I was
crazy, up against everything. If I’d met you when
I first came things would have been different.”
Maternal emotions flowed through her, set her
at peace with herself. She was carried back to that
evening nearly thirty years ago when a sudden convic-
tion that she was going to have a son had made every-
thing around her quiver with new wonder and
excitement. Scent of poinsettia on the summer air,
lights along the river, warm winds from the Bay
blowing over her heart as she sat at the window in
her kimono,. feeling the life within her, wondering
whether Clune would be angry or pleased when he
read the truth in her eyes as she came down to the
wharf to meet his boat
All her days, she felt, she had been helping lame
dogs through the wire: it was her destiny. But there
was no need to be bitter about that: after all, you
found happiness in giving freely what was in you.
To men like Clune, for instance. How wistfully his
eyes had watched her as she moved about the ward,
those grey, hungry, blue-lidded eyes that seemed to
be looking for some assurance that he was a living
being with a place in the world, not just a shadow.
It had been a deadly time for him, that long spell in
hospital. He had been injured in a collision at the
mouth of the river, and as officer on the bridge he
would have to face a searching inquiry when he came
out. The end of everything, it must have looked as he
lay with body shattered and nerve gone. Would he
ever have been able to go through with it if she
hadn’t been there to give him new courage, jollying
him, rumpling his hair when the Sister’s back was
turned, letting him make love to her as he grew better
beneath the frangipanni in the Gardens?
But there had been a weakness in Clune, a lack
of stability, that even the Love of a Good Woman
couldn’t put right. He was a creature of moods: a
beam of light through the window could set him
bubbling, a cat crossing his path could fill him with
premonitions of disaster. It had been almost a relief
to her when he had gone off without a word a few
months after the boy died. She believed his boat
had been sunk in the North Sea: she never thought
of him now except for a few minutes on Anzac Day
when she heard the “Last Post.”
She had almost ceased thinking of Sanderson,
too. There were so many things in their life together
it would have been humiliating to remember. And
to keep young you had to look forward, not back,
throw yourself into the interests of the people around
you, avoid not merely starchy foods but depressing
memories. Old Cerutti had been insisting lately that
she was taking too much out of herself, letting the
worry of Cayley’s rest too heavily upon her. Perhaps
it was true. Perhaps she had undertaken too much.
There was that experience she sometimes had of
waking in the night with a feeling of being dead,
poised like a spirit in the air above her prone body.
It came from a strained heart, Cerutti said. She
couldn’t resist the desire to be everywhere at once,
flowing here, flowing there, even hurrying upstairs
when a bell rang violently instead of letting one of
the girls save her feet.
“I’ve had such a lot of responsibility, Neil. You
could take some of it over. It really needs a man to
run this place. After all, I’m only a helpless woman
with a rather poor head for business.”
SHE was driving down to the estuary in her car,
looking at the distorted image, so different from
what she knew herself to be, in the small oblong of
glass opposite. Rouged parted lips, face powdered
like a death-mask, figure huddled dumpily among the
cushions! It was pleasanter to turn away from it, to
let her gaze wander out of the jolting car to where
the backwater gleamed pewter among the mangroves
and the tangled masts made pencil-marks on a sky
of grey blotting-paper.
“No, the Kestrel’s not in,” a fisherman at the
jetty told them. “Not likely to be for a while. I
saw Charlie take her out a couple of days ago loaded
with timber for Sharon River.”
“Charlie?”
“He was skippering her this time. Feeling his
oats, too, and chucking his weight about —showing off
to the colored boys he had with him. If it’s Sander-
son you’re after you might find him up at Albert’s.
That’s his headquarters now.”
They drove up to the sprawling bungalow that
was wedged into the side of the hill, one end resting
on solid rock, the other perched on high piles laced
with greenery. Laura alighted from her car on the
height above and picked her way down a goat-path,
her high-heeled shoes slipping on the loose stones,


her nose wrinkled uncertainly. The place looked and
smelt like a rubbish-dump. There were piles of
bottles, discarded tyres, heaps of rotting net, a rusty
tank fed by a length of open spouting, and every-
where, under the scrubby bananas, among the rusty
tins, the bones and heads of fish. Standing at the
back entrance, almost on the level of the roof, Laura
was conscious of eyes below her, looking through a
small pane of window at her feet.
She found the door and knocked. After a long
silence, punctuated by faint rustlings, it was opened
a few inches by a girl in a soiled yellow frock who
stood staring at her, half in defence, half in aggres-
sion, from under a mop of
dark, untidy hair. There
was a challenge to meet in
those warm-brown eyes,
that firmly-held door.
Laura enveloped the girl
in a disarming smile.
"Does Neil Sanderson live
here? They told me this
was the most likely place
to find him. I want to
see him for a little while.”
Resistance deepened
in Myra’s shadowed eyes,
turned her slim body to
stone. “You can’t. He’s
sick.”
In Laura’s face con-
cern was mixed with sus-
picion. “Really sick?”
“It's fever. He’s been
in bed for the last five
days.”
“My dear, that’s all
the more reason why I
should see him. You
must let me come in. I
was a nurse once. I’m still
quite at home in sick-
rooms.”
She had already
crossed the threshold of
the half-open door, forced
the girl to fall back before
her. Yet there was no-
thing assertive about her
entrance. Her movement
was that of a liner edging
into dock, raising a faint
ripple before her prow.
She lifted a jar of violets
from the table, buried her
face in them.
“What a comfortable
place you have here! An
old family house, I sup-
pose. But isn’t it a little
too close with all those
windows shut? Perhaps
I’m faddy, but I can never
get too much light and air. The salvation of this
town is that four-o’clock breeze that comes in through
the Gap.”
She felt a faint nausea at the dim light, the
shabby cats sleeping on the broken sofa, the smell of
overripe bananas and cooked food. There were
clothes lying about on chairs, and a saucer of butter
standing uncovered on the safe: was that a cockroach
rattling over the paper of the cupboard? The place
might be clean, but it brought visions of meals
snatched hastily, beds made up in corners', stuffiness
of crowded living. Hardly a place for a sick boy!
Myra, standing transfixed in her yellow dress,
her bare feet thrust into soiled sandshoes, had a look
of dumb resentment, as if her drab privacies had been
laid open to the world. Laura glanced past her
through the door of the next room, which was half-
open. A young dark-haired man was lying on a
rumpled bed, his eyes closed, his mouth sligthly open,
two spots of color showing on his cheekbones beneath
the dark mahogany of his skin. Delirious, was he?
Perhaps not, but running a temperature. She had
never seen Neil Sanderson before: she was hardly
aware of seeing him now. Something purely profes-
sional had been aroused in her, stiffening the outlines
of her body, covering her eyes with a bright film
like frost.
Moving with calm assurance, she entered the
inner room, laid the back of her hand with moth-
wing lightness against the heated forehead, took in
at a glance the tumbler of fruit-juice on the table,
the candlestick covered with orange-peel, the basin
of soapy water. Then she turned to the girl. “How
long has he been like this?”
“Only a few days. He thought he was better a
week ago and went out in the boat. They had a
bad trip and he got wet.”
“And you haven’t had a doctor?”
The girl’s eyes grew smoky, her body gathered
itself together in resistance. “Doctors aren’t never any
good. It’s nursing that counts. I can look after him.”
Laura was smoothing the blankets, tucking the
ends into the spongy mattress. “But, my dear, you
can’t. He’s running a high temperature: he wants
proper attention. There’s not a chance of his getting
that here. It’s probably pleurisy: it may lead to
pneumonia.”
“I can look after him,” the girl persisted.
“And pneumonia’s a matter for doctors and
skilled nurses. It can be horribly serious if it’s not
taken in time. I know you’ve been very good to
him, but nursing takes a frightful lot of experience.
I served for years in a big hospital in Brisbane—
even ran one of my own. Yet I wouldn’t do anything
without medical advice. This poor boy wants all the
care he can get. I’m going to send for an ambulance
and take him away.”
She stood up and fitted on her gloves, looking at
the girl’s ivory face, in which the eyes shone dark
and moist as if smeared with oil. Somewhere in that
sagging body a core of resistance still held firm lodg-
ment, but it was overcome by growing fears. Un-
happy Myra! She couldn’t say anything: the words
broke in her throat. She remained with her hip
pressed against the end of
the bed, her fingers trailing
along the frayed blanket.
Laura had a sudden
memory of the python-
girl of the picture. Un-
dulating body flowing
smoothly under folds of
silk, fixed smile, clinging
arms that would drag a
man down. No, this girl
wasn’t at all like that:
there was hardly a hint of
the vamp about her. But
perhaps it hadn’t had time
to develop yet: mind and
body were still in the bud.
She suddenly laid a
caressing hand on the
wilting shoulder. “My
dear, you’re very pretty.
I wonder I haven’t noticed
you about the front. You
must come in and see me
some day, tell me about
your life here... And
don’t worry about this
patient of yours. It’s
going to be all right now.
I’ll take him under my
wing and see that he has
every care till he’s fit to
be on his feet again...
Run out to the car now,
like a good girl, and tell
young Petersen to ring up
the ambulance. I’ll stay
here till they come. And
you mustn’t look so hope-
less and dejected ; you
can trust Neil with me.”
11.
THE face that looked
down on Neil (he
was lying on his back,
staring with bright,
burning eyes across the
top of the sheet) was heavy with a sense of power,
perhaps even of triumph, mouth firm beneath the
cascading moustache, brows knitted, chin falling away
gradually into the short bull-neck that was planted
securely on broad shoulders. Above towered the
bright dome of skull, bald except for two tufts of
hair standing beside the ears like horns. There was
ruthless concentration in that massive face, particu-
larly in the eyes, those points of splintered glass that
could bore through the sheet, penetrate even the dark
with their twin probes of light.
He could hear the voice, husky but with a slight
boom in it, breaking down the wall of silence that
shut him off from the outer world. “Thought to get
» away from me, did you? Can’t be done, boy: no, it
can’t be done. Wherever you go I follow, pursuing
you, finding you out. You’re bone of my bone ; all
I am you must become... Same thing happens over
and over. Conflict! New life fights against the old.
A long battle, the two merged in deadly struggle. At
last triumph. The new becomes what it fought
against.”
And sometimes, more persuasively, the tone
taking on a blurred geniality, the eyes glittering with
cranky humor: “Didn’t really want to throw me
over, did you? Something put it into your head from
outside. The old scoundrel, eh? ‘l’m going to shape
my life differently’... Wrong idea about me, wrong
idea about yourself. Now’s the time for thinking it
all over. Find out who you are, what you’re after.
Take your coat off. Throw yourself into life. Young
country. Opportunities on every side. Make up your
mind to get the most out of it. Money. Power.”
He didn’t want to listen: he wanted to stand
still and look down into the crystal water where
colored fish moved in and out of the branching coral.
Filaments of weed, far down, swayed to hidden tides,
rainbow squid drifted along, changing in hue as they
passed from light to shadow, a glow came up from
the luminous sand. Here was life! Here was the
other side of the cracked mirror. Wonderful it would
be to stand still for endless days, his forehead pressed
against the top rail of the jetty, gazing down into this
enchanted water. But a firm hand closed on his wrist,
led him away: he stumbled in tight boots over
slippery boards, and the hot sun of the beach burnt
his eyeballs.
There was no escaping the voice that went on and
on, burring against his eardrums, becoming gradually
audible as he rose from tideless depths and lay goggle-
eyed among the pillows like a cod just lifted from the
water. “You can’t get away from me, boy. No use
kicking against what’s fixed. You’ve been taking full
length of line, but I’ve had fingers on the reel. Time
to pull in. End of the struggle, beginning of some-
thing new. You’re made in my image, boy: it’s been
my drive that’s carried you on. Pulling you out of
the chain-gang, making you fight for your own hand
with the boat. Not a bit like your mother. Not
squeamish, not finicky. Tried to squeeze you into
her own straightjacket, did she? What a boy ought
to do, not what he wanted to. Stumbling in tight
boots over slippery boards.”
Once when he raised his own voice in reply,
propping himself up on the pillow, a figure, vaguely
familiar, came floating in and lowered him back into
position again with hands soft as thistledown. “You
mustn’t exert yourself, Neil. You’ll never get better
if you won’t lie still. There! Anything I can do for
you?”
“N 0... Take that damned face away.”
“Your father’s? Surely it doesn’t worry you.”
“Those eyes—take them away.”
“It’s your father’s photograph, Neil. I put it
here because this used to be his r00m... Now take
this drink and go to sleep again.”
With her arm beneath his head she held the
glass to his lips, then smoothed the sheet around him
as he fell back on the pillow. Mother-softness flowed
from her, flooded him with an aroma of milk, of
sleep. Next time he woke the face had vanished from
the wall and the voice had ceased burring in his ears.
| T was delicious for him to lie now, wrapped in his
* own weakness as in a warm cloud, noticing with
a returning sharpness of the senses the moving triangle
of sunlight on the balcony outside, the yellow towel
spread over the rails, the branch of silky oak against
the sky. Faint sounds floated up from the yard—
clatter of dishes, voices of girls arguing, splutter of a
car being taken out of the garage. He was relieved
of all responsibility for what was going on around
him. He woke, he lay happily inert, he floated off
on dim drifts of sleep. And always there was a com-
fortable presence hovering about him, bringing back
the days when, with a collarbone broken at football,
he lay snug in the verandah-bedroom of the old house
at Hamilton Reach, listening to his mother tell the
boys who had come to ask after him that he would
be up and about in a day or two.
His mother? Was it his mother? Or was it (he
blinked away from the recognition as from a bright
light) the woman who ran Cayley’s?
Morning and night she fluttered in and out of
his room with the airy lightness of a bird. Yet he
couldn’t summon up any of his old feeling against
her: it had slipped away from him, become sub-
merged, an anchor broken off, left among the coral.
With drowsy eyes he lay watching her plump, bangle-
covered wrists, her full bust, her porcelain face with
its long eyelashes and babyish mouth. Sometimes
out of his helplessness he spoke to her with shy
humility. “Giving you a lot of trouble, aren’t 1?”
Her smile was impersonal as a burst of sunlight.
“Trouble? My dear boy, what woman knows the
meaning of the word? They’re made to spend them-
selves. Can’t get any happiness except by giving
everything that’s in them.”
Her professional expertness, her way of treating
him as a patient rather than an individual being,
absolved him of the necessity of remembering who
she was or speculating on how he happened to be
lying beneath her roof.
It was Cerutti who helped him to bridge the gap
between this cloud-hung room and the world of his
experience. Daily the old doctor came puffing up the
stairs and padded along the balcony, his stick prod-
ding the boards like a wooden leg, his fluty greeting
advancing ahead of him. “Well, how are we getting
along to-day, Neil? Making da grade, eh?”
Glasses shining rosily, paunch rolling like a
stolen melon inside his loose holland suit, he moved
clumsily about the bed. An air of easy hedonistic
living enveloped him. There were few pleasures
within his limited range that old Cerutti had missed.
He had run after women once: he lingered too long
at the table now: but behind the dropsical amiability
of his face a keen intelligence flickered like a light
behind frosted glass. “Yes, no fear you don’t pull
through now all right. One time I thought But
better not tell you. Or do you like to be proud of
how near da edge you go? ‘lf I hadn’t been strong
as a horse’ eh? ...' Grand woman, Laura-
wonderful. She found you just in time, like she
found your father. A couple more days and not all
I could do would bring you back. Those colored
people—l know-them. Try to believe you’re all right
till you pass out; then get frightened and stick you
down a hole. Cover up: bluff your friends and da
police. ‘Better not say anything or we get into
trouble’... Don’t depend too much on them next
time.” .
Chuckling he spoke on of Laura, her skill in
pulling Sanderson through his bad times, her intuition
in divining, even when she was miles away, that it
was time to hurry back to him. Curious, that faculty
in a woman! Mother-instinct. Only once had she
lost grip: that was the night Cayley’s opened. Too
many things on her mind at the moment.
“And your father —he must have been wandering
along da balcony there, listening to da junketting
below. ‘Take it easy to-night, Sanderson,’ I tell
him. ‘Don’t come down.’ The wrong way to deal
with him. I know now how his mind work. ‘Think
I’m an old crock, do they?’ And that make him try
to climb over da rail there.”


He gave a sideward jerk of the head, let his
heavy face settle for a few moments into an expres-
sion of profound gloom, then pulled himself together
briskly, feeling for his hat and stick. Neil watched
him out of the door, followed his feet going down
the stairs. The atmosphere of a robust, disorderly
past remained in the room, hung about the bed, like
stale cigar-smoke and spilt Burgundy.
/CONVALESCENT he lay on the balcony with a
rug wrapped around him, looking at the colored
woman hanging out washing in the bright sun below,
the segment of bay shining through the branches of
the silky oak, lorry-drivers bringing casks through the
wide-open gate. He could pick up his landmarks
now. This was the back of the hotel: in front were
the taxi-stand, the dusty weeping-fig, the white facade
across which were stretched the seven bright letters
that had so often mocked at him and Besanck when
they beat in from the outer darkness: “Cayley’s.”
Opposite him as he drowsed sat Laura, her feet
crossed, her knitting-needles moving among the fluffy
wool. “You’re not going back to that boat again
when you’re better, Neil?”
Slowly through the wavery, bottle-green light he
floated to the surface. “Why not? It’s my life.”
“But it’s such an uncomfortable one. Spending
so much time in wet clothes, without proper food. I
didn’t know till just lately how you fishermen lived,
but I’ve been finding out. There are some kinds of
w'ork colored people are better suited for than white
men one ought to be able to admit that quite
frankly. Why not lease the boat to Charlie? He’s
quite capable of running it with his friends.”
“Perhaps so. But where would that leave me?”
“My dear Neil, what a question for an enter-
prising young man! You could find such hosts of
opportunities for the use of your brains ashore. Jobs
that would really lead to something... Did I tell
you that Myra is coming to work for me at Cayley’s?
Such a bright, alert child now that her shyness is
broken down a little. I’ve grown quite fond of her.”
She kept her eyes on her plump moving fingers
that seemed to be working an image of Myra intb
the wool. A bloom rested on her face, a look of life
beginning to bud.
Presently she said quietly: “Poor old Cerutti: he
thinks I worry too much about Cayley’s, that I never
think of anything else. Perhaps it’s true. I like
everything to be just right, yet I hate driving the
girls too hard. Then there’s the financial side—l’ve
got a frightfully poor head for figures. Cayley’s needs
a man to see to all that. There are so many people
ready to take advantage of a woman... I was hoping
you’d stay and help me, Neil.”
The blood suddenly left his face. “No.”
She dropped her needles, shocked at the violence
of his voice, his eyes. “Have I said anything to hurt
you?... My dear boy!”
“Sorry,” he muttered, the blood creeping up
from his neck. “It’s nothing you’ve said or done.
You’ve been jolly good to me all along. I owe you
a devil of a lot —more than I’ll be able to pay.”
(My father’s doxy... A kept woman, a kept
man.)
“It was just a business proposition,” she said,
taking up her knitting again. “There’s no other man
I’d trust... But I oughtn’t to have brought it up
while you were just getting better.”
“It’s not a matter of one time or another,” he
told her. “I simply couldn’t think of it.”
A faint sigh escaped her. “ You’ve still got some-
thing against me, Neil. It can’t be helped: it’s just
life. We’re all at the mercy of feelings we can’t
control... I was afraid you’d take any offer of
mine like this. And yet I half-hoped when you got
used to the place and we came to know one another
better Perhaps I put it all the wrong way.”
“You’ve been frightfully good to me,” he repeated
doggedly, “but I’ve got my own work —my own life.”
“Well, we won’t talk about it any more. Not
just now, anyway. But you’ll at least call me Laura,
Neil. Everyone who likes me calls me that.”
She laid down her knitting, stretched out an
impulsive hand.
A slow smile played about his mouth. “It
oughtn’t to be desperately hard to call you Laura. I
guess I could manage it.”
Little mocking imps were making grimaces in
the open spaces of his mind. “Bone of my bone!
All I am you must become!” Yet he felt himself
drawn towards this woman, melting in her warmth,
all the stiffness gone out of his spirit, all his sharp
angles dissolving in a cloud...
111.
BRIGHTNESS of midwinter sunlight gave a dazzle
to the esplanade, where pink-footed pigeons
I walked circumspectly over the short grass and
toddling youngsters in rompers or frocks of
gauze played around the captured cannon that pointed
their noses in futile belligerence over the bay. There
was a lift in the nimble air, a dazzle on the blue,
flecked water. Neil, moving shakily under the fig-
trees, felt as if he had just emerged from a warm
cocoon. Soft twilight in which voices were muffled
and shapes had no sharp outline: how different from
this hard brightness that plucked a dancing music
from the nerves! He was aglow with physical well-
being: he was sensitive to a breath of wind.
“Tuesday,” he was thinking. “She couldn’t be
there to-day. Unless When is it the holidays
come round again?”
Contradictory desires were tugging at him. He
was eager to meet Freda again: he was passionately
intent on avoiding her. There was this chaos of
feeling inside him that made him unsure of what he
would do or say if she came dancing down the stairs,
greeting him with friendly banter, taking for granted
nothing had changed between them. He had imagined
the encounter so often. Her eyes meeting his, evading
his, her hand flickering out toward him, fluttering
away. And the nagging consciousness that he had no
right to feel any resentment toward her, that never
by look or word had she admitted that she belonged
to him. .Seated on a bench under a tattered palm
he tried to get at the bottom of his feelings about
the matter.
“She owed you nothing... She owed something
to herself... That’s not your affair Didn’t she
meet him through me?... After you’d done all you
could... I tried to keep them apart because I knew
what would happen... Then why cut up rough
about it now? There’s such a thing as betrayal...
What has been betrayed?... If men can’t trust their
friends... Then it’s Besanck you’re really hot about.
... .She’s made herself cheap as dirt.. . Wasn’t she
free to do what she liked?”
He was merely prodding at an old hurt. There
was nothing to be gained by that.
Anna was watering her shrubs by the side of
the house when he went over the road, and she stood
staring at him with the hn«» in her hand, her look
bleak and defensive. It seemed a long while before
recognition dawned in her eyes. “Why, it’s you,
Neil. I thought it was just another man looking for
work, wanting to do a bit of gardening or cut a few
sticks of wood. We’ve been having them at the rate
of half a dozen a day lately. What on earth have
you been doing? You’re hardly more than the
shadow of yourself.”
He smiled wanly. “That won’t last long. I’ve
been treating myself to a new kind of fever. Cerutti
says I must have brought a germ down from Java.”
At any other time she would have pursued him
with anxious questions, but now what he said seemed
to glance off her mind unregistered. “Java? You
could have found one nearer home than that. All
the illness there’s been around here this winter...
Peter’s in bed. He’s not been too well lately, and
there’s little enough, God knows, to get up for. I
don’t know what the country’s coming to —what with
no work and no money and taxes piling up. I sup-
pose we’ll all be drawing sustenance soon.”
There was an unusual dryness in her voice, as if,
standing there among the ferns, she had been chewing
some sterile cud of thought, going over and over the
small exasperations of her life.
THE whole house had a look of depression: it
seemed empty and lifeless. Even the dogs lying
by the lattice were lymphatic and merely raised their
heads in lazy curiosity. But as an antidote there came
a cheerful rumble from upstairs. “In bed? You say
1 was in bed? Nonsense! It was hot: I lay down
on the balcony for a little nap.”
In pyjamas and slippers Peter shuffled down-
stairs, white hair ruffled, eyes blinking owlishly
behind their glasses. There was a flush about his
face that might have come from either sleep or
whisky. “Well, Neil, how’s it going now? Making
plenty money? Thinking to buy a bigger boat and
take tourists out among the islands?”
He didn’t listen to Neil’s responses. A radiance
of spurious liveliness shone around him like a blown
bubble. He felt vaguely in his pocket for pipe and
tobacco, wandered over to the decanter on the side-
board.
From over her shoulder Anna’s voice came
sharply: “Never mind that now, Peter. I’m going to
make tea.”
Peter’s eyes snapped like a struck dog’s: then he
said with a half-embarrassed chuckle: “All right; we
drink your health in tea, Neil. The brew that don’t
even tempt a man to take a drop too much. These
days I live under the Dog Act. It is good for the
liver, but not the mind. Cerutti, he promise me a
couple of months ago: ‘Keep away from the whisky,
Peter, and you’ll live to be a hundred.’ I tell him that
on the chain that might be twenty-six year too long.”
He padded backwards and forwards across the
room, dragging his slippers. His eyes still had a
twinkle, but there was an unreal quality in his
exuberance: the old boisterous gestures and attitudes
seemed to sit on him awkwardly, like a suit that had
suddenly grown too large for him. Was he brooding
over something he had heard about Freda? Or was
it just the bluff of an old man knowing his day was
done, trying to shut out recognition of the know-
ledge? He affected not to hear any questions about
his business: it was the life of the town he wanted
to know about. What decision had been arrived at
about the aerodrome? Was it true they were putting
up young Connor from the railway workshops as
Macready’s opponent in the coming elections? He
talked as if he had been living to himself for a long
lime, isolated from the gossip of the front.
Neil, convinced that he was only pretending an
interest in these things, said directly: “Want any help
with the books, Peter?”
The old man dropped his guard a moment, hesi-
tated, gave an uneasy grin. “The books? You won't
find anything in them to strain your eyes these days,
Neil. It is a spell they are having. The Northern
Timber Mills, they give me an ultimatum: ‘Settle-
ment in full or no timber!’ I tell them to go to
the devil. But the other mills close down on me
(Continued on page 50.)
The girl’s eyes grew smoky, her body gathered itself together
in resistance. “I can look after him.”


swarm of secondary characters are introduced at the
first dinner in Canberra and thereafter treated without
more ado. Close attention is called for to avoid the
necessity, later, of referring back.
F. D. D.
The Boyhood of a King.
The story of James the Sixth of Scotland and First
oi England has not often attracted the novelist’s
attention. His mother, Mary Queen of Scots, and
his son, Charles 1., have drawn the lire. James, as
history shows him, was not promising material for
the romantic novelist. The story of his reign in Scot-
land, crowned as a baby absurdly swaddled in coro-
nation robes, the captive of one turbulent noble after
another during his minority, the hapless centre of
intrigue, violence and the thunders of the kirk, is a
bloodstained page as wild and fleering as an Eliza-
bethan tragedy, but James moves through it all as
heavy and prosaic as a suet-pudding, clumsy and
pedantic, without dignity or grace. His attitude to
his mother’s execution was one of thinly-veiled com-
plaisance, and he could study daemonology with cold
credulity while he burnt witches to please the kirk.
Jane Oliver, in Mine Is the Kingdom (Collins ;
Angus and Robertson ; Bs. 6d.), has retold his story
from the March evening in 1566, four months before
his birth, when David Rizzio was murdered in his
mother’s apartment, till the March of 1603, when
Elizabeth died and he inherited the crown of Eng-
land. She has kept the facts of history unchanged,
but she has moulded James very much nearer the
heart’s desire. She does it very credibly. She wins
our sympathy for the nervous, delicate child, starved
of affection and exposed to violence and neglect. She
tells with delicacy of his hero-worship for Esme
Stuart, who saw him only as a means to his plotting,
and of his eager, comic and pathetic courtship of
his 14-year-old Danish bride and the .hidden dis-
illusionment that she brought him. We see James
as victim, his character warped and twisted by the
infidelity of others, the wayward heir of circum-
stance. Of a sordid tragedy Jane Oliver has made
a romantic tragedy. She has done lor James very
much what Gordon Daviot did for Richard 11. in
the play “Richard of Bordeaux,” transposing his
character into modern terms. She has even made
him, like Richard, an advocate for peace, a visionary
beyond his times in the light of the most popular
of to-day’s idealisms.
Long ago the Regent Mar had told him that the
greatest ideal of a ruler was the peace and prosperity
of his country. It had proved a new notion for Scotland,
and caused the death of its apostle, but it had appealed
to James. Now he know it for an ideal which was not
new at all, but renewed again and again in the world’s
history, perpetually beyond the understanding of all
but the visionaries. They had tried in vain to share
their vision with the cynical thousands who had listened
and spat and afterwards rewarded their teachers with
cross or hemlock or kindling faggots.
The book is well written and skilfully shaped.
At first, perhaps, it is too conscious of being a period
piece, but from the death of Mary onwards it moves
freely and naturally. There-are restraint and subtlety
in the manner of its telling. Behind James, behind
the story, stand the figures of Mary, the mother he
could not remember, and Elizabeth, his godmother,
whom he never saw. Mary with her “fabled face,”
her reckless unwisdom, her generous courage, stands
for the beauty of life. The thought of her troubles
disturbs him, for he has been given a distorted image
of her. He sees her picture for the first time when
he is an adolescent, and is half in love with it before
he knows who it is. She is the beautiful, the for-
bidden, the intangible factor in his life. Elizabeth
stands for power and craft and the tangible things.
She has in her hands the reward of the Succession.
When the lovely things are withered in James’s life
that reward becomes the only important thing for
him. Elizabeth has won him from Mary. This is
indicated rather than stated. It is the heart of the
book.
The book ends when James learns that Elizabeth
is dead and has named him her successor. The
moment of his triumph is the moment of his degra-
dation. No more is told, yet all is told. As a human
being, he will have no further history. The formative
years are over, the pace is set for the rest of his life.
He will never escape from himself.
Mine Is the Kingdom is far above the ruck of
historical novels. It has beauty, shape, an interior
life and, above all, that sense of being set to unheard
music which informs it with grace.
Meet Some Australians.
Literature is not leaving us without means of
knowing ourselves. Those who have attempted an
interpretation of Australia fall into three groups.
We have the indigenous school, including writers like
Prichard, Palmer, Eldershaw and Lindsay, writing
for us much as members of a family discuss matters
of family interest—in ellipses, yet touching the springs
of life with sure hands, and, by virtue of their lack
of self-consciousness, bringing the discussion to the
level of general interest and of literature. Then we
have the visitors, such as Thomas Wood, of Cobbers.
Lastly we have the expatriate school—the school that
acknowledges the relationship, but has other affini-
ties ; that can’t comfortably forget about us, so takes
it out in explaining us with greater or lesser accuracy
to the neighbors. Each has its value.
Not least among the last-named group is Martin
Boyd, who produced in The Montforts one of the
most distinguished novels yet written with an Aus-
tralian setting. His latest book, The Picnic (Dent ;
7s. 6d.), has an English rural setting and a half-
Australian cast. The story content, though very well
handled, is not great. There are a serio-comic mesal-
liance, a minor romance and a morsel of brotherly
hate, with sufficient threads of interest to enable
Boyd to carry out his main intention, the showing
of English and Australian characters in juxtaposition
and, in several cases, their mutual interchangeability.
Neither his English nor Australian characters are
typical in the ideal sense, though they are all real
in themselves and recognisable as current coin.
The Rev. Hodsall prefers an empty church
at matins and evensong. His brother’s “Aus-
tralian” widow, who clears out with the silverware
after shocking the Hodsalls with her good-natured
vulgarities, wasn’t really an Australian. The West-
lakes, who return after two generations in Australia
to Plumbridge Hall, their ancestral home, with the
exception of Wilfred, might have been sojourning in
some other part of England. Christopher is a bull-
headed young squire of the old school. Aunt Beatrice
is cosmopolitan. Mrs. Westlake is intimidated by
the splendors of the Hall. She wishes she were back
in the simple refinements of Kew, Victoria; and, as
Boyd indicates, she might as well have mentioned
some equivalent London suburb. Young Wilfred is
consumed with joy at being “home.” He excuses
the rudeness of one of the local gentry by saying,
with more truth than he realises: “But, mother, you
must remember there are lots of people like Mrs.
Malaby in Australia.” Wilfred is happy to be at
the sources of culture, yet he hangs his walls with
the paintings of Streeton and Gruner, apd is hurt
when his friends the Rounsefells don’t admire them.
The Rounsefells are moderh English aesthetes —he
wears colored sandals and no socks ; she talks like
a Freudian student, but is secretly devoted to her
Aelred. They are silent and angry before the pictures
because the work is better than they anticipated.
Lady Elizabeth Woodforde is described by her
very wealthy middle-class—-and disillusioned —hus-
band as an “aristocratic fishwife,” an epithet that the
author, in describing their unhappy and perhaps
broadly symbolic union, quite justifies. At the word
“idealism” the rich Mr. Stock, of Australia, “waved
his hand as if someone had offered him a cheap
cigar.” He agrees with Lady Elizabeth’s husband that
the world must fall in with the requirements of Big
Business. Lady Smyth-Collins, of Melbourne, has
her own ideas of comparative values. She complains
that although sixty thousand Australians died in
France she was not, during a temporary residence in
that country, so much as invited out to afternoon-tea.
Her shooting-stick was given her by the wife of a
Governor-General, and when Christopher fells Wil-
fred with it she is vastly more concerned over the loss
of it than over Wilfred’s condition. Pearl Smyth-
Collins, who fears she may find herself in the com-
pany of people who are not “smart,” Ursula Wood-
forde, who falls somewhat unhappily in love with
Christopher, and the village doctor, who declines an
affair with a lady, are, respectively, an utter snob,
a young woman of quality and a man of the world —
current anywhere. The English community, until she
casually mentioned it, was unaware of the racial
origin of Miss Wallace, a figure in English public life
and “perhaps the most distinguished citizen Australia
had produced.” The Australians hadn’t heard of
her at all.
Such are the ingredients of Boyd’s novel. It is
well told, witty, kindly, illuminating, completely suc-
cessful, a book to be grateful for—yet something is
missing from it. Boyd has presented many facets of
Australian character, but setting and circumstances
prevent him portraying for the benefit of his English
readers the most vital one. It is one that cannot be
got at from without. It is represented by Australians
who are content to live in their own country and
who accept their nationality naturally. For the inter-
pretation of this we must turn to the indigenous
school.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
By-Road: Adrian Bell (Cobden-Sanderson ; 7s.
6d.). A near-novel telling how a semi-derelict farm
was restored by idealism, enthusiasm and good man-
agement to profit and the regular employment of
labor a subject evidently topical in England at the
moment. Full details are given, even as to the method
of bottling jam.
The Porch: Richard Church (Dent and Sons ;
7s. 6d.). Love and friendship is the theme. The
author has earned some distinction both as novelist
and poet. He writes well, but in this book, set in the
civil service, he has been led away by an opportunity
to inform the reader as to the functioning of Govern-
ment departments and the psychology of those therein
employed. He has overloaded his story.
Two Keys to a Cabin: Lida Larrimore (Blackie
and Son ; 7s. 6d.). Gabriella Graham—Gay for short
—was about to marry Todd Janeway largely because
he was an old friend and it seemed to be expected
of her. But she was surprised and disturbed by the
effect young Dr. John Houghton had upon her. “Was
he the man she should be marrying?” He was. A
well-woven romance set in the woods of Maine.
Educating Elizabeth: Margaret Hasset (Long-
mans, Green ; 7s. 6d.). A humorous account of life
in a Scottish girls’ school, and intertwined with it
the romance of Elizabeth Hillary, the headmistress,
thirty-six and charming. Persons not intended to
engage the reader’s affections have names like Din-
widdie. Miss Dinwiddie is the assistant-mistress—
and a perfect dragon. Pleasant light reading.
The Fire and the Fiddle: Wynyard Browne
(Cobden-Sanderson ; 7s. 6d.). A story of the diffi-
culties in love between a young artist fired with desire
to serve humanity and a girl who would prefer that
humanity served her. The ending is ironic. Fairly
good, but it is told in the first person, and the writer
has not avoided endowing the narrator with cock-
sureness —always a pitfall in that method of story-
telling.
One Life, One Kopeck : Walter Duranty (Hamish
Hamilton ; 7s. 6d.). The life story of a Russian peasant
by the man who has been Moscow correspondent of
the “New York Times” since the war. Squalid birth,,
wrongful arrest, Siberia, the return, secret plotting,
the revolution, famine and the period of reconstruc-
tion. A very workmanlike novel, and no doubt
factually dependable, but more inspired writers have
covered the ground.
The Great and the Goods: Ivor Brown (Hamish
Hamilton; 7s. 6d.). Through the character of his
hero, Dr. Edgar Strongitharm Chirrup, the author
has a tilt at almost everything in sight. Dr. Chirrup
instructs in the art of self-marketing, of achieving a
career. He shows the good how to become great,
and being great how to get “the goods.” The book
is satirically dedicated to “My pastors and masters,
and especially to those who instructed me in Short
Lives of Great Men.” Amusing.
Death Without Battle: Ludwig Renn (Martin
Seeker and Warburg ; 65.). An indictment of Nazi-ism
by a man now serving with the International Column
in Spain. His hero, a German aristocrat, finds the
honest first intentions of the movement corrupted by
careerists. Hitler, Von Papen, Ribbentrop, Musso-
lini, Dollfuss, Schacht and others make a personal
appearance in the story. A good book, but it calls
for a closer acquaintance with Nazi history and con-
temporary conditions in Germany than most readers
possess.
GENERAL . . .
The Genesis and Growth of Solicitors’ Associa-
tions in N.S.W., by S. Elliott Napier and E. Newton
Daly (Law Book Co.). A pamphlet briefly recounting
the history of the Law Institute and its forerunners.
Field Sports of Scotland, by Patrick R. Chalmers
(Phillip Allen ; ss. net), is a unit of The Sportsman’s
Library. The book is well compiled and printed and
excellently illustrated. Even the sophisticated field
sportsman will find something new and instructive
in its pages.
Pinjarra, by Ruby Fairbridge (Oxford University
Press ; Bs. 6d. net). Historical account of the estab-
lishment of the Fairbridge Farm School in W.A. by
the widow of the founder, whose idea was to take
the waifs and strays of England to a home and school-
ing in a new land where they could get the sun in
their hair and good food in their stomachs and become
equipped for life.
Ham brook of the Yard, by ex-Superintendent
Walter Hambrook (Robert Hale). Reminiscences of
a retired Scotland Yard detective of 38 years’ experi-
ence. Quotes Sir Phillip Game in favor of a more
reasonable attitude qn “the wholly innocuous process
of taking fingerprints.” Says that most murderers
have blue eyes, and that at Scotland Yard the records
of all criminals are destroyed when they die.
Spanish Journey; Eleonora Tennant (Eyre and
Spottiswoode ; from Angus and Robertson ; 3s. 9d.).
Slight but very interesting account of an English-
woman’s personal experiences in Spain’s civil war.
To Australians the book’s greatest value is that it
gives something of the General Franco side of the
trouble, the bulk of the “war news” in the cables
being restricted to the other side. Mrs. Tennant
makes strong charges of false reporting against the
“Times” and the 8.8. C.
Shooting in Ireland is popularly supposed to be
a matter between landlord and tenant. In Green
Memories (Phillip Allen ; 10s. 6d. net) Captain J. B.
Drought, who has a fine sense of humor, removes
the scandalous impression. According to him,
shooting and fishing in the disthressful isle are the
best and cheapest in Europe and are conducted in
an atmosphere of lightheartedness foreign to the
stately battues and drives of the island over St.
George’s Channel. There is little preserving in Ire-
land, but lashings of mixed shooting from snipe to
grouse and woodcock, while in season the waters
are stiff with trout and salmon.
Mr. Sludge the Medium; Horace Wyndham
(Geoffrey Bles; 12s. 6d. net). Amazing story of
Daniel Dunglas Home, king of spiritualistic swindlers,
excellently told by a master word-spinner. Home
went from Scotland to the States at 10. He noticed
that the Fox sisters were coining money by putting
the public in touch with the spirits of the departed.
Home took the tip, improved their technique and
established himself in London. Made no charge,
but took “presents.” William Crookes, Alfred Russel
Wallace, Sir David Brewster and others backed him.
Tindall, Faraday, Darwin and Huxley derided him.
Browning wrote the ferocious attack on him which
forms the title of this book. Home’s reason for
Browning’s hatred is interesting. B. and his wife,
Elizabeth Barrett, attended Home’s seances. One
night a spirit hand hovered above the circle bearing
a laurel wreath, and deposited it on Mrs. Browning’s
head!
Backs to the Wall, by Captain G. D. Mitchell,
M.C., D.C.M. (Angus and Robertson; 65.). ' The
fourteenth of an “Australia at War” series issued by
the same publishers and ranging in tone from the
ribald Hell’s Bells and Mademoiselles of Maxwell,
V.C., to The Australian Victories in France in 1918
of John Monash. This one is in the middle register.
It is mostly “action, front,” but the writer has his
reflective moments:
We Diggers were a race apart. Long separation from
Australia had seemed to cut us completely away from the
land of our birth. The longer a man served the fewer
letters he got, the more he was forgotten. Our only
home was our unit, and that was constantly being deci-
mated by battle and rebuilt by strangers. Pride in our-
selves, in face of a world of friends and enemies, was
our sustaining force. For a parellel, one would need
to go back to some Roman Legion, serving many years
in a foreign country, cut off from Rome, alien to the
new land and the old, sure only of themselves.
The comparison is true in spirit if not in fact.
Mitchell is well known for his contributions to the
Diggers’ paper “Reveille.” Of Backs to the Wall
war-historian Bean says: “His description of the
winter spent on the Somme, especially, is unequalled
among Australian records of that terrific episode^.”


mm
S'
„T"
/W
r
sk.
®0
.
sgr
’• * ■
■
m
THE TfING
ofO CEfiN BREEZES
. * . The subtle scents that steal
from foreign shores . . . These add
zest to the life of shifting scenes
and happy times punctuated by the
rhythmic tones of the Ship’s Bell!
SCENT
FEELING • TASTE • SIGHT • HEARING
you travel across the
world or cruise to Papua, Fiji,
New Guinea, New Zealand or
Tasmania*-*
R N ORIENT U>l E VOVRGE
£ R fl Tl F I E SENSE
ORIENT LINE
ROVfIL MAIL STEAMERS
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
I
rrft
JJI -4 V ,
■ ' ' c'.vas ?;:<!<
4'M,
i ■ I Imr +*4 . *
w
: SIM
•4 : ; ;. ' ~ /"
■HU
iiiiiiiiii
fftllffl ill f|?§f44 : t-||| 1
■lll*
■gBH
H
-
1
IS
~..
■
Mill
H
x;'..
w
MS
IS
m
: -■.
■ill
■■Ml
•■■ ■ ,
*
'
' •••;;•: :
IMMj
mmmmm
iSHSi
mM
n a
Exterior View of Huge Storage Tanks at Seppeltsfield.
um


BOUND FOR THE PORT OF PEACE.
“In a one-man effort to bring the nations together, Mr. Lansbury, the 78-year-old Labor leader, is going from ruler to ruler pleading the cause of mankind.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man,”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
FORWARD, THE PROFESSORS!
From their job of instructing Victorian college youths
six professors and lecturers of Melbourne University
have found the time to produce a manifesto designed
to instruct Australia’s representatives at the Imperial
Conference in shaping the foreign policy of the
Empire.
In his accustomed sphere the professor is rightly
esteemed; but it is hardly questionable that the
specialised nature of his training, the secluded condi-
tions of his calling and the character of his usual
contacts disqualify him outright as a possible shaper
of practical policies. Habitually associated with the
university life, his idea of the world tends to be a
mere enlargement of his school.
In that rarefied atmosphere moves the professor,
like a goldfish in a bowl; and when, as now, he
throws off his bubbles, as far as any practical value
in the making of national policies goes he remains
a goldfish. It is highly probable that six members
of any other calling in the community would be
immeasurably better equipped for the officious job
these six professors and lecturers undertook. Six
farmers, six businessmen, six manufacturers would
have the qualification of experience with the realities
of life; even six parsons might do better than six
dons.
Certainly none of these could do worse than
the best the combined intellects of the University Six
managed to produce. The conceit of their action
in posting their instructions to the country’s repre-
sentatives abroad might be overlooked: it is under-
standable as a possible outcome of their calling and
excusable as a comment on the statesmen they
addressed. What their conceit produced is more
remarkable.
Their manifesto, occupying about a column of
print, contained two proposals:
Firstly, the reduction of trade restrictions, and par-
ticularly the whittling down of preferences, within the
Empire; secondly, the pooling of all post-war mandates
under stricter control by the League of Nations, so that
they would be equally open to the trade and investment
of all countries.
To those proposals was added this singular condition:
But both these offers would be contingent upon the
Fascist countries coming back into the League and
supporting collective security.
“Here,” added the professors, “is an opportunity
for Mr. Lyons to reveal statesmanship.” He would
need to, and a lot of it, to square the dons’ vague
theoretical generalities with the simplest of realities.
It is obvious that to the professors the work-
ability of their scheme depends primarily on the
resuscitation of “collective security” with the conni-
vance of Germany and Italy. The one having seen
that measure in operation and the other having
felt it, and both of them being countries run
by realists instead of dons, the certainty that
they would laugh at this silly proposal is con-
clusive. But, accepting these false premises and
imagining the impossible condition as accomplished,
ivhat about the—to Australia especially—important
mandates assigned to Japan? Do the professors
imagine that Japan would acquiesce in sharing control
in its North Pacific mandates? Or, Japan refusing to
come into the pool, would Japan be made to submit,
and the world presented with a war in which the
principal beneficiary would be Soviet Russia?
From Australia’s point of view, the professorial
proposal amounts to this. Japan would keep the near-
North Pacific mandates exclusively Japanese. New
Guinea—Australia’s potentially richest interest and,
considered in conjunction with Singapore, a strategical
outpost of extraordinary defence value —would become
a polyglot community, open to equal investment by
any race whatever; the very opposite of an asset, a
menace ; the very opposite to a peace insurance, a
bone of general contention. And by what reasoning
do the dons conclude that any such absurd “recon-
struction” would satisfy any people’s claim to own
colonies? The proposal, with the omission of Japan
—which must be counted out —is politics conceived in
a house of dreams for a world that does not exist.
Their other proposal is equally fallacious, and
even more conclusive evidence of how completely
professors may be out of touch with the life of the
country which supports them in their jobs.
The University Six sign themselves in philosophy,
economic history, history, economics (two) and com-
merce. Therefore, it should be no news to some of
them that Australia, taking an average of several
years, has spent all the proceeds of its exports in
buying overseas goods and paying interest. It could
not buy more without borrowing. How such bor-
rowing affects overseas supplies is seen in the fact
that interest on previous overseas borrowings absorbs
the first £21,000,000 sterling out of returns from Aus-
tralia’s exports each year, and to that extent we
cannot buy goods. If Australia took the dons’ advice
and whittled down its tariff, there would be no check
to overseas buying, except as it would be affected by
the chaos in banking and exchange that would surely
ensue. Let the dons follow their own road and they
would see Australia’s competition-disabled factories
working part-time or not at all.
In Australian factories over 500,000 people arc
directly employed. Any tariff-paring on the scale the
professors propose must inescapably endanger the
livelihood of those people. And our pastoral and
agricultural industries could not absorb huge addi-
tions to the unemployed thousands.
Characteristically, our six scholastic busy bodies
do not propose as a condition to whittling down
Empire tariffs similar tariff reconstructions by other
countries. Being in a generous as well as a foolish
mood, they propose reduction of trade restrictions
by the British Empire alone. America, behind its
colossal tariff walls, Japan, France, Russia and the
rest behind theirs, are unconditionally offered the
privilege of coming in at our open door while keeping
theirs close shut. Since their avowed aim is to quieten
complaints of other countries, the professors mean
that or, what is just as likely, they mean nothing.
If this is the best they can do in practical politics
the University Six must get their realities out of Alice
in Wonderland.
Money No Object.
Queer things—or things that would be considered
queer anywhere else —are happening in the N. S.
Wales political world, that microcosm of muddle.
Though it boasts that unemployment has been
“reduced to pre-depression levels,” and quotes the
Commonwealth Statistician to prove it, the State
Government continues to exact a “special” tax on
income at the rate of nearly £7,000,000 a year,
allegedly for unemployed-relief, although a large part
of the money is spent in other directions.
It is a crude tax on gross income, and it operates
cruelly when the victim has or has had sickness in
the house or has experienced misfortune in other
forms. It is also an impediment to immigration of
settlers and tourists, for it is imposed on income from
other States and countries ; one consequence is that
the State Tourist Department, on which £85,000 is
being spent this year, and which runs pubs and guest-
houses, reported a loss of £15,000 last year. There is
another income tax, called “ordinary,” which yielded
£4,088,630 last year, and which is assessed, not only
on what is actually received, but on what is deducted
from pay-envelopes for “special” income tax. This
is legalised swindling.
Proceeds of the “special” income tax are distri-
buted among municipal councils “for works.” The
more improvident the councils are the more they get,
for a condition of these gifts from the Government
is that they must borrow specified additions; and
°niy the provident object. So the invention of schemes
for spending £lOO,OOO and £200,000 in needy and seedy
suburbs never flags. In the long run, when the money
gives out —and investors have shown themselves
increasingly reluctant to lend—these schemes will lead
to demands for permanent Government subsidies to
avert reduction of regular municipal staffs, for the
councils will never be able to maintain full staffs on
the rates that householders will stand.
In addition to this municipal debauch, the Water
and Sewerage Board is spending £3,000,000 of loan
money p.a. The Government as a preliminary trans-
ferred £11,450,000 of Water Board debt from the
customers to the general taxpayers, and it has begun
to bill the general taxpayers for annual losses on
waterworks. One of the Water Board’s proposals is
to transfer the effluent from sewerage works into the
lovely Cowan Creek.
The Government is adding to these orgies of
local spending by building railways—Sutherland to
Cronulla, Maryvale to Sandy Hollow and Captain’s
Flat to Bungendore. Its own Auditor-General has
told it that in the ten years to June 30, 1935, working
expenses and interest on existing Government rail-
ways exceeded revenue by £28,178,700 (the A.-G.
has yet to report on the 1935-36 year, though
departmental accounts show a loss of £1,494,000),
and departmental estimates of Maryvale-Sandy
Hollow and Captain’s Flat-Bungendore, taken to-
gether, are that annual revenue will amount to
£35,000, annual expenditure to £133,000 and annual
loss to £98,000. And the Minister who introduced
the Sutherland-Cronulla railway bill admitted the
probability of an annual loss of £22,000, which, seeing
that the Government is halving the holiday toll on
the George’s River bridge—already costing it
£24,000 a year, since it guaranteed bridge loans gaily
raised by the Sutherland Council—means that the
actual loss is likely to be a great deal more. Presum-
ably this was the kind of expenditure Mr. Stevens had
in mind when, as a delegate to the Loan Council,
he objected to any “tapering down.”
Now, as a result of Mr. Stevens’s visit to Britain,
Sydney is to have a boom in the building of workers’
houses. There are already an Unemployed Homes
Trust and a Rural Bank Homes Department (the
Rural Bank has “approved of more than 4800 appli-
cations for building loans amounting to £3,295,000,
1009 in the last nine months”); but the pace is not
fast enough for Mr. Stevens, so a rash of co-operative
building societies has broken out. It is joyfully an-
nounced that co-operative building societies will offer
90 p.c. loans on their own valuations (the Rural
Bank’s limit is 75 p.c.), and that the Government will
in these cases indemnify them against loss. Even
U.A.P. men mutter that this may mean backing over-
drafts for landsharks and jerrybuilders, and the
Auditor-General has made a pointed reference to
“guarantees given by or on behalf of the Govern-
ment to private persons and various bodies,” of which
“no information appears in the public accounts” ; but
warnings are wasted on Mr. Stevens. He has joined
the U.A.P. and Seen the World.
And even while the Government is engaging in
this extraordinary experiment it gleefully reports that
it has sold 300 blocks of Crown land at Maroubra,
is preparing to sell thousands more (“some hundreds
of acres of Crown land, suitable for residences, remain
unalienated”), and because speculators are operating
will get fancy prices.
It is a thousand pities that there was no one at
Canberra big enough to recognise, as did Mr. Roose-
velt in America, that the unemployment which came
with the slump was a national responsibility. Had
this view prevailed there would no doubt have been
misdirected effort and waste, but there would have
been at least a chance that the people in control would
think nationally, instead of provincially or parochi-
ally. Dr. Rivett would perhaps have got a hearing
when he suggested that it was possible for a nation
with vast known auriferous belts to dig itself out of
the depression. The dangerous concentration of
people in coastal cities glaringly incapable of accom-
modating such hordes could not have escaped atten-
tion. Encouragement of industrial enterprise —speci-
fically by simplified and substantially reduced taxa-
tion —in districts to which population might be trans-
ferred —especially those with neglected deep-water
ports—would have appealed as the likeliest remedy.
Unfortunately, Canberra chose to be com-
placently inert. The political consequences have been
unfortunate, for the movement towards greater Com-
monwealth control has very palpably been arrested ,
and the maldistribution of population which inten-
sified the effects of the depression remains. Nor is
this problem being tackled in any quarter ; the effort
rather is to keep population in the huge wens, and
attract more from the country, by providing dirt jobs
on loan works. The cry of the State politician is for
more and more palliatives. Little Puddleton ideas
prevail. “In the five years to June 30, 1936,” says
the Commonwealth Auditor-General, “the public debt
of the States increased by £105,022,700.” To June 30,
1936, “relief of unemployment from loans” in N. S.
Wales alone ran away with £15,197,200; and this
expenditure, to which the Auditor-General certifies,
is additional to Water Board borrowings, for which
the Government has made itself responsible. What
is there to show for it? Not a single enterprise that
will add to the production of wealth. Only speed-
ways, sewers, municipal golf courses, “Olympic”
swimming-pools and unfinished Government railways,
insolvent from birth.
Judicial Salaries in Queensland.
The daughter of a Queensland Supreme Court Judge
was recently appointed associate to her father. A
correspondent objected on the score of her age (19, it
seems) and sex. If remembrance of Portia is sum-
moned up to the sessions of sweet, silent thought, the
judgment of the Court of Public Opinion will be:
“Objection dismissed ; no order made as to costs.”
The correspondent proceeded: “Two other Judges
have young sons as associates, and another’s associate
is a young nephew.” He did not actually contend that
relationship to a member of the judiciary should
disqualify a young man for nomination to a position
in which so much valuable experience may be gained,
but it might have been inferred from his remarks that
such appointments are objectionable because judicial
salaries are huge.
This is very far from being the case. Except
for a small Commonwealth allowance for bankruptcy
work, Queensland Judges’ salaries have not been
increased for 60 years, though other high officials have
had their salaries raised as much as 50 p.c. When the
emergency cuts came the Judges suffered most; and
the cuts lasted for four years.
Thirty-five years ago a Queensland Judge on
£2OOO a year paid no income tax and was entitled to a
substantial pension on retirement. Now he pays
£350 p.a. income tax and provides his own pension.
Taking into account the vast reduction in what the
contents of the pay envelope will buy, a Judge’s
effective salary is one-third of what it was.
Yet Judges do far more than they did 35 years
ago, and not only because the population has doubled.
Extra duties are heaped on them, as a rule without
extra pay. The senior puisne Judge is chairman of
the Land Appeal Court. Another member of the
Supreme Court Bench is president of the Industrial
Court, chairman of the Transport Commission and
chairman of the Sugarcane Prices Board. All these
were unpaid positions until an allowance was voted
to the chairman of the Sugarcane Prices Board in
consideration of his having to make the major
decisions and give up most of his vacation to the
work. The allowance is much less than that granted
to a part-time member who lives in Sydney.
Queensland is well served by its Judges, but it
treats them with no particular generosity.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Rolling Down to Bilbao.
The flapper press was deliriously happy last week,
and its felicity was shared by those dear Spanish
loyalists and the darling Russian Government. For,
in contempt of Franco’s mines, cruisers and threats,
a British food-ship rolled into Bilbao, and, wiping
fragments of stewed cat off its lips, the population
swarmed down to the quay to greet it. And the
skipper had taken his little daughter to bear him
companee, and her name is Fifi, and she landed in
a blue polo sweater and grey slacks, and she is just 20.
How perfectly thrilling!
Whenever and wherever a blockade is proclaimed
British mariners will try to run it. That is in the
blood. And while even known or suspected British
blockade-runners are on the high seas British war-
ships will protect them. That is the old law of the
Royal Navy. But actual intervention on the part of the
Government in a foreign civil war, such as is stridently
demanded by pacifists and exploded politicians who
arc ready to let poor sailormen and bluejackets take
all the risks, is a horse of another color.
It has been tried before in greater countries than
Spain, and it has always failed. The British Govern-
ment intervened in a French civil war to help the
Bourbons, in a Russian civil war to help the Whites.
If the Fenner Brockways and Rev. Hewlett Johnsons
of the ’sixties had had their way it would have inter-
vened in the American Civil War. In that case, as
in the others, it would have been on the losing side.
For there is an appalling tendency on these occasions
to back the wrong horse. And even if you back the
right one, and the risk of a general war is averted
somehow, you divide your own people, and the losers
will hate you and transmit their hatred ; nor will
the gratitude of the winners, if any, last long.
To shorten the conflict, prevent it from develop-
ing into another world war and enable the Spaniards
to settle their own affairs, as in the long run they
will have to do if they are to endure as a nation —
these are the objects of the non-intervention agree-
ment. It is the wisest thing that has been done in
the domain of foreign policy in these troublous latter
years.
The Mr. Paterson Case.
When the Government was beaten on the marketing
issue the “new” Sydney “D.T.” declared that Min-
ister Paterson was to blame because of “the Mrs. Freer
blunder,” and that it was all up with poor old P.
The Minister for the Interior has been banished from
any effective part in politics. Politically Mr. Paterson’s
epitaph was written by an overwhelming number of
voters.
Our esteemed contemporary was overhasty.
Examination of the divisional returns showed that
Gippsland, the Paterson electorate, had dutifully
followed the advice of its member. “Orderly market-
ing” was flattened out in every State, and Common-
wealth figures were 1,259,000 for and 2,214,000 against;
but Gippsland showed 26,000 for and 12,000 against.
Even in Dr. Page’s electorate, Cowper (N.S.W.), the
ayes were only 8000-odd votes to the good in a poll
of 47,000.
The U.C.P. conference in Victoria followed. At
this a determined attempt was made by the opponents
of composite Ministries to compel Mr. Paterson to
quit the Lyons Government. At the 1935 and 1936
conferences these Agrarians had predominated ; they
had smashed the U.A.P.-U.C.P. alliance and set up
the Dunstan Ministry. They went to the 1937 palavers
with the claim that this Ministry, though without a
majority in either House, had reached its third year,
and with the testimony of the Melbourne “Age” that
it had made good ; and they suggested that like results
would follow in the Federal sphere if Mr. Paterson
were given his marching orders.
Mr. Skeat, president of the organisation, and
Mr. Hocking (“Hocking the Kingmaker”), who was
president when Mr. Dunstan quitted the Argyle
Ministry to become Premier himself, urged this course
on the conference, and Mr. Bussau, the Attorney-
General and Minister of Transport, was ready with
an impassioned speech in support of the necessary
resolution.
These experienced campaigners failed. Mr. Skeat
was defeated for the presidency by an A.I.F. colonel
who made it very plain that he would be no party
to ordering Mr. Paterson to leave the Lyons Ministry.
The feeling of the conference was so decidedly against
Mr. Bussau’s resolution that it was not presented.
The Dunstanites were dished ; Mr. Paterson had
beaten them.
Nobody mentioned the case of Mrs. Freer, but
apparently it would have made no difference if any-
body had.
In judging their representatives farmers are no
different from other folk. Above all other qualities
they value strength. In the absence of strength they
prefer stubbornness to flabbiness, even when stub-
bornness is exerted in an irrational cause.
A Start with Fuel.
The decision of the Commonwealth and N. S. Wales
Governments to give a helping hand to the company
which proposes to distil shale oil at Newnes (N.S.W.)
is at least a beginning with a national fuel policy.
The Commonwealth Government is to provide
£334,000 on debenture and the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment £166,000; G. F. Davis, of Cockatoo Dock, will
add £166.000. Customs protection worth £240,000
p.a. and preference in Government purchases will
be given, and the net result will be an annual output
of 10,000,000 gallons, or about 40,000 tons of fuel,
which represents 4 p.c. of Australia’s oil require-
ment. By the time the works operate the percentage
will be less. Since ten million gallons would scarcely
serve a week’s requirements for land transport in
war-time, a good deal more remains to be done.
Australia has unlimited coal- and large shale-beds,
but so far means have not been found to work them
economically, even with vast investments of working
capital. Processes of coal carbonisation, however, are
relatively in their infancy, and Australian inventors,
an enterprising breed who have solved some of the
world’s major mechanical and chemical problems,
are at work on the fuel question.
Meanwhile great strides have been made in the
manufacture of power alcohol, which, in regard to cost,
was 10 years ago in the same street as oil from coal.
Now power alcohol is sold in Queensland for admix-
ture with petrol at Is. 9d. per gallon, and there is no
doubt that when large-scale operations become worth
while and markets for by-products, such as dry ice,
are developed, it will be possible to reduce manu-
facturing costs further and improve fuel mixtures of
local products.
The new policy of giving the fuel-distilling indus-
try a start is far better than the old one under which
£750,000-odd has been distributed among oil-well
hunters. The money already squandered on this line
of research would have given Australia an alcohol
factory able to provide a 10 p.c. mixture of alcohol
in all fuel used in motors in Australia.
Other countries in which motor fuel is short —
Sweden, Italy, France, Germany, Czechoslovakia —
prescribe that all petrol sold must carry a proportion
of alcohol, though in many the scheme is not carried
out because of the shortage of raw materials to pro-
vide it.
Sweden, during the war, for a time fuelled the
whole of its motor transport with “petrol” fermented
from paper-manufacturing wastes with a percentage
of coal distillates.
And that was 20 years ago, when processes were
far more costly than they are to-day.
Our Neglected Seas.
At the half-yearly meeting of the C.S. and I.R. there
were displayed aerial photos, of immense shoals of
commercially valuable fish, taken mostly between five
and 15 miles from the coasts of N. S. Wales, Victoria
and Tasmania. Each shoal contained thousands of
tons. All of them were within practical reach of
Australian markets or manufacturing centres. Had
the Australian fishing industry received even a frac-
tion of the assistance given to fisheries by a score
of countries and Dominions, they would have been
in use for providing employment and revenue.
Senator McLachlan and Mr. Francis, M.H.R.,
have told the Fishermen’s League to stop bothering
them for petrol rebates, protection against foreign-
canned fish, rebates of duty on deep-sea net materials,
assistance toward the provision of havens for enabling
fishermen to reach extra-territorial grounds, and the
rest. These, they say, are matters for the States,
where they are not unscrupulous attempts to diddle
the Customs out of revenue. Anyhow, Canberra has
recorded its opinion that Australian fish are no good.
Certainly, that was before the newly-arrived Director
of Fisheries asked in an amazed fashion why, in the
name of commonsense, Australia is not picking up
£6,000,000 yearly which Providence has laid on its
doorstep in the form of tuna and pilchards.
Soon after the C.S. and I.R. had looked at the
pictures, the Health Council began crying out that
the Australian diet is seriously deficient in a highly
important item —namely, fish. We eat 141 b. of fish
on a yearly average. Britain eats 421 b., and even that
is insufficient in a proper national diet, the Health
Council said. One of Germany’s most striking
economic developments of late years has been to
teach the people that sea fish is at least equal to meat
in nutritive value, and to organise its regular supply
to inland centres where it had never before been
available.
Since fish got into the papers some interesting
information has been forthcoming concerning the
real political outlook on its value in national diet.
It now appears that some years ago Mr. Lyons told
the Pope about it, and also advised Mr. Bruce to
bring the matter before the League of Nations.
Judging from the attitude of Mr. Francis and Senator
McLachlan, it must have been the foreign duty-
paying kinds of fish that Mr. Lyons had in mind,
not the common Australian article, available to the
extent of millions of pounds’ worth yearly for the
trouble of picking it up in the same fashion as
Canada, Japan, Germany and Newfoundland do.
Not Abos.—Papuans.
The Canberra conference of Federal and State abori-
gine authorities was edified by a report from J. W.
Bleakley, the Queensland Protector, on the natives
of islands in Torres Strait and the remarkable
advances toward civilisation they have made. These
natives own and operate fishing fleets, meet
their trade requirements through community-owned
stores, and govern themselves. Very interesting; but
it must not be taken for granted that the mainland
Australian aboriginal can be trained in the same path
and led to the same goal, nor does Mr. Bleakley
advance this claim.
The natives on the islands mentioned —Murray
and others of the same group—are not Australian
aboriginals but Papuans in race and culture. Their
former use of the bow in war and their practice of
taking heads, both unknown to the Australian, afford
only two of many proofs.
The Papuan in his most primitive state is a born
trader, and in some parts of the possession carried
goods far and wide by land and sea to exchange for
commodities produced by other Papuans; witness the
Louisade yam-traders and the pottery-makers of Port
Moresby. On the Papuan mainland this tendency
has been fostered, though too feebly, by the Govern-
ment. In the restricted area of the Torres
islands natives have had better opportunities to extend
their knowledge and practice, and have little to learn
in this respect from the average white man.
The idea that the mainland Australian aboriginal
can be taught to follow their example is preposterous.
An Unusually Candid Report.
Comparative infant-mortality figures in Maoriland
are the lowest in the world, but the abortion death-
rate is the highest. An expert committee, inquiring
into the problem, finds that one in every five Maoriland
pregnancies ends in abortion, and that Maoriland
juries are as reluctant as Australian juries to convict
abortionists, even when guilt seems beyond doubt.
The committee names three main reasons for
this state of affairs: economic and domestic hard-
ship, changes in moral and social outlook and preg-
nancy among the unmarried. It suggests that birth-
control knowledge be directed through more respon-
sible channels where, “while methods would be more
reliable, the responsibilities and privileges of mother-
hood, and other aspects of the subject, would be
discussed.” It also recommends an appeal to women
to consider the “moral and physical dangers involved,
as well as the possibilities of race suicide.”
The report is fearless; and with a problem so
serious candor is demanded in place of platitudes. No
loosening of the present laws is recommended ; merely
the provision of responsible clinics capable of rescuing
people from the risks of mailed advertising matter
containing birth-control information that is frequently
inaccurate and sometimes dishonest.
Overlapping, Futile and Costly.
Government by board and commission, as Victoria
knows it, has been roughly handled by Dr. E. Robert-
son, chairman of the Health Commission, in a final
report. The Health Commission, Dr. Robertson said,
was expected to administer the Health Acts, but it
was not invested with control over any officer or
funds ; it worked by passing resolutions for the Health
Department to carry out.
The department gives effect to resolutions when it
can, but if special expenditure is required nothing can
be done. All the powers, rights and authorities con-
ferred or imposed on the commission may be exercised
by the Minister, who can supersede any act, order,
direction or notice of the commission, which can function
only if its actions meet with his approval.
Like the Transport Board, the Health Commis-
sion is hamstrung by lack of power. The whole
government-by-board system in Victoria is choking
itself into expensive futility. Dr. Robertson’s
plea for more power for the Health Commis-
sion is really one of the best arguments so fat-
advanced for a return to direct Ministerial responsi-
bility and active Parliamentary supervision of every
regulatory aspect in public administration.
Housing, diet, working conditions and the right
kind of physical exercises should, according to Dr.
Robertson, be part of any health commission’s duties.
But, as Dr. Robertson didn’t say, the Dunstan Gov-
ernment has yet another board inquiring into slum
abolition and housing reform —obvious jobs for one
progressive Ministry of Health instead of several
dazed, independent and legislatively crippled authori-
ties.
Dr. Harris, the Minister of Health, hurried
into print with the assurance that such a Ministry
was provided for in a bill to come up next session ;
but this face-saver provides no time limit for the
transfer to one authority of services now 'muddled
by several.
The maze of Victorian departmental oddities
owing allegiance to strange Ministerial masters
extends into the present domain of health adminis-
tration. Industrial hygiene is the responsibility of the
Labor Department, which, as Dr. Robertson knows,
is not staffed or equipped to exercise efficient super-
vision over factories and shops where poor ventilation
is “sapping the vitality of workers.”
In the interests of efficiency and economy, the
Victorian system of public administration should be
simplified and co-ordinated. ’This will mean depriving
nominee board and commission members of lucrative
jobs; but it will restore to reluctant Ministers the
responsibilities people once imagined they were paid
to shoulder.
Still No Beacons.
“Captain Pintle”: Captain Blencowe, of the 8.1.5. N.
training steamer Devon, is the latest experienced ship-
master to point out to Canberra that radio-direction
beacons are urgently needed on the Australian coast.
He complains that his wireless direction-finding appa-
ratus, an immense help to safe navigation when
approaching any other civilised country, is useless
in Australian waters.
The same thing has been said by the master of
the Narkunda. And more than a year ago Captain
Schilling, of the K.P.M. Nieuw Zeeland, complained
of the danger arising from the absence of a radio
beacon to help ships to make the dangerous entrance
into Torres Strait from the westward in the monsoon.
Unless our inland Government wakes up at least
to the extent of radio beacons at South Head, Cape
Moreton, Sandy Cape, Booby Island (Torres Strait!
and Fremantle, it is not unlikely that marine insur-
ance companies will raise their Australian rates, with
corresponding freight increases.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D. Empson”: A Sydney newspaper’s
account' of the sale of an object prized
by the late George Judah Cohen smote
a chord of memory in my buzzum:
It was an early-Victorian silver epergne
—a centrepiece for table decoration. The
heads of two elephants supported an Indian
rajah, who in turn was seated on an
elephant.
Now, where had I read something like
that before? In Vanity Fair, of course:
“No. 369,” roared Mr. Hammerdown.
“Portrait of a gentleman on an elephant.
Who’ll bid for the gentleman on the
elephant? Shall we say twenty guineas
for this work of art? Fifteen; five; name
your own price. The gentleman without the
elephant is worth five pound. The gentle-
man in a nankeen-jacket, his gun in his
hand, is going to the chase; in the distance
a banyhann-tree and a pagody, most likely
resemblances of some interesting spot in
our famous Eastern possessions. How
much for this lot? Come, gentlemen, don’t
keep me here all day.”
The Rawdon Crawleys got the gentle-
man on the elephant for half a guinea.
For the rajah on the elephant', “the suc-
cessful bidder” had to go to £l5.
H- * * *
“El V.”: Any Australian who becomes
so enamored of the Old Country that he
decides to settle there will find no dearth
of ancestral homes offering. Just now
there seems to be a Coronation spring
sale on, and the real-estate pages of
“Country Life” and similar journals look
like history catalogues. Personally, I am
attracted by that neat little property
Rousdon, near Axminster —“banqueting
hall, billiard-room, over 40 bedrooms,
eight bathrooms, three lodges, eight
tennis courts, 18-hole golf course and
eight farms.” Then, again, there is Ardross
Castle, Invergordon—“grounds of 156
acres, three reception rooms, library, bil-
liard-room, galleried ballroom, indoor
swimming bath, dressing-rooms, 28 main
and 26 servants’ rooms, six bathrooms,
walled kitchen garden and three cot-
tages.” For those with humbler tastes
there is Annie Laurie’s old home over the
border at' Maxwelltown. The family
has held it, since 1611,’ and it looks a
nice little place at present to let—about
25 rooms and partridges and pheasants
galore. And if Mr. Parkhill decides to
stay abroad and take a peerage, I would
commend to his notice “Garth, Aber-
feldy (circa 1380 a.d.)” —the approxi-
mate date when Mr. P.’s aerial mail
ideas were born —“stronghold of the
Wolf of Badenoch.”
* * * *
“Mandipa”: The Town Council of
Wagga (N.S.W.) has received the follow-
ing letter from Herr Paul Wagga, of
Berlin:
Out of personal reasons I beg to inform
me what is the origin of the history of
your town, and how the town and the
river come to the name “Wagga.” Should
the name be derived from the name of an
inhabitant who has foundered the town,
1 should like to know if this man has been
borne in Germany, at Dangelow, in Pom-
mem, and if yet some inhabitants with
the name of “Wagga” are living in Wagga.
Herr Wagga is due for a disappointment
when he receives the Town Clerk’s reply,
for the name “Wagga” is generally sup-
posed to be derived from the aboriginal
word “Wahga” or “Wahgan,” meaning
a crow, the repetition of the word imply-
ing an abundance of the birds.
& $ * $
“T.”: A Queensland taxgatherer has
taken Napoleon’s advice to a grenadier
after his second venture: “Marry a Ger-
man, lad ; they’re as fresh as roses.” He
has married the German girl whom Aus-
tralian cities know as Norda Mata, the
interpretative dancer. Norda’s acquaint-
ance with Queensland taxgatherers
began when one of them visited her
show and sent the familiar printed de-
mand-professional golfers, military
bandsmen and jockeys who had been in
Brisbane for a week are all served with
it—to her dressing-room. Next day an
indignant interpretative dancer called at
the taxation office to remonstrate. No,
"Shorthand? A hundred and fifty a minute, and I was champion typist at”-
“Nothing doing. Next, please!”
she didn’t meet her future lord there and
fall in love with him at first sight; she
didn’t meet him at all until they found
themselves fellow-passengers in a mail-
boat, she returning to Europe, he going
there on long leave —although only
about 30, he has been in the department
since he left school. Then, the ship
calling at Newcastle, he gallantly invited
the lady to see how Englishmen and
Australians played Rugby League foot-
ball. Unromantic as it seems, that began
it. Altering a long-planned itinerary,
the now-impassioned young man spent
a month or so in Germany; and last
week the Narkunda bore the lady back
to Brisbane, where, signing the register
at St. Andrew’s Lutheran Church as
Else Elisabeth Rutkewitz, she became
Mrs. Alfred Hodges. Her Alfred is a
native of Sydney: a smallish, pleasant-
spoken young man with a sense of
humor and a sunny outlook on life.
* * t- *
“El V.”: Bilbao, so much in front-
page news nowadays, is quite a decent
little Spanish town —or rather two towns
—dumped on a picturesque river bank
about nine miles from the sea. The
free, port is inside a breakwater at' the
estuary mouth. The place is about 600
years old; trade came to it because it
boasted a commercial code which did
not treat foreign captains as pirates or
fair game. In the Middle Ages it was
a model city—its Seven Streets were re-
garded as the last word in town plan-
ning, and there was even a pavement
for dead cats to fall on when they were
heaved out of the top bedroom window.
Later somebody built a new town lower
down the river, but it isn’t half as pic-
turesque as the ancient Siete Calles.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Who invented short
skirts? I claim the distinction for a
certain Lady Florence Dixie, who flour-
ished in late-Victorian days; and I refer
—as the lawyers say—to The Bulletin
of June 7, 1890.
Lady Florence Dixie says the cardinal
sin of her sex is the wearing of long skirts.
Her idea is that the skirt should come no
lower than the knee, and that the part of
the female leg euphemistically described as
the ankle should be made visible. The only
serious objection would come from ladies
of the ballet, but this would probably
adjust itself by the ladies of the histrionic
profession outstripping their sisters in
private life. Lady Florence’s reform is
worthy of serious consideration, and if
the sterner sex is allowed to vote on it
the result may be predicted in advance.
Like most pioneers, Lady Florence is
forgotten.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Few shore people who
see a tug handling a big ship in narrow
waters, can realise what an extraordinary
exhibition it is of power, ingenuity, quick
decision and supremely skilled teamwork.
Some of the world’s best in tugs and tug-
work are to be seen in the Brisbane
River. The Coringa, of 294 tons, de-
velops 1500 h.p., draws 14 feet and car-
ries a propeller as big as that of many a
vessel 10 times her size. The Forceful
and Carlock each develop 1100 h.p. A
curious sidelight on our curious system
of measuring tonnage is that' one is a
little over, the other a little under, one
ton net. All three, particularly the
Coringa, have notable records for deep-
water towage feats. The Coringa brought
the disabled Cairnhill from New Ireland
to Sydney, 3500 miles, and has plucked
a dozen big ships off banks and reefs
from Moreton Bay to Torres Strait. With
the Forceful, she brought the 5600-ton
Arafura through a cyclone, after being
herself disabled.
* ❖ ❖ $
“Zachary”: The quandary in which
Federal Labor leader Curtin was recently
depicted— i.e., that continued support' of
Lang would estrange his followers in
four other States and that desertion of
Lang would queer his pitch in N. S.
Wales—recalls a passage in Macaulay’s
History dealing with the “Trial of the
Seven Bishops.” One of the jurymen
was Michael Arnold, brewer to the
Palace. Arnold complained bitterly that,
whichever way his verdict went he was
likely to be half-ruined.
If I find the Bishops Not Guilty I shall
brew no more for the King. If I find them
Guilty I shall brew no more for anyone
else.
In the end, though he held out until he
was in a minority of one, Arnold
acquiesced in the Not Guilty verdict.
So, presumably, he brewed no more for
James II. —although history is silent on
this point.
* * * *
“Centurion”: So the War Office has
decided to abolish shrapnel and build on
h.e. shell only. It is probably one of
those wild generalisations the W.O. is
notorious for, just as when it resolved to
abolish the bayonet and sword after the
Boer War, a resolve that, fortunately,
was not carried out. There will be ample
use for shrapnel in Empire wars at least
for generations. All the h.e. in the
world cannot equal its effect on massed
troops in the open such as are encoun-
tered in our native wars on the n.-w.
frontier of India, for instance. Then
there is the aesthetic viewpoint. There
is nothing prettier than the white puffs
of bursting shrapnel suddenly appear-
ing in the blue sky of a pleasant spring
morning.
* * * *
“Miro”: The agitation that has been
raging over a nude statue adorning the
gift gates of Auckland (M.L.) Domain is
not the first of its kind to shake that
harbor city. Some years ago a public-
spirited citizen bequeathed several
statues to local parks, among them an
unclad female who soon became, the
centre of fierce controversy. Then came
a morning when citizens hurrying to
work through the park found the lady
demurely arrayed in a long, befrilled
pair of old-fashioned red flannel drawers.
The garment was hastily removed by the
authorities, but after that a cartoonist of
the local “Herald” never drew a table,
chair, desk, bird or beast —in fact, any-
thing possessing legs—without attaching
a neat little frill to the said extremities.
Ridicule won where argument failed, and
the lady of the park, still naked and un-
ashamed, was left in peace.
❖ H* ❖ :;<
“Captain Pintle”: My ex-Navy neigh-
bor is greatly upset because his younger
boy, o.s. on a coaster at 18, is all full of
talk about “master-classes” and “com-
radeship.” The youngster is a fine lad.
with all the makings of a first-rate
officer in him, some day. “Suckering"
is his trouble, a game much enjoyed by
a certain kind of disgruntled, elderly sea-
man, too stupid and unreliable himself
to have ever got to the bridge and
secretly hating to see a promising lad on
his way up. This kind delight in gain-
ing the young donkey’s admiration for
their ropework and romantic yarns of
former days, and then instil the com-
munistic stuff into the victim’s muddled
mind. Later comes the union rep. with
more fine talk and a receipt book for
dues ; then some back-talk to the mate,
and somebody else will be in the young-
ster’s job at the next signing-on. As an
old bos’n of mine used to say, “Boys is
all born fools, without they’re rogues”—
I think he said “born.”
THE MISSING JONES.
“Warships still rove the Spanish Main in quest of
Captain David (‘Potato’) Jones and the Marie
Llewellyn, whose whereabouts remain a mystery.”
These Taffy Joneses, one must admit,
Have always worried the world a bit.
In their native Wales they’re as thick as bees,
And they streak all over the Seven Seas,
On cargo steamers that roll and pitch,
Till it often puzzles you which is which.
From the frozen Horn to the Isle of Man
You’re bound to happen on some of the clan,
In roaring forties or tropic zones.
But what’s become of “Potato” Jones?
You could put your thumb on the harbor bar
Where “Ham and Egg” and where “Corncob”
are,
The other two Joneses who were fain
To carry tucker to stricken Spain,
And swore, as each sturdy seadog does
Who gets hung up at St. Jean de Luz.
But where, in the ocean’s storms and scuds,
With his precious hundred tons of spuds,
Where the timbers creak and the wild wind
moans,
Where in the deuce is “Potato” Jones?
They won rich spoil in the days that were,
Our forebears, westward of Finisterre.
Frobisher, Hawkins, Raleigh and Drake,
There wasn’t much that they couldn’t take!
They looted many a clumsy hold
That was bound for Spain with the New
World’s gold.
But “praties” were stuff outside their ken
(There were few who’d even heard of them
then).
It’s very different now, one owns.
Where in the world is “Potato Jones”.?
Evan and Owen and Meredith
And all the rest of the kin and kith
Of the age-old tribe we could find, I trow,
Somewhere or anywhere, anyhow.
Wide ways they’ve wandered across the girth
Of our spacious holding of sea and earth,
Since they left the land where the green leek
dwells
And the towns begin with the double “Ls.”
“But where,” some shipping company groans,
And ever and ever a “Sparks” intones,
“Where in the h is ‘Potato’ Jones?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“S.T.S.”: A good plot for a short
story has been enacted in real life by
the Adelaide police. Money and sweets
had been taken from a North Terrace
shop during the night, several times ; so
two constables concealed themselves in
it. During the night, it was quietly
entered from the front, and the burglar
was promptly arrested. He proved to
be the policeman on the beat, who had
found a way of entering, and admitted
everything.
* * # *
“Double Dee”: Boarders not infre-
quently flit without notifying their land-
ladies, but how often do landladies walk
out on their boarders? Lodgers at a
country hash-house in Westralia awoke
one morning to find a barren breakfast
table. They had not been called, and
finding the landlady’s door locked broke
it in, fearing something was amiss.
There was; the good lady was gone and
with her £3O various lodgers had handed
to her for safe keeping while they were
at work.
* $ Jj? #
“Thuruna”: It’s not only London
weeklies that need education regarding
Australia (B. 14/4/’37). Talbot Mundy
puts over some beauties in The King in
Check. He describes two Australians, a
doctor and a trooper, left behind in
Palestine, swapping yarns when they meet
“y e s, you'll be singin' ‘Nearer My God to Thee' when I getcha outside."
in Jerusalem some years after the war.
They talk of “Sydney Bluffs and the
homesteads that lie beyond,” and “red-
lipped girls in sunbonnets that’ll look
good after the splay-footed crows you
see out here.” After they got to “riots
in Perth when the pearlers came in off the
Barrier Reef to spend their pay,” I gave
it up. That’s stretching it a bit too far.
“Roisel”: If Hollywood’s child prodi-
gies don’t train on (B. 14/4/’37) it’s prob-
ably because supply exceeds demand once
the cherubs attain the years of adoles-
cence. There’s mighty little market in
the fillums for youth of either sex in the
“arms and legs” period—they’re above
the heads of toddler patrons and beneath
the notice of the more sophisticated
adult. Still there are occasional excep-
tions. Madge Evans may not be a
Garbo or a Dietrich, but she probably
manages to make a bit more per annum
than Joe Lyons, and she was playing
star kid parts for World Pictures in 1914.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: The Geelong Harbor
Trust dredge brought to the surface the
other week in Corio Bay a piece of
charred planking from the clipper ship
Lightning, burnt there
in ’69. This old
record-breaker’s day’s
run of 436 miles and
her 19 days I hour
from Melbourne to
the Horn were never
beaten by sailing
ships. Her first
skipper was Bully
Forbes, of “To hell
or Melbourne in 60
days” fame. A well-
advertised 2460-ton
ship, she often left
port with 500 pas-
sengers, and on one
occasion her cargo
included gold to the
value, of a million.
When her final load
of wool took fire the
attempts made to
scuttle her by the Gee-
long artillery were a
reflection on the
mark s m a nship of
those days. Though
the. 260-foot ship was
broadside on at a range of 300 yards, two
32-pounders mostly missed the vessel,
and the few direct hits created only
draught holes. The Lightning was burned
to the water’s edge before she sank.
“Ex-Mister”: Elderly deepwatermen
will heave a sigh at learning that the. last
of the Thames “Gifting barges” has gone,
swept into, limbo by the march of pro-
gress under the Port of London
Authority. They were sturdy little
sailing-craft which for centuries gained
a hard living by mooring to stakes over
the. river shallows and gathering sand
and gravel with hand-scoops and bags.
The name arose from their reply to
curious passers-by on that great road
from London to the rest of the world—
they were “gitting” ballast. In my
apprentice days, to sing out “Ba-a-a” to
one of these craft was to invite a well r
aimed shower of gravel therefrom. Long
ago a “gitter” was hanged for sheep-
stealing on the Essex side, and anything
that might be construed as a reference
to that ancient happening was hotly
resented.
“Katie Keyboard”: A girl in our
office won a big prize in the lottery, and
she’s gone to see the Coronation on one
of those luxury liners like the politicians
travel on, and I got a letter from her last
week and to tell the other girls. Gee, it
must be swell to travel like that, new
“What, no beer ?”
dresses, and dances, and swimming baths,
and the liner all full of nice boys, and
old gents that’ll buy you anything you
want from those Arab sheiks that sell
curios. And she says the wireless officer
is the real one who finds the way across
all those oceans, not the captain like I
thought, and he’s such a nice boy, and
he told her how the captain and officers
only have to look out they don’t hit any
rocks or other ships and he rings up the
place they want to go to and tells the
captain which way to steer the luxury
liner. And he’s 24, and never kissed a
girl before. Gee, ain’t those English boys
soft?
“Horsetailer”: I nominate as an even
quainter township than Harrow (B.
14/4/’37) s and richer in historical asso-
ciations, Vic.’s little-known Walkerville,
which clings to a high cliff overlooking
Waratah Bay and an arc of uninhabited
coastline stretching round for 60 miles to
the Wilson’s Promontory lighthouse.
The place was visited by Bass on his
famous whaleboat voyage to Western-
port in 1797, and the first dwellings there
were built by ruffianly sealers, decades
before Major Mitchell explored Victoria.
Flinders and the two French navigators,
Baudin and d’Urville, called there. The
township is built on ledges, once lime-
quarries, in the cliff, and from the front
of the post office I’ve looked down the
chimney of the quaint old ‘ coffee palace’
below. There are no roads, and now that
the Melbourne-Gippsland Lakes steamer
has stopped running and the limeburning
industry has petered out there is only
fish-cart communication to the Fish
Creek railway siding, 17 miles away. But
some, day Walkerville may take on an-
other lease of life—it has the finest sweep
of beach suitable for high-speed car-
racing in the south.
3 3 a a
“Pedant 2”: The word “junta” may
have disappeared in this country (B.
14/4/’37), but it is still going strong in
England. Winston Churchill in his
biography of his great ancestor, John,
Duke of Marlborough, uses the word fre-
quently, always spelling it junto. Per-
haps “Pedant 3,” or some, other Bulletin
reader, will say which form is the more
correct.
“Kea”: in the distribution of the
Nuffield monetary gift in Dunedin (M.L.)
one amount of £5O was earmarked for a
unique purpose, the authorities deciding
to hand that amount to the parents of
the Johnson “quads.” to assist in the fur-
nishing of their new home. The home
is the first to be started under the Gov-
ernment housing scheme, and there is a
general opinion that the parents of the
quartet (three girls and a boy) deserve
some special recognition.
“Medal”: There is a distinction
between the conditions for the award of
a V.C. and those under which the Albert
Medal (B. 14/4/’37) is granted, apart
from the line drawn between war-time and
peace. The V.C. is conferred on military
and naval officers and men for conspicu-
ous bravery —“For Valour” —on the field
of action. The Albert Medal is awarded
to any person whatsoever “for acts of
gallantry in saving life at sea or on
land.” Binstead’s act of supreme self-
sacrifice and devotion in returning to
Proud may not be considered to have
saved Proud’s life, especially in view of
O’Reilly’s arrival so soon after the. event.
O’Reilly undoubtedly by his bushcraft
and dogged tenacity saved both men’s
lives.
* * * *
“Bonne Mere”: Meet the mother of a
seventh son of a seventh son both born
with a caul (B. 14/4/’37). As for the
alleged luck attached thereto, I see no
signs of it yet, possibly because someone
got off with my baby’s caul. My hus-
band was the seventh son of 10 in his
father’s first family; his dad married
again and had a further 10 children, this
time sons and daughters. Did you men-
tion declining birthrate?
* * * *
“Fisher”: “The Blue Danube” is
entering on its seventieth year of youth,
now that the younger generation has re-
discovered it for the tenth or dozenth
time since Johann Gottlieb Strauss wrote
it after the Six Weeks’ War of 1866.
Tourists are often disappointed when
they find that the waters of the Danube
near Vienna are not so very unlike those
of the Yarra near Melbourne, but
Strauss christened his tune with perfect
good faith. In his day the waters of
the Danube were blue. The color came
from a cobalt pigment liberated by
water-weeds which had flourished along
the banks of the river from before
Caesar’s day. The churning of paddle-
wheels ploughed up the growth and
destroyed the legendary blue of the
Danube for ever.
* * *
“Towser”: I don’t know whether a
dog can smell fear in a human being, but
I am quite sure, it doesn’t necessarily
make the tyke savage.' The most fear-
inspiring dog I ever saw was quite the
most gentle and inoffensive. He was a
bulldog who infested the streets of Long-
reach (Q.) and he looked the last word
in savage hostility ; but any sheep-dog
looking for stoush could roll Bully in the
dust. Time and again, I’ve seen Bully
sitting on the footpath waiting for his
boss. While he was there, and while he
held that hideous malevolence on his
face, that dog owned the street. I’ve
seen people leave the path and take to
the highway to give him a wide berth ;
others would pick up stones as they
sidled past. Women would scream when
they caught sight of him, strong men
would go pale ; and then a stub-tailed
fox-terrier would come bustling up, put
Bully to flight and clear the road again
for traffic.
DEEP SOUNDINGS.
“The Australian Treasurer (Mr. Casey) has made
considerable progress with his financial soundings in
London. His meetings with financial authorities
include lunches and dinners almost every day.”
•— Cable.
A difficult art
Is put to the proof
When statesmen take part
In raising the oof;
Faint subtle appeals
They float in advance
By murmurs and meals
To foster finance.
A bungler would aim
At making a scoop
By starting a claim
With oysters or soup;
He’d scorn to be long
In getting his wish —
But “Gimme’s” all wrong
As soon as the fish.
Slow action, in fact,
A diplomat seeks:
The statesman of tact
Keeps eating for weeks;
He’ll suffer, he knows,
In health and in punch,
But martyrdom glows
And helps him to lunch.
VICTORIA.
O’FIPP.


Ss**.
, 10/iv 9‘l
WIBB4
\ ' « •»
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
D
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENERATI
POLITICAL POINTS
All the big guns of the U.A.P. have
been firing blank charges at Stewart,
M.H.R., since it was announced—
prematurely, Stewart pleads—that he
might have a go at Parkhill in Warrin-
gah. The Country party has been sig-
nificantly silent, possibly because it has
no use for Parkhill, or it may be be-
cause its hands are full in Gwydir. But
in the allied camp it has been thunder-
ing most of the. week. During the lull
somebody suggested that the U.A.P. was
laughing merrily at the idea of Stewart
putting a hammerlock on Parkhill. It
is all Australia House to a jubilee medal
that Parkhill isn’t laughing.
Parkhill has been revealing in Eng-
land, where the tradition still lingers that
Governments exist to govern, what a
poor thing his Government is:
The American design of ’plane was
recommended by the Air Board. I sent
the recommendation back and then per-
sonally discussed the question with them.
They adhered to their decision. We advised
the British authorities, who suggested an-
other machine, but the board insisted that
the American design was the best.
And having “decided” and “insisted” it
prevailed. How wise the people were
when they refused these worms authority
for a vast extension of government by
board!
A Great Decision or a Great Sacrifice
or something is announced by cable.
Dunstan is to remain Premier of Vic-
toria and let some other representative
of the struggling agriculturist stand
for the now-very-doubtful Federal Ben-
digo electorate. The Great Decision is
a sequel to Dunstan’s friends being wal-
loped at the “United” Country party
conference.
Labor won the Brisbane municipal
elections ; but, with 170,000 votes counted
and 10,000 or so to come, Lord Mayor
Jones's majority over Massey was only
5500. Other re-elected Labor aldermen
saw the party vote slump, and two seats
were lost, one being gained. However,
the five Ind. Labs, were defeated, and
sighs of relief went up from the Q.C.E.
men who had expelled four of them,
and who received the glad news while
they were contending against the Lang
group at the Federal A.L.P. executive
hullabaloo in Sydney.
The Federal A.L.P. executive meeting
in Sydney had one moment of unanimity.
Result, a proclamation that “Labor
refuses affiliation to and dissociates itself
from the policy, methods and propa-
ganda of the Communist party and all
its auxiliary organisations, and declares
the Communist party an anti-Labor
organisation.” Communism has never
been repudiated in more emphatic terms.
To pay for British rearmament, the
Chancellor of the Exchequer is putting
the income tax up 3d. in the £, to 55., and
reviving the excess profits tax (exempt-
ing £2000), though not in the old form.
Like Mr. Micawber’s demands on
Traddles, the Budget is rather a pull,
but it will cost the country immeasur-
ably less than war would.
Still in his first term as M.H.R. for
Lilley, Donald Cameron says he is going
to retire. Cameron was Brisbane’s mem-
ber for 13 years, 1919-1932, and lost the
seat by a mere 540 votes to the present
incumbent, George Lawson. His party
wants him to stand for the Senate. A
Senator’s job is much less exacting than
that of an M.H.R. —indeed, except at
election-time, a great many people for-
get that Senators exist.
Donald Cameron, great-hearted Digger
that he is, would head a Senate team ad-
mirably. Though Queensland Labor has
lost only one State election since 1915, it
has won only one Senate election in the
same period, and the tide is running
against it again.
Maorilanders must be a bit puzzled
with their Finance Minister, Nash. Some
weeks ago he told Britain that his Gov-
ernment was prepared to ' take only
British goods if Britain would take all
Maoriland’s exportable farm produce.
Now he is on the Continent talking re-
ciprocal trade to several European Gov-
ernments. Either Downing-street told
Nash not to be funny or one excuse is as
good as another for a trip across the
Channel.
Nobody has tipped a war as inevitable
for three and a half weeks. This is a
record. But nobody is now returning
from overseas. A fresh crop of “inevit-
able war” tips may be expected from
August onwards.
“Two knights of the U.A.P. Table Round are to engage in grim combat at the Common-
wealth elections.”
“Hand me Excalibur, O King, and watch me tickle him through the cracks!”
Fenner Brockway, one of the bellicose
Independent Labor gentlemen who de-
mand British intervention on the Com-
munist side in the Spanish dogfight, was
so pacifist during the Great War that
he went to gaol rather than serve. He
is the author of a book which proved
to the satisfaction of sheep and goats
that all modern wars have been made by
private manufacturers of armaments,
especially Sir Basil Zarahoff. That Mys-
tery Man of Europe was alleged to have
accumulated a British fortune rivalling
Rockefeller’s by sooling country against
country. Zarahoff died leaving British
estate valued at £183,000. Pork butchers
in fairly good standing have cut up for
more.
Voting at Moree in the last' Gwydir
election was 1768 for the C.P. man (who
was elected), 1762 for Lang Labor and
243 for Federal Labor. What a comfort
to think that Mr. Stevens has come to
light' with a promise of grand new water-
works for the Moree territory!
A Commonwealth Treasury official
has calculated that, for the year to June
30, N.S.W. , taxpayers are contributing
£2,783,000 to the three States whose
Governments trade on alleged disabilities.
It works out at £1 Os. lid. a head. Yet
in some respects N.S.W. taxpayers are
worse off than, taxpayers in the States
getting subsidies. For instance, the West-
ralian isn’t taxed 9d. in the £ per week
on his pay and taxed again on what is
deducted, as in the case of N.S.W. More-
over, annual loss on the Westralian rail-
ways was only £57,400 last year, and the
department admits that interest was less
than the 4 p.c. reckoned. Annual loss
on the N.S.W. railways was just on
£1,500,000.
Pearce, who has never wielded any
weapon deadlier than a handsaw, was
Minister of Defence for seven years,
1914-1921. He has been followed in the
office by Bowden, Howse, Glasgow,
A. E. Green, Daly, Chifley, himself
again, Francis (as assistant) and Park-
hill, and now Thorby is acting for Park-
hill. Of these only Glasgow, Howse and
Francis saw war service, and Howse was
an army doctor. War service seems to
be regarded as a drawback.
Things must be rotten in Rumania.
There have been reports to that effect,
but the Empire is assured that “King
Carol is a typical hardworking modern
monarch, who has the support of a well-
paid and disciplined army free from
political control,” and that' “Bucharest
is as tranquil as London.” The “Cronk-
News” gives the assurance.
Because somebody wanted to go out
and shoot something on someone else’s
property Chaffey, the Chief Secretary,
agreed to let' 500 Californian quail
loose in N.S.W. The project was con-
cealed from his own Agricultural De-
partment, and, moved by representations
that the imported quail might become as
rank a pest as the sparrow or the
starling, Canberra in a commonsense
moment' vetoed it. Hitherto remarkable
only for banning—a theatre building and
plays are on his list —Chaffey would be
first choice in a plebiscite to decide who
is the stupidest member of a stupid
Ministry.
An American committee of “intellec-
tuals” is inquiring in Mexico whether
Trotsky plotted to overthrow the Soviet.
It doesn’t matter two hoots whether he
did or didn’t, but the committee takes
itself seriously. Trotsky “admitted having
lied about Lenin’s last testament,” and
a Mr. Carlton Beals, described as “a
noted author,” resigned forthwith. Surely
a noted author should have known that
lying is part of the Soviet system.
Senator Hardy to the electors of
Gwydir:
The Country-party Government has given
the producers £30,000,000.
If it is argued that only people who elect
Country-party members are producers,
there are about 425,000 of them. That’s
over £7O a producer. Prodigious!
N.S.W.’s principal U.A.P. newspaper
reports that “remarkable results have
followed the introduction of the Queens-
land Racing Act which aimed at the sup-
pression of s.p. betting”—increases of
40 p.c. to 108 p.c. in attendances and of
40 p.c. in tote receipts ; a greater demand
for Government transport on race-days
(“twice as many tramcars are needed”)
and “a large influx of newcomers to the.
ranks of racecourse bookmakers.” The
Darling Downs by-election and the Bris-
bane municipal elections show unmistak-
ably that the political fortunes of the
party responsible for the Act have suf-
fered in the process. This is likely to
weigh more with the gentlemen in Mac-
quarie-sfreet, Sydney, than any collection
of racing statistics.
Polysyllables were showered on the
Victorian De Castelia when he advised
Australians to drink more of their excel-
lent beverage wines. “Alcohol,” quoth the
secretary of the Local Option Alliance,
“is a physiological and protoplasmic
poison, a narcotic, irritant and habit-
creating drug” ; which is rough on those
responsible for the stronger rum issue in
the Royal Navy. Also Poincare is
alleged to have, “authorised the follow-
ing statement to be placed in school
manuals”:
France to-day offers the melancholy
spectacle of a nation rushing to decadence
through alcohol.
If Poincare, a Lorrainer, ever endorsed
that “statement” he must have had dram-
drinking in mind, not wine-drinking.
In a lurid vision of the future, the
“Aeroplane,” an outspoken British paper,
sees “Japanese aeroplanes, built of steel
made from Australian iron ore extracted
by an- American company, fighting over
Australian territory against American
aeroplanes assembled in Australia.” This
may be overdoing it, but a Government
which is “buying aeroplane parts from
America” and at the same time “allow-
ing an American co. to equip a Japanese-
controlled Australian co. to extract and
export Australian iron ore to Japan” in-
vites criticism. Especially as
Australia has excellent steelworks in
which the iron ore might be transformed
into steel with which to build aeroplanes to
English designs, possibly improved by Aus-
tralian enginers.
Every word of that is true.
The Palmerston Highway, between
Innisfail (N.Q.), Millaa Millaa and
Ravenshoe, on the Atherton Plateau, is
the finest piece of developmental road
work yet done in Australia’s north. Not
only does it open up thousands of acres
of virgin scrub land, but it cuts down
transport for plateau produce from 170
miles in two days by rail to 42 miles
in two hours by road. For, thanks to
the Road Transport Development Asso-
ciation, if may now be used for com-
mercial passenger and goods transport at
extortionate but still practicable fees.
[Any election matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


After takihq omb lunar
" Two Lumps.
IT’S SURE TO BE QUEENSLAND SUGAR.
"An emergency ration of two lumps of sugar will be supplied to the troops who will participate in the procession on Coronation Day.”


The Kicliardson Chain Hotel
11
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
in", Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
GF
B-tLVf-DERf
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
■
V
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
GF
EstuvrcHßC i*'. Belvedere mm Belvedere ms
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. •. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. •• •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £ 1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PERSAL ITEMS
British scientists have commissioned
sculptor A. H. Gerrard to model a
bronze bust of Grafton Elliot Smith to
be placed in the London School of
Anatomy “to commemorate the leading
part he played over a period of 40 years
in the advancement of anatomical and
anthropological teaching and research.”
A more fitting home for this bust would
be the Sydney Medical School, which first
cradled Elliot .Smith and set the feet of
this brilliant Australian on the path
which led to fame.
Edwin Dwyer-Gray, Tasmania’s Treas-
urer, is the. son and grandson of Irish
Ms.P. Now 67, he came to the Speck
at 28 after having edited the “Free-
man’s Journal” in Dublin and has since
edited every Hobart Labor paper except
W. A. Woods’s “Clipper.” He is Premier
Ogilvie s deputy, and as a member of the
Federal Labor executive is in Sydney to
“COMRADES.”
attend the Unity Conference —a peren-
nial affair. He has been nine years in
the Tas. Assembly. Eric James Ogilvie,
Tassie’s short, thick-set' Attorney-
General, is the brother of the Premier
who has just, flown across the U.S.A.
on his way to the Coronation. Like,
his brother he was born in Hobart
(1892) and represents the, Wilmot divi-
sion. Both were educated at Ballarat —
Albert at St. Patrick’s and Eric at the
Christian Brothers’, and finished off
their schooling at Hobart University.
With Dwyer-Gray he represents Tasmania
on the Federal Labor Conference at
Sydney.
G.O.M. of the Australian Natives’
Association, George H. Wise, was dined
in Melbourne last week on the com-
pletion of 50 years’ membership of the
board of directors. Wise was elected to
the board at Ballarat in Queen Victoria’s
jubilee year, and is still going strong at
80. Member for Gippsland in five Par-
liaments, his crowded hour of glorious
life was his two years as Postmaster-
General in Billy Hughes’s ever-changing
final Ministry, before which he had
represented Pearce on defence matters
in the Reps. The 1922 election ended
his Parliamentary career.
The. diplomatic tangle created by the
action of the former Spanish Consul in
Sydney, Don Pedro de Ygual y Mar-
tinez Daban, who handed over his papers
to the Italian Consul while he went off
to fight for Franco, is not likely to
trouble Ramon Mas, who takes Don
Pedro’s place. Mas, who is 42, has been
in Australia 25 years, most of the time
in W.A., but for the past few years he
has been growing mushrooms in an un-
used portion of the Sydney underground
railway tunnel, a job as far removed from
war’s alarms as one could hope to get.
Mas is an authority on the mushroom,
and last year published a fresh edition
of his book on the subject. There are
only about 600 Spanish nationals in the
Commonwealth.
Group-Captain Keith Rodney Park,
one of the King’s eight aides —besides the
Dukes of Gloucester and Kent, there are
two officers each from the Army, Navy
and Air Force —is a Maorilander, and
the only one of the eight without a title.
Youngest son of the former Otago Uni-
versity Dean of Mining, Park went to
the war as a private, was one of the
Dominion soldiers chosen for an Eng-
lish commission, and, after being
wounded in France, joined the Air
Force, remaining in the permanent force
after the war. He was attache to the
British Embassy at Buenos Ayres before
being called to his present job.
Frank Hurley, who is to make a Cine-
sound picture, has had a picturesque
career. As a youth he was an
itinerant photographer in Sydney;
then he turned to war photography,
and the Balkans, which were always
having a scrap at that time, gave
him a good tryout. He later be-
came official photographer to the
A.1.F., and some of his photo-
graphs in the Australian War
Museum show picture hopovers
taken in front of them. Hurley
next found Papua a stamping-
ground for adventure, and his
silent movie “Pearls and Savages”
was his first film success.
E. J. Dunn, the geologist who in the
’nineties found how the reefs bent at
Bendigo and gave new life to that gold-
field, and who made an even greater dis-
covery when by boring he located the
Wonthaggi coalfield, has passed out at
Kew (Vic.) at 92. He married in 1875,
and his wife’s engagement ring was made
of diamonds he had washed out at Kim-
berley and gold he had panned on the
Rand.
“N. Coast”: So Bob Whitten, of
Samarai, the Yodda and Papua’s north-
coast generally, has gone after outwitting
the climate and the wily savage for 43
years. Whitten Bros, were in early with
their store on the. Yodda goldfield, when
Bogi was the Government station. Bogi
was later abandoned on account of
blackwater, and Kokoda took its place.
Bob Whitten’s schooner dropped stores
for the Government and miners at odd
places from Samarai to Mitre Rock, on
the then German boundary. It was the
one link of an isolated community with
the outside world. Long ago when his
newly-wed wife made the journey with
him, the bride was admiring a native
woman’s child at one of the stopping-
places. “What name belong piccaninny?”
she innocently inquired. She was stag-
gered with the reply—“ Bob Whittoni.”
Bob took quite a time explaining that the
baby’s name was a sort of compliment
to him, and that Papua was reeking with
tiny “smuts” who answered to “Gubner
MacGregor,” “Misser Monkton” and
names like that.
Some May birthdays:
Vic. Crown Prosecutor Book, 42, on Ist;
N.S.W. Senator Charles Cox, 74, and Prof.
J. R. Wilton (Adel.), 53, on 2nd; Gerald Light-
foot (sec., C.S. and 1.R.), 60, Justice Rich
(High Court), 74, Prof. T. H. Laby (Melb.),
57, knight Colin Stephen (Syd.), 65, on 3rd;
C. L. A. Abbott (Administrator, North Aus-
tralia), 51, and Prof. McKellar Stewart (Adel.),
59, on 4th; Justice Bavin (N.S.W.), 63, and
Douglas Mawson, 55, on sth; Bishop Fox (Wil-
cannia-Forbes), 44, on 6th; Harold Clapp (Vic.
Railways Commissioner), 62, on 7th; S.A. Gov.
Maj.-Gen. Sir Winston Dugan, 60, and James
Ashton (Syd.), 73, on Bth; Dr. George
Mackaness, 55, T. H. Scholfield, M.H.R.
(Wannon), 43, Bishop Burgmann (Goulburn),
52, and S.A. Senator Oliver Uppill, 61, on 9th;
knight Claude H. Reading, 63, and N. F. Spiel-
vogel (Vic.), 63, on 10th; Q’land Senator Col-
lings, 72, on 11th; Dean Johnson (Newcastle),
48, on 12th; Bishop James (St. Arnaud), 60, on
13th; former S.A. Premier Lionel Hill, 56, and
Prof. J. J. Stable (Q.), 54, on 14th; Q. Chief
Justice Blair, 66, and C. A. S. Hawker, M.H.R.
(Wakefield), 43, on 16th; poet Leon Gellert,
45, and Q. Min. for Works H. A. Bruce, 52,
on 17th; Dr. P. R. Cole (Syd. Teachers’ Coll.),
58, artist W. B. Mclnnes, 48, J. A. Perkins,
M.H.R. (Eden-Monaro), 59, and authoress Zora
Cross, on 18th; A. H. Stuart (gen. manager
“S. M. Herald”), 44, on 19th; Vic. Senator
Gibson, 68, F. J. Rae (Director Melb. Botanical
Gardens), 54, and H. E. Boote (editor “Aust.
Worker”), 69, on 20th; Q. Railways Commis-
sioner Davidson, 65, on 21st; Justice Parsons
(S.A.), 65, Judge Beeby, 68, N.S.W. Min. for
Lands Buttenshaw, 61, on 23rd; Justice Pike
(N.S.W.), 71, on 25th; Senate President Lynch,
70, on 26th; knight Arthur Cocks (Syd.), 75,
Brig.-Gen. McNicholl (Administrator of New
Guinea), 60, and S.A. Director of Educ. W. J.
Adey, 63, on 27th; ex-Judge Backhouse
(N.S.W.), 86, on 28th; W.A. Min. for Agric.
F. J. S. Wise, 40, on 30th; Q. Senator Foil,
47, on 31st.
New Chinese Consul-General for Aus-
tralia Dr. Chun Jien Pao, who first saw
the light at Kiangsu 40 years ago, had
an intensive training for his office. After
graduating in law at the National Uni-
versity at Peiping he was sent by his Gov-
ernment to Columbia, Harvard and Cor-
nell (U.S.) for advanced studies in politi-
cal economy, returning to China to teach.
Before long he was Commissioner for
Education for Greater Shanghai, and then
went to the Foreign Office, where he
learned how to draft treaties. In Aus-
tralia he hopes to improve trade relations
with China,- and believes also that a
Dr. C. J. PAO, China’s Consul-General.
cultural affinity must evolve between Aus-
tralia and the Orient. He admits, re-
gretfully, the existence of “a certain lack
of understanding between China and
Japan.”
Melbourne ' Grammar’s head-of-the-
river crew swung down the Yarra the
other night with Grammar’s boss row-
ing number five—when you have the
quiet, firm manner of D. S. Colman
you can do that sort of thing without
losing prestige as a headmaster. Shrews-
bury educated him before he began an
Oxford classics course in 1924. He was
tutoring as a Fellow of Queen’s College,
Oxford, when Shrewsbury got him back
as classics and ancient-history master.
Together with a young wife —a relative
of Melbourne’s Archbishop Head —he
reached Vic. a few weeks ago to begin
his first term as Grammar’s new head.
He is 30.
Speaker in the Crow State's Parlia-
ment since 1933, Robert Dove Nicholls
is an S.A. native who was elected for
South Australia’s Speake .
Stanley when he was 26 and has held the
seat for 22 years. He is an ardent local
preacher and helps to direct the Farmers’
Co-op. Union.
Anchel Neumann (Newman) and Hugh
D. Mclntosh having taken the milk-bar
idea from Sydney to London success-
fully, Stuart Doyle, Australian movie
magnate, has decided to show London
how to build a cinema. He is joint
managing director of a company which
is demolishing the last of the Nash-
designed section of Regent-street to build
two theatres on the site, one to seat
1500, the other 550, with shops, offices
and restaurant complete, on the lines of
the State theatres in
Sydney. Neumann, a
Rumanian confectioner,
came to Australia in
1914, having taken
stock of the candy-
store-soda-fountain in
the U.S.A. en route,
and introduced the
milk-shake to Sydney.
He made a small for-
tune and retired to England on his Aus-
tralian investments. The slump in the
Australian pound and difference in ex-
change forced him into business again,
and he promptly opened milk bars.
Mclntosh had no fortune to lose, but
shrewdly saw the chance of making one ;
he followed suit, and now has a chain of
Black and White milk bars scattered
about London.


You will be PROUDER
to offer these
Ardath has long been a proud name in
England. And now a SPECIAL Ardath is
available —ARDATH SPECIALS —the very
last word in Cigarette perfection —an en-
tirely new blend.
i
The Ardath LAUBE box is the smartest,
most intriguing package ever invented.
'v yg.
«
m
\
y
v
“Ardath Elevator”
—just another
Special touch ex-
clusive to “Ardath
Specials.” In 10’s,
20’s, Flat 50’s
and 100’s boxes.
RDATH
VIRG I N I A
CIGARETTES
TEN for NINEPENCE . . . TWENTY for ONE and SIX
ALSO ROUND AND FLAT FIFTIES AND ONE HUNDREDS BOXES
59008-4-7


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM 'MINE TINK IT BEST'
“Dibden”: So they use white mos-
quito-nets nowadays on the Roebuck
Plains (W.A.) and similar
places! Back about the begin-
ning of the century we always
dyed our nets black. No, the
a bos. weren’t really hostile, but
there was always a chance of
a lone wayfarer with a plump
“bluey” or a loaded wagon
proving too tempting, and a
black mosquito-net was moie
difficult to find in the dark than
a ghostlike, white. Likewise, it
was reckoned good manners
to sleep with one’s boots on
and with feet to a tree instead
of head. A murderously in-
clined buck sneaking up under
cover of the tree trunk and
reaching round brought his
waddy down on leather, giving
the sleeper time to reach for
the gun which wise men kept
handy. Thus usually nothing
happened other than a slightly
damaged foot, a buck sprint-
ing for his life and a wasted
shot.
“O. W. Waireki”: I watched Henare
pack some fine tomatoes I had promised
to leave with the local storekeeper, who
was to carry them on to the native’s
brother upcountry. After packing the
fruit in two 51b. tea-tins, Henare cut a
large piece of very smelly beef from a
decidedly “high” quarter hanging near
by, and, placing it in the bottom of a
sugarbag, put in the two tins of toma-
toes. “Surely Topi won’t eat meat like
that,” I remarked. Henare beamed, “ft
not for him to eat,” he said. “It for te
storekeeper. Plenty times his memory
forget t’ings I leave at te shop. Now he
can’t forget, if he still got a nose.”
* # * *
“N7Y”: One of the rummest acci-
dents I ever saw with stock was when
we inoculated 1200 bullocks on Walgra
(W.Q.). It was the first time any of us
had used cultivated virus, and we were
curious to see what after-effects, if any,
it had on the cattle. Shortly after we
had finished the job one bullock let out
a bellow, bucked, turned in the air, hit
the ground, gave a kick or two and lay
still. With visions of the rest of the
mob turning up their toes we spent an
anxious night watching ’em, but nothing
happened. Next day we conducted a
post-mortem to see what had twisted that
bullock’s works. What had happened to
him was that, feeling playful, he had
bucked, turned, fallen and snapped his
spine as neat as a man would break a
carrot.
¥ * .-is ¥
“Peter”: Chopping out the superfluous
male trees among my backyard crop of
pawpaws, I left one for experiment in
turning it into a female tree. The surest
way I know of doing this is to run a
thick splinter through the trunk. After
a week or so the pawpaw, while still
holding some of its male flowers, blos-
somed out with a female bloom. She
bore more, and every one of them
fruited. But after a few months the
pawpaw changed back to all male again.
I slipped another splinter into him. The
resultant lady produced more fruit.
The process was repeated nine times
before the pawpaw decided to be a lady
for good. Anyone can draw what
moral he likes from the fact that a paw-
paw which is born a female can’t be
induced to turn male by any means
whatever.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A quiet, good-
natured chap, Nugget fought for the
sheer love of the game, and after three
one-hit encounters he was both surprised
and delighted to hear a quiet Irish drawl
from further up the bar: “Naow Oi’ll
hev a goa at yez, juist fer fun.” fvfugget
warmed to a kindred spirit and gave him
a good run before dropping him. Irish
rose slowly and impartially reviewed the
situation. “Oi’ll hev another goa at yez,”
he announced, “juist fer fun.” Nugget
made short work of it this time, and the
other was content. “Ahl roight,” he
agreed. “You win.” He appeared
thoroughly satisfied with the night’s
entertainment.
“Wot's Wrong ?”
“The ol' bloke's bavin' a stay-in strike !”
“Notaden”: Watching a squadron of
kites cruising above a W.Q. plain, I
was surprised to see one detach itself
from the main body and swoop at
terrific speed behind a fold in the ground
a quarter of a mile away. An instant
later a mob of white cockatoos shot aloft,
shrieking the danger-call. Cautious
approach and a pair of good glasses
afforded visible proof of a fact that I
had always doubted. A black falcon
was holding down an unlucky cockatoo
and tearing it to pieces with powerful
beak. It was the first time I had seen
the strategy of that rare, ferocious killer,
which deliberately uses the peaceful,
carrion-feeding kites, not unlike itself in
coloring and size, as camouflage for
getting within striking range of its prey.
It never seems to attack the kites, and
they have no apparent fear of their
formidable companion.
“Rio”: Add to the list of bush cele-
brities “Paddy the Poet,” a wanderer of
nor’-west W.A. I returned to camp one
evening after dryblowing all day in a
hot gully and found him taking it easy
on my bunk. He had put the tin-dog
stew on to warm up for supper and the
billy for the tea. We were utter strangers,
but he calmly explained that he had
invited himself to stay with me for a
couple of days; said he’d just arrived
from Marble Bar via Whim Creek. His
outfit consisted of a rifle canvas sheet,
lump of bacon and a waterbag. His
neddy seemed as hard a doer as its
owner, nosing about among the empty
tins near the camp. “Best camper in
the north,” was how Paddy described
the nag. “Keeps his condition on bits
of damper and spinifex.” He said he
was called “Paddy the Poet” because he
wrote for The Bulletin.
* Me $ *
“Nordbo”: At a Salvation Army ser-
vice in Innisfail (N.Q.), the captain con-
demned the use of bad language. “Com-
ing along the road,” he said, “I passed
a bogged bullock-wagon, and when I
say that the language that bullocky used
was shocking I’ve said enough. Further
along I struck another bullocky, and
what a contrast was he! He was our
black brother Warrigal, here with us to-
night, sitting on top of his load, singing
a rousing Salvation Army song, as happy
as” Then a voice from the audi-
ence interrupted. “The blankard wasn’t
bogged, though,” it said emphatically.
:Jc i[i -K •{»
“Bert the Carpenter”: You Can always
tell a new hand on a construction job in
the bush by the way he goes about look-
ing for something to use as a bathtub.
The old hand grabs a concrete-barrow,
washes it out, wheels it into his tent or
cubicle, stands a bucket of hot water on
a box alongside, then strips off and sits
in the barrow with his feet on the
handles. Using a mug as a dipper, he
bails water over himself, soaps from
head to foot, then bails the rest of the
water on, finishing the job by standing
in the barrow to wash his legs. After-
wards the barrow is wheeled outside, and
a quick tip shoots the water well clear
of the tent. There’s no pool of water on
the floor, as there is after a tin-dish
attempt at bathing, and no long walk in
the freezing wind from the bath-house
to the tent.
“Naturala”: Aware that Nature, was
using most of man’s tools and weapons
long before man “invented” them—as
the scissors in the claw of the crab, the
lance in the swordfish, the saw in the
sawfish, the rat-trap in the jaws of the
shark, the projectile in fish which with
a jet of water brings down the insect,
the aeroplane in the flying fish —I had
often wondered at the absence of the
club. The other day I found it. Of
course, the crocodile can give a power-
ful side sweep with his tail, though that
is hardly direct clubbing. Scratching for
shrimps the net brought up a crus-
tacean almost the replica of a lobster,
broad tail, long legs holding the thorax
high, and two claws. One claw, however,
was tiny, while the other was, compara-
tively, of tremendous size, seemingly de-
formed and obviously useless for nip-
ping. Watching the shallows I saw these
little fellows in action. Half swimming,
half running on long legs, they brought
the big claw down on any worm or tiny
mud fish not' awake enough to elude
them. Squashed and held by the club
claw the prey was then picked to pieces
by the nimble smaller claw.
* !> * *
“Shamuseen”: I nominate Binghi as
the most infatuated disciple of Mor-
pheus. I’ve seen a circle of boys go to
sleep round a fire which, freshened by
breeze, blazed up sufficiently during the
night to blister the leather-like soles of
the abo. feet without disturbing the
sleepers. Binghi’s deep slumber is prob-
ably a result of his sticking for genera-
tions to the belief that during sleep the
spirit or soul of the sleeper goes on holi-
day from the body and voyages far
afield. Accordingly, the sleeper must not
be suddenly awakened, because the per-
ambulating soul must be given an oppor-
tunity to return to its domicile before
sleep is dispelled. Should the soul be
laggard an evil spirit will seize the op-
portunity to slip into the earthly temple
in the instant between sleeping and wak-
ing before the legitimate tenant arrives.
Time and again I’ve known otherwise
dutiful “boys,” rather than violate the
old belief, point-blank disregard a direct
order to waken the boss at a certain
hour.
* if Sc *
“Nordbo”: For resourcefulness the
Australian bushman is unbeatable. Bill
Lesina, droving 300 wethers from Port-
land Downs, on the Barcoo (n.-w. Q.), to
Ilfracombe trucking yards, stopped by a
bore drain where a traveller had already
made camp. Preparing supper, the
camper regretted that as the pipe of his
carbide-gas lamp had broken in the pack
they must eat by firelight only. But
when Bill produced a tin of powdered
skimmed milk he brightened up. Out of
the tin he fashioned a pipe, covered it
with a thick paste of the powder and
baked it over the fire. The product was
a strong gastight job.
v ❖
“Atrax”: When the barber asks if
you'll have anything on it, don’t if you
are going anywhere in the neighborhood
of bees. They are tempera-
mental insects at best; particu-
larly so, as a Nambour (Q.)
man recently discovered, in the
matter of smells. Passing a hive
on the way home from the
hairdresser, who had recom-
mended a scented application,
lie was met by the inmates, who
poured out as one indignant bee
and wired into him with their business
ends. Being of an investigatory turn of
mind, he tested the matter out by de-
clining the barber’s offer on his next
tonsorial visit and then approaching the
same hive. They ignored him.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Strangely enough,
Binghi in the Far North is more subject
to damage by mosquitoes than are Euro-
peans. This is due largely to the black
pigment hue, which color always attracts
the pest. Also, the island Binghi, though
a stoic when it comes to major injuries,
is a pitiful whiner in the matter of mos-
quito bites. Nor can native youngsters
stand the pest as well as white kids. I
have known native lugger crews to
anchor right out in the stream and en-
dure a night’s tossing rather than anchor
in the lee of an island where the mossies
were bad. Though abos. can sleep any-
where, I’ve often wondered how a crew
of 15 or 16 can snooze in the for’ard
hatch of a lugger where a smoke fire
has made the atmosphere the last word
in fugginess, but they prefer even these
conditions to mosquitoes.
* * * *
“Keg”: There is no trade secret about
cockies’ joy being used to give animals
sealskin-like coats. As long as I can
remember the stock fodder in the
Queensland sugar belt has been chop-
chop (cut up sugarcane tops) plus
molasses. Horses from those parts can
be picked out anywhere by their glossy
hides.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: Tell anyone casting
doubts on the practicability of boots for
working dogs in the Australian outback
that pretty well all drovers’ dogs on the
Darling (N.S.W.) are booted. They have
to be because of the burrs. My best
tyke wore out 23 sets overlanding from
Bourke to the Murray. But if you let
Bluey water with them on they will go
hard and soon crack his feet. Also,
boots cramp a dog’s action for all time ;
once you shoe him you always have to.
RUINS IN MIST.
The bush is smothered in a misty rain;
The gaunt, grey gums are pallid silhouettes,
Which drifting rain-dust shows and blurs again,
Revives awhile, then patiently forgets;
And, now and then, uncertain summits peep
Out of the white like gods disturbed in sleep.
Old, crumbled walls stand in this place of trees.
Along the walls dim-pointed grasses shoot
Through cracks and crannies; and l'ern-traceries
That under the foundations take their root
Make over rutted stones in straggling line
To tumbled fireplace, where they intertwine.
This was a large room, largest in the house.
The walls were white; the floor was smooth
and firm;
And only in the darkness dared the mouse
Scratch wainscot long since eaten by the
worm.
Time was when company in chairs at table
Talked in this room of things that now are
fable.
Time was when, in the golden afternoon,
The sun-rays wavered over windowsills
To laps of women sewing; time when soon
There would be dancing—polkas and quad-
rilles,
The cotillion, the lancers, the coranto,
With young men dressed like gallants from
Lepanto.
This room rang music! Social evenings
Were held in it, and here the dancers glided
In chandelier and firelight yellowings.
Though in the darkness laughing-jacks
derided,
The sweet-voiced violin sang sweetlier yet
As two, new-plighted, trod the minuet.
The house is blanketed in misty showers.
The pallid silhouettes of gum-trees loom
Round the forgotten garden, but the flowers
Of other days break forth in ghostly bloom.
Hist! Hist! Was that a soft wind stirring in,
Or the faint rustle of a crinoline?
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.


“Qwert Yuiop”: Everybody is fami-
liar with the message-containing bottle
washed up on the shores of the mighty
ocean with its sad or hilarious or coldly
scientific screed within ; this practice of
competing with the Postal Department
per dead marine seems to be spreading
inland to Australia’s vast open spaces.
A brandy-bottle floating in a backwater
of the Barwon, near Mungindi (N.S.W.),
contained a message stating that it had
been released at Boringa, 81 miles up-
stream, a request to the finder to inform
the press, and wishes for a Happy New
Year. As it was launched on December
16, 1933, and picked up on April 4,
1937, its average speed of two miles per
month failed to beat even the slowest
Australian mail, and proceedings are not
likely to be taken against the sender.
H= * H= H=
“The 0.D.”: Minduk, a paddock of
Euston station (N.S.W.), consisted of a
few thousand acres of whipstick mallee,
sandhills and porcupine grass. In the
1919 drought the tank dried up and the
sheep were taken into the river country.
Months passed over that dry waste of
scrub and grassless hill and flat. Rain
came in July and, five months after they
had been taken out, the sheep were
brought back. There to meet them were
six strong wethers! Camels, be blowed!
❖ # * %
“Hanko”: To discourage “bandi-
cooters” an old cocky I knew tried en-
tombing rabbit traps in the rows of spuds
nearest the road, but the murphies went
just the same, and so did the traps.
There is an efficient banisher, however,
“Give baby his bath, Bill, while I get your dinner!"
and it was used in a plot of spuds in
Flanders—a planting of Mills bombs
with the pins out. When troops from
another unit began to excavate for those
tubers the resultant leg-action had all the
pace of a Stawell Gift finish. What
harebrained fool set the things? Our
gallant sar’n-major.
“Horsetailer”: Tasmanian Huon pine’s
resistance to marine borers is due to an
oil which, though non-poisonous and
medicinal, is fatal to these parasites.
Some years ago a Tas. doctor, noticing
sawyers curing ulcers with sawdust poul-
tices of this wood, investigated and found
them an absorbent, an antiseptic and a
protective dressing, and in consequence
pronounced this pine to stand alone for
"You’re the only member of my class who failed in the exam., Jachson."
"Isn’t it marvellous, sir, hoW accurate these phrenologists are? One told me I Was SURE to be distinguished!"
splints. At Strahan (Tas.) he distilled
from the wood a pale-amber oil which
was later successfully used by the B.M.A.
in Australia and South Africa for treat-
ing leprous ulcers. Now, owing to the
increasing scarcity of Huon, the oil is
unobtainable in large commercial quan-
tities. Big trees —they are slow-growing
and never exceed 60ft. ; I’ve never seen
one over 45ft. are now rare; and
recently at Macquarie Harbor, the last
stronghold Of this wood on the Speck’s
rugged west coast, piners resorted to
digging up logs that were felled a century
ago by convict labor for the penal ship-
building yards at Sarah Island, near by.
The timber was as sound as the day it
toppled.
* * * *
“Jemel”: Bluey, our cattle-dog, is
both tough and ambitious. He went to
“heel” the back wheel of a motor-wagon,
but his teeth got caught between the rim
and the tyre and he took the full turn.
With a resounding whack he landed on
the broad of his back and lay dazed for
a minute, minus three fangs. Then he
arose, bleeding from the mouth, and
dashed away to “heel” the local council's
Diesel roller off the road.
“Verri”: The bank manager had occa-
sion to visit a farm about 16 miles from
the town. The farmer’s daughter Jane,
a hefty lass of 16, picked him up in the
family sulky and drove off. Five miles
out she suddenly put the reins in his
hands, and with “Hold those! I see a
snake!” leapt from the vehicle. A foot
of snaketail dangling from a hole in a
cutting was Jane’s objective: a clutch,
a sharp pull, a lightning whirl, and the
snake lay cracked to death. The b.m.,
with an inborn horror of snakes, felt
slightly overcome, and when he found
the reins in his hands again asked Jane
to desist. Jane, explaining that it was a
point of honor never to pass a snake,
killed number two. She killed four on
the trip. The b.m., arriving at the farm
a nervous wreck, firmly declined Jane
as Jehu for the trip back.
“Turon River”: It strikes me that
those Aboites who have lately been
championing the eaglehawk have been
uncommonly lucky. I’ve seen one cut
a lamb out of a flock, kill it and rip it
from end to end in less time than it
takes to tell. A pair of them can do as
much damage among lambing ewes as a
killer dog. Incidentally, I’ve never seen
the wedgetail lift anything overweight.
When one does go in for a big lift he
usually picks a high hill and a windy
day —grabs hold of his load, spreads his
wings and lets the wind do the lifting.
A big wedgetail—say, Bft. wingspread —
will break even with a turkey for weight.
And why shouldn’t he? He lives high
on lambs, poisoned and trapped rabbits
—with the skins on preferred, blast him!
“Pest”: While some people are advo-
cating removing to the outback’s open
spaces the deer which have become
a nuisance in N.S.W. National Park,
S.A. papers are full of stories of the
havoc wrought there on crops, young
trees and fences by the descendants of
deer introduced years ago. One man
who has been entertaining deer on a
large scale for years says they have
shortened his life and made him an
object of hatred to neighbors who have
fences or crops to preserve. He was
wise enough to fence in his deer country
years ago with Bft. wire-netting at great
expense. Even this does not stop the
deer, for in the rutting season the stags
tear great holes in it with their antlers.
And these deer are comparatively mild.
What may be expected from the wild
red deer of the National Park type can
be gathered from Maoriland’s unhappy
experience ; deer are as great a pest in
the South Island as the blowfly is in
Australia.
He * * *
“Gryllus”: No politician need be
ashamed to take a lesson in the useful
art of bluffing from a harmless little
moth which lives in S.Q. I’m in-
terested just now in spiders, a ferocious
and formidable race, feared throughout
the insect world for their poison and
their appetite. To-day I thought I had
found a new species, until its “ legs ”
unfolded into wings, appendages which
no spider has ever worn. It was a fair
take-down; but for many a thousand
years this moth has been deceiving birds
and insects —much better observers than
I can ever become. She had only to
sit, furl her wings and bend her head to
produce the appearance of a particularly
nasty-looking spider. I treated the little
bluffer to a booze-up of bush honey and
water and took her back home after she
had slept it off.
H= * * *
“Golden Mile”: Speaking of detonator
escapes, “Bungo,” sinking foundations
for a building in Kalgoorlie, struck
something with his pick and, easing it
out, found that the point had gone right
through a full tin of detonators. There
were a couple more tins and about a
case of gelignite also in the cache —either
a long-forgotten magazine or a thieves’
plant. Reckoning the. detonators, which
were somewhat corroded, were dead, the
blacksmith’s striker put one on the anvil
and dropped a sledge-hammer on to it.
He was off a week with sprained wrists.
* H= * *
“Brock”: I,wonder where “Gryllus”
(B. 14/4/’37) got the notion that badgers
are “among the natural enemies of
rabbits” in Great Britain. Stoats, weasels
and owls certainly are, but this is the
first time I ever heard the badger accused
of preying on bunny. According to the
Encyc. Brit.,
the European badger is a quiet, inoffen-
sive animal, nocturnal and solitary in its
habits, sleeping by day in its burrow and
issuing forth at night to feed on roots,
beech-mast, fruit, the eggs of birds, some
of the smaller quadrupeds, frogs and in-
sects.
“Some of the smaller quadrupeds” might
be held to include field-mice, moles and
the like, but nothing, I venture, bigger.
BACK TO BOONGARRIE.
They came from the city, they came from the
farms,
They came in their cars, in the train;
Greybeards and matrons and babies-in-arms
Came back to the old town again.
The street was all meetings, all laughter and
greetings;
“God bless me if that isn’t Harry!”
A host of old faces, from far distant places,
To join in the Back to Boongarrie.
Came sports and came picnics; they wandered
around
Whiskered and wrinkled and grey,
Searching again for the friends they had found,
And leading them gently away.
For time quickly passes between a few glasses —
It eases the years that we carry;
To-morrow we’re parted, but why be down-
hearted?
Here’s luck to the Back to Boongarrie!
School in the morning, an hour in the past,
Say “Here, sir!” again to the head.
Concerts and dancing, old feet flashing fast,
And never a thought about bed.
Girls, sweetly smiling, bring memories beguiling,
“Isabel, who did she marry?”
If daylight is breaking and roosters are waking,
Who cares? It’s the Back to Boongarrie!
The new generation were duly regaled
With tales of the days that are done,
Bushfire and quagmire and harvests that failed,
Broadaxe and packhorse and gun;
Awful privations and wild celebrations —
And yet they’re as happy as Larry!
It’s no use my trying, their truth beats my
.lying,
The folk that came back to Boongarrie.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


Five reasons why a
private executor may
prove unsatisfactory
1. He offers no security.
2. He may leave the Country.
3. He may not live to carry out the Trusts.
4. He gives his spare time only to the
administration of the Estate.
5. He probably does not know the duties of
an Executor.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited offers ample security, cannot leave the
Country, goes on for ever, devotes its whole
time to the carrying out of the duties and has
acted as Executor and Trustee for nearly 6o
years.
It is better and safer to appoint a corporate
trustee and ensure perpetual fidelity to the
terms of your Will.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
«. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £lO,OOO with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.;
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G.; Sir Ler.non Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman', W. D. Stewart,
R. T. Hiider.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes
T 2.16
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 652,621 14 p.c. = 560,000 40,000 3,945,508
1927.. 654,060 14 „ „ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ „ 630,000 4,636,943
1930.. 615,084 13 „ „ 585,000 4,667,027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931.. 217,536 9 p.c. = 343,500* 4,626,063
1932.. 254,970 7 „ „ 236,250* 4,644,783
1933.. 258,508 7i „ „ 253,125* 4,650,106
Inner reserves disclosed, £106,000.. 4,756,166
1934.. 265,087 p.c.=331,313 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250. . 4,653,690
1935.. 273,857 7% p.c.= 270,281 4,657,266
1936. . 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898 4,668,330
*After deducting tax.
tlncludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus.
This 102-year-old Anglo-Australasian in-
stitution stands for all that spells stability
in banking practice. It has never failed
to show a profit, and only twice (in 1847
and 1848) has it failed to pay a div. Paid
capital has advanced from the original
£200,000 to £4,500,000, of which
.£1,000,000 was transferred from reserves
in 1920, being the amount of premiums
on previous issues of new capital. The
million of capital gathered since 1920
has brought with it £850,000 of share
premiums, which takes some of the gilt
off the gingerbread so far as shareholders
are concerned. For 24 years to the close
of accounts in 1930 divs. averaged 14.9
p.c. Then slump and its concomitants
brought the rate back to 7 p.c. in ’34,
and the position in the wheat and other
export industries, the fall in interest rates
and the inability of the banks to adjust
costs as speedily as other traders have
since pressed heavily upon net earnings
and divs. However, after interest rates
touched bottom and the old high-priced
deposit contracts began to run out, the
position improved. It gathered strength
as the economic barometer rose and
traders, whose expanding activities had
absorbed their cash surpluses accumu-
lated during the slump, sought bank ac-
commodation to finance still further ex-
panding seasonal demand.
During the last term, one danger was
that growth of imports and Government
borrowing would result in tighter credit
and the continued hardening of interest
rates locally. But the rise in export
prices, especially for wheat, changed the
outlook, which has continued to brighten
since the close of accounts. The ’Asia
further expanded its lending connections
(the growth in advances was £909,296
and in bills receivable £403,298), draw-
ing upon liquids (down £1,222,749) for
the purpose. The net increase in deposits
was only £107,477:
Liabilities.
1929. 1935. 1936.
Notes .. .. £434,329 £26,138 £2,795
Bills, etc. . . 4,569,795 4,610,493 4,619,908
Deposits . . 34,414,798 37,058,103 37,165,580
Liquid assets.. 10,914,862 15,601,498 14,378,749
Bills, etc. . . 3,362,670 2,476,280 2,879,584
Advances . . 34,314,960' 32,391,472 33,300,768
Premises . . 278,373 530,962 567,316
When the books closed, depositors and
others could still see £34 Bs. of every
£lOO of their money in liquids, and the
co. was holding only £4 11s. 7d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. Advances were 89.6 p.c. of de-
posits, compared with 87.4 p.c. at the
previous balance and 99.7 p.c. in 1929.
According to the sworn quarterly bank-
ing averages, there was little change in
the co.’s ratio (62.3 p.c.) of interest-bear-
ing to total deposits.
After providing for bad and doubtful
debts, the call for which has become less
pressing with the rise in prices, the
board figured gross earnings (£1,149,447)
£72,736 better than the previous year’s.
Including the tax bill (£173,265, up
£5079), exes. (£848,485) took £45,631 of
the increase, leaving the net result £27,105
better at 6.6 p.c. on capital, compared
with 6, 5.8, 5.7, 5.6, 4.8, 13.6, 15 and
15.8 p.c. back to 1928. The div. was
lifted from 7| p.c. to 8 p.c., the final
being at' the rate of 9 p.c. p.a. That was
before deducting English income tax,
which was reduced from 4s. 6d. to 3s. 2fd.
in the pound. Allowing for this, last
year’s div. was equal to 6.4 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 6 p.c. for the previous
term ; and, since divs. are paid in sterling,
6.4 p.c. is worth 8 p.c. in Australian cur-
rency.
Allowing for exchange and English
income tax at the rate of 3s. 2|d. in the
pound, the £5-paid shares at £l3 return
3.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The in-
vestor who looks for 4 p.c. on his money
counts on a nominal 10 p.c. distribution,
which may not be far distant, though
the British Treasury will call for a bit
more.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 20,706 10 p.c. ~ 11,000 66,630 1097
Transferred to capital. £15,000 51,630 1097
1928.. 20,252 10 p.c. = 12,500 59,382 1026
1929.. 20,341 10 „ „ 12,500 * „„„
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ] 6 ° ,2 “ 3 1100
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 ( RAa
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ] 048
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 59,256 648
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,375 ( A 1 SQn 74
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ) u
1932. . 10,044 6J p.c. = 8,938 ( qnr. 1050
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ] oi,jyo 1 - oy
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 Qr - 17 , n
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ] 61,86 ° 1710
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 c . n .
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO \ 62)840 2011
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 \ .
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO ( fao > (, ' l ° ~
1936.. 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 \ rQ
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO ( oy,zdo
1937.. 12,955' 7 p.c. ■= 9,625 \
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ] ' l,OOO
This co., which has strong connections in
pastoral circles, set up in Melbourne 52
years ago, and is the only one of its kind
to have extended activities beyond its
home State —outposts have been estab-
lished at Sydney, Brisbane and Towns-
ville (Q.). Income is derived mainly from
corpus and other commission earnings
and from investment of the co.’s own
funds. At the end of February share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) totalled £209,065. The only out-
side liability was £92 of unclaimed divs.
The lot was represented by freeholds,
£135,853 ; guarantee funds held by Gov-
ernments, £52,400 ; Consols and cash,
£22,947; debtors, £4255 ; mortgage,
£l5OB.
The co. does not broadcast the volume
of trusts in hand ; but the figure is sub-
stantial. Consider this comparison with
Australia’s greatest and also its oldest
trustee offices: —-
Paid Gross
Capital. Reserves. Trusts. Income.
£ £ £ £
Perpetual (Syd.) 200,000 252,261 49,843,142 150,994
T., E. and A.
(Melb.) .. 140,000 143,275 28,879,927 76,540
Union.. .. 137,500 71,565 90,731
Union’s div. reached 10 p.c. in 1920,
and remained steady for the next decade,
during which it was sweetened with
£25,000 of bonus scrip. Then corpus and
other earnings were affected by the col-
lapse of values, shrinkage in interest rates
and rents, and the lifeless state of the
property market, and the div. dropped
to 6 p.c. in ’33. Net earnings have
stepped up each yea-r since, reflecting
steady improvement in conditions gener-
ally, but the div. remained stationary
until the last term, when a point was
added, making 7 p.c. for the year.
Too much notice, therefore, need not
be taken of the slip of £6680 in gross
earnings:—
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Expenses. Earnings.
1915 .. .. £17,318 £9,728 56.1
1920 . . . . 37,029 24.609 66.4
1925 .. .. 80,658 59,805 74.1
1929 . . . . 95,036 74,695 78.6
1930 . . . . 104,567 83.534 79.8
1931 . . . . 98,904 80,895 81.7 -
1932 . . . . 89,833 77,789 86.5
1933 . . . . 83,880 73,261 87.3
1934 . . . . 83,433 71,708 85.8
1935 . . . . 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 . . . . 97,411 82,571 84.7
1937 . . . . 90,731 75,776 83.5
Exes, were pulled back £6795, leaving the
net result £ll5 better at 9.4 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 9.3, 8.7, 7.6, 6.5 and 8.1 p.c.
back to 1932.
As for the outlook, existing conditions
favor a bit better showing at next bal-
ance, and complications now associated
with the administration of estates are
sending more business into the expert
care of the trustee cos. Still, the market,
less inclined than it was to discount the.
future, has revised its estimate of the
scrip. It prices the £2 10s. shares paid
to 275. 6d. —all but 2s. 6d. of the re-
maining 225. 6d. is a reserve liability,
callable only in the event of liquidation—
at 465. as against 555. a year ago. The
return at the lower figure is 4.2 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis, with satisfactory long-
term prospects. The cover is 41s. lOd.
in net tangibles.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit..* Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1926.. 18,935 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 11,563 ( fil->9 39 914
Staff bonus .. ..£1250 ] ““ ’
1927.. 12,247 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 13,459 38,702
1928.. 10,262 8 „ 8 „ 11,472 37,492
Trade-marks, etc., £55 .. ..37,437
1929.. 8,436 8 p.c. Nil 3,200 5236 42,673
Trade-marks, etc., £lO .. .. 42,663
1930.. 4.524 Nil Nil 4524 47,187
Written off investments, etc., £10,262.. 36,925
Loss.
1931.. 2,091 Nil Nil 34,834
Transferred to assets revaluation Deficit.
reserve, £56,486 .. .. ..21,652
Profit.
1932.. 4,002 Nil Nil 4002 17,650
1933.. 3,748 Nil Nil 3748 13,902
Transferred to specific reserves, £5000.. 18,902
1934.. 5,194 10 p.c. Nil 4,000 1194 17,708
1935.. 7,386 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 5,153 2233 .15,475
1936.. 7,186 6.2,, 3 „ 5,748 1438 14,037
* After charging previous year’s taxation.
f Goodwill ( £25,000) not treated as an asset.
Caldwell’s began collecting champion-
ship ribbons for its wines in the 1880’s.
After the public became interested in
1920 the business continued to make en-
couraging progress. For the nine years
to the close of accounts in 1928 the ords.
received an average of 10.6 p.c. Then
came slump and a host of other diffi-
culties, and none has been able to
squeeze much profit out of the industry
since, notwithstanding the recent growth
in the export trade and improvement in
conditions locally.
The co.'s gallonage turnover has now
reached pre-depression volume, and its
distribution and overhead charges are
lower ; but keen competition from pro-
ducers in other States has kept selling
prices down, while manufacturing costs
increase with the rise in prices generally.
The export bounty, which came down
from 4s. per gallon in 1925 to Is. 3d. 10
years later, is to be reduced by a penny
per gallon for each of the next three
years, leaving the figure at Is. in 1940.
So, although the co.’s sales were well
maintained last year, gross earnings
(£39,380) improved only £l3ll. Includ-
ing the previous year’s tax bill (£403),
exes. (£32,194) were up £l5ll, owing
mainly to increased expenditure on ad-
vertising, etc. The net result was thus
£2OO lighter at £7186, or enough to pay
the pref. div. (6.2 p.c., after allowing for
the statutory cut) and show 4.3 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 4.5 p.c. for the
previous term. Half a point was added
to the div., making it 3 p.c. The £1438
that remained reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles to
£l4,o37—goodwill (£25,000) is not
treated as an asset herein.
The result disappointed the market,
and the price of the fully-paid pound
ords. fell from 13s. 6d. in January to
10s. 6d. last week-end. The return at
the lower figure, is 5.6 p.c. on a 3 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 18s. return 6.9
p.c. on a 6.2 p.c. distribution ; it is diffi-
cult to say when the participating rights
are likely to be worth anything. The
net tangible backing is £3 Is. lid. prefs.
and 17s. 3d. ords.
Prospects of substantial improve-
ment in earnings depend largely upon
whether those in the industry can get
together and agree upon better selling
prices. The export trade continues to
improve, and so does local consumption,
though it is still less than a gallon per
head of population.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1922. 1932. 193:1. 1936.
Paid capital. . £80,500 £143,39S £144,823 £146,073
Deposits .. 12,820 18,270 22,738. 23,174
Mortgages, etc. 18,880 18,530 18,530
Overdraft .. 24,855 27,013 24,644 36,892
Other liabilities 15,631 15,942 16,607 14,626
Properties, plant,
etc... .. 45,773 132,109 139,549 144,303
Book debts .. 28,449 27,579 27,379 28,854
Stoekß .. 65,469 29,899 38,805 45,795
Cash, etc. .. 551 2,365 2,387 2,527
Shares in other
, cos... .. 13,900 8,900 8,204
To add £4754 to the book value of
premises and plant, £1475 to debtors’
balances and £6990 to stocks, the board
went to its bankers for an extra £12,248.
The excess of liabilities over more or
less liquids increased by £2098, reaching
£16.046.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 57,134 10 p.c. = 48,299 t 7 rqk
Staff provident fund, £lOOO }
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. = 52,638 —(. 1 nfu 168 541
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ] I’oo4 1 ’ 004 168,041
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c. = 52,9:4 lift 336 184 877
Staff provident fund, £3500 t 10,336 184,87 ‘
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,877
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. = 58,295 —tin 115 141.992
Staff provident fund, £3500 J
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,300 l , 469 143 461
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ]
1932.. 49,052 7i p.c. =43,725 1 2 827 146,288
Staff provident fund, £2500 )
1933.. 47,125 7* p.c. =43,725 ) 900 147i18 8
Staff provident fund, £2500 ] ’
1934.. 48,788 71 p.c. =43,725 ) o 149 751
Staff provident fund, £2500 ] 2,063
Inner reserve disclosed, £26,000.. 175,751
1935.. 54,494 8 p.c. = 46,640 —) 58 54 181.105
Staff provident fund, £2500 ) ’ ’
1936.. 54,454 8 p.c. = 46,640 t c 31 4 186,419
Staff provident fund, £2500 ] ’
Absolescence reserve, £18,223 .. 204,64 i
1937.. 50,130 8 p.c. = 46,640 t 990 2 05,632
Staff provident fund, £2500]
As a manufacturing pharmacist and
owner of four large chemical fertiliser
works in the most important agricultural
and pastoral centres in Maoriland, this
co. has developed into a very solid in-
vestment. Conservatism has been the
keynote of profit-estimating and div.-
paying. During the darkest days of the
not-yet-forgotten lean period the mini-
mum p.c. distributed was covered by
profits ; before that 10 p.c. p.a. and occa-
sional bonus issues were the regular
thing; since 1934 8 p.c. p.a. has been
passed out.
That is the record of benefits actually
handed to shareholders. Finances sug-
gest that ample provision has been made
for depreciation, taxation and all likely
contingencies. The consistent earning
power of the business appears to be as
much due to the moderate valuation


iNOBEU
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEU
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRAL. A STAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalffety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLI».: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell llroa.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalsety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
. • *sss,
tss> -
p eW»' $ ' ‘
Plus
m
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
COLOURED RED
IS PIUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVEN'T COT!^
C7B/12/SP
Plus BENZOL Tinted Blue! IS SOLD
AT THE STANDARD . NUC£I
- 1 X> M v :j ', \ ~ w 4 < m 5
I
I
A
W
Interest 3f% p.a. Price of Issue £99/5/-.
Annual yield £3/19/1%. Repayable in 1948.
CLOSES NOT LATER THAN MAY 7,1937
The Treasurer reserves the right to close at any
earlier date and partially to allot subscriptions.
(Prospectuses are available at any Bank or
Post Office.!
0 Applications will be received by any Bank, Savings Bank, or
Money Order Post Office, or by members of any recognised
Stock Exchange.
0 Proceeds of the Loan will be used for Public Works of the
Commonwealth and States, and for other purposes.
0 Subscriptions may be paid in full, or by instalments up to 3rd
August, 1937.
0 Interest will be paid on 13 th April and 15 th October of each
year.
0 Treasury Bonds are issuable in five denominations, commencing
at £10; and Stock will be inscribed for £lOO and multiples of
£l 0 above £1 00.
0 The Loan is secured, as to both principal and interest, upon the
Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Commonwealth.
0 Interest will not be subject to: (a) State Income or Special Tax;
(b) Commonwealth Super-tax on property; or (c) Common-
wealth Income Tax to a greater extent than that imposed by
the Income Tax Act 1930, as amended by Section 2 of the
Income Tax Act (No. 2) 1930.
0 Bonds and Stock will be interchangeable, after the first payment
of interest has been made, at any time on application through
any branch of the Commonwealth Bank.
0 The Loan is an authorised trustee investment under the Trustees
Acts of all the States.
0 Sinking Fund contributions at the rate of not less than 1 0/- per
centum per annum will be paid into the National Debt Sinking
Fund.
0 Banks in Australia will not charge exchange on cheques for pay-
ment into the Loan, nor on interest payable on Stock or Bonds
of the Loan.
0 The Loan will be repaid at par on 15th October, 1948.
0 The Loan is being issued under the authority of the Australian
Loan Council.
Commonwealth Treasury, ROBERT G. MENZIES,
Canberra. Acting 1 reasurer.
AMOUNT ASKED FOR
£7,500,000
placed on assets as to the co.’s extensive
goodwill.
Sales during last year were well main-
tained ; better prices for land products
assisted, and the prospect is still favor-
able. The co. publishes its gross profit
after deducting manufacturing costs and
depreciation. Last term’s figures are here
compared with previous years:
Exes. p.c.
Cross Profit. Expenses. of Gross.
1920 ..£139,909 £100,098 71.6 p.c.
1925 . . 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1930 .. 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1933 .. 131,957 84,832 64.3 „
1934 . . 127,761 78,973 61.8 „
1935 . . 137,226 82,732 60.2 „
1936 . . 149,551 95,097 63.5 „
1937 . . 156,700 106,570 67.8 „
Manufacturing profit lifted £7149. Over-
head exes., including taxes, bad debts
and “all other charges,” accounted for
the improvement and £4324 besides —
that figure represents the recession in net
profit. The net figure claimed was 8.6
p.c. on capital, as against 9.3, 9.3, 8.3, 8
and 8.4 p.c. back to 1932. After paying
the 8 p.c. div. and transferring £2500 to
the staff fund, £990 was carried to re-
serves.
The apparent drop in profit, and more,
seems to have been due to the creation
of a “works obsolescence reserve,” into
which £16,000 was slipped last term —if
not from inner reserves, then from
profits. The year’s trading was un-
doubtedly better than indicated, and
the obsolescence account has been in-
cluded with general reserves in the in-
troductory table.
The pharmaceutical factory, head
office and one warehouse are at Dun-
edin ; other warehouses are at Auckland,
Wellington and Christchurch. Fertiliser
works are at Auckland, Wanganui,
Christchurch and Dunedin. The book
value of fixed assets was up to £466,943
in 1930. In the seven years since fac-
tories have been kept efficient, a new
sulphuric-acid plant has been completed
at Westfield (Auckland), and additions,
not yet complete, have been made to
the Wanganui works. Yet fixed assets,
after deducting £30,000 depreciation
visibly allowed during the year, stood
in the books at £378,032 last balance-
day—up £5241 during the term, but
down £88,911 since 1930.
Other comfortable aspects of the
finances are seen in this table:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . £583,000 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities* .. 252,463 84,438 137,526 187,786
Factories, etc. 466,943 366,221 372,791 378,032
Stock.. .. 373,891 274,477 301,247 321,878
Book debts .. 172,094 133,802 133,700 187,729
Cash, etc. .. 105,002 130,166 117,614
* Includes provision lor taxation.
Liabilities moved up £50,260 —mainly to
help carry £54,029 extra book debts,
£20,631 more stock, and to pay for
building extensions. The solid holding
of cash (£117,514) was drawn on for only
£12,652. The liabilities item (£187,786)
comprises “a grouping-up of accounts,
and includes full provision for in- j
come tax.” From it £26,000 of inner
reserves was dragged in 1935.
At 755. yield to buyers of the £2 shares
is 4.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis ; visible
net backing is £2 14s. Id. At the i
moment the Wanganui works are closed I
owing to labor troubles.
{“Wild Cat” continued on next page.) i


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS. —Those wishing to sell
r N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get highest prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
GF
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
lllawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar , Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927 . . ■ 8,569 8 p.c. := 8,666 509 2,672
1928 .. 8,626 8 „ „ 8,666 626 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,566 .. . - 15,198
1929 .. 23.561 8 p.c. = 8,066 15,561 30,759
1930 . . 18,875 9 , „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 . . 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 . . 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40,791
1933 .. 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
1934 .. 8,253 8 „ „ 8,000 253 41,094
Unexplained additions reserves, £3500.. 44.594
1935 .. 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,074
Unexplained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 . . 8,346 8 p.c. = 8,000 346 48,820
Tax and bad debts reserves written
back, £2500 51,320
1937 .. 11,871 8 p.c. = 8,000 3,871 55,191
The position is more comfortable than
a summary of the p. and 1. account alone
suggests. Consider these figures:
1925. 1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid £ £ £ £ £
capital. 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000' 100,000
Liabilities* 11,282 9,815 10,518 11,889 9,279
Ship pro-
perty . . 00,844 54,600 43,630 38,630 34,880
Other pro-
perty .. 2,807 2,895 2,570 2,770 3,475
Plant, stores,
etc. .. 2,045 2,078 1,4G9 1,711 684
Book debts 15,936 6,652 11,324 9,053 16,391
Consols and
cash . . 48,26 S 59.323 100,598 111,945 113,041
* Including provision for taxation.
When the books closed, the £lOO,OOO of
share capital (it includes £25,000 of bonus
scrip, scattered during reconstruction in
1920) and £13,041 besides were invested
outside the business in Consols (£97,219,
up £5058) and cash (£15,822, down
£3962). So the ships and other property,
which appear at conservative figures,
haven’t got to turn in much in the way
of profit to enable an 8 p.c. div. to be
paid. Last year £3750 more was written
off than was spent on ships. The reduc-
tion of £2610 in liabilities was mainly on
account of disclosure of an inner reserve
of £2500.. The year’s brisker trading is
reflected in a growth of £6738 in debtors’
balances. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£120,837) was
£9417.
The co.’s ships, reported in good order
and covered by insurance, have been
poking in and out the ports on the N. S.
Wales South Coast for the last 87 years.
Apart from competition from road trans-
port, they now enjoy a monopoly of
the carrying business between Nowra,
where the railway ends, and the Vic.
border and Sydney. During the last term,
another good season enabled dairy-
farmers and others to fill the hulls with
produce, and the backloading of stores
helped to swell earnings. The board
figured the net result £3521 better than
the previous year’s at 11.8 p.c. on capi-
tal. That leaves out of the reckoning
an unexplained addition of £3401 to re-
serves in 1936 and the disclosure of inner
reserves already referred to. The cautious
board kept the div. at 8 p.c.
At 435. the fully-paid pound shares
return 3.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.2 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution.
Visibly the cover is 31s. in net tangibles.
What is puzzling investors is what the
board intends to do with the co.’s large
cash surplus, etc.; the report gives no
hint in this connection.
Tongkah Compound No. 2 is getting
into its stride again, and shareholders,
who have not received a div. since 1927,
expect to come back into the picture
shortly after the second (Rahang) dredge
commences work next month. The prop-
erty, at Seremban (F.M.S.), is divided by
the Kuala-Pilah road into two areas. The
first, Ampangan, now being worked, con-
tains over 1,500,000 c.y. of 0.851 b. ground.
In the second, Rahang, there is some
11,551,000 c.y., averaging 0.411 b. t.o. Both
areas are likely to be increased by pur-
chase of adjoining ground. For the 12
months of 1936 the co. turned over
786,000 c.y., most of it in the December
half, for 298.45 tons t. 0., an average of
0.851 b. per yard. Costs were approxi-
mately 3.9 d. per yard. The working
profit was £23,720, as against £6532 and
£2745 for the two preceding years. In-
cluding £21,246 brought forward, there
was £44,976 available, of which £23,000
was written off for depreciation, leaving
£21,976 to be carried forward. Current
assets total £23,280, and outside liabili-
ties £30,531, of which £30,000 represents
instalments still due on the second
dredge. The co. was originally equipped
with one bucket dredge, capacity
100,000 c.y. monthly, bought from Tong-
kah Compound in 1929 and fitted with a
new bucket band in 1934. No. 2, built
in 1927 and fitted with a new bucket
band in 1935, was also bought from
Tongkah Compound early in 1936 for
transfer to the new site. It is being
modernised before restarting, and present
capacity is 120,000 c.y. a month. The
cost was £35,000 sterling, payable £5OOO
deposit and the balance in six equal
annual instalments.
* * * *
At Mt. Coolon (Q.) all broken ore has
been milled, and the plant shut down on
Feb. 23 in consequence. Exploratory
and development work is being speeded
up on the new ore-shoot disclosed by
diamond-drilling nor’-west of the main
workings. The 3000 tons of ore in the
pillars of the old workings and the 1500-
2500 tons developed above No. 3 level
are also to come in for attention. Last
year the battery commenced crushing on
Feb. 3, and at the end of December
46,993 tons of ore and sand dump had
been treated for 21,3960 z. fine gold, an
average mill recovery of 89.5 p.c., worth,
including slag, £187,499:
1931. 1935. 193G.t
Ore and residues, tons 65,059 18,327{ 46,993
Fine gold, ounces .. 32,820 7,600 21,396*
Fine silver, ounces .. 14,471 2,461 ■ —
Net profit .. ..£155,054 £24,694 £83,873
Dividends .. .. £175,000 £30,000 £75,000
f Milling resumed February 3. t Operations dis-
continued in April, 1935. * Excluding slag.
Costs averaged 42.575. a ton (min-
ing and development 26.165. and treat-
ment 16.415.). Net profit worked out at'
£83,873, as against £18,327 in the pre-
vious year, when labor troubles and
water shortage caused a cessation of
operations for eight months. With
£66,466 brought in there was thus
£139,339 available for distribution, of
which two ■divs. of a shilling each and
one of sixpence absorbed £75,000. On
April 8 the co. had £41,890 in the bank,
and held 50,000 4s. shares in Morning
Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.), which paid its
last div. (6d. a share) on July 1, 1936.
# * * *
After making a geological survey of
Golden Plateau’s property, Cracow (Q.),
A. K. Kenmead, of the Queensland
Mines Department, figures probable ore
(not blocked) at 205,000 short tons,
averaging 8dwt.—129,000, containing
30,9000 z. gold, above adit level, and
76,000, containing 42,1000 z. gold, below
adit level. Possible ore reserves, which
depend on the persistence of payable
values below existing workings, are esti-
mated at approximately 190,000 short
tons, averaging not more than Bdwt.
Since the previous estimate of ore re-
serves (232,300 short tons, averaging
Bdwt.) was made, 52,526 short tons has
been crushed for 39,9700 z. gold, or an
average of 12.6dwt. The history of the
field suggests that values in the small
shoots do not live at depth. Still, in the
rather larger Rose’s Pride payable values
persist at 100 ft. below water level, or
600 ft. below the surface of the lode.
There is thus some reason to expect that
Nos. 1 and 3 shoots will live down to,
say, 500 ft. below the surface. Assuming
that No. 1 (250 ft. long and about 20ft.
wide, averaging 14dwt.) persists to adit
level, there is a probable 39,000 tons,
containing 27,3000 z. gold, there. Dis-
covery of further shoots toward the
eastern end of the lode is a possibility.
* * * *
A working profit of £362, which ad-
ministration and other charges reduced
to a deficit of £751, a net slip of £4822,
was earned by Stafford Gold Dredging,
Hokitika (M.L.), in the year to Jan. 31
last. The table summarises results since
the dredge commenced digging in Oct.,
1934:
1934. 1935. .1936.
Net profit .. .. £1,844 £4,671 £7sl*
Cub. yds. dredged .. 86,726 466,156 451,346
Smelted gold, ounces.. 664 2,157 1,449
Value .. .. .. £17,288 £11,712
Working costs —5.3 d. 6.64 d.
Surplus liquids .. £2,676 £1,422 £761
* Loss.
Operations were suspended during August
last year ; then the dredge dug for two
months largely through old tailings in
order to reach unworked ground beyond
the main Hokitika-Greymouth road,
where operations commenced shortly
after the accounts closed. A lot of fine
gold is being lost. Small jigs have proved
unsuccessful, and extra tables and more
suitable jigs are contemplated to im-
prove recoveries. The last div. (6d.) was
disbursed in May, 1935.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) is
on the way to becoming a small but regu-
lar producer. Ore reserves now total
20,000 tons, averaging 11.5dwt., up 5520
tons compared with a year ago, and,
though the grade is a pennyweight lower,
recoveries have improved. Develop-
ments in Hall’s and McKenzie’s leases
have been heartening. New plant is
mooted, but shareholders aren’t likely to
be asked for more. At Dec. 31 the co.
had £14,000-odd in the bank ; outside in-
debtedness was negligible. Two six-
penny divs. were sent out last year, and
another of similar amount is payable
on May 11.
4= * * *
Murchison Gold Development, one of
the De Bernales Westralian group, an-
nounces that its issue of £145,000 of 10
p.c. five-year notes is required for further
development of the co.’s two mines,
Riverina and Emu. These notes are se-
cured by first charge on the co.’s assets,
and Australian Mines Management and
Secretariate, London, has underwritten
£75,000 worth of the issue for a com-
mission of 4 p.c. and an overriding com-
mission of 1 p.c. Riverina started crush-
ing on April 1, and the Emu is billed
to follow suit on Sept. I. To begin
with, yearly profits expected are Riverina
£20,000, and Emu £52,000. With the
metal at 1425. an ounce, the value of gold
taken out of Riverina to date is esti-
mated at £151,496, and that extracted
from Emu at £2,211,600.
* * * *
Although the whole of its interests are
in Westralia, Coolgardie Brilliant re-
frains from acquainting the Perth press
with all its doings. A directors’ report
published in Melbourne reveals (1) that
options over three properties worked by
the co. since the end of July, 1936, have
been abandoned, (2) that shaft-sinking
is proceeding on Pomme d’Or in the
hope of striking the lode at 200 ft., and
(3) that 6000 shares of Hill 50, Mt. Mag-
net (a stable-mate), have been acquired
and an interest purchased in Mount
Mines, Ltd., Widgiemooltha. Both deals
are declared to be worth-whiles. At
March 31 co. had £2724 in hand.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is busy
preparing Kalgoorlie Enterprise, in
which it holds a controlling interest, for
early production. Development and in-
stallation of electrical power plant are
being accelerated. Treatment of 5000
tons of ore monthly is aimed at. Ore will
be transported to the near-by jointly-
owned North Kalgurli-Perseverance mill,
which is being enlarged.
* * * *
Duketon, an old Westralian mining
centre beyond Laverton, is being tried
again. Years ago a few of the gold-
carriers were worked to shallow depths
by London speculators, who, because of
the water problem or insufficient pros-
pects, or both, soon gave up. Still, gold
is now worth more than twice as much
as it was then.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe, which is re-treating
tailings dumps on joint account with
Great Boulder Prop., began operations
on the new dumps last June, when the
remnants of the old Horse Shoe heap were
pooled and re-treated with the residues
from Boulder No. 2 dump. After finish-
ing the old Horse Shoe dump, operations
were wholly confined to the Boulder
No. 2 dump ; now they have been ex-
tended to Boulder No. 1 dump.
# * * *
Austral Co., one of several small no-
liability concerns formed in Adelaide
some years ago to search for gold at
Patricia, Edjudina district (W.A.), had a
roll-up the other day. Chairman A. D.
Young said expenditure was being kept
at a minimum, and that anything promis-
ing offered would be considered. Thus
far the co. has drawn blanks at Patricia
and elsewhere.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield continues to
bulge. That for the first quarter
of 1937 was valued at £A1,800,000.
Activity spreads from Marble Bar in
the north to Norseman in the south,
and from Kalgoorlie in the east to Mur-
chison in the west. Kalgoorlie still pro-
vides the bulk of the State’s production,
with Wiluna, Sons of Gwalia, Triton and
Yellowdine supplying most of the
remainder. Returns from new finds help
to expand the total now and then. The
most notable lately have been from the
Comet, at Marble Bar, and from a small
shallow patch near the old Wealth
of Nations, at Dunnsville, which yielded
about £9OOO worth of bullion.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sg., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and ether
Alloys..—Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted, man able milk 10 per hour; ride,
drive, plough, kill, wash, scrub, feed pigs, paint,
cook, etc. Wages £1 per week and keep.”
—Dungog “Chronicle.”
We’d apply ourselves, but this loafing
around trying to fill in time doesn’t
appeal to us.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Another superstition is that people can
become ‘moonstruck.’ Nobody suffers any
harm by walking in the moonlight.”—' “Sun.”
No?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“These men have an urge which drives them
from place to place. It is sometimes called
‘Wanderlust.’ ” —“ Telegraph.”
And sometimes “Landlord.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Who is considered to be the world’s clever-
est crook?” asks a newspaper writer.
He isn’t known. That’s why he is the
cleverest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Uniform Air Regulations.”— Sydney “D.T.”
So far Australia has only got as far
as air uniform regulations.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Creeping into a bedroom while he was asleep
early on Saturday morning, a thief stole £l4
in notes from the trousers pocket of Henry
, of St. Kilda.” — “Age.”
His sort make somnambulists unpopu-
lar.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A newly-born child cannot think,” says
a scientist.
But they all yell as soon as they see
what kind of a world they are in.
4 4* 4* 4*
“When the latest tyres fall below a certain
pressure a bell rings.”
If the deflation is too sudden, a harp
plays.
4* 4* 4* 4*
In the Thick of It.
He was bruised and bloodstained. He
walked with a limp, and both his eyes
were blackened. His nose looked as if
it had been rubbed vigorously in the
dirt.
“A tough match, but a wonderful
game! ” He was quite cheerful about it.
“They were bigger than we were, and
very rough, but we. were too good for
them in the end. I don’t mind the
bruises as long as we came out on top.”
“Whereabouts do you play?” I asked.
“Play!” he said. “I don’t play. I
barrack.”
Sef.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An English paper alleges that Bradman
‘stands behind £50,000.’ ”
From pounding the bowling?
4* 4* 4* 4*
"Immediately after her husband threatened
him with a gun he hurried to Mascot and blew
to Melbourne.”— “Sun."
Well, could anyone blame him for hav-
ing the wind up?
i4* 4* 4* 4*
. “Too old at 19 is the latest for Chinese shop
girls. —Melbourne “Herald.”
After that age they turn the mandarins
sour.
4* 4* 4- 4*
"What can he do with the boat? Where
there was once a lake there is now flat ground.”
tl • . — “Sum”
Then it s all plain sailing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Lady Wakehurst is enthusiastic about art
and once painted herself.”— Melbourne “Age.”
Don’t they all?
Sad Case.
“Typographical slips may make a world of
difference.” — “S.M.H.”
The comp, was prone to error , which
Soon plunged him in a life of strife.
His boss once told him “Take a wire” —
The poor fool went and took a wife.
From morn to night she gave him lip;
He meant to be a married man,
But, by a typographic slip,
He found himself a harried man.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An 80-year-old negro in Louisiana, pro-
vided with a birthday cake with 80 candles,
blew them out with a single breath.”
He was black and blew!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The modern girl, when she goes to a dance,
looks forward to having a good time.”
— Woman’s paper.
She looks forward, anyway.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Shakspearean Golf.
“Give me the iron I say.”
—‘‘King John.”
“Enter citizens with clubs.”
— “Coriolanus.”
“Come for the third, Laertes.”
— “Hamlet.”
“An odious damned lie, upon my soul
a lie, a wicked lie.” — “Othello.”
J.
“Better make this the last jackpot, boys."
“Both skippers will be playing their last
game of howls.” —“ Telegraph.”
But both sides can’t lose!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man fined for kissing his wife in a cinema.”
Whose wife?
4* 4* ,4* 4*
“The engine coughed and spluttered horsely.”
‘Sun.”
Advertising its hoarse-power.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Physical Culture for Wives.
Exercise 1. —Sit erect in chair. Raise
eyebrows. Make slight forward and
upward movement with right hand.
Raise left corner of upper lip. Remark:
“Oh I don’t think that was very cheap,
Mrs. Bargainhunter. Mine cost only
99
Exercise 2. —Raise right arm quickly.
Stretch forward. Seize saucepan. Pause
while you realise what you’ll break if
your husband ducks. Replace saucepan.
Exercise 3. —Quietly draw right foot
back. Slowly move forward until it
makes contact with husband’s shin. Re-
peat once for diamonds, twice for hearts,
three times for spades. (Frequent prac-
tice of this exercise has saved many hus-
bands from nervous breakdowns.)
Exercise 4.—Relax completely. Allow
eyes to close slowly. Open hastily. Raise,
left wrist to level of eyes. Glance at
watch. Open mouth wide as though
yawning. (This exercise has freed many
people of the dread disease late-staying
visitors. It has even cured some people
of all visitors.)
Exercise 5. —(To be practised when
your husband is telling his favorite
story.) Close the mouth firmly. Exer-
cise rigid control over the larynx. Curb
all impulses to say “That wasn’t it at
all, Henry,” or “and then so and so
happened.”
S. Esq.
4* 4» 4* 4*
Since it is an offence to send threaten-
ing letters through the post, what many
want to know is how their creditors
get away with it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Accused,’ said counsel, ‘was a fine young
Irish lad who had the misfortune to fall amongst
bad companions.’ ”
And, of course, too many crooks
spoilt that broth of a bhoy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
An actress is often less applauded for
her lines than for her outlines.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Personality Girl.
The Sydney County Council’s search
for a Personality Girl for the electrical
showroom brings back memories of the
time I was one myself —demonstrating
gas gadgets.
My job was to popularise gas mantles
by showing that they gave more light
than fish-tail burners ; but, believe me, it
was extraordinary what a lot of con-
vincing some gentlemen needed when
we got into the darkened showroom.
Demonstrating the newly - invented
bath-heaters wasn’t nearly so good. I
never could express my personality prop-
erly in one of those ear-to-ankle bathing
costumes.
Having personality plus, however, cost
me my job in the end. I sold a gas
oven to a very genteel young man, and
he wanted to give me a permanent job
looking after it. When I turned his
proposal down he tried to get rid of
himself by putting his head in the oven,
but it wasn’t equal to the job.
Not only did he demand his money
back on the stove, but he also wanted a
rebate on the gas he had wasted. As
usual, the powers that were made a
scapegoat of the poor, weak woman in
the case.
Aggie McWhoosh.
•J*
“The fact remains that Australian workmen
are the best in the world.” — “S. M. Herald.”
What is wanted, then, is more work
for ideal hands to do.
*1“
“A petitioner is reported to have created
laughter in the Divorce Court by saying ‘Never
marry a baker.’ ”
Quite right! He loafs all day, uses
up all his dough and comes home with
a roll.
Coronation Refreshments.
It is indeed a kindly thought which
allows peers and peeresses at the Corona-
tion to carry their coronets upside down
by special loops, so that refreshments
may be concealed within.
Guided by this precedent, Mr. Lyons
will surely be guilty of no gaucherie if
he should pass round sandwiches on the
point of his Privy Councillor’s sword
or from the mysterious depths of his
knee-breeches produce a knuckle of cold
Australian lamb to stave off hunger.
And Mr. Parkhill and Mr. Casey,
compelled though they be to appear in
the humble frock coat and topper, need
nevertheless not go without a snack.
There’s plenty of room in the upper
regions of a top-hat for a couple of dozen
prawns, and the man who couldn’t get
a few bananas into the rear pocket of
his morning coat without spoiling his
figure has no right to be representing us
at the Coronation.
Angus O’Cohen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Don’t bang the receiver down on the hook
or it may cause trouble,” says a telephone
official.
But isn’t it trouble that causes us to
bang the receiver down on the hook?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Hints for Husbands.
VI. — Cooking.
The vast majority of husbands have
only the sketchiest idea of cooking, their
technique being limited to dropping an
egg into a pot and hoping for the best.
Such is their appalling ignorance con-
cerning the method of rendering it edible
that they finish up by either ingurgitating
it through a straw or chiselling the shell
off and attacking it with a knife and
fork.
Only the, most methodical husband—
a rarity, as all wives will testify—can be
depended on to stand, watch in hand
and with deep concentration, and at the
end of three minutes hoist out a per-
fectly cooked goog. Too often the hus-
band, after casually glancing at the
clock, will become engrossed in turf
acceptances or form to relieve the tedium
of waiting. When, later, memory stirs
him, he will be completely unaware as
to whether the egg went on at ten to
seven or ten past. I knew one fellow-
slave who, ordered to get his own break-
fast, pushed the egg into a saucepan, lit
the gas and started to read a “S. M.
Herald” leader. He was eventually
awakened by the smell of the melting
pot The chookfruit was sufficiently
case-hardened to have driven a No. 9
gauge nail through ironbark.
Here is a simple yet infallible egg-
boiling device which should prove of
enormous benefit to the amateur male
cook.
Fill the copper with water and bring
it to the boil. Suspend an egg in the
water by some sisal lashing, one end
being tied to the tap, the other to a
nail in the wall. Then place a blow-
lamp 2ft. 7in. from the supporting lash-
ing. At this distance the flame will burn
through in exactly three minutes. From
the bottom of the copper you will pre-
viously have run two ultra-sensitive wires
(positive and negative) into the loud-
speaker pick-up on the radio. When the
flame burns through the lashing the
cooked egg will fall gently to the bottom,
and this sound will, if
the gadget is properly
arranged, be boosted
to a loud boom —a
capital warning that the
meal is prepared.
Next to eggs, saus-
ages are the husband-
cook’s best friend. The
real culinary tyro can
immediately be picked
by his attempt to fry
sausages. Clad in an athletic singlet,
standing right over the pan and peering
through the smoke, he prods vaguely at
the sizzling snorks, leaping back curse-
fully as a blob of boiling fat scores a
bull’s-eye on his chest.
The correct garb is an overcoat, with
scarf around the neck, four folds of
mosquito-net across the hat so that it
drapes protectingly over the face, and
hands swathed in towels. If the cooking
fork is tied to the potstick and a frying-
pan with a telescopic handle is used, the
intelligent husband, after some practice,
should emerge scatheless from this exact-
ing task. The. snorks may be deemed to
be sufficiently cooked when the ends curl
round and touch. It is then an easy
matter to prise them off the bottom with
a putty knife" and a mallet.
Nothing is handier than to be able to
run up a fruit cake quickly in case
visitors should pop in on you.
Take a packet of self-raising flour and
kneed half a dipper of butter into it.
Medium sandpaper will take this off the
fingers when the job is done. The baby’s
bathtub is the best thing to mix it in, as
it will spill out of anything smaller.
Next baste about half a dozen eggs,
without the shells for preference, adding
pepper to taste. Throw in a few hand-
fuls of fruit (if pineapples are used these
should first be peeled). Now mix all
together, adding sufficient water to make
it sloppy enough to pour into a cake-
tin. Put in a dawdling oven and go to
the football match, shutting all doors
and putting towels under them to keep
out draughts. On returning, to see if
cake is done open oven door cautiously
and try to insert a straw from the broom.
If the straw buckles try a skewer. If
that bends, the cake is done.
S.W.K.
Nocturnal Suggestion.
Alone we sit upon the garden seat,
The cares and troubles of the day
effaced.
Your golden head rests on my shoulder,
sweet,
My arm's about your slender, yielding
waist.
The night is e’en as lovely, dear, as you ;
No flaw or blemish its fresh beauty
mars.
The sky’s a shade ’twixt violet and blue
And pointed, like bespangled plush,
with stars.
Must this perfection then be wasted ?
No!
To squander it would be plain sacrilege.
So 1 propose that you and l should go
And find two more to make a four at
bridge.
P. O. M. C.


You Who Want
Security
w
securit y
tQg
EVERY person wishes for two things regarding his or her invest-
ments: First, security—secondly,, as large a return as possible.
There are many people who absolutely depend upon income derived
from their small capital and savings', and they cannot afford to run
risks. Men or women in such a pbsition play safe. There are
several methods by which this may be done, but only one brings a
reasonable income with the desired high margin of capital security.
This is through a purchase of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES.
These make it easy to apply the SAFETY-FIRST principle of wide
diversification to an investment —-be it as little as £25 (approx. )
by spreading it over 20 of . Australia s strongest and soundest
Companies. The investment, moreover, is safeguarded by Union
insurance Society of Canton, Ltd. (Union Building, Bond Street,
Sydney), as Custodian Trustees, and it is realisable at any time. Here
are the 20 Companies over which your money is spread—by one
simple transaction: —
Commercial Bank of Aust., Ltd
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.
Tooth & C 0.,. Ltd. (
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
A’siari Paper and Pulp Co., Lid. .
Australian Glass MftrSk
Broken Mill Proprietary ' Co., Ltd.'
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
David Jones, Ltd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.
Klectro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, Ltd.
General Industries, Ltd.
Goldsbrougli, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
\V. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
Remember — ONE Certificate, ONE Transaction
covers 20 Companies,
For full details and descriptive Booklet No. 1 apply to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 4028 V.V., G.r.O.
TELEPHONE: 85294.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Still Prosperous
East week Commonwealth quarterly
banking averages were published, and
showed a definite movement in favor of
easier money conditions almost com-
pletely absent for the past three years.
The. position is likely to bring steadier
interest rates and firmer share values,
less hindrance to building activity where
a genuine demand for building and: con-
struction exists, and it points to a more
successful Commonwealth :loan opera-
tion —unless prejudices agaibst Govern-
ment borrowings exert an unusually
strong influence.
Compared with a year ago, fixed
deposits with trading banks are up
£7,934,000 and - current accounts
£5,857,000 —a net growth of £13,791,000,
to £307,191,000. Advances over that
period have risen only £2*898,000, to
£261,461,000. The improvement is better
than most people had hoped for, especi-
ally in view of the> heaviness of imports
during the past two years, and particu-
larly over the last 12 months. Though
our exports rose £7,742,000 sterling for
the first eight months of the current
fiscal year, the trade balance, was only
£4,797,000 more in our favor at
£21,985,000. This is going to be a big
year as regards invisible overseas com-
mitments, such as Coronation-trip costs;
but the fact that many farmers have
taken the opportunity of better prices to
get out of banks’ debt has helped the in-
ternal credit position. The lift in the
price of wheat has a lot to be thanked
for. While grain values were low banks
got stuck with many slow accounts.
Australian banks are doing their job
creditably, and are generally wary of
dubious prosperity. Overseas the insti-
tutions have taken sharp measures to
check speculation at a time when specu-
lation threatened to jeopardise world re-
covery and progress. As on all occasions
when gambling has been free and un-
fettered and finance cheap, the sudden
discouragement has brought substantial
stocks of commodities and metals on to
the market, with sellers in a big hurry ;
and until the temporary surplus of pre-
viously-withheld commodities is ab-
sorbed there is no predicting how many
fainting-turns prices are going to take.
But with the major evil of speculation
dampened, one thing becomes clearer than
ever; actual commercial demand looks
like persisting for some time yet, and
a satisfactory price for most commodi-
ties should be assured. When dealing
in copper shares, it is worth noting,
investors have made it plain that they
did not regard £BO a ton for electrolytic
as their base figure ; in fact, a steady £6O
a ton should make Mt. Lyell (Tas.) scrip
worth more than its present price. ’
Australian sharemarkets have had a
ragged and depressed appearance for
nearly-a in the base-
metal and gold sections. Apart from the
fact that these stocks are profoundly in-
fluenced by metal prices, it is also per-
tinent that-where there has been the
“Keep goin', laad; un d' sound bootiful t' us chaps — like a hymn.”
greatest speculation there is always the
greatest reaction when a setback occurs.
Barrier stocks are considered as in-
vestments separately elsewhere on this
page. As regards the general run of
industrials, the position is decidedly
interesting.
Most issues have been marked down
as a result of the all-round shaking-out
that has occurred on ’Change. Where
The Bulletin has selected stocks show-
ing a good return in the past, and prices
have faded in the prevailing uncertainty,
those stocks are again recommended. At
present conditions favor buyers, but
buyers are usually too fainthearted to
act individually in circumstances like
those of the present. When they start to
act in concert, opportunity for cheap
buying soon disappears.
This paper does not favor spec, buy-
ing unless the speculator knows what he
is about. Therefore it does not advocate,
buying on the probable results of a co.
over one or two years. But where it is
felt that over a term of, say, 10 years an
investor is likely to collect a good income
and have an intact or increased capital
at the end of that period, the features of
stocks falling into that class are stressed.
And if the speculator happens to get hold
of such stocks, more often than not he
will do better, even over a short period,
than if he put his money into more spec-
tacular but less solid stuff. Dabblers in
cash-order scrip, for instance, have in
most cases burnt their fingers, but holders
of Adelaide Steam, Yarra Falls, Gordon
and Gotch, Berleis and many others of
this page’s recommendations have seen
the present setback through with equa-
nimity. Broken Hill Prop, and Kandos
Cement have reacted, but now look
cheap.
The outlook for Australian industrial
stocks generally remains favorable. It
has been stated as an opinion here,
several times that lower and more stable
prices for metals and some other com-
modities would be all to the good of
trade, industry and employment, and
therefore to investors.... Also that pre-
depression levels of prices were not neces-
sary to restore prosperity, owing to im-
proved efficiency and lower levels of
costs.
Any action the U.S.A. may take in
regard to the price of gold would aim
at the prevention of a boom, not at the
creation of a slump. Continued indus-
trial well-being is the problem of nearly
every Government in the world; that
indicates a protective policy by Britain
should the U.S.A. act alone.
Returning again to the particularly
Australian aspect, conditions remain
attractive. Export prices of wool, wheat,
lead and spelter were last week still well
above the average of the preceding 23
months:
Average Prices.
1935-36 9 Months, Last
Average. 1936-37. Week.
Wool, 1b... 14.2 d. 16.7 d. 17d.
Wheat,
bushel .. 3s. 7.7 d. 4s. lOd. * ss. 4d.
Lead,
ton t • • £l6 4s. sd. £22 15s. t £26 2s. 6d.
Spelter,
ton f •• £l5 3s. lid. £lB 17s. $ £25 15s. Od.
* Average of monthly export prices for six
months to Dec. 31. t London (sterling) prices.
% Approximate.
Coupled with the improved banking
figures, returns now being obtained by
principal export industries should dispel
pessimism so long as costs are kept down
and seasons remain kind. If our affairs
are wisely handled there are possibilities
of considerable industrial expansion dur-
ing the next few years. Recent checks
to boomsters overseas should be all to
the good.
When E. G. Theodore arrived in Mel-
bourne from Fiji on Wednesday of last
week he was greeted with a fall in
Emperor shares to 16s. 10d., a drop of
Is. on the day. . In January there were
sales at 21s. 3d. Rumors concerning the
price of the metal have been all against
gold shares, and most issues have weak-
ened. North Kalgurli, because of recent
favorable developments in its mine, has
been an exception. Mt. Morgan (Q.)
has slumped. Most Victorian and West-
ralian producers are also down.
sj: * $ *
Gold shares at present are in a dif-
ferent category from investment stocks.
While industrial prosperity (and to some
extent higher commodity prices) favors
bigger trading co. profits, increased com-
modity prices adversely affect goldmining
by stepping up costs. It seems certain
that profit-margins of gold-producers are
about to show some shrinkage, especially
in the case of low-grade shows.
* * # *
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of ingot
steel for the four weeks ended April 11
was 59,566 tons —a record. Output for
44 weeks since the beginning of the
financial year represents 613,037 tons;
there are eight weeks to go, and, since
full steel output by the co. for 1935-36
was 663,282 tons, an increase of about
10 p.c. on last term’s production may be
the final figure. Something in the
vicinity of £1,000,000 net profit forecast
here some time ago should be shown,
unless investments or other assets are
treated to a more than usually heavy
writing-down. It is a wonderful busi-
ness, with its future largely wrapped up
with that of the Commonwealth.
* * * . *
If the U.S.A. did decide, to reduce the
“price” of gold, or something tanta-
mount to reducing it, what then? The
position so far as Australia is concerned
depends on what consequent action
Britain would take. - It can be practically
accepted that the U.S.A. devaluation of
the dollar was overdone in comparison
with Britain’s' watering-down of the
pound sterling. The influx of gold to the
States is an indication of that. That
Britain would sit still and see its export
trade endangered by an overvalued pound
is unlikely. It would see to it that the
“price” of gold, in sterling, did not fall
too much. The Australian price of com-
modities and of gold is based on British
prices, not directly on those of the
U.S.A. Still, the recent big setback specu-
lators received as a result of rumors
should do an immense amount of good.
Boomsters are one of the curses of
industry.
*** * *
If lead and zinc average £25 sterling
for the year to June 30 next, and mining
exes, increase 50 p.c., North Broken Hill
should show a profit of over £1,300,000
(Aust.). Costs should not lift that
much ; it is doubtful, however, whether
anything better than £22 10s. sterling will
be the average price for the two chief
metals during the present year. The
mean price for lead for the first nine
months was £22 15s. stg.; spelter £lB
17s. Bd. And Electro. Zinc gets some
of the benefit of the higher price for
spelter.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The sharemarket accepted news from over-
seas touching on the international gold ana
commodity situation with comparative calm-
ness, displaying foresight born of experience.
Though sales of most leading industrials were
made at lower figures, turnover was not large,
and was mainly on account of speculators.
It was punters in Barrier stocks who got com
feet, and on Tuesday 5500 Souths officially
changed hands, in addition to 3200 Norths and
1350 Electro. Zincs. Mt. Lyells
also had a large turnover, but Pkopiuetaries
were tightly held. On Wednesday 1200 Souths
and 2000 Norths changed hands at lowe
prices: 5000 Emperors (gold) were done a
quotes down to 16s. lOd. All these stoc ■>
firmed on Thursday and again on Friday.
Broken Hill Proprietary declared an in-
terim div. at the rate of 121 p.c. p.a. (u
changed). „
Holeproof ords. closed at 3 is.-—s.
Carlton Brewery.
At 625. 6d. last week, scrip in
Melbourne’s biggest brewery stock
was down ss. 6d. compared with
the highest quote for last
November, and down 2s. 9d. com-
pared with the highest for March.
As recently as February theie
were sales at 665. 9d. Yield at
last week’s quote was £3 16s. lOd.
per cent., compared with £3 9s.
p.c. from Tooths (Sydney) and
£3 17s. lOd. p.c. from Castlemaine
Perkins (Brisbane). Though the
Richmond Brewery is cutting
prices for bottled beer at the
moment, the widespread Carlton
organisation should not be much
affected. This holding co.’s scrip
looks cheap.


mi
II; ...
H 3
m
igsm
aSSr:- I "'' •
W’ 1 Jk
-■
=r
3m
mm
llp'ii*
sSliiK’ Li
A section of the
Rolling Mills
where the raw
steel is rolled into
sheets.
LYSAGHT
GFGF
AUSTRALIA
vQmyvgy
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
lor Roofing and
Walling.
BECAUSE only the very finest
of raw materials are used in
the manufacture of Red Orb Gal-
vanized Iron The Rigid Roofing
Sheets and because at every
stage from the rolling mills on-
wards, the utmost care and skill
is devoted to their production,
Lysaght's are able to guarantee
every sheet which bears their
brand. This confidence is reflected
by users of Red Orb Galvanized
Iron throughout Australia.
FREE —a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write to John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D., G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
PROSE WORKS
HENRY LAWSON
25 V 12'6
/tmvoume4,^6ftOGty
What Burns is to a Scotsman and Kipling to an
Englishman, Lawson is to an Australian —the voice
of his land.
Most Australians know the writings of this mastei
Australian story teller, his brilliant tales of bush life
vivid with the atmosphere of the outback, matchless
in their sure delineation of the characters who live
and adventure there.
Here are delightful tales; tales of love, of strife,
of adventure; tales full of humour, homely tales;
stories for every mood—all alive with the magic of
Lawson’s genius: a genius which ranks with that of
the world’s greatest short story writers —O. Henry.
Bret Harte, Gorki, Maupassant. To Australians in
particular these stories must have a strong appeal, for
Lawson is Australian, knows Australia, and has here
captured the spirit of the people who are making
Australia great.
Until now, however, it has been difficult to secure
anything like a representative collection of Lawson s
stories.
Complete in these two volumes are his
nine famous books: —
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS—
First Series
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS—
Second Series
JOE WILSON’S MATES
ON THE TRACK
JOE WILSON
THE ROMANCE OF THE SWAG
THE RISING OF THE COURT
SEND ROUND THE HAT
OVER THE SLIPRAILS
The two volumes are bound in fine cloth,
with title and spine decorations in gold
and a facsimile of Lawson s signature on
the front cover. Each volume measures
by is printed in large type
and will be a handsome addition to the
library of the most discerning collector.
ORDER FORM.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me a set of Prose Works of
Henry Lawson, Special Price 12/6.
(Postage, I/--)
NAME • •
ADDRESS
B. 28-4.
There is only a limited number of
these volumes available, and the
edition will not be reprinted. Do
not miss this unique opportunity.
POST YOUR ORDER NOW*
WX 8
'fovtrVolimtJ
Return Creek Tin
Tableland Tin, N.L., is being formed
to take over a 1096-acre area extending
five miles along the valley of Return
Creek (near Mt. Garnet, Atherton Table-
land, Q.). A prospectus is in process
of being issued, and a report by J. Mal-
colm Newman is to hand. Two-thirds
(40,000,000 c.y., .621 b. values, and
8,000,000 c.y., .371 b.) of the material to
be dredged lies on the north (upstream)
side of the Cairns-Mt. Garnet railway
line, and one-third (25,000,000 c.y.,
.50-.621b. values) on the other side. The
property was tackled about 10 years ago
by Return Creek, N.L., a Melbourne
concern, which extracted 260 tons of tin
from less than 1,000,000 c.y., and then
gave up owing to difficulties presented by
its small bucket-dredge and the low price
of tin.
With J. B. Ferris, Malcolm Newman
started prospecting the area two years
ago ; the latter reports:
I have bored the upper area thoroughly
and the lower area sufficiently to warrant
making an. estimate of yardages and
values....A mineralogical examination of
the field concentrate by Professor Eastaugh,
of Sydney University, shows that magnetic
separation will produce a very high-grade
product for marketing.
Newman, widely known by his connec-
tion with tinmining in Malaya, says
that average yield should be half a pound
a yard, with no serious dredging diffi-
culties. With an electrically-operated
4,500,000-c.y.-p.a. bucket-dredge, annual
recovery is put at 1000 tons t.o. a year,
and profits, with tin at £2OO London,
£llO,OOO (Aust.); £250 London, £160,000.
Life of the property on this basis is esti-
mated at 17 years.
The co. pays £20,000 in cash to Allu-
vial Prospectors for acquisition and test-
ing of the property. It is a moderate,
price. Nominal capital is £246,000;
120,000 shilling deferreds and half of
the 240,000 £1 ords. have been taken
for cash by Alluvial Prospectors or its
nominees. The public has oversubscribed
the remainder of the ords. at par.
The deferred shares have equal voting
and profit-participation rights with the
ords., but capital return is conditional
upon the ords. being first repaid in full.
Tin-dredging is a highly-mechanised
form of mining, and labor is reduced to
a minimum. The fact, therefore, that
the property is in Australia is considered
to be no disadvantage when compared
with Malayan conditions. The form of
the dredge and its equipment, power-
and water-supply, etc., have all been
gone, into carefully by Mr. Newman,
and all-in costs are estimated at slightly
more than 2d. a yard. The co. will have
no royalties to pay.
With tin at £2OO the engineer speaks
of divs. of 6s. p.a.; tin at £250, 9s. p.a.
If all estimates, including costs, are
realised, it looks like opening-up as a
substantial and remunerative proposi-
tion, the size of it unknown in previous
Australian records. Mr. Newman, who
has had experience second to none in
tin-dredging, will be on the board.
Electrolytic Zinc produces spelter at
Risdon (Tas.) from Broken Hill concen-
trates under long-term returning-charge
contracts (in which a minimum price is
stipulated) with the three principal Bar-
rier cos. At Rosebery, on the island
State’s West Coast, it mines ores assaying
around 21 p.c. zinc, 6 p.c. lead, 7oz.
silver and traces of copper and gold.
Zinc concentrates are first roasted at
plants on the mainland and in Tasmania ;
since the co. has gone into production of
concentrates itself its revenue as a refiner
of zinc has increased, and income has
also lifted by the value .of its West Coast
mining operations, of which a full years
figures will not be available until after
June 30. But on'the milling of 12,000
tons ore a month (over 10 years life in
sight), actual annual recovery of refined
metal should, if recent grade of concen-
trates is maintained, be in the vicinity
of 26,000 tons zinc, . 5000 tons lead,
700,0000 z. silver and a small but useful
amount of gold and copper. With lead
and spelter at £22 10s. (stg.) there would
be around £950,000 (Aust.) revenue from
that output. The current year’s produc-
tion, however, would not be as big as
that, and costs have yet to be determined.
On the score of what must still be
considered the co.’s main business—that
of refining zinc concentrates—the co.
treated 137,256 tons last term, for 72,122
tons zinc (up 13,233 tons). During the
current term there has been a further
upward movement in the figures, owing
partly to West Coast mining operations. _
How fluctuations in the metal’s price
affect profits at this end of the business
has been described by chairman Colin
Fraser: —
If the London price of zinc rises from,
say, £l5 to £l7 a ton, the additional
revenue goes approximately 60 p.c. to the
mining co. which produces the concen-
trate and 40 p.c. to Electrolytic Zinc, which
buys and treats the concentrate and sells
the metal. When the price falls the re-
verse applies until a minimum is reached,
when any movement below that figure
falls wholly on E.Z.
It is therefore difficult for outsiders to
estimate profits from this source, except
to make comparisons with previous
years. Assuming, however, that 40 p.c.
of the rise above last term’s £l5 3s. lid.
London average for zinc belonged to
E.Z., and that spelter for the current
term averaged £22 10s. sterling a ton,
E.Z.’s extra revenue on this account
would be over £200,000 (Aust.) for the
year—that is, putting Barrier zinc pro-
duced at 60,000 tons. Stabs in the dark
though these estimates are, it is obvious
that a profit more than double that for
1935-36 should show up for 1936-37 if
metal prices during the next two months
no more than hold their own. The co.
has £265,483 (book value) in investments
outside its business.
* * * *
Australian Cement £1 shares lifted to
31s. 3d. in Melbourne last week, while
Kandos 16s. scrip dropped to 235.
The wide difference between the scrip
and the contrary market movements are,
as usual, unjustified.


FOR GFASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Imperial Handicap: Marion
Melton or Sly Wink ; next, Double
Form.
Granville Handicap: Diaphane ;
next. Beau Spear.
Jell'cott Welter: Marion Melton
or Sly Wink ; next, Palatinate.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying. Welter: Arabia; next,
Stuart M.
Canterbury Handicap: Ver-
berry; next, Curator.
Park Stakes: Moaenza; next,
Cliquot.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The attendance at Mentone (Vic.) on
Saturday must have been a record, or
near it. The course is 14 miles from
Melbourne, and not too convenient of
access, as railway passengers must com-
plete the journey by car or cab, unless
they elect to “pad the hoof” ; however,
turf patrons appreciate enterprise. With
£1450 to race for, good sport was
assured; and because of overlarge accept-
ances two events had to be divided.
The first division of the Damascus, for
juveniles, went to Ouverte, a 5-to-l
chance from the local stable of Harry
Telford. This Dignity colt had finished
second to Spray at Ascot a week before.
Improving on that effort, he outstayed
Fred Hoysted’s filly Waetere and won
by a neck. Cleopatra (Heroic-Desert
Song), trained by Holt for C. B. Kel-
low, finished a very promising third. She
is out of a Spearhead mare, with Chelan-
dry blood on both sides of the pedigree.
Second division of the youngsters’ race
resulted in an easy win for Winoobra, a
Cimbrian filly belonging to Jack
O'Dwyer, who captured the Australian
Hurdle of 1916 with Van Homreigh.
Winoobra (6 to 1) was followed home
by Amiable (fives) and a rank outsider,
Kiarana. Last-named is by Silvius (sire
of Sylvandale). He belongs to the
Auraria and Desert Gold family, the
granddam being an own sister to Tan-
galooma, who once beat his stable-
companion Eurythmic at weight-for-age.
Another divided race at Mentone was
the Somme Welter. Bonus, quoted at
50 to 1 (the tote paid £l2 19s. for 55.) stag-
gered no one more than his owner-
trainer, Ted Temby, by winning from
Lord Jevington and the 7-to-4 favorite,
Palatinate. The little apprentice who
rode Bonus was having only his third
mount in a race. He left everything to
the horse, a policy that might prove
profitable in the case of more experi-
enced jockeys.
Palatinate put up a remarkable feat
in finishing third. This former M.L.
performer was regarded by Harry Freed-
man as one of the greatest certainties
that his stable had produced for many
months. Although it looked to be a per-
fect start, Palatinate dropped back
second-last at the end of a furlong. Skid-
more took him to the extreme outside
at the home bend, and was making a
magnificent run when he collided with
Bonus in the straight and received a seri-
ous check. The rider of Bonus was re-
primanded by the stewards, who prob-
ably realised that the lad didn’t thor-
oughly comprehend what was happen-
ing in the moment of bewildering good
fortune.
Holt provided the winner of the
second division of the Somme Welter in
Mooramong, a Ronsard gelding he trains
for Hal Laidlaw, a Western District
sportsman. Mooramong was backed
from lives down to equal favoritism with
Master Motley at 9 to 4. Taking con-
trol at the straight entrance, he lasted
long enough to score by half a length
from the fast-finishing Doriaster, who
surprised by his splendid showing over
seven furlongs— too short a distance for
this stayer. Master Motley, under the
steadier of 9st. 121 b., did well to reach
the judge only a neck behind Donaster.
The dam of Mooramong is by Buck-
wheat from that famous mare Golden
Slipper.
Her superior class enabled Boonewa to
smother novice rivals at the close of the
Bullecourt Hurdle. Minor places were
filled by Coster Lad and Shadow Moon,
both of whom will benefit by racing.
Shadow Moon belongs to veterinary sur-
geon S. O. Wood, a son-in-law of A. T.
Creswick, breeder of the Escomb geld-
ing. In private a dashing jumper,
Shadow Moon lost ground at several
obstacles because of being nervous when
crowded. He will overcome that draw-
back.
• • • • •
Craigavad, whose brother Adrift
landed an Oakleigh Plate 12 years ago
i for the late George Woodforde, ended
up nearly as .good a favorite as Double
Form for the Gallipoli Plate. He won
handsomely by a length from Conchita,
with Double Form three-quarters of a
length farther oft'.
His Spearhead blood enabled Spear-
flash (4 to 1) to beat the 2-to-l favorite,
Keeping Watch, by nearly a length in
the 1-J- miles Pozieres Handicap. Vital,
hero of the last big meeting at Kalgooi’-
lie (W.A.), was a close third. Neville
Percival, on Aitchengee, had the un-
usual experience of being left at the
post. He merely cantered after the field.
Harry Boan, of Perth, who gave 1200
guineas for Spearflash as a yearling and
sold him for almost an old-song sum,
put £1 on him on Saturday. Boan had
been advised that Spearflash’s legs
would not stand racing. There does not
now appear to be any unsoundness about
the animal.
Steve Murphy considered that, because
Irish Message (Marconigram - Una
Carlos) was by the sire of a Melbourne
Cup winner out of a Standish Handicap
winner, this three-year-old ought to be
able to account for Gallipoli Purse op-
position. Irish Message was deposed
from favoritism by La Cannette, who
gave a bad display. Sweet Trilby (12
to 1) squeezed home by half a head
from Galloglas, with Irish Message half
a neck off. The winner is trained at Ben-
digo by O. Andison, brother-in-law of
the late Harry McCalman, who did so
well with Whittier and Manfred.
Clever horsemanship on the part of
Ted Bartle brought success to Lolorua
(7 to I) in the Brighton Handicap at
Moorefield. The chestnut had become
notorious for misbehavior at the barrier.
Bartle handled him with ease and
patience at the lineup, and Lolorua was
actually first to begin. He took com-
plete charge three furlongs from home
and won in a canter from Brazeno, one
of the unluckiest horses in training, with
Povertdale third. Cid galloped sourly,
and beat only two home. His stable-
mate, the Queenslander Hastate, was last.
The track was a morass in parts, and
there were many scratchings. It was
thought that the conditions would suit
Arabia, but the owner decided not to
run him. Grand Warbler found the
going to her liking, and a light weight
helped. But the owner, W. A. Freeman,
was not present to see his mare win the
Moorefield Handicap and scoop up the
nice price available; and sixes could be
got. Grand Warbler was followed home
by Linklet and Silver Coat. Sally In-
step—squeezed back at barrier-rise—was
fourth. Measure was too much of a
handful for his apprentice rider. He
finished last.
Mack Sawyer’s colt Fearless, a plain-
looking chestnut, had a runaway win in
the colts and geldings’ division of the
Juvenile Handicap. He started at sixes.
Over the last bit Late Night and Conlon
passed the tiring Brazandt, who had
been backed at long prices. He set up
a. big lead, but was a very weary young-
ster in the straight. The second division
went to Poly Joy (3 to 1), who scored
easily from Torch and Chantek. Edgar
Britt rode her patiently.
Joe Harris’s Maoriland nag Dutiful,
trained by Jamieson, had too much pace
for his opponents in the Maiden Plate.
He was taken to the front early, and
won “in a walk” from Old Rowley and
Brass, who are not in his class.
The finish in the first division of the
Flying Welter was a compliment to
handicapper Jim Tanner: Brown Baron-
ess (5 to 1) beat Bronze God by a head,
with Aureus half a head away. Both
Bronze God and Aureus were unlucky
at different stages of the race, but the
winner is a very game filly. Rubens,
backed from tens to fives, made an ex-
hibition of his opponents in the second
division. He had the race in his keeping
over the last half-mile, and scored in a
canter from Trinco and Westball.
* * *
Dr. Quinlan, son of an old-time West-
ralian public man (he was Speaker of
the Leg. Assembly), has a rather taking
two-year-old in Publicity, a chestnut colt
by Heroic-Ridicule. Trained by Frank
McGrath at Randwick, Publicity has won
a couple of races —the second a division
of the Bridges Handicap at Randwick
on Monday. With a run which Bartle
timed to a nicety, Publicity settled Sweet
Myra just when the bookmakers were
wondering how much they would profit
on that filly, a rank outsider. Manilla’s
Pride was a fair third.
The second division was a soft thing
lor Sylvandale’s half-brother Captain
Oates (Heroic-La Bergeronette), who is
owned by knight Hugh Denison. He
also was at 7 to 1 ; Delight, the runner-
up, was favorite.
Housemaster led home the biggest field
of the day (23) in the Lone Pine Novice,
seven furlongs. At Moorefield he did
nothing to justify 5-to-2 favoritism in the
second division of the Flying Welter,
and 14 to 1 was on offer about him;
33’s Digland and Our Hope, who fol-
lowed him in.
Though hurdled off as usual, Lolorua
caused a good deal of upset at the start
of the Chauvel Flying, but got away well
and looked like making a hat trick of his
Warwick Farm and Moorefield wins till
old Goorka came with a furlong to go
and confirmed his Warwick form by run-
ning away with it. Jack King added an-
other to his recent string of platings with
Canegrass’s third to the fractious moke.
The field was another good one —17 ;
The Bulletin’s elect, High Speech,
scratched.
Taking the lead from Mark Antony
soon after the start, Buzalong gave Shean
an armchair ride in the Monash Mile.
He led from then on and won running
away by five lengths. Well back early,
Salamander put in a good run for third
place. Mark Antony was at a short quote
in the opening betting, but the money
came for Buzalong, and King’s horse
(another place) shared 7-to-2 favoritism
with the winner.
Knox’s vigorous riding got Fountain
up in time to snatch the A.I.F. Handicap
(14m.) from Tapestry, who had beaten off
Kinsfolk by the home turn. Soft Step
showed up after the mile, but also
dropped out of it. Third money to Fair
Diana ; and three in a row to the winner.
Royal Step, The Bulletin’s pick for
the Birdwood Welter Mile, made a dead
heat of it with Warrawing from the light-
weighted Casicasado. Royal Step looked
the winner in the straight, but Warrawing
finished very strongly and they necked
it over the last bit.
A Queensland filly called Stuart M., by
The Blizzard-Araby, attracted some
attention by clearing out in a five-fur-
longs race at Gosford; with 9st. up she
won by five lengths in fast time—6o|sec.
This was a prelude to success in better
company in a division of the Flying
Handicap at Rosebery. The Brisbane
filly went out at 5 to 4 and beat Heroina,
who was giving her 31b., by a length.
Heroina was interfered with when an-
other horse ran wide, but she couldn’t
have beaten Stuart M. Heroina is the
Heroic mare who ran a good third to
Silver Rose and Tuckiar in the New
Year’s Gift at Randwick, and was sub-
sequently runner-up to Cloudy on the
same course with the same weight—9s t.
Stuart M.’s time for the six furlongs
(lmin. 14|sec.) was quarter of a second
faster than that put up by Assai (5 to 2),
winner of the first division.
* * * *
Cooper, the owner of Talking and
Grand Mogul, has been riding the latter
on the track at Ascot, Brisbane. The
“Courier-Mail” certifies that he is “young
and active and a capable horseman with
a good seat.” But a professional had
the mount in the Quality Handicap at
Doomben and Grand Mogul was favor-
ite. He was galloping well when he
broke down, and he finished on three
legs—fourth to Jocular (33 to 1), Man-
resa and Leo Emblem. Five “dollar”
punters who coupled Jocular on the
doubles tote with Royal Rivoli (7 to 1)
in the Novice Handicap collected
£127 13s. apiece.
* * # *
“Mug P.”: If I were a speculator with
flush friends, I would organise a syndi-
cate to buy a dozen good Australian race-
horses Pamelus, Gold Rod, Regular
Bachelor, Aurie’s Star, Silver and
Ajax among them —and take them across
the Pacific and sell them to moving-
picture actors. After many years, bet-
ting has been legalised in California
again, and the result is a racing boom
such as the world has never seen. There
is one club which stages 58 meetings a
year ; it runs 100,000-dollar handicaps,
and is raking in staggering profits. Holly-
wood is racing-mad, and, apart from a
few intelligent persons like Arliss, the
Barrymores, Aubrey Smith, Herbert Mar-
shall and Ruth Chatterton, it is composed
largely of mugs and morons with more
money than they know what to do with.
And they all remember Phar Lap, and
could be easily kidded to believe that
every horse from this country is as
good. Tommy Woodcock has related
how crazy they were about Phar Lap.
A 1 Jolson even introduced a Phar Lap
verse into one of his songs.
H 4 sje $ jjc
“Ibn el Issar”: Travellers returned
from India, including several Australian
jockeys and a prominent trainer or two,
are agreed that there will soon be a tax
on all geldings, Australian and otherwise,
imported into India. For many years
India has been trying to breed quality
horses, both the Raj and the great princes
vying with each other, the one in pro-
duction of the remount types and the
other attempting to establish thorough-
bred studs. So far efforts cannot be said
to have been successful in either case,
but time may have worked changes.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: English experts are tip-
ping the Aga Khan to win the Derby
again this year. He has a fine colt in Le
Grand Due, by Blenheim out of La
Douairiere, a notable stayer. The colt
is second-favorite, the first choice being
Fairford, by Fairway. The Aga has won
the classic three times already. An-
other victory will place him level with
John Bowes, who won four times —the
first in 1835 with Mundig, when he was
an undergraduate at Cambridge.
* * * *
A. G. Barlow, dead in Melbourne,
owned Frances Tressady when she won
the Victoria Derby in 1923. He was a
newcomer to the turf, and it must have
been a thrilling experience, but the
visions of wealth that the victory sum-
moned up were not destined to be
realised, though Poetaster, Preposterer
and Phonic raced in the Barlow colors.
Footbrawl
The V.F.L. opened its forty-first
season on Saturday, when about 120,000
people turned out in warm sunshine to
see the six big games. Collingwood, the
1936 premiers, downed Geelong 15-16
to 13-12, and Melbourne withstood a
vigorous last-quarter rally to beat Rich-
mond 14-8 to 9-12. Carlton rattled a
disorganised South Melbourne side and
piled up 18-21 to 7-17. Footscray, stag-
ing a great finish, snatched victory from
Essendon by 9-17 to 9-13. St. Kilda,
12-16, led for most of the game and
finished ahead of Fitzroy, 10-21, while
Hawthorn, in another close match, got
home against North Melbourne, 11-12 to
9-22.
* * sfc Hi
Drummoyne is still alone on top of
the Sydney Rugby Union table, but on
Saturday it was reserved for Parramatta
to give it a scare. A few minutes before
the whistle each side had scored a try,
but “Parra.” was ahead: one converted
and two penalty goals to two p.gs. An-
other p.g. to Drummoyne, and it was
all over: 12-11. Randwick, showing
something like its old form, had a good
win against West (18-15; five tries to
two), and Uni. experienced little diffi-
culty in downing East (11-5; two tries
to one), The despised of last season,
Gordon and St. George, continue to do
well. Gordon held North to a 6-all
draw (two tries to one), and Saints
walked away from Manly, a shadow of
its former self (15-3 ; five tries to one).
(Continued on page 30.)
Murray Bridge (S.A.) witnessed a
great race for the King’s Cup, and had
the satisfaction of seeing its own State
score in a rousing finish. The N.S.W. eight
was second, a length to the bad, and
Westralia —always to be reckoned with
in these contests—three-quarters of a
length further back, third. The time for
the three miles was 15min. 22sec. It
was S.A.’s first win for 14 years, its fifth
in the 55 years. Pearce gave N.S.W. its
ninth success in a row in the Sculls;
“eight lengths,” the judge said.


¥
WORLD BEATER!
in hurricane acceleration and safe, smooth road-hugging speed
If you’ve got a love of thoroughbred car perform-
ance . . . then accept our invitation to drive the
new Vauxhall 25. Step in . . . and step on it
Match this new Vauxhall 25 with your fondest
memories of the finest car you have ever driven.
Match it for smoothness . . . for acceleration . . .
for its sensation of safe, silent, road-hugging
speed. Test its amazing T.T. Independent Front
Wheel Springing on the wickedest curves . . . and
see how this new system resists rolling. Ask
its dual-safety Hydraulic Brakes for next-door-to-
the-impossible in swift cushioned stops. You’ll
give the Vauxhall 25 top marks for
everything ... for it does everything
that you could wish of your 1937 car.
Here are just a few of the high-lights
of this big, beautiful world-challeng-
ing English Car: 80 m.p.h. New-
m
a
i
I
combustion-chamber-design O.H.V. 6-cylinder
Engine . . . Unisteel Turret Top body by golden
. . . T.T. Independent Front Wheel Springing . . .
dual-safety Hydraulic Brakes ... Armourplate Glass
in windscreen and all side windows ... No-draught
Ventilation ... Adjustable Steering Wheel... New-
type Adjustable raising and lowering Front Seat
. . . Relax-o-form seating .. . Luggage Trunk, etc.
You may choose from several colour schemes in
the handsome two-tone Saloon illustrated. An
All-enclosed Six-seater Coupe brings you closed
car comfort at an even lower price
Also Vauxhall Seven Passenger Saloon.
Senior car of the Vauxhall line.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
AUXHALL 25
m
m
....... 'V'VmWiWVWw'X
MJi
S&S*.
C 250
Consult your local authorised Vauxhall dealers
a
Twice as Popular as any other Small Car
LITTLE VAUXHALL “14”
No wonder the little Vauxhall is so far ahead in sales of all other
small cars. Look what it offers : modern 6-cylinder O.H.V. Engine
. . . Independent Front Wheel Springing . . . Turret Top Body by
Holden . . . No-draught Ventilation in closed models.
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO
The 1937 2-unit ‘Air Chief’ Car Radio,
designed for the Vauxhall 25 includes
a special remote control to match fit-
tings on the instrument panel. A
new six valve set with increased
distance reception and tone equal to
the best home radio. Speaker fits in
header bar flush with roof lining
giving ear-level reception to all pas-
sengers. Ask for a demonstration.
M n /mfl Dnffortu
*'*** T
Leto v. Blatch.
When Australian lightweight cham-
pion Alf Blatch (9st. 111 b.) pranced into
the Sydney Stadium ring last week, tak-
ing the place of Jack Carroll (belatedly
reported sick) against American welter
Jimmy Leto (10st. 3jlb.), the betting was
5 to 4 on Leto. The handiest descrip-
tion that can be given of what followed
is that if the pair met again it would
be 50 to 1 on Leto.
Blatch may have had a slight margin
of points after the sparring of the first
round, when they were becoming ac-
quainted. He did fairly well in the
second round, too ; but it was clearly
Leto’s round. In the third Leto scored
very heavily with body blows, solid,
workmanlike punches that Blatch visibly
felt.
Already it was no longer a question of
whether Blatch could beat the Ameri-
can; it was only a matter of how long
he could last. He looked to be in for
the father of a hiding; his backers
kissed their money good night.
In the fourth Leto took the fight right
into Blatch, and scored heavily again to
the body and once with an ox-feller to
the side of the head. The advice to
Blatch to stand off arid fight Leto that
way was loud and well-meant, but it
overlooked the fact that it was Leto who
was the aggressor : Blatch no longer had
an Y sa Y how the fight was going to
be conducted. He turned to his corner
after stopping a tearful body-battenng,
an overshadowed and beaten man.
Leto came into the fifth evidently in-
tent on ending the scrap instanter. He
handed off Blatch’s customary opening
lead ; then he went in, with a drive into
the solar plexus and a jolt to the jaw.
Unbalanced, Blatch turned half side on,
a °d a solid punch took him in the side
and across the back. He went down,
was nearly counted out, and staggeied
up badly shaken.
Referee Harald Baker warned Leto for
the kidney-punch. Leto almost immedi-
ately repeated it, this time with a power-
ful close-range drive into Blatch’s half-
turned back, and, as the blow turned
him, another near the solar. Blatch fell,
and everybody knew he was down to
stay. Baker instantly declared him the
winner.
Leto was visibly annoyed, and with
some reason, apart from the insulting
peanuts thrown at him by the violently
angry crowd. A doctor declared after-
wards that Blatch had not been hit over
the kidneys at all. Be that as it may,
he was hit on the back, and the blows
looked like kidney wallops. But similar
punches had been delivered in the second
and third rounds without any warning
from the ref., despite the advice yelled
at him on each occasion. It was a bit
tough, then, to step in belatedly with a
warning after Leto had used the punch
unwarned for some time and disqualify
fiim for using it once more. Leto should
have been warned in the second round.
He looked to lose his block momentarily
in repeating the back blow right on top
of the warning, when it was plain that
he had Blatch beaten on his feet, but
that was excitement; he is anything but
a dirty fighter.
In hooting and counting him out, the
mob had its pleasure on the best fighter
they had seen for years. Blatch’s show-
ing can be easily excused. It was very
game, and he was giving away nearly
half a stone, which can’t be done nohow
to a good man. But it wasn’t only weight
that told in Leto’s incomparable superi-
ority. As much as anything else, it was
a test of the prevailing Australian style
of boxing against the prevailing Ameri-
can.
Blatch gave, a good exposition of the
prevailing Australian style in opening
hostilities. To begin with he danced
brightly, ranged loosely about the ring
and generally disported himself much
more effectively than effectually. The
style piles up points against second-raters,
or as long as the other cove allows it to
be used against him. Leto allowed it to
be used against him too long in the
Carroll fight, and though he was winning
at the end he could not overtake the
points that Carroll had piled up. He
allowed Blatch to employ it for only the
first round. The style’s main projectile
is a long left lead, delivered from too far
away to be a blow, but a good points
scorer, and, kept up long enough, it can
wear the other fellow down.
Bar Henneberry, pretty well all Aus-
tralian boxers of what to-day serves as
the front rank employ this loose kan-
garooish style. Even Carroll, the present
best boxer in the country, employs it, but
he. has also a splendid defence and is a
dandy at infighting. Whenever Leto took
the fight into Blatch—which, after Round
1 was most of the time—Blatch had no-
thing to offer, and could only guard his
jaw and take a frightful pounding below.
Contrast with this rangy Australian
style the present American style as exem-
plified by Leo Kelly and now Leto. It
is, in fact, the style of Australia’s former
golden age of boxing transferred across
the Pacific. To-day it is very doubtful
if there is a first-class Australian who
{Continued on next page.)


“SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNiNQ
is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Viet
f &)J\
23
Smoky Exhaust may mean
you need new Champions/
Faulty ignition lets fuel escape from
your car in smoke. Nobody gets any
benefit from that It is like burning
money. Get full value from the fuel you
use. Install new Champions once every
year. They save enough fuel to pay for
themselves.
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN WINDSOR . CANADA • • -AN EMPIRE PRODUCT
could beat a second-class American of
his weight. Leto, using this exported
Australian style, stands upright, per-
fectly balanced, with elbows down and
gloves up close together. He faces square
on. In direct contrast with our ex-
ponents, he is completely unspectacular.
There is no pretty leading from four
feet away to thrill the ladies. Solidity
is the keynote of the style. In action it
is plain bustling, with short-range punch-
ing of great power. There are no frills
whatever ; but it gets results.
Leto and his manager, highly dis-
gusted, reckon Australian boxing needs
a boxing commission. It’s more, in need
of a Larry Foley.
Footbrawl
“M.L.”: Australian Rules footballers
getting a bit old for the game now cash
in on their sports-oval reputations by
“commentating” on the Saturday games
in which old team-mates and opponents
take part. The fact that professional
journalists, trained in the essentials of
fair and bright criticism, would be glad
of the work apparently cuts no ice with
some newspaper proprietaries.
* * * *
“Rover”: The Sydney Australian
Rulers seem to lack a sense of humor.
It has been announced that, to add to the
attraction of matches, prize-fights will
be staged on the ground at half-time.
A portable ring will be placed in the
middle of the ground, and the scrappers
will proceed to business. The idea of
importing scrap from outside to Rules
football matches has the carrying of coal
to Newcastle beaten down the cot/rse.
The joke is the keener because the first
experiment will be at Erskineville, re-
nowned for its fistic and boot battles
every season.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The burning question in
R.U. circles is the color of the Austra-
lian jersey to be worn against the Spring-
boks. In all other sports the colors are
green and gold, but these will clash with
the green of the Afrikanders. The choice
is certain to be the N.S.W. light blue,
which the Wallabies wore in South
Africa. When Mullineux’s team was
here in 1899 and the first Australian team
was selected N.S.W. light blue was worn'
for the first Test in Sydney. In Banana-
land the Australians played in maroon.
Later a hideous compromise of maroon
and light-blue bars was tried but dis-
carded. The first Wallabies in England
wore the N.S.W. jersey. It was not
until the Waratahs went abroad that the
green-and-gold uniform was used.
■** * *
“Mak”: Two Air Force fifteens have
been admited to Vic. Rugby Union com-
petitions. Navy has been represented for
years, and Geelong, which was moved
down a grade to make way for the Air
Force seniors, invariably fields a large
percentage of army men from Queens-
cliff. The Services encourage their young-
sters to get a smattering of Rugby before
they go overseas. For the same reason,
University teams contain students who
feel they might be going abroad at some
future date. It is hard to get a game
under Australian Rules anywhere out-
side the Commonwealth.
“Five-eighth”: Sydney Cricket Ground
trustees have apportioned the disputed
dates for the three codes desiring the
ground for big matches. The Rugby
League gets June 19 and 26 for games v.
Queensland, the Union July 10 and 17
for the Springboks. Soccer is to have
July 3. This will break up the original
Union programme, which had scheduled
two games against the ’Boks for the dates
granted to the League. It will be most
inconvenient and costly for the Union
to alter the dates now, and there may
now be reversion to the fixtures originally
set down for June 19 and 26 on the Show-
ground. A drawback to this is the huge
mass of deadheads with R.A.S. tickets
who always throng to the Showground on
such occasions. Still, the Union drew
good money there against the 1921 ’Boks,
and if they go there will certainly play
the deuce with the attendances at the
N.S.W.-Q. League matches next door.
* * * *
“Whee-oo”: Having banned broad-
casting of its matches for a couple of
seasons the Sydney Rugby League has
climbed down and let the. rights for an-
nouncing them. It has no doubt been
influenced by the fact that, though the
Rugby Union has always permitted
broadcasting, its attendances have in-
creased. The League took the stand that
broadcasting was responsible, for the
dwindling crowds in its grounds, but
found that banning it made no differ-
ence. Now it is blaming s.p. betting.
Anything but the quality of the football.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: How keenly the Syd-
ney Rugby League is feeling the financial
pinch is seen in its resolve to cut pay-
ments to players. Inter-State men are to
get £5 per match, with 10s. allowance for
each day’s training, instead of £6 and
16s.
:!: * :|c *
“Everton”: The English amateur
Soccer team has left for Australia and
“Tackling the captain? Wot's the idea?"
“I git mention in papers THIS Week.”
Maoriland, being farewelled by High
Commissioners Bruce and Jordan. The
team reaches Auckland on May 21, and
plays its first match on May 26 and its
last on June 26. It will then make for
Australia, where a solid programme with
a considerable amount of travelling lies
before it.
* * * *
“Queen’s Park”: A record for football
crowds went up at Hampden Park in
Glasgow when England and Scotland
clashed at Soccer, a crowd of 150,000
seeing Scotland win by three goals to
one. Over 30,000 Sassenachs crossed the
border to watch Flodden avenged. The
gate, was over £20,000. Ma conscience!
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: A great go between
Ferrier-Von Nida and Hagen-Kirkwood
at Manly was squared. The feature of
the game was the way Hagen and Von
Nida outdrove the others, often by
yards. The seventeenth hole was played
with the locals one down. Von Nida
hit a tremendous tee shot within a yard
of the hole at the next, and made it level
pegging for the 18 holes. Approximate
stroke rounds were: Hagen 72, Kirk-
wood 76, Von Nida 74 and Ferrier 72.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Seventeen-year-old Peter
Heard, who won the N.S.W. junior golf
championship at La Perouse with an
aggregate of 152 (71-81), is a son of T.
Heard, the professional at Kogarah, and
has moulded his style on his father’s. He
is a long hitter, but shines particularly on
the green.
Jp j|t ip
“Divot Digger”: Attempts are being
made to include a golf tourney for ama-
teurs and professionals in the 150th anni-
versary spree. The. idea is to get the best
of the overseas men in addition to our
own. One doubts whether the American
professionals, who are the likeliest to
come over, will do so after listening to
what Hagen and Kirkwood have to say
about their treatment on their tour.
Amateurs from abroad are out of the
question. In any case the organisers of
the celebrations have banned professional
sport of any kind.
sfc ❖ H* ❖
“Brass Addler”: The Australian golfing
heads have opened their hearts and
tacked another £25 on to the £5O hitherto
offered as first prize for professionals in
the “open” at Sydney in September.
Even £75 will be barely enough to pay
the winner’s expenses if he hails from
another State. The best open prize in
Australia is Queensland’s £lOO, and this
should be the minimum in every State,
as well as in the national event.
* >i= * *
“Oakland”: Peggy Nankivell, one of
the Melbourne golfing clan of that name,
has won the Founder’s Trophy at the in-
augural meet of the Vesta Golfing Society
at Ranelagh. This society has been
formed to give Empire women marooned
in London a chance to get a game in
decent surroundings. The trophy, which
is in the form of a vestal lamp —see
Lempriere—is to be competed for annu-
ally. Peggy and subsequent winners re-
ceive a gold matchbox as evidence of
their success instead of the usual minia-
ture replica of the trophy. Three South
Africans, a Tassie and a Maorilander
were among the competitors.
♦ * ❖ *
“Hoylake”: The British open and ama-
teur golf championships are to be en-
livened by an American gentleman named
Montagu, who includes a spade, a rake
and a baseball bat in his bag to play
shots with when he feels inclined. There
are plenty of players in Australia who,
if circumstantial evidence could be relied
on, play their rounds with a mattock.
* -i= * *
“Carnoustie”: Jock McLean, whose
golf Australia found reason to admire
when he was here with the British ama-
teurs, had his first go as a professional in
the Northern open championship at
Lossiemouth. As an amateur McLean
won this tourney in 1933, and Jim Ferrier
made his bow to British golf audiences
in it last season.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Davis Cup contest
opens on Friday, the most important
matches from an Australian point of
view being Australia v. Mexico at Mexico
City and America v. Japan somewhere in
California. Other Dominions engaged—
the first round of the European zone must
be over by May 4 —are South Africa and
Maoriland: the Springboks take on the
Netherlands, and M.L. has China for an
opponent. Both are in the second half
of the draw. The real trouble will begin
with the second round. Germany, Yugo-
slavia and France are in it.
❖ :!: # #
“Caramba”: Mexico has announced its
Davis Cup side to meet Australia: Tapia
and Reyes in singles ; Unda and Her-
nandez in doubles. Reyes and Her-
nandez were the singles players against
U.S.A. in 1935-36, and Tapia was in
both singles and doubles in 1934. Unda
partnered Llano in 1933 in the doubles.
* # * *
“Centre Court”: England is making
an early start scratching together a Davis
Cup team. The quintet chosen to prac-
tise are Hughes, Tuckey, Hare, Wilde
and Austin. Tuckey is the soldier player
. who showed up well last year in the
doubles with Hughes. Hare and Wilde
have been in the third rank of champion-
ship players for some years, but they are
supposed to have greatly improved as
doubles players. England’s best hope is
that Austin may win both his singles
and that one of the others will fluke an-
other singles win. None of them looks
equal to the job.
iH * ' H 8 # ❖
“Susie Swattit”: There is a fair
chance of our getting the English team
for the Wightman Cup, due in the U.S.A.
in September. The girls will be chosen
after Wimbledon, and must be back in
Britain by March 31. The A.L.T.A. is
confident that there will be plenty of
time for them to play against Australian
States and in the championships and be
back on the home doorstep by the
scheduled time.
•fc H* *!»
“Cut Shot”: The Australian tennis
heads are still trying to inveigle Von
Cramm and Henkel to this country after
the Davis Cup. The pair are booked to
leave Europe for the U.S.A. in August,
and then go to Japan. It is hoped they
can be induced to come on from there,
and so home to Germany. The players


NEW
ENERGY
mu
m
■
i
■B
Wj.
mm
iniL*
cluinuMii —A new and revolutionary
belt for men who would be fit and who realise that to maintain their
health and energy it is necessary to keep the vital abdominal muscles
working correctly. It brings new vitality, new zest. Real harnessed
energy . . . muscle is created, fat eliminated by
the bands of force embodied in its construction.
Charnaux Man’s Belt increases resistance to
muscular weakness —invigorates organs that have
become relaxed. The belt is a new protection
against ill-health. The Charnaux Man’s Belt is
made of Latex by electricity, a new material that
has a greater capacity of stretch with a greater
resistance to stretch than any other known
material.
This belt is obtainable at all leading stores.
Write for free descriptive booklet to Charnaux,
55 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
GF
G
Comfortable to wear, easy
to adjust, the Charnaux
Man’s Belt in no way con-
stricts the movement of t lie
body. Does its essential
work imperceptibly,
Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
FG
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
MICK SIMMONS’
Unrivalled Range of Popular
SPORTING
RIFLES
FG
MODEL,
35/-
No. I—THE MAINE RULE, 22-cal.,
bolt action, v-back sight; for short,
long, or long rifle cartridges. Round
barrel, 18in. long, bored and rifled with
the same care as the military weapon,
and guaranteed accurate; weight, about
341 - 01 /
THE MAINE DE LUXE
24in. barrel.
Price
(Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
No. 31—BROWNING AUTOMATIC
RU LE, MODEL 24—22 short or long-
rifle ; each rifle takes one size cartridge
only; walnut stock, pistol grip, lib}in.
barrel; length, 36in.; bead front and
screw rear sight; safety bolt; barrel
may be dismounted by unscrewing
i turn; weight, 22 short or 22
See £4/12/6
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 32—BROWNING “TROMBONE”
HAMMERLESS REPEATING RIFLE
22in. round steel barrel; handles
22 short, long, or long-rifle cart-
ridges; screw rear and open front
sights; length overall, 30in.;
SS'V. £5/2/6
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 46—GOOEY “MOHAWK”—
.22-cal., single shot, for short,
long, or long-rifle cartridges.
Barrel, 27in. Walnut stock,
pistol grip. Steel butt plate, elevating rear
sight and silver bead front sight. Length
overall, 43£in. Weight, filb. A(\ /
Price fIU/-
(Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
No. 47—COOEY REPEATER—.22-cal., bolt
action, holds 10 long or long-rifle or 12
short cartridges. Double safety, beautifully
finished walnut stock, pistol grip and steel
butt plate. Adjustable rear sight and bead
front sight. Length overall, 41in. Barrel,
24in. Weight, 4Jlb.
Price /Z/D
(Carriage Paid.)
High-Class
SHOT GUNS
F
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. GUN— I2G., top lever, bar action.
32in. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
locks, crossbolt, snap fore-end, lialf-pistol
grip, walnut stock. /1 r* /
Price £l5/15/-
Xo. s—Similar5 —Similar gun, of lighter o /I n /£
build. Price £,IZ/l//0
(Carriage Paid.)
No. !)—CASHMORE D.8.8.L. GUN 12G.,
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, crossbolt, D. and E.
fore-end pistol-grip, walnut stock; weight,
pS £l4/10/-
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 14—BROWNING D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN —12(1.. .‘!oin. steel barrels, both
choke, top lever crossbolt, walnut stock,
grip, nitro proof; weight,, about
pistol
71b.
Price
(Carriage Paid.)
£lO/10/.
Our comprehensive new 1937 Shooting Cata-
logue will be off the printing presses in a
clay or two. Free and post free!
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
ITAYMARKET, SYDNEY, & All Branches
are said to be willing, but there is a ques-
tion of Henkel’s military leave which
may block the visit.
Miscellaneous
“Delia”: London papers, tired of spin-
ning cuffers about the Spanish situation,
are discussing Bradman’s fortune. One
of them asserts that he is now sitting
behind £50,000 and that during his boom
in Australia he was making £6OOO a year
from sports goods firms, radio talks and
writing. It adds that when Don first
landed in England he had one trunk and
a couple of suitcases ; he departed with
24 trunks filled with everything from
Savile Row clothes to radio sets. It re-
calls Mark Twain’s story of his ancestor
who boarded the Mayflower with two
shirts tied up in a handkerchief and
landed with such a pile of baggage that it
took him a week to get it through the
Customs.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: English papers, comment-
ing on the Marylebone Commission to
inquire what is wrong with English
cricket, almost unanimously endorse the
often-expressed opinion of The Bulletin
that the decline is due to the disappear-
ance of the amateur, who cannot afford
the time and expense of playing under
modern conditions. The case of Aus-
tralia is quoted, and the introduction of
similar conditions to England is sug-
gested. But even in a crowded season a
first-class Australian player has a con-
siderable amount of leisure between
matches. In England the. county amateur
is asked to play six days a week. If he
does he is either a veiled professional or
a man of private means and no occupa-
tion worth mentioning.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Writer has often won-
dered, in print and out, why the. Austra-
lian cricket authorities persistently refuse
to send teams across the Tasman. It
seems anomalous that, save at long in-
tervals, the Maorilanders have had to rely
on English teams to provide, a glimpse
of cricket as it is played elsewhere, and
have also to go to England when they
wish to send a team on tour. The apathy
of the Board of Control is the more re-
markable since the M.L. wickets are
almost exactly like those in England,
and would provide invaluable practice
for our internationals which they cannot
obtain in Australia. Especially would
M.L. trips give our men an idea of how
to play on rain-impaired wickets, a de-
partment of the game, in which the best
of them are on a level with vacant-
allotment batsmen.
* * * *
“Brocas”: Alan Fairfax has taken on
the job of cricket coach at Eton, a plum.
Many Etonians attended Fairfax’s cricket
school, and his work was found so satis-
factory as to suggest the Eton job. The
cricket school, quite a famous one nowa-
days, is for sale, the Australian reserving
to himself the right to coach there in
winter.
* * * *
“Spike”: Australians will see one out-
standing athlete in Sydney next year—
A. G. Brown, the Cambridge sprinter
and middle-distance runner who was
runner-up in the Berlin 400 metres. In
inter-university sports Brown has done
the quarter in 48 l-10sec. and the half
in lmin. 55 3-ssec, and has 9 7-10 sec.
to his credit for the 100. He is the
finest runner of his type England has
produced since Abrahams, and, like
Abrahams, is tall and lathy.
* * =S *
“Splash”: Announced that Australian
athletes and swimmers desiring to com-
pete in the Empire Games at Sydney in
February will have to equal fixed times
and standards of performance. The
Australian committee has been consider-
ing tables of times, etc., based on third-
place performances at the 1934 Games in
England. The figures are disquieting,
for in many cases they equal or exceed
the best performances recorded in this
country. Matters are a bit better in
swimming, but if they stick strictly to
the standard rule many prospective track
entrants will be looking on. There is
much lamentation over the falling-off
in Australian athletics. The truth is that
other nations have steadily improved
themselves, while Australia has stuck fast'
in its own indifference.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Jesse Owens has had
hard luck. The International Amateur
Federation has thrown out his applica-
tion for recognition as a world's record
of his 10 l-ssec. for the 100 metres, made
at the Berlin Olympiad—the previous
best was 10 3-ssec., a yard slower. The
reason given is that remeasurement of
the track showed it was three-eighths of
an inch short, a rather pernickety excuse.
If it was a warm day when the track
was remeasured it is quite possible the ex-
pansion of the steel tape always used for
such measurements accounted for the
discrepancy.
* * *
“Shinty”: The hockey people are to
hold a tamasha in Sydney from August
6-14. Every State in Australia will be
there, and, in addition to playing each
other, N.S.W. and Westralia will take on
Maoriland, which, for some reason not
defined, will not meet the others. The
show closes with Australia v. Maoriland.
* * *
“Splash”: Not to be outdone by the
cricketinas and hockeyettes, Australian
rowing girls are talking about inviting
an English four to help out the spec-
tacles of the 1938 N.S.W. celebrations.
It is also proposed to lay the rails for a
visit by an Australian crew to Britain.
This last idea opens an engaging vista
of possibilities. Will the lady Britons
uphold the ban as regards the visitors
laid upon “artisan” oarsmen by then
menfolk? That being so, what consti-
tutes a female artisan? Typists, being
much concerned with machinery, would
certainly come under the ban, and it is
pretty safe to say that 50 per cent, of
Australian female athletes punch the
writing machine for a living.
* * * *
“Blade”: Flappers and other less
vociferous barrackers for the N.S.W.
Great Public Schools boatrace are re-
minded that the thing comes off on Satur-
day on the Nepean at Penrith. On prac-
tice form most of the crews can be given
a chance, and particular attention has
been roused by the fine displays, in prac-
tice and regatta races, by Scots. The
most ardent barracker for “Grammar,”
“Joey’s” or “Shore” will not grudge
Scots a win if they bring it off after
years of hard trying.


STORY WRITING.
THE practical value of any training in story
writing depends on the experience, its nature
and its extent, of the person giving the train-
ing. Bernard Cronin has himself made a suc-
cess of writing stories and novels for 20 years.
That he is capable of conveying his experience
to others is shown by the success of many of
his pupils—in stories, novels, scenarios and
current radio plays.
Write for free copy of his prospectus, “Story
Writing,” to
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Maid of Salem.”
PURITAN MAIDEN, Claudette Colbert
VIRGINIAN CAVALIER,
Fred Mac Murray
ELDER Edward Ellis
VINDICTIVE CHILD, Bonita Granville
CHILD WITNESSES, Virginia Weidler
and Bennie Bartlett
Salem, Massachusetts, is the scene of
action ; the year, 1692, nearly a century
before there was such a thing as a flag
bearing stars and stripes. Beautiful Puri-
tan maid (an orphan) falls in love with
debonair Cavalier refugee from Virginia.
There’s a price of £lOOO on his head.
A wicked girl of 13 or so, daughter of a
church elder, after reading Cotton
Mather’s book on witchcraft, accuses an
old negro woman of bewitching her. The
negress, promised her life if she con-
fesses and names her associates, gives
many names. There is a reign of terror ;
15 or 16 alleged witches are hanged,
and at last the heroine, because she de-
fended some of the suspects, is herself
accused. Her secret meetings with her
lover are interpreted as assignations with
the Prince of Darkness, but she won’t
give his name and she won’t confess.
Moreover, it is divulged that her mother
was burnt as a witch. The rope is actu-
ally round the girl’s neck when the
wretched child who caused all the
trouble confesses; Cavalier lover turns
up with a free pardon for himself and
an explanation of his sweetheart’s mys-
terious trysts, and the Governor of
Massachusetts signs a law deleting witch-
craft from the colony’s criminal code.
The piece is well staged and well acted.
Miss Colbert revels in the dramatic parts
of her role; Mac Murray is a bluff, honest
matter-of-fact hero, and Ellis looks the
Mayflower Pilgrim to the life. Children’s
parts are in expert hands. At Sydney
Prince Edward.
“Accused.”
KNIFE-THROWING DANCER,
Dolores del Rio
HER HUSBAND .. D. Fairbanks, Jnr.
CATTY REVUE STAR,
Florence Desmond
COUNSEL FOR THE
DEFENCE Basil Sydney
When the, star was found dead in her
dressing-room with the dancer’s knife
stuck deep in her heart the police put
two and two together and decided that
the dancer, who had every reason to de-
Sonja Henie in “Girl in a Million,” at
Sydney Regent.
test the lady (who was doing a line with
her husband) and who had publicly
threatened her, must have something to
do with it. But, of course, they didn’t
know that star’s blackmailer husband
iiad just come out of gaol and had inter-
viewed the murdered woman on the night
of the murder, and that she had pulled
a gun on him and driven him out. After
a long and tedious trial (French style—
the scene is Paris), missing blackmailer is
kidnapped and brought into court. It is
then demonstrated that he is innocent,
Adolph Menjou in “Girl in a Million.”
the real murderer being—well, take your
pick. Fairbanks and Del Rio do their
stuff competently, but they aren’t suffi-
cient to compensate for an otherwise
poor cast and a silly story. At Sydney
Mayfair.
“Women of Glamor.”
ARTIST Melvyn Douglas
HIS MODEL Virginia Bruce
PERPETUALLY SQUIFFY
PLAYBOY Reginald Denny
A sloppy title and a plot with a white
beard two yards long are handicaps to
the success of this effort, but smooth and
intelligent acting and well-written dia-
logue make it good entertainment. The
model, a cabaret songandance girl, lacks
education and breeding, but she falls for
the artist hard. Eventually he breaks his
engagement to a high-born beauty and
transfers affections to model, but she,
being informed by rejected lady that
artist’s life will be ruined by such alli-
ance, decides to go off on a world tour
as companion to wealthy clubman. It
comes out all right in the end—the
“Traviata” solution would never do on
the screen. At Sydney Regent.
“Earthworm Tractors.”
HIGH-POWERED SALESMAN,
Joe E. Brown
TOUGH PROSPECT .... Guy Kibbee
PROSPECT’S DAUGHTER, June Travis
There are some uproarious patches in
this comedy, in which Mr. Brown takes
on the name and job of Alexander Botts.
The fun start's when, with magnificent
assurance, the irrepressible Botts, deter-
mined to sell tractors to a confirmed
hypochondriac and the despair of all
salesmen, mounts the machine with his
“prospect” and sets off to demonstrate.
It being the first time Botts has ever
stepped aboard a tractor, result is a lot
of wreckage and a lost prospect. But
despite even violent discouragement
Alexander hammers away at the old
man’s stout sales’ resistance; he even
essays to do his prospect a good turn by
shifting his portable house to its new
location during the night, with disas-
trous results. But* such tenacity is worthy
of reward, which comes through the
usual unexpected twist at the finish.
Brown gets a fair quota of laughs out
of some genuinely funny situations. Guy
Kibbee as a liverish old crank gives a
solid performance, and June Travis adds
a little heart interest. Joseph Crehan as
the sales manager tears out quite a lot
of hair while perusing the constant stream
of telegrams from his high-pressure sales-
man. At Sydney Capitol.
“Hideaway Girl.”
HAW-HAW YACHTSMAN
Robert Cummings
SUSPECT-CROONER Shirley Ross
Producers evidently couldn’t make up
their minds whether to make this a
straightout thriller or a slapsticky un-
musical comedy. Result is a hotchpotch,
with the cops’ activities held up at odd
moments while the heroine yawps soul-
fully and a bunch of socialites make
whoopee with the wassail. The plot has
enough holes in it to make a sieve look
solid.
After a jewel robbery a girl who is
apparently the thief dashes off seeking to
escape. She gets in tow with a wealthy
yachtsman, passes as his wife and gets
aboard his yacht as a stewardess. The
film is built up on her supposed guilt,
until a snap finish puts a different —and
unconvincing—aspect on it. Excuse
given by the innocent' lady is that she
ran away immediately after being mar-
ried, and thought the police, might make
her go back to her husband!
Shirley Ross makes crooning noises at
every opportunity, and Robert Cummings
is a callow-looking yachtsman. At Syd-
ney Civic.
“Arizona Mahoney.”
RANCH OWNER June Martel
GALLANT PROTECTOR, Larry Crabbe
The story being by Zane Grey, the
denouement does not become crystal-
clear until fully 30 seconds after the
opening. Every character is standard-
ised, and does standardised things in
standardised situations.
The girl who takes over her dead
father’s ranch and battles against tre-
mendous odds and the machinations of
a villain who either rustles her cattle or
schemes to oust her from the property
is present. Also the noble fellow who
One of the Ritz. Brothers as Captain
Bligh-Laughton in “Girl in a Million."
does good by stealth, all in her behalf,
and without asking a guerdon. Before
he gets his reward much gore has been
spilled, and the value of shares in small-
arms factories considerably enhanced.
Larry (Buster) Crabbe is the square-
jawed villain-belter, June Martel spends
most of her time gazing soulfully into
his not very expressive eyes, and Robert
Cummings overdraws a rural Alick. At
Sydney Civic.
“House of 1000 Candles.”
DIPLOMATIC COURIER,
Phillips Holmes
HIS GIRL FRIEND .... Mae Clark
SPY CHIEF Irving Pichel
DANCER-SPY Rosila Moreno
A well-directed and pleasantly-acted in-
ternational spy drama. Chief scenes of
activity are a fashionable Paris cafe run
by a master-spy, Sebastian, as an appur-
tenance to his organisation, and the
Simplon express, bound for Geneva.
Tony, a diplomatic agent, receives in-
structions to go to the opera with a
lady, pick up two tickets at the box-
office, use them, retain the envelope, on
which a diplomatic message is secretly
inscribed, and deliver it into the right
hands at Geneva. Everything goes well
until one of Sebastian’s agents enters
Ned Sparkes in “Girl in a Million."
Tony’s compartment on the train, drugs
his drink and takes his papers. Tony
stops the train, returns to the cafe and
recovers the precious envelope. But his
lady companion falls into the hands of
the spies, and if he refuses to reveal the
code her life is forfeit. When Tony shows
signs of succumbing to Sebastian’s plan
to make him appear a traitor to his
country, the girl seizes the envelope and
throws it into the fire, whereupon the mes-
sage is revealed. But the spy broadcast-
ing code has been discovered, a message
is put over the air, and Sebastian, now
speeding in a car, is forced off the road
to his death by some of his own agents.
Tony and Carol ride off to Geneva and
matrimony. At Sydney Lyceum.
STAGE SHOWS.
“Bury the Dead.”
Sydney’s New Theatre League, which
specialises in propaganda plays, put a
very interesting bit of playwrighting on
the stage of the Con. hall last week —
Irwin Shaw’s polemic against war, “Bury
the Dead.” The American realises to
the full the emphasis that can be given
by simplicity. The main set is a skyline
with one shell-torn tree and one post
with a little festoon of barbed wire
standing up in silhouette. The rumble
of guns is continuous.
A situation is created in which a bar-
rage of anti-war sentiment can be directed
at the audience from every angle. The
womenfolk of corpses who refuse to be
buried are sent for to plead with them
(some very effective drama here). En-
deavors to hush up the scandal fail. The
reactions of various strata of the Ameri-
can public are sketched. At last the com-
mander-in-chief takes a machine-gun to
the rebels. But they can’t be killed again.
They rise out of the pit and walk over
his body as he lies gibbering. They are
off to walk the world and preach against
war. -
This long one-acter (there is no break
throughout 26 scenes, bringing in 40


§lllll
H
m
19 Edward Street,
SUMMER HILL.
To Messrs. William Arnott, Ltd.
Dear Sirs, —
I am sending a photograph of my son,
“Arthur,” aged 2 years, which I have much
pleasure to send, as he looks so well. He
weighs 2 stone 4 lbs. He has been fed on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
ever since he was five months old, and they
still form part of his diet.
Yours truly,
(Signed) Edith B. Makin.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
have been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Clrriotts
FAMOUS
MILK
ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask yowr Grocer for Amott’s
“They are Better than Ever"
characters) was not by any means per-
fectly presented. Some of the character-
isations were unconvincing, but there
was enough histrionic ability avail-
able to put over the message of the play
very effectively. First honors go to Jean
Blue as the wife of one of the dead men, a
discontented, rather shrewish character.
Her protest against her social environ-
ment, starting in a rambling sort of way
and gathering strength and passion,
earned her a long storm of applause.
Bernard Yardley did his excellent best
with the caricatured character of the
commander-in-chief, a pompous old ass ;
Jerold Wells (who was also producer)
made a good job of a philosophic
medico; Ernest Guthrie as a parson
spoke his lines clearly and forcefully, and
Mary Osmond, in an old-woman role,
delivered the most blood-curdling shriek
this commentator has heard on any
stage.
4* 4- 4* 4-
Lotte Lehmann.
Madame Lehmann might write Caesar’s
“Veni, vidi, vici” in her diary as a
record of her first Australian recital, at
Sydney Town Hall. The Viennese has
much more than a flawless voice ; she has
a capacity for getting instantly in touch
with her audience. She is not afraid to
sing lieder all the world knows by heart.
Inside half an hour she had given Schu-
bert’s “Serenade” and “Erl King,”
Brahms’s “Cradle Song” and Schumann’s
“In the Sunshine.” These are touch-
stones. The older music-lovers in the
audience probably had heard them sung
by at least a score of the world’s great
voices, but never as Lehmann sings
them, with such love for every note, with
such perfect comprehension of the com-
poser’s meaning and intention. She has
the essence of all great art —an effect' of
artlessness, an utter absence of effort, of
contriving, of calculation. All the scaf-
folding has been taken away from her
temple of song, and it rises in beauty
without blemish.
Her personality is compelling. It ex-
tended far beyond the confines of the
Town Hall and made itself felt wherever
listeners-in sat by their firesides. Her
brief speech of greeting (she was glad to
be in Sydney, and hoped the people
would like her singing) was a little song
in itself, full of pleasant sincerity. The.
A.B.C. is to be congratulated on having
brought so great an artist to Australia,
and on being able to transmit her voice
so splendidly.
-j- *}• 4- *
Young Melbourne Fiddler .
. . ~ ’ J .
vlolimst Wlth the unspoiled platform
presence who is shortly proceeding to
Europe to sit at the feet of Fritz Kreisler,
drew his bow over his fiddle, at the Town
Hall in an unambitious programme.
There was a worse problem than the
music for the youth to contend against,
inasmuch as a Town Hall as sparsely
populated as it was on this evening has
the effect of diluting the tone of the best
c f violins and the most distinguished of
players; but Brown showed that he had
technical skill of an unusually mature
quality, admirable feeling for form and
remarkable aplomb. He paid respect to
his £u ‘“ r e master by playing his adapta-
ions of Fortini, Dvorak and Mozart, the
last-named with a style that evoked en-
thusiasm a (he audience wi||iam
McKie was at organ> and , d
Bach>s heavmly Toccata and Fugue in
j) Minor with his customary brilliance,
The part songs contributed by the
Mitcham Choral Society under F. J.
Watsford lacked the finish of the solo
singing of Harold Pargetter. The boy
so P ran o Trevor Telfer got the longest
°£ applause, not because of the
quality of his singing of Gounod’s “Ave
Maria” and other numbers was remark-
ablC; but because it was remarkab]e that
be could s i ng them,
Howard Carr’s Coronation Anthem,
Most interesting item of Sydney Phil.’s
concert at the Town Hall was a per-
formance. of a Coronation Anthem by
Howard Carr, the society’s conductor,
Mary Gilmore’s words, strong and
simple, have been given appropriate
musical expression. There are some
very effective choral passages, orchestra-
tion is rich, and contralto and basso
solos (sung respectively by Heather Kin-
naird and Raymond Beatty) are excel-
lently suited to the tone-color of such
voices.
The rest of the programme was made
up of a fair rendering of Gade’s “Erl
King’s Daughter,” a lot of fun for every-
body in the old Handelian warhorse
“Acis and Galatea,” in which Evelyn
Lynch, Lance Jeffree and Raymond
Beatty were soloists, and a rousing per-
formance of the final chorus from Elgar s
“Caractacus.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
Schneevoigt’s First Concert.
Georg Schneevoigt, who, at the in-
stance of the A.8.C., came half-way
across the world to conduct a programme
of orchestral music at Melbourne Town
Hall on Saturday, was received by a vast
audience with prolonged applause, and
got plenty more of it at the end of each
item, but there was not the electrical
thrill about the proceedings that there
has been in the case of other visiting
conductors.
This was probably not on account of
any lack in the distinguished director of
the Finnish National Orchestra. The
Brahms symphony, No. 1, op. 68, filled
the first section of the evening with
melodious sound without stirring its hear-
ers profoundly. Essie Ackland sang “In
questa tomba” and “Connais tu le pays”
from “Mignon” pleasantly enough with-
out bringing the house down. “The
Mastersingers” overture has been heard
many times before in Melbourne, and is
not the most thrilling of Wagner’s intro-
ductions.
There was nothing left on the pro-
gramme which the veteran guest con-
ductor could bite his teeth on, except
two symphonic poems by his fellow-
countryman, Sibelius. These two com-
positions had a sentimental interest owing
to the fact that when they were first per-
formed in Helsingfors under the com-
poser’s own baton they were an utter
failure, the critics making no bones about
their disappointment. Subsequently Ka-
janus, the predecessor to Schneevoigt in
the Finnish Orchestra, lost the manu-
scripts, and they were recovered from his
effects after his death. The symphonies
were performed a couple of years ago by
Schneevoigt and were instantaneously
successful. They received the biggest
ovation on Saturday evening, the audi-
ence liking the suggestion of wind in the
pines or firs which seems to be the invari-
able characteristic of Finnish music ; and
the Symphony Orchestra made a surpass-
ing effort to do them justice.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Kodak Show of Camera Pictures.
This show at the Kodak Sydney estab-
lishment comprises 71 pictures almost
all interesting, technically or artistically.
Most' appear to be straight bromide
prints or enlargements, the bromoil and
other complicated methods of controlling
development and accentuating values
having fewer supporters than they had a
few years ago. Outstanding are the por-
trait studies by Dr. Julian Smith. His
impression of Harold Cazneaux, camera-
equipped, keen and eager, with a wind-
swept sky as background, is the best bit
of portraiture in the show, and “A La
Russe” and “The Wisdom of Years” in
light delicate tones and “The Covered
Quart” and “The Cellarer,” heavily
shadowed, run it close. Cazneaux recip-
rocates the compliment in “The Sur-
geon,” an excellent portrait of Dr.
Smith, his only other offering being
“Ramparts of Steel,” which looks like a
bromoil and depicts a submarine with
cruisers in a foggy background. An-
other excellent wharfside study is “Ex-
port Cargoes,” by D. E. Rayward, and
V. Johnson in “Shoreline” gets a fine
effect with simple elements of design.
A. Knapp is at his best in “Hill of
Vision,” J. S. Simmons gets a rich effect
in “The Source of All Light,” a glimpse
of a church dome and gable, Monte
Luke and Spencer Shier show some fine
portraits, and Jack Cato in “After the
Storm” makes a great picture of two
ships grounded on a beach. “Collins-
street,” by Arthur Dickinson, and “Old
Sydney,” by Spencer Shier, exploit
metropolitan scenes, and in “Richmond
Bridge, Tas.,” E. G. Adamson produces
the perfect landscape.
+ 4* 4*
Plaque of Henry Parkes.
The services of Henry Parkes to edu-
cation and recreation in N. S. Wales
have been symbolised in a brass plaque
(21 in. by 15in.) of the statesman, backed
by representations of the Fort-street and
Crown-street schools, Sydney High
School and the gates of Centennial Park.
Figure is full length, with hand uplifted.
Australian Artcraft is producing the
plaques, which were designed and
modelled by Percy Lindsay.


LOOK AT THESE AMAZING PRICES.
**minftoa
m
Remington Portable (4 bank) £lO 0 0
Remington Standard £7 jg o
Remington Noiseless £ll io o
and a large selection of other makes of typewriters from £5/10/-.
These give you an idea of the bargains Chartres offer. Chartres’
easy terms are available. ’Phone, write or call at Chartres, and a
machine will be delivered to your home or office for free trial, for
Chartres’ service vans cover almost the whole of N.S.W. This
places you under no obligation.
FREE CARBON PAPER.
See Chartres’ great display of reconditioned typewriters to-day.
If you cannot call, write for full particulars. And when you buy
your typewriter, be sure to present a clipping of this advertise-
ment. 3t entitles you to a FREE, generous-sized packet of carbon
paper—enough to last for many months.
CHARTRES, LTD.,
Liverpool and Nithsdale Sts., Sydney (’Phone M 6481—11 lines).
Also at South British Insurance Bldgs., Bolton St., Newcastle.
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
102 years of service and progress—Petty's Hotel. To-day Petty's is still
favoured—for its air of comfort, and its position; quiet, yet convenient
to all business and social centres. New features include new private
lounge and private dining room, hot and cold water, etc.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(3) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
At intervals on Anzac Eve heavy,
flooding rain poured down on the city,
and when evening came the air was
sodden and sullen and raw. But it did
not prevent the night-long vigil at the
Cenotaph. The reveller going home late
on Saturday night saw the dark figures
gathering in Martin-place. Among the
first flowers of remembrance to be
placed at the foot of the Cenotaph was
a cross of chrysanthemums. Its message
read: “To Gunner Sullivan, V.C., and
Fallen Comrades, from a Fellow-V.C.”
By 4.30 next morning Martin-place
was dense with thousands of figures. The
soldier and sailor on the Cenotaph were
floodlit. During the night from every
suburb, singly and in little knots and
groups, the vigil-keepers had been arriv-
ing, and as they grew in number so the
Cenotaph became heaped with cross and
wreath and palm. The Australian
Legion of Ex-Servicemen marched down
Martin-place, took their position close
to the Cenotaph. The Governor, Lord
Wakehurst, stood to attention. Out rang
the Last Post. “O God, Our Help in
Ages Past” was sung like a great credo.
There was the two minutes’ silence.
Prayers were read by Archbishop Mowll.
The Governor read the Anzac Dedica-
tion. A fervent “We will remember
them” surged in response. Later in the
day 22,000 men marched in procession,
and more than 40,000 attended the ser-
vice in the Domain.
All day long, from the dawn service
on Sunday, men and women and chil-
dren came with their flowers. Even as
the short autumn twilight crept on the
slowly-moving queue entered the barri-
caded passage at the Pitt-street end of
Martin-place and, leaving their posies
and knots of flowers, passed on to
George-street. There was an intimacy
about these tributes that gave the on-
looker a feeling almost of prying. These
were no prize specimens of the florist’s
art. Here were a few yellow rosebuds,
there a few spears of gladioli, there a
knot of red berries. They told of last
farewells spoken maybe on Mrs. Mac-
quarie’s Chair, or where the cold Tas-
manian wind whipped the quick blood
to young cheeks, or where the gorse on
some Maoriland hill ran a yellow flame
and flung its scent upon the breeze. They
are remembered still!
A crowded Conservatorium took part
in the Anzac Eve festival which is one
of the activities of the Anzac Fellowship
of Women. This was organised so that
coming generations might not forget the
story of the past. To this end each year
prizes are offered for the best poem,
play and story commemorative of Anzac.
This year’s winner of the one-act play is
Roy S. Hodge. This is a vital little work,
and it was presented by the Sydney Drama
Society. Mayoress Parkes handed out
the awards to the successful entrants in
the 1937 competitions.
The Day Nurseries will benefit from
the exhibition of Roy de Maistre’s paint-
ings now on show at the Women’s In-
dustrial Arts Club. The speeches on the
opening day were rather long. An artist
should speak for himself. Otherwise the
affair went off brightly and in the most
friendly manner. Mrs. Rodney Dangar,
who is responsible for getting the col-
lection together (it is a loan one), was
smartly tailored and expensively furred ;
sister Bea McDonald with her fair color-
ing was attractive in black. General and
Mrs. A. T. Anderson, always great ad-
mirers of Roy, came along, seeing their
own and daughter Mrs. Foott’s “loans”
on the walls.
At the end of the room and very quar-
ter-deckish was a portrait of Sir Dudley
de Chair in his admiral’s kit. Mrs. W. H.
Corbould was among the visitors; so
was Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, a keen Day
Nursery worker. Jeanie Ranken kept
the door, and Phyllis Mort, the pretty
secretary, was another of the afternoon’s
energetic. Roland Wakelin opened the
show, and Mrs. Wakelin wore a suit of
real Maoriland checks in russet shades.
Margaret Allen was there ; so was Mrs.
Clinton ; and Mrs. Fritz Burnell did the
walls conscientiously, admiring, as all did,
the warmth of “Beach Scene” and many
of the flower pieces. Woodward Smith
and great numbers of young and not so
young artists, male and female, looked in.
Bringing a breath of the Ringstrasse,
the Hofburg, and the blue autumn twi-
lights of Vienna, Lotte Lehmann arrived
in Sydney last week. This world singer
has dimples and an impressive husband
(he was a Guardsman when soldiering
was what it used to be), and carries
enough weight to give her a presence
but not to detract from it. Already she
has enslaved the entire headquarters staff
of the A.B.C. At the cocktail party
given by the Broadcasting Commission
to introduce her to Sydney Lotte wore a
long frock of black sheer, its square neck-
line outlined in two rows of silver braid.
Her drooping black crinoline hat had
romance in the wreath of violets that
circled its crown. She sat with the Com-
missioner Clearys and other A.B.Cs. at a
small table spread with a lacy cloth. For
the rest of the guests it was a promenade
party, with Ararats of olives and drinks
set every here and there. W. J. Cleary
and his wife blushingly whispered to this
Letter that they were on the eve of their
silver wedding. Many happy returns to
them!
Lotte loves flowers, and was pleased to
learn that the Australia is so close to the
Botanic Gardens. She insisted on being
taken to see the koalas the second day of
her visit. Elizabeth Rethberg had told
her so much about them. “Just me and
the little bears . . . not to be made a
picture of, please.” The lady is a writer,
100.
Lotte Lehmann, the artist who is tour-
ing Australia under A.B.C. management.
Last week the singer went out to the
Military Hospital at Randwick and gave
an afternoon concert for the Diggers—
a warm-hearted action that was wel-
comed with warm-hearted applause.
“I have fallen in love with .Sydney and
with your kindness, and for this I will
sing as good as I can, and that with all
my heart,” said Lotte Lehmann, smiling
over flowers, all red and white, as are
the Austrian colors, at the Musical
Association’s reception. The singer was
radiant in ivory lace of heavy weight that
swept into a train. Her shoulder spray
of red again brought in her national
colors. The long ermine cape was as
international as woman’s vanity. Miriam
Hyde’s flame-colored frock was the right
setting for her dark slimness. She was
the evening’s pianist and played a group
of her own compositions. Phyllis Mc-
Donald was the violinist, her bow in
masterly mood.
The party was at Farmer’s, music on
one floor, coffee on another. Dressing
was unusually fine. Mrs. G. Faunce
Allman’s satins gleamed peacock-green.
Two tones of lilac were in Mrs. Ewart
chiffon coat and dress. Mrs.
Hope Gibson had touches of gold on her
poinsettia-red velvet. Mrs. Harold Bott’s
black cire tunic twinkled with gold but-
tons. Mrs. de Cairos Rego trailed bur-
gundy satins. Miss Elizabeth Plummer
was tall and statuesque in bronze taffeta
and velvet. Bina Addy, an Indian singer,
wore a sari of oleander-pink and gold
with her black satin frock. Mrs. Eva Wun-
derlich’s brocades were blue and silver.
Lute Drummond’s satins were primrose.
The wide white pique revers on Joan
Cleary’s coat and Alice Prowse in chif-
fons the blue of Florentine pictures, with
floating angel sleeves, caught the gaze.
Mrs. John Woods, of Killeen, North
Sydney, did the right thing by her niece
Mary Gilmore, and staged a pre-wedding
dance for her and affianced Dr. Walter
Burfitt. The wedding presents made an
imposing array on tables spread in the
glass sunroom. A great marquee lined
with yellow silk and decked with yellow
chrysanthemums made a picturesque
ballroom. In a cosily awninged-in and
carpeted annexe Mrs. Woods, her daugh-
ter Mary, later a bridesmaid, and the
bride- and ’groom-t'o-be received the
guests. Esmey and Barbara Burfitt were
among the dancers, and Noreen
Donohue, of Brisbane, was another
attractive girl. Altogether there were
200 guests, Dr. and Mrs. Walter Burfitt
(young Dr. Walter’s father and mother)
among them. Mary Woods wore a long
frock of white crepe ; her armlet was of
blue hydrangea.
Mrs. Hope Gibson is the president of
the very active Women’s Social Corn-
mittee of the N.S.W. Musical Associa-
tion. Before her marriage Mrs. Gibson
was Rene Denmark, one of the city’s
well-known pianists. Photograph from
Falk.
There was quite a stir at the Y.W.C.A.
one afternoon last week. Everything was
at its smiling best to welcome Lady
Wakehurst. It was, of course, the lady’s
first visit to the club, and speech, flowers
and music were equal to the occasion.
President Mrs. R. J. Lyons welcomed the
guests, and the 200 others present took
joy in the mixture of violet crepes and
fox furs that clothed the Governor’s
wife. Secretary Hermione Llewellyn
mingled two tones of blue in her frock-
ing. Y.W.C.A. general secretary Anne
Bignell and organising secretary Elsie
Reed were speakers. Miriam Hyde,
Gwen Selva and Mrs. Weidele supplied
the music.
Though the skies opened their flood-
gates on her wedding, a crinkly smile
was put into the day for Winifred Morris
Marshall and ’groom Sturt Griffith by
a cable from Walt Disney. The cartoon-
ist is one of the many friends Sturt made
on his recent world tour. Winnie, who
is a daughter of the S. F. Morris Mar-
shalls, of Wentworthville, suited the
autumn day with her outfit, which sug-
gested tawny chrysanthemum. Her
tailored suit was of brown boucle, the
velvet of her toque and cravat a red-
gold. The mesh veil covered the toque
and fell almost to her shoulders. The
marriage was at St. Philip’s, on Church
Hill, Owen Jones being best man. Sturt,
the only son of Arthur Griffith, who
held Works and Education portfolios in
N. S. Wales Governments, is a flight-
lieutenant and by profession a patents
attorney. At the reception at Petty’s
Mrs. Marshall hostessed, wearing a beige
ensemble.
A girdle of gold leaves and a scarf that
flowed from the left shoulder accented
rather than interrupted the simplicity of
Lotte Lehmann’s concert frock of white
ninon. These white frocks of almost
classic cut have another addict in Lily
Pons. The latter singer confided to this
writer on the eve of one of her London
appearances that she always wore white
on the concert platform. Lotte carried
a wide silver-edged chiffon handkerchief,
and wore her decorations in miniature.
Altogether she was an impressive figure
on a stage that was green with palms and
brilliant with baskets of red and yellow
dahlias. Lotte is of no uncertain mind.
When the applause at the end of the
concert, in spite of several encores, con-
tinued tumultuous, the singer came out,
announced firmly “And, now, to finish,”
and sang a number whose final words
were “Good night.” A koala bear tied
up with lily-of-the-valley was among the
cargo of offerings.
Leather armchairs and red carpet just
below the stage indicated the coming of
vice-royalty, and Lord Wakehurst and his
lady entered. Lady Wakehurst’s knee-
length, slightly flared coat was of tapestry
in which rose and silver mingled. Her
frock was of deep blue satin, her fur
was of white Arctic fox. Mrs. W. J.
Cleary, wife of the A.B.C.’s commis-
sioner, was charming in a coat of silver
lame and a black velvet frock. Mayoress
Parkes added silver-grey satins to the
official group. Hermione Llewellyn
dressed one of the chairs in Nile-green
chiffons. The Bertie Kellys were there,
Mrs. Kelly’s frock and velvet cloak of
geranium-red. Ruby Adams, in black
velvet and fox furs, looked like some deli-
cate pencil sketch. Mrs. Arthur Cheeke,
a visitor from England, was tall and
graceful, her satin skirt was long and
black, her tunic with its Medici-like
collar was closely patterned in gold.
Mrs. Orchard’s frock and coat held
violet tones; Canada’s Trade Commis-
sioner, Colonel Cosgrave, and Mrs. Cos-
grave were in the audience ; so were the
Alexander Gordon lady and daughter
Anne, who goes off soon to London to
continue her dramatic study. The new
fashion of broadcloth coats had an airing
in Mrs. Vigeveno’s, which was long,
black and fitting. Its wide revers were
gold-braided.
Neville Smith came back to his job of
teaching singing at the Con. last week,
after six months’ journeying through
America. He is eloquent of his passage
along the Puget Sound, sparkling snow-
topped mountains rising in the near dis-
tance, and on each side tiers of immense
pines that were almost black. But much
as the scenery impressed him, it was the
comfort of the ferries which traverse the
Sound that riveted his attention. The
top deck of these is glass enclosed. Seats
are provided, facing outwards, each row
of seats rising a little, as they do in
theatres, giving every passenger an unob-
structed view. Each seat has its footrest,
and the compartments are heated.
Transport comfort has improved even
in the two or three years since this
traveller’s last visit. There are long-dis-
tance ’buses that hold 37, and have their
engines at the. stern, are air-conditioned
and comfortably heated. There is a
courier aboard. If you are sleeping on
the coach the daytime seat is, by a twist
or two, made into a bunk, or if you feel
like it you can reserve a place in the
sleeping compartment for four shillings.
Mr. Smith passed through the Texas oil-
fields, journeying alongside one lake of
oil for 10 miles. Luggage escalators for
running handbags to and from the decks
of ships and the eight and a quarter miles
of the San Francisco bridge were other
eye wonders.
In between Mr. Smith gave a show of
his water-colors at the Dallas Women’s
Club in Texas. One of the results of
this is that his painting of the Aztec
Pyramids of the Sun will be hung in a
special court at the Pan-American Exhibi-
tion. This will be set about with
examples of Aztec pottery, carvings and
weaving. At the Metropolitan Opera
House, which had been sold out for the
entire season, he gladly stood through
performances of Wagner to hear the sing-
ing of the renowned Flagstad and that
of Lawrence Tibbett in “Aida.”


SERVING
!§ •'
mm
r
AUSTRALIA'S
INDUSTRY
AND
COMMERCE
n
f
Wireless communications are an all-import-
ant factor in the industrial and commercial
development of Australia.
Over twenty million words a year are ex-
changed by the A.W.A. communication ser-
vices.
Public wireless message services are available
by Beam wireless to most parts of the world,
and further A.W.A. services for public use
include wireless messages to Papua, New
Guinea and Fiji.
For more than twenty-four years wireless
services have been conducted on ships at sea,
for the safety of life and for the interchange
of public wireless telegrams between ship
and shore.
Wireless telephone stations of world-range
enable Australians to converse with their
friends and business associates in almost
any part of the world.
AMALGAMATED WIHELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


Turn long winter evenings to Profit
SHOWCARD WRITING
TAUGHT AT HOME.
21 Lessons, 12 Months’ Tuition, Costs 1/6 per week.
Everything Supplied. For prospectus write
M. SYSTEM,
G.P.O. Box 2117 L, Sydney.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel a*,er A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A
medicinal
preparation
—not a
confection
EUMENTHOI” «
UJUBES
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
Personal and Missiner Friends.
HODGE. —Wanted relatives of WILLIAM
HODGE, deceased, a son of George Hodge, late
270 London Road, Glasgow. William Hodge
was a butcher in Redfern, Sydney, Australia,
and died there about 25 years ago survived by
a widow and a son and daughter.—Apply
MILLER, THOMPSON, HENDERSON &
CO., Solicitors, 190 St. Vincent’s Street, Glas-
gow, Scotland.
IN THE WILL OF ELIZABETH JANE
SKINNER, late of Waterloo and Guildford,
New South Wales.
INFORMATION is required by the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the following:
SUSANNAH MAY BRISTOW, the wife of
Stuart Bristow, of Paddington; MINNIE VIC-
TORIA FLINN, the wife of William Flinn;
WALTER FRIEND SKINNER and his wife
FANNIE SKINNER; CHARLES WILLIAM
SKINNER, who was last heard of in Cape
Town. „ .
H. W. SHEPHARD, Solicitor,
21 George Street, Parramatta.
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne commenced its Anzac Day
celebrations with a dawn service at the
Shrine of Remembrance. A goodly
number of Diggers had assembled at
half-past five, and at six Lord Hunting-
field arrived and was received by Wil-
liam Brunton, chairman of the Shrine
trustees. The brief, impressive dawn ser-
vice was then proceeded with. In pre-
vious years there was singing to beguile
the hour or so of waiting, but on this
occasion the. idea was to “recapture the
atmosphere of zero hour in the trenches,”
and the vigil was a silent one.
In the afternoon all roads led to the
Shrine. Ex-soldiers to the number of
21,000 assembled at the corner of
Swanston and Lonsdale streets and
marched along Swanston-street and St.
Kilda-road led by Maj.-General Brand
and cheered on their way by the music
of many bands. After the march past
the Shrine there were prayers and hymns
and addresses by the Governor and M. S.
Osborne, president of the R.S.L. No
children marched with the Diggers this
year. Weather was fine, and a huge
crowd lined the route of march and clus-
tered round the Shrine.
Four corners of the world met last
week when the International Club enter-
tained in honor of the new Canadian
Trade Commissioner and Mrs. F.
Palmer, who, after living for so many
years in Canada and Norway, are not ex-
pecting to- contract chilblains in Mel-
bourne. The president, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, made a welcoming speech, and
was herself congratulated on her ap-
pointment as Australian woman delegate
to the League of Nations Assembly, to
perform which office she will arrive in
Geneva in September. Among other
special guests were the W. M. Gray
couple. Newly-appointed representative,
of the Australian-Asiatic Society (part of
the secretariat of the Bureau of Social
and International Affairs), he was born
in Japan of English parents. Mrs. Gray
is Canadian-born of Scottish parents.
Eldest son Bill, who has started work
with a motor firm, was - born in Eng-
land ; Nancy, who has just commenced
a business course, in Vladivostok, and
the schoolboy twins in China. The
family lived in Siberia for several years.
There part of Mr. Gray’s job was the
arranging of transport for the repatria-
tion of prisoners of war of all nationali-
ties.
Meeting for the first time at this party
Mrs. M. E. Plews, of Barbados, West
Indies, and Mrs. W. J. Lynn, of Mexico
City, found lots to say to each other.
Mrs. Plews now lives in Melbourne, for
it is here that her children have settled,
her son Cecil married to a Scottish girl
and her daughters married to Dr. Keith
Fairlie and Dr. Eccles Mackay respec-
tively. Mrs. Lynn is staying with her
daughter, Mrs. Karl R. Allen, of Caul-
field, who is doing her best to persuade
her mother to remain for the American
Ball, but so far the visitor is showing
remarkable firmness—the rest of her
family back home in Mexico City would
never forgive her if she wasn’t with them
for the Fourth of July. Mrs. Lynn, who
was brought to the club by Mrs. Laurence
Bullen, doesn’t like our climate (for she
expected it to be warm and has brought
the wrong clothes), is guarded about the
construction of Australian houses, but is
eulogistic about Australian husbands.
Nowhere in all her travels has she ever
come across men who, as a matter of
course, will, when the occasions arise,
clear the table, wash the dishes and mind
the babies.
Although he is adept at addressing
stony-faced juries and coping with
fierce opposing counsel Eugene Gorman
doesn’t speak the jargon of the art
world. Opening Athol Matson Nicholas’s
exhibition of pictures he confessed to
feeling on unfamiliar ground. It was
his debut as an art-show opener, but the
disadvantage was not apparent in his
speech, which was straightforward with
no highbrow frills. He disclaims all
knowledge of art, but is appreciative of
it, and says that one of his chief interests
in Spain at the moment is hoping that
the civil war doesn’t destroy the Goyas.
Athol Matson Nicholas and Eugene
Gorman were in the same battalion in
the Great War. Nicholas enlisted at 17,
with his parents’ consent on the condi-
tion that he wouldn’t give up a possibly
lucrative career for the sake of art. He
had won a scholarship, and he did a
year’s medicine on his return. But it
was a paintbrush, not a scalpel, he han-
kered after, and it wasn’t long before
he worked his passage to England, where
he studied at the Slade and several
lesser-known art schools. To earn his
living he took up interior decoration,
did fairly well and since his return to
his native country has managed to have
three more trips abroad. Before his
show in Sydney last year he wandered
round about N. S. Wales per caravan.
Recently he has been spending a lot of
time at Gembrook, where he owns a
cottage and a small orchard.
Several things combined to make a
success of Essie Ackland’s concert in the
Assembly Hall—notably the singer’s
artistry, her fine stage presence and
charming smile, a full house and deco-
rations of bushes and wreaths of leaves
which toned down the grim utility of
platform and back curtain. The lighting
also was conducive towards enjoyment
of the music. For Miss Ackland’s solos
there were a blackout in the main body
of the hall, a spotlight for the singer and
a heavily-shaded standard lamp for the
accompanist'. This last was the only
catch. Raymond Lambert’s eyes are
young and strong, but will not always be
uncomplaining of having to read manu-
script in a very dim light made more
trying by shadows of lampshade fringe
dancing across the pages. Among the
big shots of the A.B.C. who occupied
the front row was Victorian manager
Basil Kirke, but he. was there unofficially,
being on leave. Eric Sholl was a surprise
to friends who have not seen him for a
long time. He studied law before dis-
covering more scope for himself among
the powers that commercially rule, the
ether.
In the Eve Ray photograph is Heather,
daughter of the J. L. Stein couple, of
Seaford. Heather follows the manoeuvres
of the navy with interest, for she re-
cently announced her engagement to
Eric Piper, of the H.M.A.S. Canberra.
The P.M.G.’s department is to lose.
Dymphna Lodewyckx, though not until
the end of next year. Her job is assistant
translator for the department. While
doing an arts course which she com-
pleted with first-class honors she won
several scholarships and prizes. She has
now achieved the Mollison scholarship
in German, and will go to Germany to
study for the degree of Doctor of Philo-
sophy. This year there was a deviation
in the established order of the Mollison,
in that it was not for one set language.
Candidates were thus given a choice and
could compete in the modern language
in which they felt most confident. L. P.
Ingwersen, who chose French, was so
close to Miss Lodewyckx in points that
both candidates had to sit for a second
examination.
Professor Schneevoigt is not the most
comfortable person in the world to con-
duct rehearsals, for, although his temper
is good, his English vocabulary is limited.
Thus when he hugs his chest and twitters
in his throat he means the orchestra to
play “lovingly”; but all his directions
by gestures are not so easy to interpret.
At the International Club’s at-home in
his honor, the Professor told the
assembly “My English is bad, terrible....
If you like me and my music I promise
to like you.” This proviso applies to
people only, not food. This musician
from Finland is living on grills and
steamed dishes; he can’t eat anything
cooked in fat or oil, is partial to coffee,
will drink tea if he has to, is lukewarm
in his praise of our wines and emits
loud groans in his own language at the
mention of our beer.
Asked if he played golf the Professor
said “No, because I hate to run.”
“Walk” was suggested, but he persisted
in the. “run.” He possibly thinks golf
is some other game. He talked about
Finland and the snowy winters when
sleighs laden with wood for fuel are
pulled by sturdy ponies. One pony of
his acquaintance had a habit when the
sleigh was particularly heavy of taking
a log in its teeth and throwing it off into
the snow. Nobody knows if this is just
another fish story, Finnish version, or if
a cog slipped in translating the Finnish
idiom into English.
The Broothorn portrait depicts Grace
Carr, an American secretary on foreign
service now half-way through her year
on loan to Melbourne Y.W.C.A. Miss
Carr graduated from the Western Col-
lege, Oxford, Ohio, and while connected
with the Y.W.C.A. in New York studied
at the School of Social Work. Her quali-
fications have been useful in several dis-
similar jobs ; she has had newspaper ex-
perience, and for several years she was
occupied principally in a psychology
capacity as assistant to her medico father,
who specialises in children’s ailments.
Three generations of the family have
practised as physicians.
Miss Carr has no complaints about the
cold of Melbourne, for while running a
tea-and-luncheon log cabin two and a
half miles’ hike and donkey-ride up in
the mountains above Lake Louise in
Canada she slept in a tent amidst the
snow which whitens the surrounding
country for nine months of the year. She
was employed by an Englishwoman,
Barbara Dodds, who started this tea-
house in the Rockies, the “house” being
one of the original log cabins used by
the settlers who made the trail across
the mountains. Miss Dodds and Miss
Carr had to arrange all transport of
stores, and sometimes carry emergency
packs, but they both enjoyed excellent
health and neither was afraid of hard
work. Afterwards Miss Dodds financed
other cabins, some of which provided
overnight accommodation for tourists.
Finally she sold her interests at' a profit
to the Canadian Pacific Railways.
Edith Harrhy and Leila Pirani are the
parents of a baby operetta whose cover
first saw the light of day early in April.
Its title is “Play Day in Happy Holland,”
and its joint authors have called the
theme-song “800 to a Goose.” Neither
of them has been to the land of dykes
and windmills, but Leila, who wrote the
words and book, sought the assistance of
a helpful Dutchman in making sure that
her atmosphere was of the right con-
sistency. Several years ago, in collabora-
tion with Mrs. Alfred Hill (Mirrie Hill),
she wrote her first children’s operetta,
“Mr. Sundown in Fairyland.” Her third
effort, to be published a few weeks hence,
is “Cowboys and Indians,” for which
Canon Wheeler composed the music.
Such works bring joy to children, but no
great fortune to the creators of words
and music. “A couple of pounds a year
for 30 years, if we live long enough,” is
Leila’s estimate of her earnings up to
date.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Cottesloe Golf Club put on one of
the cheeriest functions of the early dance
season. After the dry spell light showers
caused menfolk to clamber less reluc-
tantly into their dress duds and a strong
rally escorted partners to the clubhouse.
President A. W. Jacoby piloted his other
half’s lilac-swathed pearl-grey satin, the
F. E. Wingroves, she with green acces-
sories to her baSqued black taffetas, made
their final social appearance before set-
ting out for a four of the nor’-west, and
women’s president Mrs. B. Meecham
girdled her pastel-blue satins with silver.
A spray of gold roses nestled in the
softness 6f Mrs. Marshall Clifton’s olive-
green georgettes, which were wrought
with gold thread and floating draperies,
Mrs. Harry Vincent’s tomato cape, swung
over white georgette, and a cascade of
net frills ran from shoulder to hem over
Mrs. Walter Saw’s lacquered black satin.
Probably the most travelled gown in the
room was Mrs. Arthur Hardwicke’s rich
black taffeta, with its tri-frilled cape and
hem. Made in Paris for the English
Ambassadress in Russia it was bought
from her by Mrs. Hardwicke, she being
that lady’s fac-simile in build. As a
resident of Moscow Mrs. Hardwicke was
able to buy naught but standardised
frocks.
Marjorie Calthrop’s bride-elect parties
were concentrated into one week’s
breathless round. Molly Manning, girt
with flowing sea-green georgette, started
the ball rolling with bridge at her home
in Peppermint Grove ; Mrs. Stan Murphy
and her sister Mary Pad bury pushed it
along with afternoon-tea at the Adelphi ;
Pat Leake, trim and slim in blue and
white silks, was another bridge hostess,
as was Isla Saw. Lynette Clarke’s com-
pliment was a morning-tea, and Mrs.
Alan Bean arranged tennis at her Fre-
mantle home. At Nancy Forbes’s cock-
tail-shaking Marjorie shared honors with
Esme Oakley, another bride-to-be, but
she played the lone-star role at Muriel
Lee Steere’s pouring of sundown drinks.
To keep her tryst with Desmond
O’Connor at St. Patrick’s, West Perth,
the much-feted one sheathed her lissome
lines in pearl slipper satin. The V-shaped
bodice was swathed to the waist, where
bloomed a large spray of orange-
blossom ; wide, open sleeves sloped
quickly to a band above the elbow, and
a gleaming train ran for yards in the
wake of the tight-fitting skirt. The
raised shoulders of ’maid Muriel Lee
Steere’s long tapered sleeves were hitched
to the heart-shaped gathered neckline of
her leaf-green mousseline. Her orange-
blossom topknot and gardenia-and-tuber-
rose bouquet matched the bride’s floral
accoutrements. Hundreds of guests
turned up at the. Adelphi for the after-
math.
Another bride-to-be running the gamut
of pre-nuptial parties is Gwen Brazier,
of Capeldede, Kirup. Her sister Phyll
combined with Mrs. Charles • Courtney
in giving a kitchen-tea in the green
lounge of the Adelphi, where edibles
were served on tables decked with green
cloths. Peggy Watson-Williams was early
in the field of hostesses with aperitifs
poured at her West Perth home.
At a dinner party at the Adelphi Mrs.
R. J. Lynn announced the engagement
of daughter Queenie to Robert Norwood
Howie, of Travancore, India. The wed-
ding gown had been ordered from Syd-
ney and a passage booked to go and col-
lect it. The romance developed through


Which of these dental ills
uo you fear most ?
o
TOOTH DECAY
Film is judged one of
the chief contributing
causes of tooth do-
cay. It glues “decay” ?:
gorms to the tooth
enamel.
0
BLEEDING GUMS
Film combines with
minerals in the salivifcSSSg
W*
.. to form hard, sharp:
deposits which may
cause soreness aprf
bleeding of the guili's;/
0
m
STUBBORN STAINS
m
Film absorbs stains
from food and smok-
ing. To remove these
stains you must re-
move the film.
Remove dangerous Film this way.
Other tooth pastes or tooth
powders may claim to
attack film. Pepsodent’s sole
duty is to REMOVE FILM
.thoroughly, safely.
Why results are unfailing
Because the formula is
different, Pepsodent works in
a different way to give dif-
ferent results. The secret of
its effectiveness is due to a
revolutionary new cleansing
and polishing material, un-
excelled in film - removing
power. No other leading
dentifrice contains it! Thus
with Pepsodent you enjoy a
unique way to keep teeth
free from film. Pepsodent
has been found the least
abrasive . . . therefore softest
—of 15 leading tooth pastes
and 6 tooth powders.
So don’t take chances. Try
Pepsodent. See for yourself
how clean your teeth feel
after only one brushing.
Note how quickly that sticky
film disappears . . . how
much brighter your teeth
look. And remember that
clean teeth are one of your
best safeguards against decay
and dreaded dental ills. Use
Pepsodent regularly twice a
day. See your dentist at
least twice a year.
GF
PEPSODENT
NOW IN A
NEW 10%
LARGER TUBE
V MORE TOOTH PASTE
0 FOR YOUR MONEY
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING
TOOTH PASTE
The 21 - SI Z E IS THE
MOST ECONOMIC A L
I»T4 P
mi
< a
jJ*
Wm-
JJCAXVVW.Wjws;
SK4 9S&&&M
K
tamily
Stafequard
always
D EMEMBER that the health of
'•every member of your family
and their freedom from infectious
ailments are dependent upon their
own natural powers of resistance.
To be quite sure that the dietary
provides all the essential food ele-
ments, make delicious “Ovaltine”
the regular daily beverage. “Oval-
tine” is a complete and perfect food,
scientifically prepared from ingred-
ients of the finest quality. It is
unequalled for building up body,
nerves and brain and maintaining
resistance at the highest level.
For abundant energy and glowing
health “Ovaltine” should be the
daily beverage of everyone.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial
sample of “Ovaltine”, sufficient to make
four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of
3d. in stamps, to cover the cost of pack-
ing and postage. See address below.
Nett Weight INCREASED 12£% in all sizes.
Small Size: Medium Size: Large Size:
4loz. 1/9 9oz. 2/10 18oz. 5/-
OVALTINE
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH. SYDNEY.
014.18.37
"OVALTINE" SELLS ON MERIT ALONE. NO SIFTS
OR COUPONS—JUST 100% QUALITY AND VALUE
a series of accidental meetings, the first
occurring in India, where Queenie was
spending a school vacation. Friendship
ripened during a chance encounter in
England.
Sighs of envy went up from Mrs.
Ralph Crisp’s guests at her ability to give
an entertainment both original and de-
lightful. This talented pianist, who, as
Nora Coalstad, has won a wide circle
of admirers for her work from the con-
cert platform and broadcasting studio,
invited a host of friends to an evening s
music at the Karrakatta Club. The
hostess’s tawny taffetas changed color
in the light as she executed her part of
the well-balanced programme, which was
shared with songs from Gertrude Hutton.
After the recital there was supper in the
new gallery room.
On the day she arrived in England
Theone Couch’s engagement was an-
nounced to the Rev. C. E. (Dick) King,
son of the Rev. and Mrs. C. H. King,
formerly of Cottesloe and now resident
in Dublin. Both parties are graduates
of W.A.’s seat of learning.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Lavington Bonython and his lady gave
a dance at their home, St. Corantyn,
East-terrace, for the debut of daughter
Katherine and three of her girl friends.
In a huge marquee foliage powdered with
silver was festooned round the walls, and
a large white pedestal and Roman vase
filled with pale-pink gladioli, delphiniums
and silver foliage stood in each corner.
Supper was served in the ballroom in the
house, which was too small to accommo-
date the guests, who numbered over
300. The huge mirror was festooned with
foliage and fruit, the supper-tables had
their white linen tablecloths covered in
flame cellophane and the flowers were
scarlet Guernsey lilies. A large marquee
opening off the ballroom was arranged
for sitting out. The Bonython lady’s
black silk crepe was enlivened with dia-
mente embroidered on the front of the
bodice, and she wore a shoulder spray of
orchids. Katherine was in silver tissue
veiled in white tulle, the skirt very full ;
a treble frill of the tulle round the
corsage formed the sleeves. Peggy
Letcher also chose tulle over white satin,
the skirt full and the bodice having smalt
puffed tulle sleeves. Joan Beauchamp’s
white marocain had a silver hair stripe ;
the frock fitted to the figure, flaring at
the feet. Elizabeth Bronner’s white
chiffon had a bodice crossed in front
high to the neck, with a silver girdle and
trail of silver tissue flowers down the
front. Angas Parsons and his lady were
among the guests.
Joan Reid was hostess at a luncheon
party at her parents’ residence, South-
terrace, given for Kathleen McMichael
a few days before her marriage to
Richard McFarlane. Ella Coote, just
arrived from Sydney as the guest of Mrs.
Sidney Reid, was in the party.
At St. Peter’s Cathedral Ursula Mar-
garet, elder daughter of the Bishop of
Adelaide and Mrs. Nutter Thomas, took
the Rev. W. C. S. Johnson for better or
worse. The bride’s cream satin gown
cut on princess lines, with a quilted hem,
had been worn by her mother. The bridal
veil of tulle was arranged capwise, with
a bandeau across the back of orange
blossom. Mrs. R. Laing, matron of
honor, and Gertrude Poole, bridesmaid,
were frocked alike in pale-blue crinkled
chiffon, with sashes of cyclamen-pink,
their blue ballibuntal straw hats banded
with pink. A reception was held at
Bishop’s Court.
Mrs. Johnson was the guest of honor
at a pantry tea given by bridesmaid
Gertrude Poole at Medindie just prior to
the wedding, when Mrs. Baddeley, wife
of the Bishop of Melanesia, had an op-
portunity of meeting her many Adelaide
friends.
The wedding of the younger daughter
of the Malcolm Ashwins, of Burnside,
and Michael, youngest son of the A. T. G.
Gebhardts, of Medindie, took place at
St. Peter’s College chapel. The bride’s
trained gown of cream ring velvet had a
high neck, with Peter Pan collar and
long-fitting sleeves. The lovely lace veil,
over 80 years old, lent by Mrs. H. Fer-
guson, was held in place by a pearl
coronet. Joan Murray, Margaret
Duncan and Christel Gebhardt ’maided
in forget-me-not blue chiffon velvet, cut
on princess lines, with a slight train, V-cut
bodices and long sleeves.
A bright dance was given by Mrs.
William Lowe in the new ballroom at the
South Australian in honor of grand-
daughter Dorothy, elder daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Harry Nott. Mrs. Lowe
wore black chiffon with a corsage spray
of lilies-of-the-valley. Miss Nott, who
received with her grandmother, sported a
clinging gown of opalescent sequins.
Mrs. Philip, who died at her home,
Bellevue Hill, Sydney, recently, was the
widow of Dr. Alexander Philip. She
was born at Gawler, South Australia, 83
years ago, and was a daughter of the late
Dr. Richard Schomburgk, for over 30
years director of the Adelaide. Botanic
Gardens. She was a niece of Robert
Schomburgk, the botanist and explorer,
with whose explorations in South
America, on behalf of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society, her father was asso-
ciated. One result of these expeditions
was the discovery of the giant water-lily
named Victoria regina in honor of Queen
Victoria. A specimen of the plant was
brought to Adelaide by Dr. Schomburgk
and successfully established in the
Botanic Gardens.
TASMANIA.
The christening of the J. R. Johnsons’
young hopeful at St. David’s Cathedral
was made the excuse for two parties
afterwards. The first was at No. 2
Montagu-street, where the parents enter-
tained the Bishop and Mrs. Hay and
other guests, and the second was a more
informal affair, at which the guests, as
well as sipping cocktails, were regaled
on a cake sent out from England by
Mrs. Johnson’s mother, Lady Keys.
Lady Clark, with Capt. J. R. Jonnso
in attendance, went to the Catholic
Women’s Social Guild Ball in the Town
Hall. The dais was rigged up as a minia-
ture garden. About 200 dancers were
“on the floor.”
Madge Boyes, of Loch Mabin, Nile,
and Connie Hawley, of Evandale, are
two northern women outward bound, the
first for America, the other for England.
They were farewelled at Evandale before
leaving, the hostesses being Mrs. W. H.
Mclnnes, Mrs. Alex. Boyes, Mrs. R. Mac-
kinnon, Mrs. A. Macicinnon, Mrs. W.
Earle and Mrs. E. Hutchinson.
Captain Huxley having been appointed
chief aviation officer for the. S.A. Shell
Co., he and his family have flitted from
the Speck. The last of several farewell
parties given them was that of the F. C.
Knights.
Launceston Church Grammar School
Ball went off with a bang in the Albert
Hall. Youngsters crowded the floor for
the first two hours, before the grown-ups
took possession. His Ex. and Lady Clark
were received by the president of the
ladies’ committee, Mrs. A. G. Horner, the
head and Mrs. Rolf, and the two secs.,
Mrs. L. Harper and Mrs. Bennett.
The newspaper conference delegates
debated long and earnestly, but found a
little time for recreation between whiles.
President Keith Murdoch and his lady
entertained the strength at a cocktail
party, and the C. B. Davies pair also
gave one. Motor drives to all the beauty
spots were a feature of the visit, and
Senator and Mrs. C. W. Grant gave a
party in the visitors’ honor at High Peak.
The C. E. H. Fergusons are home from
their European trip ; they came out in
the Orford. Mrs. John Lord, Mrs. V. C.
Smith, Mrs. Lethlean and Mrs. Ben-
jamin have been hostesses at various
parties to welcome the home-comers.
Mary Smellie, Wynyard, and Rowland
Turner, Hobart, were made one at St.
Stephen’s, Wynyard, the bride wearing a
charming frock of heavy magnolia satin,
quite plain, with long sleeves and a train.
The veil, an heirloom of the bridegroom’s
family, was of Carrickmacross lace.
’Maids were Mary Turner and Dinah
Gatehouse, both wearing velvet frocks in
a shade darker than the bridal garment,
with red berries and autumn leaves form-
ing chaplets on their heads and sheaves
of red gladioli in their hands. Mrs. J.
Piercey (Vic.), the bride’s married sister,
was matron of honor. After the service
family and guests to a great number
drove to the Bay View Hotel, Burnie,
where, after a buffet meal, they danced
in the lounge.


Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6A>I in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
GF
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
May Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
GOLD—DOLLARS—STERLING
OUTLOOK FOR COMMODITY PRICES
AUSTRALIAN PROSPECTS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY. OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
HE KEEPS HIS JOB
THOUGH TURNED 70
House Painter Who Takes His
Kruschen Every Day.
How many painters can continue to work
when they are over 70? Here is one who can
—and he still does some of the most trying
jobs in his trade. How does he do it? He
tells us in this letter:
“I have been in the habit of taking a few
grains of Kruschen Salts in every cup of tea
I have had for a great number of years. I
may state that I am turned 70 years of age.
being born on July 22, 1864. I am a house-
painter by trade and still at work. I can
work off any ladder, no matter what height/
or in cradles which are hung outside high
buildings. I have been asked many times
how I carry my age so well, as I only look
about 50. Well, I tell them all that I take?
Kruschen Salts regularly every day.”—J. S. A-
Kruschen is a combination of six natural
salts which stimulate your liver, kidneys and
digestive tract to healthy, regular activity. They
ensure internal cleanliness, and keep the blood*
stream pure.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: The real humor of the Larra-
kia’s capturing of Japanese luggers off
Arnhem Land has not yet come out m
full. When the vessel rolled up to where
the Japanese craft were clustered, there
was a parley, and then the Larrakia began
to talk to Darwin. It took 14 hours
before action was decided on. As the
Jap mother ship had wireless aboard,
her crew must have enjoyed the nego-
tiations and been in no way startled
when they merely had their names taken
and were let' off more lightly than if
they had parked a car beyond the statu-
tory minutes in a Sydney street. How-
ever, the incident seems to have wakened
up the Defence Department. A hurried
air force mission has picked out a spot
for a new Darwin R.A.A.F. aerodrome ;
a flight of light bombers is to be sta-
tioned on it within a year, and these will
no doubt take over the patrol of the
Arnhem coasts.
* * * *
“Prague”: The burial in Cooktown of
Ted Saunders saw the conclusion of a
partnership that lasted into the grave.
For close on 50 years Ted and Gabriel
(better known as George) Downs had
been mates. They worked the Palmer in
the early days ; when tin was found in the
Cooktown area they swamped to it. They
rushed to Woodlark Island after gold,
and they spent years prospecting around
Croydon, after which they returned to
the Cooktown tinfields. They had made
a pact that the sur-
vivor of the partner-
ship would erect a
tombstone over the
other’s grave. Downs
died in 1928 and was
buried in the Two-
mile Cemetery at
Cooktown, and the
tombstone was put
up by Saunders.
Saunders died at
Cooktown on April
10 this year and was
laid to rest on top of
the coffin of Downs,
beneath the stone he
had erected. Both
were 72 when they
died.
“Bull-ant Bill”: They are still breed-
ing horsemen in Australia. Ken Scott,
son of the Harold Scotts, of Ivanhoe,
near Boggabilla (N.S.W.), competed in
the class for best boy rider under six
years at Goondiwindi (Q.). Ken gained
a special ribbon, too, before being put
back in his perambulator—he is just 13
months old!
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Cliff Smith is doing such
good work among prisoners at Brisbane’s
Boggo-road Gaol that only 1\ p.c. of the
men who have been through his classes
have, so far, returned to prison. He is
no sentimentalist, but a sound psycho-
logical judge of the material in which he
works. An ex-champion amateur light-
weight boxer, he began work in 1912 at 11
years of age by hawking peanuts, and
has since tried most things, from droving
to a sportsmastership at the Sydney
Church of England Grammar School.
# * * *
“East Cape”: Australian papers have
been fussing over the discovery of a
light-skinned, red-haired girl in the wilds
of Papua. At Milne Bay, only a few
miles from Samarai, the natives are strik-
ingly light-colored in comparison with
the average Papuan. The women are
particularly vain of their complexions,
and take every precaution to dodge sun-
burn, short of wearing sunbonnets. The
hair is often red, this being the result of
lime-bleaching, common among primi-
tive races. I don’t pretend to know where
the ladies get their light color. Scandal
asserts that they are the result of visits
from the old South Sea whaling fleet long
ago, many of the crews from which
rested from the sea periodically at Milne
Bay and Ussi-Ussi further up the coast.
One anthropologist told me it was due
to a Melanesian infiltration of s.-e.
Papua. As most of the Melanesians I
have seen are as black as the Earl of
Hell’s riding-boots, I venture to doubt.
“Nothin' like a garden , Ma, to smarten a place up.”
“Megaptera”: Already, those great,
lumbering, kindly seafolk the hump-
back whales are voyaging up the coast,
as they have done for thousands of years,
to bear their families in the. quiet warm
waters of the Barrier and further north
still. The old bulls lead the way, their
harems of portly matrons stringing out
after, a picture of comfortable family life.
The young bulls play about the flanks of
the party, every now and then indulging
in a strenuous flirtation with a 50-foot
flapper if she can manage to dodge away
from dad and mum and the elderly lot.
At dawn and dusk they seek the solid
meals of the day, submerging to strain
off in the mouth-sieves that we call
whalebone masses of little sea creatures,
rising to blow, and going smoothly down
for another course. About October they
will return with their 30-foot babies to
the rich feeding grounds of the Antarctic.
I hope they will never attract the organ-
ised murder of commercial whaling, but
I fear they will.
* $ *
“Cocos Nuxifera”: Along the beaches
of N.Q. and on the islands off the coast
it’s a pretty safe bet that a coconut can
be picked up every hundred yards just
above high-water mark. Always, until
last year, I’d found them sour and water-
logged ; then the nuts suddenly germi-
nated right on the line of high-water and
grew splendidly, some sending the tap-
root down through over four feet of
broken coral before they struck a bit of
earth. Can anybody explain why they
should do that one year only, after hav-
ing missed for so long?
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Uni. Dramatic Society has staged
“1066 and All That,” with Dulcie Scott
producing. Erich John wrote four songs
and incidental music for the show. His
orchestra provided the music.
There’s a growing list of this year’s
debutantes, although the round-up last
year was so big that a shortage was pre-
dieted for this season. Among the buds
are Bebe Milne, daughter of Mrs. J. G.
Milne and a student at the University,
Jean Sinclair, Jane Mayne—a relative
of Ellen Terry, Jane intends to wear as
her debutante frock a gown worn by
her grandmother at one of Queen Vic-
toria’s drawing-rooms—Mary McGill
and Judith Sachs.
It’s seven years since a Henley re-
gatta was staged on the Brisbane River,
and the banks by the Garden Reach were
packed with spectators for the Henley
and Venetian Carnival in aid of the
Queensland Ambulance Transport Bri-
gade. Every kind of boat possible was
abroad, some charmingly decorated.
A. S. Huybers, commodore of the Royal
Queensland Yacht Club, had vice-royalty
aboard the Blue Bird, and the Australian
Women’s Four-oared Championship was
decided during the afternoon. The
weather, which had smiled during the
early hours of the carnival, turned dirty
later, and the evening programme was
postponed. Fireworks and illuminated
boats lit up the whole of the Garden
Reach on Wednesday night, when the
interrupted programme was resumed.
Helen Street, headed for America and
her wedding date, was entertained at a
picture party, followed by supper at the
Belle Vue. Her host and hostess were
Stan Cribb and Sybil Atkins.
April 22 was the wedding day of Mary
Lucas and Ivan Lindley at St. Augus-
tine’s Church, Hamilton. One of the
finalists in the hostess stakes was Mollie
Brenan, who gave a luncheon party at
Rowe’s for the bride-elect a day or two
before the ceremony.
The Uni. Athletics Club held its
dance at the Uni. Barbara Coe, presi-
dent of the Women’s Sports Union, was
the official hostess, wearing a high-
necked frock of black ring velvet.
When Captain R. T. Jenyns and Sadie
Dennison were married at St. Andrew’s
Presbyterian Church, officers of the
15/26 Battalion formed a guard of
honor. Doreen Wilson was bridesmaid.
The reception was at the Canberra.
Margaret Ferrier Provan, daughter of
the John Provans, was married in St.
Stephen’s Presbyterian Church, Too-
woomba, to James Trewan Robertson,
son of the W. Robertsons, Glencoe
station, Roma. Parchment satin and a
bridal veil of Limerick lace lent by Mrs.
Percy Ferrier were worn by the bride,
as was a moonstone necklet, which three
generations of Provan brides already had
worn. Heather Pro van and Grace Har-
den, of Richmond Downs, the ’maids,
were frocked alike in pink.
The Governor went with Captain
Reggie Leathes to see “Charley’s Aunt,”
staged by the Dramatic Society of the
Brisbane Boys’ College Old Collegians’
Association. President Edmund Hein-
dorff and sister Doris received the vice-
regal party, which included P. Hamilton,
principal of the college, and his wife
and Dr. and Mrs. S. F. McDonald.
There was a packed house, and the funds
went to help the Bush Children’s Health
scheme.
The coffers of the C.W.A. Home,
Linga Longa, Sandgate, and of the
Ladies’ Harbor Lights Guild were made
heavier by afternoon and evening
bridge parties at the City Hall. Mrs. A.
J. Jones, Lady Mayoress, received the
players in the afternoon, and at night
the hostesses were Mesdames A. A. Ful-
larton and A. C. Boden.
The social service folks welcomed
home Mrs. Percy Pease with a big party
at the Canberra, and also took the op-
portunity to raise some money to help
with the buying of winter material.
There were about 300 women present.
Una Vowles, just back from England
and America, is wearing an engagement-
ring. The young man is a Brisbane boy,
Jack Mulholland, M.Sc. and M.E., who
graduated at Harvard. He won the
Clemens Herschel award of the Civil
Engineering School.
Lots of our young society people went
to Toowoomba for the show and the
races. The Downs club gave a cocktail
party after the Toowoomba Cup had
been run, and nearly 200 guests went
along. Dr. T. P. Connolly and his wife
received the guests, and daughter Mrs.
Harold Walsh, just back from Sydney,
helped with the entertaining.


Bartz Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Ltd.,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6661.
FG
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The number of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages' paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1937 are even brighter.
LET...
" The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market —you
just can’t afford to ignore it!
Further details can be had from
P. A. MESSENGER, A. G. PIKE,
Warwick Bldg., Newspaper House,
Sydney. Melbourne.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
f.
m
i i
1
mk
can always find
time for you...
A TELEGRAM
will re -assure ker
of your love and
devotion...
wpnwt 05SEIII " S
CO M* l
„as non*® s *' l
Mother's Day telegram forms
and envelopes are brightly
coloured, attractively de-
signed and they cost no
more—these usual low tele-
gram rates apply:
FG
Double these rates apply after hours and on Sundays
The Long White Cloud
Mounting Production Costs
Rising costs in Maoriland industry are
beginning to worry the Savage Govern-
ment. In an appeal to the national
Labor conference Minister Sullivan
asked workers seeking further wage and
holiday improvements to remember that
costs of local production could be
pushed beyond an economic level.
Mr. Sullivan went further:
During the period Labor has been in
power, costs of production have been in-
creased by the 40-hour week and the
restoration of and increases in wages. I
am at present investigating the claims of a
number of industries that, as a result
of our industrial legislation and increased
costs, they are no longer able to sustain
their position in competition with goods
from overseas.
He has already learned that increase in
imports in one or two of the smaller in-
dustries has reached 100 per cent., “but
the local market turnover has also in-
creased, so New Zealand industry may be
benefiting at the same time... .1 have no
doubt the Government will find a way
of solving any difficulty that may be
proved.”
One way would be to keep its election
promise and remove the sales tax, which
for the financial year ended in March
rode on the shoulders of industry to the
extent of £3,040,000, an excess of
£140,000 over the estimated return. But
here the Savage Government is con-
fronted with the obligation of finding
money to foot expenditure now 45 p.c.
greater than in 1932-33, when the sales
tax was first imposed as an “emergency”
measure.
On the one hand, it must prevent
further increases in production costs of
industries, now sailing close to work-
able margins, or the mess will throw
more men on to Government paysheets.
On the other hand, it is bound to im-
prove the conditions of the classes that
claim to have put it in office.
An all-round fall in overseas farm-
produce prices would place the Labor
Government in a really tough spot.
“M.”: Motorists on this side of the
Tasman are participating in their annual
registration scramble, which involves
replacement of number-plates. Where
Australians merely renew registration
throughout the year by paying their dues
and getting small windscreen discs of
different color for each renewal month,
Maorilanders are all required to re-
register at the same time every year,
when fresh number-plates, with dif-
ferent color backgrounds, are allocated
and the old ones thrown away. Post
offices operate registration branches, and
this year’s plates, which cars must wear
by May 1, are white numbers on a black
ground. For the next month or two
careful Maorilanders will be trying to
memorise their new number combina-
tions ; but half of them still won’t know
their own car numbers by the time the
next change comes round!
H- H* H»
“D.N.”: Those early Maoriland mis-
sionaries responsible for the 1819-55 let-
ters and reports just received from the
vaults of the Wesleyan Church in Lon-
don (B. 21 /4/’37) would have made
excellent journalists. Samuel Leigh, in
one of his earliest letters, described a
miniature native temple in which a
tohunga, or priest, told him there dwelt
a god who stopped the 1816 caterpillar
plague when it threatened the tribal
kumara (sweet potato) crop. Nathaniel
Turner, in 1823, wrote of a similar
temple, which he said was built from
material taken off the Boyd, a British
ship destroyed by the Maoris in 1809.
The yellow records also contain graphic
versions of the Boyd massacre, the cap-
ture of the ship Mercury and an earlier
attack on the Endeavour —all gleaned by
the missionaries from old Maoris who
actually participated in the incidents or
learned the details first-hand from their
fathers.
* * $ *
“Waitot”: One reason for the seeking
of overseas “pen-friends” by a host of
Maorilanders through the columns of their
national weeklies —as well as a reason
for the success of the weeklies —is to be
“ You'd soon get a boy friend, Lulu, if you Weren't so darned narrow-
minded."
found in the Post and Telegraph Depart-
ment’s annual survey of inland delivery
methods. More than 30 different types
of conveyances carry Maoriland’s penny-
postage letters and papers; launches run
to isolated coastal and harbor villages ;'
motor-lorries, gigs, packhorses, even
’planes arrive at out-of-the-way moun-
tain and bush homes and settlements.
Letters and newspapers, allied with radio,
keep lonely farms in touch with a chang-
ing world, and hundreds of country
children watch rural mail deliveries for
letters from kids in other countries.
* * * *
“Korero”: Several Maorilanders had
their trout-fishing gear confiscated the
other day when they were caught on a
prohibited lake —a mistake anyone un-
familiar with the Rotorua-Taupo district
could quite easily make. Roto-airi, where
the fishermen were nabbed, is actually a
Maori reserve, but only one tribe can
fish it without permits. The bush-en-
closed lake, 12,000-odd acres in surface
area, is almost in line with the rainbow
trout waters of Taupo, Roto-iti and
Rotorua, and, although no fry have been
liberated for years, it is still giving
native fishermen good sport. In the
Taupo district, portion of the money
received by acclimatisation societies for
fishing licenses goes to the neighboring
Maori tribes from whom fishing and
access rights have been purchased;
Roto-airi is the only big fishing lake in
the area which is prohibited to
Europeans.
Hi ❖ ❖ ❖
“Kohi”: Industrial expansion in the
cities and more intensive farming are in-
creasing the population of Maoriland’s
North Island more quickly than that of
the South Island. Only narrow Cook
Strait separates the islands, and the trend
of population would be unimportant but
for its effect' on electoral boundaries and
proportional representation in the House
of Reps. In the 1927 readjustment
South lost one seat to North, and in a
pending revision that must follow last
year’s census South stands to lose a
couple more. Commissions in each
island arrange the new electoral boun-
daries according to population distribu-
tion, and the present representation gives
North 47 seats and South 29. Southern
interests are seeking an amendment by
which the present number of seats will
be fixed as the South Island minimum.
* * * *
“Avon”: The Maoriland Press Asso-
ciation doesn’t seem to be getting any
less frugal as the years roll on. Recently
it selected a reporter from one of the
Wellington dailies to go to England with
the M.L. cricket team. The “N.Z. Jour-
nalist,” which refers to the assignment
as “a plum,” records without comment
that the correspondent is working his
passage in the butcher’s shop of the
Arawa.
# * * *
“M.”: Australia lost its Coronation
contingent’s V.C.-winner in a simple
London accident. Maoriland has lost
one of its returned soldiers through an
even more trivial cause. A Dunedin
man, he died after an operation to re-
move a gullet obstruction. During the
previous year he had landed in hospital
with a similar complaint. Medical evi-
dence at the inquest showed that the
M.L. Digger’s first spell in hospital was
caused by peach and apricot stones ; the
fatal obstruction consisted of a marble
and a horse-chestnut. His landlady
knew the reason —although she had
never seen him try to catch articles
in his mouth, she
said the old soldier
was a keen amateur
juggler.
* * *
“Back”: When the
M.L. hockey players
are in Sydney the
question of breaking
away from the British
international board
and hooking up with
t h e Internationale
Federation de Hockey
will be discussed. The
Dominions are not
represented on the
English board, which
has almost entirely
ignored them for
years. Both M.L.
and Australia want to
send teams to Japan
for the Olympiad, and
to do that they must
affiliate with the inter-
national body.
* * *
“H oo k e r”: A
strong move in Maori-
land to restore the
famous old All-Black
scrum formation of
2-3-2 with a wing for-
ward has been de-
feated. This was in-
evitable, since the in-
ternational board now
insists on no fewer than three men
in front. During argument all seemed
agreed that the. ball came much faster
out of such a scrum. Writer, with ex-
perience in a two front row can certify
to that. It was no uncommon thing to
see the scrum half beaten by the speed of
the ball coming out of the tunnel. No
one will mourn the. abolition of the wing
forward. When Queensland used the
two-in-front formation no winger was
played, the teams relying on a tight
scrum and speedy hooking.


m
g ;
JONC'Llft
F
LOWER PRICE,
HIGHER EFFICIENCY
That is how Inipex is helping
you to better Radio.
45-volt Triple 15/-
45-volt H.D 12/6
IMPEX
Imp ex, litd.j Iloddle St., Abbotsford, Vic.
181 Clarence St., Sydney.
radiokes
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
IFrite to Radiokes 3 Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature. NOW.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-} Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W A 6/-, others trorn -
Lightning Arrester and Switch 6d Varablr
sir e B r a s ttS? il:\
42 61- ■ 6A7, y ’7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders,’ ad. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOVAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
OPENING MAY 3, at 6 p.m.
The 1937 Amateur Radio
and Short-wave
Exhibition.
Sydney Town Hall (Lower Hall),
Entrance in Druitt Street.
Even if you are only casually
interested in Short-wave Radio
Reception and Transmission, you
should not miss this unique
exhibition.
Exhibition Hours:
May 3—6 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.
May 4—6 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.
May s—l 2 noon to 10.30 p.m.
May 6—6 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.
May 7—l 2 noon to 10.30 p.m.
May B—lo a.m. to 9 p.m.
Admission 6d. Children 3d.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Ideal Battery T.R.F.
All-waver.
Whereas a tuned R.F. receiver in-
lended to cover broadcast as well as
short-wave ranges is likely to fall short
in selectivity in an area where power-
l'ul local broadcasters set up a shock
zone it has well-proved advantages
for use in some parts of Australia—
the Northern Territory, for instance,
Consistently good reception of southern
In geographical locations distant from powerful local stations, a well-designed T.R.F receiver is hard to
beat. This is the circuit of the efficient receiver designed for a Bulletin reader in Nth. Queensland.
broadcasters is mainly a matter of sensi-
tivity, and plenty of it. If that is ham-
pered by a poorly-functioning superhet,
undue noise level will be in evidence on
weak distant signals. Also the I.F. chan-
nel of a superhet has an annoying habit
of introducing additional static interfer-
ence. This is not to say that all super-
hets are unsuitable for N.T. conditions;
but the conditions under which the re-
ceiver must work at least call for a
specially-designed job if the listener is
to get good service.
Again, there is more that can go wrong
in the superhet, owing to a multiplicity
of tuned circuits. Unless an extremely
well-impregnated array of components is
used tropical weather will cause havoc
sooner or later.
The most suitable type of receiver for
such conditions is a simple form of
tuned R.F., one in which the single R.F.
stage is separately tuned and there is no
ganging to worry about. If it uses plug-
in coils, that doesn’t matter much. They
can be changed in a jiffy. The R.F.
tuning control is a “peaking” control,
and is easy to touch up, as it has a fair
amount of latitude.
Several receivers of this nature have
been described on this page in the last
three years; some with two-volt directly-
heated valves and some with indirectly-
heated six-volt types. Hundreds of them
are in use in the Islands and N.T.
As the Ideal T.R.F. model now to be
described uses six-volt valves, it will
naturally be applicable only where facili-
ties are available for charging a six-volt
accumulator. It is not for Air-Cell use.
A receiver of similar design for Air-Cell
“A” supply will be described in the
future.
The four valves take six volts at one
ampere, which is quite reasonable. After
all, cars are used in remotest Australia,
and they use accumulators at much
heavier drain. A 6D6 is used as the
tuned R.F. amplifier, and this is capacity-
coupled to the 76 detector ; this provides
the simplest coupling, but a very effec-
tive one. Up to .OOlmfd. can be used
for the coupling condenser, but .00005-
i s sufficient. The detector circuit
j s that of the familiar Reinartz regenera-
tive arrangement. With grid and plate
coils properly proportioned, it is per-
lectly smooth in action. R.F. and detec-
tor tuning condensers are .00016mfd.
The English “JB” type (Price’s Radio,
Sydney) is recommended. Oscillation
and sensitivity control in the detector is
by a ,00036mfd. condenser. In series
with this is a .002 mica condenser as a
safeguard against B battery shorting
should any trouble arise from a faulty
regeneration condenser.
The first audio stage is another 76, and
the output goes to a midget permag.
speaker, via a 38 pentode. The 38 does
not appear to be used
much in these days,
perhaps because the
control grid is on top
of the valve, but it
has a .3 ampere heater
against the .4 and .7
ampere of the 41 and
42, a consideration
for battery usage. An
audio transformer is
used for coupling be-
tween detector and
audio, and no more
than a 2 to 1 ratio is
necessary. If a re-
ceiver is going into
the tropics a really
good transformer is
necessary as insur-
ance against break-
down. Gladstone or
Ferranti transformer
(Noyes Bros., Sydney)
is recommended.
So many receivers
of the short-wave
tuned R.F. type have
been dealt with that
there is little to ex-
plain about the cir-
cuit. The coil chart
shown supplies all the
necessary data, and all valves are in-
dicated. A feature of the original set,
however, is the use of coils wound on
Sirufer cores for the broadcast range.
They are fitted to four-pin valve bases
and plugged in as with the short-wave
coils. Four coils are needed to cover
200 to 600 metres, owing to the .00016-
mfd. tuning capacities. Grid windings
and aerial and reaction windings are
similar for each pair of coils; 36
D.S.C. is used with 120 turns and 25
for grid and reaction (or aerial) on one
set, and 220 and 25 turns for the other.
It means changing coils to take in the
whole broadcast range, but that is un-
important. In each case the reaction (or
aerial) coil is wound in a former slot next
to the grid coil and, of course, in the
same direction. The grid winding can
be split between two of the Sirufer slots
if it is desired to give lower capacity.
In series with the aerial is a .00036mfd.
variable. This is useful in tuning the
aerial system on the short waves. On
broadcast it is shorted out by the simple
expedient of bending a rotor plate over,
so that at full capacity the condenser
shorts itself out.
Good vernier dials are essential for
ease of tuning, and the Utility brand is
excellent for this kind of receiver. Three
are needed, as a 15mmfd. Raymart con-
denser is used in parallel with the detector
tuning for bandspread. No bandspread
condenser is needed for the R.F., as this
is a separate manual control.
The R.F. section must be adequately
screened off from the rest of the receiver,
and all valves shielded by Goat screens.
Amphenol ceramic valve sockets are
used throughout, and two four-pin sockets
are mounted on stand-off pillars for coil
mounts.
The original receiver using this design
is now in use in Camooweal (Q.), and
This coil chart provides all data for the short-wave coils. See the text for details
of broadcast coils.
in a few weeks has piled up an impres-
sive list of stations logged on all bands
from 15 to 600 metres. It is indeed an
ideal type of T.R.F. receiver for isolated
localities.
D. B. K.
All Round the Dial.
“Francis”: A record run is claimed
by its creator, Bert Gibb, for “The
Grocer and Madame,” which for over
four years has entertained 2SM Sydney
audiences five nights in the week for
15 minutes each night. The feature, is
now being prepared for presentation to
Melbourne (3KZ) audiences, and also is
to be broadcast in M.L. Clever charac-
terisation, smart and amusing dialogue
and competent presentation .have com-
bined to make “The Grocer and
Madame” successful.
* * * *
“M.F.”: Queensland listeners have
heard for the last time the familiar an-
nouncement : “4BC, Chandler s Broad-
casting Service.” The station has beei?
taken over by the Commonwealth Broad-
casting Corp., which will also have con-
trolling interests in 4MB Mary-
borough, 4GR Toowoomba, 4RO Rock-
hampton and two new stations now
being erected at Kingaroy. One of the
first actions of the new owners will be
to build new studios for 4BC at a cost
of about £5OOO. As 4BK is due to
move into new studios and 4BH authori-
ties are planning additions to their
studios, commercial broadcasting in Bris-
bane appears to be flourishing.
* * * *
A description of the Coronation of
King George VI. will be given over
Station 2UW between 12.45 and 3.15 a.m.
on the. morning of May 13. The com-
mentary will cover the processional route
and the ceremony in the Abbey, and will
be conducted by J. M. Prentice and O. J.
Leighton.
Heard on Short Waves.
The receiver responsible for this short-
wave station list is the Ideal Battery
T.R.F. All-wave, and, though the loca-
tion is at Camooweal (N.Q.), the only
aerial necessary is 18ft. of wire. The
log commences from 7/4/’37, when
EAQ2 (Madrid) was heard very nicely
on 31.65 metres, although not as strongly
as GSB. OLR3A was heard close to the
same frequency. Professor Haldane came
on at 6 a.m. with a talk about con-
ditions in Madrid, non-intervention, etc.
Music made up the remainder of the
programme. An announcement was
made that the station was on the air
from 11.30 p.m. to 12.30 a.m. G.M.T.
for England, U.S.A., Canada and Eng-
lish-speaking peoples. Probably this
station will be audible here soon around
9.30 a.m., as GSB, W2XAF, DJA, DJN,
DJD, GSD and TPA4 are audible at
good strength at that time. The 25-metre
band, RNE, TPA3, DJD, GSD, and the
Mozambique station CR7BH, on 25.6
metres, usually close up by 7 a.m. The
best morning stations are OLR3A, GSB,
2RO, WIXK, W2XAF, DJA, DJN on
31 metres, and DJC is very good on 49.8
metres.
DJB is weak from 1.30 p.m. to 2 p.m.
and very good from 3 p.m. onwards.
DJE is almost as good ; 4 p.m. brings
GSG, GSO, GSB in at excellent strength,
but DJL, DJA and DJN are not really
good until close on 5 p.m. During the
week three sessions of “The Ghost
Train” were enjoyed from Daventry,
through a different station for each ses-
sion, and all were equally good. Twice


from Daventry came accounts of the
10,000-mile ride from Patagonia to New
York.
Night reception on 19 metres is not as
good at 9 p.m. as formerly, but by 10
p.m. stations are in full swing, including
DJE. Daventry at 10.55 p.m. comes in
best on GSH. GSG has been fair lately,
but GSF is not up to the Nazis on 19
metres. Berlin cannot be heard at night
on 31 metres, but COCQ, HJIAPB on
31.25 metres, VK3LR, ZBW, VK3ME
are all top-hole. The
new VK6ME station
in W.A. is good at
times, just below
VK3LR.
VPD2 is very
good some nights
also. Not much can
be done with
COCH, but WBXAL
on 49.5 metres,
opening at 9.30 p.m.,
is excellent with his
“Top of the Morn-
ing” session relayed
from WLW. An ad-
vertisement during
this session referred
to “a really good
welder that will
weld and melt any-
thing, goes up to
7000 degrees, can
be had for three
dollars 75 cents.”
Sounds interesting
to home mechanics.
OLR4A is the best
25-metre station
around 11 p.m., and
is usually much
stronger than 2RO.
From 10.30 p.m.
WBXK on the 13-
metre band, just
below GSH, is
usually weak and
takes some getting,
but it can be done.
The 49- and 31-
metre Americans
are expected to im-
prove in the. mornings from now on.
Around 9.15 a.m. on the morning
of 11/4/’37 GSG was fair, W2XAF
weak, DJA and DJN fair, GSD fair, DJD
weak and TPA4 very good. The last-
named is expected to be good shortly
from opening at 9.15 a.m. to closing at
3 p.m. Recently this station was on
until 4 p.m. VK2ME has been good from
4 p.m. recently, but during the summer
he was not much use on any Camooweal
receiver until 5 p.m. Last winter this
station was very good from 3 p.m. to 5
p.m. and always very strong at night.
VK3LR at night is at present like a
powerful local broadcaster.
Sometimes JZJ Japan on 25.42 metres
is received at very good strength around
midnight. This station is usually on at
6.30 a.m. with JVN, but one morning
JVM took the place of JVN. JVJ on
44 metres is very good, and the Javanese
station there is always excellent. The
Kanimbla always comes through very
well, but the quality is not so good as
it might be.
On the broadcast band this correspon-
dent’s receiver pulls in all the stations
on the 18ft. of wire. They are better,
of course, on a longer aerial; neverthe-
less, the short aerial brings them in well
enough, including the Westralians, and
has the advantage of making the broad-
cast stations easier for selectivity. These
results show what can be done with a
tuned R.F. receiver of the Ideal type in
distant locations such as this.
NORTHERNER.
Amateur Chatter.
Main topic of interest' among radio
amateurs in N.S.W. is the pending exhibi-
tion. There is a long list of prizes, and
in each section these, are well worth
competing for. It is to the collective in-
terest of amateur radio to make this
exhibition an outstanding success. If
the amateurs show the trade what they
can do in the way of turning out well-
finished and efficient apparatus, the trade
will take notice. If manufacturers see
that the radio amateur is worth a special
market, those hard-to-get components
will appear on the scene. In addition
to exhibits by amateurs there will be
plenty on the trade stands to interest
amateurs and S.W.Ls. One trader, who
is as much an amateur at heart as any-
one outside the trade., intends to display
a radio-controlled vessel in a tank.
Which reminds the writer that a good
move for the 1938 show in Sydney would
be a combined amateur radio and model
engineer exhibition. Amateur radio is a
homecraft, and the constructional sides
of radio and model craftsmanship have
much in common.
Those who are fed up with the bedlam
on 20 metres should turn to 10 metres
(or even 80) for relief. Ten metres has
big gaps, and there are not enough VKs
in action there. The band does not
appear to be open for as long as 20,
which may be due to a dearth of stations.
Eighty metres is the haven of a few
staunch supporters, and Australian-
Coronation Day, May 12, will be one of vast importance to Empire short-wave listeners. To enable
Bulletin readers to follow the procession along the route, this map has been obtained by air-mail
from London. The key to the map is shown in the upper left corner.
M.L. duplex ’phone predominates. There
is at present a fair amount of room there,
and DX is possible at times.
The 20-metre band is packed to over-
flowing, DX ’phone fascination having
apparently attracted thousands of fledg-
ling amateurs in the last 24 months.
’Phone DX on this band appears to be
the sole object of a large proportion, and
with increasing numbers of stations
appearing crowded conditions would pre-
vail even if the band were 600 kc. instead
of 400 kc. in width. There appears to be
no solution to the chaotic conditions.
Most of the QRM is caused by people
who appear on the scene, make an awful
din for a few months during a struggle
for QSLs and a ’phone W.A.C., and
then subside.
Writer is using a static shield in the
40-20-metre transmitter, and, from the
aspect of cutting harmonic radiation and
key clicks, it is well worth installation.
There is no decrease in output. See
March “Q.S.T.” for details.
Not much is heard around Sydney on
five metres, and it is assumed that most
keen U.H.F. men are busy building ex-
hibition gear. Five-metre stations will
be in action from the exhibition hall to
mobile stations and other points.
VK2NO.
Television Truths.
In a recent lecture to the W.I.A. in
Sydney Alan Llewellyn (VK2AH), who
comes from London after two years as a
television engineer, described the Baird,
E.M.I. and other European systems, and
explained the technique of cathode-ray
scanning, including the functions of the
electron-gun and iconoscope. Mr.
Llewellyn said that the definition obtained
to-day on a screen lOin. by Bin. was vastly
superior to that of home movies—which
dispels the suggestion that television is
not past the peepshow stage. The lec-
turer was employed in the Baird labora-
tories at the Crystal Palace in London,
recently destroyed by fire, and just before
leaving England he witnessed a remark-
able full-screen demonstration of pro-
jected television by Baird. It was con-
sidered to be a great step forward.
Although big things are expected from
U.S.A., England, in Mr. Llewellyn’s
opinion, is ahead of the world. Since
the adoption of the one system (E.M.1.)
by the 8.8. C. for Alexandra Palace, the
Baird and other concerns are reported
to be working on installations in the
North of England. It is likely that Black-
pool Tower (Lancashire) will be used
for one station.
A vote of thanks to the speaker was
moved by Don B. Knock, who said that
the lecture had made Australian radio
history. An Australian amateur had
gone to England and turned his techni-
cal experience to good account.
Coronation Broadcasts.
On the evening of May 12 from 7.15
p.m. Sydney time, broadcast and dual-
wave receivers will be given a full bill
of fare comprising broadcasts of the
Coronation procession ceremony.
Australian national stations will take
the relay from London, and for those,
with receivers taking in the short-wave
channels the Empire stations at Daventry
will be available. Short-wave conditions
may not at this time of the year be very
suitable for the first hour, but will pick
up as the evening progresses.
In many country districts short-wave
reception may be expected to be superior
to that in city areas, and as all the
Daventry transmitters will be in action
good results should be obtained from
the 16-, 19,- 25- or 31-metre channel.
This will be the greatest historical
Empire broadcast yet attempted, and
not only British subjects but others in
all parts of the world will be at the dials.
The King will speak between 4 a.m.
and 5.15 a.m. Sydney time during a
national broadcast entitled “The Empire’s
Homage.”
"Bulletin" Test Review.
Westinghouse Battery Model 477.
To the name of Westinghouse attach
memories of the pioneer KDKA short-
wave station of 1920 which prepare one
to find that the receiver here reviewed
gives a first-class performance at the
higher radio frequencies. The first feature
to attract attention is the large dial. It
is of the clock type, 7in. in diameter. A
large white clock-hand indicator,
smoothly and positively moved, makes
for very easy tuning. This dial is sen-
sibly marked, and the callsigns of all
Australian broadcast stations are shown
without crowding at the actual calibra-
tion position. A color code shows at a
glance what State the station is in:
N.S.W. calls in white lettering, Vic.
yellow, S.A. red, Queensland green, W.A.
blue and Tas. pink. In addition the dial
is marked in both kc. and me. for the
short-wave ranges. The main channels
on short waves are marked off and can
be quickly located. Total s.-w. coverage
is 16 to 50 metres. Under the dial-
tuning knob is the combined battery and
wave-change switch, with battery econo-
miser position for use on the broadcast
range. This switch position cuts off the
dial illumination as well as reducing 13-
battery drain. Tone control is on the
left and volume on the right.
The chassis is a very well engineered
job, with a Magnavox permag. speaker
and seven valves. Although the number of
valves may sound high for economy, two
may be treated as one, for, in contrast to
the accepted combination Class-B valve,
two 30’s are used separately for this func-
tion. They do an excellent audio job, as
the speaker tells. A 30 driver is pre-
ceded by a 185 second defector with
A.V.C., IC4 1.F., IC6 pentagrid mixer
and IC4 R.F. stage. A two-volt accumu-
lator and 135 volts of B battery comprise
the power supplies. A B-battery fuse is
fitted in a readily accessible position.
On test, Westinghouse 477 proved ex-
cellent to use. The A.V.C. action is
apparent on local and distant stations
alike. Some idea of sensitivity may be
gained from the fact that changing from
a short indoor aerial to a large external
system did not give a correspondingly
large increase in distant-signal pickup.
Such 19-metre stations as DJA and GSF
romped in either way. This applies to the
broadcast band as well, and 2YA Maori-
land could be played at good volume on
the inside aerial. Very marked in the
test of this receiver was the complete
absence of spurious whistles or “joeys.”
Even with the large aerial connected and
with 2BL only a mile away, no images
were introduced, proof that the receiver
is carefully designed. It is easy on bat-
teries, and can be expected to give excel-
lent country service anywhere. As the A-
battery drain is 0.6 ampere, the receiver
is within the Ever-Ready Air-Cell rating,
and this form of battery could be applied
if desired. The manufacturers are E. F.
Wilks and Co., 124 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
The Question Box.
(1) Is the Ever-Ready Air-Cell applicable to
my all-wave Radiola, which is fitted with two
34 ’s, one 6/47, one 687 and one 38 ? (2) Should
these valves be unsuitable, what combination do
you suggest? —s32.
(1) No; the filament power for this receiver
is obviously derived from a six-volt accumu-
lator, as the 6A7 and 687 are employed. (2)
This would call for a considerable amount of
redesigning, and is a matter for the manufac-
turer. There are no indirectly-heated two-
volt valves that can be simply plugged in in
place of the six-volt types.
* * *
(1) Would it be possible to work a small
speaker on 6WA and 6WB on a crystal re-
ceiver with two-stage audio amplifier? Stations
are about 50 and 30 miles distant respectively.
(2) Could I use a receiver of this kind in a
dual-wave role on short waves with head-
phones ? —532.
(1) Yes, with the utmost efficiency in the
aerial system, which would need to be high
and well insulated. A really good direct earth
connection would also be needed. (2) It may
be possible to hear something of the stronger
overseas stations during peak periods, but
there would be too much loss in an ordinary
dual-wave arrangement. A crystal detector is
relatively insensitive compared with a single re-
generative-valve detector.
* * * *
(1) Is the enclosed circuit in order, and can it
be considered reasonably light on battery cur-
rent? I have indicated a .00025 fixed con-
denser in the reaction circuit. Is this in order ?
(2) The aerial lead is wound around the grid
lead so that reaction at top and bottom of the
dial will be similar. Is this correct? (3) On the
B terminal of the audio transformer 1 show
67 } volts, Could this be reduced to 45 volts,
as used on the screens ?— jrs3o.
(1) Yes, but a 250,000-ohm potentiometer
should be used in series with the B positive
feed to the audio transformer primary to con-
trol oscillation smoothly. By-pass this poten-
tiometer with a lmfd. condenser. (2) It may
help; no harm in trying it. (3) Yes. The set
should be very light on A and B batteries.
* * * *
Enclosed is a circuit diagram of my set. 1
am troubled by a hum which all manner of
smoothing and decoupling will not remove, yet
when I plug in headphones the hum disappears
or is lowered so much as to be unnqticeable.
Where could the trouble be? —531.
Insertion of the ’phones, with a total resist-
ance of 4000 ohms, has the effect, in the par-
ticular method you use, of introducing a form
of tone control. The ’phones in series with
the .25meg. resistor in the grid circuit of the
PEN4VA would have the effect of filtering
out the hum. As no power-supply unit is
shown in the diagram, nothing can be checked
here, but it is wise to take precautions against
modulation hum (see article B. 20/1 / ’37).
# * * *
What is the formula for the single-wire-feed
aerial applied to the amateur 40- and 20-metre
bands, with relationship to frequency and length
of top, also the feeder position ? —533.
A useful formula is: Length of top in feet
475,200
equals Distance of tapping
Freq. in Kc.
Length of to.p X K
point from centre equals
180
where K equals 25 for 16 S.W.G. and 23.2 for
14 S.W.G. copper wire.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
3
II
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
li pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYREX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, of Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 47/6
Complete.
Write jor Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Worms in Sheep.
“Wool”: you’ve been farming long
enough to know that your sheep with-
stand the ill-effects of worms only if they
have been well fed and have had a good
mineral lick before them always. I sup-
pose to save money you left off the lick ;
now you’re moaning. If youwant a
good economical mixture and one that
the sheep will find palatable, use that
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour. The bigwigs
think a lot of the stuff, say it keeps the
sheep in tiptop condition. What more
do we want? A note to Davis Gelatine
(Aust.), Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney,
will bring a folder to you. You’d better
write before you lose any more sheep.
Old Farmer.
" -SB
5
L;V MiV'm
mT< .*'’ 1
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
- BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or. dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OF TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Shearing Costs.
“Murrawong”: Although it is natural
for a grazier to try to get his shearing
.done as inexpensively as possible, actual
shearing cost should not be the only
thing considered. An orchardist' would
find it cheaper to shovel his fruit in-
discriminately into chaffbags and market
it thus than to grade ayd pack carefully
in cases, but experience has taught him
that if he does not cater for his customers
and show off his crop to best advantage
he might as well go out of business.
Unfortunately, that lesson .is not
widely enough recognised .by. wool-
growers. To a regrettably large propor-
tion, the fact that by spending £lO to
£l2 on wages for an additional shedhand
they would gain an extra :£1 per bale
throughout the clip does not Occur. ; A
well-designed, well-lighted > shed can be
worked with fewer; shedhands than a
cramped, badly laid-out building,; but .in
all cases it is a mistake to economise in
the number of shedhands or in paying
boys’ wages where experienced workers
are. necessary. 7 . ; :
In the shed there should be as many
shedhands as shearers. A badly-designed
shed will require over 100 per cent,
shedhands. Another point which chiefly
concerns small sheds is that the. classer
should not be so overloaded with other
duties that he has barely time left to
pelt the fleeces into the bins without
proper examination. The entire, benefit
of classing is defeated if it is not carried
out thoroughly, and additional duties
should never interfere with the classer’s
.principal job.
In one shed with four shearers, the
classer is also the expert, engine-driver
and boss of the board. He has a boy to
pick up the fleeces and one piece-picker,
but, in addition to doing the. grinding,
experting, engine-driving, counting-out,
etc., when he isn’t classing, he has to do
all the wool-rolling—both sides of the
table —and keep the books in his spare
time. What happens when a couple Of
handpieces need attention or a gut breaks
can be left to the imagination.
Cost of classing, including travelling
expenses, is naturally greater in the
smaller sheds, but it seldom exceeds Id.
per sheep. Sometimes it works out as
low as id:, but the average is some-
where round yd. per sheep. As the
average weight of wool cut per sheep in
this country is 81b., it should be scarcely
necessary to ask whether, that T-16th
penny per pound which represents the
difference in cost between a well-classed
clip and an all-in-together clip is justified.
The trouble is that woolgrowers accept
the price their wool brings and growl
about it or, if they hit a good market,
feel satisfied ; far too few attempt to
find out how they could have got better
prices. . ..,
Several factors exist, however, which
combine to make a shearing cheaper or
dearer. Over some the grazier has,no
control; over others he has to a certain
extent. Wet weather causing delays
during shearing will add from |d. to
id. per day lost to the cost per sheep
over the entire shearing. This expense
can be kept to a minimum by providing
shelter to keep sheep under cover at the
shed. Few shearings are carried out
without some such delays, but, if enough
sheep to keep the shearers going for ly
to two days can be sheltered, lost time
can be reduced to a negligible minimum.
! Another factor is average speed of
shearers. The shearer himself gets the
same pay per 100 sheep whether he
shears 60 or 200 per day, but, as shed-
hands, cooks and experts are paid a
weekly wage and cost approximately
275. per week each to feed, it follows
that' a faster team will reduce the sheaf-
ing period and lessen the wages bill.
In a six-stand shed with full staff of
shedhands, the saving between a team
averaging 80 per man per day and one
averaging 100 per man per day is over
id. per sheep, while an average of 150
per day is id. better than that.
, However, while desirable from a
purely* theoretical point of view, speed
must go hand-in-hand with good work-
manship. It is better to shear a fair
ayerage number per day and have the
sheep well shorn, carefully handled, and
“Slow down a bit, will y'? The crocks out of focus!"
fleeces properly attended to than to cyt
costs a fraction of a penny per pound of
, wool only to lose id. per pound or more
by negligent handling. The difference,
will be most evident in the preparation
of the,, skirtings,, particularly in the
amount of good wool in the lower grades
of piece's and in the locks. '
A team of guns can knock up tallies
and still shear well, but. they- must haye
gun shedhands to cope with'the wool. ; A
mixed team with the snaggers straining
to catch.the. leaders will. chop.the..wool
about and produce showers of second
cuts to make the proportion of locks
heavier than-it should normally.be.
Which Grass Is the Best Feed?
“Ghanam”: Roughly, it can be taken
that a sheep, like everything ; else in
nature, is merely a collection of chemical
substances which need to be maintained
in balance.
The average fat-lamb carcass consists
of 30 to 31 p.c. fat, about 3 to 3.3 p.c.
ash, 13 to 14 p.c. protein and some-
where about 52 p.c. water. Store sheep
will .be under 20. p.c. fat, over 60 water
and about 16 protein. Fat sheep, mature,
will have 15 p.c. or so less water, a little
less protein and 6 or 7 p.c. more fat
than a fat lamb.
In feeding, proteins, carbohydrates and
fats all develop warmth and energy and
all can help in fat-building; but only
proteins can do the work of proteins,
because other fodder constituents cannot
supply nitrogen. Minerals also have
their specialised function.
Among grasses perennial rye has 19.5
p.c. protein, with about 37 p.c. carbo-
hydrates and fats, 0.765 lime and 1.139
phosphoric acid, both essentials. Phal-
aris tuberosa (22.4 p.c.), cocksfoot. (22.8;,
sheep’s bonnet (22.7) all lead on protein,
though lucerne (29.4) and white clover
(29.9) stand head and shoulders above
all grasses in nitrogen content. Perennial
rye is highest among favorite pasture
grasses in fat (3.1), though Wimmera rye
and love grass easily take the ribbon for
carbohydrates. Lucerne, and white
clover score in richness all through,
except in their fats, which are low.
Generally speaking, immigrant pasture
is inclined to be richer in minerals and
proteins than Australian grasses, but
soils considerably affect the. protein and
phosphoric content of plants. Heavy
stocking and stage of growth also have
effects, and young plants have - more
minerals and proteins than older ones.
Virus v. Traps.
“Natural,Law”: “El V.” (8..31/3/’37)
records the horrors of rabbit-plague
virus with a, heavy hand, but omits, to
mention the blessings . the virus could
confer. .V ' '
J If' the virus is both painful and
deadly, the trouble for the rabbit colony
would soon be over, - but if the virus is
not introduced to; the rabbits in- this
country; there will be bunnies suffering
in traps every day. Sq why not let
the. present generation take pain and save
the countless generations of rabbits their
painful ends in traps?
'What about the sufferings of the man
and his family on partly developed coun-
try when the- rabbits eat - the crops and
grass?. ~,The. C.S7 and I.R. has a thought
for him at least. ~
; . . Camp Horses.
“Dodger”;: A camp horse doesn’t need
to be broken Jo his work. Either he’ll,
do it or he won’t. If he’ll do-it, and if
he likes doing it, all he wants is the ex-
perience which work gives. If he won’t
do it, and if he doesn’t like trying, all
the breaking-in a camp can give won’t
make that fellow a horse..
Work is the only thing required—and
work which is judiciously given. If a
horse likes the work, he can’t get enough
of it—he’ll go till he staggers and drops.
That’s where many a good horse is
spoilt before he’s made: if a horse
new on the job is soured, if he is made
sore and weary, his spirit and his liking
for the work are both broken, and he will
never be anything worthy of the name.
Apart from general conformation, the
ability to cut and come again, and other
constituents, the first essential of the
potential camp horse is that he should
watch his beast. Most of them will.
The odd one that won’t had better be
slung aside before time is wasted on him.
That ability to watch his beast makes
all the difference —it gives the horse the
knowledge of impending moves before
they are actually executed, and, shutter-
click of time that it is, that bit of a snap
makes the difference between a success-
ful turn and a lost bullock. The real
camp horse is working a flick ahead of
his quarry all the time.
Some horses turn naturally in the cor-
rect manner; others have to be taught.
There is only one turn—a pivot on the
hind legs.
Many horses fancy themselves at the
prop-and-wheel on the front legs. That
is the pride which goes before the fall
which is certainly coming soon. Apart
from that, •it involves an early break-
down. A man can help his horse to
acquire the' proper turn —a throw-back
on the haunches, a sliding of hocks along
the ground, a swing which would make
a toe-dancer giddy and envious, and a
spring-olf and away before the dust has
cleared.
Having trained a good camp horse
treat him with judgment. Play up to
his little whims and fancies; recognise
him as a peer of his kind ; meet him on
his own level. Don’t mollycoddle him.
St. John’s Wort.
“J. Want”: fN.. S. Wales Agricultural
Department believes the spread of St.
John’s; wort has been checked. It seems
unlikely.
In some shires good work has been
done—the E. Riverina Council has been
spending £lBOO ( a year on the job—but
in many areas the need goes on cheer-
fully flourishing, despite pasture im-
provement and the investment of thou-
sands a year on chemicals. In Victoria
5000 tons of salt p.a. is used on Crown
lands alone, and they are only a tithe
of the infested area.
A lot more attention could be given
to-pasture improvement as a means of


w
ijzzr-
f.w>
/ £ 61
Mil
8-fl OH OJ
9 N I 1 N 3 S i 8 j
te:
«
SV<
Vs*
sii'^-vjr
; \ • •:•: ■ ' ■••wmv
. ', y»VWyv/M'.v.', ' . ‘•w-
-:: a'^mmwmw.va-.'
ywowwvww
in Economy B<yle Comfori
A BRILLIANT new Ford V-8 . . . further advanced in style and
quality . . . offering even greater value for 1937. The new car
is fundamentally the same as those previous. V-B’s which have
brought a new conception of fine-car motoring to more than 3
million owners throughout the world. It has all the advantages
exclusive to V-8 design and power . . . plus;, new operating
economy and many new mechanical and body refinements. The V-8
for 1937 is advanced in its modern streamline style—in the new
safety of the beautiful all-steel closed bodies—in the extra comfort
and luxury of the interior appointments—in the new silence pf its
operation—and in the new body types now introduced for 1937.
INTRODUCING ALSO 2 ENTIRELY NEW 7
BODY TYPES . . ! .
THE CLUB COUPE
For 1937, Ford also
presents .. the . Cl«b
Coupe ( illustrated )
and tie Club Road-
ster. Features of both
types are : unusually
smart appearance; ac-
commodation for six
inside the body : extra
large luggage space.
GREATER OPERATING ECONOMY
NEW EAS Y-ACTION SAFETY -BRAKES ,
V ALL STEEL RAME J'ROOF,
SIDES'. FLOOR, All .OF :! STEEL
; SAFETY GLASi NO qS;
NEW tA RG e|§LU GG A.G E: CAP AC IT Y '
NEW QUIETNESS IN OPERATION
NEW LUXURIO US STYLE AND ECul PM EN T
•
° LIST PRICES
De lure Club R'dilar£3|B R’dltar Utility £29& Club RoadlTer •.•• £3 |2
De Lute Club Coupe- £339 Coupe Utility £3 If, Club Coupe £330
De lute Tour. Sedan- £359 Touring Sedan .... £349
All puces F. 0.8. Ford Branch, Plus Sates Tax.
FORD V-8 FOR 19 3 7 ...NOW ON DISPLAY AT AIL FORD DEALERS
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
FI 57.48 V.
eradication. As with some other plants,
it should be possible through soil
analysis to find a combination of useful
grasses and fodder plants with fertilisers
which would give the useful sowings a
decisive advantage over the wort.
Treating Lampas.
“Agamemnon”: Young horses often
suffer severe setbacks through lampas,
which is caused by extreme congestion
of the veins, usually at the tooth-cutting
stage. The hard palate inside the upper
incisor teeth becomes tense and swollen
and frequently projects below the teeth,
causing great pain when the horse is
chewing.
Old-fashioned methods of burning out
the lampas are barbarous and quite un-
necessary. The palate should be scari-
fied fairly deeply with a small knife.
Tow or cotton-wool wrapped round the
blade so that only quarter of an inch
is free will prevent accidental cutting of
the large artery. For this reason also
scarification should be confined to tne
sides and the corner teeth avoided,
If the artery is cut accidentally, bleed-
ing can be stopped only by a deep stitcn
to draw the wound together.
When enough blood has escaped after
lancing, alum should be rubbed on to
form a paste. This will soon stop the
bleeding. The animal should be kept
on a soft diet till fully recovered.
Seed-bed Hints,
“Salmon Gums”: Can’t' endorse
“Pack-bag’s” method of constructing
seed-beds (B. 17/3/’37). For winter the
bed should be raised two or three inches
and rounded slightly to help shed sur-
plus water.
Few seed-bed areas are entirely free of
weeds, so the job of rooting out weeds
must be made easy ; also, the bed should
be easy to mulch occasionally. Conse-
quently, seed should be sown in drills
across the bed, which should not be
wider than 3ft. 6in. or 4ft., rows being
about 6in. apart to permit of frequent
hoeing.
Make the drills with a piece of wood
with one edge pointed, the depth of the
drill to be determined by the size of the
seed. A rough rule is to sow seed about
three times its own depth.
Run the seed into the drill between
finger and thumb, remembering that you
are more likely to sow too thickly than
too thinly. Small seeds, such as tobacco,
may be mixed with sand to obviate
over-sowing. Then rake lightly along
the drills, covering the seed. Don’t cover
with horse-manure unless you know the
horses are exclusively stable-fed. Other-
wise the manure will be full of weeds.
Soak the bed well after sowing. When
the plants are established thin the rows
to allow lin. to each plant.
All seed should be thoroughly steril-
ised before sowing, and the job should
be done very carefully. Perchloride of
mercury in a l-in-1000 solution is an
effective germicide. Seeds must not be
too long immersed. Cauliflower seeds
will stand quarter of an hour; then they
should be drained and dried. Other seeds
may require longer or shorter soaking,
according to the thickness of their outer
skin. The. grower should do his own
experimenting. More diseases arise
from failure to disinfect seed than from
any other cause.
More Tobacco Hints.
“Stem Borer”: After ploughing and
forming tobacco seedbeds dig a number
of trenches in each and fill with water.
Let the water soak away well, then re-
peat the dose. After that prepare the
beds for sowing.
The benefit of such a soaking will
be seen as the plants grow big eough to
transplant. The roots will go well down
('Continued on page 44.)


Write for
Catalogue.
SQUARE
TOES
•
The newest
of the new
in Men’s
Fashions.
> •£
>
'3.
A
CL v :
OF all the latest fashions in men’s footwear, the new square
toe certainly heads the list.
This Abbey Model, with full punched golosh and welted
heel, has a definite character that would be extremely hard
to find in any other type of Shoe. Stocked in full and half
sizes and in medium and wide fittings.
Price: Black or Brown Calf 39/6
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’'
“SPENSHAW” WOOL-DUSTING MACHINE
(PATENTED).
GROWERS— Why pay freight and charges on dirt, when it can be safely
and economically removed with a “SPENSHAW before
it is pressed and sent on an expensive journey to market?
Buyers don’t pay for dirt.
SCOURERS Using “SPENSHAW” Machines save labour, liquor, time,
and give clients a BETTER PRODUCT.
BLENDERS— Why continue hand-blending? The "SPENSHAW” does
it better and quicker.
BUYERS Buy “SPENSHAW” Willeyed Wool—because they know
that the staple has not been damaged, and with the sand,
dust and vegetable fault removed, the margin of error in
the “Yield” is reduced to a minimum—resulting in full
market value FOR THE GROWER.
“SPENSHAW” Machines installed at the North Western Woollen Mills, Stawell,
Victoria; Jandacot Scour, Western Australia; Merriwa Contracting Co., Sydney;
Warrnambool Woollen Mills, Victoria; Foster and Co., Hindmarsh, S.A.; Phoenix
Wool Company, Pty., Geelong; William Smith, Geelong; R. M. Duncan, Footscray,
Victoria; Henshaw Jackson, Port Adelaide; Kinchega Station, Broken Hill; R. M.
Fowler, Fremantle, W.A.; Whakatu Scour, Hastings, N.Z.
For full particulars write the proprietors—
Frank Young Woolwilleyers Co., Ltd.,
22 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
mat
r
' 8
A
SCHUTE
IBEILLtCSi.
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
GF
Tasmania 9 s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
>UDIT
■BUREAU OP-
.CIRCULATIONS.
It Is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North.
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
TTi^^xiUetz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
and develop better than with surface
watering, which is liable to develop root
bqnch.
Seedbeds should be sprayed now and
then with colloidal copper to prevent
spot disease or “frog eye.” This should
be in addition to the use of benzol,
which will not stop spot. Spray twice
a week in dry weather, three times in wet
weather.
White-ants.
“Winfield”: Where white-ants are
prevalent, to keep breeding of them in
check remove all stumps, logs and roots
from the vicinity of a proposed build-
ing. Make foundation blocks —for pre-
ference, anything that comes in contact
with the ground should be concrete —
high enough to allow fairly frequent in-
spection of the floorboards, any of which
should be removed and destroyed on
first sign of infestation.
A common mistake is to stack left-
over material under a new building for
protection from the weather. Invariably
it becomes a breeding-ground ; it would
have been far better burned.
When timber foundations are used
they need to be first treated with creosote
oil. Also the ground should be loosened
well round the block and soaked with
creosote.
The best method is to immerse each
block in boiling creosote; effectiveness
of the treatment depends on the degree
of penetration. If the timber can be
sprayed only, add a little arsenic and
soda.
Alternatively, a mixture of arsenite
of soda (lib. to 4gal. of water) may be
used, but it should be kept in mind
that this is highly poisonous.
Nut Grass.
“Logan”: In doing battle with nut
grass, digging or ploughing out is use-
less ; a certain number of nuts are left
in the ground to germinate.
The pest is best tackled in dry weather.
The land should be well turned over
and as much of the n.g. as possible
toothed out; then a solid covering crop
should be sown.
Wheat, oats and barley are good crops
to put in in winter and cowpeas and
millet in summer. Lucerne and sod
grasses are also suitable.
The C.S. and I.R. is experimenting
with two insects from Hawaii and the
Philippines—-a moth and a weevil. But
it will be some time before there are
field results; present tests are being
made in strict quarantine lest the im-
portations do not limit themselves to
nuts.
Another Import Threatens Danger.
“J.R.”: Some years ago a number of
deer were liberated in Sydney’s National
Park, with what view is not quite clear,
but probably someone’s aesthetic sense
was gratified.
Like the deer introduced to Maoriland
and New Caledonia, they have bred and
spread to such an extent that the park
can no longer hold them. Even the
shark-infested waters of Port Hacking do
not stop them from swimming across to
raid the gardens of Lilli Pilli and other
suburbs, and owners of demolished gar-
dens have risen in wrath to demand that
the park authorities do something at
once.
The Australian Restoration and Accli-
matisation Society has asked graziers to
accept some of the deer to run on their
properties! The Graziers’ Association
has responded by warning members to
have nothing to do with the proposal.
That is not enough. Deer broadcast
over the Australian coastal countryside
might easily become a pest as serious as
the rabbit.
If the National Park Trustees and the
A.R. and A. Society do not realise the
potential danger to Australia, some
higher authority ought to take a hand
Fruit for East Indies.
“Nick”: For the last six years Queens-
land has been exporting small quantities
of dessert fruit —apples and grapes —to
East Indies markets. Late last month a
record single shipment of 2900 cases of
apples and 150 cases of grapes was for-
warded, chiefly to Singapore and Batavia.
That made a total of 4615 cases,
mostly apples, for this year already, 428
cases more than for the whole of 1936.
Further exports this year are expected to
total another 2000 cases.
These figures are fairly satisfactory,
but will not equal those of 1934 —8163
cases—the record to date. Queensland
produces some of the best apples in the
Commonwealth and in the. world. If
growers are able to deliver the goods
in prime condition on the markets up
above, this beginning is certain to grow
into a big export trade in the next few
years.
Potato Moth.
“Hortus”: Damage by this pest is
greatest where hilling has not been
carried out; the ground opens up and
cracks during dry weather —and there’s
nothing like cracks to attract pests. If
you don’t believe in hilling, keep soil
well stirred and plant deeply. When
hilling, cover tubers well. Don’t have
any big clods about; they form crevices,
and then it’s not far to the tubers.
Potatoes left in the field after the pre-
vious season’s harvesting provide the
main harbor. Moths bred from these
are on the wing and ready to infect the
next crop. Moths usually lay eggs at
the leaf base ; the larva, when hatched,
burrows its way down the stalk. When
full-grown, it generally settles in wilted
tops and pupates.
Uncovered tubers will be infected
quickly. The eye is usually the spot
selected for eggs.
Frequent showers help the grower
more than he knows sometimes. They
break down clods he has left and so
prevent moths’ inroads.
Don’t expose potatoes too long after
digging, and don’t leave much earth
clinging to them. After filling bags don’t
cover the mouths with stalks and leaves
to shade potatoes from the sun. The
moth often lurks in the haulms. Alt
stalks and foliage should be raked up
and burned.
Sew bags up as soon as possible. If
storage is not available at the time cover
with tarpaulin. Store in a tight room ;
potatoes should not be put in a shed
with ventilation everywhere. On top of
the stack put some shallow vessel con-
taining liquid carbon bisulphide—slb.
to every 1000 cub. ft. of soace.
Don’t consider the amount of room
taken up by the tubers when working
out the space. Close the room, make
it as airtight as possible, and put in a
fresh charge every 14 days.
“Gumblegubbin”: Placing a stone
under the taproot of a citrus tree where
there is a clayey subsoil (B. 7/4/’37)
often fails in its object. When planting
orange-trees in such situations on the
Richmond River we cut a bit off the end
of the taproot. That stopped its down-
ward growth and strengthened the lateral
roots.
“X.T.”: It’s a wonder enterprising
northerners are not going in for mango-
growing as a business. The demand both
for fresh fruit and for chutney pulp
cannot be filled at present, and it grows
every year. On the chutney side there’s
a job for an inventor. Pulp mangoes are
picked when full-grown, but before they
ripen, and they then have to be skinned
and seeded. This is done by hand with a
knife, and is a slow job. What’s wanted
is an effective mechanical skinner and
seeder.
“Mookau”: Much cream is spoilt
through careless roadside dumping. The
spot which may be shady in the early
morning may be next door to Gehenna
by the time the. cream lorry calls.
“Stralia”: Who was th« ass who in-
troduced the gorse bush into this coun-
try as a hedge? A neighbor had an 80-
acre paddock of rich agricultural ground
overrun with it, and the patches of grass
between the- clumps would hardly keep
the rabbits it sheltered. Numerous at-
tempts by various methods to eradicate
it failed, but the latest seems successful.
The idea is to burn it off thoroughly,
then give it a good churning up with a
rotary hoe attached to a tractor. This
was done last year, and now there is a
thick sward of grass mingled with the
shoots of gorse. The owner reckons on
burning it off again this year arid giving
it another rotary hoeing to finish it.


Created an all ti
SALES RECORD
FOR
k
.
|TY
aU A L
With the demand for quality more insistent than ever . . . with competition the keenest in
years, Atlantic Products, in 1936, eclipsed all sales records! —What more positive proof
could you have of the value of these products to you?
As modern higher powered cars and advancing industrial machinery demand improved quality
. . . more staying power from fuels and lubricants, private motorists and industrialists alike
are turning to Atlantic. Month after month ... in both city and country . . . the demand for
Atlantic products goes steadily up and up!
With 1937 still young, why not start now to enjoy the full benefits of Atlantic products
yourself? They cost no more!
ATLANTIC ETHYL, ATLANTIC PETROL, ATLANTIC MOTOR
OIL, AND OVER 300 OTHER QUALITY PRODUCTS.
ATLANTIC UNION OIL . CO. LTD.
1N5.1.48.37.


"THE AUSTRALASIAN"
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
More than 50 Special Features in every
issue. On Sale at All Newsagents or
4th Floor, 66 Pitt St. ’Phone: BWI2IB.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the. World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Criticism
and
i si°**
Placement
Information
SH
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
R Dalli/v St.. S v.liK'.r. OF JOURNALISM
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
WaGFnts.
WomaGFn journalist with exp. reporting in Lug-
land aGFnd freelancing in Australia wants work
on newspaper. -5464.
Fitter-engineer (29). unmarried, Sydney, with
exp. on land and sea, wants post country or
Islands. Diesel-, gas- and oil-engine tickets.
Exp. with tractors, electrical supply, refrigera-
tion, native 1ab0r.—5465,
Wanted someone to revise and type a 60,000-
words seriul on a percentage basis. —5498.
Young woman (23), well educated, musical,
desires position as companion. travel pre-
ferred.—s 494.
Wanted partner with a little capital to work
mine, erushings from soz. to lßdwt. —5491.
Words of ballad "The Ship That Never Re-
turned.”- -5484.
World-traveller, Sydney, with extensive exp.,
linguist, available to conduct invalids and/or
inexperienced persons desiring to travel over-
seas—s 423.
Young man (23), N.S.W., honest and willing,
but no experience, wants position anywhere
under good cook, to learn.—s 424.
To communicate with persons interested in
a common world language and having some
knowledge of past attempts in this direction.—
5545.
Information Sought.
(I) Area of a hockey ground, and how is lhe
ground laid out? (1) Dimensions and con-
struction of the goalposts? —s46o.
( I) The ground must be rectangular, 100 yards
long, and not more than 60 yards nor Jess than
55 yards wide. Jt must be marked with white
lines in accordance with a plan obtainable from
most sporting dealers. (2) A goul is placed
in the centre of each goal-line and consists of
two posts, lour yards apart (inside measure-
menu, joined together by a horizontal cross-
bar 7ft. from the ground, The goalposts must
not extend upwards beyond the crossbar, nor
the crossbar sideways beyond the goalposts.
The posts must be 2in. broad by not more than
3in., and the crossbar must have rectangular
sides. Neis must be attached to the posts,
crossbars and to the ground behind the goals.
* * * *
(I) Cost of the "Efl" model aeroplane engine
in US.A. and in M.L.'f (2.1 Where can I
obtain a petrol-driven model aeroplane engine Y
(3) Cost, h.p., weight and r.p.m. Y (4) Size and
cost of suitable propellerY (5) Any book on
the subject? —s434.
( I) No particulars available here. (2) Walthcr
and Stevenson, 395 Georgc-.streel, Sydney. (3)
£6 7s. 6d.; 1/5 h.p.; engine alone, 7}oz.;
complete with coil, tank, and condenser, Ihjoz.;
6000 r.p.m. (.4.) I2in., !3in. or 14in. propeller;
cost ss. (5) Power Driven Model Aircraft,
by F. J. C'amm (Newnes Home Mechanic
series), Is. 9d., post free, from Walthcr and
Stevenson.
* * * it
I I) Whut is the maximum income at which
maternity allowance, is given Y (2) Deductions
allowed from gross income ? (3) flow is the
allowance obtained Y —5372.
(1) £221, increased by £l3 for each previous
living child under 14 years up to a maximum
of £312. (2) Expenses incurred in the produc-
tion of income. (3) By lodging a claim for
maternity allowance with the Deputy-Commis-
sioner of Maternity Allowances within three
months after the date of birth. Forms may be
obtained free of charge from the local Regis-
trar of Births at time of registration
<• * * *
ll) Where does the C.S.R. make, power
alcohol, and from what substance is it manu-
factured ? (2) What co. makes power alcohol
at Sarina (O.), and from what substance is it
made ? (3) A Buhetin article .states that large
tpumiities are required in Australia. What is
the reason that such small quantities are manu-
factured ? —5335.
(1) At Pyrmont, Sydney, from molasses. (2)
The Australian National Power Alcohol Cos.,
from molasses. (3) The economic possibilities
are not attractive to commercial interests. 1 lie
possibilities ol powei-alcohol production in
Australia are discussed in full in Bulletin 33
of the C.S. & I.R.
* * * •
Qbjects of the Rotary Club, and who founded
it Y —5404.
The Rotary Club is a world fellowship of
business and professional men bound together
by the ideal of service and the fostering of
international peace and goodwill. The first club
was founded m 1905 by Paul Harris, a Chicago
lawyer, with a coal dealer, a mining engineer
and a tailor. They met in each other's homes
in turn, hence the name Rotary Club. Friend-
ships developed and were fostered by the no-
competitor idea of only one man in each dub
from each business or profession. Membership
increased rapidly, new clubs were formed in
various States, and when Rotary spread to
Canada in 1910 and to Ireland in 1911 it became
international. Rotary came to Australia in 1921,
and there arc now 53 dubs in the Common-
wealth. It has spread through more than 4000
clubs in 82 countries of the world, with a total
membership of about 175,000.
11l reply to 4875 (B. 10/3/’37), who sought
particulars of the loss of the Lusitania, four
names were given of the 1198 passengers lost.
One was Elbert Hubbard. What claim had
he to such distinction? —5473.
The names given were those of the passengers
best known to the world. Hubbard’s writings
(whatever may be thought of their literary
merit) were, at the time of his decease, circu-
lating widely in every country where English is
spoken.
* * * *
Why was the Channel tunnel between Eng-
land and France not proceeded with ? —5482.
In 1930 the MacDonald Government an-
nounced that, after consultation with the Liberal
and Conservative parties, it had decided to
reject the proposal, chiefly on account of
prohibitive cost and the fact that it was not
strongly demanded. It was further stated that
the Committee on Imperial Defence considered
the construction of such a tunnel would consti-
tute in the event of war an element of danger to
provide against which a heavy annual expendi-
ture would be necessary.
* * * *
(1) What is the largest meteorite of which
there .is a record of the time of fall ? (2) Par-
ticulars of other large falls? —5492.
One which fell at Knyahinya, Hungary, June
9, 1866, weighing 6441 b. (2) The Ahnighto
meteorite, brought from Greenland by Peary in
1897, and now in the U.S. Museum of Natural
History, is the largest in any museum. It
weighs 36£ tons, and is lift. long. Another,
known as The Woman, from its shape, weighs
30001 b., and, with The Dog (10001 b.), also came
from Greenland. The Willamette, discovered
1902 near Portland (U.S.A.), was 1 Oft. long
and weighed 15£ tons. Other large stones are
known to exist, some buried deeply in the earth.
f * * 4=
Whereabouts in England were (1) Camelot
and (2) the Vale of Avalon, mentioned in the
legend of King Arthur? —5421.
(1) Although Camelot has been referred to
as if it existed in Wales, it is believed that
this arose through confusion with Caerleon;
Malory (upon whose Morte d’Arthur Tenny-
son’s “Idylls of the King” were based) identi-
fies it with Winchester, the ancient capital of
England. There was, however, a Camelot or
Camalat in Somersetshire, now represented by
the villages of East and West Camel, jvhere
there are remains of an ancient town and" fort-
ress as well as much Arthurian tradition. It
has been suggested that after the Saxon in-
vasion of Britain Camelot became the capital
of the South (British) Kingdom. (2) The Vale
of Avalon, or Avilion, sometimes referred to
as the Isle of Avalon, has been identified with
the pensinsula formed by the River Brue
or Brye at Glastonbury. In Arthurian romance,
however, it becomes a mythical “Isle of the
Blest,” located somewhere beyond the shores
of England.
* * * *
(1) What is the position regarding right to
enter a N.S.W. private property to obtain
timber, gravel and the like for a Government
contract? (2) Is royally payable on river sand
or gravel obtained below high-water level? (3)
Can entrance be obtained to river gravel through
private property? —5301.
(1) The holder of a Government contract
has no right of entry on private land to obtain
material except where such right is conceded
by arrangement between the owner and con-
tractor. Section 524 (/) of the N.S.W. Local
Government Act in certain circumstances gives
a shire or municipal council rights of entry
and removal. (2) Land below high-water mark
is Crown property. The question of imposition
of royalty payment is one for consideration
when application is made for permission to
remove the material. (3) That is a matter for
arrangement with the owner.
4= * * *
(1) It is stated that 1 h.p. is the power cap-
able of lifting 33,000 1 b. in one minute. Does
this mean that an engine developing 10 b.h.p. is
able to lift 330,000 1 b. one foot in one minute?
(2) Does a 500 -h.p. aeroplane engine develop
500 b.h.p. ? (3) A car engine described as a
“25-h.p. model’’ will deliver a much greater
power. Why is this so ? (4) Composition of
hydraulic-brake fluid ? (5) Will it heat when
subjected to a high pressure? —5383.
(1) Yes. (2) and (3) H.p. is dependent, among
other things, upon piston speed. The Society
of Automotive Engineers (S.A.E.) adopted a
formula based upon a piston speed of 1000 ft.
per min. which is still in use, but as the piston
speeds of modem engines greatly exceed this
figure the formula is only appproximately accu-
rate at that speed. Higher speeds give greater
h.ps. (4) Denatured alcohol one part and
castor oil one part, chemically pure. (5) Only
when friction is present.
# * *
(1) How can one become an optician in
N.S.W. ? (2) Where is a course of training
obtainable? (3) Cost of qualifying? (4) Dura-
tion of course? (5) Age limit of candidates?
—5408.
(1), (2) and (4) The only means of qualifying
for registration as an optometrist (sight-testing
optician) is by taking the four years’ optometry
course at Sydney Technical College. The pre-
requisite to this course is the leaving certifi-
cate (to include English, mathematics 1 and 2,
and physics) or an examination of equal stand-
ard. Apprenticeship is not compulsory, but
during the currency of the course the student
must be employed by an optometrist or an
optometrical firm. (3) Fees for the diploma
course are: First year £4, second year £5,
third year £6 and fourth year £6. (5) There is
no age limit. The Institute of Optometrists of
N.S.W., 28 Bond-street, Sydney, will be pleased
to furnish further particulars.
$ :|t $
(1) Book giving constructional details of
model hot-air engines ? (2) Book dealing with
the construction of perpetual-motion engines?
I recently read that such a machine could not
exist, but one actually did. exist in Wyalong in
1917, and was seen in motion by many people.
—5425.
(1) Simple Mechanical Working Models
(Model Engineer Series), price Is. 6d., post free,
from Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd., 426 George-
street, Sydney. (2) Know of no book on the
subject. It is well established that a machine
actuated only by gravity is impossible.
* * * *
(1) Names and addresses of Australian pub-
lishers of pictorial calendars? (2) Price paid
for accepted photographs ? (3) Type of photo-
graph likely to be popular? (4) Suitable size
of prints ? (5) Are overseas and foreign photo-
graphs likely to be accepted? —s449.
(1) Marchant and Cos., 321 Pitt-street; Wm.
Brooks and Cos., 35 Pitt-street; Hollander and
Govett, 90 New South Head-road, Darling
Point; John Sands, Ltd., 41 Druitt-street;
Pratten Bros., 26 Jamieson-street; Green Press,
Ltd., 321 Sussex-street—all Sydney. (2) No
definite standard; it is a matter of bargaining.
About 7s. 6d. is a usual rate for small photo-
graphs. (3) Scenery, which must be good and
unusual; farm animals and homesteads; chil-
dren and pets; racing subjects with a senti-
mental twist; motoring incidents and flower
studies. Nothing restless, disturbing or gro-
tesque. (4) Quarter-plate is acceptable; half-
plate is better. Glossy black-and,-white prints
are the best. (5) No; there is always a doubt
about copyright, and the subjects are not always
interesting to Australians. Syndicates supply
beautiful photographs of oversea subjects very
cheaply and you could not compete with them.
* * * *
In “Bernard Shaw, Frank Harris and Oscar
Wilde,” by R. H. Sherard, the author refers
to a future “Macaulay’s New Zealander
with .... his smiling gin.” Is this a correct term
for the wife of a Maori?— s37l.
No, a Maori woman is a wahine.
* * * s|:
What is the meaning of two small letters BM
on the head side of Australian coins ? —5338.
Initials of Bertram MacKennal, who designed
the George V. coins.
'l s
(1) What is the best overseas market for
kangaroo skins ? (2) Best firms to consign to ?
(3) Most suitable size of bundles? —5321.
(1) Would not advise you to undertake
export of skins (particularly kangaroo skins)
unless you had considerable capital and trust-
worthy information of overseas markets. Kan-
garoo-skin export is at present controlled by
several large firms, and a newcomer without
overseas knowledge, supply of information and
organisation could not hope to succeed. (2)
Consign to a Brisbane wool-and-skin broker.
(3) Avoid heavy bundles of skins which may
have to be handled with hooks and thus be-
come torn or otherwise damaged. Bundles
from 1001 b. to 1501 b. are most suitable.
* * * #
Particulars of the Samuel Terry fortune?
How was it accumulated ? —4424.
Samuel Terry, transported to N. S. Wales
about 1795 for a minor offence, served a term
of imprisonment and then sold liquor and was
a pawnbroker. He amassed a large fortune, and
was known as the “Convict Millionaire.”
* * * *
Method of ridding a piano of borer? —s36s.
Open the top of the piano, take out the front
piece below the keyboard and dust the in-
terior thoroughly with a cloth slightly damped
with kerosene. Then fill an insect sprayer with
a mixture of half kerosene and half petrol,
and spray all the woodwork within reach. Tilt
the piano over so that the bottom is exposed,
and spray all the woodwork there, and then
the back parts. Allow to dry thoroughly be-
fore replacing the parts removed. Before
closing, suspend a small muslin bag of para-
dichlorobenzine (procurable from a chemist)
inside the piano, or sprinkle some on the
piano’s floor. Handle the spraying mixture
away from fires, and choose a bright, dry day.
Repeat the spraying three or four times at in-
tervals of a week or 10 days.
* * * *
I am suffering from rheumatoid arthritis.
How can 1 get relief front the pains and stiffness
in the knees? —5480.
Pain and stiffness may be relieved by hot
applications (foments) or by diathermy. The
disease sometimes responds to injections of
preparations containing gold. The removal of
septic foci (in teeth, tonsils, bowel, etc.) has
produced good results, particularly if suitable
vaccines are employed. Diet should be high in
vitamin content and adequate in respect of cal-
cium phosphorus and iron; plentiful supplies
of red meat and green vegetables fulfil these
conditions.
* * * *
(1) Cure for ringworm ? (2) Is ringworm a
parasite or a fungus growth? —s42o.
(1) Treatment varies with the site of the
infections. Mild cases affecting the skin of
the body sometimes yield to treatment with
tincture of iodine; others require the use of
parasiticides in ointment form. In the variety
known as “surfer’s foot” benefit follows the
use of a 1 p.c. solution of sodium hypochlorite
(“hypo.”). Affections of the scalp are often
only curable by the use of preparations of
thallium or by exposure to X-rays. Both these
methods must be supervised by a specialist.
(2) It is one of the many varieties of higher
fungi, and is related to the common moulds
which attack bread when left in an open, moist
place.
* H: * *
Any cure for catarrh ? If so, latest treat-
ment ? —5025.
Provided there is no gross defect in nose or
throat requiring operation, injection of catarrhal
vaccine may help greatly. Sprays of adrena-
lin or ephedrine inhalant compound also use-
ful. Internally, ephedrine compound elixir
or triple bromides (Parke, Davis and Cos.)
give relief. A doctor’s prescription will be re-
quired to procure the last-named.
Brief Answers.
P.F.C.: Employment is given in N.S.W.
mental hospitals to a certain number of single
men. There are no prospects of vacancies in
the immediate future at the hospital mentioned
by y0u....J.M.: Communicate direct with
the Inspectors of Stock at Tamworth, Narrabri,
Warialda and Moree regarding the possibilities
of rabbit-trapping in those districts. Many
stockowners prefer employing local trappers to
work on their properties, so it would be as
well to know what openings are available before
risking such a journey as you propose....
G.R.M.: (1) The 6d. per hundred to be added
to the employee’s earnings by the employer is
a comb-and-cutter allowance. (2) The em-
ployer has to provide all tools required
J. 8.: Cannot state at this stage. Write Prime
Minister’s Department, Canberra, F.C.T
Bondi: (1), (2), (3) and (5) No. (4) If there
were any negotiations of the sort they were
kept secret WJ.R.: Write Burns, Philp and
Cos., Bridge-street, Sydney G.L.H.: (1)
Write A.J.A., T. and G. Building, Collins-
street, Melbourne. (2) Question vague. State
exact requirements V.R.: The only prac-
ticable method is to row a boat through the
reservoir with a large knife attached, and then
rake the cut weeds to the bank. This is done
at Lake Wendouree, Ballarat, to clear a course
for rowing. Cattle eat slender knotweed
only sparingly, if at all. It is not known
whether it affects milk flavor E.G.8.: The
practice of veterinary surgery in N.S.W. for
fee or reward is restricted to persons who are
registered under the Veterinary Surgeons Act,
1923, qualification being a degree in veterinary
science from an approved university. Such a
degree can be obtained only by attendance at
the university... .J.D.H.: With most manufac-
turers the terms are interchangeable, and may
both refer to one type of fabric. As you are
living close to one of the greatest woollen mills
in the world, specialising in all kinds of knitted
fabrics, you could obtain information by call-
ing on the manager H.H.: Carbine won the
Melbourne Cup in 1890; he was aged five years,
and carried lOst. 51b. Time, 3min. 28£sec.;
rider, R. Ramage G.K.: (1) Cannot trace
relationship of any member of the family of
the late Daniel Cooper with the Scottish family
you mention. (2) The name Muller is German,
and means miller; that it is borne by persons
of French nationality may mean that they
belong to Alsace-Lorraine J.M.: (1) It is
assumed you mean the Legislative Council, now
abolished. All Acts of Parliament passed
through Upper and Lower Houses prior to the
abolition and not since repealed remain in
force. (2) You cannot legally be deprived of
the benefits conferred by law on all citizens.
(3) You are subject to the State franchise varia-
tion. (4) The supervision of State institutions
and hospitals by departmental officers has no
relation to trial by jury, which is concerned
with criminal offences... .L.C.: The adminis-
tratrix who stands in the position of an execu-
trix under the will is required to furnish bene-
ficiaries with any information reasonably re-
quired. If she calls in the assistance of a
solicitor he looks to her for his fee
J.F.S.: The department may have recourse
to you if the mortgagor has not paid
A.S.K.: Write manager, Grain Elevators’
Board, Chancery House, 485 Bourke-street,
Melbourne F.C.T.: The “Dog on the
Tucker-box” bronze near Gundagai (N.S.W.)
is a monument to early pioneers; the idea was
obtained from Jack Moses’s well-known verses,
“Nine Miles from Gundagai, or The Dog and
the Tucker-box”... .J.T.: The “t” is silent;
the name is pronounced Margo K.A.: King
Constantine I. of Greece was the brother of
Prince Nicholas, the Duchess of Kent’s father;
both were sons of King George I. of Greece,
second son of the King of Denmark, who re-
nounced his rights to the Danish throne to
become King of the Hellenes. Queen Alex-
andra, consort of Edward VII., was his sister,
so that the Duchess of Kent and her husband
are alike great-grandchildren of King Christian
IX. of Denmark H.P.: “View mat.” notices
are not accepted for the “Wants” column.
.... H.F.: Winderlup means a “permanent
stream”; Quinbalup, a “happy place”; and
Koorakkooraby, “the spring of a bearded
snake”—all are W.A. abo. place-names
A. : The aboriginal name for Longnose
Point, Port Jackson (N.S.W.) is Yerroulbine.
.... 1.D.: N 0.... A.G.: Before conversion to
Mohammedanism, the Persians’ religion was
Zoroastrianism, said to have been founded by
Zoroaster (1000 b.c.) P.L.: The s.s. Elinga-
mite, 1675 tons, of the Huddart-Parker line,
while bound from Sydney to Auckland was
wrecked on the Three Kings Island (M.L.),
November 5, 1902, with a loss of 30 lives
B. : Dagon was the national god of the
Philistines, half man and half fish —the fish
god. Isis was the chief goddess of the Egyp-
tians, the sister and wife of Osiris and mother
of Floras. She is credited with introducing
wheat and barley to Egypt C.Y.: “Rodeo."
pronounced ro-day-o, originally meant the
driving of cattle together to be branded, a
“round-up,” or alternatively the enclosure in
which they are so collected. Nowadays it is
generally understood to mean a public display
of cowboy showmanship. Derived from the
Spanish rodar, a wheel N. 8.1.; There are
excellent paint-removers on the market; any
paint or hardware store will suggest a suit-
able one if you describe the work it has to do.
A remover can be made by mixing together in
a bottle one' part oil of turpentine and two
parts ammonia and shaking until of a milky
appearance. Apply with a woollen rag, and
after a few minutes the old enamel should be
soft enough to scrape off A.H.8.: A good
David Cox is always in demand; the price
depends upon the quality of the work. “Chang-
ing Pastures,” by Cox, was sold in London
in June, .1934, for 120 guineas, but a really
good example of his work should bring more
than that P.E.C.: Minimum telephone
service rental is charged when a wall set is in-
stalled ; for pedestal table telephones annual
rental is increased at the rate of 55., as cost
of maintenance of these is appreciably heavier.
W.H.S.: See Climate and Weather of Aus-
tralia (55.), issued by the Commonwealth
Meteorological Department, Melbourne
(Many others mailed.)


Commercial Art
Learn this fascinating well paid
profession at home from 16 noted
artists. For beautifully illustrated
literature FREE write to Dept.- B
T Training Institute
as?®
Wv
S«?
v,-~*
■>:
ICS
fiS
c ?v
35
sM
sr-a
v?
wq*
f-M
V 3
v-v.
m
m
«a
»li
t'
k *,'
J«C
#>»v
y-
rJ^
&
*S
48
•v t
ft*
R*
IK
Iff
as
«»*
JMI
5*
Q u
r^Ti.
t*
“British Built
What a world of confidence
these words inspire—what a
promise of performance they
hold! In every sphere of engi-
neering, British workmanship
stands supreme.
CD
EC
<
CD
<o
5C
>>>
O
m
H/
CO
THtV
//ANDP'
Listen in and laugh
at
“Leave It to
Leslie/’
Stations
2TM, 2WG, 2N/,
7.50 p.m. every
Tuesday, Wednes-
day and Thursday.
Station 2GZ every
Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday a n d
Thursday.
isTeCt
Sheep Shearing
MACHINERY
Lister Guaranteed Sealed, Ball-Bearing Overhead Brackets, equipped
with the new Ratchet “in-and-out” Gear, and driving Lister “Ace”
Handpieces, are outstanding examples of British workmanship. They
offer every improvement that engineering skill and ingenuity can
devise, coupled with the guarantee of lifetime service that only Lister
can give. Sooner or later you will equip your shed with Lister
“Duplex” and Lister “Ace” Handpieces. Let us have the oppor-
tunity now of proving to you how much time and money this ideal
combination can save you.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
Dancar, Cedye & Malloch Ltd.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
“The House for Shearing Machinery
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
S.C.M.: Good stuff in your pars., but for
our eyes’ sake try a thicker paper or a more
distinct typewriter ink... .M.E.E.: Can’t put
the “Son of the Battling Tiger” in with our
bunch, but you should find somebody else to
back him... .D. 0.: No use for “shivering
music, murmuring conversation, popping corks,
soft-treading waiters” J.S.: Nor for a one-
act play about American noos-editor....
C.C.F.: Cut to a third, and brightened, it
might suit Smoke-0h... .8.R.K.: So the pick-
pocket “quiet cooly apologised and returned
it” when the loss of our wallet was men-
tioned. They’re degenerating... .G.A.P.: Not
up C.R.: Charming little murder of sleeping
infant, done in the Russian manner, can’t be
recorded here... .F.F.: English nurse, Chinese
raft-owner, Mohammedan mailboat captain,
Burmese doctor and five dacoits all left at large
on the Ira wadi... .C. MacP.: Still misses,
and the other doesn’t score a smile... .C.R.:
Might make a par G.F.P.: Both too thin.
J.G.B.: Why send us your surf hero?
Give the flappers a chance to read it... .C.P.1.:
Sorry we can’t surprise you; but it was a near
thing G.C.R.: It’s not storytelling... .T.D.:
Clarence not very amusing... .8.H.: Tedious.
R.T.W.: J. H. M. Abbott does that sort
of thing with better effect... .Z.V.W.: Soon
picked your gate-crasher... .A.G.P.: You
fell down on the j0b....J.W.: Another col-
lection of unfunny incidents.... V.C.: A “Sheer-
luck” Holmes yarn would need to be a super-
masterpiece... .S.C.A.: You’ve little notion of
yarnspinning. „. .C.J.T.: You, t 00... .W.D.8.:
Not for us, though you may place it....J.G.:
Nothing novel there... .M.S.: “A beautiful,
accomplished, charming and intelligent woman
tied to a spineless, drink-sodden wastrel.”
Try it on the Divorce Court... .A.V.C.: Can’t
stand “the few mournful notes” from black-
bearded Johnson’s violin... .H.S.P.: They don’t
come within coo-ee of publication standard....
E. 8.: “The Old Black Crow” flew off at the
first glimpse of the office muzzle-loader....
Another E. 8.: “I sent you some poems before,
but as I have not heard from you I do not
know if they have been accepted or not.” If
they were anything like the last, you need
entertain no further doubts... .J.FI.G.: “Should
the fate of the above be other than what I ex-
pect, post the cheque to .” It wasn’t, so
we can’t... .P.E.D.: Half of you aspiring
bards fall down on metre. As a sonneteer you
fall more heavily than most... .C.T.L.: Yarns
about Sydney crooks selling the Botanic Gardens
sundial to unsuspecting countrymen are several
generations out of date... .E.A.S.: Don’t doubt
their being your original composition. But
they fall short... .M.S.: Stamps will always
ensure the return of rejected contributions. But
if you want criticism you’ll have to look for it
in this column. In your case it’s simply —
below par.... The Hermit: Back to your dug-
out R.H.R.: Just a twitter... .A.F.H.:
Hopeless... .C.L.: Even more so, if it were
possible... .N.Y.: There’s a touch of feeling in
it, but it doesn’t make a rhyme anyone would
read twice... .M.D.: Whatever your forte may
be, it isn’t verse 8.C.: “Gloaming-looming”
might pass, but not “false-force” J.E.J.:
“Disgraceful-faithful”—“keener-dreamer”; you,
too, might profitably invest a shilling in a
rhyming dictionary.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.D.C.: Sketch too hurriedly put together;
gag might have been lifted from an under-
takers’ journal... .L.M.: The toenails look all
right; the rest is terrible W.P.J.: Every
second person we meet tells us that joke
J.M.L.: Anything more than a straight line
seems to baffle y0u....R.A.: The youngster
is still in the imitating stage. He might try
his hand at something original D.A.: Anzac
Day cartoon is too close to one of Percival’s.
H.W.K.: Not dipping into our pockets for
that M.A.P.: Still searching for the point.
G.T.: Looks like two concrete posts having
a friendly chat... .T.C.R.: You need a few
years’ lessons N.S.: Still as scratchy as ever.
... .W.M.H.: The six inartistic corpses consigned
to the basket 8.H.: The average 10-year-old
could give you a stone and a beating T.W.:
They may have looked fine in candlelight,
but they’re not so hot under an electric globe.
L.B.: Slick linework and interesting com-
positions, but the gags are old E.D.: Work
with a broader nib and use paper without a
grained surface... .J.C.W.: Dave is hardly dis-
tinguishable from the dead trees surrounding
him J.R.H.: Enough bricks have been
dropped on the head of that foreman to build
a bungalow M.W.: Caricatures of persons
outside N. S. Wales should be submitted to
our inter-State offices for endorsement as to
likeness C.H.: If self-taught you are a poor
master A.F.P.: Put more action into draw-
ings and make jokes crisper... .L.K.: If you
can show us a horse like the one in your pic-
ture we’ll shout him a ton of hay M.T.8.:
If you took as much care over the drawings
as over the ornamental signature you might
get somewhere E.P.: The-sideshow bruiser
flopped... .G.D.: Ragged N.M.S.: Needed
a magnifying-glass to see what it was all about.
F.H.: Among the rejects.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Seaman”: Would “Marco” 18.
7/4/’37) oblige an old hand by whisper-
ing where you can get the stuff that leads
to such spectacles as that of the Manu-
kau bar “breaking 21 miles out to
sea”? As an ex-member of the crew of
the Rimu I have seen plenty of wet
water on her for’ard well-deck when
crossing the bar, and spray over the
bridge, but I would like to know the
exact position of “Marco” when he saw
the seas breaking over her mastheads.
Such a sea would founder any ship.
Ht # *
Among the bits and pieces of gossip
sent by Australians in London to the
folk at home is the verdict that Marie
Tempest’s new play, “Retreat from
Folly,” is' most notable as an excuse
for Marie’s changing into several lovely
gowns. Her figure is as good as ever,
and she makes a speech after each per-
formance suggesting that anyone who
has enjoyed her acting during the last
50 years should give a donation to the
Marie Tempest Ward in St. George’s
Hospital. This appeal was so successful
that £l6OO rolled in during the first
week.
* * * *
“J.L.”: “Stop Press” (B. 24/3/’37)
makes a quaint error when he includes
among Australian newspapers of the
early days the hand-written King Island
“Record.” Actually this fortnightly, and
later weekly, sheet was a product of
the present century. The first number
was issued in 1905, the last in 1912 ; the
Mitchell Library has all but three. Also,
“Stop Press’s” longest-named newspaper
should have been Duncan’s (not Daw-
son’s) “Weekly Register, etc.” ; and the
first magazine was published six years
earlier than “The Gleaner.” It was
“The Australian Magazine” printed by
Robert Howe, which began its career
with the “sanction and approbation” of
Governor Macquarie. “The Gleaner”
was a newspaper, issued weekly by Dr.
Laurence Halloran, who was editor, pub-
lisher and proprietor.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Physiologists and bio-
chemists are steadily tracing out the
working and effects of those curious
body-regulators the ductless glands. It
has long been known that shortage or
excess of the secretion of the thyroid
gland in the neck alters amazingly the
owner’s physique and mentality. Ab-
normality of the pituitary gland at the
base of the brain is the main reason for
giants and dwarfs and several other curi-
ous departures in growth and mentality.
The adrenals, on top of the kidneys, are
the dominating factor in making a man
a hero or a coward, the aggressor or
the underdog. Now, it seems that diet,
particularly in youth, is the main factor
in their development and activity. Some
day new babies will have their body
mechanism sorted out in the laboratory
and their nutrition planned for arch-
bishop or pug, as desired.
* * * *
“N. Coast”: “Kaloa’s” reference to a
“new standard quinine treatment for
malaria” (B. 14/4/’37) recalls that in
my days malaria was regarded as inevit-
able, and quinine was taken to lessen
the severity of the bouts. It was solely
a palliative, and not claimed as a cure
or a preventive. Quinine on instructions
from Moresby was taken on 9th and
10th, 19th and 20th, and 29th and 30th
of each month —six doses of 15 grains
a day. I once saw an official who was
rotten with malaria take 90 grains in
one whack. I don’t know if anything
ought to have happened to him ; he was
doing his job the next day. One of the
results of taking it is a slowing-up of
the memory processes for quite a while
after the victim leaves the fever-stricken
places. I found names and scenes re-
turning to me as through a mist seven
or eight months after I had left Papua
and cut out the quinine issue.
* * * *
“X-Roundsman”: They seem to take
the practice of our profession quite seri-
ously in America, if a recent cable is
reliable. It stated that an editor broke
into the peaceful abode of his reptile
contemporary and emptied the contents
of a gun into him. Of course, there always
will be trouble with a certain kind of
critic or contributor; but instances of
editors attacking each other with any
, weapon other than that by which they
j make their living are rare in journalistic
j history—of recent years, at least. There
i was an editorial duel in Sydney in 1836,
when two editors missed each other twice
and were finally reconciled; but that
arose from the affections of a lovely lady
of the day, which one antagonist con-
sidered were wrongly bestowed.


IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
*
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment' of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
T)oes your smile
radiate charm ?
;
Life can be all
smiles to the
woman with perfect teeth if she cleans
them with Powder.
Why powder ? Because all dentifrices
contain some powder, that’s what does the
cleaning. But Calvert’s is ALL POWDER,
that’s why it cleans teeth better and more
quickly.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
I'. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
\
■
m
I
n
mm
m
m
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are maiie at
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA; FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
anil VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from: —•
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD. !„"&■)
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
No. 15 of a series of articles on the great days of Australian boxing.
The forthcoming visit ot the South
African footballers is a reminder that
there were once in South Africa enough
pugs from these parts to make up a
football team. The exodus began in
1895, and it was influenced not only by
the boom on the Rand and the slump in
Australia, but by plaintive reports in
American newspapers that the U.S.A. had
more Australian sluggers than it could
accommodate.
To Gahd’s Own Country in the space
of five years had gone, in order of beef,
Jackson, Goddard, Slavin (he, of course,
went to England first), O’Donnell and
Billy Smith ; Fitzsimmons, Hall, Creedon,
McCarthy, Fitzpatrick and Dunn;
Barron and Tracey; Dawson, Maber,
“Griffo,” Meadows, Fuller, Mulholland,
Marshall, Denny, Pluto, Willis, Napier
and Anthony. Fitzsimmons, while re-
maining a middleweight, had to fight
heavyweights for lack of opponents in
his own division, and won both world
championships. Maber arrived a light-
weight but grew into the middleweight
class, and as a middleweight whipped La
Blanche, inventor of the La Blanche
blow (now everywhere barred) with which
he laid low the Jack Dempsey from
whom Fitzsimmons was to take the
middleweight title.
Fitzpatrick had been a fighter of sorts
in Sydney, but in the U.S.A. he turned
trainer, and his association with Jackson
enabled him to appear on the ’Frisco
streets “resplendent in frock coat and
bristling with brilliants.” He returned
to Australia with Johnson, who owed
him much and treated him shabbily.
The South African
Contingent.
To South Africa went Tut Ryan, God-
dard, Dooley, Lees, Owen Sullivan and
Harry Duggan ; Tom Duggan, Doherty,
Dunn, Richardson and Edwards, Mel-
bourne’s “sewerage champion”; Herb
McKell; Jimmy Murphy, Tully, Burge.
and McGowan. Lees, the veteran of the
party, sometime champion of Australia
—he had lost the crown to Jackson —did
little fighting in the sub-continent; he
went about the country with a horse
called Torpedo, which had been disquali-
fied in Australia, and found Torpedo a
steady mealticket for a year or two.
McKell was the last to go. He was one
of three fighting brothers —the lightest,
Billy McKell, held the featherweight
championship till deprived of it by
Frank Thorn ; their nephew has been a
Cabinet Minister in N.S.W.
Looking back it seems a pity that Peter
Jackson did not join the party from
London. His great reputation would
have got him engagements and the
change to the high altitude of the Rand
would have done him the world of good.
As it was, a “New York World” writer
gave this account of him in May, 1896:
“Almost any afternoon, between four
and five o’clock, may be seen walking
down the Strand the wreck of what was
once one of the greatest fighters .the
world has ever seen. As the powerful
figure swings along, the massive shoulders
a trifle stooped, the mighty hands hang-
ing listless, the. eyes glazed and fixed
straight ahead, the crowd parts respect-
fully, for he is one of the most popular
men in London. They look after him till
he disappears, and then they shake their
heads regretfully and mutter ‘Ain’t it a
blinkin’ shame? Poor old Jackson.’
“Down in Texas, where all the pugs
are gathering, a sigh of relief will go up
when the news comes that Peter Jackson
will never again put up his hands in the
ring. With the exception of his eyes and
a certain flabbiness and laxity of move-
ment, London life has left slight marks
On him. Alcohol has not swollen his
face, and his cheeks have still the old,
lean, drawn look, while the high cheek-
bones which usually go with the com-
bative temperament are as prominent as
ever. It is only when he talks or when
he moves round that the change in him
is noticed. Sometimes when he lifts his
glass, his big hand shakes a little, and
there is a curious halt now and again in
his speech, as if he were groping for
something he could not find.”
But other newspapermen swore that the
case was anything but hopeless, and
exactly a year later one wrote: “Peter
Jackson, who says he must do something
for a living, is going into the ring once
more, with which object he has started a
class of instruction hoping to raise, funds
enough to take him to America.” Had
Peter gone to South Africa in 1896, in-
stead of returning in 1897 to the fogs
and mists of and the generous hospitality
of old admirers in San Francisco, pre-
paratory to his disastrous encounter with
Jeffries in March, 1898, the latter history
of the Australian ring might have been
very different. He might conceivably
have returned to Australia reasonably fit
and set up as a teacher ; and as a teacher
Foley alone excelled him.
Jimmy Murphy.
The invader who seems to have made
the most enduring impression on the
Afrikanders was Jimmy Murphy, a
younger brother of “Torpedo Billy”
Murphy, sometime featherweight cham-
pion of the world. He was not
highly regarded until Martin Lough-
lin, the racing man, issued a challenge
on his behalf at the old Melbourne
Athletic Club. Watching a pretty spar
one day, Martin expressed his contempt
for the exhibition in unmeasured terms.
“Damn your sparring!” he roared, “and
damn your science, too! A few stiff
punches and they forget all about it.
I’ll get a lad with no science at all and
back him for fifty pounds to meet any
of your scientists round his weight.”
“Done,” said John Madden, afterwards
Chief Justice; and he named the club's
instructor, Billy Williams.
It was a great go, for Williams was
exceptionally clever; but at the end of
five rounds science was a wreck. His
nose broken, both eyes closed and an
ear swollen to twice its natural size, the
scientist had to be taken to a private
hospital, where, he was detained for a
week. The hard puncher laughed, drank
his pint, and swore it was the easiest
money he had ever made.
But there was nothing in Melbourne
for Jimmy Murphy at the end of 1894.
It was depression-time, and bruisers of
some note were fighting 10-rounders for
a shilling a round apiece. Things were
even worse in Sydney, where a well-
advertised match drew 4s.
The Fancy ruefully related the. story of
two pugs who had fought for “the house”
BILL DOHERTY.
A native of Richmond (Vic.), Bill has
lived in Westralia for many years. He
has written a very readable volume of
reminiscences, and is a regular contri-
butor to an American magazine, the
“Ring.”
and were called to the promoter’s room
to get their shares. The offertory lay in a
heap on the table. The promoter began
counting it out, the combatants sitting
close by in expectant silence. “One, two,
three, four,” he counted —“here, what are
you making such a deuce of a row for?
And he swept the sovereigns—there were
sovereigns in those days—back into the
heap. He started again: “One, two,
three, four —damn it, why don’t someone
put his head in a bag so’s I can count?"
Again the sovereigns were swept info the
heap. “One, two, three, four —oh! blast
it, if both of you won’t let me count past
four here’s four each for you." And,
giving the bewildered pugs four sov-
ereigns each, he scooped up the rest of
tha money.
When the slump hit Australia even
£4 a fight' would have seemed good pay
to Murphy. So he went to Johannesburg,
where he became a great favorite. In
fact, he never met his master there, and
Afrikanders were predicting a world title
for him when he died untimely.
Murphy v. Burge.
One of his fights was with Ironbark
Jim Burge. It took place in April, 1895,
and was described by an eyewitness as
“the toughest thing seen since Sayers v.
Heenan.
“The two Jims had been matched for
a 35-round glove fight, and the da>
before the event it was said they had
arranged matters. They heard about it
and took immediate action to scotch the
rumor. ‘No amphitheatre and no gloves
for me,’ said Burge in effect. ‘Right you
are,’ quoth the representative of the
Murphys. So one fine Sunday morning
we saw as wicked and gory a fight as
has been seen in this or any other coun-
try.
“Out on the veld, under a blazing
sun, they put in 2 hours 10 minutes in a


JAVA-
Jor your holiday
7m
VS?
'it
if
eg
! mb 'nun
,
*/
TmIIEU
jirowtr
1
ft
1 „y
This land of countless attractions awaits you—
ancient temples beautiful scenery native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall he pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY—T E L E P H O N E B 79 0I
Rheumatism
and
Neuritis
MANY NEVER SUSPECT REAL CAUSE
Rheumatism and Neuritis are now being
successfully combated by a new. scien-
tific method. Specialists have at last
traced the cause of these torturing ail-
ments to self-poisoning, i.e., a clogged
colon. As a result of inactivity of the
colon (large intestine) unevacuated frag-
ments of food waste encrust on the
colon walls —much as rust incrusts on a
water pipe—and there decay. Virulent
poisons and acids develop, seep into
the bloodstream and overthrow its nor-
mal "alkaline reserve." Once the blood
becomes excessively acid due to circu-
lating poisons in the form of urates,
rheumatic afflictions are bound to result.
The rator-edged uric acid crystals de-
posit In different parts of the body and
lacerate the nerves at every movement,
causing the torturing pains of rheuma-
tism, neuritis and sciatica.
To overcome Rheumatism and Neuritis you
must first clear away the encrustations of
poisonous waste on the colon. Ordinary
bowel movements do not do this—the walls
of the Colon have become weak and inactive.
Opening medicines only purge the lower end
of the bowel. So drink warm water and
‘Coloseptic’ every morning. This cleanses the
colon of all food waste and tones up the
walls giving them back their power of nor-
mal movement. ‘Coloseptic’ overcomes all im-
pure conditions in the blood. Uric acid de-
posits are dissolved away as the blood re-
gains its normal alkaline reserve under the
influence of ‘Coloseptic.’ It also stimulates
the action of the kidneys, pores of the skin
and the lungs other vital organs which
eliminate acids and poisons from the sys-
tem. ‘Coloseptic’ checks self-poisoning, com-
bats acidity, aids nutrition and establishes
better internal cleanness. By its concerted
action it overcomes the real cause of rheu-
matism and builds new, better health. At
all chemists. Individual size 2/9, Economy
size 5/6.
FREE SAMPLE. A liberal Free Trial
Sample and interesting, intimate book will
be sent you. Send 3d. stamps for postage.
Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
way that would have delighted Jem Mace.
Murphy nearly went out in the second
round when the old ’un fell on him,
a Burge elbow accidentally digging into
the Murphy stomach. After that, Jim
Burge took his gruel with all his accus-
tomed indifference. Had they not made
it a draw, I believe it would have ended
like the Kilkenny cat episode —there
would have been nothing left of either.
“There is plenty of Rand money for
Murphy. Rightly or wrongly the opinion
is pretty general in Johannesburg that he
has no equal at his weight.” And no
equal he was to find in Africa. One of
the men he beat was Barney Malone,
who in after years was reckoned so
good that he could rarely get any Afri-
kander lightweight to meet him. He had
to fight middleweights.
Boxer and Uitlander.
Joe Goddard was in Africa for two
years, 1895-97. He had five fights there,
was unbeaten, and, according to his own
account, left the country with £4OOO.
One of the men he licked was his old
Barrier antagonist, Owen Sullivan. Their
contest, a reporter said, “was conducted
with rare friendliness and good temper,
the gentlemen exchanging pleasantries as
well as punches. For instance: ‘As I was
sayin’, Joe’ (whoosh), ‘when we signed
articles’ (thud) —‘damn it, don’t inter-
rupt’ (bash,: bang, wallop).” Friends of
Goddard in Australia who could recall
him cycloning around a ring, his eye-
balls glaring and blood dripping from his
face, were frankly incredulous.
Two fights with Tut Ryan —both were
declared draws —in no wise resembled
the meetings of jolly old pals. The first
was stopped by the police in the thir-
teenth round. Breaking loose from his
seconds, Ryan rushed at his opponent
shouting “You knew I had you beat” ;
then they started again and fought till
parted. The crowd favored Ryan, who
was much the lighter man, and hooted
Goddard, but Joseph didn’t mind, for
there was £2072 in the house. A Johan-
nesburg paper gave the affair seven
columns.
The Jameson Raid caused a brief in-
terruption to Goddard’s boxing career.
He was a captain in the. Uitlander army,
which never did any fighting, and had
500 men under his command. When the
news reached Johannesburg that the
raiders were on the march the “Zarps”
(police) were withdrawn from the city.
Traffic was stopped, and three-card,
thimble-and-pea and Yankee-sweat men
infested the principal streets.
The raid collapsed ; the Poet Laureate
wrote some barbarous lines about it
(“Wrong? Is it wrong? Well, maybe.
But I’m going, boys, all the same. Do
they think me a burgher’s baby To be
cowed by a sounding name?”); and
Goddard returned to his more danger-
ous trade.
Bill Doherty.
Bill Doherty was another who made
plenty of money on the Rand, though
it is improbable that William held it.
His fight with Heffernan in September,
1896, drew £l2OO. Doherty knocked
Heffernan out in the eighteenth round.
He had previously disposed of George
Cooper in one round, and he was pres-
ently to beat Tom Duggan, who had had
two decisions over him in Melbourne, in
five rounds.
Bill was a middleweight in those days,
and the Johannesburgers thought so
highly of him that they brought Kid
McCoy from the U.S.A. to meet him.
By studying the methods of the great
Australians then in his native country,
McCoy had improved vastly in the two
years that had elapsed since he fought
a draw with the Sydney welterweight
Jim Barron, and Doherty, though pos-
sessed of a very good left and as game
as they make them, proved no match for
him. Bill was stopped in the ninth round.
But' his share of the gate was more than
enough to heal his grievous wounds,
including the hurt that honor felt.
Doherty fought no more in Africa. In
1898 he and the two Duggans cast up
in Kanowna (W.A.). Their arrival and
the ceremony that succeeded it were thus
reported in the local paper: “The well-
known prizefighters W. Doherty and the
Duggan brothers have arrived. They
were met at the railway station and
driven in a drag to Mr. Tom Doyle’s
hotel, where they were welcomed to
Kanowna. Over a glass of wine, the
Mayor, Mr. Tom Doyle, made some ap-
propriate remarks.”
This paragraph was widely reprinted,
and Kanowna and his Worship the
Mayor were unmercifully ridiculed by
scribes in other goldfields townships, par-
ticularly Coolgardie. A defender of
Kanowna wrote defiantly that Cool-
gardie was jealous; had Mr. Doherty
and the Messrs. Duggan visited Cool-
gardie when Coolgardie was something
more than a collection of insolvent pubs
and abandoned “cats,” Coolgardie would
have provided a drag and a mayoral
speech for each of them.
The Boer War came, and the pugs scat-
tered. Johannesburg was closed to box-
ing for three years. Most of the Aus-
tralians had left Africa before hostili-
ties began, but some settled in the coun-
try, and it was alleged that one fought
with the Boers along with Jim Holloway,
who was a Boer. After the Peace of
Vereeniging, Arthur Cripps, the Queens-
lander, visited Johannesburg and had a
couple of fights with Mike Williams.
But since the great Australian bruisers
departed with the ’nineties, South Africa
has sent more pugs to Australia than
Australia has sent to South Africa.
"JUST PROPAGANDA”
Tucked away in sea-girt countries where
no frontiers separate them from next-
door farmers who owe national allegiance
to a different set of political principles,
Australians and Maorilanders are gener-
ally unaware of the meaning of the radio
world propaganda in which their respec-
tive Governments have recently hinted
they are about to venture. If Prime Min-
ister Savage’s airy Maoriland statement
that such action will contribute to the
“world brotherhood of man” is any cri-
terion, the politicians don’t know any
more about it than the people—and
it is a sticky traffic.
The word “propaganda” was a com-
paratively reputable one before 1914;
it was used only to describe methods by
which one bunch of political or religious
bigots sought to convert unbelievers. By
1916, “it’s just propaganda” was a con-
temptuous tag used in polite society to
dub any obviously exaggerated war-
atrocity story a flaming lie. “Depart-
ments of Propaganda” soon became “De-
partments of Counter Propaganda”—a
shrewd way of making the other side
look the liar and at the same time give
one’s own creations an air of injured
truth. More lies were fired than shells
—and there was no real radio then.
Soviet Russia was the first to utilise
radio’s post-war propaganda possibilities.
Moscow insulted its neighboring Gov-
ernments and advised neighboring people
to “throw off the shackles.” Germany
soon threw ether squeals on to Russian
wave-lengths, and other European Gov-
ernments helped along this deliberate in-
terference. Hitler subsequently adopted
““ on| Y 0ll ? er no ™ ™ e i h ° d of S*?P-
ping subversive broadcasts from reaching
hjs people . he ruled that the only re _
ceiving sets available to Germans should
be weak ones incapable of
foreign reception but quite powerful
enou gh 1° catch the waves of Nazi back-
slapping still pouring out of Berlin.
After the wave-length brawl, the
§ ov iet changed its tactics. Praises of
the Communist experiment and outlines
of world hopes were leavened with lighter
stories of the difficulties of Russian
application ; there were even jokes. So
Germany launched its own short-wave
propa g anda —but not a joke against Hitler
cre pt into the foreign languages used for
these broadcasts. The theme was, and
still is, Germany’s progress under Nazi
civilisation, with excellent German music
to help it past the palate,
France, with only commercial stations,
began to feel it was out of the race,
and the fancy fairy stories continuously
drifting over the frontiers caused a Gov-
ernment that for once held power long
enough to do something to authorise
powerful State stations. These are still
engaged in the business of foreign propa-
ganda as a “measure of defence.” Any-
thing likely to win friendship for France
and approval for French policy is broad-
cast in all the more important world
languages. France advanced the game
another stage. From Strasbourg it re-
lays specially-arranged French views in
volume powerful enough to reach Hitler’s
baby sets in southern Germany. Also,
daily French cables rush to southern
Asia a policy “news” service for broad-
cast to the immemorial East.
Italian broadcasts, dictated by Musso-
lini, follow the short-wave technique of
the Nazis. Mussolini, too, has extended
the science, and at one stage Britain had
cause to complain that Italy was broad-
casting to North African tribes in their
native languages.
Spain’s civil war has given the world
its only slant on the part this type of
broadcasting is likely to play in any
future war. Franco broadcasts what he
thinks is good meat for anti-Government
barrackers and bad medicine for Gov-
ernment listeners, and vice versa. Be-
fore this civil war, the Spanish Republic’s
world broadcasts were mostly aimed at
South America’s Latin States in the hope
of improving trade.
Members of the British Common-
wealth of Nations have joined in what
independent opinion still believes are the
most effective of all propaganda broad-
casts. King George V. originated them
when he began speaking to his “Empire
family” from London ; and the listening
world heard the voices of common sub-
jects in Canada, S. Africa, India, Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and other possessions
answer him from round the globe. King
George VI. is holding the same sort of
Empire ether court during Coronation
week.
The only propaganda regularly broad-
cast by the British Government is the
gentle, non-obtrusive domestic brand
contained in the flow of departmental
reports, and speeches by Government and
Opposition leaders. To an air-shattered
Europe, they are themselves an argument
in favor of British things as they are —
and respect for British freedom has risen
accordingly.
This, without taking in Japan or
U.S.A., is the specialised short-wave
world propaganda field Australia and
Maoriland contemplate entering—but
any sneaking ideas they might have about
gate-crashing in a large way will cer-
tainly be scrapped by foreign policy de-
cisions at the forthcoming Imperial Con-
ference. Yet Australia and Maoriland
must have these world-range stations
they are talking about. Radio research
is being steadily advanced in both
countries—with Maoriland lagging a
little —and scientists studying the electri-
cal regions of the upper atmosphere say
these are vitally concerned in the propa-
gation of the wireless waves reaching
Tasman Sea countries over long distances.
And in any future international dust-up
threatening to involve the British Empire,
the blotting-out of foreign radio propa-
ganda will be a defence necessity.


THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt,- depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to . bring to theii;
attention tha,t which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal, ■ - ,
Price l|d. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per' quarter , post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE ACE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, ia
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas,
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED. !
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful.of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury” first when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The . Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
.1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.
..Full particulars from .
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar. House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON &r CO.,' Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House.. Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
DO NOT
let your customers
change to something
different. Keep in
touch with them over
the week-end and let ;
them read of your
excellent products in j
ADELAIDE, S.A.
On SUNDAY
That is the day your cus-
tomers have most time to .
ponder over the good things j
of life.
RATES from:
P. A. MESSENGER. Warwick Build-
ings Hamilton street, Sydney.
A. G. PIKE. Newspaper House,
Collins street, Melbourne.
too —put me on the black-list. They stick together,
those fellows.”
“How much are you owing them?”
“Three hundred. Might be four. They have had
it all in the last few years by what they over-
charge me.”
Neil stood silent a few moments, hands deep in
his pockets. “I could fix that up easily enough. I’ve
some money lying idle.”
Peter was fumbling on the mantelpiece, looking
for a pipe-cleaner. “I think I go fishing. What d’you
say to that, eh? Think I make a good fisherman?
There is still the boat: they won’t get that away
from me —no fear! And people—soon they will not
be able to build any more houses, but they must eat.
Yes, I begin again and go fishing. Many a time
before I want to chuck up everything and get out
on the water. Never yet have I had enough of it...
What d’you say to that, Neil? Think we could work
together?”
He slapped Neil jovially on the back, peered into
his face with his short-sighted eyes: but the high
spirits oozed out of him as Anna came in with the
tray. Her presence laid a constraint upon both of
them. She was neither buoyant nor depressed: her
matter-of-fact way of facing life didn’t allow for any
great variety of mood: but the flat tone of voice, the
slow movements of her body, brought a chill to the
air.
“Peter at his old game of blowing bubbles,” her
eyes seemed to say.
Without any hint of sub-intentions she asked
Neil about Besanck: how was it she hadn’t seen him
lately about the town? Yet she showed no surprise
when he fended her questions off abruptly. Peter
munched bread-and-butter and gave his attention to
the terrier that sprawled on the seagrass mat. The
room was the same as it had always been, but it had
suddenly taken on a strange look of impermanence,
as if the solid sideboard, the walnut piano, the long
silky-oak table, had auctioneer’s tickets on them some-
where and were waiting to be carted away. Neil’s
eyes were held by a dark-framed photograph of a
girl in white gossamer skirt, black socks, crinkly
Leghorn hat —Freda at the age of seven.
“Well, Peter, what about it?” he said when they
were left alone again. “I could fix up that money
you’re owing. It’s only a matter of realising on
some shares I’m holding.”
The old man was deliberately deaf. “I got a
bit of land yoost outside the town. Often I think to
put up a house on it —grow a little fruit, run a few
fowls, keep some bees, perhaps. Freda, she used to
argue with me when she was only a youngster: this
racket of paying wages and making profits don’t
have any truck with it; send it all to the devil. Grow
what you eat —fruit, vegetables—live inside your own
fence. Then you can be independent, not care a
damn what anybody say.”
“That’s not the question now, Peter. What
about my offer?”
A perverse light glittered in Peter’s eyes. “You
want to lose your money, eh? Pour it down a hole.”
“I don’t care, one way or the other. It wouldn’t
keep me awake at nights if I did. But I don’t think
I’m going to lose it. You’ll be able to get contracts
left and right when once this chain is off your leg,
Peter. Everyone knows the work you’ve done.
Besides, if you were getting the timber at the right
price you’d be able to do most of the jobs a shade
cheaper than anyone else and still make a profit.”
Pipe in hand, eyes still evasive, Peter was
ruminating on past troubles. “The Northern Timber
Mills —it was the prices they charge me. Macready
and those others, they are hard in the shell. ‘Keep
going, you old waster ; we haven’t drained you dry
yet—there’s still a few more drops of blood left in
you.’ And a man when he has to work off a dead
horse You have some money put by, Neil?”
The quick, searching glance, turned suddenly
upon him, made Neil retreat behind cover. “A little.
Enough to settle this account and keep a bit in hand.”
HE was unwilling to admit the source of it, even to
Peter. It was a humiliation, deep-hidden, never
quite forgettable, a barb lodged in his flesh, a wound
in the seat of his pride. He had set himself against
taking help from his father; he had already taken it.
If making money was the test of success his enterprise
had been a failure: in the last eighteen months he
had been unable to save anything on his own account.
And in addition there was the memory of those weeks
at Cayley’s his surrender to comfort, to his own
weakness, to the easy flattery (“I believe you really
like me after all, Neil.”) of a woman he had wanted,
in loyalty to his mother, to treat as a shameless drab.
Defeat! He couldn’t get away from the ignominy
of it. It was the sour taste in his mouth, the darkness
that still lingered somewhere behind his eyes.. The
world was different from what he had imagined it:
he himself was different. Yet when he was quite
well again...
Wandering about the backwaters of Luggertown
that afternoon, watching the youngsters squabbling
around their prawn-nets, the women gossiping at the
broken fences with their babies straddled across their
hips, he felt remote for the first time from all this
teeming life. Something had happened inside him
(he was certain of it now) that would make it difficult
for him to go back to it. There was this restlessness
in his blood, this urge for a quicker rhythm than that
of the tides or the slow movement of the Kestrel
rocking at anchor behind a reef. Could he ever
again be content to sit all night in a boat with a line
between his fingers, not thinking, letting his body
drowse, his senses open to the briny scents, the stars’
downpouring light? He stood sniffing in the mud of
the backwaters.
“‘Sanderson and Jensen! How’re you going to
take that? Use people for my own ends, do I? Yet
when your father was in deep water, in danger of
being pulled under... Didn’t worry very much about
that, did you? Nothing mattered but that Besanck
shouldn’t come off badly in any deal.”
He imagined Freda sitting there on the bank
beside him, hands linked around her shins, eyes on the
water. He was fiercely glad of having found some
means of triumphing over her, of asserting his male
power. It muffled his rankling sense of defeat, restored
his zest for living. A harshness gathered around him,
covering him with a bright, protective armor.
Yet underneath he was really thinking of the
possibilities of the new life that opened up ahead of
him. Often before, when a slackness of the fishing
had kept the Kestrel tied up in the estuary, he had
been chafed by the stir and quickening in develop-
ments ashore. Buildings were going up, a hydro-
electric project mooted, companies being formed to
exploit this product and that. Was he, with his energy
and capacity for action, to be condemned to work
that, at best, took up only one part of his mind-
work in which his activity made him a butt?
There was the barrack of the other fishermen
at his eagerness to be first out of the channel when
the weather eased. “Go it, Sandy! Been awake
half the night listening for the wind to drop, haven’t
you? But first out doesn’t always mean first in.”
They had never accepted him as one of them.
He didn’t blame them: he had kept to himself,
preoccupied with his own future, avoiding the gather-
ings at the Crown and Anchor and along the front.
And they had scented some class-pride in him. That
was why they had been suspicious when he had
sketched out plans for working co-operatively, as if
they divined a hook lurking in the bait.
Charlie had just come in with a load of fish.
He hailed Neil from a hundred yards out, brought
the Kestrel slowly in to the jetty. Spruce in his
singlet and dungaree shorts, he clambered about the
deck, rapping out directions to the two boys' he had
working for him, springing to the tiller himself when
there was a danger of collision with a punt. Obviously
he was enjoying his spell of power: a hint of relief
showed in his eyes when he noticed by the way Neil
leapt aboard that he was still unsteady on his pins.
“Not fit to come out again yet, are you?” he
said.
“No,” Neil told him. “I’m going to lie up on
the slips for a while. You can carry on till further
orders, Charlie.”
HIS mind was made up. When next day he met
Peter sauntering up idly from the wharves in
the wash of sunlight he said breezily: “Well, Peter,
chewed over my proposition, have you? I’m taking
for granted you’re going to let me come in with you.
The old man screwed up his eyes. "Come in
with me?”
“I mean as a partner. Of course if you like I’ll
pay off .the mill debt and let it go at that. But I’m
looking for a berth ashore: I’d like to put a few more
quid into the business and take a hand in the running
of it. It would be a whole-time job as far as I was
concerned. If I came in I’d begin at the bottom —
work with the men and learn everything from the
ground up.”
There was a decisiveness about him that surprised
Peter, unsettled him a little. He knocked the dottle
from his pipe, felt for his tobacco-pouch, blinked
away from the directness of the offer like an owl
shutting off the sun. “You decide to sign on the
sinking ship, eh, Neil?”
“That’s not the way it looks to me. I’d rather
call it lending a hand with the pumps.”
“Well, it might be the old hulk don’t need much
pumping. It is my fun to pretend to pull a poor
mouth... Sanderson and Jensen, eh? That sounds
cheerful enough to me. Let us go in and wet the new
partnership. My first drink for close on a month.”
They were near the pub where they had first met.
the old man drifted towards the open door as if he
was being drawn in by the force of suction: at the
sound of convivial voices within life came seeping
back to him, swelling out his figure, giving a roll to
his gait. Breasting the bar, he called to the lank-
haired youth at the other end of the room: “Hey,
Bluey—two whiskies, and make them double ones!
My last drink before I climb on the water-wagon for
a long ride. Cerutti say 1 live to be a hundred if
I like, and, by hell, I keep him to his promise. To-day
I again begin life over.”
Neil felt the infection of his high spirits. The
demon of a new drive was upon him, the dark cloud
of defeat lifted. Here was a job he could fling him-
self into with gusto, pouring out all his vitality, all
his talent for organisation. Each of them had some-
thing to bring to the partnership, but the weight of
it would lie on his shoulders. The thought was a
spur to his pride.
“Well, no one can say, either, you take over the
wheel with your eyes shut. You know all there is to
know about the old hulk. Her age, the way she
answer badly to the helm. Your father, though, he
would have asked more questions about loading and
insurance. Oh, yes, looked the hull well over with
an engineer, too, to make sure there was no rotten
timber or rusty plates. When it come to a deal he
had eyes in the back of his head.” ;
Neil’s laugh had a morning freshness, his eyes a
pugnacious flutter. “Don’t be too sure I’m different,
Peter. You haven’t seen me all-out yet. I don’t look
on this as a deal, though. It’s another chance like
you gave me in the beginning.”
Warmth for the old boy flooded his heart. If
it were a matter of going down together ... but it
was his job to see that they didn’t go down.
(To be concluded next week.)


“Take up Pelmanism and give
your life a new beginning” —Sir Herbert Barker.
!
mm
*1
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Course. It is
impossible to speak
too highly of it.”
m
The Baroness Orczy.
“ Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
m
&
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
FDF
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
D
Sir Arthur <luiller-
Coueb.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pehuan Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
«
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly ’*
FD
Lord Baden Powell.
"I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
Pefmanism trains you
to distinguish be-
tween the essential
and the trivial, be-
tween what is urgent
and what can wait,
between what mat-
ters and what does
not matter.
Pelmanism is a train-
ing. This cannot be said
too often. It removes
bad, careless and slovenly
habits of mind and
memory, and substitutes
for them good, reliable
and exact habits.
Pelmanism makes work
easier and life pleasanter.
It makes the individual
more capable—it makes
him extremely capable.
It trains him to distinguish
immediately the essential
things and to dismiss the
trivialities. This not only
gives him time for more
work, or leisure for more
enjoyment, but it also in-
duces a freedom of mind
that makes all his work
good and productive,
and all his pleasure real
and unhampered.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers
the highest point of
such weaknesses and
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
and develops them to
efficiency. It banishes
defects as:
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective. working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:, —
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
—lnitiative
—Will Power
—Decision
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind!
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-Control
—Tact
Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
-—Originality
—Resourcefulness
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spaic
time lor a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect —it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 35,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing:. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1933. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin" a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pel man Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
4(55.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO ‘THE BULLETIN
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
* .
X
xy s'
AT
&
Sr
\o
T‘^
A' 6
*y ( ' a%\
A\
x
$
* 4#
S' .*** .*•* c^$ e<
* S * ..• ** -..•:* $ '°^JX


UOTSPOTS
FROM WISTORy
N° i Drake was not playing
BOWLS WHEN THE ARMADA
WAS SIGHTED
/'
X
VaL
A
a
•0
r
O' //
3
m . f j
8
■1
1
* A
ill
•X-X;
HE WAS LISTENING TO --
Audioscopic Reproduction
Ft
EXCLUSIVE TO
PHILIPS
BROADCAST MODELS.
A.C. OPERATED.
Model 6506, 5 Valves - - - - 15 Guineas
Model 6501, 5 Valves - - - - 19 Guineas
Model 6500, 5 Valves - - - - 23 Guineas
WORLD-WIDE MODELS.
A.C. OPERATED.
Model 6608, 6 Valves - - - - 27 Guineas
Model 6603, 6 Valves - - - - 31 Guineas
Model 6709, 7 Valves - - - - 34 Guineas
Model 6702, 7 Valves - - - - 38 Guineas
BATTERY-OPERATED
MODELS.
Model 6517, for Broadcast Reception,
27 Guineas.
Model 6510, for Broadcast Reception,
29 Guineas.
Model . 6713, for World-wide Reception,
39 Guineas.
wadiophyMk
The handsome Radioplayer shown above is Model 6702, incorporat-
ing Audioscopic Reproduction—yet another Philips achievement
in radio science.
Priced at 38 Guineas—with easy terms available—Model 6702
is a 7-valve, A.C. operated, world-wide receiver featuring i e
Vision Twilight Dial, Metal Clad Valves, Auditorium Speaker,
Electron Star Tuner and performance that is unexcelled.
MADEBiY
THE MAKERS OF PHILIPS LAMPS & VALVES
