

m
m
h
V
/
///
i.
P e^C
,>nc
*bel io a/s ° of |
to f zZ'iti ari(i Po , F
ttie a zy^ re ■«
°u« jff •f >ro fepf,- bos-md 4» 0s ® ou .
******s*
r . ah ew v °«/f 4
«o rrj
**a
«ntf ,7 "if,,
73
fit.
""W7.. I '"'/ fc {
0r °"l/ V
0/S.
G.L
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable at all hotels
in Large, Half and Quarter size bottles.
Make sure
of Merry Xmas!
The bustle of Christmas preparations is in full
swing now. Make sure YOU won’t be too tired
out to enjoy Christmas when it comes.
Start this very day to brace yourself for the extra
strain by taking an occasional Wolfe’s Schnapps.
This wonderful tonic is specially good for cleans-
ing the system of poisons caused by physical
fatigue and nervous strain. Try it and you’ll feel
marvellously WELL ready to enjoy every
minute of Christmas merrymaking.
WOLF
w>
HNAPPS
<3009 SV
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3018.
Wednesday, December 15, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to:—
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN "BROOKS AND TRAILS."
Is literature justified, when dealing with things
that are part of the everyday life of the people, in
using words that are not in the people’s vocabulary?
Trail, shack, brook, field, woods, are all words
that are used by this or that group of writers and
are quite foreign to the people of whom they write.
Doesn t it indicate that the writer is reader-conscious
where he. should be subject-conscious ; that in one
case, writing of Australia generally, he has his eye on
an overseas public, and in the other case, writing of
the bush, he has a city public in mind?
A survey of Australian writing over the last 20
years reveals that in general those writers—whether
novelists or writers of narratives of personal adventure
-who have really interpreted Australian life are those
who have found the names for places and things used
by the people adequate for their needs.
Users of American exotics are romantics trying, it
seems, to modify outback life into something accept-
able to a film-educated public, although—and this is
worth underlining—the one outstanding Australian
romantic, the one who has done most to make Aus-
tralia known to Australians, lon Idriess, gets along
quite comfortably with the words of the men of
whom he writes. In this he is at one with Lawson,
Collins and other undoubtedly first-rate indigenous
writers.
There does seem to be a shortage of words exactly
descriptive of the varying qualities of topographical
features. Creek seems eminently fitting to a wander-
ing low-country stream, while brook seems called for
in the case of certain mountain waters. And there are
areas—such, for example, as the Anglicised landscape
of the N.S.W. Southern Highlands, with its hawthorn,
lilacs, imported trees and small enclosures—where the
word field seems called for in place of paddock. But
how far can literature go in this matter?
The bush Australian has not shown himself want-
ing in inventive capacity where he has felt the need
of a new word ; witness billabong, gilgia, gibber plain,
and his words for things he does and tools he uses:
emu-bobbing, suckering, crutching, tabletop, buck-
board, billy, buckjumper.
The point is more important than it seems at first
sight, for it involves the accuracy or the distortion of
the image of life in Australia—the integrity of Aus-
tralian literature. The use of name-words not used by
the people is a point of departure from reality—a
point at which writing tends to become “literary” in
the sickly sense.
"FAMOUS PLAYS OF 1937."
Famous Plays of 1937 (Gollancz), the thirteenth
volume in the series, contains six plays— two English,
two American, one Russian and one French. The
word famous does not stretch, strictly speaking, to
cover the whole collection, but they have all proved
staged—and box-office—successes.
Outstanding is Elmer Rice’s “Judgment Day.”
Like all this author’s work, it is full of vigor and
centres its interest in social rather than individual
problems. It is set in an unspecified Danubian State,
and the whole action takes place in a law court where
the trial of two men and a woman for conspiracy
against “Our Glorified Leader, Vesnic,” the head of
a totalitarian State, is taking place.
Rice describes it as a melodrama, and there cer-
tainly are some very dramatic crises, including a
bomb-throwing outrage and a revolution. But it is
much more than a piece of sensationalism. It reaches
its zenith in the long discussion scene among the five
Judges. The very roots of justice are examined.
The other American contribution, “The Women,”
by Clare Boothe, is described as a “smash-hit” suc-
cess. It is a bull’s-eye play; a play that exploits to
the full an unmissable target. The 44 characters are
all women, and throughout 12 scenes they take away
one another’s characters and husbands with the
greatest skill and vivacity. It is roaring farce, neatly
handled and introducing many novelties in the set-
tings, including a bathroom scene with the bath in
active progress, a hairdressing parlor with shampoo-
ing and permanent waving taking place, and fitting-
rooms at a fashionable dressmaker’s, complete with
fits.
Beside these two very different but equally robust
plays the English contributions are rather tame.
“Bushman’s Honeymoon,” by Dorothy L. Sayers and
M. St. Clare Byrne, is the dramatised version of a
detective novel in which the thrills —a corpse in the
cellar, many suspects and a reconstruction of the quite
ingenious murder —are helped out by a lot of facetious
backchat from Lord Peter Whimsey and a serio-comic
love interest. Despite the efforts of the preface to
raise this to an art form it remains superficial and
artificial.
“People in Love,” by Arthur Reid, is a society
comedy, bright, witty, entertaining and unimportant.
It deals gaily in improbabilities. Helen Winton finds
a burglar in her flat, and, to meet an emergency of
the moment, passes him off as her fiance. They are
trapped in their masquerade and eventually fall genu-
inely in love. The drama is reflected in the servants’
hall. It ends happily for all concerned.
It is a little difficult to understand why Ivan Tur-
genev’s “A Month in the Country” should appear as
a famous play of 1937. Even in its translated and
dramatised form it was copyrighted in America in
1924. Still, it is welcome; already a period-piece and
saturated with that slow, curious emotionalism that
seems to be peculiarly Russian.
“Theatre Street,” by H. R. Lenormand (trans-
lated from the French by Ashley Dukes), is experi-
mental and propagandist. All the action takes place
on an empty theatre stage. The characters are name-
less—the Author, the Actress, the Electrician and so
on. It i£ built up in apparently impromptu manner
before the audience. It is loose-jointed, blending old
and new techniques, half-serious, half-farcical. Its
motive is the defence of the legitimate stage against
the cinema.
NEW FICTION.
Characters in Frederic Prokosch’s striking and
rather powerful novel The Seven Who Fled (Chatto
and Windus ; Angus and Robertson) are an English
diplomat; a French man of leisure and culture; a
German scientist and explorer; a Chinese scholar; a
working-class Russian of a fairly high order of intel-
. ligence; a young Spanish woman, an amorist, wife
of the elderly Frenchman; a happy-go-lucky, vigor-
ous, nondescript young Austrian ; and a Belgian whose
criminal propensities seem to spring from cruelties
suffered in childhood combined with inherent weak-
nesses in his make-up—he has fled from a murder in
which he gave his emotional answer to life by stran-
gling a girl with whom he had been intimate.
They are escaping by caravan from a native up-
rising somewhere west of China proper, east of
southern Russian, north of Turkestan. They become
separated through official interference with their plans,
some being allowed to continue their journey, two
thrown into prison, two held as “hostages” with a
limited measure of freedom. The adventures of each
are followed, all ending in actual or imminent death,
except those of the Austrian, who reaches Shanghai
and there loses himself and his European identity,
presumably.
. While' the probabilities are respected and the
descriptions are congruous with reality, there is a large
element of fantasy in the style of presentation. The
squalor of life in the regions dealt with, the barren-
ness of the deserts, the dreadful majesty and loneliness
of the Tibetan mountains, the immensity of distance,
the fading-out of time-sense, the heat, the cold, the
travellers’ privations, appear to be exaggerated—of a
purpose, it seems, to convey to the reader the char-
acters’ mental condition rather than the feeling of
objective reality. The point that emerges is that all
of them —except the Austrian, who is merely a man
of muscle—are, unknown to themselves, seeking death.
They are in love with it. Life has been too much for
them; their pursuits have been, in reality, those of
escape; and now, faced with extremities, they each
seek the logical end of their minds’ hidden tendencies.
The writer’s inferences are fairly obvious. The book
is one of a modern European genre, a drop in a con-
tinuous trickle of black despair. It is part of a litera-
ture of decadence which is, paradoxically, not de-
cadent in itself; for that word cannot be applied to
work such as The Seven Who Fled, which is vigorous
in every way and is a facing-up to the truth as the
writer sees it.
Child’s Play, by Roland Lushington (Seeker and
Warburg), begins with a picture of a dapper little
man, a retired and impoverished French colonel,
cleaning the shoes of his wife’s young English
boarder. A promising start, because he is so obvi-
ously carrying out his menial task on a high plane
of human understanding.
Follows a tale of callow youth. Young Felix
Bland, son of an English diplomat, has been placed
in the colonel’s home to pursue foreign studies. He
does so in cafes and other less conventional places.
He overspends his allowance and borrows from the
colonel, who obliges— not without ironic comment—
and goes on cleaning his shoes. Felix gets into deep
water, and, with another young rip, engages in black-
mail. It is discovered. He escapes gaol by virtue of
his family connections, and finally is sent home in
disgrace. On the boat, looking at the receding shore
of France, a sense of values comes to him. He thinks:
“And I let him clean my shoes!”
The story sags where the writer abandons irony
and pursues the blackmailing episode lengthily merely
for its adventure interest. The book’s value is in its
authentic glimpses of life, both conventional and
otherwise, in one of the larger French provincial
towns, the correct, stuffy yet kindly atmosphere of
the colonel’s home especially being conveyed with
humor and insight.
When Henry Standish, hero of Gentleman Over-
board, by Herbert Clyde Lewis (Gollancz), fell from
the freighter Arabella into the sea he was too well-
bred to yell for help. His forebears had been gentle-
men so long that he had lost the ability to shout
loudly. His first reaction to the accident was shame
at being in so foolish a predicament, and his second
laughter at its comicality.
The Arabella went on without him. In a calm
sea, though tortured by thirst and sun, he took 13
hours to drown. This is the period dealt with. The .
author does not avail himself of the tradition that
his life’s story passes before the eyes of a drowning
man ; but he shows Henry—from the moment when
he struggles out of his trousers, revealing the closely-
kept secret of his blue-and-yellow striped underpants
-—returning slowly through the centuries to his human
origin, until life and sanity are at last snuffed out.
The processes of development are reversed. Henry’s
struggle to keep his “form” is throughout as desperate
as his struggle to live.
Gentleman Overboard is a tight little book, very
well written and stage-managed. Occasional changes
of scene, from the drowning man to the deck of the
pitilessly retreating Arabella, heighten the drama and
suspense. In the early part there is a rather cumbrous
rationalising of Henry’s accident and how it came
about that he was not missed for 10 hours, but once
past that the tale is told with depth and poignancy.
It would be hard to find a sadder theme than
that of Magnhild Haalke’s Alli’s Son (Gollancz:
Dymock’s; translated from the Norwegian by Arthur
G. Chater), for it tells of the destruction of a child’s
mind.
Elling, five years old, is the child of fisherfolk
on the small island of Bekkeroia. His father, a deep-
sea sailor, is at home only at rare intervals. The child
and his mother live with the grandparents, unhappily
and on sufferance. His lonely mother’s affection for
him is suffocating. She won’t let him play with other
children, yet punishes him for making rhymes and
following other imaginative pursuits which are his
only outlet. He becomes frightened of life, nervously
exasperated, and his growing yet thwarted mind is
further oppressed by the grim northern scene that
presses on his home; the black winters, storms that
almost overwhelm the island, legends of kelpies and
vikings’ ghosts.
His father, home on a visit, fails him because
he is too lazy to cope with a difficult problem. A
second child is born, a girl, and Elling finds himself
cut off from his mother’s affection. He hates the baby
without knowing it; she is part of the maddening
world into which he has been born. At 12 he becomes
unmanageable, resorting to violence in an attempt
to express his inward torture. His mother fears him
and burns his book of rhymes. It ends when reason
leaves Elling. One night he strangles his sister, and
next morning is taken away by the sheriff in a strait-
jacket.
The book is very impressive in its handling. Sym-
pathy for the child is aroused, and horror widens as
the tale progresses. The writer adds detail to detail
without comment. The climax is the more terrible
when it becomes clear that it means nothing to the
boy—that is the measure of his madness. The pic-
tures of everyday life on the island, primitive and
strange, are well done, and are the only relief the
book offers. It is a true tragedy.
REVIEWED BRIEFLY.
Week-end Caravan, compiled by S. Hillelson
(Hodge), is yet another anthology-book, got. together
from Oriental sources and writings touching on the
Orient. Selections are good; full of variety and
interest, and if you want an anthology of Oriental
flavor you could probably not do better Though
it might be inferred from the editorial introduction
to The Epicure’s Companion (Dent) that this an-
thology-book breaks new ground, there have been
several excellent publications in recent years on much
the same lines. This is undoubtedly one of the best,
dealing with food and drink authoritatively, histori-
cally, descriptively and always interestingly. Under
a cross-heading, “Australia and New Zealand,” it is
mentioned that “practically every woman” in these
countries “is a good cook.” Beche-de-mer soup and
toheroa soup are described as respectively the best
clear soup and the best thick soup in the world. Any-
one with an epicurean bent will treasure this admir-
ably compiled and well-dressed book A companion
vol. to it is The Golfer’s Companion (Dent). A lead-
ing Sydney bookseller once told this reviewer that the
only books on sport that sell well are those about
golf, and on that reckoning this should turn out a
best-seller. It is a first-rate job ; largely a composite
of funny anecdote and direct instruction. Delightful
little pen-and-ink sketches by Harry Roundtree.
M. R. Ridley, editor of the New Temple Shak-
speare, rounds off that sound job with Shakspeare? s
Plays (Dent), which contains the cream of his com-
mentary in the Temple vols., with additional work-
manlike chapters on “Shakspeare Criticism,” “On
Reading Shakspeare” and “Shakspeare’s Verse.” Apart
from his knowledge and appreciativeness, he is a com-
mentator with the unusual quality of commonsense.
He has something to say on all the plays —brief, direct
and always interesting, with the pedal hard down on
extravagant statement.
A dyed-in-the-wool Englishwoman who thinks
“Mussolini ought to be spanked and Hitler might have
been all right had he been sent to a public school”
is Mrs. Finch, whom Laurence Kirk, in Treasure on
Earth (Heinemann), has in the catering line with her
husband at an English seaside resort until they come
into £BOOO a year. The rest is an account of their
readjustments, chiefly amusing domestic trivialities.
....W. G. Dowsley, author of Long Horns (John
Heritage and Unicom Press), is a first-rate stylist but
not a first-rate story-teller, since he’s more interested
in historical events than in people. On his romantic
yam are threaded accounts of political troubles in
Ireland in the 1840’s and of the suicide of an African
nation of the arresting name of amaXosa Lady
Rose and Mrs. Memmary, by Ruby Ferguson (Hodder
and Stoughton; Dymock’s), is a fantasy for grown-
ups in which the Scottish scene during Victoria’s reign
and Scotland’s heroic past are charmingly idealised.
... .In The House in the Hills (Ivor Nicholson and
Watson) Laurence W. Meynell has a European prin-
cess working incog, in a London film studio. She
disappears, and the peace of Europe rocks on its
foundations before super-sleuth Baikie tracks her
down There are some pleasing descriptions of
Austrian village life and rural alpine scenes in Ann
Napier’s Lost Content (Ivor Nicholson and Watson),
in which handsome hero gets lovely damsel after suit-
able period of anxiety.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— Always. FAMOUS
ANTHONY
LOW PRICES
THE SENIOR STORE.'
HORDERN S'
Toys
For The Young
People
s=a
E=-
H
FAMOUS AMERICAN “LIONEL” TRAlNS—loBH244—Splendid clockwork up-
to-the-minute models—as illustrated. Every boy will be thrilled with the bell that
rings as it moves along. Price, 11/6. Also same train, but whistling. Price, 15/-.
CLOCKWORK FIRE ENGINES—IOBHSBB
—A fire somewhere! Every child is highly
excited. They will derive hours of enjoyment
from play with a clockwork fire engine.
Prices 3/3, 8/6, 12/6, 15/6
*
A
m
*
k
m
HORSE AND CART —108H79—Beautifully
finished horse and cart. The horse is dappled
grey, and the cart varnished. Horse can be
unharnessed. Price, each 15/6
THE “TRAILER” TRIKE—IOBHSO2
—For children two to five years. 1 lin.
rubber tyred front wheel, 9in. back
wheels. Tray measures 15 in. x 1 1
4in. deep. At Anthony Horderns’, 22/9
“CYCLOPS” SCOOTER No. 10—
108H506 Length 40in., height
9in. stamped spoked wheels,
rubber tyred. Brake and stand.
At Anthony Horderns’ 15/11
Also No. 11. Length 4lin., height
35in. Similar to above, but with 1 Oin.
wheels. At Anthony Horderns’, 20/6.
• Toys—Second Floor. Free delivery city
and suburbs only.
CLOCKWORK METAL AERO-
PLANES — 108H586 —The toy of the
moment —an aeroplane! Price, each,
9/6. Others, prices, each—
3/6, 4/6, 7/6, 8/11.
Model Aeroplanes, guaranteed to fly.
Prices, each 7/6, 17/6
4
* i
1
illffi*£*s Iffl
¥P|Sll§Pp£s|^'
Baa
StSWR
km
m»
, «M! a
pp
tir
i.
in l
nil
1
in n
min
wm
'TJi.: \
) s
THE “PEERLESS” TRUCK
No. 17—108H515 For
children three to six years.
All steel construction.
Length, 48in. Modern per-
forated radiator, all acces-
sories, hand brake, 9in.
rubber tyred wheels and
enamelled two-tone. Crank
drive. Price 42/6
SOLID ALL STEEL
BARROW 108H45
Length overall,
28 Jin.; body 13in.
long, 12in. wide, 4in.
deep. 7in. rubber
tyred disc wheel.
Price 7/3
Also larger size,
body 1 7 x Min.
x sJin., and Bin.
wheel. At Anthony
Horderns’ .... 10/-
5
’Phone: M 2401.
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


"A Dark Horse”
THE LAST FEW YARDS
BY
CON DREW
DRAWING BY SUCH.
NONE of you young fellers were encumberin’
the earth when the Botany Handicaps was on
in Sydney years ago. Footrunners? The
woods was full of them There must have
been a dozen trainin’-camps at Botany, and there was
camps at Lady Robinson’s Beach and other places.
In slack times the star runner of one camp would
be matched agen the star of another camp, arid there
was big money won and lost, let me tell you.
At that time I had a camp of six peds at Botany.
None of them was much above the average, and it
cost me considerable coin to keep them. I was
thinkin’ seriously of disbandin’ the camp when one
day in walks Benzine Thornton.
“Greetin’s,” says I. “They told me that you
were in Melbourne lookin’ up some runners.”
“I lobbed back last night,” says Benzine, “and
I brought a runner with me.”
“Is he any good?”
“Good?” says Benzine. “He can buzz over a
hundred yards in a tick better than even time.”
“He must be pretty good,” says I, for in them
days, when the peds stood up on their marks, the
man who could break evens was looked upon as some-
thin’ extra-special.
“He is good,” says Benzine ; “and, what’s more,
he’s a real dark horse. There ain’t a soul in Sydney
who has even heard his name.”
“Excuse me askin’,” says I, “but what is his
name?”
“Henry Henry,” says Benzine*; “and he should
be a real money-spinner. I thought that if you were
agreeable I’d bring him out here.”
“There’s room for him,” says I; “but what are
we goin’ to do with him when we get him here?”
“Match him with someone,” says Benzine. “I’m
willin’ to share in the camp’s expenses and to put
up half of any stake that’s needed.”
“It sounds all right,” says I, “Bring him out
here to-morrer.”
D ENZINE brought him to the camp next day, and
' I got the shock of me life. He was a thin slab
of a feller, with a moustache like a handlebar, and
he lacked the alert movements you usually see in a
good runner. Not when he was on the track, though.
Stripped down for business, he was all wire and
springs. He stood my best sprinter up three yards in
a hundred that afternoon, and my bloke never seen
the way he went.
“He’ll do,” I says to Benzine. “We’ll get him a
match right away.”
In one of the camps they had an offer out to
back their crack sprinter Hogan for fifty quid agen
any ped in the district. No one outside his camp
knew exactly what this bird Hogan could do, but
he wasn’t looked upon as a world-beater. We thought
he’d have to be somethin’ out of the box to beat
our bloke, so we fixed a match for Henry. Benzine
had a mate named Slasher in Hogan’s camp, and we
arranged with him to keep us posted. Then we put
Henry into serious trainin’.
We didn’t hear nothin’ from Slasher for about
a week. Then one day he lobbed in our camp with
the news that Hogan was showin’ his manager some
wonderful trials. I didn’t feel none too gay, but
Benzine wasn’t worried. “Henry has been showin’
us some wonderful gallops too,” he said, “and he’s
improvin’ every day.”
“That’s all right,” I come back, “but maybe
Hogan’s improvin’ too.”
“If he is improvin’, good luck to him,” says
Benzine, “but I don’t think he’ll keep us awake of a
night.”
Benzine had another think cornin’ about a week
before the match when Slasher dashed in to tell us
that Hogan had covered the hundred in nine and
four-fifth seconds.
Benzine laughed. “You’re tryin’ to pull our legs,”
he says to Slasher.
“I am not,” says Slasher. “This mornin’, when
the rest of the camp was snorin’, the boss took Hogan
to the track. There was another bird there who
acted as pacemaker, and Hogan slid over the hun-
dred in the time I told you.”
“You seen him do it?” asks Benzine.
“I not only seen him do it, but I clocked him as
well,” says Slasher. “There ain’t no shadow of doubt
about the time.”
Benzine looked mighty serious. “That’s bad,”
says he.
“It’s worse than bad,” says I. “We’d better
hedge our money before it gets too late.”
“I wouldn’t do that,” says Slasher.
“For why?”
“Because Hogan ain’t won yet.”
“If what you’ve told us is dinkum, he’s as good
as won,” says I.
“A race ain’t won until the runners break the
tape,” says Slasher. “Don’t you do nothin’ until you
hear from me.”
“What’s the scheme?” asks Benzine.
“There ain’t one yet,” Slasher come back, “but
I might think of something.”
“We’ll wait,” says Benzine, and Slasher buzzes off.
“Cripes! You have let us in,” says Ito Benzine.
“While we’re waitin’ to hear from Slasher, Hogan
will shorten to odds-on and we won’t be able to
hedge.”
“If Slasher says to . wait,” says Benzine, “we’ll
wait.”
TANARUS” HREE days went by and there wasn’t a word from
* Slasher. Another three days went over the brink
and still no word. That brought us to Saturday, the
mornin’ of the race. It was too late to hedge then,
as Hogan had firmed to 6 to 4 on. It looked as if
we had gone to the pack.
We drove Henry out to the track in a sulky we
had borrowed. All the chaps from the surroundin’
camps was present, and there was a crowd of sports
from Sydney, including several bookies. Asa pre-
liminary to the match they put on a couple of trials
between new runners. We didn’t see much of the
trials as we were too busy givin’ Henry a final rub
down.
Hogan and two of his trainers were already there
when we got down. We could hear the bookies giving
Henry lip.
Up to this time we had seen nothin’ of Slasher.
I was a bit surprised when he suddenly appeared from
nowhere and walked past us.
“Back up on Henry,” he said out of the corner
of his mouth. “Everything’s 0.K.”
I looked at Benzine. “We’d be mugs to come
at that without further information,” says I.
“We don’t need no further information,” says
Benzine. “If Slasher says that everything’s O.K. it’s
good enough for me.”
There’s a bookie over agen the rails yellin’ out
seven to four agen Henry, and Benzine crosses over
to him. “I’ll have your thirty-five pounds to twenty,”
he says, puttin’ in the money.
“You needn’t be in the bet if you don’t want to
be,” he says to me when he came back.
“I’ll be in it,” says I. “Ain’t I in every fool
scheme?”
Just then the starter called the men to the mark.
Alongside Hogan our bloke looked as rough as bags,
but I knew he would give us the best he had.
“If one of you blokes break,” says the starter,
“I’ll put him back a yard. You can take that as final.”
Then he walks behind them and raises his gun,
“Ready,” he says. “Get set.” Bang!
/'“"'RIPES, you’d have thought the* men had been
fired out of a gun. In a tick they had covered ten
yards and were streaking along like a flash of light.
The pair raced together for the first thirty yards, then
Henry forged ahead. At the fifty he was a clear yard
in front, and Benzine unloosed a deafening yell: “It’s
the Town Hall to a packet of peanuts.”
By all the rules it did look as if Henry was certain
to win, but just then Hogan stepped on the gas.
’Struth, talk about a flyin’ machine. In two or three
strides he had passed our man and was streakin’ it
out for the tape like a rocket.
“It’s all over,” I said to Benzine.
The crowd was makin’ such a racket that Benzine
didn’t hear me, but I seen by the look on his dial
that he thought the same.
Then a miracle happened. Hogan, who was
about ten yards from the tape, suddenly faltered and
wobbled like a spent shell. It so astounded everyone
that the crowd who had been yellin’ their heads off
got silent all of a sudden. Hogan made a big effort
to throw himself on the tape, but he was a split
second too late. Henry came up like a gale of wind
and beat him by six inches.
Then the fun started. Gents who had backed
Hogan thought they had been sold a pup and started
to yell for all they were worth. Others rushed over
to the finishing line to see what it was all about.
Some of Hogan’s followers got fightin’ among them-
selves. Takin’ it all round it was a fair boilover.
Me and Benzine smoked Henry back to the camp.
We knew we could collect our money next day. We’d
hardly been back an hour when in bowls Slasher. He
was carryin’ a valise.
“Goin’ travellin’?” says Benzine, slippin’ him a
wink.
“Just for a bit until things blow over,” says
Slasher.
“Maybe it’d be just as well,” says Benzine. He
pulls out a roll of notes and hands some to Slasher.
“If it ain’t too personal a question,” he said, “what
did you do to Hogan?”
“Nothin’ that would hurt him,” says Slasher.
“I planted his shoes last night and lent him mine to
run in. I fixed them so that the spikes would work
loose early in the race, but that shower this mornin
dampened the track and tightened them up a bit. It
nearly cost us the race. See you blokes some more.”
With that he breezes off and I ain’t seen him
since.


Brief Drama of Two Men —and Death
Pichs
on the Wal l
BY
Andnaw Stewant
ILLUSTRATED BY J. G. PHILLIPS.
THE wall of coal bulged suddenly,
assumed a strangely-rounded appear-
ance, then burst open to reveal a
ghastly red core and stabbing flame
beyond. The heat smote Wainright like a
blast from a furnace, cut the breath from
him. A jagged piece of coal shattered the
safety-lamp in his hand. He dropped his
pick and ran. At that moment he felt he
had seen his last shift underground.
As he stumbled on, fighting the choking heat, he
wondered dazedly what had happened to Doran. The
shift-boss had left the drive just a moment before.
He’d probably walked right into it and got the full
force of the explosion.
The concussion from a second explosion flung
Wainright flat on his face, down into the slime beside
the twisted rails. He staggered up and ran on, but
without hope of life, heading for the dead-end of an
old drive. He saw the roof caving in and dived be-
neath it. There might be temporary safety at the end
of the disused drive, where it ran into solid rock. The
timber splintered under the pressure. Then the roof-
came down, blocking the entire drive. Wainright
flattened himself against the wall. He had one more
glimpse of the fire and smoke, then darkness —thick
—horrible.
He jumped, his heart thudding, as he heard a
voice—a hoarse, unnatural voice, almost in his ear.
“Who . . . who’s that?”
Wainright, recognising Doran’s voice, said: “Me
—Wainright. So you came this way, too? We’re
in a bit of a jamb, Doran.”
The coolness in Wainright’s voice temporarily
stifled the panic in Doran. But perhaps Wainright
didn’t understand. He couldn’t . . .
“A. bit of a jamb! God! We’re entombed .. .
buried alive. Understand what that means, Wain-
right? Three miles below the surface. They’ll never
get us. We’re goners . . . Goners, I tell you!”
Wainright said: “Shut up! Of course they’ll
get us!”
He could hear Doran walking up and down.
Wainright felt that way himself, felt that he wanted
to tear at the walls, but he fought back the desire.
He felt for his watch—anything to divert his mind
to other things, if only for a short time. He held
the watch close to his ear. Evidently the concussion
from the explosion had stopped it. He shook it, but
it ran only for a few seconds, ticking unevenly. He
forced himself to conjecture on the reason for its
refusing to run again, and was disappointed when
he solved the puzzle so soon. The watch must have
been damaged when he fell.
Doran broke into hoarse cursing. Wainright
shuddered at the sound. Death in that stifling dark-
ness was horrible to contemplate, but in comparison
with being entombed with a madman it was nothing.
“God!” Doran whispered brokenly. “Buried
alive!”
Rescue, if it came at all, would not be for many
hours—days, perhaps—and long before then, Wain-
right knew, Doran would be raving. It was that
which frightened Wainright more than anything else.
Wainright moved, and in doing so his boot
scraped on something like metal. A moment later
he knew it to be a length of piping, formerly used to
carry away the water. That pipe might extend under
the debris and out to where there was air, but it
seemed unlikely. He might have tried it by a lighted
match at its end, but it was forbidden to take matches
below.
He withheld his knowledge from Doran, not wish-
ing to raise false hope in him. Better to wait, then
he’d tell him if the pipe was clear. And if Doran’s
nerve went he might hold him to sanity that way,
manage to bluff him, perhaps, even if the pipe were
closed, until they suffocated.
It became hotter and hotter in the vault —a
stifling, fume-tainted heat. It brought the sweat out
on Wainright until his clothes were damp and heavy.
He listened to his own throbbing heart, and to
Doran’s labored breathing.
“They’ll never get us!” Doran croaked again.
“Never get us . . . goners!”
“Don’t talk,” Wainright said. “Talkin’ takes air.”
Doran began to walk up and down again. Wain-
right squatted against the wall, close to the end of
the pipe. He tried to imagine the rescuers at work.
But would there be a rescue party? No one on top
would give them a chance, probably thinking they
had gone out in the first blast. Then there might be
a thousand tons of rubble on the other side.
'T' HE air held, foul, clammy, but air. It must have
* given out long before this but for the pipe,
through which there was a little air filtering, probably.
Wainright had lost count of the time. It could only
be hours, yet it seemed like an eternity.
Doran staggered up,
and a spasm of mad
laughter took him.
“Steady, Doran!”
Wainright gasped. “Didn’t
tell you before, didn’t
want to raise false hope,
but there’s a pipe leadin’
through. Air ... a little.
We’re all right yet.”
“Liar!” Doran
screamed, and his voice
seemed to bring down the
roof.
“Over here, Doran!
Feel for yourself.”
Doran flung himself
across the vault. “I’ll kill
you if . . . Damn it, if I
don’t think you’re right,
Wainright! ”
Wainright breathed
relief at the sanity in
Doran’s voice.
Right at the beginning Wainright had learned
about Doran. He was of the sort that would panic
quickly, go clean to pieces. And Wainright was not
so sure that he wasn’t built that way himself. It
had been a ghastly struggle. However, the knowledge
thai there was air should keep Doran up for some
time. But there were no other means of holding Doran
together. Wainright had played his only card.
“I’ve been listening,” Doran said, breaking the
long silence.
Wainright licked his parched lips. “For what?”
“Might hear somethin’. The others cornin’. Per-
haps if we tapped on the wa11”...
Wainright started suddenly. Doran’s words held
the suggestion of an idea. If he could only bluff
him into believing the rescuers on their way. He
talked, in an attempt to take Doran’s mind off their
predicament. He told of how he had been shut in
for nearly a week down in the old Kaitangata. He
invented other lies.
might have been buried for a day or a
1 week, neither of them knew. The pipe had proved
a doubtful blessing, since it gave them life to suffer
the heat, hunger, thirst.
Wainright waited in an agony of suspense. He
knew that Doran’s nerve was going at last. His
movements proved it; his cursing, gibbering, sobbing.
And Wainright was almost at that point himself. The
torture of waiting helplessly. The desire to do some-
thing. He wanted to fight, lift off the roof with his
shoulders, battle his way out.
“Oh, my God!” Doran screamed suddenly. “I
can’t stand it. I can’t . . . This darkness”...
“Wait a bit, Doran!” Wainright gasped thickly.
"Listen !”
Doran stopped in his move forward. Wainright
could almost hear him listening.
“Tell me .. . tell me, Doran . . can you hear
anything?”
He felt Doran’s fingernails in the flesh of his
shoulder.
“By God, Wainright . . . yes !”
“Sounds like airpicks to me,” Wainright said
huskily. “Maybe they’ve got a lead down from the
compressor an’ are cuttin’ their way through with
the airpicks.”
“Wrong!” said Doran. “Airpicks make a regular
chatter. That’s an uneven sound, like a gang with
picks an’ bars.”
“Maybe,” said Wainright.
Doran’s voice was excited, exultant. “Don’t
matter, anyway. They’re on their way. Picks on the
wall. Wait! I want to hear it again.”
Doran listened only long enough to reassure him-
self, then he began to tap on the wall with the iron-
shod heel of his boot. Wainright slumped forward,
his head on his knees. How he envied Doran now
with his hoping.
Doran was tapping away and talking lighthearl-
edly, laughing a little, so sure of rescue. Wain-
right was fighting for sanity and holding it by the
merest thread. Doran ceased his tapping. Wainright
knew he was listening. He moved forward a little.
Doran chuckled delightedly. “An 5 there they
go again! Picks on the wall, old-timer, picks on the
wall!”
Wainright dozed, then slept. Then he awakened
at Doran’s clutch.
Doran’s voice was hoarse, fear-stricken. “It —•
it’s gone! They’ve stopped!”
“Rot!” Wainright said weakly. “Why, I can
still hear it . . . plainer now. Listen! ”
“Now, that’s queer,” Doran replied. “A minute
ago I could have sworn it stopped. But she’s there
again, all right.”
Wainright lay back, breathing heavily. Doran
caught his shoulder. “Now, look here! You’ve got
to bear up, Wainright. You ain’t goin’ to give in
now when we’re all but home an’ dried. Take a
lesson from me. I’m bigger an’ stronger, of course,
an’ tough; but you can’t quit now.”
Wainright almost laughed. Up on top they’d be
posting their names up as dead. But as he dozed
again he felt almost contented. He would be the
first to die. He wouldn’t awaken from his next sleep
—or he hoped not. Doran was strong, and he would
last longer. He felt sorry for Doran, though.
\\ J AINRIGHT awakened again, shocked to find
“ * that he was still alive. A queer awakening, as
though he had been asleep for years. Everything
seemed unnatural, unreal. Safety-lamps bobbing
about. The vault seemed filled with men ; men, sweat-
ing, stripped to their waists, blackened, and all talk-
ing together.
Through a queer haze he saw Doran pointing
down at him ; heard him say: “The little bloke first,
mates! I’m all right .. . tough! ”
Wainright was lifted up and carried out by the
rescuers. With each step, as they put their feet down,
the slight jar would set Wainright’s watch in motion
again—a queer, uneven beat, like the sound of picks
on the walL


SON OF DJARO
More Station-Abo. Sketches by
MARY and ELIZABETH DURACK
50DA SPRINGS made an ideal walkabout camp.
The low, spreading tea-trees afforded ample
shade from the burning rays of the wet-weather
sunshine, as well as forming convenient props
for sheltering sheets of canvas when the rain came
down. It was, too, within easy distance of the station
when fresh supplies were required. They were not
permitted to kill bullocks on their holiday. If they
wanted beef they must come in to the station on killing
day, otherwise they must rely for meat upon the
bush animals.
The ants and flies quickly discovered the camp
and flocked in millions to share jt. Nobody disputed
their rights. Ants and flies had always been an
inseparable part of holiday-
time. The smoke from the
camp-fire was fairly success-
ful in keeping the mos-
quitoes at bay, and when this
failed they took refuge under
their nets.
The camp medi-
cine-chest included
usually a bottle of
pink eye-lotion (the
pinker the better), a
large jar of strong-
smelling embroca-
tion (principally for
Charlie’s rheumatics and Polly’s various aches and
pains) and a nasty-looking concoction of Daylight’s
own mixing guaranteed to cure anything, from
a mosquito bit. to a split skull.
When Boxer came upon them here he had had
a falling out with Jimmy Deacon, and had tempor-
arily lost interest in his copper show.
He rode into the camp one morning with a busi-
nesslike air and a merry jingle of packs and hobble-
chains. His fourteen horses
were looking fit and sleek,
for they were Boxer’s pride
and joy and their welfare his
principal aim in life. His old
boss had presented him with
most of them as a reward
for past services. The others
he had received in payment
from people he had assisted
at various times.
Boxer declined to work for anyone, but he didn’t
mind “helping”—acting as guide or seeing a drover
out of a tight corner when some of his men had
pulled out. His well-known knack of appearing on
the scene at the critical moment had earned him the
gratitude of many a harassed cattleman.
He paid no attention whatsoever to the gathering
until he had watered his horses. This done, he dis-
mounted and hobbled them out. Nobody offered to
help him, knowing quite well that he would not have
accepted their services. His comment would have
been something to the effect that he wasn’t having a
lot of “humbugging blackfellows” interfering with
His plant.
As he approached the camp at last Charlie raised
a bony, indifferent hand in greeting. Daylight and
Tommy grinned without much enthusiasm and bade
him “good day.” The lubras and piccaninnies ignored
him, as he had always made a special point of ignor-
ing them. The dogs rose, snarled threateningly and
were silenced.
“Well,” Boxer said, feigning ignorance of their
long-established habit of holidaying at Soda Spring,
“what struck you fellows to come walkin’ about
here?”
Daylight grinned. He had
begun to have his suspicions that
Boxer was not lately as averse to
the company of his own
people as he professed to
be.
“Funny thing,” he
said, “you never notice
we fellows been walkin’
about here close up ebery
wet! ”
Boxer grunted.
“S’pose I known
that,” he said, “I gone on
a bit farther to Stockade.
Might now”—he cast an
affectionate glance to
where his horses were
already feeding peacefully
in their hobbles—“on’y
me plant’s knocked up.”
He sat down in the camp and took out his pipe.
“Got any beef?” he asked.
Charlie shook his head.
“No,” he said. “Finish’m beef yesterday, on’y
Dodger got a big kangaroo—plenty dere longa fire.”
Boxer cast a rather disdainful glance at the
animal stretched out on the ashes. It had been roasted
in its skin and slit conveniently down the middle so
that anyone who felt hungry had only to put his
hand inside and pull forth enough to suit his require-
ments.
Someone had already commandeered the tail,
which was the only part Boxer would have con-
descended to eat, this being something he had known
even a white man to regard as a delicacy.
“Couldn’t come at it, ole man,” he said. “We’ll
have to kill a bullock.”
This startling announcement caused even the most
recumbent of the lubras to sit up and regard Boxer
with awakened interest.
Charlie protested. “No, ole man,” he said. “We
got to hang out on kangaroo an’ goanna for a day
or two. Tm kill longa station Saturday. Some pfellers
go in then fetch’m more beef.”
Boxer laughed.
“Don’t catch me hangin’ out on kangaroo steak
and goanna till Saturday,” he said. “They don’t
like you black pfellers killin’ bullocks on yer walk-
about, on’y s’pose I kill’m they reckon ’im all right.”
“Go hon!” Daylight said, chuckling. “I’ll take
a bet you ain’t game to tell’m longa station where
you bin kill a bullock longa Soda Spring.”
“Right!” agreed Boxer. “What the odds?”
He put his hand in his pocket and brought forth
a soiled and crumpled ten-shilling note. He straight-
ened it out with a careless hand and slapped it down
on the ground in front of him.
Daylight was only a second behind. He had
nothing in the nature of money to produce, but he
pulled out a silver
watch that had been
the property of his
former boss, and
was the only thing
he valued in the
world. This he
placed beside the
note with sangfroid equal to that of Boxer.
Charlie continued to protest.
“Don’t want to make a row, ole man,” he said.
This was always (Charlie’s argument against any
revolutionary ideas. Nothing in the world was more
distasteful to Charlie than a “row,” but he knew that
Boxer was past reasoning with now. The killing of
this bullock had become a matter of personal pride.
NT O more was said about the matter until evening,
1 when the Soda Spring mob came in to water. All
eyes were turned upon Boxer, who heaved himself up
from beside the fire, hitched up his trousers, and
produced from his belt that most envied and valued
of his worldly goods, a Mauser pistol. This had been
lent him many years before by a German friend, and
was still in his possession when the owner was speared
by bush natives some-
where between Ivanhoe
and Argyle. Henceforth
Boxer considered the
pistol as his own.
They were quiet cattle around Soda Spring, and
they paid little attention to Boxer’s portly form as
he climbed into the low-hanging branches of a tree
past which the mob would file on its way back from
the spring.
He selected a fat roan cow,
and dropped it accurately with
a bullet through the forehead as
it passed beneath him. The re-
mainder of the cattle went
careering off at a terrified gallop
to the open plain.
In a few moments all hands
were down upon the kill. Its
legs and shoulders gave a few
last convulsive shudders as they
set upon it with their butchering
knives.
They had a wonderful
feast that night. Even the
dogs scorned the kangaroo that Dodger had been
to such unnecessary trouble to spear and carry home.
The beast’s head was cooked, brains and all, in an
improvised stone oven, the rib bones roasted and
large cuts of quivering rump grilled on criss-cross
green gum twigs.
Charlie enjoyed it with the rest of them. He
disapproved on principle, but consoled himself that,
after all, it was Boxer’s respon-
sibility. Boxer himself became
garrulous and a little boastful as
the feast progressed.
“My old boss, ’im • always
reckon,” he declared, “ ‘Boxer, ole
man, you been a good friend longa
station. Any time you wanna feed
of beef you just kill a bullock.
That’s all right. Don’t you worry
’bout a little thing like that! ’ ”
Everyone was happy and
agreeable. Old scores were for-
gotten, and Boxer was the hero of
the hour, He and Charlie and
Daylight, with occasional interruptions from Polly,
became reminiscent on the subject of the “early
days.” Boxer even found himself conceding to
the black man’s superstition of never mention-
ing a dead comrade by name lest, hearing him-
self recalled, he would be tempted to come forth
from his spirit hiding-place. They referred to the
departed in the natives’ sign language, with which
Boxer revealed himself familiar, despite his professed
disdain of the black man’s customs.
» Boxer had never corroboreed, but to-night he
condescended to look on and to laugh occasionally
at some antics of Nubbudah’s Jimmy, who had
smothered his face in hair-oil, which possessed, its


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for it's fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
wants stories suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both
sections. In addition to the prizes, all entries
published will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500
words is the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpub-
lished.
.Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will
attend to that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any
entry considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
owner firmly
believed, a
“good stink,”
and a pro-
pensity for
“m a k i n’
whiskers.”
The dan-
cers began to
drop out one
by one and
to fling them-
selves ex-
hausted on the ground to sleep until dawn. The
orchestra dwindled away to a drowsy, high-pitched
whining. Gradually that, too, faded out, giving place
to the sounds of a wet-weather night-time.
Boxer rose and put on his hat. His ten-shilling
note was still lying where he had placed it under a
tree, with Daylight’s watch on top of it to prevent its
blowing away. He pocketed them both for safe
custody.
“Pity to take the old fellow’s watch,” he thought
as he wandered off to the other side of the
spring where he had thrown down his soli-
tary swag. He would give it back to its
owner after he had won the bet.
He stood for a space looking back on the
distant camp under the tea-trees, and the fire where a
few flames still licked cheerfully about among the
embers.
“Bally blackfellows,” he muttered, as he lit his
pipe. “Sleep like a lotta lizards!”
BOXER and his young boss had long since come
to the understanding that, although they had
a good deal of time for one another, they got
along, on the whole, much better apart. After
all, it is doubtful whether anyone would really appre-
ciate being told how to run
the station of which he was in
charge, even though the in-
formant was a person of
such authority as Boxer.
On this occasion the
white man, to Boxer’s well-
assumed surprise, failed to
appreciate the old man’s
high-handed action in killing
a beast for the walkabout
camp. Boxer had ridden up
to the station next morning
with a sack full of beef, in
case they were short at the
house, and nonchalantly
given an account of his deed.
“Won’t happen again, young pfeller,” he assured
the boss in placating tones.
He was seized with a sudden desire to expiate
his wrong. “Got any little jobs you want doin’ round
here? What about patchin’ up that bullock-paddock
fence?” _
The boss declined this offer. “You
wouldn’t stick at it.”
Boxer nodded agreeably. “That’s
right, young pfeller, an’ then we’d have
a row. You an’ me good friends, on’y
can’t work together, eh?”
The “young fellow” could not but
agree with this. He inquired whether
Boxer intended going back to Soda
Spring.
The old man closed one eye and
looked very shrewd.
“Yes,” he said ; “never know what
they get up to out there, killin’ bullocks
an’ frightenin’ ’em when they come in to water. Think
I better jus’ stick around, keep an eye on ’em for a
while.
He gave his trousers a confidential heave and
embarked upon the story of a silver-lead find he had
come upon somewhere down in Golden Gap.
‘‘ELL,” Daylight said as Boxer rode into the
walkabout camp again, “you bin tell the boss
’bout that bullock?”
Boxer nodded and grinned under his beard.
“Yes,” he,said. “I bin tell the young pfeller.
’lm reckon, ‘Dat don’t matter, ole man. Don’t want
dem walkabout pfellers killin’, on’y s’pose you do it
’im all right.’ ”
Daylight looked a little crestfallen. “Well, I
s’pose you got to take de watch, ole man.”
Boxer produced it from the depths of his pocket.
It was a very good watch, but to Boxer nothing a
blackfellow happened to possess could possibly be
worth a second thought. He threw it at Daylight’s
feet as though it had been a top timepiece out of a
surprise packet.
“I don’t want yer watch,” he said pleasantly. “I
got a berry good one of me own.”
This he pulled now affectionately from his breast
pocket. It was one of the seven-and-sixpenny variety,
and the minute-hand had been missing for many
years. This did not trouble Boxer, though, strict
accuracy as to the time of day never having been
a necessity in his life. He only remembered to wind
it about once a month, and then
he set it by guesswork from the
sun.
Daylight picked up his
treasure, dusted it, and, being
innocent of any clothing at the
time save a hairbelt and a nar-
row piece of turkey twill, slipped
it carefully away in his swag.
Boxer seated himself on
the ground beside Charlie, who
was instructing Jimmy in the correct method
of binding a spearhead to its shaft with spini-
fex wax and kangaroo gut. tlis thin fingers drew
forth, one by one, the long silky sinews from an
empty jamtin. Laying aside his pipe for a few
moments, he would put the loose ends of the string
in his mouth, place the spear within the loop and
wind it rapidly towards him.
Boxer looked on caustically for a while, smoking
his pipe and saying nothing.
“Wastin’ yer time, ole man,” he remarked at last,
“tryin’ ter make a blackpfeller out of this nipper
here.”
Jimmy grinned appreciably. Frankly, he was very
bored with his spear-making lesson.
“Jacko reckon that way, too,” he said. “ ’lm
reckon my properly father been a white man. I gotta
be a white man meself by-an’-bye.”
A shocked expression overspread Nubbudah’s
bland features.
“My word, Jimmy, you naughty boy!” she called
in dutifully reproving tones from the farther side of
the camp. “I belt’m you d’rectly.”
Charlie put down his unfinished spear and sat
up very straight.
“Dat ain’t right, Jimmy,” he said. “Dat ain’t
what de ole men bin learn’m me an’ allabout.”
Boxer laughed. “My word, yous a lot of ole
humbugs, you blackfellows.”
Charlie’s brows contracted threateningly, but
Boxer went on.
“I know all about you ole pfellers. You like
to get de wind up de young chaps so you have all
de say, get de best of everything. You can’t tell me
you b’lieve all dis ole-man rubbish!”
Not believe in the law
of the old men! A red tide
of anger swept old-man
Charlie to his feet. Almost
unconsciously he grasped a
finished spear that lay at his
side with the one he had been mak-
ing. He stood before Boxer, spear
poised for the thrust. Six-feet tall
he was, lean and naked and
scarred. In that moment Charlie
had become a warrior again.
Forty years of civilisation
slipped from him like a cloak.
There was vengeance in his eyes—the vengeance of
Old Men, perhaps the vengeance of all the Western
tribes that Boxer had scorned and flouted for half a
century.
Boxer sat quite still, not betraying by the flicker
of an eyelid that he had seen murder in the eyes of
his contemporary, that he knew Charlie to have been
transformed in that instant from a mild, gentle old
man into a very king of wrath.
There was not a sound in the camp. A fright-
ened hush had come upon the gathering. Not a dog
moved, and even the little noises of the bush seemed
temporarily stilled.
After the first blinding rush of anger, when the
world had reeled in red circles before his eyes,
Charlie’s mind became extraordinarily clear. In the
space of a few seconds all the past came before him,
a panorama of
moving figures
against the only
background that
he knew—the blue
and the gold of
great North coun-
try.
He saw again
the coming of the
white man to the
hunting-grounds of
Djaro, heard the then unfamiliar jingle of packs
and hobbles as the little cavalcade wound up
the uncharted hills and down into the valleys.
He saw the sun-baked earth disturbed beneath
feverish picks and batteries, and the gleam of
the little yellow stones. He saw a white man, killed
in his sleep, lying with a spear through his back
while the blood dried hard on the yellow grass, and
a black man with a bullet-hole in his forehead and
fixed, staring eyes.
He saw himself as a young man, a little fearful
but fascinated by the white intruders and the new
wonders they had brought into his world. He saw
himself drawn from the camp-fires of his fathers into
strange ways and a strange, unnatural life, and he
saw at last that even he, Jungalla, son of Djaro, had
betrayed his own kind.
With the coming of the white, Time, a thing
unknown before, had entered
the native’s life. It was Time
that had condemned the cus-
toms and legends of the black
people to forgetfulness and
death; Time that had proven
the Old Men wrong.
Charlie’s faith died hard,
but in the deepest recesses of his
heart, to which he hoped the
Old Men would never penetrate.
he knew at last that
Jacko and his kind
were not the dream-
begotten children of
dark fathers.
Black had con-
ceived of white, and they were the half-children of
another race.
The anger faded slowly from Charlie’s heart. His
sudden rage had been as a last, loyal protest against
the inevitable truth. Twilight was descending on the
black people. Slowly but surely dark blood was
becoming merged with white, and the true black
warriors whose lives had been governed by the pre-
cepts of the Old Men, and the fear of the spirit
powers, were almost gone.
Perhaps he, Charlie the king, was the last of
them.


WAR!
Declare war on insect pests
—use INSECTIBANE
powder ... It cannot fail.
Insectibane positively kills
flies and other insect pests
but is harmless to humans
and animals: it lasts longer,
too ! Sold everywhere in
Australia by chemists and
stores: buy insectibane and
banish insects!
INSECTIBANE
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, !LTD.
‘‘THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
annual report see “Bulletin,” 25/1 1 /’36.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, VV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
. collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ROUNDABOUT
Music Hath Charms.
And not only music. A.B.C. hath charms, too.
A.B.C. sent us tickets for Leather Seats at Sydney
Town Hall.
Beautiful' seats —springy, gentle, caressing leather ;
doe, or possum, or pussycat. Arm-rests and backs
fit for houris to 101 l against.
To be exact, KKB and 9, Eastern Vestibule. That
is to say, up in the gallery. In fact, where the hoi-
polloi perch, at a few bob a nob, while the awfullay
propah uppah-crustahs sit, and have sat for years,
Fit for houris.
down there in main
body of hall, at
half a guinea or so
a head, on chairs
that provided valid
enough reason for
Germany going to
war with Austria.
And to think
that all the time—
or some of it —we
suffered down
there among uppah-
crustahs while jolly
old ple b s were
perched up here,
assured of enjoy-
ing, if the concert was crook, the moving spectacle of
our discomfort!
Enthroned in these KK seats we could watch
our horse canter home ninth in a field of ten and feel
happy that he wasn’t last. Cheers for the noble
animal, cheers for the clever jockey, cheers for the
gallant bookie who laid us 6to 4! You couldn't have
hard feelings in seats like these, not if you were listen-
ing to a choir of crooners.
Instead of which this afternoon it’s Professor
Bernard Heinze, from Melbourne, and A.B.C. (Sydney)
Symphony Orchestra; and let our feelings about the
seats qualify in advance any superlatives we may
happen unguardedly to leave lying around.
One possible superlative that might as well be
removed from the chest forthwith is that if A.B.C.
had done nothing else but turn on this unexpectedly
refreshing entertainment we could have thought its
existence justified, apart altogether from its having
shut politicians off the air. It is, too, of all things
to turn out a happy afternoon’s entertainment, an
“educational” effort; a “Young People’s Concert,”
Hampering his progress
with the flute.
with Prof. Heinze in the
role Qf headmaster teach-
ing a capacity house of
the coming generation
what music is all about
and how it’s made.
They certainly dish
out education very pain-
lessly in this much-abused
age, if this is a fair
sample. There on the plat-
form is the Professor, as
unforbidding a figure as
could well be imagined;
a chap with humor,
pleasant personality, en-
gaging voice, honest commonsense and no more man-
nerisms than Professor Walter Lindrum.
Prof. Heinze is as familiar with the Book of
Music as we are with the Book of S.P. He sweeps
away the highbrow guff and makes it seem easy. He
gives us the feeling that we ourselves could do things
on an oboe other than enrage the neighbors. He
leaves us capable of feelings besides sympathy for a
friend of ours who is thinking of giving up beer
because he feels it’s hampering his progress with the
flute. Above all, he gives
us the hope that music
may so spread in this fair
southern land that one
day the moan of the wur-
litzer will be heard no
more.
There is extra ground
for these hopes and feelings in the Prof.’s audi-
ence. This may be giving them education on
a silver salver, and there may be something
in the Caledonian idea that education’s best served
up in the form of dry oatmeal on rusty tinware; but,
at any rate, they lap it up with relish.
They’re about 50-50 get-y’-’air-cut and flying-
pigtails, all of them marvellously attentive and
decorous this afternoon. A little ostentatious using of
their programmes as fans among the small boys as
accompaniment to Grieg’s Concerto in A Minor and
a little spasmodic fisticuffs among the young ladies to
the tune of Andante Cantabile of Tschaikowsky, but
nothing to compare with a similarly well-meant “edu-
cational” effort we recall at the old Opera House, when
the offering was “Hamlet” and the substantial nature
of the Ghost was verified to the satisfaction of all by
a barrage of bull’s-eyes.
Not even the bad boy of the class —no, not if
Mr. Norman Lindsay himself had invented him—
would throw a bull’s-eye at good Professor Heinze,
who could quite conceivably make Cicero enjoyable.
At any rate, he can take names like Wagner,
Rachmaninoff, Saint-Saens and what have you, and
you’d think he was talking about Don, and ’Oppy,
and Phar Lap.
His method is as engaging as his manner. About
him, grouped, is the Orchestra, with a piano in the
middle. He begins—very sensibly for this audience,
ourselves not omitted —with , the clash and hullabaloo
of the Prelude to Act 111 of Wagner’s “Lohengrin.”
Even to our untutored ears this needs no explaining.
It’s a great hooraying about something; and when the
programme instructs us that it’s a “gathering of
knights assembled for the wedding festivities and in-
dulging in contests
before the admir-
ing eyes of the
ladies” we feel en-
thusiastically that
they must have
been hearty
knights to produce
and very lovely
ladies to adduce
such noises as the
A little spasmodic fisticuffs.
Prof.’s commanding upflung arms conjure out of this
blare of brasses.
There you are, that’s how it gets you! Before
you know where you are you’re talking away about
“brasses” and “strings” and what-else as if you’d been
educated at the Con. or your father had been a
lieutenant in the Salvation Army.
When that Wagnerian—if we keep on at this rate
we’ll qualify as musical critics —outburst has satis-
factorily stirred the savage breast, the Prof, really
gets to business.
He now takes Rachmaninoff’s Prelude in G
Minor, opens it up like opening up a room with fold-
ing doors and lets the open daylight in on the simple
secrets it had held. His is an instructive performance
in what might be described as inverted legerdemain.
First,-he has a handyman play the piece over on the
piano. Then he has handyman play the first four
bars of it. Then, by a process of trying that much of
it out, first with the wrong instruments and then with
the right ones, he shows the hitherto mysterious busi-
ness of orchestration as clearly as if you were doing it
yourself. As simple as evens the field.
All that array of assorted instruments Prof.
Heinze projects as a pleasant family of sound: the
violins, flute and oboe are “the singers of the
orchestra”; the brasses are “the heavy men” ; the
triangle, cymbals and suchlike kitchenware are, in
fact, “the kitchen of the orchestra.” And now, he says
—having put them all through their tricks, shown
what they do and all about how they work when the
piece of music that was neatly played over on the
piano has been built on so they all can share in it—
“and now we will have them build us a house of fine
sound.” And away they go, putting together again all
the runs and trills and twiddlybits he had just taken
so very gently apart.
We trust the Prof, will excuse our enthusiasm if
all this is as easy to do as he makes it seem. We
suspect it isn’t. We have the idea that behind the
forehead too far away for us to make its shape out
clearly from here there’s a residence of something like
genius.
We’ll leave to real critics such terms as have long
served so well in the business of wrapping music up in
woolly impenetrableness, and content ourselves with
the simple opinion that this Prof, is the best teacher
—because the simplest and the most human —that
we’ve ever listened to, bar only, perhaps, the one who
taught us the rudiments of two-up.
Cheers for the gallant bookie.
He has learnt —or perhaps it’s natural to him—
that the whole secret of public talking is in being
appropriate to your audience. He is not one of your
“popular” talkers ; nothing like that. He’s one who
can talk of the “kitchen of the orchestra” without
seeming to take the slightest liberty. Not of the
“popular” breed, but a rattling good entertainer.
As, for instance, when, with the dash of Grieg, a
little Sydney young lady—of the somewhat un-Sydney-
ish name, already, of Valda Aveling—comes on as
pianoforte soloist. Miss Valda puts aside the piano
seat and takes —of all things!—one of those Austrian
chairs. It isn’t high enough, and perhaps it isn’t soft
enough, and a thoughtful orchestrian kindly raises
and softens it with what looks like an oblong of
hardwood. All of which pleases the Prof., who sees
in it the sign that already this little lady is acquiring
the ways of the great musicians.
And that reminds him of a Great One he heard
in London, who tried his piano-stool out three dif-
ferent ways, all at the one height, before instructing
an offstage attendant to bring him the missing neces-
sity—a sheet of tissue-paper. Which further reminds
him that Grieg, who composed what Miss Valda is
about to play, could himself play the piano in com-
fort standing up, Grieg being a bare sft. tall and
his wife no better —in fact, worse ; 4ft. lOin. Then a
little picture of this elfish couple going about Europe,
to the great astonishment of the natives, amazed that
so great music could come from so small a source.
After which Miss Valda plays : —very valiantly, we
thought.
A Great One.
And now “Danse Macabre,” with an allaying
touch of humor, which makes us feel that on a couple
of rums we wouldn’t mind going out and doing a
gambol with its spooks ourselves; and then “Men of
Harlech,” with this hallful of young voices full of
fight; and, to wind the show up, “Pomp and Circum-
stance,” with the “kitchen” letting itself go in a great
clashing and banging, like our Uncle Roger putting
out the bailiff.
Our hearty thanks to the Prof., the Orchestra,
Miss Valda, the audience for beefing out “Harlech,”
the schoolmarms who turned out the pigtail- and bob-
wearers looking so fresh and nice in their massed
uniforms, the mothers who washed the small boys
so expertly—and A.8.C., for KK.


m
Hi
■■
0 { ■>
■>
> . ;V \
:
'
1
M
.
Ki
.'I
H
Hh
. :
M
.
111
wmmm
.. ' ■■■■■■.■ "■
5
''
■ /
f
s
11
: :
I I
1
i: : - : :
.-■V
Ug
n
Oil
m
I
The great Xmas conspirator is Santa Claus. He
conspires to cut the kitchen session right in halves
and give every person, young and old, a jolly time
and an easy one. He brings Xmas trees and toys,
also delicious cakes and puddings which are light,
rich and ready to serve.
Arnott’s new Xmas cake tin, used for the first time
this year, has a simple paper strip label, which is
easily detached. With this removed you have a beau-
tiful, colourful cake container in perfect taste, which
very fittingly reflects the quality of its rich contents
and is a most graceful and desirable Xmas gift.
CHRISTMAS
\ ■ /
b-
k
PUDDINGS
vO v v A!»'^ !!^w^9'*^l v ~ ,^'^rT v -AS ,^srr s -^vir^sr>-Aa'^r>- , \s*^rr v ~\g. ■
toy l —
Ask Your Grocer for Amott’s, They Are Better Than Ever


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
mmm: M I WMI 5 $
fin ;
in raff ib nn
/m
■ , f
1 i
1
mm.
11WI 1
111
111
1
8
b ul 1
I ?
; i ;
■a
’• i 4
m
Hi
if:
m
y-i.
1 I
mbBMI
■
I ggSWHII %£
■ m !
1
■ 1
V
I
• • ~f ii§§| isk an
r
%'
mm
:
■inPJPH n 3 ' iiiTMiHllMgiß' w r Mil
»••■ . K
\ -■: :,£
- SL\ v:* v ’ ;* . v
9H
i
■smim
... ........ ni ■
1
.
HH
HB
SWIWi
HBMB—
■
MB
; b-
&
.:, .: ,:
■
w.
MBPS!
sails
MH
;^:,
Hi
:
fgM
IB
i.
■HM
mi
' ■ n
■' i 4 '
IlSi
IHHMIMMI
.
■
. '
■P
■mbhi
-
.
i
r; ;?
■
■■■
;
:
mm
ii
■1
MH^BHHH
■
■
.
■■ •••::;••
m
Hi
.
i : m
WMmvSmH
■
■ v .; -;,i
MH
Further Interior View of One of the Numerous Storage Cellars .
c Mhe'cfWie TnellmimcJdandlmuq/iiei


BACK ON THE OLD TRACK.
"In spite of Labor protest, and of Mr. Gullett's statement that most of the U.A.P. members me against it, Mr. Casey is going on with his plan for another London loan.”
“Whoa, you blankards, while I pop in an’ raise two millions! And that’ll be two an’ a half millions in our money for those who come after us to pay.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
ANOTHER SALARY GRAB?
As soon as members of the new Parliament found
themselves in Canberra, they began talking about the
scurvy salaries an ungrateful nation pays them. The
discussions were private and non-party, Oppositionists
enlarging on the lamentable plight of private members
and Ministerialists drawing attention to the disgraceful
underpayment of the Prime Minister. A concerted
effort was made to have these grievances remedied
straightway, but Mr. Casey thought that it would look
too precipitate. However, it is confidently expected
that something will be done next session or at the be-
ginning of the financial year, at latest.
Compared with members of the British House
of Commons, who now draw £6OO p.a., though
they had to get along with £4OO p.a. till recently, our
Senators and Representatives are not badly done by.
Their present salary is £950 p.a. Though this is £5O
p.a. less than was paid for 11 years, 1920-31, it is
£550 p.a. more than members of the first two Com-
monwealth Parliaments received, and £350 p.a. more
than was paid for 13 subsequent years, 1907-1920.
Moreover, the Speaker, the President, the Chairman
of Committees and the leader of the Opposition in
each House, are specially rewarded, and a Public Works
Committee has been set up again so that members
who fail of election as Ministers, leaders and officers
of the House may earn fees. Then every member
has a gold pass which will take him over all the
publicly-owned or owed-for railways and tramways in
Australia and Maoriland, whereas the British M.P.
has to be content with a free railway warrant from his
electorate to London and back, and that only when
Parliament is sitting.
Private members at Canberra are decidedly better
off than private members at Ottawa. The latter,
according to the Statesman’s Year-Book, get “an
allowance of four thousand dollars per session, subject
to deductions for non-attendance.” Except in election-
years, there is only one session per year, and sessions
have been known to run to 236 and 227 days. If
deductions for non-attendance were made at Canberra,
a Senator who “represents” one State and lives in
another would have scarcely drawn enough these last
two or three years to pay his tailor and hatter.
Members of the South African Parliament,
Senators and Assemblymen alike, drew £4OO p.a. at the
beginning, that salary being specified in the Act estab-
lishing the Union. According to the Official Year-
Book issued in July, 1936, “this allowance was raised
to £6OO to meet the increased cost of living, but was
subsequently reduced to £5OO, till amended to £7OO p.a.
permanently.”.
“Until the Parliament otherwise provides, the
Ministers of State shall not exceed seven in number”
and “the salaries of the Ministers of State shall
not exceed £12,000 a year.” So it was laid down in
the Commonwealth Constitution. The number of
Ministers of State was increased to eight in 1915, to
nine in 1917 and to ten in 1935, £1650 being added to
the annual appropriation each time. In addition, the
Parliamentary Allowances Act, 1920, granted £BOO p.a.
to each Minister. This year £15,679 was appropriated
for Ministers’ salaries, and they collect also the £BOO
p.a., less 5 p.c. The public is not permitted to know
how they cut up the £15,679, but it is taken for granted
that the Prime Minister draws more than any of his
lieutenants and that the four Assistants who are not
Ministers of State are allowed a few hundred pounds
apiece from the pool.
Canada, with a population half as much again as
that of the Commonwealth, pays its Prime Minister
$15,000 p.a. and 14 Ministers with portfolios $lO,OOO
p.a., in each case plus the sessional allowance of $4OOO.
Salaries and sessional allowances were reduced during
the depression ; for the fiscal year 1936-37 the cut was
5 p.c. The Prime Minister of the South African Union
draws £3500 p.a., and each of his salaried Ministers
(there are 10) £2500 p.a. In Canada and South Africa
alike there is only one Minister without portfolio, and
no doubt his colleagues throw in something for him.
One reason why these Canadian and Afrikander
Ministers get more money than Ministers of the Com-
monwealth is that they do more. For example, Mr.
Pirow, the Afrikander Minister of Defence, is Minister
of Railways and- Harbors as well. As Minister of
Defence, he controls a Permanent Force of 4000
men, an active Citizen Force consisting of 27 bat-
talions and five brigades of field artillery, and a Rifle
Association with 111,000 members, who have to learn
to shoot if not entered for peace training with other
forces (pur voluntary rifle clubs, when the last figures
were made up, had fewer than 48,000 members). As
Minister of Railways, he is responsible to the people
for the administration of over 13,000 miles of Govern-
ment lines, and as Minister of Harbors he is construct-
ing, at the Cape and in Natal, some of the greatest
harbor works in progress in the world. Australia has
seven Ministers of Railways, six of whom gaze
vacantly at, or apologise for, the annual losses on
25,000 miles of State railways. There are besides
seven Treasurers, seven Attorneys-General, six Min-
isters of Works, six Ministers of Lands, six Ministers
of Agriculture, six of Education; in fact, six of nearly
everything.
It follows that provincial government costs the
Canadians and the Afrikanders a great deal less per
head than it costs the people of Australia. Neither
of our sister-Dominions supports expensive provincial
Government Houses in which members of the British
aristocracy run imitation Buckingham Palaces: the
nine Canadian provinces have Lieutenant-Governors,
and the four South African provinces Administrators,
appointed, not in London, but in their own country,
by the Governor-General-in-Council. The salaries are
modest, and the appointees are nearly always Misters;
the only exceptions are Great War veterans who have
been privileged to retain their Great War rank. And,
with one exception, their local Legislatures are modest
one-Chamber affairs with limited powers severely
limited in South Africa, where “all ordinances passed
by a provincial council are subject to the veto of the
Governor-General-in-Council.”
The exception is Quebec, which has three million
people—about as many as Victoria, S.A., Westralia and
Tasmania put together. In Quebec there are a Legis-
lative Council of 24 members, appointed for life, and
a Legislative Assembly of 90 members elected for five
years, the Cabinet consisting of 11 Ministers. Mem-
bers of both Houses receive $2250 per session. West-
ralia, with 460,000 people, has 50 Assemblymen and 30
Councillors, whose “allowances” come to £48,600 p.a.
—and no deduction for non-attendance. From the 80
at £6OO p.a.., there are drawn eight Ministers who
divide another £B2OO p.a. They all make a show of
earning their money, but at least 50 per cent, of
our 500 provincial politicians and 70 per cent, of
the bills they pass in bewildering profusion are un-
necessary, and serve only to employ a larger horde of
superfluities.
The gentlemen at Canberra who want increased
remuneration should earn it by shouldering greater
responsibilities. Australians wouldn’t object to paying
Ministers on the Canadian or South African scale
or to giving private members another £lOO or £2OO
a year if the cost of provincial government were
lowered to the Canadian or South African scale, the
latter for preference. But while the cost of provincial
government remains an outrage, and while Common-
wealth Ministers and members are content to see State
politicians make a hideous mess of things like education
and transport which-should be national matters, and
resort to legalised robbery under the guise of income
tax, which should be taken over with education, the
people will persist in regarding such Ministers and
members as being very well paid at what they get
now for what they now do.
The R.A.A.F. Crashes.
Through no fault of the R.A.A.F., the magnificent
tradition which the Smiths, Dallas, Pentland, Taylor,
Cole, Macnamara, Cobby and others established has
not been preserved. In 1928, when Sir John Salmond
came to Australia, R.A.A.F. men were still flying
Great War types of machines fitted with U.S.A. and
French engines—this at a time when the all-metal
monoplane was becoming standard in civil commercial
aviatiop.
In 1929 the Hawker company evolved the
Hawker Hart. This was modified into the Hawker
Demon, which for a time ranked as the fastest fight-
ing machine in the world. Five years afterwards,
when all-metal, skin-dressed, geodetic monoplane
construction had arrived, the Australian Government
began to acquire Hawker Demons. It is still acquir-
ing them.
In two years Britain has built up the R.A.F. by
137 per cent, to 1600 front-line machines—all designed
since 1934. Speeds are round 300 m.p.h.—exceeded
in some cases —and striking power and protection are
great. Hawker Demons (190 m.p.h.), though the
quality of the workmanship put into them ifas never
been questioned, have been relegated to the back line.
Foreign countries can buy them. Australia's relations
in the Demon Owners’ Association include Portugal,
Estonia and Spain—the Spaniards bought theirs before
the civil war.
According to the League Armament Year-
Book, Australia had in 1935 24 machines “capable
of use in war, and in commission in operating units,”
none in immediate reserve. Another eight machines
“capable of use in war” had been requisitioned for
training. At the end of last year the newest type in
the R.A.A.F. front line was the Demon. There is
no arguing against the basic efficiency of the
Demon’s Rolls-Royce engine; but the fact remains
that the Demon type is old as bombers go. The
only R.A.A.F. machines which would be reckoned in
Europe as thoroughly modern are a handful of Avro-
Anson bombers.
There are two R.A.A.F. stations —one at Laver-
ton (Vic.) and one at Richmond (N.S.W.). In Septem-
ber, according to the official list, there were at Laverton
No. 1 Squadron, with nine officers; No. 2, with three
officers; No. 21, a Citizen Force Squadron, equipped
with old Permanent Force machines; and No. 23, with
eight officers. At Richmond there were No. 3 Squad-
ron. the onlv one in Australia with a full complement of
officers (13); No. 4, a skeleton; No. 5 (seven officers);
and No. 22, a Citizen Force Squadron equipped with
Demons, their cruising speed cut down to 135 m.p.h.
Since March 23 eight flying officers have been
killed. Since the beginning of 1936 there have been
24 accidents. Eight happened in one reduced squadron
of nine Demons taking part in a 2000-mile training
flight between November 21 and December 6, 1937 ,
in a ninth case a meteorological observation plane,
also a Hawker Demon, crashed.
Nov. 21: Brake jambed at Cootamundra (N.S.W.);
no damage. *
Nov. 21: Same machine damaged at Canberra; brake
seized.
Nov. 29: Forced landing near Bourke (N.S.W.).
Dec. 3: Machine tipped on nose taking off at
Brisbane; propeller broken.
Dec. 3: Engine trouble in a machme forced
squadron to land at Brisbane. '
Dec. 5: Crash at Cootamundra; pilot (J. F. Fallon)
burnt to death and aircraftsman (Fitzgerald) injured.
Dec. 6: Second crash at Cootamundra; pilot and
observer and mechanic hurt.
Dec. 6: Machine broke a wheel and came to rest
on a wing—again at Cootamundra.
Only a searching inquiry can determine the
causes of this amazing series of accidents. The Min-
ister of Defence appointed as a committee of investi-
gation Group-Captain Anderson, Wing-Commander
Wackett and Wing-Commander Murphy, assuring the
House that no more competent committee could be
appointed. A very high compliment, considering that
Mr. H. E. Wimperis, the British Director of Aero-
nautical Research, is in this country.
Most people will agree with Mr. Forde, M.H.R. ;
as to the need for a public inquiry at which the
affairs of the R.A.A.F. would be “raked from top
to bottom.”
Hans Has a Centenary.
Nineteen-thirty-eight will be memorable, not only
to Australians of British descent who are preparing
to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the arrival of
the First Fleet, but to Australians of German descent.
The first German settlers arrived in South Australia
in 1838.
They were Prussians and devout Protestants, and
the generous George Fife Angas was their patron.
Then a director of the South Australian Company,
Angas was sought out in England by a village pastor,
August Kavel, and together they concerted a plan
for the emigration to the infant colony of villagers
who objected to the religious conformity demanded
by the Prussian Government. Angas backed it with
£4OOO of his own money. Ernest Scott, in the.admir-
able volume he has contributed to The Official His-
tory of Australia in the War, relates the sequel.
The first batch of German colonists arrived at
Adelaide in 1838. They were followed by several other
contingents, to all of whom land was granted. Almost
immediately they made good. They were industrious,
enterprising and thrifty. They paid off the money which
had been advanced to bring them out, and bought addi-
tional areas of land. Their success induced other
Germans to follow their example; and by 1849 the
directors of the South Australian Company congratulated
themselves on the fact that more than 1500 Germans
had settled in the colony.
During the same period there was an equally
successful emigration to Queensland. Scott notes that
“the first German settlers” in that State “were mem-
bers of a mission to the aboriginals which the Rev.
Dr. J. D. Lang was the means of founding at Moreton
Bay in 1838.” A Brisbane merchant, Heussler, con-
stituted himself a voluntary emigration agent, and
“for about forty years there was a steady flow of
German emigration in Queensland” ; by 1881 there
were upwards of 12,000 German-Queenslanders —
Prussians, Pomeranians, Silesians and Wiirtembergers.
There were German settlements also in Victoria, N. S.
Wales —chiefly in the Riverina and on the Northern
Rivers —Westralia and Tasmania.
The war-time feeling which closed Lutheran
schools, forbade the teaching of the German language
in those permitted to remain open, and set up a
“nomenclature committee” to substitute English place-
names for German (that was done in South Australia)
has died away. People now prefer to remember
that, subjected to the fierce test of divided loyalties,
the German-born behaved well, and that many a fine
fellow went from a German home to fight in the
A.I.F. As Scott puts it:
By far the larger number of persons of German
descent living in Australia were loyal to the flag under
which they lived and there were in the Australian
army a large number of men, including some of its most
distinguished—and, indeed, its most distinguished—
members who were, on both sides of their parentage,
German The records of the A.I.F. proved that Aus-
tralian soldiers of German parentage and descent were
second to no others in exhibiting by their deeds their
loyalty to their British nationality.
And the old Australian regard for Germans as
citizens and farmers —in the valleys of the Murray,
the Richmond and the Clarence, on the Lockyer and
the Logan, and in the South Australian and Westralian
wheat belts there are no better farmers to be found —
has returned.
If Parliament had not shut up shop so suddenly
the question of fitly recognising the German contri-
bution to the making of Australia during the century
which is closing might have been introduced. The
European winter has come round again, and in a
country which lacks the means of buying the overseas
commodities it needs, and has to put up with sub-
stitutes provided by the amazing skill and energy
of its chemists, winter is a hard time. As it approaches,
the rulers of the new Germany go into the streets
with boxes to collect for the poor. It is easy to sneer at
these men and to rail at their system ; but their system
is wholly the business of the German people, whereas
the suffering they are striving to relieve is a challenge
to the human family. In the circumstances, a Parlia-
mentary vote of £lOO,OOO, to be expended in the
purchase of Australian flour, butter, tinned milk, fruit
and wool —free manufacture could no doubt be
arranged—for the poor of Germany would seem a
proper way of commemorating a century of noble
accomplishment.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Payne Report.
The Commission on the Northern Territory consisted
of W. L. Payne, an experienced maker and adminis-
trator of northern land laws, and W. L. Fletcher,
who, in his late twenties, managed one of Queens-
land’s biggest meatworks, and has since made a suc-
cess of pastoral properties in North Queensland.
Their report acknowledges that most of the N.T.
is poor stuff—the kind of country which in even
closely-populated continents lies empty. The area is
523,000 square miles, the population is 5454, and
the deficit last year, £611,000, exceeded the value of
production—worth only £499,000. During 26 years
the Commonwealth has poured £15,000,000 into the
Territory, most of it squandered on useless projects.
The useful land, according to the Payne report,
comprises a few thousand square miles in Central
Australia, on the Barkly Tableland and the Westralian
border. Apart from relieving the holders of this
country of taxation and resumption restrictions, the
Commission believes that the Barkly lands and those
on the west should be served by railways. It is pro-
posed to build a 240-mile line from Dajarra (Q.) into
the heart of the Barkly Tableland. This would affect
a stretch of good Queensland Mitchell-grass country
160 miles across, as well as the land in the Territory.
The other line, 200 miles, would run into Vestey-
Bovril-Durack territory in North Westralia.
With provision of water and communications, the
Payne Commission thinks that 1,250,000 sheep could
be acclimatised on a section of the Barkly Tableland
within 10 years, another 1,000,000 on 13,000,000 acres
of the Ord-Fitzroy country, and 300,000 on a small
part of Central Australia. At the end of ten years
it is believed that population could be 15,000 ; at the
end of 25 years 40,000. These figures apparently take
no account of possible accretions of wealth and popu-
lation through mining—agricultural possibilities are
considered and dismissed.
There is very little in northern policy which the
commission appears to find right. It suggests that
greater powers should be granted to the Darwin Ad-
ministration, and that local workers should be allowed
the right of appeal to the Arbitration Court. It recom-
mends that native women be trained to do domestic
work instead of being kept in compounds.
A typical Canberraism is quoted. An application
for a Government subsidy, lodged, say, at Alice
Springs, is sent to the Department of the Interior at
Canberra. Canberra forwards it to the Land Board
at Darwin, which sends it on for comment to the
District Administration Office at Alice Springs, which
obtains a report from the Resident Engineer as to
whether the proposal is worthy of investigation. It is
then sent back to Canberra, and at that stage Can-
berra authorises an inspection to be made and a defi-
nite recommendation submitted. When eventually the
recommendation comes to hand the matter receives
consideration. The time occupied is at least a year.
It explains much about the present state of the Terri-
tory and the handicaps imposed on those who try to
make a living in it.
The Payne Commission’s finding of facts is in
line with the judgment of most unbiased and com-
petent observers, and its recommendations cannot be
ignored.
A Hundred and Eight Millions.
The Commonwealth Statistician has revealed that the
seven Australian Governments yanked £108,303,000
out of the pockets of the people in 1936-37. It works
out at £l5 18s. 4d. per head (the population is a trifle
over 6,750,000), and the bulk of it was paid by
a small minority. The record ought to make six
of the seven Governments blush for their rapacity ;
but this is a physical impossibility.
Of the £108,303,000, £35,100,000 was extracted by
means of income tax. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s share was £8,556,000; the Commonwealth
Government can plead that just on £7,600,000 was
required for Great War pensioners, and that old-age
and invalid pensions cost another £14,314,800. Of
the £26,544,000 grabbed by State Governments,
£12,836,000 was alleged to be for unemployed-relief.
Actually most of the unemployed-relief money is
borrowed ; in any case, State Governments say every
now and then that unemployment has become normal.
Relief-taxes and borrowing alike illustrate what
a costly fraud and fake State politics have become.
Election Week in Moscow.
All is joy among the snows of Russia, for last week
they held an election. Russia is alleged to have been
a “democracy” for over 20 years—“the only true
democracy,” *‘the workers’ only fatherland,” “the one
nation on earth in which the masses rule” —but during
the 20 years never a ballot-box was made nor a vote
cast.
Now they have been hanging out bunting and
ringing bells, for-Britain, the British Dominions, the
U.S.A., France and a heap of little nations have been
imitated at the polling-booth, though not too slavishly.
At this Russian election there was none of the
recrimination against Government candidates which
characterises elections in more backward countries.
Anybody who recriminates becomes a capitalist spy,
a Trotskyist. He also becomes dead meat. Elections,
therefore, promise to be quiet and uneventful. Some
distinguished voters were absent from the December
12 affair.
One of these, a certain General Krivitsky, has
been abroad as “a national purchasing agent” for a
couple of years. The Kremlin has invited him to
come home, but Mr. Kriv. has gone into smoke, and
there is a price on his head. A lot of highly-placed
electors, not so intelligent as he, went home previously
and will never have a vote in this world.
Another distinguished Russian citizen who did
not attend the poll is a Mr. Barmin. So far from
agreeing to go to Moscow, Mr. Barmin even
refused to go to a tea-party on a warship owned by
the Russia which pays his salary as Acting-Minister
at Athens. He insisted that any tea-parties must be
held on Greek soil. There are occasional sharks and
strong currents round the Piraeus, which make it
awkward when a guest has to leave a tea-party hur-
riedly on finding that there is a firing squad present
instead of a jazz band. Mr. Barmin decided to leave
promptly for France.
Luckily his vote was not needed. As far as is
known, there was only one anti-Government candi-
date, a radio operator to an expedition to the North
Pole. Presumably he is still at the Pole or has means
of getting there in a hurry.
Burlesque and Snobbery.
John Abbott takes the pen in his right hand:
Months ago the old lightship Bramble, which used to
mark the position of the Sow and Pigs reef in the entrance to
Port Jackson, was reconditioned and rigged into some sort
of semblance to H.M. armed brig Supply, of the First Fleet,
in order to share in the pageantry which is to celebrate the
150th anniversary of the founding of British settlement in Aus-
tralia. An announcement was made last week of the part
which the new Supply is to play. She is to anchor in Farm
Cove, where it is hoped “to portray a reasonably true picture
of the ceremony which took place on January 26, 1788.”
The proceedings are to open in the early morning with
a ballet in the shape of a corroboree of natives on shore.
Then Commodore Phillip will land, present gifts to the abos.,
and hear his commission as Governor read by Judge Advocate
Collins —despite the fact that it was not until the seventh
day of the ensuing month that such was done. All this is to
happen in or about the Botanic Gardens, over which aero-
planes will swoop, whilst in the background on the harbor
modern warships salute the hoisting of the flag with gunfire.
Then Phillip, his officers and the blackfellows are to make a
progress through the city at the head of a procession of
“floats” staging various representations characteristic of early
settlement and pioneering activities.
There is not to be a hint that among the real Australian
pioneers were James Ruse, the first wheatgrower, and F. H.
Greenway, Macquarie’s brilliant architect, who settled in Aus-
tralia because they had to and made the very best of a bad
job. There is a ridiculous snobbery about this which is quite
in keeping with the burlesque and blah of the presentation of
Phillip’s swearing-in ceremony —grossly inaccurate both as to
place and date. .
Australia owes much to convicts, and should not be
ashamed to own it. The late Professor Wood, one of the
soundest Australian historians, has placed the facts on record.
“Phillip and most of his officers in a few years returned
to England,” Professor Wood wrote. “The seven hundred
convicts made New South Wales their home, and it remained
the home of their children and their children’s children. Year
by year they were joined by other shiploads of convicts, until
by the year 1841, when transportation ceased, about 80,000
convicts had been landed. It is true that a large number....
were sent on to Norfolk Island, Tasmania and Moreton Bay.
It is true, moreover, that the birthrate in the convict period
was very low, and that in later years the coming of large
numbers of free immigrants, together with a large increase
in the birthrate, gave a new character to the colony.” But,
strange as it may seem to sensitive sesquicentenary souls, the
professor gloried in the circumstance that they would conceal.
He wrote of it as “a fact that should give rise to a feeling of
exultation, for it is one of the very best and most hopeful
facts in all human history. It makes us think more highly of
human nature; it strengthens belief in the presence and growth
of human good in the midst of things most evil; it is a
brilliant argument for the optimist.”
Arnold Wood’s wise words may well stand as a reproach
to those responsible for the idiotic omission.
A Vital National Need.
Queensland’s Health Minister, Mr. Hanlon, has
decreed that midwifery nursing qualifications obtained
in other States are no longer registrable in Queens-
land, nor will they entitle their holders to practise
there as midwifery nurses. No preliminary notice was
given to the considerable number of nurses in Queens-
land to whom the restriction applies, nor was any
concession made to Queensland nurses now training
in other States.
The Queensland course is one of six months. In
1934 N. S. Wales and Victoria increased the training
period from six to nine months. Mr. Hanlon explains
his action on the ground that N. S. Wales has can-
celled the previous reciprocity, and thus left him no
alternative. He also considers that the shorter
Queensland period actually affords better training on
account of the greater number of cases provided under
his maternity-hospital system.
The explanation shows how little the Minister
understands the purpose and aims of modern mater-
nity training for nurses. The essence of their work
is not that of the actual birth-process. If normal, that
is a matter of simple nursing routine; if not, it is a
doctor’s job. Attendance at a dozen births would be
ample for enabling any intelligent midwifery nurse
to acquire that aspect of her work. Asepsis, first aid
and instruction as to dangerrsigns indicating need for
skilled assistance comprise'it all.
A nurse’s real duty in maternity work is that of
attending to the mother before confinement and to the
mother and her baby afterwards. Particularly the
baby. As the Queensland branch of the A.T.N.A. has
pointed out, maternity-nurse training is not a matter
of number of births attended but of length of work
done under the closely-regulated conditions of an
obstetric hospital. This is the real issue between the
Queensland Government and nursing registration
authorities in other States.
The Melbourne Women’s Hospital is recognised
generally as Australia’s best training school. Queens-
land’s Health Minister has ruled that a nine months’
course in an institution which is admittedly among the
world’s best in equipment, standards and training fails
to render a nurse competent to practise as a midwife
in Queensland, although three months less in any one
of Queensland’s eight centres is sufficient.
The same Mr. Hanlon laid down in relative order
of importance the essentials for a good hospital as a
good building, then a good cook, then some nurses
and a doctor or so. Individually, they cover the
requirements admirably, but Mr. Hanlon has placed
himself in direct opposition to all other authorities on
hospital affairs by reversing the order.
All matters relating to maternity and infant wel-
fare in Australia are of the most urgent and vital
national importance. Registration of maternity nurses,
and all details relating to their standards of training,
should be made a national matter, administered
through the Commonwealth Department of Health, and
thus freed from provincial jealousies or bright political
ideas.
Australian Callings.
The Australian census of occupations, recently pub-
lished, makes a curious study.
Of 6,629,000 people numbered in 1933, 207,680
were employers, and 369,000 were listed as “work-
ing on their own account.” Unemployment was
then high—4os,ooo males and 75,000 females were
workless., and 170,000 of both sexes were engaged on
part-time. “Helpers, without wage or salary,” totalled
46,000.
Another 2,674,000 women and 1,226,000 men
were not graded. They were persons with “private
means, females engaged in home duties, scholars,
pensioners and other dependants.” This left roughly
1,500,000 working full time. The jobs on which the
1,500,000 were engaged illustrate the unutilised oppor-
tunities which the country affords, as well as those
utilised.
The continental coastline is 11,310 miles long.
Most of it teems with oysters and shellfish Every
visitor sings the praise of the Australian oyster, which
can be tinned, bottled, desiccated and eaten with-
out the slightest danger all the year round ; yet Aus-
tralia in 1933 had only 392 oyster-bed workers —346
of them in N. S. Wales. Of fishermen, there were
5159; rabbiters and rabbit-poisoners exceeded the
number by 900.
Agricultural and pastoral statistics showed 525,771
males and 19,148 females employed, but only 735
were getting scientific knowledge by attending agri-
cultural colleges. Forestry occupied 14,800; Ger-
many has a million working in its forests. There
were 187,000 transport workers ; only 9000 of them
in the tropics. '
Commerce and finance gave work to 350,000 per-
sons. Had the country been invaded a Debt Collec-
tors’ Thousand could have been conscribed ; but the
depression seems to have hit bottle-gatherers—there
were only 118. Law and order called for just over
17,000 in personnel; defence for 5655 permanents,
74 of whom were keeping out the invader in the
North. Australians will rest more securely in their
beds for knowing that since 1933 this force has been
doubled.
In the public service and the professions 370,000
Australians were engaged. Another 244,000 were in
personal and domestic service, and 286,000 were on the
list of pensioners. The amusement trades slumped during
the depression; all the same, 20,000 were employed
in them in 1933. And there were 1776 barmaids. It
is upwards of 20 years since the Victorian Govern-
ment announced that it would issue no more licenses
to barmaids; but the Victorian barmaid is immortal
and ever-young.
Save the Trees!
“Qwert Yuiop”: In the most vital interests of the
country, each one of our. numerous Governments,
from Darwin to Hobart, should make it an unalterable
condition of rural land leases that no growing timber
shall be ringbarked, felled or destroyed within two
chains of any watercourse or lake, lagoon or billabong.
Ringbarking• to the bank is the greatest of ail
causes of soil erosion, destroying the natural soil-
binding and converting the watercourse into an instru-
ment of destruction in times of heavy rains. Stock
routes, too, should be protected against damage to
standing timber, in spite of any focal ideas about the
formation of springs or wet patches.
The insensate passion for destroying trees is the
main cause of such national calamities as grasshopper
and blowfly pests. Flame-throwers and poison cannot
compete with birds as pest-destroyers. Where trees
are ruthlessly abolished Nature’s own remedy against
pests is abolished also.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Burgomaster”: A Sydney suburb has
elected a lady Mayor, the first of her sex
to achieve that distinction in Australia.
The correct form of addressing her Wor-
ship, she has announced, is “Madame
Mayor.” I suppose this is right. Obvi-
ously she isn’t a Mayoress, that title being
reserved for a he-Mayor’s consort or any
feminine relative whom, being a bachelor
or widower, he may nominate. What
puzzles me, however, is the proper way
to address a lady-Mayor’s husband, if she
happened to have one and he popped
into the municipal picture. Would he be
“Sir Mayoress”?
*** *s jfc *
“Selma”: In a little backwater of
Hunter’s Hill is a short street that is
probably unique in Sydney in that the
middle of the thoroughfare is occupied
not by trees or a park or a rock-garden,
but by a tennis court. Residents on
either side may sit on their porticoes and
watch a game when so disposed, and
passing traffic often delays to watch a
piece of worth-while play. Some fine
old trees flank the court. It seems an
idea with something to recommend it,
particularly if the council devotes the
tennis fees to keeping the thoroughfare
in order.
* * * *
“Coif”: What actually constitutes
“offensive behavior” has always been a
profitable source of argument among
lawyers. A case in Newcastle (N.S.W.)
might have ended in a definite ruling on
the subject if it had been carried to the
expected conclusion. One Newcastle
ferry master sued another for “offensive
behavior” in that he steered his craft
close to that of the complainant and blew
“cock-a-doodle-do” on his whistle. De-
fendant knocked the bottom out of what
might have been a most interesting de-
cision by proving he had not been on
his ferry on the day in question.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: A prominent athlete of Ren-
mark (S.A.), F. A. Pinyon, claimed
£3OOO recently for the loss of a leg in a
lorry-motor-cycle collision. At 22, he
holds trophies as boxer, oarsman, cyclist
and rifleshot. “A leading athlete,” said
Judge Richards, “is often specially
favored by offers of lucrative positions.
Further, I fear he may require much for-
titude not to develop an inferiority com-,
plex as the result of his injuries.” Judg-
ment for £1395.
* * V *
“Leo Nard”: “Captain Pintle’s” sea-
history may be correct, but his geography
of Moreton Bay is certainly wrong (B.
24/11/’37). Bishop Island and Wreck
Island are not the names of different
islands, but different names for the same
island —the former the official, the latter
the local. Incidentally, the island, which
lies just below the mouth of the Bris-
bane River, is entirely man-made, being
formed from the silt and sand dredged
up when the channel was made wider
and deeper some few decades ago.
Its formation was part of the scheme,
for by turning the northern current it
gave a degree of permanency to the arti-
ficial channel, thereby lessening the future
dredging requirements. It was named
Bishop in honor of the engineer who
carried out the scheme.
* * * *
“Lever de Rideau”; The theatre or
its successor the cinema is still regarded
in certain circles in Melbourne as the
gateway to the Devil, but judging by
statistics dancehalls are relieving con-
gestion at the gateway. On Satur-
day nights 50,000 to 60,000 citizens
glide about in one another’s arms, as
against a bare 40,000 who hold hands at
the flickers. Upwards of 6000 skilled
musicians cater for the needs of the
multitude, usually remaining on duty till
two in the morning, although treble rates
are paid after eleven. The vast Palais
de Danse at St. Kilda hands out £lO,OOO
per annum to its jazz-smiths. One lead-
ing virtuoso of the saxophone draws a
cool £lOOO p.a. for activities which range
from composition to improvisation.
There is nothing slipshod about the busi-
ness. Some of the finest musicians in
“Be careful wot y ’ say, lady. He goes awful crook if y' says ‘Stone Walls
do not a prizzun make nor hiron bars a cage.’”
the State are to be found in the dance
bands. In the most famous temples of
Terpsichore the music played has been
entirely rewritten by the band’s com-
poser, who is often no petty mixer of
orchestral colors but a thorough tech-
nician. Add to which the priesthood is
expected annually to produce an entirely
new dance form, to which endeavor the
leading dancing academies bend all their
talents.
* * * *
“Den”: The suburb of Burwood, Syd-
ney, was not named after Burwood
Neich, proprietor of the Bath Arms
Hotel (B. 24/11/’37), but after a prop-
erty in the district, Burwood Farm,
granted to Captain Thomas Rowley of
the N.S.W. Corps by Governor Hunter
in 1799. Rowley called it after a farm
in Cornwall. It was situated along the
south side of Parramatta-road, about
eight miles from Sydney. The farm
residence, Burwood Villa, was built about
1814, and remained standing, though
greatly altered, till a few years ago.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Love’s dream was
nearly wrecked for two very nice young
Australians up our way recently. After
three months of happy courtship the
swain suddenly developed attacks of
sneezing and streaming eyes which com-
pletely cramped his style in affec-
tionate demonstration. Worse, they
occurred only when he was alone with
the object of his ardor, and passed off
soon after they had parted. Inquiries
as to food, pollen, flower decorations
and the rest failed to throw any light on
the matter. The girl finally asked if
face powder could have anything to do
with it. It had—he was one of the rare
people who suffer from an orris-root
allergy, and she had changed to a new
one which had orris-root as its perfume
basis just before the misfortunes began,
* * * *
“Arcdeguerre”: Several specimens of
English long-bows (B. l/12/’37) have
been preserved, probably the best collec-
tion being at the Hotel des Invalides mili-
tary museum in Paris. At Hereford
municipal library are two Welsh long-
bows and part of an oak shutter with an
arrow through the four-inch timber.
Ahou' a foot of the shaft remains and
the head sticks out at least three inches.
The standard length of the weapon was
five feet. In Henry VIII.’s time, the
effective maximum range was set at “a
furlonge and 100 paces,” or approx. 320
yards.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Midsummer, and the
North Queensland wharf was like an
oven. Down in the hold of the German
steamer alongside, where the wharfies
were stacking sugar, it was worse, and
tempers were on edge. A German officer,
spick and span in white, was looking
down the hatch. A wharfie wiped his
streaming face and neck, and his gorge
rose at this picture of cool comfort.
“Damn the Fiihrer!” he shouted. “Damn
der King!” replied the officer. A stop-
work meeting brought an apology. A
ship's lime is valuable. But the wharfies
had gamed their objectives appro-
ciated spell of half an hour. Later in
the afternoon the officer came once more
to the hatch. It was still very hot, and
no sooner was he seen from below than
again came the shout: “Damn the
Ftihrer! ” But this time the officer wasn’t
having any. “Damn oont double-damn
der Fiihrer!” he replied and turned away.
The wharfies worked with more goodwill
after the laugh.
“Max”: British caricaturists have
hardly had time to familiarise the Empire
with Neville Chamberlain’s features yet,
but they are faced with a much harder
job than his elder brother or his father
gave them. Unless it be a fairly trim
moustache —and that is much less a rarity
than it was a dozen years ago—there is
little to exaggerate or to make play with.
The artists must miss Baldwin’s pipe and
the late Ramsay MacDonald’s head of
hair. A luxuriant thatch is a boon to
black-and-white delineators of public
men. Which is probably why Lloyd
George is still better known (on paper)
than any of his successors in the P.M.’s
job. *
* * * *
“Iron Pot”: Some strange ideas
develop in Tasmanian noddles. “Flat
Earth” Robinson had one ; able business-
man, good citizen, in all other respects
normal, he spent much time and money
in trying to prove that the earth is flat.
Now State Treasurer Dwyer-Gray, sound
logician in debate, and a good writer,
states that Pasteur was one of the world's
greatest frauds, and that healthy people
cannot possibly contract cholera, typhoid
or diphtheria from germs. At an anti-
vivisection meeting he offered to drink
large quantities of each at meals, in-
cluding a bucket of cholera germs at
breakfast—a filling but unattractive re-
past. Such offers are safe enough ; certi-
fied virulent cholera germs aren’t avail-
able in Australia outside laboratories,
and it would amount to constructive
murder to supply him with even the tiny
amount necessary to ensure a vacancy in
the Speck’s Treasurership.
* * * *
“Mak”: Broadcasting, I gravely sus-
pect, is still adorned by some of those
who struggled into it in experimental
days after other business doors had been
slammed on the seat of their pants. Radio
men tell a story which bears on the sub-
ject. A radio ad. salesman had persuaded
a band-boss it would pay him to buy
time; several hundred pounds’ worth.
But when the baton-wielder called to
sign up the salesman wasn’t in, so he was
ushered into the office of one of the
shining lights. “I’d like those sessions,”
he said. The busy chief couldn’t waste
time on details. “We’ll get you a spon-
sor,” he said, just as quick as that. The
would-be buyer asked all about the spon-
soring idea, learned that sponsors gener-
ally foot station bills —and is now de-
manding a fee instead of paying one!
No —can’t tell you what the salesman
said.
* * * *
“Groper”: Hopping along, making
good time from Broome to Yampi, the
schooner Geraldton, 62 tons burthen, and
loaded with 206 bags of sand, struck a
submerged object. Within six minutes
she was on the way to the bottom, the
crew of six and one passenger leaping
from the rail and
swimming to the one
lifeboat. Four miles
to land, a barren
expanse o£ beach
sand and pindan
scrub country.
Mostly barefoot and
half-clad, the cast-
aways decided to
make for the Beagle
Bay Mission, 30
miles or more to the
north-west. They
had one small keg-
of water. Next day
they found a wind-
mill and camped
half a day until a
native rider came
along and guided
them to a mustering
camp four miles off
on the outskirts of
the mission. A
couple of days later
a 100-miles run on
the mission motor-
truck took them
back to Broome.
Just a casual adven-
ture on W.A.’s nor’-
west coast the other
day. Incidentally,
the jarrah Geraldton had sailed, those
waters 23 years, one storm in 1916 send-
ing her ashore 50 yards up the beach at
Fremantle.
* * * *
“Waipero”: One result of Maoriland’s
40-hour week with its free Saturday, ac-
cording to one Bishop Bennett, is that
drinking has increased, thfe Maoris in
particular spending their Saturdays in the
pubs. This recalls the objection made
by another religious professor, John
Bright, who, when Shaftesbury intro-
duced his bill in the ’sixties limiting
factory work to 10 hours a day, told the
Commons that it would only give the
working classes increased opportunities to
fuddle themselves with gin. What he did
not say was how the'workers of Roch-
dale, almost to a man working in the
Bright mills, managed to buy enough gin
to get fuddled from the wages John and
his family paid them.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: In an emer-
gency some women show a calmness
and presence of mind that put the
average man to shame—but there are •
others. In one case I knew a man who*
ran into a country school with a shout of
“Take the kids down the road to the first
fallow paddock—the father of all grass
fires is coming.” The teacher obeyed,
but went through her usual school-closing
routine of latching all the windows, lock-
ing the door and hiding the key of the
rainwater tank. Ten minutes later a band
of cursing fire-fighters had to burst the
door open in order to put out burning
window-blinds which had taken fire when
the heat cracked the window panes, and
had to gash the tank open with an axe
to get water.
BACK TO THE THOU.
“Tt is understood that Federal members’ salaries
will be restored to the pre-depression £lOOO early
next year.”
You Senators, solemn and portly,
You Reps., men of merit and mark,
’Tis pleasant to learn that you’ll shortly
Return to the four-figure mark.
The years when your screws were diminished
And shrunken were tough, we’ll allow;
But the time for retrenchment is finished —
It’s back to the thou.
’Tis true that the saving and thrifty,
Too proud to complain or to flinch,
Could struggle along on nine-fifty,
But we know very well ’twas a pinch.
There’s something suggestive of sweating
And beggarly treatment, I vow,
To feature our lawmakers getting
Less pay than a thou.
Though in Britain six hundred is all that
M.Ps. are allotted a year,
You’re right in assuming we’d call that
Entirely inadequate here.
We rate, by our values more spacious,
A Rep. who can racket and row
Or a Senator, staid and sagacious,
As cheap at a thou.
No need for discussion or flurry;
Just grab it, that odd fifty quid!
’Tis little electors will worry
(And you’ve little to fear if they did).
To give each man his due is your function,
And you’re free to assess, anyhow,
Without the remotest compunction
Your dues at a thou.
The days wherein wages were lightened
Or slaughtered, thank Heaven, are o’er;
The belts so reluctantly tightened
May be let out a buckle once more.
You Reps, should be blithesome and gay chaps,
You Senators also, I trow,
For it’s back to a thousand p.a., chaps,
Right back to the thou.!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Kwakprak”: A Sydney colleague has
recently published in the strictly ethical
columns of the “Medical Journal of
Australia” a therapeutic suggestion of
the first value made to him by a lady
patient. It affords a tactful and effective
solution for hospital convalescents of
the well-meaning-visitor problem. You
simply keep a few favorite books handy.
When the well-intentioned one appears
on tiptoe, with the funereal expression
considered by such to be appropriate to
the occasion, and begins to tell you how
awful you are looking, just hand it a
volume and, with a sweet, pathetic smile,
request it to read to you for a while.
Everyone is satisfied—except maybe the
next-door patients if you are in a ward.
The visitor is happy to be talking, and
feels all full of ministering-angel stuff,
and the patient can listen or not as
inclined.
* * * *
“Retired Burglar”: It giv’ me a pain
ter see a bloke writin’ in the Bully sayin’
Carlton wuz once one er Melbun’s
fashionable subbubs. Didn’t ’e never ear
of the Booveroos? It’s over fifty year
since I got me first stretch fer dealin’
wh' a John in good ole Bouverie-street,
Carlton. Wot abaht the Crutchy Push
cornin’ over from West Melbun ter
deal wiv us blokes, an’ the boss John,
ole Chomley ’e wuz called, sendin’ up two
’undred cops ter clear Lygon-street so the
noo trams could get through? Mel-
"Any bo'les?"
bun ’Orspital wuz full of the cows,
an’ some of us Booveroos as well, I might
say. ’Ot lot them Crutchies wuz. Carlton
becomin’ a factory suburb, why blime
there wuz factories there before I wuz
born, an’ I’m near 70. Me dad worked
in Cohen’s. If yer talk of the University,
all I can say is that the flamin’ stoodents
wuz a lot worse than what we ever wuz
for booze an’ fightin’, an’ that’s sayin’ a
bj t °
* * * *
“Tuart”: At the beginning of every
summer flapper papers come out with
scornful articles about the clothes in
which Sydney men encase themselves,
and with cheap advice as to what they
should wear, the advice being, in effect,
that they should get themselves up like
half-caste Cingalese. This year one rag
embellished its annual diatribes with a
portrait of a chap in a tweed suit, his
felt hat in his hand and simulated agony
on his dial, walking alongside a flapper
in the skimpy things that young women
affect, and in shoes with stilt heels. The
girl was, of course, presented as an
example of rational dress. Followed
three or four weeks of changeable
weather, for the most part more like
autumn than summer, and at times quite
wintry—it snowed in mountainous parts.
I’ll warrant that the chap in tweeds and
woollies stood it better than the girl
in her scraps of artificial silk. At
least men’s wear is all - Australian,
taken in the beginning off the backs
and hides of animals that graze in
these parts. Women wear nothing
Australian except their shoes. And be-
cause they will insist on cramping their
tootsies and expecting the ball of the foot
to carry the whole weight of the body,
half of them are cripples and slaves to
their chiropodists.
* * * *
“Rigalt”: One wonders what would
happen if some Australian townships
grew in importance sufficiently to justify
the appointment of a bishop. Herbert
Tumbi Umbi, Arthur Three Legs o’ Man
(that one definitely apt) and Horace
Boppy Mountain —our pioneers have pro-
vided ecclesiastics with endless possibili-
ties.
* * * *
“241”: Out here at Long Bay the
coming of Father Christmas is anticipated
with a childish eagerness that is pathetic.
I don’t know whether Governor Seery
is going to put on the traditional uni-
form, for which he has the build ; but
Santa Claus is real enough in chokey.
A lot of prisoners whose terms (even
with remissions) do not. expire until
January will be let out on Christmas
Eve. Just before that the gaol will crowd
up with men for whom warrants have
been outstanding for unpaid minor fines ;
they, since they would normally be due
for release during the holidays, get the
Christmas clemency, too. For those who
have to stay on there will be a special
dinner, permission for luxuries from
friends outside, church services (men
who never go to church outside regard a
service as a break in the monotony) and
entertainments. And no work for the
actual holidays. The stuff has already
arrived for the decorations, and the
cookhouse staff is talking about what
is for Christmas dinner. In the mean-
tune the officials have one worry. They
will lose some competent cooks before
the holidays, and they are praying that
the police will rope in a good chef due
for a term in time to save the situation,
* * * *
4tc ~ „ ... ,
Sailor Once : France will be repre-
sented in Sydney Harbor on the city’s
150th birthday by at least one naval
vessel. The greatest number of foreign
warships of different nationalities to visit
Sydney was at the inauguration of the
Commonwealth. Flags of six or seven
countries were then to be seen flaunting
the breeze, but I principally remember
the U.S.A. cruiser Brooklyn and a Rus-
sian vessel, the Gromoboi; the others in-
eluded French, Italian, Dutch and
"I wouldn't mind doin' a bit more , missus, but me dorg's anxious to get
away."
Japanese. Eight o’clock every morning
the ensign was run up at the Royal
Arthur’s Jack-staff while her band played
the National Anthem; each nationality
followed in turn with its own ceremony
and appropriate air. For a full 10
minutes nothing was to be heard but the
martial, sometimes solemn, notes which
had stirred the pulses of the various
nationals throughout the ages.
* * * *
“Onlock”: Queensland prison services
are beginning to feel uneasy about pros-
pects of expansion. The State’s gaols
offer accommodation for 638, but male
guests in residence number less than half
that, and the aver-
age is dropping
yearly. Banana-
land’s half-million
women contribute an
average of only five.
On several occasions
one lady has had the
whole women’s gaol
at Boggo-road to
herself. The police
attribute the falling
off to new methods
which have made
both the “regulars”
and intending be-
ginners realise that
wireless and the
identification system
are too efficient for
the game. Prison
authorities consider
that, as the major-
ity of new inmates
are unskilled in any
trade, and not used
to regular work, an
eight-hour day five
and a half times
weekly occupied in learning one causes
the average normal-minded offender to
realise that a bloke might just as well
get a job and be paid for it.
* * * *
“Bungaree”: “T.” can add shearers to
his “daylight-saving cranks” (B.
24/11/ ’37). The bulk of the shearing in
N.S.W. takes place in winter and early
spring, and the big majority of shearing-
shed architects appear to have had a
fierce dislike for windows. To get over
the difficulty, the shed clock is pushed
half an hour ahead of the actual
time. On the day of the cut-out, if the
men want to get to town before the pubs
close, shed time may be anything up to
an hour and a half ahead of sun time.
Not only shearers and woolhands favor
putting on the clock, but let “T.” ask
the station hands who have to take the
shorn sheep to the paddocks after the
shearers knock off what they prefer.
“Jamwood”: Fifteen years spent in
Sydney have cured me of my boyhood’s
ambition to become a boss. After an ex-
haustive study, I am convinced that no
other variety of the human animal is such
a prey to politicians, Government in-
spectors, walking delegates, arbitration
advocates, industrial Judges, valuers, rale-
collectors and taxgatherers—an army in
themselves —and the invention of new
ways of harrying him never ceases. For
example, pastoralists who are bound by a
Federal award to pay shearers and shed
hands within a fixed time after cut-out
were recently ordered by the N.S.W.
Government to collect the full family
history of every chap in the shed—“-get it
all down in writing and signed. Anyone
conversant with the ways of bush workers
would have known that this would be a
certain way of buying trouble in vast
quantities; and I am rather astonished
that there has not been a first-class mass-
acre of graziers and station managers.
And consider the command issued by the
Newcastle police to masters of ships
which were in port when the young
woman mentioned by “Flathoof” (B.
8/12/’37) was found strangled. They
were ordered—in some cases by wireless
—to interrogate every member of the
crew and ascertain whether he was in
Newcastle that night, and what he was
doing there or elsewhere, and whether
the girl was a friend or a pick-up, dark
or fair, heavyweight or bantam —and so
on. Again it is amazing that there has
been no alarming mortality among
skippers.
* * * *
“Bunda”: The milkman’s boy called
on Mrs. Next Door to collect an amount
owing. He was told that she could not
pay it until the end of the week. The
boy was very insistent. “There’s no
need to worry like that about it,” said
Mrs. N.D., “I won’t run away.” “You
mightn’t,” said the boy, “but the boss is
going to,»and he wants the cash.”
* * * *
“Ilak”: No need for the Malay to
work up to amuck on Indian hemp (B.
l/12/’37), even the most trivial incident
being sufficient to set Ahmat brooding
until he reaches that stage known as
sakit hati, after which anything might
happen. A loss at the gambling house,
a row with a close friend or the un-
faithfulness of his mistress —any might
send him on an orgy of bloodletting.
Worst amuck I know happened on
a small coastal vessel running be-
tween Singapore and Penang. In his
haste to catch the boat one Salah bin
Dolah lost a portion of his meagre be-
longings, which caused him to sit brood-
ing on the deck for 30 minutes. After
that Salah arose with a shout and began
laying about with a keen-bladed parang
Five Chinese deck passengers fell dur-
ing the first attack. Attracted by the tur-
moil the skipper turned from the bridge
to meet a sudden and terrifying death,
and three other natives were dead before
the word was passed to the chief engi-
neer. He arrived armed with a .32 auto-
matic, and the amuck of Salah came to
a sudden end.
CRICKET SERMONS.
“Replying to a charge that Canberra is a pagan
city, the chairman of the advisory council suggested
that a good game ot cricket might have a .more
beneficial effect than a bad sermon.”
Some cricket rather fails in stimulation,
Nor* are all sermons uniformly bad;
Still, with that necessary reservation,
There’s few will fault your premises, my lad,
Or fail to find a salutary sense
Of comfort in the undrawn inference.
Sermons proverbially are sermons, whether
In stones or pulpits—and, admitting that,
Why shouldn’t there be texts in whirling leather
Belligerently belted by a bat,
Or getting past some budding Bradman's guard
To play the mischief with his timber-yard.
Lessons await the learner, one supposes,
With truths as plain as those in Holy Writ,
In swift “expresses” and deceptive “bosies,”
Yorkers to block and tempting tripe to hit.
Profit as well as pleasure, one derives,
Be sure, from flashing cuts or lusty drives.
Myself, now past the lure of bats and wickets,
Lob into Bethels now and then to find-
How Satan may be rattled to the pickets,
Steered through the slips—or even bodylined.
Yet I might be, if not upon the shelf,
Hitting (or being hit) to leg myself.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


CRAVEN A
In seven different Christmas Packings: 50’s, 100’s, 150’s, 200's and 500’s.
Also Bakelite Boxes of 75 and 100 .
CRAVEN 6 A’ ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
L 1448
POLITICAL POINTS
The amusing little clique which runs
what it is pleased to call the Victorian
United Country party has expelled
McEwen, the new Minister of the In-
terior. McEwen belongs to the “Austra-
lian” Country party, and standing for
Indi, one of the 20 Victorian Federal
electorates, he got' 30,000 votes. The
Victorian United Country party ran
three Senate candidates, who polled
66,000 votes. Instead of chucking people
out of the “party” the clique ought to be
thinking out some way of chucking
them in.
The N.S.W. Country party has lost
the Corowa Assembly seat (it was the
late R. T. Ball’s) to C. B. Lethbridge, a
Corowa solicitor. Himself C.P. once,
Lethbridge stood as an Independent,
and his success is a sharp lesson to the
Cocky bosses as to what country people
think of their neglect of closer settlement,
their move towards pre-selection (two
C.P. men who wanted to stand were
crowded out) and their support for
transport strangulation. It was a parti-
cular facer for Deputy Premier Bruxner,
who went about the place urging the
electors to dish Lethbridge. They grimly
remembered that Bruxner is the Trans-
port Strangulation Minister.
The political ways of the Lazzarini
brothers are aFout to part again. Laz.,
M.H.R., has managed to keep in with
Lang, but Laz., M.L.A., is to be cast
out by Lang for the third time. Anyway,
he says he is going to apply for nomina-
tion by the Marrickville electorate coun-
cil, instead of losing a party ballot in
the prescribed form, and that will mean
expulsion. So far the brothers have
never been called upon to declare one
another “black,” but that may come.
Sydney’s Civic Reformers have re-
tained their majority of four in the City
Council. The Labor ticket was blessed
by Lang and his Inner Group, and that
was sufficient. In six years Lang has
figured in three Commonwealth general
elections, two N.S.W. State general elec-
tions, two City Council elections, two
local-government elections and an Upper
House referendum, and has lost the lot.
The Public Service Arbitrator has
voted an increase of half a million in
annual expenditure on Federal public-
service pay. The gentleman “disallowed
the claim that the increase should not
take effect till July 1,” and held that the
Government should set an example to
private employers, prosperity having re-
turned. He, of course, hasn’t to find the
money.
Maoriland Labor enters upon its third
year of office encompassed by troubles—-
rising industrial costs, a wool-market
tumble, farmers’ opposition to guaran-
teed prices, inflated imports and a rash
of strikes on the waterfront. With an
election due in 1938, the last is the most
dangerous feature of all. Australian ex-
perience is that waterfront turmoil
spells disaster to political Labor, whether
in or out of office.
Except that imports of North Ameri-
can chassis are still to be rationed, the
Government at Canberra is abandoning
its trade-diversion “policy.” As an
example of political folly, the “policy”
would be hard to match; it benefited
nobody, and hampered many Australian
manufacturers, though the Government
fondly hoped that Australian manufac-
turers would somehow be helped.
Heaven alone knows why dealers in
chassis are still to be restricted to “the
number imported during the twelvemonth
to April 13, 1936,” though possibly the
Government cherishes the fatuous notion
that people can be induced to believe
that it was right on one point.
Casey has admitted that the proceeds
of the tax of .7d. per pound on chassis
and parts, which were to have bounty-
fed the manufacture of car engines, have
been paid into general revenue and
formed part of the last surplus. The ad-
mission was wrung from him by his
former colleague Gullett, to the latter’s
“bitter disappointment and disgust.”
Mr. Gullett’s agony of mind will not
console motorists, who, as he puts it,
have been taxed another £7 or £8 per
car.
R. R. Skeat, now in the chief presi-
dent’s seat on the Vic. Cockies’ central
council, which has disowned McEwen,
says his council is “prepared to be
judged on the matter at the proper
time.” Whether it is “prepared” or not,
the faction he leads is in for a torrid
time at the next Cockies’ Conference.
Forgan Smith has had one of his
periodical arguments with the Queens-
OUR HOODED MEN.
“Last year £108,303,000 was collected in taxes, the greater part by State Governments.”
land Taxpayers’ Association. The argu-
ment will be renewed during the election
campaign, and Foggy, whose way of ful-
filling an explicit promise to reduce
taxes was to take a penny in the pound
off the relief tax on higher incomes, will
be hard put to it to explain why his pro-
vincial Government takes more from the
individual taxpayer than any other.
In 1936-37 the comparatively small
number of Queenslanders had to part
with £7 17s. Id. per head —population,
not taxpayers. Victoria was at the
bottom of the list with £5 16s. lOd. per
head. It is no mere accident that Vic-
toria is making more substantial indus-
trial progress than any other State.
Millions of words were taken down by
the shorthand writers who reported the
Sydney s.p. cases, and another million
and a half by those who have done the
inquiry. Now millions more
may be shot into the atmosphere by way
of enlightening the proposed royal com-
mission on the sale of State “enterprises.”
Lang started on this subject again in the
Assembly on Thursday, and “spoke for
three hours and a quarter.” He was fol-
lowed by Spooner, who “spoke for three
hours and a half.” Then came Stevens,
who wound up by offering to appoint a
royal commission, provided Lang gave
evidence on oath. Lang said he would.
The U.A.P. hopes he will squib it, but
lawyers will be desolated if he does.
Italy is leaving the League. History
will arraign the author of the British
foreign policy which has thrown Italy,
Germany and Japan into one another’s
arms and lost control of Belgium and
Portugal. Eden’s friends make tons of
excuses for him, but history will sweep
them all away.
Buttenshaw, the N.S.W. Minister of
Lands, is retiring from Cabinet and Par-
liament to succeed the late Arthur
Trethowan on the Farmers and Graziers’
Co-op.; but not just yet. Buttonhole is
the politician who was given the cLoser-
settlement problem to solve, and whose
way of solving it was to admit blithely
that not one small holding had been
thrown open in a twelvemonth —this
though a Small Holdings Act, recom-
mended to the Government by experi-
enced land men, had been on the Statute
Book since 1932. Buttonhook has an-
other title to remembrance^—for an
elderly gentleman he played quite a good
game of tennis.
Though their country is committed to
non-intervention, Attlee, the British Labor
leader, the hysterical Ellen Wilkinson,
M.P., and a political professor named
Noel Baker —one of those professors who
have forced the sad old world to realise
that knowledge and wisdom can be poles
apart—have visited Spain and sided bois-
terously with the Red Government. So
much so in Attlee’s case that a battalion
of the Red International Brigade has been
named after him. Attlee pronounces Red
Spain “unbeaten and invincible,” which
is hard luck for the Red Spaniards. When
British Labor politicians and editors of
Australian flapper papers prophesy vic-
tory for the foreign cause they are cham-
pioning at the moment the funeral is not
far off.
There are two Copley brothers in
Queensland Assembly—P.K., of Kurilpa,
and W.J., of Bulimba. Three years ago
they were in such high favor that they
were the only metropolitan Labor can-
didates who hadn’t to struggle for the
party nomination; but this time each
brother is having strenuous opposition.
In fact, interest in the party ballots which
are to be held next Saturday centres in
how the Copleys will get on.
“S. M. Herald” has allowed a con-
tributor, R. W. Robson, to say on its
leader page that it is ridiculous for
Papua and Mandated N.G. to have “non-
interchangeable services, different tariffs,
different policies and different laws.”
Why in the name of commonsense
shouldn’t there be one Administrator, one
Administration and one policy covering
finance, development _ and defence?
Yes, why not? And why shouldn’t the
“Herald” campaign against this idiotic
waste of effort and money and give
Mussolini an occasional rest?
The flapper press has vacancies for a
hero and a heroine, the Chiang Kai-sheks
having bolted from doomed Nanking. A
couple of months ago they were winning
the war, and Madame was getting as
much space as Greta Garbo and Jocelyn
Howarth combined. Then things hap-
pened, and a flapper sheet learned
“on unimpeachable authority” that Red
soldiers were rushing into the breach
and “were acknowledged masters of
mobile warfare over a shifting front.”
The Reds shifted even faster than the
Chiangs.
Every two or three months Sydney
“Sun” persists in asserting that legalisa-
tion of betting shops has given the Adel-
aide Government its annual surplus. In
point of fact, the betting-shop revenue
is only £200,000 a year or so, and since
tote receipts have fallen heavily the
actual increase in income is not great; it
is the huge gifts from Canberra
(£3,590,000 in 1935-36, of which
£1,545,000 were “special grants”), that
have given Butler his surpluses. An-
other side of the shield was shown to
the Betting Commission by W. B. Carr,
chairman of the S.AJ.C. He said that
the betting-shop legislation is killing
racing and that it won’t revive until the
shops are shut on local race-days.
James, the dried-fruits man, who has
been a thorn in the side of the A.D.F.A.,
has sold his packing shed at Berri (S.A.)
to it, and has become one of its dis-
tributing agents. So there will be no
more Privy Council cases —at least, Bob
Menzies and his fellow-Ministers hope
not. But the dreadful thought arises that
James may turn his attention to trans-
port.
When Coronation medals were handed
out, N. S. Wales was mildly astonished
at the number of Feminist Leaders who
received them. It never dreamed there
were so many Feminist Leaders about.
Yet the list, as published, seems to have
been incomplete; anyway, a Feminist
Leader who has been abroad for years is
back, bringing the news that Russia is
“the greatest factor in world peace,” and
that “in Germany there is no hope.”
The people live in fear of oppression
and terrorism and don’t even know the
meaning of the words “justice and cul-
ture.”
This Feminist Leader was introduced by
another, who remarked that 12 years
ago the F.L. had “never made a speech.”


TAKING HIM FOR A WALK.


VCUCOIiOTfONSMtIN
CivW
Agents for N.S.W. GOLDSBROUCH MORT 6. CO. LTD.
i>ghtteg Grammar #rhonl
0rl?ool I foußtf
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927, conducted
under the direction of the Trustees by a School House Board.
Early application for 193 8 is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Australians are playing a big part in
the Near Eastern Royal Air Force. A.
H. Flower is in command at Ramleh
(Palestine), W. A. McClaughry at Aden
and Group-Captain Roy Drummond has
become senior air staff officer at Cairo.
Drummond hails from Perth (W.A.), join-
ing the A.I.F. at 20 on the outbreak of
war and transferring almost immediately
to the R.F.C. He went to England with a
D.S.O. (with bar) and the M.C., and rose
to be Director of Training to the British
Air Ministry in 1933. Latterly he has
been in command of one of the biggest
and best equipped R.A.F. stations in
Britain. Still only 43, he is marked out
for high command. His one regret in
Cairo, where there is nothing bigger than
a pyramid handy, will be that he will not
be able to indulge in mountain-climbing,
his favorite sport.
In his three years in the northern
diocese Brisbane’s Anglican Archbishop
Wand has made himself an influence in
public affairs, largely through his gift
Brisbane’s Archbishop WAND.
of tolerance and his knowledge of
men. His ecclesiastical career began
in a humble way at Newcastle-on-Tyne
(Eng.), and from there he transferred to
a curacy in Lancashire. After the war,
he was a chaplain to the Royal Air
Force for a time, and then his scholar-
ship and ability as a preacher took him
as fellow and dean to Oriel College,
Oxford —the college from which Cecil
Rhodes graduated—and made him lec-
turer in church history at Oxford. He
has written standard histories of the
early and modern church.
Australasia has had no ecclesiastical
dynasty to beat the Maoriland Wil-
liamses. The first Williams became Arch-
deacon of Waiapu (M.L.) in 1862, was
afterwards head of the Maori Theologi-
cal College at > Gisborne and finally
Bishop of Waiapu in 1894. In 1909,
dying at 80, he made way for a son who
had been Archdeacon of Christchurch.
He, in turn, in 1930 passed his mitre to
a son, also an erstwhile archdeacon and,
like his grandfather, an authority on the
Maori language, and former head of the
Gisborne Maori College.
Killed at 38 in a motor accident on
the Brisbane road, Colin G. A. Boyce,
member of an old Toowoomba (Q.)
family. His great-grandfather, J. A.
Boyce, was C.P.S. at the Downs capital
for many years before becoming P.M.
at Townsville in the earlies. His grand-
father returned to Toowoomba, where
his father, W. M. Boyce, carried on the
family name and activities for many
more years. Born and educated there,
Colin joined at 16 the Toowoomba
Foundry Company, founded by his
maternal grandfather. After war-time
service as an 18-year-old trainee at Point
Cook, he returned to the family busi-
ness, to become, at 25, Central Queens-
land manager for the company at Rock-
hampton. His son Peter is, at eight years,
the head of the fifth generation of Too-
woomba Boyces.
C. J. Henderson, for 16 years super-
intendent of the Bank of. Australasia, has
cashed in at 81. A son of the kirk, edu-
cated at Ballarat College, which his father
founded, Henderson saw the war years
through in charge of the bank, and re-
signed in October, 1926.
The Australian offices of the Orient
Co. will not seem the same without D. L.
Dowdell, who is retiring. Dowdell was
one of the many successful men given a
start by Hutchins College, Hobart (Tas.),
and joined the Orient Co. in 1890. He
became Melbourne branch manager in
1909 and g.m. in 1918, and much of co.’s
post-war development has been due to
his unbounded energy. His successor is
A. W. Johnson, Sydney branch manager,
who has been 37 years with the co.
Born at the turn of the century, John
Carl Anthony Waters, just appointed
editor of Brisbane’s “Courier-Mail,”
joins with “S. M. Herald’s” new chief
and James Macartney, of Perth “Daily
News,” as one of the three youngest
metropolitan editors. Waters began his
career with Melbourne “Herald,” and
was assistant editor when the Brisbane
job came along. He left the ‘ Herald”
in 1933 to join the “Star” (defunct), and
was its editor for a year or more. Some
years ago, during a tour abroad, he
visited most of the Digger cemeteries,
recording his impressions in Crosses of
Sacrifice.
James Fawkner, grandson of John
Pascoe Fawkner, one of the founders of
Melbourne, has died suddenly in his
native Launceston (Tas.). A drover in
his young days, he was well known in
racing circles ; over a long period he raced
horses in Tasmania and Victoria, two
of his best-known being W.T.S. and
Opposition. He was, too, reckoned an
expert with the gun.
Holberry Mensforth, scientist, engineer
and director of John Browns, who built
the Queen Mary and are building her
sister-ship, arrived in Sydney during
the week. He is a forceful York-
shireman who sits on the boards of many
British coal and power companies. For
six years after the war he was the War
Office Director-General of Factories and
chairman of the Manchester District
Armaments Output Committee. His
work on the job earned him a knight-
hood of the Bath in 1923.
A veteran mariner, Captain A. G.
Murison, recently retired from the ser-
vice of J. and A. Brown and Abefmain
and Seaham Collieries. In more than
50 years on the N.S.W. coast Murison
had made 3500 trips between Sydney and
Newcastle, carrying four million tons of
9
CAPTAIN A. G. MURISON.
coal. This hardy Scot started in sail,
arriving in Sydney in the ’eighties. His
coast record began in the A.S.N. Com-
pany, and he was on the Victoria when
she transported the Queensland kanakas
back to their islands in the South Seas.
Murison pays a fine tribute to John
Brown’s ships in recalling that never
once in 36 years did he have to return
to port.
Leslie Crisp, S. Australia’s 20-year-
old Rhodes scholar, intends to read for
honors at Oxford in philosophy, eco-
nomics and politics as a preliminary to a
political career in Australia. His col-
lege, St. Mark’s, has produced 11 Rhodes
scholars in 10 years, 10 of them S. Aus.
nominees. At school, Crisp was dux of
St. Peter’s, has been a tutor in eco-
nomics at St. Mark’s and plays golf and
football for that college.
Who dress “Granny”:
With the retirement at 76 of Brunsdon Fletcher
from the editorship of the “S. M. Herald,” the
ancient oracle falls almost entirely into the
hands of youth. Warwick Fairfax, the manag-
ing director, is 36; A. H. Stuart became g.m.
at 40, four years ago; the new editor, H. A.
McClure-Smith, who came from the “Times”
a few months ago, is at the end of his thirties.
He is a Melburnian with a Balliol College
(Oxford) education and a widely-travelled ex-
perience in journalism and son of the W. A.
McClure-Smith for many years g.m. of Aus-
tralian Estates. F. M. Cutlack, who becomes
associate editor, started on the Adelaide “Regis-
ter,” went to London and joined the “Daily
Chronicle,” served for a time in the High
Commissioner’s office, came out on H.M.A.S.
Australia as a special correspondent before the
war, was the A.l.F.’s second official war cor-
respondent for a couple of years, and wrote the
Flying Corps volume of the A.I.F. official
history. Called to the Bar at Lincoln’s Inn in
1919, he returned to Australia, and has since
been a leader-writer and special correspondent
on the “S.M.H.” staff. He visited Japan with
the Latham mission.
Judge Backhouse, still a familiar figure
to Sydney yachtsmen, though he retired
from the Bench in 1921, holds more than
one Australian record. He has been at
the N. S. Wales Bar for 61 years, and has
sat on the Sydney University senate for
just over 50 years.
The growing importance of Australia
in British trade is marked by the appoint-
ment of T. R. Toovey to succeed the
veteran Captain A. W. Pearse as Port of
London representative in Australia.
Toovey has been with the port authority
for over 40 years, and has been chief
assistant to the g.m. since 1924, helping
to handle the old city’s £450,000,000
worth of annual sea trade.
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, loses V.
S. Murphy, Westralian Rhodes scholar
for 1921, who goes to Trinity Grammar
School, Svdney, as head. He was for-
merly a master at Newington, Sydney.
“El V.” on a family of long-livers:
Viscount Coke, heir to the Earl of Leicester,
who is in Australia, has a 29-year-old son who,
with the ordinary family luck, should be still
above ground to welcome the year 2000. The
first earl was born in 1754. He married in
1822, at 68, and that year a son was born who
succeeded him in 1842. The son married in
1845 and died in 1909, so that the lives of
father and son stretched over 156 years. The
present earl was born in 1848, but had to
wait till he was 61 for his coronet. At 89
he is still going strong. The last time I saw
him—at a meeting in Westminster Hall in 1926
—he remarked gravely that he had a special
interest in Australia, since he believed that his
grandfather was present at the Privy Council
meeting which decided on its settlement. The
visiting Coke —pronounced Cook —i§ quite a
youngster, a mere 57, born just before his father
went off to the Egyptian War of ’B2. He him-
self served in the Boer War and the Great War.
The absence of the tall, picturesque
figure of John Spencer Brunton will
leave a noticeable gap in the ranks of
racing personalities. Victorian-born in
1861, he had been all his life in the flour-
milling business founded by his father,
Thomas Brunton, M.L.C., and became
its senior partner and manager. He
owned many notable horses, including
Maltine and her daughter Jocelyn, both
Metropolitan winners, Carry On, winner
of an Australian Cup, and Homer, who
dead-heated with Allunga in the 1935
A.J.C. Derby ; but he was not a betting
man. His firm did much to make Aus-
tralian flour known throughout the
world. He was a veteran in Sydney
JOHN SPENCER BRUNTON.
Chamber of Commerce government, be-
came president in the ’nineties and was
for some time a Sydney alderman. And
during the war period, until he was 58,
he served as brigade major to the N. S.
Wales Lancers.


THE
vor WILL
BE PROUDER TO OFFER
%
mm m
\
W¥*
m
m.
m
.. „***«**.
Anyone who smokes
and practically everybody
does would welcome
this gift this Christmas.
100 Ardath Specials
Cigarettes—a very special
Virginia blend with a fam-
ous English name —in a
Bakelite box of perman-
ent beauty. The outer car-
ton is the festive affair you see illustrated above. At all tobacconists
everywhere 10/
Other Ardath Christmas packings—so’s Flat Laube Boxes and 100’s
Square Laube Boxes in Pictorial Mailing Cartons; 200’s and 500’s
Padded Boxes; 50’s Oblong Bakelite Boxes (Pictorial Carton).
Ardath
7137-11.1


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bull-ant Bill”: I never see a knock-
about acrobatic performance without
being reminded of the better one which
my Uncle Henry put up at the age of
65. Uncle was portly, irascible, and so
conservative that he regarded pyjamas
as indecent innovations. A vagrant bush
cat had raided the kitchen, so Uncle kept
a bullseye lantern and a waddy at his
bedside in preparation for the next visit.
Early in the morning a nightshirted
figure shook me awake with the news
that the blankard was in the kitchen.
We stole down ; Uncle flashed his lamp—
the cat had the joint on the floor. I closed
the door to prevent escape, Uncle made
a mighty swipe and missed, the cat did
miracles of activity up the walls. Finally
Uncle backed it into a corner; an
ugly big brute, too. He raised the waddy
for the coup de grace, but with a light-
ning dash the cat bolted for shelter—up
Uncle Henry’s nightshirt! I spent the
rest of the night dressing the scratches,
but he never forgave me for laughing.
And the cat got away.
# # ❖
“Locksley”: The Australian abo. is
moving up on the scale of civilisation.
In N.S.W. recently one shot a kangaroo
with bow and arrow and thus raised
himself out of the age-old ruck of his
race. It is curious that the Australian,
inventor of the boomerang and the
throwing-stick, should never have evolved
the idea of the bow as a weapon, though
it was occasionally used as an implement
to work a drill. In far North Queens-
land the tribes lived almost cheek-by-
jowl with the Papuans inhabiting the
Torres Strait islands close to the Aus-
tralian coast, and there is evidence that
they were raided at times by these bow-
using people, but they never seem to
have realised the importance of the
weapon.
* * ■* -Sr
“All In”: Queensland papers tell how
ar old-man kangaroo attacked a man
who went to rescue his dog from it and
nearly strangled him before a mate outed
the marsupial with a waddy. A big ’roo
is an ugly customer when cornered and
a match for any unarmed man if given
an open go. We are familiar with the
boxing kanga. I have often thought an
old man trained in the stuff they call
wrestling would be a big draw. His sharp
claws on hands and feet would have to
be gloved, but he would command all
the other tricks of the trade, including
biting and kicking the referee. On
second thoughts, though, he would be
too much in earnest, and the stuff he
would deal out to his opponent would
savor more of murder than showman-
ship.
* * * *
“Cootcah”: One of the best chicken-
killers I know is the plain-turkey in
captivity, and I’ve seen him having a
word or two with a hen plover when
out bush. I don’t doubt the plover
knew what his game was and that she
wasn’t yelling “blue murder” just for the
fun of making a row. When that bloke’s
in captivity and allowed the run of the
yard there’s always a mysterious short-
age of chickens which haven’t quite
reached the feathered stage. With a bit
of practice the p.-t. can take ’em when
they’re sprouting a few pin feathers. He
is rarely suspected and more seldom seen
—he’s so darned quick on the job. One
grab with his beak, a quick squeeze, a
look to heaven, an oyster act and that
chick’s day is done, while the turkey goes
on with an innocent look in his eye and
pretends he’s chasing cigarette butts.
* * * *
“Cockyson”: “Talkin’ about clever
dorgs,” said old Joe, “what about my
ole blue cattle, Tiger? One day ole Bob
Jones, me neighbor, comes roarin’ about
me Jersey cow bein’ in ’is corn. She was
in calf, an’ I didn’t want her knocked
about, so I sends Tiger to fetch her
home. ’E was back inside 20 minutes,
without Nancy an’ lookin’, I thought, a
bit annoyed. I spoke sharp to ’im an'
sends ’im again, but in 10 minutes ’e’s
back again lookin’ wilder than ever. I
wakes up there’s somethin’ wrong an’ I
“ You'll hear from my solicitor about this!”
goes over meself to see. There’s a Jersey
in Jonesey’s corn orright the dead spit
of me Nancy, but she wasn’t in calf.
Tiger’d noticed it, o’ course, as soon as
’e spotted her. That’s why it ’urt ’im
when I sends ’im the second time!”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Here’s official evidence in
favor of the much-maligned goanna as
a snake-killer. Constable Hungerford,
of Mungindi (N.S.W.), whilst driving
along the Weemeelah-road, saw a goanna
carrying something, which it dropped
when the car approached. The some-
thing was an 18in. death-adder, with its
head chewed off, and a couple of bites
across its back. The rightful owner dis-
played considerable annoyance at police
interference with what it clearly re-
garded as its hard-won lunch, and showed
indications of assaulting the officer. Like
a decent Australian bobby, he restored
the property immediately his investiga-
tions were completed, and the goanna
departed with it towards a suitable refec-
tory.
“Wilmac”: Digestion? A party of
nine of us, having an after-dinner snooze
on the bank of the Edwards, near Denili-
quin (N.S.W.), watched a 6ft. goanna
clean up about two dozen discarded chop
bones and then top off on a full-size,
well-dead black duck lying at the water's
edge. The fowl was partly plucked by
using first one front foot and then the
other. The sliming came next, and then
the swallowing. The go.’s mouth was
large, but the bird was larger. Not that
that worried the lizard in the least,
Using the butt of a tree for a
backstop, he pushed and shoved until
we thought his throat would crack,
But it was a very contented-looking rep-
tile, with an aldermanic bulge amidship,
that finally crawled into a hollow log
tor a siesta.
* „ * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: The undeniable fact
that old Bill Possum was lazy and trans-
mitted the quality to his three sons has
brought them in quite a bit of money
lately. For 30 years Bill, and the boys
after him, reckoned they’d clean up the
other end of the selection some day, but
when they came to look at it the stuff
always seemed a bit big. All hardwood,
too. Sometimes a bullocky took a few
logs, but it was a fortnight’s trip to the
nearest mill that could handle them.
When a girder-cutter turned up and
offered them 6d. a foot run for the lot,
they reckoned the bloke had a whole
bag of rats. He started in with a five-
ton motor-lorry which did the bullocky’s
two-week trip and back in a day, and
worked like a tiger. At the end of six
months they reckoned they’d collect a
few quid. They did —two hundred, and
much more to come before it cuts out.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Strange how the old
bush superstition that mosquitoes breed
in thick clumps of wattle or tea-tree still
lingers on, backed by no better grounds
than the circumstance that the mug who
happens to pitch his tent in such locali-
ties is invariably half-bitten to death dur-
ing the summer months. Without stag-
nant water mossies cannot breed. One
rural dweller, urged by his missus,
chopped down about half an acre of
tea-tree round his homestead and never
took the trouble to string a piece of wire
mesh over the top of his tank!
* * * *
“Gulf”: Concerning trigate-birds (B.
13/10/’37), the exception which “East
Cape” mentions proves the rule. These
singular fowls are a good meteorological
guide. If a flock is seen slowly circling
high up, fine weather may be predicted ;
circling low down, the reverse. When a
few are seen flying straight, as though
on purpose bent, you may depend on a
blow from the direction into which they
are driving. One moining at East Cape
(N.G.) I witnessed a broad line of these
piratical-looking fowls solemnly issuing
from the western horizon and disappear-
ing into the eastern. Natives couldn t
explain what appeared to be a migration
on a grand scale. It’s not generally
known that the flight of frigate-birds was
made a close study in the early days of
aeroplaning. Lighthouse-keepers were
invited to report on their banking, zoom-
ing and the like.
„ „ . „ > »
Skull Creek : The O.D. s yarn
about a foxy entrapped for 14 days in
a burrow until a plough-horse s hoof
broke through and released it (B.
24/11/ 37) sounds like a cable from
Valencia or Nanking. Any foxy un-
able to escape from such a shallow bur-
rc)W IS . a disgrace to his breed and fully
deserving of 14 days solitaiy. Scratch-
through 2ft. oi solid earth is just a
pipe-opener to most terriers, and when
extended they can give a porcu-
]points in the art of dirt-shifting. If
. O.D. s was a pom we might believe
out a foxy no.
* ifc *
“Puyyaka”: And let me
tell “C. Coral” (B. 24/11/’37)
that Treacle, who, according
to him, “holds the record for
shark-teeth marks,” holds no
record, having been dead
these good many years. His
marks numbered only seven,
anyhow, and they were not
inflicted by a shark but by a
groper. Wherever he was
born, Treacle was brought up
by the Mosby family on
Yorke Island, and both physi-
cally and facially he was not
an abo. but a typical islander,
as the well-circulated photos,
of his injuries show clearly.
Concerning “C.C.’s” lectur-
ette on T.S. populations and
post-office geography, a good
deal of South Sea and other
outside blood was introduced
by divers and boatboys years
ago, but the original Papuan
strain still preponderates
through the eastern group,
Murray and its neighbors.
And Banks Island does not
lie “hundreds of miles east-
ward” but some 30-odd miles
northerly of Thursday Island,
just east of Badu. “C.C.” should shake
off the post-office cobwebs and get about
a bit.
* * * *
“Palencia Creek”: The cook’d have
something to say about that stove wood
split by lightning (B. 24/11/’37). Last
summer a dry grey-box in our home
paddock got in the way of a flash, and
a fine load of house-wood resulted. We
still pause when we remember our bab-
bler’s choice of words after he had spent
a blistering afternoon trying to bake
bread with the lightning-stricken wood.
Timber struck by lightning will burn
well outside, but not indoors.
* * * *
“Mornie”: Parsley the only herb un-
touched by the grasshoppers (B.
24/11/’37)! Does anyone remember the
plagues of tiny green beetles that at one
time swept over the southern States?
They spared nothing but geraniums. The
same plant was immune, too, during the
invasions of the army worm. Around
Sale, Gippsland, they were piled a foot
deep in the shade of gateposts and trees.
Young onion plants were nibbled one
year, but geraniums—never! Plum-trees
were the worst sufferers from the beetles’
attacks ; the fruit fell, and on one occa-
sion earned me a whacking with the old
man’s belt. The beetle yam wouldn’t
wash with him.
* * * *
“Bustard”: I’ve written before about
the kangaroo tick, but the fellow in
charge of the Abo. page seems to have
thought I was pulling his leg. Others
having testified to the existence of the
bug, I’m having another shot. The pecu-
liar cuss never seems to affect two men
the same way. I and others with me suffer
no inconvenience other than a tickling
itch and a bit of a lump. I know two
or three men who suffer different degrees
of sickness from one bite. But one
fellow I know —he’s no newchum either
—just can’t stand ’em at all. One bite
and he’s as sick as a dog, with liability
to fainting fits. Two bites, if he does
happen to fluke ’em, will put him out
more surely than a sledge-hammer on the
solar plexus. That fellow is firmly con-
vinced, and I think he is right, that half
a dozen bites would surely settle him,
while if a bug ever sinks itself into an
exposed vein he can kiss himself good-
bye. The tick seems to know his marks,
too.
HARVEST-TIME.
Sing me a song of the harvest gold
And the fields of ripening grain,
Of the warm earth paying twentyfold
The seed that was laid in its soft, rich mould,
The sheaves piled high as they were 6f old
On the lumbering, laden wain.
But who’d sing a song of the dirt and sweat
And the scorch of the summer sun,
Of the flies that swarm and multiply,
Of the arms that ache and the throat parched
dry,
And the long day slowly done?
Sing me a song of the meadows green
Where the lush green grasses grow,
With the clover thick through the stalks be-
tween, \
And the distant fences scarcely seen,
And the thick, sweet swathes where the mower’s
been,
With the stubble deep below.
But never a word of the sudden rain,
Of the blue sky turned to grey,
Of the squalls that drench the windrowed plain,
And the weary turning once again
Of the dank and sodden hay.
Sing me a song of the golden grain
And the brimming bags once more,
Of the headers roaring down the plain,
And the brown crop streaked with a paler stain
As the knife takes toll of the wheat again,
And the horses six before.
But what can compare with the harvest’s end,
With the cheque for the golden grain,
With the cheque that we’ve planned for a year
to spend,
That we carefully fold and we sadly send
To the mortgagee again?
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURKER.


“Bushy”: Recent severe hailstorms in
Bananaland with stones “as big as hens’
eggs” remind me of the easiest money
that ever came our way. The particular
bird that supplied the dividends for Joe
and myself was a dodo as regards size.
We had the home paddock to fence on
one side, only a small job of about 400
chains. We had just hauled the first
post into position to get a line on the job
when the hail started. The first coconut
rammed it a clear three feet into the
ground as it struck. Then the idea hit
us. As fast as we could drag those posts
into line, they were belted into place.
The only hard work was dodging the
hailstones and keeping up with the storm,
which threatened to blow over. Joe had
already lugged the last strainer into posi-
tion, but he misjudged it, and the last of
the stones caught him fair on the brain-
box. Anyway, there was one consola-
tion. In digging him out we had a
hole already dug for the strainer.
* * * *
“Tam”: “D. Thomas” (B. 24/11/’37)
claims that many outback Australians —
I presume he means blacks —refuse to eat
offal, as they describe liver, kidneys,
brains, etc. He should attend a station
slaughter, and if he can find any “offal”
remaining within half an hour, well, Til
“Haircut and shampoo. I'll be back in half an hour."
eat it —raw. Brains, kidneys and sweet-
breads find their way into the station
kitchen; the rest goes to the blacks’
camp with the head and the tail. But
blacks of the Centre scorn fish, even in
lean times when their stomachs are
hooked on their backbones. Why, I’ve
never been able to ascertain.
* * * *
“Stral”: What’s the recipe for a suc-
cessful social understanding between
magpies and Westralian mudlarks (B.
17/11 /’37)? Maggie, our pet one-legged
warbler, would like to know it. The
mudlarks keep his head constantly point-
ing skywards. If he lets up for a moment
they get him behind the ear. If he bends
down they jab him in the rear. Between
trips to their nest in the pines they give
“ It's MOST fright'ning, Doctor. Every now and again a feminine feeling seems to creep over me."
him no rest whatsoever. When he climbs
to his perch at night, they’re there to
waylay him and knock him off. When a
cat nearly put him out of his misery they
engaged the feline’s attention just long
enough for us to rescue him; they
wanted him reserved for further chastise-
ment. We’ve just discovered the reason
for Maggie, of late, throwing himself in
front of stray cats. The mud architects
crack him on the head every time he
nails a worm, and grab the prize when he
opens his beak to take the offensive.
“Acacia”: Tell “F.Y.7” (B. 24/11/’37>
that the mimosa bush is common to the
whole of the west of Queensland and
isn’t reserved to the top waters of the
Barcoo alone. I’ve seen it at the heads
of the Barcoo and Georgina, and found
it on the lower reaches of the Diaman-
tina and on all the country in between.
As “F.Y.7” states, it grows on the open
downs in a good rainfall area. Below
the 15in. mark the stuff is rarely found
on the downs —only along the banks of
gullies and watercourses.
* * * *
“Wah”: His boss stayed late in town
one night with his missus, and Jack Hog-
gity was reading the paper while the
boss’s kids played in front of the stove
with what sounded like crackers but
what on investigation proved to be .22
cartridges. “They were throwing them
into the fire and trying to shoot me,”
Jack reckoned. He pocketed the remain-
ing ammunition for safety’s sake, and
forgot about it. Next morning in the
half-light he filled his pipe and lit it
while rounding up the cows. Suddenly
there was a report like a pistol-shot, the
pipe was wrecked and repercussions were
felt in the Hoggity front teeth. The kids
were still to blame in the story Jack told
as he tenderly chewed his breakfast
steak.
* *■ * *
“Cam Cove”: Any Abo. scribe know
the size of the native bear in situ ? I
don’t mean in exact yards, but in com-
parison with some standardised animal,
say the possum. In a wide experience in
N.S.W. and Queensland I have never seen
a bear that would measure up to the
length, breadth and circumference of a
silver-grey, but the teddies at the Heales-
ville sanctuary (Vic.) are about the size
of a not-too-small wombat.
* * * *
“Orca”: Shocked into practically in-
stant death by the explosion of the dyna-
mite harpoon, the 40ft. humpback stains
the water red in its final flurry. With
harpoon-line coiling inward the chaser
draws alongside. A thrust with a lance
into the stomach cavity and the air-pipe
is inserted. Compressed air flows, and
the carcass begins to inflate. But already
the “pram” is overboard, with Svend and
Olaf armed with shark spears, 9ft.
lengths of inch water-pipe tipped with a
12in. shovel-blade. Attracted by the
blood sharks jostle in their struggle to
reach the free cafeteria —the thick blub-
bery lips and the rich succulent tongue.
But with fierce quick stabs Svend and
Olaf show that the meal is not merely
for the taking. Blood flows afresh from
eyes and snouts. Water beats to bloody
foam as the horde of the continually-
arriving ravenous fall on their wounded
brethren. But there are still aspirants foi
a meal of blubbery lip ; despite the stab-
bing spears great mouthfuls are torn
away. The “pram” rocks and bumps ;
with ease the “sharkers” keep their bal-
ance where to fall overboard would mean
certain death. Fierce sport, made all the
keener by the risk. The men grunt and
sweat with thrust on thrust. Slowly the
football-like carcass rises, until the vul-
nerable lips are clear of any shark on-
slaught. The air pipe is withdrawn; the
hole plugged with a tapering wooden rod.
The “sharkers” jump on to the corru-
gated underside, now on top ; then climb
on board. The “pram” is hoisted in. The
carcass is flagged—to be picked up later.
Dark fins and shadowy bodies continue
to arrive, but the feast is over ; no shark
teeth can make any impression on the
tough cetacean back, and the last
wounded sea-tiger has long disappeared
into the stomachs of his own kind.
*¥* ' *
“Tamornie”: Painted skulls (B.
24/11 / ’37)? The custqm seems to be
rather widespread. In Mandated New
Guinea the skulls of deceased relatives
are preserved, sometimes with the digital
bones. Kept in a wooden bowl, they
serve to remind the living that all flesh
is grass, or something to that effect. To
the headhunters of the upper Sepik the
skulls were trophies of the chase, and
great care was exercised in preserving
them; years later villagers from the
places which supplied the trophies were
able to recognise friend or relative. Don’t
know what those Sepik skulls are worth
now, but in my time a fiver was the
usual price one had to pay to dealers.
* * * *
“8.N.G.”: The Rev. P. N. W. Strong,
who came out from the Cold Country
some six months ago to “bish” in New
Guinea, has discovered the “mission
face,” which is radiant and shining with
joy and brightness. Many old-timers
must have grinned to themselves as they
read of the bishop’s find and permitted
memory to browse back over the years.
In my day the rev. gent.’s description
fitted the kind of dial which Papuan
R.Ms. hated to see in their districts. Its
owner was generally a “boy” who had
mixed with white men (not necessarily
missionaries) and had returned to his
native village with a determination to use
his newly-acquired knowledge for the ad-
vancement of No. 1. His various efforts
to that end, especially in the way of ac-
quiring desirable ladies, resulted in never-
ending trouble where all had been peace
before. The radiant smile of Christian
(and some very un-Christian) “boys”
would impress newcomers, it being in
such striking contrast to the shy, stand-
offish attitude and mien of the average
native. The sophisticated “boy’s” radi-
ance was generally the expression of his
entire self-satisfaction in his fancied
nearer approach to white-man status.
AMBITION.
“It seems to me,” the old man said, that
nowadays I’m failin’ fast;
I’ve lots of trouble sortin’ out the things that
happened in the past.
But still in spite of everything, green in me
memory, so to speak,
Me boyhood days come back to mind when
someone mentions Dingo Creek.
The little schoolhouse in the scrub an’ Long
Bill Jones, me faithful mate —
1 mind how often me an’ him would linger
at the homestead gate
An’ talk of what the future held, of harvests
rich we meant to reap;
A goldmine was my aim in life, Long Bill was
goin’ in for sheep.
“A real ambitious bloke was Bill —it wasn’t
only boyish skite.
1 noo he meant it at the time, an’ word come
through the other night
That, spite of fearful handicaps, he’s done
exactly what he said.
He’s gone in for merino ewes —a matter of
two thousand head;
His youthful dream is realised. An’ me —well,
I’m still scratchin’ round,
Still chasin’ up the chancy gleam of gold that’s
waitin’ to be found,
A fossicker who barely earns a bob or two
above my keep.
But somehow I don’t epvy Bill —Long Bill,
who’s just gone in for sheep.
“Sour grapes, you say. But, no, me lad!
This here’s the way I look at things:
The bloke who gets the largest share of honey
always cops the stings.
What’s more—although it seems that Bill has
made his boyhood promise good,
His venture isn’t looked upon with favor in
his neighborhood.
Some criticise his business ways; an’ even if he
got ’em cheap,
There’s folks who say that Long Bill Jones
slipped badly goin’ in for sheep.
“A bonzer line of ewes they were. They had
one drawback; it appears
They all belonged to someone else —Long Bill
went in for seven years.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


ENJOY THIS XMAS TO THE UTMOST BY MAKING
YOUR RESERVATIONS FOR THE
12/6 SPECIAL XMAS DINNER 12/6
12.30 till 2.30 p.m.
AT
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 Pitt Street, Sydney. ___
Adams' have been fortunate in again
securing the services of their Special
Xmas Entertainers.
Special Decorations, Delightful
Novelties and an Atmosphere of
friendliness and goodwill.
For Reservations Call, Write or
’Phone M 4601.
S. C. SHORT, Manager.
XMAS TEA—A la Carte —
5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Have you read over your Will lately ?
I T is a good plan to read over your Will now and again. Changing
* conditions often call for alterations. Moreover, it would be wise
to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited your executor.
Building up your Estate has been slow work; ensure that it shall be
wisely yet sympathetically administered when you are gone.
A personal interview would be best; or perhaps you would prefer
to write for particulars of the Company’s service?
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers. N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
purchasers AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
SUvar Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Gres, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS an(J Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Blnestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formula or Buyers own specifications
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers Metals
to Standard Formula or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company a
offices, viz.: —
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
o- O’Connell Street Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Sydney Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
rjOI DMINERS send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or < ’ r nrices
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the
Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is
known throughout Australia and Maori-
land, where it has been writing policies
for the last 61 years. It is one of Aus-
tralia’s five big mutual offices, and is a
sound, healthy and progressive institu-
tion, paying regular and satisfactory
bonuses. At the end of September its
assets totalled £27,970,988, the growth
over the last 12 months being £2,563,178.
In the Ordinary and Industrial depart-
ments the business has stepped along in
this way since 1929:
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
•29 1,480,402 240,043 530,073 710,340 0,817,430
Written off premises, £4900 .. ..
To contingency fund, £7300 .. .. 6,805,230
’3O 1,019,556 262,586 603,373 753,597 7,5u8,827
Written off premises, £49,036. . . . 7,509,791
To contingency fund, £36,777.. •• 7,473,014
>3l 1,701,929 281,880 759,152 660,897 8,133,911
Written off premises, £49,327.. .. 8,084,684
To contingency fund, £29,597.. .. 8,004,987
’32 1,652,870 306,850 784,224 561,790 8,616,777
Written off premises, £24,776.. .. 8,592,001
To contingency fund, £24,776.. 8,067,225
’33 1,716,881 304,768 759,425 652,688 9,219,913
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,194,913
To contingency fund, £5OOO .. • • 9.189,913
’34 1,865,750 284,463 789.567 781,720 9,971,633
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 9,976,533
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 9,964,133
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 9,901,633
’35 2,048,039 304,532 791,521 951,986 10,903,619
’36 2,252,513 341,548 760,221 1,150,744 12,054,363
’37 2,455,024 380,343 817,805 1,206,826 13,311,189
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’29 2,143,427 662,369 799,008 682,050 J> 29 2,567
Written off premises, £5lOO .. ■
To contingency fund, £7700 .. • • £,279,767
’3O 2,224,967 680,186 901,607 643,174 7,922,941
Written off premises, £50,868.. •• £>8£2,073
To contingency fund, £113,151 •• ' £>£®B,922
’3l 2,188,137 661,797 929,514 596,826 8,355,748
Written off premises, £50,673.. .. 8,300,075
To contingency fund, £70,403 8,234,672
’32 2,108,142 677,116 893,413 537,613 8,772,280
Written off premises, £25,224.. .. 8,747,061
To contingency fund, £25,224.. .. 8,721,837
’33 2,135,912 679,276 743,168 713,468 9,435,305
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9> 410 >305
To contingency fund, £45,000.. •• 9,365,30.)
’34 2,257,022 677,400 632,513 947,109 10,312,414
From Accident branch, £5000.. ..
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 10,304,914
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 10,292,414
’35 2,436,215 709,995 555,123 1,171.097 11,463,01 l
’36 2,627,311 755,398 857,907 1,014.006 12,477,517
’37 2,824,455 798,805 1,070’,236 955,414 13,432,931
Like all other life offices, the T. and G.
took in its belt during the slump, but
has let it out again since, thanks to steady
improvement in conditions generally, the
hardening of interest rates and relief
from inequitable emergency taxation.
During the five years to the close of ac-
counts in 1935- the position of policy-
holders was strengthened by reducing the
basis of valuation from a mixed 3i p.c.
to a uniform 3 p.c. basis, and by adding
£376,528 to the contingency fund (now
£564,499) and writing £322,404 off the
book value of premises, the aim in each
instance being maintenance of satisfac-
tory bonuses to policy-holders.
During the last term the co. notched
fresh records by writing new business to
the amount of £10,317,242 (up £1,295,88a)
in the Ordinary and £6,611,804 (up
£404,664) in the Industrial section. In
the Accident branch, policies assuring
£6,952,671 (down £663,776) were issued.
In the three departments combined
£4,243,454 (up £314,413) of net premiums
was gathered, and £1,181,424 (up
£106,274) came in in interest and rents.
Total income was thus £420,687 better at
£5,424,878, of which £2,240,622 was
added to the Assurance funds, raising
them to £26,867,975.
The amount available for distribution
among policy-holders is the difference
between the actuarial liability under poli-
cies and the amount of the Assurance
fund. Last year this surplus increased by
£37,968, reaching £848,069, of which
£469,895 (up £4766) belonged to the
Ordinary and £378,174 (up £33,202) to
the Industrial section:
1932. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary . . £393,592 £437,176 £465,129 £469,895
Industrial .. 286,548 317,199 344,972 378,174
Total . . £680,140 £754,375 £BlO,lOl £848,069
Last year in the O.D. the growth in funds
(£13,311,189) was £1,256,826, and in
liabilities under policies (£12,841,294)
£1,252,060. In the I.D. the growth in
funds (£13,432,930) was £955,414, and in
liabilities under policies (£13,054,756)
£922,212. The co. has recently been writ-
ing a fair amount of “Income Assurance”
business, which carries heavy actuarial
liability for a short term. After reserving
£25,000 in each department for actuarial
contingencies, and making provision for
interim bonuses, etc., the balance is to be
distributed in reversionary bonuses (rate
not mentioned in the report) to all partici-
pating policies. On whole-life ordinary
policies, temperance section, these
bonuses ranged from 465. p.c. on con-
tracts one year in force to 745. p.c. on
those 25 years old or more in 1936. In
the general section the bonuses were 2s.
p.c. less ; and on endowment assurances
they were 10s. p.c. less than on whole-
life policies.
The office assumes that its funds will
earn only 3 p.c. Actually the gross return
on mean funds was £4 11s. 9d. last year,
or £4 6s. Bd. after deducting taxes, etc.,
so there is a satisfactory margin there.
Excluding taxes, exes, took 18.2 p.c, of
the net premiums, including consideration
for annuities, in the O.D. as against 17.7
p.c. for the previous term. The increase
is very slight considering the amount of
new business written. The average
amount per ord. policy was £293 (up
£18), and the average premium per cent,
was a shade lower at £3 1 Is. 7d. In the
I.D. exes., less taxes, took 34.3 p.c. of the
net premiums as against 34.9 p.c. in
1936.
Assets are in this form:
Public 1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
securities ..£16,203,829 63.8 £17,387,605 62.2
Loans.. .. 6,477,507 25.5 7,809,523 27.9
Freeholds .. 2,150,294 8.4 2,322,203 8.3
Cash, book debts,
etc 576,180 2.3 451,656 1.6
Last year £1,183,776 was added to public
securities and £1,332,016 to loans, of
which £5,554,476 is secured by mort-
gage, and the balance is against policies
and reversionary and life interests. Free-
holds increased by £171,909.
Amalgamated Wireless
Nominal
Writ- To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 39,036 Nil 13,88625,150 21,294
Deficit.
Establishment account disclosed, £49,795 28,501
1928.. 70,722 6 p.c. = 43,96123,297 3,464 20,037
Written off establishment exes., £717 . . 24,320
1929.. 8 p.c. = 59,543 28,73120,052 4,268
Written off establishment exes., £ll . . 4,257
To Re- Nominal
Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1930.. 84,283 8 p.c. = 59,543 24,740 20,483
1931.. 59,196 6 „ ~ 44,657 14,539 3»,022
1932 77,159 71 „ „ 55,821 21,338 56,360
1933.. 82,172 8 „ „ 59,543 22,629 78,989
1934.. 137,934 10 ~ ~ 74,428 63,506 142,495
Staff fund. £5OOO 137,495
1935.. 119,824 10 p.c. = 74,428 ) 30 396 167,891
Staff fund, £i5,000 .. f
1936.. 109,701 11 p.c. = 81,870 2i,831 195,/21
1937.. 125,794 12 „ „ 89,313 36,481 232,202
Shareholders are now reaping the bene-
fit of the management’s enterprise and
long-sighted policy, for which the Gov-
ernment and the public have much to be
thankful, too—the Federal Government
holds a controlling interest in the busi-
ness. Chief pillars on which the organi-
sation rests are the Beam service (it was
opened in 1927, and has greatly cheap-
ened and quickened communication be-
tween Australia and the rest of the world)
and the co.’s various other radio-service
and -manufacturing activities, all of which
have expanded rapidly of recent years.
Much of the co.’s success is due to the
energy and foresight of E. T. Fisk, chair-
man and managing director ; the national
value of his work won him a knighthood
last year. .
The improvement in earnings tor 3 /
was partly apparent and partly real. The
’35 and ’36 figures were subject to non-
recurring charges. Allowing for these,
the ’36 profit was claimed to be approxi-
mately £3OOO better than its immediate
predecessor, and the improvement last
year seems to have been at about the
same rate. There was all-round expan-
sion of the business, especially on the
manufacturing side. According to the
published accounts, gross earnings
(£720,817) sprang £141,572, and exes.
(£595,023, including £113,834 for depre-
ciation) took £125,479 of the increase,
leaving the net result £16,093 better at
16.9 p.c. on capital as against 14.7, 16.1,
18.5, 11, 10.3, 7.9, 11.3 and 10.6 p.c. back
to 1929. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
and the 1 p.c. bonus sent out in the pre-
vious term was doubled, making 12 p.c.
for the year.
Revenue from the Beam service was
“well maintained,” and use of the over-
seas wireless telephone and photo-tele-
gram services is increasing. On the
manufacturing side the co. turned out a
record number of radio-receiving sets, for
which a new market has been found in
S. Africa, many orders were received for
broadcast transmitting stations in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, difficulty was ex-
perienced in maintaining the supply of
“Teleradios” (the co.’s transmitting and
receiving installation), some 30,000 tele-
phone hand sets were made for the Aus-
tralian postal department, and manufac-
ture of traffic signal equipment was
begun. More ships, both here and over-
seas, were fitted with the co.’s equipment,
orders for radio beacons in connection
with aviation increased, the co.’s own
broadcasting station (2CH Sydney) is now
profitable, and a new world-wide broad-
casting service, not expected to contribute
to profits for a while, has been installed
at Suva, Fiji. The subsidiary, Amalga-
mated Wireless Valve Co., which has in-
creased its plant capacity to a million
valves per annum, has also begun to
manufacture transmitting valves, for
which there is a strong and growing local
market.
The continued growth of the business
is further reflected in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
1930. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £744,283 £744,283 £744,283 £744,283
Sundry creditors 113,652 259,143 240,287 331,720
Freeholds .. 267,376 297,677 377,243 38* 1 57
SB;'**'} 295-OU 395,253 563,949 f "JJ*,
Beam service.. 160,412 159,647 171,495 176,814
Book debts . . 125.268 139,636 259,058 304,640
Cash, etc. .. 114,565 282,080 103,507
Stocks, previously lumped with fixed
assets, are now shown separately for the
first time. The growth of £140,266 in
the combined items was mainly on ac-
count of stocks and work in progress,
which looks well for the current term.
To meet this outlay, add £4914 to the
book value of premises, £5319 to the
Beam service and carry an extra £45,582
of debtors’ balances, the co. drew upon
cash, etc., for £33,855 and went outside
for a further £91,433, of which £34,428
was from subsidiaries. The old head-
quarters building, York-street, Sydney, is
being demolished and a new 14-storeyed
structure is to be erected on the site. No
hint is given as to how it is proposed to
finance the work. When the books
closed, cash and Government securi-
ties totalled £33,011; the more or less
liquid surplus amounted to £357,700.
As for the current term, the outlook
favors further improvement in earnings.
On the market, the fully-paid pound
shares, which advanced from 535. a year
ago to a peak of 675., were at 625. last
week-end. The return at 625. is 3.8 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for 4.5 p.c. on his money
counts on a 14 p.c. distribution. On a
12 p.c. div. basis the contribs., paid to
14s. each, return 3.1 p.c., or 4 p.c. if
and when the other 6s. is called and paid.
Including uncalled capital and the reserve
against depreciation, etc. (£396,841), the
net tangible cover is 325. 9d. per pound
of paid capital.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov . Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 139,796 13} p.c. = 125,168 14,628 306,011
Shares in subsidiaries written up,
£455,492 761,501
Reserves capitalised, £455,492 .. 806,011
1927.. 159,103 11} p.c. = 132,642 26,461 332,472
1928.. 154,084 10 „ „ 139,578 14,506 346,978
Share premiums, £17,308 .. .. 364,286
1929.. 160,637 10 p.c. = 141,909 18,728 383,014
Share premiums, £5O .. .. 383,064
1930 . 118,347 74 p.c. = 107.263 11,084 394,148
1931 91,554 6} „ „ 89,386 2,168 396,316
1932".. 171,066 8} „ „ 125,140 45,926 442,242
1933 111 414 6} » ~ 89,385 22,029 464,271
1934” 134 483 74 „ „ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8} „ „ 125,140 24,482 515,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143,017 52,432 568,405
1937.. 200,114 10 ~ ~ 142,017 57,097 625,502
This is a holding co. whose accounts
don’t tell shareholders very much. At
the end of October there was £1,430,173
of capital to feed. The lot, together with
the reserves and £106,556 of other
money (mostly advances from associated
cos.), was represented by shares and in-
terests in a string of subsidiaries, which
are in the jam, fruit-canning and -preserv-
ing and general merchandising businesses.
They are scattered all over the Common-
wealth and Maoriland, and extend to
England and S. Africa as well. But the
curtain is kept drawn over their figures,
so outsiders know little of the real posi-
tion. The market, however, is prepared
to back the management on the strength
of the co.’s history and its grip upon the
trade in Australasia and elsewhere. The
group handles the bulk of the export
business in fresh and canned fruits and
jams between Australia and Britain,
where Australian canners are now suc-
cessfully competing with Californian
competitors.
Formed 28 years ago by the late
Henry Jones and his able lieutenant
A. W. Palfreyman, now at the helm, the
co. stepped in where there were overlap-
ping and inefficiency in organisation, and
reduced the lot to a minimum. During
the 20 years to the close of accounts in
1929 the parent’s divs. averaged a wink
under 11 p.c., sweetened with £455,492
of bonus scrip in 1927, though share
premiums (£59,039) have taken a bit of
the gilt off the gingerbread. Slump and
other things brought the rate of div.
down to 6i p.c. in 1931, since when over-
production of canned fruits, etc., fol-
lowed by price-cutting by Government-
financed factories, has produced fluc-
tuating results.
In 1936 there was marked expansion
in the volume of both local and export
trade, and business was well maintained
during the last term, when the return
from Australian sources was £3665 better
at £145,264, or approximately 10.2 p.c.
on capital. Net income from overseas
interests —outside the Commonwealth the
co. controls six factories and four mer-
chandising cos. —was £lOOO better at 3.8
p.c. on capital:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Net income:—
Australian.. £55,674 £95,772 £141,599' £145,264
Other sources 35,880 53,850 53,850 54,850
Total .. £91,554 £149,622 £195,449 £200,114
The £200,114 of profit claimed was a
wink under 14 p.c. on capital, compared
with 13.7, 10.4, 9.4, 7.7, 11.9, 6.4, 8.3,
11.3 and 11 p.c. back to 1928. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c, and there is no-
thing in sight at the moment to suggest
that it is likely to be disturbed during
the current term.
Since the co.’s Australian markets are
nearing saturation-point, it is the export
section of the business that holds the
greatest possibilities from the share-
holders’ point of view.
On the market the fully-paid pound
shares, which advanced from 465. a year


The ideal Xmas Gift
for him!
Give your menfolk shirts of
TRICOLINE . . . then listen
to their exclamations of
delight.
Such a gift will bring joy
to any man’s heart . . . and
become a treasured item of
his wardrobe.
ALL TRICOLINE SHIRTS
are Becken Shrunk, and will
not fade. Moreover, they
wear like whipcord yet
feel like silk.
Leading Mercers or Men’s
Outfitters will show you aj
large range of Tricoline*
Shirts.
If unable to obtain Shirts of Tricoline,
please apply to any of the under-
mentioned representatives of the
manufacturers for information.
SHIRTS FOR MEN
■p
m
i
1
I
s
a
mm
SSSS&K
TRICOLINE
R EC D
Produced in England ... A Wemco Fabric *
Brisbane B • • Walter C. Williams, Ryan House, Charlotte Street
Melbourne • * • - K. Mather, Pawson House, Flinders Lane
Perth - • B • • • - Marshall Flower, 757 a Hay Street
Sydney • ■ Keogh & Co., Grace Building, York Street
TRAVEL
A
r
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
k'
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA W AORANGI "
INC.
IN
• Z.
IMPERIAL
AIRWAYS
LINK OF EMPIRE
Below are extracts from the speech of the Chairman
(Sir J. George Beharrell, D. 5.0.), at the Annual
General Meeting of Imperial Airways Ltd., on
Wednesday, 10 November 1937
The Chairman said:
€f Lhe total volume of traffic carried increased by about
J 7i%
fl~ Mails on the Empire services as a whole increased by
0 24%
® The Board took very early steps to place the first com-
mercial order for a number of De Havilland Albatross
aircraft, which show great promise as regards speed
and range
ff On the London-Karachi section . . . traffic increased by
O 16% over the previous year, and we sold 74% of the
capacity available, compared with 68 % for the previous
year
4T Between Karachi and Singapore . . . the traffic . . . in-
-0 creased by 31% and we sold over 67% of the capacity
available, as compared with about 61 % for the previous
year
f Between Singapore and Brisbane the line is operated . . .
by Qantas Empire Airways, an Australian company
associated with us. This Company increased its traffic by
nearly 85%... This substantial growth... is... in no small
part- due to the efficiency and keenness of our partners
# Bermuda-New York service ... in June last a once-
weekly service was commenced in conjunction with Pan
American Airways, . . . the demand for accommodation
has been encouraging
Last year . . . the drst of the fleet of twenty-eight of our
" Empire flying-boats had completed its trials with out-
standing success . . . the subsequent delivery of the
others of the fleet has been a triumph of production. . . .
These aircraft are, I believe, the fastest commercial
flyi n g"boats in the world
The Cambria has to her credit the fastest crossing of the
Atlantic in 10 hours 36 minutes
4T The Short Mayo-Composite aircraft... has now reached an
advanced stage in her flying trials
The big expansion in our services required to carry
out. . . our new agreement with the Government for the
main Empire lines will, we hope, be completed by early
next summer; . . . the new fleet should be in operation
over the whole of the lines to Australia and to South
Africa with the frequency of service planned
I sincerely hope that before I address you again the ex-
J tension of the main line to New Zealand will be well on
its way towards being established, if it is not actually in
operation
JT A dividend on the ordinary shares of the Company of 7 %
plus a bonus of 2 %, both less tax, were declared as compared
with a dividend of 6 % plus a bonus of 2%, both less tax,
for the previous year. The net profit for the year was
£ j 64>735 compared with £140,705 for the previous year
A full report will be sent on Application to the Secretary,
IMPERIAL AIRWAYS LIMITED
Airway. Terminus London England
ago to a peak of 515., were at 465. 6d.
last week-end. The return at 465. 6d. is
4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
This co., formed in 1929, owns rights
over about 15 square miles of reef and
alluvial ground on the Edie Creek field,
New Guinea. In addition to alluvial
equipment, there are the Golden Ridges
mill (capacity 4500 tons monthly) on the
lower area, and a 20-head stamp battery
and cyaniding plant on the Edie (upper
area) properties.
For the year to Sept. 30 last revenue
was £328,648 (down £8645), of which
£88,742 (down £24,561), equal to 7.9 p.c.
on capital as against 10.1, 13.6 and 16.1
p.c. for the three preceding terms, was
net profit. The slip was due to expendi-
ture on development (£23,383) being
charged against earnings instead of
against capital as hitherto. For the last
couple of years earnings and outgoings
of the various sections compare as
follows:
/ 1936 -v 1937
Proceeds. Exes. Proceeds. Exes.
Golden Ridges .. £155,421 £90,063 £107,312 £75,417
Edie Mill . . 88,886 70,959 131,633 103,876
Alluvial . . 69,329 27,035 64,357 23,893
Tributors . . 10,493 8,764
Sundry receipts 4,518 7,938
Depreciation .. 15,237 16,781
Administrative
charges .. 12,056 11,295
Profit .. .. 113,303 88,742
Last year the Golden Ridges mill treated
30,553 tons ore (average grade 0.50 z.
gold and 2.150 z. silver) and 34,726 tons
tailings (average grade 0.28 oz. gold and
1.990 z. silver) for 12,0520 z. bullion. The
drop in revenue was due mainly to lower-
grade ore, which also caused recoveries
to fall off. Of the drop of £33,643 in the
profit (£31,895) from this sector, approxi-
mately one-half was owing to the fall in
grade and the other half to the charge
for development (£16,837).
At Edie Creek 40,624 (up 12,284) tons
ore (head value 0.460 z. gold and 16.50 z.
silver) was treated for 15,2450 z. fine gold
and 38,8630 z. silver. After charging
£6546 for development, the profit here
was £9830 better at £27,757. Extraction
of silver from these manganiferous ores
is very small; an attempt is being made
to impound the residues with a view to
re-treatment later should a road be built
from the coast to Wau.
On the alluvial sector the co. treated
76,118 c.y. for a profit, including tribu-
tors’ returns, of £49,228 (down £3559).
A 5 p.c. div. was sent out on Dec. 14,
but “there is no implication that existing
ore reserves may be greatly increased or
that dividends can be paid regularly
hereafter for a period sufficient to repay
capital with interest,” the chairman says.
At Sept. 30 ore reserves were figured
at 109,030 tons, averaging 0.520 z. gold
and 13.430 z. silver, in the Edie and
Karuba veins, with a probable 38,700
tons, estimated to average 0.440 z. gold
and 1.90 z. silver, at Golden and Upper
Ridges. The drill indicates that there is
another 50,000 tons of payable stuff
below No. 1 level of the Karuba vein.
In addition, there are the Koranga and
Wau alluvials, estimated by E. A. Lang
to contain 6,300,000 c.y. of 12.56 d. dirt.
The co.’s own engineers put the figures
at 9,691,000 c.y. and 12.47 d. respectively.
Estimated capital and operating costs for
this area are not stated, but the co. ex-
pects to make a “fair profit.” The Golden
Ridges mill is to be reconstructed for
separate treatment of sands and slimes,
the aim being better recoveries and lower
costs.
The venture has been a disappointment
to shareholders, who have had three
divs. (two of 4 p.c. each and one of 5
p.c.) and have lost three-quarters of their
capital, reducing the figure to £1,118,083
in ss. shares. The amount lopped off
capital was used mainly to reduce the
book value of the mine by £2,891,728
and to rub out the prospecting account,
£439,549.
When the books closed, debtors and
cash totalled £278,073, and there was
£24,760 coming to creditors. The market
prices the f.-p. ss. shares at 2s.
After a temporary halt owing to
floods, Sunshine Gold Development, New
Guinea, is in production again. The 10s.-
paids, which touched 16s. 9d. earlier m
the year, strengthened a few pence to
11s. Id. last week, after a period in the
doldrums. At the latest quote market
valuation of the show is £llO,OOO-odd.
In the Consolidated claims, boring
proved something like 2,000,000 c.y.,
averaging 4s. per yard. With costs at,
say, Is. per c.y.—an overall figure of
lOd. was achieved for the three months
March-May last—a profit of close on
£300,000, recoverable over seven years,
is within sight on paper, before provid-
ing for gold duty. For the 14 months
to Sept. 30, £14,124 (Is. sd. per share)
was netted, but the co. was then
in below-average ground, though re-
coveries confirmed bore values, which is
encouraging.
* * * *
tt ~ D „ T , _ r . , . ,
Jr * Lake View s shrinkage in
profit from £478,414 in 1936 to £439,000
1937 is largely accounted for by addi-
tional expenditure on development and
slightly lower value of ore treated. An-
other contributory factor was higher
labor costs, which helped to lift work-
ing exes, from 20s. 7fd. sterling per ton
to 21s. Extra development has expanded
the ore reserves, which at June 30 last
were equal to over six years’ supply for
the mill on the basis of 50,000 tons a
month. Things are done in a big way
on this co.’s group of mines. For in-
stance, in the last few years over
£A 100,000 has been spent in bringing
surface plant and equipment into line
with latest developments in the industry.’
Heavy capital expenditure is now practi-
cally at an end > and profits are tipped
to increase during the current year,
* * * *
First Hit, Lady Shenton’s next-door
neighbor at Menzies (W.A.), produced
40300 z. of gold (from 5549 tons ore and
1109 tons sands), worth £39,193, for the
year ended Oct. 31. Net profit was
£14,094. Out of this shareholders received
an interim 3d. div. (£4660), £6322 was
set aside for taxation and depreciation
and £3llO was carried forward. Cash
and bullion on hand total £8434, which,
the board says, is sufficient to finance
three months’ operations. The manager
estimates positive, probable and possible
ore reserves at 12,107 tons of 12dwt.


A.M.P. helps men to
BUILD HOMES
HELPING members to build themselves homes is
part of the work of the A.M.P. Society. Member-
ship in the A.M.P. is not merely a means by which
a man can provide for his dependents after he is dead
and gone. It is a means of living. It is a means of
getting the most out of life.
If you do not own your own home, and would like
to do so, drop into the nearest A.M.P. office and learn
what the Society can do in the way of advancing you
the money to, build or buy. Under the Society s plan
you can make provision to pay off a loan over 20 years,
and the further provision that the loan will be wiped out
should you die at any time during the period.
On the average, one family in two in Australia
and New Zealand is now protected in some measure by
A.M.P. Life Assurance. Thousands of families live in
homes built with money provided by the A.M.P.
If you have not used the A.M.P. to build up your
finances and your future, don’t delay another day. Act
before this month is out and you will share in the
Society’s 1937 Bonus. Call or write to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgabj” Melbourne.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * * ,
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
H: * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia I For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
If you have ores for sale write:—
NORMAN HILL & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
INDUSTRY linked with- the UNION BANK
«1
f
it
• : '• .
/
vk
i Si
flijl
HSSi
■
: I
m
!«!i
as •
zKttSSSM
The co-operation of capital with sound,
well directed enterprise is the greatest factor in industry.
It is the foundation upon which the Nation is built. It is a
simple process, but one requiring expert care and guidance.
Has it occurred to you how any person can transfer the
responsibility of investing his savings or surplus funds to a
thoroughly trained organisation? By placing them on
interest bearing deposit with the Union Bank they make a
safe and reliable investment and the Bank assumes the task,
without risk to the depositor, of investing them in industry.
The Bank's staff at any Branch will be pleased to explain
the advantages of an interest bearing deposit as an
investment, or to consider any sound proposal to finance
industrial or other enterprises.
X UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established /837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
grade. Report by C. M. Harris, indepen-
dent mining engineer, commends the
management for its “systematic, sound
and miner-like work.”
* * * *
B.H.P. does nol broadcast returns from
Hannans North, its one and only gold-
mine in the West, but the Mines Depart-
ment occasionally does. The latest is v
9550 z. from 1865 tons crushed. This
show is at the extreme northern end of
the Kalgoorlie belt and was one of the
first on the field to be worked. A London
co. tried and failed ; then an Adelaide
concern had an unsuccessful go. A local
mining man who followed did well for a
time; then he went to the Great War,
where he was killed. Later Gt. Boulder
got possession, and later still it was
acquired by 8.H.P., which has done best
of all.
• * * * *
Paringa Co., Kalgoorlie (W.A.), reckons
that by the time its new treatment plant
is ready, early next year, there will be
over three years’ supply of ore proved.
These reserves are reckoned to have
a gold ‘content of 61,706 fine oz., worth
approximately £A539,937, with the metal
at 1755. an oz. Described as a “star” de-
velopment, the recently-discovered Green-
hill lode is being opened up on the
second, third, fourth and fifth levels,
where the width of ore ranges from
20ft. to 50ft., and the grade is 14.41 dwt.
per ton.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) goes on
making money and paying divs. out of
gold won from the re-treatment of old
residues. It exhausted its own moun-
tainous dumps some time ago, and is
now extracting wealth from Gt. Boulder’s
tailings on a profit-sharing basis. From
its 1937 cut Golden Horse Shoe is paying
those on the register 2d. a share (about
5i p.c.).
* . * * *
Youanmi (W.A.) reports that gold
worth approximately £27,000 was
obtained from its Westralian mine during
the third quarter of 1937. Costs are not
given. On No. 6 level driving has ex-
posed lOidwt. ore over a width of 6ft.
and a length of 241 ft., with rock assay-
ing in the face. On No. 4 level
driving has revealed values of 15dwt.
over a width of 6ft. and for a length of
63ft.
* * * *
Adelaide-controlled Blue Bird, at
Norseman (W.A.), continues to lay golden
eggs. It recently got 7960 z. from 796
tons, and another good crushing is in
sight. The reef is being worked over
widths varying from 10 to 16 inches,
but what it lacks in size it makes up in
value.
* * * *
After reports of the discovery of a new
lode and cheerful forecasts, Golden Mile
Block 45, N.L., ceased operations, and
an application was made to the West-
ralian Government for a grant of £2OOO,
which was refused. Now there is talk
of obtaining a mortgage on the property.
* * * *
Leonora Central (W.A.) has leased its
hitherto disappointing show to a pros-
pector, who, according to two visiting
directors, is installing a treatment plant
and is “making a serious attempt to get
the mine into production on a satisfac-
tory basis.” It sometimes happens that
where a co. fails a private individual can,
by picking, choosing and economising,
successfully carry on.
* * * *
Westralia’s latest goldmining attrac-
tion is the Wallaby areas at Yarri, about
100 miles north of Kalgoorlie and near
Edjudina. So far 40,000 tons has been
crushed for an average return of
12idwt., and now some higher-grade ore
is reported to have been exposed. Two
main reefs “of considerable length” are
reported on the property.
* * * *
New Golconda, one of the Westralian
featherweight set, announces a return of
S6oz. from the treatment of upwards of
400 tons of ore and sands. Ore-bodies
continue erratic, and values remain low.
At present operations are confined to
one section pending a report on the prop-
erty by geologist Dr. Moss. *
* * * *
Crushings from a rich patch enabled
Swan Bitter (W.A.) to pay a 3d. div. in
Sept., and a similar one will be handed
out this month. Gold sufficient to assure
more distributions is declared to be in
sight.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.W.: (1) Present market price of 3s. 2d.
appears to be fair value at the moment. (2)
Yes, Oriomo holds 2£ Oil Search shares for
every one of its own. (3) No record of the
co. having gone into liquidation. (4) It is a
speculation, and will remain so until the hotel
is erected and earning satisfactory profits
C.H.W.: Companies’ Formation, Management
and Winding-up, by R. L. Sidey... .H.M.K.:
Trading just commenced. Last quotes 19s.
seller. Supplies from Bahrein Island, Persian
Gulf. “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” posted
Cyanide: (1) About six years of ore already
measured up, but there is a lot of payable stuff
not yet measured. (2) The swap into Zinc
Corp. is a gamble with a fair chance of suc-
cess in the long run Subscriber: (1) A swap
into Howards, Finney Isles, Castlemaine-
Perkins or Q.M.E. might prove profitable
R.L.: A long-term speculation; if you cannci
afford to lose, keep out Insurance: (1) Sur-
render values vary with different offices; write
secretary. (2) Regular bonuses not yet in sight.


ypH SECUR/r?
Make Your Money Earn More
Do you know that FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES return a yield, at present prices, of over
6% p.a.? They enable you to invest sums of about £22 and
upwards in first-class industrials. Every £is spread over the
shares of 20 famous Australian Companies, and is safeguarded
by Custodian Trustees (Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.).
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.Y., G.P.O.
SMOKE-OH!
“The moon has a great effect on the tide.”
—Magazine article.
On the untied, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Musical bodies are to hold a campaign to
‘put music into our blood.’ ”
Then what would crooners do for a
living?
A girl isn’t necessarily good-looking
because she looks good.
•£ * *i*
The best way to ensure a successful
party is to lay in sufficient liquid refresh-
ment for everyone—and arrange for
everyone to bring sufficient for them-
selves.
■fr 4*
“A new scheme must be devised for relieving
the traffic congestion at King’s Cross, Sydney.”
How about making the bottle-ohs ply
their trade in the evenings?
. ❖ 4* 4*
“Tall and lean, and wearing thick eyebrows
and a long moustache, Professor Barker’s alert
bearing and enthusiasm belie his 69 years.”
— “Sun.”
A very long moustache, we hope.
+ t t
You don’t have to be a weather pro-
phet to predict a wet season for Christ-
mas.
So the Chinese hope to win in the long
run.
"No, this ISN’T the Y.M.C.A.—but it might as Well be!”
“The consumption of vodka has fallen off
considerably in Russia.” — News item.
But quite a number of Russians still
manage to get shot.
,4* 4* 4* 4*
This Christmas looks like being one of
Peace on Earth and Goodwill toward all
men who are on our side.
4* 4* 4* 4*
1937 Version.
A traitor is a politician who leaves
your party and joins the opposition.
A convert is a politician who leaves
the Opposition and joins your party.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Aid. leaped angrily to his feet and
at the Mayor: ‘You’re nothing but a
!’ ” — “Telegraph.”
A Bumble b .
Life History of a Joke.
Birth : Schoolboy thinks it up, laughs
aloud in class, and is caned.
Age one hour: Schoolboy tells it to his
father, who answers, “Not bad, but 1
heard it before.”
Age one day: Father tells it to a
friend as his own.
Age two days: Friend sends it in to
paper as his own.
Age three days: Editor thinks it ter-
rible.
Age ten days: Editor has to fill maga-
zine, so joke is printed.
Age one month : Thirteen other papers
reprint it.
Age three years: Several daily papers
reprint it.
Age ten years: A dozen radio-come-
dians discover it.
Age 100 years: Professors begin telling
it in class.
Cuatro.
According to an American research doctor,
a man when he shaves takes off nearly as great
an amount of skin as he does hair.”
And when there’s 11 waiting and only
three chairs going the proportion of skin
yanked off is even greater.
“The greatest compliment I ever received was
when young Sid Barnes asked me if it were
advisable to drive a ball over the bowler’s
head Few people are able to tell Barnes
very much about batting While one or two
people might be able to give good advice, the
majority of critics talk absolute tripe.”
— A. Mailey in Sydney “D.T.”
“No doubt but we are the people.”
f. .j. .j. •!<
Customs, Inhabitants and Industries
of Our Great Outback.
Just as the U.S.A. has its cowpunchers,
Canada its Mounties, England its shove-
ha’penny champions and France its
strong, silent dress-designers, so Aus-
tralia can boast its own real he-men—
the buffalo- and crocodile-hunters of the
Territory.
No other inhabitant of our continent
has so tough a hide as the croc, and the
buff. To win an appeal against your
income-tax assessment or to get a gas
bill smaller than your last one is sim-
plicity itself compared with trying to
penetrate a full-grown saurian’s armor-
plate with any weapon smaller than a 4.5
howitzer. Similarly, it is mortifying for
the sharpshooter who has cut his initials
in bullets on the frontispiece of a charg-
ing buffalo to see it still coming on. The
impotence of firearms has therefore led
to the capture of these game by more
subtle methods.
The early hunters made an intensive
study of the saurian’s habits, and dis-
covered after months of research that a
croc, displays sufficient boredom to in-
dulge in a yawn only in the closing stages
of the wet season. But even this hope of
vulnerability was dashed when it was
found that, except for chipping the edges
off a few teeth and putting some dents in
the inside of their scales, the mastication
of a few hundred h.v. .303’s had no visible
effect on the health of the saurians.
Then guile was resorted to. The help
of the abos. was enlisted, and as Binghi
is notoriously fond of crocodile eggs
fricasseed he became a willing ally.
The arrangement was that the abo.
should rob the nest .while Ma Croc, was
in the vicinity and then do a bolt, with
the infuriated beast in hot pursuit. When
he felt its fiery breath singeing the hairs
on the back of his legs he would smartly
sidestep and, as the great jaws clashed
together, snap a stout rubber band over
them. It was then a simple matter for
the hunter to get down from the tree in
which he had been sheltering and suffo-
cate the helpless monster by plugging its
nostrils with putty. The loss in abos. was
considerable, but this was more than
offset by the gain in crocodile hides.
Later a more humanitarian method was
adopted. Two athletic abos. would sneak
upon a sleeping croc., one each side and
slightly behind it. First one would let
out a yell, and the croc., suddenly awak-
ened, would turn its head and, seeing its
enemy, make a horizontal sweep with its
powerful tail. As the first abo. leaped
and the caudal appendage swept harm-
lessly beneath him the one on the other
side would yell, causing the croc, to turn
its head and have a sweep at him.
What with thrashing its tail endlessly
without result and the quick turning
of its head from side to side the beast
after an hour or so would not only have
a stiff neck but would be so thoroughly
exhausted that the lassoing of it would
be a simple matter for the hunter.
Other methods adopted with varying
success were getting a fast-sprinting
myall to tear around a tree until the pur-
suing croc, collapsed from giddiness, and
the bottle-tree trap. For this latter a
native would lean nonchalantly against a
bottle-tree near the crocodile’s habitat.
The saurian, sighting him, would be
angered by his impudence and would
charge blindly at him, failing to see that
the abo. was strapped up by ropes
attached to a pulley in the branches, the
contraption being worked by a man con-
cealed behind the tree. At the psycholo-
gical moment the decoy would be
whisked aloft and the croc., unable to get
the brakes on in time, would push his
snout through the bole of the tree, the
huge water reservoir of which would gush
out, half-drowning the beast, which could
then be easily trussed up.
With the decline in the abo. population
in the north hunters were forced to adopt
other means of trapping their quarry,
and this led to the method now generally
in use.
The modus operandi is simple and
effective, based on the known antagon-
ism of the crocodile to the buffalo, and
vice versa. First a covey of buffaloes are
flushed from the long spinifex and sword
grass and driven towards a heap of
mangelwurzels and yams placed tempt-
ingly in the shade of a large coolabah
tree. From this a trail of crocodile’s
eggs leads to the robbed nest. The dis-
tracted mother, following up the trail,
naturally assumes that the buffalo is the
culprit, and forthwith attacks the nearest
one by leaping upon its back and hang-
ing on by its claws, which, however, make
little impression on the buff.’s hide. At
this moment a hunter, clad in purple
pants, yellow coat and a fireman’s hat,
leaps around grimacing in front of the
buffalo, which, staggered by this appari-
tion, falls back in amazement, thus
squashing the croc, and breaking its own
neck at the same time.
S. W. K.
Consolation.
Now that we’ve agreed to pan
And I must mend my aching heart,
l find it easier than I thought ;
For, though it didn’t last, love brought
Me many pleasant memories.
Among the lot I treasure these:
A diamond ring, a sable coat,
A letter you forgot you wrote,
A string of pearls, a limousine —
Oh, darling, what I really mean
Is, at the parting of the ways
It sometimes is the man who pays.
UNO.
Striking Colors.
It was one of the most colorful fights ever
seen at the Stadium.” —Boxing report.
“Basher” Brown was the more brilliant
boxer, but “Wacko” Black, though a
little green, was any-
thing but yellow. In-
deed, when he saw
red he almost made
his opponent’s
seconds go grey.
True, he looked a
bit white about the
gills at one stage,
but he then staged
one of those purple
patches which are
the cream of boxing.
As a result there
was a scarlet stain
under Brown’s nose.
But Brown was in-
spired by the thought
of gold, and fought
back as though filled
with pinkie.
In a bright finish, he just shaded his
opponent. And, of course, they were
both pretty black and blue.
T. W. N.
Spirit of Battle.
“Cheap wine, commonly known as ‘pinkie,’
has proved a means for the destruction of
codlin moth.”
I saw in this the doom of every silver-
fish, ant, flea, clothes moth, blowfly and
all multi-legged and winged pests that
infested our house.
Obtaining a bottle of pinkie, I placed
saucerfuls of the stuff at strategic points
about the rooms. At first casualties were
slight, but as more and more insects real-
ised what a glorious death was here the
corpses soon littered the floors. Then
our cat came in, sniffed at a saucer, took
a tentative lap, smirked and cleaned it
up. Then it went grimly over the road,
murdered the neighbor’s prize Alsatian,
treed a boy and chased a flock of nonde-
script tykes out of the suburb.
This phenomenon was observed by my
small son, who, while I was watching the
cat, himself imbibed some of the potent
liquid. As I came inside I stopped a
kick in the shins and went down under
a chair wielded by the maddened kid.
My wife, usually the most submissive
of women, appeared with a flushed face,
smoking my rankest pipe and using chal-
lenging language.
My sole hope lay in one direction.
Watching my chance, I rushed to the
cupboard and drained the pinkie bottle.
At that moment who should appear at
the door but the landlord and a bailiff.
I threw what was left of them over the
fence and set out to visit my mother-in-
law, and, having attended to that bit of
business, went straight to my boss’s
private home.
He finished up by presenting me with
the business.
Orchardists who give it to their codlin
moths had better go round their trees
suitably armed.
PLONKER.
A Palling Possession.
“It is the things we don’t possess that make
us unhappy,” says a women’s paper.
Too true. I wish I had a yacht,
A car and wads of pelf,
But since these things / haven't got
I’m sorry for myself.
But while I’ll be morose until
The worth-while things in life
Are mine, this makes me sadder still —
I do possess a wife!
P. O. M. C.


Kandos Cement.
To be bought at about 245. 6d.,
the 16s. shares in Kandos Cement
were attractive at last week’s price,
giving an immediate yield of 6.5
p.c. on the present 10 p.c. div.
basis. With Australian Cement £1
shares at 345. 9d. last week in Mel-
bourne, Kandos scrip was worth
275. 9d. on the basis of similar
yield. Further comparisons are
made on this page.
Be a dear . . . and give me
Black & White Cigarettes
they’re so much better”
THE COCKTAIL SHAKER
This grand Cocktail Shaker, in black
and white Purolite, with six Cocktail
Cups, contains an airtight tin of 50
Cigarettes Price, 10/6
: 1...
F
THE PUROLITE CABINET
A handsome Cigarette Cabinet, in
black and white Parolite.
With 50 Cigarettes .... Price, 5/6
With 100 Cigarettes .... Price, 8/6
THE SILVER
TANKARD
This Old English Tankard, heavily
silver-plated, contains an airtight tin
of 50 Ggarettes Price, 10/6
| * m I |
ill
< s-- «g ,-i
i: iiliriS il ',l\l - •■
illllli
illllll
ilillills
**»&
m
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Improvement
Since that fear-stricken market of
Nov. 26, when stocks on British and
Australian ’Changes seemed as if they
might go the same way as in the United
States, there has been a steady, sober
recovery in the Commonwealth. Metals
have shown little movement since, either
up or down, and, though some will say
that last week’s prices were too low,
there is little doubt that steadiness, even
if on the low side, is the thing most de-
sired at present.
The recovery in principal Australian
ord. shares prices over the last fortnight
may be seen in the two outside columns
of this table:
MirHi on Nnv Dec
16. 28. 26. 9.
Bank of N.S.W. £37.9 £34.2 £33.1 £34
National Bank £8 0 £7.6 £7 £7
C.-Perkins .. 26/- 26/6 25/6 25/-
Tooth .. .. 57/- 54/9 52/9 54/-
Golds., Mort .. 39/6 34/6 30/9 32/9
Adelaide 111 steam 32/6 32/6 30/9 31 9
Queensland ins. 60/9 56/- 57/6 57/6
Aus. Gas “A” £7.2 £7.5 £7.3 £7.4
Assoc. News.. 24/3 23/6 23/- 23/3
Australian Glass 93/6 92/6 85/- 92/-
A’asian Paper .. 39/- 33/6* 31/- 30/-
Aus. Cement .. 31/6 31/6 32/- 34/9
British Tobacco 53/- 48/6 49/9 50/3
P £? p , ‘' on( 3 tail*
David Jones 14/6 42 6 41/- 42 -
Elec. Zinc .. 66/6 52/3 45/- 48/-
Fairymead .. 39/3 32/6 32/6 37/-
G. J. Coles £5.3 £4.7 £3.9 £43
H° J°o n nS 46/- 50/3 48/- 47/6
Melb. “Herald” 66- 61/- 64/-
Mauri Bros. .. 75/- 68/6 68/- 68/-
Myer (Melb.) . . 38/- 34/6 31/- 34/-
WH Soul 84/6 88/- 83/- 84/
North’B.H. .. 89/3 57/3 50/3 53/6
B.H. South .. 58/- 41/- 35/6 38/-
Mount Lyell .. 38/6 31/9 33/3
.. f n8 i lS u • . A f
Australian Cement, which is expected to
benefit from new plant, and Fairymead
Sugar, which has paid an intei im at rate
of 10 p.c. p.a. (last year 8 p.c.), have
actually run up to higher-than-usual
levels during the past week. Bank of
N. S. Wales is at the best price for about
six weeks. Australian Glass is back to
about the year’s average price, and
B.H.P. is nearing the highest ex rights
quote
Rritich Tobacco ords kent steadv all
British looacco Kepi sieauy a
the time. Gordon and Gotch ords. didn t
flutter much. Pastorals dipped heavily,
and now show only slight recovery ;
Myer (retail) ords. slumped, then skipped
back. Australasian Paper ords., because
a parcel of scrip out of a deceased estate
is on the market, remain at the lowest
J. eve * I° r some years, and look a snap
lor buyers.
Base-metal share prices are more or
i® ss glued to day-by-day metal fluctua-
hons. A rather absurd basis of valua-
hon, really, but seemingly the only
method available to early-bird punters
so keen t( ? catcb the worm that the
worm usuall y catches them in the finish,
In the term to June 30 last Australian
Paper Manufacturers earned enough to
P a y 6 P-c. on the full amount of its recent
£1,000,000 pref. issue (not yet paid up),
an all-round 8 p.c. on the prefs. and ords.
in Australasian Paper and Cumberland,
and leave £12,500 for holding co. operat-
ing exes., etc. Actually £14,200, not
£60,000, was the operating co.’s pref. div.
the term, and because capital grew
during the year in each case the divs.
weren’t 8 p.c. flat on the total of the
other share-registers at Sept. 30. But the
foregoing figures go to show that the
8 p.c. ord. div. of Australasian Paper at
least looks safe even on the basis of last
year’s earnings. Rate of earning isn’t
t d t t t tbat term tbe
expected to stop at tnat. inis term tne
operating co. is increasing the capacity
of its Fairfield (Vic.) kraft-paper machine
by about 30 p.c., and a new 50,000-ton-
Ra. paper-board machine at Botany
(N.S.W.) starts in about April next.
When the co.’s new pulp mill at Mary-
V ale (Vic.) starts operations (about Sept.,
1938) another large wrapping-paper
machine is to be erected alongside or it.
Most of the money for the extensions is
j n anc j divs. have been allowed for
in these calculations, even though nothing
was earned from the new plant last term.
At 30s. last week (lowest quote for years
—a large parcel of scrip out of a Mel-
bourne estate is being, sold in that city
and Sydney) the ords. in Australasian
Paper, yielding £5 ss. 1 per cent., looked
particularly attractive buying. The
re t urn compares with 4.8 p.c. from the
o p era ti n g C o.’s prefs.
* * * *
Early in November Montana Western
Extended, Zeehan (Tas.), reported:
Main shaft ._ Sunk t 0 noft. and lode
met with at 106 ft.; continues very strongly
carrying first-class galena up to 4in. wide,
with milling ore making remainder of lode
2 f t . w jd e ... .The country rock has all the
characteristics of the famous Western and
Montana mines, and there is also abundant
evidence of lodes existing within easy reach
on the east.
At the 100 ft. level a crosscut was
driven in search of the main lode which
outcropped on the surface. Rich, patchy
surface lodes of galena in slates have
been common at Zeehan. “Very gratify-
ing results should be revealed” was sug-
gested on Nov. 5; “anticipate picking
up lode discovered in shaft within a few
feet, and the main lode should be met
within 50ft.” On Nov. 12 the crosscut
had advanced 29ft.; “expect Clarke lode
will be intersected during week.” Nov.
19 showed the crosscut at 61ft., “now
passing through second minor formation
revealed at surface.” By Nov. 26 the
tunnel had gone to 82ft., with “present
face in disturbed country.” About this
time the market began to feel really un-
happy. Substantial permanency at depth
didn’t seem to be proved. Then last
Thursday, under date of Dec. 3, came
the announcement:
Owing to the heavy faulting disclosed
in the 'west crosscut and the variation
in the pitch of the lode where exposed,
it is now probable that the lode cut in the
main shaft at 112 ft. and 16ft. in the west
crosscut may be the Clarke lode.
The shares, which had been over 12s. be-
fore a critical article on the show was
published in B. 8/9/’37, were slipping
from their perch around 55.-65., and last
week there were Melbourne sales at 3s.
7d., following heavy selling around 4s.
If they do nothing else, recent develop-
ments at the mine go to bear out The
Bulletin’s contention that Zeehan geo-
logically is a tricky field.
* * * *
One is scarcely game to mention re-
commencement of work at Newnes
(N.S.W.) lest some political, financial or
industrial catastrophe happens and knocks
the venture on the head. There have
been many false alarms in the past. But
C. C. Davis, of National Oil Pty. and
Davis Gelatine, spoke in definite terms
at Lithgow last week. In getting the
works into a startable condition 650 men
are to be employed, he said, and from
continuous retorting over 13,000,000
gallons of crude oil would be produced
each year, yielding 10,000,000 gallons of
petrol.
* * * *
Successive sales of Carlton Brewery
shares one day last week in Melbourne
were at 645. 9d. and 635. 6d., a difference
of Is. 3d. It is strange but true that this
old-established concern, now a holding
co. in C.U.8., has the most erratic support
of all well-known brewery shares in the
Commonwealth. From 695. to 61s. 6d.
has been the width of the market this
year, and back-and-forth movements
have been frequent. Tooth’s (Sydney)
high was 58s. 3d., low 525. 6d., and last
week’s quote was 545. Castlemaine
Perkins (Brisbane) went to 275. 6d. cum
rights, 245. 6d. ex rights. Last week 255.
was paid. Carlton’s last annual div. was
12 p.c., this year’s interim 15 p.c.; Tooth
paid 101 p.c. to Sept. 30 ; Castlemaine
Perkins handed out 10 p.c. to July 31,
2 p.c. being “bonus.”
Last week Melbourne was still waiting
on Carlton and United Breweries’ ac-
counts to June 30. In 1936 they came
out in October. The div., already an-
nounced, has gone up to 12\ p.c., as
against 10 p.c. and 8 p.c. in the two
preceding years. Latest rate would be
equal to 14.2 p.c. on the listed Carlton
holding co.’s capital, and that concern
usually nets 2 p.c. or so from other
sources after paying all exes.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan’s last two monthly mill-
ings have each brought to light over
5100 oz. of gold. The throughput to Dec.
8 was also exceptionally rich in copper-
-238 tons was produced. The oxidised-
ore-treatment plant seems to be working
much better, and sulphide values are up
again. Now the sooner something is
done about smelting the concentrates
locally the healthier the profit-earning
position should be.
* * * *
Australian Cement £1 ords. sold at
345. 9d. last week in Melbourne, and
afterwards buyers offered that figure, with
no sellers in sight. Kandos 16s. shares
strengthened to 245. 6d., but on an im-
mediate income basis were worth 275.
9d. compared with Australian Cement
at 345. 9d. A.C. and Kandos each have
1,000,000 shares in Australian Portland
Cement, which recently started up a new
rotary kiln at its Geelong works. By
reason of its smaller share-register, each
£1 of Kandos capital has an lli p.c.
greater interest in the operating co. than
each £1 of A.C. capital. With A.C. £i
shares at 345. 9d., Kandos 16s. scrip is
worth about 30s. 9d. on the basis of assets
values. The market can rarely be per-
suaded to view the situation in this light,
however.
*** * *
In Melbourne last week:
Australian Cement declared a final div. of
5 p.c., making 10 p.c.
Myer prefs. rose strongly to 375. 6d. The
ords. were steady at 345.
After sales at 4s. 6d. a fortnight before,
shares in Wellington Alluvials, B.H.P.’s
N. S. Wales gold-dredging show, sold at
ss. 6d.
Golden Plateau contribs. kept fairly steady
around 13s. 6d.
The Fiji group was dull; Emperors sold
latterly at 125., Lolomas at 16s. 4d.
Mt. Morgan shares strengthened to 12s. 6d.
on support following a satisfactory month s
operations. Then on Friday there was a sharp
drop to 11s. sd.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars,. C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The X-Ray Shows the GREATER Hidden Value
in a HOLDEN BODY !
*8
e-t*
ft
•aa.. \ ///.
///
V/
§?
N
X
\
mm
m
9
iii
COMPLETELY
INSULATED
Against Heat, Cold, Noise
A Holden body is insulated in the same way as the latest
air liners. The hum of the engine, the swish of the tyres,
the noise of outside traffic, as well as exterior heat and
cold are sealed out of the body. Even though you travel
at 50—60—70 miles per hour, you might almost “hear a
pin drop” in a body by Holden. You glide along in much
the same comfort as in an air-conditioned train.
No other body yet built in Australia goes to such extravagant
lengths to insulate out all unwanted noise, vibration, heat
and cold. No other safeguards your comfort so-completely.
The floor, the doors, the sides and the roof are all provided
with an interior coating of insulating material. So is the
steel dash between the driving compartment and the engine.
Even the walls of the rear luggage trunk compartment are
insulated. Complete insulation is just another reason why
you get a better body when it’s built by Holden !
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Buy a Car with a Body by
DFS
(N?3o/a SERIES)
Insulation over
an inch thick
This shows the heavy
pad of insulating ma-
terial under a Holden
All-Steel Turret-Top.
In addition* there is a
further layer of insu-
lating material directly
cemented to the metal.
There is also a dead
air space between the
insulation illustrated,
and the roof lining, also
acting as an insulator.
Insulation on
every panel
This special insulation
is directly cemented on
to the metal of every
panel. It not only
seals out heat, cold
and noise but also
effectively checks any
tendency to “drum-
ming.”
AT LEFT.—This mas-
sive machine is a
Hamilton Press, per-
forming one of the
operations in making
a Holden All-Steel
Turret-Top. Modern
machinery such as this
provides one of the
reasons for the better
quality that is built
into Holden Bodies.
mu
STRONGER - SAFER - QUIETER - COOLER ■
—«.:’ L / 1 •
More HEACTIFCL
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.), main-
tained output above 2000 oz. during the
four weeks to December 4. Recoveries
improved from B.6dwt. to B.7dwt. Aver-
age grade of proved ore is about 6.sdwt.
There is still some high-grade ore left
in No. 1 shoot going from below 14dwt.
to above 28dwt.
* * * *
Those who bought B.H.P. rights at
275. two or three weeks back have done
all right. Fivepence buying brokerage
and ss. first instalment bring the price
near enough to 325. 6d. Last week there
were sales at 365. The fully-paids sold
at 645. in the same market.
* * * *
Among the firmest of all the listed
stocks in the Commonwealth during the
past nervy month or two have been Aus-
tralian Cement and North Kalgurli.
# He * *
The share issue of Australian Motor-
ists’ Petrol Co., Sydney, which is having
pumps erected in many parts of the
metropolitan area, has been oversub-
scribed.
* * * *
With Norths at 555. 6d. and Souths
around 38s. 6d., the difference between
quotes (each then cum div.) for these
two principal Barrier stocks had length-
ened to 17s. on Tuesday of last week.
When in B. 10/11/’37 attention was.
drawn to the apparent overvaluation of
Souths the difference was only about 13s.
Norths became ex div. on Wednesday
last; Souths pay Is. 3d. on Friday.
Norths are still somewhat the better
holding. With metals as they are the
South co. will be forced to cut its div.
soon. North, which has already dropped
3d. off its quarterly distribution (the rale
in both cases was Is. 3d. last time), be-
cause of its larger production and smaller
capital could, on the experience of the
past 14 years, pay 71 p.c. p.a. as against
South’s 47 p.c. p.a., assuming that all
earnings were distributed. North has
the longer life. Profits between July
1, 1923, and June 30, 1937, were
£6,998,157 North, £5,275,257 South.
Last balance day North had 13,192 tons
of unsold lead on hand, South 11,221
tons. This stock position and its effect
on profits were discussed in B. 17/11 /’37.
* * * *
North Kals. changed hands at 20s. 3d.
in Adelaide last week, Boulder Persever-
ances at 2s. 10d., Golden Horseshoes at
2s. 6d., and Paringas at 2s. sd.
* * * *
On Wednesday of last week 900 P.
and G. ords. were officially traded in
on Sydney ’Change. The price advanced
by 4d. to 10s. lOd. On Thursday there
was a sale at 11s., Friday 10s. 9d.


FOR RANDWICK.
Villiers: Sal Volatile, 1 ; Arabia,
2 ; Ramdin, 3.
Holiday Handicap: Friar’s
Switch; next, Osculum.
Highweight Handicap: Sedunum;
next, Brazeno.
December Nursery: Loombah.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Three-year-old Handicap: Bar-
ham ; next, Rill.
Flying Welter: Plymouth Hoe ;
next, Ogwell.
Fund Handicap: Dunloe; next,
Panax.
Welter: Kanuri; next, Palatinate.
SUPER IKONTA
Combines miniature camera advant-
ages with large negatives—rapid
Tessar lenses—focussing by coupled
distance meter—inter-locking device
to prevent double exposures.
IKON
Obtainable from
Zeiss Ikon Dealers
Truly Fine Gifts
< Zeiss%cn
Cameras
You will find among the
wide variety of models
your Ideal Christmas Gift
Priced from ’59/6
ZtliS
555
CONTAX
The supreme precision miniature camera,
for needle-sharp pictures—range-finder and
view finder combined, shutter speeds to
1/1250 seconds, metal focal plane shutter,
interchangeable lenses.
Principal Retailers ;
HERBERT SMALL PTY. LTD., Melbourne, Sydney & Brisbane
Write for Literature to the Australian Representatives:
E. C. HEYNE PTY. LTD., 100 Flinders St., Melbourne and 8 Bond St., Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There was very wide betting on some
of the races at Rosehill on Saturday, and
odds offered about horses that were ex-
pected to be well in the market drifted
rapidly. It would be unwise to take too
much notice of the form as a guide to
Randwick possibilities. Still, Ramdin’s
success in a division of the Dundas
Handicap appeared to be a good trial
for the Villiers. He carried Bst., and
comes down to 7st. 121 b.
Ramdin started at 9 to 2. He was
ridden by Bartle, who secured a perfect
run all the way. In the end, the nice-
looking son of Rampion-Dinette out-
stayed Cool Spell, whose rider was of
little assistance to him over the final
furlong. Fireman ran third, beating the
favorite, Valbeau, narrowly: Valbeau
was squeezed slightly commencing the
last furlong, but seemed beaten at the
time. Might Not disappointed ; she lost
ground in the straight. Tote punters
who specked Fireman received £6 19s.
for 10s.
The second division was easy for the
unbacked Mark Antony. He was quoted
at 20 to 1, but scarcely a bookie wrote
his name. Unfortunately for the stable
(Jack King’s) he is not in the Villiers.
Sal Volatile and Sidcup, second and third
respectively, came home strongly, both
being badly placed at the half-mile.
Silver Rose showed pace while her con-
dition lasted, but Korimako, Stalin
(favorite) and Red Thespian failed to
make any impression in the last furlong.
Stalin had the run of the race on the
rails. Evidently he can’t run seven fur-
longs in good company.
Hope, a Tatt.’s Club candidate, won
the December Handicap nicely at 4 to 1.
He was not bustled early, as had been
the case at Ascot, where Alan Verde
beat him; and commencing a long run
at the three furlongs he had enough in
reserve to beat Celebrate and Billy Boy
without overexertion. Fountain ran one
of the worst races of his career; he beat
only Tuckiar, and his Summer Cup
chance looks hopeless. Maurice, after
acting as pacemaker, tired into fourth
position ahead of old Vice Royal, who
is beginning to look well.
Tuckerbox, 7 to 4 for the Appren-
tices’ Handicap, looked the good thing
of the day, but the good thing nearly
came undone. His pilot, O’Connor,
stopped riding when he had the race
won, and allowed Night of Love to get
within a short neck at the finish.
Cathartes came home strongly in third
place. He needs a jockey who will be at
him all the way.
Veteran Randwick trainer Kelso re-
ceived many congratulations when he
won the Corinthian Cup with his old
horse Babili, who started at 10 to 1.
Jack Green, who trains West Hock, rode
Babili well, except that he cut it
rather fine at the finish ; Panaster and
One Alone, who ran a dead heat for
second, needn’t have been allowed to
get that close. There were 17 starters —
too many for an amateurs’ race.
Though Beau Verre had played up at
her previous two outings, and many
backers discarded her on that account,
somebody won good money on the filly
in the first division of the Nursery. She
was on her best behavior, and jumping
into the lead showed too much pace for
her opponents, the best of whom were
Kuttabul and Areas. W. J. and A. E.
Smith race Beau Verre, who was backed
from sevens to fours.
A colt out of the common came to light
in the second division—Loombah, by
Melfort-Yullundry. Loombah is raced
by Harry Taylor, of Wellington, and is
trained by Payten. It was his first start,
and he opened at twos, went to fours and
closed at 5 to 2. Loombah is a good-
looking brown, and is as good as he
looks. He chased Miltiades into the
straight, dashed through an opening like
an old-stager and won by eight lengths
from Volpato and Irene Dunne. It was,
in a sense, unfortunate for the owner
that the colt’s form was exposed so
thoroughly at a first start, but the jockey
simply couldn’t help it.
* * * y
Elanage (Posterity-Impetuous), who
accompanied Wotan from Maoriland to
Melbourne for the spring meetings and
gave a poor display in the Caulfield
Guineas, exhibited more than ordinary
stamina by his Ascot Handicap victory
last Saturday.
The colt is owned by M. Steinberg,
who represents an American paint con-
cern in M.L. While in Melbourne he
announced an intention to fly from the
Dominion to California on a business
visit this month. News of the success of
Elanage probably will fortify Steinberg
in his resolve to send several gallopers
to the Victorian metropolis next autumn
and to experiment in breeding from Aus-
tralian mares.
Carrying Bst. lib. (including a pound
overweight), Elanage was voted well
treated in the Ascot Handicap. He had
triumphed over difficulties to win a Trial
Handicap on Williamstown Cup day, and
on November 20 ran Somerset to a head
in the V.A.T.C. Ormond Handicap.
Opening at twos, the colt firmed to 7
to 4, which was hard to obtain when the
barrier lifted.
Princess Pam, a filly by Salmagundi
from a Magpie mare, Merry Chatter,
tried to run away with the race. She
had only 6st. 121 b., and trainer Steve
Murphy must have told little Hartney
to make every post a winner. She led
by six lengths at the back of the course,
and had doubled this advantage with
half a mile to go.
Coming from second-last of a strung-
out field at the six-furlongs pole, Elan-
age began to draw on Princess Pam as
they neared the bend. But it needed all
the riding skill of Ray Wilson to enable
the favorite to catch Murphy’s candidate
and score by a head. They ran the \\
miles and 40 yards in 2min. which
is extra good for Ascot.
Hot Shot, who appears to race better
for McLeod than any other jockey, cut
Gay Circle out of third money, but was
five lengths otf. After being second
most of the way, Art tired. The manner
in which the race was run didn’t suit
Iva, who never flattered her backers.
The V.T. and R.A. provided £2OOO in
prize-money for its Ascot fixture. Small-
est stake was £2OO ; two events were worth
£5OO each. Strangely enough, neither
attracted more than seven runners ; how-
ever, there was a bumper “gate.” Ascot
used to be a “pony” course. Races for
midget gallopers are unknown now in
Melbourne.
Chief sprint contest, the Lincolnshire
Handicap, went to Conchita (Ronsard-
Chungala), a 10-to-l pop. The favorite,
Winbyie, receded from 6, to 4 to 9 to 4
and ran last. Horses rarely acquit them-
selves well “first up” at Ascot, and Win-
byie destroyed whatever chance she had
by swinging out wide at the home turn.
This mare from Groperland is by Night
Raid, the sire of Phar Lap. She was sent
across to Fred Foulsham at Caulfield.
While riders of some other horses en-
gaged in cutthroat tactics, Elliot re-
served Conchita for a long finishing run.
The mare was rather lucky to beat Great
Legend by a long neck, with Miss Burn
three lengths farther off. Black Laugh-
ter was fourth, and Plymouth Hoe let his
backers down badly. Yet this fellow
performed most consistently in juvenile
events last season.
Lou Robertson, the Mordialloc trainer,
sprang one of his not infrequent sur-
prises in the Mallacoota Handicap, for
which Janissa, owned by F. J. Nathan,
was backed from 20 to 1 down to fours.
The Marconigram filly has unquestion-
able pace. She led until collared by
Dazzling Star at the straight entrance,
and then faded to the extreme rear.
Because of his indifferent showing at
Epsom a week before, Dazzling Star was
allowed to go out at sevens. He won by
less than a length from Kerrena, who,
like Janissa, belongs to the Marconigram
tribe. The M.L. colt Silver Bond, last
early, finished only half a neck behind
Kerrena.
Privilege, favorite at 6 to 4 for the
first division of the Pembroke Trial,
never threatened danger. The race went
to Eastern Spot (7 to 1), with Trimercian
(25 to 1) and Testudo (sixes) in the minor
places. Ray Wilson, who subsequently
was successful on Elanage, handled
Eastern Spot to great advantage.
Punters were “on the wrong leg.” Un-
deterred by the dismal failure of Privi-
lege they accepted 6 to 4 about Windfelt
in the second division of the Trial. Tom
Pearce’s representative shot his bolt half-
way down the straight, where Baryta, a
son of The Night Patrol, solidly sup-
ported at fours, took charge and easily
accounted for Albany and Kevastar.
Turoa Webster, who weighed out for
Windfelt, was associated with another
unsuccessful betting plunge in the Berke-
ley Handicap, his mount, Kanuri, start-
ing at 9 to 4. The Pakenham-owned
gelding was blocked in the straight, but
Webster stated that he would not have
won in any case. Victory went to The
K.C., a handsome chestnut stallion by
Frilford from Lanson, winner of the
1926 Oaks. At fours, The K.C. took a
lot of money out of the ring. He will
win more races.
Alex. Fullarton had a pleasant winning
ride on Jolly Boy (4 to 1) in the Dela-
mere Trial Hurdle. The Gay Lothario
gelding never gave his opponents a look-
in. Half a furlong in front at one stage,
he was slowed up to score by 15 lengths
from Heroic’s Pride, who narrowly de-
feated the even-money favorite, Dubup,
for second place. Jolly Boy is out of
Royal Charm, the dam of Tiki and
Patriotic, both of whom were splendid
hurdlers.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Bastian, a leading Adelaide
jockey, has been in mild trouble. The
Riff, his mount, was odds-on in a race
at Gawler (S.A.). It ran third, and spec-
tators made disrespectful remarks.
Bastian jumped off and went for one of
them with his whip. The stewards de-
cided that he had done his best with the
horse, and that they would take no action
over the other matter, both parties having
apologised. But Bastian was fined £2
for having dismounted too soon.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The effect of s.p. bet-
ting on racecourse attendances is attract-
ing attention in Britain. Abe Bailey, the
South African mining magnate, who
races on a big scale in England, has
published a strong plea for legislation
suppressing the illicit game. In doing
so he touches an aspect which does not
seem to have been thought of in Aus-
tralia. With the introduction of tele-
vision, already practicable, a huge pro-
portion of racing folk will cease to
attend the courses at all.
* * * *
“Heath”: English racing interests are
disturbed over an attempt by stable
hands to form a union. The boys are
poorly paid, and their lot generally is
unenviable, even compared with the not-
very-rosy conditions in Australia. In
England the trainer is a law unto him-
self as regards his apprentices, though
their indentures are supposed to protect
their interests. There is now some hope
of the Jockey Club taking in hand the
control of the apprentice system—not
before something of the sort was needed,
by all accounts.
Racquet and Bawl
Though he hasn’t been here long
enough to strike his best form, Budge
had little difficulty in winning the Vic-
torian championship, and Miss Bundy,
also from California, proved the out-
standing player among the girls. Budge
accounted for Crawford and McGrath
before he met Bromwich, who had
beaten Mako and Quist. Bromwich’s
service let him down in the final, which
was 8-6, 6-3, 9-7 in Budge’s favor.
The mixed doubles went to the visi-
tors, too —Budge and Miss Bundy, 6-4,
6-4, from Gilchrist and Mrs. Westacott.
But in the men’s section Gilchrist and
Bromwich pushed Budge and Mako to
five sets, and Crawford and McGrath
outed them in four —1-6, 6-3, 6-4, 7-5.
Gilchrist appeared in the junior singles
also, and looked the winner till he met
young Newcombe from S.A. He got the
first set 7-5, but then Newcombe turned
. on some excellent tennis, and ran out
6-0, 6-3. It was one of the best wins
of the meeting.
0 Continued on page 30.)
“Hotham”; The dropping of skipper
Ebeling from the Victorian side to meet
Queensland has set the experts chatter-
ing. Rigg will captain the team. Ex-
Queenslander Sides replaces Ebeling,
while Pearson goes in instead of
Bromley.
* * * *
Sydney has had two speedway cos.
racing next door to each other on
Saturday nights; but for the first “Test,”
England v. Australia, the Showground
crowd closed up for the night, England
won on points, 28 to 26, though the Aus-
tralian Wilkinson was unbeaten in his
three starts.
* * * *
On the second day of the Australian
athletic meeting at Brisbane Magee
(N.S.W.) cut the Empire Games record
for the 440 yards hurdles to 53.5sec., es-
tablishing also a new Australian record,
and Pardon (N.S.W.) threw the 701b.
hammer 145ft. 2|in., likewise the best
done in Australia. Dickinson (N.S.W.)
jumped 24ft. (4jft. more than the Empire
Games best). They helped to give N. S.
Wales the Coombes Shield by 13 points
to the Victorians’ six points— they’d held
ir since 1930.
* * * #
“Cash Amateur”: The Australian
Kangaroos in England have now sur-
passed all previous teams in the matter
of defeats, if we except the scratch side
from Australia and M.L. which first
visited the North of England in 1908-09.
That side lost 21 games, but played 45
altogether. Up to the beating by Barrow
in theif twenty-third game, the Kan-
garoos had lost 10, and this does not
include the two defeats in M.L.


- -
I AWARDED 'A
v 50 MEDAISf
*■ —u——-> I
4
f
¥
Perth
50
cmh
Prise MeWs
■ / Cll
rsl
5O Gtflji
<m&
Pri2£ Mubab
"•fliiiw
“snish
8&
APPOINTMENT ,
: OOD MELBOURNE INTERNATIONAL
numD |N
I ONIUJN
PARIS
BROSifIIS
COOKERY
00
1304
1900
&IV.
1630
1838
1888
1889
1888
1888
1889 >BB9
1889
1889
White label
A Fine Scotch Whisky
OF RARE AGE
JohnDewar&Socsl! i
distillers
tonbonOffice P E CrinTT a\TT)
Dp ®ar House SW.I. S C OTLAN "•
NET CONTENTS 1 PINT, 6FL.OZS.
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
DEWAR’S FAMOUS “WHITE LABEL”
may be had from all hotels . . .
At last, supplies of Dewar's famous “White Label” are available throughout
Australia. When you drink “White Label” you enjoy the most pleasant and beneficial
of all Scotch Whiskies... acknowledged throughout the world as the finest Scotland
produces. Good Whisky is good for you .. . and there's no better Whisky than
“White Label”. Ask for it at any hotel or bottle store.
DIWARS
II
WHITE LABEL
SCOTCH M//udJuj
: SSS:.!®
mßm,
i p;. <x pm
- llSi
illlP
Si
lillill
llliii
Hi
. •: ;■ ->
m
tSHfXUBSSSSR
I 111
111
jiff
I mi 1
iill
iiiifig mi
ill 111
- ■ '
pill! lillill
/’ll'-''-, ■■■ •: ;
|l' ■ l I** 1.1
SRI/tei '4
St
•i;l
■
; i'SiV < laf
rnmmmm - ‘ M 4 i
ilillliilii
1
pci
■•ill) p ■
Here is an actual size
illustration of the hand-
some, handy flat bottle.
At left, front view.
At right, side view.
Now, everyone
“iay enjoy it..
ii


Give him a
WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZOR!
j±L
noaow
G«OU»
iv.AO«
Made in England.
E7 —Self-stropping Razor, complete
with strop and two hollow-ground
blades in neat oak case • • • • 14/6
El2 —Self-stropping Razor, complete
with strop and two hollow-ground
blades in nickel-plated case. . 18/6
with five
•• 18/6
Elo —Same as E 7, but
hollow-ground blades . . .
E 21 —Highly-finished Silver-plated
self-stropping razor with seven
hollow-ground blades, one for each
day of the week, and shell horse-
hide strop, complete in chased
chromium-plated case . • 37/6
Obtainable from all Stores
Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
103 York Street. Svd*»~ ,r
<■
0 H
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
OfP
Champions
If the hills slow your car down, if your en
gine knocks and becomes hot—the cause
may be faulty ignition. See what a big im-
provement a set of new Champions makes!
An Empire product —
made in Windsor, Canada
\jG>
PI
kin* 3
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
*0
s.
Ins and Outs
N.S.W. Country Cricket Week in Syd-
ney ended with Metropolis outclassing
the men from the great open spaces.
Country scored 105 and 165, finding fast-
bowler O’Brien (10-52) unplayable. The
townies whacked up 493 before declar-
ing, Barnes getting 151 in 118 minutes.
The Country fielding was awful, and
greatly discounted the heavy scoring,
Barnes being dropped half a dozen times.
Jackson (71), McCabe (70) and Fingle-
ton (69 n. 0.) hopped in while the going
was good.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: O’Brien, who will fill the
place of Chilvers in the N.S.W. Sheffield
team for the southern tour, is accustomed
to the uses of adversity. A season or two
ago the big fast bowler gained the State
team and seemed likely to stay in it. He
was Jonah a, however, after a brief trial,
and last year was not thought good enough
for his Sydney club’s first eleven. With
Lush dropped, a good trot oh the
southern trip may mean a lot to O’Brien.
* * * *
A. R. Lonergan, who used to assist
Jeanes in the S.A. Cricket' Association’s
office, is to go back from Sydney to
Adelaide to run it while the senior is
in England as manager with the Aus-
tralian XI. Lonergan’s brother Eric is
now Adelaide University’s best batsman.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane did not disturb
its calm serenity for mere international
cricket in the long ago. A paper which
would nowadays give a whole page to
such an event chronicles a two days'
game between Queenslanders and the
English team of 1887-88. In a brief
par. the paper says that England, led
by Docker, won by a run and that the
attendance on the first day was 80 and
on the second 40. And the English side
included Shrewsbury, Ulyett, Maurice
Read, Briggs and Lohmann.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The committee of the
Marylebone club which has been inquir-
ing into English cricket, conditions has
returned a gloomy report. In brief, the
counties, save a bare half-dozen, are on
the breadline. The building up of a
fund to help the counties and cutting
out two of the seventeen on the first-
class list are suggested. Repression of
“negative” bowling, which is blamed for
the slowing up of batting, and less elabo-
rate preparation of wickets are among
many other proposals, most of them of
local interest only.
* * * *
“Mardi”: Cabled that Notts has
patched up its differences with Larwood
and signed him on for another three
years. He is getting up in years for a fast
bowler, but last year, though lacking a
little of his pace, seemed to bowl as well
as ever, taking 113 wickets at 12.92.
Larwood cleared £2OOO from his benefit
last season, a record for a Notts player.
“Aigburth”: Times are changed, in-
deed! Cabled that Fames is unlikely to
be available for England in the next Test
series because of “his duties as a house-
master at Worksop College.” In other
days when a player of Farnes’s capacity
left his university with a blue he could get
a master’s job in any public school and
do his teaching in the time he could spare
from cricket. W. W. Read, almost a
rival of “W.G.” in the latter’s heyday,
was a master at Brighton College. As
he played cricket six days a week for
Surrey or some other important side, he
could have had little time for teaching.
Read, by the way, shared with “W.G.”
the reputation of being one of the out-
standing professional amateurs in Eng-
lish cricket.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. women cricketers
gave the Board of Control a much-
needed lead by inviting a M.L. team to
play at Sydney in January—a girls’ team,
of course. The Maorilanders will reach
Sydney on January 26 while the Women’s
Country Week is raging, and their first
match will be against Combined Coun-
“ I'm taking Alfie’s place. Alfie’s got mumps.”
try on January 31. A match against
N.S.W. starts on February 1, and a game
three days later against a Sydney metro-
politan side follows.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: When the English
cricket girls played in Australia a couple
of years ago, profits were so good that
the Australians sent the English govern-
ing body a present of 25 guineas. England
in its turn did so well out of the Aus-
tralian women’s tour that it has sent
along a bank draft for £5O in return. A
fine gesture that might become general.
The Board of Control might break the
ice by sending along £lOO or so to
Notts, with the request that the cost of
half a dozen pots be deducted from it
for Larwood.
Nineteenth Hole
Queensland golfers are mourning the
passing of E. A. Gill, for the last 10
years secretary of Indooroopilly golf
club. Victorian by birth, he was head-
master of Toowoomba C. of E. Gram-
mar School before going to Indooroo-
pilly. He was a golfer out of the ordi-
nary (good at cricket and tennis withal),
and in 1906 won the Australian amateur
championship—the only Queenslander to
do so.
“Divot Digger”: B. Jackson, who re-
cently won the N.S.W. assistant profes-
sional title, took the Professional
Golfers' Association Cup at Long Bay,
,•, f , K
his card for the 36 holes reading 14>
as against the 146 with which V. Rich-
ardson and F. Bolger tied in second
place. Most of the leading Sydney pro-
fessionals were playing, and the winner’s
showing was a meritorious one.
* * * *
<ctt i , „ c r u if . ,
Hoylake : English golf experts have
been arguing the case of a fed-up player
who, after losing three balls in succes-
sion, played a fourth without taking off
the wrapping, under the impression he
had no chance of winning the game.
Win he did, however, and the question
is whether he infringed any rule and, if
so which one. In my opinion he didn’t.
■ nj ’ . P a P er wra PP In 8 round a
ball differs in no essential from the coat
of paint on it or the plastering of mud
which, on a sticky fairway, so often coats
the pill.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
L.T.A. has rehashed the itinerary of the
American and German tennis-players.
Sustained howls of agony from Sydney
have induced the holding there of a
special match between Budge and Von
Cramm on December 27, after the Aus-
tralia v. America match beginning on
December 16. Sydney wanted an
American-German-Australian tourney,
but Melbourne grabbed that for itself,
the dates being January 6, 7 and 8.
N.S.W. will not see either touring team
after the Budge-Von Cramm fixture, the
Australian championships at Adelaide
claiming them.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Sydney’s tennis
heads are throwing one of their periodi-
cal fits of hysterics because the wicked
Melbourne folk have allocated to them-
selves the triangular tennis match be-
tween Germany, the U.S.A. and Aus-
tralia. The governing body of tennis is
now located in Melbourne, and a Syd-
ney rag howls that tennis is controlled
in Melbourne for Melbourne alone.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: A severe cold which
came perilously close to pneumonia
j TV4-- tt .i j _ , r
caused Miss Hardcastle to drop out of
the Victorian championships, though it
is hoped she will be fit again by the
time the Australian championships at
Adelaide start on January 21. Jhe
Queensland girl has been a favorrtefnek
for the team to England, and a recovery
for (he nationa , c J ampionships will be
welcomed everywhere,
* * * *
“Milton”: After this summer season
no unaffiliated tennis body will be ad-
mitted to tourneys or fixtures held under
the banner of the Queensland L.T.A., the
ban, of course, applying to individual
members> xhis is more or less final
round in the scrap with the Summer As-
sociation, which recently withdrew from
the Q.L.T.A. over a question of fees,
Further, players persisting in allegiance
t° Ike S.A. will be debarred from join-
in 8 an Y or body affiliated to the
QL.T.A. * * *
« Ce ntre Court ». stated in English
papers that Austin will not turn out
again for England in Davis Cup matches,
England seems in a bad case in respect
of rising players. There is hope for Aus-
tralia’s future since there is a strong con-
tingent of possible champions visible,
an . son^ e °f th e y° u s§ Frenchmen are
saia to °* class. There does not at
P res cnt seem one English youngster of
P romise m sight,
Miscellaneous
Queens’: The controllers of British
athletics are folk of frugal mind. Wit-
n?ss the agreement which the members
X the English Empire Games team for
Australia have had to sign. No medico
° r masseur is provided ; it is stated that
. in Australia s warm climate” massage
* s unnecessary. Also the team must pay
t°r lts own washing. It is pointed out
that on board ship there will be facili-
ties for members to wash and iron their
laundry themselves,
* * * *
The English rowing eight for the
Empire Games in Sydney includes
Rhodes Hambridge, an Australian now
at Cambridge, as No. 7. In a letter
posted before the crew was picked, he
says:
our club (London) was invited to send
a crew to the Empire Games. We toyed
with the idea, but the months spent away
fron l England are hardly come by for
nearly all of us, and we have refused,
Also, the last time we sent a crew to Mel-
bourne four of them got married on return


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALEiS.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1294 of 1937.
BETWEEN GLADYS MAY WESTLEY Peti-
tioner
And OWEN CHARLES VERDI WEST-
LEY Respondent.
TO OWEN CHARLES VERDI WESTLEY
formerly of Coogee in the State of New
South Wales but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
MAY WESTLEY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is praying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
your desertion of her for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-fourth day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-eight and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proced and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitors free
of charge.
DATED this Second day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1981 of 1937.
BETWEEN DOROTHY ETHEL REAN Peti-
tioner
And GEORGE WILLIAM REAN Re-
spondent. '
TO GEORGE WILLIAM REAN late of
Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
ETHEL REAN has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the First day of March next and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Third day of December, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F, LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 950 of 1937.
BETWEEN GERALD FREDERICK FITZ-
GERALD Petitioner
And EUNICE IRENE FITZGERALD Re-
spondent
And LEN WILCOX Co-respondent.
TO EUNICE IRENE FITZGERALD and
LEN WILCOX.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GERALD
FREDERICK FITZGERALD has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is apply-
ing for dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of the adultery of the Respondent EUNICE
IRENE FITZGERALD with the Co-respondent
LEN WILCOX on the Thirtieth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven at
the Showground at Sydney in the State of
New South Wales AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
in the said suit in the proper office of this
Court on or before the Sixth day of February
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of December, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
CAMPBELL, CONDELL & PATON, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, Anson Street, Orange;
by their Agents, CAMPBELL, CAMPBELL &
CAMPBELL, Solicitors, 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“KING t °h f e ROAD”
of PLEASURE and SAFETY
' t ejand?i
m
i
am
m
i
m
Barnet Glass
II
Checkskid Tyres
THE TYRES WITH THE LONGEST, NON-SKID LIFE
M 59.30.37 Barnet Glass Rubber Company Limited (Incorporated in Victoria )
Sudden braking
takes a lot out of tyres
— don't speed to excess
in traffic.
and gave up rowing, which impoverished
the club's talent considerably.
Have just got back from a week in Por-
tugal where I stroked a four lepresenting
England at the annual international regatta
at Figueira da Foz. We were not good
by any means, but managed to notch a
second to the Dutch; the Belgians, French
and Portuguese trailed off on the horizon.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Will the Olympic
Games be held in Tokio in 1940 accord-
ing to schedule? The Japanese army con-
trol is reported to have expressed dis-
approval on the ground that preparations
are taking the public mind off the period
of national emergency through which the
country is passing. In England there is
a strong feeling that the Games may be
transferred to London, and it is reported
that the great stadium at Wembley is
already being enlarged and improved in
preparation for the switch-over.
* * * *
Maoriland Rugby Union has “recon-
sidered” its decision not to send a team
to Australia next year. It would prefer
a 1939 visit, but is ready to honor the
agreement as to a 1938 tour, the exis-
tence of which somebody forgot. In
all friendliness, it will be held to the
agreement.
“Birkenhead Park”: Oxford again
rubbed the Cambridge nose in the mud
in the Rugby match at Twickenham, win-
ning by 17-4. The King was present,
and 40,000, including the usual percen-
tage of country parsons, were there to
barrack. It was the sixty-second match
of the series.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Cannot agree that Soccer
is a much older game than Rugby (B.
8/12/’37). The crosscountry matches
between villages we read of as played in
England in the Middle Ages differed
little from some forms of modern Rugby
since—if we can trust the old chroniclers
—kicking, carrying and stoush were all
allowed. As an organised game Soccer
is older than Rugby, the British Associa-
tion having been formed in 1872, a year
ahead of the Rugby Union. The Aus-
tralian game, codified in the late ’sixties,
is older than either. Many special codes
of football were played in English
schools up to the ’nineties. Eton, Harrow,
Winchester and Uppingham all played
widely differing games. The modern
Soccer code was founded on the Eton
“field game,” with the result that the
Old Etonian club was conspicuous in the
early battles for the B.A. Cup. The
special rules have all vanished now,
Rugby supplanting them. Harrow plays
an Old Boys’ match annually under the
old code. This is worth going to see, if
only for the extraordinary headgear worn
by those of the players who have been
“capped” for the school.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Broadway Melody of 1938.”
Rdbert Taylor, Eleanor Powell.
Showing at Sydney St. James, this
follows the general lines of these annual
rag-bag affairs —songandance, vaudeville
and lavishly got up stage spectacle, with
thread of heart-interest holding all tenu-
ously together. At the best a light froth
of assorted artificiality, mildly entertain-
ing most of the way and quite good in
spots ; at the worst a not over-unpleasant
form of anaesthetic.
In its good spots it has such bright
funny men as Barnett Parker, who man-
ages shopwalkerish superiority about as
perfectly as it could be done; Buddy
Ebsen, who does a long-haired counter-
part of Australia’s Dave, though more
humorous and not a butt; Billy Gilbert
and Charles Igor Gorin, who do Ameri-
canised Italians or Greeks in rich style ;
and one Robert Wildhack, who has
made sneezing into a treatise. Also, the
makings of a brisk comedienne in Judy
Garland, a youngster of infectious vital-
ity with a vigorous voice ; warbling a
simulated impromptu ditty to Clark
Gable she makes a really first-class job
of a star-struck flapper, and her other
appearance is better still, because a star-
struck flapper, however well done, is not
altogether an attractive spectacle.
Also on the credit side Robert Taylor
manages the romantic business - well
enough, and such comedy spots as a raid
by the cook’s following of small tykes
on the table at a boarding-house for
down-and-out Actors help to prevent pro-
ceedings from ever getting really dull.
But the best of it, to present froth-
taster’s way of thinking, is Eleanor
Powell’s dancing, particularly a stretch
of it with boy friend in pouring rain
over wet paths, through gardens, into a
deserted rotunda, out on the open grass
again and over puddles to end with a
splash in a duck pond. Even those who
agree that filmed dancing is a thin sub-
stitute for the actual presence of a dancer
might find that stretch entertaining, if
only because it could not have been
presented except by film.
Even more in its favor is that it repre-
sents comparative novelty amidst what
otherwise mostly airfounts to a hotch-
potch of plagiarisms of the familiar and
well-worn.
There are some touches of originality
in the songs, but most even of these are
made up of snatches or wholesale liftings
of very hackneyed song hits, ranging
from “Carmen” and “Barber of Seville”
outbursts to such yearning ditties as
“You Made Me Love You.” In favor
of these liftings it might be said that
they’re ingeniously enough worked in—-
the “Toreador” outburst, for instance,
goes well sung by a young Italian barber
while lathering- and stropping-up ready
to attack a client—but they contribute
largely to the feeling that it’s a pity we’d
seen so much of it all before.
In one instance, too, this insistence on
dragging in old ditties can only be de-
scribed as a sadly trying intrusion, and
that’s putting it most politely. This
is when Sophie Tucker a vaude-
ville old-timer who had some notoriety
as a singer of risque songs—is brought
on to make a sentimental appeal as a
vaudeville has-been warbling excerpts
from apparently the most innocuous of
her stage successes. It might or might
not be a compliment to Miss Tucker’s
histrionic gifts to say that she does the
part so well that she actually seems to
be a has-been, and present showman can
think of few things more painful and
embarrassing to hear or witness.
The set-up of the piece is itself a
heavy leaning on past trifling. It has
Robert Taylor as author of big Broad-
way stage show, depending on the back-
ing of an all-day-sucker manufacturer,
or rather on all-day-sucker baron’s wife,
who, as well as making baron’s decisions
for him, has an unsentimental interest in
racehorses, and is quite agreeable to
have a sentimental interest in Robert on
the side if he’ll do ditto by her. When
he won’t she sees to it that baron’s back-
ing’s withdrawn, which leaves Robert,
Eleanor, their couple of horsey hangers-
on and the show dependent on one of
afl-day-sucker lady’s castoff racehorses
winning the big steeplechase. For doing
so horse has his photo, taken with his
face between Mr. Taylor’s and Miss
Powell’s as the final fadeout.
“Dangerously Yours”
This stretch of diamond thievery and
detection at Sydney Capitol could serve
as an f.a.q. example of how well* Holly-
wood turns out these machine-made en-
tertainers.
As much care is given to casting as
in the most ambitious efforts. Down to
people who make only fleeting appear-
ances, to swell out a crowd or a cock-
tail party, they all seem to be picked
to look their parts to the life. This film
Three of the funniest at loose in current films —George Formby (with banjo) in
“Keep Fit” at Sydney Mayfair, and Barnett Parker {trying all-day sucker ) and
Buddy Ebsen (pinching corn for the dark horse) in “Broadway Melody of 1938” at
Sydney St. James.
has a few dozen of them —international
crooks, detectives, ship’s officers,
diamond dealer and buyer, ladies in
assorted roles —and it would, take search-
ing criticism to fault any one of them.
Acting is up to the same standard.
Nearly everybody who appears in the
film has a dual job of first representing
what he or she isn’t and later what he
or she really is, and everyone of them
makes each part equally credible.
Add directing which doesn’t waste a
minute and keeps the yarn going on in
a continuous flow and you have a film
play warranted to keep interest awake
all the way, if only out of admiration
for the workmanship.
The actual matter of the play is
trifling. It has to do merely with a
diamond bought in Europe and de-
livered aboard a transatlantic liner sail-
ing for America, to be on the trip across
the main interest of the voyage to sundry
suspicious-looking characters.
Interest is pinned in the first few
minutes of film, when the big American
buyer of the gem replaces it under the
dealer’s nose with a replica, duly sealed
up for delivery aboard the ship. By the
time that little puzzler has been straight-
ened out interest has been neatly trans-
ferred to one or two prospective thieves,
then to others hitherto unsuspected and
from these to a whole nest of crooks,
with heart-interest developing to help it
over the last stages.
When it’s all over it’s of no account
whatever, but while it was on it was cer-
tainly entertaining.
Cesar Romero and Phyllis Brooks
spend longest time in the spotlight, but
at least a dozen others do their lesser
jobs with the same sureness.
St. James Shorts.
Two outstanding brevities figure in the
current change of bill —an “Our Gang”
and “Olympic Ski Championships” with
Pete Smith commentary.
Even in the shadow representation the
ski-ing is a thrilling business to watch.
One item in it alone—the ski-jump by
the Norwegian champion which won the
event—is fair enough value for the cost
of the whole programme.
It is a marvellous study of human
grace and balance, high in the air, in a
leap of well over 200 feet, pretty well
every inch of it finely caught by the
photographer.
What a film could be made of a really
well selected series of such things taken
from filmings over the last year or so!
. The “Our Gang” is well up to the
standard of these Mark Twainian he-
boys, which is praise enough. These
bright brevities tend to be more and
more dominated by the fat boy and the
chap with freckles, both of whom should
turn out topnotch comedians when they
grow up, if ever they’re going to grow up.
“Expensive Husbands.”
This wash-up of romantic froth at
Sydney Capitol is all about a fillum lady
who, when her agent has trouble getting
another engagement for her at her price,
heads for Yurrup, where she meets
handsome and impertinent waiter.
Of course he’s a prince in disguise,
earning a given sum of money before he
can inherit a fortune, and of course she
marries him for publicity purposes,
though thinking him penniless, and of
course they fall in love with each other
and everything ends happily for every-
body.
There must be an audience for films
of this sort or Hollywood wouldn’t go on
making them. The “plot” has now been
used 765,382 times, and it was piffle the
first time.
“Married Before Breakfast,” going the
rounds, depicts Robert Young in the
congenial role of an amiable newly-rich
young man whose programme of bene-
volence to all his friends and acquaint-
ances includes smoothing the path to
marriage of a pretty young stenog. (Flor-
ence Rice). It is obvious long before
half-time that he’ll marry her himself,
though engaged elsewhere, but the work-
ing-out of the trite little plot is amusing.
“The Chinese Robe.”
“The Chinese Robe,” a one-act play
bv Mrs. Frank Andrew, was the first
item of the evening at Melb. Comedy on
Saturday. William Lloyd is a young
archaeologist with green eyes who returns
to London to find an early flame of his,
Patricia Trace, six months married to
his friend, a middle-aged archaeologist.
A sinister Chinese servant and a Chinese
robe which confers luck only on persons
with green eyes add an air of mystery
to an otherwise everyday human prob-
lem. Clad in the Chinese robe, the young
man takes the young lady out to supper;
they return and, stimulated, they are
exchanging vows when the husband
enters. Being blind as a bat, like most
husbands in a similar predicament, he
goes off with his wife, leaving the young
man reflecting that after all there may
be something in the legend that the robe
brings luck to people with green eyes.
The curtain came down on the play just
as it became interesting.
The large and fashionable audience
then turned its attention to Drinkwater’s
“Bird in Hand.” Gregan McMahon’s
usual Christmas box to Melbourne was
received with the customary acclaim. In
his favorite part of the innkeeper who
finds his citadel threatened by a sprig of
the county nobility who is taking his
daughter out for motor rides, McMahon
was in his customary good form.
Leonard Stephens revived the amusing
Mr. Blanquet, who sells sardines with a
patent opener, and that veteran of the
professional boards Field Fisher mani-
pulated the role of Ambrose Godolphin,
K.C. McMahon is one of the best
casters in the theatrical field, and the
good casting helped to conceal the fact
that there is more soda than whisky m
the Drinkwater dramaturgy and more
face than comedy in the “Bird in Hand.”
What the Marcus Show
Shows.
The Marcus Show continues its offen-
sive against the competition of the
beaches at Melb. Princess. Present com-
mentator has conscientiously considered
what the Marcus Show shows from
various angles, and has come to the
melancholy conclusion that it is fighting
a losing battle on the nudity front. It
is not that the Marcusites are less gener-
ous in their display of flesh than their
rivals of the sands. They are at least as
generous as the law allows. But the law
governing theatres is liberal or latitu-
dinarian. The councillor who in-
veighs against the rising tide of pagan-
ism among sunbakers is sure of a good
press; the politician who complained
about the Marcus Show would be re-
garded as a ridiculous old fogey and
hardly get any press at all. Consequently
the Marcus Show does not get much
attention, except from its habitues. No
public controversy rages around it, no
beach inspector tells it to put on its
dressing-gown, and vigilance committees
don’t stay up of nights to keep an eye on
its goings-on. In fact, it threatens to
become a respectable institution, like the
undraped statuary in the public parks.
In “La Vie Paree,” the show’s latest
bill, Variations are played on the accus-
tomed theme. The girl contortionist con-
tinues to go to extremes of bodily dis-
memberment, and the hobo acrobats
juggle each other with a languid air.
Melbourne Art Shows.
Christmas art shows in Melbourne are
Carlyle Jackson’s year’s output at Kos-
minsky’s Galleries, and Murray Griffin’s
at the Fine Arts.
Mr. Jackson is an old hand at water-
color who pays Harold Herbert the com-
pliment of seeing the same subject-
matter after the same fashion.
This is not necessarily a less meritori-
ous method of approaching Nature than
that of Mr. Griffin. Some of subtle
Nature struggles into being in Mr. Jack-
son’s utterance, but it is shouted out of
countenance in Mr. Griffin’s pictures.


Professional Notices.
Melbourne University Revue.
APPLICATIONS are invited for position of
PRODUCER Five-night Revue, Boat Race
Week, city theatre. The work will be spread
over seven weeks. Qualifications and fee re-
quired to:
ORGANISING SECRETARY REVUE,
C/o Registrar’s Office, University.
Books, Publications, etc.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
MAP OF AUSTRALIA—I 937 New Edition.
Includes Air Service Routes. Single Coloured
Sheet (40in. x 30in.) folded in envelope ready
for posting. FOR SALE, Price 1/-. Apply
Works Director, Department of the Interior,
4th Floor, Customs House, Sydney.
\i
A GIFT OF GOOD CHEER
THAT WILL BE APPRECIATED
Inserted by
The Viticultural Society of Victoria.
u
For a Water
Supply
in your Caravan
our latest
catalogue.
“M
MAX
X”
Caravan Pump
Pumps water into an overhead tank to give
running water in your caravan....
Compact, attractive in appearance, suitable for
iron pipe, copper pipe or hose. . . . gunmetal
throughout, nickel-plated all over.... mounted
on wood base. It’s the obvious buy for your
caravan. Only 42/6!
(Vpphcrsoils
r Proprietary Limited Vv —
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney;
546 Collins Street, Melbourne.
NEW
tSi
V
m
y
a^aSSraffl
in
SOUTH AFRICA
for full particulars, apply fo all offices of
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand.
XMAS
An Ideal
PRESENT!
, ;
msm
Nothing would please “him” better than
a Plum Razor, which gives a clean,
comfortable shave. . .always. Then, for
the man who prefers a safety razor,
there’s the Guard, which can be clipped
on immediately. Plum Razors are fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two
years, free of charge.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety
razor, 3/6 extra. Fits | and 4 blades.
Selected steel, black handle .... 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo handle. . 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle .... 21/-
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
Pair of razors in leatherette-covered hinged
ALL TOST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Lionel Lindsay Show .
Lionel Lindsay is one of the few Aus-
tralian artists whose work his best
work, at any rate —has in it the elements
of permanency. Uninfluenced by the
vagrant winds of current doctrine, he sets
himself his own standards and develops
his own techniques, and the sincerity and
soundness of his limning are such that
his work would have commanded as
much respect 200 years ago as it does
to-day, and as it will probably receive
200 years hence.
This imperishable quality is best exem-
plified in Lindsay’s woodcuts, plates
from the best known of which are in-
cluded in his current show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney. The art of
the engraver on wood is old and honor-
able, and has boasted some marvellously
clever craftsmen, but Lindsay has added
something to it, and the achievement has
made his name known wherever this
obsolescent art is still practised or appre-
ciated.
The current show includes many new
etchings, mostly glimpses of streets in
Spain and Italy or of the waterways of
Venice—all characteristic of the author
and crisp of line, but none of them ris-
ing to the eminence of “The Shanty on
the Rise,” the little plate which won for
Lindsay the silver medal of the Paris
Salon.
The only colored works on show this
time are 11 drawings made in Spain
in 1934, interesting technically be-
cause of the mingling of ink, crayon and
water-color in which they are executed.
The ink gives firmness and brightens the
colors; the crayon shading and tintpd
wash merge with each other to give a
surprising degree of depth and model-
ling. Lindsay can manipulate the method
to bring to the beholder’s eye a wide
stretch of sunlit landscape or the cold
shadows of a winter’s evening.
There is a brief reminder that Lionel
is the eldest of a family which has made
its name in comic art as well as in loftier
spheres in the well-remembered etchings
“Euchred” and “His Only Pair.” But
after doing the walls one goes back to
the woodcuts. They are unique.
u The Desert Song” Revived.
At Melbourne His Majesty’s a revival
of “The Desert Song” holds the floor in
succession to “Balalaika,” with Robert
Halliday a more impressive Pierre Mira-
beau than Sidney Burchall, who was the
original Australian Red Shadow; Mar-
gret Adams the vocally insufficient ex-
planation for Halliday’s obsession; the
dancing of Yvonne Banvard, who is
Clementina, the Spanish lady; and the
infectious fooling of Don Nicol as the
correspondent of the Paris “Daily Mail.”
Melbourne Municipal
Concert
Last of-the Melbourne City Council’s
generous supply of free concerts pro-
duced some excellent singing at the
Town Hall.
The Southern Lyric Choral Society,
under George English’s mature direction,
obliged with some sensitive renderings,
especially of Parry’s motet “Never
Weather-beaten Sail.”
Isabel Biddell caressed Michael Head’s
“Foxgloves” with her pleasant contralto,
and William McKie functioned with his
usual zeal at both organ and piano.
Canadian Art
The Canadian Art exhibition mainly
gave Adelaide a shrewd buffet in the
eye.
Charming were some snow scenes, and
one or two things might have been
painted in England last century. But
mostly the wooden houses careless of
all perspective, the resolutely “primi-
tive” outlook, were the notable features.
The Gallery bought—probably to
show students just what their cousins
overseas are doing—a Panton, of
golden-brown trees over a lake, in a
rolling line on rocks that look like a
bed quilt rucked up.
George Formby and George
Formby.
“D.8.K.” on two comedians:
George Formby, showing in the excel-
lent English comedy “Keep Fit” at Syd-
ney Mayfair, is the son of the famous
Lancashire comedian of the same name.
Formby senior reached great heights
on Britain’s vaudeville circuits. A native
of that butt of the halls Wigan, his
quaintness was a wild hit with Lanca-
shire folk and Londoners alike. He was
the same off the boards as on. I remem-
ber, as a youth, seeing him once entering
a taxi outside Wigan railway station. He
drew back and, looking at the roof of
the cab, said: “Nay, laad, I want one o’
those theer cabs wi’ railin’s round t’ top.”
Few suspected that his quaint cough,
which often racked him when before "the
footlights, was no gag. He joked about
it to the effect that “this’ll be the death
of me.” It was.
Formby senior started his career
through being hauled out of a pub in
Wigan by a stage manager of the Old
Vic. theatre. A singer was non compos,
and somebody said Formby would “sing
for a pint.” He did, to such effect that
his rise was swift and sure.
Dad intended son for the racecourse,
and the last time I saw Formby junior
was in early war days as a nipper on a
pony alongside his dad, out for a morn-
ing’s trot. That funny little walk George
Formby struts in “Keep Fit” is a legacy
from his father.
He is, in fact, almost a reincarnation.
He took to the vaudeville boards about
1920 as “George Foy,” but wasn’t much
of a success until recent years, when he
reverted to the better-known name.


WINNING NUMBERS
-m-
-■ ■. . ■ ■
9fV4
wwmm
1
a
..—. —i. t
Fine bronze-finished figure,
height 17iin., with high-
grade 8-day Swinging
Clock. Price 72/6
Amber Glass Fruit or Flower Bowl,
finely modelled ligure with remov-
able shell. Price 12/6
Postage 2/-.
Selections from
Prouds’ Catalogue of
inexpensive Novelties
suitable for Xmas,
Birthday and Wed-
ding Presents. Send
your name and
address and receive a
copy post free by
return.
Ch7 —A handsome Lager or Lemonade Set, tall
2-pint Jug and 6 |-pint Tumblers in the new
Lustra Crystal with chrome rings. Colours:
Amber, Green or Smoke Brown. Price, 17/6.
Postage 2/6.
Combination Cigarette
Case, Powder, Rouge and
Lipstick, chrome and
lacquer enamel, assorted
colours. Price 9/6
PROUDS PTY., LTD., KING & PITT STREETS, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Last week Australia achieved its first
woman mayor. She is Mrs. Lillian
Fowler, and she is Mayor of Newtown.
Mrs. Fowler is quite aware of the re-
sponsibility of her new office, and is de-
termined to face all her duties with
a strong will and a fair mind. She says
the first thing she is giving her attention
to is the Mayor’s Relief Fund. The new
Mayor’s mind will not be distracted by
the social side, as her daughter, Mrs.
Tierney (Mrs. Fowler, by the way, is a
grandmother, but a very young one), will
take up the duties of Mayoress.
Women descendants of pioneers are
delving among the family archives and
writing to the Sydney Club for admis-
sion. No fewer than 56 new members
have joined this last six months. The
Christmas party last week was a monster
one, and the special competition of the
afternoon was one called “When we were
very young.” Each woman who could
find a photograph of herself as a baby
brought it along. These were pinned up
on the wall, and the guesser had to tell
which baby of yesterday was the woman
of to-day. Mollie Oxley and her sister
perched on a high horse, for instance,
were quite different from the very trig
1937 pair drinking cherry cup. Nina
Flood, however, was recognised by
many; so was secretary Carlotta Doyle,
who appeared on the wall as a blue-
sashed little girl of two or so. There
were plum-puddings and boxes of choco-
late for those lucky enough to draw the
right colored card, and the party ended
with the toast of the club proposed by
the president, Mrs. Lingham.
Another personality slipped from Syd-
ney’s social world about half past seven
on Sunday morning, when John Spencer
Brunton died after an illness that has
lasted almost since the time of his wife’s
death two years ago. These two were
inseparables. They were seen together at
race meetings, and every first theatrical
night saw them in the stalls or circle.
Though weakened in health Mr.
Brunton’s spirit was undaunted, and he
insisted on being motored to Melbourne
to see the last Cup meeting. His home,
Gladswood, has been noted for its hos-
pitality, and almost every visiting import-
ant has been entertained at its table.
Mourning his passing are daughters Mrs.
Jean Moreing and Mrs. Eric Lawson,
and his sons John and Tom, as well as a
wide-flung circle of friends.
On Thursday afternoon the principal
of Hopewood House, Miss Jobson, held
a reception, and guests wandered through
the reception-rooms and the gardens of
the old Darling Point home. If you
cared to wander into one small room you
could see something that looked like a
master pastrycook’s display. Here
stretched a table bearing Christmas
cakes, the icing tinted pink, rose, lilac
and green. The hostess’s chiffon frock
was in her favorite shade of brown. One
of the joys of the afternoon was the tea-
drinking set among giant blue and pink
hydrangeas, flowering shrubs and gaily-
patterned borders.
The night of the Orations Contest is
the bespangled one of the year to the
students of Hopewood House. Last
week’s oratory lived up to former re-
cords, and the audience was even larger
than in other years. Marie Antoinette,
Peter the Great, Elizabeth of England,
Romain Rolland, Raffles (not the safe-
breaking one of fiction, but Sir Stam-
ford Raffles) were among the characters
who lived again in impassioned speech.
Sir Hugh Poynter and David Maughan,
K.C., acted as judges, and Lady Wake-
hurst, in the softness of grey lace, was
in the audience. With her was daughter
Henrietta. Mayoress Parkes, who was
squired by her husband, was another in-
tent listener.
The gardens of Radstoke, the Walter
Burfitts’ home at Elizabeth Bay, have
been open for inspection these last two
week-ends in the interests of St. John’s
College. St. John’s is out to garner
£50,000 for its building fund, and the
mothers of students or former students
are busy in a hundred ways turning an
honest penny. They have found that, be-
sides the big efforts of balls and fetes,
there’s a constant little stream of silver
running in from such simple pleasures.
The gardens of Radstoke slope, by a
series of terraces, to the rim of Eliza-
beth Bay and the family swimming pool.
This Letter has never seen such great
heads of hydrangea as gazed, blue-eyed,
at the passer-by to the pool. An arch
festooned in passion-vine and -fruit was
pleasant to loiter under.
The Ernest Fisk lady and her cele-
brated Beam wireless husband were the
guests of the Institute of Journalists at
lunch last Monday. The two are being
feted at innumerable parties, and even
he would stagger at the task of com-
puting the cost by Beam of all the lauda-
tory speeches he has listened to. Bostock
photo.
The Lyceum Club’s literary tea party
reminded that Christmas was on the way
when a very fruity and mellow plum cake
made its appearance. The president of
the circle, Mrs. Gore Newell, and Muni-
cipal Librarian Bertie between them cut
the first slice. He and Johnnie Sandes
were the particular lions of the afternoon.
The speech of the first was a defence of
the readers and the writers of this con-
tinent. John told of his journey from
England in the sailing ship Torrens. The
captain and part-owner of this vessel
always wore a pepper-and-salt suit and
black bowler hat, even in the stormiest
weather. This was the ship in which
(the voyage after that which bore John,
then a Very young journalist, to this
shore) Conrad was a mate and Gals-
worthy a traveller, and the two struck up
the friendship which was 'to result in
Conrad becoming one of the great novel-
ists of his day.
To these and other colorful incidents
the members listened while the teapot
circled. Another interesting and amusing
10 minutes was supplied by Mrs. Gore
Newell, who read in sparkling style a
satire called “The Poets at Tea.”
Baskets of flowers were presented to
her and to Miss Allen, who deputised
for her while she was abroad, and a spray
of rose and frangipanni went to Miss
Cox Taylor, once “Vandorian” of this
page. As secretary she had arranged the
party, which was a success from the
word “go.”
Mrs. Montague Marks, a Melboumite
and a miniature-painter of note, arrived
in the Strathaird with her husband, who
is one of the heads of London Imperial
Films. Mrs. Marks’s most notable
sitter was Lady Patricia Ramsay (before
her marriage officially Princess Victoria,
but better known as Princess Pat). The
princess was painted when her father was
Governor - General of Canada. Lord
Richard Neville and some other friends
bought the miniature and presented it to
the Duchess of Connaught. The por-
trait was later reproduced and sold
for the benefit of the Canadian Red
Cross. Still later it was exhibited at the
Royal Academy. Mrs. Marks is well
known in art circles of London and Paris.
Her daughter Patricia is at school in Eng-
land. Mrs. Marks got ready for her
journey in record time. The week before
the Strathaird sailed she and her hus-
band were entertaining a house party of
film stars.
The P.E.N. Club had it's end-of-the-
year dinner in the Forum Club one night
last week. Secretary Ruth Bedford and
social secretary Dora Payter each arrived
with a mountain of reports of the P.E.N.
congress which was held last year in
Buenos Ayres. These seem to hold as
much reading as Anthony Adverse.
After dinner there was an election of
office-bearers, and it is just a case of as
you were. Elliott Napier is again presi-
dent, Ruth Bedford secretary, Dora Pay-
ter social secretary, Jeanie Ranken trea-
surer. There is one change, and that is
that the Municipal Library’s Mr. Bertie
is now added to the vice-presidents. Ruth
and Elliott Napier have just brought out
books of verse, and Mr. Bertie a travel
book called For Pleasure.
If you have visited the Painter-Etchers’
show in the gallery of the Education De-
partment you have noticed the work of
Ella Dwyer. Ella is a member of the
council of the Painter-Etchers and
Graphic Art Society of Australia. In
pictorial work Ella likes most to do sand-
grains, and exhibits some new ones in
the present show. She also specialises in
bookplates. She has done one for Lady
Game and one for the late Joseph Kin-
sey, of Christchurch (M.L.). His books,
incidentally, were bequeathed to the
Turnbull Library in Wellington. An-
other bookplate was designed for the
medical library which Dr. Aineas Mc-
Donnell presented to the Toowoomba
Hospital. America, too, is the richer
for this Australian’s work. Two of her
bookplates for Californian owners were
chosen for inclusion in the de luxe
edition of Historic California in Book-
plates, by Clare Ryan Talbot, published
by the Graphic Press, of California,
Neville Barnett’s Pictorial and Armorial
Bookplates in Australia contains some of
Ella’s work. Dorothy Welding photograph.
A woman guest at the International
Club’s cocktail party to knight Ernest
Fisk said to the great man: “Wireless
is just so much magic to me. I can
believe in miracles, but I don’t under-
stand science.” He replied: “They
are the same thing.” His speech in
reply to those of president Ben Fuller
and Aubrey Halloran was so direct and
simple that he almost made television
and Beam wireless seem simple, everydaj
things. Among other quotable sayings
was “Man doesn’t invent, he only
discovers the forces of nature.” His
wife, pretty and fair, wore in addition
to dark-blue sheer a radiant smile. Mrs.
Arthur Cheeke, Mrs. Jean Moreing and
Ruby Adams were a tall and attractive
trio. Mrs. Moreing’s Breton sailor was
worn with a New York air.
It was one Of those days when one’s
too, too solid flesh melts visibly. The
Overseas Club rooms were packed to the
passageway. The cocktails, known as
Joy of the East, were flavored with creme
de menthe and circled with great rapidity.
Everybody was talking parties. Miss
Elizabeth Plummer, very handsome in
her flowered silks, was issuing invitations
for her Christmas revel. The Ben Fullers
were talking about a family celebration
in honor of her mother, who is in the
eighties. Oswald Cheeke was collecting
friends to greet the Montague Marks
couple. Dollie Hollander Moore flitted
through the afternoon in currant-red
chiffons. Mrs. Norman Macleod’s navy
sheer showed touches of pale amber; the
revers were caught with quaint buttons
which were cellophane hats. The Snow-
den lady, Miss Denison Miller, Mrs.
Maurice Gulson (her frock as green as
the branch of a Christmas-tree), the
graceful Mrs. Theophilus and Mrs.
Kveton were among the much-greeted.
Lady Swaythling was one of the after-
noon’s stars.
Mary Whidbourne, who came back to
Sydney in the Tarifa after an absence of
some years in England, is now staying
with the Jack Morts, of Balmain. Just
before Mary left England she saw
daughter-of-the-house Jean, who is doing
famously in repertory in Sheffield. An-
other excitement of the Morts is the
arrival of the Dino Borgiolis (Mrs. Dino
being a sister of Mr. Mort). Mary is
looking extremely well, and is delighted
to be back in Australia. Last week-end
she spent renewing old friendships at
Frensham. Another rally which plunged
her among old familiars was the
Christmas party of the Wayfarers’ Club.
The Wayfarers form a little inner group
of the Women’s Club, and their job in
life is to make things pleasant for
members newly arrived from overseas.
Fresh from such schools as Roedean
in Brighton, Mary comes back with
all the newest and best of the Dalcroze
methods, and she intends to open a school
of music and movement embodying the
methods of the famous Jacques.
Among the many Christmas parties
that have made the Forum Club merry
none was brighter than the one hostessed
by Mary Makinson. To this every
woman came laden With a parcel or two.
They weren’t all shoppers’ loot. Mrs.
Herbert Odillo Maher’s packet contained
silk lingerie won at bridge. Pianist Trix
Tange bound her russet hair under small,
black velvet headgear. Organist Alice
Bryant and her sister came; so did Mrs.
Will Ashton. In fact, the hydrangea-
decked tables were surrounded by
women known in the art and music
worlds. The hostess wore black-and-
white, and her shiny black straw hat was
uptilted after the Annabella style.
The Countess de Vilme-Hautmont
(Vinia Deloitte) is taking a group of
travellers under her wing to Europe.
They leave Sydney in April by the
Viminale, and they disembark at Naples.
Before that they will glimpse the Pyra-
mids, and have a trip to Athens to see
the glory of ancient Greece. Italy,
Vienna, Prague the golden, Berlin,
Brussels, Paris are just a few of the his-
toric and beauty spots to be visited in
the 56 days of the tour. As a travel
hostess the Countess will probably score
top marks. And if every other form of
entertainment fails she can charm them
with her powers as a singer and racon-
teur.


I STAY AT .
SYDNEY'S
Finest HOTEL
When you visit Sydney—stay at the
Wentworth. At the Wentworth you
will get everything you- desire; a
homely atmosphere, perfect service
and convenience to business and
social centres.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
CD. MACLURCAN MN6. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
□
IVE a Globite Case... for
travel, school, business,
sport or ordinary everyday
use. Globites are smart,
light and strong . . . sold
at local stores. All sizes.
MUSIC FOR EVERYONE
AT CHRISTMAS
PARTIES !
Imagine the fun YOU and
your friends can have
if you learn to
play
Hohner.
No. 100/40 IraS Eo!f
HOHNER
AUTO - VALVE ■ HARP
Mouth Organ
Absolutely no musical knowledge
is required! Anyone can learn to
play in a few days. Persuade your
friends to buy Hohner Mouth
Organs and form a band. You’ll
have endless enjoyment at parties
and picnics. Send 3d. in stamps
and YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
to Dept. 5.8.2, Box 855 K, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, and we will send you
A Free Mouth Organ Tutor
and in a few you’ll be play-
ing your favourite airs! Don’t
delay—WRITE TO-DAY!
Hohner Mouth Organs have an
unrivalled reputation for tone,
workmanship and long life. Larry
Adler plays a “HOHNER.” Ask
to see the new AUTO-VALVE-
VAMPER, at all music and fancy
goods stores. Price 3/-.
Melbourne
Chatter
As ships grow bigger funnel and masts
are being gradually reduced to one of
each. Thus the Orcades in her party
clothes of bunting and electric lights was
a single-funnelled, single-masted silhou-
ette against the dark-sky background of
Station Pier. The very successful dance
on board was held in aid of the Women’s
Hospital and the Free Kindergarten
Union. The Orient Co. did things gener-
ously, providing supper in the air-con-
ditioned dining-room and a buffet on
deck where drinks were fruity or ice-
cold Sydney beer pumped out of casks
from a useful arrangement of many taps.
Guests boarding by way of the gangway,
turned into a tunnel of flags, were handed
direction-folders as a guard against get-
ting bushed among the multitude of
decks.
Up on the sports deck, where the
orchestra provided swing music, there
were plenty of chairs for onlookers and
a flagged-in nook for the vice-regals and
topmost rungs of the large committee.
Lady Huntingfield is faithful to her favor-
ite game of contract bridge, and with
Colonel and Mrs. Pott and another friend
settled down as soon as supper was over
to the intricacies of “asking bids” in the
air-conditioned library, so coolish that
wraps were useful. Among those
noticed on board were Princess Melikoff
and her mother, Mrs. J. B. Curran, who,
although she is 87, seldom uses the lift
for travelling downwards. For the long
journey from sports deck to dining-room
she chose the stairs and the proffered
assistance of her daughter’s arm.
Sheila Creswick wore a lovely frock of
softest-pink chiffon with long sash ends
of tulle falling from the waist. Dorothy
Raws was in ivory lace and a white
ermine wrap. Rosemary Lyon in mist-
blue satin was distinctive for the fact
that she wore neither necklace nor
flowers in her hair. Mary Guy Smith’s
biue-and-silver gown had a very low
back and short-winged sash ends knotted
at the waistline.
The finals of the tennis championships
were a reminder of the Test matches, for
in proportion to the stands the crowd
was as great. Everyone who could came
early with hampers and cushions, includ-
ing a number of cheap blow-up rubber
cushions bought for the Tests, which
hadn’t been used since, and turned dog
on their owners, slowly but surely giving
up the ghost from unseen infinitesimal
punctures. Popular apparel consisted of
white hats and, when the rain spattered
down, red sunshades, transparent oilcloth
capes and sheets of newspaper.
Up at the back of the life members’
stand Mrs. George Turnbull sat with her
son Donald and Viv McGrath. Don
and his mother were making a before-
breakfast start the next morning to drive
to Adelaide in a day. Not far away were
Harley Malcolm, inevitable cornflower
in his buttonhole, the Gerald Pattersons,
Alison Davidson in Air Force blue and
a safety-pin clasp in her beret, the “By”
Gowans, and Mrs. Geoff Grimwade in a
grey suit, brick-red blouse and snappy
accessory of red - and - white - spotted
cushion-ci/m-picnic bag. The Ken Coxes
were there, Mrs. Cox in a tailored suit.
Mrs. John Cumming was noticeable for
the successful alliance of turquoise frock
and deep wine-red bag, gloves and hat-
band.
Prof. Wood Jones, who relinquishes
the chair of anatomy here and leaves
Melbourne on December 21 to occupy
a similar chair in the University of Man-
chester, was accorded the compliment of
having every seat in the Town Hall
booked for his valedictory lecture. Years
sit easily upon the shoulders of this
learned savant, who graduated in Lon-
don in 1903, who has worked in many
parts of the world, whose reputation has
penetrated even further afield and who
has flattered Melbourne by remaining
here seven years, the longest period he
has stayed in one place. He lectured in
his vivid scarlet robe, as usual without
a single note —there are students who
have been right through their University
course without seeing their anatomy pro-
fessor refresh his memory from a written
word.
The title of the lecture was “Life
and Livelihood,” the kernel a complaint
that men and women acquire know-
ledge without sensibility or appreciation
of it except as means of livelihood.
Chancellor James Barrett, introducing the
professor, included a word of praise, ap-
plauded by the audience, of Mrs. Wood
Jones, who is even more self-effacing
than her husband. She is a graduate, and
has assisted the professor a great deal
in his work. At the close of the lecture
Lord Huntingfield moved a vote of
thanks from the platform, after which
the press in the foyer was as great as
that after any crowded celebrity concert.
It was noticeable that well over half of
the people present were in evening dress.
In the Broothorn photograph is
Dorothy Parnham, an enterprising Aus-
tralian girl who recently returned home
after four years abroad. Dorothy was
so successful as a mannequin that she
managed a trip across the Atlantic on the
Normandie. She had a variety of jobs,
and occasionally earned a few useful
pounds as an extra in musical comedy
and cabaret shows. Dorothy and her
three sisters all sing and play ; the young-
est, Bunny, has exceptional talent as a
pianist.
The most progressive step up to date
in the history of women’s athletics was
the holding in Melbourne last week of
the first Australian women’s amateur
athletic championships on the brand-new
ground at Royal Park, the only such
ground owned by a feminine sporting
body in the Commonwealth. The oval
was a gift from the Royal Park council,
and was opened by the Lord Mayor
with some ceremony and a parade of
athletes. It provides plenty of accom-
modation for spectators and comfortable
dressing- and shower-rooms for competi-
tors. In last week’s championships W.A.
was responsible for the “dark horses,”
who, although they numbered only four,
kept the 26 Victorian, 21 N.S.W. and
four Queensland representatives well on
their toes. The great surprise of the
event was Westralian Decima Norman,
who runs like a hare.
From form shown last week, the Aus-
tralian teams were selected for the Em-
pire Games to be held in Sydney in
February, at which teams will be present
from England and S’Africa. For con-
venience of business-girls several heats at
the Melbourne meetings took place after
five on week days. Every afternoon men
outnumbered women on the stands. They
were of all ages, showed great enthusi-
asm in their applause, and now and then
reverted to hoots when decisions failed
to please them.
This summer, the domestic question
being more acute than ever, there will be
more menservants on domestic payrolls
than there were last year. Male eyes
are just as keen for a speck of dust,
hands just as deft at arranging silver,
feet just as quick (and often quieter) at
moving around the house. And most
men can learn to cook a bit if they have,
to. Times are certainly changing. The'
day may come when the male domestic
will demand living quarters for his wife
and children, and the wife will drop her
offspring every morning at a creche on
her way to her job in a factory.
As a result of endless spread
over a number of years, for the institu-
tion of a maternity branch, St. Vincent’s
has secured the building opposite in Vic-
toria-street, still branded in stone “Somer-
set House,” but since the Duke of Glou-
cester’s visit known as Gloucester House.
The Mother Superior does not like the
look of the new hospital’s bank balance.
It was only £lO the week the hospital
was opened, so friends will have to bestir
themselves. Miss de Bavay, “the incor-
rigible optimist,” is already working her
friends up to the necessity of a lift in
the three-storeyed building, which has
been renovated throughout by plasterers
and painters. /
The new hospital is to be intermediate
and public and undenominational.
The babies, as is now the case in all big
scientifically-run hospitals, may be seen
through glass windows in their blue cribs.
Each baby has his own locker, and is
given his bath in a glittering washroom
of white tiles and rustless steel. All in-
fants are treated with the same care,
whether their mothers are paying several
guineas a week or nothing at all. A
visit to such a germ-proof establishment
makes one wonder how in the old make-
shift day anyone managed to survive
birth at all.
This Ronald Esler portrait is of Mrs.
Franc Falkiner, who frequently visits
Melbourne and Sydney from her station
home, Mount Falcon, Tooma, Upper
Murray.
Merry Christmas was the general fare-
well at the International Club’s last party
of the year—a welcome-home to Mrs.
H. del Cott. The guest of honor was
quite unprepared for a public address,
but accepted Mrs. Herbert Brookes’s in-
vitation, and made the first speech of her
life one of interest and humor. Points
she touched upon were some adventures
in Central Europe on a few words of
German (for some of Mrs. del Cott’s
travelling was done without her hus-
band, who is the Consul for Austria),
country walks in Yugoslavia, a visit to
Salzburg during the festival, where the
local inhabitants were wearing ordinary
clothes and the visiting Americans
everything Tyrolean, even to their shoes.
While in Vienna Mrs. del Cott saw
the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. The
Duchess, petite and perfectly-dressed,
impressed her as being far more attrac-
tive in real life than she appears in press
photos. Among the incidental expenses
of the Coronation were the prices asked
by hairdressers in the West End. Ten
shillings for a trim was not exceptional,
and the majority of women who wanted
a shampoo and set seldom got out of
the shop for less than 265. Among guests
present at the club party were Mrs. del
Cott’s mother and sister, Mrs. A. W.
Wales and Nellie, Mrs. L. M. Roach,
Mrs. H. V. Broccock and Mrs. T. de
Gruchy.
Garden seats, kerosene-boxes and
cushions for the floor were requisitioned
to accommodate the overflow at the
Little Theatre on each night of Terence
Crisp’s “Provocative Plays” season. In
the first play, “Illusions,” Boneitta Smith,
who recently returned from England (she
did some dramatic study in London), was
the efficiency expert with a sentimental
heart. Alice Hill was the garrulous mother-
of-eight in search of offices to clean. In
“Progress,” a verbose play with a melo-
dramatic ending, Terence Crisp became
the inventor of a new bomb, and
Murielle Hearne (a newcomer who shows
talent) his bereaved sister.
Of stronger stuff was “Dux,” wherein
a dictator with something radically wrong
among his glands, runs amuck to what
promises to be his doom from a bullet at
the hands of a beauteous female. As this
lady, Merri Hart showed a restraint which
was commendable in view of her limited
experience up to date. Bob Bennett, much
changed by spectacles and stooped shoul-
ders, was impressive as the artist sub-
merged, director of the bloodthirsty
Dux’s national theatre and gladiatorial
bouts. Betty Henry did a really good
spot of character work in the final play,
“The Charlady and the Angel.”
The “Bird in Hand” season is proving
particularly popular, for, in addition to
Gregan McMahon, Leonard Stephens
and Field Fisher playing their original
roles of the season eight years ago, the
programme includes as a certain-raiser
“The Chinese Robe,” by Mrs. Frank
Andrew, so well known in social and
philanthropic circles. Present in the first-
night audience were the Aubrey Gib-
sons, Mrs. Gibson wearing a lovely gown
of powder-pink satin with bead embroid-
eries upon the corsage, over which went
a little waist-length coat of the same
material. Valerie Downes was in the
rustle of lily-green taffeta, and Jean
Stewart-Ferguson wore a brown wrap
with her lacquer-red chiffon frock. Mrs.
Richard Allen was all in black. Present
also were Mr. and Mrs. G. L. Chilvers,
whose daughter Pat has just announced
her engagement to Dr. Walter Williams.
It has been a favored week for betrothals
of youth and beauty Elizabeth Dar-
ling and John Baillieu, Rosemary
Downes and Jim Campbell are also shar-
ing felicitations.


I
AND STILL ONLY 12/6 BOTTLE.
(Metropolitan price)
£.9
A
**4«a
Let This Perfect Whisky
Be Part of Your
Festive Season
Toast your guests at Christmas
and New Year with perfect
cocktails made on this perfect
whisky.
Canadian Club has a delightful
mildness and softness that is
seldom equalled and never ex-
celled. Matured for years in old
oak casks, it is bottled in bond-
at pre-war strength.
Although unique in flavour and
unvarying in quality, Canadian
Club is sold at the same price as
standard Scotch brands. Write
to the agents for a free, attrac-
tive Cocktail Recipe Book.
Agents: John Woods & Co. Pty., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Distilled by: Hiram Walker & Sons, Ltd., Walkerville, Ont., Canada.
Since 1858.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict, and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an in-
surance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales returns showing the amount
of such premiums paid by them in respect of
the said property to such insurance companies
during the year 1937.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1938;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only ot the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in. respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act. „ _
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are re-
quired to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1937, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies, less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1938; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
For Sale.
FULL set “Times” History War, absolutely
new, cheap.—2B6, Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Tennant’s Creek has proved
again that there is gold in the region. A
prospector named Harry Smith, a Ger-
man, has found an alluvial strike to the
north-west which yielded him —and a 14-
year-old daughter working with him —
120 oz. of gold, worth over £lOOO, in four
days. It was “miner’s luck,” as usual.
Smith had been struggling in the arid bit
of spinifex country with a dryblower,
and just as he was giving up in despair
rain fell and he was able to start wash-
ing surface wash, of which there was
about 18in. on top of a porphyry bottom.
There were ounces in the first dish, and
later nuggets up to 16oz. were found.
* * * *
, “X.T.” : A remark of the Payne Com-
mission that hardy industrialists of
the North strongly object to cheap abo.
labor reminds me that the question was
raised in Parliament by an M.P. who
said: “I should like to ask the Minister
for the Interior whether he knows that
aboriginals are cutting sleepers for the
Alice Springs railway. Is his Govern-
ment a black-labor Government that
it permits these simple savages to
do a white man’s work for a few sticks
of tobacco a week?” A chorus of
“shames” rose from among the comrades
of the champion of the native. Then
the Minister —Bill Glasgow—rose. “For
once I agree with my honorable friend,”
he said. (Loud Labor cheers .) “If what
my friend says is true this is an instance
not only of the use of forced and sweated
labor, but of unspeakable cruelty which
I will not tolerate. I agree to order that
the work of cutting N.T. sleepers shall
be reserved for the members of the N.
Australian Workers’ Union.” (Yells of
triumph.) “I congratulate those brawny
toilers on their eagerness to’ undertake
this back-breaking work. It is back-
breaking. Every sleeper which we are
using on the line is steel.”
* * * *
George Marchant, of Brisbane, has
had a birthday. Sixty-four years ago he
landed from Kent, a lonely, lanky boy of
16. After a few bush jobs he got em-
ployment in a Brisbane soft-drink fac-
tory, mastered the business and set up
for himself. It brought him a fortune,
but he has not kept that fortune for him-
self. He built a beautiful house at
Taringa, and gave it as a home for dis-
abled returned soldiers. He built an-
other, and gave it as a home for aged
people. He bought Ardoyne, a his-
toric mansion at Corinda, and handed it
over for use of crippled children. He gave
Marchant Park, a valuable Chermside
property, as a public recreation ground.
He has, unostentatiously, given thou-
sands more in charity and help, always
shrewdly, but always generously. Queens-
land has good reason to wish that Kentish
immigrant boy many happy returns.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Probably not a dozen
out of the thousands who daily pass
Brisbane’s old Town Hall realise that
it is a historic landmark, and also one
of the best surviving Australian examples
of Italian Renaissance architecture. It
was completed, in 1865. Its freestone
came from tfte old Breakfast Creek
quarry, most of the timber was cedar,
and the ironbark stair-treads, fastened
with hand-made wrought-iron spikes, are
in perfect condition to-day. The 36
columns in the main hall are of polished
“If’s th' poison cart —he wants t' drop some baits on th' Way ' ome. "
Scottish granite. The architect was Wil-
liam Coote, an active-minded person who
also wrote fierce leaders for the
“Courier” about Tom Mcllwraith. John
Petrie, son of Andrew of that ilk, was
the first Mayor, and he knew good build-
ing when he saw it. The old Town Hall
cost £25,000, one fortieth of the bill for
its successor, and on a £60,000 p.a.
municipal income it represented far
better value. What’s more, it was paid
for.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Such a collection of mothers and their
infants as surged round Overell’s on the
day when the Cilento lady opened the
firm’s new day nursery would have
cheered Billy Hughes were he still Min-
ister of Health. The nursery is on the
second floor, has a trained nurse in
charge and is modernly equipped. One
room is furnished solely with cots for
infants in arms, another with perambu-
lators. There are a sand pile and a large
collection of toys for the elders, gas-
rings and an enormous ice-chest; and
the entire affair has the whole-heaited
approval of the Mothercraft Association.
The aerial services have made a won-
derful difference to life outback. Sisters
E. Morrison and Harvey, who are at
the Government Hospital at Tennant’s
Creek, can provide their patients with
fresh fruit and vegetables, which the
’plane brings once a week. Of course
they have their refrigerator, so that even
when the dust-devils dance and the tern-
perature soars cold drinks are a possi-
bility.
The union of Dudley, elder son of Mr.
and Mrs. J. Grant Thompson and a
grandson of one of Brisbane’s pioneer
oculists, the late L. Berliner, to Mar-
jorie, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs C.
H. Leece, celebrated at' the Ann-street
kirk, was a pink wedding—bride in bud-
pink satin, with dolman sleeves and
rounded train, cut tulle veil with circlet
of orange buds and bouquet of mag-
nolias, and Lorraine Thompson, the
’maid, in pale-pink organza, bouquet and
halo of pink roses, and pink tulle veil.
Decorations at the Canberra, where the
reception was held, were all pink, too.
Lady Wilson went to Caloundra for a
few days to rest after the round of en-
gagements that greeted her when she re-
turned to Brisbane, and found the whole
township tied up in bunting, flags flying
and a large welcome sign stretched above
the street at the entrance to the bridge.
Valma Sullivan, who won the R.A.M.
Wooley scholarship, and who has been
studying at Sydney Con. for the last two
years, gave a pianoforte recital at the
Albert Hall. The large audience included
Archbishop Duhig and the Blairs. Valma
hopes to sail for London early next
February to take up her scholarship.
David Bell, a teacher whose service
under the State Education Department
commenced in 1890, has retired. He
came from Wales, and after a few years
in country schools was appointed to the
old Normal as assistant to the late J. S.
Kerr. Latterly he was headmaster at
Eagle Junction, one of the show schools
of Brisbane. Parents gave him a fare-
well party, and there was a presentation.
Son O. J. Bell, a B.A. of Queensland
Uni., who inherited much of his father’s
ability, is a master at the Boys’ Grammar
School.
Mrs. W. Green, who died recently, had
a host of friends all over Queensland,
for her pupils at the Girls’ Grammar
School, where she was for some time
German mistress, found in her a friend
as well as a brilliant and well-read
teacher. In her younger days in Eng-
land she was a governess in the Duff-
Cooper family, and later on travelled
extensively, spending some time in
South Africa, where she met her hus-
band. She took much interest in the
work of the N.C.W., and for some years
arranged its programme of educational
talks, broadcast from 4QG.
President Mrs. A. E. Moore and her
committee of the Ladies’ Harbor Lights
Guild are collecting gifts and small com-
forts to brighten up the Christmas of
sailors from overseas who will find them-
selves in Brisbane at that time. Mrs.
Gadsen, a lady of 94, sent along a pair
of beautifully knitted socks and a scarf.
There were five octogenarians happily
engaged in tea and chat at a recent birth-
day party, so our climate must have
something to recommend it.
Once a week for the last 17 years a
group of women, most of whom did
duty as V.A.Ds. during the war, have
visited the Anzac Hostel at Kangaroo
Point, the home originally built by Henry
Stuart Russell, author of Genesis of
Queensland, and afterwards the property
of the McConnel family, who handed
it over to the Repat. Department after
the war. There still are 11 men in the
hostel, and they attended the Christmas
party in their wheeled chairs and en-
tered into the competitions with zest.


r v
'-'■di
PC"
■
m
■s.
5?"
cl
t% t
\\
?r.
r-wTC*
c^)K
%
jhf&
: .-0§)
;
<c
d M*
/2?
/ yy~\r r ' ]
r>T*
£ <-
r
(T }
X
J
r
-v
'-'V
(
1 1
>A
£
I
m
1
.'T
x-
X\
t^i/3
»::M:
k
Zf
i
V
1
1
:
Keep out of the “TROUBLE
ZONE” W*A f/ic GOODYEAR
“90-10” PLAN. ■
%
1
»
90% of all tyre troubles occur in the last 10% of
tyre life. Get the most from your holiday. Ask
your Goodyear dealer about the Goodyear “90-10”
Plan fit new Goodyears and travel comfortably,
swiftly, safely.
k
r\
5-G2l-37


CHRISTMAS 'WI&01/1/14- QTntehfaXAAt'l/VUfr- ■
ENTERTAINING
»
/' \
HOSPITALITY
*
Wfli
<•, ' v
»s
Y
.
'• ::> v
G
in
.
t
c ’
u?
®oft*
0
to’*
t*
*m
i JsL&gfl
wr
••••-■' ■'
, . Tvc*hy.'. w >‘T
<o C* /V * **
Distilled from the original
recipe under licence, from
J, & J, Vickers & Co . Ltd.*
London •
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
To farewell Captain Farncomb and
officers of the Yarra, which has been
stationed on this coast for some weeks,
the District Naval Officer, Commander
Baldwin, and officers of the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval Reserve threw open the
Naval Depot for dancing. Flags and
pennants hung from the ceiling, Chinese
lanterns festooned the walls and a
rockery with fountains and masses of
hydrangeas formed a cool-looking sit-
ting-out spot. Lieut.-Commander Shaw
piloted his gold-lame-draped other half,
Mrs. Keith Gibson sprayed silver sequins
on her sea-blue cloque and Mrs. A. R.
Johnston trailed wavelets of autumn-
toned ninons cascading into a train.
A large slice of York came to town
for Betty Seabrook’s wedding to Beverley
Ansell-Hack, of Sydney. A magpie color
scheme struck an unusual note in the
wedding plumage. Black French sheer
crepe panelled with black-and-white em-
broideries girded the bride, and halo
headgear with a crown of white daisies
replaced the conventional cloud of tulle,
Sister Nancy completed the picture in
silver-threaded white fa?onne crepe and
corded turban to match. Town and
country mingled afterwards at the cock-
tail party at the Savoy.
The Christmas crop of engagements
promises to be a bumper one. Pat Cot-
terell, of Claremont, has announced hers
to Bob Stowe, of South Perth, and dark-
haired Jean Munsie, daughter of the
Minister of Mines, is wearing a spark-
hng token given her by Norman Ridg-
way, of Fremantle. Two attractive lasses
who have said “Yes” to t’other-siders
are the E. R. Dobsons’ elder daughter,
Helen, who will shortly become 21 and
Mrs. Kenneth Steele, and Ann Perry,
whose veterinary surgeon finance, John
Shilkin, hails from Sydney.
Members of the W.A. Historical
Society delved deep into mahogany ward-
robes for ancestral brocades and muslins
to ■ grace their end-of-the-year gathering.
Mrs. Mary Farrelly, capped with Honi-
ton lace and swaying blue and silver
brocades of 1834 vintage, received the
guests in the entrance hall of the Town
Hall. Penelope Clifton preluded the cos-
tume parade with a “Pastorelle” danced
in a great-grandmother’s laces and satins,
Rosina Clifton directed the lancers from
under a poke bonnet, and a group of Sea
Scouts gave a spirited representation of
the landing of Dampier.
Roma, the A. W. Sheridans’ younger
daughter, chose St. George’s Cathedral
for her wedding with Bill Duff, of Can-
nington. A picture-frock of heavy deep
cream lace, topped with a wide-brimmed
matching hat swathed with palest-pink
velvet ribbon, formed the bridal raiment,
and sister Ada ’maided in apple-green
mousseline, with bonnet in the same
shade. Toastings were at the Esplanade
Hotel ’midst masses of roses and lark-
spurs.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The newly-formed Caravan Club, of
which John Campbell is secretary, mus-
tered 32 caravans for its first outing, a
week-end at National Park. The weather
was kind, and the only fly in the oint-
ment was a rush of curious sightseers,
who came to the door of each caravan
and demanded to be shown the interior.
The Kenneth Bakewell family is re-
turning from abroad in detachments.
Mr. Bakewell arrived recently by way
of the U.S.A. Mrs. Bakewell came in
the Straithaird, and daughter Helen will
be a passenger in the Strathnaver early
next year. Gwen won’t be home till
March. Mrs. Lisle Johnson, Mrs. Bake-
well’s sister, gave a party at her home,
Fitzroy-terrace, late on the afternoon of
Mrs. Bakeweli’s arrival as a welcome
back.
Mrs. Frank T. Perry, of College Park,
entertained about 60 friends at a bridge
party at the South Australian. Glazed
green pottery barrels and tall matching
vases filled with lovely coral-pink and
pale-toned gladioli mixed with dark- and
light-blue delphiniums decked the ball-
room. Afternoon-tea was served in the
dining-room, the tables decorated with
butterfly delphiniums and pale-pink car-
nations. Mrs. Perry’s daughter, Mrs.
John Gebhardt, of Mount Bryan, helped
entertain the guests.
A pretty Adelaide girl, Monica Roili-
son, was married in Sydney to Dr. G.
Hall-Bohrslan. The bride, who is in her
’teens, wore a simple frock of printed
crepe with a large hat. Joan, only
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. M. E. Goode,
of Brighton, and Max, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. E. G. Lawton, of Mitcham,
were married at St. Jude’s, Brighton., The
bride was gowned in magnolia satin, cut
on princess lines, with a Honiton lace veil.
Mrs. J. R. Cornish was matron of honor,
and Phylis Lawton and Catherine Pad-
man ’maided, frocked alike in a soft
shade of apricot crinkled chiffon.
There was the thrill of novelty about
the Parafield Ball, arranged by the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps Association and
held in the New Guinea Airways hangar.
When George Ritchie pressed a button
the whole of the Parafield enclosure was
ringed with lights installed for night-
flying. There were lucky caps and lucky
streamers for sale, several carrying a
ticket for a free ride in a ’plane, and two
of the large ’planes were taking guests
up for short rides all the evening. But
the greatest excitement was when small
parachutes, also carrying vouchers for
free rides, descended from the roof. In
the rush to capture one tables were over-
turned and glass and crockery smashed,
but luckily this happened after supper.
The polo season opened at Birkalla
with a big attendance. Mrs. George
Braund, without whom a polo meeting
would seem incomplete, officiated at
afternoon-tea, assisted by Louie Sander-
son. The Kenneth Bakewells were wel-
comed on all sides.
TASMANIA.
The University’s end-of-term dance
was held in the Library this year, with
Charlotte Dennis, W. Hutchins, John
Driscoll and Arthur Watchorn (hon. sec.)
on the committee. The dancing-room
was gay with masses of pink rambler
roses and blue delphiniums, and the
supper-tables with Iceland poppies in all
shades.
Dr. Bruce Hamilton, with his mother,
Mrs. Clyde Hamilton, and Dr. and Mrs.
B. Hiller gave a very jolly party at the
Hamiltons’ house as a farewell to Dr.
and Mrs. Joseph Pearson before their
trip abroad.
Mrs. Norman Field and her daughter
Mrs. Randall Field were hostesses of
a big bridge party at' Woodfield, Cressy.
Guests from all about the district and
many from Launceston drove out.
Flowers were lovely all over the house,
the tea-table in the dining-room especi-
ally so, with big dark-red roses and
sweet-peas for decoration.
The Barclay twins, Lily and Grace,
who have golfed abroad wherever there
were links to be played on, are home
again. Their sister, Mrs. Harry Gray,
gave a bridge party for them at her
home in Fitzroy-place.
The Jones lady threw open the grounds
of her home, Glenora, Campbell-street,
to a committee running a bazaar in
aid of the Lachlan Park Mental Home.
The skies were threatening, but stalls
were put under shelter, and the garden
was ablaze with flowers. Mrs. D. C.
McLaren and Mrs. S. R. Adams are
president and secretary respectively of
the auxiliary of the hospital, and their
combined work gave good results.
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Pearson are off
in the Orcades for a six months’ trip
abroad. The Dr., who is Curator of
Hobart’s Museum, will visit museums in
all the places he stays at, and hopes to
bring home some new notions for his
own collection, which has already im-
proved out of sight under his curator-
ship.
There was a rush of people to view the
Orcades on her first day in port. His
Ex. and Lady Clark were among the early
invited guests, and after the owners’
official luncheon the general public filled
the ship from stem to stern.
Mary Sharland is back after nearly two
years’ globetrotting, and will resume her
job of teaching young Tasmanians to
speak English. She put in some study
at Miss Elsie Fogerty’s school while in
London, and has come out primed with
new ideas on her very old subject.
Princess Pauline Melikoff (Pauline
Curran) and her mother called at Hobart
in the Orcades, limiting their visit to the
vessel’s stay in port. They left the ship
at Melbourne on the homeward trip, and
will stay awhile on the mainland.


The Last Chance
Four
Australian
Novels
for
To clear up remaining limited stock “The Bulletin” is renewing
its offer to those who wish to obtain a bargain in Christmas
gifts of the choice of
Any Four of the Fallowing
Books for 5/-, Post Free.
Karangi F. S. Hibble
Bring the Monkey . . Miles Franklin
“Saturdee” Norman Lindsay
Nights Ashore ... Capt. J. Hamilton
In Pursuit of Patrick . . Vera Dwyer
Giving Amber Her Chance,
Jessie Urquhart
The Sow’s Ear .... Bernard Cronin
The World Is Yours, G. B. Lancaster
Stories by “Kodak”
are
As stocks
limited, order early,
and send in six
names in order of
preference in case
any book is sold out.
THE BULLETIN
NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY., LTD.,
Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
The Long White Cloud
Protection in Maoriland
Canberra reports of the “rush trip”
to Wellington of Customs Minister White
convey the impression that the possi-
bility of Customs action against certain
articles of Australian origin at present
underselling local manufactures has just
arisen.
Actually, Maoriland manufacturers*
saddled with the higher production costs
inseparable from imposition of a 40-
hour week and higher wages, acquainted
Prime Minister Savage of the necessity
for protection early in the year. In
August Mr. Savage said:
Anything that can reasonably be pro-
duced here must be produced here. The
Government intends to see that it is pro-
duced, and will take steps for the protec-
tion of that production It may be
necessary to employ the Customs system
....though, where agreement between
nations is possible, the use of Customs is
stupid.
Protection delay probably resulted from
Maoriland Labor’s conviction that Mr.
Curtin’s party would oust Mr. Lyons
and that subsequent wages and working-
hours legislation would so increase Aus-
tralian manufacturing costs that manu-
facturers in both countries would be on
even terms. Now it has got to do some-
thing.
“M.”: Another Maoriland election will
be held towards the end of 1938, and it
promises to be a warm one. Some of the
rural districts that swung to Labor last
time will be somersaulting the other way
unless “works of national importance”
keep on sprouting Public Works Depart-
ment tents along their highways and by-
ways. With occupants of these tents en-
joying Labor’s 40-hour week, standard
wage rates and t.-p. radio sets, they will
be anxious to keep Labor in. In some
country electorates sitting Labor men
must already be blessing Minister
Semple’s “works of national importance”
and praying that the jobs will last out
until after the election. If not, the still
unsocialised landowners in different rural
electorates will surely divorce them from
their political seats.
* * * *
“Mak”: While Australian Minister
for Customs T. W. White is in Welling-
ton discussing ways and means of re-
moving present tension in the Tasman
Sea trade situation, he shouldn’t be too
puzzled if one or two people who notice
his name in the hotel register ’phone his
room and address him affectionately as
“Tiny.” There’s another T. W. White in
Maoriland. He’s not a lieutenant-
colonel, nor is he a politician, but he’s a
squadron-leader, was an R.F.C. pilot in
Egypt during the war and, like his Aus-
tralian namesake, was for two years a
“guest of the Unspeakable” after a forced
landing in enemy territory. “Tiny”
White has been flying ever since the
war, and to-day his logbook records
nearly 5000 air hours acquired in 36 dif-
ferent types of aircraft. One of Maori-
land’s best-known commercial fliers, he
is chief pilot to East Coast Airways,
which operates the Napier-Gisborne ser-
vice and plans early extension to
Palmerston North.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Leaders in Laborland are a
wordy bunch, and at least one local-
government representative is convinced
that a few of them occasionally embarrass
P.M. Savage and different departmental
heads by speaking out of turn. The other
day a county chairman —big, bluff and
brief —told me he had been to Welling-
ton to try for a fair cut of the £5,000,000
Minister Semple has said he intends
spending on backblock roads in the next
five years (B. 17/11/’37). “Department
officials seemed a bit sour on the sub-
ject,” he observed thoughtfully. “I
gathered that they weren’t quite sure
whether the rest of the Cabinet were as
keen on the idea as Mr. Semple. Anyhow,
so much publicity has been given the
Semple promise that the Government
can’t very well back out —and this dis-
trict is in for its whack! ” And you can’t
blame county chairmen for causing
P.W.D. corridor congestion ; ultimately,
“Mr. Goldstein will see you now, Mr. Jackson.”
their ratepayers will help foot the bill,
and they may as well have a road or two
as Labor Government memorials.
* * * *
“Xo”: There are more interesting
angles to the report covering the first six
months’ operations of the Rev. Scrim-
geour’s commercial broadcasting service
than the deficit of £4566 (B. 8/12/’37).
Administrative costs in the period
amounted to £9754, but programme ex-
penditure totalled only £724. Scrimgeour
stations broadcast hours of recorded
matter, so not much of the £724 couid
have gone to local artists or local writers.
* * a *
“Burnside”: It isn’t necessary to attend
St. Andrew’s Day dinners to hear Maori-
landers telling stories against Scots.
Heard some good ones at a recent
Tauranga wedding, but the people who
seemed to appreciate them most had
names like McGregor, McDonald,
McLean, McPherson, Ferguson, Elmslie,
Mackinnon, Alexander and McPetrie.
Christian names ranged from Angus,
Andrew, Hugh, Stuart and Donald to
Evan, Finlay and Hamish, with a few
Bills in between ; most of them were re-
lated and used such conversational pre-
faces as “cousin” to distinguish distant
relatives from near ones. As far as I
could gather, only two of the people
with obvious national name-tags were
born in Scotland, the rest of them being
second-, third- and fourth-generation
Maorilanders.
“Korero”: Destruction by fire of the
Canterbury homestead Longbeach re-
calls that it was John Grigg, original
owner of the station, whom the late
William Massey served as a ploughboy.
Bill was about 17 then, and the Long-
beach experience was turned to profit on
his own farm at Tamaki. It was here
that the future P.M. received the 1894
message that a Waitemata electorate
committee wanted him to contest the
seat; he was on an oat stack, and the
telegram was handed up by pitchfork,
A later M.L. Prime Minister used to
tell a similar story in his more despon-
dent moments. His yarn was that the
party committee called to ask his brother
to nominate, but the brother, wise man,
declared he’d seen enough of public life
as a county councillor! He added that
“a fool of a brother over in the
back paddock” was probably “mug
enough to give it a go.” Like Massey,
the back-paddock brother won the seat
and went on to become P.M.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: For decades the ancient
jealousy between the North and South
Islands (B. 8/12/’37) has swung with a
pendulum action. In the heyday of
Seddon, Ward and the Mackenzies the
North complained that the South secured
all the political plums. Massey and Coates
moved the balance upwards, but even
then the territory beyond Auckland was
known as the “neglected North.” Then
someone caught a striped marlin out-
side Russell, and sharks and swordfish
did for the North what politicians had
never done. Russell, its ancient glory as
first capital recalled, became a holiday
resort, and many overseas visitors who
came to fish remained to plant. Small
colonies of Anglo-Indians and Britons
from China and Malaya took up hold-
ings and began raising citrus fruits. Now
the Far North has regular overseas visi-
tors, and as many of them do not linger
to look at other parts of the Dominion
the Government has perforce to make a
good showing in the spots they do favoi.
The climate of the region is ideal, and
as even the arid gum-lands can be
adapted to fruit-culture the future of
what was once considered unlikely coun-
try for either tourist or settler seems
fairly bright.
* * * *
“Motu”: Mention the Tasman air-
service to any Maorilander and he’ll
argue the merits of land and sea planes
as well as indicate which centre is the
ideal Maoriland terminal. F’rinstance,
New Plymouth and Palmerston North
laymen believe that the faster
land machines should be used,
but question them further and
it appears that either New
Plymouth or Palmerston North
is the logical terminal for land
’planes from Australia. Auck-
land and Wellington, of course,
are all for flying-boats, but
neither city agrees which has
the most suitable harbor ter-
minal. Now a Southland sec-
tion has entered the lists in sup-
port of Paterson’s Inlet in
Stewart Island in the far south.
Latter is 925 miles from Hobart
(Tas.), and this route is claimed to
represent the shortest Tasman hop.
But more significant than this diver-
sity of opinion is the fact that
Maorilanders generally have ac-
cepted the idea of a regular trans-
Tasman service, and are eager for its
inauguration.
“The Hittite”: Touching Mr. Savage’s
promise to improve Maori housing, on a
deer-stalking trip I had occasion to stay
overnight with a well-to-do Maori in the
King Country and was shown into a
house that would have done credit to
any pakeha runholder. Inside were
carpets, carved walnut furniture, bevelled-
glass mirrors and snowy linen. I felt
out of place in my bush clobber and
hobnailed boots, and when my host
asked me whether I should like my meals
in the house or “where we live,” I said
“Where you live, of course.” It was a
two-roomed whare in the back garden. A
huge fireplace occupied one end of the
living-room ; big iron pots were hanging
above the fire and the family were seated
around on sawn logs. The floor was
Mother Earth. I asked my host after
dinner why they didn’t live in the big
house, and was told it was only for
visitors. “Me and te missus like to pe
comfortable.”


RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
ADVANCED U.-S.-W. TUNED R.F. RECEIVER.
In the quest for more efficient receivers for ultra-short-wave
working, a deal of success has been achieved with the superhet, but
relatively little with the tuned R.F. type receiver. By using acorn
type valves in R.F. and detector stages, it is possible to design a highly-
efficient receiver for use at frequencies as high as 112mc. The receiver
described here is for the amateur 10-, 5- and 2£-metre bands, and, by
suitable plug-in coils, can be used to cover any intermediate commercial
frequency.
At present in Australia, ultra-short-
wave channels are little used for radio
communication, but there are innumer-
able commercial services—aviation, ship-
ping, police, railways and fire-brigades—
that can, and eventually must, make use
of the ultra-shorts. A certain amount of
experimental work is already progressing
in commercial circles, and side by side
with this is the quest of the amateur for
the ideal transmitter.
At 28 megacycles (10 metres) the ama-
teur has in the last few years demon-
strated to the world that this channel
has enormous uses, even for world-wide
communication. About 1923, everything
below 200 metres was passed on to the
amateur as useless. Much experimenting
has been done for several years at 56
Fig. 1.—Front view of the new T.R.F. ultra-short-wave receiver
designed by Don B. Knock. The aerial-coupler controls are the
projecting knobs at the left.
megacycles (five metres), and this once
“useless” frequency is now open; 112
megacycles (2\ metres), too, has not
been neglected.
There are occasions on which ultra-
short waves of the order of five metres
will take big jumps and cover unex-
pectedly great distances, but such occa-
sions are rare. The value of u.-s.-w.
communication lies rather in the con-
stancy of a signal over a limited path
with the great advantage of practically
no static or interference. By virtue of
these advantages alone, ultra-short-wave
communication will, in the future, come
into wider use here as in other countries.
In recent years, most of the work on
receivers has been done with super-
regenerators of a simple type. Such re-
ceivers will deal comfortably with a rela-
tively strong signal, but, unless carefully
designed, they are of little use with weak
signals. Super-regenerators were a
natural accompaniment to the unstable
modulated-oscillator form of transmitter
—both being very broad in action, in
the last three years valves have advanced
so much that the unstable u.-s.-w. trans-
mitter can be discarded. With stable
transmissions it is possible to use a
normal form of receiver, with greatly-
improved results. The advanced superhet
copes with the requirements nicely, but
so does the vastly simpler but equally
effective T.R.F. receiver.
With a few experimental stations using
stable transmitters around Sydney,
N.S.W., the writer decided to investigate
the possibilities of a T.R.F. receiver, and
after much trial the apparatus outlined
here was developed.
The Circuit.
This is given in Fig. 2. The receiver
follows conventional T.R.F. practice, but
is a good step ahead of the average by
the use of acorn valves in both R.F.
and detector stages. These are Radio-
trons, types 956 and 954 respectively. The
audio amplifier is a single 41 pentode for
headphone use, but with strong signals
there is sufficient volume to operate a
permag. speaker. For comparative pur-
poses, super-regeneration is available by
the turn of a switch, but this is only used
where the transmission is of a very un-
stable nature. Normally it is dispensed
with. The interruption oscillator valve
is a Philips EBC3 used as a triode, and
any triode such as the 76 or 37 can be
used in this position,
The R.F. stage is capacity-coupled to
the detector, and this method was found
to be more reliable than an attempt at
Fig. 2.—Circuit of the advanced u.-s.-w. T.R.F. receiver. Super-regeneration is available for local telephony reception
primary coupling. The small condenser,
a 15mmfd. ceramic padder type, helps
also to track the R.F. grid circuit, this
being ganged with the detector. Ceramic
insulation is used throughout, and the
variable condensers are Raymart 15mmfd.
types. Eddystone condensers of the
same capacity are equally suitable. No
regeneration is used on the R.F. stage,
as this was found to be unnecessary. The
956 valve gives real gain at five metres,
Fig. 3. —The receiver seen from the R.F. and detector end. The circular
screening can at the top left contains the interruption coils for super-
regenerative reception. The plate end of the 956 R.F. valve can be seen
projecting through the interstage partition just above the detector coil in
the centre. The 954 detector is underneath the R.F. choke to the right
of the detector coil. The coils in position here are for the five-metre range.
The 954 detector has the cathode above
earth by the inclusion of a small R.'F.
choke, and regeneration is controlled in
the usual manner by screen grid poten-
tiometer.
Resistance coupling was first tried be-
tween detector and audio stages, but far
better performance is obtained by the
use of a high-impedance choke (Radi-
okes). A 500,000-ohm potentiometer is
included in the grid of the 41 as volume
control for headphone use.
It looked as if ganging the R.F. and
detector stages would be a troublesome
process,, but, because of the special aerial
tuning method employed, this presented
no difficulty. The slight loading effect
of the aerial coupler maintains reson-
ance in the R.F. stage over each band.
The interruption oscillator for super-re-
generation is coupled to the detector via
the screen grid as shown, and a single-
pole double-throw switch puts it in or
out of circuit as required.
Aerial Coupling.
The advantages of a tuned aerial coup-
ling are more apparent at ultra-high fre-
quencies than at lower frequencies, and
the method used is shown in Fig. 4. It is
really an impedance-matching network
and is very effective. With a coil to cover
the range desired two variable condensers
are used, the 50mmfd. across the two in
series with the coupling coil. The
30mmfd. condenser is an isolantite
trimmer type for screwdriver adjustment,
The coupling lead from the connection
between this and the lOmmfd. variable
condenser is tapped on to the R.F. grid
coil at half a turn front th e ground end,
as indicated in the circuit of Fig. 4.
The correct functioning of the coupling
unit is arrived at when a setting of the


THE NEW
aMPLIOm
“T” MODEL
AUDITORIUM TYPE
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
This new audi-
torium speaker
is Amplion’s
latest and finest
product, and is
a masterpiece of
Australian
design and
manufacture.
advt
Fitted with Amplion’s latest multi-
impedance transformer (large TS type),
with optional impedances available from
2500 to 12,000 ohms, single or push-pull.
PRICE £7/10/-
SEND FOR PUBLICATION 55,
GIVING DETAILS OF THE
COMPLETE AMPLION RANGE.
AMPLION (A/SIA), PTY. LTD.,
66 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Somebody's buying
a Better Radio now.
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Pricer front £i2 / /9 / 6.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Ouerdins, Ltd., Melbourne,
DS
TRANSMITTER DIALS. Individu-
ally spun, heavv solid nickel dials
with genuine
engraved divi-
sions and hand-
some knob . . .
diameter 4in.
only. Price,
retail .. 11/9
Everyth in g
radio and elec-
trical at the
lowest prices in
the State.
FDS
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.*
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The test of time has
proved the consistent re-
liability of Radiotron valves
throughout the world. Be sure
to always . . .
„ e-VALVE W| T| |
THE WORLD’S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRICS
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
6 ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
30mmfd. condenser is found where tun-
ing the 50 and 10 mmfd. condensers to
resonance with aerial and R.F. stage will
not “pull” the R.F. stage. It is a method
of aerial tuning that may well be applied
to lower frequencies. Fig. 5 shows the
assembly of this unit. As the receiver
was in the first place experimental, it was
built separately on the side of the chassis
after the receiver was completed.
Coils and Mountings.
Because of stray capacity trouble,
switching of the circuits for wave-change
is out of the question with ordinary
Fig. 4. —Circuit of the aerial-coupling unit. The grid of the
956 is tapped down the grid coil by two turns.
switching methods, so the ever-useful
plug-in coil system is adopted. The coils
for the 10-metre R.F. and detector cir-
cuits are on ceramic formers (Formo),
and the 5- and 2J-metre coils are air
wound with heavy gauge copper. With
Fig. 5. —Showing the assembly of the aerial coupler.
the acorn valves and the 15mmfd. tuning
capacities they approximate as follows:
10 metres: R.F. and detector coils both
have nine turns of 18-gauge copper on
l-J-in. formers. The coil for the aerial unit
22 °au a c r la e r r former with 10 turas °*
Five metres: R.F. and detector' coils
have nine turns of 12-gauge copper Jin.
inside diameter. The coil for the aerial
unit has four turns of 18-gauge copper
on l|in. former.
2\ metres : R.F. and detector coils both
have four turns of 14-gauge copper fin.
inside diameter, and the aerial coil is two
turns of the same gauge on l|in. former.
These specifications are approximate, and
some experimentation with turns will be
necessary in individual receivers.
The interruption frequency coils for
super-regeneration are made up on |in.
dowel with three disks of thin bakelite
2in. in diameter and spaced fin. apart.
The grid coil has 1400 turns of 38 D.S.C.
and the plate coil 800 turns of the same
gauge wire.
Heterodyne
Oscillator
for C.W.
A refinement for
C.W. reception at
ultra-high frequen-
cies is outlined in
the circuit of Fig.
6. Although the
receiver behaves
very smoothly with
normal oscillating
detector action, the
effect of a separate
heterodyne with
the detector in a
sensitive but non-oscillating condition was
tried and found very efficient.
An oscillator was built up with a 6C6
in a screened box, and working at 10
metres. The output from this oscillator is
fed to the suppressor grid Of the 954 for
coupling. With the
receiver covering
the five - metre
range, the second
harmonic of the
oscillator is used to
beat with the de-
tector frequency.
The 50,000-ohm
potentiometer con-
trols the intensity
of the beat, and the
effect is to steady
signals. 11 was
found that suffi-
cient coupling is
obtained, with the
oscillator at 20
metres, by using
the fourth har-
monic.
Unless the oscil-
lator is perfectly
screened from the
detector, there is a
tendency to some
interlocking when
using the second
harmonic. Just
sufficient plate voltage is available through
the resistor network to produce oscilla-
tion in the 6C6, and this is all needed.
Too intense oscillation will block the
detector. The beat oscillator is not at
all necessary for normal use of the re-
ceiver, but a scheme of this kind can be
very useful in searching for weak DX
signals. It takes care of signal variation
caused by fluctuating line voltage if a
power pack is used for plate and heater
supply to the receiver.
Power Supply.
As the receiver stands, it may be used
with a six-volt accumulator and 135 volts
of B battery, but the power supply shown
in Fig. 7 is used by the writer. This
gives a perfectly humless and steady out-
put. A Westinghouse HT9 dry rectifier
(Amplion) is used with a power trans-
former delivering 200 volts at 200 milli-
amperes. A winding for six volts at two
amperes takes care of the valve heaters.
A bleeder resistor is used in the output,
in the form of the usual voltage divider
with adjustable clips, and this is adjusted
to give 200 volts. It is advisable to use
no more than this voltage on the acorn
valves. The system is that of a voltage
doubling rectifier. The two 4mfd. con-
Fig. 6.—A successful experiment. Circuit of a heterodyne, oscillator as an aid
to C.W. reception.
densers are of the paper type, and the
filter network comprises two 30-henry
chokes and three 16mfd. electrolytics.
General Points.
It should be needless to stress that
great care must be taken with short leads
in the R.F. and detector grid circuits.
These two tuned circuits must be kept
as symmetrical as possible.
Acorn valves are admittedly expensive,
but they give the best possible results,
being designed for ultra-high-frequency
work. The receiver could be duplicated
Fig. 7. — The humless A.C. power supply.
with metal valves by using a 6K7 R.F.
stage and 6J7 detector. Results would
be only a little short of those obtained
with the original on ten and five metres,
but for higher frequencies there would be
a distinct falling-off in signal gain. RFC1,
RFC2 and RFC3 are five-metre R.F.
chokes, consisting of 50 turns of 30
D.S.C. on fin. glass formers. Care must
be taken with RFC2 to see that the capa-
city to earth is low, otherwise the de-
tector may not oscillate smoothly over
the whole tuning range.
In use the receiver is so sensitive to
C.W. signals at 56mc. that harmonics
from stations working on 20 and 40
metres as far as 20 miles distant can be
heard at R6. The weakest of 56mc.
signals can be identified, and on one
occasion the harmonic from JNJ Tokio,
operating on ICW at 13,050kc., was
logged.
All necessary values are indicated in
the circuit diagram of Fig. 2. If acorn
valves are used it will be necessary to
make up the valve sockets with the clips
provided with the valves as no commer-
cially-made sockets for these valves are
yet available in Australia. Good insu-
lating material must be used, and WT/22
(loaded ebonite) is suitable. Coil mount-
ings can also be made up from this
material.
D. B. K.
The callsign of the Australian national
short-wave transmitter has been changed
from VK3LR to VLR. It is considered
that the new callsign will more readily
identify the station for overseas listeners.
Radio Industry Welcomes
E.T. Fisk
On Friday, 26/ll/’37, E. T. Fisk, of
A.W.A., just returned from England, was
guest of honor at the Radio Industries
luncheon at the Wentworth Hotel, Syd-
ney. Introduced by chairman L. P. R.
Bean, he spoke interestingly of his obser-
vations overseas.
With regard to television he said the
8.8. C. had spent £200,000 in one year
to give a programme which, it was recog-
nised, could be much improved if more
money were available. A really good
programme every evening from one
station would cost £500,000 a year. In
Britain eight million people held broad-
cast receiving licenses, but there were
only 2000 television viewers.
Small cathode-ray-tube television was
very much a “peep-show.” To produce
a picture 18in. by 24in. called for a
cathode-ray tube 30in. in diameter at
the picture end and 3ft. long. It cost
£5O per unit, and its life was about one
year. Television was thus experimental
as yet, but fascinating things could be
seen in the development laboratories,
The whole field of television presented
unlimited scope for research work dur-
ing the next 20 to 25 years. It was a
golden opportunity for young men, who
need not be afraid of starting in on such
work.


MTS
LYS
pROor.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
j v -v -i ' ?;
h "'
t.~~- - . .«,*»■
r ' _ | -
H|r * .
I' I t-
£ 1 ] *S&f£ -
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Standard Wool Brands.
“Mjurrawong”: There is no doubt
that standard branding of wool bales
(B. 17/11/’37) would be of benefit, but
the fact remains that the chief offenders
at present would be the hardest to edu-
cate.
Many small farmers and graziers who
do not employ a regular classer brand
their bags in more or less haphazard
fashion, despite the advice of brokers on
practically every waybill book. The
bigger clips are usually branded on some
sort of system, and variations depend
upon the classer’s ideas or on owners’
preferences, but largely on the stencils
available in the shed.
Whether a system of using certain
letters to show the quality of the wool
contained in the bale would be of value
to buyers is doubtful. Buyers in general
are chiefly interested in the station
brand where the clip has been long
enough established to become known.
Nevertheless, it would assist brokers
and, to some extent, buyers if branding
gave reliable indication of the contents.
A recognition of buyers’ and manufac-
turers’ preferences would also result in
the scrapping of several brands in
common use.
For instance, there is no need to brand
any Australian clip “Merino.” But it is
important that comeback and crossbred
wool should be marked, as these wools
are opened on a special section of the
showfloor. Don’t brand “Corriedale” or
“Southdown” ; the buyer isn’t interested
in the breed—they’re all crossbreds to
him.
The “Fleece” brand should be used
sparingly. Keep it for tender, cotted or
discolored wools. Buyers don’t like to
see a line of wool branded “2nd.” If
two lines of one type are being made,,
it is better to brand the best as “Ist:
Com” or “Ist Pcs” and the second as
plain “Com” or “Pcs.” The “Clothing”
brand may be forgotten nowadays.
Some people are under the impressior
that labelling their wool “Extra
Super AAA A Combing” will make
it top the market. It may if the wool is
actually a specialty type, but if it is only
the top line of an ordinary medium type
it will produce a laugh. A super
wool should possess not only the maxi-
mum requirements of its type but style
as well to justify the title. Brevity is a
virtue in branding.
The following branding scheme will be
found sufficient to cover the fleece por-
tion of the majority of clips:
64/70’s: AAA, AA and A.
60/58’s: 888, BB and B if necessary.
Tender wools: “Ist Fleece.”
Discolored and cast fleeces: “Fleece.”
The addition of “Combing” to the
“A” series is useful to denote length of
staple in a large clip where there is a
variety of types. In a New England clip,
for instance, long, shafty wools alternate
with short clothing types.
By branding the former “AAA Com”
and the latter “AAA,” each is shown as a
separate type and not as a sub-type of
the other, and there can be no invidious
price comparisons.
Sheep on the Coast.
“Murramac”: The success of sheep on
the N. S. Wales coast depends more on
soil treatment than the suitability of breeds.
The Cumberland soils round Sydney
were shockingly abused in an earlier day,
topdressing and resting of paddocks
being virtually unknown. These soils do
.not respond to super, until given a heavy
dressing of lime previously. Eight to
ten hundredweight of lime per acre fol-
lowed by a harrowing or fairly heavy
rain will put the land in shape to receive
the two to three hundredweight of super,
which will start the grass shooting to
the fence-tops.
Accessibility to market is the great at-
traction of these pocket-handkerchief
stations. The writer can land sheep at
Flemington within two hours from his
front gate, near Campbelltown (N.S.W.),
and a breeder at Baulkham Hills landed
600 fat lambs at the yards only three
hours out of the paddock.
The prejudice against sheep on the
coast can largely be traced to a mistaken
belief that the pioneer flockmasters
migrated to the country beyond the Blue
Mountains because of unsuitable coastal
conditions. The real reason was their
need for greater pasturage for their in-
creasing flocks.
A Tale of Trucks.
“J.R.D.”: Reported that the N.S.W.
Railways intend to spend £300,000 on
new rolling-stock, including ten new
“Why don't y' get y'r damn paddick charted?"
sheep trucks. This last item will be
greeted with wild acclaim by those hun-
dreds of growers who cannot get their
lambs to market or who can’t shift
drought-stricken sheep because there are
no trucks. , .
On Sept. 20 ; I ordered 25 trucks at half
rates to shift some sheep from Walgett
on October 13. That accomplished, I
engaged a drover and started the sheep
off to arrive, at Walgett in nice time.
On October 10—three weeks after
ordering, and when the sheep were almost
at Walgett trucking yards—the Railway
Department notified my agent that it
could not supply trucks’ at half rates. I
offered to pay full rates for a special
train, but was informed that it could
not be supplied. before November 10 at
the earliest, and that at Narrabri.
There was no agistment country avail-
able, and the sheep had .to be. kept mov-
ing. They travelled on through Wee
Waa to Narrabri, . and there was no
more grass on the stock, route than, there
is between the tramlines in Sydney. Ar-
rangements had to be made to feed the
sheep all the way and to have corn carted
out along the track.
Eventually they were trucked at Nar-
rabri. Feed and droving charges cost
over £9O, to say nothing of loss of con-
dition and deaths through the hungry
sheep hitting a patch of blue couch.
They could have been transported by
motor-truck without any delay, but the
transport monopolists won’t allow a
lorry to compete with the railways.
A few weeks ago buyers attended a
big yarding of sheep at one of the chief
country centres, but scarcely a sheep was
sold, because there were no trucks to
take them away.
Production Indexes.
“Aerogenes”: “Silky Bag” (B.
24/11/’37) rightly points out that the
Bull Index is not completely accurate,
but it is a good guide in the hands of a
breeder who knows the conditions under
which the animals were tested.
Give the animals all they require in
the way of food, water and protection
from weather and disease, and the varia-
tions which might upset the accuracy of
the Bull Index are done away with.
Breeding and feeding go hand in hand.
Feed can be grown and stored to pro-
vide for any conditions, but cows have to
be inherently good producers to return
a profit on that feed. Conversely, cows
bred to produce large quantities of
butterfat will certainly not be able to do
so on insufficient food.
The Importance of Udders.
“w ; „
W.D.Mc. : Hex to const,tution,
udder conformation is the most impor-
tant part of a dairy animal’s make-up (B.
17/11 /’37), and is one of the main guides
in determining her production ability.
The ideal udder is nearly square and
closely set on, to the body, with teats of
good length and set square, but not too
far apart. It should be carried out well
in front and well up behind, but not
“pudding”-shaped.
My experience has been lhat the
further the udder extends up behind the
better the producer. I have handled all
breeds, and I think the Ayrshire has the
greatest proportion of good-shaped
udders and Red Polls the worst.
Unless the udder is well placed and
snugly fitted into the body of the cow,
it will, after a few lactation periods, have
a tendency to break awaiy and swing,
and thus will have a greater chance of
being injured.
I saw a cow at a Melbourne Show
which competed for the “Most Typical
Head” and lost, and then competed for
tfie “Best Udder” and again got beaten.
But later in the day she was awarded the
champion prize for the best Ayrshire
female. As a ringsider put it: “She
must have had a Hades of a good
middle.”
Salt for Livestock.
“Molecule”: All animals need salt.
Natural deposits do occur, but in many
cases they contain other minerals that
may be actually harmful, and in some
the salt content is so low that the animai
has to swallow several cubic yards ot
dirt in the course of a year.
The amount to be saved by withhold-
ing artificial salt is small.
Broadly speaking, salt blocks or rock
salt are recommended for cattle, and
butchers’ coarse or crude for sheep, but
there are many exceptions. Frequently
cattle on range have to be supplied with
calcium and phosphatic supplements, and
in such cases it is convenient to supply
a lick in granulated form, which also
furnishes the necessary salt.
With sheep, a calcium and phosphatic
supplement is practically indispensable,
and so the salt goes along with it.
Roughly 21b. of salt per head a month
is required by cattle, and ilb. to
by sheep. Observation is the best guide
to whether or not sufficient is being sup-
plied.
Hollow logs, saltboxes or troughs,
which should be roofed in cases where
the lick is in granulate d form, are recom-
mended
,
There is no relation between salt and
other minerals that may be required.
cattle or sheep it is a sure
f!§, n tbe Y ff e . ed phosphorus, calling for a
} containing a goodly percentage o
t>9 ne^our ’ dicalcic phosphate, etc., an
ot course they should be given salt in
addition. On the other hand, if a sup-
p - - ’ . , .
slty for salt m addltlon '
i
Strangles.
“Marsh”: Crude opening of swellings
result in one of the salivary glands
being cut, and perhaps a wound that will
not heal and a permanent flow of saliva,
Strangles are easily recognised, invari-
ably commencing with a thin and watery
discharge from the nose and eyes. The
flow soon becomes thick and yellow.


m
m
m
e flea/- INTERNATIONALS
ROUNDED grille and long sweeping parallel louvres which
distinguish the New Internationals, give them an eye-compelling,
business-bringing beauty wherever they go . . , Split-hair accuracy
and the latest scientific heat-treatment methods ensure all-truck
International quality and stamina throughout these trucks . . .
Utilities, light delivery vans, medium and heavy-duty units —-12
models and 17 wheelbases available in many body styles they
all take rank as leaders of the truck world today and for years to come.
Visit our showrooms and make your selection from the New
Internationals or ask us to send you detailed information.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA*
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
1
im
■
Sr^v
\ \ m
3 to 3'/2'ton Model D-40—one of the long range of
new heavy-duty Internationals.
L 730
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
PRECISION-BUILT
TRUCKS
Styled foi.
toclasf and
tamcrtAow
The graceful, pleasing lines of
the new Internationals blend
well with de luxe bodies.
Beautiful new Utilities are
available in the new Inter -
national line.
Glands beneath the jaw then swell and
an abscess forms.
Hot fomentations or mustard plasters
will bring the abscess to a head. It
should be opened carefully with a steri-
lised knife. Syringe out three or four
times daily with an antiseptic solution —
2 p.c. lysol is good—and apply some fly
repellent around the wound.
Isolation from other horses is essential,
and the affected animal must not be
allowed to water at the trough. Use a
bucket for watering, and add a couple of
ounces of Epsom salts to the daily drink.
Balling in Horses.
“Centaur”: An Austrian vet., Pro-
fessor Gratzel, has just completed a 10-
year study of equine colic. He says
there is as yet no drug which can be
considered a really reliable remedy.
Gratzel definitely condemns the use
of drastic intestinal stimulants. On the
other hand, he affirms that “hydrotherapy
is an exceedingly useful treatment,
especially the injection into the stomach
of cold water.”
Preparing Hides and Skins.
. “J. Want”: The Imperial Institute has
issued a circular calling attention to the
losses to producers by the faulty prepara-
tion of hides and skins for .overseas
markets.
Australia gets a special section in
which it is pointed out that, on 1934-35
figures, the Commonwealth’s hide and
skin trade was worth £5,200,000, or 7 p.c.
of the value of the year’s return from
pastoral products. About 39 p.c. of the
hides and 59 p.c. of sheepskins are ex-
ported. The institute’s investigator found
that
Damage from tick and heavy and
numerous brands on the best parts of the
hides lower their value. The eradication of
the tick and the substitution of something
else for the present method of fire-branding
would lead to an increase in the value
of the products.
There are no such wholesale complaints
about Maoriland, however. There the
hide industry is well organised, though
products “might be improved by com-
pulsory grading to eliminate lack of uni-
formity and improve flaying.”
Many Australian authorities have fore-
stalled the Imperial Institute in its sug-
gestions. But no protest seems likely to
wipe out the fire-brand. A good deal of
the trouble is due, anyhow, not merely
to fire-branding but to bad branding—
brands too large or in the wrong place
and particularly branding with over-
heated irons, often held on the skin too
long so that the hide is penetrated, the
brand blurred and inches of skin round
about ruined for the tannery.
Weeds in Maoriland'.
“Zedo”: Noxious weeds are having a
bad time in M.L., ragwort particularly.
The Government is spending about
£50,000, using unemployed labor to clear
infested Government land and that of
indigent farmers.
But the only specific seems to be that
recommended by the M.O.L. page years
ago-—sodium chlorate, which is a good
weedicide but far from safe to handle,
since, in contact with dry clothing and
other inflammable materials, it is apt to
burst into flame.
To get over this, various expedients are
being tried. Many farmers mix the s.c.
with 19 times its weight in ground lime-
stone —the technique was developed by
W. E. Cayley, near Te Kuiti. It is put
on fairly heavily with a topdressing
machine in heavily-infected pastures.
Certainly, s.c. and calcium chlorate to-
gether are much less inflammable than
the straight chemical.
Even, however, when lime is used with
s.c., great care should be taken. For
hand application, mixing should be done
on a sheet of iron. The mixture should
o Continued on next page.)


4038.
Here’s a boot that will
keep pace with you
No matter how
hard you work
27/6
There’s strength in every line of this Abbey Riding Boot. It’s made to
stand the strain of hard, solid wear without losing shape or comfort.
Its uppers are made from high-grade Black or Brown Calf Skin, and its
inside is leather-lined throughout.
Price: Black or Brown, 27/6.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
BRANDAUERrS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKA.NOi.aiiB * CO- Ltd- BIRMINGHAM, ENG
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St.. Sydney
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
BACKACHE & BLADDER Weakness
MOW BANISHED—Quick Mew Way
"The intestinal tract is the most prolific source of disease''
states Prof. K. Schneidler, the famous German Doctor.
AN irritating, weakening,
and embarrassing annoy-
ance is the best way to de-
scribe backache and bladder
weakness. Movement is pain-
ful, sleep at night is disturbed
by constantly having to get up.
You feel weak, depressed, you
have no vitality, your back,
legs and feet ache, you have
frequent headaches. Urination
Clogged Colon
is often smart and
painful. But these
troubles are now
rapidly banished
because science has
at last discovered
that the basic cause
of backache, kidney and blad-
der weakness can be traced to
the physical reason for self-
poisoning i.e., a clogged
colon.
The colon, the most important
part of the intestinal tract, has
two functions. It must absorb
essential minerals to nourish
the body and maintain the alka-
line reserve from passing food.
It must see that all acid-forming
waste matter is promptly ejected from
the body. Demineralized modern foods
give insufficient exercise to the colon
walls, and they lose their power of
normal movement. Soon the walls fail
to extract the food minerals and fail to
eject the acid-forming, decaying waste.
The folds become clogged with putre-
fying matter. Virulent poisons and
acids form and seep into the blood-
stream. The entire system is attacked
—acidosis develops. Every important
organ in your body is threatened by
autoxima—i.e.. self-poisoning.
Long Standing Case Relieved
"I have much pleasure in telling you
what COLOSEPTIC has done for me.
It has cured me of long-standing weak-
ness in kidney and bladder. 1 could not
walk any distance with pleasure and my
rest was disturbed at night. Now l can
say in truth that COLOSEPTIC has
done its work—l am cured. What joy
to go out and walk without trouble now."
—Mr. E.A.S., Fielding.
FREE . . .LIBERAL TEST
SAMPLE OF COLOSEPTIC.
Mail coupon for a FREE
sample of COLOSEPTIC and
an enthralling and interesting
book, telling you all about
autoxima, the real cause of
kidney acidity, backache,
bladder weakness. The book
and the sample are FREE, but
send 3d. in stamps to cover
cost of packing and posting.
A clogged colon is one of the
prices we pay for civilisation.
The modern devitalized, de-
mineralized foods we eat make
it more and more difficult to
maintain the active functioning
of the colon. Until your clogged
colon is cleansed and revita-
lized, your system made alka-
line, and the cause of autoxima
removed, you cannot hope for
permanent relief
from kidney acidity
and bladder weak-
ness. Science has,
at last, discovered a
new and effective
0-2
remedy COLO- Vn ci°ion d
SEPTIC (Wayne's Improved
Formula). It acts in Nature's
way. It is entirely different
from old-fashioned pills and
tablets.
Coloseptic’s Vitalizing Action
To strengthen your kidneys and
bladder, restore vigor and vitality—get
rid of backache and pains in the legs,
you must remove the acid-developing
encrustations which line your colon.
Normal bowel movements cannot dc
this, the walls have become too slug-
gish, and opening medicines only
purge the lower end of the colon. Look
at the two illustrations and see how
COLOSEPTIC clears your colon. It
tones up the walls, giving back the
power of normal movement, it corrects
acid conditions, and stimulates the ac-
tion of the pores of the skin, the re-
spiratory system, and the kidneys—
the three other important organs which
eliminate poisons from your system.
Remove the cause of kidney and blad-
der weakness by taking COLOSEPTIC
and enjoy perfect health, comfort and
peace of mind
ALWAYS.
rue#]
TWii
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
♦1
ii
1C
ft
m
ft
V 1 *♦>**
•4\
CHECKS
AIDS NUTRITION
SELF
POISONING
ft
COMBATS
ACIDITY
H E A LTH
BUILDS
ffuT^ztlleforL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
be carried in a tin, not a bag. Any
chemical which falls on clothes or boots
should be carefully brushed off. All
clothing of s.c. workers should be washed
thoroughly and regularly.
There is, however, a great deal to be
learnt about ragwort poisoning. No-
body is yet sure exactly why s.c. kills
ragwort, nor at what stage the plant is
most susceptible, nor why better kills are
made by applying the chemical to the
crown or to the leaves and stems of the
plants.
Killing Off the ’Hopper.
“El V.”: The ’hoppers are on the
wing again in N.S.W. and Queensland,
and so far no decision has been reached
as to the best method of combating them.
In the Dubbo district, 180,0001 b. of bait
was distributed, and the Stock Inspector
reported that “success” had been “marked
in places where hatchings had been in
evidence and that, as all ’hoppers were
now on the wing, poisoning had been
discontinued.”
The chairman of the P.P. Board said
that the number of ’hoppers killed was
very small compared with the millions
that had reached the wing stage, that
poisoning had been unsuccessful and it
would be necessary to devise some other
means of control. Another member, J.
Bell, said that he had found the position
in north-west N.S.W. very bad —“the
whole area had been devastated” —and a
Mr. McLeod characterised the poison-
ing scheme —it cost £2OO0 —as an expen-
sive failure.
In some districts farmers are fighting
for their crops. Where glowing reports
were issued early in the season as to the
success of poisoning, a part of the
countryside is eaten out.
There seems no doubt that poison in
some form is the best antidote. Obvi-
ously if the hatcheries are destroyed there
will be no fliers. Failure is due to the
lack of any national scheme and uniform
enforcement. Official methods differ on
either side of each State border.
Some Pasture Protection Boards in
N. S. Wales assiduously poison, while
others next door don’t believe in poison-
ing. Some with comparatively small
areas police their districts and see that
poisoning is carried out on a fair scale.
In others, the areas are so big and the
farmers and graziers so doubtful of its
value that the application of a scheme
under present conditions is not easy.
But a scheme can be worked out, just
as one for the destruction of prickly-
pear was worked out, and it must have
universal application wherever the ’hopper
breeds. A study of U.S.A. methods
would be worth while. Over there they
have been using the aeroplane and gas
on a fairly large scale. And the flame-
thrower is worth a wider trial on
hatcheries.
Another Lost Industry.
“F.L.R.”: According to the S. African
Year-Book there are 380,000 acres under
wattle in Natal, 113,000 acres in the
Transvaal, and 35,000 acres in Cape
Province. The trees are planted in the
same way as orchard trees.
Have wattle trees ever been planted
for commercial purposes in Australia?
As far as I can discover there are no
publications either by the Forestry or
Agricultural Depts. on the growing of
wattles. Using seed, it is perfectly
simple, requiring neither trenching,
ploughing nor cultivating.
The exports of wattlebark, and ex-
tract, from South Africa in 1934 were
worth over £550,000.
Pumping Hints.
“Seenitall”: There’s a lot in the cor-
rect placing of pumps.
In practice few pumps will lift more
than 25ft. at the most, usually only 24ft.,
although they will force the water after-
wards to great heights and long distances.
Say the well is 40ft. deep with a good
supply of water, which comes in fast for
the first Bft., after which it finds its level
at 20ft. and remains there. To allow for
silting, the end of pipe should be placed
2ft. from the well bottom. This gives
a column of water 18ft. deep. The pump
fitted will lower that column to say 6ft.,
at which level the incoming water can
beat the pump’s efforts to reduce it.
The correct place to fit the pump is as
near to the top water level as possible,
where it never has a greater lift than
14ft., for at that level the incoming water
keeps pace with the pumping.
Should the well be a slow one, with a
large height rise, say to 30ft., it is wiser
to make the well wide to get a good
storage and, if a large amount is re-
quired, fit the pump 10ft. below the
water level when full, so that the well
can be practically emptied if necessary.
Everything depends on the depth and
speed of incoming water, all of which
can be found out as soon as the well is
sunk and the water beats the sinkers.
We have a 6ft. windmill that outpumps
a 10ft. one badly placed.
Centrifugal pumps have a lower lift
than suction ones, but can deal with a
far greater volume of water.
“J.W.”: Don’t send calves to the meat-
works as soon as born —they will be con-
demned for immaturity. Keep at least
10 days. Under the regulations a bobby
must be 14 days old and weigh 401 b.
dressed. So that liveweight should be
between 801 b. and 901 b. at least when
the animal is consigned. Mother’s milk
is the best fattener for bobby calves.
And veal-fattening usually pays just as
much profit on the use of the milk as if
it were fed to other farm animals.
“Pappamosca”: Don’t breed sows too
early. For export pigs no sow should be
mated till she weighs 2501 b. to 3001 b,,
and she should be at least eight months
old —10 months’ minimum is better.


“Let Atlas carry the burden.'
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000.
F ire—Accident —Marine
WOOL (Sheeps back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
Cbnklin
PENS—PENCILS—SETS
Ideal and acceptable Christmas Gifts.
FDS
A wide range of styles and
prices is provided, enabling
the purchaser to exactly
meet his individual pref-
erences as to appearance,
size, writing performance
and price.
Every CONKLIN is a good,
dependable writing instru-
ment, carefully made in
every detail of the best
materials obtainable, assur-
ing a long life of perfect
service
CONKLIN NOZAC
VISIBLE INK PENS—the
World’s finest precision
writing instrument, in which
modern design harmonises
with streamline styling—
the pen that “Winds like a
watch.” Pens 22/6, 30/-,
40/-; Pencils to Match
17/6, 25/-. Complete Sets
40/-, 55/-, 65/-.
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
—guaranteed Free Service
for ever—-in all Modern
Colour Combinations. Pens
30/-, 40/-; Pencils to
Match 25/-. Complete
Sets 55/-, 65/-.
CONKLIN CRESCENT
PENS are dependable writ-
ing instruments, made of
the best materials available.
Six different colours. The
pens are priced at 15/-;
Pencils to match 7/6; and
Complete Sets in Presenta-
tion Case 22/6.
From all good stores everywhere.
flow Jno\£. ■eueAs
THE WORLD S FINEST
LIGHT CAR
.■\y’.y
#
§
§>
ft* -- :: :
L
vwmm
''/S/A-Xte
vL
'UfiU
2/
DOMINANT
NEW FEATURES
IN its sweeping new Design, Comfort, Safety,
Performance, Proved Reliability and Economy
the NEW 1938 HILLMAN MINX clinches its
reputation as the World's Finest Light Car.
Look at the dashing New Style ... the handsome
new radiator... the new "Monopiece" steel roof
. . . the new full-width safety spring bumpers
fore and aft . . . the new rich colours . . . the
graceful sweeping tail which incorporates the
new "Armless" luggage platform on the De Luxe
Saloon ! Study the re-designed engine—now
packed with even greater "big car" power and
stamina, yet endowed with truly miserly economy.
Sink your hand into the silky-soft luxuriousness of
the new "contour-correct" upholstery of chrome
handbuffed leather . . . that's the comfort you
expect at TWICE the price !
Each of its 21 Dominant New Features is a de-
finite reason why you, too, should see now the
new 1938 Hillman Minx . . . now more than ever
before the World's Finest Light Car . . . BIG
in everything but cost!
The 1938 Hillman Minx is iden-
tical in every detail with the model
on sale in London.
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
York Street Launceston.
VICTORIA:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
222 Exhibition St., Melbourne, C.l.
N.S.W.:
john McGrath ltd.
155 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
W. AUSTRALIA:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street, Perth.
S. AUSTRALIA:
WAYMOUTH MOTOR CO. LTD.
42 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
john McGrath ltd.
358 Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
World Exporters:
&
fcOOTES™
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London
Australian and N.Z. Representative:
C. E. BLAYNEY
Kembla Building,
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I’ve just been
shown my twentieth genuine Cook’s gun,
all the way from the Barrier Reef. It
was a carronade, dated 1786. It had
cost the proud owner six quid from a
fisherman just down from the North
sez the fisherman! When Cook got on
the reef near Cape Tribulation and jetti-
soned his guns—six, I thjnk—it was
1770. A Government search in 1887
failed to reveal any trace of them.
$ # * ♦
“Walkabout”: It beats me why Angora
goats haven’t been given a better trial
in Australia; plenty of coastal country
now idle would suit the mohair-producers.
In Asia Minor, where some of the hilly
country couldn’t be rougher, the cultiva-
tion of Angoras —omitting tribal feuds
and throat-slitting—is the leading industry.
S’Africa and U.S.A. also graze consider-
able numbers. Little success has come
the way of Angora enthusiasts in Aus-
tralia, owing mainly to lack of goat-proof
fences.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The capital of New Guinea
is to be moved from Rabaul. But if,
as suggested, Salamaua is chosen it may
turn out an expensive business. Sala-
maua lies round a long peninsula. There
is no harbor; ships anchor offshore and
passengers and goods come off by boat.
And it is highly dangerous from a
defence point of view. The country
behind is so precipitous that all pas-
sengers and material are now carried
over it by air, and the building of even
a narrow road to the goldfields would
cost well on to half a million and would
call for enormous regular expenditure to
keep it from being washed away. The
natural capital of both New Guinea and
Papua is Moresby. Well sheltered, with
a good harbor, all Government offices
already built and placed by Nature
handy to Australia, it is the real centre
of New Guinea government and well out
of the way of invaders.
sfc * * *
“Tripos”: “Mosstrooper’s” ill-informed
diatribe (B. 24/11/ ’37) against James
Hepburn, Earl of Bothwell, contains
hardly one correct statement. “The head
of the Hepburns” (he wasn’t) “was rated
by contemporary historians” (all enemies)
“as the primest blackguard of the turbu-
lent Border lords.” Not quite. Bothwell’s
activities on the Border were as Lord
Lieutenant —he subdued the thugs on his
own side of the Marches, and survived the
innumerable treacheries of his own peers,
who were in the pay of England. Again,
“in his later years he earned the reputa-
tion of a bloody and ruthless pirate.” He
was a hunted man with a price on his
head, striving in an age of violence to
win back what he had lost by
treachery, and incidentally proving to
be also a naval commander of genius.
“It was while imprisoned in Den-
mark for some of his performances that
he died.” He was detained by treachery
and not brought to trial for piracy—the
remainder of his life was spent in prison
under a lettre de cachet.
* * * *
Said the Governor of Queensland at a
Parliamentary dinner:
I do not criticise in any way what are
sometimes termed the joy-rides of respon-
sible Australians to England... .The con-
tacts made have been of incalculable bene-
fit, no matter what their cost may have
been.
So the Governor does criticise the criti-
cism of those who have to foot the bills.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:--
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwrys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.BE., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; .T. Beresford Grant; Colm A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Disabled returned soldier, N.S.W., wants
position. Exp. journalist, clerk, etc. —7926.
Cutter and tailor capable of taking charge
of factory or shop, go anywhere, seeks position.
Refs.—7938.
Gentleman wants seat in car or truck, Mel-
bourne to Brisbane and return, in the near
feture. —7947.
To buy s.-h. books on Australian ants for
correspondence children in bush; also infor-
mation concerning bull-ants. —7923.
Words of a poem about A Quaker girl who
before going to church puts a tuck in her frock,
but is induced to remove it by the birds.” —7912.
Information Sought.
What players have scored a century in each
innings in a Sheffield Shield match? —7955.
Victorians —Armstrong, 157x and 245 v. S.
Aus., 1920-21; Onyons, 105 and 127 v. Q.,
1928-29; Ponsford, 110 and llOx v. N.S.W.,
1923-24; Ransford, 182 and 110 v. N.S.W.,
1908-09; Rigg, 100 and 167x v. N.S.W., 1936-
37. S. Aus. players—Richardson, 100 and 125
v. N.S.W., 1924-25; Lonergan, 115 and 100 v.
Vic., 1933-34. - N.S.W. players—Bradman, 131
and 133x v. Q., 1928-29; Jackson, 131 and 122
v. S.A., 1927-28; Kippax, 127 and 131 v. Q.,
1926-27; Mackay, 105 and 102x v. S.A., 1905-
06; McCabe, 106 and 103x v. Vic., 1931-32;
Noble, 176 and 123 v. Vic., 1907-08. Queens-
land—O’Connor, 103 and 143x v. N.S.W., 1926-
27. (x not out.)
* * * *
(1) *When South Africa was dismissed for 36
and 45 in the fifth Test match at Adelaide in
January, 1932, what were the Australian
bowling figures ? (2) What were Bradman’s
scores in these Test matches, and how was he
dismissed ? —7958.
(1) First innings—
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets.
Ironmonger .. 7.2 5 6 5
Nash .. 12.0 6 18 4
McCabe .. 4 1 4 1
(Sundries, 8.)
Second innings—
Ironmonger .. 15.3 7 18 6
Nash .. 7 4 4 1
O’Reilly .. 9 5 19 3
(Sundries, 4.)
(2) First Test—l.b.w., b. Vincent, 226; second
Test —c. Viljoen, b. Morkel, 112; third Test—
c. Cameron, b. Quinn, 2; l.b.w., b. Vincent,
167; fourth Test —299 not out; fifth Test —
absent, hurt, 0.
* * ' * *
Did Badcock have a better average than
Bradman in Sheffield Shield cricket in 1935-36 ?
What were their figures? —7690.
Yes. Badcock —6 innings, 1 not out, 325
highest score, 622 runs, average 124.40. Brad-
man—6 innings, 357 highest score, 739 runs,
average 123.33.
* * * &
The flowers of my Christ mas-bush have
turned brown and fallen off (they did the same
a year ago). The shrubs are well grown and
healthy. Wha{ treatment is necessary to over-
come the trouble ? What manure is suitable
for these shrubs ? —7957.
Faulty drainage will cause the flowers to
wither and drop. If the shrubs are too large to
be replanted shift the earth about the base
and pack in stones, leaves or sticks to admit
air to the stem. Also dig trenches each way
at right-angles from the shrub to a depth of
at least 2ft., pack in stones, tins or rubbish,
and replace the soil. Rotted cow manure, burnt
grass or leaf-mould, worked into the soil, is
suitable fertiliser.
* * * *
(1) Do seven leaves on a rose stem denote a
briar? (2) Should the pale-green stems that
rise from ground level on a bush rose be cut
out? —7873.
(1) Yes, briar stems have seven leaves, rose
stems have five leaves. The briar leaves are
small, narrow and light green, while the rose
leaves are broad and dark green. (2) Suckers
from beneath the soil on grafted roses are
briars, and should be cut out. They take the
substance from the rose bushes and will eventu-
ally kill the grafted or budded rose growth.
Scrape away the soil and cut out the briar
bud growth and you will not be troubled
further with it.
* * * *
(1) Has alcohol any medicinal value? (2)
Are wines or spirits used in Australian hospi-
tals?—7814.
(1) Alcohol is a nervous depressant, but a
heart stimulant; it increases the force and
frequency of the heart-beat. In some cases of
acute illness, however, when the heart is beat-
ing rapidly but ineffectually, alcohol diminishes
the number of beats while improving their
strength. In the presence of such effects, it is
safe to assume that the alcohol is doing good.
(2) Yes.
* * * *
What are the air strengths of the major
Powers ? —7630.
1937 Whitaker’s Almanack gives the follow-
ing: France, first-line aircraft 3000, total air-
craft not available; Germany, 700, 2000; Great
Britain, 1750, not available; Italy, 2000, 3000;
Japan, 1500, 2000; U.S.A., 2400, not available;
U.S.S.R., 1500, not available.
* * * *
(1) Some particulars of the first N.S.W.
Industrial Arbitration Act? (2) Regulation of
the liquor trade in N.5.W.? —7941.
(1) The Industrial Arbitration Act in N.S.W.
was first introduced by the See Ministry in
Dec., 1901, and was chiefly due to the activi-
ties of Wise, who was then Attorney-General.
The Act created a Court, consisting of a Judge
and assessors, which made awards. After an
award had been made between parties in a
dispute a fresh substantive application could
be made to the Court for an order making the
award a common rule in the industry. (2) The
first Liquor Act of 1825 aimed, through a
system of licenses, at ensuring that hotel-
keepers were of good character and at obtain-
ing revenue. In 1862 the hours of liquor trad-
ing were limited to between 4 a.m. and mid-
night, in 1881 between 6 a.m. and 11 p.m., and
in 1916, while the Holman Ministry was in
power, a referendum fixed the closing time at
6 p.m. The 1917 Commonwealth Year-Book
states “This determination prevails during the
currency of the war and for a period not ex-
ceeding six months thereafter,” but, pending
a referendum, the ruling was extended under
the Liquor Amendment Act of 1919.
* * * *
(1) How many people and what percentage
of the population die before the age of 40
in Australia ? ' (2) Before 50 ? (3) Of natural
causes before 40 ? (4) Of natural causes before
50 ? (5) Source of information ? —7640.
(1) 1936: 15,040, representing 23.52 p.c. of
total deaths and 0.33 p.c. of total population
under 40 years. Corresponding percentage on
total population at all ages was 0.22. (2)
20,315, representing 31.78 p.c. of total deaths
and 0.37 p.c. of total population under 50
years. Corresponding percentage on total popu-
lation at all ages was 0.3. (3) 12,795, repre-
senting 21.65 p.c. of total deaths from such
causes and 0.28 p.c. of total population under
40 years. Corresponding percentage on total
population at all ages was 0.19. “Natural
causes” include all types of disease. External
causes, such as suicide, homicide, accident,
etc., and undetermined or indefinite causes
have been excluded. (4) 17,433, representing
29.5 p.c. of total deaths from such causes and
0.32 p.c. of total population under 50 years.
Corresponding percentage on total population at
all ages was 0.26. (5) Commonwealth Statis-
tician.
* * * *
(1) What is the second-class fare from
Sydney to Auckland? (2) Steerage? (3) Any
immigration restrictions on Australians? (4)
Any landing capital necessary? (5) Any ex-
change on Australian currency? (6) Will there
be cheap excursion rates during 1938 ? (7)
When does the hay and wheat harvesting com-
mence in M.L. ? —7883.
(1) £9, or £lO on the Awatea or Wan-
ganella. (2) £7 10s. on the Aorangi or
Niagara. (3) and (4) There are no restric-
tions on British subjects who wish to enter
M.L. permanently, provided they will not be-
come a charge upon the country and have suffi-
cient funds to keep themselves or a definite
offer of employment. (5) at present £AIOI
equals £NZIOO. (6) Unlikely. (7) Harvesting
commences about the end of December in the
North Island and January in the South Island.
* * * *
(1) How to obtain a divorce on ground of
desertion when the suit would be undefended
and the abode of the wife unknown ? (2)
Cost 3—7897.
(1) Firstly petition the Court for a dissolution
of the marriage on the ground of the wife’s
desertion without reasonable excuse during
three years or upwards. Assuming the peti-
tion to be in order, the Court would then
issue a citation calling on the wife to appear
and answer the petition. Abode of the wife
being unknown, a notice advising her of the
issue of the citation must be advertised in
newspapers circulating in whatever State she
is supposed to be. (2) In a straightforward,
undefended case, about five guineas would
cover the cost, including a solicitor’s fee.
* * * *
Brief history of the introduction of invalid
and old-age pensions in Australia? What part
did J. C. Nield play?— 77sl.
M.L., was the first to introduce invalid and
old-age pensions. In 1896 the M.L. Parlia-
ment refused to pass a scheme which allowed
10s. per week to any aged person whose
income, other than from personal exertion,
was less than £52 per year. In an altered form
the proposal was again rejected in 1897, but
became law in 1898, granting a pension during
good conduct to persons 65 years and oyer.
In 1899 George Turner, Premier of Vic., copied,
with frugal additions, the M.L. enactment, but
his Ministry was ousted in 1899, and the bill
was not passed until Turner’s return in 1900.
It became law on January 1, 1901. In N.S.W.
a resolution empowering William Lyne to
bring in an old-age pension bill was carried in
the Legislative Assembly on Sept. 13, 1900.
The bill passed through Parliament two months
later, and came into force July 1, 1901. It
was a modification of the M.L. law. From
1897-99 J. C. Nield, M.L.A., had been un-
sparing in his exertions to have such a bill
introduced in N.S.W. The State Acts were
replaced by the Commonwealth Invalid and Old
Age Pensions Act of 1908, which provided
old-age pensions throughout Australia from
July 1, 1909, and invalid pensions from De-
cember 1, 1910.
* * * *
(1) Some particulars of Dame Mary Gilmore
and her work ? (2) Has she written any books
on the New Australia movement or the early
Labor movement ? What part did she take ?
7960.
(1) Dame Mary Gilmore, D.8.E., the daughter
of Donald Cameron, was born near Goulburn
in 1865. She was first a school-teacher, and
joined and was the leading woman in the New
Australia movement. In 1895 she went to
Paraguay and remained there for five years,
marrying W. A. Gilmore in 1897. She next
went to Argentina, and later taught English
in Patagonia and wrote for the Buenos Ayres
papers. Returning to Australia in 1902, she
conducted the Women’s Page of the “Aus-
tralian Worker” for 23 years. Her verse
publications are Marri’d, and Other Verses,
The Tale of Tiddleywinks, The Passionate
Heart, The Tilted Cart, The Wild Swan and
Under the Wilgas. A new book will probably
come out next year. Her prose works are
The Worker Cook Book, Hound of the Road,
Old Days: Old Ways and More Recollections,
the last two containing several chapters devoted
to early aborigines. She is still writing. (2)
No, but William Lane’s The Working Man’s
Paradise deals to a certain extent with her
part, she being Nellie. Julian Stuart, of the
W.A. “Worker,” wrote of her as “the dynamic
force of the New Australia movement,” and
she was regarded as the woman leader and
next in influence to William Lane.
* * * *
What is the difference between ether and
chloroform ? —7921.
Chloroform consists of carbon, hydrogen and
chlorine, ether of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen.
The two drugs closely resemble each other in
general anaesthetic effects but differ in power and
other important points. About four times as
much ether is needed to produce the same degree
of anaesthesia as when chloroform is used.
The depressant effect of chloroform on the
brain is 3 to 3£ times as great as that of ether,
and its power to arrest respiration is about
three times as great. The depressant action on
the heart of chloroform is about 25 to 30 times
that of ether, and the dangerous cardiac embar-
rassment which is seen under chloroform is
rare under ether. Because it has to be given in
more concentrated form to produce anaesthesia,
ether causes more irritation of the air passages
and secretion of saliva and mucus. Anaesthesia
is induced with greater difficulty, more slowly
and often less perfectly than with chloroform,
and the stage of excitement is generally more
violent and prolonged. The virtue of ether
is that its action on the heart and respiration
is much less dangerous than that of chloroform.
The latter drug is non-inflammable and better
tolerated by alcoholics and plethoric people.
Cause and cure of talking in sleep ? —7769.
Talking during sleep is sometimes a sign of
nervous irritability, and is apt to occur in
imaginative, highly-strung persons of all ages
past infancy, and in both sexes. Treatment
depends on the cause; in children, search must
be made for intestinal worms, errors of diges-
tion, nose and throat affections or worry over
schoolwork; in adults, business and domestic
upsets are important factors in susceptible
people. Patients in whom the trouble is exag-
gerated should undergo a complete physical
overhaul and consult a psychiatrist if neces-
sary. In mild cases, the habit is of no import-
ance.
* * * *
Symptoms of hyper-acidity? Treatment ?
7732.
Usual symptoms are some discomfort or
pain in the pit of the stomach, flatulence, the
bringing up of acid secretion into the throat or
mouth (water brash) accompanied by a burning
sensation in the throat or behind the breastbone,
and an uncertain appetite. Diet should consist
of easily-digested foods, lamb, mutton, sweet-
breads, chicken, tripe, rabbit, whiting, stale
white bread, rice, tapioca, sago, arrowroot,
asparagus, spinach, cauliflower, French beans,
baked apples, juices of oranges and grapes.
No “made” dishes, sauces, pastry, pickles,
sweets or preserves. Meat is best underdone,
fish best boiled or steamed, and alcoholic
beverages are harmful. A largely vegetable diet
is probably the most effective.
* * * *
Cause of spots on back? Cure? —7762.
The disease is probably acne, caused by the
germ Bacillus acnes. Almost all cases are cur-
able by time. Soap well rubbed in will cure
many patients, a sulphur soap being popular. A
useful application is: Precipitated sulphur one
drachm, calamine two drachms, zinc oxide two
drachms, glycerine one drachm, distilled water
six ounces. This should be painted on with
a brush. Many cases improve with X-ray
treatment, and vaccines are often helpful. If
the disease is long-standing, consult a doctor.
Brief Answers.
A.D.: Robert Helpman, Sadler’s Wells, Rose-
bury-avenue, London, E.C.1... .AJ.J.: Woods
used for violin-making are pine, known in the
trade as Swiss pine, for tops or fronts; Euro-
pean maple for backs, ribs and scroll; willow
for blocks and linings, and ebony for finger-
board, nut and saddle. All materials for
violin-making are obtainable from A. E. Smith,
9 Hunter-street, Sydney... .T. 8.: Yes, old-age
and invalid pensions are paid to pensioners
fortnightly in advance D.N.A V ‘ Recent in-
formation on scientific house ventilation is
found in Ventilation, by E. L. Joselin; price,
28s. 6d., from Dymock’s, Sydney. Austral
Ventilation Co., 5 Railway-parade, Marrick-
ville (N.S.W.), might be able to assist
E.M.C.: Letters on the 1909 U.S.A. cent are
V.D.8.: Issued for the centenary of Lincoln in
1909, the cent was designed and engraved by
Victor David Brenner, who included his initials
on the first issues. Afterwards the initials were
discontinued. Collector value, about 6d. if in
mint condition... .F.W.C.: Louis Dreyfus is
a large grain merchant in Buenos Ayres, and
an order for lucerne seed could be lodged at
the Adelaide branch. Seed would be subject to
inspection for weed seeds, etc., before libera-
tion. It would be held by the dept, concerned
until such inspection was complete, when the
owner would be advised of the result... .J.P.:
Your only redress would be through legal pro-
ceedings involving publicity, with a very dubi-
ous issue and the risk of being cast in costs.
Better cut your losses and take old age with
resignation... .E.S.: The owner of an adjoin-
ing block may by written notice require his
neighbor to erect or repair a dividing fence.
Should the neighbor refuse or neglect to com-
ply with this notice within six months of receiv-
ing it, the owner of the adjoining land may go
on with the work at his own expense and
recover in court half the costs from the. neigh-
bor C.H.: You could take a mortgage over
the land to the extent of advances made by
you. All the personal effects which you
brought with you and are not attached to the
land remain your property. The land itself,
the title not being in your name, would pass
to the relatives of the old man unless conveyed
or willed to you. You should consult a soli-
citor. .. .K.L.: Vance Palmer has published two
books of poems: The Forerunners (Euston
Press, London, 1915) and The Camp (Sydney
J. Endacott, Melbourne, 1920); Nettie Palmer
has also published two books of poems: The
South Wind (John G. Wilson, London, 1914)
and Shadowy Paths (The Euston Press, Lon-
don, 1915)... .R.C. Inquiries regarding literary
competitions in connection with Australia’s
150th anniversary celebrations should be ad-
dressed to the Chairman, Literary Sub-com-
mittee, Box 3845 T, G.P.0., Sydney... .M.T.:
The Vic. branch of the Anzac Festival Com-
mittee was formed in Melbourne in June, 1935.
President, Mrs. T. White, and hon. sec., Miss
M. B. Veal, 14 Grandview-road, Glen Iris
J.D.: Everlasting Hurricane, by R. W. Coulter
(65.), Murder in Sydney, by Leonard Mann
(65.), Younger Sons, by H. Drake-Brockmann
(65.) and The Valley of the Sky, by Tarleton
Rayment—all obtainable from leading book-
sellers... .N.F.: British Drama League
(N.S.W.), Room 14, 3rd Floor, Victoria Cham-
bers, 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney H.W.:
At November 22 last exchange rates required
were: Pence A to yen, 17.65 f; marks to £A,
9.835 ; lire to £A, 75.73... .L.R.: There are
a number of “drive-yourself” motor services in
Sydney. Rates vary greatly according to class
of car, period required, etc. Cannot recom-
mend any particular service, but you will find
the leading ones advertised in the daily press.
C.B.C.: A draft Australian code for the
design, installation and maintenance of fire
hydrants and hose installations is obtainable
from the Standards Association of Australia.
. ...P.G.: Voting for Maranoa at 1934 Fed-
eral elections was as follows: J. A. J. Hunter
(U.C.P.), 24,928; W. S. Argaet (D.C.), 3493;
D. J. R. Watson (Fed. Lab.), 19,674. Majority
for Hunter on first count, 1761. Electors en-
rolled, 52,832... .H.S.: In the film “Slave
Ship” Warner Baxter played the part of Lpvitt,
Wallace Beery that of Thompson and Mickey
Rooney that of Swifty A.K.L.: Oronsay
(20,000 tons), Orion (23,400 tons), Orontes
(20,000 tons), Orcades (23,500 tons), Orama
(20,000 tons) and Orford (20,000 tons)
R. 8.: School of Applied Advertising, Chamber
of Commerce Building, Grosvenor and George
streets, Sydney... .T.N.: Full particulars from
manager, Queensland Peanut Growers’ Co-op.
Assoc., Kingaroy (Q.) F.M.: Sydney to
Narrandera by air ordinarily takes lhr. 45min.
... .E.A.L.: Apply Teachers’ Central Registry,
Kembla Building, Margaret-street, Sydney....
J.P.: Write Cyrus Brooks, secretary, The
Translators’ Guild, 188 Piccadilly, London,
W 1 G.S.D.: The “Numismatic Chronicle,”
22 Russell-street, London, W.C.1... .A.M.:
Raphael Tuck and Sons, Raphael House,
Moorfields, London, E.C.2... .D.W.D.: The
abbreviation is MS. in singular and MSS. in
plural I.B.: In pronouncing taboo the
accent is on the last syllable... .C.T.: Insuffi-
cient information in your letter. The British
War Medal is issuable to members of the
A.I.F. who embarked from Australia for active
service abroad on or before November 11,
1918. Regulations governing the issue of 1914-
15 Star and Victory Medal provide that the
member must have rendered service within
specified periods and on the strength of a unit
in the theatre of war... .1.D.: Campbell Fields
was the name of Dr. Redfem’s property at
Minto. It was an 800-acre grant from Gover-
nor Macquarie, and was named by Dr. Red-
fern in honor of Mrs. Macquarie’s family
(Campbell). The house is still standing....
(Many others mailed.)


The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
Is THIS Where YOUR Stories Go?
F
Editors do not consign to the Incinerator
Stories written by STOTT Students, be-
cause they know how to write Certain-
to-Sell Short Stories. If YOU are
genuinely interested in Literary work,
send the Coupon to Stott’s, 100 Russell
Street, Melbourne, for Free Literary
Prospectus.
OUT, AND MAIL THIS COUPON to STOTT’S
CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGES, 96-100 Russell
Street, Melbourne; or 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CUT HEBE '
Please send Literary Prospectus, obligation free.
My Name
Address
S.B. No. 3
Crossings are Dangerous...
1
■
■
#
m
m
especially Those in Tyres
There are no crossing cords (welts)
to cause dangerous wear
from friction and heat in
DUNLOP
Casing construction of ordinary tyres.
Notice how threads (wefts) crosscasing cords.
W
Weftless Cord Casing: All Cords run
parallel, completely encased in rubber.
511-30
Weftless cord tyres
Weftless Cord is exclusive to Dunlop interests in Australia.
Dunlop Perdriau invites you to listen to “DUNLOP
PRESENTS”—Radio’s finest entertainment. Consult your
local broadcasting programmes for stations and times.
DUNLOI> PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD., (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA!
m
m
m
A MIXED GRILL.
“Pawang”: A 15-year-old girl, Shirley
Sterrett, of the M.L.C,, was the heroine
of the public examinations in Melbourne
recently. On Monday she was admitted
to hospital to be watched for appendi-
citis. On Tuesday afternoon she did the
French paper. In the evening she was
operated on, and at 1.30 a.m. came out
of the anaesthetic. At 9.30 a.m. she
started on the geometry section, and three’
hours later handed her papers over to
the supervisor.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The burning question in
Darwin at the moment is whether ladies
in the civil service shall or shan’t
wear shorts. Darwin has a large colored
population. While the temptation to
mitigate its climate by adopting the
minimum of costume is obvious, it is
more important to keep the respect of
the colored people for white women than
that they should be able to exhibit an
extra segment of leg to the northern
breezes.
* * * sH
H. G. (Jack) Horner, who has left the
N. S. Wales A.B.C. managership to be-
come general manager of Broadcasting
Services at £2500 a year, was a farmer
till an accident deprived him of a leg.
He then became an accountant. Horner
dabbled in wireless in the very early
days, and this, coupled with his account-
ancy experience, eventually led him to
the secretaryship of the Australian Broad-
casting Co. in 1930. When the Commis-
sion took over the national stations he
was appointed manager of the N.S.W
branch.
* * * He
“Singali”: Another entry for the old
estates stakes—that of the Smiths, of
Mulgunia, Trunkey (N.S.W.). Although
the original holding is greatly reduced
the present Smith occupies the home-
stead built 115 years ago. Still stand-
ing alongside the main building is that
which housed the first store between
Bathurst and Goulburn.
* * * *
“Undertaker’s Assistant”: Aerial
funerals are becoming frequent. The
business started in a small way, air-
men and master mariners being the
first who claimed the freedom of
the seas for their ashes (there were
others; one man had his dust scat-
tered on the wharf where he had worked
for a lifetime, and another had his cast
to the winds in a gully he was fond of
visiting), but usually the scattering pro-
cess was left to a personal arrangement
with airmen. Now Sydney funeral firms
are scheduling special air trips. In one
of the latest of these the contents of 16
urns were spilled over the Pacific.
- * * *
“Junius”: Queer and varied are the
ups and downs of politicians. Westralian
Senators Pearce and Lynch, dating from
1901 and 1906 respectively, never knew
defeat until they were wiped out by the
electors in October last. It was very
different with Teddy Needham, who was
their running mate on the Labor ticket
from 1906 until Billy Hughes split the
party on the conscription issue. Teddy
came down on the opposite side of the
fence to George and Patrick, and pres-
ently lost his seat in the Senate, where
the other two were still going strong.
But after a spell he returned, only to be
again outed at the conclusion of his
term. After these rebuffs he ultimately
found a haven in the State Assembly,
where he had his first Parliamentary ex-
perience in 1904-05. So that Needham,
though he has never had the faintest sniff
of office, has outstayed his old pals in
his humble Way.
* * * *
Victoria s Egg Board is being sued by
two brothers who say they are delivering
eggs valued at £165 per day to agents, as
required by the board, and can’t get their
that concern. Two amounts
or £2371 and £2257 are said to have been
unpaid because of alleged non-compliance
with regulations, and plaintiffs have
secured an order for an early hearing of
tini I , r / < ?? nS 0 ? the S round *at con-
tinued delays threaten them with ruin.
these men have over 100,000 birds on
their farm at Werribee.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
( exc ept of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
ad * re l s t must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
ho aa y submitted, and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
F.E.L.: “The Belching Bishop” not for our
congregation A.F.R.: Nothing in that batch.
S.T.C.: Reads like a travelogue
M.T.H.: He walked under a ladder and inter-
cepted a paintpot. So what? J.P.: Point-
less. .. .K.L.: We don’t like explanatory letters,
but we’d need one to interpret that yarn....
D.L.D.: It might attract a daily R.H.F.:
Illegible scrawl and ponderous dialogue....
C.K.H.: We dissolved into tears after
reading those “Meditations Over a Mutilated
Mouse” T.L.A.: Good old-fashioned bel-
lowdrammer J.D.: Off our beat P.T.S.:
We’ve read that before G.H.D.: You take
too long to get down to the yarn... .L.D.K.:
We never look a gift horse in the mouth,
but ... .G.G.D.: That yarn comes in regu-
larly as a beginner’s first effort... .S.C.R.:
Merely a paraphrased version of Brooke’s
threnody, and poorly done at that C.A.: A
yarn in Scottish dialect hasn’t much hope in
this office 8.L.M.: “The Mystery of Saxton
Cleaver” is still a mystery to us T.T.S.:
“Chickens Come Home to Roost” but not here.
....R.R.T.: Not up... .L.D.S.: We read the
title and were afraid, and the first three pages
justified our fears... .J.M.: The situation has
been covered extensively, but try it elsewhere.
... .R.A.McC.: A sketch of that sort should
be dealt with in something under 1500 words.
R.G.T.: Very few can write in the present
tense, and you’re not among them... .N.N.L.:
There’s no suspense in the obvious
H.A.T.-T.: “Woman’s Clarion Call to Her Sex”
sent us running for cover F.L.McM.: You
fell down on the j0b....1.M.: Nothing much
there J.McG.: Yes, but what’s it all about?
A.M.: Not on our menu L.T.: Don’t
know what it is, but you can’t seem to pick the
stuff we want V.W.: That invention didn’t
pass the patents office... .F.S.H.: You’ve done
better... .W.A.8.: It may have come spon-
taneously, but it isn’t verse F.C.: You have
a hundred sonnets and you can let us have
one every week. Sorry; but, anyway, here are
a few lines from the first: —
This rose, this red and blushing bloom,
Gift fit for princess-fit for prince,
I’ll give my love (but, alas, give whom?)
A.D.: Send that lyric to the lady
R.McG.: Free verse, is it? Out!.. .-.R.H.P.:
“Returned with Thanks” is just what happened.
V.L.T.: Your hero turned out to be a
girl, the heroine a boy, then they both changed
again and we gave it up F.8.T.: “Standard
of Living” was not high enough for u 5....
A.A.K.: Not bad, but a little too morbid....
G.C.L.: The end was a surprise, but needed
more explanation S.D.M.: A flapper mag.
should lap up “Honey and Cream”... .P.A.R.:
Do you want to leave us open to action
for libel?... .D.V.: “Parade” dismissed
T.C.N.: So you’re a well-known writer travel-
ling incognito. We’d advise you to stay that
way C.B.N.: “This is a fair sample.” No,
thank you.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.H.D.: That jest must be doing the rounds
again—you’re the third this week M.H.:
Our old friend the cat-burglar again L.N.:
“Is this any nearer what you want?” Honestly,
no ... .F.J.A.: We traced the owners of six
pairs of legs, but we’re still wondering where
the outsize pair in the centre belong....
M.J.M.: Hideous M.T.P.: Muddy draw-
ing and timeworn gag....B.R.: The same
swaggie perches in the same tree every time
there’s a drop of rain R.T.: You’re merely
following another man’s lead C.G.H.:
Linework too scratchy S.H.M.: Yes, we buy
jokes without drawings, but not that sort....
B.E.P.: Those he-she gags went out years ago.
... .H.A.: Pity the poor etcher trying to make
a job of those faint pencil sketches... .W.J.E.:
No place here for “Impressions of Melbourne’s
Slums”... .E.H.B.: Surely you don’t think that’s
a new joke? L.W.: Don’t you know what
a train really looks like? J.B.D.: If you
must draw caricatures, pick on people of some
importance A.V.R.: The gag’s a lot brighter,
but the drawing’s still the same jumble of thick
black lines... .A.C.S.: You can call for that
poster-size picture of Gracie Fields any time
you like I.F.: This week’s most horrible.
H.B.: Yes, there’s promise there; try us
again after a few more lessons J.V.: Get
a gag worth illustrating and you might
squeeze in.


Mag we Suggest
9
11
*3
m
' i
«|
IH
/'
■
z
#
ss
p i
s
111
m
The gift he’ll like best
MEN’S GENUINE PIG SKIN FITTED TOILET CASE.
Containing natural ebony pure bristle hair brush, mixed
badger shaving brush, Kent “Super shaving soap, in
bakelite containers, steel mirror, nail file, safety razor
and comb. Price 757-
REAL PIG SKIN ZIPP FASTENER CASE. With
chromium fittings, containing natural ebony hair brush,
cloth brush, mixed badger shaving brush, tooth brush,
shaving soap container, toilet soap container, steel
mirror, nail file, scissors and comb, and Gillette type
razor in box. Price ----- £5/17/6
Pike Brothers
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane. /
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Roma.
(Oe maAe
■TOOTH
■r
X V
fl
K
k
M
r
Ni
\S
/
ft
~JAsI flatness
(D c CaUiuw’s
IL U/JfisAyjs-
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son ■
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co.
Fremantle
. - Hobart
The Greatest off All Aboriginal Boxers
Ron Richards’s success in the ring
brings back to memory the greatest of all
aboriginal boxers, Jerry Jerome.
Unlike Ron, who has had every advan-
tage that present-day conditions can give,
Jerry learnt to put up his hands through
sparring with backblocks “shrewdies”
who knew as much of boxing as the abo.
did of algebra. He showed a wonder-
ful aptitude for the game —as he did for
track-running, roughriding and steer-
throwing—but he was an old man as
pugs go when he turned scrapper. He
was actually in his 45th year when he
became the pugilistic rage of Sydney in
1913. Jerry was fast, and had a deadly
punch, but a more unassuming fellow
and one more averse from hurting his
fellow-man unnecessarily never put on
the gloves.
Many of Jerome’s fights took place in
Brisbane. In one he beat the Westralian
known as Black Paddy for what was
solemnly styled the Championship of
the Native Race. Paddy had been
brought east by Lucas, who nowadays
promotes the fights in which Jack
Carroll engages ; as slow as Jerry was
speedy, and as solemn as the Queens-
lander was mercurial, he had learned
some of his boxing from a smart little
fellow of Portuguese descent, Frank
Silver, who mixed fighting with nawying.
Another of Jerome’s Brisbane com-
bats was with a French middleweight of
repute named Balzac, whom he over-
whelmed in a round. Balzac had been
brought to Australia by the Sydney
Stadium people, and they induced
Jerome to come to Sydney in February,
1913, for a return fight.
The crowd filled the vast Stadium, and
the grinning black was in high favor.
As he came crouching towards his oppo-
nent, with his abnormally long arms ex-
tended and his copper-brown skin, with
darker scars, gleaming under the electric
light, he gave nervous spectators a creepy
sensation about the spine. It seemed to
be a struggle between a partly-tamed
forest animal and a white man whose
ancestors had 50 centuries ago forgotten
the art of tree warfare. Balzac seemed
uneasy from the start.
But the Gaul carried a punch of some
magnitude, and twice or thrice he got
home thrilling wallops which put Jerry’s
grin out of action for a few minutes.
The black showed great agility in avoid-
ing punishment; he slipped out of ugly
corners in a way that would have puzzled
any paleface to imitate. The crowd was
hugely diverted at his antics. Again and
again it laughed at the spectacle pre-
sented by the large crouched mass of
Binghi in a loin-rag, standing on big
feet which seemed to be attached to the
legs with sections of broomsticks instead
of ankles, as he pawed at his foeman’s
gloves at long range.
To the end of the fourth round, the
Frenchman had established a good lead
on points. In the fifth a blow from
JEROME AND BALZAC.
the black fist on the white body brought
the thing to a sudden finish. Balzac
went down, took 10 seconds and was
carried to his corner. Recovering, he
gazed gloomily at his conqueror, who
was waving triumphantly to several
thousands of cheering whites.
Back in Brisbane, Jerry had a fight
with a big fellow named Jack Cordell.
He outed Jack in exactly 2min. 35sec.,
and it took the beaten man just about
the same space of time to regain his
equilibrium.
Cordell towered over the elusive black,
who opened proceedings with a right
tap on the cheek and a fearful wallop on
the stomach. Cordell got in close and
let fly a broadside of body blows which
caused Jerry to gasp and clinch. Find-
ing that he could not imprison Cordell’s
arms, he jumped away, and as he went
he assumed a worried expression.
Cordell followed, and met a terrific swing
on the jaw and two more on the stomach.
As he backed away, Jerry landed a left ’
on the jaw, and Cordell went down with ;
a bang. The black carried the fallen :
gladiator to his corner.
Jerome returned to Sydney in Sep-
tember, 1913, for a second engagement
with another Brisbane victim —Harry
Mansfield. When he stepped into the
Stadium ring and looked round the sea of
faces that weltered away to the uttermost
limits, he gasped. He had never dreamed
how popular or entertaining he was.
That crowded house represented an
awful lot of money.
The glamor of the great assembly fell
upon Jerry, and he felt himself a god.
His beady black eyes scintillated; his
humorous mask was contorted to many
smiles ; he was the star actor of the piece,
and he knew it.
Then came Mansfield: fair, pallid-
skinned and, compared with his dusky
opponent, beautiful as Adonis. He was
much the taller and looked heavier; as
a matter of detail, he scaled 12st. 31-lb. to
Jerry’s list. 1011 b., and he seemed big
and strong enough to eat the black. But
he had learned to fight first and tried
afterwards to acquire science, with very
indifferent success. Moreover, he de-
pended too much on his seconds. The
roars of the onlookers and the whizzing
of Jerry’s wallops made it sometimes im-
possible to understand their directions,
and as often as not when understandable
they were flagrantly wrong.
Jerry commenced by ducking and
dodging; and he brought the house
down by darting behind the referee for
shelter. When Mansfield thought he had
his man cornered, Jerry would feint and
then bound away as though a scorpion
or a bill-collector had stung him. His
arms waved about like the fins of an
agitated seal or the wings of a startled
penguin. When he clinched he grinned
delightedly at the crowd from under
Mansfield’s arms.
Suddenly, in the middle of all this
fooling, he let fly a right which, had it
landed, would have ended the fight right
there. The white began to hold and hit,
and some vicious infighting occurred,
with the referee trying to separate them.
It became obvious that Mansfield’s only
hope was to stand off and use a straight
left. He did it, and Jerry began to
stagger. The blackfellow was battered
on the ropes, and seemed to be suffering
severely, but after each dose he grinned
at the people.
So it went on till the thirteenth round,
when Jerry got tired of playing possum
and cut loose. He rushed in and
showered blows. Mansfield tried to hold
on. He was punched off. He tried to
fight back. His attack was smothered
with wallops. He tried to fend. His
guard was beaten down. Jerry was a
black madman, wielding a pair of sledge-
hammers disguised as boxing gloves.
Mansfield took seven seconds, and was
bowled over again. The towel was
thrown in.
Only a week later Jerome fought the
Irish-American Pat Bradley, taking the
place of Dave Smith, who was down
with tonsilitis. During the week Jerry
had led the lazy life, and he stepped into
the breach, untrained and unprepared, to
face one of the toughest middleweights
that ever ducked through the ropes, a
man who in the course of his career
met the best men in the world at the
MANSFIELD MEETS A BLIZZARD.
weight and rarely failed to go 20 rounds.
That September night he consisted of
list. lib. of hardened meat, muscle and
bone, and he was 17 years Jerry’s junior.
Nobody dreamed that, fat as he was,
the aboriginal could last more than three
or four rounds, and 4 to 1 was unavail-
ingly offered.
Jerome was versatility itself. The
scrap he fought with Bradley was as
different from that with Mansfield as a
grindstone is from a cheese. Bradley
got the verdict, but he acquired it by the
unusual method of taking such a wal-
loping that the enemy broke his fist on


CHANGED HER SHOES
FIVE TIMES A DAY
Suffered Agony with
Rheumatism for 20 Years
Try and picture the life this woman led
for twenty years—changing her shoes several
times a day in a vain endeavour to attain some
relief from the rheumatic pains that were con-
stantly torturing her. Then imagine her joy
when she found that Kruschen was driving away
the rheumatism. This is what she writes: —
“I have been using Kruschen Salts for
four years. For twenty years previously I
had suffered agony with my feet, sometimes
changing my shoes five times a day, and fre-
quently sitting without any as the pain was
so great. Now I can wear the same pair of
shoes all day with comfort. I cannot speak
too highly of Kruschen Salts. Only those who
have been in constant pain with their feet for
years can realise what it is to be free
(Mrs.) E.A.
It is the needle-pointed crystals of uric acid,
lodging between the joints, which are respon-
sible for the agony of rheumatism. Kruschen
Salts dissolve these torturing crystals and
promptly expel them from the system.
Tobacco Pouches, press-stud fasten-
ing, 2/-, 6/-, 7/6.
Ditto, with zip fastening, 1/9, 2/6
'3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 7/6.
Wallets, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6,
10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-.
Purse and Note Wallet Combined,
7/6, 12/6.
Razor Strops, 2/6, 3/-, 5/6, 7/6
12/6.
Plaited Kangaroo Skin Waist Belts,
up to 38in. waist measurement. I in.
wide, 9/3; I -gin. wide, 10/-; 1 fin!
wide, 10/9; I fin. wide, 11/6;
1 fin. wide, 12/3.
Fine Plait:
lin. wide, 13/6; 1 fin. wide, 15/9;
I fin. wide, 16/6.
Pocket Knives, 1/-, 1/6, 1/9, 2 /-
3 /-. 4/-, 5/-, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,’
16/6.
Postage Extra.
WALTHER *t STEVENSON [7i:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDMEY
t
a
9,
/
explorers
O F
AUSTRALIA
John Forrest of Bunbury
John Forrest, afterwards Sir John Forrest and later Baron
Forrest of Bunbury, the only Australian ever raised to the
British Peerage, did magnificent exploration work during his
early years.
At the age of 22 on his first expedition undertaken in 1869
mainly to find the remains of Leichhardt, he travelled over
2,000 miles in the interior of Western Australia. He dis-
covered and named Lake Barlee and Mounts Ida, Leonora,
Malcolm and Margaret.
Later, Forrest, in company with his brother Alexander, in
the face of almost incredible difficulties, succeeded in finding
an overland route from Perth to Adelaide, completing the
journey in five months.
Until his death in 1918 Baron Forrest was prominent in
Australian public life. He was Premier of Western Aus-
tralia for ten years and for many years represented this State
in the Federal Parliament, of which he was a foundation
member.
Now in the year 1937, when Australia has almost reached its
150th anniversary, the Bank of New South Wales, pioneer of
Australian banking, pays a tribute to Baron Forrest, a great
Australian.
ofaAl
ESTABLISHED IBIT
j i
fer
I
di „,
- i-w-
-307F.1937.
a granite-like head. Had Jerome been
in condition, Bradley would have been
knocked out.
The Irishman rushed into the fight with
vim, and in 10 seconds was a prey to
unholy anger because of Jerry’s elusive
tactics. He objected to being made a
show of and went after Jeremiah with
evil intent. But it took two minutes of
fearsome rushing to catch, the Book of
Lamentations, and when he succeeded
he also caught two terrific thumps on
the head.
After that, for several rounds, it was
a fierce scramble of infighting. Then
Bradley began to hold and punch. Jerry
gave all that back and a bit more.
Bradley seemed made of iron. He came
in again and again, but when he got a
chance to let loose the grisly punch with
which he had knocked out so many men,
Jerry wasn’t there.
In the sixth the now-desperate Irish-
American roughed Jerry to a sitting pos-
ture between the ropes. The abo. sprang
up and let go an awful bombardment
that brought the house roaring to its feet.
Bradley was smashed and driven right
across the ring.
In vain he tried to hang on. Blows
whizzed up and caught him on the face ;
some crashed from east and west and
caught him on the ears; some came
whirling downward and caught him
across the back of the neck, and some
crashed in straight from the shoulder
and sent him staggering. He was beaten
to his knees and was glad to take nine
seconds. ,
Jerry had temporarily exhausted him-
self, and, although he rattled Bradley
again, the white man managed to get into
a clinch and reach the respite of the bell.
The seventh saw Jerry go slower. He
seemed to be gathering force for a fresh
attack, and when it came Bradley could
scarcely hope to weather it. He was in a
desperate plight; but he still strove to
attack.
In the eighth Jerry drove in a heavy
right, stepped back and sent the left in.
As Bradley came forward again Jerry
back-moved ; then he held out his right
glove. He was strong on his feet, but
the hand was broken, and in went the
towel.
After Bradley came Jim Sullivan, for-
merly middleweight champion of Eng-
land. Against Reg Midwood, of Tas-
mania, Sullivan had shown great skill;
but he was a very nervous fellow and
Bradley had knocked him out before he
could pull himself together. Pleading for
a chance to rehabilitate his reputation, he
was matched with Jerome.
Nothing is so uncertain as boxing
form. When Sullivan entered the ring to
HOW JERRY LOOKED TO JIM.
kotti- ui 1* „ ,
hPc?;Jh!i h th blackf f llow , he seemed to
h nei 7 ous ’ but hls trepidation
dlnffSn Tr! n the gong gave the
wS re»Hv r n cpmm \ nce - Ji m
as really a plucky fellow, as he was to
«TnThl a l: n the Great War ' and St
nicht * h S courage tit 3l de serted him that
S T ’
41b o? 51h m h e v l S a roly ‘? oly - The
van’s 11st inih h h be exceeded Sulli-
u« to h m Jr^ aS u all ,, bee£ - ando£no
that he would m»v hlC ,t " Was argued
brief ashe cnuM u ? argum ? nt as
drunken lonkino ' He advanced with his
several tertflc hn, C d UCh swung
would havo k, T. ut s ' o * P untfl cs which
they landed. 6 Ap?arent‘ly an the ‘pro h h“l
didn’t expect land - it Tf,
his idea of a preliminary Then he n y
an excellent burlesque 0 f SM Staged
other Englishman then boxing in If/w n
—“faced” Sullivan with his shoulder
hit round himself, so to sneak £
more aggressive in that first round thl
he had ever before been in Jh?
Stadium ring. But Sullivan easily dodged
his wild, wide swings and standing d
close, baulked the attacks and nnSfh d
Jeremiah severely about the head h
uie neau,
Sullivan started the second round
briskly. His nervousness had entirely
disappeared, and he went in and mixed in
rare style, to thunders of applause.
Jerome seemed to bend to the storm ; but
he was only gathering purchase for the
blizzard he was about to turn himself
into.
Right and left swings flashed through
the light, and Sullivan staggered back to-
wards the ropes. Jerry leaped after him
and met a left stab that checked him for
the fraction of a second. Then a hurri-
cane of blows swept down on Sullivan,
who still backed away. A right swing
caught him somewhere about the place
where he kept his dinner. A black shape
hovered in the air like a globular raven
and descended. It was Jerry’s mighty
left, and it made contact with Sullivan’s
point. Sullivan spun round, his eyes
closed, and he assumed a loud, horizon-
tal posture. The noise of his fall
sounded like a State Premier failing to
float a loan. The referee went through
the usual enumeration, and Jim Sulli-
van’s career in Australia ended.
All Jerome’s fights were immensely
profitable to the Sydney Stadium syndi-
cate, but in this respect his conflict with
Dave Smith was outstanding. For weeks
DAVE SMITH KNEW HOW.
it had been the topic of conversation in
Sydney, and apparently everyone who
had mentioned it called at the Stadium
to see it.
It went 18 rounds, and, until his
powers failed him, Jerome proved as
crafty as men are made, and as patient
as Job. There was one particular pol-
thogue which he felt certain would out
Smith could he get it home, and he took
stiff punishment and resorted to all
manner of devices so that he might get
into the requisite position. But Dave
was full of respect for the abo., and he
was just as determined that Jerry should
not sock him with that body punch.
As the best defence is to be the ag-
gressive party all the time, Smith sailed
in with a crouch, head to head, and
banged Jerry’s top-piece unmercifully.
Sometimes he hit the autochthon on the
top of the head, sometimes on the
temple, sometimes on the back of the
neck; and wherever the blows landed
they must have hurt. Smith was then
26, and in a few months he was to be-
come heavyweight champion of Aus-
tralia (he was already light-heavy-
weight champion); and he never hit
harder than he hit that night.
Jerry gave up leading with his left and
made the right his engine of war. That
disconcerted Smith badly; and he had
other discomforts. Time and again he
appeared to have the black hopelessly
cornered. Jerry would stand, apparently
helpless, swaying his body from side to
side; and suddenly one sway would be
longer than the others and he would be
gone. He said afterwards that he hurt
his left in the second round, and thence-
forward it was not much good to him;
but, in any case, there is little doubt that
the white man would have won.
Smith was top dog nearly all the time,
though often a worried and anxious dog.
In the eighteenth round Jerry in-
cautiously lifted his chin out of his chest,
where he had kept it buried. Like a
flash Smith smote him on it. Down went
Jerry, and they counted ten over him,
and Jerry’s dream was over.
He went back to Queensland, where
he is still to be seen on the Barambah mis-
sion station: old as aboriginals go, but
still active and cheerful. He has a son
and namesake who can box a bit, but
not like father. Had Jerry learned
in his youth from George Dawson, who
spent years in Queensland, and sparred
with Hall, Creedon, Dooley and “Griffo”
—Jackson and Fitzsimmons were just a
little before his time—he might have be-
come as famous as any of them. As
it was, he did wonderful things without
the priceless asset of youth.


COACHES THAT
HAVE PASSED
BY WILL LAWSON.
THE sight of an old Cobb and Co. coach —an
interesting item if included in the cavalcade of
transport for the coming Sydney celebrations
loaded with wood and drawn by two camels
would make people stare in a city street, but it would
be true enough of what was a common occur-
rence in the western districts of New South Wales and
Queensland for some years after the old coaches were
displaced by cars.
When they had accumulated to rot or be broken
up Cobb’s coaches were often auctioned at Bendigo,
Charleville, Bourke and even closer to the cities. For
years an old coach stood in a yard at Wallerawang
(N.S.W.) in sight of the passing trains, and as late
as 1923 one ran from Wellington to Molong every
day.
At Broken Hill the remains of some 40-passenger
coaches stood for years, and their parts may still
remain. These were known as “leviathans,” and have
been confused with the great Leviathan coach seating
78 passengers which was built by Cobb and Co. in
Ballarat for special occasions, such as the driving of
English cricketers. Ned Devine drove the Leviathan on
its first run from Ballarat to Melbourne. The huge
coach was drawn by 22 horses —two in the pole and
five sets harnessed four abreast. Later it was sold to
Hill and Co., the S.A. coaching firm, and ran to
Glenelg for some time.
The biggest sale of old coaches on record was at
Bendigo in 1901, when Sidney Kidman bought about
40 which had been discarded. These were taken by
sea to Kalgoorlie by Fred Plush, an old-time coach-
driver of Renmark—where he still lives —to be run
from the mining town to the diggings on the Norse-
man Track. Kidman sent about 1000 horses to Perth
by steamer to use in this service.
Plush himself drove coaches on the Norseman
Track, and he tells how one day he had as a passenger
“Cabbage-tree” Ned Devine, then 74 years of
age. Out of courtesy he asked Ned to drive. Devine
took the reins and whip, and after a few minutes said:
“This whip’s the nearest approach to a legrope that
I’ve seen.- Where’s my bag?”
His old portmanteau was fished out from the
“boot,” and from it he took the whip he had used
when driving the cricket team in Melbourne 40
years before and had been presented with a purse
of 300 sovereigns. When they reached Wiganoola,
where old Ned Devine was to be employed as groom,
he gave his whip to Plush as a gift with the remark,
“Don’t worry. I’ll soon make your old one look as
good.”
A few trips later Plush saw his old whip replaited
and rebalanced till it was perfect.
“Cabbage-tree” Ned was admitted by all, even
the American drivers brought over by Cobb and Co.,
to be the best “whip” in Australia.
Cobb and Co.’s coaches never entered Sydney as
they did Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide. When
the firm came to New South Wales in 1862 the
western railhead was at Penrith, the southern at Goul-
burn and the northern somewhere about Maitland.
The coaches met the western train at Penrith, and,
the company having its carriage works at Bathurst —-
which was its headquarters for 50 years —there was
no necessity for the coaches to visit Sydney for repairs.
Cobb and Co. was a comparative latecomer in
the Australian coaching business. The co. arrived in
Melbourne after the discovery of gold. Freeman
Cobb brought a dozen coaches and a dozen expert
drivers.
In 1814 the first coach in Australia, the Highlander,
ran from Windsor and Richmond into Sydney. This
was an English-built coach with iron springs, and, the
roads being bad, it had to be driven slowly lest the
leaves gave way. After the finding of gold at Ophir,
near Bathurst, coaching lines were started between
Sydney and Bathurst by Mylecharane Bros., Ford and
Ellum and Crane and Roberts. West of Bathurst ran
the coaches of Foster and Vinge, while on the Mel-
bourne road there were three firms, C. H. Jones, New-
land Brothers and Gill Brothers.
As the railways—started in 1854—reached out
into the countryside, the coaches linked with the rail-
heads. One of the earliest coachowners in Bathurst
was Henry Rotton, afterwards M.P. for that city. All
the N.S.W. coaches in those days were of the heavy
English style.
The coming of Cobb and Co. in 1852 with
leather-swung coaches changed the whole character of
coaching, and the existing firms, including Hewitt
and Watson, the Victorian Stage Company, Western
Stage Company and others, began to build similar
vehicles. Cobb and Co. started on the Bendigo-Mel-
bourne run with seven coaches a day, and did the
trip in half the time taken previously. There was
no risk of breaking springs, which were leather
thoroughbraces, and the coaches made only short ten-
mile stages.
Competition was keen, yet fares were high, and
for seven years Freeman Cobb made huge profits.
He retired in 1859 and sold out to Hewitt and Wat-
son, who had bought out the Victorian Stage Com-
pany. A prospector, James Rutherford, having had
no success at mining, had been managing for the
new concern for over a year when he determined to
join with others and buy it out. He made an offer
of £23,000, of which £5OOO was to be in cash. Think-
ing that Rutherford would never be able to pay the
balance of £lB,OOO, the company sold to him, hoping
to have the business back on its hands. Ruther-
ford at once sent ten coaches, 100 horses with drivers
and grooms to Bathurst, where he set up the new
headquarters of Cobb and Co. He repaid the £lB,OOO
in six months and also fought opposition lines, bought
them out and thereafter spread his activities oyer
every part of the State, buying out lines or running
them off the roads.
The first Cobb and Co. in Victoria was
divided among the original companies forming it, and
the name Cobb and Co. taken by the Western Stage
Company. At its height, in the late ’seventies, the
firm had 10,000 horses, of which 6000 were always
on the road.
Cobb and Co. started in Queensland in 1865.
Sixteen coaches built at Bathurst were taken to Bris-
bane by H. Barnes. A new company was formed,
including among its directors those of Rutherford’s
company. The stables were in Albert-street, Brisbane,
and the first services run were from Grandchester to
Toowoomba and Toowoomba to Warwick, the mail
subsidies ranging from £542 to £691 a year.
As the railways came west the coaches retreated,
till Charleville was the Queensland headquarters of
the firm. By this time, in the ’seventies, Bourke in
New South Wales had become the western centre of
Cobb and Co., which, in conjunction with Morrison
Bros., of Wilcannia, ran fast services from Victoria
along the western rivers to Queensland, connecting
with trains at railheads. This was advertised as the
fastest means of travel between the cities the rail-
ways were not linked up, and ships were slow.
Coaches ran night and day, and men still alive recall
those trips under broiling sun and cold night winds
on top of a Cobb’s coach.
The Queensland company, distinct from the
parent one, was refloated in 1881 with a capital of
£50,000. This was sunk in equipment. The company
had 3000 horses which ran 16,000 miles of services
weekly. Salaries and wages totalled £24,000 a year.
The finding of gold at Gympie gave greater activity
to the lines, and the fields opened later at Cloncurry
made Queensland the most important area served by
the coaches. The last mail-coach to run in Australia
made its final trip from Surat to St. George in 1924,
but by that time Cobb and Co. had ceased to operate,
having sold out its lines after the death of Ruther-
ford in 1911.
Cobb and Co. never accomplished much in South
Australia, where coaching da.tes from 1844. In that year
Charles Rounsevell started a company which eventu-
ally became John Hill and Sons, the oldest coaching
firm in Australia, and one against which Cobb and
Co. fought in vain. Hill and Sons started with a
service from Adelaide to Gawler, and later ran to
Port McDonald via Mt. Gambier, a distance of 350
miles. On the road from Adelaide to Wentworth,
where there was heavy traffic during the gold boom
at Bendigo and Ballarat, J. B. Gibbs started services
in the ’sixties.
This route followed the Murray River from below
Morgan to Wentworth, and when the river was low
the traffic was heavier still. It was here that Cobb
and Co. first tried to enter South Australia, but the
Government insisted that each service must form a
separate tender for mail services to allow the smaller
men to retain their runs. Cobb and Co. had to retire
from South Aus., as its successes depended on large
and interdependent services.
Another notable coaching pioneer of Adelaide
was Norman Richardson, who still lives at Walker-
ville. As a young man he started a coaching service
from Port Augusta into the north-west, a sandy land
of long stages and dry ones. The opening of the
goldmines at Tarcoola, 400 miles from Adelaide, put
him on his feet. He imported donkeys, and bred
mules to haul the coaches over dry stretches. Some-
times in droughts, when the loading was light, he
would unbolt the forecarriage, make a seat of sorts
on the axle, to which he strapped the mailbags, and
the five mules took this strange outfit safely through
the heaviest sand-drifts. Camels also were used.
All told, during the ’seventies and ’eighties there
were tens of thousands of coaches providing services
all over Australia. Many notable men in business
started as coachdrivers. George Adams, founder of
Tattersall’s sweeps, drove for Cobb and Co. on the
North Coast of New South Wales.
Probably the last sale of old coaches was that held
at Wilcannia, on the banks of the Darling River, ten
years ago, when coaches formerly used by Morrison
Bros, were sold. Both Donald and W. M. (Billy;
Morrison were famous drivers, taking the coaches
over almost every route on the Darling and west of
that river—Cobar, Wilcannia, Whitecliffs, Tibooburra,
Bourke, Menindie and scores of other places.
Drawn up in line on the river bank, the old
coaches made a pathetic picture. Then they looked
so small and inadequate. A few of the old drivers
were there.
“This here, Number 15,” said one. “She coulc
slip through mud like a knife in butter. With her I
always knew I’d fetch Killara Bend on time, even if
it was raining chopsticks.”
The best coach of the lot, built in 1913, brought
£3O. Two camels were hitched to it, and it went roll-
ing off to a wood-carting job. The veteran of them
all, which had run on every road in the west of New'
South Wales, brought £lO, and a team of horses
dragged it off to become a station curio. So the
last of the old coaches passed.
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


2f
rnt
DOT NATURE
For Constipation Leads
to Endless Trouble
Nature has decreed that the Bowels shall
operate regularly —at least once a day.
Defiance or neglect of this law leads to many
kinds of suffering, including Headaches, Bad
Breath, Biliousness, Indigestion, Pimples, etc.
‘
Constipation also makes you look and
feel dull, bad tempered and livery.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
proved remedy for regulating the Bowels
and restoring the system to proper working
order in a thorough yet gentle manner.
A course will convince.
Dr. Morses
s)
9
9
3
Ih
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving.— -A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
xJdrmdiver
PILLS
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot’’ Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
z
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of t he Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regulai
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
&
Jr 5
\\Vs"
A?
> V ' «
* °
*
e % „< x
\\>
&
# s *
vv*
•■’ x s >c e «O vV 0t |
o v ? \°


0
<
V
v
o
K
til
*
tM: m #»i.
mm-
Wtou**. H' ' "i.
ygE»»wpraftPi
1
1
Iff » >
W IS. & 1 1 J& &%
• '
wm -
•'■-.■ - t
*46
liii*lilii^S
-^B*B
■
•; >*?, ...
Hr
mr ' - -: -
,v;
.
s ■
4^
m
.
m
T : : ; :
1
«
1
/4 Present with a Future
The World's Best Safety
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VTr'TOPTA AND TASMANIA: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Monarch House, Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornells, Coltons and Hoffnungs.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, term.
