

m
M
*
*
DOWN TO BRASS TACKS
Rumour, hearsay and vague opinions have
no place in modern business methods.
"Get down to Brass Tacks” and learn the
truth about the investment market.
Hamiltons (A/sia), Ltd., maintain an
advisory service which enables investors to
critically examine holdings in the light of
accurate information and scientific analysis.
Enquiries are invited.
K *
jHamiltOnS (Australasia)
investment Brokers and Financial Advisers. Authorised Capital, £250,000.
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
8W1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255).
Branch Offices; Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street,
No. 123 Armidale. Union Bank Chambers, 21 Bolton
Armidale, N.S.W.
Street, Newcastle.
Phone, Arraidale I 50 Box
Phone, Newcastle 1042.
EH
VICTORIA:
Met ropolitan Building,
89-9 I Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Bth Floor,
A.M.P. Chambers,
Edward Street,
Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 101 7N.
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
I bnders Street.
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
NEW ZEALAND:
National Bank of N.Z.
Chambers,
I'eatherstone Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O. Box 562 Wellington.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2992.
Wednesday, June 16, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
rrnr
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIU
Please send, without obligation, your New Fr°e
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must b‘e
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
ANOTHER BOOK ON BLIGH.
William Bligh of the Bounty in Fact and in
Fable, by H. S. Montgomerie (Williams and Norgate ;
15s net), adds little to the fact.
The publisher claims that the author
has studied the original sources of information with
great care, and his careful research has enabled him to
bring to light many new facts, not the least among
them being Bligh’s actual method of navigation on the
famous open-boat voyage.... and the explanation of
his strange blockade of Sydney.
The navigation of the launch is discussed on th
assumption, supported by a statement of Fryer, th
master, that Bligh had a copy of Hamilton Moore’
The Practical Navigator. It is true that none of th
recent biographers has given special attention
this subject.
With regard to the so-called blockade of Sydney
however, Mr. Montgomerie seems to have made mor
of it than the facts warrant. There is little to sustain
the view that the usurpers of Bligh’s authority in
Sydney were so gravely menaced by his presence in
the Porpoise at the Derwent. Bligh went there hoping
to secure the support of the Lieutenant-Governor
Having failed in this purpose he remained there, and
later about the coast, awaiting the help he expectec
from England, rather than in the hope of starving
out the usurping Government at Sydney or capturing
any of its leaders.
About half the book is devoted to Bligh in N. S
Wales, the author relying entirely on the published
Historical Records. Indeed, the publisher’s reference
to “original sources of information” must be taken
as meaning, in practically all cases, printed and not
manuscript sources. In the half of the book devoted
to Bligh’s naval career, apart from the question of
the navigation of the launch, no new facts are
adduced.
The author is, however, at much pains to discredit
one original source of information which is in part
at least inimical to Bligh. This is the journal of
Morrison, the boatswain’s mate of the Bounty. The
references to it are extraordinary. Although he
describes it as “his so-called journal... .a most elusive
document,” he admits grudgingly it is in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney. He goes on to declare his belief
that the journal was compiled long after the court-
martial from Morrison’s own recollections and inven-
tions, from any narratives to which he could get
access, from what transpired at the court-martial, and
from such material as he could collect from his late
shipmates. Later Mr. Montgomerie writes: —-
After the trial Morrison, according to Lady Belcher,
gave to Heywood when they parted a manuscript
document which purported to be a journal kept by him
before and after the mutiny.
Here the assumption seems to be that there was a
journal in existence immediately after the trial (in
1792), yet earlier in the book he has given what he
considers conclusive proof that it did not exist in
1794, when Edward Christian’s pamphlet was written.
His final word in the last appendix to the book is that
there is inference almost amounting to proof that
neither it nor notes for it had been concocted before
1795.
Jf he had taken the trouble to make inquiries
from the authorities of the Mitchell Library, where
he knew the original journal to be, he could have
learned that it was in existence in 1792. The Banks
Papers, purchased by the Government of N. S. Wales
in 1884, and now in the Mitchell Library, include a
letter written from Portsea on November 25, 1792.
by the Rev. W. Howell. Addressed to Captain Phillips,
c/o Sir Joseph Banks, it runs as follows:
Dear Phillips,
I should have taken much pleasure in complying
with your request had not Morrison’s narrative been
at present in the Isle of Wight. I shall have it in the
course of a few days and will then send it to any place
you may wish. It is very natural for Sr. Joseph Banks
not to think so unfavorably of Bligh as you or I may—
there was a time when no one could have an higher
opinion of an officer than I had of him. So many cir-
cumstances, however, have arisen up against him
attended with such striking marks of veracity that I
have been compelled to change that idea of him into
one of a very contrary nature.
Morrison is getting very forward with his publica-
tion, which will be ready for the press in about six
or seven weeks. Nothing, however, will be men-
tioned that may tend to any disturbance or reflect on
any character: It will consist of a very particular and
diffuse account of the proceedings of Christian’s party
after the mutiny, with a very accurate description of
Taheite, under the enclosed arrangement. If Sr. Joseph
would like to see the materials before it goes to the press
I will take care he shall have a sight of them
There is a postscript:
I cannot at present put my hand on the arrange-
ment....! will send it with the narrative.
This letter, which bears the Portsmouth postmark,
is endorsed in Banks’s hand, “W. Howell to Capt.
Phillips.” It seems certain, therefore, that Banks
knew its contents, and it can reasonably be assumed
that, if and when the narrative followed, it also was
brought to his attention. If such was the case, we
have the explanation of how Bligh came to be
acquainted, with it. Both Mackaness and Rutter dis-
cuss Bligh’s “Remarks on Morrison's Journal" (also
in the Mitchell Library), but Montgomerie writes as
if unaware of the existence of that manuscript.
A further proof that Morrison had written his
experiences at this date is provided by another Morri-
son manuscript in the Mitchell Library. This is a
statement in the form of a letter addressed to the
Rev. Mr. Howell and dated “Hector, 10th Octr.,
1792.” It begins: “The following are the particulars
of the treatment which myself and fellow-sufferers
met with during our late imprisonment,” and covers
the period from their arrest at Tahiti to their return
to England and confinement on board H.M.S. Hector.
Another manuscript by Morrison in the same collec-
tion is the “Memorandum and particulars respecting
the Bounty and her crew.”
The trial of the mutineers lasted from September
12 to 18, 1792, so that Morrison’s narrative must have
been in course of compilation before the trial began
It is a very lengthy manuscript, and could scarcely
have been composed and written out in the weeks
between the conclusion of the trial and the writing
of Howell’s letter. All Montgomerie’s arguments
against it as a compilation “concocted” long after
the events therefore -fall to the ground. The fact that
publication of part at least of it was intended may
explain why Bligh, who evidently regarded it seri-
ously, took the trouble to write his “Remarks on
Morrison’s Journal,” in which paragraph by para-
graph he denies the various accusations made against
him.
Another written witness against Bligh which Mr.
Montgomerie regards with suspicion is the narrative
of Fryer, the master of the Bounty. He speaks
of Fryer’s defence, “supposed to be contained in the
manuscript called Fryer’s Narrative preserved at the
Royal United Service Institution. This document,
signed ‘Fryer,’ appears to have been copied from a
narrative compiled after the passage of the launch,
which has been published by the Golden Cockerel
Press.” He ignores the fact stated by Rutter in this
publication that the original Narrative of Fryer is in
the Mitchell Library and that Rutter had it for com-
parison with the copy when he was compiling the
book.
Apart from this attitude towards original sources
of information, which it is claimed that he has studied
with great care, the book bears evidences of hasty
writing and is lacking in form. Repetitions abound.
For example, the description of Edward Christian
on page 31 is given again in almost the same words
on page 95, Edward Christian’s comparison between
Bligh, Fletcher Christian and Stewart is given on page
32 and again on page 102, Bligh’s headaches are
described on page 26 and again on page 116, and a
passage concerning Macarthur on page 144 is prac-
tically repeated only two pages later.
The author’s comments on Bligh’s character do
not harmonise. He describes Bligh as amazingly care-
ful of the health of his men, thinking of their amuse-
ment, even anxious to improve and educate them.
He stresses the “respectful affection” of Banks and
others, and also states that Bligh’s very varied inti-
mates seem to have been very fond of him. Yet
in another place he describes him as “curiously
inhuman.”
Occasionally in the N. S. Wales section of the
book he errs in matters of fact. He describes the
New South Wales Corps as “a local unit raised for
the purpose.... largely recruited from ex-convicts,”
whereas this is true only of one company, the 4th.
And he confuses the magistracy with the judiciary
when he states that Macquarie appointed Simeon
Lord, an ex-convict, a member of the Supreme Court
Bench. The Supreme Court was constituted of the
Judge and two magistrates of the territory, and Lord
was on occasions one of those magistrates.
He devotes a chapter to a comparison of Bligh
and Macquarie in an endeavor to refute the statement
in Jenks’s History of the Australasian Colonies that
“perhaps the most complete condemnation of Bligh’s
failure is to be found in the success of Macquarie.”
He sums up his argument in the sentence:
Macquarie’s longer reign and the number of the
buildings which we owe to him have enabled him to
overshadow Bligh in New South Wales, but study will,
I think, confirm the view that, hard as was the task of
Macquarie, that of Bligh with his far smaller resources
was harder still.
Australians are not likely to be convinced.
J.L.
Miscarriage of Justice.
We. Are Not Alone (Macmillan; Angus and
Robertson ; 7s. 6d.) is by James Hilton, whose Lost
Horizon is at present being screened. In plan of
attack Hilton’s latest story has some of the qualities
of a common mystery novel. There is, first of all,
retrospective mention of the case of a Doctor New-
come and a German girl, Leni Krafft, who were
hanged during the last months of 1914 for the murder
of the doctor’s wife. The evidence was entirely cir-
cumstantial, but the facts, “beyond reasonable doubt,”
pointed to guilt, and the jury, as little influenced by
extrinsic considerations as is humanly possible,
returned a verdict accordingly.
The author then proceeds to the inside story of
the alleged crime. We are given a very convincing
picture of a general practitioner in an English cathe-
dral market town ; a conscientious, capable, kindly
little man, father of a painfully high-strung boy of
nine or ten, and husband of a managing and some-
what unfeeling woman. Unskilled at life but good
at medicine, he has taken refuge from personal dis-
appointments in his practice—and that with a healthy
freedom from any sense of martyrdom. Into his life
comes Leni Krafft, a penniless pierrot dancer whose
broken wrist he mends gratis. She is sympathetic in
her handling of the difficult child, and, on the invi-
tation of the wife, becomes part of the household.
The relationship between the doctor and Leni,
at any rate on the man’s side, is quite innocent,
although the reader can see nature at work, and is
not surprised later when the doctor, looking" across
the dim gaslit court at Leni in the dock, realises that
he loves her. The dependence of these two on each
other, linked as they are by their mutual regard for
the delicate boy, increases with time.
The idyll, well presented by the writer, is threat-
ened when the wife, becoming annoyed rather than
jealous, writes to an acquaintance a letter subsequently
produced in evidence. Tragedy enters on August 4,
when the doctor, still in the role of friend and pro-
tector, realises that if Leni is not to be interned she
must be smuggled from the country. In his ineptitude
he resorts to unnecessarily circuitous tactics, and the
couple are arrested on reaching London. Mrs. New-
come has been found in her room dead of poison.
“We are not alone” are the words used by the
doctor to Leni after they have been condemned. He
has in mind the innumerable cases in which moral
or legal judgment, based on the known facts, must
have been wrongly passed on innocent persons. That
is the whole point of the book.
In an epilogue the writer has the doctor’s son,
grown to manhood, explain the alleged murder, but
in such a manner as to leave a doubt as to the truth
of the explanation ; thus, very skilfully, is the reader
forced to see the case at last as the Judge and jury
must have seen it.
In all its parts, We Are Not Alone is a good
book. The prose is excellent, the characterisation
good, the atmosphere of the town and the doctor’s
surgery both pleasing and convincing and the story
reasonable, but it is just a shade too clever. When
it is all over the reader can’t help regretting that a
genuine appeal for understanding should rest on the
engaging of common curiosity.
Tom Paine—Altruist and Egotist.
Self-conceit seems to be an essential element of
greatness. Sometimes it finds expression so audacious
as to command admiration. Shakspeare reached the
sublime heights when he penned “Not marble nor
the gilded monuments of princes shall outlive this
powerful rhyme,” and Tom Paine stands beside him
with the priceless passage in which lie concluded the
first part of The Age of Reason: “I have now gone
through the Bible as a man would go through a
wood with an axe on his shoulder and fell trees.
Here they lie, and the priests, if they can, may replant
them. They may, perhaps, stick them in the ground,
but they will never make them grow.” Paine’s success
or failure as a Higher Critic is beside the point. It
is his magnificent arrogance, complement to super-
human courage, that stirs the imagination.
His own generation exhausted the resources of
vituperation at his expense. Ever since his death the
world has been discovering reasons for forgiving the
brutality of his criticisms and acknowledging his ser-
vices to humanity. His latest biography, Tom Paine,
Friend of Mankind, by Hesketh Pearson (Hamish
Hamilton ; 9s. net), recalls that William Cobbed, who
at one stage said of Tom, “He has done all the
(Continued on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”-—and in every act.
THE SENIOR STORE.”
?
ANTHONY EgOSDERHS
m
f Sm
>
if)
m
m
/
m m
m
/
7/6 STRIPED FLANNELETTE 'JAMAS, 5/11
1_ You can practise economy if you buy a supply of these
Pyjamas. They are delightfully warm. Made of Striped
Flannelette in Small, Medium and Outsizes. Made in our
own workrooms,
Price,, suit 7/6 8/6 10/6
Sale Price., suit 5/6 6/11 8/6
10/6 MEN'S "HORDURA" PYJAMAS, 9/6
2. Ideal to slip into for a good night’s rest. They are so
soft and comfortable. Made in our own workrooms of depend-
able Flannelette. Popular striped designs.
Price, suit 10/6. Sale Price, suit 9/6
12/6
"HORROCKSES" DOUBLE WARP
'JAMAS, 11/6.
3, For a night’s comfortable rest wear a suit of these warm
Pyjamas. Made in our own workrooms in well-fitting pro-
portions. Sizes for Small, Medium and Outsizes.
Price, suit ........ 12/6 Sale Price, suit' 11/6
$ Men’s Mercery —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations' in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Common wealth.
New scope for economy occurs with the opening of this Half Yearly Sale. The opportunity is propitious; for not
only are the Sale Prices genuine, but the reductions are made on wintertime goods that are in immediate demand.
This Sale improves the occasion, for you have arrived at the time when your Winter buying cannot be delayed
any longer. These bargains are full of promise for keen, enthusiastic buying.
/
/
/i
CEYLON FLANNEL
PYJAMAS
These Pyjamas will give you
the utmost in wear and will
ensure real warmth for many
months to come. Place your
order without delay. Ceylon
Flannel Pyjamas in a range of
striped effects. Small, Medium
and Outsizes. Price .. . 22/6
Sale Price 21/-
Natural ALL-WOOL
UNDERWEAR
Splendid garments to protect
you from winter’s chilliest
winds. Natural All Wool Shirts
with short sleeves, or under-
pants to ankle. Sizes 34in. to
44in. chest or waist.
Prices, per garment
Light weight. Medium weight.
6/6 10/6
Sale Prices—■
4/9
7/6
MEN’S FLANNEL
UNDERSHIRTS
Well made to give you many months
of constant wear. Correctly sized, too.
Flannel Undershirts in Natural or Dark
Grey. Made in our own workrooms.
Prices d/0 6/11 7/11
Sale Prices 5/6 6/6 7/6
Natural or Dark Grey “Doctor.”
Heavyweight. Lightweight.
Prices, each .. 8/6 9/6
Sale Prices, each: 7/11 8/9
WHY NOT USE THE D.P.S.—IF MOKE CONVENIENT?
B f B Natural Wool and Cotton UNDERWEAR
Stock up on Underwear at these generous and genuine reductions. Natural Wool
and Cotton Undershirts with short sleeves. Also Underpants to ankle. Sizes, 34in.
to 44in. chest or waist.
Medium Weight. Heavyweight.
8/6 9/6
5/9 6/11
Prices
Sale Prices .
5'9
22'6 Men’s CRIMEAN FLANNEL PYJAMAS
The warmest of Pyjamas . . . and that is what is needed for this cold winter.
Men’s Crimean Flannel Pyjamas. They are of All Wool . . . and they are delight-
fully soft. Made in full-fitting sizes. Small, medium and «utsizes.
Prices, suit . 22/6 27/6
Sale Prices 21/- 25/-
21'-
18/6 THE BUSHMAN HAT.
This Hat is made of Pure Fur
Felt and has a popular 3in.
brim. It is well constructed
to wear splendidly under all
conditions. In the shades
there is a choice of Light
Grey, Steel, Slate, Fawn. Price 18/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 16/6
106
7/6 ELASTIC WEB BRACES.
This saving of 3/- on strong
Elastic Web Braces is certainly
worth considering. They are
stout and strong and have
suede leather ends. Assorted
self colours and stripes.
Price 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
4'6
4/6
4^w
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Ltd.
SYDNEY


Third in the Short Story Competition
The SUPREME
MOMENT
BY H.DRAKE-BROCKMAN
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
HE was always a daredevil.
“My Harry, he’s a regular demon,” Mrs.
Marten often boasted. “Thinks up the crankiest
things to do! It’s almost as if that kid of mine
goes out of his way to find some fresh prank every
day! Other boys,” complained Mrs. Marten, “keep
on being wild in the same old ways!”
Of course there was nothing very fresh in a kid
of ten setting out to pinch nectarines except that
no one had pinched any of old Hadden’s for a
generation. He’d had them fenced in with six-foot
palings topped with a bent-over barbed-wire contrap-
tion. Hadden’s nectarines fetched top prices year
after year. You couldn’t buy them any longer on the
market —he sold ’em direct to the best pubs.
Nasty sort of galah was Hadden. The first time
he showed his fruit to Mrs. Marten Harry was about
seven. “Did you ever before see such a specimen,
Missus?” he gloated. “The perfect nectarine! Would
you like it, sonny?”
He held towards the little boy an exquisite
scented globe of gold and crimson. Harry’s eyes
grew round and bright as two small blue moons. His
hand reached out.
“Of course you’d like it, sonny,” smiled old
Hadden. “Of course you would.”
Not another word! Very carefully, delicately, he
replaced the nectarine back among its mates. He
clambered into his truck.
“Good day, Mrs. Marten,” he sang out. “Glad
you admired ’em. They’re prime.”
Harry, ashamed of himself, had to bite his lip
to keep from howling. But he made up his mind
then and there to eat, some day, a whole treeful of
that old cow’s nectarines.
HARRY was seven when that happened. At ten,
the moment when his teeth should meet through
the delicate flesh of a nectarine he had himself plucked
in Hadden’s orchard had grown to be identified in
Harry’s mind with “it” —with that mysterious some-
thing he was for ever hunting: a sensation, an
experience, an emotional triumph, an ecstasy beyond
imagining a goal which later in his life Harry
distinguished as “the supreme moment.”
A very ordinary brown-faced scallywag young
Harry Marten looked at the age of ten. No one
would ever have dreamt that all the time, consciously
or unconsciously, he went round hunting for such
a fantastic affair as a “supreme moment.”
He hadn’t been so hunting, consciously, for very
long. Yet his earliest recollection was the compelling
magnet of a black, vague creature (must have been
a cat, he decided in after years, though it had seemed
as big as himself), black and huge, with yellow eyes,
and of the overmastering impulse which drew him to
seize it. He had . . . and it felt soft—oh, softer and
more silky and more rightly warm than anything he
ever after felt in life. For one delirious second the
small Harry knew the meaning of bliss! Then agony
sent him screaming for his mother. He supposed the
cat scratched him, resenting his ardor. But after that,
he thought, looking back, he must have set about
searching—for something.
How to get into Hadden’s orchard?
For months that presented a serious problem.
After much snooping round Harry discovered a way.
You floated an ancient barrel you had, off the culvert,
down the creek. Safe inside from scratches and
observation, you managed to push through the
barbed-wire entanglements the old cow had criss-
crossed over the creek where it hit his property. Then,
astride your barrel, triumphantly you sailed into the
forbidden orchard!
The day Harry chose for adventure turned
warm and golden ; even the creek-water seemed
warm and gold-flecked as it flowed round him.
He got thoroughly ducked struggling with the
wire, and, once inside the orchard, he might
as well have waded till the banks got lower.
But he’d made up his mind to ride the barrel!
Struggling to adjust his balance, young Harry felt
the rip of cloth. He’d torn the seat of his pants —
pretty badly, from the feel of it. Mum would be
mad, he thought . . . and grinned, for at that moment
he realised agreeably that thought of his mother’s
anger merely lent keener zest to the bonzer sensations
already pduring through mind and body as swift and
filling as the creek-water poured through his crazy
craft.
Harry beached his barrel well down inside the
orchard and clambered up through a mat of buffalo-
grass. There before him stood the famous fruit-trees,
rank on rank, trim as pupils in a convent-school!
What if Hadden stepped from behind a leafy
screen and saw him there! Ah, that current of fear!
How sharp and alive it made everything. How aware
he was of every sound, of every scent and color.
The nectarines hung honey-fragrant on the trees,
crimson and gold. Quite slowly young Harry walked
to the first tree. He did not want to spoil the rich
savor of triumph by haste. Quite slowly he plucked
a nectarine. A perfect fruit! Naturally ; all the old
cow’s nectarines were perfect! Harry sighed. This
one—this one was more than perfect; no other fruit
in all the world could ever taste as this would.
He glanced round. Overhead spread a sky clean
and empty; clean, sunbaked earth burnt his naked
feet. He felt himself part of it, part of the earth and
the sky. This was better than he had imagined! Harry
shuddered with joy. Quickly, delaying no longer, he
lifted that first fruit to his mouth. He bit hastily,
biting and swallowing in a single act.
The incredible happened. Old Hadden’s nec-
tarines were always perfect —always. Yet this one...
His mouth filled with acid ferment: a taste
slimy, disgusting, nauseating! The thing was rotten —
rotten with fruit-fly! Horror seized him.
A dozen fruit-fly maggots outside the orchard
would have left Harry entirely unmoved. But he
spewed like a spitting caterpillar, wiped his mouth on
the back of his hand, sickly aware that that which
he’d swallowed lay cold and putrid in the pit of his
stomach. He turned back to the creek. He had no
inclination to try a second time. What was the use?
Everything was spoilt.
Back to his barrel stumbled Harry, eyes bleary
with tears. It was a long time before he again hunted
alone...
TO everyone’s surprise, at fourteen young Harry
Marten took seriously to religion. Even the
parson, who was hungry for souls, had suspicions
regarding Harry’s sincerity. Of course his father, that
good-for-nothing, had written poetry at odd moments
when he was sober. Still, people said, it wasn’t as if
young Harry were a weedy, thoughtful sort! You
didn’t expect a great, hefty hunk of a lad like Harry
Marten to turn religious!
The fact remained that Harry took his Bible
classes more to heart than any of the young people.
He read the lives of the saints. He even spent a
whole night on his knees in the church, though no one
but himself ever knew about that. He prayed ; he
tried to fast, though Mrs. Marten’s sharp eyes made
that difficult. But in bed on the verandah, watching
the stars, he knew with deep, satisfying certainty
that this time he would discover “it.” Before, his
desires had been of the earth. He’d been a kid and
known no better. But the saints, they were wise, they
had known... He would prepare himself. Then,
like a tongue of flame, glorious Divine Grace would
descend upon him.
To cloak his excitement from his friends was not
easy as the day of confirmation drew near. When he
set out with his mother for the church Harry turned
so queer a color that Mrs. Marten wondered what he
had been eating to disagree with him. Harry was
thinking that the moonlight would stream through
on to the altar, making Mrs. Fraine’s lilies turn
silvery as the moon itself. The bishop would stand
there in his robes, white and purple and gold.
Behind his head a little velvet square of open window
would disclose the starry sky, and his thin face would
fill you with the suffocating sort of admiration you
felt for the Diggers who died in the dawn at Gallipoli.
“Greater love hath no man” Then the bishop’s
thin, fine hands would rest lightly on your head, and
his beautiful voice Harry shuddered.
“Are you cold?” asked his mother. “I do believe
you must be sickening for something. What a
bother!”
Harry pretended not to hear. He shut his ears.
If he answered he would be rude. Such weakness
would ruin the preparations of weeks.
Light streamed from the open door of the church
in a wide path of gold. He forgot his mother as he
walked down the path of g01d...
The bishop was a stout man. His hands were
pudgy. Two sacs of flesh hung down from his cheeks
into his neck. Because he was bald and his neck
thick, that made him look like a frog. Every time
he opened his lips to speak he began with a sort of
meaty hum. ■
To the parson’s horror, when he called for Henry
Edward Marten no Harry appeared from out the
throng of white-veiled maidens and much-brushed
youths. Harry had gone. He’d cleared out, gone
away down the creek with his gun, after the mopoke
in Green’s paddock. Something had to be killed to
propitiate the sickness in him, worse even than when
he swallowed the fly-rotted nectarine in Hadden’s
orchard.
ONCE again for a long time Harry refused to
exploit emotion. He told himself he’d been a
fool. He’d forget his futile notions. He’d work in
school; get on in the world. Achievement —that was
the thing! That was what counted! When once
or twice he found himself disturbed by a queer,, des-
perate, familiar urge to adventure he decided that-what
he really wanted was a girl. That’s what other blokes
said, anyhow, to explain their own aches and restless-
ness. Well, girls could wait. He meant to settle
down tight and win an exhibition.
“Would you believe it?” Mrs. Marten soon found
herself able to crow. “My Harry’s top of his class!
Not wild any more. Well, that’s what comes of train-
ing. You can’t get away from it. ‘Harry, my son,’
I used to say to him, ‘I just won’t have you making
a hash of your life like your father did.’ I trained
my Harry properly, believe me!”
When the headmaster stood up and cleared his
throat like a windmill grinding and said “Now, tijoys,
I have an announcement to make regarding the recent
examinations” Harry realised that for years he had
been pretending to himself. Achievement the
moment—they were the same! The ice-burn of fear
enveloped him. He could hear the rustle of the
Head’s papers, the buzz of a fly on the window; he
could feel the pencil in his hand grow slippery with
sweat, could see in smallest detail every mark and
scratch with which he had decorated his desk. He
dared not look up. He was expected to win. If he’d
won every kid in the room would turn and stare at
him. Ghastly! But if, oh, if he’d not won they’d
look at him too, surreptitiously. And that would be
agony
He’d topped the list! The quick uprush of
triumph was rapidly smothered beneath a hail of
congratulations. Blokes didn’t give you a chance to
feel anything, thought Harry. But when he was alone,
on his way home to his mother, he found his breath
quickening with anticipation. When he told her—ah,
then... Dreams more magnificent than cinema
settings, horizons more gorgeously golden and wilder
than sunset skies, Harry carried home to his mother.
“Well,” said Mrs. Marten, “didn’t I always say
the only way to get on was to do as your mother
told you?”
Harry, seeing her as if for the first time, felt the
exultation ooze out of him. That determined mouth,
those narrow eyes. Fool he had been to imagine she
might share his dreams or sail with him the wide
horizons! All his mother wanted in him was to see
herself —her son, her training, her gratified pride, her
own pleasure, when he did well, in being able to
say “Oh, yes, Harry Marten is my son.” No wonder


his father, who wrote poems in odd moments, had
cleared out in face of such resolute and damping
domination!
LEVER, but unstable as water.” That’s what
people said about Harry Marien. He surren-
dered his hard-won exhibition, abandoned an academic
career. He became a rolling stone, rolling from shore
job to sea job, from manual labor to clerical work.
And yet there persisted in him the feeling that some-
where, some day, there waited a moment exalting,
transcendent, significant beyond all others.
Once, in Java, he thought he’d found it.
At the time he was working in a poor way for
a Dutch firm which dealt in molasses. Yet he man-
aged to see a good deal of the island. He visited
the Borobudur, that ancient temple once buried
beneath jungle. Not so much to it, Harry
with a sense of disappointment. So insignificant the
temple looked, so grey and dull and squat seen behind
the trunks of giant kanari-trees. He mounted terrace
after terrace, past carvings, past hundreds of stone
Buddhas, serene, impassive, until at last he stood far
up above the tops of the great trees, out on an open
terrace. There before his eyes the shoulders of a
volcano rose lush and green into trailing clouds. The
spice scents of Java teased his nostrils, a surge of
emotion such as, he had not felt for years shattered
his indifference.
The beauty of the world, so calmly filled with the
grandeur of eternity, disturbed him there on the
terrace. A vague ache for the miseries of mankind
sprang sharply to a sense of personal terror. Abruptly,
half-ashamed, Harry turned from the mountains. He
collided with a girl. His hand brushed a bare arm,
his beauty-drugged eyes met another pair, golden-
brown and warm. He heard himself saying “So
sorry. Clumsy of me . . . but this place—it seems to
act like opium or something”...
She smiled, a queer smile. Subtle. “Do you feel
that too? But not like opium for me. I fed too —
alive, too aware”
She left her sentence in mid-air; her nostrils
dilated.
Absurd, ridiculous, crazy! Absurd to feel you
could not you would not let a woman you had
never before seen go out of your life ever! Absurd
or not, thought Harry, this was the girl he would
marry.
Before he could reply a man, middle-aged, tall,
thin, lips tight beneath a grey military moustache,
stepped out on the terrace, snapping shut a camera
as he walked. “Oh, there you are, Clare.”
Then, seeing her talking to Harry: “I didn’t
know” He paused, eyebrows up, awaiting infor-
mation.
“We were comparing impressions.” She swept
Harry another smile, and handed it on, rather less
brilliant, to the newcomer.
“My husband,” she told Harry, “is a keen
photographer. I’m afraid I’m always rushing ahead
to register my own impressions, though I appreciate
his afterwards in an album... Sorry, my dear —I’ll
come now. Good-bye”...
She was gone.
Quite distinctly Harry, setting his teeth against a
feeling of sick emptiness, overheard the man scold
as they walked away: “I do wish you’d try to curb
your unfortunate habit of talking to complete
strangers. It is most risky, and quite unnecessary.”
I I ARRY decided he would make money. Some
1 * men seemed to find exhilaration in that!
For a time he proved amazingly successful in his
new plan. Yet in a few years he imagined the mirror
of his perceptions had grown dulled, reflecting sharply
nothing but banks and contracts. There was fear in
business ; oh, yes, but not the invigorating fear which
lent a glow to existence! Business was no good to
Harry. As a recreation he took to flying. Presently
that claimed him entirely. He returned to Australia ;
he’d establish an aerial service, he thought. He flew
to New Zealand. Nothing dramatic happened. Harry
laughed at the meagre press reports of his achieve-
ment and told indignant friends that a man needed
to get lost, dead or alive, in order to be a public
success.
“Cynical devil,” people called Harry Marten at
thirty-three.
New Zealand, however, offered a new experience.
He developed a taste for mountaineering. On moun-
tain-tops he’d catch himself thinking that perhaps
some day He always laughed at himself.
Then he met the Lindsays again— at the Mountain
House on Mt. Egmont.
“This,” murmured Clare Lindsay, “is what some
people would call Fate!” Five years had given an
enigmatic twist to her lips, but her eyes remained
golden-brown and warm as Harry remembered them.
Her husband even carried the same camera. He’d
carried it twice round the world, as much part of him
as his moustache. He had no recollection of having
seen Harry before, and no one reminded him. That
evening Harry went out on the mountain alone. He
wanted to think. He was afraid.
When he got back to the House Clare Lindsay
said “I’m dying to climb to the summit, but my
husband doesn’t feel up to it. If you’re going would
you be kind enough to let me join you?”
In the night clouds came down over the mountain.
At breakfast Mr. Lindsay said he felt sure they should
take a guide.
“Oh, no,” said Harry hastily. “The slope’s easy,
on scoriae most of the way. Don’t worry we’ll be
safe.”
Safe? As the mist blotted out everything but
their two selves, wrapping them into a shadow world
of silver-grey, excitement and fear made Harry laugh.
Safe? Never, thought Harry, had either of them
been less safe.
There was no wind. It was still. Still, and silver-’
grey, and cold. They built little cairns of the cold
giey rocks which had once run burning from
the earth s heart. Harry’s idea, that —they must not
risk'getting lost.
Sometimes they talked. Sometimes they climbed
in silence. And then at last the clouds lay beneath
like a sea, billow sweeping upon grey billow. Fax-
off the peaks of Ruapehu and Ngaurahoe lay in that
cloudy sea like blue isles, snow-tipped. Above,
beckoning adventure, towered the crater of Egmont,
glistening, virgin-white. Up over the snow toiled
Clare and Harry. In the crater they ate their lunch.
Drag up, drag on. The ache of their knees shut
out thought. Glorious relief—they were there! Alone
on the summit alone like gods, seeing no more of
humanity than a glimpse of pigmy dwellings thousands
of feet beneath, infinitesimally remote through rifts
of the sailing clouds.
Deep into their lungs they drew great gulps of
air, crisp, rarefied, heady. Clare said “Queer, isn’t
it? In Java and now here, Twice on a summit”...
She smiled. “The summit of experience?”
“Not yet”... Harry shivered, though he felt
fire-hot.
“I think”—she was very deliberate—“l think this
has happened because you and I—belong.”
Harry kissed her. “It’s late,” he said abruptly.
“We’ll have to make tracks.”
“Now I know we belong.” Still Clare smiled.
“Do you mind?”
Harry could not even speak. Side by side they
went down in silence across the crater and passed on
to the snowfield dipping smoothly down, a glorious
challenge. Harry, wildly exhilarated, grasped his stick
and commenced to glissade. In a second or so he
knew he was travelling too fast. Wherever the sun
no longer touched it with warmth the snow had grown
dangerously hard. Faster, faster, with a rushing in
the ears, a sting on the cheeks. Harry sprawled out,
desperately working his stick. Straight ahead through
a rift in the clouds he could see, miles beneath, a curve
of beach, an arc of sea. Straight ahead, straight for
the edge of the mountain he slithered, faster, faster.
Inevitably, it seemed, he must shoot forth over the
precipice into space. He felt paralysed with fear.
Actually, he continued to fight for a grip. That
terrible, yawning edge...
. The snow softened, the pace lessened. In the
space of another second he was on his feet, winded,
triumphant, crazily exalted. He waved up to Clare,
a dark spot on the snow.
“Coming!” Her voice answered like the sigh
of the wind.
Snow-dusted, snow-blinded, laughing, exhausted,
she swept into his arms. Together they clung on the
mountain edge. Ah, she was game, he thought. She
was splendid! Alive, courageous, understanding.
Isolated in space, godlike above the pigmy houses,
tiny and soft and human beneath the eternal peaks,
they clung there together...
“This is the summit of experience,” muttered
Harry. “To have felt the terror of death and to
discover in my arms the whole of life! Clare, how
soon will you tell Lindsay?”
She stared at him. “What do you mean?”
Harry stammered. “I mean —well, I mean it’s
surely best to tell him quickly and have things fixed
as decently as possible for you”...
She laughed, a harsh sound, considering her smile.
“Fir never tell him.” She was scornful.
“But you said —that we belonged”...
“I meant it. We do. We shall. I promise. You
didn’t think that I’d —well, you never imagined I’d face
a scandal and all that, did you? Oh, Harry, how
naive of you! My dear, there is not the slightest
need for that!”
His arms slipped from her shoulders. He felt
dreadfully afraid he was going to be sick...
J N less than a month’s time Harry Marten had
1 established himself in an aerial job in the dry, hot
inland of Australia.
“Inhuman sort of cove ; cares for nothing,” men
soon said of him up on the goldfields. He didn’t
In the crater they ate their lunch. Alone on the summit —alone like gods.


drink. He gambled rarely. An odd bet on a race-
course, perhaps, though he never seemed to care
whether his horse was first past the post or not.
Sometimes, flying on his own, he indulged in stunting.
“There goes that Harry Marten again,” people
would say, and stand ricking their necks to watch.
“A regular daredevil,” they’d say. “Does the
crankiest things.” Yet quickly he earned the reputa-
tion of being the ablest pilot on the fields. “Can’t
lose his nerve,” everybody said, “because he’s got no
feelings.”
“Why do you stay here?” one of the groundsmen
asked him. “You’re not interested in gold. A man
of your capacity and initiative could go a long way
elsewhere”
“A long way where to? Thanks, I reckon I’ll
stop here. I like this country.”
“Like it? Like this flat, God-damned, dusty
hell-house?”
“I happen,” grinned Harry, “to have a particular
dislike for mountains”...
People were right, he thought to himself, he cared
for nothing and nobody!
ONE June night as he wheeled the ’plane from the
hangar the frosty air made his skin tingle. He
was feeling savage. During the day an official
had arranged to take a night flight. At night there
was a good chance of spotting the glow from illicit
smelting-plants hidden in the scrub.
“They reckon there’s too much gold-stealing.
Time we tickled ’em up,” the official had said to
Harry. “You and I’ll see what we can see to-night.”
Harry didn’t think much of trying on a moonlit
night. And no sooner were the flares lit on the ’drome
than the telephone rang : “Regrets . . . please don’t
abandon trip . . . will charter again to-morrow if you
see anything suspicious.”
It made Harry swear. After a heavy week he’d
done a long hop, fetching in a bad accident case from
an outlying show. He needed a spell. Co did the
kites. Still, the flares were lit. He decided to go up
for an hour.
Across the plain the smokestacks of the mines
sent streaming their long plumes of ghostly white.
The never-silent mutter of dynamos and battery-
stamps scarcely disturbed the vast stillness of the
moon-drenched land. The stars, pale in the power of
the moon, glittered remote and disinterested. De-
liberately Harry closed his senses against beauty. Yet
once he was clear of the earth, the engine running
sweet as a fairy-tale, he found himself not so impreg-
nable as he’d imagined.
His pulse quickened: an unforgotten exhilaration
strung his nerves beyond necessity. Never before had
he seen such a moon riding the skies! The lights
of the mines, sunk down on the horizon, might have
been setting stars. He drew a deep breath of frosty
air. Weariness vanished. He was flooded by a sense
of life, a harmony of body, mind and soul. For sheer
joy of it he began to dive and swoop like a gull. He
laughed at the moon. If she could ride those tremen-
dous starry heavens, unbroken to the rim of the
world by forest or mountain or town, he also could
ride them, magnificently serene!
But he had a job to do. He flattened out the
machine, set himself with alert and sober
eyes to scan the dark scrub below. He
was on the way home before he had
his reward.
Down in the scrub two men cursed
fiercely. They didn’t fancy ’planes flying
round at night—you never could tell.
Might be a late mail gone off the route
—or might not.
“Better damp the furnace down,
Tom,” muttered one.
“Not on your life!” retorted Tom.
“We’re nearly through. Keep going and
blast his eyes.” He lifted his chin aggres-
sively, staring upwards. A yell made his
mate jump. “Christ!” yelled Tom.
“Look —the swine’s on fire!”
L_f IGH up, Harry clung in agony to
I f the fuselage of a fiery rocket shoot-
ing towards the earth.
He’d scarcely had time to wonder
what could have happened... In the
very second that he spotted the plant in
the scrub the engine had faltered. In-
stantly he’d commenced a climb. The
higher the better if the engine meant to
peter out! There should be a salt-lake
to the south...
At three thousand feet the engine began to
stutter and cough. A flurry of sooty fumes soiled the
night air. With a roar above the wind flames belched
from the cowl, scorching Harry’s face. Like an auto-
maton he closed the throttle, his mouth grim. There
was no time to attempt anything! Flames, wind-
driven, licked out along the body, along the wings, up
through the cockpit.
For one second Harry stared. There could be no
escape —he would be burnt to death! Grilled
hidfeously in devouring flames till the shuddering flesh
fell from his bones. He’d been afraid before, but
not like this —not with a terror so horrible it turned
his body to nothing but a senseless creeping sack of
fear. God —to die like this!
With eyes streaming, smarting, starting in horror,
with hands clawing in frenzy, he dragged himself out
of the seat. In a daze he scrambled to the edge of
the cockpit, already burning hot to the skin of his
“There goes that Harry Martin again.” People would stand ricking their necks to watch.
fingers. The frail abandoned machine bumped and
bucketed, gathering speed. Serene above, the moon
sailed on through space.
Flames roared in his ears, licked at his hands.
He must jump or be burnt...
Then he knew! Fear was shot through by
exultation. This was his moment! That which all
his life he had sought: a sensation, an experience, an
emotional triumph transcending all others. The
supreme moment stupendous, irrevocable, from
which there was no turning back, of which there
could be no aftermath of disillusion. He had found
it! This was it. To meet, in command of every
sense, with every nerve strung to the breaking-point
of perception, the absolute, ultimate, all-possessing
thrill of man’s last adventure! Never, not ever before,
had he felt so splendidly alive,
As the rush of the wind caught him Harry
Marten’s clenched jaws relaxed. He was smiling as
he leapt into space...
“Christ!” muttered Tom, staring up in horror
from the dark scrub. “I wonder he had the guts to
do it—poor devil!”
EMPTIES
BY G.C.B.
I’VE always wanted Ernest Junior to foller in ’is
father’s footsteps, as the sayin’ is; but when I
decides that it’s time for ’im to start as assistant-
ratcatcher to prepare ’im for ’is responsibilities
the Town Clerk wouldn’t ’ear of it. From the way
he talked you’d ’ave thought the council was doin’
me a personal favor ’aving a ratcatcher at all. I
didn’t argue with ’im no more after that; instead, I
went round to see Alderman Pomfrey at ’is office,
’avin’ reasons for thinkin’ that he’d use ’is influence
on Ernest Junior’s behalf.
“Raggles,” ses Mr. Pomfrey when I ’ad put the
case to ’im, “it’s like your confounded impudence to
come to me with such a request. Wotever made you
think I’d interfere in the' matter?”
“One good turn deserves another, Mr. Pomfrey,”
I ses quietly.
“I fails to understand you, Raggles,” he ses.
“Well, I’ve set traps under your ’ouse ’undreds
of times, Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses, “and”
“Your duty,” he puts in.
“Yes,” I ses. “But I’ve done more than that.
Time and again I’ve come across empty whisky-bottles
there, and knowin’ your missus to ’ave unreasonable
ideas about such things I’ve popped them empties
into me bag and took ’em to the Shelterin’ Palm and
never said a word”
“ ’Ow dare you! ” shouts Mr. Pomfrey, jumpin’
up. “Get out of my office, at once. Go on, get out
before I throw you out. And don’t you come in ’ere
again.”
“Very well, Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses, dignified. “But
in future 1 can’t promise to get rid of no more
empties”
“I’ll see you never find no more,” he shouts.
“And I’ll see that the council never employs that—
that good-for-nothin’, grubby little scallywag of a
son of yours in any job wotever. Now go.”
I didn’t answer the man. My feelings was too
deep for words. Ernest Junior, me ’ope and pride,
me first-born, a grubby little scallywag! It was like
a smack across the jaw. I walked out of that office
shakin’ with temper. My pride was ’urt so much I
took the three empties I ’ad at ’ome straight back to
throw ’em under Mr. Pomfrey’s ’ouse. Unfortunately,
Mrs. Pomfrey spotted me, and I ’ad to give ’em to
’er instead and own up where I ’ad found ’em.
She ses “Thank you, Raggles,” in such a nice
quiet voice that I thought she ’ad got a bit more
broadminded—until I saw Mr. Pomfrey next mornin’
after gettin’ a urgent message to call at ’is office.
“Dear me!” I ses, lookin’ at ’im. “Wotever’s
’appened to your face, Mr. Pomfrey?”
(i Continued at foot of next page.)


“You know wot’s ’appened,” he shouts, thumpin’
’is desk. “ ’Ow dare you go runnin’ and tellin’ tales
to my wife?”
“Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses, “I ain’t never said a word
about you to your missus in me life.”
“Don’t lie to me,” he ses, moppin’ ’is lip wot ’ad
started Weedin’ again. “Didn’t you give ’er them
bottles?”
“Oh, them!” I ses. “Yes. I couldn’t keep ’em
after wot you said yesterday. I ’ave my pride, Mr.
Pomfrey.”
“Oh, is that so?” he ses, in a nasty voice. “Wot
about all them other drinks you’ve ’ad at my
expense?”
“I’m cornin’ to that,” I ses, drawin’ meself up.
“I finds I owe you fifty-seven empties, and I’m goin’
to give ’em all back, every one!”
“Well, see that you” he begins, then stops
sudden, as if he’d just thought of somethin’.
“I ’ope you won’t want ’em back in a lump,” I
ses, anxious. “I’ll do me best, of course. Every
chance T get I’ll bring some up and throw ’em under
your ’ouse.”
“I—l don’t want ’em,” he ses, swallerin’ ’ard.
“Keep ’em. We’ll say no more about ’em.”
“I’m sorry,” I ses, “but after wot you said about
Ernest Junior”
“Oh, forget it,” he ses. “I spoke in a ’urry. ’E’s
all right in ’is own way, I suppose.”
“Thank you, Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses, breathin’ a
sigh of relief. “I’m proud to know you ’ave a good
opinion of Ernest Junior. And if you’ll recommend
’im to be my assistant I’ll go straight and tell ’im
that he’s got somethin’ better to do than goin’ around
collectin’ empty whisky-bottles. Wot do you say,
Mr. Pomfrey?”
He said a lot. Terrible insultin’ he was too. But
as he finished up sayin’ wot I ’oped he’d say I didn’t
take offence. '
I 'ave my pride. But there’s time to show it and
times to shove it in your pocket.
Brief Drama
CAUGHT!
BY
RENCE
FERTHERSTONE
“7“ HE train gathered speed, and the lights of the
f platform blurred together like a string of
yellow pearls—then they snapped off suddenly,
and only a solitary street lamp here and there
starred the darkness outside.
A broad yellow sash of light raced parallel with
the train, gleaming upon polished ribbons of steel
that spooled away silently and endlessly. The shelving
bank of a cutting commenced a smooth, upward
climb, rising and flinging back against the window of
the second-class smoker a wavering image of the
interior of the compartment.
In the foreground, Sam’s face, with its rabbit
chin and apprehensive eyes, peering at the image ;
in the background, a small nondescript man reading
the evening paper; and opposite the small man a
big man in a bowler hat, staring fixedly at the rear
of Sam’s head.
Outside the yellow sash fell away flatly and
suddenly as the train rushed over a level crossing :
then the steep wall of the cutting again, rising higher
and higher, intensifying the image upon the window.
In the corner the little man eased his position
upon the hard seat and turned the page of the paper.
His hands were plainly visible, small white hands
with a splotchy red stain upon the middle and index
fingers of his right hand.
Sam felt a curious detachment, as if he were
watching a motion picture—a dramatic picture, in
which the audience was kept in a high tension of
nervous expectancy.
“Tat, tat —Tat, tat —Tat, tat —Tat, tat.” That
was the orchestral accompaniment. The staccato,
rapping rhythm of the spinning wheels over the
sleepers. And in between the subdued minor chorus
of creaks and grindings, the drumming pitch of the
track.
T' HE little
‘ man seemed
queerly oblivi-
ous of the tense
drama being en-
acted before
him, though
he’d glanced
once or twice in
a furtive man-
ner at the big
man. Perhaps
he wasn’t so
oblivious of the
menace of the
big man as he
pretended. The
splotch of red was visible upon his
fingers again. Perhaps it was ink. He
looked like a clerk—a bookmaker’s clerk.
His twill suit was neat and shiny from
much brushing. Even his shabby glad-
stone-bag helped to classify him. Sam
would have taken his oath that it con-
tained a lunch-tin, a folded serviette and a thermos
flask.
The image upon the window crowded in sud-
denly as the train roared through a tunnel, a deafen-
ing crescendo rising within the compartment.
The big man hadn’t moved. He sat rigidly up-
right, staring at Sam, at Sam’s hands, and especially
at Sam’s bag. He typified everything that Sam feared
and hated: the bowler hat, the square face and bull-
like neck, the dark suit down to the “regulation”
square-toed boots.
Sam was in a blue funk. He knew the big man
suspected him —there was a tenseness in his attitude
that hinted only too plainly that he was biding his
time. For a moment Sam felt the sudden searing rage
of the cornered rat rising within him. He choked it
down. It wasn’t the time to give way to rage. The
ability to think fast and clearly was required.
The small man had moved again. He seemed
to sense the tension in the compartment now. He
laid the paper aside and rolled a cigarette. He rolled
it slowly and deliberately as if he were challenging
someone to interfere. He licked the gummed edge
of the paper. Now he was feeling in his pockets,
first one, then the other. He looked worried. He
looked at the big man as if about to request some-
thing, changed his mind and looked at Sam. He
felt in his pockets again. Then, with a look of relief,
he opened his bag and took from it a box of matches.
After which he closed the bag rather quickly, and sat
for a long time passing the tip of his tongue over
his lips before lighting the cigarette.
It was like a silent pantomime. Sam saw it all
in the reflected image, while the train rocketed through
the night.
The big man hadn’t moved. He sat there grim
and silent.
The little man had left his bag upon the seat.
It was close to Sam. He saw that the cheap metal
fittings were rusted, like his own bag. It was a
common bag, as like Sam’s as two peas in a pod.
The little man was reading again now, his face
hidden from Sam by the newspaper. He sat with his
right leg partly upon the seat, showing the sole of
his boot. It was blackened as if he’d recently trodden
in some dark stain. The heel was also stained and
worn down a little on the edge.
The big man hadn’t moved. Not since he’d
come racing down the platform and flung himself
into the carriage had he so much as budged an inch.
He’d sat as if nailed to the seat, his face hard and
determined.
That was the irony of it —the luck of the game.
The big man couldn’t have possibly known that Sam
carried in his bag the garnishings of a successful raid
on an uptown flat—and yet Sam knew instinctively
that the big man had joined the train in his official
capacity.
The very rhythm of the train seemed to be in
league against Sam. For now the spinning wheels
had resolved themselves into a persistent chant: “Tat,
tat, tat —Tat, tat, tat —Tat, tat, tat. Search the bag—
Search the bag —Search the bag.
’"P HE little man read on. He read the paper slav-
* ishly. Perhaps his wife objected to him reading
at home. Maybe she nagged at him. He looked the
sort of man a woman might nag at.
They were out of the cutting now, racing across
the flats before entering the next town. The image
upon the window lengthened and shortened as the
yellow sash glided over the uneven ground.
Sam’s thoughts raced with the train. He’d have
to think fast. The little man’s bag was his only
chance—but the big man was watching.
The street lamps were starting the darkness
again. The houses were scattered. Now they were
in black, shapeless masses, huddling together, as if
jealously guarding their hidden secrets.
The train was slowing down. The rhythm of the
wheels was broken as they clattered over the points.
The polished ribbons of steel spooled away towards
the sidings like metal tapes unrolling. The image
on the window danced and rocked as the brake-blocks
bit hard on the protesting tyres.
There was sudden movement within the com-
partment ; the big man had moved for the first time.
He lowered the window and peered out. The little
man glanced at him furtively, then, as if curious to
see the cause of the sudden interest, he, too, stared
through the window.
Sam moved very fast and silently. He changed
the bags that looked so much alike. He was no
longer afraid. The eyes of the big man no longer
held any terror for him. He lit a cigarette arro-
gantly and drew the smoke deep into his starving
lungs.
The big man suddenly turned, and like a tiger
pounced on the little man. The little man struggled
impotently. He said over and over again: “I didn’t
mean to do it honest, I didn’t. You’ve no idea
what she was like —the things she said about me”...
The train rushed into the station. The lights
on the platform blurred together like a string of
yellow pearls. They fell apart with wide spaces in
between them. The train stopped and rocked gently.
The big man held the little man by the lapel of
his coat and propelled him to the platform. With his
free hand he grasped the substituted bag.
The little man hung limp and ashamed of him-
self. He said pitifully: “I swear it slipped out of
my hand—honest, it did”...
The big man kicked the carriage door shut with
his foot. The train gathered speed and fled away into
the darkness like a frightened animal, with two red
lights clinging to his swaying tail.
The big man patted the little man upon the
shoulder. He said regretfully: “It can’t be helped.
I’m taking you back with me.”
The image of the second-class passenger was
flung back against the window—and then it vanished
as a worn gladstone-bag shattered the glass. The
bag fell on its side, spilling its contents : a lunch-tin,
a folded serviette, a thermos flask.


mischief he can in the world, and whether his carcass
is at last to be suffered to rot in the earth or to be
dried in the air is of little consequence,” exhumed
Paine’s bones from an unhallowed American grave
and took them to England for honorable burial.
Tom’s gaucheries—his coarse jokes about the
Bible, his bouts of brandy-guzzling, his inability to
believe that any man who disagreed with him could
be honest—are blurred by the kindly hand of time.
Mr. Pearson marshals beside them Paine’s real achieve-
ments and finest aspirations, and beside these the
catalogue of iniquities pales into insignificance.
There can be little doubt —Washington, Jefferson
and Monroe admitted it—that without Paine’s vigor-
ous pamphleteering in Common Sense and the suc-
cessive issues of The Crisis, the American Revolution
would not have succeeded, and that without Paine’s
honest services as public servant and diplomat French
aid would have been swallowed up in a welter of
bribery and corruption. Furthermore, it was Paine
who first foresaw that the Federal authority must
be paramount if America were to be great; who coined
the name “United States of America,” and who
desired to write into the Constitution, at the outset, a
prohibition of slavery. It was he who first enunciated
what is now known as the Monroe Doctrine, and who
first suggested to John Bull that he should grant his
colonies rights of self-government.
Paine’s tremendous honesty has never been ques-
tioned. He refused to accept a penny for his writings.
Attempts to turn him from his course by offers of
place, power, pelf or by flattery, numerous on
both sides of the Atlantic, failed utterly. His fear-
lessness was absolute. In the revolutionary Conven-
tion that discussed the execution of Louis XVI. the
voice of Deputy Paine was the only one raised in
favor of mercy. He had annihilated Burke’s Reflec-
tions on the French Revolution in The Rights of
Man, but when it came to the pinch he imperilled
his own neck without a tremor to save France from
what he regarded as an act of injustice and a tech-
nical blunder.
As an outcome Paine soon lay in the Luxembourg
prison, under the shadow of the guillotine. Gouver-
neur Morris, the American representative in Paris,
hating Paine, who had shown up his dishonesty and
incapacity, conspired with Foreign Affairs Minister
Deforgues to have him arrested, and then refused to
acknowledge him as an American citizen. Paine was
actually sentenced to death by Robespierre and
escaped by the merest accident. It was not till Monroe
came to Paris, superseding Morris, that the prisoner
was released. Later he met Napoleon, who lavished
extravagant praise upon him, for he wanted his aid
in a plan for the invasion of England. Paine told the
General bluntly it couldn’t be done, and Bonaparte
dropped him forthwith. He had no time for any
but “yes” men.
An old man, and broken in health by imprison-
ment, Paine returned to America, but his star was
waning. He was actually refused the right to vote,
and died surrounded by people whose only interest
was to trap him into saying something in his pain
and delirium that would color a story that he re-
canted The Age of Reason on his deathbed. Paine
never recanted anything throughout his long life, for
he was constitutionally unable to credit that he might
be wrong in any of his convictions. With a little
more easiness in his disposition he might have climbed
to any height in statesmanship he cared to essay, but
his niche in history is not lower because he stood
steadfast to his guns. Carlyle, who sneered at him,
might have been more generous to such a “bonny
fechter.”
The Elizabethan Touch.
H. M. Tomlinson was in a generous mood when
he wrote All Hands (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). There are
62 short chapters, and each is a beautifully-turned
picture in relief of ships and sailors, of the sea and
its strange ports. It builds up. You feel, as you read,
the whole image of a ship’s life, seen from the angle
of every man aboard. It is a complete book, though
not, perhaps, a very well-made book. The crisis is
too long preparing, the introduction too long for the
denouement; but no reader would willingly surrender
even one vivid page in the interests of formal sym-
metry.
All Hands is the story of a tramp ship, the Hestia.
You meet her first “anchored off Salawan, on the
north coast of the Celebes,” waiting for a new master
because her “old man” is dying. Those days of torrid
idleness are made very real. When the second officer
goes ashore to watch by the sick man you catch the
port’s strange foreign flavor through, and tinctured
by, the sailor’s detachment.
The fringes of the roofs of palm fronds, burnished
by the level sun, were as delicate as goldsmiths’ filigree.
The sun was nearly gone. The Malays squatted on their
platforms above him, and watched the intruder pass.
The place smelt both of drains and vanilla.
You go with the Hestia to Sourabaya for sugar,
to England on a voyage to the Mediterranean, and
then to her triumphant fate on the Western Ocean.
There are pictures of a ship at sea and of the many
phases of her life, of the bridge, forecastle, stokehold :
In that compartment light was baffled. One engineer
entered a fuliginous hollow, which a lamp had dis-
solved in the bulk of midnight during forgotten ages.
As he went in a small trap opened in a sooty wall of
it, and a red glare shot out. The hot beam fell upon
a bent and half-naked figure in the murk, very like a
man. The image became active with a long-handled
implement. It was a desperate automaton, working to
increase the frenzy of a furnace beyond the wall.
Glowing ash poured out at the feet of the stoker, a
pool of incandescent liquid, and his face and belly, bent
over it, turned molten. He slammed the door to
imprison that fury of flames; then stood indifferently,
as if he had just caught a mouse, and looked sideways
at Adams.
There is a whole gallery of the ship’s company,
from Doughty, the master, with his faintly parsonicat
air, to Billy Christmas, the Chinese cook, who speaks
only Cockney.
The Hestia is an unlucky ship. -The author does
not tell you so. You pick it up from the talk of the.
crew —it is always hearsay. Her name has been
changed, and no good ever comes of that. There is
a hoodoo. Some say it is a riveter left behind, trapped
in her double bottom. The feeling of impending
disaster begins like a pulse ; it grows to a tapping,
irregular and ominous, working upon the reader s
imagination. Everyone in the book is aware of it
whether his mind accepts it or not. The master knows
it is something he will have to reckon with in a crisis.
The crisis so long prepared comes at last in a hurri-
cane that disables her in mid-Atlantic. It is the great
test. Every weak link breaks: the old chief engineer
dies of the strain, the discontented first mate goes out
of his mind, the stokers mutiny; but three things
hold —the courage of the master and of the second
engineer and the mysterious heart of the ship. She
outlives the hurricane and comes into port. It is
the story of a great victory.
A Doctor Tells.
Dr. Harry Roberts, author of Medical Modes and
Morals (Michael Joseph), is both a capable doctor
and a writer of sensitive and moving prose. The book
is the fruit of 40 years of toil, much of it in the East
End of London.
How he managed to do it heaven knows, but
he got through an average of 500 confinements a
year. His chapter “A Child Is Born” is a sermon
on the perils run during childbirth by women attended
only by partly-trained students.
Here was Roberts, at 19, in command of the
situation in the birth-chamber, and trying to assume
a knowledgeable air ; he had read his textbooks, and
he had been told that Nature would manage the job.
Nine times in ten that would have been true; but it
didn’t happen to be true in this case. For hour after
hour he sat at the bedside while a “nurse” and the
female relatives grew ever more distrustful. Another
doctor arrived from the hospital, but by that time a
young mother had adjusted Nature’s balance sheet.
The inquest which followed was a thing of
macabre humor. The coroner was a governor of the
hospital. He was satisfied that
all that' science could suggest and skill perform had
been done for this unfortunate woman, who had paid
the penalty which, for inscrutable reasons, Providence
imposes with seeming fortuity as a condition of earth’s
replenishment.
Outside the court the student heard the unofficial
verdict from the dead woman’s relatives: “Nothing
more nor less than murder; that’s what I call it.”
That was 40 years ago. Has the obstetric train-
jo- 0 f medical students improved since then? Roberts
often wonders.
i ne book, ends with a chapter on medical history,
packed with facts and written with graceful humor,
from the pen of Dr. Margaret Jackson.
Literary Competitions.
Five competitions open to Australian authors —
Australian meaning born or naturalised in Australia,
Maoriland or the British South Pacific Islands or a
resident of any of these places for three years preced-
ing December 31, 1937—have been arranged by the
literary committee in connection with Australia’s 150th
anniversary celebrations, 1938.
Unpublished works only are admissible, but all
rights are reserved to the author. Entries must be
submitted under a nom de plume, the name and
address to be separately enclosed in a sealed envelope.
The divisions and prizes are:
Short Story: First prize £BO, second prize £2O.
Full-length Play: £125 and £25.
Short Poem: £5O and £lO. '
Essay (not exceeding 30,000 words): £lOO and £3O.
Short Essay: £5O and £lO.
Entries and correspondence relating thereto to
be addressed to S. Elliott Napier, Chairman Literary
Committee, Box 3845 T, G.P.0., Sydney.
The closing date is noon on Saturday, December
31, 1937.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Turn the Hour: Rosemary Rees (Chapman and
Hall ; 7s. 6d.). The thirteenth novel by this Maori-
land author, whose solid following proves that she
knows the taste of readers of light romance. The
setting this time is M.L., blit Australian and English
readers have been kept in mind.
I Would Be Private: Rose Macaulay (Collins ;
7s. 6d.). Attempts to exploit humorously the embar-
rassment-consequent upon public invasion of their
privacy—suffered by a London policeman and his wife
who become the parents of quintuplets. Readers
expecting something near the high level of the same
author’s Crewe Train and Potterisms will be dis-
appointed. The humor is forced.
Royal Purple : Bertita Harding (Harrap ; Bs. 6d.).
A fictionised account of the reign of Alexander and
Draga of Serbia, who were assassinated by officers of
their army in 1903. Both story and setting seem to
belong to the Middle Ages rather than to modern
Europe. A sound piece of interpretative writing, with
the feeling of being factually dependable.
House of Conflict: Vera Dwyer (Angus and
Robertson; 65.). Records the friendships and profes-
sional struggles of a group of Australian writers' and
artists seeking fame overseas. The author evidently
knows Bohemian London, and with her knowledge
blends a happy conviction that the darkest cloud will
let the sunshine through eventually. A pleasant and
well-constructed tale.
Till We Have Built: Gwen Tupper (Blackwoods ;
7s. 6d.). The story of a girl’s deep friendship for her
cousin, a young artist of promise, and how the pro-
found realisation of his personality which comes on
her after his death enables her to “carry on the
message of his art.” Much better than it sounds.
Down to the Sea, 22 short stories by “Shalimar”
(F. C. Hendry), one of the best living writers of sea
stories. Storer Clouston’s Omnibus, which carries
The Lunatic at Large, The Spy in Black, The Man
from the Clouds and Simon, all humorously enter-
taining. Both vols. in Blackwood’s ss. net omnibus
series, well printed in good type.
Sing for Your Supper: Jo de Graaf (Geoffrey
Bles ; 7s. 6d.). Gail was a social Tommy Tucker
whose livelihood depended on her securing invitations
to the homes of the rich. Her courage was sustained
by her friendship for Miles. Martin was jealous of
him, but he really suffered from a tragic love for
worthless Nina. He becomes resigned in the end, and
Gail takes leave of her responsibilities and difficulties
in a runabout snuggled against Martin’s coat.
Life Begins Early : lanthe Jerrold (Robert Hale;
7s. 6d.). Laura was a particularly bright child brought
up by Bohemian guardians in an atmosphere of
wrangling and theological dispute. She became a land-
worker during the war, and later married an egotist
16 years older than herself. Her difficulties were
many, but when Gervase appears the reader gets an
inkling of how they will be solved. Some fair char-
acter work and a nice- feeling for nature. English
rural setting.
The Queen’s Pawn: Kathleen Conyngham
Greene (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). Tells how English Janet,
who was practically brought up with the daughter of
the queen of a fictitious Baltic State, was able to
befriend them both in later life when a post-war
revolution had driven them to seek refuge in Britain.
The author was raised in ambassadorial circles and is
able to speak with authority of the shifts to which
dispossessed royalty is put. Light, but well-informed.
GENERAL . . .
The Sun-Papers of Baltimore : Alfred A. Knopf
3dol. 75c. net). A history of the first hundred years
of an American newspaper organisation, edited by
H. L. Mencken. Of interest principally to journalists.
Chirupula’s Tale: J. E. Stephenson (Bles; Bs. 6d.
net). Good account of the experiences of a young
administrative officer in the early days of British settle-
ment in Northern Rhodesia.
Hungarian Background, Adam De Hegedus
(Hamish Hamilton ; 10s. 6d.). Pleasant and instruc-
tive picture of modern Hungary by a young Anglicised
Hungarian who sees his native country through the
eyes of an English tourist.
The London of George VI. : E. O. Hoppe (Dent;
3s. 6d. net). Sixty-six excellent photographs of present-
day London, with descriptive notes by the man who
did The Fifth Continent after a visit to Australia six
years ago.
A Woodland Garden, by A. T. Johnson (Country
Life ; 12s. 6d. net). The author writes from his own
garden in North Wales, but there is a place for every
one of his flowers in some part of Australia, and his
book as well as his garden covers species from almost
every country in the world. The illustrations are
superb.
Footprints of a Wanderer : Robert H. Davis
(Robert Hale ; 12s. 6d. net). Davis is a veteran corre-
spondent of the New York “Sun” who seems to have
a roving commission to send “human interest” stories
lrom any place in the world in which he may find
himself -a job that is a journalist’s dream. Fifty-nine
of these stories appear in this book, the personalities
ranging from Geraldine Farrar to Mahatma Gandhi;
the places from Berlin to Yucatan. Dorothy Dix in
New Orleans handed him some of the letters she
had received. Her most astounding question: “How
can I look hot, yet keep cool?” Light, entertaining
reading.
The Greyhound: Training, Management, Dis-
eases, by B. A. McMichan (Angus and Robertson :
12s. 6d.). An excellent book on the speedy and tem-
peramental greyhound and the highly-organised busi-
ness of dog-racing. The doctoring of a sick dog to-
day is a matter for the specialist, in whose surgery
the X-ray machine and ultra-violet light outfit are
commonplaces. Mr. McMichan gives an interesting
account of the methods by which dog-dopers may be
confounded. He also recalls to memory the brave
old days of 1926, when “Judge” Swindell first reached
these shores and “Andy” Lysaght, as Attorney-
General, later gave his blessing to the coursing of the
mechanical hare.
Streamline Your Mind, by James L. Mursell,
Ph.D. (Angus and Robertson ; 65.), is a book on the
arts of learning, thinking and acting efficiently and
quickly. It offers a helping hand should you wish
to lengthen your drive at golf, “run” a typewriter at
a breakneck pace or sing Wagnerian roles with care-
less ease. Then there’s the treatment of that awkward
failing, inability to remember people’s surnames.
Imagine that you have been introduced to Mr. Robin-
son. On the road home, you look at a telegraph-pole,
bow and say, “How do you do, Mr. Robinson?”
Then, says the author, you are to picture the pole’s
look of pleasure at your recalling its name so well.
The volume gives hundreds of examples of this mental
streamlining. , Do you. for instance, wish to master
the technique of conducting a lady to a restaurant
table? Then practise at home with your sister.


PSTAN
VIRGINIAS
HAVE
YOU TRIED
CAPSTAN OVAL
HEAVYWEIGHTS,
LATELY?
FRESH . . . because they're fourfold
wrapped. Wrapped so as to preserve in
all weathers that famous flavour that
comes from CAPSTAN'S OWN blend of
more than forty kinds of fine Virginia
tobacco.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
ttSSSI • -
m
.
wm
*
i
□es
/
Bril
Hf
ifij
SPI»...
. £**""««
f
An Idea of Portion of One of the Vast Storage Cellars.


COLD-SHOULDERED.
"....Like stout Cortez when, with eagle eyes,
He stared at the Pacific....”
MODERATELY STOUT CORTEZ: “I stared at the Pacific and saw the outline of a pact; but nobody seems interested, Archy!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE LONDON LOAN RAMP.
When Mr. Bruce entered upon his loan-conversion
campaign in London, memories of the Lang regime
were recent and bitter. He had to reckon with hostility
in some quarters, suspicion in others and doubt almost
everywhere. So for his early essays he was obliged
to offer 4 per cent* and better. The actual yield on
his first effort, a short-term conversion of £12,360,900
of N. S. Wales 5f per cents., was £4 Is. 2d. per cent.,
and, considering that N. S. Wales’s name in London
had been Mud for 18 months, the thing was a striking
success.
Gradually re-establishing confidence, the High
Commissioner got the rate of interest down. In the
latter part of 1933 it definitely fell below 4 per cent.
In November, 1934, conversion of £14,601,800, due
1964-74, was effected at 3| p.c., the price of issue being
£99 and the actual yield £3 ss. lid. per cent. In
January, 1935, there was another long-term conver-
sion of £22,384,000 at a flat rate of 3£ per cent. In
July, 1935, a short-term issue of £13,469,800 was
placed at 3 per cent.
In January last year a long-term conversion of
£21,657,000 of N. S. Wales 5 per cents, was attempted.
Considering that N. S. Wales is liable for the interest
and that Mr. Lang is still on the stage, the operation
was a triumph. Rate of interest was 3 per cent., yield
£3 6s. per cent. In June, 1936, for a short-term flota-
tion of £16,551,000, including £10,954,600 of N. S.
Wales 4-2 per cents., subscribers accepted a yield of
£2 18s. 6d, per cent., the rate of interest being 2f per
cent, and the issue-price £99.
It might have been expected that the N. S. Wales
Government would be grateful for these Bruce
achievements, which have contributed so importantly
to its efforts to produce a surplus. Gratitude has been
expressed in glozing words, but not in acts. On the
contrary, the Stevens Government has crabbed Mr.
Bruce’s efforts in a market somewhat clouded by the
British loan- and taxation-programme for financing
rearmament by suddenly asking it for £2,000,000 at
4 per cent. The loan was ostensibly floated by the
Metropolitan Water Board, but it is really for the
Stevens Government, which dictated the board’s
“works” policy and took charge of its muddled
finances.
Our Glorious Press, which proffers heaps of
unsolicited advice to the Germans and Italians on
how they should run their countries, the first step
being to get rid of their Governments, has been singu-
larly silent about this iniquitous resumption of London
borrowing by a State Government in flagrant defiance
of the spirit of the Financial Agreement and of the
interests of Australia. It has published no comment
at all. But the people have been allowed to learn, in
a two-line message from London, that the “Water
Board” loan has been quoted at a discount of ss.
Plainly, the infamous transaction forced the High
Commissioner’s hand. The £12,360,900 of Common-
wealth per cents., converted from N. S. Wales 5f
per cents, in October, 1932, mature on November 1,
and in ordinary circumstances he would probably have
preferred to wait a while. But had he waited the
Stevens Government might have come to light with
another “Water Board” loan, or with a loan for the
Bexley Council, which proposes to convert the local
park, transformed with unemployed-relief money,
into a tin-hare joint; so he decided to proceed with
the conversion of the 3| per cents, that were N. S.
Wales 5£ per cents. And because the Sydney Govern-
ment offered 4 per cent, on a loan immediately quoted
at a discount, and because there is now no guar-
antee that other provincial Governments won’t go
after “new” money in London, however dear, he
had to offer 3 i per cent, at £96 10s., with a 15-year
currency, the total yield being £3 16s. 2d. per cent.
The result in cash subscriptions was “only fair” —
i.e., disappointing.
In short, the days of 3 per cent, conversions are
over. Mr. Bruce has been forced back into the position
which existed in 1933. Yet he will presently have to
attend to another £11,409,900 of 34 per cents, maturing
on February 1, 1938 (the optional period began on
February 1, 1937); and £2,517,700 of S.A. 34 per
cents, fall due at the beginning of 1939.
In other years, when public men had a real
sense of their duty to the people, an affair like the
“Water Board” loan, which is as hollow a political
fake as the N.S.W. Railway Department’s “surplus”
will be, would have brought the guilty Government
down. Nothing will happen to the Stevens Govern-
ment —at least this year. The only alternative to the
Stevens Government on the other side of the House
would be a Ministry headed by Mr. Lang, who was
as greedy a borrower as his opposite number has
proved till he became a defaulter. There is material
for another Cabinet on the Ministerial side, and it
could scarcely fail to be an improvement on the
Stevens-Spooner crowd, nor would the Stevens-
Spooner crowd dare to put it out and let Mr. Lang
in. Unfortunately the majority of Ministerial mem-
bers are quite tame when their party whip cracks —
mere driven cattle, though not exactly dumb.
Rewards and Fairies.
One of the lesser Hollywood actresses died last week.
Two Sydney dailies wrote up the event as if it were
an international disaster. The “Sun” devoted to it
two entire posters: “FAMOUS FILM STAR
DEAD” and “FILM STARS’ TRIBUTES TO JEAN
HARLOW.” The “D.T.” (the new one) came
out with a three-column memoir cabled by “Our
Hollywood Correspondent”; photographs and an
intimate account of the fatal illness, “By a
Doctor” (“one could surmise that a simple inflam-
mation was neglected and the kidney became in-
volved”), expanded it to nearly a page.
The memoir-writer did his job in choice press-
agent English.
She knew the glorious madness of love and its dis-
illusion. The joy of the artist was hers; she tasted the
rich flavor of success and fame.
Reading on, the “D.T.” public learned that the
deceased was married at 16 and divorced at 18, and
that she had had two other husbands, of whom one
removed himself per bullet two months after the cere-
mony and the other was made “free” six months
after the elopement. At 26 the lady was contemplat-
ing a fourth match with a film actor somewhat
stricken in years, who, as a principal, has heard the
wedding bells tinkle on several occasions, when
“kidney failure” intervened.
Seen in a coldly critical light, this queen of the
shadow theatre, the moving-picture magazine and the
flapper press did not deserve her celebrity. Girls
more beautiful in face and form can be seen on any
popular Australian beach. As an actress, she was
a bit above the very poor level which Hollywood
has been allowed to establish in the case of young
females, but it would be laughable to compare her
with, say, Marie Tempest.
Australians never saw Jean Harlow in the flesh,
but they knew Marie Tempest. Miss Tempest lived
in Sydney for years and grew to love the place, but
left it because, as she frankly declared in a farewell
speech from the stage, she could not make a living
in it or in Australia. She returned to England with
her husband, Graham Browne, to become unquestion-
ably the leading actress of her time, as Ellen Terry
was before her. But although the legitimate theatre
is in a far healthier condition in England than it is
in Australia, where —largely because of short-sighted
showmanship and a fatuous belief that people now
accustomed to cinema-theatre comfort should be satis-
fied to listen to spoken plays from wooden benches
and the like—it is almost extinct, the gifted lady has
made only a small fraction of the money lavished on
Jean Harlow.
Graham Browne died a few months ago, leaving
estate valued at £l5OO. John Drinkwater, a consider-
able poet, dramatist, biographer and historian, cut
up for a few pounds more than Browne. Walter de la
Mare, who has written plays, as well as poems of
haunting beauty, had to take a Civil List pension of
a pound a week or so. Jean Harlow got the equivalent
of £lOOO Australian a week, and the adoring news-
papers say that she died worth a million dollars. All
made in eight years of acting—or what passes for
acting at Hollywood, and in the world which accepts
what Hollywood “puts over”—during which the lady
divorced two husbands and buried another.
Part of the Harlow fortune came from Australia.
The film trade acknowledges that this country is its
second-best export market. The difference between
a reasonable annual expenditure on foreign films and
the present fantastic tribute to Hollywood would
re-establish the Australian stage on enduring founda-
tions And a country with nearly 7,000,000 people
should really employ a few home-grown playwrights
and companies of actors—small European countries
do more. If reduction of the Australian contribution
to their salaries obliged these absurdly overpaid film
“stars” to economise, they could dispense with a few
husbands or wives. .
These are certainly wonderful times tor Hotiy-
wood actresses, but let them gather the razoos while
they may, for they—times, actresses and razoos—
won’t last. __
By the Parish Pump.
A Sydney journalist lately asked a Californian busi-
nessman touring the world what he thought of Aus-
tralia. A few flowers from the Californian bouquet.
I must be fair and say I have only seen Sydney, but
judging you by your city I must say that I was not
impressed. I am not going to be a hypocrite and say
I will tell the folks back home that this is a great city,
I cannot conscientiously recommend them to come here.
Until you learn how to cater for tourists and provide
entertainment for them you are not going to make much
headway in attracting people from other countries,
especially from America. You have no night life;
you can’t get a good meal at night because all your
eating-houses close up at a certain hour. I could hardly
believe that a city with a million and a half population
could be so dead. I guess I will not be back this way
again.
At one time half of that would have caused
square-foot blisters to break out all over the face
of Pinchgut. To-day there is not a word of defence.
Everybody with eyes to see knows it to be true.
Along with such local phenomena as the admin-
istration of the N. S. Wales unemployment-relief tax
—collected last year, £6,190,291 ; expenditure on
unemployment and relief, £1,882,775 —it demonstrates
that usage, enforced long enough, will lead a people
to put up with almost anything.
The candid Californian might have extended his
reproach from Sydney to those who inhabit it if
he had been told that the laws responsible for the
blackout of Australian cities by night had been intro-
duced as war-time emergency measures. It is on the
cards that he would not have believed it. He found
it incredible that a city of a million and a half inhabi-
tants could be so dead; he could be excused for offer-
ing the other leg if he had been told that the inhabi-
tants accepted this as a city’s proper state. If that
appeared in Ripley, those who, like himself, know
the cities of the world would find it incredible. What
Sydneysiders who know only their own city would
be likely to find incredible is that cities overseas, from
the size of Sydney upwards, are as busy, lively and
thronged by night as Sydney was for its recent Coro-
nation night —an occasion that happens once in a
blue moon.
Possibly we prefer this state of things; we cer-
tainly give little sign that we would rather our cities
did not turn into mausoleums at nightfall, or that
we would prefer not to have our lives wowseristically
regimented in this and other ways. If that is so, there
are some humbugging inconsistencies that we should,
in decency, throw overboard.
We should forthwith stop advertising Australia
abroad as a place worth tourists’ visiting. While our
cities’ curfews ring at sundown that is outright false
pretences. We have natural attractions and a superb
climate, but such things might be considered by the
average world tourist a poor compensation for the
raw deal we give him with the blackout nightmare
of our cities.
In the sweep we should recall our tourist-agent
from America. One day a justifiably savage returned
American citizen will tell him to his face that he is
a confidence man, and he will have no defence.
We should snuggle down in the dark around our
parish-pump and let the world know that this is as
we are, and that we like it so. Complacent to a
wowser and tax-mad Governmental regimentation as
thorough as that endured in any dictator-ridden
country whatever, we should, in decency, drop all
hypocritical bragging about our democratic freedom
and all sneering at the condition of dictator-enchained
people.
Whether that picture is to become —or to iemain
—true depends on Australians themselves. It is wholly
up to them whether they are to return to the full
freedom of democracy or drift into the worst possible
kind of dictatorship—the muddled kind of bureau-
cracy.
As the reproaches of our candid American visitor
and the witness of our own eyes testify, the drift is
well on ; but there are, at least, some signs that the
wowsers and the bureaucrats are not to have this all
their own way. Even the formation of a Sports Pro-
tection League in Sydney is a symptom. The market-
ing referendum result was a blunt refusal by the
people to trust bureaucratic dictatorship with an atom
more of power. Nothing more dictatorial has hap-
pened in Australia —outside war-time measures
and the secret operations of the censorship—than the
exclusion of Mrs. Freer. That this could have hap-
pened at all indicated clearly enough the extent of
the drift ; that the Minister who committed this abuse
of democratic freedom should be the same one who
is now opening the doors of our “free” democracy to
the lady is a startling indication of how extraordinarily
wide that drift has been.
The stopper has been put on that sort of abuse of
power in no uncertain fashion ; the Government which
has stood by Mr. Paterson throughout the shameful
business has yet to learn how thoroughly it has
branded itself in the process. But the alternative in
Governments being what it is, the mere change from
this one to that seems unlikely to effect much improve-
ment.
None of the crowds on offer, nor the whole of
them together, represents Australia. A new party is
wanted. It needs to be for Australia as a democracy
and as a whole —above the bureaucracy dictatorship
mentality of the Lyons crowd and the rigidly sectional
mentality of the others. It will take time to come—
the drift has been very wide.
The probabilities are that at the elections the
Lyons crowd will be ditched and the Curtin
crowd go in. Unless this crowd is capable of being
more thoroughly representative of Australia than can
normally be expected of it, the Australian Democracy
party may then come along. If it doesn’t, it will need
to be written down that the drift has sunk into utter,
unmovable complacency, and the parish-pump will
be a suitable permanent addition to Australia’s coat-
of-arms.
MACANN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
God Save the Kings!
The Imperial Conference dragged on for weeks.
Yards of reports of its proceedings have reached
Australia, but they have all been unofficial, and at
times confusing, partly because of irrelevant interrup-
tions on the chronicler’s part. For example:
In his long speech on foreign policy, Mr. Eden sur-
veyed the grave dangers threatening Europe from Italy
and Germany. .
In well-informed circles, it is felt that Italy is even
a greater menace to the Empire than Germany.
And so on, in a fashion now drearily familiar. The
first paragraph begins an account of what Mr. Eden
said; the second is a correspondent’s digression. It
is an impertinence for a correspondent to interrupt
what purports to be a report of a speech with a ver-
sion of what somebody told him about something or
other, but this has become annoyingly common in
foreign-affairs reporting.
There was a strong League bias in these confer-
ence chronicles, as there is in other stuff sent over
the cables. So when Mr. Mackenzie King, the
Canadian Prime Minister, presumed to criticise the
League, he incontinently fell out of favor:
Foreign-affairs resolutions providing for Empire unity
on certain questions, including support for the League,
were submitted. Mr. Mackenzie King went so far as to
say that although Canada supported the Empire it was
not going to be dragged into any European trouble. His
speech was so unconstructive that the delegates were
surprised.
But Mr. Savage became a hero by “pointing
out” that “New Zealand” was “ready at any time to
defend the Empire to the utmost,” and was “not
going to do anything which meant the killing of the
League.”
The Bulletin offended old readers whose good
opinion it values by saying that “sanctions” would
fail and that “collective security” was a fake. Suppose
the bony fighters of the League of Nations Union
and certain editors had got the military “sanctions”
for which they were clamoring and the British Empire
had been landed in a war for the preservation of
the dominion of slaveowning savages over their slaves,
what would have been the position?
It is now clear that Spain, Portugal, Belgium
(w'hich has since demanded and received an Anglo-
French guarantee of independence without responsi-
bility) and Yugoslavia (which must even then have been
negotiating its pact with Italy) would have given no
help, and none was ever expected from Holland or the
Scandinavian countries. Hungary and Austria took no
part in “sanctions”; Switzerland declared itself
neutral ; and the mutual suspicions of the Balkan
countries would have cancelled them out. As for
France, it was (and is) a house divided against itself,
and the anti-Communist part of the nation would not
have permitted the other part to fight Italy;
and the situation in Russia, now so serious that
Stalin is shooting generals, must have been serious
then —far too serious for the Muscovites to move with
an enemy on either flank. A German invasion of
Russia, with Polish connivance or support, would
have been a far greater possibility.
In short, “military sanctions” might have involved
us in another world war without effective allies.
No doubt Mr. Mackenzie King pointed all this
out. He seems to have said, in addition, that, while
Canada will regard mutual defence of the British
Commonwealth of Nations as a sacred duty, it
will not risk its manhood in a League war over the
Polish Corridor or the Brenner Pass or Memel or
Teschen or Transylvania or any of the 101 “settle-
ments” made at Versailles—which means that the
manhood of Britain, Australia, Maoriland and South
Africa cannot be sent to the sacrifice either. At all
events, “the resolutions were watered down to appease
Mr. Mackenzie King.” The Bulletin takes off
its hat to him, and utters the fervent prayer “God
Save the Kings! ”
"Most Important. 11
Victoria has contrived to struggle through a Legis-
lative Council election which has been humorously
described as “one of the most important in its history.”
On the one side were a Country party which has
roughly a third of the Assemblymen and a sixth of
the Councillors, and a Labor party which has been
keeping the Country party in office ; on the other side
was the United Australian party, which is Australian
by virtue of residence but is neither united nor much
of a party.
The Country party believes in two extra-metro-
politan votes being worth one metropolitan vote, and
is for L.C. reform ; the Labor party is for one-vote-
one-value and L.C. abolition ; the U.A.P. —which is
sometimes represented as being in danger of bursting
with democratic ardor—wants to leave things as they
are, restricted franchise and all.
The Country party’s idea of reform is borrowed
from Asquith’s Parliament Act. If the Council objects
or fails to pass a measure, “the Assembly, not the
Council, may be dissolved.” If it is dissolved and
the election goes in favor of the authors and sup-
porters of the measure, that piece of legislation may
become law if passed by the Assembly and rejected
by the Council again.
It is a ludicrously roundabout way of pouring
small beer down the public throat, but provincial
legislators are nothing if not imitative and self-
important.
Election issue, results and the Chamber itself are
of no consequence to Victoria. Real Parliamentary
reform will be effected only when all these ridiculous
local Parliaments are abolished. Because the people
have an instinct for self-government, their overloaded
and overlapping system works after a fashion. But
it is sinfully costly, as well as cumbrous, and some
of the useless law-factories prolong the agony by
means of taxes which add to cold-blooded extortion
calculated legalised robbery.
Hanlonised Health.
Mr. Hanlon, Queensland’s Minister for Health, has
been enlightening the world on the subject of how to
make the people healthy, rich and poor alike. He
advises his Hospital Boards to build a good kitchen
first, then get a good cook, then a few good nurses ;
lastly, if they can afford it, a doctor.
There is no mystery, Mr. Hanlon says, about
a bottle of medicine, but there is an art in supplying
the right food appetisingly. Ordinary folk might
consider that there is a certain art, too, in choosing
the right kind of medicine to put in the bottle.
Mr. Hanlon appears to have a poor idea of
doctors. Whilst laying the foundation-stone of the
new Medical School in Brisbane he took the oppor-
tunity to point out tactfully that the prosperity of
quack healers —numerous in Queensland —is due to
the fact that they have a great following of people
who have no faith in the medical profession. This,
he explained, arises from the absence of any proper
standard of professional ethics. He admitted that
there were evils in the Queensland medical profession
which he, as Minister, had found it impossible to
cure. It was no use for doctors to appeal to Parlia-
ment for protection against unqualified healers if the
people were not convinced that all in the medical
profession was as it should be. There was an obli-
gation on the profession to remove those discreditable
features.
The eminent orator forbore, unfortunately, to
specify what the discreditable features were, or to
amplify his advice to include suggestions as to how
the medical profession might act in order to remove
them. There is a much simpler way. Mr. Hanlon
himself has under his administrative control several
Acts which are fully capable, without reference to
Parliament, or without any further action beyond issue
of the necessary directions to his departmental officers,
of being used to suppress quackery, professional or
otherwise, and to secure an immaculate standard of
professional conduct from every doctor who pays the
substantial annual fees demanded by Mr. Hanlon’s
department for the right to practise in Queensland.
He has, ready to his hand, much greater powers than
are possessed by the General Medical Council, which
deals drastically and effectively with professional con-
duct and ethics in Britain. He also has all requisite
legal power to enable any quack to be run promptly
out 'of business: if necessary, into gaol.
Politicians are an imitative breed, always on the
lookout to steal each other’s thunder, and the un-
covering of alleged professional abuses is always good
platform publicity. But, before the Hanlon example
is followed elsewhere, it will be well to remember
that good cookery will not cure a cancer, the best of
nurses cannot avert the consequences of a ruptured
gastric ulcer, the most expensive of maternity hos-
pitals, nurses —and cooks—are powerless when a
Caesarean operation is needed to save two lives.
The "Cronk News 11 Bowled Out.
Australians interested in overseas affairs have lately
had opportunities of testing the accuracy of the
foreign news with which they are regaled. For some
reason or other this foreign news is very largely taken
from press champions of a British party which is
dead but doesn’t know it, a party which has 21 mem-
bers in a House with 615.
These “Liberal” newspapers and the Labor “Daily
Herald,” another source of misinformation, are pro-
League. anti-Italian and anti-German. Their “news”
as presented in Australia is so interlarded with
comment that it is sometimes difficult to tell which
is the “news” and which the comment.
Possibly such “news” is bought for the Australian
market because it is as cheap as it is nasty. At all
events, Australians have within the past five weeks
been assured in cablegrams, published with sensa-
tional headlines, that the rulers of Germany and Italy,
in criminal repudiation of the Non-intervention Agree-
ment to which they and the Governments of Britain.
France and many other countries are parties, had
conspired to “openly” invade Spain and suppress the
Socialist-Communist Government. A companion story
was that they had arranged a frightful aerial bombard-
ment of Bilbao for “Coronation Week.”
Neither of these horrors happened. Instead, the
Governments to which these murderous conspiracies
were imputed continued to shoulder the responsibili-
ties which they had undertaken when they had signed
the Non-intervention Agreement until they withdrew
—temporarily, if the representations of the British
Government prevail —because two of the warships
they had contributed to the naval cordon, an Italian
auxiliary cruiser and a German pocket battleship, had
been treacherously bombed by Socialist-Communist
Government ’planes, with loss of life in each case.
The' scene shifts to Geneva. There Senor Del
Vayo, the representative of the Socialist-Communist
Government, “demanded that the League should take
a firm stand to save Spain from foreign aggression.”
According to the first account of the proceedings
published in Australia, it was “believed” that Maori-
land’s representative “intended to invoke Article 10
of the League Covenant in regard to Spain,” Article
10 being the dynamite-loaded formula in which mem-
bers of the League undertake to preserve against
external aggression the territorial integrity and politi-
cal independence of all members of the League. The
narrative proceeded:
, Mr. Eden walked over to Mr. Jordan and began
pointing a pencil at certain passages in Mr. Jordan’s
speech. Several members of the British delegation sur-
rounded them, and Mr. Jordan was seen making
alterations. He then rose to speak and made an
innocuous plea in favor of moves to secure a cessation
of hostiliies.
“All Geneva,” it was alleged, was “discussing the
strange scene.” The “News-Chronicle” added a char-
acteristic embellishment.
It is fairly widely known now that Mr. Eden brought
very unusual pressure to bear on Mr. Jordan in order
that he should say nothing which might encourage
the Spanish Government or offend Germany and Italy.
Mr. Jordan was impressed by Senor Del Vayo’s over-
whelming evidence of German and Italian contempt
lor their non-intervention pledges and was about to
propose that the problem of Spain should be more or
less transferred from the Non-intervention Committee
to the League. Mr. Eden dissuaded him by methods
which have offended New Zealanders and all the other
Dominion representatives.
Mr. Jordan and Mr. Eden have published most
emphatic denials. It is true that a conversation
preceded the High Commissioner’s speech; it is false
that undue influence was brought to bear on him, that
his speech was altered, and that (in his own words) he
was “offended by anything Mr. Eden was said to have
done.” What have Australians done that the danger-
ous suppositions, speculations and prevarications of
a discredited organ of an exploded party should be
served up to them as established facts?
Therapy and Quackery.
“E.V.” sounds a warning:
In the seventies of last century a Frenchman, Arsenc
d’Arsonval, designed apparatus for treating certain diseases
with high-frequency electric currents. He announced his
belief that the time was not far distant when heat arid light
would play a big part in medicine. He was treated as a
quack, and a few medical practitioners who adopted his
simple apparatus were blackballed. A few years ago French
medicine made a national celebration of the 50th anniversary
of the promulgation of D’Arsonval’s theories, and whole issues
of French journals were devoted to an exposition of the
pioneer stages of his inventions.
Professor Wagner-Jauregg, later a Nobel Prize winner,
began to cure bacterial infections by injecting tuberculin
to produce fever, and general paralysis of the insane, by inject-
ing malaria germs. These, too, produced fever.
The next step was when the broadcast era began. Experi-
menters with short-wave sets found themselves feverish,
suffering conditions like those with influenza. W. R. Whitney,
one of General Electric’s research men, took a hand after
watching his experimenters, and the result was the short-
wave fever box, a development along the lines of D’Arsonval’s
theories.
A dozen techniques have now arisen, particularly for
dealing with g.p.i. Maurice Ducoste, for instance, drills a
hole into the forehead of his patient and shoots a little
malaria-infected blood into the brain. At a recent world
conference he claimed 381 complete cures out of 435 patients
treated over 10 years, with no after-affects.
But the electro-therapy methods are the most popular.
Asthma, neuritis, kindred diseases, syphilis and gonorrhoea in
the female are all being tackled along these lines. Deep X-ray
therapy is used to destroy cancers on a large scale. It is
in general use in all the big hospitals. Diathermy, employing
another range of wave-lengths, is applied to other affections.
Two radio firms are already making fever boxes in Aus-
tralia. Deep-ray plants are also manufactured here. The
use of both, while safe in skilled hands, can be highly dan-
gerous in the hands of a quack. An injudicious dose of deep-
X-ray can kill or maim for life. The Australasian Institute of
Radiotherapists has instituted a lengthy course of training for
even the mechanics who tend deep X-ray machines but who
have no responsibility for prescribing treatment or for diag-
nosis. The anomalous position, however, exists that there is
no legal regulation of the new methods of treatment. A
wharf-laborer or a dustman can, if he chooses, buy a plant
and set up as an X-ray or fever therapist.
In view of the widespread uses to which the new tech-
nique will be put in the next few years, the medical law
needs drastic amendment to protect the public.
Does Orange-growing Pay?
“E.L.”: When Dr. Page first thought of “marketing
schemes” the citrus industry did not escape. In
1935 the N. S. Wales marketing director came out
strong for “producer-control and 100 p.c. co-operative
marketing”—compulsory, of course. The director
supported his arguments with a review of the dread-
fulness of the Sydney market:
Navels — > • Valencias— >
Highest Price Lowest Price Highest Price Lowest Price
(per bushel (per bushel (per bushel (per bushel
case). case). case). case).
1930 .... 12s. sd. 4s. 2d. 225. Od. 3s. Od.
1931 .... 10s. 6d. ss. Od. 10s. 9d. 4s. Bd.
1932 .... 9s. Od. 4s. 7d. 10s. Od. 4s. Bd.
1933 .... 11s. 6d. 4s. Bd. 10s. Od. 4s. 4d.
1934 .... Bs. Od. 4s. Od. 13s. 4d. 3s. 6d.
These figures, he declared, demonstrated that “exist-
ing methods” had “failed dismally.”
A user of “existing methods” has shown the
writer his account sales—and not for small quantities
either—in respect of fruit sold in the Sydney market:
Navels Valencias
Highest Price Lowest Price Highest Price Lowest Price
(per bushel (per bushel (per bushel (per bushel
case). case). case). case).
1930 .... 18s. 10s.
1931 .... 17s. 11s. 17s. 12s.
1932 .... 18s. 15s. 12s. (seconds) 10s.
1933 .... 15s. Bs. 16s. 12s.
1934 .... —20 s. 14s.
This grower continues to do well, and will do
better still when the Maoriland market—closed against
N. S. Wales fruit because of political meddling—is
reopened, as has been promised. He and many others
of his kind think the idea of bolstering up their indus-
try with bonuses and guaranteed prices is absurd. But
Governments ignore such people.
Post-office Sweating.
This comes from the Wilmot (Tas.) electorate:
Many thanks for your timely remarks in Plain English
(B. 12/5/’37). The Bulletin is the first newspaper to put
in a word for the poorest-paid and hardest-worked
section in the community. The postmaster at Gundy (N.S.W.)
who helped himself was well off on £145 p.a. compared with
the allowance (or “non-official”) postmaster (nearly 50 per
cent, are postmistresses). Thirty per cent, are receiving less
than £lOO p.a. There are 8000 “non-official” p.os., and the
“non-official” p.m. comes under no Arbitration Court oi
Wages Board Act.
We are supposed to be paid on a commission basis, but
just how this is arrived at is a deep departmental secret. We
receive no annual leave, and any p.m. foolish enough to get
sick has to employ a relieving p.m. at his own expense and
responsibility. We are warned, per printed instruction, that
in no circumstances must we approach a member of Parlia-
ment or give him any information —evidence that the P.M.G.
fears publicity on this matter —the penalty being the order of
the boot or its equivalent.
In case the Prime Minister has been missing his Bulletin
in England, and at the risk of being hanged if the P.M.G.
finds out, I intend sending Mr. Lyons the Bulletin paragraph
on his return to his electorate.


Society
"AND IT'S PRENTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: I like the expression used by
a witness in a Marrickville (Sydney)
shooting case, the consequence of a
brawl between s.p. bookmakers (inciden-
tally, the victim, a boxer, was named Hart-
up, and he was shot through the heart!).
Witness admitted convictions for assaults
on “the police, members of the public
and a gaol warder.” “Now, haven’t you
been in many gun duels?” asked counsel
for the defence. The reply was “I never
carried a gun in my life. I am an estab-
lished target. Been shot three times.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The expiring kick
or the old Sydney steam trams will be
given on July 3, when trolley-buses
supersede the antiquated caravans on
the Kogarah-Sans Souci run. By way
of emphasis to the out-of-dateness of
the old engines, the original “Puffing
Billy” has been dragged out of retire-
ment and refurbished for the final cere-
mony. Puffing Billy No. 1 is 50 years
old, and in its own day was regarded
as a wonderful bit of workmanship.
When its last service is done it is to be
run into the Technological Museum as a
reminder to future students of the crude
beginnings of our transport.
❖ >'fi %
“Kerys”: One of the features of a
gang of workmen toying with the drains
in our suburban street is a navvy who
consistently wears a Panama hat. It’s
not only the hat that makes new arrivals
on the job gaze at him ; the lightweight
lid is skewered to his thatch of curly
hair by a big, old-fashioned hatpin. If
his co-workers at times feel like saying
something about the hatpin, they stifle
the inclination; the Panama-wearer is
the brawniest of the gang.
* * * *
“Hanko”: If that grandson of Peter
Lalor belonged to an Australian unit it
beats me how he managed to cart ashore
a sword at the Gallipoli landing (B.
2/6/’37). All such o.s. cutlery was called
in shortly after our arrival at Mena.
And being deprived of their blades didn’t
cause any discernible grief among the
officers, either; they’d never been happy
with the things. Only one among the
commissioned men in my outfit made
any real use of his sword. Impeded by
a criss-cross of entangling tent ropes when
homing after a big night at the mess, he
promptly drew his trusty blade and
slashed himself out of the. entanglement
—and out of the Army, too.
* * * *
“Mandipa”: At least one Australian
visitor to the Coronation must have been
doing some leg-pulling. Witness the fol-
lowing extracts from an article in a
London daily under the headlines “The
Sheep Farm ‘Boss’ of Wagga Wagga”—
“Boy of 21 Runs 10,000 Acres”:
Wagga Wagga’s most successful citizen has
arrived in London for the Coronation. He
is Mr. Herbert Field, who at the age of 21
earns £l5OO a year, and is “the boss” to 50
men twice his age. Wagga Wagga is a town
of 1000 in N.S.W. The Field family are the
largest sheep-farmers in Australia. They farm
2,000,000 acres and rear upwards of half a
million sheep a year. Herbert said to me at the
Piccadilly Hotel: “My father was 14 when the
family gave up a small farm in Kent to try
their luck in Australia. I have charge of
70,000 acres. Wagga Wagga, 65 miles away,
is our nearest town
“Young for the job? Not at all. I had
charge of a sheep station when I was 18. The
life is certainly tough. We had no rain for a
year at the Eurella station, and during that time
ate no meat but goat flesh. Our sheep were
reduced to a few pounds of skin and bone
“Brisbane, 500 miles away, was the nearest
city. Widgiwa, where I am now, is much
more developed. There is a train every day to
Wagga Wagga.”
* * * *
“Fi. fa,”: A complaint by a clergyman
that he had been deprived in a press
report of the customary handle to his
name has brought up the Privy Council
ruling of some 65 years ago that, under
British law, “Rev.” is not really a title
but a laudatory epithet which may be
used by anyone. The original case arose
from an application by an Anglican
parson seeking to restrain a Methodist
minister from using it. “Professor” is
another purely laudatory title which
anyone may claim—Professor Miller, for
example, as in recent Bulletin boxing
history. “Doctor” introduces difficulty
for its unauthorised claimant if used in
any sense implying ability or qualifica-
tion to deal with, the ills of the flesh,
other than teeth or eyes. The B.M.A.
will soon be on the warpath otherwise.
So will dentists and opticians if the
claimant is not a registered tooth car-
penter or spectacle merchant. Souls or
science do not matter.
* * * *
“Morita”: Mention of drill-book rules
for saluting (B. 9/6/’37) reminds me of
the number of ways in which it can be
done. About Christmas, 1918, the now
Duke of Windsor put in a few days with
Divvy H.Q., and his presence was utilised
for the presentation of decorations. Hur-
ried notices were sent to units ordering
the recipients to parade outside the
chateau where H.R.H. was billeted. To
martial strains we marched in front of
the heads, then as each man’s name was
called he stepped forward on his own,
strode in front of the Prince of Wales,
clicked his heels and threw his salute.
There were about 50 for decorations, and
dashed near as many varieties of salutqs.
There were drill-book ones, straight-up-
and-downs, and flying arms like wind-
mills. Some bent forward as they swung
as if in a half bow, and others swung
backwards. A sergeant of the Jacks told
us afterwards we had stage-fright worse
than a mob of charity sheilahs.
* * * *
“8.R.4”: A few years ago the smelters
of Mt. Lyell (Tas.) belched forth thou-
sands of pounds of sulphur which de-
scended on near-by Queenstown in a fog.
Galvanised roofs leaked like a sieve after
a year of exposure to it, so the roofs were
tarred for protection. Nowadays special
condensers treat the sulphur-laden smoke
before it finds the town, and very little
damage is done; yet they still tar their
roofs. Just an old custom.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: The Springboks, most of
whom are Afrikaans-speaking giants of
Dutch or Huguenot French descent, will
be glad to learn that Bob Menzies, the
cleverest man in the Commonwealth Par-
liament, has “a tremendous admiration”
for their Prime Minister I never met
a more interesting man said the Attor-
ney-General the other day; and I was
in close contact with him for
His intelligence is strong, slow and
honest, and he has a most extraordinary
capacity for understanding his oppo-
nents I shall always regard him as one
of the most remarkable men in the
Empire—one of the greatest products of
the Empire. But can Hertzog be fairly
described as a product of the Empire?
Certainly he was born in Cape Colony
and graduated at a Stellenbosch college,
but he became a Bloemfontein advocate
and Judge, and held a Boer command
(South-western Division) in the 1899-
1902 war. I don’t cavil at Bob’s esti-
mate of the man ; Asquith expressed as
high an opinion in his memoirs. Asquith
"The grades too stiff , boys; y'll 'ave t' get out an push!"
compared the Afrikander with other
Dominion leaders present at an Imperial
Conference in terms almost insulting to
the other gentlemen.
*•*, ■ * *
“Oom Jap”: When the visiting Spring-
boks were leaving the wharf at Adelaide
they encountered a small family band
which forthwith struck up “Sarie
Marais,” a ballad much in Vogue among
Afrikanders. The footballers gathered
round the orchestra and sang the song,
the subsequent collection being a record
for the artists. The Wallabies, who
brought the rather insipid melody back
from South Africa, sang it at the various
entertainments given them, so it should
be familiar enough in Sydney. They
scored a point with it in South Africa,
having been duly coached in Durban
before going north. Arriving at Pre-
toria the entire team burst into the song
—in Afrikaans —to the huge delight of
the big crowd awaiting them. By the
way, one journal, telling of the Adelaide
affair, says the musicians played on in-
struments “the Africans hold dear.” I
wonder what they were. In the Boer
War, when I visited many farmhouses,
the harmonium was the only thing of the
kind on view—if you can call it a musi-
cal instrument.
* * * *
“M.”: One of the butler-waiters at
Menzies Hotel in Melbourne was loudly
announcing each arrival for the Vic.
Rugby Union dinner tendered the tour-
ing S’African footballers. His version or
some of the Springbok names was caus-
ing some amusement. “M-i-ss-t-errrr
So-and-so, he would cry, then tor-
ward, catch the surname, and add mat.
Three ’Boks rolled in together. The wait-
ing guests heard two of the names, but
the third stentorian “M-i-ss-t-errr traded
off into an embarrassed silence, broken
by shouts of laughter. The unannounced
arrival was Bastard, a fine forward, a
good tennis- and polo-player and one ot
the most popular members of the touring
team. Incidentally, Maoriland’s Chnst-
church “Press” changed this old North
of England surname when it publis e
the selected S African team on Apn ,
it plumped for the coy Australian adap-
tation ot Bustard. * #
« MHE ». Queensland has the only
Australian university which has prepared
census f calli y followed by its
duates< xhe reco * d) published for the
? übilee m 5 sho F ws 528 sch ool-
J te achers (university lecturers included),
95 en inee v 62 scientists (chemists, biolo-
istentomologists and geologists), 44
f a ’ 22 ci * u servants (non.profes-
sion x al) 17 commerc i a l men, 15 sugar
chemists> nine Main Roads men , seven
j 0 two authors and publishers
J and one farmer , students who went
on t 0 med ical courses elsewhere num-
bered 21. In 151 cases the occupation
nrit „: Vf , n
*’* * *
“R.H.”: “Twenty-seven” (B. 2/6/’37)
S ays that to name a “new flower” after
a person it is only necessary to “add
‘i a ’ to the person’s moniker.” After citing
Banksia, he breaks his own rule by say-
ing it applies to the “familiar purple
creeper.” It doesn’t. The plant is named
bougainvillaea, and the genus is named
after Mons. de Bougainville, the first
Frenchman to circumnavigate the globe.
The rules of botanical nomenclature,
adopted at the Congress in Vienna in
1906, stipulate that when naming “a new
flower” a distinction should be made
between a genus and a species. Banksia
as the name of a genus is correct, but
Banks’s name is also applied to a species
of the silky-oak family, which thus be-
comes Grevillea Banksii. Names have to
be Latinised, and the double “i” repre-
sents the genitive case in Latin. Literally
it is the Grevillea of Banks, or, in Eng-
lish, Banks’s Grevillea.
* * * *
“Simon the Tanner”: “F.J.” inquires
(B. 26/5/’37) what animal supplies por-
poise-hide bootlaces. It is just the
common or garden cowhide under an
alibi. The same material is also dis-
guised as buffalo hide when tanned into
white leather for whip falls. Real buffalo
hide is anything up to an inch in thick-
ness. About the toughest leather I know
in proportion to its thickness is pro-
vided by the kangaroo. Curiously
enough, marsupial skins are very little
used here. The Americans have found
their value; they absorb most of the
exports and use them for shoe uppers.
EASIER SAID THAN DONE.
“Premier Stevens, in accordance with an election
promise, is preparing legislation to cut down seats
in the N.S.W. Assembly from 90 to 75.”
A happy notion, eh?
T seem to hear you say,
A dinkum move, 0.K.,
A good suggestion.
Still, should you chance to see
Your job in jeopardy,
It might be, you’ll agree,
Another question.
What though a chap surveys,
These democratic days,
Too many M.L.As.
To keep the run of ’em ;
What though they need a check,
You wouldn’t like, I reck,
To get it in the neck
If you were one of ’em.
Stand by for squeal and squall
And angry howl from all
On whom the axe may fall
Just where it chooses!
Think of the bitter woe
As forth there needs must go
Parkeses-in-ernbryo
And budding Hugheses.! ■
Say, can we spare fifteen
Of ninety tongues so keen
“Hansard” to splash with spleen
And load with thunder?
Thirty, retrenchment might
Endure, you reckon, quite
As well. And, son, you’re right,
I shouldn’t wonder.
’Twere easier, though, I guess
To rob a lioness
Of cubs or dispossess
Woman of her lover
Than to eliminate
From halls of high debate
Any who serve the State,
As Stevens—get this straight!
Will soon discover.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mudurup”: Artists aren’t the only
ones on newspaper staffs who are liable
to make bloomers. Years ago in Perth
—I think it was on the occasion of the
first inter-State boatrace on the Swan —
a daily paper leader-writer with a fine
command of florid language but appar-
ently no knowledge of aquatics was de-
puted to turn out a special article in
honor of the occasion. It was a stirring
scene that he pictured on the morning
of the race. The picturesque river, the
cheering crowds on the banks, and,
finally, the contending boats skimming
through the water, each of them pro-
pelled by “eight pairs of brightly-flash-
ing oars”! How the amazing betise
ever got past the reader, the comps, and
the sub-editor is hard to understand. But
it did.
* * * *
“Listener”: There has been a contro-
versy in Britain because the 8.8. C. has
included a harp in its military band.
Objectors want to know how the player
could handle the instrument when on
the march. Easily. There are more
“Sorry, sir, orders is orders !”
brands of harp than the clumsy affair
with pedals seen on concert platforms.
Harpers went into battle with the Scot-
tish and Irish clans, and we have Scott’s
word for it that the wandering minstrels
of the Scottish border were harpers.
Blondin carried his harp to the Crusades,
and Moore’s Minstrel Boy went to the
wars wearing his old man’s sword and
“with his wild harp slung behind him.”
“Fiona”: My Paderewski recollection
is of the famous man at a concert in the
Town Hall at Auckland (M.L.). He
appeared for his third or fourth item
to the usual burst of applause and
chatter. The chatter continuing after he
had sat himself at the piano and struck
his preliminary notes, he turned slowly
on his seat and inquired affably, “Well,
shall I play or will you talk?” He played
in a complete hush to an audience that
was equally impressed with his music
and his expert juggling with the lan-
guage’s elusive “shall” and “will”
problem.
* * ; i ; ❖
“Kellick”: Announcing the sale to a
private firm of the five obsolete “S”-class
destroyers, the Acting Minister for
Defence stressed the point that they
would have to be broken up. To what
other possible use
could they be put?
Built in a few days dur-
ing the war, they were
intended to dash in and
let rip a few tin-fish,
hoping for the best.
One hit on an enemy
cruiser paid for half a
dozen or more of the
death traps, and the
ninety-odd men who
manned them, plus
their relatives, were the
only ones who cared
what happened once
value had been ob-
tained. Cramped space
above and below would
prevent their use as
cargo vessels, two-thirds
of total space being
engine-room. Equally
futile would be an
attempt to convert
them into fast passenger craft, owing to
the alarming roll and yaw of such vessels,
even on a millpond sea. In addition,
writer can certify that one of the five
would never get a seagoing certificate!
Yes, by all means break ’em up.
* * * *
“C.H.F.”: The doorbell rang and I
answered it. “Your wife in?” the caller
demanded. I eyed him doubtfully. “I
want to speak to her,” he continued
brusquely. I conveyed his request to
the missus and she went, a trifle reluc-
tantly. “Do you know where Mr. S
lives around here?” was the question
shot at her. “Couldn’t you have asked
my husband that?” she exclaimed testily ;
“I’m in the middle of cooking.” “No
use asking a man a question like that,”
she was informed ; “only the womenfolk
know where other people live.” He was
away before I could get my spoke in ;
but, thinking it over, I’m none too sure
he wasn’t right.
* * * -.p
“Salt Horse”: Touching on the doubt-
fully lasting qualities of preserved meat.
The lump of jerked beef looked
faded enough to be. doubtfully edible
when I spiked it with a shark hook and
slung it overboard to drag in the briny.
Four hours later I heaved it in again
and Greasy cooked it. Result? The
most delicious piece of meat ever casked
and issued to a survey ship. And the
cask was labelled in burnt letters:
“18/6/1875.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Fire Brigade, exam-
ining over 200 candidates for 14 vacan-
cies, has made the odd discovery that
only about one man in 20 under 25 years
“Can you tell me where I have to put my entry in for the ski-ing
championship?”
old has the chest measurement —ad-
mittedly a bit high, but insisted upon —
of 37in. Even among athletes it is rare.
Swimmers in particular, though with big
shoulder muscles, tend to be flat-chested.
* ill $ IP
“Viti Levu”: If “Tid’apa” and “Bees-
knees” had a more extensive know-
ledge of the Pacific they’d no more talk,
of Prince Ratu Sukuna (B. 2/6/’37) than
of Duke Prince Henry or Prime Minister
Premier Lyons, and they’d know that,
while the same garment would be a
pareu in the Cooks and a lava-lava in
Samoa, what Ratu
Suk u n a and Ratu
Edward Cakobau wore
were sulus. I don’t
think Sukuna holds the
Croix de Guerre; his
star decoration is the
Medaille Militaire. Ad-
ministering, since his
war days, the Lau
group, where he is
Judge not only of
Fijians but also of
Europeans, Sukuna
may very well have forgotten what
trousers are like. Anyway, there’d be
no doubt about what Edward Cakobau
wore on Coronation Day. He marched
as a lieutenant in the Fijian Defence
Forces, and the sulu was part of his
uniform.
* * =i= *
“Billy See”: “Marco’s” account of
sampling “chop suey” in a Sydney eat-
ing house (B. 26/5/’37) made me sym-
pathise with him on his dismal experi-
ence. I’ve eaten it in a number of
places and found it excellent. Here’s a
sample: sliced roast duck, ditto chicken,
roast pork, boiled ham, fried mushrooms,
chestnuts, finely-chopped onion and deli-
cately boiled rice (every grain separate),
the whole deliciously and mysteriously
spiced, and then, to cap it, an ample
saucerful of soy sauce. One worked
through it on a “face,” delving out the
various titbits as they appeared. Had
to let the waist buttons go before the
finish, and it was “One an’ ninepen,
plees,” cooked and served by genuine
Chinks in Perth.
* * * *
“Oran”: Corns as weather-indicators
(B. 9/6/’37)? I know of an up-country
show committee which was faced with
a growing deficit and hoped for a fine-
weather attendance at its annual exhibi-
tion to help wipe it off, but, despite a
blue sky and balmy air, the secretary’s
wife gloomily predicted rain, with a corn
in the prophetic role. She was so in-
sistent that her husband suggested to the
committee that the show should be in-
sured against rain, and, after some demur
over unnecessary expenditure, this was
agreed to. The committee won by two
points, and a gratified secretary, who
accepted congratulations with becoming
modesty, did not reveal the source of his
inside weather information.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The newer journalism was
well in evidence when certain Sydney
papers sent reporters and cameramen to
cover the blowout at Rabaul. Nowadays
the star reporter doesn’t tell the story of
what happened until he has filled a
column or so with his own adventures
on the trip there and back. It’s spread
even to the radio, a special “roundsman”
using all one session for a recount of
his own exploits. Most journalists of the
old school had it impressed on them
that their own affairs were of no interest
to the public ; it would save a lot of
boredom if the younger fry were taught
the same thing.
% * >jc :j;
“Hamfat”: There were some curious
effects attached to early movies. When
“A Ride Through the Rockies” (B.
26/5/’37) was put on in a narrow-gutted
hall in George-street, Sydney, the seats,
made to resemble those in a railway car-
riage, were mechanically constructed to
give a gentle rock up and down periodi-
cally in some sort of imitation of the
sway of a railway carriage. At the
Oxford Hall (also in George-street),
where the movies were blended with
vaudeville, all the stage effects available
were used to add realism. Unfortunately,
it sometimes happened that the gallop-
ing of the hoofs of the hero’s horse as he
escaped from the desperadoes was heard
when the screen showed that he was kiss-
ing the girl.
% # 5k #
“Titun”: Hearing a crash followed by
feminine screams, a Fish Creek (Vic!)
farmer rushed into his daughter’s bed-
room, to be met by a full-grown fox
madly trying to escape. It had jumped
into the room through the closed
window, having apparently got into a
netted fowlrun beneath the window and,
seeing the pane shining in the moonlight
above, mistaken it for an easy way out.
* * * *
“Anno Dom”: Stanley Baldwin, hand-
ing over his job to Neville Chamberlain,
spoke of himself as one who “having had
his hour was going into the shade,” yet
the ex-P.M. is still a bit short of 70 and
his successor is 68. Chamberlain has
taken on the job at a greater age than
anyone for the last half-century, with
one solitary exception. Looking up the
records of Britain’s last 10 Prime Minis-
ters, I find that most of them “arrived”
in their fifties. Ramsay Mac. was 57
when he got to the top, Baldwin 56,
Bonar Law 64, Lloyd George 53, Asquith
56, Campbell-Bannerman 69, Balfour 54,
Rosebery 47, Salisbury 55 and Gladstone
59. The average age at a British
statesman forms his first Government
works out, from the foregoing, at
exactly 57. So that, taking it by and
large, the present time seems far less the
“age of youth” than in the far-off days
when the younger Pitt became Prime
Minister before he was 25.
C Continued on page 50.)
ON THE SHELL.
“Australians fail to appreciate the value of their
oysters, which are the best in the world. Oysteis
in London cost from 7s. 6d. to 15s. a plate, A 1 ®™"
pared with 2s. for the same quantity and a better
quality in Sydney.” —Geologist Roughley, of Sydney
Technological Museum.
In lots of ways all lands we lead,
Whoever else may follow;
In wool, for instance, it’s agreed,
We whack the wide world hollow.
There’s virtue in our wheats and wines;
No foreign sugars sweeten
Like ours, and there are other lines
Wherein we can’t be beaten.
And, lastly, nowhere else on earth,
In palace, pub or cloister,
You’ll find a bivalve with the worth
Of our Australian oyster.
When English gourmets proudly tell
And claim superior glories
For Colchester or Whitstable,
Be sure they’re telling stories.
Compared with ours, when glasses clink
And snowy napery rustles,
They merely rank with periwink-
Les, mussels, whelks and cockles.
Those who to London cafes haste
O’ nights to sup and royster,
Poor things! can never know the taste
Of an Australian oyster.
They’re charged a four- or fivefold price—
I’ faith, they’re treated toughly!
For molluscs not as near as nice
As ours, says Mr. Roughley.
We advertise, to be consumed,
Our products, land and water,
But here’s a thing we’ve never boomed
And obviously oughter.
Wouldn’t it grace our coat-of-arms
(A pint of stout to add its charms,
Where thirsty throats grow moister)
Couchant upon its native shell
Before it makes its last farewell,
Our Great Australian Oyster?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


K My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
CRAVENA
\ ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
\
10 for 9°
20 for 16
''vv
m
: : H
m
V
n
111
m
mm
GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Considering that practically all its sup-
porters have the vote, the Victorian C.P.
polled poorly at the Leg. Council elec-
tions. It contested seven selected seats,
and will win three, possibly four, but
without its odd alliance with abolition-
ist Labor its score would have been at
most two. This minority party could
make a useful contribution to an elected
Ministry, but it is a travesty on demo-
cratic government for it to be in office
alone.
Stalin has had eight Red Army leaders
shot for being Trotskyists or “German
spies.” One was a marshal, the others
were generals. The news that they were
literally getting it in the neck reached
Sydney when divers worthy gentlemen
were holding the annual conference of
their society to promote peace with
Russia. Wouldn’t it be more appropriate
to make it a society to promote peace in
Russia?
Chiefly because Stevens was permitted
to butt in when a word from Lyons or
Casey to the Chancellor of the Exchequer
could have stopped him, Australia will
have to pay £3 16s. 2d. p.c. on the latest
Bruce conversion loan—a saving of a
mere Is. p.c. on the previous incubus.
Even so, Bruce’s conversion operations
have meant a total reduction of
£4,000,000 Australian p.a. in the London
interest bill. Stevens’s “Water Board”
loan will add £lOO,OOO Australian p.a.
to it.
Defending the Stevens Government’s
4 p.c. sterling London loan, the presi-
dent of the Water Board said it was
issued at par on the advice of the Com-
monwealth Government and the Loan
Council. If the italicised words are true,
Curtin will be warranted in challenging
the Commonwealth Government on a
no-confidence motion. But the chances
are that the Water Board president knew
no more about the “Water Board loan”
preliminaries than the bellman.
Declaring that British Labor was
right in rejecting “the Moscow road
to Socialism,” London “Daily Herald”
now confesses that “Soviet executions,
imprisonments, dismissals and degrada-
tions exceed in number those of any
country in the world.” Things must be
pretty rotten in Russia when the “Daily
Herald,” which once accepted Red
Russian money, is driven to admit that
conditions are viler there than in any of
the Fascist countries.
Very few Rabaul people seem to have
wanted to go back to Rabaul, but Ad-
ministrator McNicoll did. He is reported
to have described the eruptions as “a
nine days* wonder.” The trouble is that
active volcanoes are wonders that never
cease.
The Graziers’ Federal Council has
been informed at last —it has been try-
ing for months to get the information
from Canberra —that an eighth of a
penny per pound is to come off the over-
seas freight-rate on wool. Westralian
Farmers made the reduction possible by
going into the wool-shipment business
on its own account. It is an example of
yvhat shrewd and far-sighted voluntary
co-operation can do for land men, and
it can do far more for them than the
compulsory co-operation Cocky poli-
ticians are pursuing—or were pursuing
till the marketing referendum checked
their exuberance.
The people who are demanding equal
pay for the sexes made, a queer choice
of locality when they concentrated on
Sydney, with its multitude of stores and
shops. Tasmania is the obvious place,
and the Education Department the ob-
vious quarter —at the latest enumeration
it employed 887 females and 399 males.
(Queensland figures are 2163 males and
2160 females.) In Tasmania, moreover,
there is a sympathetic Labor Government
which, because of P.R. and a Quinquen-
nial Parliaments Act, is safe for five
years.
Victoria’s Uppish House, will not have
to undergo “reform” as a result of
Saturday’s elections, but it will require a
new unofficial leader. H. I. Cohen
was defeated in the new Higinbotham
province by J. A. Kennedy, who is also
labelled U.A.P. Cohen had no use for
“reform” and he has done too much
scolding ; but he did not deserve to be
beaten by 2 to 1. Australians owe much
to able and patriotic Jews, and should
not let a foul Old-World growth establish
itself among them.
Neville Chamberlain has been assured,
in a solemn resolution, that he has the
National Labor party’s confidence. It
must have gratified him immensely, for
the National Labor party has nine (9)
members in the House of Commons, and
they would all have lost their deposits
without Conservative support. Still the
MacDonald show has had better luck
“The Canadian Prime Minister flatly declared that his country would not be dragged into
any League war.”
“Von’t fight our battles for us, eh ? Scab !”
than the National Labor parties which
shot up in Australia in 1917. They were
all gone by the end of the war, though
Billy Hughes contrived to swallow the
Liberal party and give it another name.
Perhaps because it was remembered
that a young lawyer beat the winner of
the bob-a-nob ballot in Vaucluse, which
is U.A.P., the bob-a-nob ballot in Wool-
lahra, also U.A.P., went to another young
lawyer, Beresford Grant. But a K.C. is
coming out against him.
H.M.A.S. Larrakia seems fated to add
to the mirth of this nation. It sent word
to Darwin that it had arrested the mother-
ship of the Japanese pearling fleet and
was bringing her in, with a machine-gun
trained on her. Then silence fell for 36
hours, and authority got so scared that it
dispatched the Flying Doctor, whom it
used to pursue with writs, to the rescue.
Dr. Fenton found H.M.A.S. Larrakia
crawling ahead of a lugger, with the
mother-ship dutifully following the pro-
cession. It only needs the presence of
Parkhill and Paterson as admirals to
make H.M.A.S. Larrakia the Compleat
Comedy.
The dreary farce of an inquiry into the
affairs of coppers which followed the
N.S.W. s.p. investigation was played out
at the 44th sitting, except for the judg-
ment. “Counsel addressed for 23 days”
(Commissioner’s report) at the first
affair and for 12 days at the second.
One of the 44 sittings had to be cur-
tailed because, a torrent of eloquence
couldn’t be heard above the din made
by a concrete-mixer. A court attendant
paced out into the street to ask the
concrete-mixer men to desist. The reply,
it is understood, was “Cripes, we’re doing
something useful.”
U.A.P. newspapers are inviting N.S.W.
people to believe that the State Govern-
ment is keen on reduction of Assembly
members from 90 to 75. People wifi
believe it when they see an Act passed
and a redistribution plan drawn up and
in operation. Their sentiments, however,
resemble those of the applicant for the
U.A.P. nomination in Woollahra who
said he. believed in 90 members being
“reduced to none.”
Maoriland’s unemployed - placement
plan, the success of which depends on
the active co-operation of private em-
ployers, is being adopted in Victoria.
There employers are also being asked to
make openings for trained “depression”
youths. These youngsters will probably
get preference, as the placement plan in-
volves reference to employers over the
last eight years of registered unemployed
applicants.
Lord Kylsant died owing Australia
about £700,000 on account of the Bay
liners —at least, the White Star Line
did. In June last year the Common-
wealth Government got from the
liquidator a dividend of 2s. 6d. in the £,
amounting to £95,800. That left £681,210
owing, and there is a year’s interest to
be added.
There is talk at Canberra of resuscitat-
ing the Inter-State Commission, with
Pearce as chairman. There may be
something in it, for if Pearce remains in
politics he. will have to go up for re-
election for the seventh time in 37 years,
and he can’t always be lucky. An Inter-
State Commission was designed to be an
important part of the constitutional
machinery. One bossed by Pearce would
be as useless as the Grants Commission,
and more expensive.
Said the Commonwealth Grants Com-
mission last year:—
It cannot be said that W.A. has made
any special sacrifice to put her finances
right. During the eight years prior to
1934 her taxation has been lower than
that of most other States, and it has been
a practice to postpone losses and spend
out of loan funds what should have been
found out of revenue.
Still, it must be acknowledged that
special efforts have been made. There
are nine State Ministers (more populous
S.A. has five) and 80 members (S.A. has
66 and is reducing the number), who get
£6OO p.a., Leg. Councillors included.
And, of course, free passes on the Gov-
ernment trams and buses and over the
Government railway lines of Australia
and Maoriland.
N.S.W. Deputy Premier Bruxner, writ-
ing to his coalition’s grandmother the
“Herald,” dropped into history:
The Great Hall at Westminster was built
by William Rufus 900 years ago, and has
never been altered since.
Nine hundred is stretching it a bit,
and on the other point the good Bruxner
corrected himself —on May 7 the Great
Hall of Rufus was “transformed into a
mighty luncheon-room,” complete with
carpets, kitchens and even central-heat-
ing, so that Bruxner and the representa-
tives of 26 other Parliaments might tuck
their toes under the tables and wade in
with knife and fork. One. gathers with
gratitude that the honorable and gallant
surrounded the wing and breast of
a roast bird “almost on the spot where
Charles I. waited for his death sentence.”
Isn’t history grand?
Broadcasting in Brisbane, Queensland
Attorney-General Mullan (who is neither
an attorney nor a general) said that one
of the biggest things his party had done
was the establishment of the State In-
surance Office. He forgot a much greater
achievement —the State cattle stations.
Area, more than 30,000 square miles.
Ascertained losses, nearly £2,000,000.
In Queensland State “enterprises” ac-
count for about £4,000,000 in the “classi-
fication of loan assets” ; that is, among
the “assets” which are permanent liabili-
ties. The insurance office profit is barely
equal to half the interest on the losses
of other “enterprises.”
The periodical cry has been raised
again that Government departments are
haunted by moneylenders with salary
assignments and garnishee orders. As
usual, newspapers which support borrow-
ing Governments rail at the improvidence
of clerks who mortgage their screws and
demand that something should be done
about it. But the embarrassed clerks are
merely following the example of their
bosses.
Sale of the present Melbourne Hos-
pital site in upper Swanston-street after
the hospital transfers to Parkville is being
opposed by interests desirous of retain-
ing it for a “cultural centre.” There
should be ample time to prepare a good
case —the hospital authorities, until re-
cently quite prepared to build first and
then worry about payment, still don’t
know where the money is coming from
for the proposed new hospital.
Said G. H. Bowhay, the president, at
the N.S.W. Shires’ Conference:
Governments have many forms of taxa-
tion open to them. Municipal councils
can tax only the land. To supplement
its works policy, the Stevens Government
is inducing councils to borrow large
sums, and there is danger of their becom-
ing so heavily involved that they won’t
be able to carry on.
Spooner, the superfluous Minister of
Local Government, laughs at the warn-
ing. His idea is that councils should be
induced to borrow all they can get; and
after him the deluge.


« ,//
What do you want your hamds amputated for .
V\ , /
1 DONT LIK.E WORK ; DOC .
"v_ / *
E VMAS TOO GiOOD LOOVOU ,
V \ DOMT APPROVE OP THE MISSUS
GiOUF . NN
//
Tt-j act shoulo
STOP THetO .^
v\ \ n
V OBJECT to pocks vsje^e?mg, en\.
" 1m TRVtKGi TO STOP TVAVS BETTIHGy"
RADICAL REMEDIES.
“A man arrested for taking radiator caps explained that he intended not to steal, but to throw them away—because he didn’t believe people should own cars.”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POWER DEPENDS ON SPANKING PLUGS
Champions
&
Iwmmwym*1 wmmwym* ■//
WJWJfJJjjj,;:
■:yy.yyjyjj.
yyjjjjjj.
I'
I
■l ’j'S/fMr
a
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
POWER to climb hills. POWER to
cover the ground quickly. POWER to
give your car greater speed with less
effort, less vibration, less expense. Get
POWER the way racing champions
get it... with CHAMPIONS.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
fig iJ|I J
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Sixteen candidates contested the
U.A.P. selection for Woollahra (N.S.W.)
State seat, vacant through the death of
Dan Levy, and out of the scramble
emerged 30-year-old George Beresford
Grant as the winner, closely followed by
Vernon Treatt, favored in Cabinet circles.
The rest were out of the race. Grant,
educated at Barker College, Hornsby,
took his law with honors at Cambridge
and was called to the London Bar in
1932. Same year he returned to Aus-
tralia and became associate, to Judge
Halse Rogers. Two other barristers,
H. H. Mason, K.C., and G. R. W. Mc-
Donald, have nominated as U.A.P. Inde-
pendents. Polling day is June 26.
The Adelaide scientific expedition to
Flinders Ranges headed by Prof. Cleland
(B. 26/5/’37) having returned with useful
anthropological material, another is to
set out from the Abminga, 100 miles
north of Oodnadatta, to work east across
the Simpson desert to Birdsville (Q.),
crossing Winnecke’s (1883) track. G. N.
Clarke, botanist at the Waite Institute,
will collect specimens with an eye on soil
erosion in the dry country, and H. T.
Condon, zoologist at Adelaide’s museum,
will look after the birds and other wild
life. They join E. A. Colson at Abminga,
and the three “C’s” will travel with 12
camels instead of the 100 would-be ex-
plorers, including women, who begged
to be. allowed to accompany them. Their
route is generally the northern boundary
of the Crow State.
Selwyn Betts, just made a District
Court Judge (N.S.W.), has his roots well
planted in Australian soil; he is a direct
descendant of the John Betts who came
to Australia in September, 1829, and in
September of the following year married
Mary Marsden, “the lovable and amiable”
(his own words) daughter of the Rev.
NEW JUDGE BETTS.
Samuel. Judge Betts, who has been
Acting-J. on several occasions and
deputy-chairman of the Workers’ Com-
pensation Commission, has been on the
legal roll for 34 years. He had a spell
wjth the boys overseas, finishing with a
lieut.-colonelcy.
Stuart Doyle’s resignation of the man-
aging-directorship of Greater Union
Theatres owing to a disagreement
with his co-directors on policy, sets him
free for new enterprises, among which
are the new theatres being built in
Regent-street, London, on the lines of
the State Theatre in Sydney. He has
become associated with Alan Cobham
in a new company which proposes first
to assemble, then to manufacture, ’planes
in Australia, is opening out on broad-
casting and proposes to produce moving
pictures in England for world release.
A full-time job for one who has just
sacked himself.
Sailed into the sunset at 82, Frederick
Adams (“Bungaree”), one of Sydney’s
oldest yachtsmen. Senior member of
Royal Prince Alfred Yacht Club, with
55 years’ association, and last of Dr.
Milford’s crew that won the first inter-
state yacht race at Melbourne in 1883,
he skippered a boat in an old-timers’
race when he was 80. In business life
he was a customs agent. He was born
and died at Wharf-road, Balmain, and
wished his ashes spread around a tree
he had planted on his club’s property
at Newport.
Holy Trinity Church, Miller’s Point,
Sydney, has lost Rev. Stanley Best, a
genuine friend of the poor and unfortu-
nate, who largely made up his congre-
gation. He was often in The Bulletin
office, sometimes seeking a par. to help
a charitable movement along, at other
times asking advice about goldmines in
which he had dabbled unprofitably.
Holy Trinity is a beautiful old church
at the western end of Argyle Cut, built
as the first garrison church in the days
of crinolines and scarlet uniforms, before
Tom the Miller’s Point degenerated into
the Rocks. Reid and Barton attended
the day school there. Best was arrang-
ing for the ninety-seventh anniversary of
the church when he died.
One of the outstanding figures in the
early history of Cairns (N.Q.), Richard
Alfred Tills, has passed out at 77. He
came from Hull as a lad and watched
Cairns grow from mangrove swamps to
a city of 12,000. His first venture was
sawmilling ; then he tried mining. His
water-wheel battery on the old Mulgrave
goldfield was a source of wonder at the
time. Subsequently he was appointed
inspector of Public Works, and
was associated with launching
the Federal Government’s
soldier - settlement homes up
there. He was Mayor of Cairns
from 1898 to 1908.
One-time member for Mar-
anoa in Queensland Parliament,
Thomas A. Spencer, 75, died in
Sydney last week after a motor
accident. Son of the Rev.
Charles Spencer, he lived for
many years at Roma (Q.), where
he had a grazing property. A
solicitor son lives in Sydney.
Several keen S’African Rugby
Union football barrackers are
making the Australian and
Maoriland tour with the Spring-
boks. H. J. C. Stephan, an ex-
Mayor of Cape Town, is interested in
S’Africa’s crayfish canning industry;
G. Wiehahan, also from Cape Town,
is a retired Government official; E.
M. M. Hind is a director of Johan-
nesburg’s “Daily Mail” and “Sun-
day Times”; Hector Reid, former
Griqua’s forward, is a Kimberley
diamond-trader who hopes to see some-
thing of ex-servicemen and of those 1928
Maorilanders and 1933 Wallabies whom
he played against; H. Heatlie is a Cape
Province farmer; B. C. S. Burnett, chief
officer of East London’s fire department,
is casting an eye over Australian and
Maoriland fire-fighting methods ; Robert
Stevenson is a Cape Town clubman ; and
W. Kelly, hotel proprietor, merchant and
businessman, just about runs the Cape
Province tow'n of Seymour.
Gordon McLean, editor of the
“Observer,” an Auckland (M.L.) weekly,
who joined the footballers at Melbourne
as Reuter’s representative and correspon-
dent for several Maoriland dailies, did the
same job through Maoriland with the
British Rugby Union tourists of 1930.
The two S’African journalists travelling
with the present ’Boks are John E. Sacks,
sporting editor of Johannesburg’s “Rand
Daily Mail” and “Sunday Times,” and
A. Weber, representing the Afrikaans
dailies “Die Burger” (Cape Town) and
“Volksblad” (Bloemfontein); Weber is
news-editor of “Die Burger.”
Some light on the Australian career of
the old King Country character Jack
Allen (B. 5/5/’37) is thrown by John
Woodham, of Taumarunui (M.L.), who
says he knew him 40 years ago in
N.S.W. Jack had hair as yellow as
gold, and dressed then, as always, in a
shirt and pair of trousers. He travelled
all over Australia, never long enough in
one place to become well known. He
could ride, shoot, box, dance, sing, con-
jure and play almost any musical instru-
ment ; he could run a concert on his own.
He roamed the King Country for 30
years until his death at 86.
Frank Young, re-elected chairman of
the National Council of Woolselling
King of the Wool Business.
Brokers of Australia, is a big man physi-
cally in a big job nationally. He was
bred in, the wool business, his father
being John Young, a pastoralist of Mt.
Templeton (S.A.). Frank came to Syd-
ney as manager for the Commonwealth
Wool and Produce Company after an
apprenticeship in the wool business over-
seas. Two brothers, Frederick and
Walter, are knights. Fred was A.-G. for
South Australia, and went into the Com-
mons for a few years ; Walter is still in
S.A. as a pastoralist and advises the
Government when required.
About the youngest city councillor
Melbourne has had, Norman Carlyon,
well known to the Vic. hotel and cater-
ing trade, was born in Ballarat in 1902.
After he left Geelong Grammar he was
nearly two years in U.S.A. seeing how
CARLYON, of Melbourne.
San Francisco runs its hotels. Melbourne
traffic congestion is now one of his pet
subjects, and that’s his principal reason
for contesting the recent council by-elec-
tion, which he won. He says he is not
a golfer, but enjoys playing at it; he’s
a well-known squash-racquets man, and
the winners of the A- and B-grade com-
petitions to be played at Royal Mel-
bourne late in May will walk home with
trophies he has presented.
Vale to an adventurous peer:
Dead last week at 74, Lord Kylsant vied
with his brother and with Galway (G.-G. of
Maoriland) and Halifax (formerly Viceroy of
India) as one of the tallest men in the House
of Lords. Welshman and son of the church,
he bought a ship 48 years ago, entered the S.
American trade and in less than 40 years be-
came a peer and the greatest owner of ships
the world had ever known. In 1928, after he
had acquired the Union Castle line and added
it to his Royal Mail Packet holdings, he bought
Australia’s ill-fated Commonwealth line. Then
a dispute broke out between him and his
brother, Lord St. David’s, which ended in
serious trouble. It became known that the
R.M.P. had lost £15,000,000 over a few years,
and Kylsant ended up in Wormwood Scrubs
for issuing a false prospectus. Though it drove
him out of his directorships and the chairman-
ship of the Conservative Association, it did not
affect his prestige in Carmarthenshire, where he
lived. When he returned home from quod, his
tenants, led by the vicar, erected a triumphal
arch and dragged his carriage up the drive in
true feudal style.
“Mistersmith”: The naming of a new
bridge over the Hunter (N.S.W.) after
local Councillor William Allan was a
deserved tribute to a man of many parts
—Digger farmer, rifleshot, student, com-
pany director, shire councillor, member of
P and C. and Progress Assocs. in galore,
and a friend of “lame dogs.” I visited his
estate some years back and beheld a
cricket and football ground, tennis court
and a nine-hole course for the use of the
local sports. His successful sheep-farm-
ing and pasture improvement rank him
with the Prells and Brunskills.
Monsignor Flanagan, of Mudgee
(N.S.W.), whose fiftieth anniversary of
ordination to the priesthood occurred on
June 4, has been parish priest in the
town on the Cudgegong for 25 years.
Born in Ireland in 1863, he went to
Orange with his parents at an early age,
studied, at Bathurst seminary and was
ordained in Rome. In 1932 he was
made Vicar-General of the Bathurst
diocese, and in the same year Pius XI.
made him a Domestic Prelate. The
golden anniversary was marked by a
gift of new seats for his magnificent
Gothic church.


“E qual to
J liqueur
a fine
m
&
m
I
mM
\W
m
%v>%
Vv-:
M
4
“I can tell
White Horse
You have only to use your
judgment. Fragrance, softness and a glow such
as this can only belong to a whisky that equals
a fine liqueur.??
Screw cap flasks of convenient on sale everywhere
blindfold!
WH2-37


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“W.P.T.”: Rural Australians must be
among the world’s heartiest eaters. On
rising a blowout on tea and toast that
their effete cousins of the city would call
a hearty meal, breakfast after milking,
morning-tea at eleven o’clock, more tea,
etc., before the afternoon milking, a hot
dinner after that and a substantial supper
before retiring, all in addition to the
main meal in the middle of the day ;
that seems the regulation fodder pro-
gramme with most cow-farming families
1 know. And then there’s fruit in be-
tween meals just to keep them from get-
ting really hungry!
* * * *.
“Francis”: The W.Q. downs, particu-
larly around the Middleton district,
present an unusual sight just now, being
covered for miles with great rolls of
tarvine, like Brobdingnagian bolsters.
The good season produced an exception-
ally heavy growth of the vine, but grass-
hoppers got at the roots. As the stuff
dried, strong winds gathered the clumps
together and rolled them up into bol-
sters of anything up to 4ft. in diameter
and 100 ft. or more in length. The oc-
currence is a very rare one and may be
valuable, as the vine in this condition is
an excellent stock feed and can be
gathered in for storage with ease.
-fi IjC
“Atrax”: Not only bower-birds, but
most birds with any distinctive vocal
abilities undergo systematic voice train-
ing in their youth (B. 26/5/’37). Jacky
Kookaburra is a notable instance in
point. Every springtime regular voice-
production classes, attended by several
families, are held in an old grey gum in
my neighborhood. I have watched them
for six seasons past, and old Charley,
who goes back to the ’seventies, tells me
that the same auditorium was used when
he was a kid. Jacky, junior, has, at first,
no more than a kurr-r-r kurr-r-r food
call and an alarm shriek. It takes a
couple of years to acquire the genuine
thing in laughs, and the accomplishment
is closely studied by the neophytes, their
heads on one side as they listen atten-
tively to a community performance by
their elders. Then each in turn will give
an imitation, being pulled up and cor-
rected at any mistake. • Refresher courses
are held from time to time later on, as
the youngsters grow.
* * * *
“Coif”: Evidence for the defence took
an interesting turn in a N.S.W. country
larceny case. Defendant was accused of
having stolen a stockwhip, which was
identified in court as having been bought
from a saddler. Defendant swore the.
whip was his, and added that he had
made it himself. Also, he said, he had
plaited a length of copper wire into the
belly, where it would still be. The Bench,
having in mind the precedent laid down
by Solomon, J., in a somewhat similar
case, ordered the whip to be disem-
bowelled in court. This was done amid
tense excitement, and the copper wire of
defendant’s story was revealed. Defen-
dant was discharged without a stain, etc.
❖ * * ❖
"Old-timer”: Though old and unable
to see anything more than 100 yards away,
Jack was the finest mustering dog I ever
saw. In a reasonably-sized open pad-
dock he had but to be told to “way
back” and off he’d race. He’d go straight
out from the man, trying desperately to
find the sheep. After a time he’d halt
and look back. No call coming he’d
keep straight on. At a yell he’d veer
tentatively to the right, keep on if un-
checked, or turn sharp to the left at
another yell. Eventually he’d find sheep,
and, once having them within range of
his short vision, every one of them would
be brought back. If there were two or
three flocks, all the musterer had to do
was let Jack head his first discovery for
home, then blister the air with curses,
from which Jack gathered that he had to
find more sheep. On the road you could
put the near-sighted old dog behind the
mob, and, sans water and food, he’d stay
there till relieved, ambling tirelessly from
side to side. Fools who tried to play jokes
on him by sending him for sheep that
weren’t there got short shrift from the
boss. In the frantic rush to get the jum-
bucks out of the track of bushfires west
of Euston (N.S.W.), Jack and his charge
of 300 wethers were overlooked some-
how. He stayed with his charges, faith-
ful to a cinder.
* * * *
“Titun”: Gippsland (B. 2/6/’37) has
further to its credit the black coalmines
of Wonthaggi. Also, a chain of ports
from Mallacoota in the east to Welsh-
pool on Corner Inlet supply a large por-
tion of Victoria’s fish. Welshpool, too, is
the centre for the sturdy crayfish ketches
that fish the islands of Bass Strait.
Scenic honors also go to Gippsland ; it
has the rugged scenery of the National
Park at Wilson Promontory, the pictur-
esque hill country with its wonderful
road system, the beauty of the lakes
and the luxurious vegetation of the
eastern end.
“Ellenvale”: Add to Gippsland’s ver-
satility the distinction of producing more
tigers than any other part of Australia.
Some years ago the Morwell tiger ter-
rorised the district, turning the inhabi-
tants into a race of gun-carrying
desperadoes who shot first and asked
questions afterwards. Since then the
Traralgon tiger and the Gormandale
ditto have given local hunters a chance
to show their prowess. These mysterious
animals made a point of appearing only
at twilight, and, as the people who saw
them were usually unarmed citizens re-
turning from a hard day’s shopping in
the township, no one ever collected their
scalps or whatever it is you collect from
tigers. Nowadays the Briagolong tiger is
supposed to roam the foothills of Gipps-
land. Though hunting parties have
combed the bush for him, it is considered
bad form to make any slighting refer-
ences to the beast. The year before last,
a huge brown bear of almost incredible
size and swiftness was sighted near
Bairnsdale, but I’m not surprised at that,
because the last time Mick and I had
a holiday thereabouts we were chased
by a barking herd of wall-eyed flamin-
goes.
* * # #
“Gumsucker”: Those Eyre Peninsula
beekeepers who are having trouble with
small black ants (B. 19/5/’37) are experi-
encing nothing new. Forty years ago
my old man’s apiary near Ballarat (Vic.)
was nearly wiped out by the same kind
of insects, until commonsense suggested
putting the hives on legs, stood in tins
partly filled with water and kerosene —
just as Mum did to keep the little black
devils out of the tucker safe.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: George is the acknow-
ledged fox expert of our district. He can
tell you the age, disposition and habits
of every fox within a 10-mile radius, and
one glance at a skin or carcass is suffi-
cient for him to identify the animal.
“Huh, so you got that bloke at last!”
he’ll remark, turning the victim over with
his boot. “That‘s the. cove wot took
Donovan’s fowls the year before last.”
“ well, constable, you cant say I'm one of those hit-and-run people."
George is always ready to prove his
assertions. “Oh, that feller! That's the
dog-fox I seen when I was ploughin’ the
crop paddick three years ago come
Easter. I’m pretty sure it’s the same
bloke, because I remember it was just
after that chestnut mare of old Bill’s won
the handicap at the Creek.” According
to local legend, George keeps an up-to-
date roster of incoming and outgoing
foxes, and no one would think of organ-
ising a hunt without including George
and his battered double-barrel as the
leader of the party.
❖ * * *
“Golden Mile”: Those two timber-
workers who laid their heads for decapi-
tation on the tramway (B. 19/5/’37)
weren’t really drunk. A miner wandering
home, at midnight and stumbling over
the railway track at Boulder (W.A.) felt
the metals on both sides and decided he
had tumbled into bed, the metals repre-
senting the iron side-rails of his bunk.
Close to dawn nearly the full length of
a shunting goods train passed over him.
It was running backwards and luckily
the guard fancied he had seen something,
otherwise the cowcatcher of the engine
would have collected the. still slumbering
roisterer. Even after the dozen or so
trucks had reversed he still slept on.
Awakened, he was a most surprised man
to find he wasn’t home in bed.
* t- *
“Colon”: “Carapace” may have ex-
perimented with baby turtles (B. 2/6/’37),
but he didn’t watch closely or he would
have discovered why their old man can't
regain his dignity when turned tummy-
up. The youngster in that position
pushes his head out to its full extent,
turns it sideways and, pushing against the
ground, after a few preliminary heaves
turns himself right-side up. As he grows
up his sub-collar development, like that
of the genus Politician, is out of pro-
portion to the upper region, and any
attempt to turn over with the abandon
of his youth would merely result in a
pain in the neck.
❖ ❖ * *
“Mulgo”: What sundry Aboites have
been calling a native cherry is the coastal
quandong, or native peach. It seldom
grows beyond the root range of gums
or other native trees, from the roots of
which it draws most of its sustenance.
When the host tree is destroyed the quan-
dong dies. The tree can be grown from
seed, if placed in the ground in the
vicinity of a gum or a mallee clump. The
inland quandong grows independently of
other trees. None of the native cherries
is parasitic. The best I know grows along
our mid-eastern rivers and creeks. It is
a beautiful tree, bearing heavy crops of
sweet oblong fruit of a dark-red color.
Another cherry, also sweet and juicy, is
round and red. These trees are related
to the. lillipilli, but the cherries are slip-
stones and the lillipillies clingstones. The
yellow cherry has the stone on the out-
side, right on the point.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: The other day jelly-
fish caused a blackout at Brisbane, tons
of the blancmangy creatures choking
the screens of the intakes of the City
Electric Light power station at Dough-
boy Creek. They chose the busiest time
of the day—s.2o p.m.—when stores,
pubs, pictures and cafes were in full
swing. The new traffic lights shared in
the general gloom, and the former traffic
police squad, ■ detailed to other duties
only a few days before, had to be hastily
recalled to the old familiar job for a
while. The. blockage was shifted by the
power-station staff with shovels, and bless-
ings fell on the heads of the strikers in
southern metal industries who had been
the means of delaying arrival of addi-
tional screening, ordered months ago,
which would have, prevented the happen-
ing, and will in future.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Sorry to see the C.S. and
I.R. recommending N. S. Wales graziers
to “undertake vigorous destruction of
the crow” as a protection to sheep. What
they really mean is the raven, but, un-
luckily for themselves, the two species
of crow are so like to that bad lot among
birds that they are blamed for his crimes.
Crows live mainly on insects, and will
never touch a live. lamb. The easiest
method of identification is to brush up
the feathers of the back—if they are
black down to the quills it is a raven;
if white in the lower half, a crow. But
one cannot reasonably expect a sheep-
man to go to that trouble with a trapped
bird, and shot or poisoned ones are
equally dead, whether crow or raven.
Even the. raven has his good points, for
he kills immense numbers of grass-
hoppers and other destructive insects, and
his carrion-feeding habits prevent the
breeding of innumerable blowflies.
GATES.
St. Peter put his yo-yo down and rubbed his
saintly eyes,
As through a cloud a figure, bowed, pursued
by swarms of flies,
Came tramping up to heaven’s gate, and stood
there in amaze,
Then dropped his swag and tucker bag and
said, “Well, spare me days,
“I’ve humped this here Matilda from the age
of seventeen;
There ain’t a track in all outback that us two
haven’t seen;
But when I rolled me final swag I thought I’d
cleaned the slate.
Now, stone the crows, before me nose I see
another gate!
“In fifty years of hoofin’ it, and coverin’ all
the while
Twelve n.iles a day at least, I’d say, at two
gates to the mile,
I ain’t much good at figures, but the way I
calculates,
In my career I’ve opened near on fifty thou-
sand gates.
“These gates! They fairly haunt me; there
was gates of every sort:
Rusted gates and busted gates, high, low' and
long an’ short,
Gates that seemed to challenge you and gates
that seemed to cringe,
Lazy gates and crazy gates that hang on half
a hinge;
“Gates tinkered up with fencin’-wire, an’ gates
all pretty scrolls,
With patent catch and home-made latch, and
gates made out of poles.
Wide gates and narrow gates, big barriers and
small,
Saggin’ gates and draggin’ gates—l’ve wrestled
with ’em all.
“I’ve opened ’em and shut ’em till the sight of
all I hate.
I’d rather miss your heavenly bliss than open
that there gate!
What’s that? You’ll open ’er for me? Now,
that’s what I call nice!
And close ’er, too, when 1 get through? Well,
this is Paradise.”
N.S.W.
B.A. KER.


“Skull Creek”: Of all Australian
native animals I’d nominate the wombat
as the most useless from a commercial or
any other viewpoint. As far as I know
his hide is valueless, and anyone who has
ever tried to eat boiled, baked, fried or
cured wombat will agree that it has the
consistency and taste of wet leather. One
’bat will do more damage in a night
than a dozen kangaroos, and if you are
foolish enough to keep one as a pet you
will be awakened some night by a noise
like a small earthquake and discover him
entering your dining-room from under-
neath in a litter of flooring boards and
torn linoleum. As far as appearance
goes, not even the most enthusiastic
zoologist can acclaim his beauty.
* $ * *
“D.8.G.”: Touching on recently-
mentioned abo. songs, I’ve noticed that
the death chant of natives in this part of
W.A. consists of the eight syllables in
“Larboard Watch” —“But who can speak
the joy he feels,” repeated over and over
again. It may rise, or fall an octave
but the notes are always the same. A
mob of squatting gins will keep this up
for half an hour or so, all the while
smacking their heads with a piece of
jagged rock, till the blood is trickling
down their shoulders. There is nothing
more mournful imaginable.
* * * *
“Gogus”: Roots boring downwards
seemingly incredible distances to obtain
water are nothing out of the ordinary,
but I have found that they will travel
similar distances on the horizontal. In
a W.A. goldfields town, literally as dry as
an ashpit, a pepper-tree on my block
lived a valiant but discouraged life for
over 10 years. Then, diagonally across
the intersection of a hard-beaten road,
an industrious Italian started a market
garden. In less than 18 months my
hitherto stunted pepper had become an
umbrageous beauty, its roots traversing
nearly 200 ft. of the driest earth to filch
the expensive moisture.
“Nor’-west”: Dossing on the beach at
Maud Landing, nor’-west W.A., I was
awakened by a sharp nip on the ear.
Suspecting mosquitoes, I pulled the nap
up and dropped off again. But the night
was warm, and soon I woke to another
nip. Swinging a heavy palm, I was
startled to shatter something shelly. Joe,
my cobber, was also awake and com-
plaining. Striking a light, we found the
swatted object was a crab. There were
thousands of them around; little
fellows with a carapace no bigger than
one of those, new crown pieces and with
one claw four times the size, of its mate.
Beach scavengers, these crustaceans
started work after dark. The nips on
the lug had been to ascertain if I were
really dead, the main mob waiting for
the test before wading in for a banquet.
I found later that anything left on the
beach, from a dead fish to a skinned
’roo, would be well cleaned up by morn-
ing.
* * * *
“Avee”: Not only are the very young
of some animals scentless (B. 2/6/’37),
but at certain times fully-grown animals
also have this protection. The hare is an
outstanding example. The leverets are
hidden separately, and the mother has to
visit each one to feed it. Detection of
“You’re the laziest blasted good-f'r-nothin cow I've ever had Workin' under me!
“They be fightin' words in MY country, zur. Good thing for YOU Were not there now!"
the hiding places would be easy for foxes
and other enemies but for the fact that
during this period the female has no
scent.
* * * *
.“Notaden”: There ought to be some
means of forcing it home on anybody
like “Flight” (B. 26/5/’37) that his so-
called “eaglehawk” is one of the world’s
noblest eagles and a good friend of the
pastoralist and farmer. Its habit of re-
turning to a carcass, however decom-
posed, which “Flight” regards only as its
stupid way of getting itself easily
poisoned, prevents the rotting flesh from
breeding blowflies enough to do more
harm to stock than a million eagles. In
a lifetime of outback observation I have
never seen, or heard reliably of, a lamb
“Dashed if I know where those shots of yours are going to."
“Neither do I, sir, but they're leavin' 'ere all right."
being taken by an eagle from a flock.
They cannot lift more than 51b. weight,
anyhow. Any which I have ever seen
them feeding on have been stillborn or
dead from natural causes. All Australian
species of eagle should be protected by
law against the idiots who, with gun,
poison and traps, are destroying them
and other valuable natural enemies of
genuinely harmful insects and animals.
* * * *
“Coen”: “Leirum” seems in need of
a pair of good glasses when he rates the
N.Q. and Papuan cuscus as “tiny” (B.
2/6/’37). The. several varieties I know
are bigger than any of our possums, and
for what the soap advertisements call
“B.O.” “gigantic” is the only word applic-
able. On the other hand, I have kept as
pets more than one of the little striped
phalangers which “L” says smell to the
heavens. The only one I noticed this in
had climbed into an old-fashioned
phonograph cylindrical record to have a
sleep and, owing to the lid being put on
the box, was not discovered until a week
or so later.
* * * *
“Moe”: Where have all the really big
trees gone? The papers were yelping a
while ago about a 382 ft. “forest giant.”
Giant, me. foot! Years ago it would
have been classed as a sapling. When I
started sawmill work as a nipper my
first job was on a mill that cut timber
from one tree for two solid years. It
was a huge E. regnans, growing right
alongside the mill. It was too tall to
fell with safety, as it would have
“bridged” across two gullies and an iron-
stone ridge, making haulage back to the
mill long and expensive. The boss de-
cided to fell it in sections from the top
down, and after six months’ cutting we
cleaned up the limbs and started on the
trunk proper. Two years’ work, and we
had her down to 150 feet; then we
found that we were only just holding
our own, for in the fertile Gippsland soil
the trunk was growing as fast as we cut
it up. The boss got disgusted, chucked
his hand in, and left for Tasmania the
next day. “I want a bush,” he said,
“where I can cut ’em, not just prune the
blankards! ”
* * * *
“Spicer’s Gap”: The Queensland half-
bred dingo certainly gives his enemies a
run for their money. The country round
the Herries Range near Thane had been
troubled for some time with a black-and-
tan which had escaped wounded from
two drives and had torn himself out of
at least one trap. However, a platoon
of 14 beaters, with 42 guns behind them,
caught the battered veteran the other day
after he had accounted for about 150
sheep and lambs.
* * * *
“York and Ainsty”: Cannot agree with
“Bacalas” that foxes object to badgers
as neighbors (B. 2/ 6 / ’37). In the part of
Yorkshire I used to be acquainted with it
was common to find a vixen using a
badger earth as a maternity hospital, and
dog foxes not uncommonly made free use
of the badger’s des. fit. all mod. con. The
local legend was that the badger was the
objector, which seems most natural. When
other methods failed he was said to
gather a posy of sweet-smelling flowers
and place it in the den. The fox, accus-
tomed to his own “hum,” was so dis-
gusted with the —to him —unendurable
odor that he invariably left in a hurry.
* * * *
“Jumbaroo”: “F. Motocar” is alto-
gether too finicky and eager to make
hard work of it (B. 19/5/’37). Ages ago
Binghi learned to burn the grass to secure
food. But he didn’t sneak up on his
stomach to pot the game that came to
dine on what the fire had booked. No
plurry fear! He collected the grilled
lizards, etc., at first hand, and many a
hungry white man has done the same.
It is the true self-service luncheon —pick
your self-cooked grill right off the plate.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: June skies have a good
deal of interest in mid-east Australia.
On the 6th all the planets which are vis-
ible to the naked eye could be seen at
once by those who rose sufficiently early,
or got home sufficiently late, as Mer-
cury gave his last glimpse low in the east.
Mars, Jupiter and Venus are particularly
bright, Saturn rather dimmed by his 920
million miles. On the 19th Venus will
indicate the position of the distant giant
Uranus. The Great Bear can still be seen
for a few hours in early evening to the
north, the Three Snakes are all in view,
and the Milky Way of a frosty night
glitters like a canopy of diamond dust
in which are set the gems of the Southern
Cross and its two great companion star-
groups.
BUSH ALBUM.
Jennifer fell •in the billabong,
Poor little worried thing!
Because the gentleman-jackeroo
Left, as he promised he wouldn’t do,
And she hadn’t a wedding ring.
Here’s Jennifer’s sister —she ran away
And went on the Sydney stage;
Then she married, oh, long ago,
A steward that worked for the P. and O.
Please turn over the page.
This, in the chequered pantaloons?
Why, that was my own dear pa.
He used to swear by the Great Lord Harry
There wasn’t a woman on earth he’d marry,
But he reckoned without my ma.
This was grandmother’s brother Ben.
He lived to a ripe old age,
The cleverest man in all the land
At tricking a trooper or changing a brand.
Please turn over the page.
Here’s Auntie Flo on her wedding day,
When bustles were all the rage,
But she didn’t need any bustle, they say;
She happened, you see, to be built that way.
Please turn over the page.
I think these albums are nice, don’t you,
With their dreams of a bygone day?
I’m sorry you have to go so soon,
But I’ll show you the rest .some afternoon,
Do call when you pass this way!
QUEENSLAND.
L. O'NEIL.


iNOBED
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
naflONi
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for , Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: It. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY’. N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAU’I'OKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- ami 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12,45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet , sent free, on request. '
Directors 1 .
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) \V. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq ■
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ ' ’
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
Three corporate bodies still exist in
connection with forestry bonds sold by
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.; these are
the bond-selling co., the trustee for the
bondholders (Australasian Forestry Bond
Trust Co.) and the realisation co. (N.Z.
Forest Products, Ltd.). Briefly, chief
functions of the bond-selling co. are to
acquire land, plant trees thereon, tend,
maintain and bring to maturity the
forests thus created, and then hand them
over to . the forest owners or their repre-
sentatives. Duties of the trustee are (1)
to see that the bond-selling co. carries
out its contract, (2) to hold and invest
the maintenance fund (this is held on
trust; it belongs to the bond-selling co.,
which put up the money as a guarantee
for maintenance, etc.), and (3) generally
to see that bondholders are properly pro-
lected, especially in respect of land titles.
The trustee co., which has regularly
reported that the bond-selling co. has
properly carried out its contract, now
stands in substantially the same relation-
ship to the realisation co. as it previously
did to bondholders. The need for its
existence is therefore limited.
The products or realisation co., whose
future simply bristles with problems, is
now the most important one from the
bondholders’ point of view. It was regis-
tered in Auckland, Dec. 24, 1936, with a
nominal capital of £11,000,000 in 170,000
£3O shares and 5,900,000 £1 shares, and
issued to bondholders one £3O share for
each bond. At the end of March last,
paid capital was £4,061,726 in 139,427
£3O shares, on which there was £121,084
outstanding in respect of partly-paid
bonds. There was a reserve of £1555 in
respect of forfeited shares, £18,220 was
coming to the.trust co. on loan account,
and £2041 to sundry creditors. The lot
was represented by bonds in N.Z. Per-
petual Forests at cost, £4,063,280 ; office
furniture, etc., £3lB ; cash, £550 ; p. and
1. debit, £19,393.
The co. has not yet taken over the
forest properties from N.Z. Perpetual
Forests. It therefore has no cash-paid
capital or reserves; funds to carry on
with were advanced on loan by the
trustee co., such loan being approved by
the Bondholders’ Incorporation Commis-
sion, the authority appointed by the Gov-
ernment to straighten out complications
associated with the forestry-bond busi-
ness. The p. and 1. debit is in the nature
of a suspense account, subject to appor-
tionment between capital and income.
The shares issued are in 28 classes, cor-
responding to the classes of bonds sold.
It is intended to convert all these dif-
ferent classes of shares into one class.
This will involve preferential considera-
tion to holders in respect of early bond
issues. When the respective rights have
been determined, the matter will be sub-
mitted to the commission for approval.
Meanwhile, the board has withheld the
issue of share certificates in order to
avoid unnecessary expense.
The taking over of the forests by the
realisation co. will relieve the bond-
selling co. of the unexpired portion of
its contracts connected with maintenance,
etc. A large sum of money and intri-
cate technical problems are involved. Ex-
perts on each side are engaged on the
task of adjustment, which will finally be
referred to the commission for equit-
able determination. When this question
of “compounding the maintenance con-
tract” is settled, the realisation co. will
take possession of the forest areas. After
that, there lies ahead the big and difficult
job of converting the forests and selling
the products at a profit, if possible.
In this connection some preliminary
work has been done, but final considera-
tion of specific proposals has been de-
ferred until actual possession of the
forests is obtained. Meanwhile, attention
is being given to such questions as the
suitability of the timber (mainly pin us
radiata ) for general purposes, for box-
making, for veneer or plywood, for
woodpulp, paper and wallboard, etc., and
to allied problems connected with mill-
ing, manufacture, transport, costs, etc.
When the board sees more clearly where
the co. stands in connection with these
and other matters, it will be able to for-
mulate something definite in the way of
a long-range policy.
As for prospects, the directors say:
Despite representations which may have
been made by bond salesmen or others as
to the financial returns which bondholders
might expect, your directors feel that at
this stage they cannot give any definite
indications of the sums which eventually
might accrue thereunder. The determining
factors are of such variety and magnitude
that it is impossible at present to say more
than that the forests represent an asset
of great potential value A policy of
gradual realisation is clearly indicated as
being in the best interests of the project
as a whole, and shareholders are counselled
to regard their shares as long-dated invest-
ments which require to be held for the
realisation of the forests if they are to
fulfil their true purpose.
The “Wild Cat” has been saying substan-
tially the same things for years past. The
“greatness” of the potential value of the
forests will depend upon the markets
that can be found for the forest products,
and returns to shareholders will be gov-
erned by the volume of sales, and upon
selling prices and costs. All that can be
said definitely at the moment is that there
will be a lot of capital to feed. Later on
preference shares are to be offered, first
to those on the co.’s register—the amount
spoken of a year ago was £1,700,000 —
for the purpose of financing the erection
of plant, etc.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
, Dividends .—■,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,’442 21,988 135,591
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 130,591
1928.. 73,515 13,152 7£ p.c.= 39,031 21,332 151,923
1929.. 77,090 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 22,305 174,228
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 .. .. 155,215
1932- 27,254 13,152 4 p.e. = 20,816 148,501
1933- 38,193 13,152 4 „ ~20,816 4,225 152,726
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935- 48,474 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 9,302 162,332
1936- 56,686 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937- 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 30,759 210,605
The sharp spring of £17,149 in last
year’s declared net earnings of this big
Fiji merchant and plantation owner—
only once, in 1921, has it shown a better
result —was due to a record sugar crop,
substantial increase in production and
the selling price of copra, and to expen-
diture on development of the Tavua gold-
field. For the calendar year 1935, Fiji
exported 27,296 tons of copra, valued at
£230,263 ; for 1936, 34,582 tons, valued
at £406,393. The London price, which
had dropped to £7 ss. a ton in 1934, was
£l3 2s. 6d. at the end of March, 1936 ;
£23 ss. early in 1937, and £l9 15s. at
March 31. Exports from Samoa and
Tonga, where the co. has substantial in-
terests, increased too.
The lift in the year’s gross earnings
(£193,499) was £43,893. Trading exes.
(£92,818, up £19,441) took 47.9 p.c. of
gross as against 49 p.c. for the previous
term. After visibly striking off an extra
£7262 for depreciation (£28,183), sending
£2114 (up £318) to the staff fund, and
including £3450 dropped from somewhere
into the insurance reserve (£48,530), the
net result was sufficient to hand
the prefs. their 6 p.c. (£13,152) and
show 11.6 p.c. on ord. capital as against
8.3, 6.7, 4, 4.8, 2.7, 7.9 and 11.5 p.c. back
to 1930. The board “considered it pru-
dent to devote the major portion of the
increased profits to further strengthening
the financial position,” so the div. was
lifted from 5 p.c. to only 5.8 p.c., the final
being at the rate of 6.5 p.c. p.a. The
£30,759 that remained in the business
raised the visible lay-by to £210,605. Dur-
ing the two years to the close of ac-
counts in 1932, £35,000 was taken out
of the window and struck off the book
value of plantations, and reserves were
tapped for £12,400 to cover hurricane
losses. Ever since the co. struggled out
of the backwash of the early post-war
boom, the policy has been to strengthen
its shock-absorbers, visibly and other-
wise ; hence the comparatively good
showing during the slump. Ultimately,
of course, shareholders must reap the
benefits of such a policy.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. .. £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits . . .. 12,420 5,101 10,011
Sundry creditors, etc... 18,228 17,077 25,724
Plantations . . . . 65,524 62,754 49,033
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 381,762 319,840 315,562
Stocks, etc 212,276 248,567 338,934
Investments and cash.. 142,025 140,478 110,154
Capital valuf of
branches, etc. .. 65,706 57,233 75,573
Book debts, etc. . . 132,596 153,183 135,556
During the year a new concrete bulk
store was erected at Suva, a new retail
store and dwelling at Tavua, and addi-
tions were made to the Lautoka prem-
ises. Still, the book value of buildings,
plant, etc., was down £4277 ; because of
the contemplated new building pro-
gramme, the board made liberal allow-
ance for depreciation. Stocks were up
£90,367, owing partly to improved
trading conditions and partly to the lift
in prices. The drop of £30,324 in
investments and cash was chiefly due to
repayment of a mortgage and the wind-
ing up of an associated co.; debtors’
balances were down £17,627, owing
partly to repayment of a large secured
debt and partly to additional provision
against bad debts. The capital value of
branches, etc., was up £18,340. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£548,909, including stocks
but not capital value of branches) was
£28,859.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of satisfactory earnings. At
295. 3d. (255. a year ago) the ords. yield
4.9 p.c. on a 6.5 p.c. div. basis, after
taking exchange into the reckoning
(£lOO Fiji=£Alll|); a very satisfactory
return on a sound stock with possibili-
ties. The net tangible cover is 28s. Id.
ords. and £4 6s. Bd. prefs.—the latter
seldom come on to the market.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
f—, Dividends.
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 7i p.c. Old. serves. Deficit.t
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 25.211 9375 8J p.c. = 10,625 5211 60,874
1930.. 14.436 9375 Nil 5061 55,813
Added reserves, £11,877 .. .. 43,936
1931.. 13.106 9375 Nil 3731 40,205
Added reserves, £12,938 .. .. 27,267
1932.. 6,166 9375 Nil . 30,476
Added reserves, £11,087 .. .. 19.389
1933.. 4,100 4688* Nil 19,977
Reserves disappear, £15,592 ... 35,569
1934.. 2,405 4688* Nil 37,852
Depreciation reserve disappears, £28,280.. 66,132
1935.. 5,606 4688* Nil 918 65,214
1936.. 10.640 9375 Nil 1265 63,949
1937.. 11.336 9375 Nil 1961 61,988
*Half year, 3J p.c.
t Goodwill (£75,000) not treated as an asset.
This co., which took over the tea busi-
ness of James Service and Co., includ-
ing the Robur Tea Co., in 1928, has
£250,000 of capital to feed, half ords.
and the other half prefs. The ords.,
which are held privately, got p.c. in
the first year, but nothing since. Public
interest is confined to the 7\ p.c. cum.
prefs., which also enjoy priority as to
capital. When the books last closed
there was £14,073 (approximately 2s. 3d.
per share) still coming to them in
arrears of divs. Considering the diffi-
culties in the path, the co. has done well
to come through without showing a loss.
Meanwhile, it has got costs on to a
lower basis, and widened and strength-
ened its connections by purchase of the
Oriental Tea Co. in N. S. Wales, by
manufacture of table pottery, etc., and
by entry into the tearoom business.
Since March, 1933, world production
of tea has been restricted by p.c.
by international agreement in force till
the end of 1938, and the price to the
grower has strengthened. In Australia
keen competition has kept tea prices
down, while exchange, duty and sales
tax have added about 7d. per pound to
costs, and consumption has fallen from
around 81b. per head in 1926 to approxi-
mately 71b. of recent years. Under these
conditions, tea merchants generally are
finding it difficult to squeeze much profit
out of the trade.
For the 12 months to the end of
March, the Robur Co. reports a “further
healthy increase in turnover,” which has
pot been reflected in profits, because the
advance in the cost of tea in producing
countries has not been passed on to the
public. After providing for depreciation
and taxation, the declared net result was
£696 better at £11,336. A full year’s
pref. div. took £9375 ; the £1961 that
remained reduced the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles to £61,988 —
goodwill, not treated as an asset herein,
figures at £75,000. It was not considered
advisable to pay any amount off arrears
of pref. divs., owing to the obscure posi-
tion of the tea market.
The co.’s financial position, which is
comfortable enough, further improved:
1929. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities* .. 57,551 94,438 29,047 25,447
Property and j f
plant .. j 53,491 \ 48,902 47,808 43,685
Investments .. J [ 68,901 64,624 64,244
Stocks . . 156.076 65,844 69,043 68,258
Book debts .. 41,800 25,866 23,586 26,512
Cash .. . . 9,623 74,399 14,723 15,447
* Including provision for taxation.
Last term £4123 more was written off
than was spent on fixed assets, while
£3600 was snipped off the outside debt,
which includes an unspecified provision
for taxation ; stocks were £785 lower, and
debtors’ balances were up £2926 —all
healthy movements. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus


INSTANT IGNITION
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
2/3/37
60% PROFIT
Would You Take It ?
Those who followed 1 the definite recommendations of The INVESTORS’
REVIEW made an average profit of over 60% on their investments for
the year 1936. In detail, they made 17% on their industrial shares,
49% on Gold, 82% on Tin, and 103% on Base Metals. You, too,
should profit by these special recommendations, which are supplied
exclusively to regular subscribers to The INVESTORS’ REVIEW.
“WHAT SHALL I DO
WITH MY MONEY TO-DAY?”
Suggestions for investing £250, £5OO and £lOOO, which we have planned with
expert knowledge of share values and trends, will be sent to each new subscriber,
so that they may take advantage of our confidential information. Return this
advertisement and your subscription for The INVESTORS’ REVIEW, which
incorporates The MINING MARKET, and, in addition, regular confidential
bulletins. By this complete investment service you may begin to make profits
immediately.
A CHECK-UP OF YOUR
SECURITIES IS NOW ADVISABLE
You are probably holding secu-
rities that have a doubtful out-
look, and which should be dis-
posed of in order to switch into
far more attractive listed stocks
or shares.
Remember, our advice is im-
partial. We do not sell securities,
nor do we act as brokers.
This unique advisory service
will carefully revise your list of
present investment holdings and
will, if necessary, recommend a
rearrangement whereby the basic
factors of sound, profitable invest-
ment—safety, price appreciation,
and reasonable income—will be
the sole consideration.
THE AVERAGE INVESTOR’S MISTAKE
The investor who takes the easy-going attitude which has proved so costly
to investors in the past, depending upon random tips and sudden hunches,
is likely to wake up to a series of losses, brought about by a badly-balanced
investment programme. This happens when a man, through ignorance,
violates every principle of sound investing. Why is it people are so careless
about their investments when they have so much at stake ? Exact infor-
mation and sound advice would enable them to take much of the uncertainty
out of their investment operations.
The INVESTORS’ REVIEW does not hold out any promises to specu-
lators that they can make a fortune on the Stock Exchange. It does,
however, obtain the fullest information, which is verified; and thus it
extends all possible aid to investors who are aware of their own limita-
tions, and unable to obtain the really essential investment facts. Inside
information is indispensable to even a moderate degree of success in
building up a sound investment programme.
HOW TO INVEST WISELY TO-DAY
Owing to the present state of the
investment market it is obvious
that intelligent discrimination is
essential, and more and more in-
vestors are realising the fact that
an authoritative and unbiassed
investment service as rendered by
The INVESTORS’ REVIEW is
absolutely indispensable.
The INVESTORS’ REVIEW now
renders a Complete Threefold
Investment Service at only £2/2/-
a year. In addition to the
monthly issues of The IN-
VESTORS’ REVIEW (incorpo-
rating The MINING MARKET),
each yearly subscriber receives
the following extra advantages:
FIRST: An immediate survey of
his present holding and a compre-
hensive detailed Company report
on 20 of his listed stocks and
shares.
SECOND: Regular confidential
Advisory Bulletins, which are
posted direct (under plain cover).
THIRD: The privilege of receiv-
ing, as required, our advice (with-
out extra cost) on stocks and
shares in accordance with the
conditions of our service.
It would pay you better to send
your yearly subscription (instead
of for three months), because
only yearly subscribers are entitled
to the full Advisory Service in-
cluding comprehensive reports
without extra cost on 20 listed
securities.
Remember, INVESTORS’ REVIEW subscribers
earned 60% on their investments last year. You, too,
can earn bigger profits by posting this coupon to-day.
BENEFIT BY MAILING THIS COUPON with 10/6 or £2/2/-
(for the Investment Advisory Service, as outlined, for 3 or 12 months).
NAME
ADDRESS
B 1
The Investors' Review
Australia’s Leading Financial Service,
12 O’Connell Street G.P.O. Box 1010 H, SYDNEY,
(£84,770, including stocks but not invest-
ments) was £6465.
The prefs., covered by net tangibles
with a book value of 305., are at par in
the market.
Highgates, Ltd.
This co. was registered in Canberra,
March 25, 1937, with a nominal capital
of £500,000 in ss. shares, of which
600,000 are offered at par. The promoters
receive no cash consideration, but take
40,000 paids when 400,000 shares have
been subscribed, another 20,000 paids
(60,000 in all) when the subscription list
totals 600,000 shares, and thereafter 10
p.c. of additional subscribed capital until
they have received a maximum of 80,000
paids. Of the public issue 200,000 shares
have been underwritten at 3d. each by
Sydney, Adelaide and Perth brokers. The
co. may go to allotment when 400,000
shares (£100,000) have been taken. On
this basis, brokerage and preliminary
exes, are together figured at £7500, leav-
ing £92,500 for working capital, which
the board says is sufficient to establish
the co.’s first (headquarters) unit at Syd-
ney. Here negotiations are under way
for a lease, apparently, of “an excellent
site in the heart of the shopping centre.”
The idea is to build up a large retail
chain credit merchandising organisation
throughout the Commonwealth, and, if
things turn out as anticipated, in
Maoriland, too. At the moment,
much of the retail credit vended in
Australia is of a specialised nature,
such as in the motor and house-
furnishing trades, etc., or is associated
by co-operation of a cash-order co.
and retail store or stores. Highgates
aims at carrying service to the customer,
which has become the outstanding feature
in the evolution of modern merchandis-
ing methods, a step further by applying a
combination of some of the methods of
chain-store trading and of the vending of
short-term credit to general merchandise
or department storekeeping. That is to
say, the co. will deal in all classes of
general merchandise, including apparel
for both sexes, house furnishings, etc.,
almost exclusively on short-term credits.
Cash trade will not be spurned, but the
objective is to build up a large number
of small accounts, each repayable in
about 20 weeks. Customers will be asked
to sign short-term credit agreements,
which will give the. co. the right to re-
possess goods it has sold until they are
paid for in full; and, as a customer’s
account is reduced, further goods can be
bought to the limit of the credit estab-
lished. It is also intended to conduct
an extensive mail-order business, which
some department stores in Australia have
found profitable and others haven’t.
No estimates of either capital outlay
or earnings are given. Profit-earning will
be governed largely by the volume of
turnover that can be developed, and the
development may take time. The. pros-
pectus says that 40 towns in Australia
have sufficient population to carry a
Highgates credit store. Still, there are
a number of firmly-established specialist
houses already successfully catering for
public along lines which the co.
now proposes to combine in one organ-
isation, which suggests that the co. may
have to fight to establish itself, especially
in the capital cities. Much will depend
upon location of the stores, the range,
quality and price of merchandise offered,
and the cost of conducting the business,
including the debts question, which
becomes more acute on a falling than
on a rising market. No mention is made
in the prospectus of the. rate of interest
to be charged for short-term credits,
supply of which was a factor in the recent
recovery of retail trading. The upward
trend of turnovers, however, is now show-
ing signs of flattening out. Among cos.
trading largely on the lines proposed by
Highgates are Marcus Clark and Co.,
Sydney, and Cox Bros. (Aus.), Ltd.,
which operates in Vic., S. Aus. and Tas.,
and has recently been very successful.
On the board are E. C. Bruce Midlane
(chairman), F. W. Harper, A. W. Lam-
bell, H. Phillips, B. Light, E. T. M. Eddy
and R. Paxton, with L. G. T. Plowman
as alternate director. The four first-
named are also directors of Selfridges
(A/sia), Ltd., a variety chain organisation
trading on a cash basis.
Mining 62,445 tons of ore, of which
62,339 (up 8981) was fed to the mill,
Raub Australian, the Pahang (F.M.S.)
producer, won 24,5460 z. fine gold dur-
ing the year to March 31 last. In addi-
tion, 1017 tons of concentrates, averag-
ing 8.63 ’weights, was stored. After
charging £26,800 for development, etc.,
and £7500 for depreciation (the total was
£48,000 in the preceding term), net profit
was £33,599 higher at £71,369:
1935. 1936.
Tons treated .. .. 53,358 62,339
Bullion, oz. . . .. 22,938 26,315
Gold, fine oz 21,349 24,546
Dwt. per ton .. .. 8.07 7.88
Net profit .. .. £37,770 £71,369
Dividends.. .. .. 20ip.0. 33.3 p.c.
Amount .. .. .. £40,000 £66,666
Though mine values were down, a bigger
throughput and a reduction in costs to
295. 9d. a ton —“the lowest possible com-
mensurate with efficient working”—
enabled three 6d. divs. to be sent out, as
against three of 4d. in the previous year.
To re-treat its current and old tailings, of
which 27,000 tons has been bored to
average 2dwt. and 30,000 4dwt., a 300-
ton-a-day mill is to be installed. To
start at the end of 1937 and cost £40,000,
the new unit is expected to effect an 80
p.c. recovery. The co. has over 2000
tons of concentrates, averaging, 9.6dwt.,
in store, besides a quantity of untested
material. Thanks to the large amount
of development, of which a lot more
is to be done during the current term,
ore reserves have been stepped up
from 45,000 to 55,000 tons, mostly
sulphides. Still, recent monthly mill-
ings have been a couple of penny-
weights or so below last year’s average.
The April crushing was 5010 tons for
1887 oz. gold, a grade of 7.sdwt. At
balance date the co. had liabilities of
£11,608, against which there Were float-
ing assets, apart from £60,122 of invest-
ments, of £21,698.
* * * *
Owing to disinclination of shareholders
to dip deeper into their pockets and the
poor results of recent prospecting, Mam-
moth Gold Mine, N.L., Tennant’s Creek,
having exhausted its funds, is abandoning
its property, worked mainly by opencut,
and disposing of its assets, which include
a battery and cyanide plant, the former
to be passed over to the Government.
Commonwealth assistance was refused.
Not so very long ago lOdwt. to loz. values
were mentioned from bulk samples from
the cut, while, later, a winze from the
northern drive in the tunnel was said to
be on a “promising shoot of gold.” Paid
capital is £41,125 in ss. shares —112,000
fully paid and 150,000 paid to Is. 9d.
At the end of January the co. had lia-
bilities of £ 1600-odd and nothing in the
way of liquids.
* * * *
News does not frequently drift through
from the isolated Batavia Diggings, Cape
York Peninsula, but when it does it is
generally something startling. Latest is
that “300 oz. of gold has been struck in
one blast” on the Duke leases, where the
lost reef has apparently been located
again. The leases were bought a few
months back from “Duke” Delaney by
Peter Larsen’s Consolidated Co., which
is also working profitable ground at
Bairdsville, eight miles from Batavia.
Batavia’s production last year totalled
824 fine ounces of gold (7140 z. alluvial
and llOoz. reef), valued at £3500. The
new Claudie River field has attracted
many Batavia miners.
* * * *
Holdings, Ltd., a Brisbane co., has
commenced work on an option at Mons
Meg, one of the best producers at Lol-
worth Creek, Charters Towers (N.Q.).
Down to the 50ft. level, from which
development is to be continued, the mine
yielded some 11750 z. of gold. The last
crushing of 86 tons returned 460 z. 7dwt.
At Pentland the Balgay, formerly the
Bell-Gay, which yielded some good stone
40 years back, has been taken up again.
The reef, 16in. wide, is expected to crush
about 18dwt. to the ton, exclusive of con-
centrates.
* * * *
Goldfield Diamond Drilling Pty. has
commenced boring unexplored ground
on the Mt. Chalmers lease, Rockhampton
(Q.), recently taken over by Mt. Chal-
mers Mining and Development Pty.
(capital £20,000). Hopes are that a
large new body of pay-ore will be met
with. The mine, opened hi 1870, yielded
some rich stuff in the early days. Opera-
tions ceased there about 25 years ago,
but a lot of low-grade ore, now expected
to yield a profit of at least 10s. a ton,


A 5 UKE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
" Daddy don't forget
TO SEE THE A.M.P.”
SHE heard her mother say it as daddy was going out
of the front door that morning: “Don’t forget to
see the A.M.P.”
The mother wants the husband and father to
buttress the happy family life with two more A.M.P.
policies. She wants one to wipe out the mortgage on
the home, either in the event of her husband’s death or
in 20 years if he live, and she wants a little policy (£2OO
is her idea) that, with bonuses added, will provide a
dowry for the beloved daughter when she marries.
Her husband can afford it. She knows that. The
cost will be nothing in comparison with his earnings.
She just can’t get him to take the necessary action. He
forgets, he says. He is one of those dear procrastinators,
but she’ll win. She’ll win because she is in the right.
Wives! It’s a good practice to say, occasionally,
“Don’t forget to see the A.M.P.” Don’t overdo it. Tact
works wonders. Just say it occasionally.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
F per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
F 0« SUMMER
starting
IN
"INTER
MATHER
USE
UPE
Plus
ETHYL
'll
Get
that
Empire Spirit
CB6/12/SP
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE ONLY SUPER
GRADE PETROL
CONTAINING BENZOL
THE BENZOL MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
JPIHS BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS .
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
remained. Another party, working the
Golden Crest in the same district, 'is on
a 12in. reef carrying fine gold.
* * * *
A couple of interesting discoveries are
reported from the Gladstone (Q.) district,
A lode from which a sample assayed
52 p.c. zinc has been located in the
Glassford Creek Ranges, and a man-
ganese deposit has been found in the
Rundle Range. Details have not yet been
broadcast.
* * * *
To begin where the Australian Mag-
nesium Co. Pty., Ltd., left off, Mag-
nesium Products, Ltd., a £50,000 co., has
been registered in Hobart to turn out
magnesium products. A 4000-ton-a-year
plant is to go up at Montrose, and com-
mercial production is expected to begin
inside 12 months, raw material being de-
rived from dolorite-magnesite deposits
around Smithton, n.-w. coast of Tas. A
hard whitish-brown mineral, dolorite
finds its chief uses as a refractory, in
manufacture of paper pulp by the sul-
phite process, for Sorel cement and in
manufacture of magnesium. Senator C. W.
Grant, T. Lyons, J. Waterworth and T.
Nettlefold are on the board,
_**, * , *
For the six months to the end of April,
Norseman, one of the few Adelaide cos.
m W.A. which is giving a good account
itself, milled 40,757 short tons of ore,
reclaimed 5280 short tons ot mill tailings
n< i cyanided a further 12,342 short tons
f°r a t° ta l recovery of 13,2950 z. fine
Sold, gross value £118,586. Some gold
was absorbed by the new agitation and
filtration plants, which are now working
“most satisfactorily.” Working exes, took
£64,465; taxation, £5593 ; development,
£6309 ; capital expenditure, £3017 ; other
charges, £10,389, leaving £28,797 net.
The amount paid in divs. was £30,000,
or Bd. per share, the last distribution on
March 25 being at the rate of 9d. per
share. Costs have now been reduced to
295. lOd. per ton as against 325. Bd. for
the 12 months to the end of October
last. Another encouraging feature is
that current ore developments are above
average mine value. Ore reserves are
now well in excess of the 186,000 tons
of October last. Also, there is approxi-
mately 35,000 tons of mill tailings, aver-
aging 3£dwt., awaiting treatment. The
main shaft is to be deepened a further
150 ft. to a total depth of 1000 ft. It is
proposed to float a subsidiary to work
near-by leases, on which Norseman spent
£3194 on sampling, etc., during the six
months already referred to.
* * * *
Thanks to extensive plant alterations,
Hill 50, Mt. Magnet (W.A.), has lifted
monthly throughput to 2000 tons, and
managing director Walter Clark reckons
there is enough 7dwt. ore in sight to feed
the mill at that rate for three years.
Since the beginning of the year 9294 tons
has been crushed for 31040 z. gold (an
average recovery of approx. 6.7 ’weights),
the May clean-up yielding 7060 z., valued
at £5207, from 2000 tons. Costs have
been got back to around 245., as against
325. in December. When something is
chiselled off the debt (£10,280 at March
31), it is intended to lift plant capacity
to 3000 tons monthly. The 45.-paid
shares —there are 250,000 out —are
around par in the market.
* * * *
London-controlled Tindal’s accounts
for 1936 show that, out of a p. and 1.
total of approximately £5OOO, directors’
fees account for £3248, leaving a debit of
£3382. This before the mine is in regu-
lar production. Last week New Gol-
conda’s directors suggested that their
emolument should be raised from £250
to £4OO, but the proposal was knocked
back by shareholders.
$ H: $ *
Including the Great Boulder Pty., the
Westralian subsidiaries of Common-
wealth Mining and Finance, Ltd., and
Great Boulder Mining and Finance, Ltd.,
produced 39,9690 z. of bullion, worth
£300,962, from 95,531 tons from January
to the end of April. Cos. responsible are
Great Boulder Prop., Yellowdine Gold
Development, Comet, King of Creation,
Sand Queen-Gladsome and Riverina.
H* H*
South Kalgurli’s ore reserves show a
slight increase. At the end of March
there was 194,600 tons, averaging s|dwt.,
blocked and 84,000 tons of probable ore,
expected to average 5.63dwt. The new
grinding plant, put into commission at
the beginning of this year, is reported to
be running well.
* * * *
At St. Ives, 50 miles south of Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), E. H. Bailey and G.
Schultz have unearthed a rich patch.
Bailey first located floaters near the
Orchin group in 1908, but was unable
to work the find. He returned about two
years ago, when he failed to locate the
discovery ; recently he made a further
and successful search with Schultz. Six-
ounce ore has been broken from a quartz
reef 18in. wide. Many men have gone
to the field, but to date no further rich
areas have been reported.
* * # ■ *
A. H. Williams, a director of Tin-
dais, Consolidated Gold Mines of
Edjudina and other concerns, who
is on a visit from London to West-
ralia, considers that Paddy’s Flat,
Meekatharra, has possibilities. With
Herman Mandelstam, he is interested in
the flotation of the Ingliston Consols
and over 50 contiguous leases in the
locality. At the 1350 ft. level of the
Consols the ore-body is 100 ft. wide and
averages sdwt. To overcome London’s
recently-developed shyness, he suggests
that local development cos. should bring
properties to the producing stage before
offering them abroad.
% ifc *
Blue Bird, near Central Norseman,
Norseman (W.A.), has crushed 68 tons
for 2700 z. of smelted gold. The co.’s
property consists of three leases, of which
one is under option to Empress Gold.
On No. 1 level (70ft. vertical), the reef
has been proved for 449 ft., and on No. 2
(95ft. vertical) for 34ft.
% -e * *
Westralia’s gold yield continues on the
up-grade. May’s output was 85,4400 z.,
making 389,4520 z. for the five months
of 1937, which is slightly greater than
the output for the whole of 1929. Indi-
cations are that, for the first time since
1916, 1,000,0000 z. or more will be won
during 1937. With the metal at its
present price, the aggregate value prom-
ises to be the best since 1905, when
£8,305,000 worth was won.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.G.: Your half-and-half idea seems sound,
and the present is a good time to make the
change-over. Hard to pick which is the better,
but beer has been popular and profitable
longer than ice-cream... .M.U.G.: No. 1 doubt-
ful;, suggest selling if market recovers. No. 2
should be worth holding; though chances of a
big rise in the price are slight, the div. should
be steady. Sell No. 3 now, and No. 4 later
on. Like Yarra Falls (405., yielding 5 p.c.) and
Cumberland Paper participating prefs. for
lengthy holding.. . .G.M. (M.L.): Quite safe.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
XI.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
# * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
*. * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy. — Advt.


This advertisement is merely for public information. It is not a prospectus, nor an abridged prospectus. A complete prospechis with application form, for
shares may be procured on application as herein mentioned. A copy of such prospectus has been duly filed with the Registrar of Compamues.
T Wo hundred thousand shares of this issue have been underwritten by contract set out in the Prospectus.
-Hiqhcfcitel Ltd
CHAIN XcREDuXSTORES OF AUSTRALIA
NOMINAL CAPITAL
£500,000
divided into 2,000,000 ORDINARY SHARES of 5/- each
600,000 SI- SHARES
are by the Prospectus being offered for public subscription at par.
TERMS per Share: 1/- on application; 1/- on allotment. Balance of 3/- in calls
of 1/- per Share at intervals of not less than two calendar months (no interest will be
allowed on calls paid in advance).
60,000
1,340,000
5/- Shares are to be allotted fully paid to the Founder, Directors and
others in accordance with contract set out in the Prospectus.
5/- Shares are held in reserve for future issue as the business expands
(of which 50,000 Shares are intended for application by Employees,
to give them a financial interest in the Company).
Provisional Directorate:
E. C. BRUCE MIDLANE, Esq., Managing Director,
Chairman of Directors of SELFRIDGES (A/sia), LTD.
B. LIGHT, Esq.,
Governing Director of M. Light & Son,
Ltd.,
Complete House Furnishers,
Newcastle, N.S.W.
E. T. M. EDDY, Esq.,
Chairman of Directors of Eddys, Ltd.,
Short-Term-Credit-Retailers,
Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
F. W. HARPER, Esq.,
Co-Managing Director of
Selfridges (A/sia), Ltd.
R. PAXTON, Esq.,
Principal of R. Paxton & Co.,
Real Estate Agents and Managers,
Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
A. W. LAMBELL, Esq.,
Co-Managing Director of
Selfridges (A/sia), Ltd.
H. PHILLIPS, Esq.,
General Manager of
Selfridges (A/sia), Ltd.
ALTERNATE DIRECTOR:
L. G. T. PLOWMAN, Esq.,
Allen, Allen and Hemsley, Solicitors, Sydney, N.S.W.
SOLICITORS:
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY,
A.P.A. Chambers, Martin Place, Sydney,
N.S.W., Australia.
MENTEATH, WARD & EVENS-
SCOTT,
Ballance St., Wellington, New Zealand.
AUDITORS:
YARWOOD, VANE & CO., with
G. MASON ALLARD,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CLARKE, MENZIES, GRIFFIN &
CO.,
102 Featherston St., Wellington, N.Z.
BANKERS:
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FOUNDER
E. C. BRUCE MIDLANE, Esq.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW
ZEALAND:
W. H. NANKERVIS, Esq., F.P.A.N.Z.,
Union Bank Chambers, Featherston
Street, Wellington, C.l, New Zealand.
INTERIM SECRETARY:
EDWIN LESLIE MEDLYN, Esq., Accountant,
A.P.A. Chambers, Martin Place; Box 14A, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
JOINT BROKERS
PATRICK R. LEVY & ALLEN,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Members Sydney Stock Exchange.
W. J. COWELL, Esq.,
35 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.,
Member Adelaide Stock Exchange.
In conjunction with
CHAS. DIAMOND, Esq., Member Perth Stock Exchange,
A.N.A. House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
The Company is being formed amongst other things with the
objective of establishing a large-scale Retail Chain Credit
Merchandising Organisation throughout Australia, and for the Objects set out in
the Memorandum of Association of the Company. The Company, in its proposed
modern stores, will provide similar facilities and display methods as at present in
evidence in the leading retail credit merchandising businesses in Great Britain, the
Continent and America.
PKACIIQAtc The facts in favor of chain stores and credit trading
W rIU9pCVI9 WoU l d fin volumes. HIGHGATES LTD. intend to
combine and elaborate these systems, and at the same time incorporate the most
modern methods and many new features. The success of ordinary chain stores such
as Woolworths, Coles, Selfridges and others is well known to the investing public.
There are also numerous examples of the success of credit trading in Australia, but in
most cases these businesses specialise in a limited variety of articles, such as motor cars,
house furnishings, etc., or the business is done by the co-operation of the general retail
store with a separate Cash Order Company. Thus it will be seen that the combination
of the general merchandise store and the short-term-controlled-credit chain store offers
enormous possibilities.
The foundation for a big business is being laid. The Headquarters Store of the
Company in Sydney, N.S.W., will be opened as quickly as possible. World markets
are being investigated to arrange for a continuous supply of the latest and best-
selling mercandise, and, wherever possible, exclusive selling arrangements will be made
on behalf of HIGHGATES LTD. With the proposed Directorate and expert management
of all departments of the business, shareholders may look forward to a highly
remunerative investment.
THIS COMPANY IS IN NO WAY CONNECTED WITH ANY OTHER CHAIN
STORE OR OTHER COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA. THE BUSINESS IS
DISTINCT FROM, AND WILL NOT COMPETE WITH, THE USUAL
VARIETY CASH CHAIN STORES, AS ITS TRADING WILL BE MAINLY
THE SALE OF GENERAL MERCHANDISE ON SHORT-TERM-
CONT ROLLED-CREDIT.
# The - Highgate - Short - Term
Control - Credit - System
Full particulars of the Company’s proposed trading policy are set out in the Prospectus.
• Mail Order Business
The Directors have made
exhaustive inquiry into sue-
cessful Mail Order Business in various Overseas countries with a view to conducting
an intensive Mail Order Business from the Headquarters Store of the Company.
• Establishment of Stores
It is proposed to
open the Head-
quarters Store of the Company in the heart of the shopping centre of Sydney. When
this is established, the capital will be increased as required for the development of a
chain of capital city credit merchandising stores throughout Australia, extending in
due course to other important centres. Negotiations are under way for an excellent
site in Sydney, and the Directors will proceed with the establishment of the Head-
quarters Store as soon as the Company goes to allotment.
The question of extending the Company’s operations to New Zealand will be at the
discretion of the Directors.
• Management
The Company will have the benefit of the
services of Mr. E. C. Bruce Midlane, who
will be appointed Managing Director of the Company. Mr. Midlane holds a prominent
position in trade in Australia and New Zealand and has resigned his associations with
wholesale trade to control the business of HIGHGATES LTD. He will bring to the
Company a vast business experience, with a personal knowledge of World markets,
gained from thirty years’ trade connections and from extensive buying trips abroad.
Mr. Midlane has been a managing director for over twenty years in Australia, and has
personal connections with several of the largest manufacturers in the World. He enjoys
the confidence of all who know him, and will bring to the Company a progressive
personality for the building of a large and successful business. The other proposed
Directors are all well-known men with wide experience, particularly in the type of
business to be carried on by the Company.
LISTING ON STOCK
EXCHANGES
The Directors will apply to the Stock
Exchanges of Australia to have the shares
of the Company listed, and the Memo-
randum and Articles of Association have
been compiled to comply with the usual
Stock Exchange requirements.
APPROPRIATION OF
CAPITAL
The Directors have gone very fully into
the Capital requirements of the Com-
pany, and are satisfied that the sum of
£150,000 is ample to establish the parent
store of the Company in Sydney, and
to provide working capital for its credit
operations.
BROKERAGE
The Company will pay commission of
3d. per share to the Company’s joint
Brokers on all shares allotted, out of
which they will pay brokerage of 2d. per
share to any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange, or to any recognised
Agent of the Company, on all shares
applied for and allotted on applications
identified as coming through them.
DENOMINATION OF
SHARES
The shares are of 5/- denomination, to
give the general public of Australia the
opportunity of acquiring a holding in the
Company at par, and of becoming share-
holder-customers of the business.
• Allotment
The minimum subscription upon which the Company
may proceed to allotment is 400,000 shares, which, in
the opinion of the Directors, will suffice to proceed with the main store of the Company
in Sydney.
In the event of the Company going to allotment with less than 600,000 shares subscribed,
the number of shares to be issued to the Founder Director and others shall be reduced
to 40,000, in accordance with the terms of the contract set out in the Prospectus.
• APPLICATION FOR SHARES
Copies of the Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained from:
THE COMPANY'S BROKERS :
Messrs. PATRICK R. LEVY & ALLEN,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. COWELL, Esq.,
35 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
or from Chas. Diamond, Member of the Perth Stock Exchange, A.N.A. House, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, or from any member of a recognised Stock Exchange or
from the Interim Secretary. The subscription list will be closed as soon as the issued
capital is subscribed or at the discretion of the Directors at any time after the minimum
capital is subscribed. Applications for shares will be received only on the form
accompanying the printed Prospectus, and should be forwarded to any of the above
as directed in the Prospectus. All applications must be accompanied by an amount
of 1/- per share on the number of shares applied for.
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE ABRIDGED
PROSPECTUS
The requirements of Section 137 of the N.S.W. Companies Act 1936, Section 89 of the Victorian
Companies Act 1928, Section 51 of the South Australian Companies Act and Section 89 of the
Tasmanian Companies Act have not been fully complied with in this advertisement, but are
contained in the printed prospectus, a copy of which has been duly filad with each of the
Registrars of Companies in N.S. IF., Victoria, Tasmania, South Australia, Queensland and New
Zealand.


Better
Income
Safety
tor stcuaifp
IyjONTH by month an increasing number of people
recognise the intrinsic worth of FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES for small investors. Every-
body desires safety and as large a return as possible from
an investment, and to-day these Certificates provide an
unequalled margin of security, potential capital appreciation,
p/IIS attractive interest yield—all this for anyone who has
approx. £25 or more to invest. In one simple transaction,
investors’ money is spread oyer shares of the following
leading Australian Companies:— I > \
Commercial Bank of Aust,,-Ltd.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Associated Newspapers, litd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Australian Glass Mftrs. Co., ltd.
Broken- Hill Proprietary Co., ltd.
Colonial .Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
Pavid -Tones, Ltd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
Dunl'op Perdriau Rubber Co., Etd.
Electro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, Etd.
General industries, Etd.
Goldsbrough, Mort &" Co., 'Etd:
Henry Jones Co-operative,, Etd.
Kandlos Cement Co., Etd.
Sargents, Etd.
W. R. Carpenter & Co., Etd.
YarrA Falls, Etd.
Broken Hill South, Ltd. ; - :
A world-famous institution— Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney)—acts
as Custodian Trustees and distributes the Income twice-
yearly, on June 15 and December 15.
If you want to know more about this safe and
profitable method of investment, write for booklet
No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85204. BOX 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
B.H.P. Contribs. at 735. 9d.
At 735. 9d. in Melbourne last
week Broken Hill Prop, contribut-
ing shares looked attractive. A
final call of 55., making 20s. fully-
paid, is due on June 30. Immedi-
ate yield will then be 3.2 p.c. on a
12j p.c. basis. Last term 24.3
p.c. was earned on capital. An
Australian writer in a London
paper recently said:
For most European countries the end
of the depression means a return to
normal conditions, but for Australia it
means a return to normal conditions
plus intensive development of both
primary and secondary industries.
It is concerns like B.H.P. which
are likely to participate in any
future “intensive development.”
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Trade in Britain Now
The continued absorption of Austra-
lian land products abroad at prices profit-
able to us depends largely, especially in
the case of wool, on trade and employ-
ment conditions overseas. From time to
time, therefore, space has been found on
this page to comment on affairs in other
parts of the world, especially in Britain,
in the belief that some happenings fully
ten thousand miles away are as impor-
tant as the latest suspension of a share-
broker on some Australian Stock
Exchange.
Great publicity was given in the cable
services last year to Britain’s prosperity.
An endeavor was made here to analyse
the big trade revival; and the opinion
was expressed that re-equipment of in-
dustries and homes after the lean depres-
sion period had a good deal to do with
it. The Old Country’s increased produc-
tion was, and still is, largely for local
consumption; the export business has
not grown at the same rate as -internal
demand. Which perhaps after all is
partly due to prevailing policies of
national self-sufficiency ; but it is a fact
that last year Britain’s visible imports
showed a larger growth than its exports.
Interesting information is to be
gathered from a comparison of the earn-
ings (expressed as a percentage on capi-
tal) of various groups of representative
British industries. The following table
covers the four calendar years to the
end of 1936:
1933. 1934. 1935. 1936.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Heavy industry .. 1.6 3.8 8.3 10.5
Electric .. . . 8.9 8.6 8.5 9.4
Motor and ’plane 10.7 16.2 16.2 17.7
Ditto, accessories,
cycles .. .. 8.8 10.3 10.3 10.1
Cotton textiles .. 0.9 0.7 0.2 1 1
Other textiles . . 6.0 5.7 6.0 6.5
Railways .. .. 2.1 2.5 2.6 3.0
Shipping . . . . 4.8 5.2 7.1 1.9
Stores .. .. 5.8 4.5 6.3 7.1
Boots and shoes . . 7.4 7.7 8.5 7.8
Tobacco .. .. 15.0 16.6 17.3 17.9
Breweries .. . . 12.2 14.6 15.7 14.7
“Heavy industries” include coal, iron,
steel, engineering and machinery cos.
The selection of cos. in the groups given
is more representative than comprehen-
sive, but the table indicates in what direc-
tion most expansion has taken place over
the past four years. It has been in con-
struction and building trades, which de-
pend a good deal on actual and antici-
pated increased consumption of food,
clothes, tobacco, beer, etc. In other
words, continued outlay on “capital
goods” depends on an increasing con-
sumption of the products of such capital
goods.
The term “capital goods” has come
into ifs awn of recent years as cover-
ing plant, machinery, buildings, etc., and
to some extent motor vehicles.
“Consumer goods” are those articles
turned out by factories for more or less
immediate consumption. Outlay on capi-
tal goods usually represents investment;
outlay on consumer goods is more often
ordinary public spending on the necessi-
ties of life, and it is upon the volume of
such spending that most investments
depend.
Consumer goods are used up almost as
soon as bought, and are continually being
replaced, thus bringing an unbroken (but
sometimes fluctuating) flow of trade to
the manufacturers of food, clothing, beer,
tobacco, etc. Makers of these particular
products gave fairly steady employment
in the Commonwealth during the depres-
sion.
Capital goods might last 20 years be-
fore replacement is necessary, and,
though big outlay on these items gives
increased employment and a fillip
to consumer goods trades, such periods
of outlay come in cycles, as a rule, with
intervals of stagnation. ' Hence the great
unemployment in the •> building trades
throughput the world during the depres-
sion.
In Britain at the moment lit seems plain
that investment of new capital is result-
ing in comparative prosperity in the
building and construction trades, and
that purveyors of ordinary everyday
goodis and services are also benefiting.
It seems also that in the beginning new
capital investment was encouraged by
actual improvement of consumer de-
mand. There has been a flood of new
company promotions over the past 18
months in Britain, however, and it re-
mains to be seen whether results of these
new ventures will prompt continued in-
vestment of new capital.
Much will depend in Britain, as in
Australia, on whether costs continue to
give industry every chance. The modern
equipment put into factories recently
should be a help in that direction, and,
though British wage-rates have recovered
to pre-depression level, the fact that the
cost of living is 10 p.c. below that of
1929 should be an argument against a
runaway upward movement of wages.
Legislation to regulate the conduct of
the Sydney Stock Exchange is proposed,
regular audit and a guarantee fund being
among the present suggestions. While
the N. S. Wales Government is on the
job it might make a clean sweep and re-
quire all sharebrokers and share-hawkers
to be licensed, and insist on them all
toeing the line as far as audits and
guarantees are concerned. It would
probably be necessary for an associa-
tion of brokers outside the Stock Ex-
change to be formed, with separate rules
and guarantee fund ; but it is obvious
that justice will not be done if fish is
made of one. type of broker and flesh of
another. A hullabaloo has been made
about Docker’s failure, but the shame-
ful affair of Hodsons Investments, in
which, about £35,000 went west, has been
given little publicity except in this paper.
Maoriland has a system of licensing
share-hawkers, and the sooner something
is done on similar lines right through the
Commonwealth the better it will be for
a vulnerable public.
H* 'H "*•
The closing on Monday last week of
the doors of Ward and Co., old-estab-
lished Melbourne sharebrokers, was a
shock. In the Practice Court on the
Wednesday following Macfarlan, J.,
made an order restraining W. C. Ward,
R. C. Curwen and A. Keith Ward from
parting with, or in any other way deal-
ing with, certain share certificates and
transfers for a period of seven days. The
applicant for the order alleged that the
firm of Ward and Co. owed at least
£50,000 in excess of its assets.
❖❖❖. * . .
Overseas trading by Australia for the
10 months to the end of April resulted
in a surplus, of exports valued at
£31,561,000 sterling, which is a better-
ment of £7,750,000 on the corresponding
period’s showing in 1935-36. Higher
prices for wool are mainly responsible,
and, though the full 1936-37 figures
should show a surplus over, all external
interest and other invisible commitments
appertaining to the same period, when
the 1935-36 debit is taken into account
there will be little or nothing to the good
on the two years’ trading. Resumption
of overseas borrowing by N. S. Wales is
certain to. encourage excessive imports
next year, and Coronation trippers’ ex-
penses have to be allowed for;
This year’s favorable trade balance
should not create any* feeling that the.
exchange rate may be reduced. The
state of our London reserves is still far
from opulent
* * * *
| “Influential men in the City [of
London], who recall that Mr. Montagu
Norman restored. an untenable gold
standard in 1925, ask whether, despite his
great, qualities, he sees more clearly
ahead to-day.” That is from a financial
cable published in Sydney last week' and
;Mr. Norman, of course, is governor of
the Bank of England. Criticism, even if
of the politest English ■ kinci, must be
somewhat insistent if echoes of it come
ithis far afield.
Britain’s financial policy as interpreted
by the Bank ,of England after the war,
though it had great respect for creditors
and currency, brought stagnation and
bankruptcy in many sections of British
manufacture and trade. While Con-
tinental countries mostly ran ahead into
inflation to a point that was not justified
by costs and prices established even dur-
ing the worst period of the war, Britain
went astern into deflation that made the
burden of high-price boom debt and
boom costs unbearable by some indus-
tries, and a hindrance to all. It is quite
apparent from its foreign-trade figures
that even with sterling depreciated to a
point where gold fetches £7 a fine ounce
(£4 55., 1925-31), the Old Country’s ex-
ports at present can hardly be described
as flourishing. The gold being offered to
Britain in large quantities at the moment
may represent an embarrassing problem,
but it is a problem that must be over-
Lome without sacrifice of trade. If there
i is a surfeit of gold floating around the
world at. present it should have, the effect
.of pushing commodity prices up in terms
;of gold and gold-currencies.' In such a
case a* compensating revision of.- the
imetal’s price in * a slightly downward
;direction should tend to keep costs and
commodity prices steady- rather than
'cause, a disaster.
The goldmining industry can hardly ask
for protection, in the way of special cur-
rency regulation. Aid, if necessary,
should come in the form of a bounty.
Ilf trade recovery continues, goldmining,
'irrespective of what is done to help it,
|is sure to become less profitable. There
are- some, however, who believe that the
present wave of world industrial-activity
is a false alarm such as took place in the
wool market in 1934, and that before
we see a long stretch of stable and profit-
able conditions trade will suffer a tem-
porary relapse. There are a number of
countries in the world to-day which are
still anything but prosperous. Condi-
tions such as prevail in the English-speak-
ing world are more the exception than
the rule.
# * * r
Profitable low-grade goldmining and
industrial prosperity usually don’t go
hand-in-hand. Value of gold production
tends to be overwhelmed by increasing
wages and material costs when “times
are good.” Efficient mines will prob-
ably be able to cope with the problem
by mechanical improvements, but
struggling shows will have a harder fight
r.ow as time goes on. Nevertheless, it
will probably be some years before the
real pinch occurs.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) produced ac-
counts that pleased the market and sent
the shares up; now Boulder Persever-
ance has done the same thing. Shares
in North Kalgurli, Great Boulder, Wiluna
and Lake View, however, were weaker
again last week. North Kalgurli has a
half-interest with Boulder Perseverance
in the Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co., and
its production figures are also well up.
Head ore values are excellent.
* ❖ * ❖
Tableland Tin Dredging, N.L., re-
cently formed to dredge 73,000,000 c.y.
of half-pound ground at Return Creek,
at the back of Cairns (Q.), expects to be
in full production in 18 months’ time,
according to engineer J. B. Ferris. That
would be about the end of 1938. Capi-
tal-outlay estimates include £125,000 for
a large bucket dredge and £BOOO for a
dam. The £1 shares paid to 2s. are
already at a small premium on the Syd-
ney unofficial ’Change list.
* * * *
Prestige, Ltd., the big Melbourne
hosiery and lingerie firm, though it
earned 15.2 p.c. on ord. capital during
the term to March 31, is making an ord.
distribution of only 10 p.c., as against
p.c. in the preceding year. Reason
for the drop is the directors’ concern
about rising labor and material costs
and the probability of overproduction in
the Australian hosiery industry. Pres-
tige’s ords. fell 6d. last week, to 21s. 9d.,
yielding £4 15s. 2d. p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, allowing for the 9d. payable on
July 1.
* * * *
Reports indicate that Associated Pulp
and Paper, Burnie (Tas.), will start pro-
duction to scheduled time, which, ac-
cording to the prospectus, was set down
as “before February, 1938.” Mill foun-
dations and buildings are practically com-
plete, some of the machinery is set up,
and the first portion of the major units
is expected to arrive next month. The
155.-paids are around 17s. on the market,
and quotation was last week granted to
the fully-paid deferreds. These virtually
become ords. after a total div. of Is. 2.4 d.
a share has been paid on the other scrip.
sK H 1 # ❖
Ordinary shares in retail stores (B.
9 / 6/737) showed a ffirming last week,
though in some cases the recovery wasn’t
maintained; David Jones’s issue (the
store seems particularly busy just now)
lifted from 415. : 9d. to'43s. Myer (Melb.)
ords, were also better at 365. 3d. Farmer’s
(Sydney) rose, then slipped back.
Marcus Clark ords. fluctuated, but the
prefs. firmed, as is the present custom
of pref. shares. Woolworths’ 10 p.cs.,
at 40s. in May, changed hands at 425.
last week. '
He * H= He
Cumberland Paper participating prefs.,
both seconds and thirds, found buyers
willing at 30s. 6d.. last week. Holders
of the firsts (B. 9/6/’37) are reluctant to
sell. The yield is good (5.2 p.c.) and
prospects reasonable.
He He * He
In 'Melbourne last week:
Shareholders in Cox Bros. (Aust.) agreed to
the splitting-up of the £1 shares into ss.
counters.
G. J. Coles ords. kept around £5 9s.
Felt and Textiles ords. and Aust. Paper
prefs., both J. B. Were floats, were at 365. and
7s. lid. respectively. Carrier Australasia
firmed to 355. 6d.


OK.
SHEAF.'
a
mm,
%
m
&
r
%
Yr
3
m
I
sr
£
2
*
c
=SS
%
z
N*
r
K
A
s>
1
9<
%k
nfs A
££ TTER
ON SHEAF
TOOTH’S
IN BOTTLES HALF BOTTLES AND BABY BOTTLES


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
u\
in
■
1
■
i
3
■:
IP
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
The Duke of Wins-her.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Australia must keep its grip on New
Guinea.”— “Sun.”
To prevent Rabaul from slipping
away?
“New-style moulds for
jellies and blancmanges
are shaped like human
faces.”
Latest steadier for
a husband is to dis-
cover his mother-in-
law’s face glaring at
him from the pud-
ding plate.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“After a cyclone in
Taranaki (N.Z.) the only
house left standing in
one street was that occu-
pied by a newly-married
couple.”
Perhaps the weight
of the scones did the.
trick.
“The female crab has one million young at
birth.” —Nature note.
No wonder the father crab’s eyes stick
out so far.
* * *
Moaners Amalgamate.
“A Crooners’ Association has just been
formed in England.”
Membership is limited to those who
can give the best imitation of a dog whin-
ing or a pig having its jugular vein slit.
To be able to deliver the magic poly-
syllables “boop-boop-a-doop” and “wah-
dah-de-dah” with the correct poise and
elan is another necessary accomplishment.
Marcelled hair and an infinitesimal
“mo” are compulsory among male mem-
bers. They must also have the soulful
look so essential to the true crooner, but
a dopey expression is not a bar.
Ability to roll the eyes, flap the tonsils
and oscillate the hips is required of
female members.
And nobody must have a good voice.
Gee.
+
“Taking the Tears Out of Cooking.”
—Woman’s paper headline.
Ah! so somebody’s invented an onion-
peeler at last!
•b -I- -I*
“N.S.W. chess players claim that their game
has features which make it a better inter-
national game than tennis or golf.”
Probably because silence is the same in
every language.
•b •b *f*
“A man’s character can be judged from his
boots,” says a psychologist.
You look underneath ’em to pick the.
punter.
*1- 4* <b »I*
“In a well-managed world there would be
a place for everything.” —‘‘Labor Daily.”
Except some of the horses racing on
Sydney tracks.
•b •b . *J* -b
Sporting Risks.
“Sidney Lee had to retire from the Profes-
sional Billiards Championship in London when
he Wrenched a neck muscle badly.”
There is always that risk at billiards
when you’re attempting a screw shot,
but the most dangerous manoeuvre is
trying to get out of baulk with a back-
hand stroke and your feet off the floor.
Many a man has pulled the table over
on himself trying that.
Chess is another dangerous sport,
although I believe there is a move on to
put shock-absorbers on the table edges
to break the fall of players who drop
asleep waiting for their opponent to
make a move.
Next to billiards and chess, dominoes
is the most risky indoor sport. It is the
easiest thing in the world to jar your
hand badly by excitedly slapping down
the double six on a marble-topped table,
or to bite a piece out of your coffee cup
in your chagrin when you make a wrong
move.
Angus O’Cohen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Owing to the crowding of the legal profes-
sion there is danger of members acting unethi-
cally,” says a K.C.
“A deputation of taxi-owners claimed that
more cabs would cause traffic congestion.”
From the same cause lawyers find it
increasingly difficult to keep to the right
and taxi-drivers to the left.
4* 4" 4* 4"
“Fisher v. Goldfislv —Verdict for Defendant.”
—Law report.
Plaintiff must have forgotten his
landing-net.
4* 4* 4*
“Hotel Workers’ Union in M.L. demands
the same food as that given to the guests they
serve.”
Some of them will be stiff if the. con-
cession is granted.
“There are some ugly features connected with this case”
Too right. The Crown Prosecutor s and yours, for a start!”
“He went bankrupt to secure his release
from prison.”— "Sun.”
Filing his way out, so to speak.
4* + + 4*
“There is really no cure for a man who
drinks but his own will,” says a doctor.
Or, rather, his “won’t.”
+ 4*
Park Breakfast.
This idea of filling city and suburban
waste spaces with rockeries and merely
floral or solely ornamental vegetation is
positively infuriating to the often-broke-
and-hungry.
Ornithologists may say the nectar from
the flowers will give you that birdlike
inconsequence and flitterishness combined
with a desire to chirp and warble ; en-
tomologists that the sap from the stems
will fill you with insectivorous ceaseless-
ness, a craving to drone or buzz from
time to time, and indefatigable zeal.
Other scientists may be imbued with the
belief that Nature meant flowers to be
eaten, not merely smelt and admired.
Dietitians, for all I know to the con-
trary, may assert that they are chock-full
of vitamins. What I do know is that a
large meal of them never makes me feel
I want to do anything except lie down
in the shade as usual.
The park-ranger would, I knew, still
be gorging himself with bacon and eggs,
so I proceeded to devour a lot more
gerberas, geraniums, pelargoniums, nas-
turtiums, petunias, sweet-williams, phlox
drummondii, lupins, antirrhinums, aqui-
legias, gaillardias, zinnias, cornflowers
(they have, alas! no granular flavor),
larkspurs (the gamy tang is missing
entirely), love-in-a-mists (very suggy),
sunflowers, carnations, portulaccas and
fuchsias. A little pepper and salt would
doubtless have improved the repast. In
all probability the park-ranger was being
extravagant with both and wasting the
mustard as well.
Glaring so ravenously into a goldfish-
pond that its terrified inmates hid them-
selves immediately, I drank about a pint
of rather rusty water. (The park-ranger,
if I did not deceive myself, was sipping
his sixth cup of excellent breakfast
coffee.) That served to shorten the time
it would take my palate to rid itself of
the commingled, chaotic and hideous
floral taste.
Muttering “Why the devil don’t they
plant fruit-trees and edible-berry bushes
instead?” —nor was it for the first time,
either! —I then made a bee-line (the
honey-flowers I had eaten may have had
something to do with that) for my
favorite tree.
Les Robinson.
4*
“The N.R.M.A. appeals to drivers to take
the same notice of light signals at intersec-
tions as they would of a policeman.”
Still, one cop’s black looks will prob-
ably remain more effective than 50
colored lights.
4* 4- 4* 4*
Awful Airiness.
“A normal person inhales more than half a
ton of air every year,” says a doctor.
Did you know that the population of
Sydney breathes about 750,000 tons of
air annually? Or that if everybody took
a deep breath simultaneously the result-
ant draught would make the seismo-
graphs tremble like two-bob-each-way
punters hearing a close finish, and
meteorologists would report locating an
earthquake somewhere between Pinch-
gut and Petersham?
Another thing. If conditions were bad
at the moment of inhalation—with the
atmospheric ceiling as low as 200 feet
and three tubed horses exercising at
Randwick with the corks out —there
wouldn’t be enough air to go round, and
the vacuum thus created would whip
everyone inside out.
And what of 1,500,000-odd concerted
exhalations? Such volume of hot air,
kissing the cold air and glancing off a
cloud into the top right-hand pocket,
would cause a thundershower which, wet-
ting the dry air poised immediately out-
side our nostrils, would give us all
double pneumonia.
There’s nothing to be done about it,
of course, but isn’t it dreadful?
Percival.
•I* *J* 4*
“Not her beauty, not her cleverness, but
something in her gracious carriage made her
chief charm.” — Woman’s paper.
A woman’s crowning glory is her air.
•I* *I« 4*
“Opinions differ greatly as to what consti-
tutes a good jazz tune.”
Evidently a parallel to opinions on
which is the best poison to take.
“Both fighters delivered their punches in
practically the same fashion.” —Boxing report.
A striking resemblance.
•I* 4*
“Sex appeal is losing its power,” says a
writer.
IT ain’t going to reign no more!
“The human race, before the ape stage, were
fish,” says an anthropologist.
Many get scaled even now.
Colorful.
My life’s been colored by romance;
My very name, indeed, is Hugh.
When I was green I met by chance
A Violet Brown whose eyes were blue.
Perfection’s pink she seemed to me ;
In golden dreams I had delight —
The world was ro'sy as could be.
We wed. I was a luckless wight!
Arrived a little yeller soon
Into our lives; then silver went,
And duns came on us morn and noon
Till, shortly, every brown was spent.
H.M.
Trials of an Inventor.
I notice that a lecturer recently com-
puted that 80 p.c. of the world’s inven-
tions are aimed to appeal to women.
He’s probably right. And the poor
inventor’s efforts in the service of the
weaker sex aren’t always fully appre-
ciated, either, as I can testify.
Take that patent frictional depilatory
which I invented. My wife was always
complaining that the hirsute growth on
her shins and calves stuck out through
her sheer silk stockings, and couldn’t I do
something about it? An appeal like that
invariably stirs my inventive genius, so I
set to work. After months of experiment-
ing I evolved a mixture of pumice, short-
clipped horsehair, cement and wombat
oil, which I poured into a currycomb.
When it set hard I started massaging
her legs with it, morning and night, from
the knee to the ankle, using a gentle
circular motion. She was surprised ancf
delighted, after a week or so, to find that
my invention had succeeded in leaving
her legs as smooth and hairless as a
dinner plate.
It was not until some few days after
the disappearance of the last hair that I
spent my first disturbed night. I didn’t
wake up to what it was then, but I was
soon to know. The following night I
started searching under the blankets with
my foot for the piece of steel wool I
thought must have somehow got into the
bed, when I nearly spiked my toe on my
wife’s shin. Apparently the friction
caused by my depilatory had only stimu-
lated the hair follicles to increased
activity, for the next morning a thick
black stubble had sprouted all over her
legs. She was furious when she saw it.
“That’s you and your idiotic inven-
tion!” she stormed. “A half-wit would
have known that rubbing them off would
only make them grow thicker.”
There was gratitude for you! Not a
word about all the anxious weeks I had
spent in perfecting it, the two sleepless
nights I had suffered, or the time I had
devoted to its operation. Oh, no! That’s
a woman all over, thinking only of her
own paltry troubles.
When she tried to put on her stockings
the short sharp hairs sent them into
countless ladders. Obviously I must have
rubbed her legs the wrong way round,
so I persuaded her, after much unneces-
sary argument in which I had to quote
everything from Euclid to the principles
of the Archimedean screw, to let me try
massaging them again the other way
round, like the horses run at Flemington.
With the stronger growth it took much
longer to do, but eventually I succeeded,
though she used to get unreasonably irri-
table after only an hour’s solid rubbing.
A few mornings after I had finished it I
answered a call of distress from the bed-
room, to find her held a prisoner in bed,
the strong bristles having gone right
through two sheets, a blanket and the
eiderdown. I had to cut them off with a
hacksaw to free her. I then had to
bend what was left of the hairs up with
a clamp to allow her to get her stockings
—thick lisle ones —on, and they even
shot through them.
I’ve since offered to discourage the in-
ordinate growth with a blowlamp, but
she refuses to have it on. Now I’m com-
pelled to shave her legs twice a day. My
razor-sharpening bill is five bob a week.
If I get up too late of a morning to do
it she’s got to wear ankle-length dresses
all day.
I’ve been in the gun ever since.
S.W.K.


FOR CAULFIELD.
Richmond Handicap: Desert
Chief; next, Upoko Ariki.
Cambrio Welter: Nissa; next,
Dermid.
Rosny Plate: Regular Bachelor ;
next, Studio.*
FOR ROSEHILL.
Three-year-old Handicap: Pun-
jab ; next, Water Waggon.
Dundas Handicap: Dutiful or
Duke Caledon ; next, Rosmead.
June Handicap: Fair Diana;
next, Cid.
Parramatta Mile: Dutiful or
Duke Caledon ; next, Hope.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Bermuda’s withdrawal from the Wil-
liamstown Steeplechase last Saturday
robbed that event of its chief interest
from a Grand National viewpoint. Other
course scratchings reduced the field to a
mere half-dozen, and they were such an
ordinary lot that 7 to 2 could be obtained
about the favorite, Underwood, who was
in only slightly better demand than
Piilowsham and Prime Seal, with Musical
David at 9 to 2.
Piilowsham, who belongs to the former
W.A. trainer Ted Temby, fell at the third
fence. The others finished, but from the
home turn it was a battle royal between
Musical David and Underwood. Latter
shoved Musical David out as they swung
round the bend, and there might have
been a protest if the gelded son of game
old David (winner of the 1923 Sydney
Cup) had not prevailed by half a neck.
Resembling his sire very much in color
and build, Musical David is one of
several timber-toppers that carry the
colors of R. Wilson, a Melbourne
financier.
Prime Seal, a poor third, had not
figured over fences for 12 months until
he competed (and fell) when Santa Casa
scored so brilliantly at Moonee Valley
on May 29. He hit several of the Wil-
liamstown obstacles very hard. Two
seasons ago Prime Seal was considered
good enough to face the barrier for a
Great Eastern at Oakbank, but crashed
with his then trainer, L. J. Hynes.
In 1912 Wingarara presaged a Grand
National triumph by taking the Port
Phillip Hurdle on the seaside course;
Pooley Bridge did likewise last year. It
might not be impossible for Tapageur
(Rosewing-Gay Angela) to equal that
achievement. Starting at 15 to 1 he got
home decisively in the first “leg” on
Saturday.
Tapageur is owned by Clive Leonard,
chairman of the V.A.T.C. committee,
whose brother Bert landed the National
Hurdle of 1931 with Cockcrow. That
horse, like Tapageur, was young to the
jumping game, and he, too, occupied a
stall in the stable of Joe Mulcahy, who
came into prominence many years ago by
starting “Sonny” Foy’s Woolloomooloo
in the Maiden Hurdle (two miles) and
Grand National (three miles) on the same
afternoon. Tapageur’s allotment in the
National is 9st. 21b.; Cockcrow won with
practically the same impost.
One of Melbourne’s picture-theatre
magnates got £lOOO to £2OO about Trite-
leia for the Port Phillip Hurdle, and the
lead was followed so earnestly that H.
Freedman’s candidate shortened to
“threes.” Third at the home bend,
Triteleia looked a sure placegetter; but
the weight (list, lib.) told its tale and
he tired. The Adelaidean, Highland
Fling, did much worse, and he would
not appear to be a serious rival of
Pooley Bridge at Flemington. However,
the distance may have been too short
for Highland Fling, and, moreover, it
was his first outing over the battens since
last Melbourne Cup meeting.
Tapageur covered the two miles on a
dead track in 3min. 39sec. This cut l|sec.
off the time registered by Pooley Bridge
in 1936 ; record for the race is 3min.
37£sec. by Baanya in 1934. Sea Scout,
raced by the men who won a Grand
National Steeple with Sandhurst, appro-
priated second money on Saturday, while
Fulham, the 1935 National Hurdle hero,
was third. Fulham is regaining best form.
On racecourse charts he moved up into
second favoritism for the big event at
headquarters.
Lou Robertson, trainer to A. T. Cres-
wick, has got hold of a topnotch colt in
Damalis (Thracian-Amarelle), who fol-
lowed up his Flemington win a week
before by romping home in the Juvenile
Handicap. His backers on the tote as
well as in the ring obtained even money
about a 10-to-l-on chance.
H. R. Telford ran second —five lengths
away—with Alhambra, a filly by Man-
fred from Rondalina, former pacemaker
lor Phar Lap in weight-for-age contests.
Damalis took a second off the race record
established by Feldspar, who also was
bred and raced by Creswick and trained
by Robertson. Granddam of Damalis
was brought out from England by Andy
Robertson, a brother of the Mordialloc
mentor.
Irving opened up his winning account
in Melbourne by taking the Point Cook
Handicap, in which the favorite, Wind-
mar, could not get nearer than third.
Second honors went to Art, who showed
his best race form for a considerable
period. Irving (Salmagundi-Vallino) was
bought out of the. Randwick stable of
Bailey Payten by F. W. Hoysted on
behalf of “W. J. Pelham” and his brother,
C. F. Taylor.
Always near the front in the
Esplanade Welter, the consistent Beau
Spear, equal favorite with Bullalla, stalled
off a determined challenge from Palati-
nate and prevailed by a neck, with the
outsider, Amanore, in third position.
* * * *
Taking kindly to Brisbane conditions,
Gay Chou (9 to 2) made a one-horse
race of the Doom ben Newmarket . Billy
Cook went north to ride the greatly-
improved gelding from Melbourne, and
got him away from the barrier briskly.
Gay Chou soon had a good lead, the
advantage being enhanced by the going
being on the soft side, and nothing gave
him any trouble. Pamelus (2 to 1) was
prominent all the way, but the state of
the track and inferiority in condition
compared with Gay Chou, who was in
perfect shape, settled him, and he was
cut out of third place by the three-year-
old King Merlin —a decent sort —Man-
resa being second, three lengths behind
Gay Chou. The latter ran the “six” in
lmin. 12£sec. —a brilliant gallop.
The trouble with Pamelus is that he
doesn’t get enough work or racing. He
is not to run in the Doomben Cup. Oscu-
lum, a fast-finishing third to Brownfelt
(10 to 1) and Brinkburn in the Carnival
Handicap, is favorite, but this Page has
a slight preference for Friar’s Switch,
who is fit and is pretty good on his day.
* * * *
Non-bettors at Canterbury Park found
the proceedings dull, but a lot of punters
voted them enjoyable enough. Class told
in the Canterbury Handicap, for which
Cid opened at 5 to 2 and was backed to
7 to 4. He stumbled as the. barrier rose,
and lost lengths, but Jimmy Finch
allowed him to make up his ground
gradually and waited for the last run. In
the straight Cid had no difficulty in
showing Confab and Balgay his heels.
Monogram was a poor fourth. Kilfern
made most of the running, but he can’t
run 11 furlongs.
Both divisions of the Flying Welter
provided close finishes. In the first,
Lolorua (3 to 1), though hurdled off as
usual, got the best of the start. He
scored, but had to be ridden out to hold
off Trick. Water Waggon was third ; he
made the pace, but weakened when
tackled by Lolorua. The Bathurst-owned
Brown Betty was fourth.
A lucky run on the rails enabled
Raleigh (5 to 2) to capture the. second
division. Rembrandt lugged off at the
top of the straight, and towards the
finish came away from the fence. Stan
Jones seized the opportunity on Raleigh,
and his mount won by half a head.
King Moab was third, and Golden
Chance a close fourth.
The Ladies’ Bracelet went to a horse
owned by a lady—Mrs. Dolly Clayton.
Tredonner it was, and this hurdler was
expertly handed by Les Quinlan, of Peak
Hill, who timed his run in fine style.
Tredonner started at 9 to 2 in a good
betting race.
Brazandt (7 to 4) was an easy winner
of the first division of the. Juvenile Han-
dicap: he was in front almost from start
to finish. Picamar’s backers collected
after the second division, and were lucky.
A furlong from home Welcome, who had
made all the running, veered from the
fence, and Darby Munro sent Picamar
through on the rails. He did not quite
overtake Welcome, but his mount was
squeezed, and Picamar’s backers vocifer-
ously advised Munro to enter a protest.
This he did, and it was upheld. Picamar
was favorite at 3 to 1.
The Canterbury-trained Fraulein (20
to 1) gave the bookies the only good
result of the day for them when she
struggled home ahead of James Mur-
doch’s Rouge Blanc and Calwerra in a
division of the Park Stakes. Half a
dozen horses figured in the very close
finish, and Heroina might have been
first but for a checks
Hs H 4
“J.”: The prejudice against Australian-
bred sires seems ineradicable. The un-
tried English-bred Melfort (Colorado-
Caltha) fetched nearly half of the total
(18,590 guineas) at the dispersal sale of
H. A. Taylor’s bloodstock at Welling-
ton (N.S.W.). For Melfort H. S. Thomp-
son, of Tarwyn Park, gave 8700 guineas,
whereas Koomeela was knocked down —
to N. J. Veech, of Wellington—for 410
guineas. Yet Koomeela has already sired
winners ; he is a very impressive-looking
brother to a great horse in Amounis, and
their progenitor, Magpie, was himself a
great racehorse and one of the most con-
sistently successful sires that ever stood
in Australia. Brood mares, for the
most part, went cheap; a parcel of
elderly matrons fetched below 50
guineas apiece. Perhaps the. interests of
the Australian bloodstock industry would
be best served by the importation
of more brood mares of approved strains
than more sires. There is also an impres-
sion among racing men that there, is a
tendency in Australia to subject mares
to overmuch breeding. The Maoriland
practice is to give them an easier time.
« * *
“E.D.”: Although the weights won’t
be out till the end of the month, book-
makers are already catching mugs who
can’t restrain their impatience to take
Cup doubles. Talking is the Caulfield
Cup favorite and one of the favor-
ites for the Melbourne Cup. In view of
what his owner, Cooper, has said, this
overrated colt won’t tackle both Cup
races, and he is no certain starter in
either, even if he trains on. I would
much rather wager that he will be
scratched for both than that he will win
cither.
* * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: A felon blow was
struck at my profession in Brisbane when
the law suddenly informed Tatt.’s Club
that no more betting would be permitted
in the sacred edifice. Not even the call-
ing of the card before important fixtures
will be permited, and all betting charts,
price lists and other valuable literary
works must be removed from the prem-
ises. All this under the new legislation.
Sydney institutions of the same sort are
threatened if the proposed new anti-bet-
ting measures on the Queensland model
go through. The Queensland Gov-
ernment claims that s.p. betting has
almost vanished in Brisbane, while the
numbers of bookmakers in paddock,
Leger and flat on the big courses have
doubled and even trebled, most of the
newcomers being formerly well-known
s.p. merchants. On the other hand,
defenders of the s.p. joints claim that all
the Act has done is to drive the s.p. men
behind closed doors, where they operate
as freely as ever.
*** , *
The Privy Council judgment in Naylor
v. Stephen (chairman of the AJ.C.) car-
ried costs against Naylor—£ 1358-odd
sterling. Naylor took out a Moratorium
Act summons and applied for an ex-
tension of time to pay. On an appli-
cation for adjournment of the hearing
of the summons, his counsel said that
the bill of costs for the Full Court pro-
ceedings (the Full Court judgment was in
favor of Naylor) had not been taxed,
and that “my client will have consider-
ably more to pay.” The application for
adjournment was refused, and a request
that the hearing be held in camera, sup-
ported by the statement that Naylor had
“made arrangements with certain credi-
tors, and that disclosure of his affairs
would be prejudicial to him,” was not
proceeded with. In evidence Naylor
admitted that he owed large sums to the
Commissioner of Taxation and others,
and that his taxation returns for three
years showed a net loss of £30,000-odd.
He estimated his gross takings as a tip-
ster at £5OOO a year. Application for
extension of time dismissed.
Footbrawl
Melbourne saw only three V.F.L.
games on Saturday, and attendance at
the Rugby Union match (reckoned at
15,000) benefited. Richmond, 14-24,
stayed too well for Carlton, 13-19, and
at Corio Geelong downed St. Kilda, lb-
-13 to 11-15. Collingwood showed im-
proved teamwork against Essendon:
19-14 to 13-11. These results put Rich-
mond back in “the four,” with Geelong
and St. Kilda, on level premiership points
terms, in fourth place. Collingwood,
second on the ladder, heads Richmond
by two points. Melbourne is in first
place, and expects to stay there.
South Africa’s Rugby Union tourists
whacked Victoria 45 points to 11 at
Carlton. Second-spell scoring was, how-
ever, only 10 to five in favor of
the ’Boks, the no-longer-overawed
Victorians pressing most of the time.
Springbok full-back Brand, with
deadly accurate kicks, scored 14
points; Hofmeyr, inside-centre, landed
two field goals ; Pat Lyster, a non-stop
winger, scored three tries; champion for-
ward Van der Berg went over twice ;
skipper Nel and outside-centre Bester —
the youngest and most promising of the
visiting backs —got one try each. For
Victoria the 1936 Wallaby wing Dorr
achieved a great try. Lang, a hard-
working forward, was presented with an-
other when he strolled over unopposed
after a doubtful touchline throw. Full-
back Bick kicked one penalty and a con-
version.
“Mak”: Judging by the Melbourne
match, this South African team isn’t
playing the usual Springbok game, and,
unless there are better inside backs than
yan der Vyver and Hofmeyr, its adop-
tion of 1933 Wallaby tactics of throwing
the ball about will cost it matches in
Sydney and in Maoriland. Neither
V.d.V. nor Hofmeyr (ook full advantage
of Craven’s wonderful service from the
base of the scrum, and neither was im-
pressively sound in defence. Even out-
side-centre Bester frequently ran across
the paddock to crowd two strong wings
in Lyster and Broodryk. Brand was an
admirably cool and accurate full-back,
but on the only occasion when Victoria
really tested his defence Dorr caught
him out of position. The ’Bok forwards
were great in scrums and line-outs. Jn the
second-half, with the exception of Van
der Berg, a big and fast pack-leader,
they were comparatively sluggish—they’re
still carrying some shipboard condi-
tion—but nevertheless were good enough
to win 24 scrums to Vic.’s eight; 30 line-
outs to Vic.’s 19. They gave away 16
penalties, mostly for scrum infringe-
ments, to Vic.’s six. Any first-class Aus-
tralian or Maoriland back-line will beat
the ’Boks if it can get a fifty-fifty share
of the ball.
* * * *
Sydney’s Rugby Union competition
has reached an interesting stage ; each of
the nine teams still has a premiership
chance. West, though beaten on Satur-
day by Manly (14-13), remains in the lead.
Second is University, which drew with
Randwick, 12-12. St. George is slipping ;
it went down 3-9 to Northern Suburbs.
Parramatta had another win, 6-nil,
against Gordon, and East scraped in
ahead of last season’s premiers, Drum-
moyne, 5-3.
* * * *
Played in drizzling rain on a ground—
Sydney C.G.—that was half mud-patch,
the second N.S.W.-Queensland Rugby
League match saw the northerners routed.
Shortly after the resumption both
hookers were sent off —Madsen, the
Queensland captain, was one, and with-
out him the Maroons went to pieces. At
the finish it was 31-3. There’s only one
change in the N.S.W. team for the Bris-
bane match on June 26 ; Ward returns
in place of the Newcastle full-back
Conlon, though on Saturday Conlon did
what little he had to do capably.
{Continued on next page.)
Jim Ferrier and Harry Hattersley
turned on excellent golf in the N.S.W.
amateur championship final at Rose
Bay. At the end of the morning round
Hattersley was two up. In the afternoon
Ferrier scarcely made a mistake; he
holed 25ft., 20ft. and 18ft. putts, and was
three up at the 30th. Hattersley was dead-
game, and at the 35th they were square.
Then Hattersley was inches short with
his putt, and Ferrier sank a 36-incher.
It was his second win in the event, and
Hattersley has had two successes.


&
9T
&
G°
"silver edge"
BRAKE LININGI
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brakt
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RA Y BEST OS” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.
RAYBESTOS-BEEACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
0.P.0. Box 71, Melbourne, Yic
K
The •
Oe Luxe'|
Model, I
9/6
of
A cheap tyre gauge is seldom accurate after the newness has
worn off. But a Kismet Gauge, being scrupulously
manufactured to the finest limits of accuracy, guaran-
tees years of reliable service. Although it is priced
a shilling or two more than an ordinary gauge, it
costs less in the long run, because it keeps
its accuracy and neat finish all the . time.
Factory .Representative ‘
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
TANDARD
TYRE
GAUGES
Model,
CADET
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Bert Osborne, billed as the lightweight
champion of Victoria, fought spiritedly
for 15 rounds against Tod Morgan at
Leichhardt on Wednesday night, but
Morgan anticipated his leads, and con-
tinually beat him to the punch. Osborne
sent solid blows to the body in the sixth,
seventh and eighth rounds, when Morgan
—who is in the mid-thirties —appeared to
tire. The American recovered, and went
on to earn a decisive win on points. He
is a very game and likeable follow, but
he can’t be as good as he was 10 years
ago, and it doesn’t say much for the
present crop of Australian lightweights
that he can beat them all.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The war between West-
ralia and Victoria over footballer Dig-
gins (B. 2/6/’37) is eclipsing the Spanish
fuss in those States. Diggins cannot
legally—in a football sense —play with
or coach the Perth club he has signed up
with until South Melbourne gives him a
clearance. “Sowth” says it will see him
frizzle in Gehenna before it releases him
from his bond. Diggins has replied that
to him “Sowth’s” ravings are. as the chit-
tering of a marmoset, or words to that
effect. Meanwhile all wait breathlessly
to see what the Perth club will do —
release its captive or defy the Australian
F.L. laws.
* % * *
“Mak”: Contrary to usual practice, P.
Day and A. de Villiers, the managers of
the Springboks, have no official say
in team selections. The S’African Rugby
Board has created the international
Rugby Union precedent of leaving this
responsibility to five members of the
team —Nel, Craven, “Boy” Louw,
Strachan and Brand, the full-back
Strachan’s 1933 training methods, by the
way, must be unique in Rugby Union
annals, although they didn’t earn him a
Springbok cap against the Wallabies ; to
toughen himself for a comeback after a
playing spell that began when the 1931
English tour ended,
he is reputed to have
pulled a single-furrow
plough up and down
a Transvaal paddock!
% ❖ H*
“Old Hooker”: A
Sydney press critic
whose opinion is en-
titled to respect says
that the forwards
selected to meet the
’Boks in the N.S.W.
match in Sydney in-
clude far too many
who affect open work.
If this is true after
months of solemn
warning the unhappy
hooker of the N. S. Wales team will
be a passenger. The finest hooker on
earth can do no better than a
10-year-old kid if his pack is being shoved
backward at a sprinting rate, and simi-
larly the hooker of the shoving team
should get little credit for possession,
since his pack does it all for him. Aus-
tralian forwards for years past have done
what shoving they indulge in straight
ahead, with the breakaways “piano-play-
ing”—that is, leaning the fingers of one
hand lightly on the rest of the pack. All
shoving in a scrum should be directed
inward, with the hooker as the point of
the wedge and every man helping to
compact the mass. Even outweighted,
a well-packed side will hold up the
weightiest opposition. Writer has seen
this so often when teams of the. past
have been tackling the All-Black giants
of other days that he wishes some of our
so-called modern coaches could be
brought to realise the fact.
£ % * 'V
“Cash Money”: The N.S.W.R.U. has
arranged to reserve 660 seats in the
S.C.G. grandstand for the three Spring-
bok. the « on J “" e ~I . 9 . a nd, “
?” d July 10. The pr.ce w, 1 be 10s.,
' ncl “ sl^ e . ot admission. Seats may be
booked in advance for all three matches,
bu ‘ ‘ban four by any one
P erso „ n - , K has been stated that this is
the flrat >I me , Union scats have been
reserved. In 1921 the Union reserved a
of seats in the eastern stand at
the . Showground, where the mate
against the Boks were played,
, T
, °' d 9- ■ A rush from Rugby League
<° hmon colors in Queensland is
puzzling the League-and the Union
also. Half a dozen star Professionals
have B one to the Umon ’ easygoing
Queensland notions on the subject of
admitting these players to the amateur
fold helping the transfer. The Union has
nQ par £ cular attractions to offer this
season outside the Springboks, and all the
new ama t eurs cannot expect to be in-
cjuded j n the matches against the visitors,
* * * *
< Tropa ». i n their hunt for new worlds
tQ conquer t he English and Australian
Rugb y L ea g Ue s are talking of playing a
m i ss i onar y match or two in America,
Australia v> France. The French will do
weU to insist on return tickets> for it wiU
be a long? cold swim home . Rugby
Union and Soccer have a small and select
following in some parts of t he U.S.A.,
bu j R j s bard see where the crowds
“Garfish f'r one, Joe!”
are to come from to pay even the ex-
penses of carting a French team across
the Atlantic to play an unknown form
of football.
* * * *
“Gate”: At a N.S.W. ■ Rugby League
meeting secretary Miller asked to be
freed of his twin job of scribe to the
League Board of Control because of
antagonism displayed towards him. The
delegates told him to think it oyer, but
did not let the occasion pass without a
smack at the board. Queensland is the
only other member. A whole govern-
ing board for two States, playing four
brands of football, is an anomaly, and
the meeting said so.
* * * *
“Brass Addler : N.S.W. country
League clubs are complaining that those
i n the metropolis have taken to poaching
their star players. (Not so long ago the
country Leagues were so full of brass and
beans that they were being accused of
the same thing by the Sydney body.) It
is also alleged that the cash in the re-
tention fund formed to keep out-of-work
city players from taking country foot-
ball jobs is being used to entice the
simple country folk from their rural
peace to the fevered delights of the city.
Like the V.F.A., the countrymen are now
suggesting a transfer fee for pinched
players, but so far the idea has not been
received with cheers in the city.
* * * . * c
bate’ : The recent move against Sun-
day football in N.S.W. country towns
has revealed some ingenious devices o
dodge the law. At Lithgow, the police
report, the practice is to give any-
one entering the ground a programme on
payment of a bob With the programme
is a numbered ticket. It is claimed a
this has nothing to do with the admis-
sion of the programme-buyer, but is
issued by order of the Lithgow Council,
which rents the ground to the football
club for 10 per cent, of the takings.
* v * * : i=
“Broken Time”: English papers report
that the English Rugby League is talking
of reducing the number of players in a
team from 13 to 11 to make the game
more open. When the League was started
nearly 50 years ago, among the changes
suggested were an 11-a-side team and a
round ball like a Soccer pill, but smaller,
Experiments on these, lines were not en-
coil ine
a
“Outside Right”: The English Soccer
players in M.L. have run over the locals.
In the Test match they won by 12 goals
to nil, and in the three matches before
this match had piled up 28 goals. M.L.
papers are raving over the positional
play of the visitors, coupled with their
ball-control and speed. They are likely
to find Australia harder to beat and pos-
sibly, in the matter of pace, their
superiors.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sturt”: A match between Adelaide's
leading golf clubs, Seaton and Koo-
yonga, produced a (supposed) record for
Australia. With nine a side, Legh
Winser (S.) beat Ross Sawers (K.) at the
19th ; but Ackland-Horman (just off the
train from the inter-university champion-
ships) lost to W. S. Rymill, and Destree
to Richardson. This last duel produced
the said record ; every hole from Bth
to 26th was halved, after some marvel-
lous recoveries, the match thus going
to the 27th. Seaton won all the other
six matches.
***=!:
“Susie Swattit”: There has been a lot
of discontent among golfers over the
seeding of the draw for the N.S.W. ama-
teur championship—in fact, the heads
seem to have made a mess of it. Most
gratifying to my fefelings and that of the
sex in general is a furious letter of de-
nunciation from a male person in Sydney
“Sun.” After the best part of a column
of cursing the responsible officials, he
winds up: “I would recommend that the
Ladies’ Golf Union—a body to whom
must be given the palm for perfect man-
agement and control of its affairs —be
approached to arrange a series of lectures
to men on how to run their golf clubs.”
A dirty knock, if ever there was one.
❖ s?c * ❖
“Hoylake”: The ingenious Jap has just
put golf clubs on the English market at
3d. each landed cost. The heads of the
wooden clubs are made of bamboo strips
welded together under great pressure,
while all shafts are of split bamboo simi-
larly treated. Great distance is claimed
for the. new clubs, but how they will
stand climatic influences remains to be
seen. Split bamboo has been used for
years for fishing-rods, and furnishes a
most efficient article. Exposure to exces-
sive wet and heat has to be guarded
against.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The fragments
of the Australian Davis Cup team have
been invited to play matches against
France and Germany in July. With
a recovered McGrath Australia should
make a decent showing against France,
but Germany is a tougher proposition.
* $ * $
“Cut Shot”: The Davis Cup tourney
draws to a close. In the third round the
victors were the Germans, the Czechs,
the Yugs and the Belgians. The Italians
gave the Germans a lot of trouble:
Stefani’s defeat of Henkel was a surprise
packet, and Canapele ran Von Cramm to
four sets. The Yugs downed South
Africa four to one, and the Czechs over-
powered France by the same margin.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Latest tennis
news is that the Australian L.T.A. is
choosing 10 junior players to go into
retreat for a month in August under the
eye of Pat O’Hara Wood, who will in-
struct them in the mysteries of tennis and
physical training. Lads from other
States are to have travelling and housing
expenses. Pat will have the same and
a £25 fee. The experiment is expected to
cost £4OO, and maybe another Norman
Brookes may be dug out of the heap.
The association also announces that
the British tennisettes will leave M.L. —
presumably for this country —on Nov.
12. Von Cramm and Henkel are to play
a match in each State capital, and com-
pete in the Australian championships in
Adelaide. They are to have all expenses
paid on the first-class scale, but will be
handed only 15s. a day for drinks, etc.,
which seems rather measly for modern
amateurs.
# * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Ma State
tennis authorities have chosen nine boy
tennis-players for special training under
Aubrey Willard in Sydney. It is also
suggested that Gilchrist, regarded as a
genuine Davis Cup hope, should be sent
abroad for special coaphing in Britain or
the U.S.A. Nothing seems to have been
done in the way of training these lads to
earn a living should they fail to rise to
the remunerative heights of a tennis ama-
teur or when their gladiatorial days are
done. In the old Roman arena, the un-


The Sweetest Car
a
Tve ever driven!”
FORD V-8 FEATURES FOR 1937
GREATER OPERATING ECONOMY
Hi
NEW EASY-ACTION SAFETY
BRAKES
ALL STEEL BODY—FRAME, ROOF,
SIDES, FLOOR, ALL OF STEEL
SAFETY GLASS ALL ROUND
NEW LARGE LUGGAGE CAPACITY
NEW QUIETNESS IN OPERATION
NEW LUXURIOUS STYLE AND
EQUIPMENT
LIST PRICES:
Club Roadster £312
De Luxe Club Roadster £3lB
Club Coupe £330
De Luxe Club Coupe £339
Touring Sedan £349
De Luxe Touring Sedan £359
All prices F. 0.8. Ford Branch, plus Sales Tax
and Exceptionally Economical
Drive the new Ford V-8 and you, too, will agree that it is the
“sweetest'’ car you've ever handled. Silky, smooth V-8 power at
the touch of your toe . . . arm-chair comfort with steering and
brakes that make driving a sheer delight . . . the safety and silence
of an all-steel body with one-piece steel roof . . . safety glass all
round . . . and even greater economy. The 1937 V-8 is built
to give you the finest of modern motoring at the most economical
cost —many owners say it is the greatest motor car value
ever offered. Make your own test of this magnificent V-8
—your local Ford Dealer will gladly place a car at your
disposal. Easy and convenient purchase terms may be arranged.
FORD 37
BUY FROM YQUrToCAL FORD DEALER
'O RD MOTOR C OMPANY OP AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria)
F178.27V
Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
MICK SIMMONS
Unrivalled Range of Popular
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-cal.,
bolt action, v-bacli sight; for short,
long, or long-rifle cartridges. Round
barrel, 18in. long, bored and rifled with
the same care as the military weapon,
and guaranteed accurate; weight, about
341 b. .
Price 21/-
XHE MAINE DE LUXE MODEL
24in. barrel. oe /
Price OD/-
(Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22 short, ion
or long-rifle cartridges; 27in. round
barrel, pistol grip stock, safety bolt
Mauser type, ladder rear and metal
bead front sight; weight, »
about 4§lb 55/
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE, No.
41A MODEL, bolt action, 22 calibre,
rim lire, 27in. round blued steel
barrel; weight, 4ilb.; ladder /
rear sight 55/-
Postage, 2/3; Other Startes, 4/-.
No. 32—BROWNING “TROM
BONE” HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
ING RIFLE—22in. round steel
barrel; handles 22 short, long or
long-rifle cartridges; screw rem-
and open front sights; length
overall, 39in.; .
weight, 4flb. Price, £5/2/6
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 46—COOEY “MOHAWK”—(.22-cal.,
single-shot, for short, long or long-rifle
cartridges. Barrel, 27in. Walnut stock,
pistol grip. Steel butt plate, elevating rear
sight and silver bead front sight. Length
overall, 43*in. Weight, 61b.
Price 40/
(Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
No. 47—COOEY REPEATER—.22-cal., bolt
action, holds 10 long or long-rifle or 12
short cartridges. Double safety, beautifully
finished walnut stock, pistol grip and steel
butt plate. Adjustable rear sight and bead
front sight. Length overall, 41in. Barrel,
24in. Weight, 4flb. __ .
Price 72/6
(Carriage Paid.)
High-Class
SHOT GUNS
No.
3—HOLLIS’
THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. GUN—I2G., top lever, bar action.
82in. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
locks, crossbolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
grip, walnut stock. .
Price £l5/15/-
No. s—Similar5 —Similar gun, of lighter _ .•
build. Price £l2/17/6
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 9—CASHMORE D.8.8.L. GUN 12G..
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, crossbolt, D. and E.
fore-end pistol-grip, walnut stock; weight,
about 71b. . '
Price £l4/10/-
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 14—BROWNING D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN—I2G., 30in. steel barrels,
both choke, top lever,
pistol grip, nitro proof;
71b.
Price ..
walnut stock,
weight, about
(Carriage Paid.)
£lO/10/-
Write for Comprehensive Shooting Catalogue.
Free and post free!
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
STAY-MARKET. SYDNEY, & Ail Branches
successful contender was at least put out
of his misery instanter. To-day, the
athlete who has outlived public favor is
fortunate if he escapes a penurious old
age. ;!; : , t *
“Centre Court”: Perry and Vines, who
are in England to play at Wembley, got
through 61 matches in their tour of the
U.S.A., Vines winning 32 and Perry 29.
The takings of the tour topped £BO,OOO,
and Perry is said to have pouched
£lB,OOO of that. So far professional
tennis showmen and -women have struck
frosty weather in Britain, even La
Lenglen at the height of her fame ceas-
ing to draw as soon as she became a
professional.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”: The Empire Games com-
mittee has declined to include water polo
in the schedule. Britain, Canada, South
Africa, India and M.L. are said to be
anxious to send teams, but only N.S.W.
and Victoria go in seriously for water
polo in Australia. Further, the game
has got a reputation for roughness.
* * ❖ *
“Tenakoe”: Advance news of the
Maoriland oarsmen who will compete in
the Empire Games rowing events on the
Nepean (N.S.W.) tells that the eights are
a composite lot from various clubs, while
Petone club, winner of the, M.L. cham-
pionship this year, will furnish the four-
oar crew. Two of the eight well known
in Sydney are Jackson and Gould, who
were here with the Wanganui crew in
1934. The sculler has yet to be, picked.
£ £ £ £
“Toowong”: Sydney University won
the forty-sixth eight-oar race for the
Oxford and Cambridge Cup on the Bris-
bane River, thus retaining possession of
the pot. Tassie was second, with Mel-
bourne, Queensland and Adelaide fol-
lowing. The race, goes back to 1870,
when fours from Sydney and Mel-
bourne competed on the Yarra, the home
crew winning. The Cup, presented by
old Oxford and Cambridge blues, came
into the picture in 1893 ; since then
Sydney has won 18 times and Melbourne
14. Adelaide, which came in in 1888,
has never won. Queensland began in
1920, and has won four times, and Tas-
mania once after a beginning in 1924.
Westralia was successful in 1927, its first
year, and has won thrice since.
£ £ ‘ £
“Shell”: Australia’s first big profes-
sional sculling match for years will be
rowed on the Richmond River (N.S.W.)
on June 19. The race is for £2OO and
the championship of Australia. “Snowy”
Burns, holder of the title, is favorite.
Paddon, the other lad, is being trained
by his father Jim Paddon, once world’s
champion.
£ £ * £
“Ride Off”: The Dudley Cup polo
tourney this year in Sydney will open on
June 23 with nine teams —all from
N.S.W. The Cup contest is preceded by
the Town and Country clubs’ tourna-
ment, which opens at the Kyeemagh polo-
grounds to-day. All the entries for the
Dudley Cup will be competing in this
show as well, which should provide first-
class match practice for the big event.
£ -•:= £ £
“Green”: As if there were not enough
distractions of the kind to keep citizens
from going home to mow the lawn on
Saturday afternoons Adelaide is going
goopy over a variation of bowls known
as “ring bowls,” from the fact that in-
stead of a bowl a specially made ring is
used to trundle up the green. The ob-
jective is the same as in the old game—
to get as many rings up to the “jack” as
possible. To the writer there seems to
be little novelty in this. He suggests as
an improvement the substitution of a
quoit peg for the jack, extra points being
allotted to the player “ringing” the peg.
He makes no charge for what is in his
opinion a really brainy suggestion.
i|; ;|: $
“Gabba”: The Q.C.A. is dishing out
£4OO of its profits from the English
cricketers’ tour among country associa-
tions. Townsville and Toowoomba get
£lOO each, Gympie £75, Rockhampton
£5O, Bundaberg £4O and Maryborough
£35. The money is to be spent on
ground improvements, and will not be
handed over until the Q.C.A. approves of
the intended improvement schemes. Most
of the balance of the money received
will go to sadly-needed improvements on
the archaic Brisbane C.G.
• $ £ . $ $
“Old Q.”: According to London
“Star” it is probable that, as a result of
the London cricket conference on June
25, no more Test matches will be played
at Brisbane. He adds that the voting of
hard-up English counties, which live by
the takings of English tours abroad and
the Tests at home, may decide the issue.
The answer is that the Australian Board
of Control decides these things, and not
insolvent counties.
ij; -!■
“Slalom”: Something new in sport
tourneys for this country will be the
international ski races to be held in Sep-
tember between Australia and an Ameri-
can team and, it is hoped, M.L. Dur-
rance, open champion of the U.S.A.,
Loughlin and the Bradley brethren, all
eminent in Gahd’s own country for slid-
ing about on two sticks like the Old
Gentleman in Le Sage’s story, are com-
ing. After competing in Maoriland,
the team reaches Sydney on August 9,
and will tackle Victoria at Mt. Buller,
beginning August 12, which does not give
the members much time for acclimatisa-
tion. After a meeting with Australian
universities, the Americans will be given
a glimpse of the arid deserts of Australia
at Charlotte Pass in the Australian cham-
pionships. Australia rather unexpectedly
scored over M.L. last year, and should
be able to give the Yanks a good go,
even if the latter were class enough to
compete with the cream of Europe at
the Olympiad.


“The Woman I Love.”
FRENCH FLIGHT-LIEUTENANTS,
Paul Muni and Louis Hayward
WOMAN IN THE CASE,
Miriam Hopkins
HEROIC SQUADRON-
LEADER Colin Clive
The plot is the triangular one which
has already been reckoned good enough
for 1768 Great-War-time fillums, and
which, apparently, will serve for 2000
more. Lieutenant Marais (Muni) has
a wife who, she explains, loves her hus-
band but is not in love with him. The
falling-in-love process she reserves for a
young flying officer (Hayward) who
picks her up in Paris. Her lover is, of
course, drafted to Marais’s company,
and Marais very soon finds out what’s
in the wind. So far the proceedings are
as mechanical as a clockwork doll.
Two features combine to lift the piece
out of the rut: the ending—it is the rival
who is killed in action, not the husband
—and Muni’s quiet portrayal of strong
emotion. He draws a strong, self-con-
tained, consistent character and wins
sympathy to an extent that puts a dif-
ferent angle on the hackneyed situation.
Any misunderstandings and subterfuges
are the work of other characters. Marais
is sensible, logical and straightforward.
His attempt to straighten matters out as
between himself, his wife and his com-
rade is as nice a piece of natural acting
as the screen has ever seen.
War-time atmosphere is well done, and
casting is judicious, though the pretence
that the characters are French is as thin
as such pretences usually are.
At the State Theatre, Sydney.
“China Passage.”
GLAMOROUS GIRL DETECTIVE,
Constance Worth
SOLDIERS OF FORTUNE,
Vinton Howarth and Gordon Jones
LEAST-LIKELY SUSPECT,
Leslie Fenton
One of those ocean-liner mix-ups. A
celebrated Chinese diamond is stolen.
Its two American guardians and a squad
of crooks and detectives, all very much
incognito, embark on a ship bound from
Shanghai to ’Frisco. Every time a state-
room door is opened a dead body is
found. Of course, the beautiful young
girl who represents Uncle. Sam’s Customs
Department unmasks the villains and
marries the not-very-impressive hero
(Mr. Howarth). As in all talkies of this
genre the most innocent people spend
their time, doing the most suspicious
things, which, as the Archbishop of York
has very properly remarked, is not fair
to the public. However, the affair moves
briskly. At Sydney State.
“Conflict.”
ITINERANT PUG Ward Bond
HIS CHOPPING-BLOCK, John Wayne
REFAINING INFLUENCE,
Jean Rogers
Set in the days of mutton-chop flea
traps, strangulation vests and bell-bot-
tomed hats, but in places where old-
world courtesy was not, this opus has
to do with the craft of the lads with
bulging muscles and sloping brows, and
projects the most genuine, all-in go this
critic has seen outside the dinkum thing.
Between fights it is conventional melo-
drama.
An old stunt is worked. The travel-
ling troupe sends one pug ahead to a
town. To the locals he is a champion of
champions, and when the troupe arrives
the locals back the firstcomer heavily
against the No. 1 gent, with the spreading
conk, and later wish they hadn’t. But
when the advance-bruiser goes to a
lumber town he meets the goil, adopts an
orphan boy and reforms, and when next
he crawls into underpants and gloves he
plays a xylophone solo on his ex-
tormentor’s slats and nets a wad for the
peasants that would make a tax-com-
missioner froth at the mouth. As a
reward for all this he is allowed to wrap
his 74in. reach around goilie’s slender
form.
John Wayne seems to have been mis-
cast —he might make a good glass-blower
or something—but Ward Bond has the
face, figure and actions of a pug. At
Sydney Capitol.
“The Great Hospital Mystery.”
SLEUTHING MATRON, Jane Darwell
PRETTY NURSE Sally Blane
HER MEDICO FIANCE, Thomas Beck
VILLAINOUS-LOOKING SUPERIN-
TENDENT Sig Rumann
There are a lot of mysteries in this
remarkable fantasia —why bank-robbers
should leave their getaway to the chance
of being able to jump a ride in some by-
stander’s car; why they should waste
time, instead of escaping, in attempting
to murder several occupants of a hos-
“You’ll have to run home, Tommy; this is for adults only."
pital; why the medical superintendent
should prowl about in the dark burglaris-
ing his colleagues’ rooms; why the
matron should string cords across the
fire-escape, and why the nursing staff
should include a congenital idiot incap-
able of walking three steps without trip-
ping over her own feet. Answers to
some of these questions are provided
after about 80 minutes of feverish night-
mare activity, but this commentator felt
sympathy with the crusty patient who ex-
pressed incredulity when told the institu-
tion was a hospital. He said he had
come to the conclusion it' was a lunatic
asylum. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Case of the Missing Man.”
PHOTOGRAPHER Roger Pryor
HIS SWEETIE Joan Perry
EDITOR Thurston Hall
This rather mild, mysteryless thriller
has the saving grace of a good idea logi-
cally worked out. The men fill the bill all
right; the lady is a weakness.
A press photographer kicks over the
traces at his girl’s behest and sets up his
shingle as a classy portraitist. But biz.
is moribund, and when the bailiff looms
he takes to street photography, with a
couple of old vaudevilleans as side-kicks.
Thrills start when he snaps a killer com-
ing out of a jewellery store with his loot.
The bad man might be any one of a few
dozen he has snapped and the process of
elimination is skilful. The dicky-bird
expert, aided by his ex-editor, lays a trap
for the killer, and the police are at hand
to give the amateur sleuth any slight'
assistance he may need. That he eventu-
ally confounds the criminal is never in
doubt, and in his method of doing so
suspense is played to the limit. At
Sydney Lyric.
“The Gentleman from Louisiana.”
CELEBRATED JOCKEY Eddie Quillan
TRAINER Chic Sale
RACEHORSE OWNER,
Marjorie Gateson
FLAPPER DAUGHTER
Charlotte Henry
The gent, in question is Tod Sloan,
though for screen purposes, and to side-
step any possible argument with relatives,
he becomes Tod Mason. The film deals
with his introduction of the crouch, short
stirrup and whipless method which revo-
lutionised riding in the ’nineties, and his
vicissitudes on the various courses of
England and America. Fiction has been
called into the breach to bolster up
fact, the result being that Tod is wiped
out by the jockey clubs of both countries
for alleged shady practices in the Derby.
Aided, however, by Diamond Jim Brady
and his trainer, Deacon Devlin, he fights
his way back to respectability, big money
and the adulation of the racegoing
public. There is no lack of excitement,
and the film has an obbligato of thunder-
ing hooves throughout. At Sydney Lyric.
“Rainbow on the River.”
ORPHAN WHO WILL SING,
Bobby Breen
WEALTHY GRANDMA, May Robson
OLE BLACK MAMMY, Louise Beavers
SCHEMING COUPLE, Alan Mowbray
and Benita Hume
The opening sequence, in which young
Master Breen, his hair nicely marcelled,
wearing a fixed smile, capers into a New
Orleans street scene, singing a ditty of
the “Buy My Pretty Flowers” genus to
full orchestral accompaniment, sets the
key for this sloppy fantasia. Bobby is an
orphan, his parents having been polished
off in de wah, an event of recent occur-
rence. He is heir to a crusty old grandma
with a soft heart beneath the crust and
an eye that is apt to let the tear fall. The
Mowbray-Hume duo are a couple who
aim to have their daughter, Grandma’s
niece, made recipient of the old dame’s
fortune. But, after hearing dear little
Bobby sing, Alan weakens. Bobby sings
to people in the street, to white mice,
to a children’s party, to a priest, to his
grandma, and to the ole black mammy,
and in some cases also strums a banjo.
His accompanying orchestra and fade-in
choruses of thousands of darkies are kept
very busy. Bobby used to be a nice
enough kid, but now he puts on the. airs
and graces of a prima donna and be-
comes wearisome after three minutes.
After 90 minutes “The End” is liable to
be hailed with tumultuous cheers. At
Sydney Lyceum.
“Feather Your Nest.”
CODFACED LUNATIC,
George Formby
HIS GIRL Polly Ward
Mr. Formby, if he survives in screen
history at all, will be remembered as the
star of the world’s most economical film,
in which the scenery consisted of half a
bus and the entertainment was entirely a
matter of comic songs to banjo-mandolin
accompaniment. In the opus now under
review Mr. Formby is an employee at
225. per week in the recording depart-
ment of a gramophone co. There he
spends his time dropping and breaking
everything he touches, falling over his
own feet whenever this begins to pall.
After about half an hour of this de-
licious fun he drops and breaks a pre-
cious record made by a crooner. To
cover up his crime he and his girl climb
into the studio at night, and George
makes another record of the same song,
with himself as the singer and mandolin
accompanist and his girl at the piano.
The record becomes a best-seller, and
George lands a five years’ contract at
£3O a week and marries the girl. The
sort of production that makes well-
wishers of the English film enterprises
despair. At Sydney Lyceum.
"Take My Tip.”
PEER Jack Hulbert
HIS LADY Cicely Courtneidge
THEIR EX-BUTLER ~ Frank Cellier
Lord and Lady Pilkington lose their
money and go to a hotel in Dalmatia as
employees of their former butler, his
lordship as maitre d’hotel and his lady
as a countess with an accent and It.
Later she is just as funny as a boned-
corseted, velvet-ribbon dog-collared mem-
sahib, with her spouse as . a retired
Indian army officer and a diviner of oil.
He does his divining on the golf links,
to the detriment of greens. Miss Court-
neidge’s gamining is inimitable, and un-
tiring, dovetailing nicely into Hulbert’s
usual routine of quips, songs and dances.
At Melbourne Athenaeum.
STAGE SHOWS.
The Russian Ballet.
There was nothing new in the Russian
Ballet’s Sydney programmes last week.
The two changes of programme yielded
“Cotillon” (in which Tamara Tchinarova
was more successful than ever), “Sche-
herazade,” with Woizikowsky’s wild leaps
as a spectacular feature, “Aurora’s Wed-
ding,” all Kirsova’s pigeon, “Carnaval,”
“Ballet School,” “Spectre of the Rose”
and “Petrouchka.” Younger dancers
who show much improvement are
Thomas Armour, Milos Ristic and Irina
Bondireva.
*l*
Margaret Black, Soprano.
Margaret Black, the latest lyric soprano
to burst from her chrysalis in Melbourne,
went through her paces in exercises by
Bach, Handel, Rachmaninoff and other
composers at the Assembly Hall last
week. Miss Black’s technique will need
a lot of development before she will do
justice to these posers of difficult vocal
problems, but she has a voice of con-
siderable range and a great deal of


If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor tne original.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
*
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
m
am
m
mm
'i I §' 9
, -
«! V;
PRICES:
1/9, 2/10, 5/-.
At all Chemists
and Stores.
WAS your sleep deep, peaceful, and
restful? . . . Or was it light, fitful
and troubled by periods of wake-
fulness? . . .
By far the best way to avoid sleep
deficiency is to drink a cupful of
“Ovaltine” every night just before you
go to bed. This delicious beverage is
acknowledged to be the world’s best
night-cap for ensuring sound, natural
health-giving sleep.
“Ovaltine” is scientifically prepared
from malt, milk and eggs. Eggs are
liberally used in its manufacture be-
cause of their richness in nerve-build-
ing properties. No tonic food beverage
would be complete without the liberal
use of eggs.
For giving sound sleep all night and
abundant energy all day there is
definitely nothing to equal “Ovaltine”.
Quality always tells.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample
of “Ovaltine”, sufficient to make four cups-
ful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps,
to cover the cost of packing and postage.
024.18.37
OVA LTINE
Prevents Sleep Deficiency
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
beauty, and in platform appearance lacks
nothing.
** * *
Budapest Quartet in Melbourne.
String quartet music was made both a
fashionable and an artistic event last
year in Melbourne by the Budapest
Quartet, and, equipped with a new
’cellist, the same organisation filled the
Assembly Hall again last week. The
four are cool and collected and intel-
lectual in their playing, and there is an
added grace and assurance about their
renderings which leaves no doubt as to
how they have been spending their time
in the interim. It. would be difficult to
imagine anything fresher and livelier
than their playing of the “Lark” quartet
of Haydn, to which Elgar’s one and only
string quartet came a good second. But
it is as Beethoven exponents that the
Budapests are most highly regarded m
Melbourne, and their execution of Op.
59, No. 3, which finished their initial
programme, brought the audience near
to wild enthusiasm. There was no loss
of shape in the fiery finale nor in the
graceful andante.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Art Society’s Show.
The mainstays of the Australian Art
.Society’s show at the Education Depart-
ment’s Gallery, Sydney, are, as is right
and proper, the society’s office-bearers.
Rupert Woodman’s 10 offerings include
the best portrait in the show, “The
Artist’s Wife,” two nice pictures of dusky
Olive, and an effective bit of flower-
painting, “Golden Zinnias.” Portraitist
Jerrold Nathan, though he seems to be
overworking fuzzy shimmers in clothes
and backgrounds, shows some excellent
heads—“ Dessert” and the child studies
“Paddy” and “Sunny Jim,” for example
“Tranquillity,” by James R. Jackson, at David Jones’s
Gallery, Sydney.
—and a fine riot' of reds in “Summer
Flowers.” Rhys Williams continues to
cultivate a bold, unequivocal style. His
coastal pictures, such as “Turimetta” and
“Whales Beach and Careel Head,” are
sweeping in composition and strong in
color. “Parramatta River” is a pleasant
symphony in green and blue. William
Oates has eight nicely-painted landscapes
to his credit; Garret Kingsley is repre-
sented by an excellent portrait of Marie
Jose Brownlee and a couple of pretty-
pretty nudes ; W. M. Whitney’s competent
brush achieves an effect that would have
pleased J. J. Hilder in the water-color
“Sunny Corner, Mosman Bay,” and
pleases with the fidelity of his color values
in “Summer Evening, Balmoral.” H. C.
Hadley applies his delicate yellows,
browns and greens to such dissimilar
landscape subjects as “The Swamp” and
“Autumn, Nepean Valley.”
Wilson Mawhinney’s portraits “Iris”
and “Self” are well painted. “Essay,” a
head in shadows that out-Rembrandts
the Dutchman, is not so successful. Alan
D. Baker in “Resting” makes a nice pic-
ture of Olive, and Lance V. Solomon
achieves some pleasing low-tone effects
in “The Singing Creek” and “North-
westerly Wind.” F. S. Davis’s water-
color of “The Three Sisters, Katoomba,”
is about the most successful these much-
painted models have yet provided. The
same artist’s “Fisherman’s Cave, Nam-
bucca,” is a suave, graceful piece of
beach painting. Laura Booth’s water-
color “From the Domain,” Rosaleen
Norton’s remarkable “Salamanders” and
Lesbia Thorpe’s “Old Faithful” catch the
eye, the last-mentioned because of the
fresh light it casts upon equine anatomy.
•£■ 4* d*
James R. Jackson Discovers Sydney
Harbor.
In his show at David Jones’s gallery,
Sydney, James R. Jackson covers a wide
territorial range —• Queensland, many
parts of rural N. S. Wales, and one
canvas from as far afield as Spain —but
his most successful pictures come from
Sydney’s own waterside, which offers
such a wealth of paintable material that
it is a wonder it has not received more
attention. Always a sound painter, with
a nice taste in composition and a true
eye for color, Jackson in “Harbor, Morn-
ing,” “Old Cremorne,” “Balmoral,”
“Morning, Mosman Bay,” “Tranquillity”
(reproduced here—it makes a thing of
beauty of the despised Spit Bridge),
“Evening Sky, Sydney Harbor,” “Middle
Harbor Blue,” “Road to the Spit,” “Sun-
rise, Middle Harbor,” “Shelly Beach,
Middle Harbor,” “Awakening Day, Bal-
moral,” and “North Harbor, Morning,”
presents the most effective eulogy of
Sydney’s marine setting that has ever
come from one brush. There are affection
and sincerity in these paintings, which
record, as the titles indicate, early-morn-
ing and late-evening effects as well as
the glory of sunny noon.
A nude study, “Sun Bathers,” is effec-
tive. Some flower pieces—why must
every landscape painter try his hand at
posies?—are stiff and undistinguished.
4* 4* +
From Vida Lahey’s Garden.
All that can be said by this page, in
praise or blame, about Vida Lahey’s
floral water-colors has been said many
times before. Her show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, reveals a cer-
tain degree of artistic development. In
many of the drawings the temptation to
let color run riot in a sort of botanical
encyclopaedia has been resisted, the deli-
cacy of which the water-color medium j
is capable when skilfully handled is
achieved, and the result is a picture
which can not only stand but can wel-
come comparison with the best work of
the most famous overseas practitioners
in this field. In
this category may
be placed such
charming pictures
as “White Roses,”
“Pink Roses,”
“Talismans” and
“By the Window.”
Effective essays m
rich color, too,
are “Gold and
Blue,” “Coleus”
and “Doing the
Flowers.”
Three little
landscapes in oils
show an unusual
brush technique.
The experiment
might be pushed
further with good
results.
Rembrandt Etchings at Horderns*.
Folded up in a sheet of account paper
there lay for close on 90 years, in an
old desk the property of a N. S. Wales
family, 11 small pieces of very thin paper
yellowed by age. These pieces of paper
are valuable, for 10 of them bear etch-
ings by Rembrandt and the eleventh an
etching by Bull, a pupil of the great
Dutch master. The little collection of
Rembrandts includes the portrait of
Rembrandt with his wife, the three heads
on one plate, another Rembrandt self-
portrait, head of an old man with flam-
boyant beard, head of an old woman
with a Dante-like profile, and the old
peg-leg beggar. Most of them bear the
Rembrandt signature, and all are well
authenticated. The collection has been
acquired by Anthony Horderns’ art de-
partment, and is offered for sale, either
piecemeal or as a whole.
■s’ ‘P 4* ■J*
The Ballet in Aquatint.
The Russian Ballet continues to inspire
artists. Latest to respond to the afflatus
is Harold Byrne, of Sydney, an etcher
whose work in other fields has caught the
eye of this page on many previous occa-
sions. He has made and published (for
subscribers only), a folio containing nine
plates, The Spirit of the Ballet. Woizi-
kowsky has written an appreciative fore-
word. The aquatints very cleverly catch
the graceful and effective poses of the
dancers in the Monte Carlo Co.’s most- 1
admired ballets, and the volume forms a
very beautiful souvenir of a landmark in
Australia’s stage history. The edition is I
to be limited to 30 copies, after making I
which the plates are to be destroyed.


WORLD BEATER!
in hurricane acceleration and safe, smooth road-hugging speed
If you’ve got a love of thoroughbred car perform-
ance . . . then accept our invitation to drive the
new Vauxhall 25. Step in . . . and step on it
Match this new Vauxhall 25 with your fondest
memories of the finest car you have ever driven.
Match it for smoothness . . . for acceleration . . .
for its sensation of safe, silent, road-hugging
speed. Test its amazing T.T. Independent Front
Wheel Springing on the wickedest curves . . . and
see how this new system resists rolling. Ask
its dual-safety Hydraulic Brakes for next-door-to-
the-impossible in swift cushioned stops. You’ll
give the Vauxhall 25 top marks for
everything ... for it does everything
that you could wish of your 1937 car.
Here are just a few of the high-lights
of this big, beautiful world-challeng-
ing English Car: 80 m.p.h. New-
combustion-chamber-design O.H.V. 6-cylinder
Engine . . . Unisteel Turret Top body by Holden
. . . T.T, Independent Front Wheel Springing . . .
dual-safety Hydraulic Brakes ... Armourplate Glass
in windscreen and all side windows ... No-draught
Ventilation ... Adjustable Steering Wheel... New-
type Adjustable raising and lowering Front Seat
. . . Relax-o-form seating .. . Luggage Trunk, etc.
You may choose from several colour schemes in
the handsome two-tone Saloon illustrated. An
All-enclosed Six-seater Coupe brings you closed
car comfort at an even lower price
Also Vauxhall Seven Passenger Saloon.
Senior car of the Vauxhall line.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
\JX
m
I
v*
AUXHALL 25'
XWCWOOCWMMSfiSIW
'•
"""""""T""'' 4
•■vf.NVvlv
vfflfSWKv ;WWv.
gs
C 250
Consult your local authorised Vauxhall dealers
a
O!
Twice as Popular as any other Small Car
LITTLE VAUXHALL “14”
No wonder the little Vauxhall is so far ahead in sales of all other
small cars. Look what it offers : modern 6-cylinder OJd.V. Engine
. . . Independent Front Wheel Springing . . . Turret Top Body by
Holden . . . No-draught Ventilation in closed models.
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO
The 1937 2-unit ‘Air Chief’ Car Radio,
designed for the Vauxhall 25 includes
a special remote control to match fit-
tings on the instrument panel. A
new six valve set with increased
distance reception and tone equal to
the best home radio. Speaker fits in
header bar flush with roof lining
giving ear-level reception to all pas-
sengers. Ask for a demonstration.
LISTENING-IN.
BY "EL VERDUGO."
The statistics of an afternoon’s broad-
cast (three hours) from a Sydney B
station one day recently included the
word “mammy” 26 times and the words
“way down” 29 times. There were
18 adjurations to somebody to take, the
singer back somewhere in U.S.A. Three
sets of performers were straight negroid.
Seventy per cent, of the music consisted
of excerpts from the great masters re-
scored according to the Afro-American
tradition.
For advertisement, we had the virtues
of a new dance hall and a new
Yankee film. The dance hall is so
“stupendous, superb” as to move the
announcer to campfire wails. It has
a jazz orchestra, and scenes from Shak-
speare on its walls, wall frescoes of Venus
and Adonis in an elegant compartment
called the “ladies’ boodoher,” and a
men’s retiring-room with three telephones
in it. And the movie, of course, is a
“smashing hit” full of “swing” melody
which all Australia is expected to whistle
within a few days.
There was one local item, a session
called £tFor m£n only „ A hushed
female voice addresses the Digger he-
men 0 f thj s pioneering continent—“ All
you dear men.” She knows that there
w in be a lot of them listening because
there is no rival race-meeting. And she
is there to shed the light of a woman’s
outlook on their problems.
The first problem propounded by sorm.
two-fisted punter is “Why do women
a j wa y S seem to have a superiority corn-
plex?” In order to get a woman’s
outlook on this the Sibyl has re-
ferred to a psychiatrist, and he
has assured her that woman has no
superiority complex. It is, as it were, an
inferiority complex which has risen like
a second Matupi in eruption through the
s b e fl 0 £ SU pp re ssion which man has im-
posed on the weaker sex. There are
gents, whose wives are unfaithful and
who want to know what they should do
about it; there is a repentant sinner whose
wife confessed and who called her every-
thing he could think of and turned her
into the cold world. He has listened to
the Sibyl and is softened. Jhere is
a dairy-farmer’s wife who is “behaving
like a demon.” The broadcasting cure
for her is a visit to a psychiatrist,
Just as a highly-moral atmosphere has
been induced and the balm has sunk
into the souls of 10,000 listeners, the lady
announcer says in her hushed, cosy, con-
fidential voice that she is loath to talk
about bad livers and kidneys, but if you
have them salvation waits you if you
take gin pills. “That’s the way not to
have rheumatism and lumbago” and to
make husbands good-tempered and to
want to buy frocks for their wives at
O’Flaherty’s where, they are simply given
away and Sophie Tucker is now going
to sing “That’s Something to Be Thankful
p or »
Sophie, of course, is a yaller gal, and
the things she is thankful for are
chiefly that she is not too old to
satisfy her man with luv—only she puts
it much more crudely—and that if he
doesn’t behave to her as a good man
should she can fall back on the butcher,
the baker and the candlestick maker. If
Sophie were to write a book, the censor
would be down on her in one minute,
But she is apparently a mere incident in
the life of this B station. The hushed, cosy
voice of the confidential lady who intro-
duced her is heard a moment after
Sophie has done her stuff. She is
now in another studio with two dear
little tots (“so good of mummy to let
them come in on this wet day”), and
they will now sing a song called “Dear
Little Margaret Rose.”
A stations have another technique
Opera and the songs of Shubair.are
A.B.C. s meat and drink, with the
pelt a Ballet,” “Santa Lucia and some
Hungarian Rhapsody for > •
A.B.C. talkers are largely professors,
some a trifle arid.
Still A.B.C. gave us broadcasts irom
Rabaul. A special aeroplane was sent
to the stricken place, and 12 minutes
one 15-minute broadcast were devoted to
the reporter’s personal sufferings en
route. He found the chief crater at
Rabaul to be called “Matopo” (Matupi
is the name). The damage was estimated
at £500,000 —the Administrator said
next morning £200,000. Rabaul was
covered with pumice—everybody knew
that a week before. A ‘ sensible idea
would be to shift the capital to Kokopo
and retain Rabaul as a port connecting
the two by road. Kokopo, as it happens,
is nearly as much in the earthquake zone
as Rabaul, and the road was made lm-
passable by the eruptions. ?
The reporter saw “Ah Chee s famous
hotel, mentioned in all Jack Londons
stories.” Jack London’s connection with
the South Seas ended in 1908. Ah Chee
was not “famous” till after the war.
Australian broadcasting has improved,
but in some respects it remains singularly
un-Australian.


2f M*M MJMHI
INHALANT\
prevents colds from
NIGHT CHILLS
A drop of Vapex on your
pillow at night is wonder-
fully effective in preventing
colds. The powerful germi-
cidal vapour is breathed
while you sleep and keeps
the nose and throat free
from infection.
Use Vapex whenever you
feel a cold beginning. A
drop on your handkerchief,
breathed frequently,quickly
clears the head and destroys
the germs which would
otherwise increase rapidly
to your discomfort. You
can feel it doing you good.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD.
and sold throughout the world
Visit THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street)
Last days of Norman Lindsay’s
Special Exhibition—it closes on
Friday, June 18.
Tel.: 87971.
ADMISSION FREE
+ H e
wertwom*
Your Home
hi' e
s Y o
w
H EV
You’ll enjoy a stay at the Went-
worth. Whether your trip be busi-
ness or social, the Wentworth is
ideal. Close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is yet noted
for its restful comfort, its service
and cuisine. Wire or write for
reservations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY.’PHONE BW 1361
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Upstairs, downstairs and in the Mayor-
ess’s chamber card-tables were arranged
last Thursday night—and each one was
surrounded by four players. They were
intent on anything from rummy to bridge
or from pinochle to rummy-bridge. The
Mayoress’s clothing fund will benefit,
and as each group of players brought
their own supper there was no catering
bill to take a bite from the profits. There
were about 1000 players, and their entry
was made to the accompanying clatter
of bumping suitcases. Mayor Howie was
at this party, and Mayoress Parkes kept
the chill off her brown crepes with a
black velvet coat.
Artist Jimmy Jackson hasn’t held an
exhibition in Sydney for over seven
years. Judging by the full house at the
opening of his show last week, 300 or
more must have been eagerly waiting
for him to do so. From Manly and
from Strathfield, from Killara and from
Vaucluse, admirers turned up. Architect
B J. Waterhouse opened the show, but
long before the appointed hour the vistas
of land and sea where beauty and peace
have been caught by the artist’s brush
and fancy were being gazed on. Percy
Williamson marked one for his own.
A robin-red quill stabbed the front of
the shovel-brimmed hat worn by the
artist’s wife, who, as Dora Toovey, has
her own reputation as a painter. Brian
Cannell, in his cheeks the cold fresh-
ness of Canberra (where Elioth Gruner
and he had been lunched by the G.-G.
and Lady Gowrie), spent a Jack-
sonian hour before rushing off to do
some buying ere he and Elioth
Gruner make tracks for the Northern
Rivers. Elioth is going to paint the sun-
shot pleasant land where winter is just
a prolongation of summer. The Norman
Macleods were there, in her wine-colored
coat a cluster of sunflowers. Mrs. Ver-
non Cole did the rounds wrapped in a
mole coat, her black toque jaunty with
veil and a knot of violets. Mrs. Will
Ashton and Mrs. Adrian Ashton, Mrs.
R. Hogg, Mrs. Cox, Dr. Sinclair Gillies
and Alfred Stephen were among the
seen.
There’s a fresh and melodious note in
Betty Higgins’s voice, and her singing
must have pleased father and mother
(the Percy Higgins couple) when she
gave her recital last week. The Con. was
warm with appreciation and friendly
feeling, and teacher Lois Zucker received
many compliments on her pupil’s work.
Pale and deep hyacinth blue were in
Betty’s frock. The deeper note was in
the velvet that banded the hem of the
crisp taffeta of which the frock was
made. Poinsettia and red carnations
decorated the stage. Four of the singer’s
girl friends sold programmes and helped
carry up the baskets and sheaves of
flowers that soon made the stage look
like a garden.
The Consul-General for Latvia and
Mrs. Norman Macleod gave a “four-to-
seven” on Saturday in honor of Ray-
monde Pognon. Raymonde has come
from Noumea to be married to her
Lindsay Walker, of Melbourne, next
Monday. In the meantime she is the
guest of France’s Vice-Consular Meyers.
She came to Saturday’s party dressed
in turquoise crepes, a trig black taffeta
cape about her shoulders. Poinsettia
and leaping fires glowed warm in the
reception-rooms, and the hostess’s frock
was like a bit of a spring afternoon.
Its sky-after-rain-blue satin was lightly
patterned in pink flowers. Mrs. Meyer
in sapphire-blue moire brought niece
Irma. Mrs. Florence Taylor’s postillion
hat in black velvet was admired.
Charles Nicis sang Latvian and Rus-
sian songs with such pathos and fire that
you got the mood, if not the words.
Mrs. Simpson Lee’s ensemble was olive
green. The Kelso King and Barlow
ladies were there; so was Dr. Betty
McComas, just back from the U.S.A.,
with a crisp white muslin butterfly on
her flower-patterned dress and two dark-
red roses (almost black) crushed against
the front of her upturned, off-the-face
black hat. Her brother, who is Consul
for Latvia in Melbourne, and her mother
had come up to Sydney to meet
their traveller. They went home to Mel-
bourne on Saturday night.
In “The Merchant of Venice” Nerissa
describes Bassanio as “a Venetian, a
scholar and a gentleman.” Change. Vene-
tian to Australian, and you have a very
fit description of John Lane Mullins,
who was 80 last Saturday. All day
long the telephone at his Elizabeth Bay
flat rang with the refrain “Many Happy
Returns,” callers arrived and so did tele-
grams from the ends of Australia and
from some out-of-the-way corners of
the world. Apart from the work he has
done in law, in church matters (he is
one of Australia’s few Papal knights) and
in politics (his service in the Upper
House extended over many years), John
Lane Mullins has always found time to
identify himself with the literary and the
art movements of the State. The poets
of an earlier decade, when writing
brought more heart-breaks than cheques,
found in him a very practical sympathy.
He has an extensive collection of Aus-
tralian, and the first works of author
and artist are thick in his store. Books
have ever been the breath of life to him,
so it was fitting that the birthday cake
should be ornamented on its second tier
with an open book. A dinner party sur-
rounded by his children and grand-
children rounded off his day.
This is the wife of Dr. Garnet Hal-
loran, who is already pledged to many
committees. She is a vice-president of the
coming Medical Ball, and an active
helper of the R.S.P.C.A. Photograph
from Falk.
For two years Betty McComas has
been in England and America studying
orthopaedic work. Most of the time she
worked at the famous Liverpool hos-
pital ; then on her way home she did a
course, of the big clinics of New York.
She went down to Richmond, Virginia,
as a guest of Dr. Frank Apperley and
his wife. The doctor, who used to be a
professor of pathology at Melbourne
University, is now one of the big chiefs
of Virginia’s professorial set. His wife,
who used to act with the Abbey Players,
is still drama-minded. Lately she wrote
a play, “Carry Us Back,” full of old
Southern atmosphere. She tried it out
in Richmond, and it was such a success
that the company repeated it in all the
cities of the South.
The elder of the Apperley girls attends
the William and Mary College, which
boasts the one genuine bit of Christopher
Wren architecture in America. In Wil-
liamsburg the visitor from Australia was
delighted with the gardens around the
old Government House. These are kept
exactly as they were when the South
was a British colony. All the beds are
set with old-fashioned flowers. Tulips
and hyacinths, sisters to those that
bloomed before horticultural experts got
busy and beautified them out of know-
ledge, still adorn this showplace, where
even the gardeners wear the buckled
shoes and gardening dress of the colonial
period.
This is Jeanette Hogg, a pretty under-
grad. of Sydney University, where she
is taking her arts course. Before she
decided on the higher education she was
among the star students of Meriden. Art
shows and the drama are among her
favorite recreations. Howard Harris
photograph.
Mrs. Roy Underwood, a native of
Poland, who, as Jan Czaykowska, during
the war and immediately after it ran a
fund for the relief of Polish war victims,
was last week decorated by a grateful
country. The action, though delayed,
was done handsomely, as Mrs. Under-
wood has the gold cross of the Order of
Merit, and this is the highest degree.
Mrs. Underwood was caught in Sydney
in 1914 by the outbreak of the war and,
unable to return to her own country,
threw her energies into this humanitarian
work. W. A. Holman, who was Pre-
mier at the time, and the N.S.W. Govern-
ment gave practical help as well as sym-
pathy.
The Consul-General for Poland and
Mrs. de Noskowski surrounded the pres-
entation of the decoration with a recep-
tion in the Australia. The large recep-
tion-room was decorated with, red and
white flowers, and the red and white of
Poland’s flag was a further burst of
color. Mrs. Underwood’s hat and
ground-length frock were of black velvet,
the right contrast to her fair coloring and
golden hair. The decoration, with its
centre of red and white enamel and its
handsome gold setting, showed up vividly
against the black. Mrs. de Noskowski, a
cornelian Breton sailor topping her smart
green ensemble, presented Mrs. Under-
wood with a great basket of red and
white flowers. The Attorney-General
Mannings, Henry Braddon, the. Francis
Andersons, the Mason Allards, Elioth
Gruner and the Justice Evatts were
among the company.
It is 11 years since the Australian Art
Society hung out its sign at the Educa-
tion Galleries in Loftus-street. This
year’s exhibition was opened by Sir
Hugh Poynter, and his remarks on art
of to-day were heard by a record audi-
ence. The attendance all through the
week has been large, but sales have so
far remained small, though prices are
modest. Archbishop Mowll was at the
opening; so were Lady Poynter and
her two girls. Julian Ashton looked in,
and secretary W. M. Whitney and his
wife received congratulations on his
Mosman and mountain scenes. Jerrold
Nathan, who shows some attractive girls,
was there, with his wife. The B. J.
Waterhouses, the Adrian Curlewis couple
and Justice and Mrs. K. Street were
others in the long gallery, which was set
about with palms and with roses that
looked as though their diet had been
Swinburne and Dowson.
Mrs. John Waugh’s home at Harbor-
street, Mosman, was a whirl of excitement
midway through last week, for Mrs.
Waugh was holding her eightieth birth-
day. Mrs. Waugh has always taken an
active interest in public affairs, both poli-
tical and philanthropic, and at her after-
noon party Arthur Cocks, who proposed
her health, recalled that Mrs. Waugh had
been one of the keenest workers for him
when he was first elected to Parliament.
The day had started for Mrs. Waugh
with a religious service conducted by her
brother, Padre R. J. Cameron, of Turra-
murra. Then came a family lunch, and
then the tea party, at which a cake, de-
corated with 80 tiny flags instead of
candles, was cut by the hostess’s daughter.
The Bears and Bulls had a dance at
the Blaxland Galleries, but even there
the business of the Stock Exchange pur-
sued them, and at ten o’clock 150 tele-
grams were delivered, all purveying ex-
citing Stock Exchange chat. This yearly
flutter is instigated by the Contango Club,
and everybody goes, from the. chairman
of the Stock Exchange down.
Following daughter Mary’s success on
the screen the whole Maguire family are
off to Hollywood. Visitors to the Belle
Vue Hotel in Brisbane will no longer
glimpse the happy Maguires, Lupe,
Carmel, Mary (who was Peggy) and
the other two daughters, flying about
their many occasions. Mary, now settled
in Hollywood, has her personal maid,
and father, who went there with his
young daughter, has taken a large house
surrounded by gardens and replete with
three garages. Mrs. Maguire, Lupe and
Carmel, who passed through Sydney last
week on their way to Melbourne to say
gooa-bye to their relations, will return
to Sydney to sail for the U.S.A.
Part of their day in Sydney they spent
having lunch with Oswald Cheeke and
viewing in his company a private screen-
ing of Mary’s new picture, “That Man
Is Here Again.”
Artists Lister-Lister, Sydney Long and
the Nat. Gallery’s new director. Will
Ashton, were guests at lunch on Friday
of the Lyceum Club’s Art Circle, with its
chieftainess, Ada Newman, of china-
painting note, to sound the rally. About
60 members of the club, with Mrs. A. G.
Thomas in the chair, felt inclined to
cheer when Will Ashton tossed into the
air some rose-tinted memories of his
1936 impressions of art in Europe, add-
ing a special bouquet for the National
Gallery in London. Lister-Lister, whose
milky white sands and ever restless sea
were among the local ’scapes admired
by recent visitor Lamorna Birch, R.A.,
gave a humorous address on the ups and
downs of a painter’s calling. Sydney
Long, with that whimsical smile which
wins friends at sight, rose to reply,
bowed and sat down. “I never could
make a speech,” he confessed later.
“Words vanish when I get on my feet.”
The Salvation Army is planning to
build a new home for boys at Bexley.
This will replace the’ old building and
make for utility and up-to-date service,
while meeting the need for more accom-
modation. The property stands in about
12 acres of high lands meeting mountain
breezes on the one hand and ocean
breezes on the other. The depression
compelled the Army to postpone this
necessary building. Now the work can
be put off no longer. A practical evi-
dence of their appreciation from friends
old and new is requested.


fHB
flfa&cQuiPt
z 7
book
Tie
MAGIC CARPET BOOK
Illustrated in full colour Sixteen pages of unusual information
about countries of the world
Send tbreeper'-'* in stamps (to cover postage and packing) to
Room No. Ol #
201-229 LIT. COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE C.l (Next Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
Take
your Doctor's
advice —
He recom-
mends them
HUDSONS
"EUMEHTHOI" w
JUJUBES
Sold by all
chemists
and stores
6d. & 1/6 tin
Engagement.
THE engagement is announced of BETTY
ROSS, eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Donald
Fletcher, Kurreenya, Roma, Queensland, grand-
daughter of the late Dr. Chisholm Ross, ot
Sydney, to MR. A. B. BOAZMAN, Ardlui,
Roma, youngest son of Mrs. W. H. Boazman,
Ardlui, Roma, and the late Dr. W. H. Boaz-
man, of Parkes, N.S.W.
Legal Notice.
Re JAMES JOSEPH CAVANAGH,
Deceased.
A Rule to Administer the Estate of JAMES
JOSEPH CAVANAGH, late of Gannawarra,
Victoria, farm laborer, deceased, intestate, who
died on the 22nd day of August, 1933, has been
granted to me, and creditors, next-of-kin and
others having claims against the estate, and in
particular the following persons, namely, PAT-
RICK CAVANAGH, father of the deceased,
and JOHN CAVANAGH, PATRICK CAVA-
NAGH and CATHERINE CAVANAGH (also
known as CATHERINE McCAWLEY),
brothers and sister of the deceased, or the
children of any of such persons who died
before the 22nd August, 1933, or the personal
representative of any of such persons who died
after such date, are required to send in par-
ticulars of their claims to THE CURATOR
OF THE ESTATES OF DECEASED PER-
SONS, 283 Queen-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
within three months from the date of this
advertisement, or they will be excluded from
the distribution of the estate which the Curator
intends to make. M M . PHILLIPS,
Curator of the Estates of Deceased Persons,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 140 of 1937.
BETWEEN ARTHUR CHARLES DAVIS
Petitioner
And DORIS DAVIS Respondent.
TO DORIS DAVIS late of Stuart Town in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ARTHUR
CHARLES DAVIS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Third
day of September One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven and in the event of your not
so doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A certified copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of June, a.d. 1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
W. C. DICKIE, Solicitor for Petitioner, 121
Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 858 of 1937.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH ADA WALKER
also known as ELIZABETH WALKER
Petitioner.
And HERBERT WALKER Respondent.
TO HERBERT WALKER.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
ADA WALKER also known as ELIZABETH
WALKER has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Eighth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of June, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
M. G. TILBURY & COOP, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 28 Martin Place. Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Silver pine-cones and beautiful frocks
were features of the S.P.C.C. dance at
Earl’s Court. The cones, mixed with
bush nuts, were lacquered and cut into
the shapes of futuristic flowers twinkling
among fur branches on the cabaret tables
and in the alcoves of the ballroom. In
the entrance hall mountain firs were part
of the atmospheric conditions. The fog
stayed outside, where it belonged, but
the cold slithered through the walls, down
the chimney, under the doors and be-
neath fur wraps that were born to live
in snow-strewn countries. Lord and Lady
Gowrie, Lord Ranfurly and Captain
Palmer were among guests who sat down
to supper by the candles of the long
committee table. Mrs. Frank Andrew
wore a black velvet gown and cape ;
Mrs. Sidney Gullett was in ivory cloque,
and Peggy Essington King glittered with
gold lame. Tall and graceful were Mrs.
Osborne Fairbairn, in her black velvet
robe with its parchment facings, and
Mrs. O’Dell Crowther, in black and
silver foxes. An interesting color chord
was played by Mrs. Russell Gourlay s
turquoise frock and raspberry velvet
cloak. Mrs. A. E. Kimpton and
Mrs. Bill Lempriere both wore ice-
blue a-twinkle with silver. A long train
made still longer with its sky-blue hem
was no trouble to Mrs. Curteis Crawford
and her silver gown. A shorter train
lifted between the tips of Mrs. Trevor
Oldham’s fingers showed slimly strapped
slippers in the same orchid tint as her
moire frock. Peggy Fraser wore wood-
land-green taffeta, and Elizabeth Dar-
ling danced in a dreamlike garment ot
misty-blue adrift with tulle.
Trinity College Ball finished about 2
a.m., and soon afterwards several young
folk who had kept themselves warm all
night with dancing were feeling their
way about in the fog of the churchyard
around St. George’s Church, Malvern,
looking for the aeroplane in which Jack
Macalister and Neil Sloane (without in-
curring any harm to their own bones)
arrived unexpectedly at dusk. But the
debris had been cleared away, and youth
and beauty went home disappointed and
damp.
For the dance the Palais was turned
back to front so that the guests of honor
graced the red carpet with beatific and
erudite dignity at the end of the room
nearest the door. There was a rush to
the other end when supper-time came.
Among lads who took large, parties was
Fielder Foster, who invited most of the
girls who had been in the University
Revue Ballet to come along and bring
their own partners. Among those who
enjoyed the fun were Lynette Walker,
Audrie Wyse, Shirley Benwell, Betty
Spring and Peggy Oldfield, who in her
mist-blue satin frock and unusual head-
dress, made from a drift of blue net,
looked as if she had brought into the
room a handful of the outer world’s thick
fog. Helen Lebenson had 30 “tinker,
tailor, soldier, sailor” buttons down
the front of her white gown, which was
draped around the shoulders with adjust-
ments of cyclamen and blue. Mac
Gordon, Randall Deasey and secretaries
Tony Murray and Keith Shann were
among the lads who lifted up whispering
baritones in something about “Icicles
from His Fingertips and Bicycles from
His Nose” when the band played a con-
glomeration known as “The Shooting of
Dan McGrew.”
Yutha Thiemeyer, whose sparkling
game of tennis has been of interest dur-
ing the last couple of years, was among
the 17 debs, who stepped forth in the
Dorothea waltz at M.L.C. Old Col-
legians’ Ball. The girls formed an all-
white picture, but their frocks were made
according to individual choice. Knots of
pastel-tinted blossoms were in their hair,
and instead of posies they carried hoops
of flowers. The dance took place in
Caulfield Town Hall, where the warm
glow of lights reflected in the panelled
walls made for a snug contentment after
the thick fog which choked the cold
world outside. In her office of Old Col-
legians’ president, Mrs. W. Blackburn,
wearing blue-and-silver-shot lame and a
cape of silver fox, was the recipient of
17 curtsies. Dr. Gladys Wade were,
royal purple with shoulder swathings.
Mrs. A. G. Haycraft associated misty-
blue chiffon with silver flowers at the
throat, and Jean Griffiths was in powder-
pink ring velvet. The Rev. and Mrs.
J. W. Grove and the J. Lander couple
(Old Wesley Collegians) were among
special guests.
To hatch plans about and discuss pro-
gress made towards the American Ball on
July 2, the American Women’s Auxiliary
met at Mrs. Jim Clymer’s home, beauti-
fully warm with its central heating on a
day when the frost outside chilled toes
and fingertips. During the meeting eight
committee members received scrolls tied
with silver ribbon, which turned out to
be life-governorships of the Children’s
Hospital, a gesture of gratitude from that
institution to the auxiliary which raised
the most money (£700) during last year.
Mrs. W. R. Nevins, who was one of the
recipients, called her scroll a birthday
gift, for it was her day of “many happy
returns.”
Tea was a wonderful spread in the
dining-room. Bowls of winter berries
and tiny American flags splashed color
on to the table with its equally seductive
temptations, angel cake at one corner and
devil’s cake at the other. These master-
pieces were baked and cut by amateur
cooks of confusingly similar names. Mrs.
C. D. Roice whisked together the celes-
tial food, and Mrs. W. E. Race, wearing
chocolate-brown to match it, compounded
the chocolate-flavored confection alleged
to be eaten with relish, and perhaps pitch-
forks, in the regions where horns and a
tail are everybody’s property.
Mrs. F. A. Henry, wife of the Ameri-
can Consul, wore brown with gold
motifs. Mrs. Wales Signor, helpmate of
the Vice-Consul, was in black with silver
cords, and dangled tassels at her neck
and round the crown of her hat.
Pat Chilvers, whose portrait comes
from a Spencer Shier camera, plays Sir
Peter Teazle’s ward Maria in the Gregan
McMahon production of “The School
for Scandal,” now in a five nights’ season
at the King’s. Pat’s dramatic debut is a
particularly responsible one, for she had
two dissimilar parts to study and two
series of rehearsals to attend. In Priest-
ley’s social and political satire, “Bees on
the Boatdeck,” which commences next
Saturday, she is the nurse, an old-
fashioned type, the antithesis of the
modern miss. Pat, who is. the only
daughter of the G. L. Chilvers couple,
went to school at Ruyton and at Clyde.
Her portrait-bust, which caused interest
at John Elischer’s recent exhibition, is to
be cast in bronze.
Three weeks of welcomes and tare-
wells are being given for Mrs. Frank
Holmes, better remembered here as
Aileen Mclnerney. During her husband s
temporary absence in a part of India
which provides practically no accommo-
dation for wives, Mrs. Holmes is making
the round trip on the Maloja. Major
Holmes is attached to the R.A.M.C., and
was in Turkey for several years before
being transferred to India, with head-
quarters at Quetta. Houses are veiy
scarce in that distant frontier town, and
he and his tall, slim Australian wife have
the equivalent of a service flat, furnished
by themselves, at the hotel. Mrs. Holmes
has become interested in Oriental rugs
and Russian china, brought across the
wild mountainous border by camel cara-
van. She learnt something of the history
and problems of India during her three
months’ honeymoon motor trip from the
south to the north of India.
One of the most important addresses
given at the C.W.A. conference was Rus-
sell Grimwade’s discourse on the dangers
of soil erosion. Through ignorance,
inertia and the lack of co-operation be-
tween units of government, man, no
Nature, is to blame for the tragedies of
forests and grassland becoming deserts,
for the wastage of good timber, for the
pollution of rivers and very often tor
the floods and droughts that ruin settlers
and districts. Mr. Grimwade’s advice
to every countrywoman is to develop a
“forest conscience.” For proof of this
necessity he advises everybody who can
get it to read Stuart Chase’s book, Rich
Land, Poor Land, an economic picture
of America to-day. .
In the Spencer Shier photograph is
Mrs. E. L. Kiernan, president of the
Mercy Hospital Ball committee. The
ball took place at Earl’s Court, and in
spite of the. cold and the scarcity of
heaters was such a success that practi-
cally everybody was still present to
answer the bacon-and-eggs and hot-soup
roll-call at 2 a.m. Some guests were-
puzzled at the familiar faces but elusive
names of several attractive young women
who turned out to be nurses and pro-
bationers from the hospital. Their even-
ing raiment made a scarcely recognisable
metamorphosis from starched veils and
uniforms.
John B. Colbourn, whose first exhibi-
tion of lino.-cuts and water-colors is being
held at Margaret Mac Lean’s Gallery, has
only one more subject to pass before he
becomes a Bachelor of Architecture. He
is a son of the John Colbourns, of Bal-
larat, and before coming to Melbourne
University was at the Ballarat School of
Mines, where he had his first lessons in
sketching. Colbourn’s lino.-cut “Ski-
Run,” which has proved a favorite, is
the fruit of the artist’s imagination and
of what he saw riding up in winter almost
to the top of Mount Hotham on a motor-
bike. His sister Betty is to have her
first ski-ing experience during the next
term holidays, when she goes off to the
Alps with the rest of the physical edu-
cation diploma students. Betty leads a
busy and energetic life, for, as well as
taking her university course, she teaches
the art of health and fitness to students
at the Emily McPherson College.
Though central heating takes the chill
from the Lyceum Club, a number of
guests at Helen McCrae’s bridge party
on Saturday afternoon played in their
fur coats. The hostess herself set the
example by hardly disclosing the fact
that her dress was black. The guest of
honor, Joan Henry, of Tasmania, was
among the exceptions ; she decided that
dyed squirrels were unnecessary with a
frock of navy woollen cloque. Many of
those present were seeing each other after
several years. Mrs. Ronald Irving, for
instance, has Quetta during the earth-
quake between now and her schooldays
at Clyde. Mrs. Colin Wischer and
Cynthia Duigan renewed acquaintance of
girlhood at Rosbercon, Fairelight and
the Hermitage. Another Fairelight past
pupil was Isobel Murray. Cynthia was
also at Clyde during one stage of her
career, and found a confrere in Phyllis
Balfour. The district of Kew was well
represented by Done, May and Peg His-
cock, Mrs. John Plante (who used to oe
a Hiscoek), Norma Derham Mary
Arnold, Margaret Russell and Mabel
(otherwise “Bags”) Pearson. Mrs. Jack
Whitehead was there. Mrs. Ray Bruhn
brought a visitor to Melbourne, Betty
Kelly and Beth and Barbie Nicholas
came from St. George s-road, Toorak.
Kew should have had anolher represen-
tative, Mrs. R. Breadmore, who used to
be Eld Kaye and has just arrived from
India, where her husband is stationed,
She had to stay at home counteracting
malaria with blankets and hot-water
bags.
xhe Minister for Education is con-
fiemned by the Mothers’ Clubs for not
having gone to Sydney for Council of
Education meeting. Dr. Harris’s ex-
pianation was that he was not going to
fi s ten to pleas for reforms he has no
money to carry out. The Mothers’ Clubs,
w jth Mrs. M. G. McNaughton as presi-
dent and spokeswoman, deplore such
an attitude. They are a hard-work-
ing body of women who give consider-
able practical backing to the schools.
They co-operate satisfactorily with the
teachers, but not so satisfactorily with
the Minister.


BRANDAUER3
S U
m
at*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRANDAUER * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENO
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN FOAM INDICATING
APPARATUS FOR STEAM BOILERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
17665/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth, of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN INKING DEVICE
FOR PRINTING RIBBONS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
18090/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its'rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
WRITERS!
Freelancing and Short Story Courses
include Editorial Criticism and Place-
ment details.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
0 Dullcy St., Sydney. QF JOURNALISM
**The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
MOVADO
AQUATIC WATCHES
mm,
m
SAFE AS A TURTLE
IN ITS SHELL
The ideal watch for every sport —
watertight, airtight, dustproof and un-
breakable crystal, but be sure it is a
genuine “Movado” —they have taken
155 first prizes.
AT ALL JEWELLERS.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Sailor”: The Bulletin and ex-
Administrator Wisdom, in advising that
New Guinea’s capital should be moved
from treacherous Rabaul, are in agree-
ment with the old-time German Govern-
ment opinion. Reps, of the New Guinea
Company were always on the lookout
for a sign of “The Mother” going up,
and the Government took heed of the
geologists and kept the administrative
offices on the open bay at Kokopo. One
day Rabaul is going to have a goorier
that will blow it to the devil.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I had my first
introduction to a Rabaul goorier at
breakfast on old Carl Radek’s verandah
a couple of years or so after the move
from Kokopo. As the house ceased to
shudder and the rumbling died away
Carl grinned cheerfully. “Some day,”
he remarked, “ve all go to hell together
from Rabaul —it iss only very little vay
down from here.” He waved a vast
hand and an empty stein mug out
towards Vulcan Island across the glit-
tering blue waters of the bay. “Old
Vulcan, some nice morning like dis, he
will feel he like to shake hands with
friend Matupi. So he vill stand right
up”—he indicated 1000 feet or so —“and
he vill put oudt his hand across, and dere
vill be no more Hafen for der ships to
come to. And if friend Matupi say
how-de-do, too, dere vill be no more
Rabaul.” If Carl looks down from his
Valhalla of steins, pipes and nice, girls,
he will be pleased at the accuracy to date
of at least half of his prophecy.
* * # *
“Roly”: One good effect of the
Coronation was the revival of tree-plant-
ing in Brisbane streets —avenues of them
were started in various suburbs. Most
of the trees were given by the City Coun-
cil, and planted by the Brisbane Girl
Guides, aided in the digging by council-
workers. In all, 3000 trees were planted
—weeping figs, red hibiscus, cotton-
wood, Indian laburnum, red bottle-
brush, tulip-wood, jacaranda, palms and
bauhinia. Somebody should donate a
few thousand shade trees to Western
Queensland towns, which are mainly in
an appalling state of shadelessness.
* * * *
“Tam”: It happened a long time ago,
but as an example of the length to which
a man’s ignorance will carry him it re-
mains unique in my experience. On the
Batchelor (N.T.) were a number of
Angoras. Certain of the hands coveted
their flesh as a change from the awful
beef we were compelled to eat at that
time, but the manager had been given
strict orders not to kill any goats. As
a result, several of the men snatched
their time and, when calling at the
Agricultural Department’s office to col-
lect their cheques, informed the clerk
in charge of the reason for leaving a
well-paid job. “They’re pure Angora,”
he stated, “and the progeny of animals
which cost 10 guineas each. We’re keep-
ing them to breed from.” “But you
can’t breed from wether goats!”' one of
the men pointed out. “Oh, can’t we?”
airily returned the £7OO p.a. official. “It’s
been done, you know, it’s been done.”
And he returned to polishing his nails.
**> * *
“Bakash”: Cloncurry’s “Granny”
Johnstone arrived in Queensland 70-
odd years ago and married shortly
afterwards. In the ’seventies, ’eighties
and ’nineties she rode with her hus-
band’s bullock teams from Rockhamp-
ton, St. Lawrence and Hughenden as
he pulled out for the big stations in
the central and north-west, on what was
sometimes a year’s trip. Her 16 children
were born in the outback, and the begin-
ning of this century saw her in retirement
on the ’Towers. But the call of the west
was too strong, and in 1904, at 62, she
and her husband set out per buckboard
on the 400-mile trek to Cloncurry. At
a dance in his honor during a visit in
1929, Queensland’s medico - Governor
John Goodwin marvelled at her vitality
as, at 87, she swung corners in the lancers
with the youngest of ’em. Last Anzac
Day, at 95, the gallant little five-footer
marched proudly down with the Diggers
to the Soldiers’ Memorial to lay a wreath
in memory of her youngest son, who
went west at Lagnicourt.
* * * *
“Gain”: Another newspaper curiosity
will be added to collections by the Rabaul
“The mean old Wretch offered father half a pig for me.”
“Well, kid to him to-night, Lulu, and hell probably Want to go the
whole hog!”
earthquake. Rabaul has a newspaper,
founded about a dozen years ago and
run by Gordon Thomas, an old-timer
who knows his Territory thoroughly. It
is a good paper, a model for a number
of Australian papers in various respects.
A mere earthquake and the burying of
its printing plant didn’t stop it coming
out last week to schedule in cyclostyle.
Thomas in earlier days was connected
with Protestant missions, and when the
cataclysm disorganised his staff arrange-
ments Bishop Vesters, head of the old
German mission at Vunapope, came to
his rescue and temporarily joined the
honorary staff.
* * * *
“Jachris”: The Coronation and the
Duke’s wedding having served their day,
the Larrakia is back in the news. For
one thing, she has lost her engineer. No
casualty, but the engine-room is so small
that he couldn’t get between the engines
without danger of being fried. An urgent
dispatch was sent to Canberra asking for
a smaller man for the job. It should keep
our legislators busy for about a month
when they get back from their various
jaunts and start talking again.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Mrs. R. Sanderson Taylor, back in
Brisbane staying with her sister, Mrs.
Spencer Browne, after some years in
England, is in the midst of a whirl of
welcome-home parties. Mrs. W. Smythe,
of New Farm, who had N.S.W. Minister
for Justice L. O. Martin and his wife as
her guests after their northern tour, gave
a party for Mrs. Martin and Mrs. Taylor.
Phyllis Webb and Derwent Vallance,
an engineer who hails from Cairns, were
married in the Albert-street Methodist
Church with all the usual trimmings.
Mrs. C. E. Brand, who came from Mel-
bourne to see her sister married, intends
to spend the rest of the winter here as
the guest of her mother, Mrs. W. Webb.
There are 150 inmates in St. Oswald’s
Hostel for Men, on North Quay, which
is run by the Church of England Men’s
Society. To give the cashbox a fillip, a
C. of E. Ball is to be held in the City
Hall on July 27. Last year the ball was
such a success that it probably will be-
come an annual. Mrs. J. C. Wand is
president of the committee.
Mabel Hodgkinson, married on June
12 to Michael Francis Enwright, of
Maryborough, is a daughter of the late
Major Hodgkinson, who saw service in
S’Africa as well as in the Great War.
Grandfather W. O. Hodgkinson did some
exploring with Landsborough, and later
took an expedition to look for Burke and
Wills. A police magistrate and a mining
warden, he finished up as Minister for
Mines and Education.
The ladies’ social committee of the
Queensland Ambulance Transport Bri-
gade had a splendid setting for their
bridge and musical afternoon through the
courtesy of Melbourne Steamship Co.,
which lent the Duntroon, and dressed
her with with flags and flowers for the
party. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. A. J.
Jones, received the guests with Mrs.
Forgan Smith, Mrs. Percy Pease and Mrs.
E. H. George (president of the ladies’
committee of the Q.A.T.8.). The Blair
lady, all in brown and furs, and her
sister, Mrs. J. Cameron, in canna rust
and navy, were among the early arrivals.
Dorothy Barker and Harry Ferret, who
said their “I wills” last week, had an
eleventh-hour party, given by Mrs. G. H.
Barker, bride’s mother, who entertained
the day before the ceremony at a
trousseau-viewing tea. Dorothy is a
prominent hockey-player, and most of
the guests were hockey enthusiasts. Mrs.
Ronald Doolan, a married sister, came
up from Sydney for the wedding.
At the annual meeting of the Lyceum
Club Mrs. E. A. D. Amos was re-elected
president and Mrs. Firmin McKinnon
and Miss M. L. Paten, two members who
have helped along the progress of the
club most materially, hon. life vice-presi-
dents. Freda Bage, M. A. Ogg, Martha
Burns and Mrs. F. B. Harris are this
year’s vice-presidents.
Mrs. William Lennon —wife of the
former Lieut.-Governor and official
hostess to the then Prince of Wales
and to the present King and Queen on
their Queensland trips—has died at 82.
She was born in Ireland, and the soft
brogue of her native country still lin-
gered in her speech after almost a life-
time in Australia. With her husband,
she came to Brisbane aboiit 30 years
ago ; before that she had lived in Vic-
toria and in Townsville, where most of
her family were born.
In “The Witch,” Repertory’s latest
effort, every member of the cast did the
producer, Barbara Sisley, proud. Dulcie
Scott, daughter of the late Arthur Crane,
showed in an excellent performance that
she had inherited the family talent.
There was a pleasant interlude when
Professor J. J. Stable congratulated Erich
John, conductor of the orchestra, and his
bride-elect, Dorothy Watt, and handed
over a silver-mounted conductor’s baton
to the young man and a silver entree
dish to Dorothy.
Brisbane Amateur Theatres staged
Clemence Dane’s “Bill of Divorcement”
at All Saints’, with Foyle McGill, a pretty
lass with talent, as Sydney Fairfield.
Jean Trundle did the producing—well, as
she always does.
Rhoda Felgate’s Twelfth Night Players
staged Edward Lewis’s play based on
Mary Webb’s “Precious Bane,” with
Marjorie Mant as Prue Sarn. This was
Marjorie’s first appearance in Brisbane
since her return from England, and it
gave proof that her already excellent
work had been considerably strengthened
by her overseas experience.
There was a cheery informal at-home
at the Royal Queensland golf house after
the Cup foursomes, and about 200 guests
were greeted by president Ernie Forth.
Mrs. George Brown, associates’ captain,
gave the men a hand in receiving and
entertaining.
The annual ball of the Legacy Club
was a huge success. Geoffrey Ward and
his wife received the guests, she very
modish in wine-red romaine. This time
there was a ladies’ committee, of which
Lady Glasgow was convener. She went
to the ball with her husband, wearing
navy and gold. The Trocadero floor is
roomy enough, but it was packed with
dancers.


Personal and Missing Friends.
DOWDESWELL (or BEAUMONT).—WiII
anyone who can give information as to the
present whereabouts or death of JOHN JAMES
CARL FREDERICKER DOWDESWELL (or
BEAUMONT), who was born in Australia in
1890, lived as a boy at Dunedin, and was
last heard of in Melbourne just before the
Great War, please communicate with MESSRS.
VILLENEUVE SMITH, KELLY, HAGUE &
TRAVERS, Insurance Chambers, Pirie Street,
Adelaide?
ANOTHER FINE TRIBUTE TO HEENZO
Mr. A. S. SPENCER, ADJUTANT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN RIFLE TEAM TO ENGLAND
(1937),
is taking a supply of
'HEENZOI
the famous moneysaving family
remedy for quickly curing
COUGHS
HEENZO SHOULD BE USED
The Proprietor, HEENZO .
Dear Sir, —
It may interest you to know that the reason of my taking a large
supply of “ Heenzo ” and “Heenzo Cough Diamonds ” with me on the
tour of the 1937 Australian Rifle Team to England is because of the
fact that I am seized with the importance of keeping the team members
fit, and the susceptibility of the human to contract colds and influenza,
and know of no better preventative or cure for these complaints than your,
well-known remedies above mentioned.
Yours faithfully,
A. S. SPENCER.
HEENZO COSTS 2/- AND SAVES Vs
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough
mixture that is equally good for children and adults, and is far
better than any made-up cough mixture you can buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO. Add the contents to sweetened water, according to
the easy directions on the label, and you will have a supply
equal to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed
cough remedies that would cost up to £l. HEENZO does
NOT contain any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore it can
be given with perfect safety to the youngest children. You
will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup,
influenza, bronchitis and whooping cough.
COLDS, CROUP,
BRONCHITIS and ’FLU
IN EVERY HOME & OFFICE
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
There was a large rally of the air-
minded at the Aero Club’s danc; at the
Embassy, buntinged and ballooned for
the occasion. June Irving and partner
did solo dances, six club members staged
a burlesque, and Luxor Theatre artists
completed the between-dances entertain-
ment. Val Abbott, president of the
club, partnered his other half, she wear-
ing dahlia-pink satin bordered at the
hemline with soft blue of the same
material. Mrs. R. Allingham was stream-
lined in black velvet, and Mrs. Keith
Woodroffe had floral patterns on her
black satins. Bronze-to-gold mousse-
lines floated on Mrs. Jean Wilson, and
Lucy Slone’s white crepe ran to a train,
Barbara Chilvers wore rustling black
taffetas, and Nancy McCulloch’s corn
laces had velvet strappings of the same
color, vanishing into a draped bow at
the bcick. Marjorie Anderson, air-
, h , OSt h SS r° f the Bungana ’ chose severe
black velvets.
The depths of old family chests were
plumbed for ancestral frocks when the
Historical Society held its spree. The
acting-vice-regals were there, the Mitchell
lady in a period frock of pink silk and
overskirtings of old cream lace. Hostess
Mrs. Mary Farrelly went all 1834 in
dove-greys, Honiton lace fichu and Betsy
Trotwood mob cap. Mrs. Eggleston’s
sprigged rose-pink nets plainly spoke of
1860. In Mrs. Goyne Miller’s produc-
tion of “Royal Table Manners,” an in-
cident of the Queen’s Court was enacted,
with Mollie Learmonth as Victoria. In
the sets of square dances which fol-
lowed, the Clifton family was well repre-
sented.
Decorations were lavish for the “Night
in June” Ball at the Pagoda, South Perth.
Poppies wound a scarlet path on a trellis,
wistaria and autumn-leaves dripped from
the lamps and festoons of colored lights
hung from pillar to pillar. The walls
were embellished with figures of Dutch
girls and other scenes from far-off lands.
Mrs. T. D. Murphy, president of the
doings, liberally beaded the jacket of her
burgundy velvets. Mrs. Frank Strick-
land sheathed herself in black velvet,
and Tess and Kay Kinnane were identi-
cal twins in ethereal leschenaultia
chiffons billowing over violeta taffeta.
Elsie Paxton’s crepe was black, and
Lorna Sydney-Smith’s silk laces were
ru sset. „ . h
Shwartz a Hungarian has
amved ”>/«* >” *f “UO 0 ?*
' IC ' round . wod . h .
wh Js h 8 Se is also
Laugfung Round ,he World. Hetistalso
a caricaturist, a violmst and
An Italian atmosphere pervaded His
Majesty s Theatre for Tito Sch,pa s first
concert, and the s.nge s fe low-countiy'-
mel ? * ho " ted , Bls and V ™, '" Rl „
P ac ked thy re *ere Mr . p L the
mng xvitll daughters Flora and Jane the
Dr Roy Mitchell patr and Dr and Mrs
Crisp. The R. O. Laws brought
aIon S Patricia Lan - ... ’
her gardenia. topknot :stand,ng out like
a n oasis in ie ■ P
well-cotffed heads. Mrs. John Dent,
compatriot of he smger set off her dark
in Untver-
. • i .i . rql m. AoimbtAr Af
the W.C. S S. McLintocks, of West Perth,
an d Dona j d> son 0 f p ro fessor and Mrs.
q E Weatherburn, of Nedlands.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
The Journalists’ Ball, a fixture which
j n earlier times sometimes developed
purple spots, was so utterly respectable
this year that the women police went
away at 11 p.m. Someone presented a
box of cosmetics as a prize for any stunt
that might enliven the proceedings, and
president Patten arranged that the lady
on the floor with the handsomest escort
W as to have it. A. Critchley was decided
by the judge, Mrs. M. Chapman, to be
t h e pick of the bunch, and as a result
Mrs. Critchley went home with enough
make-up to last her for the rest of her
life. A murder was staged, Malcolm
Anderson, a reporter, being the victim,
and the paper “Fudge,” which came out
forthwith, contained an account of the
tragedy written by the corpse,
Visitors who arrived in the Ulysses
were Dr. and Mrs. E. G. Malherbe, of
Pretoria, and Mrs. A. Lismer and her
daughter Marjorie, of Toronto, come to
attend New Education Fellowship con-
ferences in Australia and M.L. Mabel
Baker met the visitors and entertained
the women members at luncheon. Mrs.
C. A. Hutchinson, wife of the American
Consul, was hostess at a morning tea at
the Lyceum, and Dr. A. Grenfell Price
entertained Dr. Malherbe at St. Mark’s
College
It is not often the Hunt Club enjoys
so much excitement as on the occasion
of the hunt at Buckland Park, when a
herd of about 20 deer were the quarry.
No kill was intended. After about four
miles had been travelled the huntsmen
whipped the pack off, and attention was
turned to a fox. After the morning run
the field made for the homestead, where
E A Brooks (president) and his wife
entertained at luncheon.
Adelaide’s lively little 100-year-old
Mrs. Beatrice Jane Curry went to visit
Mrs Mary Ann Smith on her 105th
birthday. Both had large families in
the old pioneer days.
The bridge party in the Town Hall
brought £45 into the coffers of the Chil-
dren’s Hospital. Over 200 tables were
booked, and at the conclusion of play
Premier Butler’s wife presented the
prizes, which had been given by business
firms. The party had been arranged by
the hospital house committee, the Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan) and a com-
mittee of women.
Minda scored financially when two
dances were organised on the same night
to raise funds for the Home. At the
Palais Royal over 700 were present at
the staff dance of the Coles stores em-
ployees. At Australia Hall the dance was
organised by the Tusmore branch of the
Minda Home Association.
At the Town Hall, Adelaide’s A.B.C.
Orchestra (conducted by William Cade),
Madame Sylvia Bernita and Vina Barn-
den, young Adelaide pianist, who is to
leave shortly for overseas, gave a much-
appreciated concert. Madame Bernita
was gowned in sapphire-blue cloque worn
with a hip-length cape of fine gold
tissue, the double frill on the collar fall-
ing to the outline of the decolletage at
the back. Miss Barnden chose a period
frock of deep gold taffeta, with full skirt
and small, puffed sleeves in the tight-
fitting bodice.
Loreto Old Scholars’ Ball at Aus-
tralia Hall saw the coming-out of 11
buds. With their partners the debs, were
nrosonted in turn trv tho nrosidont Mrs
presented in turn to tne president, Mrs.
W. J. Denny, who was smartly gowned
in black matelasse, cut on princess lines.
TASMANIA.
The Commandant and Mrs. E M. Wil-
hams gave a big farewell late-afternoon
party at their quarters at Anglesea Bar-
racks before leaving for Canberra. Mrs.
Williams was in a trained frock of heavy
black satin, with flared overskirt. Lady
Clark was there with Joan McLennan.
At the Imperial five officers’ wives
Mesdames M. Cruickshank, H. N. Boyle,
R. H. Robinson, E. E. Grant and
E. K. H. Klose—combined forces as
hostesses for a party to farewell Mrs.
Williams.
The younger members of the Victoria
League ran a dance at New Norfolk,
Helen Onslow, Frances Shoobridge, Jean
English and Mrs. Charlie Shoobridge
being the chief engineers. About 250
dancers filled the Oddfellows’ Hall, a
good percentage coming from Hobart by
car.
The Governor and Lady Clark attended
the United Services Ball at the Drill
Hall, Anglesea Barracks, Joan McLennan
accompanying them. Decorations of
military weapons were interspersed with
heraldic shields representing the. Navy
and Air Forces. During the evening the
Governor presented the order of M.B.E.
to Lieut. A. E. Hunter in recognition of
25 years of service. Lady Clark was all
in black.
Mrs. L. O. McNamara and Elvie
Quigley ran a big bridge party to help
furnish the new wing of the Launceston
Hospital. Players crowded into the
lounges and upstair sitting-rooms in the
Brisbane Hotel, where there were glow-
ing fires and heaps of flowers.
The Alan Mclntyres were at home
with sherry and savories to a big crush
at a late-afternoon party, which was
partly a send-off to the Nicholls family
before they started on their Pacific
travels. Mrs. Mclntyre was in a black-
and-white floral frock.
Molly Nettlefold and Barclay Gray are
among the latest entrants for the Matri-
monial Stakes. Miss Nettlefold has just
come back from a mainland trip.
Mary, youngest of the three daughters
of Hubert Nicholls and his lady, and
Arnold Smith, St. Leonard’s, announce
their engagement.


Commences August 29, 1937.
Comprising General Samples Fairs,
Textiles, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Great Building Fairs.
Buy in this Market
for profitable reselling
So favourable are prices at Leipzig Fair that
Australian buyers of overseas goods are not
only assured of advantageous resale profits, but
can afford to pass the benefit to their cus-
tomers. It will pay YOU to join the thousands
of international buyers who secure their trading
requirements from this World Market.
LEIPZIG
International
Industries
FAIR
GERMANY.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commis-
sioner in Australia for the Leipzig Internationa]
Industries Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, G.P.O.
Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, G.P.O. Box 20245. Melbourne •
H. C. ITTERS’HAGEN, Shenton Park, W. Australia.’
M
m
mm
4
m
m
'mm
i
Luggage Going Aboard
This is one of the first phases of travel. Successive stages
are many. Each and every one maCy find you needing money
in local currency. For convenience, safety, and certainty in
obtaining correct currency values, no matter where you may
be, there is nothing more dependable, or which more readily
provides cash, than a Letter of Credit or the Travellers’
Cheques issued by the National Bank. They quickly solve
all worries in regard to funds, remove fears of embarrassment,
and save vexatious delays. Full information from any of
the Bank’s 430 Branches and from its two London Offices.
% NATIONAL BANK
<JjsruiecL
430 Offices and Branches in Australia
XZllilU
The Long White Cloud
Native Land Complexities
Few Australians realise just how com-
plex the Maori system of tribal land
ownership has become since Maoriland
law recognised its validity less than a
century ago. To-day it provides lengthy
Native Land Court litigation and, as in
such modern projects as native housing
(B. 6/9/’37), occasionally stands in the
way of Maori progress; on the other
hand its traditions help to guarantee the
success of communal native land develop-
ment schemes.
A typical Native Land Court case is
one being heard in Wellington to decide
the ownership of an 11,000-acre Waka-
puaka land block near Nelson. Its
century-old history extends back to the
palmy days of Te Rauparaha (B. 6/9/’37)
and his southern war raids from Kapiti
Island in Cook Strait.
He so terrorised Cook Strait tribes that
they shelved local
quarrels and com-
bined in a Kapiti
Island attack. But
Te Raupa raha’s
allies, the Ngati-
katoas, captured the
Wakapuaka chief,
and his followers re-
turned to Nelson
with a Ngatikatoa
child. Peace was ar-
ranged and the
prisoners were
swapped - but the
Ngatikatoas insisted
on an 11,000-acre
land grant to satisfy
the difference, in re-
spective importance
of the chief and the
child. They got it —
and handed it to the
Ngatitama widow of
another of Te
Rauparaha’s war-
chiefs, who had
died in battle further
south.
The widow’s direct
line of issue, failed
in 1909. The 1937
court hearing in-
volves ownership petitions from tribal
descendants of the original Ngatikatoas,
who claim that the block was a ransom
gift which should have reverted to them
after the. failure of the widow’s line;
the Ngatitama tribe to which the widow
belonged ; and her indirect descendants,
who say the block was given to her by
Ngatikatoas.
But in 1909 the land passed into the
hands of strangers, and respondents’ case
rests on the validity of the title inherited
by the child of the widow’s son and con-
firmed by the Native Land Court in 1883.
Executors of the estate of the widow’s
grandchild are opposing the petitioners’
claims.
Complex? Yes, but still interesting to
modern Maorilanders as well as to the
ancient greybearded natives and the be-
shawled Maori women with tattooed lips
and no English who arrived in Welling-
ton for the court hearing.
“M.”: Yachtsmen, steamship and scow
skippers who have growled for years at
charts of Maoriland’s more lonely coastal
waters are pleased that a survey is about
to be made by the Admiralty ship En-
deavour. The job is expected to take
about five years, and its cost is being split
by the Maoriland and British Govern-
ments. The Endeavour’s first task will be
the complete survey of the Hauraki Gulf
and its sea approaches to Auckland. It
was while the ketch Yvonne was on this
last stage of her run from Sunday Island
that she recently missed the Colville
Channel and was swept by storm into
Waikawau Bay, where she went ashore
on the east side of the isolated Cora-
mandel Peninsula. Most charts don’t re-
veal the fact, but the sandy stretch where
the ketch was beached and its crew of
five washed safely ashore is the only
opening in miles of jagged reefs and pre-
cipitous cliffs.
* * * *
“Korero”: A South Island acclimati-
sation society suggestion that farmers
should be prevented from shooting ducks
on private ponds between 4 p.m. and 7
a.m. has as much chance of statutory
adoption as Prime Minister Savage has
of convincing a disillusioned world that
universal peace depends on the resuscita-
tion of the League. These ponds belong
to the farmers, whose only chance of
“Py korry, it couldn't have been a nightmare after all!"
getting ducks is to be out before hordes
of city sportsmen scare the birds into
near-by sanctuaries. Not one farmer in
ten “feeds with bags of peas” the ducks
he hopes to “slaughter” when the season
opens—but quite a few of the same
farmers tolerate an annual loss of field
grain in the hope of downing a few fat
ducks when, and not before, the season
opens. Most of the illegal too-early
shooting is done by week-end “sports-
men” from neighboring towns and cities.
Anyhow, not even the Savage Govern-
ment would be foolish enough to con-
sider such a futile and unfair game-
season restriction.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: If the development of Maori-
land’s tourist traffic —estimated to be
worth more than £1,000,000 a year and
still increasing—is being retarded by
such Labor Government restrictions as
those stipulating rigid employment con-
ditions for hotel employees, with a con-
sequent effect on the service received by
visitors, then Maoriland’s improving
overseas publicity is being partially coun-
teracted. Hotel service is an evergreen
discussion subject among most tourists ;
it is as safe as the weather for initiating
boat-deck conversation —and just as
overworked. As South Island Travel
Association organiser J. J. W. Pollard
keeps emphasising, expenditure by over-
seas visitors is a national profit benefit-
ing the entire community. But personal
boat-deck evidence of restricted hotel ser-
vice is the worst form of tourist propa-
ganda that could leave the country, es-
pecially when it is applied to privately-
owned hotels as well as to Government-
operated resorts.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Local bodies this side of the
Tasman are still wrangling among them-
selves over the rights and wrongs of the
amalgamations at present proceeding by
inspired voluntary agreement but which,
under Labor’s Local Bodies Amalgama-
tion Bill, can be forced by the Govern-
ment once the Act becomes law. In
actual fact, Maoriland maintains too
many local bodies, and this Savage Gov-
ernment sifting is something the country
will eventually be grateful for. Most
local bodies were quite unable to operate
on their own finances during depression
years, and the central Government
granted more and more statutory sub-
sidies and larger and larger sums from
the Main Highways and Employment
Funds. So it is fitting enough that, in
return for money originally paid by all
Maoriland’s taxpayers and not those
confined to the localities benefiting, the
Wellington Parliament should demand
through amalgamations a more efficient
form of local-body government.
**\ * *
“Mak”: According to departmental
reports, most of Australia’s flying acci-
dents last year were attributable to
pilots’ errors. Maoriland’s air accident
records, Minister for Defence Jones an-
nounced the other day, show that “a
number of crashes were due to lack ot
experience on the part of the pilots.” He
said that Maoriland
aero clubs which
have been receiving
Government subsidies
and ’planes since 1929
and 1930 —would in
future assist in the
preliminary training
of pilots for the
N.Z.R.A.F., but added
that “there will be
supervision of the
training and of the
standards reached” be-
cause past A-license
standards had been
“too low.”
* * *
“Motu”: If it is
true that “vigorous
speech” and “frank
language” were used
by Prime Minister
Savage to “directly
attack” Mackenzie
King at Imperial Con-
ference discussions,
overseas travel for
politicians cannot be
nearly as educative as
the boosters and bene-
ficiaries would like
Tasman Sea taxpayers
to believe. Canada’s
growing reluctance to
understandings likely
to commit it automati-
cally to participation
in any European
bother has been no
secret for more than a
year. Mackenzie King
was honest enough to
publicise the trend for
the benefit of the more confiding
Dominion leaders. If unofficial reports
can be accepted, Mr. Savage virtually
“attacked” the Canadian for that honesty ;
then, in spite of several weeks in a
London now supersensitive to the strains
and stresses of an unhappy Europe, he
proceeded to air a childlike faith in the
efficacy of the League, whose value even
his henchman, High Commissioner
Jordan, is apparently beginning to doubt.


'Ua£ ALL YOCR OLD
/'"IDEAS ABOUT COUNTRY
RADIO. ..
9
UP
v\
l\V\Q
IsKO^
HO
wt^' 1
n'N
Times have changed. No longer is it neces-
sary for the man on the land to put up with
the cost and inconvenience of recharging
heavy accumulators for his radio. NOW he
can sit back and enjoy THE NEW
AIR CELL OPERATED RADIO
Latest and most modern advance in the con-
struction of farm radio. Equipped with an
EVEREADY AIR CELL that gives more than
a year of trouble-free "life" with normal use
—it requires NO SERVICING! Just think
what this means to youl All the convenience
of city radio no matter where you are
situated.
• Air Cell operated models are already
available under the following well-known
brands:
WITH
AIR CELL
” RADIO
USING THE
STROMBERG-CARLSON
STERLING
TASMA
BRITON
ZENITH
PARAMOUNT
BEALE
KRIESLER
S.T.C.
LEKMEK
df
© An advertisement issued by the Ever Ready Co. (Aust.) Ltd., Sydney
S.E.A. 2
RADIO NEWS.
Five-valve Dual-wave Battery
Superhet.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
The circuit diagram is that of a battery
dual-waver outlined in “Radiotronics,”
No. 75, issued by A.W. Valve Co.,
Ltd. The five-valve circuit is undoubtedly
the most popular arrangement for battery
receivers. The
most obvious de-
ficiency in these
sets is due to the
use of a small-
power pentode
valve which does
not deliver the
same power out-
put as a Class-B
stage. Owing to
the development
of the Australian-
designed Radio-
tron IK6 in con-
junction with the
series inverse
feedback circuit,
it is possible to
obtain an output
of L-watt with
fairly low dis-
tortion when using 135-volt B batteries
and Radiotron ID4. With a vibrator
developing a voltage higher than 135
volts an even greater power output
is obtainable. In order to obtain this
higher output it is essential to over-bias
the ID4, -6 volts bias being required
for 135 volts B supply and —7.5 volts bias
for 150 volts B supply. This bias must
be steady and should be obtained from
a C battery. A poorly-regulated bias
supply, such as “back bias,” causes a
fluctuating grid voltage and a loss of
power output.
These features have been incorporated
in this dual-wave circuit, which combines
reasonably good selectivity and sensi-
sitivity, together with a very satisfying
audio output. A tone control is in-
cluded in the grid circuit of the ID4,
since it cannot be applied effectively in
the plate circuit with inverse feedback.
This tone control is intended to be used
only on the short-wave band, since the
tone with inverse feedback is not at all
strident. Attention is drawn to the im-
proved oscillator circuit of the IC6, which
gives more uniform performance over
the short-wave band. A switch and
60ma. fuse are shown in positions where
the least possible damage would be done
to the valves in the case of a short
circuit.
The coils used in this circuit are those
described in “Radiotronics,” No. 63,
page three. The A.V.G. circuit arrange-
ment which has been adopted has been
found to avoid overloading in the I.F.
amplifier, and is recommended in prefer-
ence to either the use of a reduced A.V.C.
voltage (by means of a tapped diode load
resistor) or the more usual method
whereby the A.V.C. voltage is obtained
from the secondary of the I.F. trans-
former (either “simple” A.V.C. or by
means of capacity coupling between the
two diodes). This circuit also provides
better fidelity than the other methods
mentioned, since the shunting on the
diode-load resistance is reduced.
V.C.
Rabaul and Radio.
Throughout the volcanic eruptions at
Rabaul communication was maintained.
On occasions such as these wire-
less is invaluable, and the fact that the
radio services of A.W.A. are the normal
means of rapid communication between
New Guinea and the outside world
enabled the people of the Mandated Ter-
ritory to keep in touch with the Com-
monwealth.
Administrator McNicoll, in a message
to L. A. Hooke, g.m. of A.W.A., paid a
tribute to the “valiant service” of the radio
operators, who remained at their posts,
though sulphurous fumes drove them
temporarily from their station and
showers of pumice-stone and mud broke
down the electricity supply upon which
their station depended. Transmitters and
receivers were undamaged, but traffic
was carried on with an emergency power
plant.
The A.W.A. organisation has so far
overcome all difficulties, and new circuits
have been arranged, so that whatever hap-
pens it is most unlikely that the radio
service will break down.
What's What in Radio.
Colombia Broadcasting System of
U.S.A. is planning a huge television
station for the top of the Chrysler build-
ing in New York. Peak power will be
30kw., similar to the new French station
It is expected that the station will have
a range of 40 miles and will serve an
area of 4800 sq. m.
* * * *
France is building a super-power tele-
vision transmitter, to be installed at that
well-established home of wireless loca-
tions the Eiffel Tower. It will have a
peak power of 30 kilowatts, fully modu-
lated, in the aerial. Definition will be
405 lines with a band width of 2.5 mega-
cycles. As the distance from Paris to
the nearest point on the South Coast of
England is only 170 miles, and as ultra-
short waves have a habit of confounding
theory, it is quite possible that this
station will be receivable in parts of
England. Such reception would do a
lot for television.
* * * *
Radio will be used extensively on the
Mackay Expedition for the charting of
unmapped portions of Central Australia
which will leave Sydney in July. The
ground operator will be E. B. Ferguson,
well known for his ultra-short-wave work
between the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.)
and Sydney, and the radio consultant
Don B. Knock, who designed the appa-
ratus built to specifications by N.
Buchanan, chief engineer of Sterling
Radio, Ltd., Sydney. A mobile ground
station and an aeroplane station will be
in communication throughout, with pro-
vision for both telegraphy and telephony.
* * * *
The British P.O. finds ultra-short-wave
telephone channels of great value and
has installed many five-seven-metre radio
links instead of the usual telephone
cables over distances up to 110 miles.
Latest radio-telephone links to be erected
are between Oban and Tobermory on
the island of Mull, and between the
islands of South and North Uist in the
Outer Hebrides.
* * * *
In contrast to the high-definition ultra-
short-wave television now popular in
most countries is the system in Sweden.
There low definition is used and the
radiation wave-length is 1389 metres with
lOOkw. power. The system is experi-
mental.
* * * *
According to “Television and Short
Wave” there will be no private tele-
vision stations in France. The French
Minister of Posts and Telegraphs has
decreed that television experiments must
be made only by the Government in
collaboration with specialists, so that the
development of television may proceed
on ordered lines and not in the hap-
hazard fashion experienced with sound
broadcasting.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: Sound transmissions from
Alexandra Palace television station in
London are being heard in U.S.A., and
have been recorded. A gramophone
record recently arrived in England from
New York, and when played by the
8.8. C. was found to have such good re-
production that even the studio echo


a Oqi
U/ :^
?
"National Melodies" over 2CH at 9.20
p.m. (Fridays); 2SM at 3.30 p.m.
(Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays).
Valves can make or mar your set. To be
sure of clear reception, fit your receiver
with Radiotrons; universally acclaimed
the most reliable valves in the world.
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney
167*169 Queen Street, Melbourne
(Advertisement
Amalgamated Wireless , Valve Co.
could be heard on some of the items.
The range of the seven-metre region : s
definitely not limited to “optical” ranges,
although such long-distance reception is
not constant. Some day radio engineers
will find means of overcoming this, and
no doubt the solution of the problem
will be found in aerial design.
* * % *
Dorothy Dampier has been booked by
the A.B.C. for a 12 weeks’ tour of the
national stations. She has worked out
a series of 15-minute programmes link-
ing singing numbers with bright dialogue,
and will also be featured with the Com-
mission’s dance orchestra. Miss Dampier
is a daughter of Claude Dampier, whom
Australia knew as a contemporary of
George Edwards in “costume-comedy”
cos.
* * * *
“Thermos”: Is “Enno” (B. 26/5/’37)
quite correct in advising that VK is only
to be used as a prefix to denote experi-
mental stations? My researches (as a
layman) inform me that the Australian
Post Office authorities, as signatory to
the Berne Telegraphic Convention, have
power to allot any set of initial sym-
bols to any wireless station under their
jurisdiction, such initial symbols to
be fixed between the range of VHA
and VMZ. Which seems to require a
prefix to 3LO and similar stations.
Several radio-wise acquaintances (all
local “ham”-ticketholders) agree that the
mentioned stations have a prefix, and
plump unanimously for VK. The posi-
tion seems to need clarifying.
[One associates the VK prefix only with
experimental stations. The plain call-
sign associated with broadcasting stations,
national or licensed, seems to have be-
come accepted. These callsigns, such as
3LO and 2BL, were issued long before
the 1927 convention gave Australia a
choice lying between VHA and VMZ.
In Australia the VK prefix is definitely
associated with experimental stations,
mainly amateurs, and the A.W.A.
stations VK2ME, 3ME and 6ME, along
with several other calls held by that co.,
are strictly experimental and non-com-
mercial. VLs, Vis and others apply to
commercial stations and R.A.A.F. air-
craft use VMZ. Civil aeroplanes usually
have the registration letters for their
wireless callsign.]
* * * *
“Hamer”: Blended in with Sydney’s
1938 celebrations will be the first World
Congress of Radio Engineers, and Mar-
coni will probably preside. He will be
one of the honored guests of the Gov-
ernment during his stay in Australia.
Enthusiasts will be glad to see in the
flesh the man whose experiments started
a new era; Marconi, for his part, is
interested in Australia as the birthplace
of valuable contributions to radio science.
It was experiments made at the Sydney
University that overcame one of Europe’s
worst difficulties in regard to reception.
* *. $ x
“D.8.K.”: At the Cricklewood
Studios, London, the 8.8. C. is producing
a film dealing with the development of
television from the earliest beginnings,
which, in addition, will show excerpts
from some of the most successful pro-
grammes. The film should interest Aus-
tralian radio engineers, as television is
known here only through the pages of
magazines.
New Empire Stations.
Details of the three new high-power
transmitters that are being installed by
the 8.8. C. at Daventry and of the re-
organisation of the aerial system have
been announced.
Each of the new transmitters will have
a power of 50 kilowatts in the aerial.
They are additional to the two lOkw.
transmitters which, with that of the first
British short-wave station, GSSW, com-
prise the existing transmitters at Daven-
try. The power of the ex-GSSW trans-
mitter is to be increased to 25kw., and
it is possible that, at a later date, the
other two will be combined to form a
single unit of greater power. Ultimately,
therefore, the 8.8. C. will have five trans-
mitters in use exclusively for the Empire
A Transmitter Control Table at Daventry, from which the various power
supplies to the transmitters are regulated.
service. In ordinary circumstances four
of these will be used simultaneously.
To the four existing masts (two of
350 ft.; two of 500 ft.) eleven masts have
been added. They comprise five of 325 ft.,
two of 250 ft., one of 1501 : t., and three of
80ft. Twenty-three aerial arrays will be
provided by the system, to any one of
which any of the transmitters may be
connected. A complicated framework
utilising the “tramway-arm” principle has
been constructed to facilitate change-
overs. In order to eliminate echo effects, all
the aerials for wave-lengths of 20 metres
One of the 50kw. transmitters that have been installed at the Empire station at
Daventry, showing (left) the crystal oscillator and frequency-doubling stages, and
(centre) the intermediate amplifying and output stage. The modulator stages
are on the right.
and below and some of the 25m. and
31m. aerials are equipped with reflectors.
To connect the twenty-three aerials to
the “transmitter-to-aerial” exchange, six
miles of open-wire feeder lines carried on
550 poles were required. The masts at
the extremes of the site’s area are three-
quarters of a mile apart. From the point
of view of the number of transmitters,
the area of land occupied, and the cost,
Daventry will be the largest station in
the 8.8. C. system.
The full strength is expected to be four
times greater than it is now.
Amateur Chatter.
A Q call is wanted to indicate briefly
to W stations when DX is being sought
in Europe. Too many Ws —on the key,
at least —barge in on a VK, even though
he deliberately calls “CQ Europe” or
“CQ-G.” It is quite annoying, after
camping on a different-sounding kind of
signal, to find it signing a W 6 or some
other U.S.A. district call. By the time
the VK has toured the band again Euro-
peans who may have been calling him
have probably signed over. Butting-in
seems to be one of those quaint old
American customs.
In eastern Australia the early hours
of the evening show a marked absence
of W signals on 20 metres, which is all
to the good. While the going is good
it is possible to attract QRM-free DX
from other parts of the globe. VK2VN
recently tied up with a British expedi-
tion in Iceland at 7 p.m. Similar con-
ditions existed this time last year, when
the writer worked TF3TT in Reykjavik.
Europeans are coming through at good
strength between dawn and 7.30 a.m.
VK4’s and 2’s have been keeping an
ear open for signals from VK9 during
the volcanic upheaval at Rabaul, N.G.,
but nothing has been heard. Amateur
stations on the local supply would be
without power, and emergency batteries
would be the only hope. The A.W.A.
men at Rabaul radio have done fine work
under trying conditions.
VK2NO.
The price of the Ever-Ready Air-Cell
has been reduced from £2 13s. 6d. to
£2 Bs. 6d.
* * #
One of the most useful publications for
1937 is the R.C.A. Receiving Tube
Manual, obtainable from A.W. Valve
Co., 47 York-street, Sydney, Is. 6d. In
addition to detailing the whole range of
Radiotron valves, it is replete with in-
formation and fortified by circuit
diagrams. The circuit section includes
superhets for A.C. and battery operation,
a T.R.F. receiver with A.V.C. and in-
verse feedback audio amplifier using
6L6’s, an automobile receiver, superhet
for vibrator supply, battery-operated
s.-w. receiver, 55 watt 6L6 audio ampli-
fier, volume expander using the 6L7, non-
motor-boating resistance-coupled audio
amplifier, audio amplifier for D.C. line,
microphone, pre-amplifier and others.
The Question Box.
(1) Are arc transmitters in use to-day? (2)
What kind of a note has an arc transmitter
when heard on an oscillating detector ? (3)
How does the sharpness of tuning compare
with spark? —s46.
(1) Don’t know of any. Most unlikely.
(2) A rather high-pitched form of I.C.W.
signal'. (3) A little sharper, but very difficult
to suppress harmonic radiation.
* * * *
I have a seven-valve Ultimate battery receiver,
1936 model. Can / use an Anr-Cell without
alteration to the receiver? —550.
If the valve drain is within the Air-Cell
rating, no internal alteration will be needed
to the receiver. An external resistor can be
wired in series with the filament supply. Con-
sult the agents.
* * * *
My set is a two-volt six-valve Aeroamer.
There is plenty of A battery power and the
accumulator is no trouble. Similarly with the
C battery, but the B batteries are always in
trouble. I understand there is a gadget known
as an eliminator to dispense with the B bat-
teries. Details, please? —s49.
The vibratory B eliminator of the type now
manufactured is not applicable to two-volt
receivers unless a six-volt accumulator is used
and a two-volt tapping taken for filaments. The
modem vibrator is quite satisfactory, but the
accumulator must be a large-capacity six-volt
type to give long ser-
vice between charges.
Full information can be
obtained from Radiokes,
Cieveland-sfreet, Red-
fern, N.S.W.
* *
(1) Is it necessary to
have a license to operate
a short-wave receiver ?
(2) Are petrol-engine
generators available for
mobile transmitter
power supply? —s4B.
(1) Yes. (2) Engines
such as the Baby Jumbo
(International Radio
Co., Sydney) are avail-
able, but high-tension
generators are a matter
for special orders to
such makers as O’Don-
nell, Griffin and Co.
For operation from an
accumulator there is the
Carter Genemotor,
marketed by Amplion,
66 Clarence-s tre e t,
Sydney.
* *
(1) On hand I have a
.0005 mfd. variable con-
denser, one neutralising
condenser and a number of PM3 valves. I have
a good crystal set, but owing to a long earth
connection tuning is broad. I wish to make up
an R.F. amplifier. Number of turns of primary
and secondary of a suitable coil? (2) How
should this be connected ? —547.
(1) and (2) As the PM3 valve is a triode,
this will have to be neutralised. Best way is to
use the existing tuning coil with a loosely-
coupled primary. This should have about 35
turns of 30 D.S.C. wire, on a former the same
diameter as the tuning coil, tapped at the
centrp. Mount this coil about lin. away from
the tuning coil. Connect the start of the
winding—the end away from the tuning coil—
to the plate of the valve; feed the plate voltage
to the tap and connect the other end of the
coil through the neutralising condenser to the
grid of the valve. The grid coil for the valve
can correspond in details to the tuning coil
now used, but tappings should be provided at
various points for the aerial connection. Ninety
volts of B battery and a four-volt filament
supply will be needed.


LYS
JK
ROOF
lOO% Australian-made
' from Australia Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents..
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
The Mules Operation.
“Narooma”: Twelve out of twenty-
two graziers who tried the Mules opera-
tion for removing the breech wrinkles
from sheep favor it and only four of the
remainder are definitely unfavorable.
Latest official figures on experiments car-
ried out with sheep that had breech
wrinkles removed provide startling proof
of the need for eliminating the wrinkly
sheep by any method.
C.S. and I.R. statistics show that 87
p.c. of all fly strikes occur on ewe
breeches. Of those breech strikes 84 p.c.
begin on the inner breech, and it has
been established that fly-strike is closely
connected With breech wrinkles. A com-
parison of naturally plain-breeched and
wrinkly sheep running together under
field conditions has shown that six times
more of the latter than of the plain
sheep were attacked by fly.
The Mules method lessened losses by
icndering the sheep less susceptible, but
the operation entails a considerable
amount of time, and requires care and
experience. Whether it pays to treat
sheep in early lambhood is open to
question, as many lambs lose their
wrinkles inside 12 months.
The only advantage obtained from
wrinkly sheep is that, by reason of the
additional skin area, heavier fleeces may
be expected, but the extra weight is
mostly represented by condition and has
no relation to scoured weight. The
average length of wool staple from
wrinkly sheep is shorter than that from
the plain-bodied sheep, and in many
cases the' wool on these wrinkles is un-
even in length and quality.
Apart from these points, the vulner-
ability of the wrinkly sheep to fly attack
demands that the type should be no
longer used for breeding. Within recent
years an increase in wrinkles has been
noted in the entries at sheep shows, and
what is fashionable in stud sheep to-day
is evident in the flock sheep to-morrow.
Lamb-weaning Hints.
“Sheepo”: Seasonal conditions deter-
mine when it’s best to wean lambs, but
the most convenient time, if ages are
right, is during shearing. It means only
one drafting.
When taking weaners away to the pad-
dock include some dry sheep. For a few
days the weaners will hang on fences,
particularly in the corners ; the paddock
must be ridden daily and all found on
the fences taken in towards water.
Don’t drive them all the way in, other-
wise they are apt to look for it every
time. If given a good start in, the wool-
lies, if the weather is at all warm, will
do the rest themselves. The advantage
of including some old sheep will then
be apparent. They’ll lead the fence-
hanging youngsters.
Wool-blindness among weaners needs
prompt attention; don’t delay wigging
until shearing.
Too early or scanty feed means stunted
sheep. When first taken off their mothers,
weaners should be put on the best feed
available.
Grazing Heights on Pasture.
“Stump Jump”: Experience on two
farms in the Rochester (Vic.) irrigation
district shows that grazing alone can
make a pasture 100 p.c. clover or 90
p.c. grass and lucerne and 10 p.c. clover.
Each owner sowed his farm seven
years ago with 101 b. perennial rye, 21b.
N.Z. wild-white and 41b. lucerne. Seed
was bought from the same merchant,
and sown in soil which is identical
throughout both properties. Pasture
care was roughly similar: 3ft. of water
an acre, each year and 3cwt. of super.
Harrows were not used on either block.
To-day, one farm shows a dense mat
of wild-white clover during the whole
year. It is from to sin. deep, vary-
ing with the stocking. Grasses or lucerne
cannot be found. On the other place
clover is only seen when a thick growth
of rye and lucerne about 12in. to 2ft. in
height is pushed aside. Even then it is
found only in patches. The full seeding
of lucerne appears to be still in the pas-
“Tread it in, man; d'yer Want it ALL t' blow away?
ture, and for a rye plus lucerne growth
it- would be hard to better.
The reason for the difference is almost
entirely that the first man has run twice
the number of dairy stock as the other.
He has kept his property working up to
the, hilt, producing a lot of butter from
it, but never allowing any surplus growth.
Foot-high lots were cut for hay, and
grazing paddocks eaten right down each
time. He now knows that he must be
less severe, so that grasses will form
some percentage of the grazing mixture.
The grass-lucerne farmer is now aware
that his system is also not right. He is
getting ready to carry more stock to
eat pastures down to at least sin. or 6in.
The Grasshopper Menace.
“Brand”: Despite “Nabawa” (B.
26/5/-37) •it may not be a farmer’s fault
if this year he loses seedling ' wheat
through grasshoppers—not a small
farmer, at any rate.
There is no barrier to check the
’hopper in the flying stage. Last season
some farmers in the Coonabarabran
(N.S.W.) P.P. Board district used the
poisoned bran on hatching beds on their
own properties and to attack the young
'hoppers, according to departmental in-
struction (in one case a flame-thrower
was used as well).. Yet, later, they had
their, crops, grass and gardens wiped out
by the flying pest.
One wheat crop, ready to harvest and
around which the headlands had been cut
for an early start with the auto-header,
was completely ruined in a night, the
"hoppers cutting off the heads of wheat
from every acre.
That farmer estimated his loss at
£l2OO, and the estimate was considered
moderate.
A holder of 500 acres told the P.P.
Board, which spent £7OO last season in
the distribution of materials for poisoned
bait: “The ’hoppers came to my place
in clouds, and the noise on the iron
roof was like a fall of light hail. Next
morning I had 500 acres of grass-
hoppers.”
The pest is spreading, too. Some dis-
tricts have not been free of ’hopper
hordes for three years; others, pre-
viously free, have been struck during the
past year. <
Unless the State and landowners
generally combine in comprehensive pre-
ventive measures the ’hopper may prove
a worse, menace than the rabbit.
Rape as a Winter Feed.
' “Hortus”: There’s nothing like rape
for quick growth. You can graze it right
down to the stumps in April, and then
have a second growth over a foot high
during winter.
Rich, friable loams are the best for it,
but any soil that will grow good maize
or potatoes will do. Rape does best on
fallowed land. . J j
Work the surface down to a fine tilth
(smash lumps up with a roller if avail-
able), and don’t cover seed too deep-
half an inch to one inch is ample ; other-
wise poor germination results.
Sow in autumn is sound for coastal
districts and N.S.W. Western Slopes
wheat areas. September sowing is becom-
ing popular ; it provides a valuable green
feed during summer. Graze a paddock
on a patch at a time.
Sow in rows, 21b. to 31b. of seed, with
lcwt. super, to the acre. In 10 to 12
weeks, normally, the crop is ready to
feed off.* -
Some farmers turn rape down be-
cause .of bloat and scouring, but these
troubles can be avoided by using a liberal
supplementary ration of fibrous food—
try oaten chaff. The best scheme is to
have portable self-feeders —roofed, open
on two sides and giving shelter to. sheep
: while feeding. A feeder to hold six
bags of chaff is a handy size. Stretch
barbed wire across to keep out larger
stock.
With such an arrangement sheep wdl
balance their own ration, and will not
be affected by bloat or scour. Don’t
turn sheep on to the rape if wet or when
there is a heavy dew.
The average crop should feed 10-15
sheep per acre, and fatten them for
market in 60 days. Rape is valuable for
ewes prior to mating, also for ewes suck-
ling lambs and for topping up of broken-
mouthed sheep.
Pigs, too, do well on rape, plus grain.
It’s a good cattle food/but it taints milk
slightly, and it is advisable not to le,
milking co\vs touch it.
Pig Pastures Do Pay.
“Silky Bag”: From a fairly long ex-
perience I can to some
( recent writers on the subject—that
.lucerne fed in pasture is almost an ideal
pig diet.
The pig needs one part protein to three
or four parts carbohydrate, and fat, and
this can be secured only in lucerne and
white and red clovers. It will be seen
that cow and pig pastures are different
things—milkers need a one-to-five or -six
ratio ration.
On pastures composed of 90 p.c.
lucerne and white or red clovers pigs
will grow better than in a sty ; but plots
must be small and suitable rotations
worked so that the animals are not more
than three days in one field. Also, the
growth of crop should be above 6in.
when stock are. turned in and never
eaten down so bare as to encourage root-
ing, which destroys the pasture.
Some grain is
needed for topping
off, and, though
maize is good,
ground barley has
many advantages.
It yields half as
much grain again
per acre as wheat,
rarely exceeds 2s.
6d. a bushel in
country districts, is
an unrivalled fat-
tener and whitens
pork, ;which is in-
clined to yellow
with legume feed-
ing. ' ' '
In a portable
self-feeder- on the
plots, ground barley, plus the right type
of pasture, will go. a long way towards
turning out first-class baconers economi-
cally.
Alsatian-Dingo Menace.
“E.S.S.”: The danger of the Alsatian-
dingo cross is clearly shown in the upper
Clarence River district, where wild dogs
are a greater menace, to-day. than stock-
owners experienced when they hac only
pure dingoes to contend with. .
The dingo tackled only small caives,
and when he hunted alone the. cow in
most eases was able to protect her calf.
The huge brutes now roaming in the
rough country of the upper Clarence kill
two-year-old cattle, and they usually hunt
in packs, both day and night. So destruc-
tive have, they become that the bonus on
scalps has been raised from 10s. to 15s.
At a recent meeting of the P.P. Board
at Grafton, the manager of Gordon
Brook station—settled 1842 —exhibited
, the scalp of a huge crossbred dingo-
Alsatian. This brute had killed four
steers and crippled, others on the night
it was poisoned. Similar crossbreeds had
(Continued on page 44.)


W. JNO. BAKER MOUTH SPECULUM, Strong
Nickel-plated, with I pair plates, com-
plete with Bridle
Postage, 1/6.
W. JNO. BAKER MOUTH SPECULUM, Strong
Nickel-plated, with two pairs of plates (one
pair rubber covered, to use when operating
on front teeth). Price, complete with
Bridle
Postage, 2/-.
63/-
75/-
1. —MOUTH RASPS, with detachable blade;
jointed Handle, as shown. Length .•
overall about 2 1 in. Each 10/0
Postage, 9d. Extra Floats, 2/6 each. Postage, 6d.
STEEL WARE for
SHEEP and CATTLE
No.
15. —W. JNO. BAKER DAGGING
AND BOTTLE OUTFIT.
This outfit contains sin. Red Tang
Double Hollow-ground Dagging
Shears, £-pint Tin Bottle and small Oil
Stone. The Sheath is made of the best
picked leather, and riveted throughout.
Has loops for attaching to saddle;
also double-handed girth strap. __ . _
Complete
Postage, 1/3.
Fitted with Copper Bottle, 3/- extra.
TAR
BRANDS.
Hand-forged
SHEEP
TAR BRANDS
Made to Any
Design
Letter
13
Letter
18
Lette
21
Postag
FIRE BRANDS MADE TO ORDER.
2092.—PATENT HAIR CLIPPERS,
plated, with Regulating Plates, to cut
three different lengths. Each, complete,
These Clippers are durable and powerful, clean
cutting, and comfortable to the hand.
Nickel-
-19/6
W. JNO. BAKER TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCU-
LATOR. A well-made, first-class Nickel-plated
instrument, combining the blunt cut and the.
crushing block. Its simplicity and thorough
effectiveness in operating commend it /
to both the novice and expert .... DO/ “
Write for
Free
Illustrated
Catalogue.
sin. Dagging Shear
and Sheath, 13/9
6in. . . • .14/9
DAROUX /
SHEEP
EMASCULATOR,
£3/15/- v
Post Free.
THE “HUNTER” PATENT DOUBLE LEVER
RAM DEHORNER. Length overall 30in.
Very strong and hand-made.
Price
N.S.W. Postage, 2/9; Interstate, 5/6.
Smaller Size and Lighter in Weight, £3/18/6.
N.S.Ws Postage, 2/-; Interstate, 4/6.
£4/4/-
THE W. JNO BAKER NEW
IMPROVED LAMB CLAM.
435. The position of the
blade enables the user to
complete the operation with-
out moving his grip on the
clam, the result being a
cleaner job, quicker healing
and saving time. About 8
inches overall. Black Horn
Handle Grip, Brass Guard.
Width across jaw, - ~
1 fin. Each
SHEEP BAR PLIERS
sd
MADE' IN ACCORD-
ANCE WITH GOVERN-
MENT STOCK DE-
PARTMENTS.
WE SPECIALISE IN
COMPOUND PLIERS.
COMPOUND PLIER.
BUS HIN I
BOS
430. —W. JNO. BAKER BUSH KNIFE, specially designed by
W. Jno. Baker and highly recommended; extra strong,
good steel, blade, good grip rosewood handle.
Each
7/6
Plain Riveted Sheath, 2/- extra.
V.B.—W. JNO. BAKER TATTOO PLIER, hand-
made, plain finish, with one set of ten moulded
figures, .1 to 0, and one stick Indian Ink.
Plier to hold three figures 55/-
Plier to hold four figures 59/6
Extra Letters or Figures, 2/- each.
'mi
185.—BAKER’S FIVE, specially designed for
use among Stock; 5 Blades, Finest Quality and
Finish. Stag Haft. Size, 3-2iin. -iq/
Price, each 10/*
Larger size, 4in. Haft, each 19/6.
3 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY
W. JNO
PTY.
LTD.


A pp£A&
Comfort
AHC6
1338.
Made in Brown Willow Calf in full
sizes. Leather lined throughout.
Price, 39/6.
When ordering, don’t forget your tin
of Abbey’s Shoe Polish, price 6d.
There’s one thing about an
Abbey Riding Boot, it feels
as good as it looks.
The high-polishing strong
Calf is also soft and supple,
moulding to the foot like a
leather half its weight.
The tough sole of Austra-
lian leather is springy and
light, bending easily and
unresisting with the foot.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY:
Since 1863 William Sanderson <& Son Ltd., Leith, have
been famous distillers. And from their vats comes “Vat 69”
a Scotch Liqueur Whisky mellowed with age and
unvarying in flavour.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles, and Flasks.
VAT 69
LIQUEUR SCUTCH WHISKY
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane,
Australians Leading Financial Journal .
JUNE ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
IS BRITAIN A DECLINING MARKET?
WORLD POPULATION TRENDS
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
JTi^fy'ctllelvrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
been found on a number of holdings on
the upper parts of the river.
In my experience the dingo was not a
wanton killer. He killed a calf or a
sheep when hungry. I have got many a
dingo by poisoning a fresh carcass. On
the other hand, I have seen the warrigal,
when not hungry, trot disdainfully past
a lamb. The half-breed kills and maims
from the lust of killing. When the half
of him is Alsatian he is a far worse
menace than any other on account of
his size and strength.
A Wheat from the West.
“H.M.C.”: For years Nabawa was the
leading wheat in N.S.W. ; then Bencub-
bin was introduced from Swanland.
Bencubbin is a crossbred child of
Nabawa and Gluyas Early, the Gluyas
parent presumably developing drought
resistance and yield. Nabawa and Ben-
cubbin are more like twins than mother
and daughter. Both have the same
height, the same straw weakness, the
same maturity and the same resistance to
flagsmut and susceptibility to rust. The
head of Bencubbin is a “chip off the old
block.” The few slight differences are
not sufficient for even experts to differ-
entiate between them with certainty.
But Bencubbin is undoubtedly the
superior bag-filler. In 95 trials in
farmers’ experimental plots in which both
were grown in 1935, Nabawa averaged
23.30 bushels to Bencubbin’s 25.53. Ben-
cubbin was top in 77 trials; Nabawa
in only 18. In addition, Bencub-
bin has been superior in trials over
two or three years at every Government
farm where they have been grown—in
each case by several bushels per acre,
and in plots conducted on a much more
accurate basis than farmers’ experimen-
tal plots.
A dozen figures in one year might lie,
but more than 200 figures over two or
three years should convince anyone.
Bencubbin is the only early-mid-season
wheat which yields as well as Bobin in
southern districts. It is likely to sup-
plant Nabawa and Bobin over large
areas until a better wheat is found.
Borax for Apples.
“Aiwa”: An apple disorder variously
known as crinkle, pigface, pimples and
internal cork has been a source of worry
to orchardists. The misshapen, knobby
fruits when cut through show brown dis-
colored patches sometimes |in. in
diameter in the flesh or near the core.
Maoriland investigators in 1935 showed
that the trouble came from boron de-
ficiency. Tree injections or soil appli-
cations of borax or boracic acid effected
complete cures. Similarly in N. S. Wales,
where the trouble had become so devas-
tating that some orchardists were about
to walk off their properties.
Half a pound to one, pound of borax
per tree has proved extraordinarily effec-
tive. The borax is applied to the soil in
August or September about 3ft. from the
butt, so that the fibrous roots will gather
the mineral for next season’s crop.
The treatment should not be over-
done ; most boron problems investigated
so far arose from natural excesses. A
good apple crop removes slightly less than
lib. of boron per acre, and, where neces-
sary, this can be provided by the 501 b.
or 1001 b. of borax applied to the soil.
Boron is essential for many plants.
Ten pound of borax per acre is now
applied with the ordinary fertiliser to
remedy brown heart in swedes, a major
trouble in parts of M.L. and elsewhere.
Lucerne and other legumes require boron
for nodule formation. Tomatoes,
potatoes and tobacco must also have
their issue.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.L.W.”: An effective drench for
sanded horses is lib. of honey dissolved
in 2\ pints of milk fresh from the cow.
The dose may have to be repeated. Being
more palatable than most drenches it is
easily administered.
“Gumblegubbin”: When stays are used
at the corners of rabbit-proof fences, the
top ends should be kept low, otherwise
rabbits run up them and hop over. If
they must be put high, a piece of netting
across the top of the angle will check
bunny.
“Pappamosca”: Sweet skim-milk is
preferable to soured milk for pig-feeding.
Many favor the sour because it has a
better feed value. It also has a higher
chance of contamination, and no animal
is more susceptible to internal infection
than the pig.
“What-ho”: George Berry, of Trundle
(N.S.W.), claimed to be the largest wheat-
grower in the Commonwealth, has in
partnership with his brother planted 4000
acres this season on Woodview. In addi-
tion, he has nearly 5000 acres under
wheat on other properties. With any-
thing like a good season and prices, the
grain from these interests should be
worth £50,000. The largest cultivation
paddock at Woodview is 1500 acres and
the biggest crop obtained by the brothers
42,000 bags from 6500 acres in 1931.
“Walliew”: Recently Brisbane Abat-
toirs’ week’s killing was 5505 cattle,
10,635 sheep, 2668 calves and 2342 pigs.
This made employment for 1138 people ;
it also stressed the need for a more
regulated system of supply to the works.'
Consignments at present are too spas-
modic. Recently 4000 beasts, through
being kept waiting, relapsed into store
condition ; then followed a period of in-
sufficient shipping space. With the
season at its peak from now till July
lack of shipping will mean that freez-
ing will have to be resorted to in place
of chilling, with consequent lower prices.
Failing this, cattle will have to wait 12
months before marketing. Smithfield
prices have been increasing, and it is
worth an effort to put the business on a
properly co-ordinated basis.
“Rockless”: In addition to modern
improvements, upkeep of new shearing
machine handpieces is remarkably cheap
and the cost of duplicates used by old
or renovated pieces soon makes up the
difference between cost of repairs and
new machines, particularly as the old
bogeye can be traded in. There is one
other alternative worth considering.
Some shearing contractors supply hand-
pieces and include the cost in their
quoted price per head. Others supply
them at a charge of l-6d. per sheep and
include oil, emery, glue, duplicates and
freight, which works out a lot cheaper
than the bill for duplicates alone used in
many station handpieces.,
“Gryllus”: Owing to its destructive
effects on green timber mistletoe is going
to prove serious in many parts of eastern
Australia. About Goondiwindi (s.-w. Q.)
so many trees along the river channel and
its tributaries have been destroyed by the
pest that it has been necessary to ring-
bark many more infected ones to prevent
it from spreading. The insensate de-
struction of possums and native bears
has been largely responsible for the
remarkable increase of the parasite dur-
ing the last 20 years.
“Heresone”: Irrigation will certainly
one day be valued at its worth in Aus-
tralia. Last year I cut cane for a cocky
near Maryborough (Q.)—a light crop,
five to thirty tons per acre, averaging
about 13. Just before I left he put in a
plant to water 10 acres from the Mary
River. When I visited him recently he
said the season had been worse than the
last. Yet all his irrigated land carries
about as much cane as when we cut it
only six months ago. The rest, and all
his neighbors’ cane, may not be worth
cutting this year, unless the season im-
proves very soon. From his 10 acres
he is assured of at least as good a crop
as last year, possibly twice as much.
Fuel cost to date (Diesel oil) has been
about £l5.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Is there any ingredient which may be put
into cream during the churning process to
accelerate butter-making ? —5744.
No. There are several factors which in-
fluence churning—the speed of the churn, den-
sity, acidity and temperature of the cream.
Farmers making their own butter sometimes
fail to allow enough acid to develop in the
cream; the ripening process is much slower in
the cold weather. Also, cream should not be
over-thick during the winter months.
* * * *
Can you tell me of any method of poisoning
rabbits with a thistle-root and strychnine bait?
—5730.
Use Scotch thistles, well grown, but not shot
to flower. The roots, after thorough washing,
are sliced into chips an inch long. Half a
cup of brown sugar is added to a gallon of
prepared roots, and after two hours the liquid
is drained off. Next the roots are spread in
the sun on a sheet of iron for 45 minutes, and
then put into a container. Five teaspoons of
ground strychnine are added separately, the
container being shaken thoroughly after each
teaspoonful. One teaspoon of essence of vanilla
is added, and just before the trail is laid six
drops of oil of cummin. An ordinary poison
cart is used, with the funnel extended through
the floor, one man driving and another feeding
down the baits —one bait to each turn of the
wheel. If laying bait by hand, make a furrow
with a hoe or plough and lay the bait according
to infestation.


HERE IT IS I
A full 5-seater AUSTIN
Saloon with 112 in. wheelbase
for only
... .
M
Bra
nm |pi .■■■ ■ ■ ■■:.
HP ■
mi
Hn H
HH PP
i
m
mm
*—r
WSSmSfi
■
mmm
tim#' \
w
■
I
■
iiliii
■
a
H
■
mm
I
Y WJm Jt
.
.
iSw
B
Hi
mm
-0
fli
H
n
P;
n
sssk
A T last England has produced, in the Austin Fifteen Nine,
a full 5-seater long wheelbase saloon (112 inches) to sell
at a very low price. No cars on the road to-day are
smarter or more graceful than the New AUSTIN Fifteen Nine
—yet every inch of the design is practical. While sitting in a
natural position you have a full view of the road ahead—you are
comfortable and safe. New bodies are not only built for comfort
and safety, but have SILENCE —they are constructed of
steel throughout, and every panel is SOUND INSULATED.
A Safety-Glass windscreen is fitted as standard equipment in
this stylish, distinctive model. You owe it to yourself to see the
AUSTIN Fifteen Nine —to inspect the many improvements—
to examine the fine quality—to appreciate how stylish it is in a
new way —how practical and dependable in the old way.
There’s no need to wait to own an Austin. Stocks of the Fifteen
Nine, Ten and Seven H.P. Models are arriving regularly, so
prompt delivery is assured. ’Phone FL3OOI and arrange for a
demonstration drive, or write for full details and specifications,
and the name of your nearest Austin dealer.
CONSIDER THESE NEW FEATURES OF
THE AUSTIN FIFTEEN NINE AND TEN
$ All steel sound insulated bodies, of most graceful and modern
design, with steel tops and steel floors. Ample luggage space
in rear compartment. & Six windows as shown in illustration.
Greater legroom and increased comfort. $ Girling brakes
—the best brakes in the world. £ New frame, longer road
springs for riding comfort. New flexible clutch—smoother
take up. % Adjustable steering wheel (on Fifteen Nine only).
$ Pressed* steel wheels for easier cleaning.
THE IMPROVED SEVEN
# New engine with Three-
bearing crankshaft and
greater power.
0 Girling brakes the best
brakes in the world.
0 New Flexible Clutch.
# Coachwork modern and
attractive.
THE LIGHT TWENTY
# York seven-seater saloons
supplied with imported
bodies only.
NEW PRICES:
FIFTEEN NINE
Roadster from . . . £345
5-seater Saloon . . . £389
TEN H.P. Roadster
from £249
De Luxe Saloon . . £325
SEVEN H.P.
Roadster from ... £199
Saloon from £254
04// prices plus rax.)
SEVEN H.P. MODELS CAN BE OBTAINED AS LOW AS FROM £5O DEPOSIT AND LESS THAN £2 PER WEEK.
■W AUSTIN
N.S.W.
Distributors
LARKE, HOSKINS & CO. LTD
SHOWROOMS: 207-213 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: FL3OOI.
Service Stations: Cnr. Australia St. and Parramatta Rd., Camperdown; 50-56 Pacific Highway, North Sydney; and Nield Avenue, Rushcutter’s Bay.
Newcastle and District Showrooms: N.S.W. MOTORS, 761 Hunter St. West, Newcastle. Tel. 1978.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
-s
hort Story
c Writing
tyree dance
Journalism
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Bartz Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, ltd.,
C 5-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6661.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Pensioner, N.S.W., saddler, can do plain cook-
ing, used to station life, wants employment any-
where. Refs.—6os3.
Whereabouts of James William Ross or wife
(Peggy O’Neill), who left Auckland eight years
ago for Sydney. Mother anxious.—6ooB.
Information Sought.
(1) lit an American boxing paper recently Leo
Kelly was rated as the world’s third-best light-
heavyweight, and Ron Richards as the 21th.
Should Richards be rated so far below Kelly ?
(2) Was Bill Sparkes born in M.L. ? —6086.
(1) Richards is a middleweight, so should not
be rated with the light-heavyweights. On their
three contests Richards is better than Kelly, as
he won two. (2) Bill Sparkes was born in
Sydney.
* * * *
What were the haunts or particular waters of
the famed M.L. fish Pelorus Jack? — 6071.
He lived in Queen Charlotte Sound, and used
to swim just ahead of the bows of Wellington-
Picton steamers when entering and leaving the
sound. A special Act of Parliament was passed
for his protection. He disappeared several
years ago.
* * * *
Why is New Zealand always referred to as
Maoriland in The Bulletin? —6075.
Because the Dutch title is as clumsy as it is
archaic, because the Maoris anticipated the
Dutch discovery by at least 500 years,
because Maoriland takes up less space than New
Zealand, and because expressions like white
New Zealanders and new New Zealanders give
us a pain.
* * * *
Can one call oneself “professor” without
having taken a degree or passed some examina-
tion ? —6041.
Speaking broadly, one can call oneself the
Emperor of China, the Count of Monte Christo
or any other title provided the pretence is not
used to obtain money. In the old days of
vaudeville the stage was full of “professors”
who juggled, trained performing fleas or played
six instruments simultaneously, and boxers and
wrestlers sometimes assumed such a designation.
Ridicule has largely killed the custom, but it
is still as permissible as ever.
* * * *
What are the five dimensions ? —5987.
To all practical intents and purposes there
are only three dimensions —two horizontal and
one vertical. In a certain sort of mathemati-
cal computation time is treated as a fourth
dimension. Four- and even five-dimensional
systems of geometry have been devised, but
these deal with hypothetical or imaginary con-
ditions.
* * * *
Some information concerning the Basques ?
—6OlB.
Inhabiting the West Pyrenees district of Spain
and France, they are a people ethnologically
distinct from the rest of Europe, and belong
to a pre-Aryan migration, as shown by their
language and many of their customs, which
date back to prehistoric times. They are com-
puted to number 150,000 in France, and 400,000
in Spain. In Spain they preserved their nation-
ality until 1876, when by decree they became
part of the Spanish nation. Under the republic
they are self-governing in all except matters
of national concern.
* # * *
What exactly is the position of Australia and
other British Dominions in relation to Great
Britain ? —6012.
The Dominions were defined by the Imperial
Council of 1926 as “autonomous communi-
ties within the British Empire, equal in status,
in no way subordinate one to another in any
aspect of their domestic or foreign affairs,
though united by a common allegiance to the
Crown.” The Governor-General of a Dominion
holds “in all essential respects the same posi-
tion in relation to the administration of public
affairs as is held by the King in Great Britain,”
and is advised by the Government of the
Dominion in all matters relating to its own
affairs. In July, 1925, a Secretaryship of State
for Dominion Affairs was created, this office
taking over all business connected with the self-
governing Dominions, and superseding the
Colonial Office, which now deals only wtih the
administration of colonies, protectorates and
mandated territories.
* * * *
(1) Is Jack Moses the writer of the verse
“Nine Miles from Gundagai” ? (2) Was some-
thing similar written in 1859? (3) Did Moses
grant permission for the erection of the monu-
ment showing the dog on the tucker-box ?
5717.
(1) Yes. It was written 50 years ago. (2)
Haven’t seen it. (3) No, but there was no
reason for him to object, as the object of the
monument was to assist the Gundagai Hospital,
a collection-box being placed on the monument
for this purpose.
* * * *
1 lately read an article which stated:
“There was then a thousand years of darkness
[of knowledge, apparently ] until, the English
Reformation and the Italian Renaissance.
During this thousand years, were there any in-
ventors or famous names in the realm of
science, literature or the arts? —6017.
The English Reformation may be said to have
commenced with Wyclif, about 1360. The Italian
Renaissance is considered to have commenced
übout 1460. Taking the period 360 to 1460
*or good measure, there seem to have been no
notable advances in science save some contri-
butions to algebra by Bonaccio of Pisa and
the compilation of the Alphonsine (astronomi-
cal) tables in Spain, both developments being
offshoots of Arab culture. Writers of note were
Wyclif and Chaucer in England, Dante, Pet-
rarch and Boccaccio in Italy, and Froissart in
France. Sculpture seems to have been a dead
art; music made no progress. In painting, Da
Siena, D’Arezzo, Cimabue, Giotto, Martini,
Orcagna, Van Eyck and Da Fiesole left memor-
able work, but the really great art achieve-
ment of the period was the development to its
full magnificence of Gothic architecture. The
period is bare of notable inventions. Possibly
the introduction of the art of printing to
Europe (1450-70) had as much to do with the
quickening of intellectual and aesthetic activity
as any other influence.
* * * #
What is the story regarding the origin of the
Order of the Garter? —6o6o.
The popular tale is that the Duchess of
Salisbury, while dancing . with Edward 111.,
dropped her garter, whereupon the King picked
it ufi and placed it on his own leg; then, notic-
ing the jealous glances of his Queen, remarked
Honi soit qui mal y pense (“Evil to him who
evil thinks”), later instituting the famous order
of chivalry. The story is fictitious. Edward
111., who had laid claim to the French throne
and had already been partly successful in his
expeditions into France, in 1344 instituted the
Companionship of the Garter (the decoration is
worn in the form of a garter) as a reward
and incentive to his knights. The French color,
blue, was chosen, the motto, which is also trans-
latable “Dishonored be he who thinks ill [of
it],” being applicable either to the order or to
the further expedition he was then contemplat-
ing.
* * * *
What other States in Australia use the same
kind of railway coupling as Queensland ? Does
M. use the same? What other types of
coupling are in use, and in what countries ?
Is there any book which gives this sort of in-
formation ? —5866.
N. S. Wales uses couplings of the automatic,
three-link and screw types. Vic. and S.A. (on
broad-gauge lines) also use these three types.
Tas. uses the three-link and screw types, and
the Commonwealth, on its transcontinental line,
uses the automatic type. W.A., S.A. (narrow
gauge) and Commonwealth (narrow gauge) use
a central coupling known as the Swedish hook,
also used in M.L. In Canada, the U.S.A.,
Japan and Mexico automatic couplings are uni-
versally used. In Great Britain and most Con-
tinental countries the screw and three-link types
are general, though automatic couplings are
also in use. Know of no book dealing with
coupling devices in use in the various countries
of the world.
* . * * *
When were escalators first erected at Milson’s
Point ?— 5BOB.
At no time were escalators in use at the old
Milson’s Point station. When tenders were
accepted for the construction of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge passengers were disembarked
from North Shore trains and trams and trans-
ferred at a site on Lavender Bay, where station
facilities had been provided as early as 1915.
When this transfer took place in July, 1924, the
escalators were brought into use.
* * ■* *
Date on which the Government sanctioned
the construction of the branch railway from
Gosford to Gosford racecourse, when started,
and when completed ? —5755.
Construction was authorised by Act. No. 56
of 1915. Work inside railway boundaries com-
menced in May, 1916, and the line was com-
pleted by November 10, and was in use for the
race meeting held on December 7 of that year.
* * * *
(1) Are scholarships or bursaries given by any
N. G.P. schools on intermediate certificate
passes ? (2) Are five As with two Bs in the
recognised difficult subjects better than seven
As, if all seven subjects were not in the really
hard category ? —5830.
(1) Not aware of any. (2) With the exception
of shorthand, all subjects at the intermediate
certificate examination are regarded as of equal
value. To qualify for a pass at the examination
a candidate must take not less than six sub-
jects and secure passes in at least four, two of
which must be classified in the general group.
The subjects not included in this group are
technical drawing, woodwork, metalwork, art,
music, needlework and home economics.
* $ * *
Addresses of and subscriptions payable to
Sydney stamp societies from whom a collector
can purchase stamps and obtain philatelic in-
formation ? —5974.
Sydney Philatelic Club, hon. sec., E. Suss-
milch, Box 1751, G.P.0., Sydney; metropoli-
tan members 7s. 6d., others ss. p.a. Philatelic
Society of New South Wales, hon. sec., F. T.
Bolton, 70 Norton-street, Ashfield; metropoli-
tan members 7s. 6d., others ss. p.a. Philatelic
Society of Australia, hon. sec., R. H. White,
26 Park-avenue, Randwick, ss. p.a.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding the surname
Knox? —6010.
It is derived from the Gaelic cnoc, or little
hill. The progenitor of the family bearing the
name is believed to be one Uchtred, whose
son, Adam, early in the thirteenth century
obtained the lands of Knox and Ranfurly,
County Renfrew, from Walter, High Steward
of Scotland, and took the name of Knox. A
Sir John de Knox is recorded as Laird of
Ranfurly early in the fifteenth century, and
believed to be the great-greatfather of the
famous reformer. A branch of the family long
resident in Ireland is descended from a member
of the line who in the seventeenth century was
made Bishop of the Isles, and later transferred
to Ireland.
* * * *
(1) Has the Rice Marketing Board obtained
a suitable overseas market for the surplus of
1936; if so, where? (2) Can Australian rice
be sold in countries such as China and Japan
at a profit to our growers ? Can you give
figures? —sB(jl.
(1) The bulk of the surplus rice crop of the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area is exported to
the U.K. in the form of cleaned rice. The
other principal markets are M.L. and the
Pacific Islands. Of the 15,000 tons surplus
from the crop harvested last May and June,
a total of 7230 tons of cleaned rice, 50 tons
of uncleaned rice and 270 tons of rice meal
and flour was exported during the six months
ending December 31, 1936. During the same
period in 1935 the exports were 4920 tons of
cleaned rice, 306 tons of uncleaned rice and
155 tons of rice meal and flour. At this rate
of export the board should have no difficulty
in disposing of the bulk of the surplus crop.
The market to which increased supplies have
been sent this season is the U.K.; 5766 tons of
cleaned rice was shipped to the U.K. during the
six months ending December, 1936, compared
with 3516 tons during the same period in 1935.
(2) It has been officially stated that Japan has
a large export surplus this season. Rice-pro-
ducing countries in Asia, such as French Indo-
China and Siam, supply China with its import
requirements. Australia cannot compete with
these countries owing to our higher labor and
transport costs.
* * * *
Is there an award in N. S. Wales for females
under 21 acting as waitress, laundress, scullery-
and housemaid at boarding-houses with an
average of 10 to 12 boarders? What are the
hours and time off, if any ? —5742.
The N.S.W. Boarding-houses, Flats, Residen-
tials, etc., award applies to establishments with
eight or more paying guests. The award pro-
vides for the employment of junior females,
not exceeding five, in the proportion of one
junior to every four adult female employees,
to assist or perform the duties of waitresses,
housemaids, pantrymaids and linenmaids, and
other light duties. If required to do scrubbing
or to assist or do the work of laundresses,
cooks or kitchenmaids they must be paid the
full adult rate. It is also the departmental view
that if the required proportion of adult female
employees is not observed in the establishment
the junior employees will also be entitled to
the adult rates. The award provides for a
working week of 48 hours and one full day
off in each week. Overtime for time worked
in excess of 48 hours up to a maximum of 10
hours per week may be worked if paid for at
the rate of time and a quarter for the first
five hours and time and a half thereafter. A
copy of the award, which was published on
October 27, 1933, may be obtained from the
Government Printer, Sydney; Is. 3d.
* * * *
Under the Local Government Act of N.S.W.
can a municipal council donate, out of the
council funds, a cup for competition among
pupils of a State school? —5852.
Yes. Section 504 of the N.S.W. Local Gov-
ernment Act provides that the council may
expend for purposes not authorised but not ex-
pressly prohibited by law a sum not exceeding
in any one year 1 p.c. of the general rate
levied in that year. If in any year 1 p.c. of
such general rate does not amount to £lOO, the
council may in that year expend £lOO under
this section.
* * * *
Does the number of teeth or the diameter of
the wheel govern the r.p.m. of a driven cog-
wheel ? —5978.
Since the number of teeth on two cogs cor-
rectly in gear is proportional to their respective
diameters, the r.p.m. of the driven wheel may
be obtained either from the number of teeth or
from the diameters, but it is more easily ob-
tained from the number of teeth. To find the
r.p.m. of the driven wheel, multiply the r.p.m.
of the driver by its number of teeth and divide
by the number of teeth on the driven wheel.
Example: R.p.m. of driver 60, (eeth on driver
40, teeth on driven wheel 30; 60 x 40 equals
2400, which, divided by 30, gives 80 r.p.m.
* * * *
Method of cleaning white plaster casts ?
6005.
Crush some starch finely, place in a basin
and add cold water to make a smooth, thick
mass; add boiling water to make a thick paste.
While still hot apply with a brush to the
plaster as thickly as possible, and let dry
slowly. When quite dry the starch will split
and scale off, bringing dust and soiled parts
with it. The objects should, of course, be
dusted as well as possible before treatment.
Try first on a small cast or base.
* * * *
How to grow erica for heath ) plants? Can
they be raised in sandy loam on the northern
side of Sydney? Best time to plant out and
most suitable varieties ? —5208.
Ericas can be grown in open gardens or in
flower-pots where a little shade tempers the
sun. Sandy loam should suit them admirably.
Do not add new manure or fertilisers to the
soil; rotted leaves and bush-mould are best.
A good watering once a week in dry weather
is essential. Ericas can be planted from March
to October. Hentyana (pink), Cavendishii
(yellow), Melanthera (lavender-purple) are ex-
cellent varieties.
Brief Answers.
M.S.C.: (1) No, the copyright is in you.
A wise precaution is to write, stamp or print
on the back of the photo, offered for sale the
words “Copyright reserved.” Copyright, how-
ever, does not extend to photographs of a
work of art permanently exhibited publicly.
(2) The Commonwealth Act embodies the
British Copyright Act of 1911. (3) The rate
of payment is a matter between vendor and
purchaser; there is no fixed tariff... .M.S.: The
use of birdlime for catching birds is illegal in
N.S.W E.E.R.: Princess Victoria, Queen
Victoria’s eldest daughter, was married January
25, 1858, to Friedrich Wilhelm, at the time
Crown Prince, and later Emperor, of Germany.
The “Prince Imperial” of France, son of
Napoleon 111. and the Empress Eugenie, was
killed during the Zulu War while serving with
the British forces... .M.N.: Stanley Baldwin
was Chancellor of the Exchequer 1922-23, under
Bonar Law, whom he succeeded as Prime
Minister... .W.M.: Richard Tauber has never
visited Australia K.R.: Boorie is a N.S.W.
abo. place-name meaning “grass near a creek.”
. ...T.W.D.: Ned Kelly was hanged November
11, 1880. The execution took place in an
orderly manner, and there was no incident of
the type you mention... .G.R.C.: The lines
are from Ethel Turner’s verses “Gum Leaves,”
published by Ward, Lock and Co., Ltd., in
a small volume entitled The Tiny House and
Other Verses (1911)... .M.H.M.: The publica-
tion never got beyond a first number. A
copy, from a collector’s point of view, has no
value at present... .A.E.S.: (1) N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Sydney. (2) Vance Palmer, Men Are
Human, The Passage, Legend for Sanderson;
J. J. Hardie, Cattle Camp, The Bridle Track.
....A.A.: Wipe over with a soft cloth wrung
out of warm suds; repair any rents and attend
to buttons, etc. If seams have worn white in
places or there are any light patches, rub in
a little brown color made by mixing a pinch or
two of Bismarck-brown in turpentine, or
darken with a good brown shoe polish. The
final cleaning and polishing are done by apply-
ing shoe cream with a flannel, rubbing well
into dry spots, and finishing with a fresh, dry
cloth J.M.: Highly involved chemistry-im-
possible to describe here, and quite beyond
anyone without apparatus and skilled training.
G.B.P.: (1) Moto-Needs, Ltd., 164 Ehza-
beth-street, Sydney. (2) Regent Leather
Coat Dressing, made by Nugget Polish Pty.,
Ltd., Williamstown, Victoria; price Is. 3d. per
pot N.S.A.L.: (1) A Thomas Mitchell, a
marine painter, lived during the latter part of
the eighteenth century. He held an appoint-
ment in the dockyards, but outside of his em-
ployment practised art as an amateur, and may
possibly have been responsible for the paint-
ing you mention, although portraiture would
seem to have been out of his line. He exhibited
at the Royal Academy, 1774 to 1789. (2) Can-
not identify the other painter named
A.W.R.: Address College of Arms, Queen Vic-
toria-street, London, E.C.4, England... .R.R.:
Queen Victoria, as a member of the house
of Hanover, was a Guelph, which was not
affected by her marriage, for, as sovereign, she
continued to retain the name of the royal
house to which she was born. Her son, King
Edward VII., was, however, through his father,
Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, a member
of the house of Coburg or of Wettin —the latter
being the family name of this ducal house —
and a Guelph by virtue of his mother. On
July 17, 1919, King George V. renounced all
German titles and dynastic names, adopting in
place thereof the name of Windsor for both
family and house... .S.A.M.: Cannot recom-
mend any particular agent. Suggest you ask
Agricultural Department, Sydney; also, try an
advt. in a farming paper... .M.F.: The word
Yarrahappini occurs in Ethel Turner’s book
Seven Little Australians, where it is the station
home of the stepmother’s family; it is the scene
of the Family at Misrule children’s holiday,
and of Judy’s death. The meaning of the word,
according to the author, is “koala rolling down
a hill” E. 8.: Suggest you advertise for a
buyer L.H.R.: (1) Commodore Perry’s ex-
pedition arrived in Japan in 1854, and a treaty
was made between him and the Ministers of
the shogunate at Uraga. (2) Narrative of the
American Expedition by Commodore Perry, by
Francis Hawks... .N.M.P.: Write Dangar,
Gedye and Malloch, 10 Young-street, Sydney.
... .L.M.P.: Shell the peanuts into a basin and
cover them with boiling water for a few
minutes to remove the skins. Drain and rub
in a towel, and remove skins. Make a brine
of warm water containing one dessertspoon salt
to every pint, and soak the skinned peanuts
in this for half an hour. Drain and dry, and
pack into jars with salt lightly sprinkled be-
tween layers; cover and keep in a cool place.
S.H.E.: Thin silk of a special nature is
the foundation. It is treated by immersion or
brushing to an impregnation of raw linseed oil,
which may contain quinosol, with or without
the addition of green aniline coloring. Exact
process is a trade secret with local makers
J.L.W.: Rugby League football was played in
Newcastle (N.S.W.) in 1908, and in Singleton
before Lismore 8.D.: Cockerell’s Some
Notes on Bookbinding (10s.), Kay’s Bookbind-
ing for Beginners (25.) and Advanced Book-
binding (35.), and Mason’s Bookbinding (2s.
3d.) J.G.: Unobtainable in Australia; a
few were brought privately from Japan
H.C.: Write Department of Labor and Indus-
try, Chalfont Chambers, 142 Phillip-street,
Sydney R. 8.: (1) Consult a patent attorney
with a view to protecting patent rights before
submitting idea for possible sale. (2) Not
possible without details to state what prospect
exists in overseas countries for its adoption, but
you may submit information to the Civil Avia-
tion Board, when an investigation into the pos-
sibilities will be made by technical officers and
an opinion forwarded. The matter will, of
course, be treated as strictly confidential—
(Many others mailed.)


SHE BECAME STOUT
ALL AT ONCE
Face Nearly Twice as Big
as Before
Some people seem to put on weight all of
a sudden. You meet them one day, and they
are quite normal, then the next time you see
them you hardly recognise them, they have be-
come so fat. That was what happened to this
woman, who put on 5-£st. before she began
taking Kruschen.
“I used to be very thin,” she writes, “only
Bst. 81bs. Then all at once I got so stout my
friends did not know me. My face was nearly
twice the size, I had a double chin and my
arms were terribly fat. I weighed 14st. 21bs.
Then one day I began taking Kruschen Salts.
Imagine my surprise when I started going
thinner. I am now lOst. lOlbs., and I am slim
enough for my height, as I am very tall. I
have never dieted a bit, and I feel much better
in health.”—(Mrs.) S.A.
Before the first bottle of Kruschen is finished,
the fat starts to go. Then, month after month,
the scales tell the same story—a few pounds
less of superfluous flesh to burden the body and
endanger the health.
; -
The
'BOULIA'
BIG DIP
STOCK
SADDLE
£l4/18/6
(MOUNTED)
Has plenty of dip in
the seat and the pads
are high. It has the
popular short panel
with leather facings
at back. Built on a
best “Fouright” Tree
and the materials are first-grade
throughout.
N.S.W. Freight paid for Cash with Order.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHERt STEVENSON ltd
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
FIRST
MSTMIUH BANK
B’S*'*
*
The
Macquarie Obelisk in Macquarie
Place, Sydney, marked the spot from
which all roads in the Colony were
measured. It teas erected in 1818, a
year after the Bank of New South
Wales commenced business in Mrs.
Mary Reiby’s house in Macquarie
Place.
The Bank of New South Wales was the first bank
opened in Australia.
Regarding this Bank, H. E. Teare, in “Australian
Currency and Exchange,” says, “The establish-
ment of this bank was generally considered to
have saved the Colony from ruin.”
To-day, the Bank of New South Wales is still the
first Bank first in age first in the number
of branches serving the public first in the
amount of deposits entrusted to it first in the
volume of advances to trade and industry and
first in the extension of banking services to meet
expanding economic needs.
Trained officers of the Bank throughout its 800
branches are ready always to advise on any finan-
cial question. There is no problem too small or
too large for their consideration.
ESTABLISHED 181?
Wl
264F.193/
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Poor Prefer Food
Melbourne “Argus” persists in shutting
its official eyes to facts. It asks peev-
ishly how a commission is to assess the
effect of economic conditions on the
limitation of the size of families in Aus-
tralia, as suggested by the National
Health Council, in the light of the well-
known fact that the very poor frequently
have the largest families. Such a com-
mission might discover the equally well-
known fact that the “very poor” prefer
food to birth-control —which is often
their children’s bad luck. —M. L. (Vic.).
“Add One-third for Freight”
Your correspondent (B. 19/5/’37) has
misstated the facts, unless his freight cost
covered quite a considerable amount of
cartage.
The freight rate from Brisbane to Port-
land Roads is 120 s. per ton of 20cwt. or
40 cubic feet, and this rate is strictly
adhered to. Your paragraph as it reads
at present does not explain any of the
conditions met with, and when you
realise that all goods for that place have
to be boated from the ship to the shore,
the freight rate is easily explained. On
the items mentioned in the article, the
steamer freight would not by any means
amount to £1 14s. 4d.
With the last part of your paragraph
we agree, our contention being that any
services to such places should be subsi-
dised so that the freight rate to any part
of Australia should not exceed £3 per
ton. — John A. Burke, Assistant Manager,
John Burke, Limited.
“No Play da Opera”
“New Moon” (B. 19/5/’37), pleading
for Italian settlers, claims that they have
a love of music which we lack. In my
many contacts made with them in N.Q.
I have found many fine musicians and
singers, but never have I found among
farmers and workers a love of anything
better than talkie theme-songs. “You
Will Remember Vienna” seems to be equal
favorite with “O Sole Mio” ; the average
Australian’s choice would be similar.
At a wine-drinking, singing party I
was the only Britisher. In an effort
to lead the Italians from “My Baby Says
Yes! Yes!” and the like to Italian melo-
dies, I asked one to play the “Miserere”
from “II Trovatore” (the dogs bark
that). “Opera?” he said. “I no play
da opera. Me working man. I cut da
cana, play for da dance and about de
pubs for money. Opera no pay me to
learn. But some opera ver nah-eece.”
The rest of the party agreed with him.
Luigi, the farmhand, has the same
appreciation of music as Jack, the
laborer; and the idea that all Italians
are artists is an illusion. —R.W. (N.Q.).
“Aerial Geophysical Survey”
Thoughts
An expedition by land, sea or air to
be of value must know and be able to
determine with accuracy its position and
movement. The ability to do this makes
possible its arrival at a destination, to-
gether with some clues as to where it
has been in the meantime.
Radio calls from the Geophysical Aerial
Survey ’plane were reported from
several points in N.Q. on a wave-length
of about 43 metres. The circumstances
brought many a grin from survey camps
and ships’ bridges. Baldly stated, the
geophysical survey did not use simple
astronomical principles to locate itself.
Most of those who heard a call from
the ’plane regarded the thing as a joke.
The joke, if any, was on the taxpayers.
Who’s afraid of a taxpayer, anyhow?
From this aspect, radio position-find-
ing does not in general attain the accu-
racy required in land surveying and navi-
gation work. Astronomical methods
and/or dead reckoning are preferred.
However, radio time signals have greatly
helped longitude observations.
Pressmen, in justice to those who do
real survey work in its many forms on
land, sea and air, should refrain from
applying or publishing the name of sur-
vey in connection with people who get
lost. The word has a strict meaning.
In passing, it may be noted that the
small privately-owned radio telephone is
coming more and more into prominence.
Despite strenuous opposition, it will
eventually displace the wired telephone
for use in sparsely-populated areas and
over long distances.— Aneroid (Q.).
No Charge for Insertion
It comes from Bath-road, Bridgwater,
Somerset:
Our attention has been drawn to an article
in the “Little Sisters,” published in The Bulle-
tin of February 24, 1937, which contains the
statement:
“ the guest of honor’s cellophane glass
was bustled over lemon satin.”
The word cellophane is used in a generic sense
to denote transparent cellulose sheeting gener-
ally.
We wish to point out, however, that the
word cellophane is not a generic term, but that
it is a registered trade-mark in Great Britain and
in many parts of the British Empire, including
the Commonwealth of Australia, to denote, and
to denote only, the brand of transparent cellulose
sheets supplied by this company. Its use in the
manner employed in the article in question is
thus both erroneous and misleading.
We are naturally pleased to see references to
our cellophane cellulose film in the columns of
the press; but our tacit acquiescence in misuse
of our registered trade-mark might eventually
endanger our rights thereunder. For this
reason we are compelled to ask you to use
every care, when you have occasion to employ
the word, to see that the word cellophane is
always printed with capital letters throughout,
or at least with a capital C, and is preferably
set between inverted commas, to indicate that it
is a trade-mark and not just another name for
transparent cellulose sheeting generally.
We feel sure that you will appreciate the
position and that we may rely upon your kind
co-operation in the observance of these simple
rules whenever you have occasion to print the
word cellophane in the future. — British Cello-
phane, Ltd., Patent Department.
[Flappers and knuts, please note:
“Cellophane” is copyright.]
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.R. (Vic.): Don’t want daily-paper pars.
J.M.: “No bird shifted restlessly on its
nest, no ’possum coughed nor solemn-eyed
koala broke the silence.” No wonder you made
a dull story of it....J.A.McD.: No corner to
hold “The Conference” M.T.: Much too
thin JJ.: Nothing in it G.F.N.: Fails
to amuse... .H.F.H.: For its dramatic brevity
the final sentence is worth quoting: “Then he
went mad” D.W.: Forced S.D.McK.:
Story of the ancient Irish chieftains not for us.
J.J.K.: Don’t like it under either title
F.C.: Why not write it as a fairy-tale?....
R.T.: It’s bumpy... .A.L.: You should place
it elsewhere R.H.8.: Another “Desert
Hate.” It’s off M.J.L.: The idea’s a good
one, but the yarn’s very thin....D.W.T.: Might
suit a school magazine... .R.W.: lhat one not
up....E.G.: Still just misses; give it a fly
somewhere else... .G.M.T.: Flapper fodder....
E.D.: Dinny doesn’t appeal... .W.T.G.S.: We
won’t add to Peter’s inheritance R.C.P.H.:
Don’t like these secret agents who, “with
information of national importance,” forget the
job to help a red-headed girl... .C.S.H.: The
sentimentality spoils an otherwise good idea,
... .8.5.H.R.: Stodgy... .H.K.: “The Wan-
dering Jew” is wandering back L.M.: It
doesn’t make a story J.L.J.: Nothing new
there... .A. 8.: Prepared to believe that golf is
a “foul game,” but can’t use your experiences
at it H.S.: Childish... .A.E.: Another
prospector finds gold, then dies in the desert,
Once again, No! R.M.W.: Pearlie must
have been a great girl J.W.8.: Those
“Letters to his Sweetie” make dull reading
8.W.K.: Painfully thin... .G.T.: Chivalrous
but unconvincing... .C.M.: Parody opens
promisingly enough, but deteriorates as it goes
on . . .M.P.: Ditty about the newchum who
tried to ride a mule weighed and found wanting,
.. . .Z.V.W.: The other two pieces missed....
L.N.i Some music in it; not enough to carry
it through... .J.W.A.: You rhyme ingeniously,
but it reads too much like a seedsman’s cata-
logue M.L.L.: Not without lyrical merit,
but these twittering nature poems haven’t much
chance N.G.: Billy Hughes may have been
a proficient umbrella-mender in his early days,
but he certainly wasn’t in the business “about
35 years ago.” He has been a Parliamentarian
since 1894... .S.H.: Below the mark M.A.:
No corner for nursery rhymes, however up to
date M.t.K.: These tinkling pastorals are
right out of our line P.H.S.: Hopeless
O’F.: Failed to click J.D.: “The Old Spring
Cart” was a bit too creaky R.W.K.A.:
Rather out of date J.P.D.: “Lover-ever” ;
“kingdom-come”; “ego-so”—you’ll have to
yoke up your line-endings much better than
that P.H.: Sorry to turn it down, but it’s
off our beat G.M.: Poem may have won at
an eisteddfod, but it’s not suitable for publica-
tion here. We haven’t space or time to catalogue
the shortcomings of rejected contributions.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
P.D.: More like tree stumps than humans,
and the gags are just as lifeless P.T.J.: A
few fine sweeping lines, but little else... .S.F.:
Effort to pun on the word “elephant” failed
dismally... .C.T.: We employ an artist to do
caricatures of screen stars J. 8.: You still
miss, but the margin is gradually narrowing.
. ...C.S.: Went the way of 99.9 p.c. of first
attempts... .H.L.G.: Not a laugh in any of
them... .R.N.8.: Tones in washwork need to
be clearly defined... .G.J.: Practically the same
idea was illustrated in the Coronation number
of London “Punch” A.R.: You’re still
blundering along C.H.D.: You have an eye
for decoration, but reveal little sense of humor.
E.W.: All the characters seem to have just
had a mudbath N.K.: A very old chestnut.
....A.8.W.: Gags sound like strays from a
children’s comic paper; drawings just thrown
together... .T.H.G.: Appear to have been
copied from photographs; try something origi-
nal L. 8.: Unmoved by picture of grand-
mother’s fall from aeroplane... .F.S.M.: More
like a Zulu than an Australian abo H.J.W.:
Distorted figures, jagged linework and a bunch
of musty wheezes S.T.: Some promise;
keep work a little more open and put more
action into drawings A.M.D.: Artist might
make a good illustrator of an ironmonger’s
catalogue.


m
**►«
w
'k
VL,
LEARN,
■from the Squirrel /
When nuts are plentiful (and nuts
are the riches of the squirrel
world), the wise animal eats what
he needs. But, little by little, he
builds up a store of food against
the lean future.
This plan has stood the test of
many thousands of years. So,
why not act in like manner ?
From your earnings, put aside
something however small
but REGULARLY. Put that
regular something where it will be
safe but always quickly available.
Let the growing fund earn a
steady profit for you in interest.
Start a Savings Account, at once,
and you’ll feel happier and
safer.
commoniDSflLTh
SAUMGS BfIDK OF AUSTRALIA
I :
l»
H
bu CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
NIAGARA AORANGI
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
Dave Smith and Some Contemporaries
No. 21 of a series of articles on the Australian Ring. With illustrations by Low and an amateur's / reminiscenies.
After the appalling failure of Bill
Squires at Colma, California, on July 4,
1907, and the visits of Johnson and Burns
to Australia, the decline in Australian
boxing became so manifest that people
interested in the Game wondered audibly
and gloomily whether Australians and
Maorilanders would ever beat Americans
any more. It was reserved for Dave
Smith to remove their doubts by his
showing against Billy Papke at the Syd-
ney Stadium on Boxing Night, 1910.
Like Fitzsimmons, Smith had come to
Australia from Maoriland—-he was a
native of Dunedin. Though not a heavy-
DAVE SMITH.
weight by strict reckoning, he had won
the amateur championships of N.S.W.
and Australia in that division before he
turned professional. Prior to his match
with Papke, he had twice beaten Tommy
Burns’s sparring partner Pat O’Keeffe
(afterwards champion of England), and
among his other victims were old “Star-
light,” Billy McCall (sometime heavy-
weight champion of Australia), Jack
Blackmore, Ted Whiting and Arthur
Cripps. He was fast on his feet for a
man his weight, and, though not con-
sidered a knocker-out, he stopped no
small proportion of his opponents,
mainly by persistent and accurate body-
punching.
Papke had in September, 1908, knocked
out Stanley Ketchell in 12 rounds, and
had then been hailed by Americans as
middleweight champion of the world. In
a subsequent fight, held a couple of
months later, Ketchell avenged this de-
feat, but when Ketchell was shot by a
jealous cowboy in 1910 (in his last fight
he had put Johnson on the floor with
one of the hardest punches ever landed
on the negro) Papke claimed the title
again. He was billed as champion
middleweight when brought to Australia.
But he refused to make middleweight
for Smith, and the Stadium management
weakly let him have his way. It an-
nounced, amidst jeers, that each man
scaled list. 111 b. Because Papke looked
the bigger man and had the better record,
he was a hot favorite. Backers of Smith
were few, and they got long odds.
They not only collected, but had the
pleasure of seeing their man give a mas-
terly exhibition of boxing. Ten rounds
were contested ; at the most Papke won
two. In the others he was cleaned out
in every department of the game ;
punched half a dozen times for every
wallop he landed. He vainly lumbered
like a bear after his sharp-footed and
keen-witted opponent; turned on his
right shift and found it scarcely worth
a doughnut; stood off, bogged in, tried
everything he had —all to no purpose.
A foul in the tenth round robbed
Smith of a decisive victory over “the
Illinois Thunderbolt.” He may not have
knocked Papke out, but Papke was too
far gone to knock him out. In a mix
near Smith’s corner, Papke landed a right
on forbidden territory, and Dave dropped
as if a bullet had gone through him. Two
doctors certified that he had been fouled,
and a raging crowd was appeased by a
cry of “Smith the winner.”
In 1911 Smith outpointed the Ameri-
cans Clabby and Cyclone Johnny Thomp-
son and the Englishman Bandsman Rice,
the best cruiserweight in the U.K.
Papke beat him in a return match at Syd-
ney, also fought at catchweights ; having
apparently built himself up to gain a still
greater advantage in poundage, Papke
stopped Dave in seven rounds.
AKdermarc Dave.
Going to the U.S.A. in 1912, Dave
boxed six-round draws with Battling
Levinsky (afterwards cruiserweight cham-
pion) and Leo Houck, but was knocked
out in a round bv Eddie McGoorty, who
repeated the performance in Sydney on
Jan. 1, 1914. Smith could never master
McGoorty’s left hook.
Dave’s association with Darcy was
mentioned in the articles on that marvel-
lous boy. Before Darcy came along,
Smith was decidedly the best home-
grown middleweight, and his speed en-
abled him to overcome all the heavy-
weights he met —Jack Howard, Les
O’Donnell, Bill Lang, Tommy Burns’s
protege Jack Lester, Ben Doyle, Colin
Bell, Bill Squires and Albert Lloyd—and
become recognised as heavyweight cham-
pion. His last fight was with Jimmy
Clabby at Sydney on May 26, 1917.
Clabby stopped him in 10 rounds.
After his retirement from the ring,
Dave bought a beachside business at
Balmoral, Sydney, and Balmoral sent
him into the Mosman Council as aider-
man for the ward. Mosman had a Mayor
who insisted on aldermen attending
council meetings in evening dress, and
every fortnight the ex-champion could
be seen in the council chamber in his
FRANK THORN.
“soup and fish,” listening gravely to the
other aldermen, and, when his turn came,
hitting out valiantly for the honor and
interest of Balmoral. He has recently
retired from business and gone to the
mountains. An intelligent fellow, he has
contributed many racy articles on box-
ing to Sydney newspapers.
Frank Thorn.
Thorn was literally the hero of a hun-
dred fights. Born in Gawler (S.A.), he
learned his boxing in Westralia, Mick
Dooley being one of his teachers; and
he was so clever and tough that he was
a professional boxer for 30 years. Dur-
ing his long career he was featherweight
champion and lightweight champion. He
fought welterweights also, among them
Tom Dunn, the conqueror of McGowan,
Peter Murphy and his fellow-Westralian
Alf Morey ; and none of the big fellows
could knock him out. Indeed, until he
was well in the thirties he was seldom on
the floor for the count, though he had
eight to a dozen fights a year and gener-
ally gave away weight, height and reach.
Thorn’s most noted victories were
gained over Hughie Mehegan, whom he
beat four times, though Mehegan beat
him twice; the Maorilander Charlie
Griffin, the Afrikander Arthur Douglas,
the German Rudy Unholz (who had
fought Battling Nelson in America),
Hock Keys and the Frenchman Marcel
Denis. He won the featherweight cham-
pionship by beating “Paddy King,” but
King was one of the few who knocked
him out (under his proper name of
Morgan the conqueror long afterwards
became a Conciliation Committeeman in
N.S.W., and, dismissed by the Stevens
Government, was awarded compensation
greater than he got for any six of his
fights).
Thorn died in Brisbane a few years
ago. One of his early trainers said of him
to a reporter: “There goes a lad who
would have been featherweight cham-
pion of the world but for one thing. His
arms are too short.” He had only a 64in.
reach.
Herb McCoy.
For seven years, 1911-1917 inclusive,
Herb McCoy was an even busier boxer
than Thorn, whom he defeated on three
occasions after Thorn had defeated him ;
but he didn’t last as long. Before his
powers waned, he met some of the best
lightweights in the world —Australians,
Frenchmen, Englishmen and Americans
—and he never failed to put up a good
fight. His great years were 1913, 1914
and 1915, and his greatest performances
were the decisions he gained over the
brilliant Jewish boxers Matt Wells and
Kid Lewis. Each was among the best
six lightweights in the world, and Lewis
was to become welterweight champion.
.Somehow McCoy seemed to excel him-
self when matched with an importation.
Others he beat were the Frenchmen Til,
Bernstein, Poesy (although on another
occasion a loose one from Poesy
stopped McCoy), Denis, Volaire and De.
Ponthieu; the Dane Holberg and the
Americans Brown, Stone (though Stone
had his revenge), Palmer, Young Abe
Attell and Fanning. A very game fellow,
he always gave the crowd the worth of
its money.
Hughie Mehegan.
A Victorian like and, like him,
lightweight champion for years, Hughie
Mehegan became as popular with ring-
siders for five or six years from 1909 as
Jack McGowan had been in the late
’nineties and early nineteen hundreds.
He never wasted time posing or sparring,


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dieSj never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Special DIAMOND
INSULATING PROCESS
Safeguards the Power of
IST;
Spiral tube stripped to show
its TWO layers of insulation.
P. 5. Radio Batteries
1. A spiral tube, heavily treated
with TWO inner coatings of
special insulating compound, com-
pletely insulates each cell against
internal leakage from its com-
panion cells.
2. Diamond cells, each in their
individual insulating tube, are
rigidly bound into a battery block
by the use of an insulating bind-
ing material.
3. Not only are the sides of each
cell permanently insulated, but
also the bottom of each cell.
Thus, when assembled into bat-
tery form, each cell is perfectly
insulated from the other. There
CELLS -
RIGIDLY
EMBEDDED
IN
SEALING
COMPOUND
'BOTTOM INSULATING CAP
(COLOAED AEO)
is no weak spot.
Costly power wast-
age through in-
ternal leakage is
entirely eliminated.
TURNED OVER
EDGE OF TUBE
TO HOLD
INSULATING
CAP
Cut-away view
of bottom of
solid Battery
Block before
insertion into
Battery Box .
Note how the
bottom of each
cell is complete-
ly insulated and
protected.
DIAMOND P. 5.
RADIO BATTERIES AND TORCH REFILLS
, WIDDIS DIAMOND DRV CELLS PTY. LTD.
Cnr. Park and Wells Streets, South Melbourne, 5.C.4. 'Phone: M 4601.
N.S.W. Agents: —
REG ROSE AND CO., LTD.,
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 8W2114.
D4A
but went in to fight from the first sound
of the gong, and kept on fighting until his
opponent had had enough or until he him-
self had been counted out. His fight Wlt “
Johnnie Summers, who knocked him out
in 19 rounds at Sydney in 1910, is still
talked of by old-timers, as also are ms
HERB McCOY.
three encounters with the American
Frank Picato. In the first of these he
knocked Picato out in the eighteenth
round with what the Fancy described as
“a peach of a punch.”
Mehegan went to London in 1913 to
meet Matt Wells for a big side-wager and
the lightweight championship of the
Empire. Wells got the decision after 20
eventful rounds. Never a squealer,
Mehegan maintained that the verdict was
wrong ; “if I ever won a fight I won
that one,” he said. In England also he
lost a decision to Freddie Welsh, after-
wards lightweight champion of the world,
but beat a fellow named Ward.
Wells and Mehegan had two other
meetings in Australia. Wells got the
referee’s award the first time and
Mehegan the second. Mehegan went out
of his class to meet Glabby, but was on
his feet at the end of the twentieth round.
He outpointed Glabby’s partner Bron-
son, but struck a bad streak in 1914 and
was knocked out by the Americans
Griffiths, Saylor and Shugrue.
Going to France with the A.1.F.,
Hughie Mehegan died there in 1916. It
was reported in an Australian newspaper
that he had served as a military police-
man. His old companions, headed by
Reg Wykeham the actor, sent a round
robin from France denying it.
"Forty Years On."
“Mr. Rodd, an amateur pupil of
George Seale’s, and Jack Valentine had
an interesting go with the gloves at Larry
Foley’s. The. amateur is a splendidly-
built young fellow and the makings of
a boxer out of the ordinary.” That
appeared in The Bulletin on October
10, 1896 ; and now, after so many years,
Tremayne Rodd writes to The Bulletin
to pay a tribute to his old master, the
greatest of all amateur boxers.
"The Cleverest."
“I have been greatly interested in your
articles on Australian boxers of the past,
particularly the references to George
Seale. In 1897 I was to have had a bout
with the champion of England at the
National Sporting Club, London, with*
Peter Jackson as my second. That night
at the club, in the presence of Lord
Lonsdale, Sir Conan Doyle, John Flem-
ing, “Peggy” Bettinson, Dunning of the
“Sportsman” and others, Peter Jackson
said: ‘George Seale is the cleverest
boxer I ever put on the gloves with.’
“Seale was a draughtsman in the
N.S.W. Government service. After his
fight with Sandall he was given a strong
hint that he must choose between boxing*
and his job. He chose the latter.
“Touching the Seale-Sandall match in
1888 (B. 3/3/’37), I had the following
from those chiefly connected with it. Dur-
ing the night and most of the day pre-
ceding the contest, Seale had a severe
attack of dysentery. He was strongly
advised to ask for a postponement, but
he refused, although as weak as a cat.
All accounts agree that Seale did
what he liked with Sandall in the first
round, and knocked him out.
“But during the awful din, when
Sandall was on the floor, Larry Foley
yelled into Seale’s ear: ‘Give them a
show for their money, George!’ The
count was so slow that at least 16
seconds had elapsed when Sandall’s
seconds jumped into the ring and car-
ried their man to his corner. They
worked on him to such effect that he was
able to get up for the second round.
Seale, for his part, had shot his bolt; he
was only just able to keep going for the
rest of the bout, which was declared a
draw.
“In 1890 Sandall met Jack Valentine
for the Australian championship, Seale,
the undefeated champion, having retired.
Valentine was a blacksmith and a fine
fellow, with a right-hand punch that
resembled the kick of a mule. In the last
round Sandall, who was well behind on
points, was knocked down three times.
Larry Foley, who was his second, jumped
into the ring and dragged him out of it,
victory thus going to Valentine.
Rodd v. Valentine.
“A couple of years after this contest
I took boxing lessons from Larry Foley,
and later joined the Sydney Athletic
Club, of which George Seale was the
teacher—perhaps the best, and certainly
the gentlest, teacher who ever taught box-
ing. Seale was then years past his best,
yet no pupil or professional at that time
could put a glove on him.
“In 1896 before my bout with Jack
Valentine, the acknowledged Australian
champion, I had several trial spins with
Seale, and had cause to realise what a
wonder he was and what a marvel he
had been.
“Valentine stood six feet and weighed
12 stone —all muscle. I stood five feet
ten and weighed list. 81b. I found him
quite easy after Seale (as I afterwards
found professionals and amateurs in Eng-
land), and hit him fast and often with
both hands. Towards the end of the
third round Valentine went twice to the
boards. He could not stand up for the
fourth.
“I have mentioned this at length to
demonstrate what a wonder Seale was.
Sandall was beaten by Valentine; my
mill with the latter ended as described —
and I was only Seale’s pupil! Shortly
after our bout, Valentine went to South
Africa and turned professional. He won
the championship of that country.
Seale Anecdotes.
“In the article on Seale, reference was
made to his rowing. When a member of
the N.S.W. rowing eight he was in Mel-
bourne for the match against Victoria.
HUGH IE MEHEGAN.
The members of the crew were invited
by that great athlete Professor Miller
to spend an evening in his gymnasium,
where he would give them some hints
on the noble art, wrestling, etc. When it
was George Seale’s turn to get his lesson
in boxing, he stood right hand foremost.
The Professor told him to put the left
foremost; but Seale explained that he
always boxed that way. Thinking he
would soon show the youth his mistake,
the Professor said ‘Very well; we will
spar.’ He soon found that he had in
front of him the fastest boxer he had
ever encountered, though a youth six
inches shorter and six stone lighter than
himself. Seale played the usual rat-tat-
tat all over him, much to the amusement
of his brother-oarsmen, who were quite
expecting it.
“When I met him first I thought Seale
the last man anyone would take for a
boxer. He had a full, flowing brown
moustache, rather a large nose and eyes
that seemed always twinkling. Dressed
for the part, he might have passed for
a curate. He had a keen sense of humor
and a generous nature.
“On a ferry-boat one night, Seale was
sitting with a girl. Three young men of
the larrikin type were using bad language.
Seale went over and asked them to steady
up as there was a lady present. They
immediately became, offensive. One
sprang up and made a punch at him,
Seale avoided it, and the next second the
gentleman was lying huddled up uncon-
scious. The other two jumped to their
feet to avenge their companion. Seale
hit one on the chin with his right, the
other on the chin with his left, and they
both went down. Three out in as many
seconds, with only three hits from Seale.”
Billy Murphy.
“W.G.A.”: I read with special interest
The Bulletin story of Torpedo Billy
Murphy. Long ago Billy came into my
office and, introducing himself, stated
that he was on his way to Australia, as
there were no fights for him in Maori-
land. “Why Australia?” I asked. “There’s
not much money to be made, there.
Why not go to America, and try
for a fight with Ike Weir?” “I’ll do it,”
Billy replied ; “but I’ll go first to Aus-
tralia and raise a wad to take me to
America. And while I’m there I’ll chal-
lenge John L. Sullivan.”
He jumped up and put his clenched
right fist right up against my face. “I’ve
only got to land one on the right spot
with this,” he said, “and John L. will go
down and out.” It was then that I
noticed what a big fist Billy had for one
of his build. At my request he placed
his open hand on the table, and 1
placed mine on top of it. In breadth his
was a good finger’s width wider than
mine.
Billy left with the promise to look me
up on his return from Australia. He kept
his word, but it was a much-depressed
Billy who came along, not the excitable,
confident little fellow I had previously
met. He had fought anyone he could get
to meet him, he reported, but had not
made much money. He had landed back
in his homeland about £lOO richer than
he was when he had left it. I remarked
that that amount might suffice for his
American trip. Then came the sad story.
He was broke. “I suppose,” he said,
“you read of my fight in Dunedin.” I had.
Billy had been disqualified allegedly for
striking the referee. This Billy strenu-
ously repudiated, stating that he had only
pushed the referee aside in order to get
to his opponent, who, according to Billy,
was well beaten at the time. “As I had
backed myself for pretty well all I had
I lost the lot, and I’m about ‘stony,’ ”
he concluded. I cheered him up some-
what by saying that possibly I might be
able to help him.
I took Billy along to a businessman
keenly interested in the fight game, I
explained the position, and left them to-
gether. Billy returned to Auckland with-
out letting me know how he had fared ;
but he got to the. U.S.A. and whipped
Ike Weir and returned across the Pacific
with a world championship belt.


“The Learned Lipsius”: These univer-
sities of ours which are. asking the N.S.W.
and Victorian Governments for increased
subsidies seem to have none of that old
sturdy pioneering spirit which is carrying
the colleges of Uncle Sam’s Middle West
out of the depression. Take Tempe Uni-
versity, Arizona. When the roll got thin
there was no whining for Government
charity. Instead, the undergraduate
leaders went among the co-eds and
picked out three or four misses with legs
like hock bottles, fancy-dressed them and
printed their pictures on postcards, which
the ladies themselves sent out to mailing
lists of potential (male) students from
Reno to Tia Juana, with the invitation:
“Come and study with us.” One fair
would-be hostess, elected “Desert Queen
of the Campus,” exhibits herself garbed
in a pair of shoes and two attenuated
wreaths. Another, hailed as “Pepper
Queen,” is displayed dressed in nothing
but high heels and a few bunches of
chillies. An idea like that should be use-
ful even in the collection of subsidies.
“Pitt St.”: A few hours before read-
ing that Customs searchers who climb
about ships are wasting their time, as
“most modern smuggling is done in more
subtle ways” (B. 2/6/’37), I was shown
an American silver dollar that, unscrewed,
revealed a cavity that would hold 255.
worth of cocaine, and a wooden golf-
club head with a cavity obviously designed
to contain a good deal more.
* * * *
“Shamus”: The effects of war, nut-
shelled. In December, ’34, a trim, white,
yacht-like ship passed us in the Straits of
Gib.—the crack Spanish liner Cuidad de
Barcelona, bound for the Canaries. At
Marseilles two years later a dirty grey
ship, flying the Spanish republican flag
adorned with the Communist party
initials. C.T.1., with bedraggled washing
drying on the upper deck, was loading
motor-lorries in feverish haste. Despite
her peeling woodwork and rusty plates
her lines looked familiar. Her name had
been painted over, but with the aid of
glasses I deciphered the words “Cuidad
de Barcelona.” She slipped out of port
at 2 a.m. on her way to Valencia. News-
paper report (1/6/’37): “A message from
Perpignan states that 11 bodies of the
crew of the steamer Cuidad de Barcelona
have been recoyered. Forty more of her
crew are believed to be drowned.”
* * * *
“Tripod”: “Warrigal” (B. 2/6/’37)
refers to Peter Lalor’s grandson having
had with him at Gallipoli a sword which
is a family heirloom. Heirloom is cor-
rect —an ancestor used it fighting with the
Irish Brigade at the Battle of Fontenoy.
Which may account for the French army
service traditions of the family, since this
last Lalor served some time with the
French Foreign Legion. Furthermore, on
the authority of the late Count De
Tourneur, of Brisbane, Lalor was one of
the comparatively rare non-French people
whose accent (when using the language
of La Patrie) was perfect. Count de T.
could speak with authority on that
point; himself a Frenchman, he was a
linguist of rare distinction.
* * * *
“Guggins”: Scrap-steel prices may be
soaring (B. 12/5/’37), but in some forms
and places the commodity is a drug. Dig-
ging foundations in Perth the other day
the dirt-shifters struck an ancient steam
boiler, marine type, which, having done
duty on Lake Wendouree, Ballarat, and
then on the Swan River, had been buried
to get rid of it over 30 years ago. Dis-
interred at some expense, it was offered
to anyone willing to take it away. No
bidders! So, a suitable hole having
been found, it was reverently buried
again.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Poor old Parkes was
far from being the worst of our poli-
tical poetasters. The wooden spoon must
be awarded to a certain “Jawbone” Neild,
Senator, who published at his own ex-
pense two or three books of his verses.
The only line, I think, that is ever quoted
nowadays is “Eftsoons a nocent water-
spout arose,” and that merely as the
last word iA execrable doggerel. Yet
Neild always took his own outpourings
seriously. Federal legislators declared
that there was never a trip to or from
Melbourne but “Jawbone” was to be
found declaiming verses from one of his
books to some unfortunate who had un-
suspectingly fallen into his company. He
usually finished by presenting the volume
to his victim.
* * * *
“Shanghai”; Wordy election speeches
(B. 26/5/’37)? During the last two
Federal campaigns I graduated as a kerb-
stone orator. My orders were to hold
the fort until the arrival of the next
speaker. Easy enough if the members of
the audience interject and give one an
occasional lead, but very difficult when
they are sympathetic and dull. I was sup-
posed to speak for 45 minutes, twice
nightly, but often my relief failed to turn
up for nearly twice that time. Ministers
were the worst offenders, was there I
C sneech U P '
* ... *
“Toheroa”: Add to casual depositors
Old Jimmie a well-known identity who
used to call’regularly twice a year at an
M.L. up-country bank. At Jimmie’s ap-
pearance a wave of interest always swept
round the premises, increasing as Jimmie
divested himself of his coat and waist-
coat.. From every pocket, fold or lining
notes were drawn forth, his ancient hat
yielded more, even his boots and socks
had some to give up. Then, after strug-
gling with his shirt, Jimmie would release
the further amount he wore strung round
his neck. Having smoothed, sorted and
counted the crumpled tender, the teller
would formally ask what amount Jimmie
had handed in. “Just wot y’ say, laddie,”
was the affable and invariable reply ; “I
never count the damn’ stuff meself.”
* * * *
“Stowaway”: The coal bunkers seemed
to offer the best sanctuary, although there
w'as only two feet space between the
top of the coal and the deck. I slept
there until, five hours out of Sydney, they
searched the ship, using a light on the
end of a long lead. To wake me someone
hurled a lump of coal. It landed on
my chest and, full of ire, I returned an-
other. It cut my antagonist’s hand and
smashed the light, and from the flood of
deep-sea words which followed I
gathered I had assaulted the skipper him-
self. But he was a sport; I’ve never
been in gaol yet.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A useful hint to well-to-do
testators comes from the Stuckey will,
now being administered in S.A. Testa-
trix, a spinster, left £lOOO to be divided
among 20 widows, preferably those of
returned soldiers, and a trustee co. act-
ing as executor has had the pleasant job
of selecting them.
* * * *
“Inaha”: Reverence for law is deep-
seated in some. Near Wellington (M.L.)
two brothers came to blows, and each
determined to have the law on the other.
Together, on the only horse they pos-
sessed, they rode to the nearest court-
house to charge, each other-with assault.
On the day of hearing they arrived in the
same way, made and heard the charges
for and against themselves, and were
each duly fined the same amount. Jus-
tice done, they remounted and jogged
back amicably, to work.
$ V 'l*
“Archbell”: The story of the Digger
who brought back some Dead Sea water
from Palestine, and passed it off as the
genuine Jordan article (B. 12/5/’37) re-
minds me of a cobber who came back
with a pint of the dinkum fluid. He kept
it, for future use, in a three-star brandy
bottle. Bill got married, and in due
course a christening ceremony took
place. As the parson took the youngster
in his arms, Bill pulled the bottle from
his pocket and offered it to him. The
parson, noticing the label, leaned over
and whispered in Bill’s ear, “Not now ;
afterwards, in the vestry.”
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: This month’s stiff-luck
fishing yarn comes from Bundeena, on
the National Park side of Port Hacking
(N.S.W.), where four fishermen had spent
two hours picking up an occasional red
fish. Then the sharks came around and
neatly purloined every hooked fish about
10ft. below the surface. It was useless to
continue fishing, so the anglers decided
to sample a large bottle of rum, one
being delegated to pour the drinks. As
he was about to draw the cork a sudden
lurch of the boat sent him against the
engine casing, and the bottle flew from
his hand. A convulsive grab in the water
“Shall I let on We're married or shall We keep em guessin'?”
just missed it; a second later the sinking
bottle was cleanly taken and swallowed
by one of the sharks'. The gastric juices
of the stomach would soon eat away the
cork, and I am wondering what effect
a bottle of 33 p.c. O.P. would have on
the shark. I hope it floors him. I was
one of the fishermen. '
# #
. a” -ru u n ■ u a
Oxmead : Though Russia has pegged
out a sort of residential area at or handy
to the North Pole, its right to occupa-
tion could probably be questioned if
Uncle Sam thought it worth while. In
Robert Peary’s account of his biggest
feat in Arctic exploration appears the
following:-
North Pole, 90 North Latitude,
April 6, 1909.
I have to-day hoisted the national ensign
of the U.S.A. at this place, which my obser-
vations indicate to be the North Polar axis
of the earth, and have formally taken pos-
session of the entire region, and adjacent,
for and in the name of the President of the
US -A.
As against this, it may be argued that
doubts whether Peary ever reached the
Pole—or even the place where he thought
it was (or ought to be)—have been deep-
ening with the years. There are even
patriotic Americans among the sceptics.
* * *
ttc , •, „ t-u n u i u, , . u.
Sailor : The Rabaul blowout brought
lorth an amazing place-name vocabulary
from our radio announcers. Within the last
two weeks I have heard Rabaul sounded
as Rabaal, Rabawl, Rabul and Rabowel:
and Matup'i as Matupy and Mat-oopi.
And I ve .listened to the same announcer
ringing the changes on Kokopo : Ko-
ko-po, Kok-oppo and ko-kopo in the on-
news session.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: The most potent home
brew I’ve ever tasted—Kaffir beer and
kava thrown in—was made by an officers’
cook on the old H.M.A.S. Nevermind,
its principal ingredient was a large bottle
of essence of vanilla, and whatever else
he added made it into a really devastating
tipple ; half a glass sufficed to “flatten”
the most seasoned toper. Cookie claimed
that it was the perfect beverage, being
food and drink combined, a powerful
antiseptic and an excellent snakebite
antidote. He swore that he often used
it as a base for his excellent soups, which
no doubt accounted for the hilarious din
that arose, from the wardroom some
evenings.
* * * *
“Salmon. Gums”: When Bill, fresh
from N.S.W. ironbark, invaded the
jarrah country (W.A.), he was sympatheti-
cally received by the natives and advised
to “take it easy an’ work yerself in.”
After ironbark Bill found jarrah as soft as
cheese; but rather than wound the local
susceptibilities conceded that it was the
toughest stuff he d struck, and
to find it so, only putting in enough Tine
work to keep his. hand in tor the torti-
coming log-chop. Meanwhile, unob-
served, he perfected a cut ot his own,
driving the axe deep into the log, twisting
and lifting oil a strip thiee inches deep
at the first stroKe. It was a beauty, and
he backed himself heavily at the last
moment at long odds. Came the gun.
Bill swung for the stroke that was to
astound the natives and gouged a lump
ou f °f fine-edged axe on a four-inch
nad some suspicious cow had driven into
the °®,; '' *
* , . ' , , .
Vulagi : Touching the lava-lava
which Ratu Sikuna is alleged to have
, ied for leave to wear at ° the Corona .
tion celebrations, I am a few years out
of Fi j i) but j am open to bet there is no
suc h word in the Fijian language. T
don’t know New Guinea or the Solo-
mons, but it is up that way the native
“kilt” is so called. In Fiji it is never
called anything but a sulu. The request
in London was perfectly reasonable. The
sulu is always worn at vice-regal cere-
monies, so why not at H.Q.? A Fijian
looks appalling in full European dress,
ItV th f tth t d u . tbpv „ rp nnr
Jts / r f^ et / nat 5 10 . 11 ’ tne Y are
made for boots and, in the words of the
old song, would look better “in the box
the boots came in.”
* # * *
“First Blue”: The Japanese firms which
cashed in last cricket season by market-
ing jugs bearing the likeness of Don
Bradman are not alone in attempts to
trade on his popularity. At Grimsby
(Eng.) a brand-new steam trawler has
been given his name, possibly in the hope
that & catches win r £ ach th * e magnitude
0 £ some G f Don’s record scores. If they
do it will be less attributable to the name
than to the latest things in modern gear,
including an electric direction-finder and
echo-depth-sounder.
THRENODY.
(With the usual apologies.)
Wide to the winds of the open sky,
Throw the tickets and let them lie.
Watch the taxis and trams go by—
Hiking is such a thrill!
No matter what the excuse may be
Judge or jockey or Destiny—
Home is the bookie —home to tea —
And the punter . . . walking still!
QUEENSLAND.
L. O'NEILL.


Phis masterpiece, is (Perfection
me spirit he always serves.
\
l> '
•Pc
J.
a;
V<l§
issSSI
§§§
SSi
tr
'M
yj
;
;•••?.
U wirvUin uiuuuMirai nJWmnnwot
(PCaUum’s
x
OFGailums
Scots (Uhisky
Jb.
( rov»**» •§•!) •*••*•••
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
TO “THE BULLETIN.’\
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
•o'?
$ e -
cr
.O.P
0° ,
,1\° e rf*
.■se'V
, :
,of


■ : ■
m i
I
H| 111 ■•'’ - C-',"
mm
•; : i:
X
n-:
II
: :•
s
■
w
w
m
I
: x
■
llllllllillf
m
K
H
B 1
m
■
Model 430.
Guineas
New Features Which Again Place
1
u
wm
'f* Y'7/ JA/'
WW/m
/ y t |
'Wotm
mRwmSBmMM
Wmm.
rnrnm-
KflMy
k.
■I
iWiWa
m ;
■
■
I
m
WMi
TASMA MODEL "430 n
A Typical Example of the New De Luxe Series.
We invite you to inspect and hear this new 5-valve A.C. Broadcast Receiver by TASMA,
in the truly beautiful “Harvester” Cabinet (as illustrated). It embodies all the important
modern features listed in this announcement. For those who seek true luxury in broadcast
reception, and who realise that a slight extra expenditure spread over a number ot years is
a home entertainment, this receiver is in every way ideal. Price guineas
Or in Gumnut Cabinet, 19 Guineas. (Prices slightly higher in West Australia.)
N EW features which are almost sensational! New cabinets which appeal instantly to the artistic
instinct! A standard of performance never before achieved in Australian radio.
THE 1937 TASMA DE LUXE SERIES IS NOW ON DISPLAY.
The range is all-embracing —Tasma has provided for the needs of city and country alike . . . for A.C,
D C or both ... for broadcast or dual wave ... for large homes, small flats and motor cars,
new* quality of reception for EVERY lover of good radio. All stations received with perfect clarity.
Overseas programes as you have never heard them before!
See the complete 1937 TASMA Range (prices from 15gns. to 56gns.). Prices slightly higher in West Australia.
YOUR TASMA DEALER WILL GLADLY OFFER A FULL DEMONSTRATION WITHOUT OBLIGATION
TASMA AHEAD
OF ALL COMERS
SUPER-SIZE 20-INCH EDGELIT
GLASS DIAL! Each scale is acid-
etched into the glass, color-filled and
flood-lit. In addition to the calibrated
short-wave Scale (on dual-wave sets only)
AIL THE 103 AUSTRALIAN
STATIONS are indicated with hair-line
accuracy and unequalled brilliant visi-
] WO SEPARATE AND DIF-
FERENTLY COLORED TUNING
SCALES are fitted to Dual Wave Dials.
The color of the lighting changes when
you switch from broadcast to short-
wave or vice versa. Only one- scale is
visible at one time
EXTRA TUNING RANGE is now pro-
vided at each end of the broadcast band
—and the short-wave band has been
extended to tune from 16 to 50 metres.
FEATHERLITE RAPID-MOMENTUM
HAIR-LINE TUNING CONTROL.
The swiftest and most accurate tuning
equipment ever evolved. The indicator
can be swung completely round the dial
with one light flick of finger and thumb
—enabling instantaneous change from
one programme to another without
“fiddling"’ or fuss: yet so perfectly con-
trolled that even the most remote station
can be tuned with micrometer accuracy.
HERMETICALLY SEALED, DUST-
PROOF AIR TRIMMER CON-
DENSERS NEW I M P R O V E D
I ERRO-COIL— OPTIONAL AERIAL
TAP AND VARIABLE SELECTIVI TY
ensure permanent factory-perfect repro-
duction even in the most difficult areas,
and no matter how close the Tasma
owner may live to a powerful broad-
casting station. These vital features pro-
vide a sure safeguard against background
hiss, "jittering." etc., give EXTRA
DAYLIGHT RANGE to the man in the
country, and ensure REAL HI GEL
FIDELITY RECEPTION of all stations.
SPECIAL DIAL LIGHT SWITCH
(battery and vibrator sets only) which
enables the dial light to be extinguished
when the station has been tuned in, thus
reducing the drain on accumulator.
ELECTRIC EYE (for visual tuning:
electric sets only) is incorporated in the
dial, and can be easily observed without
taking up a position directly in front
of the set. ■
EXTRA VOLUME! The new Tasma
can be tuned from the faintest whisper
to full “dance-hall" volume without the
slightest suspicion of distortion or
whistle. The TONE is so true and flaw-
less that the REALISM of TASMA re-
production creates almost the complete
illusion that the artists are in the room
itself. Perfected AUTOMATIC
VOLUME CONTROL is a striking
feature of the new Tasma. And— OF
COURSE!— these sets embody the
CONTINUOUSLY VARIABLE TONE
CONTROL which was not only
pioneered by Tasma. but has largely
accounted for Tasma leadership in the
Australian radio field for the past two
or three years.
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 270
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors .)
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Oliver J. Nilsen & Co.,
Ltd., 49 King William Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 36
Argyle Street, Hobart; and George
Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Carlyle
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90 Queen
Street, Brisbane, and Branches at Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mackay.
DARLING DOWNS: Rosenstengels Pty., Ltd.,
A Product of
& Co., (§
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
»et Adelaide. i **.<xy uu cuvj *
NEW ZEALAND: New Zealand Electric Equipment, Lt<l., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z.
THOM AND SMITH, LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot
