

y
M
a*
*
&
m
%
m
Ki
SSS
f
3§S
#■■ ••••
ITS THE
THAT
MAK.ES THE
PICTURE
Snaps mean twice as much
fun on any holiday—and
this year’s snaps will be
clearer, more life-like, with
1937 Kodaks and new
Kodak Films: Verichrome,
Panatomic and S.S. Pan.
Write or c all for Booklet
JIFFY KODAK V.P.
(Centre illust.rulion.
style. Simplest
Pictures 2 2
inches
) All-moulded, streamlined
folding model ever devised,
inches x 1| 28 6
SIX-20 KODAK JUNIOR
(Illustrated at right,) With f/8.8 Anastigmat
lens. Twelve modern features for better
snapshots. Superb workmanship throughout.
2,1 in. x 3|in. pictures. Mar-
W vellous value at 39/9
SIX-20 KODAK DUO
(Illustrated at top.) Precision Miniature Camera
that gives you album-size pictures. £%
f/4.5 lens, Compur Shutter O&W
CINE-KODAK EIGHT
The Home Movie Outfit you can afford.
Very economical in running costs, yet pro-
duces brilliant movies you will be proud of.
Enables you to make glorious color movies
with marvellous new Kodachrome Film.
Models from £ll/19/6.
Of ail Kodak Dealers and KODAK (Aust.) PTY., Ltd.
37!) George Street, Sydney ; “The Block, ’■ ;’S} Collins Street,
Cl; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane'; 37 llundle Street,
Melbourne,
A delaide ;
7 Elizabeth Street, Hobart : (Hi 2 Hay Street. Perth: Ruthven Street, Toowoomba: East Street, Rockhampton: Minder* ' Street, Townsville.
Also stocked b.i / KODAK A h ll' ZEALAND, LTD., M 2 Quern Street. Auckland; 'iO Princes Street, Dunedin: 29i Lamb ton Quay , Wellington■ 681 Colombo
Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
The “Ignorant” NO Vote
VoL 58. —No. 2979.
Wednesday, March 17, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S library catalogue
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
um
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 337
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney. ,• ih i e and the
For this current competition only novels are.ehgible, ana me
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature. , , form
The trustees will publish the successful wor as a
senal rates Australian resident or any person born m
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands wdl { be
WhlC The'trustees «s=rve.the right to withhold the Pnze ■ U
wm be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
YEATS AS ANTHOLOGIST.
As it is impossible for an anthologist to please
everybody, slings and arrows have been coming all
ways at W. B. Yeats for his selections in The Oxford
Book of Modern Verse, 1892-1935, the latest volume
in the canonical series issued by the Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
In his introduction —by far the finest critical
survey of poetry in the past 40 years yet written —
Yeats confesses embarrassment at the available riches.
He writes:
I think England has had more good poets from
1900 to the present day than during any period of the
same length since the early seventeenth century. There
are no predominant figures, no Browning, no Tennyson,
no Swinburne, but more than I have found room for
have written two, three or half a dozen lyrics that may
be permanent.
There are some omissions I would have liked
him to explain, but they are few. I would like reasons
for the rejection of Alfred Douglas, John Davidson,
Victoria Sackville-West (parts of The Land should
have been there) and Charlotte Mew, who outclassed
the other Sapphos of this century. William Watson
is not present because his executors denied permis-
sion, and refusal accounts also for the absence of
Robert Graves. War poetry, except for a post-war
work of Herbert Read, has been rejected on the
ground that it was written by officers who felt bound
to “plead the sufferings of their men” ; and Yeats’s
view is that passive suffering is not a theme for
poetry. That is a controversial point, but the antho-
logist is entitled to make his own rules and to have
his work judged as a whole, not in parts.
The introduction has concise and accurate judg-
ments of poets, living and dead, which can stand
unquestioned. These, for example:-
The Shropshire Lad is worthy of its fame, -but a
mile further and all had been marsh.
Eliot has produced his great effect upon his genera-
tion because he has described men and women who get
out of bed or into it from mere habit; in describing
this life that has lost heart his own art seems grey, cold,
dry. He is an Alexander Pope working without apparent
imagination, producing his effects by a rejection of all
rhythms and metaphors used by more popular romantics
rather than by discovery of his own, this rejection giving
his work an unexaggerated plainness that has the effect
of novelty.
I think of him [W. J. Turner] as the first poet to
read a mathematical equation, a musical score, a book
of verse, with an equal understanding; he seems to ride
in an observation balloon, blue heaven above, earth
beneath an abstract pattern.
The public soon turned against William Watson, for-
getting that at his best he had not rhetoric but noble
eloquence. As I turn his pages I find verse after verse
read long ago and «till unforgettable.
That Yeats approached his task with courage and
confidence is shown by his “cutting” of “The Ballad
of Reading Gaol.”
I have plucked out even famous lines because,
effective in themselves, put into the Ballad they become
artificial, trivial, arbitrary. I have stood in judgment
upon Wilde, bringing into the light a great, or almost
great, poem.
I believe that if any of the older men but Yeats
had chosen this anthology, several of the younger
poets working at their chosen craft in 1935 would not
have been represented at all. I have discussed the
Auden-Spender-Day Lewis gang with De la Mare,
J. C. Squire, Gilbert Murray, Edward Shanks, Binyon,
Humbert Wolfe and others, and De la Mare was
alone in admitting that they were not wasting their
time. Yeats, then, is rare in being a literary worthy
who has not stood still. At 72 he moves about
Dublin in a bath-chair, but he is young enough to
appreciate what is going on in the new literature.
He can see that Day Lewis, MacNeice and the rest
are as important to these days as Lionel Johnson,
Dowson and their cronies were to theirs when they
assembled solemnly as the Rhymers’ Club at the
Cheshire Cheese in Fleet-street 40 years ago. Yeats
gives the new young men more reasoned praise than
they would collect from their be-sandalled disciples
in Bloomsbury. He writes:
Browning, that he might seem modern, created an
ejaculating man-of-the-world good humor; but Day
Lewis, Madge, MacNeice are modern through their
intellectual passion. We have been gradually approach-
ing this art through that cult of sincerity, that refusal
to multiply personality which is characteristic of our
time. They may seem obscure, confused, because of
their concentrated passion, their interest in associations
hitherto untravelled; it is as though their words and
rhythms remained gummed to one another instead of
separating and falling into order. I can seldom find
more than half a dozen lyrics that I like, yet in this
moment of sympathy I prefer them to Eliot, to myself—
I, too, have tried to be modern. They have pulled off the
mask, the manner writers hitherto assumed —Shelley in
relation to his dream, Byron, Henley, to their adven-
ture, their action. Here stands not this or that man but
man’s naked mind.
While Yeats has erred little in his exclusions,
there are more substantial grounds for criticism in
the liberal representation given to little-known poets.
He has been gbnerous to his pals. Hardy has four
poems, Bridges six, Chesterton two, Belloc one, J. C.
Squire one, Flecker three, Rupert Brooke one ; but
Synge has a dozen, James Stephens eight, Lady
Gregory five, and Oliver St. John Gogarty, former
Irish Free State Senator, leads the chorus with 17 —
three more than Yeats allots to himself. He is, says
Yeats, “one of the greatest lyric poets of our age.”
Two or three of his poems are exceedingly good, but
there’s some bird seed among that 17.
I met Gogarty a year or two ago in Dublin,
where he is a throat /specialist. He was a great
talker and a spectacular personality. Both he and
Yeats were Cosgrave appointments to the Senate, and
when their terms expired they were tipped out by
De Valera. I heard that Gogarty was an amateur
of poetry, but his popular fame was that Joyce had
used him as the model for Buck Mulligan in Ulysses.
He had also been hero of some picturesque adven-
tures. In 1922 he was seized in his home on a
December night by political enemies and held as
hostage in a house on the banks of the Liffey for a
man whose execution was certain. He eluded his
captors for a moment, plunged into the river, and,
swimming through a shower of revolver bullets, vowed
two swans to the river if it should land him safely.
It did, and he and Yeats several weeks later launched
the swans.
It does look as if political kinship has colored
Yeats’s judgment of Gogarty’s merits as a poet, and
racial sympathy has certainly given Irish writers
eminence that other editors might have denied them.
Nevertheless, the book is a shapely monument to the
poets of this century, and no other hands would have
made it better than it is.
LAN DONNELLY.
For Good Little Bolshies.
I have known solemn parents who objected to
fairy stories for their young. Psychological mal-
adjustments of the most fearsome kinds are appat r
ently induced by Hans Andersen and the brothers
Grimm, and heaven only knows —if heaven permits
itself to know —what Freudian bogies consort with
fairies at the bottom of the garden.
When this lack of humor is allied (as lack of
humor so frequently is) with the prevailing fashion
in pink opinions, parents must be hard pressed to
satisfy their infants’ appetite for reading. A proper
appreciation of the class-struggle is hardly compatible
with fairy princesses who combine social elevation and
good deeds; and Cinderella, in spite of her early
miseries, is not a heroine to stiffen a sense of pro-
letarian solidarity. For the relief of parents thus
pressed, Martin Lawrence, Ltd., has produced The
Red Corner Book, which certainly is, as its editor
notes, “a departure from the ordinary run of chil-
dren’s books.”
It opens with an impressive hammer-and-sickle
design and a somewhat less impressive piece of verse:
We’re marching towards the morning,
We’re struggling, comrades all;
Our aims are set on victory —
Our enemies must fall.
With ordered step, red flag unfurled,
We’ll build a new and better world!
There are very pretty stories: all about the
Young Communists who build factories in half the
time appointed, to the utter astonishment of the
American .capitalist; and about Lenin, whom Little
Button-nose found a very nice old man indeed ; and
about little Russian drummerboys or trumpeters or
something of the sort who lead the Red soldiers in
singing:
Hark! from Shanghai, from Bombay, workers call,
Your fight is ours, all for each, each for all!
For from the Steppes to the dark British sea
Lenin’s Red Army brings victory.
There is an edifying account of an attack on
Lenin and of what happened to the woman who shot
at him, and some very unflattering pictures of priests
and school-teachers and so on. But the freshest
inspiration is perhaps in the nursery rhymes, “A Look
at the World.” Here are the modernist versions of
giants and ogres: the rich.man who
guzzles without rest
Eating, drinking of the best:
Fish and fowl, meat, wine and beer
Fill his stomach with good cheer.
Which suggests that he has a very, hardy stomach.
Then there are the priests:
....they teach that God is Lord
(So be very quiet, say not a word).
Lord of ALL—both good and ill,
Sh-h-h-h-h, it is all the dear Lord’s will.
While the teacher says:
N Now, listen to me,
And none of your cheek or trickery.
And if you doubt the dear, good pastor,
My cane will show you who is master.
And if the teacher fails:
The bobbies blue they keep “the law”
So that things remain as they were before.
The working man, should he dare to fight,
Is batoned and gaoled for many a night.
But where
The great Red Soviet Star
Shines afar for all to see,
things are quite different. There
They go to school with a will,
With something good their minds to fill;
and there
There’s neither cane nor stick;
As soon as they’ve done the work in hand,
The joyous games start quick.
Obviously, if your child is showing symptoms
of even mild imperialism, this is the stuff to give him:
with a box of tin Red Guards perhaps. He will
certainly be in warlike mood.
D.P. McG.
More About Murdoch.
As a Westralian in close touch with Prof. Walter
Murdoch during many years, may I add to the R.P.
appreciation of March 3?
To me his routine lectures at the University of
Westralia did not inspire; his special ones, as well
as his conversation and company, did. I found him
the best professor in that he did not profess any-
thing, being quietly scornful of academic measure-
ments (despite a lifetime spent in their company), but
infinitely devoted to the university idea. As a student,
you could rely on him for a liberalism if not an
energy scarcely found in others. He has the gift
of ready sympathy with the studentry, of even joining
them in a frolic. The Westralian University anthem
was written by Murdoch, and all the most permanent
Graduation Day song-skits have been composed by
him and anonymously handed over to the students.
As an essayist Murdoch has insisted that he is
an article-writer. But at least two facts prove him
more than a “mere” article-writer. One is his con-
fession (made to a student class) that he would never
think of sending copy to an editor without writing
it twice; the other, his unwillingness to fill a weekly
column. On the other hand, he is indeed a columnist
in that very often the extent of his pithy observation,
quotation, reflection and conclusions about a topic
almost exactly coincides with the usual limits of a
newspaper article. You feel that if he went on beyond
that limit he might begin to be less interesting or
persuasive. The same applies to his broadcast talks,
which are delivered with a quiet, even naturalness
superior to that of practically any other Australian
radio speaker, and are really Spoken Essays. (Not
a bad title, perhaps, for a to-be-published book of
them.)
Apart from his “Argus” essays he has contributed
essays for many years to the “West Australian”
never round the year, but in groups of a dozen or
so, with perhaps a fallow 18 months between. Though
a professor of English literature, the one thing he
has usually avoided writing about is literature ; his
appreciation of masterpieces is only incidental to
his comment on life.
His essays are sugared pills: they tend to have
a formula—-gay whimsicality suddenly breaking into
an unflinching and eloquent earnestness. In the last
few years, almost every world-writer has preached
and crusaded more and more obviously and with
less and less artistic detachment: Murdoch with
them. Ten years ago his proportions of Levity and
Lesson were 50-50. Now they are 25 and 75. To
me this represents a loss. •_ .
Dent published a selection of his essays in 1934.
I was in London at the time and do not remember
any particular reception being accorded them, while
those of Robert Lynd, Ivor Brown and A. G. Gardiner
were applauded. Which once again suggests the
parochialism of London book-reviewing. ' _
The drawing by Dubois for the R.P. appreciation
was a good one.
LESLIE REES.
Spinsters. Awake!
Richard Blake Brown’s Spinsters, Awake! (Martin
Seeker and Warburg ; 7s. 6d.) is more than a novel,
it is a parlor game. Its progressive publishers might
well have started a “find-the-godfather competition
to launch it and so drawn off the more intellectual
of the crossword-puzzlers to literature. It is com-
pounded, very delightfully and originally, from a
dozen warring influences and manages to be three or
four different sorts of book at once. .
Basically, perhaps, it is a romance, for it is the
story of four maiden ladies between 40 and 50 who,
through the accidental, conjunction of an earl and a
lamp-post in Bloomsbury, are able to launch them-
selves rather late upon the tide that leads on to
o Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
“While 1 Live I’ll Grow”
"Strength that is founded on Quality will Endure —"Jumbuk
Anthony Horderns'
‘The Senior Store”
Motto.”
“Jumbuk” (Regd.) Underwear for
Men. It is Australian through and
through, and is guaranteed and
recommended by Anthony Horderns’.
Made of selected long-staple pure
Merino Yarn, the soft down-like sur-
face of the fabric is faultless, and
will not irritate the tenderest skin.
>„j *> I J;.«: /- s „. •:'. * •
BPi
r
r?
r-v'jS
" : -. ■• ‘.l
■ ■
i II
AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH
i ! ■■■■■ : ; 7 _T_ ~—' I
•>&
•p~
-*
JUMBUK” (Regd. Trade Name)
mm
m
Regd
Trade Mark.
*>
vm
m
a
i i® 'i 1
1
Si
.
11l
: ‘/-t
i-.-M
*
•
5&
s®
#
m.
T-
r
sill
li
%
K
The “Jumbuk” (Regd.) Brand of Underwear is a typical example of Quality,
Strength and Endurance, radiating in its native warmth the stored-up virtues
of our country’s glorious Sunshine; and to say that Quality is coupled with
Comfort is to repeat Anthony Horderns’ Quality-Value formula which has
gained ascendancy throughout the land. Note the wide range of sizes stocked
in every quality. “Jumbuk” (Regd.) Underwear is obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’.
The IDEAL WINTER WEAR for MEN
No. 220—“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Light weight.
Short Sleeves, Trunk Leg .... 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 27/-
Short Sleeves, Long Leg 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/6 28/-
Long Sleeves, Long Leg 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/- 27/6 29/-
t<§ Mens Mercery —Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all Railway Stations
in N.S.V/. and Seaports in the Commonwealth.
BUY FLEECY “JUMBUK” UNDERWEAR FOR BOYS !
No. 220. “Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half sleeves.
Light weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Shirts, short sleeves: 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/9 S/6 6/9 7/- 7/-
No. 330. “Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Underwear. Winter
weight
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Shirts, short sleeves: 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/9 8/9 9/9 10/S
Trunk Drawers ... —6- 6/6 7/- 7/9 8/9 9/9
Combinations, half
sleeves _ 8/6 9/- 10/3 11/- 11/9 13/-
Long sleeves 9/6 10/9 11/6 12/3 13/-
No. 15. “Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half sleeves.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Prices 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6 5/9 6/-
No. 25X. “Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Winter
weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Prices 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/3 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6
Combinations, short
sleeves 6/9 7/3 7/9 8/6 9/3
® Boys’ Mercery—First Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all Seaports
in the Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
Anthony Hordern &
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


In case some competitors may have missed
the result of “The Bulletin’s” £55 Short
Story Competition it is republished here.
First Prize (£3O),
“A JOURNEY TO-MORROW,”
by Biddy Worger, Waiyevo,
Taveuni, Fiji.
Second Prize (£l5),
“He Walks Home With His Wife,”
by Don Edwards, Empire Circuit,
Forrest, Canberra.
Third Prize (£5),
“The Supreme Moment,”
by Mrs. H. Drake-Brockman, Keane
Street, Cottesloe, W.A.
The Special Prize of £5 for the best
brief short story goes to
“Emu-Intitjuma,”
by S. V. Porter, 1 1 0 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
“A Journey To-morrow” was published
23/12/’36, and “He Walks Home With
His Wife” 30/12/’36. “Emu-lntitjuma”
and “The Supreme Moment” are yet to
be published.
Those unsuccessful entries accompanied by
stamps have already been returned. The
others will be sent on receipt of stamps.
A Comedy of Errors
WHISTLES
AT
NOON
BY
GAVIN S. CASEY
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
THE morning had been full of trouble for old Bill
Hardy, driving the winder on the Midas main
shaft. Plans to pull dirt had been interfered
with by trouble with a skip, which had left
him gloomily and inactively roosting on his high seat
above the engine for an hour while platmen and
rigger’s crew wrestled with the problem.
That had no sooner been overcome than a gland
had blown and the winder-shed had been invaded by
fitters. Their foreman, busy on the job, had made
hurtful and disparaging remarks about useless old
loafers who watched other people work. Bill had
responded with icy comments on tradesmen who
didn’t know their jobs and fitters who couldn’t keep
a sewing-machine in running order. He had been
sorely tempted to fix the infernal thing, just to show
’em! But as a good member of the “Engine-drivers’ ”
lie had restrained himself, merely waiting for an
engine to drive, and fuming inwardly.
The weather was gloomy, with clouds almost
resting on top of the dumps, and it seemed to Bill
that many hours had passed since he had commenced
the shift at eight o’clock. He eyed the fitters, toiling
beneath, with distaste, and his crib, hanging on the
rail beside him, with impatience. Chewing the ends
of the frayed grey moustache which straggled across
his upper lip, and beetling the massive overhanging
brows that looked as if they should have been where
the moustache was, he stole another glance at the
watch where it hung on the wall, and his eye
brightened.
“Thank Gawd fer that!” he breathed devoutly,
perceiving that the minute-hand had at last reached
the hour.
Collecting his lunch with one hairy fist, he
reached with the other and tugged heartily at the
twisted wire loop that came through a hole in the
corrugated-iron roof of the winder-shed. After its
usual preliminary hiss the old and dirty Midas steam-
whistle burst into full voice, its hoarse and angry blare
sounding a message of good cheer to a hundred men.
The fitters dropped their tools in well-drilled unison,
and from buildings all over the lease men appeared
as if by magic.
On the Southern Queen, a quarter of a mile
beyond the dumps, Dugald Mackay almost dropped
a cageful of pipes and men past the “Thousand,” to
which they were bound, in his astonishment at hearing
the Midas whistle. He flashed a glance at the big
clock provided by a generous management and won-
dered what was wrong on the Midas. It was only
eleven, that was certain, and there was another hour
to go before crib-time, though he would not have
been greatly surprised to find it suddenly three in
the afternoon, having been subjected to so many
annoyances already on this shift.
In the rafters above him Billy Bates, the youthful
electrician who had been installing a new driving-
light and causing Dugald considerable grief by spilling
accumulated dust from the beams on to his head at
frequent intervals, summed up the situation accurately
and maliciously. Before the driver had sorted out
his thoughts Billy had spun the hands of his own
watch through a complete hour, dropped to the floor
and pulled his lunch out of its “dynamite-cloth” bag.
“Wot’re you cornin’ at?” asked old Dugald un-
graciously. “Goin’ t’ shy sandwiches at a man now
for a change?”
Wordlessly Billy exhibited his timepiece. In
sudden panic Dugald realised that he and the mine
clock must both be wrong. Minutes were fleeing, and
he was jealous of a reputation for punctuality. With-
out more ado he grabbed at the control, and the
piercing high-pitched scream that urgently informed
the Southern Queen men they need work no longer
rent the air.
On the Luton Extended a weary driver suffering
a slow recovery after a wild night never even looked
, 1 , rr • . , , x 1 „ ~
at the clock Hearing the Midas and the Queen blow
he thankfully made the necessary movements and
dropped dizzily off his perch when the full-throated
bass roar from the engine-room roof sent nagging
pams through a head apparently full of molten solder.
At the New Klondyke they argued over he
matter, but a couple of misguided humorists of the
calibre of Billy Bates had their way, and that mine’s
modern siren was only a moment behind the others
in sending out a long-drawn moaning howl to assault
the ears of everyone for two miles around.
After that there was no hesitation. More or
less in their usual order whistles sounded all over the
belt, the blurp of the Consolidated sharp and confident
as ever, the hoarse asthmatic growl from the Sands
Retreatment hesitating as though not quite sure of
itself, and the thin screech from the distant Northern
Deeps rather behind the rest.
BACK on the Midas, where it had all started, the
engineer was charging across from his office to the
winder-shed with wrath in his eye and his watch in
his hand. He passed groups of humbler employees
making merrily for rest and refreshment. Sounds of
impotent rage hissing between his teeth made men
who did not know anything was wrong think he had
gone mad and wonder if they would be rewarded or
sacked if they hit him over the head before he dam-
aged someone.
“What the hell are you up to?” he roared at old
Bill, having safely reached his destination. “Look at
the clock, you damned old fool!”
Bill looked, and his jaw dropped. His eyes abso-
lutely bulged and his grey hair lifted in horror as he
realised the enormity of his error.
“My Gawd!” he yelped, wringing his hands in
helpless panic.
He glanced at the poppets and found there no
solution of his difficulty. His eye roved desperately
over the lease and the engine-room and came to rest
with foolish hope on the whistle-wire. Like one
possessed he scrambled up on to his platform and
triumphantly blew a second ringing blast that echoed
over the belt, alone and unusual. Then he looked,
seeking approval, at the engineer, but the emotions
he saw writ large on that worthy’s mobile features
caused him to wilt, droop and tremble.
“You—you—you blasted old fool!” fumed his
superior, red-faced and violent.
Bill looked hopelessly out over the lease. His
mates were not running back to work. He could see
a long line of them scuttling eagerly towards the pub,
and he felt old and alone and wondered if he would
ever get another job at his age.
On the Southern Queen Dugald Mackay was
feverishly seeking an electrician. On the Luton
Extended the already overstrained head of the
repentant driver was palpitating agonisingly under a
shower of abuse from most of the members of the
staff. At the New Klondyke an argument was in
progress which threatened to develop into a pitched
battle at any moment. The Consolidated crowd was
approaching the crisis in more practical manner and
had staff scouts out calling the men back to their
jobs. But it was remarkable all over the belt that
morning how few of the surface employees were
eating crib on the leases as they usually did. Every-
one seemed to have dived for the nearest pub as
soon as the whistles went.
In the town, which took its time religiously from
the sirens, confusion reigned.
“Good sakes!” yelped Mrs. O’Malley, who was
discussing men and affairs with Mrs. Higgs over their
dividing fence when the Midas whistle blew, “how
the time does go! O’Malley’ll be home in two
minutes, an’ what he’ll say when he finds no food
on the table the Lord alone knows.”
She tenderly fingered the faintly discolored eye
which bore marks of what O’Malley had “said” on a
recent similar occasion and fled anxiously to the stove.
A flow of children started out of the State school
by a tired teacher continued until only one class
remained, its master righteously superior, its members
surly and rebellious.
The men at the Foundry, kept hard at it, peered
curiously through the big doors, wondering what had
gone wrong with the mines and the rest of the world.
A thousand civil servants, carters, insurance agents,
clerks and suchlike arrived home to distressed and


flurried wives. Several thousand clocks were taken
off shelves, wound, shaken, stared at suspiciously,
adjusted and replaced.
And old Bill Hardy, who had driven the Midas
winder for twenty years without previously making a
mistake, was the cause of it all!
1 N the Midas winder-shed matters soon reached an
interesting stage. Having safely overcome the
threat of apoplexy, the engineer spoke tersely, con-
cisely, pointedly and witheringly. “How did you
manage it? How did you do it, after twenty years of
pulling the damn’ thing at the right time?”
Old Bill could find no answer that would not
sound foolish, so he made none, merely goggling
foolishly until the engineer’s choler began to rise
again.
“Are you drunk?” demanded the engineer. “Blast
it, are you mad? God bless my soul, did you do it
on purpose?”
“Naw, I never,” old Bill managed by way of
indignant denial to the last. He spluttered a further
syllable of explanation and realised that any endeavor
to make clear the combination of devilish circum-
stances which had contributed to his downfall would
probably only make matters worse. “I made a mis-
take. Everyone makes a mistake sometimes,” he said
sulkily.
Not engine-drivers,” corrected the engineer.
Not engine-drivers. That’s the last mistake you’ll
make on this lease, my boy. Next’d probably be a
matter of a cageful of men going through the poppet-
head. Damned old fool!” He departed in the direc-
tion of the offices, muttering.
Old Bill sat on his perch with his chin in his
hands and wondered what to do next, while office
scouts were sent out to bring the men back to their
jobs.
IN due course matters were straightened out. After-
noon found the wheels revolving and the winder-
drums reeling in and paying out the cables as usual.
On the surface, when the news got around that old
Bill had made his last (and only) mistake on the Midas,
there was a lot of sympathy for the driver.
“Gawstruth, if they’re finishin’ y’ up fer a little
mistake like that an’ y’ want t’ put ’em in their place
y’ll git plenty o’ support from our mob,” swore the
foreman fitter earnestly and ominously.
Cripes! ’ said Fred Tonkin, of the rigger’s crew.
“A damn’ shame, that’s what I call it. They’ll be
sackin’ a man for bustin’ a hammer soon.”
“Can’t see where it comes in,” said one of the
electricians. “Comes t’ that, he might easy’ve jerked
it early on account o’ concentratin’ on his proper
job, which is drivin’.”
Such talk reached the ears of the engineer, who
was a democrat, and, since he was also a sensible man
and a good fellow, he decided that he might have been
a little hasty with old Bill. It might have blown over
but for the dramatic arrival of the manager.
That worthy appeared at speed in the motor-car
of Ellerton, of the Southern Queen. The pair had
been at their club when the sirens had shrieked, and
they had dropped their glasses and consulted their
watches with frantic haste at the sounds. A headlong
drive to the Queen had followed.
“What’s the meaning of it?” Ellerton had bel-
lowed. “Why aren’t the men at work?”
“They all blew,” a wild-eyed clerk had informed
him. “I don’t know how it happened, but it started
at the Midas.”
“At the Midas?” Ellerton had replied, more
softly. “At the Midas! Oh, I see.”
He had said it as if that explained everything,
and the manager of the Midas had not liked it. So
now he stormed into his own office and struck an
attitude before the engineer.
“Sack that driver,” he said coldly and bitterly.
“Sack him now and bring Wilton over from the lower
shaft if you can’t get a new man for the morning.”
“But” the engineer commenced to explain.
“Sack him now," said the manager with venomous
emphasis, and stamped savagely out to return to the
club.
Wearily the engineer went on with his work,
cursing his superior and old Bill with impartial fervor.
j N the meanwhile the memory of joyous illegal drinks
1 had stirred many consciences on the mine. If
they hadn’t all scuttled off like a lot of school-kids,
they realised, old Bill might not have been in any
serious trouble. A state of tension fast developed on
the lease.
At four o’clock Bill, who worked the same hours
as the underground men, rolled up his towel and went
miserably home. Chipper, the bright boy on after-
noon shift, took over, and, though aching to find out
the details of what had happened, was not able to
do so until the strenuous half-hour of pulling the day-
shift men from the depths and dropping their mates
into their places was over. Then he eagerly absorbed
it all and suitably expressed his indignation.
“Rough that’s what I call it,” he protested.
“Spare me days, the old boy’s been here for twenty
years.”
“The union could get him put back, I reckon,”
said one of the fitters. “They could make a test case
of it, on the point of whether the engine-driver ought
t’ have t’ blow the whistles or whether th’ timekeeper
shouldn’t come over from th’ office and do it.”
“But th’ trouble’s precedent, an’ accepted prac-
tice,” said Chipper. “Y’ see, what they reckon is
that”
Soon an absorbing argument was raging, and two
electricians and half the ball-mill gang had joined the
crowd in the winder-shed and were striving to make
themselves heard. With all the men lowered, the
platmen were taking off the cages and putting on
skips to pull dirt. , Until they had completed that job
Chipper had nothing to do. He debated with vigor
and enthusiasm and forgot his surroundings in his
excitement. Time slipped past unnoticed.
~FHE engineer, in his own room, was busy with
' figures, trying to forget the -various unpleasant-
nesses which had disfigured the day and the worse
ones which would probably distinguish the morrow,
when he would have to explain to the manager why
old Bill was still on the job. He could hear the
manager, now back on the mine, moving about in
the next office, and the noise gave him no consolation.
He glanced up at the clock, and sprang right out of
his chair. It was 5.20, and the five o’clock whistle
to dismiss the surface workers had not yet been
blown!
The engineer’s first impulse was to charge to the
winder-shed and have a pint of someone’s blood with-
out delay. But the sound of the manager’s movements
restrained him. An idea grew in his mind, and with
a bull-like roar he knocked three chairs flying, made
a thunderous row with his feet and wrestled furiously
with the door.
“What’s wrong? What’s wrong, Thomas?”
came the Old Man’s irritable voice as its owner
appeared in the passage.
“The time!” roared the engineer. “Twenty-past,
and no damned whistle! I’ll teach ’em to make a joke
of this mine! I’ll teach ’em!”
“What,” said the manager with his habitual cold
severity, “are you proposing to do?”
“I’ll hunt Chipper off the lease! ” bellowed
Thomas. “I’ll kick him from here to the corner pub,
and he and that blasted old day-shift fool can stew
in their juice together.”
The manager thought rapidly.
“Now steady up! Steady up!” he said. “Lose
both drivers and you’ll stop the mine.”
“Let it stop!” raged the engineer. “It might as
well be stopped as run this way, anyway.”
“You’ll have trouble with the rest of the men,”
said the manager profoundly. “Calm yourself,
Thomas. It never does the least good to act hastily.”
“Hastily!” protested the engineer. “I’ll have
neither of those idiots on the lease again. Can’t sack
one without the other, so both their dirty black hides
can hang on the fence.”
“That’s silly,” said the manager. “Damned silly!
Hardy’s been a good man for twenty years, and I’m
not sure we weren’t in error in dismissing even him.”
“Error!” snorted Thomas. “He's been the error
around here. I’d do more than sack him if I could.
You’re too easy with the men, Mr. Wilson. I’ll finish
the second of the pair of fools now!”
The manager sensed criticism of his methods
which, though not in every way distasteful, was none
the less criticism from a whippersnapper who had not
the least right to make it. His mouth closed into the
grim shape it had worn when he had crashed into the
office earlier in the day.
“Sack neither of those men, Thomas,” he com-
manded with chilly superiority. “Don’t act like a
lunatic. Forget about it.”
His say said, he withdrew into the sacred pre-
cincts of his own room, closing the door with a smart
rap.
The engineer walked happily toward the winder-
shed to tell the men that everything was all right and
to get Chipper to blow the whistle softly so that it
would not disturb the rest of the mines.
“Sack that driver. Sack him now.”


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter V.
1.
uhpKreSjQU’D never guess who I came across the
ii J other night, Laura,” said Jimmy Corcoran,
lounging against the edge of the empty
cocktail-bar at Cayley’s and tilting the
few drops of liquor in his glass.
Laura Clune turned a pair of
abstracted eyes on him, tired under the mascara of
their long lashes. She had been battling with
accounts. How to carry on over these next few
months, with the overhead mounting up, and prac-
tically no profits except from the bar! Not till May
would the tide of visitors come flowing in again. “No,
I’d never guess, Jimmy.”
“Sanderson’s son,” he told her. “The young
fellow who wrote that letter that hipped you so badly
a few months ago. But he isn’t such a youngster as
you imagined. How old did you say he was? He
looks thirty. A big, husky fellow withjhe shoulders
of a wharf-lumper, and about the same number of
words. Seems as if he can only bring them to birth
under stress of deep feeling. Or perhaps only when
he’s got a pen in his hand and time to quarry them
out of the underground levels. An occasion that isn’t
likely to come often, you’ll be relieved to hear at
least while he sticks to his present game.”
Gradually Laura Clune’s mind emerged from its
mist of speculations and her attention riveted itself
on the impish face across the counter. “Chris’s son?
You’re sure it was the same boy, Jimmy?”
Humor danced in Corcoran’s dark eyes. “How
many did he leave? A whole quiverful? This fellow
is the only one with a proper legal right to his name,
apparently. He’s been cane-cutting: now he’s running
a fishing-boat. The Kestrel. I only met him in the
wings after an amateur show in Denman-street, but
I managed to get that much out of him. Or out of the
Cleves woman: she introduced me to him... You
never come to our little shows, Laura.”
“Me?” she said helplessly. “When have I the
time for any pleasure? This place takes every tiny
bit of my thought, even now the season’s over. I
ought to go to Sydney for a month—it’s absolutely
necessary, but how can I get away? No one I could
think of leaving in charge for three days. And the
worry about money! I never imagined such bills. ..
But tell me about Sanderson’s son, Jimmy. I want to
know.”
“There’s not much to tell. Even I couldn’t tempt
him to unfold the story of his life. Still brooding
over the things he said, Laura?”
“Don’t be waspish, Jimmy. You make me sorry
1 ever give myself away to you. Neither you nor I
should have seen that letter. It was a private letter
to his father: it wasn’t decent to have raked it up.
Anyhow, I’ve done my best to forget all about it.
The things a boy says when he’s angry—why should
they be held up against him? I’ve forgiven him long
ago.”
Corcoran’s eyes twinkled. “And now it only
remains to tell him so. ‘Come in out of the cold and
wet, my dear boy: Laura isn’t going to be angry
any more.’ ”
Her smile had the pathos of a retiring prima
donna’s. “You’re laughing at me, Jimmy. You
always do. I’m a sentimental old vamp who wants
to have the affection of everyone. Oh, I know my
owp weaknesses—or what other people take for weak-
nesses. But I’m not quite so simple as they imagine.
These cold, calculating creatures who’re never spon-
taneous for fear You think if I make advances
to this boy he’ll knock me back. Take the opportunity
of saying more brutal things than ever.”
“Not a bit. He’ll probably fall head-over-ears in
love with you, want to eat out of your hand.”
“Blarney, Jimmy.”
“It’s a prophecy. Everyone does, Laura. You’ve
knack of throwing the come-hither over people, as the
old man used to say: choking the spleen out of them
and reducing them to a state of humble adoration.
Look at the girls in this hotel. A regular harem.
Can’t take their eyes off you. Guard you as ii you
were some frail creature that had to be shielded-,
against every draught.”
“They’re dears—most of them. If only they were
as capable as they’re good-hearted.”
“They’re damned capable as a bodyguard. It’s
impossible to get near you nowadays, Laura, because
they always say you’re lying down with a headache —
though probably you’re as fit as a fiddle at the
moment, feeling as young as any of them, and engaged
in putting something over the cook or the yardman
by sheer cajolery.”
She smiled vaguely, letting the flattery flow over
her, warm her being. Yet underneath she was thinking
of something else. “Where can I find Neil Sanderson,
Jimmy? He’s running a boat, you say.”
“Fishing,” he told her. “Not a game he knows
much about, I imagine. And they’re a tough crowd
he’ll have to compete with down there along the water-
front. Colored people, old shellbacks, men who
handled boats along the Reef before he could put on
his own bib. Offer him a billet in the hotel, Laura.
Head-clerk or manager. He’d probably jump at it.”
“You really think he would?”
“It’s worth trying. You could watch over him
and see that he didn’t do any damage. After all,
Cayley’s would be improved by having a figurehead—
a good-looking young fellow to attract the flappers.
Gigolo! Doesn’t a modern hotel like this want some-
thing of the sort around?”
HE enlarged on his idea, quickened by a dawning
sense of comedy in the situation. Irresistible
force, immovable body. In his short talk with San-
dersons’ son he had been impressed by a certain
directness of look, decision of speech: the fellow had
a will of his own, and was no fool. How amusing it
would be to watch Laura approach him, use all her
guile in bringing him to heel. She wasn’t clever or
subtle in a conscious way, but she had a natural power
to disarm people, take the sting out of them: with
most it was an easy task, but young Sanderson seemed
to have iron in him and wouldn’t go down easily.
He chuckled as he saw her eyes grow dreamy
and reflective. It was always entertaining to watch
Laura in action.
“A genius in her way,” he was thinking. “Energy
of a dynamo, innocence of a bird. Run anything with
equal gusto —nursing-home, kindergarten, joint down
in Charlotte-street. Make a success of ’em, too.”
But the worry and responsibility of running
Cayley’s, he was quick to note, had taken some of the
spring out of her. Or was it that she felt a gap in
her life now that Sanderson had gone? The old
waster had been a trial to her, but had flattered her
by his dependence, provided her with an outlet for
her emotions. And she was the sort of woman who
needed a man to fuss over: found the same relief in
it as a cow in letting down her milk. He had an idea
that she was ripe for another love-affair, probably
with someone a good deal younger than herself.
Better not show himself too sympathetic!
“Mother-love! That’s the form it takes at this
stage. Lord preserve me from that Ganges coming
down in flood. Poor old Laura —this heart of mine,
this ever-hungry heart.”
He was in no danger. Her eyes, coming back to
a point of concentration, rested on him, blotted him
out. She could be easy and intimate with him because
his dapper figure, birdlike movements, roused no
vibrations of feeling in her: he even released her
from the vaporous emotions that hung around her
like clouds. Jimmy! Always the same, always
chirpy and cheerful, flitting about the pavements with
his alert, knowing air. One must be nice to Jimmy,
the bright little bird.
But this news about Sanderson’s son filled her
with secret excitement, kept her mind and blood awake
as she lay in her tiny corner of the big hotel that
was so painfully empty now the season was over.
That he should be here, living in the same town,
perhaps passing her doorway every day, and she not
knowing it! The words that had once given her a
shock came back to her, went round and round in her
head, wearing themselves smooth and stingless. What
pitiful misunderstanding! It would be her reward
some day to reveal how unjust they were, to see a
look of deep contrition soften the eyes of the boy who
had uttered them.
“It’s not his fault. He’s had a rotten spin. Prob-
ably he’s like Chris, hot-blooded, ready to explode at
a touch.” Staring into the warm darkness, her mind
a moist and fecund seed-bed, she lay rearing her
fantasies.
She was in her car, driving slowly past the
wharves, looking searchingly at the lounging figures,
figures of fishermen, half-castes, Chinese stewards
from the north-going boat. A white-faced boy sat
on a packing-case with his back against the wall of
a shed, dark eyes burning with fever, hands hanging
despondently between his knees. Chris’s son! Chris’s
son, ill and desperate. How satisfying to discover
herself to him, take him home in the car, listen sub-
missively while he poured out all he had against her!
Then atonement, reconciliation.
“Poor old boy, I know just how you feel. It’s
beastly you should have been left like this, cut off
from your father while he was alive, forced to earn
a living any old way. But don’t blame me more than
you can help, Neil. It’s just life: we’re pushed this
way and that... I might have been able to put things
right if I’d met you when you came here. Anyhow,
there’s Cayley’s now. You must look upon it as
yours just as much as mine. Make your home here,
share whatever I’ve got.”
She lay with eyes wide open, in love with her
own humility. He couldn’t repulse her when she was
ready to meet him like that, conciliate him in every
way. Youth: she wanted the companionship of
youth, its power to renew one.
How freely she herself had used that power when
she had it! The voice of Clune came floating through
the night, she saw his eyes brightening as he leaned
toward her over the table under the frangipanni, con-
fidence flowing back, a lingering compunction making
him gentle: “You’re such a kid, Laura. You’ve got
everything in front of you. Murder for you to throw
yourself away on me.”
As if she hadn’t received more than she had
given when she saw him walking the deck in his
uniform, his own man again, ready to face anything.
But there had been others, as the years went on.
placing their burdens upon her, crowding her with
their worries, steadily draining away her freshness.
That was why her heart twitched sometimes when
she sprang up from her afternoon nap and looked
at herself in the glass. Eyes like boiled peas, flesh
hanging in folds under the chin! “I’m nearly fifty.
and yet it seems only the other day My God,
where has life gone?”
The voice of old Cerutti talking about blood-
pressure came insidiously from behind a secret wall.
She longed for some magic balsam to put on her face,
making it as young as she often felt when tripping
down the stairs of a morning or bantering the old
men in the cocktail-bar. Once she had had the deep
conviction that she would still be a girl at seventy.
THE STORY SO FAR...
Chris Sanderson, “ex-scrub-worker,
-contractor, -Cabinet Minister, undis-
charged bankrupt—a hell of a lot of
other things as well,” dies in Port Cowrie,
a North Queensland coastal town. Neil,
his son —they had met only once since
Neil was a youngster —buys a boat, the
Kestrel, and takes up fishing. Besanck,
whom he met in a cane-cutters’ camp,
goes in with him as partner.
Other characters are: —
Laura Clune, who runs Cayley’s, a
large new tourist hotel in Port Cowrie,
Corcoran, sub-editor of the Port
Cowrie “Times,”
Peter Jensen, an old Swedish car-
penter and boat-builder —he built the
Kestrel —and contractor who worked for
Sanderson in the early days, and
Freda, Jensen’s daughter.


That desperate sense of life seeping away! There
was relief from it in the thought of making her peace
with Chris’s son.
BUT though she wrote to him in persuasive words,
asking him to come and see her, there was no
reply. Her casual inquiries in the hotel drew a blank.
Some of the men had heard of him, but couldn’t tell
whether he was doing well or not. Probably not.
Precious few pickings for a white man when he had
to compete with the colored mob at Luggertown.
Besides, it was a poor season for fishing. The mon-
soonal weather had come, with grape-dark clouds
bursting over the port in downpours of warm rain,
and the sun coming out with sickly brilliance to spread
a blinding light on wet roofs, dripping greenery.
Hotels and boarding-houses were nearly empty. So,
except for a casual cargo-boat, were the wharves that
all winter had been lively with shipping.
Coming home one day from a long drive to the
canefields, Laura passed through the sandy outskirts
of the town along the estuary where Chinese store-
keepers had their ragged hovels and timbermills raised
rusty chimneys from a litter of boards and sawdust.
Lanes streaked with puddles, colored children staring
through broken palings, empty tins lying in allotments
full of weeds. It was an ugly part of the town, one
that she had always avoided, but through the ragged
line of buildings there were glimpses of the estuary —
stretches of steel-grey water, dirty white boats at
anchor. A green one moored to a jetty caught her
eye: hadn’t someone said the Kestrel was green?
“Yes, that’s Sanderson’s boat,” the driver told
her. “At least I think so. Used to belong to George
McEvoy, but it’s been done-up and looks different.”
Laura alighted and picked her way like a fas-
tidious cat between muddy pools, over fallen wire,
past a battered truck that a couple of colored men
were loading with evil-smelling cases. The tin sheds,
cluttered with refuse, looked sordid in the afternoon
sunlight, but the boat moored to the jetty had a
sea-freshness about it with its clean decks, neatly-
furled sails. She read the name on its stern: there
was a fluttering sense of adventure in her heart as
she climbed aboard. “It’s come right. Somehow I
knew it would. That dream I had the other night...
I ought to have come before.”
No one took any notice of her except the two
colored men loading the truck twenty yards away.
Indecisively she waited on the deck, a faint chill
spreading through her. Stillness, an air of covert
hostility! She felt it in the coiled ropes, the catted
anchor, the wet shirt hanging from the stays. Sud-
denly in moving over to the hatch she knocked down
a tin dish, and when the clatter had died away a fair
head and a pair of bare shoulders appeared out of
the cockpit.
The greeting she had pre-
pared bubbled out of her almost
before she knew she was speak-
ing: there was a nervousness in
her laugh, a girlish impulsiveness
in the way she stretched out both
hands. “You’re Neil, aren’t
you? Such a business it’s
been to track you down. Some
telling me one thing, some
another. But that doesn’t matter
now. I’m almost positive I’d
have known you, even if we’d
met accidentally. You’re angry
with me, I know: you think I’ve
no right to come here, but I
couldn’t help”
Something in the blue,
smiling eyes pulled her up with
a jerk.
Besanck was polite, but em-
barrassed. “You mistake. I am
not Neil: nothing so fortunate.”
Laura flushed, tried to
recover her poise. “Oh, then
Ive come to the wrong boat.
They told me”
“Yes, yes—that he owned the Kestrel. That is
right. We are partners together. But he is unlucky
to have gone off not an hour ago.”
Mortified, she would have made her apologies and
vanished, but Besanck had sprung on deck and was
persuading her to stay. Please! She mustn’t be
afraid of his deshabille, his barbarian look.
“If you go away now the blame it will fall upon
me. lam the ogre that frightened you.”
There was a charm and gallantry about him that
warmed her heart. Besides, he was good-looking in
a way that surprised her. Fair hair rippling in waves
from his brow, crooked, smiling mouth, skin that held
a glow of the sun: she found it hard not to stare
at him. Although he was dressed merely in khaki
knickers he seemed completely at ease now his
first astonishment had passed. “Neil, he may be
back any time now. He would be much put-out if
he missed you. We go out soon after sundown, so
it is not possible he is long away. Meanwhile I shall
make you some tea.”
“No, really: I’ve got a man waiting with a car.”
“Please!. In his place I should feel privileged to
wait.”
\KJ ITH an elaborate gesture he stretched out a hand
to her, helping her down the ladder. It only
needed that touch to give her the lightness of a bird.
Elated she sat in the stuffy cockpit while he whisked
about the galley, boiling the kettle on a primus, ran-
sacking the cunboard for biscuits, bringing out a clean
tray-cloth from some secret box beneath a bunk. His
gay humor, the way his eyes travelled about her, made
her feel utterly at home. What a delight to meet such
a man! She felt he noticed every detail of her clothes,
from her close-fitting beret to her pointed shoes, aware
of her smartness, more fully aware of her charm.
Happiness began to flow through her.
She laughed when he apologised for the tumbled
bunks and, springing up, insisted on setting them in
order, in spite of Besanck’s efforts to dissuade her.
“Do let me. It would make me feel less a nuisance.
I’m quite domestic, really. And I love tidying up.”
“You would humiliate me. Expose my sloth.”
“No: I know how desperately hard it is for men
to keep things straight when they’re alone. They’ve
so much else to think about. Anyhow, they haven’t
just got the trick... Making beds is woman’s work,
after all.”
Laughter, the rattle of crockery, the excitement of
discovering—what? In spite of her high spirits Laura
was quite aware of why she had come. It was all
very well to capture this young foreigner —but Neil?
“How on earth do you manage, the pair of you?
Doing your own cooking and cleaning, as well as
running the boat. I’d like to come down and give you
an overhaul every time you’re in port. See that you
have plenty of fruit and fresh vegetables and that there
were no cockroaches in the galley. I wonder would
Neil let me?”
Besanck flashed his engaging smile upon her.
“What would you believe? That he is not human?”
“Is he? I suppose he must be. 1 know so little
about him.”
“It would give him pleasure to remedy that. For
myself But that does not count.”
“Why? Of course I’m interested in both of you.
He’s never mentioned my name Mrs. Clune?
Cayley’s?”
“Yes, now I come to remember... But we have
not been long together. And our work, it has taken
up ail our time.”
“Oh, but you mustn’t let it. No, you simply
mustn’t. It’s a horrible mistake to let work dominate
you, keep you in a sort of prison. There’s all the rest
of life.”
Her head was turned expectantly to the entrance
of the cockpit: she didn’t see Besanck’s flickering
smile. “That is what I remind him, over and over.”
His voice no less than his eyes conveyed an
assurance to Laura. She felt that, in spite of the
unanswered letters, everything was coming miracu-
lously right. There was no hostility to her here: the
homely crockery, the tumbled clothes and boots —all
smiled their goodwill, positively invited her to stay.
He went on with his cooking as if recognising that
there was a difference between them never to be
bridged by reason.
But though she waited on and on, listening to
Besanck’s quaint accounts of life on the boat, letting
the warmth of his glances soak into her like sunlight,
there was no sign of Neil Sanderson. A light rain
was setting in, giving a sodden look to the jetty and
its approaches, casting a haze over the estuary. The
chauffeur was growing impatient, drawing his oilskin
cape around him, throwing suspicious looks down at
the boat. Darkness had begun to fall over the man-
groves. She was forced to go at last, the mud seeping
round her ankles as she picked her way over to the
car. Another time, perhaps! But what if his failure
to return really meant something?
So occupied was she with her foothold, with her
burden of inner doubt, that she did not even see the
figure in a yellow oilskin who almost brushed her
elbow as she passed round the tin shed.
//.
NEIL, his mind busy with weather-signs and the
risks of another trip, did not guess the identity
of the woman who had passed him. He had
never seen her before, had caught no more
than a glimpse of her as she picked her way over to
the car, all her attention concentrated on her shoes.
Yet he was impressed by the swish of silk, the jangle
of bracelets, the faint scent of musk she left behind
her. A strange bird to be airing her plumage in such
a quarter! One of Leo’s women, was it? He had
no idea of the kind of contacts his mate had lately
been making in the town: Leo could draw a thick
cloak of silence around him in some matters.
He was surprised to find him exuberant and forth-
coming, his eyes dancing with mischief as he looked
up from where he was cooking a lobscouse for the
evening meal.
“Ah, Neil! Once again you are too late, Neil.
Why must you be away at the important time? This
is a red-letter day, one to mark on the calendar. We
have had a visitor.”
“So I saw. Who was she? One of your catches?”
“Not at all. I have not been so lucky with the
line.”
“H’mph. Made an impression on you then, did
she?”
“Well, what would you? I never boast that I
am proof against her sex. She was altogether charm-
ing. Mature, a woman of the world, but at heart
no more than twenty. She would come' again—look
after us when we were in port. For my sake? Alas!
no. It was all Neil. Neil was the only one in her
thought. ‘I wonder would Neil let me’... You
understand now who she is, eh? A friend of yours—
almost a relation. The lady who was so kind to
your father.”
The blood burned suddenly behind Neil’s eyes.
“That old bitch!”
Besanck chuckled. “What has come to you, Neil?
Something has stirred you—you show anew feeling
for women. Passion, not sentiment.”
“Give it a rest, Leo. You and your fine des-
criminations! What excuse did she make for
coming?”
“None. Was it necessary? She had heard this
was your boat. She feels an interest in you. ‘The
only son of the man who was my hero.’ ”
“Damn her cheek! I can get along quite well
without that. She can go to hell for all I care.
Nosing in here after she’s had fair warning she’s not
wanted. It’s the last chance she’ll ever have to get
aboard this boat.”
Besanck straightened his back to look at him,
puzzled, faintly annoyed. “But why? My dear boy,
this is just foolish prejudice. You know nothing of
her. If I could only explain how naive and simple
she is.”
“Simple? Hell!”
“It is so. Moved to seek you out by primitive
affection. She would want nothing better than to
be a mother to you—to us both. My fine, hard-
working sailor boys of whom lam so proud! And
that hotel of hers —how delightful to have it for a
home while you were in port. Hot baths! The com-
pany of civilised people. A good meal now and then.
It would make each trip a pleasure-cruise.”
His tone, playful yet slightly malicious, brought
a surly darkness to Neil’s eyes, a stiffness to his body.
He turned away and stripped off his oilskin, throwing
in on the bunk. “This is a great joke for you, Leo.
I’m not able to take it that way.’
In a moment Besanck’s face changed: his smile
became more detached, more sardonic. “Because
you are still wrapped in the old shell, Neil. , All my
skilled surgery has done nothing. You have not shed
the old romantic idea of yourself, of your role in life.
My father, my great antagonist, with whom I am
engaged in so deep a conflict.”
“It’s the woman we’re talking about —not him.”
“And what is it you have against her? That she
lived with your father? My dear boy, what is that?
(Continued on page 50.)


fortune. Each achieves her heart’s desire—for three
it is matrimony ; for the fourth it is the friendship of
a duchess. It is a largely fantastic romance, and Blake
Brown is so sophisticated that he takes care to disap-
point romance at every turn. He displays as much
subtlety in disappointing expectation as in arousing it.
Spinsters, Awake! is also a mystery novel in
which a ruby ring with a strange history, the property
of a maharajah, is stolen at a wedding and not
recovered without bloodshed, although the murder,
vtfhich is de rigueur in the circumstances, is reduced to
a mere garnish. The mystery, like the romance, passes
off in smoke.
With ah insouciant modernity the tale combines
a certain archaism with a partial return to the comedy
of manners and in patches a rich pomposity; the
latter when two men repair to the nearest pub and we
are told that “each quaffed a welcome drink at the
other’s expense, and vice versa.” Once or twice it
is nearly, but not quite, very naughty.
Superimposed on the main romantic classifica-
tion there is a complicated pattern of literary
influences —or does the author, with incomparable
subtlety, intend them for parodies? There is a breath
of Jane Austen, a suggestion of Christina Stead and,
in the Ely episodes in which figures the very odd
Dr. Stork, the dean who dons red whiskers to chase
butterflies, more than a suspicion of John Cowper
Powys. One of the best scenes in the book, the near-
death bed of Lady Victoria Embankment, who
resembled “a granite statue erected by public sub-
scription,” is in the vein of Daisy Ashford’s immortal
story The Young Visiters.
“To the hospital,” yelled Lord Albert. “We must
be in at the kill.”
“For shame,” scolded his sister-in-law; albeit the
Dowager was rather partial to deathbeds.
This multiplicity of influences is a little confusing,
but also, for those who can accept the identification
of them as a pastime, quite engaging. It is believable
that the writer wished to achieve “a light irrelevance
above it all that would have been pointless had it not
been deliberately leading up to a climax that was
being veiled, as it were, by the irrelevance all the way
along, if you see what I mean.” A bright rattle of
inconsequence like this clatters through the book, but,
despite it, the story gets itself told and quite neatly
tied into its matrimonial knots at the end.
Period Romance.
In her first book, Royal Flush, Margaret Irwin
told the tragic story of Henriette, the youngest
daughter of Charles 1., born during the civil war,
married to Philip, Duke of Orleans, the younger
brother of Louis XIV., and poisoned by her husband.
In her second book, The Proud Servant, she depicted
the romantic career of Montrose, who won back
Scotland for Charles, only to lose it again and his
head as well. Now, in her third historical reconstruc-
tion, The Stranger Prince (Martin Seeker and War-
burg ; Bs. 6d.), she takes as her central character
Prince Rupert of the Rhine, another great soldier and
cavalry leader who might have saved England for
Charles had he been able to save Charles from his
friends.
In the career of the young and attractive soldier
of fortune the author has a fine story ready to her
hand and a hero after her own heart. Rupert was
the fourth child of Charles I.’s sister Elizabeth, who at
sixteen was married in the interests of the Protestant
cause to the Elector Palatine, not quite a year her
senior. Her inconsequent and irresponsible ambition
drove her weak and retiring husband (she called him
her “Nigger Duckling”) to accept the leadership of
the Protestant cause in Germany and the crown of
Bohemia. The young pair reigned barely a year in
Prague, and there Rupert was born.
Miss Irwin attributes, rather high-handedly,
much of the man’s character and bent to the influence
of the exotic splendors that surrounded his cradle and
to subconscious memories of the flight from Prague
after the military defeat of White Mountain/where
the forgotten baby, not yet a year old, tossed about
among the luggage of the hindmost coach, screaming
himself purple with rage. It is in this vein, and thickly
encrusted with ornament, that the story of Rupert’s
life is recounted.
The Stranger Prince is one of those period
romances that raise the question as to whether history
loses or gains in interest in being purveyed in novel
form. The answer is largely a matter of the reader’s
temperament. It is easy to conceive that to many
Margaret Irwin’s version of Rupert’s life, in which
all the romantic details are posed and spotlighted,
with its soft music off, imaginary conversations and
bits of psychoanalysis, makes much easier and more
entertaining reading than a history-book, dry with
impartiality and astringent with criticism. Others will
have the feeling that they are being smothered in
irrelevant detail or blarneyed into believing something
of doubtful truth for no better reason than that
thus it is more picturesque. Such a reader will
suspect that History’s leg and his own are being pulled
simultaneously. . Here is the writer’s portrait of
Elizabeth, Rupert’s mother:
Those great liquid eyes, eyes of a wounded stag,
of a sad and eager child, hid their scorn for an instant
under white lids as if wearied of the whole base world,
then flashed out with renewed fire, while sensitive
nostril and proud, lovely lip curved sharply like bows
drawn to the attack. The imperious head was outlined
against the small windowpane; within its circle, though
darkened against the light, there shone so royal an
ardor of eye and indignation that dulled the wintry
Dutch scene outside, the insignificant sun glinting on the
canal, the bare trees, the huddled, homely figures of The
Hague citizens going about their business, to a bleak
epitome of commonplace everyday existence.
This passage well illustrates the tenor of the
book. It is not enough for Miss Irwin that Rupert
was handsome and dashing, recklessly brave, an
inspired leader, untarnished in reputation *by the
political and personal perfidies of his uncle the
martyred king, and one of the few people who came
well out of that ugly and bloody struggle which, by
one of the tricks of history, everyone seems agreed
to accept as romantic and picturesque ; she has tricked
him out in much additional romantic finery. The
book is long and facile, the style is light and rich and
has, almost continuously, that pleased, surprised air
of one who gives a treat to a good child. The Stranger
Prince —though this is no reason for supposing it will
be less popular—does not stand up to careful con-
sideration nearly as well as the author’s first effort.
The success of Royal Flush seems to have given Miss
Irwin the fatal impression that writing a book is easy.
Short Story Competition.
Over 1100 entries were received in The Bulletin
short story competition, and 60 were accepted for
publication.
Entries came from every State in Australia, from
Maoriland, New Guinea, Pacific Islands (the winner
came from Fiji), London and San Francisco. Making
allowance for those who sent more than one entry,
they represent the efforts of over 900 writers.
The judges were concerned, not only with possible
prize-winners, but with every entry that was possibly
publishable, and every effort that had a chance in
both categories, even with revision, was read and
re-read several times. Among those that were rejected
were several that were very close to publication
standard. The writers of these missed because they
presented a good story in an ordinary way or, less
frequently, did good writing on too slight an incident.
The result did not “grip.”
Many writers requested an analysis of their story ;
others requested helpful comment. One asked straight
out: “If not, why not?” Sometimes it is not easy
to explain to the satisfaction of the writer why an
apparently well-written story is not acceptable for
publication; at least, it cannot be done in a few
lines. In any case, it is not possible to comply with
these requests. There is no time. These writers will
find their answer if they will take the trouble to study
the work of the masters of the short story. The first
thing to be thought, of by those who would write a
short story is that they must have a story to tell.
Many entrants overlooked this very important fact.
One pleasing feature of the competition was the
appearance of some new names of distinct promise,
and in this one of the principal purposes of the com-
petition was fulfilled.
For prize-winners the judges sought stories pos-
sessing originality, faithful characterisation, logical
construction, literary style, feeling and suspense. They
were of the opinion that Biddy Worger’s novel “A
Journey To-morrow” contained these requirements
to a greater degree than any other entry. The char-
acter of the central figure is - skilfully conveyed by an
indirect but effective technique, and his wife emerges
as a well-defined person. There is no strain upon
credibility, as there was in most entries. The deciding
merit was the strong element of suspense. The hus-
band’s mission is never openly revealed, but there are
sufficient clues through the story to tell for what
purpose he undertook the journey, and the reader
does not feel that he has been tricked. It is a story
distinctly out of the ordinary.
Second prize was awarded to Don Edwards’s
“He Walks Home With His Wife” for the sincere
treatment of a simple theme, the fine feeling and the
logical, inevitable ending.
H. Drake-Brockman’s third-prize winner, “The
Supreme Moment,” shows perhaps more earnest
endeavor towards characterisation than either of the
other two. It has not the originality of idea that
makes Biddy Worger’s story outstanding, nor the
grasp of sentiment shown in “He Walks Home With
His Wife” ; but it is well-constructed, straightforward
storytelling. The character of Harry Marten is
worked out to the end. It is consistent, real and
psychologically sound. The story has breadth of
scene and incident, each handled carefully.
S. V. Porter’s “Emu-Intitjuma” was an easy
winner in the brief short story section. The idea,
possibly derived from the description of the Central
Australian aborigines’ intitjuma ceremony in Base-
dow’s Knights of the Boomerang, is nevertheless
entirely original as a short story motif, and the author
in this has given a lead to writers who find difficulty
in evolving plots on purely Australian themes. The
author creates the scenic atmosphere of the story in
the first eight lines, clearly and completely portrays
both characters in forty more, and develops the un-
usual plot with a commendable economy of words.
The reader is carried with increasing interest swiftly
through to the climax, an ending that is dramatic
but logical, unexpected but inevitable. In a coronet
of the shorter Australia stories it should take its place
as a gem.
The winners of the first and second prizes have
already appeared in The Bulletin ; “The Supreme
Moment” and “Emu-Intitjuma” are yet to be
published.
Drama in Cumberland.
The Quarryman, by Ankaret Howard (Martin
Seeker and Warburg; 7s. 6d.), is evidently a first
novel, but it shows no immaturity or roughness on
that account. It is the story of a young man, Adam
Walker, who, because of his engaging youth, good
looks and athletic prowess, is a favorite with everyone
at the 'slate quarry where he works, but especially
with the foreman, Jack Wilson. Wilson feels a vague
romantic attraction toward the boy that is rooted,
unconsciously, in his mother, a motif which is allowed
to remain nebulous.
Adam looks for the color of life in poker games
played in bar parlors, and soon finds himself in diffi-
culties. Wilson helps him out with money, but when
he remonstrates with Adam they quarrel. To retrieve
himself the boy takes part in some shady transactions
with “bagmen” (those who interfere with hound-
racing across the fells by bagging or holding up the
favorite on a lonely part of the course). Adam is
caught in the act, and there follows a wild chase
across the fells. Adam fights with one of his pursuers
and sends him over a precipice. Outlawed and des-
perate, he meets his own end in a disused mine-shaft.
Wilson alone knows of Adam’s death, but conceals
his knowledge rather flimsily in order to save Mrs.
Walker pain and disgrace. Suspicion falls on him, and
he is tried for murder.
The last third of the volume is devoted to the
trial, and the whole manner of the book suddenly
becomes businesslike. The story that has already
been told is retold in court. In this The Quarryman
is in the mould of a far greater book, Capek’s Hordu-
bal, in which the repetitions in court of a story already
told as it happened are effectively used to illustrate
the infinite plurality of truth. Here the author has
no such object, or, if she has, she fails to make it,
and the form is rendered meaningless. There are
various strains in The Quarryman; the idyllic,
expressed in the natural background, which is lovingly
drawn ; the romantic, as tenuous as breath, in Wilson’s
love for Adam and Mrs. Walker; the picaresque,
centring on the bagmen and their doings; the
dramatic and sensational interest of Adam’s death
and Wilson’s trial. Each is good, but the writer has
not altogether succeeded in making them good in
combination. Success in such a narrative depends on
the amount of sympathy evoked by the leading
characters, and, as neither Adam nor Wilson is of
the stuff to move hearts, the book remains something
of a still-life. The accuracy of the court proceedings
is vouched for by Lady Ankaret Howard’s qualifica-
tions as a barrister.
Reviewed Briefly .
GENERAL . . .
Tales of an Empty Cabin, by Grey Owl (Lovat
Dickson; 10s. 6d.). Reminiscences and backwoods
lore by a tame and well-educated Indian resident on
one of the Canadian national reservations. Richly
anecdotal, solidly informative, intensely patriotic,
apparently reliable. Style, deriving possibly from
the author’s racial attributes, is gravely dignified,
but smacks a trifle of the professional guide.
Contract Kernels, by Myra G. Millingen (Angus
and Robertson ; 3/6), puts into the briefest and most
lucid form possible the Credo of Contract According
to Culbertson. The authoress is a well-known Sydney
teacher of the game, and won a recent contest against
A. E. Whitelaw of “Pachabo” fame. The “Pachabo”
bidding system has appealed to many who, like the
writer, are novices at Contract because there is so
very much less to memorise than in the Culbertson.
As Justice Halse Rogers (as good a judge on this
sort of Contract as he is on the legal sort) says in a
foreword to Mrs. Millingen’s book, “to attempt to
assimilate the lengthy works of some of the writers
on Contract is to many a laborious task.” Mrs.
Millingen has made approach to Culbertsonian
efficiency at least look a lot more easy, and it should
do much to stimulate study of the American system.
FICTION . . .
Fair Fat Lady, by Noel de Vic Beamish (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.). The tragedy of a
fat girl. She falls in love with the tenor of a concert
party, discovers him in an infidelity, joins a Conti-
nental circus as fat woman, adopts the tenor’s illegi-
timate son (who is ashamed of her fat), discovers
a gift for finance, returns home and becomes the
millionaire philanthropist of her native town, cannot
find happiness, but keeps a kind heart through it all.
An acceptable variation on the Laugh, Clown, Laugh
theme.
Only Pain Is Real, by Robert Westerby (Arthur
Barker; 7s. 6d.). A story of brotherly love and
brotherly hate centring on the boxing ring, with love
interest and a murder for seasoning. American set-
ting, with more “Goddams” to the page than strict \
necessary, but a first-rate sporting yarn just the same.
MUSIC ...
Ernest Wunderlich, previously known to this
page only by his pianoforte suite “Six Pieces an
his “Theme and Variations” for four hands, published
for private circulation, has sought honor abroad anu
found it. Breitkopf and Hartel have put him on their
list, and their standard never drops much below the
musical stratosphere. Encouraged, perhaps, by thb
example, Palings of Sydney, who haven’t been doing
much publishing in the last eight years, have brought
out a one-voice-and-pianoforte score of Wunderficn
cantata “The Minstrel’s Curse,” which has as its tex
a poem by Uhland. Catherine M. Bradley s Eng
translation doesn’t measure up to Swinburne, but *-
sings just as conveniently as the German—an intei
gent job. Orchestration is ascribed to Howard Ca ,
but the pianoforte transcription is undoubtedly wu
derlich’s, and has the. merit of falling easily under
the fingers and expressing the dramatic story m a
straightforward way. This critic .and the>
who did the top line got an enjoyable quarter-b
out of the work.


PATIENCE
is a virtue in
the making of
GOOD whisky
S:SSAW*®:
V
mm
m m
■mmm
mm ;
xs»gs
MIBB
■ni I
iSB&
pipijpMi
i&Sws&v
&gs£ m .<
■:
m
m
&iiviB
m
mm
mmmm
mmm
m
mmmmm
mmm
m
mmm
m 55
I ifiiltpip
*
s&sss 5
*
m
m
m
m
mmmss.
WMMmm
wm§mmmmm&
mmm.
S - <•'■ 5! Sn
')vym p «P
ilfe
XW&WSXSS
■fl HP RHHi
5*5?
feSi:
,s>S£
IT* *
m
ymmmm
iiMiiMMMPPi
MmrnmmMmmmmmmmy
iwisi llsi - :
X':»>:555. : .;: : >. : : ; ;-: : : :
m
itwlMi
®p§ y / m,. Jmy'y-
// /
fitatiti wmmM
.y my:
m
m
my
igllpiilllillll
■
ISli;
:-.:v;:v. ;
K 8
"If you can wait and not be tired
by waiting,” quoted Johnnie Walker,
"you have one of the essential
qualities for the making of good
whisky—Patience. When whisky is
run from the still into the spirit-
receiver, and from the spirit-
receiver into an oak cask, it
begins the long natural process,
extending over many years,
known as maturing in the wood.
"But while this improving and
ageing of whisky is going on, there
are other whiskies, laid down long
ago and now fully matured, which
are ready for blending as Johnnie
Walker. The fact that Johnnie
Walker commands such large stocks
of old and specially selected whiskies
explains why this famous whisky is
older and better to-day than it has
ever been. You yourself will prove
this to be true when you ask for
Johnnie Walker by name.”
-JOHNNIE
',Wv
m
WAhIER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN WALKER AND SONS LIMITED, LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
JW 73-FPB


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
m
Mm
»
\\ /TV*
XT'
f'-i. i'. '■■'■'■
■H ■
" wh TT""4'
' ’' oV
IP P—
h Bhßhm
:.y/
mm
■
n
■
hh a
m
Is*
mm
H
MHMH
Hi
Hi
—m
Sgg»gS
B H
* .
■
m
I$W
win I IPH
HI
From f/iis Sma/Z Beginning in 1851 Stocks now exceed 4\ million gallons.
v 4m


The Bulletin
“JUST AS WELL WE DIDN’T PUT THIS TO THEM, TOO!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE "IGNORANT" VOTE.
With last week’s additions to the emphatic counting
out of the referendum proposals —and their proposers
—more than 2,000,000 voters said NO to the question
whether that section of the Constitution which secures
absolute freedom of trade and commerce between
States should be “amended” out of existence. No
State had a majority of less than 50,000 against this
filching proposal: N. S. Wales and Queensland outed
it by about 2 to 1, Westralia 3 to 1, Tasmania to
1, South Australia 4 to 1, Victoria with a majority
of over 70,000. Total NO majority was close to a
million.
No answer could be more conclusive. No
instructions —the vote conveyed more than one —
could be clearer. Unable to bring to the analysing
of the vote the intelligence the voters had displayed
in recording it, the proposal’s embittered upholders
had resort to walloping the joss:
“Mainly due to ignorance of the issues involved.” —
Dr. Earle Page. “Lack of knowledge of the average
elector.” —Primary Producers’ president Dunlop. “When
people did not have an amendment explained thoroughly
their natural instinct was to vote No.” —Federal
Attorney-General Menzies. “I am convinced that a
great number of people who voted against the referen-
dum did not know why they voted No.” —Vic.
Minister for Agriculture Hogan. “The apparent
ignorance of the public.... Both ignorance and resent-
ment by the public.”—“S. M. Herald.”
The impudence of that and the insolent arro-
gance of acres more in similar vein have at least the
merit of being consistent with the nature of the
proposal the “ignorant” voters “ignorantly” turned
down. Beyond that, it is a diverting self-confession
of incompetence. The referendum was mooted as far
back as last July—nine months ago. It was officially
announced in September and the date was fixed early
in December. For the whole of the period, with
increasing intensity, the bulk of the country’s politi-
cians and newspapers labored at convincing the people
why they should vote YES.
Literally millions of words were spoken, written
and broadcast. There was no more enthusiastic Yesser
than Dr. Page ; he went on tour of States thumping
the drum, and a day before the voting was more than
100,000 to the bad in his forecast of Queensland’s
response to his campaigning. Mr. Menzies made
generous use of the eloquence that had failed to move
the Privy Council, with equally unmoving effect.
Granny “Herald” altruistically gave columns daily in
the endeavor to raise the “ignorant masses” up to its
own high level of superiority. Scores more of these
exceptionally intelligent gentlemen and well-informed
“mouthpieces of the public” enacted for these months
the role of the people’s schoolmasters. Their pabu-
lum ranged in kind from the assertion of Mr. Parkhill
that “the Government merely asked for the power to
continue to do what it had been doing before the
Privy Council exposed the weakness of this section of
the Constitution,” to Mr. Bruxner’s prophecy that if
YES were not carried “exports would eventually
cease.”
It is colossal hide for “mouthpieces” such as
these to belittle the intelligence of anybody. For
them to lump together under a stigma of “ignorance”
the 2,000,000-odd who voted NO is a display of smug
conceit beyond classification in any printable language.
The truth is that no electors in the world are
more intelligent than these same “ignorant” voters
on any matters of which they have first-hand know-
ledge. They saw this proposal as yet another attempt
to regulate them out of existence, and they declined
it. That is the truth of the matter.
The truest thing said on the outcome of the two
referendums was the despairing cry of Mr. Lyons:
“I feel perfectly sure that if the aviation proposal
had been put to the people apart from the marketing
proposal the result would have been different.” There
is little doubt it was judged by the company it kept,
and it could not have been seen in worse. But, apart
from that, there was good cause for its being included
in the count-out. In nothing has this Government
which asked for sole control of aviation given a worse
exhibition of bungling than in aviation control. The
latest in years of this bungling is that, far from the
Australian link in the Empire flying-boat air-mail
service operating this year,
the sites of the bases have not been finally selected.
The committee to decide on the location of the bases
and the work which will have to be done has not yet
been appointed. Until the committee meets and makes
its decisions, the work cannot be started.
Anyone who guesses 1939 for the completion
of this link is an optimist. Yet in spite of the bungling
of which this almost incredible example is merely
characteristic, there was a Commonwealth majority
of 220,000-odd in favor of the aviation-control pro-
posal, and two States affirmed it while rejecting the
marketing proposal. This result, in the circumstances,
was extremely generous to the bunglers. But in the
main Mr. Lyons’s reading was sound: the aviation
vote was an additional negative piled on the othei
NO for good measure of emphasis. So, on the testi-
mony of returning officers, was the informal vote: •
A large percentage of the informalities was caused
by electors failing to mark their ballot-papers at all.
Many marked the aviation question correctly, but ignored
the marketing question. Many of the informal votes
appeared to be deliberate.
Wrapped up in those deliberately informal votes
and in the whole outcome of the referendums is a
cluster of as clear and clear-headed instructions as
this country’s collection of Parliaments has ever been
given. Most urgent is that the section of the Con-
stitution which secures absolute freedom of trade and
commerce between States must not be monkeyed with
in the name of any sectional interests whatever.
Others are that Government is elected with the idea
of its governing, not for delegating the functions of
government to boards and commissions with dic-
tatorial powers and answerable to none ; that there
has been more than enough of the Parkhill brand of
aviation bungling; more than enough bureaucratic
regulating ; more than enough legalistic government
by the High Court; more than enough fixing of
“artificial price-levels” in commodities ( e.g., milk
through board control in Sydney) for which the price
is already outrageous ; more than enough Gulletting
of overseas trade (this hint has been taken); more
than enough roughriding over public opinion, as in
such matters as the Northern Territory administra-
tion ; more than enough stifling of liberty and
freedom of thought, as in the censorship; and
in all these and a dozen other matters more than
enough ignoring of the general intelligence and adult-
hood of the electorate, which too rarely has the
means of expressing itself that these referendums
provided.
Lumped together, these instructions amount to
one emphatic assertion: that such democratic liberty
as is left to him the subject of this democracy is going
to stick to. He certainly is not going to hand over
any more of that disgracefully-whittled relic in
exchange for any such gold brick as the one lately
used to test out his “ignorance.”
An Empire Adventure.
No greater political adventure has ever been under-
taken deliberately in all recorded history than that
which will be embarked upon with the meeting, for
the first time, of the elected representatives of
350,000,000 people, comprising the 11 provinces into
which British India is now divided for purposes of
autonomous government. Thereafter, these provin-
cial Parliaments will perform every function of self-
government, subject only to certain constitutional
powers vested in the Secretary of State for India, the
Viceroy and the provincial Governors, and limited
to the prevention of administrative breakdowns.
Nor is this all. After a trial period of provincial
autonomy there will come about an even wider change,
the constitutional Federation of the 11 provinces and
of such of the semi-independent native States as may
choose to accede.
This will mean that India will then be a self-
governing Dominion, just as independent of imperial-
istic control as is Australia. India’s relations with
the rest of the Empire will thereafter depend only
upon such spirit of partnership and co-operation, of
tolerance and friendship, as the political party in
power may determine.
To those who have seen at first hand the internal
conditions of that extraordinary country, its success-
ful integration among Dominions, as we understand
the term, seems extremely difficult. Its 350,000,000
voters comprise such varied material as Brahmins,
Mohammedan sects, 60,000,000 of “untouchables” led
after a fashion by Gandhi, Bengali intelligentsia who
can talk the leg off a cooking pot but faint at the sight
of their own blood, Sikhs and Rajputs whose fore-
bears rode into Bengal for slaves and women and the
slitting of fat cowards’ throats.
Of political parties, there are the National Con-
gress men, whose policy is to enter the new Legislatures
only to destroy and disrupt. There are the Com-
munists, powerful in numbers and under the imme-
diate orders of Moscow; the non-co-operators, who
work towards a self-sufficient India, closed firmly
against the outside world; the Liberal and lustice
groups of Bombay and Madras, bitterly hated by all
other parties and already split by jealousies of place
and power. And a score more. Add to them the
caste system which renders India the most undemo-
cratic assemblage of human beings in the world, a
hundred million inarticulate peasants who care no-
thing about who rules India or haw, as long as they
are allowed to fill their bellies, Russia and Afghanis-
tan as neighbors and lapan’s ambitious militarists
grasping after an all-Asia hegemony.
It would seem to be strange material from which
to make a successful self-governing new Dominion
in a hurry. Failure will risk an Empire disaster —one,
too, of special import to Australia. India extends
into the sea routes between Britain and Singapore,
Australia’s new frontier in time of war. It intersects
Australia’s air route from Britain. Even serious civil
disturbances in India—there will be no old-fashioned
British Army there to settle such matters, no dis-
interested British civil officials to avert them —may
cut off our overseas air services for indefinite periods.
As for trade relations, these will depend entirely upon
the Indian political party in power, and in this regard
the victory of the Congress party at the recent poll
is unpleasantly ominous.
£1000 Fine for Tipsters.
With the object of enhancing the revenue and doing
good in other ways, a workable, and even necessary,
idea is hereby unconditionally presented to the legis-
lators of this harassed country. Very briefly, it is
that every war tipster whose tip fails to come off
within a given time should be fined £lOOO. Basing
estimates on the tipping for this present year’s first
quarter alone, this proposal would ultimately result
in a probable increase of revenue by £12,874,000 per
annum, a useful sum of money that could be devoted
to (a) financing the exodus of overseas-tripping states-
men and sustaining them abroad permanently ; ( b )
establishing Chairs in War Tipping at the universities,
all of which already have men fully qualified and
evidently eager for such a billet.
this period is only tentatively proposed, it is not
The time limit suggested is three years. Though
merely a throw in the dark, but has been arrived at
after careful consideration of various important cir-
cumstances attaching to war tipping. Charlatans who
batten on the game would almost certainly plump
for a longer period, a lifetime being the most likely
choice ; but any sincere war tipster would unhesi-
tatingly agree that a prophet who had declared war
to be inevitable would merit the designation bogus
and the sock of a thousand pounds if the inevitable
war failed to turn up within three years.
Rules are necessary in this game as in any other:
what virtue is there in being a prophet if there be
no limit? Any common mug can earn fame —or
publicity, which is accepted to be the same thing—by
foretelling events even more calamitous than wars.
Thousands have carved a niche for themselves in the
Valhalla of laughing-stocks by foretelling the end of
the world ; but even these have tacitly accepted the
principle of a time limit, and have had the failure
of their forecast coincide with the appearance of a
comet or an eclipse of the moon, their guardian
planet. Surely, then, three years is a reasonable exten-
sion. for the bringing to the boil of an inevitable war.
In fact, the time limit would shout to be lessened
if that were the only ground for fixing it. But it
seems to be a fact that almost all war tipsters are
citizens recently returned here from journeys abroad.
It also seems to be a fact that, in this present day,
there is no surer, as there is no more popular, means
of getting into the papers after a trip abroad than by
tipping a war. Though it is inconceivable that that
could in any way influence the genuine war tipster, it
seems reasonable to suppose that the dangling o\
such an inestimable guerdon must lead to a good
deal of abuse ; so much so that it may not be over-
stating the position to describe war tipstering as a
profession irresistibly attractive to limelighters, wind-
bags and other charlatans.
There remains the balance, however small, of
sincere, genuine war tipsters who have the common
right in our democracy to fair and just treatment. It
is in fairness to these that the time limit of three years
between tip and socking of tipster has been thought
advisable.
In the comparatively rare instances in which they
are not made at the public expense, trips abroad are
invariably costly to the individual. Three years would
seem necessary to enable most to save up £lOOO for
the fine, and would give them some time for thought
as well. This last —though to those who do then-
war tipping without thought, it might be an even
more forbidding proposal than the fine —should be
welcome to all really sincere war tipsters, especially
as it is in the role of potential thought-producers that
some of these earn a crust. Time for thought would
enable each of them to ponder how it is that not one
of the 44,975,316 inevitable wars forecast in the past
10 years has come off, and, as the term of grace wore
on, why it was that his own pet inevitable war was
turning out so stubborn in the same respect.
He might be led on to such complementary
thoughts as that the world was not, after all, quite
the damfool place he had taken it to be ; that even
if it were it had too recently come through the
shambles to go eagerly into them again, for all the
tipsters, political cranks, sensation-mongering news-
papers and other noisemakers this side of the Styx,
that, as the late referendums demonstrated, nine-
tenths of a country’s newspapers and politicians can
go hoarse in vain for anything whatever if the people
do not want it; that what newspapers and politicians
have been erupting about wars for a decade and more
does not represent what people have been thinking in
any but the faintest degfee; that all this stupendous
output of war noise is, first, a symptom of wai
neurosis from which the world is struggling to ria
itself, and, secondly, a satanically-designed means ot
making that struggle extremely difficult.
Having pondered for three years on such thoughb
as those, the tipster of inevitable war would hardn
cavil at a lenient £lOOO fine when his inevitable wai
ran true to form and failed to turn up. He_ cou.
well feel that he had been let off lightly; that hi
proper fate would be to parade the streets as a labelle
fool or be gaoled for an alarmist. In these days bot
the fool and the alarmist get an extraordinarily long-
suffering hearing. There is nothing to be done
the fool except pity him ; but there is ground enoug
for a revival of the contempt that was once telt i
the other. To-day the label War Alarmist could profit
ably be hung on the coat-tails of many voluble asse ,
nuisances and menaces.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Trouble at Canberra.
Statesmen of the time when Australia had responsible
government would have chuckled grimly over the
circumstances of Henry Gullett’s resignation from
the Ministry.
Mr. Gullett was Minister for Trade Treaties,
engaged on work which Cabinet had always pleaded
to be vital to Commonwealth prosperity. His Gov-
ernment had stood behind him firmly during his tact-
less sparring with Japanese interests, and had shown
nothing but confidence in him in the face of wither-
ing public criticism.
Then, immediately after the electors had defeated
two referendums, one concerned vitally with overseas
trade, Mr. Gullett suddenly resigned. In an older
day this would have been followed by a free and
frank statement of the reasons for the resignation by
both sides, to which a democratic electorate is entitled.
Instead, Mr. Lyons, on the verge of hurrying to
England, brusquely refused to discuss the subject.
“That chapter of history is closed,” was his states-
manlike pronouncement.
Mr. Gullett also refused to discuss his resig-
nation. It was suggested that his retirement was due
to his desire to dragoon Canada, as he had unsuccess-
fully tried to dragoon Japan, and, failing Canadian
agreement with his proposals, to seek to divert trade
from Canada to foreign countries. Mr. Gullett crypti-
cally commented that “there was more than Canada
in it.” Otherwise, he thought “the less said about
his resignation the better.”
From the Ministry’s point of view and Mr.
Gullett’s, this is probably true. Mr. Gullett’s per-
formance in the “chapter of history” thus belatedly
ended has been unfortunate to the country beyond
comparison with that of any other Minister in recent
years, excepting alone Mr. Parkhill’s mismanagement
of defence.
The adventure with Japan alone has reacted
against Australian trade to the tune of £6,000,000-
odd already, and will have yearly additions unless
some undiscernible genius appears to clear up the
remains of the mess Mr. Gullett made. The first
instalment of the bill has come home to Canberra,
and has been acknowledged.
"You've Got t© Vote."
Maryborough (Q.) electors at a recent Assembly
by-election had the choice of compulsorily voting for
a Labor-Socialist, a Social Crediter or a Communist.
W. H. Demaine, called the doyen of Queensland
Labor, partly because he is 78 and partly because
he was for a long period president of the Q.C.E.,
which missed the bus so badly at the referendum,
had an easy win and will draw his £650 p.a. in return
for giving to the people the benefit of his sagacity
and patriotism and to the “movement” his vote.
About 1400 ignored the law by staying away
from the poll. Of course the elector can always cast
an informal vote, but that is no better than not going
at all. If the law gave any real consideration to the
meaning and value of the franchise it would allow the
elector to use his or her full discretion and would
not even pretend to force a Nat. (in this particular
instance) to vote for any one of the candidates whose
politics are repugnant to the voter.
Leaving out the Douglas Crediter, the choice
between Comrade Demaine and his Communist
opponent must have presented difficulties. Presiding
at one of the triennial Labor conventions, Mr.
Demaine complained that the party was half-hearted.
He wanted more “State enterprises”: State flour-mills,
State steamships and other things ; the Government
ought to be a universal provider. “They will say this
is Communism. And I say, What of it?” Comrade
Demaine told the convention that “Russia has lighted
a torch which shall illuminate the world.”
And now he is in Parliament, having defeated a
Communist and obtained a thumping majority at an
election in which every man and woman in the elec-
torate was legally required to vote, notwithstanding
that thousands of them could regard none of the
candidates with anything but disapproval.
Some day party machinery may be less effective
and elections will provide reasonable opportunities
of selection. Until then many an election Ayill be as
farcical as the Maryborough one and compulsory
voting will be stupidly illogical.
Cyclone Risks.
Repeated lessons fail to teach Australia the need
for better Government ship service on the remote
northern coasts.
A generation ago almost the whole of a pearling
fleet of several hundred vessels svas lost off Cape
Melville. When the Douglas Mawson was lost in
1923 there was not a Government vessel within reach
of the Gulf of Carpentaria fit to be sent to look for
her. A year later, when it was reported that some
of the lost passengers were with the blacks near Blue
Mud Bay, the attempts of a Government ship to get
out of Darwin Harbor edified the inhabitants.
In 1934 the North was struck by a cyclone which
caused great loss of life. Now Darwin has been half-
blown away by another cyclone, and among its other
worries there has been great anxiety about 50 luggers
of the pearling fleet. The luggers do not run to wire-
less, and in such trouble search vessels have to scour
a large area of sea. The only way this can be done,
in any case, is by diverting regular shipping on to the
job. The only Government vessel on the spot is a
small launch barely fit to venture out in a cupful
of wind.
Sydney Harbor meantime is decorated with tied-
up destroyers, survey ships and other fleet units which
have done no work for years. In 1920 the British
Admiralty presented Australia with five brand-new
destroyers. They are 905 tons displacement, fitted
with 27,000-h.p. engines, and, having 36 knots in
them, are among the fastest things on the sea even
to-day. They carry three four-inch guns and two two-
pounders and two double 21-inch torpedo tubes.
They are adaptable to rearming on modern lines.
But since we have had them they have spent most of
their time occupying buoy space ; and at a time when
extra ships are most needed some of them were towed
up the harbor the other day to be broken up.
A couple of these ships at Darwin and one each
in the vicinity of Wyndham and Thursday Island
would provide the North with fast vessels for routine
emergencies which are always cropping up, and would
imbue visitors to Australian waters with a new sense
of respect.
Maoriland Sets a Political Example.
About the most unpopular thing ever done by a
Maoriland Government was the extension of the
Parliamentary term from three to four years by the
Forbes-Coates piebald Administration.
The precedent relied on was the extension of the
period from three to five years by the Massey-Ward
coalition while war was on, but even that was hotly
resented at the time, most Maorilanders reckoning
that the Triennial Parliaments Act could be repealed
only by the Imperial Parliament which sanctioned
it. Massey, who knew the temper of the country
better than most of his successors, promptly reinstated
the three-year term.
Now the Savage Government, which has every
material reason for wishing to enjoy an extended
term of office, has taken Massey’s example. It further
suggests, tentatively, that when next election-lime
comes round the people may be allowed to vote on
a referendum as to whether they want Parliament
to have a longer life. That is playing political cricket.
It is recommended to those Australian politicians of
all parties who have been only too delighted to take
advantage of measures passed while they were in
opposition—and which they determinedly opposed.
A.B.C. and Its Critics.
A.B.C. has returned in kind some of the criticism
levelled at it by Melbourne newspapers interested in
B-class stations. The smack came from Herbert
Brookes, vic.e-chairman of the commission, when
speaking from Horsham (Vic.) at the opening of the
seventh national regional station. He charged news-
papers with “attacking A.B.C. unmercifully, misrepre-
senting it, and suppressing references to its activities,
being frightened that their purses might be affected if
the A.B.C. went the way it was going.” The Murdoch
press retorted that Mr. Brookes’s blast was “com-
pounded of foolish, unsubstantiated and insulting
statements.”
There are six B-class stations in Melbourne. Of
that number, one is owned and controlled by the
“Herald-Sun”; in one of the other stations the “Age”
has a minority interest; the “Argus” has no share in
any station.
But the “Argus” regularly uses a city station to
advertise its wares and to relay programmes to its
country stations at Warrnambool and Shepparton.
The “Age” has a station at Hamilton and the
“Herald-Sun” one at Horsham.
The question of reducing listeners’ license fees
is repeatedly raised in newspapers with B-class stations.
The commission’s reply is that it is a matter for the
Government and not one on which it can publicly
comment. A guinea a year is pretty stiff, but not so
stiff as twopence for a morning paper, the charge
demanded where a monopoly has been established by
a concern in which one of the leading critics of A.B.C.
has an interest. The public is assured by one of this
string of journals that “there is no ulterior motive
behind the views expressed by the newspapers ; they
are only expressing the views of the public when
stressing the need for the reduction of the license
fee.” Still, it would be in the interests of newspapers
operating B-class stations if A.B.C. revenue were
reduced to a figure that would prevent further develop-
ment —in the direction of providing a foreign-news
service in which British pacifist and pro-Soviet rubbish
would not be crammed down the public throat.
A.B.C. believes that Australia needs about 30
stations for national cover; there are just over 20 at
present. The A.B.C. surplus stands at something over
£211,000, but it will take more than a million to
provide the necessary studios and modern equipment.
According to Mr. Brookes, the commission’s news-
paper critics regale B-class station listeners with syndi-
cated transcriptions from America. He added that the
newspapers themselves fill up with “cheap articles
from overseas, while the A.B.C. is spending thousands
of pounds in encouraging local authors.” To these
very pertinent observations there was no reply.
Yampi Sound and Some History.
Yampi Sound lies off north-western Australia between
King Sound and Collier Bay. Around the Sound
is Buccaneer Archipelago, 150 miles north-west of
Broome. The islands rise in steep cliffs. There is
scarcely a level spot on them. They are bad places
for a sudden landing-party, but could be turned into
impregnable Gibraltars covering a fine naval harbor.
The name of Yampi has become familiar through
the island iron deposits. Thirty years ago an iron-
ore lease was applied for on Koolan Island. Various
companies tried to work the place unsuccessfully
without much capital, and unavailing efforts were
made to get the Commonwealth and W.A. Govern-
ments interested.
In 1923 an English company was formed with
the grand name of Yampi Sound Electrical Power and
Smelting Co. It merely granted options to a couple
of N. S. Wales firms.
Attempts during the depression to interest English
capital failed. Then, in 1934, Nippon took a hand.
Five experts inspected the islands, and subsequently
an Australian co., financed with loan money from
the Nippon Mining Co., Tokio, was formed. Japan
agreed to take the whole output of the mine, which
it has been arranged to work under Japanese super-
vision, though only as to grades and analysis of ore
and not of development.
When protests were made Mr. Lyons told Parlia-
ment : —•
The entry of Japanese experts is not dissimilar from
the admission into Australia of representatives of other
countries for purposes of inspecting, evaluating and
purchasing the. wool clip.
Mr. Lyons’s sense of comparison is painfully
weak. Wool is a commodity which is replaceable
every year. Iron, once mined, cannot be replaced.
It is used in the building of ships—war and mercantile.
Australia will need all her iron and steel within
the next century as population and manufactures
develop. Apart from the matter of providing access
to and detailed knowledge of a locality which it might
be crucial to defend in war-time, we cannot afford
to send away irreplaceable resources.
If the proposition is good enough to be worked
for normal trade needs and previous investi-
gators have had their doubts —it is good enough to be
worked with Australian capital and under Australian
supervision. If a similar position were to arise in
Japan the Government would solve it firmly in ten
minutes.
Let Norman Do If.
Sydney’s Circular Quay front door has become a
mass of mud and ruin. Mr. Bruxner’s transport
minions are busy there with the new city-railway
junction. Nobody knows what the finished contrap-
tion will look like, but a possible feature will be an
astounding structure on stilts.
Norman Lindsay, watching the development of
this particular muddle and junk-heap, protested
against the small-town ugliness of recent official
efforts. What is mainly uncertain about the Quay
job is just how ugly the result will be. Nobody out-
side the official clique knows what the plans are (if
any). And nobody can find out, petty secrecy being
one of the characteristics of bureaucracy.
In most civilised communities it is the custom
in dealing with works of such importance either
to call for competitive designs or to submit the
drawings to criticism of some such body as the
Institute of Architects, as has been done, through a
special committee, with Sydney’s Macquarie-street
development plans. Even then there is still need for
the highly-specialised ability of artists with an eye
for landscape and design.
Norman Lindsay designed at Springwood (N.S.W.)
a house that is one of the most beautiful dwellings in
Australia. A combination of his flair for design and
color with the capacity of Hardy Wilson for visioning
beauty in architecture and its surroundings could save
Australian cities from the architectural atrocities
which increasingly disfigure them.
Mr. Abbott Appointed.
Minister for the Interior Paterson says Mr. Abbott
was the “outstanding man” among those considered
for the job of administering the Northern Territory.
As the pay is £l3OO a year, which under Darwin
living conditions is worth about £B5O p.a. in Sydney,
the Government has been fortunate in finding any-
body “outstanding” enough at the price to administer
523,000 square miles of territory, politics in which
merge into the international.
It was doubly lucky in having been able to
dispense with a term agreement. Mr. Abbott is
appointed during the “Governor-General’s pleasure”
instead of for five years, as has been the custom with
previous Administrators.
This means that if the Lyons Government is
beaten at the next election and a Labor Prime Min-
ister feels it is bad politics to have an ex-C.P. member
who has never been persona grata with the Labor
party in office in Darwin, where Labor is strong, he
has an unassailable precedent for replacing Mr.
Abbott with one of his own supporters.
Mr. Paterson has discovered a plethora of versa-
tile experience in Mr. Abbott’s career. Also, he “has
first-hand knowledge of the Territory”—he visited
it as a Minister.
Though appointed in the face of N.T. protest,
Mr. Abbott is entitled to his chance to make good.
Contrary to statements made while the appointment
was pending, it is a big job, and Mr. Abbott will need
all the ability he can muster.
A Pacific Flying Agreement.
While the last leg in the Empire flying organisation
between Australia and Maoriland is still “under
discussion,” the Maoriland Government has made
an agreement with Pan-American Airways for a trans-
pacific service.
Pan-American Airways is to put on the run by
the end of the year 48-passenger flying-boats between
San Francisco and Auckland. These will do the trip
in four days, calling at Honolulu, Kingman Reef
and Pago Pago—all American bases ; two of them
big naval bases. The franchise is for ten years.
So for a decade control of air traffic across the
Pacific on the most practicable route is out of British
hands. Control of big-ship sea traffic is already in
the hands of the Matson line. From a defence point
of view the position is not very satisfactory, but it
should give Parkhills and Pearces a lesson in progres-
siveness.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Gryllus”: Planet and star features
for this, month are particularly interest-
ing. Venus shines so brightly as to cast
distinct shadows, a feat beyond the
power of any other heavenly body ex-
cept the Sun and Moon. She can even
be seen in daylight, crescent-shaped. The
homing Australian roisterer may get an
inkling of his coming receptiop from
the red, angry eye of Mars, set high
in Libra. Last week this earth of ours
overtook Neptune, and passed him at
the nearest point for the year. There
was no risk of collision, however ; the
pair were nearly 3,000,000,000 miles
apart at the time. Mercury and Saturn
are both retiring out of view behind Sol.
The Milky Way is at its brightest, and
the Southern Cross reaches the meridian
at midnight on the twenty-eighth, a
sight which no lad should allow his best
girl to miss.
* =H * *
“Fiona”: Our charlady, who was ex-
pecting news of the reappearance in
society of a brother-in-law after a term
in Long Bay, informed us that she had
arranged with the grocer across the
vacant section to hand on any telephone
message that might come through from
her sister concerning the impending
event. It was during the final Test,
and the grocer’s offsider, an obliging
youth who had been at intervals shout-
ing cricket scores across the vacant space,
suddenly appeared, cupped his hands and
bellowed “He’s out!” “And why can’t
he say who’s out?” grumbled Mrs. Jones
as she pegged the dusters on the line.
“Now I dunno whether he means me
brother-in-law or Don Bradman!”
* * * *
“L.H.”: Sydney aldermen are com-
plaining because outsiders are compet-
ing with them for the removal of gar-
bage, a valuable commodity from the
civic standpoint. Writer once wallowed
in this by-product and its atmosphere,
having been given by a kindly C.O. at
Heliopolis in 1915 the soft invalid’s job
of brigade-major. Among the tasks
was the supervision of and disposal of
garbage, both from the stables and from
the men’s messrooms. The Australian
soldier was splendidly fed and often sup-
plemented his rations with purchased
stores. His garbage-tins were goldmines
in the eyes of those who bid for the
privilege of buying the contents, and it
was up to me to screw the highest pos-
sible price per week out of the competi-
tors. The stuff went to make the ap-
petising foods the Gyppo hawked round
the streets of Cairo in trays at a millieme
a bite or a piastre a blowout, and the
most curious impression I got from the
job was the sudden and tremendous rise
in bidding in November, when new ten-
ders were called for. What I think was
the explanation came later. Even senior
officers were unaware that the Evacua-
tion was pending ; but I’m satisfied that
Gyppo contractors had the tip that the
L.H. depots round Cairo would be shortly
reinforced by thousands of evacuated
men and planked their galabiehs on it.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s rural setting was
emphasised in the inter-State tennis when
a rabbit strolled on to the centre court
to stop play, and then, easily evading
pursuit by ballboys, disappeared into a
thick hedge. North Adelaide is legally
just as much part of the city as South
Adelaide, which mostly monopolises the
title ; with the. river and parklands lying
between them, this is probably the only
metropolis in the world which can stage
a Test match—or for that matter a
cross-country championship—in its very
heart.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: In “It Isn’t Done” Cecil
Kellaway has a line which is a sure
winner:—the Australian squatter’s re-
“Come an eat y'r bun, Adonis. Anyone’d think y ’ could swim to see y' posin' there.”
mark, when the butler has explained the
meaning of “varlet” to him, “We’ve got
a better name for it in Australia.” But
what puzzles me is how, when and why
the toned-down “blankard” came to be
recognised as such good Australian that
it was foolishness to resent it. Before
the war the word was sufficient to buy
a fight anywhere in the Commonwealth;
I didn’t hear much of it in camp at Liver-
pool, but directly I struck the transport
it seemed a matter of general and quite
friendly use. In France there was a
popular yarn about directions for reach-
ing the A.I.F. lines: “Keep right on for
a couple of hundred yards and soon
you’ll hear some coves calling one an-
other blankards. Them’s the Aussies.”
“Sixenate”: The seldom - preferred
charge of “causing a public mischief”
recently landed a Sydneyite before the
beak. Certified, even by the police, as
an honest and industrious tradesman, the
offender seems to have suffered from an
overmastering desire to swank. Among
his reported efforts in this direction were
the ordering of a feast for 30 people at
which neither he nor the guests turned
up, and arrangements to purchase a
yacht; it was when he reported to the
police that a motor-car he had never
owned had been stolen that the Law
dropped on him. It alleged that inquiries
the police had been compelled to make,
besides wasting their time, had caused
subjects of the King to suffer from
“suspicion, accusation and unrest.” Six
months.
“Hanover Jack”: Bad money is much
less frequently encountered nowadays
than it was a few years ago, when tram
conductors were perpetually “faulting”
bogus florins, a source of embarrassment
to passengers who had become pos-
sessed of them in all good faith. This is
doubtless due to a number of coining
plants having been raided and a number
of coiners convicted and gaoled. But,
according to Sydney police, some enter-
prising counterfeiters have recently
turned their attention from silver to
paper, wherefore John Citizen is ad-
vised to look harder than has been his
wont at ten-shilling notes, some excel-
lent imitations of the genuine article
being in circulation. The only difference
is in their slightly lighter shade, while
King George V.’s beard is “plainly the
work of an artist using a fine pen.” The
word “artist” used in this connection
sounds a little unusual ; still a man who
has managed to reproduce that diaphan-
ous head of Mrs. Simpson’s future hus-
band with reasonable accuracy must
have spent a lot of time and trouble
over his craft.
*'* * ' *
“Issachar”: Mayor La Guardia, of
New York, whose suggestion that a wax
effigy of Herr Hitler would be a first-
class draw in a Chamber of Horrors has
lashed patriotic Germans to fury and
led to an apology from Uncle Sam, is
in his third year of office. Nazis
assumed that he was a Jew, but all the
evidence shows that he comes of Italian
stock. Anyhow, however unpopular he
may have become in Germany, it is
unlikely that his remark will seriously
imperil his job in his home town. The
Jewish population of New York State
was estimated at the last census at close
on two millions ; in other words, nearly
half the Jews in the U.S. are located
there. If there is any city in the world
where Hitler is ranked as Bogey Man
No. 1 it must be New York.
$ $ #
“Sailor Once”: “Captain Pintle’s”
lamptrimmer’s cure for seasickness (B.
10/3/’37) recalls the many remedies I’ve
heard advocated in my time. Salt pork
with plenty of fat was the gunroom’s tip
in the early stages of the malady, and
the result was generally impressive, if
nothing more. The lower-deck took nips
of Worcester sauce, while the wardroom
affected more expensive beverages,
sparkling wine among them, but any
kind of liquor seemed to have some
beneficial effect. Seasickness being the
result of eyestrain caused by the un-
accustomed motion of surrounding ob-
jects, the best palliative yet discovered is
to get your head well and truly down
on the pillow and to keep it there until
the worst is over.
* * * *
“Cock-eye”: They may hide pearls in
hawsers and other places now ; in my
day we had simpler methods. Joe and
I used to get away with odd seed-pearls,
and made beer money and a bit more out
of the business. As Joe has been dead
many years and as I’m out of the game,
no harm will be done by springing the
plant. We used to hide seeds where no
one thought of looking for them—under
the eyelids. Seeing how tiny a speck
will irritate the eye, you might think a
seed-pearl would advertise itself by the
water running from such a hiding-place,
But that isn’t so. The pearl is made by
the oyster to overcome irritation ; it is
so smooth, so perfectly formed, that I’ve
known Joe carry three seeds in one eye
without blinking a lid.
*„** , , * -
S.T.S. : Several astonished manufac-
turers in S.A. have been prosecuted, as
an example to others, for not sending in
returns and figures about heir opera-
tions for the past year. A Statistics Act
of 1935 casts a very wide net, ranging
from crops and livestock, through fac-
tones and banks, to chant.es and hos-
Pltals-
* * * .. . ,
“Kwakprak : A maternity nurse with
30 years’ experience who’d never seen a
caul ( B - 3/ 3 / ’37) sounds to me as if she
hadn’t had too many patients. The caul
tendency seems to run in families,
through the male side, and is much more
common among whites than among
colored races. Finns are said to produce
more caul births than any other people,
and, as they have been credited for cen-
turies by sailorfolk with possessing occult
powers in regard to wind and weather,
it is quite likely that the superstition
originated among them. An old Finnish
bos’n once impressed on me that the
only kind of caul which really and com-
pletely protected you against drowning
was your own. The caul of a blood rela-
tion would do it, unless you were
destined to drowning. Any other caul
only helped you ; that is, if you were a
good swimmer and other conditions were
favorable it might pull you through.
“Perch”: Further to this “caul” con-
troversy. I have one in my possession—
my father’s. It is a semi-transparent
article, something like a skull-cap of
tissue {>aper. Accompanying it is my
grandmother’s note of the event in the
thin angular caligraphy of 80 years ago:
My dear son T was born
(20/12/1857) with this caul on his head.
There are many who believe that great
luck is to attend those fortunately born
with this covering. I am not aware that
such is the case.
Evidently even then there were doubts
about the caul’s efficacy as a mascot.
* * * *
“Chapeau”: The most treasured war-
souvenir of a retired army captain of mv
acquaintance, who put in three years in
France and Belgium, is an ordinary tin-
hat, with two round holes in the crown
and a series of circular grooves round the
inside. His explanation is that' they
were caused by a bullet entering the
helmet and careering round it before
breaking out. The only result for the
contents was a splitting headache.
THE PASSING OF CULLETT.
“Minister Gullett quitted the Cabinet meeting
with dramatic suddenness, leaving his colleagues
sitting in stunned silence, and immediately wrote
out his resignation.”
With flashing scorn the scene he viewed,
Then headed doorwards at his top,
And in the silence that ensued
You might have heard a needle drop.
Struck of a heap, in dumb surprise,
The chastened Ministerial group
Stared into one another’s eyes
When Henry Gullett flew the coop.
I’ll say it deepened, as he went,
That look which Joe is wont to wear,
The mask of mild bewilderment
Suggestive of a native bear.
And poor old Pearce, so deft and cute
To jump Jim Crow and loop the loop,
Sat singularly glum and mute
When Henry Gullett flew the coop.
From Billy Hughes no snarl was heard
Denoting petulance or rage;
From fluent Menzies- came no word
Nor any syllable from Page.
A sombre silence all preserved,
A stricken and a saddened troop
T7*ey seemed, discouraged and unnerved,
When Henry Gullett flew the coop.
Outraged and startled, shocked and dazed
By what their trusted mate had done,
Dour Paterson at Parkhill gazed
And Archie P. at Paterson.
Who knows, their glances seemed to say,
When you and I’ll be in the soup?
Ah me! ’Twas sure a bitter day
When Henry Gullett flew the coop.
His hat upon his head he jambed
Hot-foot he bolted from the room;
Behind him, as the door he slammed,
He left an atmosphere of gloom.
The die is cast, the beans are spilt ...
Withal the dailies got a scoop
And bards material for a lilt
When Henry Gullett flew the coop!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Fi. fa.”: The Court of Claims has no
easy job in the Coronation arrangements.
This august body first met in 1377 under
the chairmanship of John o’ Gaunt, and
since then, at one time or another, it has
dispensed with a Chief Lardener, a Royal
Napier, a Grand Carver and a Herb-
Strewer, all demanding place and pay.
George 11. abolished the King’s Cock-
Crower—almost literally. This official
drew his screw for crowing the hours.
His Majesty, not well acquainted with
the English language or English Court
customs, considered himself insulted
when crowed at, drew his royal sword
and pursued the human rooster intent
on his slaughter. The Dymokes of
Scrivelsby nowadays merely carry the
standard of England, instead of clank-
ing in on a charger in full plate armor
to defy all and sundry to dispute the
sovereignty of the King. But it is all
very charming, and maybe they’ll make
our Joe a Royal Koala or something.
*# * •
“Kerriki”: Week-end beaches are pro-
verbially casual, but I came across the
limit the other day. There was a nasty
ebb setting off the beach, and some-
thing impelled me to wander up to the
shed where the reel is kept in case of
accidents. It was securely padlocked,
but a chap who happened to be around
pointed to one or two shacks as likely
to have the key. Eventually the cus-
todian’s wife was run to earth, but she
couldn’t find it. Finally she recalled that
it fitted the garage padlock at their city
home, and supposed her husband must
have taken it with him to work, as he
sometimes mislaid his own. “What
happens if somebody gets into difficul-
ties?” I asked. “I couldn’t say,” she
told me airily ; “nobody ever has yet.”
“Can you stand a teeny bit of pain?"
Lots of it , so long as it doesn't hurt."
Paste ' landlord friend of mine
told me that some intending tenants
wanted two rooms papered, the kitchen
and a back bedroom, and asked me if
1 would give him a hand. Arriving there
on Saturday afternoon I found him
equipped with the paper and other im-
pedimenta, and we started on the job.
Neither of us knew much about the
paperhanger’s art, but we got the stuff
up somehow. A day or two later the
tenants moved in and the landlord went
to see if everything was satisfactory.
Everything was, except that the paper-
hangers had made “an awful mess of the
kitchen.” Feigning incredulity the land-
lord went to look for himself, and had
to agree. He swore that the bunglers
would never get another job from him.
“And this is where she kids to the eunick."
■ “Captain Pintle”: America’s first lady,
Mrs. Roosevelt, has a long-standing asso-
ciation with Australia through the family
of her father, Warren Delano, of the old
Boston and Hong Kong shipping and
trading firm Russell and Co. In the
early 1800’s Captain Delano, Warren’s
grandfather, gave Governor King a
troublesome time by his forthright
methods of dealing with Sydney competi-
tors in the fur-seal business at King
Island and elsewhere in Bass Strait,
Contemporary letters to Sydney, re-
printed in N.S.W. Historical Records,
indicate that he was the genuine article
in manhandling sealing rivals. One
pathetic epistle relates how the writer
had been hauled out of bed at King
Island by Delano and his men, tied up
to a tree and given 50 lashes, after which
he was pitched into the surf with a warn-
ing that worse would happen next time
if he didn’t clear out. Apparently he
took the hint.
* * * $
“Kokstad ’: About these two-book
libraries, favored by lighthouse-keepers
and persons who are liable to have no
other literary pabulum on remote islands
(B. 10/3 /’37), I am always a little in-
dined to distrust those who put the Bible
first. If they had had it drummed into
them hard enough in their early youth
(as I had) its admirable, phraseology
would be unforgettable. Tastes vary
with every generation, anyhow. I was in
Kimberley, South Africa, some 45 years
ago, when Lord Randolph Churchill
(father of the present erratic statesman)
passed through there on a trip to
Mashonaland, projected partly to boom
Cecil Rhodes’s newly-acquired piece of
the Empire and partly for shooting buck.
A reporter asked him what books, if any,
he was taking with him to while away
three or four months where no books
were procurable. “Only two,” was the
reply, “Vanity Fair and Handley Cross.”
An admirable selection, it struck me at
the time ; but how many people read
Handley Cross nowadays?
* * J|: *
“Hanko”: I saw only one surrender
in the air ; that was ip the Meteren area
in 1918. One of Fritz’s “Red Circus”
machines had nosed well behind our
lines, and three British ’planes had cut
off his retreat. The German airman
managed to cripple one of his assailants,
and the second cleared away after the
first few bursts (we discovered later that
its observer had been skittled). But our
third machine stuck to the invader, and
a desperate battle followed. With guns
chattering, the ’planes stormed at one
another until the Briton proved himself
master. He got on the Deutscher’s tail,
and only let up shooting when a white
rag fluttered out of the enemy ’plane.
When the combatants descended and the
German crawled out of the cockpit we
found that he had been 'shot through
the wrist.
I
* $ $ *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Carbonic oxide may
lurk in even less likely places than baths
with bent heater flues ,(B. 3/3 /’37). Last
year a diver, wording at the bottom of
Torres Strait, was poisoned by CO
drawn in through the intake of a petrol-
driven compressor pump on the lugger
above. Last year, too, a stewardess in a
Continental aeroplane went out to CO
from the exhaust's, blown by a strong
rear wind into an after compartment. I
might add CO does not produce a
“blackening” effect on the victim; on
the contrary, he looks quite rosy and
healthy-. CO2, carbon dioxide, does the
dusky-faced job by suffocating. Carbon
monoxide kills by displacing most of the
oxygen from the blood haemoglobin, and
combining with the latter to fix what
remains.
* * * $
“Oxmead”: Such popular syrqpathy as
may be left for Britain’s ex-King evi-
dently isn’t going to run to the extent
of Parliament voting him a handsome
income to spend in foreign countries or
anywhere else. It may be argued that
what the royal family may do for him
out of their collective pocket is their
own affair—and his. Still, the revenues
from such fixed sources as the Duchies
of Cornwall and Lancaster come from
the English people, and if royalty is
already so well off that it can afford a
munificent lump sum and pension for
the Duke of Windsor it is safe to pre-
diet that there will be repercussions
when the next Civil List comes before,
the House of Commons. The actual
income of the sovereign and his numer-
ous relatives, as far as it is furnished by
the nation, is given in books of reference,
but there is no publicity for his (or
their) private resources. Queen Vic-
toria was generally credited with having
saved a million or more during her long
reign. It is doubtful if Edward VII.
saved anything, but George V. probably
did much better. However, what for-
tunes any of them left and who bene-
fited thereby remain matters for specu-
lation, for British monarchs’ last wills
and testaments are not recorded at
Somerset House.
* * * *
“C. G. Salis”: I can’t think what made
“C. Mac” (B. 3/ 3 / ’37) pick on Grafton
(N.S.W.) as an example of a town un-
known “beyond its State borders.” I
doubt if there is another country town
of the same size in the Commonwealth
better known or better advertised. The
birthplace of the late Professor Grafton
Elliot Smith and of Dr. Earle Grafton
Page has for years had free boosting in
national pictorials as the “City Beauti-
ful,” the “City of Trees” and so forth.
The City Council is decidedly “tourist-
conscious,” and spends money freely in
advertising the beauties of the district.
The July racing carnival brings visitors
from far and wide, the Grafton Cup
being one of the outstanding provincial
races. Finally, the suggestion that Graf-
ton and Townsville (Q.) are “of like size"
is nonsense. Townsville’s population is
more than five times that of Grafton.
sss - $
“Marsh”: Neither “Bull” Allenby nor
“Bull” Ryrie would ever have roared at
hospital patients (B. 24/2/’37). But as
one who served under Allenby from
Gaza until the end of the war, I always
found him quiet and reserved except on
that day at Surafend after the Anzac
Mounted Division had taken the law into
their own hands. Then he was white-
hot with rage, and if his glare could
have killed most of us would have died
on the spot. As for “Bull” 'Ryrie, his
roar was just a musical joke.
* * ❖ *
“Dungeness”: City cavedwellers who
regard the Papuan native as an ignorant,
unprogressive savage will receive a
shock from the Administrator's latest
report. Papuans had gone in for flat-
life centuries before it was ever heard of
elsewhere. They build their flats in
trees, and design them better than we do,
for the men live on one floor and the
ladies on another. But don’t run away
with the idea that this arrangement inter-
feres with social life. Approaching a vil-
lage constable, a Papuan petitioner re-
quested a divorce from one of the ladies
who accompanied him, in order that he
might marry the other. As conclusive
evidence he tendered an exhibit, consist-
ing of a piece of string with nine knots
in it, representing the marital infideli-
ties of the respondent.
THESE KNIGHTLY DAYS.
To seats there are no vested rights
On my too-crowded morning tram,
But often I’m inclined to damn,
Finding so many filled by knights.
Incessant standing tends to jar,
And in my rude plebeian way
I sometimes think I’d like to say
That every knight should own a car.
And when my lunch I go to eat
Where food is sold at modest cost,
In silent wonder I am lost
That knights should keep me from a seat.
I do not like the fare so much—
I’d call it filling more than fine —
But it’s for incomes small as mine,
And knights, I think, should eat as such.
I stumble on them in the streets,
And if I travel by the train
My eyes are greeted once again
By knights monopolising seats.
They’re not the knights of whom one reads,
Yet, weary-legged, I wish they’d chance
To re-establish old romance
And take the road on prancing steeds.
VICTORIA.
O'FIPP.


For real quality Tobacco...
i • ■
and for your throat’s sake
i ■
I
smoke
ARE MADE
CRAVENA
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
20/0/T6
10 for 9 d
J
} ■+
s
I
MHli*
THIS GENERATI
POLITICAL POINTS
Geoffrey Tebbutt was present at the
Privy Council hearing of the Janies
case, and has set down his impressions
for Brisbane’s “Courier-Mail.” At one
stage counsel, some of whom were “on
refreshers of 100 guineas a day” (Mr. T.
needn’t have rubbed that in), mentioned
Queensland’s Peanut Board.
One of their Lordships found difficulty
in crediting the existence of such a body.
Had he heard aright? “Yes, m’Lord—
‘P-e-a-n-u-t.’ ” Their Lordships went on
with their hearing, wondering what sort of
board these Australians would create next.
Next? Mr. Lyons, for one, doesn’t
want to hear the blessed word again.
There is a significant moral in the en-
thusiasm of Queensland’s NO. Queens-
land has even board-encumbered N. S.
Wales licked to a frazzle in “organised”
or “orderly” marketing. It has more
compulsory pools and commodity boards
and levies and statutory regulations than
any other part of the world, not exclud-
ing Russia.
It looks as if the C.P. will have to do
its darnedest if it is going to catch up
with the effect of the marketing referen-
dum crash by election-time in December.
The Australian Agricultural Council,
Earle Page’s pet baby, is beyond repair,
and he will need to do a lot of explain-
ing to supporters who backed him and
the C.P. on the strength of it.
Page’s obstructive tactics after the
Scullin defeat and domineering after the
1934 election have stuck in political
memories, and the public hostility
evoked by the Country party Paterson
banning of Mrs. Freer is not likely to
be good electioneering stuff. Division
of the Commerce Department among no
fewer than four Ministers during the
Coronation jaunt is pretty significant of
the way Joseph and his merry men regard
the situation.
According to a speaker at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral “50,000 Sydney children will
be handicapped for the rest of their lives
because they are not being properly fed.”
Consumption of milk averages less than
half a pint a day, and in the poorer dis-
tricts less than quarter of a pint.
Half a million Sydney people voted
against extension of “marketing schemes”
like the one which, though supplier are
superabundant, has made milk so dear
that children can’t get enough. If the
Sydney Government doesn’t realise that
the vote in question was influenced by
utter abhorrence of the kind of milk con-
trol in which it feebly acquiesces, in
spite of the reports of its own royal com-
missions, so much the worse for it.
The Lyons crowd seem determined on
political suicide. Latest act on the way
is the appointment of Abbott as N.T.
Administrator. Apart from the ques-
tionable wisdom of a political appoint-
ment to such a job and in the face of
strong protest from the locality most to
be affected, it leaves Gwydir facing a
by-election at a time when the Govern-
ment is on the peak of a range of
mountainous blunders. The late holder
won the seat by a whisker in 1925, was
outed in 1929, won on the second count
in 1931 and won again in the general
swing of 1934. Last time an Adminis-
trator’s job was found for the holder
of a chancy seat —McNicoll, sent to New
Guinea —Werriwa electors gave the seat
to Labor.
At Labor Daily Newspaper Company’s
annual meeting in Brisbane it was given
out that the now defunct “Daily Stand-
ard” lost £135,885 up to December, 1936.
Forgan Smith, maker of State deficits
proportionately greater than those of
any other Australian Government, was
re-elected to the directorate. And what
could be more appropriate?
The Great Minds of the U.A.P. are
now concentrating on reform.
During a discussion on pre-selection at
a meeting of the U.A.P. Council in Sydney
members urged that there should be an
“open go” for safe seats. No decision was
reached.
An “open go” for safe seats, and no
decision is reached! How delightfully
characteristic of the U.A.P.!
Alone among Country-party poli-
ticians, Mclntosh, of S.A., opposed the
marketing question, and now he has the
“The Indian Congress (Nationalist) party scored heavily at the first provincial elections
held since the Government of India Bill was passed. The party demands independence.
“Anything more 1 can do for you, sir?”
“Bring me the other bottle.”
laugh on all the others. He is Butler’s
Commissioner of Crown Lands, and he
has many fruitgrowers for constituents.
After a report that “the Warringah
Federal Electoral Conference had en-
dorsed the candidature” of Parkhill for
the next Federal elections, “S. M.
Herald” published a letter from “a dele-
gate” insisting that “the Warringah
Federal Electoral Conference is defunct.’
It bears a realistic resemblance to Aus-
tralia’s defence.
There were innocents abroad in
Queensland during the referendum cam-
paign, and the jesting pioneer had a
great time with their legs. Maher,
leader of what is left of the State Oppo-
sition, which now calls itself Country
party —it has had half a dozen other
labels —went on a “tour of the country’
and “found the producers concerned
practically unanimous for the orderly-
marketing methods which would be pos-
sible only if the referendum were car-
ried. Other Country-party members
reported that the same thing existed
wherever they had been.” Queensland
farming electorates cast enormous
majorities against “orderly - marketing
methods.”
Though secession is as dead as Qesar’s
cat, secessionists are still furnishing
Westralians with food for mirth. They
fell out over the marketing question,
the country chaps being for and the
city chaps against. Now each faction is
snarling that it will never be seen in
the same paddock again with so incon-
sistent a mob as the other.
Sydney “D.T.” suggests that Britain
should make a triple alliance of the
Franco-Russian pact. It looks a sure
way of buying a war on two fronts with
Germany and Japan, but the “D.T.” is
convinced that France has derived un-
specified advantages from its arrange-
ment with the Reds (perhaps one of them
is the loss of it's influence on Belgian
policy) and that the Reds are for peace.
It begins to be suspected that some of
these newspapers actually believe the
foreign “news” they print.
Scene: Aus. National Airways ’plane
ready to take off for Melbourne. Trade-
diverter Gullett arrives, bolting from
Cabinet meeting at which he “dramati-
cally resigned.”
Attendant: “We are sorry about it,
sir, but we hope it’s all for the best.”
Gullett : “Thanks ; I’m sure it is.”
By request chorus will shout its part
softly; one cyclone a week is enough.
Anthony Eden has been surveying the
“troubled” world and has “found com-
fort” in the thought that “over the vast
area where the flag of the United States
flies there, are great peace-loving and
progressive influences at work.” Yes,
and the U.S.A. has no connection with
the platitude factory at Geneva, and
doesn’t allow Liberian and Mexican
delegates to vote it into “sanctions” or
war. It stands aloof from the. squabbles
of Europe, its attitude to Europe having
been defined by Washington in three
words: “No entangling alliances.”
Keen on the scent of the Sugar Con-
ference that eluded him on his last over-
seas jaunt, Forgan Smith is making his
latest trip by air—bill to the usual
address. The flop of his YES campaign
—NO majority 100,000-odd —would be
excuse enough for leaving the scene by
rocket.
Lyons cheerily announces that “migra-
tion within the Empire” will be discussed
at the Imperial Conference. According
to the Overseas Trade Department Brit-
ish employment has “achieved a new
record.” New defence programmes, slum
clearance and other works are expected
to “diminish the numbers of unemployed
appreciably.” Also, the natural increase
in British population is down to .47 p.c.,
and the army is so hard up for recruits
that it is fantastically proposed that these
might be got in the Dominions. What the
Imperial Conference may enjoy talking
about is where the immigration is to
come from?
This was deserved:
That comment on John Evans (B. 3/ 3 / ’37) is
not quite correct. Nat. member for Franklin
for many years and Speaker for Lewis, Lee
and McPhee at various times but not for
Premier Ogilvie. Ex-Senator D. J. O’Keefe
has that job.
The C.P. can get such comfort as it
may from the fact that Labor’s choice
for the Gwydir by-election is a Lang
follower —W. J. Scully. But Scully is
no mean opponent. He represented
Namoi in the State House 1923-32,
and has been president of the Tamworth
A.L.P. for almost two decades, and presi-
dent of the New England Federal Labor
Council.
Kenneth Lindsay, a British Ministerial
visitor, has discovered that there is too
much legislation in Australia and too
many professional politicians. He must
be a candidate for one of the Rocke-
feller awards for original research.
“W.8.W.” recalls:
On his way back to N. S. Wales from Tas-
mania, where he had been conducting the final
rallies for YES—6O,OOO to the bad—Page sug-
gested that the only way to get popular approval
of amendments to the Constitution is to have
them prepared by a convention elected for that
purpose. It is far from being a novel idea—
to Tasmania, anyway. Ex-Senator Keating
long ago submitted such a proposal to the
Senate, and in and out of Parliament has since
consistently urged it. Dubbed by earner
opponents Keating’s Konstitutional Konvention,
it has increasingly engaged serious attention,
especially in Keating’s old constituency, Tas-
mania. Doubtless Page learnt that during his
recent fruitless campaign in the Apple Isle.
[Any referendum matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


THE BITER BIT.
If the animal and insect kingdom did to humans what humans in their hunting, fishing and shooting do to animals and birds, what would be the outcome?” —A novelist.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Idle Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Aecident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST"
Write ior full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
The Lore of -
- the Lyrebird
The third edition of Ambrose Pratt’s
delightful book describing—and picturing
with sixteen illustrations—the life and habits
of this unique and entertaining Australian
artist will be published shortly by
Robertson & Mullens Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne,
who have acquired the rights previously
held by the Endeavour Press.
plus 2d. postage.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
, £1,250,000
1,250,000
. _ , _ £1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. •• • 1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •• •• *
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.) n-t OOO
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£l,2au,uu
Also 106 Branches and Agencies m |outh Ausgah*
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET,
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit £*" ed { ° m abroa d
America and elsewhere. BiU j
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Short and active, J. J. Leahy, Brisbane
City Coroner, who is to conduct the in-
quiry into the death of the Stinson aero-
plane crash victims, is certain to make a
thorough job of it—he is thorough in
everything. Coming originally from
Roma (W.Q.), he started off in the courts
as a deposition clerk, became, the first
Children’s Court magistrate in Queens-
land and in 1933 was promoted to the
metropolitan Bench.
One of the most brilliant law passes
of recent years in Melbourne stands to
the. credit of T. R. Blarney, son of
former Police Commissioner Thomas
Blarney, the A.l.F.’s Chief of Staff. The
younger Blarney has won the Supreme
Court Judges’ prize, which is worth £125,
and the E. J. B. Nunn scholarship, worth
£6O.
If Melbourne University’s new Profes-
sor of Physical Education, Dr. Fritz
Duras, young and fit, with a lively
sense of humor, hadn’t had a Jewish
grandfather, he would still be director
FRITZ DURAS.
of physical culture at the Uniyersity of
Freiburg in Germany’s Black Forest. He
will lecture on the anatomy of bodily
exercise to teachers interested in physi-
cal culture.
Returned from London with a bride,
T. P. Fry, Queensland’s only practising
doctor of laws and son of a Digger
optician who took part in the occupation
of German New Guinea and afterwards
became M.L.A. for a S. Brisbane elec-
torate and Deputy Speaker of the Leg.
Assembly during the Moore regime. Fry,
junior, went to Magdalen College,
Oxford, on a Foundation travelling
scholarship, took a law doctorate at Har-
vard on another scholarship, and also
won a Sheldon Research Fellowship and
the diploma of Hague Academy of Inter-
national Law. He is 32.
A. J. Marshall, a Sydney man, is
organising the latest expedition to New
Guinea under the auspices of Oxford
University. Sponsored by a committee,
which includes H. G. Wells and Julian
Huxley, its personnel will include
Humphrey Spender, brother of the Mt.
Everest climber, and its veteran will be
a 26-year-old tennis-player, Gandar
Dower, who amuses himself between sets
taming cheetahs. The party intends to
tackle the high and difficult mountain
country along the Dutch border. Mar-
shall has already done some good work
in exploring sections of the Torricelli
Range in Aitape District of the Man-
dated N.G.
Exit, well over threescore and ten,
Joseph Hocking, English land surveyor,
Nonconformist parson and writer. For
45 years he consistently turned out at
least one novel a year, beginning with
Jabez Easterbrook (1891) and ending
with Deep Calleth Deep (1936). The
veteran was active to the last; his
recreations last year included golf and
tennis.
“A.E.W.”: Reference to Geo. G.
Butler (B. 3/3/’37) reminds me that
James Dear, of Hobart, has been chas-
ing cost's since 1880, and is still to be
found at his table at 9.15 every morn-
ing. An enthusiastic mountaineer, he
had climbed all the ranges round Hobart,
particularly the Wellington Range, long
before there were any roads or even
tracks. Possessor earlier of a really fine
tenor voice he still sings well in the vil-
lage choir. His musical talent runs into
the third generation: Shirley Paton, a
granddaughter, has just secured a big
musical scholarship in Melbourne.
The Church of England Men’s Society
has picked its Australian founder to
write its history. Richard Ruegg gives
most of the time he can spare from his
fruit farm to the affairs of the C.E.M.S.
He comes of a family which gave Eng-
land several generations of newspaper-
men, some of whom are on papers in
Australia. In turning to authorship at
over 70, he follows a family custom. His
cousin, who is a British County Court
Judge, and one of the very few surviving
counsel who appeared on the Parnell
Commission, began writing novels at 78,
and is still at it in his middle eighties.
Brisbane loses one of its most pic-
turesque figures through the death of
William McGregor, Laird of Latheron-
wheel. McGregor was a Scot with a
proper adoration for bagpipes and
tartans, skean-dhus and haggis. He
came from Scotland in 1888 in the
Quetta, and got a job helping to driye
the Brunswick-street railway tunnel in
Brisbane. Then he went to Central
Queensland, shore for the Camerons,
settled down in Brisbane with his sav-
ings and eventually became a director
of a number of big businesses, including
the Castlemaine-Perkins Brewery. A few
years ago he returned to Scotland for
a trip and bought Latheronwhee.l, on the
Atlantic coast, including a fishing village
and the land on which he worked as a
shepherd boy in his youth.
“M. Turlutu”: India’s present Viceroy,
the Marquess of Linlithgow, whose
hopes for a contented India under auto-
nomous Provincial Legislatures and, next,
Federation must have received a severe
setback from the overwhelming majority
the other day for the anti-British Con-
gress party, is no stranger to Australia.
Son of Lord Hopetoun, Governor of
Victoria in the ’eighties-nineties and first
G.-G. of the Commonwealth, he spent
several years of his early youth in Mel-
bourne. Two maternal uncles, the De
Moleyns, made an attempt to raise coffee
near Cairns (N.Q.). He has a num-
ber of other Australian relatives. An
able man, Lord Linlithgow has given his
best years to the betterment of India’s
submerged millions. On royal commis-
sions, round-table conferences, Parlia-
mentary committees and in the House he
spent years of conscientious work before
becoming Viceroy.
A. E. Kitson, noted geologist, has
passed on in London 51 years from
when he entered the Victorian civil ser-
vice. Among his jobs with the Vic.
Geological Department was the first
detail survey of the State’s coal resources.
Later he went to the Gold Coast of
Africa, and did important work there
until his retirement in 1930. At one
time president of the Geologists’ Asso-
ciation, he attended dozens of world
conferences, and there were few parts of
the world he had not explored on his
travels. He was knighted in 1927.
“Lay Figure”: Frank Rinder, who has
died in London, had the longest term of
all advisers to the Felton Bequest —from
1918 to 1928. He was an art writer with
early experience of Scottish galleries and
painting groups. In his time, there were
periodical changes of policy by the
Felton Bequest Committee and the
National Gallery trustees on such points
as schools and individual artists to be
represented; whether the collection
should consist of many specimens of
“museum” type or of comparatively few
high-priced works ; and as to the extent
to which old and modern masters should
be considered. Rinder’s early view
tended toward “museum” choice —“the
cumulative effect of sound, if unspecta-
cular, purchases.” He twice visited
Australia.
Melbourne “Herald’s” young pictorial
editor, Gordon Jenkins, is off to London
to spend six months looking into the
latest arts of photographic Fleet-street.
Jenkins started as a boy in the pictorial
department of the Auckland (M.L.)
“Herald” and came to Australia late in
’33 to join the Melbourne “Star” (dec.).
When Keith Murdoch grabbed him for
the “Herald” in ’35, he was the “Star’s”
pictorial editor.
With his snow-white hair and his
tanned countenance. Captain J. V.
Millett, who is visiting Australia, is a
fine advertisement for the healthfulness
of a sea dog’s life. He was bred to the
CUTTY SARK RELIC.
sea in the days when there was still
weevil in the biscuit and a wild bite in
the rum, though he had not much use
for the latter. His proudest memory is
that he served in the Cutty Sark, of
whose crews he is the last survivor.
Australia is shortly to have a visit
from Sergei Vassilievitch Rachmaninoff,
the great Russian composer and about
the best pianist produced by that country
in the past half-century. His native land
has seen little or nothing of him for a
very long time. He wanders backwards
and forwards between Europe and
U.S.A., conducting and playing his own
compositions, which have become classics
during his lifetime.
Born at a Kentish hop garden, edu-
cated at Maidstone, E. P. Bennett,
manager of the N. S. Wales branch of
Hecla, Ltd., electrical appliance manufac-
turers, finished an engineering course at
Tunbridge (Eng.) in time to take a com-
BENNETT, OF HECLA.
mission in the Royal Flying Corps early
in the war. When the fighting was over
he became the world representative of
a group of Birmingham firms, and
rounded the globe three times. If there
was a revolution due anywhere, he was
there in time, for it'. He witnessed the
Fascist coup and watched the early post-
war upheavals in Portugal and Spain.
Twelve years ago he decided that Aus-
tralia was the ideal home for a peaceful
man, and he has been here ever since.
His hobby is deep-sea fishing.
Dion Calthrop, passed on in England
at 59, was one of the most charming and
versatile of men ; he seemed able to turn
his hand to anything. His father (stage
name John Clayton) belonged to a
dynastic theatrical family descended
from a country squire, one of whose
granddaughters became the mother of
a Lord Chief Justice, Lord Alverstone.
Calthrop’s mother was a Boucicault,
daughter of the original Dion and sister
to Nina and Dion the Second, who
shared Melbourne Bijou with Robert
Brough for 10 years before 1896, com-
ing back to Australia in 1923 with “Mr.
Pirn Passes By,” “His House in Order”
and “Aren’t We All?” Calthrop began
life as an artist, studying at Julian’s
and Calorossi’s. In the war he was with
the. Royal Naval Reserve; then he turned
a graceful hand to writing and produced
a number of novels, books on English
costume, an autobiography, books of
essays and numerous plays in collabora-
tion with Granville Barker and others.
“El V.” on a pending retirement:
If Stanley Baldwin takes a peerage when he
retires from the Prime Ministership, he will
break a habit affected by British Prime Minis-
ters. A son of Gladstone allowed himself to be
made a peer, but the old man himself, though
his father was a baronet, had not a single order
or decoration to show for his 89 years of work.
Neither had Joe Chamberlain. Bpth were Privy
Councillors, but dozens of junior Australian
civil servants have more gauds to show. Austen
Chamberlain went so far as to take a ICG., a
rare distinction for a commoner. Lloyd George
might have had himself made a marquess when
he retired, but the O.M. and a Grand Cordon
of the Legion of Honor are all he has to hang
about him on ceremonial occasions. Baldwin
so far has followed the Gladstone tradition,
as have all his family, who could have bought
titles a dozen times over. In the present genera-
tion, only Asquith failed in the rule set up by
commoner Premiers since the days of Beacons-
field.


Why isn’t THIS man
using a rope ?
★
Because lie doesrit need one
-andall the heller for lhat!
/v >^
When a thing reaches a high objective by
virtue of its own natural qualities, artificial
aid is superfluous. The refined pure petrol in
Super Shell gives the best anti-knock per-
formance on this market ... without needing
the addition of any extra ingredient. It derives .
its anti-knock leadership, as it derives its leader-
ship in all other petrol qualities, from use of
the rarest, most powerful crudes in the world, *
refined by the most advanced scientific methods
of refining.
The only crystal-clear super petrol... the most
advanced anti-knock spirit in the world... a
jump ahead of all other super petrols.
The PETROL ITSELF in Super Shell excels in
every quality-knockless performance as well
as easiest starting, fastest acceleration, least
petrol-cost per mile, and surging powerful top-
gear performance that less modern petrols
cannot approach.
t
SIQ6H
THE SHELL COMPANY of AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INCORPORATED IN GREAT BRITAIN).


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Coral”: When
we anchored in
Popham Bay (N.T.)
Mingiemingie and
his brother Jere-
miah entered the
usual race up the
iron stays for the
stick of trade
tobacco. The first-
named won easily
and dived into the
sea. When Jeremiah
reached the. post he
glanced over the
side and saw a big
shark chasing his
brother close to the
lugger. Fie yelled
“Look out, my
brother, ‘wamba’
come for you! ”
then jumped on to
the brute’s back,
from nearly 40ft. up. The shark van-
ished and the “boys” climbed aboard.
Five minutes later I could hear them
fighting over a lubra named Jessie.
« * * *
“Captain Pintle” : The “Marine Obser-
ver,” a severely official British publication
dealing with technical sea matters, re-
cords several sea-serpents. The last was
sighted from the Port Bowen, Fremantle
to Perim, on February 2, 1935, in 6' 35"
south lat. and 68' 18" east longitude. The
nearest land was Chagos Archipelago,
170 miles away. Visibility was good and
the sea slight. The reptile was sighted
300 yards away, one point abaft the
beam on the starboard side, travelling
s.-w. at about two knots. Its head was
raised about two feet above the surface
and its whole length was visible above
water; color, dirty yellow, with brown
markings. It had no fins, but progressed
by wriggling. On reaching the wake it
dived from sight. Much stranger crea-
tures have remained unreported by watch-
officers for fear their sobriety or sanity
be doubted by skipper or marine super-
intendent, or both.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: One of the best-known
of shearers’ cooks has baked his last
batch ; the “singing cook” will no more
amuse the bagmen who called for a
handout at the shed where he was cook-
ing.
There’s the axe and there’s the wood,
Fol-di diddle-di do,
was his chant in answer to the bag-
man’s request. After a few minutes’ toil
on the woodheap the bagman would get
his cue as, with head poked out the
kitchen window, the “singing cook”
would chant: —■
When you think you’ve chopped enough,
Hop inside and get some duff.
Fol-di diddle-di do.
* * *
“Bufo”: This queer season of isolated
patches of drought between areas, of
heavy rain in coastal S. Qld. and northern
N.S.W. is puzzling to more than meteor-
ologists. The sea-mullet, for example,
have started their northward migration
two months and more earlier than usual.
The green parrakeets, whose presence
fishermen regard as an indication of the
early arrival of mullet, have been climb-
ing upside-down amongst the feathery
beach oaks weeks before one usually sees
their flashing squadrons gleaming in the
sunlight. Great flocks of black swans
have come in from the west country to
ride gracefully on the ripples of sheltered
channels and inlets about Moreton Bay
and Bribie Passage. Ants are tremen-
dously active, for some hidden reason of
their own, although it is not until well
on in May that they put on the final
spurt to make things ready for winter.
It’s on the cards that something unusual
will ha n oen so' - "- ; n the ,T "*ather fine.
;!: * * #
“Colon”: rust memories of the
poisonous efforts of a shed hand with a
stove made us ruthless, and we prised
the cook and the pub-bar apart and de-
“Stick around, Doris. I only got t ’ sweep this street an then I'll
take y' for a run."
posited the former at the shed 40 miles
from his attachment', with a thirst that
had been only tickled. Next morning
the yeast bottle was drained in an effort
to moisten the arid area, and when he.
asked me for my boot-polish I handed
it over unsuspectingly. Mixing up the
contents in a cup of hot water, he swal-
lowed the mixture before I woke up to
the. idea. “What does it taste like?” I
asked him. “Not too bad,” he said ;
“but I like the tan stuff better —it’s got
more of a kick.”
# * * *
“Skull Creek”: There are disadvan-
tages attached to the swilling of sardine
oil in between beers to preserve
sobriety (B. 17/2/’37). Apart from
the bother of carting 20 or 30 tins
round on a Saturday afternoon there
is always the danger of losing the tin-
opener or forgetting to observe the
one-beer-one-oil routine until it is too
late. If “Dipso” waits until he is well
and truly sprung and then swallows
about a pint of ice-cream, he can have
a really enjoyable afternoon and then
go home to face the strife without a
wobble in his walk or speech. If this
recipe fails, I’ll pay the cost of his next
outing—sardines thrown in.
“ Walkagee ”: Favorite method of
sobering-up in parts of South Gippsland
(Vic.) is to boil tender young bracken
frondules in water containing bicar-
bonate of soda and feed them to the
alcoholic until he can hold no more.
Another method, not quite so popular,
is to soak a pull-through in axle-grease
and haul it up and down the roysterer’s
throat. The city booze artist’s headache
tablets and bromo-seltzer are poor stuff
in effectiveness beside either of those
bush recipes.
* * * *
“Eureka”: The nurse having told the
cocky’s wife that she should have a good
drink of water before feeding her baby,
the cocky reckoned the same should
apply to cows. So before each morning
and afternoon milking the cows were
driven to the creek. He reckons the milk
yield was increased by 5 p.c.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Recent gales have
strewn S. Qld. beaches with hundreds
of tons of cunjevoi, torn loose from the
shallow rocky bottoms by breaking seas.
Technically, the leathery, squirting lumps
are a giant ascidian; biologically they
are a dreadful example of stodgy adult
idleness supervening on an active and
promising youth. As larvae they are free-
swimming creatures with a real spinal
cord and all the attributes of a vertebrate
animal. Indeed, they might have de-
veloped even further than has the crea-
ture — originally from ancient warm,
shallow seas which has become man,
complete with blister-gas and Mills
bombs for the betterment of the world.
But they are destitute of purpose. The
young cunjevoi settles down in colonies,
develops a leathery hide, lets its muscles
degenerate into a jelly, and does nothing
but eat. Except that it reproduces its
kind on an immense scale, it rather re-
sembles city flat-dwellers.
* . * * *
“Confucius”: Shark on the menu, eh?
One species, the gummy, is not too bad
—but the others! Even the fiddler or
banjo shark, which is eaten by abos., has
a taste and a cell-like flesh formation
that decidedly are not inviting. As for
the other sorts, the ones with sandpaper
hides well, anyone who could relish
their dark, coarse flesh would be able
to appreciate a steak off a patriarchal
billygoat,
* * * - =l=
“C.V.S.”: A striking example of soil-
erosion is provided by the few square
miles of country surrounding Queens-
town (Tas.). To-day it is bare, in strik-
ing contrast to the. densely-wooded moun-
tain valleys near by, but before the de-
velopment of Mt. Lyell mine it was
virgin forest. Woodcutters, getting fuel
for the mine furnaces, started the de-
nudation ; fumes from the mine killed
remaining foliage, and bushfires re-
peatedly swept through the dead forest,
wiping it' right out. Then a rainfall of
over 10ft. per year carried the soil from
the steep slopes to the ocean via the
King River, leaving an area of fantastic,
sharply-peaked hills. There is one com-
pensation: despite the heavy rainfall at
Queenstown there is no mud —because
there is no soil.
* * * *
“Notaden”: “Anthropo” may be right
in his statement (B. 24/ 2/ ’37) that Binghi
epicures have an antipathy against self-
bitten snakes, but he is wrong in his
reason for it. First, a snake is immune
against its own venom. Next, snake
venom cannot gain entrance to the blood-
stream through a decayed tooth or a
gastric ulcer. Snake venom can be swal-
lowed with complete safety by humans ;
the acid gastric juices immediately
coagulate and break up the complex pro-
teins which confer the poisonous attri-
butes. In the fresh state, at any rate,
snake venoms are very delicate and un-
stable chemical combinations. It is
very doubtful whether the customary
first-aid warning against sucking an in-
cised bite. if one has a cut or sore about
the lips or mouth has any sound basis
of fact. All venom not conveyed away
by the blood or lymph circulation com-
bines very rapidly with the local tissues.
* * * *
“The Moucher”: “Lucerne Flea’s”
friend had his technique all wrong when
grabbing hares by the ears (B. 3/3/'37).
It is an old professional poacher’s trick,
and after circling round until within
reach a one-fisted grip is taken of puss
across the haunches. This is instan-
taneous, whereas the ears, laid flat along
the back, would take time to gather up.
Never heard of a hare, biting, but a
whack with the hind legs across wrists
or knuckles can hurt, especially on a
cold morning.
* * * *
“V.A.G.”: Proof of Reynard’s sweet
tooth is his habit of trailing anyone fall-
ing bees’ nests in the bush and cleaning up
the honey, wax and brood that are left.
In this he has been a blessing to com-
mercial apiarists, removing a breeding-
ground for “foul brood” and other dis-
eases.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Quite right
about vi-vi (B. 24/2/’37) taking the tails
off horses in Fiji. When my Uncle
Reginald presented King Thakambau
with an expensive Clydesdale as a
royal charger for his colonelship of the
Cannibal Cavalry in 1867, the silly
animal got into a patch of vi-vi the night
before the first review, and became, so
utterly bald that it had to be handed
over to the Commissariat Department as
a substitute for the day’s rations. There
is a similar plant in New Guinea, known
to the. Damliah tribes as “yubee-ell.”
Traversing a jungle in which it was
prevalent, I lost my cavalry moustache
clear down to the roots, and even my
uniform brushes were cleared of bristles.
But dear old Wottawoppa got his boss
medicine man busy, and I reached Port
Moresby with an all-over growth which
swallowed up all the profits of the ex-
pedition in barber’s charges.
* .* * *
“Reppo”: A dinkum fish yarn comes
from Deniliquin (N.S.W.), where, when
a youth hauled out a 561 b. cod by the
tail, it was found that the fish had also
been hooked in the top of the mouth,
the hook, with a piece of the broken
line attached, being still embedded. In
its struggles the cod’s tail had evidently
struck another hook on the line, and it
was then caught at both head and tail.
Its teeth severed the line attached to the
hook in the mouth, but the one in the
tail held.
* * * *
“Bundeena”: Touching on “Ah
Sam’s” method of catching perch (B.
17/2/’37), I’ve seen an ingenious method
of capturing groper and drummer which
was also credited to Chinese origin. A
large slab of flat cork is drilled in a circle
of about eight inches in diameter' and
about 20 large hooks are fastened
through the holes with all their barbs
facing inward. In the clear space be-
tween the hooks half a loaf of very
stale bread is secured, and the cork,
bread downwards, is then floated on the
surface over the reef. Small particles of
bread break off and slowly sink, and the
fish soon follow these to their source.
Nibbling at the fastened loaf causes the
cork to bob around, and very soon the
fish has foul-hooked itself on the dangling
circle. The chap I saw at the game had
collected eight nice fish from a dozen
corks and still had another dozen to
visit.
*■* * *
“Walkabout”: “Valerih’s” damper (B.
24/2/’37) lacked the finishing touch.
After I’ve rolled my damper out .of the
ashes and blown off the dust I wipe all
over with a bit of paper dipped in fat
kangaroo’s if there’s not the fat of some-
one else’s mutton about. Result is a
crust that even a gummy can masticate.
* * * *
“Hanko”: “When I was sweating in
the Manahiki Group,” narrated Copra
Carlos, “I had a houseboy who had a
habit of biting into things and, if he
didn’t like their flavor, leaving them
heavily tooth-indented. Toilet soap,
toothpaste, candles, tobacco, etc., wer j
some of the items he had masticated and
discarded, but' the day he bit through
my pet fountain-pen I lost patience, left
a detonator on my dressing-table — and
went out. That boy never toothed a
thing after that, and he seemed to appre-
ciate the detonator joke, too. Anyway,
he was wearing a lopsided grin, he
was still wearing it when I planted him
deep under a barren coconut-palm.
I FOLLOW THE PLOUGH.
I follow the plough in the morning:
Down by the river and over the lea,
The sun turns the water to wavering gold,
I smell the cut grass in the newly-turned
mould,
I hear the loud song of a lark in the sky,
And over the range where the dark trees stand
high
There blows a cold breeze with the tang of
the sea.
And I see great steamers
Pridefully glide
Out from blue harbors
On a full tide,
Spume in the scuppers,
Foam at the prow,
While I follow and follow
And toil at the plough.
I follow the plough in the noontide:
The long furrow lies on the earth like a scar,
Backwards and forwards, forward and back,
I plod through the warmth in the widening
track;
I hear the wind’s voice in the kurrajong-trees,
The buzzing of flies and the droning of bees.
And, clear above all else, the moan of the
bar.
And I see the sea-kings
Drive into the bay,
Steeds of white harnessed
To chariots grey ;
I hear the sea-winds
That mutter and sough
While I follow and toil in
The wake of the plough.
I follow the plough in the evening:
Over the last slope the tired horses strain,
The sun has gone down and the skylark is
mute,
Long stilled is the blackbird’s melodious flute.
“Up to the farmyard now, Benjy and Bill!”
There’s a sickle moon set on the brow of the
hill,
And it looks on the sea as it looks on the
plain.
Ay! the world’s wideness
Is for those who sail
Out from blue harbors
On a sea trail . . .
The fire’s warm with comfort
Behind the black bars,
But I follow and follow
The track of the stars.
N.S.W.
TROY.


“Groper”: We were doing 40 along a
country road, self in sidecar, when a big
kangaroo-dog charged from a farm gate
right up to our machine, then swerved,
its tail sticking out like a rudder. The
bike was chain-driven, without a guard,
and inside a split second chain and tail
connected, with a minus result to tail.
Owner reckoned the dog was ruined;
that he'd never be able to turn sharp
after 'roo or rabbit again.
* * * *
“Mandurah”: The Muggins of the
party had driven a No. 10 hook well into
his thumb and was beseeching someone
to get busy with a pocket-knife when the
skipper took a hand. Snipping the line
so that the hook stood alone in the flesh,
he bent the line to a loose loop, slipped
it over the shank and let it find its own
place on the bend of the hook. A sharp
jerk and the hook was out, and without
any tearing of the flesh. “Somebody
worked it out,” the skipper explained,
“that pulling with a loop just at the right
spot on the turn of the hook draws the
barb out exactly along the same line as
it entered.” Try it, anglers, next time!
*.* * *
“Horsetailer”: Our droving cook had
his own way of treating ants. On camp
he would simply carry several shovelfuls
from one nest and deposit them on an-
other, announcing “That'll keep’em busy
for to-night, anyway!” It always did.
* * * *
“Wandi”: The highest-valued indigen-
ous animal in the Commonwealth for
zoo purposes is the Tasmanian tiger. A
few still exist in the jungle-clad western
ranges, but naturalists reckon that in
another decade or so the species will
have disappeared. For that reason
tempting rewards have been offered for
pairs, so that the animal might be bred
in captivity and thus saved from extinc-
“Your boy deserved the cane for hitting me with his catapult /”
“ E’d deserve un if ’e missed ’ee, boay!”
tion. But in its last stronghold it is diffi-
cult to capture alive. A peculiar feature
is its long, stiff tail, which tapers gradu-
ally from the back of the body and can’t
be wagged. The beast is not considered
dangerous, even when cornered ; its only
points of resemblance to a tiger are the
stripes on the hindquarters.
“Dolly Pot”: Miners at Tennant Creek
have been complaining that water costs
12s. the hundred gallons. In ’95 on
W.A.’s eastern goldfields the same splash
of moisture would have made them
cough up £25, or go without. That was
why hardy pioneers contracted the habit
of taking it neat; water only added to
H.C.L. Here are a few bedrock
quotes from storekeepers when a rush
was starting out: Heavy boots, £5 a
pair . bread, 2s . 6d. the 21b. loaf ; lemons,
2s each . chaff> £m a (on And n 0
radio to solace the nightwatches or
’plane to look up lost reefs.
. .
* * * *
“Elvesey”: Stingrays do not secrete a
poison on their barb, despite many in-
\ c ’ * * . f.
stances of poisoning from their stings.
There is a poison there, and a virulent
one a t that, but it is putrescing organic
mntfpr Rottpn nvpnnip matfpn
™ ter y Kotten Olgame matter, espec.
ally nitrogenous, is a natural poison.
One. tribe of South American natives
killed apes and left them to rot, and
when putrefaction was well advanced
arrows were dipped in the remains. In
the gentle relaxation of war these arrows
wer e remarkably efficient,
* * * *
T ~ , , fxxT A x
, W ;J; W -, :0n a l ® elm ?, nt ,f^A ) pr ° p '
fjt cteriar and bricked"
loc f ls st y™P ecl - . Jt 1S circular and bucked,
and mamtums m surface dimensions to
he bottom ' T . h f B™ nd >s.loose and
treacherous, and to sink any depth with-
out walling is impossible, so it must
have been bricked from the top down-
wards. But how?
* * * *
“Billy Ba”: If the season’s good and
rams fit and fresh, a man only has to
bend down to pick something up off the
ground and—well, that’s a target no real
ram can resist. A bent head is also a
powerful inducement. When a man is
classing a ram in the yard, bending over
and opening it's fleece down its ribs, the
top of his head is a distinct challenge
which the ram is very likely to accept,
especially if the man’s hat falls off and
reveals a bald head. It’s a moral cert,
that the ram will dive straight at the
glistening dome.
* * * *
• „ T , i . .
. Cooramin: Ive known constant
bush wand f rers pumpkin,
“™*. ™ elon “d other seeds near
camping places, thus ensuring a supply
of vegetables when they worked round
that way months afterwards. One chap,
who became known as Pumpkin Paddy,
had over 100 such “gardens” scattered
about the Balonne, Condamine and
Warrego. Paddy particularly liked
potatoes, and would carry small ones and
even thick peel in a billy for sowing,
About the Richmond (N.S.W.) wild
lemon-trees grow in many unexpected
places. To old hands they are known
as the Parson’s lemons, after Rev. A. C.
Selwyn, who used to travel on horse-
back from Grafton to Casino and along
bush tracks to stations and selections.
He always carried citrus seeds in his
pockets, and here and there sowed a
couple by river or creek as a “comfort
for future travellers.”
“Warrigal”: On the wallaby, three of
us, camped near some dead timber to
facilitate the firewood problem, had just
bunked down, when one sat up grizzling
about a wog crawling into his ear. As
he speared it with a piece of wire a fall-
“shoo!"
ing branch skewered the spot where he
had been lying, and he insisted on our
tramping through to the next green
timber before settling down again. The
cockies had rung every bit of that land-
scape for the next 10 miles, but a howl-
ing gale blocked us from tossing the
towel in and chancing it. The stuff was
coming down on every side. About four
in the morning we cleared the dead-
timber country and dumped our swags
in a nice little green cattle-camp. Half
an hour later the noise of chopping
woke us, and a cocky approached with
his Kelly over his shoulder. “Sorry to
wake you coves up,” he apologised, “but
I’ve been trying to get a chance to ring
this bit of timber for years!”
* * * *
“B. Rumby”: Tell those blokes who
periodically run scrubbers on paper that
taking ’em in circles, relays and suchlike
is up to putty. There’s only one way
to get wild stuff —turn ’em! The wilder
they are the quicker they drop their
bundles. That applies to all classes of
stock, from goats to camels, from
brumby horses to scrubber cattle —even
to dingoes, ’roos and emus. The golden
rule is: Get' on ’em quick; flurry ’em;
yell; laugh ; crack the whip, and wheel
’em quick. If a man can’t do that he
might as well go home and play marbles
unless he’s got an extra-good horse under
him' and the stuff he’s running is of
poor stamina.
$ •$;. % i{c
“Bray Rock”: One of our bold and
hardy old salts who specialise in pub-
trawling at holiday times has struck a
new stretch of good bottom. Any fish-
minded visitor can be depended on to
inquire the, weather prospects from any-
thing that looks the part of a real fishy-
bloke. In a deep, confidential voice,
Flathead Bill answers: “Well, sir, me
trouble is that me old wireless ’as gorn
wrong, an’ it’ll cost me a dollar an’ a
’arf to put it right, so I can’t get the
weather reports reg’lar. An’ a bloke’s
got t’ think uv ’is wife and kids ’fore ’e
risks ’is life, ’specially wiv the price er
fish like wot it is these ’ere days.” It
works three out of five times ; always
for a drink. One sympathiser was so
touched that he sent him a second-hand
wireless set as well, which brought 30
bob.
“A. Propos”: Yes, I have heard about
the eaglehawk that got away with a
man’s swag, yet in many years in the
far west of Queensland I never saw one
of those birds carry anything heavier than
a light lunch for his youngsters. The
eaglehawk measures anything from seven
to eight feet across his wingspread,
weighs about 441 b. and has a compara-
tively poor carrying capacity. While
kangaroo-shooting out that way, I often
sidelined a fiver’s worth of the claws at
one shilling a pair, but never in all my
travels have I seen any justification for
lining a .32 Winchester on this much-
maligned bird. True I have seen him
cleaning up a dead lamb, but careful
examination revealed no evidence of
murder.
* * * *
“M.L.W.”: On Gingie station (N.S.W.)
in the early ’eighties men were signed
on to shear as they pleased, pay-
ment being made according to quality
of work done, with a minimum of 15s.
per 100 sheep. Some shore well, going
after a high rate of payment, but others
plumped for a tally, and one man turned
out 60 lambs in an hour. One of these
strayed to Dungalear, an adjoining
station, where it was again shorn and
the 241 b. fleece sent to the manager of
Gingie with the information that it had
been taken from one of his “shorn”
lambs. At cut-out the average rate paid
was 20s. per 100 sheep, and the highest
265. per 100.
* * * *
“Duli”: Our lady sheep-dog decided to
have her accouchement in the farmyard
fowlhouse, later trotting forth to help
with the sheep. She returned to find a
hen sitting on the pups. She promptly
•routed the foster mother, but the hen
still returns every time the bitch goes
away.
* * * *
“First Blue”: A bush superstition on
the way to oblivion is the legend that the
appearance of black cockatoos is a sign
of rain. At one time the belief was so
firmly fixed in the bushman’s credo that
outback editors were alleged to abandon
the telegraphed weather reports from the
city and base their forecasts on the
number of the cockatoos observed. As
each cockatoo was alleged to represent
one day’s rain the popularity of anyone
who tried to shoot them may be guessed.
I can recall one organised hunt after
them, however. It was in a Vic.-N.S.W.
border town, and practically the whole
male population turned out. The in-
stigator was the local publican; his
motive —to secure, a fine day for the
forthcoming show!
THE CAMP.
You mind the camp we rigged near old
Lowanna,
The hy hundreds standmg, strong and
Upon the slopes of pine and wild lantana
That lipped the gorge which clove the range
in two >
The cuts we hewed through sandstone, ever-
lasting,
Making a road. to climb the stubborn hill ;
The heavy dust that rose above the blasting
The steady ring of hammer, axe and dr,II?
Then in the “ranch,” its naphtha lamps bright
burning,
The table cleared and young blood running
high,
We tapped a cask or backed the dice, swift
.... ~t ur/ i mg» t , , . .. .
While hearty songs found echo in the sky.
And though we lived, as circumstance de-
signed us,
A vsgrsnt band, wc laboicd with a will,
And there we left, for those who came behind
US;
A softer path across the stubborn hill.
n.s.w.
FRANK McCALL.


Five reasons why a
private executor may
prove unsatisfactory
1. He offers no security.
2. He may leave the Country.
3. He may not live to carry out the Trusts.
4. He gives his spare time only to the
administration of the Estate.
5. He probably does not know the duties of
an Executor.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited offers ample security, cannot leave the
Country, goes on for ever, devotes its whole
time to the carrying out of the duties and has
acted as Executor and Trustee for nearly 6o
years.
It is better and safer to appoint a corporate
trustee and ensure perpetual fidelity to the
terms of your Will.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
X. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £10,000 with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White. K.C.B., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., D.S.O.J
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G.: Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman), W. D. Stewart,
R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Gas Light Co.
Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ ■£ £
1927.. 291,913 8 p.c. 282,756 9,157 36,270
1928 . . 348,362 8 „ „ 303,316 45,046 81,316
1929.. 278,182 8 „ „ 324,204 35,294
193 Q. . .310,573 8 „ ~ 328,800 17,067
1931.. 297,938 7 „ „ 287,700 10,238 27,305
1932.. 254,647 6],, „ 256,875 25,077
1933.. 284,448 6 „ „ 246,600 37,848 62,925
1934.. 270,625 6 „ „ 246,600 24,025 86,950
1935.. 247,024 6 ~ ~ 246,600 424 87,374
Dec.,
1935*. 235,464 6 „ „ 246,600 77,499
1936.. 209,740 6 „ ~ 249,320 37,919
* Balance date changed; twelve months’ figures,
including six months of previous term.
This co., which has kept pace with the
growth of Sydney and its suburbs for
just on a century, is the sixth largest
undertaking of its kind in the, British
Empire. The further contraction of
£25,724 in last year’s net earnings, which
were £39,580 short of the 6 p.c. div.
requirements, thus reducing reserves
available for distribution among share-
holders to £37,919, surprised the market,
and the price of the fully-paid £6 A
shares fell sharply from £7 11s. 6d. to
£7 os. 6d. following publication of the
accounts. The figure has since recov-
ered to £7 25., at which price the return
is 5.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Under the N. S. Wales Gas and Elec-
tricity Act the aim is to stabilise the div.
at 6 p.c., which means that the market
price of the scrip is governed largely by
the trend of interest rates. The cos. can
ask the. commission to fix the price of gas
to consumers at a figure that will allow
them to pay 6 p.c., after meeting all
exes., including interest on borrowed
funds, and setting aside not more than
3 p.c. of the net' book value of buildings
and plant for depreciation and not more
than one half of 1 p.c. of the share and
loan" capital combined for special pur-
poses. Since the close of accounts,
A.G.L. has been authorised to increase
its charge for gas by .012 d. per unit, or
1.93 d. per 1000 c.f. On the basis of last
year’s sales (6909.9 million c.f.) this
represents an increase of over £55,000 in
revenue. So, subject to any further
growth there may be in costs, the 6 p.c.
div. has been brought within the safety
zone again.
The slip in last year’s net earnings was
due to a rise in operating costs, follow-
ing two increases in the State basic wage.
The co. laid 37 miles of new mains, and
the quantity of gas sold increased by
over 3 p.c., which was reflected in a
spring of £52,835 in revenue from this
source:
, 1935 Y 1936
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Sales:—• , s. d. s. d.
Gas.. ..£1,734,488 5 2 £1,787,323 5 2
Residuals . . 212,776 7} 209,677 7
Meter rents 42,462 1 i 37,052 1 }
Total ..£1,989,726 5 10J £2,034,052 5 101
Manufac. and
distrib. exes. £1,172,224 3 6 £1,234,558 3 04
Other charges 241,696 8j 235,085 8
Interest .. 119,458 i 115,216 Si-
Depreciation, etc. 220,884 74 239,454 8
Total outgo. £1,754,262 5 2 £1,824,313 5 2i
The shrinkage in the return from resi-
duals was due to lighter tar sales. The
net growth in total revenue was £44,326,
and in outgoings, etc., £70,051. Manu-
facturing and distributing charges were
up £62,334, and an extra £18,570, making
£239,454 (the maximum allowed under
the Act), was charged against earnings
for depreciation, etc.
To meet the outlay on new mains, a
new six-million c.f. gasholder and an
additional retort —the latter will produce
approximately three million c.f. of gas
daily—£lso,ooo of fresh capital, which
brought with it £28,882 of share pre-
miums, was gathered. That raised paid
capital to £4,260,000 and the share-pre-
mium account to £216,001. Debenture
capital was unchanged at £2,250,000.
Temporary loans (£347,200) were down
£245,657, and cash, etc. (£144,500), was
drawn upon for £297,739. The net growth
in the book value of buildings and plant
(£6,801,076) was £185,107. To meet
£321,592 coming to trade creditors, there
were stocks, debtors’ balances, cash, etc.,
totalling £645,756 when the books closed.
Practically the whole of the steelwork
required for the new plant (about 1600
tons) was manufactured locally, and, the
chairman says, is considered equal to, if
not better than, that previously imported.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
t Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Dee., Loss. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 38,754 16,898 Nil 68,961
Profit. Reserves.
1928.. 130,880 24,000 Nil 106,880 37,919
1929.. 249,357 24,000 Nil 225,357 263.276
1930.. 83,595 24,000 Nil 59,595 322,871
1931.. 36,066 24,000 Nil 12,066 334,937
8 p.c.
1932.. 58,018 24,000 40,000 328,955
16 p.c.
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 115,775
12 p.c.
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
8 p.c.
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
4 p.c.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
The sharp contraction of £156,250 in
the declared profit for 1935 was attri-
buted largely to a rise of over 42 p.c. in
the price of crude -rubber. Last' year
the London price of best plantation rose
from 6.3 d. to 9.6 d. per pound, an in-
crease of 50 p.c. Yet declared net earn-
ings sprang £123,670, reaching £190,421,
or enough to pay the pref. div. (£24,000)
and show 22.1 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 5 p.c. for the previous term. Still,
the div. was cut in halves, reducing it to
4 p.c., equal to 6 p.c. on cash-paid capi-
tal—-a one-for-two gift (£250,000) was
distributed in November, 1934. The
profit was struck after setting aside
£81,862 for depreciation, etc., as against
an unspecified amount for the previous
term.
Better trading conditions helped
materially in showing increased profits,
the chairman says. At June 30 last the
number of motor vehicles on the roads
in Australia was 665,399, an increase of
51,994 over the twelvemonth; and there
has been further growth in the figures
since, notwithstanding the shipping strike
in the U.S.A., which delayed delivery of
chassis. Also, the co.’s new rubber fac-
tory at Buitenzorg, Java, probably
helped to further reduce costs. This
factory, in which the parent has invested
£197,300, began production in the middle
of 1935, and is now on a profit-earning
basis. Whatever it netted last year
was used to reduce the previous
unspecified loss, not taken into account
in the parent’s books. The Melbourne
sales subsidiary, in which the parent has
invested £154,204, sent along £150,000 in
divs. The parent figured its own profit
at £83,832 ; together £233,832, of which
the board called £190,421 net profit.
Immediate prospects favor continued
expansion of turnover, finances are very
snug, and when the books closed the
co. was carrying £100,102 more stocks
than at the previous balance. It all
augurs well for the current year’s results,
considering the steady rise in the price
of rubber since the end of 1936.
Here is the position as the consolidated
balance-sheet figures of the two Austra-
lian cos. (the factory and the sales sub-
sidiary) show it:
1930. 1935. 1936.
Pref. capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital . . .. 500,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear, U.S.A. .. 549,420 92,532 39,872
Other liabilities .. 111,942 99,403 110,053
Freeholds, plant, etc... 811,437 476,843 437,605
Stocks 443,464 537,243 637,345
Book debts . . . . 226,756 200,025 229,701
Cash, etc 314,575 68,052 71,922
Java subsidiary .. 197,300 197,300
Fixed assets, on which £16,486 was spent
last' year, making total cost £1,064,049,
have a net book value of £437,605, down
£39,238 over the twelvemonth. Debtors’
balances, less an unspecified allowance
for contingencies, were up £29,676. Ex-
cluding the co.’s interest in the Java sub-
sidiary, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£789,043)
was £175,658.
The co. is an offshoot of the Good-
year Tyre and Rubber Co., Akron,
U.S.A., which owns all the ords.; the
prefs. were subscribed locally. The fac-
tory at Granville, N. S. Wales, was put
up about 10 years ago owing to pres-
sure of the tariff. Ready-made trade
connections had been previously de-
veloped by an importing agency. Plant
had soon to be doubled to meet ex-
panding demand for the co.’s products,
and the American co. found the money
(over half a million at the end of 1930),
which has been since repaid out of earn-
ings. The ords. received no divs. for
the first five years, the money being
wanted in the business; they have since
averaged 9.6 p.c., sweetened with the
bonus issue already referred to, and their
equity has appreciated considerably in
value.
At 31s. 6d. the prefs. return 5.1 p.c.
Last year’s net' earnings nearly eight
times covered their annual div. require-
ments, and the net tangible backing is
£4 14s. lid.
Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926. .198,008 30,000 10 p.c.=120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. .153,881 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 18,881 684,923
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. .132,077 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. .103,969 30,000 8 „ „ 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 ~,,37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1033.. 73,078 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 7J „ „ 56,250 4,858 771,51 C
Including £250,000 of bonus scrip scat-
tered in 1923, paid capital is £1,250,000,
of which £500,000 carries a fixed cumu-
lative 6 p.c. In addition to the lay-by
shown in the table, there is a blanket
reserve of £422,557 for “contingencies,
taxation, repairs, renewals, superannua-
tion fund, etc.” Including this, there
was £1,194,067 visibly supporting and
assisting capital when the accounts were
last ruled off. The lot, together with
£314,349 coming to outsiders, was in-
vested in this way:
1924. 1935. 1936.
Ships, freehold, etc. £1,055,442 £1,359,467 £1,359,415
Cash . . . . 35,127 13,373 19,587
Book debts . . 159,817 62,893 91,824
Investments .. 1,283,256 1,297,500 1,294,986
Stores .. . . 54,441 35,392 37,604
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £2,768,625 £2,803,416
Less liabilities.. 311,052 286,934 314,349
Net assets . . £2,227,031 £2,481,691 £2,489,067
When the books closed the more or less
liquid surplus amounted to £1,129,652
(up £7428), which was equal to 16s.
9d. per ordinary share, after deducting the
whole of the pref. capital. The £1,294,986
of investments consists of “Government
stock, debentures and other investments
at book value.” Assuming that these net
p.c., returns therefrom accounted for
approximately half last year’s profit.
That the co. has been able to invest
£44,986 more than its paid capital out-
side the business is largely because of
rich returns won during the war and
early post-war periods and to the sale
of surplus tonnage when prices were at
their peak. Despite last year’s addition
of a new cargo steamer, Adelong, to the
fleet, there was a contraction of £52 in
the book value of fixed assets. Ships,
etc., include an unspecified amount of
shares in other cos., mainly in the coal
trade, which used to contribute substan-
tially to the pool, but are now poor
earners, with a rather dismal outlook.
These include Hebburn and Metropolitan
pits (the latter on the southern N. S.
Wales field) and a holding in J. and A.
Brown and Abermain-Seaham Collieries.
For 20 years after the public became
interested in 1911 the ords. averaged 10.4
p.c. Then the div. dropped to 5 p.c. As
trade recovered, earnings from the ship-
ping section improved, and the div. was
lifted to 7 p.c. in 1934. The upward
surge of trade activity continued, but the
forays of the seamen, one in August and
the other in December, caused a slip of
£7681 in profit for 1935. The last hold-
up ended in February, 1936, since when
all the co.’s ships have been fully em-
ployed on inter-State and trans-Tasman
(i Continued on page 24.)


To ensure that you get
them fresh and to
guarantee their grand
Virginia flavour, all
Capstans are now
wrapped.
Dr-
ill
9-\ \ $
m
m
■
m
m
m
H
m
m
Mo‘
il
A
m
II
\p?>
1
■
v i «^>r-
■
s-’± A
c
■
uV- s
MSIII
NV
w- 0
v
\v«
iill
5604 -2-7


M*.
m
X
ssss
■Mi
.
s
■ _■l
«
mi
mmmmm
mnw
liillil
H
Bgggg
A SCHWEPPic
VICTORY IN
“MIXED” DOUBLES
T„ "I Corr.„^ m
p the final round of- the men's
oubles. S. Oda was most promi-
fu7,h m /.T® af ‘ er Ume won the
It throated approval of the crowd
He made great use of a fast service
(per ect fizzers’), was sparkling at
dose quarters and, keeping very
cool, effected some wonderful
recoveries from most awkward
Later in the evening
, r™ was engaged in a stiff round
of M,xed doubles and, despite one
ad smash, he spurted well at the
crucial moment and got his partner
safely home at 12-10.
Schweppes
B
Y APPOI NTM ENT
Mffl
If you have ores for sale write: —
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr.. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. AD .
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Hawes,
M Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). Advt.
jj. jfc :jc *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPR1ERE & CO. PTY.,
tTD Collins House, Melbourne, when selling we»,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Annmony
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.—Advt. # * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certifica ion
shipments. L, MACINTOSH ELLIS, B-Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), C° •
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South sun'll
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden suruee
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited. 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
runs. Including £1213 dropped from
somewhere into the insurance reserve
(£315,786), the net result was £13,049
better at £91,108, or enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 8.1 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 6.4, 7.4, 5.7, 5.5, 5.4,
11.5, 13.7, 17.4 and 18.6 p.c. back to
1927. That leaves out of the reckoning
a net reduction of £1232 in the reserve
for contingencies, etc. The div. was
lifted half a point, making it p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
Though costs are on the up-grade,
prospects of a better showing at next
balance seem bright enough, subject, of
course, to industrial conditions. The
market therefore prices the fully-paid
pound ords. at 40s. as against 38s. a year
ago. Allowing for the final div., the
return at the higher figure is a shade over
4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 275. 6d. return 4.3 p.c. Including the
provision for contingencies, etc., the net
tangible backing is £4 17s. 9d. prefs. and
£2 11s. lOd. ords.
Felt and Textiles of Aust., Ltd.
Flaving pioneered the, Australian
manufacture of felted piecegoods in 1921,
this co.’s capital grew from £6OOO to
£266,500 at 31/12/’36, including £136,500
of bonus scrip (provided by revaluing
assets), issued to pref. and ord. share-
holders since the beginning of 1937.
Woollen and hair felts were originally
made at Waterloo and Alexandria, Syd-
ney ; then in 1931 Federal Felters Pty.,
Melbourne, was bought, and later N.Z.
Slippers, Ltd., and South African Slip-
pers, Ltd., were floated. The parent
owns all the shares.
A 50 p.c. interest is held in Austra-
lian Hair Co., Sydney, which treats hair
for felting by the parent, and 33 1-3 p.c.
in J. Grant and Co. (M.L.), which turns
out flocks and waddings. Federal
Felters owns 75 p.c. of the scrip in Bald-
win and Grant, Melbourne (carpet-
weavers) ; 75 p.c. of the shares in Jas.
Seymour and Co. (wool-tops); and 25
p.c. in Cotton Dressings Pty.
Now the public has been offered
110,000 £1 ords. at par for cash, which
have been promptly taken. Thenewmoney
is principally needed to provide for ex-
pansion in the newest ventures of the
subsidiaries, more especially carpet-
manufacturing and tops-making. The
parent has established a third factory in
Sydney in order to turn out secondary
felt products, such as gaskets and pom-
poms. The parent’s largest line is Feltex
floor coverings.
Certified profits, including parent’s
proportion of subsidiaries’ earnings,
were £21,084 in 1933-34, £32,405 in
1934-35, £50,403 in 1935-36, and £24,938
for the six months to Dec. 31, 1936. The
slight falling-off in rate during the latter
period is attributed to fire disorganisa-
tion at a Sydney factory.
Paid capital, including the new issue,
is now £376,500, £40,000 of it in 6 p.c.
cum. prefs. If the new capital earns only
6 p.c., and profits are earned at the 1936
rate on the old, over 16 p.c. on ord.
capital should be shown.
The combined assets and liabilities of
the parent, Federal Felters and S. Afri-
can Slippers at Dec. 31 and N.Z. Slippers
at Sept. 30 compare as follows:
Parent. Subsidiaries. Total.
Freehold, etc. .. £36,892 £45,125 £82,017
Plant . . . . 01,845 83,054 144,899
Debtors . . .. 62,140 62,706 124,846
Stocks . . .. 40,012 93,257 133,269
Shares other cos. . . 12,849 23,000 35,849
Fitting's . . .. 1,876 2,293 4,169
Cash, etc. . . .. 776 4,403 5,179
Goodwill, etc. .. 40,000 8,000 48,000
£256,390 £321,838 £678,228
Liabilities, including
taxation .. .. 140,846 167,064 307,-910
From the parent’s figures book value of
shares in the three completely-controlled
subsidiaries has been eliminated. In-
cluding total goodwill, etc. (written up
to £96,226 since balance day), total net
assets were £318,544, and net tangible
assets £222,318, which has been lifted
to approximately £332,318 by the new
share issue.
It is an expanding and highly enter-
prising organisation, with increasing
trade possibilities. The sharemarket ap-
proves of prospects, and pays 335. 6d.
already for the new ords., which were
taken in the first instance by J. B. Were
and Sons.
Tin and Other Metals
Britain’s rearmament programme, in-
volving a huge expenditure to be under-
taken without delay, is a new factor on
the demand side which has acted as a
sharp and imrhediate stimulus to the
price of raw materials, especially where
stocks are relatively low and supplies are
not likely to be at once accelerated far
beyond demand, as in the case of base
metals. Speculation and hedging are,
of course, playing their parts, too. Aver-
age prices (in sterling) on the London
Metal Exchange compare as follows
since the closing years of the boom:
Electrolytic
Lead. Zinc. Copper. Tin.
1925-29 .. £27 3 2 £29 1G 1 £G9 19 5 £254 911
1934 .. 11 1 0 13 15 6 33 11 6 242 17 6
1935 .. 14 5 8 14 3 6 3514 1 225 14 5
1936, July 15 18 1 13 14 1 41 8 9 186 4 5
Sept. ..17 19 10 14 0 8 43 10 1 194 17 7
Dec .. 25 10 8 18 1 0 50 13 9 232 5 1
1937, Jan. 27 4 3 21 4 4 56 13 1 229 910
Feb. .. 28 6 4 25 2 5 64 11 10 233 19 7
Mar. 11 36 7 6 37 0 0 80 5 0 301 10 0
Mar. 12 36 0 0 34 11 3 78 0 0 290 10 0
The most spectacular rise has been in
lead and zinc. Compared with the aver-
age for July, 1936, sterling quotes on
March 11 showed an increase of 126
p.c., lead; 152 p.c., spelter; 58.1 p.c.,
electrolytic ; 55.9 p.c., tin. First lead and
then zinc and electrolytic played the lead-
ing parts. Now tin holds the centre of
the stage.
The international tin agreement was
renewed for five years from January 5.
The following table shows the output for
participating countries for 1929, their,
standard tonnages under the new scheme
and the number of votes each may now
exercise:
Votes
Standard Under
1929 Tonnages New
Output, Under New Agree-
Tons. Agreement. ment.
Belgian Congo . . 970 13,200 2
Bolivia* .. . . 46,338 46,490 4
French Indo-China 584 3,000 1
Malaya* . . . . 69,366 71,940 5
Dutch East Indies* 35,730 36,330 4
Nigeria* .. . . 10,734 10,890 2
Siam . . . . 9,939 18,000 2
Total . . . . 173,661 199,850 20
* Original restricting countries.
Majority control has been substituted for
unanimous decisions, which means that
any proposal may now be carried by 11
votes. If estimated production outside
the signatory countries exceeds for six
consecutive months 15 p.c. of world pro-
duction or 12,500 tons of metallic tin,
whichever is the lower, any country ad-
hering to the scheme may give six
months’ notice of withdrawal.
At the moment appearances are that
demand is approaching maximum pro-
ductive capacity in the. controlled areas.
The International Tin Committee has
fixed the quota at 110 p.c. of standard
tonnages for the second quarter of 193/.
Hopes are that this Will add 2700 tons of
tin monthly to world stocks. To check the
recent rapid rise in price, the committee
has requested participating countries to
export available tonnages, irrespective of
the quota limit but subject to adjust-
ment later. The tinplate, solder, bronze
and foil industries are the chief con-
sumers of tin, and the U.S.A., which took
nearly 44 p.c. of world production in
1935, is the world’s principal market.
Other points to which investors need
to give careful consideration are ore re-
serves, grade of ground to be treated and
costs of the individual operating cos. On
this basis some stocks appear to be
generously valued even with tin at £290
per ton. To what extent speculation has
levered up the price of the metal remains
to be seen.
Lake George Mining Corp., Ltd.
With a capital of £1,100,000, this co.
has been floated in London to equip and
work the big zinc.-lead deposits at Cap-
tain’s Flat (N.S.W.). Some 40 years ago
the deposits were worked primarily for
copper, but the intrusion of lead-zinc
sulphides made smelting unprofitable,
and operations were suspended until a
dozen years back, when National Mining
Corp. and Camp Bird, Ltd., tested and
reopened the mines. In the early ’thirties,
however, metal prices collapsed, and, fol-
lowing the State Government’s refusal
to construct a railway from Bungendore
to Captain’s Flat, the operating co. (Lake
George Metal Corp.) ceased work.
Altogether, over £300,000 has been spent
on development.
The primary sulphides consist of an
intimate mixture of iron pyrites, galena
and zinc-blende, with a small admixture
of copper pyrites. The outcrop of the
lode has been traced continuously for
5000 ft., and underground the ore-body
has been followed most of the way.
There are three shoots—Elliott’s, Keat-
ing’s and the Central. Last estimate
of available tonnage was 2,800,000,
assaying 7.5 p.c. lead, 12.94 p.c. zinc, 0.75
p.c. copper, 2.20 z. silver and I.2Bdwt.
gold.
A process has now been evolved for
the production of high-grade iron from
iron pyrites, the sulphur content of the
ore being recovered by the same method.
Installation of a treatment plant to
handle up to 1000 tons ore daily, and
to cost £850,000 when complete and
give employment to 800 men, is
mooted. On a daily throughput of 1000
tons of ore, production of 30,000
tons pure iron and a similar quan-
tity of sulphur is expected annually, and
there are the zinc, lead and copper con-
centrates to be treated, too. Brightest spot
in the co.’s outlook is the lift in metal
prices, which look: like remaining at satis-
factory levels for a long time yet.
Premier Stevens has promised to do
something about a railway.
Palmer Gold Areas, a London co.,
has taken an option over two tin leases,
aggregating 235 acres, at Nettle’s Creek,
Herberton district (N.Q.). Preliminary
testing revealed tin-bearing ground to a
depth of 80ft. in parts; Alluvial Tin,
Sydney, will close-bore the properties.
* * * *
Resurrection of Bayley’s old mine,
Coolgardie (W.A.), by the De Bernales
group is spoken of in the West. Early
in February the general managers, Aust.
Mines Management and Secretariate, re-
ported that a new lode at No. 10 level
was averaging lOdwt. over a width of
6ft., and that for the 170 ft. driven the
average grade was about B|dwt. Since
then the average for 201 ft. has been esti-
mated at ln another part of the
mine (Bayley’s South workings) ounce
ore has been driven on for some dis-
tance north and south from a winze
below No. 6 level.
* * * *
Mt. Ida, in which Perth investors are
largely interested, seems to have got hold
of something promising in the Forest
Belle, 70 miles north-west of Menzies.
A good length of ore, ranging from
lOdwt. to 2oz. in value, has been driven
on at and stoped above the 265 ft. level,
and divs. are talked of as not far distant.
During the last 30 years a lot of gold
has been won in the locality where the
mine is situated, but hitherto no mining
at depth has been seriously attempted.
* * * *
New Venture (W.A.), whose old ven-
tures failed to live up to expectations, has
purchased a tenth interest in Mt. Mines,
at Widgiemooltha. Boring results are
claimed to be satisfactory, and arrange-
ments for raising further capital for
drilling are in hand. So far Widgie-
mooltha, on the railway between Cool-
gardie and Norseman, has been regarded
as a place where shoots don’t go down.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.H.McM.: No regular market, and price
depends on luck in Ending willing buyer
D.C.T.: (1) Don’t care for them particularly.
(2) Prefer Mt. Lyell, which may go lower soon;
then would be a good time to buy. ...A.8.:
(1) Position very obscure, and possibility of re-
turns doubtful. (2) Don’t know it E.H.N.:
(1) Their equity in capital and reserves repre-
sented by currency depreciated as the mark and
franc depreciated; land and other securities
remained intact. (2) Hard to state general
experience; but, having less capital represented
by currency, they should have fared better than
banks... .Constant Reader: No connection
with co. mentioned. Capital, approx. £30,000
in 4s. shares called to various amounts. On
paper prospects bright enough, but estimates
have a habit of going askew 1.W.H.: It
safety is the first consideration, look elsewhere.
F.J.R.: Hold Olympic (Bris.): No in-
formation... .A.C.: Lustre prefs. at 255. ~0.
offer better security and prospects. Return
at 255. 3d. is 6.1 p.c. on a 7| p.c. div. basis.
.... Anxious: Not recommended J. W .b, :
(1) Impossible to say what will happen to metal
prices. (2) Zincs R. 0.8.: Hold.


ĵ
SfflHSB mm
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
II
I j
A'
i
<VI
•4
1
r
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN,
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
j
Mo BliVtUIKt 'KW .BtLVtO'tKt • «'* .BtLVtptKt pM StLVCOCRE MM BILVfOtRE _
SMOKE-OH!
For many happiness is something to
be obtained, not all of a sudden, but by
decrees.
q* q* q* q.
“Scots are the best listeners.” — Lauder.
They don’t mind paying attention.
q. q. q. q.
“The deceased was a well-known billiard
player.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Well, it’s to be hoped he gets a good
break where he’s gone.
4- a q-
Future of the Egg.
The past of the egg of commerce has
always been somewhat uncertain, and
now its future is doubtful. Hen owners
are either getting out of the
business or thinking up means
of boosting sales.
One cause is that home life
has gone out of the poultry
farm. Incubator-reared hens,
who have never known a
mother’s love and care, haven't
that old-fashioned ideal of self-
service which is so necessary in the pro-
duction of eggs which will appeal. The
egg must be made more versatile.
Proper feeding should work wonders,
such as a daily rum issue for the pro-
duction of ready-made rum omelettes;
cellophane instead of shell grit to make
the egg its own shop window; latter
method plus range of yolk colors in
latest fashion shades ; continuous feed-
ing of fowls on chocolate, fruit and ice-
cream to enable them to supply Easter
eggs au naturel.
If our politicians are sincere in their
declarations that they wish to help the
egg industry they can prove it by a
simple amendment to the Police Offences
Act, making it no longer illegal to throw
eggs at Parliamentary candidates. This
would not mean just boom sales at
election time, but a steady all-the-year
market, because electors would want to
get their eggs well seasoned between
campaigns.
Angus O’Cohen.
4* 4* •!• •*!*
Is there anything worse than the ama-
teur violinist who plays without rhyme
or resin?
4* 4* q*
Uneasy lies the head that hears a
croon.
-I* -I* 'l* *l*
When the budget’s out of kilter
And the wife is out of cash,
Then we know there’ll be a new name
For a dish that’s known as hash.
“What are the people of to-day thinking
about?” demands a preacher.
Most likely the Easter holidays.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The diamonds were located by the police
in a drainpipe.”— “Sun.”
So the thieves’ profits were up the
spout.
Geometrical Strategy.
“He described a semicircle before falling
heavily to the ground.”— “S.M.H.”
This is an excellent idea, delaying and
softening the blow. A man, for in-
stance, who falls from an aeroplane
should describe a hypotenuse triangle.
It will allow time for someone to get
underneath him and break his fall.
The straight line is a good thing to
describe —if possible—when the police
raise questions about sobriety. If tossed
by a bull an isosceles triangle may be
found of considerable assistance.
H. M.
“Mr. Hughes said nothing.”— “Sun.”
However, no alarm is felt at his con-
dition, and his medical advisers expect
a quick recovery.
q* q. q. q*
“The man who is experienced in politics can
soon smell out the Communist.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
This disposes of the idea that the
average Communist hasn’t got a red cent.
q. q. q. q.
“The politician actually has a lot of work
to do.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Then why doesn’t he try to do some
of it?
q. q- q* q*
Highly Qualified.
“Insurance clerk with some accident experi-
ence required. Age 21-23, possessing tact.”
—Melbourne “Argus.”
Dear Sirs, —I wish to apply for the
position of insurance clerk. My experi-
ence in assurance (see insurance) is ex-
tensive : for five years I have been assur-
ing my fiancee that I will marry her
when I get a job, and once I escaped a
“Cripes , Gov' nor, cant a bloke ask a civil question without y' Wantin
t' fight ’ im?”
sentence merely by assuring the magis-
trate of my future good behavior.
My long accident experience com-
menced at an early age, when I nose-
dived on to my head from a cot' at the
maternity hospital. This mishap has
affected my entire life, but it is pleasing
to think that it will now prove a valu-
able asset. Other accidents in which I
have been concerned are the accident
of birth, for which I received a certifi-
cate, and a car accident, when, after
being run out of a pub, I was run down.
However, my self-assurance never left
me, despite the destruction by fire of my
recently-insured car, which accident pro-
vided me with funds during a trying
time —in fact, there were two trials, but
I was successful on both occasions.
Re the beforementioned accident of
birth. Actually I was born just 24 years
ago, but, as my birth was premature, I
feel that the first two months should not
be counted and my age reckoned accord-
ingly. I sincerely trust that, instead of
eliminating me, this will be. regarded as
yet another desirable accidental experi-
ence.
Finally, I once so tactfully told my
future mother-in-law that she was an in-
terfering old humbug that she has not
spoken to me since. I am, sirs, the man
you require, let me assure you.
C. V. s.
*l> -!* *2* q-
“I advertised for a good plain cook and got
no replies.” —Woman correspondent.
Deluded lady, quit your quest.
You’ll advertise in vain!
What woman ever yet confessed,
Or thought, that she was plain ?
J.
The Family Buys a Car.
Father: “How many miles to the
gallon?”
Mother: “What color is the up-
holstery?”
Son: “How fast will she go?”
Daughter: “Has it got a good
mirror?” .
Neighbors: “How can they afford it. •
Cinco.
q. q. q. q-
“lt cost him £BOO to jrnd out the reason tor
his wife’s behavior.” — “D.T.”
He was at a loss to understand.
q. q. q. q*
“He learnt that his wife had made an
appointment to meet the co-respondent, so he
flew to the place named.”— Divorce report.
The fly in the app-ointment.
q* q* q* q*
“The modern woman is able to throw aside
her years.”— Woman’s paper.
Not exactly. Those she subtracts from
her own age she adds to that of other
women.
q* q* q* q*
Preference to Bill.
Once desert tales were her delight —
A sheik, a tent, a fierce caress,
A capture in the scented night,
An idyll of the wilderness.
But when she saw that mystic land,
With samples of the desert chief,
She laughed at idylls she had planned,
And married Bill with great relief.
Y.
“It is wrong for a parent to help his children
with their homework,” says a school-teacher.
Anyone knows it wouldn’t be right!
q. q. q. q.
What’s the good of a husband putting
his foot down when it only gets his
wife’s back up?
Discord.
She seemed almost angelic,
So bewitching were her charms;
So willowy and fragrant,
As she swayed within my arms.
Her frock was smooth and sheeny
Like a sheath of marigold,
And dulcet, dreamy music
Fascinated and cajoled
(Drums, ’cellos, hautboys, fiddles,
Saxophones and muted horns),
Like rhythm straight from heaven —
Then she trod upon my corns!
P.O.M.C.
Some Little-known Facts About
Scotland.
II. —ITS HISTORY.
Scotland was first invaded by the
Roman general Agricola, who landed in
the year 78 during the wet season,
when the Scottish mists reduce visibility
to about 18in. Four years later he was
still groping his way around, cautiously
trying to make contact with the elusive
Caledonians, whom, though he never
once sighted them, he could hear quite
plainly. When, after six years of fruit-
less campaigning, his soldiers started to
develop webbed feet, hairy knees and
speech with a burr in it, Agricola was
recalled. Giving an account of his
generalship to the Emperor Domitian, he
commenced with: “Losh, mon! Ye
ken yon bleetherin’ lan’ is nae muckle
guid” r- Whereupon he was taken for
an impostor and stabbed in the toga by
the great patriot Springus Affiva.
Some 40 years later Hadrian tried his
luck, and built a wall (see Hadrian, wall
of, army pattern) partly across Scotland.
But the great Roman made the mistake
of building it on a large patch of Scotch
thistles that' were being cultivated for
the haggis industry. Infuriated at this
desecration, the Scots catapulted huge
round stones at the wall, but it was
when some unknown genius mixed with
the stones some overripe haggises that
Hadrian, aghast at this unspeakable,
frightfulness and the new horrors of
war, retired to Rome. Later attempts
by Severus and Constantius were only
half-hearted, and such was the fear en-
gendered by the awful weapon that the
Romans soon afterwards permanently
withdrew.
It was Gillie McGowk, chief of the
powerful McGowk clan, who struck a
fierce blow for Scottish freedom when
the Norseman Ethelred the Eggwhisk
was laying waste the countryside. Just
the word “waste” was enough to stir up
the burgoo in the fighting blood of Gil-
lie’s intrepid followers. But an early
misapprehension nearly cost him the
battle. He had received an oral mes-
sage that a body of two thousand Norse-
men were about to attack. Gillie burnt
off all the grass and destroyed all the
fodder for miles around, and spent a
week setting pointed stakes in the
ground to impale the enemy’s chargers.
It was only when he heard Ethelred’s
army coming on foot (he couldn't see
it) that he realised his courier’s slurring
speech was responsible for the mistake.
Nothing daunted, Gillie, shrewdly sus-
pecting that Ethelred would be leading
his forces from several hundred yards
behind the last column, made a flank-
ing movement and captured their leader.
Elated at his success, Gillie became hos-
pitable, and Ethelred had his first taste
of Scotch whisky. Thereafter the Norse-
man called his army off, adopted the
name of McEthelred and became
McGowk’s chief bagpipe tuner. His
method in this job was to get his bat-
man, who was ambidextrous, to swing
two cats around by their tails while, he
took the note.
Robert the Bruce, who had a trying
reign, took his pleasures sadly. A pecu-
liar feature was that all his victories
were suffered in the winters, while he
invariably enjoyed his defeats in the
summers. After some years of these
varying fortunes he decided to fight
only in the winters, and accordingly
arranged an itinerary with the. English
king. Thereafter his summers were de-
voted to sitting in air-conditioned caves
and watching spiders persevering with
their webs. He thus derived great in-
spiration to do something as useless as
the spider. If was also a good excuse
to get away from Mrs. Bruce.
His son David 11., invading England,
was captured, but was allowed to return
to Scotland each year to try to collect
his ransom. It was estimated by the
English Chancellor that, at the usual
rate of nine bawbees p.a. which he
brought back, he would catch up with
his arrears of interest on his ransom
when, and if, he reached 7415 years old.
S.W.K.


You Who Want
Security
tQE-SECURiry
EVERY person wishes for two things regarding his or her invest-
ments: First, security—secondly, as large a return as possible.
There are many people who absolutely depend upon income derived
from their small capital and savings, and they cannot afford to run
risks. Men or women in such a position “play safe.” There are
several methods by which this may be done, but only one brings a
reasonable income with the desired high margin of capital security.
This is through a purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES.
These make it easy to apply the SAFETY-FIRST principle of wide
diversification to an investment—be it as little as £25 (approx.)
by spreading it over 20 of Australia’s strongest' and soundest
Companies. The investment, moreover, is safeguarded by Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd. (Union Building, Bond Street,
Sydney), as Custodian Trustees, and it is realisable at any time. Here
are the 20 Companies over which your money is spread—by one
simple transaction: —
Commercial Bank of Aust., Ltd.
The Adelaide S.S. C 0.., Btd.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Associated Newspapers, Ctd.
A’sian Taper and Pulp Co., Btd.
Australian Glass Mftrs. Co., Btd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., ltd.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., I>td.
David .Tones, Btd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Btd.
Dunlop Perdriau liubber Co., Etd.
Electro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, Etd.
General Industries, Etd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Etd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Etd.
Ivandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
W. It. Carpenter & Co., Etd.
Yarra Palls, Ltd.
Broken Hill South, Etd.
Remember— ONE Certificate, ONE Transaction
covers 20 Companies.
For full details and descriptive Booklet No. 1 apply to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STItEET, SYDNEY.
BOX 4028 V.Y., G.P.O.
TELEPHONE: B5294.
Kraft-paper Co.'s Shares.
Width between the quotes for
Cumberland and Australasian
Paper scrip widened last week, A.P.
fully-paid ords. lifting to 39s. 3d.
Assuming that this quote is justi-
fied, Cumberland prefs. (or pre-
ferred ords.) should be in the
vicinity of 40s., because their div.
experience since the merger has
been better than that of A.P. ords.,
and their future, considering
the preferential rights, is hardly
less bright. Actually Cumberland
prefs. have been quoted at 33s. 6d.
buyer, 35s. seller. At the selling
quote, ex the div. payable to-
morrow, immediate yield is 4.7 p.c.,
as against a bit over 4.1 p.c. from
A.P. ords. Cumberland ords. at
33s. 9d. are also undervalued on a
comparative basis. Prospects of an
all-round div. increase when all the
new plant is working are hopeful,
and present yield on Cumberland
scrip is attractive.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Overseas Buying Depends on Sales
How much can Australia buy overseas
if the most ardent Freetraders are given
their way? It is of great importance to
know, because the matter of renewing
our Ottawa contract crops up shortly,
and since “organised” marketing, or at
least the suggested means of achieving
such marketing, has been rejected at the
polls, some disgruntled people have
turned sour on the idea of continued
protection for factory products.
When we say “buy,” we mean how
much can we buy and pay for. Borrow-
ing in order to buy in the past has been
disastrous to us and to our suppliers. It
is plainly a waste of time considering
increases in overseas purchases unless
current overseas income can stand such
purchases
In 1935-36 our exports, which are our
overseas income, were worth £108,000,000
sterling. Leaving our small but very
necessary London reserves out of it, that
was the amount we could afford to
spend—if, as it happened, we hadn’t
owed £20,000,000-odd sterling of in-
terest for the year on the accumulated
debit balance (£590,000,000) of our trad-
ing account with London and New
York. Part of our overseas debt repre-
sents war-time borrowing ; most of it
represents imports that we haven’t paid
fur-
In 1935-36, then, we had £108,000,000,
less, say, £24,000,000 interest (including
public bodies’), to buy overseas goods
with—about £84,000,000 net. We bought
£85,250,000-worth of goods, so we were
on the wrong side ; in addition, tourists
and the like took more money out of
the country than they brought into it.
For a few years we have drifted thus,
eating up our London cash balances.
Seven months’ trade for 1936-37 shows
an improvement; surplus of exports
over imports is up £3,965,000 sterling
for the period, most of the movement
occurring in January. The credit bal-
ance, for the full year will need to show
an increase in the vicinity of £7,000,000
over 1935-36 if Government and public-
body interest and Coronation jaunts are
to be paid for in full out of it. Though
wool, wheat and metals are bringing in
extra income, imports are growing ; we
cannot guarantee the world in general
much increase on present orders, and
trade “diversion,” so as to give one coun-
try a bigger share at the expense of an-
other, is full of danger.
Finance, and industry sometimes run
hand-in-hand ; sometimes they don’t. In
the 1920’s London financiers seemed
quite prepared to provide Australians
with, in the shape of Government loans,
wherewithal to buy British goods in
e^pess of our current means. Lanca-
shire, Yorkshire and other industria
centres, probably quite ignorant of the
basic reason for such heavy buying, began
J? assu, [ le that the volume of Austia-
J ian trade with them was likely to grow,
With the slump came cessation o
London borrowing, a teduced externa
income for Australia from its exports,
ar *d a big cut but no more than was
on i ls— ! n ?V r ° verseas pui chases,
Bntam su jfered with the rest of our sup-
phers, and its manufacturers are fur er
Penalised to the extent of the interes
[hat has to come out of our buying
budget each year.
So muc h can we buy, and no more —
we have a definitely limited purchasing
power. If it increases, so will our buy-
[ n § or^er s in Britain and other places,
but we should put oui London credit
position m order as well. Oui leserves
[here have dropped to a dangerously
!°w level so low that the exact figuie
1S Lept an official secret,
The fact that the great copper-mines
G f Chile and Africa are capable of much
higher production than has been apparent
j n recent years is responsible for the corn-
paratively low price of Mt. Lyell shares
j n relation to soaring London quotes for
the red metal. The labor dispute at
Queenstown, now settled after an increase
j n wages and reduction in hours had
been granted, also had an effect. With
electrolytic copper at £BO sterling a ton
a t one stage last week, Lyell would have
been earning (for the time, being) at the
ra te of 50 p.c. p.a. If £6O were averaged
j n London over the next 12 years, and
cos ts showed little rise, the co.’s shares
would be well worth 555.
* * * *
The National Bank is sceptical about
the maintenance of commodity prices
a t higher, or even present, levels. Its
circular points out that the extent to which
“consumer demand” is responsible is un-
known, “but reports indicate that much
of the buying has been for the purpose
of building up reserves against contin-
gencies.” Replacement of working and
semi-working assets on a large scale
throughout the world has also been re-
sponsible for much absorption of raw
materials, especially metals,
*.* * *
An interim div. at rate of 6 p.c. p.a.
(against 5 p.c. p.a. in March, 1935) was
paid by Adelaide Steam yesterday (16th).
Last week the scrip, cum div., sold at
325. 9d., giving a yield of 3.8 p.c. if
6 p.c. is paid for the full year, or 4.4
p.c. if 7 p.c. goes out. It is a stock well
worth buying for holding. A splendid
fleet, good cargo connections, written-
down interests in the best of N. S. Wales
collieries, a strong liquid position and
ventures in aerial services that may later
grow profitable are among the attrac-
tions.
* * *
Facts are always facts, and political
propaganda amounts to nothing in the
long run. The Commonwealth Bank
Board’s latest report comments on public
and national finance in much the same
way as those matters have been remarked
on here during the past six months. The
rise in Government-stock yields has been
due in part “to the competition of Gov-
ernment, semi-Government and local
authorities and industrial enterprises for
public savings, but has also been affected
by psychological and other causes which
may be of a temporary nature.” Also,
“industrial activity approaching boom
levels” is observed in Britain and the
U.S.A. ; “consideration is being devoted
to policies by which this growth of
activity may be kept under control and
a reaction avoided when the volume of
capital construction decreases.” Need-
less to say, future prices for Australian
land and mine products depend upon
how these matters adjust, themselves
abroad. Lately considerable space has
been devoted here to the economics of
recent world prices and the extent to
which British industrial re-equipment
has been responsible for increased em-
ployment and commodity demand.
The Bank Board thinks, with public
borrowings cut down, and with a more
favorable export position, interest rates
should steady in their at-present all-
round tendency to rise. A freer state of
advances, with repayments from once
money-losing pastoral and agricultural
properties, should help to finance in-
creased business activity without involv-
ing larger total figures. Nevertheless, it
is the opinion here that a similar, though
not nearly so pronounced, state of affairs
exists in Australia as is apparent in
Britain —namely, that a lot of money is
at present going into fixed-capital invest-
ments, and as a result the trading banks
are not getting promptly the full benefit
of our increased export income. Savings-
banks have been receiving a big share
of the money spent in construction ac-
tivity, and these institutions are more in
the nature of long-term rather than
short-term lenders.
* * * f
The £IOO,OOO of capital and £50,000 of
premiums asked of shareholders in Yarra
Falls are to be, used to extend the Abbots-
ford (Vic.) mills and to add to the plant
of the subsidiary, Globe Worsted Mills,
Sydney. The organisation has never
been short of cash, and these develop-
ments suggest that the management is
well satisfied with the outlook, and that
extensions are to be substantial. An
excellent record during the depression
and at other times make the shares at
435., cum rights, particularly attractive.
* * * *
Morris Hedstrom ords. have lately
risen as high as 31s. 3d. In the year to
June 30, 1936, 8.3 p.c. on ord. capital was
netted after paying the prefs. Copra dur-
ing that term fluctuated in the vicinity of
£l2 a ton in London. For the current
year the South Seas staple has been much
brighter, rising to £23 a ton early in
January, then slipping back to £l9. Since
1920, when the co. fared badly in the
post-war slump, Morris Hedstrom has
been repairing its finances and pay-
ing moderate divs. The affairs seem
shipshape now, and something better
than 5 p.c. should be forthcoming
for 1936-37, especially since goldfields
activity in Fiji has given business
a fillip. Maynard Hedstrom has joined
the board of the Emperor co. If
p.c. is handed out, 31s. for the shares
will be justified—yield would be 5.4 p.c.,
including exchange. One drawback is
the co.’s large capital. It is almost as
big as that of Burns Philp (South Seas).
For some years before the slump the
scrip never rose above 255. 3d.
* ❖ * *
The 12s. 6d.-paid shares in Castle-
maine Perkins, the Brisbane brewery,
lifted to 265. 6d. recently, then reced-
ing to 265. 2d., returning 4 p.c.
with the div. accrued. Queensland
Brewery £1 ords. were also in demand
at 265. 6d., the 7 p.c. interim having been
repeated. C.P. has now £1,041,666 of
paid capital, but profits have been ample
to provide the 8 p.c. div. It is a flourish-
ing concern, and its shares should be
good for holding.
Kandos Cement has £102,102 in
deposits, loans at call, etc. Australian
Cement has £97,415 similarly invested,
and £12,053 in two small affiliated cos.
Each co. has in addition 1,000,000 shares
in Aust. Portland Pty., the largest cement
manufacturer in the Commonwealth. For
every £IOO of Kandos Cement’s smaller
paid capital it holds 148 shares in the
operating co., as against 131 shares for
each £IOO of Australian Cement’s larger
issue. The following relation should be
approximately maintained between the
market prices of scrip in the two holding
cos.:
When Aus.
Cement Kandos
20s.-paids 16s.-paids
are worth are worth
27s. 6d. .. 24s. 6d.
28s. Od. .. 25s. Od.
28s. 6d. . . 25s. 5d.
29s. Od. .. 25s. lOd.
29s. 6d. .. 26s. 2d.
30s. Od. .. 26s. 9d.
30s. 6d. .. 27s. 2d.
When Aus.
Cement Kandos
20s.-paids 16s.-paids
are worth are worth
31s. Od. .. 27s. 8d.
31s. 6d. .. 28s. Id.
32s. Od. .. 28s. 6d.
32s. 6d. .. 29s. Od.
33s. Od. .. 29s. 6d.
33s. 6d. .. 29s. 9d.
34s. Od. .. 30s. 4d.
The figures ignore the small sundry assets
and income of both cos.; cement is the
backbone of both investments. Actually
Kandos scrip, even after allowing for the
lower (165.) denomination of its shares,
is usually at a big discount compared
with Aust. Cement —as at present. Though
Kandos has provided more liberally for
taxation than the Vic. co. in recent years,
it showed over 11.5 p.c. on capital last
term, as against 11.1 p.c. in the case of
Aust. Cement. When Kandos is satisfied
with its taxation reserves and makes
provision more in keeping with current
requirements, its 111 p.c. greater poten-
tial earning-power per £1 of capital
should show up in earnings. Kandos bal-
ances on June 30, Australian Cement on
Nov. 30. The latter concern therefore
shows any increase in the final div. of
the operating co. more quickly in its ac-
counts, and often gives the wrong
impression that its profit-earning capa-
city is substantially greater. From the
onset of slump up to date Kandos’s aver-
age div. has been 6.6 p.c. p.a. Present
rate is 10 p.c., and yield at 255. 6.4 p.c.
* * * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson pays an
ord. interim of 5 p.c. on March 25, an
unchanged rate. Extras come at the
end of the term, as a rule, and last year
made the full distribution 15 p.c. Buyers
are keen at 755., sellers reluctant.
* * * *
Arthur Cocks and Cos., Sydney, pays
its interim pref. divs. less statutory de-
duction, though in 1935-36, when 8 p.c.
was distributed on the ords. at the
annual balance, the final pref. distribu-
tion brought the rate up .to the full con-
tract figure. Latest pref. distribu-
tions were at the reduced statutory rate;
but the sharemarket has no misgivings,
and paid an extra Is. for the ords., tak-
ing them up to 265., the highest sale
for at least 10 years. But the yield is
good (6.1 p.c.), and the ords.’ average
for the bad years 1930-34 was 4.2 p.c.
p.a. —a creditable performance.
* ❖ He ♦
In Melbourne last week:
G. J. Coles shares settled down at £5 6s. 6d.
on ’Change. Until the extent of directors’ re-
muneration is made clear to shareholders there
will be doubt as to the approximate earning
power of the co. Staff bonuses in the past
have been as high as 8 p.c. on ord. capital, and
on the reduction of these shareholders’ hopes
of permanently bigger divs. largely depend.
Australian Cement shares continued to sell
at 325. or over. Gordon and Gotch ords.
moved up to 525. 3d., yielding 4.6 p.c.
Broken Hill Prop, sold strongly at 915., a
record price.
Emperor scrip sold down to 205., after lift-
ing to 20s. 9d.
Wheat sold at ss. sd. to ss. 6d. on the trucks,
Williamstown, in an active market.
Fully-paid ords. in Felt and Textiles,
which recently put 110,000 new shares-on the
market, quickly sold up to 335. 6d. on the
unofficial list.


BALANCE SHEET
OF TUE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralta
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1936.
LIABILITIES.
12 3
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits per
Contra 729,136 6 4
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments . . 86.796,768 18 7
Note Issue Department .. . . '69,036,071 10 5
£145,832,840 9 0
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 1,181,699 10 11
Australian Notes 3,511,300 10 0
Money at Short Call in London 20,397,123 5 11
Short Term Loans in Australia 11,129,424 10 8
Investments —-
British,' Colonial and Govern-'
ment Securities .... ... 8,120,716 7 5
Commonwealth Government
Securities 27,742,169 1 7
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit . . 2,056,880 5 3
Bills Discounted:, Loans and
Advances to Customers and
other Assets 10,923,031 1 10
Bank Premises.. 1,005,287 12 8
86,067,632 12 3
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra.. ... .. .. .. .729,136 6 4
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments . . 86,796.768 18 7
Note Issue Department .. .. 59,036,071 10 5
£145,832,840 .9 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Ci\
£ s (1
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 87,696 4 8
National Debt Sinking Fund 87,696 4 8
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 10.867 7 11
., Development Fund. . . . . . 10,867 7 11
Note Issue Department—-
To Commonwealth Treasury . . 489,272 1 11
£686.399 7 1
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1936 —
,, Banking Business
,, Rural Credits Department . .
,, Note Issue Department.. ..
£ s d
175.392 9 4
21,734 15 10
489,272 1 11
£686.399 7 1
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
£2.328.266 13 2
I'Jy Balance
,, Transfer from Profit and
Boss Account of one half
of the Net Profits of
Banking Business . . . .
£ s d
2,240,570 8 6
87,696 4 8
£2,328.266 13 2
We certify that the above B'alanee Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
IT. T. ARMITAGE,
Deputy Governor.
Sydney, 16th February, 1937.
Note Issue Department
LIABILITIES.
£ s (1
Notes in Circulation 50,538,973 10 0
Ttesenw'for Notes not Presented 14,453 0, 0
Special' Resarve —
‘Premium on Gold Sold.. 7,752,900 19 0
Other Liabilities 729,744 1 5
£09,036,071 10 5
£
s (1
ASSETS.
(.'old and English Sterling
Reserve 16,011,662 2 3
Debentures and other Securities 42,0 4 6,012 10 8
Other Assets 978.396 8 6
£59,030,071 10 5
Certified Correct,
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For .ami on behalf of the Board,
H. T. ARMITAGE,
Deputy Governor.
Sydney, 16th February. 1937.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 31st December, 1936.
LIABILITIES.
£ s (1
Reserve Fund 2,334,197 0 4
Depositors’
Balances £133,554,618 1 4
With Interest
Accrued.. 1,216.284 7 5
134,770,902 8 9
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities 5,975,415 13 2
£143,080,515
3
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin, Cash Balances and Money
at Short Call 15,063,795 13 0
Australian Notes 145,832 10 0
Government Securities . . . . 91,701,965 3 2
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities . . 31,893,592 11 8
Other Assets •• 3,287,786 9 5
Bank Premises 987,542 15 0
£143,080,515 2 3
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
£ s (1
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund 77,527 17 5
~ National Debt Sinking Fund.. 77,527 17 5
£155,055 14 10
£
s cl
By Profit for lialf year ended
31st December, 1936, after pro-
vision. for payments amounting
to £110,655 9s 2d due to
State Authorities under Savings
Bank Amalgamation Agreements 155,055 14 10
£155,055 14 10
I)r.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£’ s d
2,334,197 0 4
£2.334 197 0 4
£ s d
By Balance 2,250,069 2 11
~ Transfer. from Profit and Loss
Account of one half of the
Net Profits 77,527 17 5
£2.334,197 0 4
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A) H. LEWIS. Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. T. ARMITAGE,
Deputy Governor.
Sydney, 16th February, 1937.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as to the correctness of
the. above, accounts have been given.
The Australian Sugar Producers Association Ltd.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE, 1937
THE PRESIDENT’S OPENING ADDRESS.
Gentlemen,
The problems which those engaged in
industry have to consider to-day differ
in many respects from those which de-
manded attention a few years ago. In
the meantime a transformation has taken
place in connection with many forms
of production in Australia and else-
where. Expansion of output in many
primary industries, coupled with world-
wide reduction in purchasing power, has
thrown international trade out of bal-
ance. Circumstances have forced upon
every class of Government additional re-
sponsibilities, leading to much new legis-
lation designed to ameliorate unfavor-
able commercial, industrial and social
conditions. It is only natural that the
problems arising from the depression,
insistently demanding remedial measures,
should have influenced public thought
and policy. I was agreeably surprised
when in London recently to find that
there was practically no hostility to the
advanced British legislation, embodying
many new principles, which had been
operating for some time, with beneficial
results. The so-called Manchester School
appeared to have gone into recess. I
heard no talk about a vicious circle, or
of a metaphorical dog chasing its tail. It
was very pleasant to note the evident
prosperity, except in a few depressed
areas, and the general goodwill and co-
operative spirit which prevailed.
In some respects the conservation of
the interests of those engaged in primary
industry is a simpler matter in Great
Britain than in Australia, because in the
former country only production for
home consumption is involved. The
interests of primary producers in England
have been protected by Customs duties,
bounties and import quotas, supple-
mented by schemes formulated in the
terms prescribed by the Marketing Acts
of 1931 and 1933. The first-named
measure was passed to enable schemes
to be adopted for regulating the markeh
ing of agricultural products ; to confer
powers upon boards and other bodies to
be constituted in connection with such
schemes; and to establish marketing
funds for the purpose of encouraging
agricultural co-operation, research and
education. This is a very comprehensive
measure, yet, after two years’ experience,
it was considered necessary to supple-
ment it by the Agricultural Marketing
Act of 1933, which provides for the
better organisation and development of
the agricultural industry, and of indus-
tries connected therewith, by regulating
the importation and sale of agricultural
products; and also amends the law in
certain respects as prescribed by the Act
of 1931. By applying the foregoing
legislation to every important land indus-
try, accompanied by subsidies amounting
to nearly £20,000,000 a year, Great
Britain has gone much further than Aus-
tralia has attempted in making provision
for orderly marketing.
In 1936 the British Parliament passed
the Sugar Industry (Reorganisation) Act,
a very comprehensive and complex piece
of legislation, which, amongst other
things, provides for the establishment of
a permanent Sugar Commission, for the
amalgamation into a single Corporation
of companies manufacturing sugar from
home-grown beet, and for granting
financial assistance to the Corporation
and to the beet sugar companies, and
generally for the reorganisation of the
sugar industry. The provisions of the
Act relate to growers, factories and
refineries. The Commission and the Cor-
poration are now functioning, and to
complete the reorganisation of the in-
dustry the Government has appointed a
Sugar Beet Marketing Board, the present
members to hold office until their suc-
cessors are elected in May next by
growers exercising one vote for every
acre planted with sugar beet. The Com-
mission will function as an advisory
board to the Government, and in co-
operation with the factories determine
from year to year the area to be planted
with beet sufficient to produce 560,000
tons of white sugar, to which the pay-
ment of bounty will be. limited. The
Corporation has a capital of £5,000,000
allocated amongst the fifteen beet sugar
companies it has absorbed in holdings
varying from £116,000 to £500,000.
Our interest in the overseas sugar
situation is stimulated by the Inter-
national Conference convened by the
League of Nations which is to meet in
London next month, when no doubt
foreign producers will seek a share of
the English market at the expense of the
British Dominions and Colonies. So
many countries are now assisting sugar
production within their own borders by
all available means that exporters find
it extremely difficult to find markets. As
a consequence Java and Cuba, large pro-
ducers and small consumers, have been
compelled to drastically curtail their
output. Cuba has a preferential market
in U.S.A. for two million tons at such
a profitable price that, with the help of
cheap and abundant labor, and excep-
tionally favorable conditions of soil and
climate, her producers are in a position
to sell sugar not required for U.S.A. or
home consumption at a price substantially
below cost of production. It is a matter
of general knowledge overseas that influ-
ential foreign interests have been in-
sidiously advocating claims for definite
quotas of the requirements of the British
market. No doubt the representatives of
the countries concerned will endeavor to
obtain decisions tending to create a situa-
tion favorable to their designs upon the
British market. It is, however, incon-
ceivable that the British Government
would accept any conference proposal
inimical to Dominion or Colonial in-
terests, or would enter into any agree-
ment with a foreign country without the
approval of the Australian and South
African Governments.
It is most fortunate that our State
Premier will be one of Australia’s repre-
sentatives at the conference, and that in
London the industry has the constant ser-
vice of Mr. L. H. Pike, Agent-General
for Queensland. I am very pleased to
testify to his courtesy and ability, and to
his valuable influence in overseas sugar
circles. Service to Queensland and to
Queenslanders is our Agent-General’s
strenuous endeavor, in which I am con-
vinced he has the loyal support of every
member of his stall’.
While it is unquestionable that the
British preference is of great value to
Australian sugar producers it should be
remembered that such tariff concessions
as Britain grants to Australia are not in
any sense in the nature of free gifts. When
a preferential duty was accorded to Aus-
tralian sugar in 1925 it was not defi-
nitely given in exchange for reciprocal
tariff benefits, although at the time
British exports to Australia had a tariff
advantage over foreign goods of the
same class and value of £8,000,000 per
annum. This was subsequently in-
creased to £10,000,000. British prefer-
ence on Australian sugar is separate from
the Ottawa Agreement, but of course is
always included in calculating the value
of British tariff concessions received by
this country.
As the Ottawa Agreement is to be dis-
cussed at the forthcoming Imperial Con-
ference, a brief reference to this historic
document should be permissible on this
occasion, especially as the subject cannot
be regarded as savoring in the slightest
degree of party politics. There is good
reason for believing that the pending
Conference will take place in an atmo-
sphere more favorable to Australia than
prevailed at Ottawa. Our economic re-
covery has raised the prestige of this
country, and, as the result of the belli-
gerent activities of some of the Great
Powers, trade is no longer the paramount
consideration in Empire relations. Un-
fortunately the anticipated gains from the
Ottawa Agreement have not accrued to
Australia. Part of the price we paid
were substantial tariff concessions on
goods which have seriously competed
with the products of our own factories,
while the reciprocal advantages were con-
fined to such commodities as Britain had
to import to supply deficiencies in home
production. It is reasonable to suppose
that the British goods purchased by Aus-
tralia yield a reasonable profit to manu-
facturers, whereas Australian primary
products are sold in Great Britain at
such unremunerative prices that this
country has to maintain a high rate of
exchange to provide a bounty on
exports. Exchange costs Australia over
£20,000,000 a year, but without it those
engaged in production for export would
be unable to continue in business. It
should be added that a considerable por-
tion of British purchases is raw material,
much of which is re-exported as manu-
factured goods, while all Australia buys
is for home consumption. There are,
of course, limits to the tariff concessions
Britain can make. Complaint, however,
concerning the Ottawa Agreement, in
which almost all primary producers are
directly interested, is not so much in
respect to what Australia receives as in
regard to what has to be given in return.
For obvious reasons Australia will not
be in a position for many years, if ever,
to export products of her manufacturing
industries in any quantity. A market
for these can only be found within the
Commonwealth, and that market is too
small in most lines to be shared with
other countries, except to a very limited
extent. While all agree that our national
safety demands . a . larger population,
those at present engaged in primary
industry know only too well that rapid
augmentation of their number would in-
evitably lead to production for which
markets are not available. Expansion of
our land industries therefore depends
upon an increased demand in Australia,
and the Commonwealth market can only
increase in the same ratio as popula-
tion. The interdependence of town and
country industry cannot be over-empha-
sised, and if production for export
cannot be expanded, then a larger home
market must be developed by further en-
couragement of secondary industry. Pro-
duce or perish is the slogan to which
national policy must conform. The pro-
duction in my mind is not the creation
of physical assets in the form of public
works financed by borrowed money, but
the growing or manufacture of commo-
dities required to satisfy the personal
needs of a population steadily increasing
in number and individual purchasing
power.


“SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE f/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Having won. the Rawson Stakes three
times old Lough Neagh has made racing
history. The Queenslander was opposed
to the best weight-for-age candidates in
training at Rosehill on Saturday, and
going out at 3 to 1 refused to be beaten.
A furlong from home Sarcherie and
King’s Head appeared to have him in
trouble, but he hung on grimly to down
Sarcherie by a long head, with King’s
Head a head away. It was a sterling
performance. Allunga, slow away ana
last in the straight, ran on wonderfully
well and got fourth. Had he been near
the leaders at the home turn he must
have won. Silver Standard disappointed.
He will do better in handicaps.
Mestoravon, who carries the colors of
Glen Innes sportsman Dr. G. A. Vivers
and H. Matthews, of Burren Junction,
was turned out in capital trim by Ray
Cashman for the Autumn Handicap.
Somebody backed this big and strong
gelding from fifteens to sevens. He
cleared out in the straight to beat Man-
anui and Measure. Staying seems to be
his forte, and with only 6st. 71b. in the
Sydney Cup he may prove hard to beat.
His sire, Polymestor, was imported to
Australia by Reg Allen. In England he
won the Ascot Prince of Wales Stakes
of one mile five furlongs, and evidently
Mestoravon inherits the staying qualities.
Cereza’s recent racing in Melbourne
appears to have done her good. She
donkeylicked quite a smart field in the
Railway Handicap. McCarten did not
make use of her pace until turning for
home, where A.J.C. committeeman E. J.
Watt’s bonnie mare ran to the front
in effortless fashion to stall off late runs
by Cid and Grand Mogul. She was
well backed at sevens, starting equal
favorite with Grand Mogul, who got
boxed up at the start and did not get
a clear passage until the race was prac-
tically over. He will not lose any friends
for the Doncaster.
Bradford is trained on a private track
at Newcastle and is a frequent visitor
to the beach at Stockton. He was bred
and owned by E. F. Smith, who still
retains the black-and-purple sash so suc-
cessfully carried by Donald. Bradford
outclassed a big field in the Three-year-
old. He was backed from fours to twos,
and ran the seven furlongs in lmin.
26sec., a second slower than Cereza’s.
Bradford has been sparsely raced, so
better things should come his way.
Harlowe scored so well at his previous
outing that it was surprising that the
Bullhead colt eased in the betting from
fours to sevens in the first heat of the
Nursery. Leading throughout, pastoral-
ist and breeder E. A. Haley’s chestnut
won nicely from Perimond and Gold
Standard. The favorite, The Chief, was
pushed off the course turning for home
and wilted from the Leger. Canterbury-
trained Game (3 to 1) had too much pace
for her opponents in the second heat.
She led all the way to down Conlon and
Gold Spark.
Autoland (3 to 1) was suited by the
scale of weights in the Parramatta Mile.
After Kinsfolk and Beaupre had played
cutthroat tactics, Autoland, who had
been going easily behind them, took
charge in the last furlong to win com-
fortably from Brazenoj who may have
scored with any luck in the early stages.
He looks an early winner.
* * * *
Some very shrewd persons were
noticed backing Grand Mogul for the
Railway Handicap at Rosehill, and they
were very crestfallen persons after the
race. “Would have won by a street if
he’d had a clear run,” one was heard
to growl; “and he’ll win the Doncaster
—you see if he doesn’t.” He has Bst. 21b.
in the Doncaster —41b. less than on
Saturday.
Grand Mogul is by Beau Fils-Love
Lane and has grown into a very nice-
looking four-year-old. He was owned
and trained by a gentleman who was a
capital ballroom dancer, and in that
gentleman’s colors ran a good second in
the V.R.C. C. M. Lloyd Stakes to
Valiant Chief, beating Garrio and Syl-
vandale at weight-for-age. The distance
was a mile; the time lmin. 37Jsec.
Valiant Chief, with the same weight as
Regular Bachelor (Bst. 111 b.), had run
second to that horse in the Newmarket,
and a month later he was a close fourth
in the Doncaster with Bst. 121 b. Grand
Mogul is now owned by the voluble
owner of Talking, being trained for him
at Randwick by the astute J. W. Cook.
Because Tapestry was topweight with
9st'., A.J.C. Winter Plate form was
reckoned very poor, and most punters
neglected it when looking for springtime
winners. In the retrospect, it was very
much above the average. Tapestry him-
self, beaten into fourth place, was in the.
spring to equal the Australian record for
a mil§ and three-quarters, 2min. 56isec.,
in the A.J.C. Waverley Handicap. Young
Crusader (first) went on to romp home
in the Metropolitan, and legions of
punters are still convinced that, had his
rider been content with a lead of three
or four lengths in the Melbourne Cup
race instead of trying to get 20 lengths
ahead of the field between the ten- and
seven-furlong posts, the chestnut would
have won the Melbourne Cup as easily.
El Senorita (second) has been a good
winner since, in Melbourne as well as
Sydney, and she was unlucky to be
beaten by Sir Ross in the A.J.C. Summer
Cup. Now Mestoravon (third) has come
into the picture.
In the Autumn Handicap at Rosehill
Mestoravon proved himself a thorough
stayer, and the Autumn Handicap has
not seldom been a guide to the Sydney
Cup—Gwillian G. won both in 1930.
Mestoravon is a six-year-old brown
gelding by Polymestor-Cicely Gos-
ling, and looks a very hardy cus-
tomer. As a rule, Sydney Cup
winners are smart beginners, and con-
trive to be well up most of the way, but
the race has gone to a horse that wasn’t
brisk off the mark and required time to
settle down; and Mestoravon seems to
be that sort of neddy.
* * * *
Allunga has Bst. 101 b. in the Sydney
Cup. Hitherto his attempts at the two-
mile journey have scarcely been impres-
sive—he has been unplaced twice in the
Melbourne Cup and once in the Aus-
tralian Cup (though with Bst. 61b. he
ran fourth to Amalia) and the Sydney
Cup—but he is now looking better than
ever before.
After his second in the Australian Cup
Pooley Bridge could not do better than
run last in the V.A.T.C. St. Kilda Handi-
cap a week later. But it would be un-
wise to judge Foulsham’s galloping
stayer on his display at Caulfield. Only
six started, and Scobie’s Rosewing stal-
lion Fine Feathers was permitted to
lead at a crawling pace, with Benthos
and Pooley Bridge pulling hard, trailed
by the 11-to-4 favorite, Peerage. Round-
ing the home bend Benthos ran past Fine
Feathers, who immediately faded out.
When Donaster, and subsequently Peer-
age, challenged the leader Pooley Bridge
got shut in on the rails. Benthos (Chival-
rous-Nekton), raced by H. Wolters, the
trainer of Lochlee, lasted just long
enough to score by half a head from
Donaster, winner of the S.A.J.C. St.
Leger and King’s Cup of 1936. Peerage
was three-quarters of a length behind.
St. Kilda Handicap time was 11 sec.
slower than Palfresco’s course (and Aus-
tralasian) record for 1| miles. On these
figures Palfresco could have beaten Ben-
thos by the best part of a furlong. The
muddling pace operated strongly against
Pooley Bridge and Peerage, who depend
on stamina. After the race Foulsham
stated that Pooley Bridge would prob-
ably be a runner in the Sydney Cup.
The K.C. who races as “G. Ornong”
won the Orrong Two-year-old with John
Wilkes (Baralong-Golden Cello). This
youngster comes from the same family
as Auraria, Aurum, Aurous, Desert Gold,
Nigger Minstrel and Gold Rod. The
colt (11 to 4) reached the judge only
half a neck in advance of Leaderfoot
(12 to 1), who recently was acquired by
the South African sportsman J. Muir.
Le Baron, though asked to concede John
Wilkes 121 b., was backed down to 10-to-
-9 on. Anchored by 9st. 41b., he finished
third.
After having finished second in his
previous starts Wakerife registered a well-
earned victory in the Gordon Steeple.
The vitality of this Sea Prince gelding is
remarkable. His sire landed the Wil-
liamstown Cup for Eric Connolly as far
back as 1913. There cannot be many
older jumpers than Wakerife in commis-
sion. He may be sent to Oakbank (S.A.)
for the Great Eastern Steeplechase on
Easter Monday.
Wakerife was at 8 to 1. He shot
through between Richmond Tiger and
Seymour at the straight entrance and
won, running away, by three lengths
from Elegance, who pipped Richmond
Tiger on the post for second money.
Alick Fullarton tried to win all the way
on the 4-to-l favorite, Seymour. His
mount lost a lot of ground near the mile
post, but hit the front again, only to tire
when turning for home.
Bought by C. M. Sawyer at the dis-
persal of J. P. Arthur’s racing string in
Melbourne last year, Mitsui (Eastern
Monarch-Charlecote) gave a splendid
sprinting display in the South Yarra
Handicap. Backed down to 9 to 2, he
conceded the 5-to-4 favorite, Studio, a
start of three lengths and beat her de-
cisively by a neck. Evening Mist, for
whom six furlongs is rather too short,
was third, followed by Ogwell, a Don-
caster Handicap aspirant. Ogwell was
manifestly above himself in condition,
and should benefit by the outing. Garrio,
fifth, is racing into form. If he continues
to progress in an autumn preparation
he should be heard of at Randwick.
When Seven Hills broke his neck in
the Gordon Steeple it was exceedingly
hard luck for A. C. Ling, who has not
experienced the best of fortune since he
resigned as foreman to J. G. Heywood
at Flemington and started on his own
account. It took Ling eight months to
shape Seven Hills into a timber-topper
good enough to beat Wakerife and
Santa Casa in the V.R.C. Autumn
Steeplechase.
Budapest (Gay Lothario-Fission) had
vanquished Mitsui in the Elms Handi-
cap at Flemington, and when Mitsui
came to light in the South Yarra Handi-
cap it was not unnatural that Budapest
ended up favorite for the Kooyong
Welter. He tired badly after leading to
the turn. Spinifex, the opening favorite,
then appeared on the scene and romped
home two lengths in advance of Ros-
trim, with Sarakos a close third.
Ins and Outs
Victoria won the Sheffield Shield for
the 16th time in beating South Aus. at
Adelaide. Batting, a century by Lee ex-
cepted, was bad; bowling, but for a
wonderful burst by McCormick, not
overgood. The South Australians went
in first, and were all out for 182 (Ham-
mence 35, Bradman 31, Badcock 28;
FI.-Smith six for 66). At stumps first
day Victoria had wiped off 97 of the
runs with two wickets gone. Lee, who
opened, was 42, and things looked rosy.
It was a faded rose early on Saturday.
Waite and Grimmett started to take
wickets, and only Lee looked like help-
ing the total ahead of South Australia’s.
He was still there —109 n.o. —when the
others had all departed, the total 213
(Waite four for 35, Grimmett three for
52). McCormick made a bird of it. He
got Walker, Ryan and Whitington with
37 on the board, then Bradman for
eight and Badcock for a duck —in all,
nine for 40! Total was 79. Rigg and
Lee had up 22 of the 49 required by
stumps, and the kill was delayed till
Monday. Then Lee went before the
runs were made. Vic. by nine wickets.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: It seems pretty certain
that when the Australians go to England
next they will be asked to play in five-
day Tests. Press discussions show strong
support for the change. Already, with
an eye on the next Australian visit, Allen
and Holmes have been suggested as
selectors ; their recent close association
with the game in Australia is reckoned
valuable.
* * * *
“Xo”: This year’s M.L. team for
England is only the third to go overseas.
In 1927 the tourists played 38 games,
won 13, lost five and drew 20; in 1931,
a wet season, seven were won, three
lost and 26 drawn. C. S. Dempster, C. C.
Dacre, W. E. Merritt and R. C. Blunt,
of the two previous teams, have since
turned out with English county elevens.
o Continued on page 30.)
“Blade Sight”: The Victorian King’s
Prize went to Queensland, C. E. Arm-
strong scoring 388. T. G. Lawman, a
Sydney policeman, was second, and a
shoot-off was necessary, the first since
1913. Armstrong, one of the Australian
representatives in the team for the Coro-
nation Bisley, has won a King’s Prize
three times previously—at Adelaide in
1927 and 1933 and in Brisbane in 1936.
* # * *
“Shrewsbury”: The 89th Oxford-Cam-
bridge boatrace is down to be rowed on
March 24. Oxford has not won since
1923, the Light Blues’ winning run being
a record, though twice, in the ’sixties
and ’nineties, Oxford won nine times in
succession. One race, that of 1877, was
a dead heat, and of the balance Cam-
bridge has won 47 and Oxford 40. To
add to Oxford’s woes, Lewes, the Aus-
tralian No. 2, has lost form and dropped
out. Winser, last year’s stroke, takes
his place.
❖ * * *
“U. P. Percut”: Often had ’em on
with Joe Choynski (B. 24/2/’37) while
he was training for his second fight with
Joe Goddard. He was a handsome chap
with nice manners, watched your feet
instead of your eye, and had a perfectly
horrible hook to the wind in either of
his aristocratically-shaped hands. When
the other Joe rushed him in the last
round, red hair on end, blue eyes glar-
ing, red face streaming with scarlet gore
which dripped down a shaggy chest, a
small Jew near the Choynski corner
shrieked something to him in Yiddish.
To which Dr. Tom Grey, an immense
Liverpool Irishman, bearing a close
physical resemblance to John L. Sulli-
van, replied in thunderous tones: “And
if your Joe bates our Joe I’ll bate you.”
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Chipping Norton Plate: Gold
Rod ; next, Lough Neagh.
Liverpool Handicap: - Grand
Mogul or Silver Rose ; next', Moon-
ray.
Farm Autumn Cup: Kinsfolk,
1 ; Mestoravon, 2 ; Fireman, 3.
Cabramatta Handicap: - Grand
Mogul or Arabia ; next, Bradford.
FOR ROSEBERY.
Flying Welter: Rosmead ; next,
Red Rosebud.
Encourage Stakes: Lasting.
Rosebery Mile: Wonderland;
next, Patusan.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Hollymount Handicap: Sweet
Memories ; next, Le Baron.
Moonee Ponds Handicap:
Demotic ; next, Hot Shot.
Highweight Handicap: Ogwell ;
next, Palatinate.


ife.
I
¥
H 11l 'll
l
%
i
1
Only
the
has the
Diamond Centre
Grip
, to prevent
accidents A
Jr
I
\
r\
5C13-37
MADE
AUSTRALIA
ninr
n JL JUr JLI
„ V *C£ ' - ■« / ' S'
r Z > iS"• C \' . \ <«** s \ • K < .T v • X \ 'y* S /. J
Don’t give any smooth-worn tyre
the benefit of the doubt. The few
shillings’ wear that might be left
is not worth the risk of riding
on it. You’ll strike too many
skiddy places, and times you’ll
have to pull up - - sharp.
Replace now with new G-3’s.
Their tough, sharp-edged, full
diamonds placed right in the
tread centre where they grip the
road take care of skids and give
the extra quick stopping the
G-3 is famous for.
Only the G-3 has full diamonds
in the centre of the tread. Look
for these diamonds and buy the
safest tyre.


MOTORISTS
YOU PAY FOR MILEAGE
How much do you get ?
We put it up to you —can you get the longer
troublefree service of Dunlop or Perdriau
Tyres in any other make ? Check it up for
yourself —forget the words and consider the
facts ! Only Dunlop or Perdriau Tyres have
these advantages ....
The 48% greater non-skid
mileage provided by pounds
more and tougher rubber in
the treads.
The 12% cooler running and
the 52% longer casing life given
by Weftless Cord (an improve-
ment exclusive to Dunlop in-
terests in Australia).
Dunlop or Perdriau Tyres cost no
more. Why not get the most for
your money?
Listen in to “Cavalcade
of Music” —consult your
local broadcasting pro-
grammes for Stations
and Times.
- - '::
m
329*30
DUNLOP. Perdriau
Weftless cord tyres
Ins and Outs
The Englishmen wound up their tour
with a couple of picnic matches, one
against Benalla (Vic.) and the other
against Combined Universities at Syd-
ney. Both were drawn. In the Victorian
match Fishlock knocked up 104 in Eng-
land’s first hit of 344. The locals de-
clared their innings closed at 147, and
sent the Britons in again, the result being
seven for 118. Davidson scored a good
59 retired for the countrymen.
The Sydney match was to have been
a great social affair, but rain damped
that. England declared with nine for
212, Hammond making 103. Loxton,
an ex-Cambridge blue from Queensland
Uni., showed style in his knock of 39,
and Chapman, of Sydney, skipper of the
side, walloped the toss-up bowling to
the tune of 57. The score closed at
seven for 169.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: “Itin” has it (B.
10/3/’37) that the English cricket “team
of 16 was one of the largest brought to
Australia,” while “Staffs” records that
“of the 16 Englishmen Copson and Fish-
lock did not catch a Test.” Actually,
of course, there were 17. The other
player who didn’t figure against All-Aus-
tralia was Duckworth.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: To Test twaddle, com-
mented on in B. 10/3/’37, add the contri-
bution of a correspondent in a Brisbane
daily. The writer starts off by saying
that before he left England it was com-
mon knowledge that Allen’s men, “after
showing their strength, would willingly
lose the rubber as an admission that on
the previous occasion Jardine won the
ashes by means which in Australia were
considered unfair.” The discloser of
secrets adds that “this is why the present
combination is known as ‘the goodwill
team.’ ” If The Bulletin is issuing any
medals in connection with “Test
twaddle” I put in an emphatic claim for
my entry.
* * * *
“Phizgig”: Flapper press cricket ex-
perts have been pointing out that where-
as the English team goes home with
£42,000 of Australian money Australians
were paid only £360 among them, though
the gate for the third Test was £29,000.
Also, there are suggestions that our
players should strike for higher wages
next time. It will do players no harm
to remember that defying the board is
an unhealthy proceeding. The stalwarts
who did it in 1912 in the certainty that
they were indispensable found too late
that they had missed their trip—and they
were headed by Trumper, whose name
was then a greater than Bradman’s to
conjure with.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: Evidently on the
strength of Oldfield’s fine showing in the
closing Tests N.S.W. papers are profess-
ing to take it for granted that he will be
first ’keeper in the next Eleven for Eng-
land. Antagonism is particularly directed
against Tallon, of Queensland, a sterling
batsman in addition to being a magni-
ficent young ’keeper ; chief reason, that
he would have “to learn to take Fleet-
wood-Smith.” Barnett, of Victoria, and
Oldfield himself had both to go through
the alleged ordeal, and, though Oldfield
found the Victorian puzzling, he soon
mastered any difficulty.
“Spare Pilling”: Oldfield ended up the
season with a total of 90 wickets in Tests
against England. His best tally in a
series was 15 in 1930 ; this season he
bagged 11. Throwing in South African
and West Indian games, his total is
130 —55 stumped and 75 caught. If he
can win to the 1938 Eleven Oldfield
should have a fine chance of bringing
his total against England to the century
or over.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victorian cricketers are
up in arms over an act of vandalism
rivalling the cutting-down of the 30,000-
year-old macrozamia palm in Queens-
land recently. Years ago one-time um-
pire Dave Crockett brought slips of the
cricket-bat willow from England and
planted them at Daylesford. The trees
grew, and a flourishing bat-making in-
dustry grew also. Then it became neces-
sary to shift the plantation, but the first
tree Dave had planted was left as a
memorial. Now somebody or other has
cut it down and made off with about £2O
worth of high-class bat wood.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Moved by criticism of
their cricket arena the Q.C.A. has re-
solved to put up a single-decker stand to
seat 2000 of the “outer” spectators.
Work is to be started immediately, the
cash to come from Queensland’s share
of Test profits. It is up to the S.C.G. to
follow the example of Brisbane and Mel-
bourne and provide its hill patrons with
seats instead of kidding them that by
squatting on a dirty and slippery grass
slope in blazing sunshine they are ex
officio members of the wittiest and most
famous debating club in the world, and
really should be charged more for the
privilege.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: More cuts from the
Hagen-Kirkwood tour. The pair is now
playing at only three Sydney courses —
Oatlands, Manly and Concord —and will
only be a week in N.S.W. An attempt
was made to get the Lakes for March 18,
but repairs and reconditioning made that
impossible.
* * * *
“Shirley”: Walter Hagen reputedly has
a Lauderish appreciation of the spondu-
licks, so the loss of a £5O side-wager
with a M.L. professional at Wellington
could not have been pleasant. Hagen’s
opponent was A. Shaw, many times open
and professional champion of Maori-
land, and about the toughest nut the
wily Walter could have picked on. Shaw
won only one up, so Hagen must have
put up a fearful dying struggle.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: N. S. Wales women’s
golf controllers have advised their con-
stituents to “avoid freak competitions.”
There are soured males who regard all
golf in which women take part as “freak
competitions,” but the reference here is
to eclectic flag and similar affairs in-
troduced from America. The ban
follows that of the English L.G.U. against
any handicapping on other than straight-
out stroke and bogey rounds.
* Hs * *
“The McHaggis”: Sydney Scotsmen
will be relieved to hear that the local golf
clubs are abolishing the penalty of an all-
round shout for holing in one ; the fine
is to be confined to a bottle of whusky.
One English club rewards the hero by
making him the club’s guest, including
free drinks for one day. At Concord
(N.S.W.) a special “hole-in-one” bottle is
kept, and every time it is required it is
emptied and filled again for next time.
A silver band, with the name of the
nlaver. is put round the bottle on each
occasion.
* * * #
“Carnoustie”: A murky cable from
Britain says that, annoyed by the deci-
sion of St. Andrews to limit the burden
of golf clubs to 14, a number of British
golfers have banded themselves together
to take a “secret census” of the clubs
carried by ordinary golfers. Just how
this sleuthing is to be done isn’t stated.
It may be that players will be silently
tracked by hired Sherlocks with com-
putating machines. Result is to be for-
warded to St. Andrews with a formal
protest.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The Davis Cup final in
the American zone will definitely be
played at Forest Hills on May 29-30-31.
Australia plays Mexico in Mexico City
on April 30 and May 1 and 2, victor to
meet the winner of the Japan-U.S.A.
match. Australian critics have howled
objections to the Forest Hills courts and
demanded those at Germantown. After
all, it is the custom that the hosts should
decide the locality of the play, but the
prospect of Germantown dragging in
more spectators than Forest Hills has
been sufficient provocation for the dis-
play of bad manners.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Advent of new blood in
our Davis Cuppers and the new style
Bromwich is taking along may possibly
prove a success. Still, the possibility of
Crawford falling down on the job, as
he has done before, or rising to brilliant
heights of play, as he also has done
before, makes it impossible to tip the
result against the U.S.A. with any con-
fidence—that’s taking it for granted our
men beat Mexico. A suspicious item is
an outburst in Yankee papers over the
utter loss of form by Donald Budge. It
has an ancient and fishlike smell.
♦ ♦ # *
“Coif”: A legal decision which might
be of interest to the Australian L.T.A.
has just been given in France. The Court
threw out a claim for entertainment tax
on the Paris matches in 1932-3-4, holding
that Davis Cup tennis is not an entertain-
ment but an event of national interest.
If the D.C. authorities held back the
amount pending that decision the
countries taking part in the Paris rounds,
including Australia, may have a claim
for a refund.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Against Victoria at Adelaide,
the home team romped away by 15
rubbers to six, Quist, Turnbull and
Schwartz being prominent. The visitors,
without Hopman and Kay, won only
one doubles match. But the S.A. women
had no chance with the hard-volleying
Vic. four, who won every rubber.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Persons unnamed are
to run a professional lawn-tennis tourney
at Wembley on May 25, 27, 29. Entries


Your tank holds
more miles
when filled with
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
iwr
CONTAINING BENZOL
C64/12/SP
■CIS!
m
BENZOL (tinted-. Blue). IS ’
STANDARD GRADE PRICE
SOLD .AT THE
FIKAL CLEARANCE SALE
a 1936 FORD V-8*
mmii
We are clearing stocks of 1936 Ford V-8 cars to make way for
new models. Here is the greatest opportunity ever offered
Australian motorists to secure a luxurious new Ford V-8 car at a
heavily discounted price. Stocks are limited . . . Seize the chance
to become the owner of a Ford V-B—the car that is famous through-
out the world for performance, safety, economy and comfort.
Biiztj Your V-8 Notv and yet these advantages
GREATLY REDUCED PRICES
LIBERAL TRADE-IN ALLOWANCE
EASY PURCHASE TERMS
SEE YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
Announcement inserted on behalf of Australian Ford Dealers ) F146.24V
from all parts of Europe are expected,
and the appearance of Perry, Vines and
Tilden is guaranteed. The last show
of the kind was not a success, but a de-
sire to see Perry in his new guise may
drag the crowds. Curious that England,
keen as mustard on amateur tennis, gives
the professional game the cold hand.
Even Suzanne Lenglen’s sensational first
appearance in England after going over
to the paid game was a black frost.
* * * *
Victoria has lost one of its most promis-
ing juniors in Ken Marschener, who
passed on the other day at 18.
Marschener came into the game from
Scotch College, having won the Vic-
torian schools championship in 1954.
He played for Victoria against Tassic in
1936 and for the State in the Linton Cup
at Adelaide the same year. Last season
he showed tremendous improvement in
both fore- and backhand, his stroking
being exceptionally good, while service
and smashing were also excellent.
* * * *
Miscellaneous
“Stand Off”: The chap who compiled
the annual report of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union dipped his pen in rosewater when
he wrote of “the attractive play of the
team” in M.L. As a matter of fact the
team made one of the worst showings an
Australian side has put up for years,
even second-rate provinces rubbing it in
the dirt. There has been such a slip in
our football during the last three or four
years that the thought of the Springbok
visit gives supporters the heeby-jeebies.
Future international visits include one
from the All-Blacks in 1938. At the end
of 1939 an Australian team makes for
Britain, and the Islanders return the visit
in 1942. For about the first time on
record the report takes cognisance of
Tasmania and Westralia as Rugby
centres, and refers to the work being
done in South Australia and Victoria
in spreading the amateur code in the
schools.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Jan McShane, N.S.W.
and Oxford scrum-half, is back from
Britain and is taking up his quarters in
Newcastle for the coming season. Jan
was acclaimed by the critics as one of
the best halves seen in England for a
long time, but he was not considered by
English selectors. His name would mark
him as eligible to play for Ireland, but
Ireland, as far as I know, has never, like
Scotland and England, called on overseas
players. McShane has arrived in the
nick of time, for Australia badly needs a
half-back, Bennett, second fiddle to Mal-
colm, having left Brisbane for the
country, where he will be lost to the
Union code.
•f* *!• •!«
“Stand Off”: N. S. Wales football
season opens officially with the Union
club matches in Sydney on April 10.
There will be a rush trip to Brisbane for
games against Queensland on May 1 and
3 ; and the Northerners will be in Syd-
ney on May 12 and May 15. Then all
make ready for the Springboks.
The League opens in Sydney on April
17. City and Country meet on May 29,
and Ma will visit Brisbane for one match
on June 5. Queensland will be in Syd-
ney later and, unless the. matter of dates
can be fixed with the Union, which will
have the Springboks on hand, will mono-
polise the S.C.G. on June 19 and 26. It
is possible the side for the North of
England may play some matches in
France. Since the International Rugby
Board barred France from international
fixtures because of professionalism, the
League game, is now popular in the
South of France. It is hoped the French-
men will show form enough to justify a
visit from them in 1938. The League is
sadly in need of some fresh attraction.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: As one way of
stemming the rot N.S.W. Rugby League
is returning to a method of playing its
club matches which was abandoned over
10 years ago. The premiership will con-
sist of one round of nine games from
April 17 to June 5, points deciding the
issue. Then the old City Cup k.o. com-
petition will be revived, ending on August
21. The four teams left in will meet in
semi-finals, with the final on Septem-
ber 11.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Sydney Rugby
Leaguers are considering reintroducing
the old rule permitting replacement of
injured players. It allowed replacements
up to half-time, and some clubs made it
a welter. One proposal is to make the
ambulance men the judges of whether the
player is fit to go on or not, instead of
leaving it to the player himself. In
Britain both Union and League codes
forbid any replacements at all, but the
practice is permitted in Australia and
M.L. under the Union code. America
has the most all-in method. Replace-
ments in the struggle there pleasantly
called football are at the will of the team
coaches, and are allowed at any stage of
the game, and for any reason, until at the
finish a side sometimes doesn’t retain a
single one of the players who began the
game.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Soccer heads
are getting busy building a team to meet
the British amateurs. N.S.W. has been
asked to stage a trial, N.S.W. v. The Rest,
in Sydney on June 19—a fortnight before
the tourists arrive. Ma is staging two
North v. South games to pick out the
peaches, one at Adamstown on May
3 and the other at Dulwich Hill, Sydney,
on Coronation Day, May 12.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: If Essendon supporters
have their way “The Same Old” will be
so radically altered that its most leather-
mouthed barracker won’t be able to
recognise it. They propose to incorpo-
rate Essendon F.C. in one club with the
cricketers, tennis players and exponents
of other games to be known as “The
Essendon Club.” The Victorian F.L.,
which sees some financial interests it pos-
sesses in the football crowd passing to
the control of a manager independent of
the League, is squealing savagely and
offers to fight the proposal to the last
ditch.
* •* * *
“Slalom”: Australia, that land of
burning sands and trackless deserts, is
proving itself uncannily handy in
sports on snow and ice. At the recent
Swiss meetings Australians showed to
the front in the sleighing events, and now
K. G. Anderson has regained the British
amateur mile skating championship he
won in 1935. His time was 3min. 13sec.
As this country has also put it all over
Maoriland, popularly supposed to be
composed mostly of snow-clad moun-
tains, in a Dominion ski-ing contest, the
inhabitants of the enervating tropics in
which the white man cannot live haven’t
done so badly.
* * * *
“Duckwing”: Pleasant to read that a
cocking main on the real, old-fashioned
scale between French and English birds
at Calais drew a huge contingent of
British sportsmen. One of the most
prominent was Sir John Jardine, a Scot-
tish baronet whose family has been con-
nected with the noble sport since such
things were recorded. It is only a year
or two since one of the family was
nabbed and fined at Newmarket, where
many thousands were lost and won on
the cocks in the good old days, and it is
pleasant to see the old family tradition
carried on. Unfortunately the chump
who sent the cable forgot to say which
side won, though he says thousands
changed hands in the betting.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Man Who Lived Twice.”
MEDICO EX-MURDERER,
Ralph Bellamy
HIS GIRL Marion Marsh
HIS EX-GIRL ........ Isabel Jewell
SURGEON Thurston Hall
This fine film presents a prospective
development in criminology, and the
idea has been handled convincingly.
Fleeing from justice, a scar-faced
killer hides in a lecture-room and there
hears an eminent surgeon propound his
theory that a brain operation would
transform certain types of dangerous
criminals into useful citizens. Faced
with the alternative of a “hot seat” if he
is caught, the fugitive induces the sur-
geon to experiment on him. The opera-
tion is successful, and the ex-criminal,
under the surgeon’s care and with his
help, himself becomes a highly-qualified
physician.
Subsequently his former girl and his
pal recognise him, though plastic surgery
has altered his face. The pal, tough but
true, becomes his chauffeur, but the girl
attempts blackmail, and when he refuses
—he’s unaware of his identity, the scalpel
having cancelled his pre-operation
memory—she informs the police to get
a reward. Fingerprints establish iden-
tity and he’s arrested, whereupon
spiteful miss is taken for a ride
by loyal chauffeur. A Judge re-
signs from the Bench to deiciid the
accused, delivering a moving oration, his
point being that the killer died when the
surgeon’s knife created a valuable
member of society.
Ralph Bellamy intelligently portrays
the dual roles. Marion Marsh has little
to do but look sympathetic and appealing.
Thurston Hall gives a capital study of
the surgeon, and Isabel Jewell and Ward
Bond contribute a couple of good charac-
ter sketches. At Sydney Capitol.
“Pigskin Parade.”
COUNTRY BUMPKIN .. Stuart Erwin
FOOTBALL COACH .... Jack Haley
COACH’S WIFE Patsy Kelly
This is a collegiate football fantasia
crammed with musical (or, anyway,
rhythmical) numbers, but in several re-
spects it cuts away from hackneyed lines
and the points it makes about football
can be understood because they are ex-
plained. Apparently in the American
game, there is no offside rule and no em-
bargo on passing forward. A small Texan
college gets hold of an illiterate and
almost inarticulate peasant (Erwin) who,
from long practice with watermelons, can
throw the ball 50 yards or more with un-
erring aim. By an error this small col-
lege is invited to send a team to play
Yale. The match takes place in a blind-
ing blizzard, and the Texans win.
That part of the business is staged in
an effective, terse way, with plenty of
humor. The four Yacht Club Boys, who
sing topical ditties almost as neat as
W. S. Gilbert’s, and whose enunciation
is as clear as crystal, are to the fore
every few minutes, and there is a petite
soubrette with a piquant face (probably
imported from vaudeville) who sings ( not
croons) absurdities with all the dramatic
intensity of a small puma fighting for its
life. The final sequence, where the
Texans who have come east to see the.
match, bringing their cowboy band with
them, break into the snow-covered arena
and celebrate the win with a sort of
Indian dance and song of triumph, has a
whirlwind gusto that this critic has never
seen equalled on the screen. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Off to the Races.”
POP JONES Jed Prouty
MA JONES Spring Byington
ELDEST DAUGHTER
BONNIE Shirley Deane
ELDEST SON JACK, Kenneth Howell
UNCLE GEORGE .. Slim Summerville
The adventures of the Jones family
have a flavor all their own—and it’s a
good flavor. With just sufficient exag-
geration to give spice to the picture the
characters get their fun out of ordinary
and recognisable family life. This in-
stalment finds them in County Fair
week —American equivalent of agricul-
tural show week, only in the U.S.A. the
races are run on the showgrounds. Uncle
George has brought his trotter Jerry B.,
with which he hopes to win the big event,
but Uncle George is very unfinancial.
He coaxes the $50 entrance fee out of
granny; Jack and young Roger (the
family Shylock) are induced to pay for
the hire of a sulky, and Bonnie’s young
man planks all his savings on Jerry B.’s
nose. Just before the race Uncle George
is arrested for failure to pay alimony,
and the paternal Jones, who has been
skiting about his prowess as a driver of
trotters when a lad, has to take his place.
He gets a rough spin in the race, being
crowded to the rails time and again, but
finishes first on a wrecked sulky, which
forthwith collapses. There are laughs all
the way. At Sydney Regent.
“Gold Diggers of 1937.”
THEATRE CZAR Victor Moore
HIS GOLD-DIGGER .. Gtehda Farrell
INSURANCE CANVASSER,
Dick Powell
GOIL HE CROONS TO, Jodn Blondell
In its search for originality Hollywood
evolves some queer hybrids. Here the
skeleton of an alleged musical comedy
“Well, THEN can I go and see Shirley Temple?”
is a plot to kill a doddering old theatrical
producer who has been insured by his
enemies for a million bucks. Failing to
attain their ends by exposing the old
chap to draughts and pushing him into a
swimming pool the conspirators sool a
hard-boiled showgoil on to him. But the
goil, instead of burying him, marries him,
the insurance people save him from bank-
ruptcy by organising a bright revue in
his name, and all ends happily.
Moore presents no Frohman or Zieg-
feld, but a semi-imbecilic battener on
patent medicines. Powell croons and
Miss Blondell, all eyes, registers adora-
tion. Towards the end there are some
ballet spectacles in which a. young
army of chorines do calisthenics with
flags. Miss Farrell does some sound
acting in a not-too-easy role, and Lee
Dixon does some hoofing. Humor, such
as there is, has a macabre edge to it, and
the general effect is something like a
fancy-dress ball in a morgue. At Sydney
Regent.
“Mirrophonic” Sound.
Sydney’s Liberty applies the new Mir-
rophonic sound system to its supporting
first half, as well as to “Showboat.” In-
creased clarity is particularly noticeable
in the orchestral recordings, as in the fine
rendition of Liszt’s “Les Preludes.”
Paramount’s “Gipsy Revels” has
Yasha Bunchuk and his Russian orches-
tra in good choral work, with excellent
singing of Russian folk songs by an un-
identified soprano.
M.-G.-M.’s “Behind the Headlines,”
with witty comment by Pete Smith, traces
a daily’s front-page story from the
vaguest whisper to street sales.
“In My Gondola,” a Columbia “color
rhapsody,” cartoons the gondoliers of
Venice, with a baritone delivering “Santa
Lucia” in splendid syle and good music
supplementing the fun.
“Vaude-Villians,” with Marty May, is
a potpourri of vaudeville, including a
troupe of Chinese who perform some
amazing feats of balance.
“Sinner Take All.”
CRIME REPORTER .. Bruce Cabot
SOCIETY GOIL .. Margaret Lindsay
GANGSTER Joseph Calleia
EDITOR Stanley Ridges
POLICE CHIEF Edward Pawley
One of those thrillers in which the per-
petrator of a series of very unlikely
murders turns out to be a very unlikely
member of the cast. It has one unusual
virtue —it gives the police credit for
ability and commonsense. —and action is
brisk. Cabot adequately fills his role as
a newspaper sleuth, but Miss Lindsay’s
equanimity as various members of her
family are bumped off emphasises the
artificiality of the whole business. The
rest of the casting is excellent. Pawley
is a quite credible police captain, Calleia
gangsterises with his accustomed aplomb
and Ridges manages to edit without hys-
terical brain-storms. But the plot has
more holes in it than a Gruyere cheese.
Previewed at M.-G.-M. Theatrette,
Sydney.
STAGE SHOWS.
“The Merry Widow.”
Judged by the enthusiasm of Saturday
night’s audience at Sydney Royal, “The
Widow” is as popular as of old. Lavish
settings and beautiful dressing gave it
an extra help along.
High-water mark in a flood tide of
good singing is Gladys MoncriefFs ren-
dering of the lovely “Vilia.” Rene Max-
well is a distinct success as Nathalie,
Frank Leighton is a debonair Prince
Danilo and Arthur Clarke, who has
thrown off his earlier stilted manner
and whose singing shows improvement,
makes an effective Vicomte Jolidon.
Cecil Kellaway and Don Nicol manage
the comedy end of it very well, and Lois
Green dances and gambols with grace
and charm. Sydney Wheeler and Leslie
Donaghey contribute a brace of neat
character sketches.
4* 4* +
Essie Ackland’s Triumphal Return.
In the 12 years or so since Essie
Ackland left Australia it has been dis-
covered that her voice records extra-
ordinarily well, and the contralto’s fame
has been spread abroad by the gramo-
phone, discs bearing her name. At Syd-
ney Town Hall on Saturday night she
received from a crowded house the ova-
tion due to a celebrity, and proceeded
to justify the warmth of her welcome by
exercising a smooth, well-controlled,
sympathetic voice in a great variety of
vocal compositions, in all of which the
clarity of her enunciation was remark-
able.
As Miss Ackland was brought back
to Australia under A.B.C. auspices this
critic listened into the broadcast of the
first' half of her recital. Transmission
was not quite satisfactory at the. outset.
Whereas critics in the hall blamed ac-
companist Raymond Lambert for over-
suppression in the opening number,
Strauss’s “Morgen,” listeners per radio
heard the piano much more distinctly
than the singer. In Schubert’s “Das
Wandern” and Strauss’s “Zueignung”
the balance was better and the artistic
qualities of the singer’s voice could be
appreciated. She was at her best in
“Ombra Mai Fu,” one of the magnifi-
cent survivals from Handel’s vast array
of forgotten operas. This was followed
by “Bless You,” a nice enough little
song by Ivor Novello, but strange com-
pany for Handel, Schubert and Strauss.
Later the singer gave Barnby’s “Sweet
and Low,” Brahms’s “Sunday” and an
old English air arranged by Robert
Quilter, “Over the Mountains.” Avery
enjoyable recital.
Ernest Llewellyn, who assisted, proved
himself a very competent fiddler. His
most ambitious broadcast effort, a
Purcell sonata, was really well done.
•!• + •!• 4*
A.W.A. Birthday Concert.
One of the best-enjoyed concerts Syd-
ney has listened to was Amalgamated
Wireless’s birthday celebration at the
Town Hall, broadcast through 2CH. A
large and competent orchestra under the
baton of Francis
Stempinski played light,
tuneful music such as
Tschaikowsky’s “Nut-
cracker” and Eric
Coates’s “L ond o n”
suites. Marie Bremner
sang excerpts from
musical comedy. Lur-
line Fleming (one of
the most pleasing of
the younger crop of
sopranos) did excel-
lently in an aria from
“Madame Butterfly,”
and as an encore sane
an abo. melody, scored
by Stempinski. Walter
Kingsley’s robust basso
was heard in “Old Man
River” and “Drake
Goes West.” Contralto
Gladys Graham and
tenor Paul Kain (he
sang “Tell Me To-night”) also evoked
great applause. At the end of the show
the vocalists united in the finale to
Gounod’s “Faust” —a very fine effort.
Four pianists —Isador Goodman, Frank
Hutchens, Alexander Sverjensky and
Frederick Hyde —at four concert grands
combined in performances of the Ravel
“Bolero” and a highly-ornamented tran-
scription of the “Blue Danube” waltzes,
after which Mr. Goodman played the
Dohnanyi arrangement of the “Naila
Valse” (Delibes) with orchestra and
Liszt’s “Rigoletto-Paraphrase” off his
own bat.
It was after 11.30 when the Anthem
told the audience it was time to go home,
but judging by the applause, which got
louder and longer as the night wore on,
every minute of the programme (which
included an address on radio by E. T.
Fisk) was appreciated. A.W.A. certamiy
knows what the' public likes.
•z*
Melbourne’s Celtic Night.
A crowded house greeted Gregan
McMahon’s “The Moon in the Yellow
River ” his first production of the year,
at Melbourne King’s on Saturday nig •
From an Australian viewpoint m
Moon in the Yellow River” is as crazy
as its title is Chinese; its lines mix t
wistful mental acrobatics of the 1
with all their loyalties and chunks
their humor. Under a young revolu-
tionary, an isolated Irish district atte P -
to prevent the encroachment or ma
trialism in the form of a modern y
electric powerhouse. The conspiracy
blow it up is unsatisfactory, but Pi y
wright Denis Johnston skilfully uses i
to show the warring ideas and dr
of the country Irish when modern P
gress” threatens their fields wit
t0 Gregan McMahon stages hisTroduc-
tion cleverly, and his cast is s
chosen. He contrasts flights of 1
brogue with the stolid, clipped materialism
(Continued on page 35.)


SIR RUFUS
brings you 1400 HOURS
of trouble-free reception
WITHOUT ACCUMULATOR
RECHARGING
* * V
STERLING
Siruferized
AIR CELL
RADIO
For the first time in Australia the Country Listener can
now enjoy 12 months and more of perfect radio reception
without the trouble and expense of accumulator
recharging.
STERLING Siruferized AIR CELL Radio gives you 1400
hours’ reception with the amazing new EVEREADY
AIR CELL, which, during that time, requires no more
attention than the occasional addition of ordinary
drinking water. You can use your Sterling Receiver
continuously or only occasionally, it makes no difference
. . . you still have 1400 hours of actual use.
Sterling not only offers you this wonderful feature, but
also Radio’s latest scientific development, Sirufer Iron
Cored Coils, which give amazing Selectivity and Perform-
ance. The artistically designed Cabinets of selected
walnut veneers are acoustically engineered, giving
unsurpassed tone response.
Ask your Local Dealer for illustrated descriptive folder
giving full information of these outstanding Radio
Receivers.
...
rfll _ .. :'l#s;
i ri
r: *
r s% 11
m
«:
t«~.
• w
,4111
/
7 rfe.
m
1' <?felva.Mg-R
£ SEE THE 1937 STERLING AIR CELL RADIO AT THE
ROYAL EASTER SHOW,
No. 74-77 HORDERNIAN PAVILION.
MODEL A 413 4-valve Broadcast Receiver.. £26/10/-
MODEL A513—5-valve Broadcast Receiver.. 29 Gns.
MODEL A523—5-valve Dual-wave Receiver. . £33/15/-
MODEL A723—7-valve Dual-wave Receiver. . £39/15/-
Prices in States other than N.S.W., £1 additional.
STERLING RADIO LIMITED,
29-37 Abercrombie Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Distributors:
TRACKSON BROS. PTY., LTD.,
157-159 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
■■ ■ jj
-#
mm
** SI ®
Mf
I ;
HSf
% 11
m
m
i
W; £
I‘
>
?#;
■
jf
m
mm
m
HH
i m
iH
■
THE “CLYDE” LOW-BOY CdNSOLE,
Model A 523.
TSJ
4 i!ft
JAMES AND DAVID YOUNG.
Reared on ARNOTT’S FAMOUS MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS, undefeated in four Baby Shows, and David
awarded Champion Baby. Prize: Silver Cup; 234
entrants, at St. Thomas’s Church, Granville.
Delicious biscuits which are eagerly eaten by
children even when they refuse other foods.
They are most valuable and nutritious. Thinly
butter a few and place them in the school bag;
you will thus make the child’s school lunch
more attractive and infinitely more beneficial.
During the past half century over 40,000 photographs of strong, vigorous
children reared from the age of six months on Arnott s Famous Milk Arrowroot
Biscuits have been sent with testimonials by grateful mothers to William Arnott,
Limited.
FAMOUS
MILK.
ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Arnott’s
“They are Better than Ever”


The Kichardson Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
102 years of service and progress—Petty's Hotel. To-day Petty's is still
favoured—for its air of comfort, and its position; quiet, yet convenient
to all business and social centres. New features include new private
lounge and private dining room, hot and cold water, etc.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(3) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
O HOPPING, meeting and escorting children,
o driving cars in city, engaging domestics.
MARGARET RUSSELL, Amaroo, Albany
Road, Toorak, Vic., U 4032.
j
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49
Banters: The
years.
Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Spreading palms, rising from little
pots, fringed the stage, which was thickly
bordered with flowers in brave reds and
yellows, when Essie Ackland sang at the.
Town Hall on Saturday. Right back to
the last row was packed ; the galleries
were tiers of eager faces. The returned
Sydney singer’s frock was dazzling gold.
It had a flowing knife-pleated cape. Its
front panel was ruched ; it swept to a
train. Large sections of Mosman (Essie
was very popular in that suburb) helped
vigorously in the hailstorm of greeting,
and later lifted their voices, as did half
the audience, in the refrain of “Just a
Song at Twilight,” with which Essie
ended her concert. In the interval strong,
silent ushers strode, in procession up the
aisle burdened with flower tributes. A
storm of enthusiasm broke loose when
she sang her husband’s song “Coo-ee!”
Essie had come home!
The Mayoress was at this concert;
gold lame and ermine enwrapped her.
The Sam Hordern lady was a listener,
wrapped richly in furs. Mrs. W. J.
Cleary and her daughters came ; Joyce
Beazley, in black-and-white, was a
noted. A.B.C. general manager Moses
and Mrs. Moses (she was all in white)
sat with the Frank Clunes, Mrs. Frank
wearing turquoise blues and pearls in
nice contrast to her fairness. Miss
Nellie Veitch, of Melbourne, great friend
of the late Ada Crossley, who had been
one of the Sydney contralto’s admirers,
was a front-seater. With her was sister
Mrs. F. Searight. Nora Williamson and
Mildred Hill and Mrs. Rex Bennett were
musicianly listeners; so were Roland
Foster and Emily Marks.
“You can have your Lily Pons and
Grace Moore. Give me Gladys Mon-
crieff,” said Miss Eighteen, who came
down with shining eyes from the gallery
of the Royal on Saturday. The revival
of “The Merry Widow” had evidently
pleased more than the war generation.
With Gladys is Renee Maxwell, a pretty
foil to Gladys’s brunette good looks.
Both wore some frocks worth a men-
tion. Gladys made her entry in one of
cloth of silver that swung a cape lined
with anemone pink. With this she car-
ried a fan of long, uncurled ostrich
plumes. In the last act, when love, had
found the way, she was a noble glitter
of midnight-blue sequins. Midnight
blue also were Mrs. Sep Levy’s chiffons.
Ethereal pink laces showed under the
long white, velvet coat worn by Mrs.
C. V. Walker. Eau-de-nil crepe and
velvet were mingled in Mrs. Bedford’s
frocking. With her was Dorothy
. Dunckley.
When guests arrived at the Colonel
Bundocks’ cocktail party they found a
grapevine trailed about the verandah
waiting to be stripped. The party was
in honor of Major Harold Jopp and his
wife. Mrs. Keith Jopp, the major’s
mother, wore the smartness of navy blue
touched with emerald green. The hostess
chose black-and-white, and Mrs. Harold
Jopp wore an ensemble of white crepe
finished with a black-and-white belt and
a black hat'. Everybody was there, and
most of the flowers had come from the
Malcolm Mackellar home at Kurrajong.
The Westralians have settled on the
State Theatre ballroom for their monthly
lunches. There is something almost
frivolous in sitting down to midday meat
in these debonair and mirror-inlet sur-
roundings ; and last week’s meeting
rattled along merrily. Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax, banker A. C. Davidson and Mrs.
Bernard O’Reilly were the lions. Mrs.
Lawson, there, with daughter Mrs.
Lindsay, and Mr. Freedman were straight
from the West. Mrs. O’Reilly was the
day’s surprise. Her speech, which she
was asked to make, was a marvel of
directness. She covered her husband’s
epic in five minutes, and sat down again
an unruffled trim figure in her tailored
suit and small Breton-sailor hat.
Despite having heard banker A. C.
Davidson this Letter still doesn't know
how to make money, or the secret of
just when to buy cheap and when to sell
dear. Mrs. Hubert’s homily was in the
nature of home chat, referring to affairs
of the associations of which the West-
ralian Society is a sister. In the merry
month of May when the Coronation
bells chime out, the Kindred Associa-
tions will jubilate over long trenchers
of cold meats and fruit cup. To make,
this a bumper house, many of the State
groups will forego their own monthly
lunch.
Louise Lightfoot, who sails for Europe
on Saturday in search of new ballets, did
not start life as a dancer. Architecture
attracted her first, and for three years at
Melbourne University she studied the
aesthetics of building, graduating with all
the necessary diplomas. For a time she
worked with Burley Griffin when he was
planning Castlecrag. With the arrival of
Pavlova, dancing ousted architecture, and
Louise studied with one of the. company,
Ivan Sergieff. After still further study at
the Con. she joined forces with Mischa
Burlakov, who also came to Sydney with
the Pavlova company. Among success-
ful stage productions of the partnership
have been two Australian ballets. Ray-
mond Sawyer photograph.
The Women Writers made their first
lunch of the year one of congratulation
to Dame Mary Gilmore. This brought
a great crop of she-scribes to the. blue
room of David Jones’s, among them
Ethel Turner Curlewis, very sparkling,
and Mrs. Fred Aronson, who was a
speechmaker. Dame Mary, barricaded
behind red roses and smiling flower
baskets, told, among other things, how
she, on the Paraguayan enterprise, in-
structed the men of the little colony how
to germinate the mate seed. This was
according to an old abo. recipe for ger-
minating wattle seed. In case you don’t
know it, you steep the seed in hot
water, or else burn the ground and pour
some water into the hot earth and pop
in the seed.
Elwyn, only child of the Wallace Hayes
couple, of Yarrawin, Oberon, hasn’t
worn the first bloom off the engagement-
ring given her by Don Skarrat, of Glen-
brook. Elwyn has hosts of Bathurst and
Sydney friends. Her schooldays were
passed at Marsden, in Bathurst, and later
on at Doone, Darling Point. Don is an
old King’s School boy. The two intend
settling on the land.
The. Queensland wheel-flower was the
outstanding decoration in the Grosvenor
Galleries when Robert Johnson, one
time of Maoriland, had his one-man
show. Greys and golds play a great
part in these striking landscapes, and
were in tune with the day, which was
one of alternate cloud and shafts of
light. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax hurried
along from the Westralian lunch to
declare the exhibition open. With her
came Beatrice Lilley, from Townsville,
in a lilac-pink frock.
The artist’s wife, in a navy suit and
hat, was much congratulated on her hus-
band’s commission from the. Common-
wealth Government to paint a picture of
Canberra. Mrs. William Buckle pointed
with pride to “The Gold Valley,” her
husband’s latest purchase. Mrs. Fairfax
reminded the company that Lord Somers
had taken one of Mr. Johnson’s pictures
to London. A recent purchase was by
an American to take back to New York.
Judge Backhouse and Sydney Ure Smith
added congratulations. Attractive Breton
sailor in navy, stabbed with 1937 quill,
was worn by Mrs. Russell.
The most discussed woman in Sydney
last week was Mrs. J. A. Lyons. This
wasn’t because, she is the wife of the
Prime Minister and going off to England
to be the guest of the King and Queen,
but because of the clear complexion, the
bright, intelligent gaze she turns to the.
world. The general opinion among the
sisterhood is that, after all, being mother
of 11 need not be deterrent to looks and
an active brain. The lady’s cheeks were
as bright as a Tasmanian apple when
she arrived at the party given in her
honor by the women of the U.A.P. Her
frock of gold lame fell from a moulded
hipline into knife pleats, and an armful
of Talisman roses was presented to her.
The fires of an Australian opal burned
against the gold.
Mrs. Lyons, who is a good speaker,
had a rapt audience of more than 300,
and Hordern Brothers’ ballroom held
knights and their ladies and politicians,
among these Premier Stevens. And
here a bouquet must be handed to the
ladies. The wives of our lawmakers
have the balance of power as far as
looks go. Mrs. Stevens was a graceful
figure in grey lace with floating panels
as she presented the arriving guests to
Mrs. Lyons. The Sydney Snows were
there ; so was Mrs. Crawford Vaughan,
handsome in burgundy crepes. An ex-
citement of the evening was the arrival
of the Bernard O’Reillys, of Stinson
’plane renown.
Jean Malor, 8.A., was the only girl
at the dinner in the Carlton arranged by
students who had just completed their
law course at Sydney University. Jean
had made Uni. history by being the first
woman student in the Faculty of Law to
win first-class honors. In her third year
she topped the list in the law exams. She
has won the Rose Scott prize, and
shared with J. I. Massie the John George
Dailey prize. She has just turned the
twenties. Raymond Sawyer photograph.
The tax collector will be after artist
Robert Johnson as a result of his show
in the Grosvenor Galleries. Two days
after opening date the sales were touch-
ing the £5OO mark. Good news for
Streeton lovers is that Arthur will bring
his new knighthood, his lady and a show
of pictures to Sydney just about Easter.
The exhibition isn’t timed till our annual
enthusiasm over the prize bull, ox and
pig is somewhat abated, but the Streetons
arrive before that. The city, by the way,
was almost too crowded to hold them.
Petty’s, on Church Hill, just managed to
squeeze them in. Record Easter book-
ings are announced from all hotels and
guest-houses, so everybody can’t be going
to the Coronation.
Nearly £lO was made from the sale of
flower sprays and gardenias at Hazel
King’s recital last week. Everything was
sold at one shilling, so the takings repre-
sented quite a brisk bit of footwork by
the girls who carried the fragrant trays.
The gardenias had been freshly plucked
that afternoon in the gardens of Elaine,
the Hubert Fairfax home. Hazel’s
special bouquet', an ethereal affair of
pink and blue flowers, was sent to her
from Mayoress Parkes.
Betty Balfe’s marriage to Henry Law-
rence (“Wang”) Osborne was the social
firework of the week, and even Thurs-
day’s downpours didn’t make it fizzle.
Nineteen-year-old Betty, looking like a
snowdrop, arrived at St. Michael’s,
Vaucluse, while the heavens were telling
their worst woes, but she gathered up
her trails of lily-of-the-valley and her
mists of tulle with a smile that was all
the sunshine the afternoon saw. There,
was a flurry of white and blue and pink
as she and her ’maids, protected by out-
size umbrellas, passed from car to church
portals.
Just the right coloring for the bride's
fairness were the flower decorations of
pink and blue. Just right, too, was the
simplicity of her frock of white tripie
ninon. This had its neckline to the base
of the throat, and above gleamed a
string of pearls, the gift of the bride-
groom’s mother, Mrs. Steenie Osborne.
The frock was long, had loose bell
sleeves and ended in a panel train. A
girdle of pearls was its only decoration ;
but very gleamful was the brooch of
diamonds and sapphires, a wedding gift
from her husband. Newly returned
from Europe Belinda Street and Pamela
Laidley Dowling brought palest-pink
chiffon frocks and Cecil Brunner roses
to the procession. Stephanie Osborne
(sister of the leading man) was all del-
phinium blues.
Hosts of Osbornes were at the recep-
tion in Elizabeth Bay House. The bride-
groom’s mother, Mrs. Steenie Osborne,
attracted the gaze in her moulded frock
of deep-blue marquisette, with which she
wore a net cape of the same tone. Blue
was Mrs. Balfe’s ensemble, but it was
more lobelia in shade, and ran to two
prize mauve orchids on the shoulder.
The wife of Lieutenant-Governor Street,
whose granddaughter Belinda was chief
bridesmaid, was a guest. So were Mac-
arthur-Onslows, Bowmans, Wilkinsons,
Horderns, Gordons, Katers. The Awa-
tea took bride and bridegroom to Maori-
land for six weeks. After that their new
home on the Bolaro property will claim
them.
“Australia’s National Gem for Aus-
tralia’s Queen of Song” was the inscrip-
tion on the black opal and diamond pen-
dant presented to Essie Ackland by one
of her formers teachers, Emily Marks, at
a reception in honor of the singer and her
husband, Reginald Morphew. Students
of Miss Marks and Roland Foster, Essie s
former teachers, arranged this party at
the Carlton. Black opal cuff links were
gathered in by Mr. Morphew, also at
the hands of Miss Marks.
The visiting contralto was presented
by Mrs. Louis Scott with a lei of frangi-
panni, and each lady at the official table
received a. glass basket filled with the
same fragrance. There was a programme
of music, pupils of both teachers taking
part. Miss Emily Marks wore a princess
gown of ice-blue lace woven with a glint
of gold thread.
The. Sydney Lyceum Club held high
revel (Mrs. A. G. Thomas in the chair)
at a luncheon in honor of one of its
members, Mrs. Martin Mcllrath, of
Turramurra, just back from London
with daughter Mary. Mrs. Walter Armi-
tage (a former fellow-student of Mrs.
Mcllrath at Sydney Uni.) alluded to
her first impression of the guest in the
days of trencher boards, Mrs. Darsow,
the. club’s hon. sec. added a few words,
and the returned traveller, whose wide-
brimmed black millinery could not hide
her radiant smile, murmured an appre-
ciation of London’s behavior in the
Abdication crisis of last Novemcer.
Eldest daughter, Dr. Muriel Mcllrath,
remains in England till the end of the
year. She’s in Lancashire after taking a
post-graduate course in London.


FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY.—This advertisement is not an invitation to the
public to subscribe for shares, the whole of the shares having already been fully subscribed for.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
Of an Issue of 110,000
ORDINARY SHARES OF £1 EACH
Payable: In full (£1 per Share) on Application.
fELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of the State of New South Wales on 7th
January, 1921.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL:
£1,000,000 in Shares of £1 each.
CAPITAL ALREADY ISSUED:
40,000 6% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, fully paid.. £40,000
226.500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, fully paid 226,500
OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION BY THE PROSPECTUS:
1 10,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each 1 10,000
HELD IN RESERVE:
623.500 Shares of £l each 623,500
1,000,000 £1,000,000
The above issue of 1 10,000 Ordinary Shares was underwritten by J. B. Were & Son,
who exercised their right to the firm allotment of the whole issue. Application
lists have been closed.
DIRECTORS:
JOSEPH KENTI6ERN HEYDON, 46 Pitt Street, Sydney, Solicitor (Chairman).
SIK WALTER MASSY-GREENE, K.C.M.G., 360 Collins St., Melbourne, Company Manager.
ARTHUR JAMES VAEE, 69 William Street, Melbourne, Company Director.
HENRY VAN DE VELDE, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney, Managing Director.
BANKERS: BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Royal Exchange Branch, Sydney.
SOLICITORS: HEYDON & LOCHRIN, Endeavour House, 46 Pitt St., Sydney; and
ARTHUR PHILLIPS & JUST, 472 Bourke St., Melbourne.
CONSULTING SOLICITORS TO THE ISSUE: WHITING & BYRNE, 101 William St.,
Melbourne, Cl.
AUDITORS: SMITH, JOHNSON & CO., Public Accountants, Sydney and Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE: H. Z. PYE, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
J. B. WERE & SON, Capel Court, 375 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE:
The issue is being made to finance expansions of operations already embarked upon by
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Limited, which has a notable record in the development of
the felt manufacturing industry in Australia. In addition to large-scale operations at
its own factories in Sydney, the Company is the central figure in a prosperous group of
companies engaged in the manufacture of felt and felt products throughout Australia and
in New Zealand and South Africa, and it also has large interests in other undertakings
which manufacture woven carpets, wool tops, cotton wool and waddings, and allied products.
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Limited, is the largest manufacturing unit in the group,
and its registered brand, “Feltex,” has acquired considerable goodwill, especially in
connection with guaranteed moth-proof felts for floor coverings, and for “Wazzakamel”
slipper felts.
The principal subsidiary and associated Companies comprising the group surrounding
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Limited, and their relationship to the parent company and
to one another are shown in the following diagram:—
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
NEW ZEALAND
SUPPERS LTD.
(100% Interest In
Ordinary Capital.)
SOUTH AFRICAN
SUPPERS LTD.
(100% Interest.)
I. GRANT 1 CO.
LTD.
(33J% Interest.)
FEDERAL FELTERS
PTY. LTD.
(100% Interest.)
AUSTRALIAN
HAIR CO. LTD,
(50% Interest.)'
FELT INDUSTRIES
LTD.
(100% Interest.)
BALDWIN &
GRANT PTY.LTD.
(75% Interest.)
JAS. SEYMOUR
& CO. PTY. LTD.
(75% Interest.)
COTTON
DRESSINGS
PTY. LTD.
(25% Interest.)
Felt and Textiles of Australia has three subsidiaries in which it has 100 per cent,
control, while in two other companies it holds half and one-third interests respectively.
Federal Felters Pty., Ltd., in turn, owns 75 per cent, of the capital in two Companies
and 25 per cent, of the capital in one other, while South African Slippers, Ltd., holds all
the capital in Felt Industries, Limited.
A pioneer in the felt manufacturing field, the Company has steadily expanded. Founded
in 1921, issued capital has since been increased from £6000 to £266,500, and the present
issue will raise the figure to £376,500, while turnover of the group has risen from a few
thousand pounds to about £1,000,000 annually. The number of employees has increased
from 15 to 1500.
By keeping the undertaking on a sound economic basis, by encouraging technical
improvements, and by founding subsidiary enterprises, the Company has successfully met
all competition, and now has a permanent and decisive advantage over any potential
opposition. Further expansions are in progress or in project, notably the manufacture of
woven carpets by Baldwin and Grant Pty., Ltd., which has established the first factory
of its kind in Australia.
NET PROFIT.
The certificate of the investigating accountants, Smith, Johnson and Co., shows that,
after providing for taxation and making necessary adjustments, net profits of the Company,
including that portion of the earnings of the subsidiary companies accruing to it, were
as follows: —
Year ended 30th June, 1934 .. ... .. £31,084
Year ended 30th June, 1935 .. .. .. 32,405
Year ended 30th June, 1936 .. .. .. 50,403
Six months ended 31st December, 1936 .. 24,938
After allowing for payment of the preference dividend, requiring £2400 per annum, the
net profit for the six months ended 31st December, 1936, was equivalent to 21 per cent,
on the ordinary capital of £226,500 prior to the present issue.
If the new capital to be introduced be deemed to earn only 6 per cent, per annum, the
return on the total ordinary capital of £336,500, after the new issue (and after providing for
the preference dividend of £2400), would be approximately 16 per cent, per annum on the
basis of the earnings for the six months ended 31st December, 1936.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.
According to the certificate of Smith, Johnson and Co., Public Accountants, the Balance-
sheet of Felt and Textiles of Australia, Limited, as at 31st December, 1936, shows a surplus
of £318,544 of assets over liabilities. Included in the assets are shares in subsidiaries,
£203,000; shares in other companies, £12,849; and goodwill and patent rights, £40,000.
A statement of aggregate assets and liabilities of the three subsidiaries in which the
Company has 100 per cent, interest shows total assets of £321,838, against liabilities of
£167,064, giving a surplus of assets of £154,774, or, deducting goodwill of £8000, net tangible
assGts of £146 TT4»
Shares in subsidiary companies have been revalued by Smith, Johnson and Co. to bring
them to fair and reasonable estimates of their present worth, based on asset value and
earnings. The surplus on revaluation was utilisel to make a bonus issue to shareholders
in Felt and Textiles of Australia, Limited, details of which appear in the full Prospectus.
After the revaluation, goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries amounts to £96,226,
having been increased by £48,226 as a result of the readjustment of values.
DIRECTORS.
All the directors have had a long and intimate association with the business. Mr.
J. K. Hey don, one of the founders of the business, is retiring from the office of chairman,
and will be succeeded as chairman by Sir Walter Massy-Greene, K.C.M.G., who joins the
board to represent the new capital being subscribed. Mr. H. Yan de Yelde, who has been
managing director for many years, and has played a leading part in the development of
the business, will continue in that position under contract for five years, with provision fox-
subsequent extension of the term. Mr. A. J. Vale is managing director of subsidiary and
allied companies.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING.
Application will be made as soon as practicable to the Sydney Stock Exchange and
the Stock Exchange of Melbourne for official quotation of the ordinary shares.
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS.
The minimum subscription on which the directors may proceed to allotment is 110,000
shares, on each of which £1 share shall have been paid to and received by the Company.
The requirements of the Companies Acts of Victoria and New South Wales have not
been fully complied with.
An underwriting commission of 9d. per share will be paid to the underwriting brokers,
who have underwritten the whole issue of 110,000 ordinary shares of £1 each. Out of this
they will pay a brokerage of 4d. per share on allotments in respect of applications for
shares bearing the stamp oL any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
of the one “foreign” character, a Ger-
man engineer fighting cunningly for
his powerhouse and his own ideas. Per-
haps because of the contrast, Herr
Tausch, played by Frank Desbrowe, is
outstanding. The only love is that of, young
Blanaid Dobelle for a father embittered
by the belief that her existence killed his
wife. The conspiracy’s best result is the
final candlelight scene in which Dobelle
(David Reid), beginning to live again,
sees for the first time the daughter whom
previously he has barely tolerated.
Maura Keiran handles the daughter’s
character admirably. Revolutionary
Darrell Blake (John Ormiston) and Free
Stater Lanigan (Paul Maloney) are near
enough to Irish brothers, but each ob-
serves different loyalties with the same
intensity; which is why Lanigan, under-
standing Blake so well, shoots him to
save Ireland for progress. Agnes Reilly
(Eileen Ragg) and Blanaid’s Aunt Col-
umba (Nancy Ford) are just as different;
Agnes gets emotional over childbirth and
Aunt Columba over Ireland’s future.
Comedy of a tragic kind comes from
two old men, George (H. N. Gregory)
and Captain Potts (Lance Nicholls), who
spend years making the cannon and
shells that figure in Blake’s plot against
the powerhouse. Both parts are well
played, and Agnes’s son Willie (John
Reilly) is a superbly half-witted and
loyal revolutionary of a different class
from that of Blake.
The McMahon players get everything
out of the play ; they act with the feel-
“Headlands,” by Robert Johnson, at the Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney.
ing born of thorough study and
rehearsal.
*l* *!* >l*
Melbourne Theatricals.
“Spokeshave” looks on the Melbourne
scene:
The popularity of an art is no criterion
of its relative merits. Brett Randall has
lately been staging at the Princess, Mel-
bourne, a series of plays, some below
par, but some of considerable merit.
They discussed questions which are never
discussed on the screen, but which ought
to be discussed, and did so with a frank-
ness that must have made many in the
audience think they had been asleep
since the beginning of the century.
The plays were excellently staged and
splendidly performed by mainly local
amateurs, and more real intelligence
went into them than one would see in
two average handfuls of film fare. Yet
for one person that attended the Prin-
cess, a hundred would have attended at
the movies-—and this goes for the section
of Melbourne which regards itself as the
intelligentsia.
There is nothing in all this but fashion.
Maurice Moscovitch came here to play
Shakspeare, and instead inadvertently
started the boom in Edgar Wallace mys-
tery plays. How many people would
attend one of those old thrillers nowa-
days? Yet they will flock to see “Flash
Gordon.” It is the same with music.
If Melbourne entrepreneurs depended on
the discriminating music - lover they
would be in Queer-street. Thousands
will attend the fashionable concerts pres-
ently, regardless of their merits; but
how many bother to listen to William
McKie’s free organ recitals at the Town
Hall, though the quality of the music
and the playing are as good and fre-
quently far better?
•!• -I- -I*
Violet Somerset’s Recital.
Violet Somerset fired the first gun of
the 1937 musical offensive at Melbourne
Assembly Hall last week before, a
moderate audience. Her contralto has
not the depth, the volume or the pas-
sionate intensity of a Butt; but whose
contralto has? She makes up for the
lack with an artistry and technical exac-
titude which occasionally verges on the
pedantic, but is never dull. Her numbers
were selected with a respectful regard
for the highest taste, and the only objec-
tion a listener could raise was that 26
songs of much the same vocal range,
most of them dealing with the melan-
choly yearnings of girls jilted by their
lovers or lovers jilted by their girls, is a
trifle too much for one sitting. Miss
Somerset sang Debussy, Saint-Saens,
Massenet, Schubert and Brahms, to the
sensitive accompanying of William
Burrell. Compositions by Australian
composers Agnes McCown and Violet
Vernon were sandwiched in among this
august company, and neither seemed
out of place.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Robert Johnson’s Show.
Robert Johnson, Maorilander by birth,
who migrated to Sydney 17 years ago,
has since become one of the foremost
painters of the Sydney land- and sea-
scape. In style he inclines to that
“Heidelberg school” founded by Tom
Roberts, the most noted survivor of
which is Streeton. The cardinal point of
the school’s doctrine is that a landscape
ought to be done at one sitting. Like
most rigid points of doctrine, this one
is given a little elasticity even by pledged
adherents, but nevertheless the ideal has
helped to produce crisp and attractive
presentation.
Johnson exemplifies the method at its
best. In every one of his 40 canvases at
the Grosvenor Galleries there is sureness
of touch, unmistakable grasp of Nature’s
mood and unerring
appreciation of all
the beauty a scene
can yield. One
doesn’t need to be
versed in art tech-
nique and jargon to
recognise the Pitt-
water or Balmain or
the. rocky North
Coast when Johnson
paints them. He
sees what an artist
sees and puts it
down so- that the
ordinary man can
see it, too.
But no matter
what the surrealists,
and the post-impres-
sionists and the other
uglyists may say
about it, Johnson’s is
faithful and sincere
painting, even if he
finds it as easy to
do as other people
find it easy to look at. He is at home in
all aspects of the N. S. Wales scene—
the pleasant pastoral valleys of the
Hawkesbury, the picturesque old farms
at Windsor, the magnificent vistas of
Middle Harbor, the grandeur of rocky
capes, the azure distances of the Blue
Mountains, the shipping at Balmain.
Where all is so even in quality it is un-
necessary to particularise, but “Head-
lands,” selected for reproduction on this
page, should, though in monochrome,
give some idea of the excellence of John-
son’s painting.
Mr. Johnson has not been invited to
join the Royal Australian Academy of
Art. A third of his offerings found
buyers on the first day of his show.
*l* 4* »!•
The third and last exhibition of the
“Art in the Home” series of paintings
and furniture set off to advantage by
modern lighting is to be seen at the
Melbourne Electricity Supply Building.
There are four rooms, each lit in a dif-
ferent manner. Thirty pictures are on
view, only one from each artist. In the
first room Dora Wilson’s charmingly
executed “Spring in Collins Street” is
placed next to Dargie’s “Russian Ballet,”
somewhat to the detriment of the
modernist’s drawing and brushwork.
A. E. Newbury’s “Hydrangeas” and
Francis Thomson’s low-toned riverscape
entitled “Nocturne” are on adjoining
walls. In the second room are Adrian
Lawlor’s vigorous “Flower Study”
painted on paper, and Frater’s “Nude”
floating in blue and white mists. In No.
3 are Sybil Craig’s burst of colorful
“Camellias,” Edith Alsop’s interest-
ing study “Jeune Parisienne,” James
Quinn’s rapidly-executed sketch of snowy
“Flete, France, 1918,” and R. McCann’s
landscape in oil, “On the Road to Yea.”
Room 4is darkest of all. Perhaps this
is the reason why W. B. Mclnnes’s “Por-
trait Study”, of his mother did not look
the masterpiece it is when seen in day-
light. Also worthy of notice are Mar-
garet Pestell’s “Misty Morning, Sydney,”
and the “The Schoolgirl,” a portrait by
Margery Withers. The exhibition is an
interesting demonstration of how artists
will and will not mix.


Bartz — Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headache, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price 6d.,
!/- and 2/-. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Etd.,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6661.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel af,er A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
MACGREGOR —Heirs Wanted.
INFORMATION is desired by the subscribers
as to the heirs and next-of-kin of DR.
GEORGE McGREGOR (or MacGregor), son
of Duncan McGregor, Shoemaker, who re-
sided at Whitliburn, Largs, Scotland, and Agnes
Leishman or McGregor, his wife. Dr. George
McGregor resided at Stafford Place, New City
Road, Glasgow, Scotland, and died in 1871.
His widow' and daughter latterly resided in
Largs, Ayrshire.
R. & J. M. HILL BROWN & CO.,
41 West George Street, Glasgow.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 286 of 1937.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN VIENNE WIL-
LIAMS Petitioner
And JAMES ALBERT WILLIAMS Re-
spondent. . „ „
TO JAMES ALBERT. WILLIAMS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
VIENNE WILLIAMS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying tor
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
desertion without just cause or_excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTILb
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-fifth day of
Mav 1937 and in the event of ycur not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may S be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this First day of March, 193/.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
C JOLLIE SMITH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melburne
Chatter
New racebooks, their covers decorated
with bare-branched autumn trees, and
new yellow figures to replace the old
white on the tote, barometers were in-
novations at Caulfield on Saturday. It
was probably the hottest race day we
have had this year, but it was impos-
sible to count more than three sunshades
in use at once —these one-time feminine
accessories are now almost museum
pieces. Fashions come and go, but tea,
as the staple drink of Australians, never
loses its popularity. More men than
usual deserted their own stands about
the middle of the afternoon and sought
out women friends to manipulate tea-
pots for them; Judge Rich, Bob Baker
and Bill McQueen were among those
noticed entertaining several feminine
guests apiece. Mrs. Norman Sheppard
wore a tailored suit of coarsely-woven
white linen, and Mrs. Lindsay Mildred s
“mulberries and cream” collation went
with white shoes and a large white hat.
The focus of interest on Mrs. E. A. Cal-
lanan’s black dress was its ornamental
sleeves, which were, embossed between
shoulder and elbow with heavily-padded
flowers in many colors. Mrs. R. R.
Thomas was accompanied by daughter
Agnes in a white linen suit. Mrs. Basil
Fitchett looked cool in her big white
hat and frock of navy chiffon patterned
with white poppies. Young politician
Harold Holt claimed to be particularly
comfortable in his tropical suit' in about
two-shades-removed-from-white drill.
It seems that polo-players only have to
whistle, for good weather and they get
it. Right through this year’s tourna-
ment, as in other polo seasons, the sun
shone warm in the afternoons after chilly
misty mornings. Among exciting
matches on the last two days was the
semi-final for the Stradbroke Cup, when
Melbourne Hunt “A” defeated Caramut
by a goal in an extra chukka, both teams
being all square at the end of the usual
rounds. There was a catastrophe in the
other semi-final, Adelaide v. Mt. Craw-
ford. E. W. Hayward, playing for Adel-
aide, was injured and had to be taken
from the field on a stretcher.
Captain Wilbraham, who had already
played one strenuous match that after-
noon, vaulted into the breach to help
his temporary team to victory. On the
finals day, back once more in his. own
Melbourne Hunt team, he turned the
tables and helped it defeat Adelaide for
the Stradbroke Cup. The winning goal
was hit by W. H. Browne a few seconds
before the bell at the end of the last
chukka. The Governor was present to
hand the Huntingfield Cup to Caramut
and the Stradbroke Cup to Melbourne
Hunt. Immediately the glittering silver
vessels, a-bubble with champagne, were
passed round among players and their
friends.
Unlike inhabitants of other Australian
capitals, Melbourne men would rather
face a jungle full of hungry tigers than
walk through town wearing topees.
Except while actually engaged in
matches the polo players hardly used
their tropical headgear, preferring instead
hot felts in the American pork-pie shape.
Captain R. G. H. Irving’s was brown
with a tiny feather in the band. His
wife’s sun protectors were white scarf,
hat and dark glasses. Among other spec-
tators basking in what is possibly the
last touch of summer we’ll get this season
were Mrs. Harry Creswick, in shady
white hat and frock of a pink-and-black
floral design. Daughter Moira matched
her green linen dress with hair ribbons
and green rims to her glasses. On the
semi-finals day Mrs. O’Dell Crowther
shared the v.-r. piece of “grandstand”
shadow with Col. and Mrs. Pott. Mrs.
Alec Cato and Mrs. Jervis Crespin were
together. Mrs. Dermot Casey wore a
brown check suit. Mrs. Askam Foster
was in black, and Mrs. Clive Macpher-
son wore pearls shimmering in the soft
folds at the neck of her silk frock. A
neat little figure was Cara Holmes Hunt,
hatless in a simple pink frock and with
a magnificent diamond ring on her
finger. On March 23 she is leaving for i
England and marriage with Anthony
Miles Barne.
The International Club exuded its
spirit of good-fellowship in honor of
Sylvia Bernita and Baron Patti (or
Count Patti—he is entitled to both forms
of address), who are leaving for Sydney
this week and hope to be married in the
not-far-distant future. The wedding
date depends on the A.B.C. and the
arrangement of its programmes, for the
prospective bride and ’groom want a
honeymoon in some quiet country beauty
spot. Miss Bernita has a considerable
amount of luggage, but her trunks hold
no bridal tulle. A simple frock, no
crowds or fuss, and her father, Col.
J. W. Allen, to give her away are her
only important wedding plans. This
Australian singer has charm of manner
and is fond of outdoor sports, particu-
larly riding, ski-ing and taking her dogs
on country walks.
To the club party Miss Bernita wore
a lovely red hat so large, that it cast a
soft rosy glow over her animated fea-
tures. With her habitual vivacity she
talked with everybody, in any one of
three languages as occasion arose. Baron
Patti had fellow-Italians to make him
feel at home. His fiancee says that he
has never studied English seriously, all
his capacity for hard work being ex-
pended on music. Mrs. A. W. Foster
was distinctive in a lipstick-red frock
with twin red and blue motifs on hei
tall hat. Catherine Neylon wore a tunic
suit in navy and green with a slim silver
anklet discernible under the cobweb mesh
of her stocking. Mrs. Frank Russell’s
little black hat had a wisp of veil breez-
ing backwards from its peaked crown.
In the Broothorn portrait is Major
and Mrs. Geoffrey Walker’s eldest
daughter Betty, one of the mannequins
at the parade at Menzies in aid of the
Lady Forster Free Kindergarten. Miss
Walker, who is studying art at Mel-
bourne Technical College, is particu-
larly interested in design and the pro-
duction of hand-blocked fabrics.
The parade was on two afternoons,
and on Friday there was a further five
o’clock session when a number of men
kept promises to be present. The hats
displayed were very exotic, designed for
the brave and fair who have nothing in
the world to do but wear hats. The
dresses, too, were hall-marked “born in
Paris” and were brought from abroad
by Pen Stead. Any alterations necessary
were made, so that with a snip here and
a pinch there every gown was a perfect
fit for its model. Tea was a half-time
interval served in buffet fashion in an-
other part of the lounge. Other inci-
dentals were piano solos by juvenile
prodigy Noel Mewton-Wood and direc-
tions to tightly-packed chairs round the
dais explained by cigarette-selling usher-
ettes Betty and Lorna Bradford, Joan
and Margaret Leitch, Rosemary and
Margaret Wright, Judy Webb and Eliza-
beth Luxton. This octet wore short
black taffeta frocks and diminutive
scraps of frilly caps and aprons.
Field-Marshal Haig’s widow and her
much-loved canaries, who have done a
lot of aeroplane travelling, sheltered last
week under the vice-regal roof. The
countess is in Australia to keep a promise
which her late husband was unable to
fulfil and to help along her biography
’of him, The Man 1 Knew. Sales from
the book will benefit ex-service men and
their descendants. One of her welcomes
to Melbourne was from the R.S.S.I.L.
and the Returned Army Nurses, and was
at the R.A.N.C. rooms in Anzac House.
Major-General Brudenell White’s speech
touched on the sterling qualities of Earl
Haig, and Gilbert Dyett referred to
meeting the Haigs in South Africa in
1921, when the earl was establishing the
British Empire Service League for the
benefit of ex-service men. G. W. Hol-
land explained that the League in Aus-
tralia had adopted the scheme for veteran
soldiers’ homes known in England as
Haig Homes.
Draped with a Union Jack was a
painting by Major-General Nevill Smyth,
worked up from one of his small pencil
sketches done on odd scraps of paper
during Kitchener’s Nile Campaign. The
painting depicted Captain Douglas Haig
rescuing a wounded man. ,
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
an adventurous young Australian, Mrs.
Peter Sawyer, who before her marriage
was Dorota Flatau. Her husbancl is an
American, holds a master mariner’s cer-
tificate and knows a variety of climates,
for he has skippered scientific expedi-
tions’ ships to Labrador. The young
couple, who were married last year in the
U.S.A., have spent several months in
Melbourne recently with Mrs. Sawyer’s
mother, Mrs. St. John Scott-Scott, and
left last week for New York in the
freighter Sawokla. Once there their fun
begins, for they have bought a schooner,
the Dolphin, which they liked the look
of last year, but which the fishermen-
owners then refused to sell. The vessel’s
fishhold has been converted into cabins
for 16, to accommodate half a dozen
friends and a small hired crew. Sue
Parker, of Melbourne, who is one of the
lucky friends, has outstayed her quota
time in the U.S.A. and might have to go
to Canada for a fortnight before embark-
ing on what sounds as if it will be a
glamorous voyage.
The little Dolphin will sail down the
east coasts of both North and South
America, will nose its way up the
Amazon, get wrapped in icicles going
round the Horn, call at Valparaiso and,
after meandering among lagoons and
atolls of the Pacific, will probably arrive
in Australia early next year. Luggage
space is limited, and Mrs. Sawyer
intends to take only three “presentable”
frocks and their accessories with her.
She will spend all her time in slacks and
jumpers, and means to study navigation
and take her turn at the helm. She was
christened after her aunt, Dorota Flatau,
who has had books published in Eng-
land. Perhaps young Dorota will follow
in her aunt’s footsteps by making use of
the exceptional travel material before
her.
John Keating went off last week to
wander the world. His parents, the J. H.
Keating couple, saw the signs years ago,
but will miss their only son neverthe-
less. John is a nice lad, with plenty
of brains and a useful acquisition of
patience. He has a degree in economics,
did a business course, was associate to
the then Chief Justice Isaac Isaacs, is
interested in architecture and has done
some freelance journalism. While with
Hoyt’s he learnt all he could about the
technical and theoretical aspects of films.
He is not going to any job abroad, but
has helpful letters, and the odds are that
he’ll get useful experience on the way to
something that suits him.
Jimmy Hylton Dale is another lad who
said good-bye to Melbourne, but not
to his parents, for they are at present
travelling in Europe. Jimmy’s outfits are
all tropical, he having gone to the Solo-
mon Islands for two years. His job
with an English co. is on a coconut plan-
tation, and he has rosy dreams of saving
practically all his salary.
Just before their departure for Eng-
land the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayor-
ess were kept so busy with parties in
their honor that their respective tailors
and dressmakers had to put up with
several broken appointments. For Cr.
and Mrs. Wales are a very patriotic
couple and gathered practically complete
wardrobes in their home town. Cr. and
Mrs. T. Kerr chose their own home in
Domain-road for their late-afternoon
party in honor of the popular couple.
The Ministering Children’s League took
Mrs. Wales to tea at Menzies, and at
her home, Harcourt-street, Auburn,
Mrs. J. D. Hunt gave a luncheon party
with a bottle of perfume • wrapped in
flowers as a gift for each guest. The
City Councillors’ farewell was a dinner
party at which the sombre lower regions
of the Town Hall hardly recognised
themselves. Japanese maple smothered
the stairway in an autumnal forest and
guests sat at a large round table deco-
rated at the edges with an effective de-
sign of flowers and fruit, with the centre
a Lilliputian golf-links. There were
miniature greens and fairways, hazards
of baby lakes filled with pink and white
water-lilies and bunkers—all pictur-
esquely designed to whet still further the
Lord Mayor’s appetite for what has be-
come his favorite game.
In “The Moon on the Yellow River”
the players while on the stage drink as
much stage whisky as they like. On
Saturday the audience, watching the re-
plenishing of glasses, found its throat
getting drier and drier, and in the in-
tervals gave itself another lease of life
at the soda bar. Women carried their
lightest wraps, and several men took
the opportunity of the warm evening to
wear white mess-jackets. Mrs. Munro
Robinson looked cool as a snowflake in
her Grecian gown of white chiffon. Mrs.
Harry Rosenthal’s white satin gown went
with an elaborate little puff-shouldered
coat of gold-thread embroideries and
hand-painted flowers on white organza.
Her daughter from Sydney, Mrs. Favieli,
wore black cut very low at the back
and clamped high at the throat with
white pique flowers. Gold gowns and
cloaks glittered in various parts of the
house. One such cloak was wrapped
about Mrs. John Hayden, who was ac-
companied by her husband and Dr.
and Mrs. Mick Healy.
In the three days preceding the sale
more than 1000 people looked in at the
Sedon Galleries to view the hundred
pictures sent from England and the col-
lection of the late Follen Bishop. One
picture, said to be a Rembrandt self-
portrait, brought 471 guineas, Colin
Hunter’s “The Cornish Coast” was con-
sidered cheap at 25 guineas, and “A
Market Place, Normandy,” _ by Parkes
Bonnington, brought 110 guineas. Two
landscapes credited to Corot brought 110
and 145 guineas respectively. Follen
Bishop was an Englishman who died last
June in the Channel Islands at 97. He
married an Australian and made several
extended journeys to this country in
connection with exhibitions.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
m
o
Want more speed 9
II you were a racing driver, preparing for a P
great race, you would test you car with vari-
ous types of equipment and you would find
that you could reach your highest speed only
when your engine was equipped with
Champion Sparking Plugs. The choice of rac-
ing champions for 12 years. The choice of
motoring millions for 25 years. Choose the
sparking plugs champions usel
j
ĵ
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN Wl NDSOn CANADA • • -AN EMPIRE PRODUCT •
Wear the
convenient
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING BOOTS
(Reg. Design No. 9292.)
They are quicker and easier to put on and
take off. Ideal for riding or walking.
Zipp Fastener is obtainable at Front or
on Side elastic.
Price 33/9 per pair.
Order Your Size To-day.
Exclusive to
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.
In Queen Street ----- Brisbane
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: North-western Australia looks
on blows as an almost yearly occurrence
—there have been more than 70 since
1872. The record year was 1917, when
there were five. Queensland has had
75 in the same time, but the N.T. is
luckier —about half that number. About
every decade there is at least one hurri-
cane in which there is heavy loss of life.
The two worst were the Cape Melville
(Q.) blow in 1899, when 300 lives were
lost, and the Ninety-mile Beach (W.A.)
cyclone, in 1884, when 200, mostly lugger-
men, went west. Darwin’s previous big-
gest was in January, 1897. The damage
was valued at £150,000 and, except for
stone buildings, the town was flattened
out around its dead.
* * * *
“J.R.L.”: Died in harness, at 87, Tom
Downie, shire clerk of Jericho (C.Q.) for
nine years and of Tambo for 20 years.
To him the two towns owe their avenues
of bottle-trees. Born in Glasgow, he
came to Australia in his early twenties
after two years on the Gold Coast. He
had lived in Central Queensland ever
since.
# * * *
“Atrax”: What may well be Aus-
tralia’s oldest virgin beard landed origi-
nally in Maryborough (Q.) in 1864, worn
by Thomas Curry. He, and it still
flourish in Brisbane, after more than 72
years of endurance of Queensland’s
awful climate. Curry was a friend of
Nash, discoverer of the Gympie gold-
fields, and himself lived at Gympie in
its “earlies.” Before that, he had nar-
rowly escaped being eaten by a crocodile
at Mackay. At about 84 he decided to take
a rest from the building and contracting
business—among other efforts, he put
up 44 of Queensland’s State schools.
Now, at 97, young bloods whose cars.
are out of order consider him an incon-
siderately fast walker between the rail-
way station and his house in the Auchen-
flower hills.
* * * *
“Gidya George”: The fortitude of
the men rescued from the recent air-
smash reminds me of Arthur Campbell
(Lamond mentioned him in the Christ-
mas Bulletin story “Shooting Star,”
and rightly classed him as one of the
best stockmen in Australia). About ’2l
Campbell was riding in the rough, hot
country near what is now Mt. Isa when
his horse bucked and fell with him.
Arthur’s leg was so badly broken that
when he tried to drag himself along the
protruding bone fish-hooked and im-
peded progress, and he was there five
days, tortured by flies and ants and with-
out water. The only hope he had was
the rule he had formulated for the work-
ing of his station: If a man doesn’t turn
up at the meeting-place within 24 hours
go and look for him. He told me after-
wards that any man who was a man
should be able to last five days in the
condition he was in! It took eight
months of hospital to pull him through ;
yet when he was found he could still
crack a joke, and now, with one leg a
couple of inches shorter than the other,
permanently lamed, he reckons it the
most thrilling experience of his life.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The first' step towards mov-
ing Queensland University from the old
Government House site to St. Lucia,
which was on the fringe of the outer
suburbs when the University was inaugu-
rated in 1910, was taken the other day
when Forgan Smith laid the foundation-
stone. A sensible extension would be
to distribute the benefits of university
education more widely over the State.
The large population of North Queens-
land concentrated between Townsville
and Cairns has many able to pay univer-
sity fees; but to attend a university
students have to live four or five years
from 800 to 1000 miles from home. Far-
westerners sometimes have even further
to come. In the Central District, with
the Mt. Morgan mine in full blast, there
is scope for specialist study in some
“ Must've rained in th' night, Ma —or did y' Water it ?”
faculties. University colleges could be
established in Rockhampton and Towns-
ville. Not many extra teachers should
be necessary. When the already operat-
ing aeroplane, services are functioning at
speeds which prevail in other parts of the
world, Rockhampton will be less than
two hours from Brisbane and Towns-
ville less than four. With lecturers and
professors on circuit, university teaching,
now centralised in one corner of the
State, could then be readily extended.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
With an aeroplane zooming overhead
and a sailing-boat spreading its wings in
the river reach below, Premier Forgan
Smith laid the foundation stone of the
University’s permanent buildings.
Green and rose, purple and scarlet,
blue and white hoods gave plenty of
color to the scene. In the front row sat
Dr. and Miss Mayne (who gave the site),
Mrs. Forgan Smith, the Blair lady, the
Chancellor’s wife, the wives of the profs.,
Ella O’Shea, the Philp girls, Mrs. For-
syth and other members of well-known
Queensland families numbered as Uni.
benefactors. There was a tremendous
crowd. Lots of motor parties took
opportunity for an informal picnic;
others had dogs and babies on leashes,
combining the occasion with a Salurday-
afternoon family outing. A group of
Bright Young Things in shirts and shorts,
hovering on the outskirts of the party,
lent an air of informality.
First meeting has been held to make
arrangements for the Lady Mayoress’s
Coronation-time ball, which is to benefit
four charities. The United Service Club
also contemplates holding its annual
ball in May.
Gilbert and Sullivan season at His
Majesty’s is drawing packed houses.
Most of the company are renewing old
friendships, and are being entertained at
teas, golf and motoring. Ivan Menzies
is appearing in a pulpit or two, but he
has a serious rival this time —Rev.
Dorothy Walker, who has preached in
several metropolitan churches, always
with a full house.
There were many sad hearts when the
news of Bishop Frodsham’s death was
cabled. For years he was rector of the
Toowong parish, and afterwards as
Bishop of North Queensland did some
wonderful work. The husky Rev. Hulton
Sams was one of the bishop’s young
men, and once when this “fighting
parson,” who was to die on active ser-
vice in France, was booked to fight at
the amateur championships in Towns-
ville, a scandalised deputation called at
Bishop’s Lodge to protest. But the.
bishop himself was not above occupying
a ringside seat.
Mrs. Hugo Brassey left for England on
the Strathnaver. She and Hugo gave a
dinner party at Lennon’s the night before
she sailed. The John Collins pair, Beryl
Collins and Lillian Walsh were among
the guests.
Audrey Nicholl, a pretty Melbourne
girl, is here working for her passenger
endorsement certificate. She got her
pilot’s license in Melbourne, and is a
member of both Vic. and Queensland
Aero Clubs. Her father, B. G. Nicholl,
is in Rockhampton.
Mercy Griffin, the blind student from
Rockhampton, now enrolled at Queens-
land Uni., is having all her textbooks
done in Braille for her by the Queens-
land Braille Writing Association. Mrs.
Owen Cowlishaw is president, Mrs.
Lockhart Gibson vice-president, and
Miss B. M. Dalgleish hon. sec. of the
association, which has never appealed for
public support, but carries on its good
work on voluntary subscriptions.
There was a full house for the Arts
and Crafts Society’s annual meeting.
Eighteen new members joined during the
year, including several well-known Syd-
ney Arts and Crafters, bringing the total
up to 72. About 20 different kinds of
craftwork is represented. Mrs. W. C.
Carmody, superintendent of the Mon-
trose Handicrafts Classes, submitted a
report. Each week various craftswomen
conduct classes for the crippled children
at Montrose, about 30 attending each
class. Mrs. Scott Fletcher, retiring presi-
dent, was farewelled and presented with
a beautifully illustrated volume, Flower
Arranging in Japan.
The T. A. Hamiltons were the centre
of a large family group congratulating
them on their golden wedding anniver-
sary. T.A. landed in Brisbane from
Liverpool, making the trip with his
parents in the sailing ship Ocean
Empress. His father started a smithy
at Downfall Creek (now Chermside), and
after Hamilton, sen., died the son car-
ried on there. He married in 1887 Mar-
garet Jane Hamilton, of Enniskillen,
Ireland —not' a relation. There are
seven children and 20 grandchildren, all
living around Chermside.
The Southern Division of the C.W.A.
held its 14th annual meeting in Too-
woomba, and 150 delegates were there to
hear State president Mrs. Graham
Mylne deliver her address. Mrs. Edward
Farmer was re-elected president of the
division, which has a membership of
over 7000. The State conference will be
held in Charleville in October.
As soon as the conference is over, Mrs.
E. Farmer leaves for Sydney with daugh-
ter Dorothy, who is going abroad with
Mrs. Farmer’s sister, Mrs. Cross Barrat.
Second daughter Marjorie is to be mar-
ried in Rockhampton at the end of March
to J. Perry Kean. The Farmers are
station-owners in Rockhampton district.
Vida Lahey has had one of her pic-
tures included in the Australian section
for the International Exhibition of Art,
which opens in Paris in June.
Only members of both families were
present when Bernice Cordell and
Edmund L’Estrange said their “I wills”
at St. John’s Cathedral. After the knot
had been tied, the newly-weds slipped
away unostentatiously.
When the Omrah, carrying the 9th
Battalion, sailed from Brisbane in 1914,
Sister E. M. Paten was one of the nurses
aboard. The Omrah Association, formed
by the survivors of the trip, farewelled
her at the Golden Glow cafe before she
left for Sydney en route to England, and
gave her a pen, pencil and penknife in
black-and-blue enamel, the 9th colors.
Captain Melbourne made the presenta-
tion. Same day, in the afternoon, Bris-
bane Women’s Club said its good-byes
and good lucks to Matron Paten, and in
the morning Miss D. King poured tea
for a small farewell party at Rowe’s,


Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
Notice.
Desert Mounted Corps.
THE Annual Dinner of officers who served
in the above will take place in London on
June 21, 1937. Will any A.L.H. who served
with the above, and who will be in London
at that time, kindly communicate with the
Honorary Secretary, Colonel C. B. Broome,
3 St. Helen’s Place, London, E.C.3?
mf±SPLENDJDfflm£S
EVERY WEEK.
'^AUSTRALASIAN
On£aLE~ALLStATES~P&/CE&>
Afier the
m
tx
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, LONDON
m
%
m*.
¥
THE CATHEDRAL, COLOGNE
SPRING STREET, GARMISCH
Crown your trip witli
a Holiday in
fiEBMAM
England !—the Coronation celebrations—then the crowning
event of your trip—a glorious holiday in Germany. Travel
by modern streamlined trains, your own car or by ’plane
in perfect comfort over Europe’s most colourful country.
Climb in the Bavarian Alps—laze on Baltic beaches—golf
on excellent courses I Tour the romantic Rhine by steamer,
or the beautiful Neckar Valley by canoe. Living costs little
under the present special exchange system, and rail fares
are reduced 60%. You will be welcomed most courteously,
and when vou leave you will not say “ Good-bye ”, but
“ Auf Wiedersehen ” as your charming hosts always do.
For full information and free descriptive literature, apply:
german railways information bureau
(Dept. 0.V.) 19, Regent Street, London, S.W. I.
or Offices of Thos. Cook & Son, Ltd., and other recognized Travel Agencies.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
A large white-icing horse carrying the
scarlet and blue racing colors of Sheila
Hayes stood guard over the 150 smaller
equines surrounding the cake cooked for
the breakfast that came after her mar-
riage to George Gwynne. Horses were
liberally outnumbered by the guests,
who surged into the Hayes home in
Adelaide-terrace, where the fruits of the
bride’s gardening hobby were lavishly
displayed in house and grounds. Under
a cloud of filmy tulle her pearly French
satin gleamed from a soft roll collar,
pleated sleeves, swathed belt and full
flared skirt. The train, starting at the
shoulders, was slit to the waist, then un-
dulated for yards at the back of L ; c
frock. Margaret Draper attended in
silver lame garnished with jade-green
feathers.
The v.-r. party turned up at the
Assembly Hall for the opening night of
the Society of Playwrights’ second
series of one-act plays. Alexander
Turner’s “Hundred Guineas” took time
off half-way through for a change of
scene; players in the. second event,
“Medea,, the Sorceress,” by Stanley Wil-
bur, were subjected to a series of black-
outs as incidents replaced narrative. In
Dorothy Flinn’s “The Return,” producer
Margaret Giles capably handled the good
material in both play and players
(Daphne James, Pat McManus and Stan-
ley James), and as finale Ethel John’s
“These Talents” provided a cheerful
suburban scene, with a large cast fitting
comfortably into well-defined roles.
Professionals and amateurs carefully
carried exhibits to the Y.M.C.A. hall for
the Rose Society’s show. Fragrant
blooms, nurtured in grey, arid-looking
W.A. sand, were the main features of
the show, with a brace of lectures for
members’ guidance. Especially lovely
blooms were shown by Mrs. Felix Levin-
son, Octavia Grave and Mrs. Gilbert
Barker.
Alvie. Holmes’s twenty-first birthday
celebrations started as a theatre party
at the Ambassadors and developed into
a dance in the foyer at the completion
of the programme. Alvie’s delphinium-
blue phantom crepe was caught on the.
shoulders with diamente clips and her
sister Hylda slipped a chic white waist-
coat over her black satin ensemble.
Sylvia Hodgson and Joy Fordham
arranged the programme of musical and
dramatic items given by the Pleiades
Club. Proceedings started with a humor-
ous sketch by Mary Ward and Jean
Hemy; then music from Joan Fry and
Sheila Slattery. “The. Boy Conies
Back,” a drama penned by Patti Rees,
gave scope for the talent of some of the
performers, and the programme con-
cluded with “Box Office,” an amusing
playlet produced by Muriel Jacob.
Before leaving for India in the. Orion
Sister Beryl Hill was farewelled by the
Nurses’ Christian Movement and the
Perth Bible Society, and Rev. John Bell
held a farewell service for her at Christ
Church, Claremont. She goes as sister
to the Landour Community Hospital in
the United Provinces, India. The hos-
pital is open for only six months of the
year, when it caters for missionaries holi-
daying in Landour, the local Indian
people and hill tribes. The remaining
six months are spent by the staff in mis-
sion work on the plains. Miss Hill anti-
cipates being away for at least five years.
A forest of pot plants bobbed up and
down as guest's arrived bearing their
burdens to Mrs. J. F. Waldron’s home
in North Perth. The hostess (set about
with peacock-blue lace) shared her duties
with Marjorie Brown, who touched her
pastel-blue georgettes with cerise. Olive
Smith, shortly to become Mrs. A.
Buckie, was guest of honor, and the pot
plants will decorate the newly-weds’
home.
Visiting members of the Overseas
League spoke on widely differing sub-
jects at the social given in their honor
by the. Perth branch. Doris Sweetman
dissertated on the life in Valetta, Malta,
and the neighboring island of Gozo ;
W. R. K. Atkinson, Durban, contrasted
the domestic-servant problem in South
Africa with that of this country, and
Mrs. E. Watson spoke on architecture.
When Ellen Mulcahy returned a few
weeks ago from a trip abroad she was
wearing a new third-finger adornment,
gift of Dr. Allen Bollan, whom she met
on her travels. The engagement has
now been formally announced, and
Ellen has booked a passage for England
and matrimony in July, with a view to
home-making in Bristol.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The tennis dance at the Memorial
Drive clubhouse was a bright affair. The
courts in front of the club were enclosed
for dancing and festooned with hundreds
of colored lights, and supper was served
on cabaret lines at small tables set
round the lawn. Mrs. John S. Angus’s
white crepe was cut on slim lines, and
went with a pale-blue chilfon velvet cape.
Mrs. T. Linn chose black georgette, with
silver braid on the yoke and sleeves. A
recent bride, Mrs. Max Field, was in
white georgette, made with frilled-jacket
effect, Mrs. F. E. Piper wore a carmine
chiffon velvet cape with her powder-
blue crepe frock.
The S. McCoys, of Myrtle Bank, en-
tertained a large number of friends at the
Maison de Danse, Glenelg, to celebrate
the 21st birthday of their pretty daughter
Margaret. The hostess was smartly
gowned in amethyst silk self-spotted
romaine, with a long sash in a lighter
tone. Margaret’s cream-lacquered satin
was patterned with blue and gold
flowers.
The baby competition being run to
raise funds for the Mothers and Babies’
Health Assn, is arousing much interest,
and friends of the assbciation are busy
getting up bridge and tennis parties to
help individual infants.
Many parties were given for Mollie,
only daughter of Mrs. Douglas Murray,
who left in the Maloja for England,
Coronation-bound. A bridge afternoon
at their seaside residence was arranged
by Margaret and Jean Duncan, and two
nights before sailing Margaret Jolly gave
a dance at the home of her parents,
North Adelaide.
A reception was arranged at the Re-
turned Soldiers’ Club for the Chauvel
lady, who, with her General, is travelling
to England in the Maloja. The guest
looked well in a beige crepe ensemble.
The Chauvels are looking forward to
seeing their two sons. One will meet
them at Bombay, and the other, Captain
lan Chauvel, is to be married soon after
their arrival in England to Jean Pater-
son. He has been stationed at Lahore
for some years.
The Piccadilly was thronged for the
Music Salon’s first soiree of this season.
An interesting feature was the singing
by Gwen Collett of two songs composed
by Reginald Bevan, whose father,
Frederick Bevan, is a well-known com-
poser and teacher of singing.
The Liberal Women’s Educational
Assn, held its opening social at the Liberal
Hall. Mrs. Hartley Hooper, a delegate
to the Museums’ Conference at Leeds
(Eng.), gave an entertaining account of
her trip.
The Gordon Taylors, of Unley Park,
left for England in the Maloja, and be-
fore their departure 16 of Mrs. Taylor’s
women friends were joint hostesses at a
farewell dinner party at the South Aus-
tralian. Mrs. Taylor looked charming in
a pale-pink taffeta, smartly cut.
The committee of the “Vote No” cam-
paign on the marketing referendum was
so pleased with the runaway victory that
it organised an afternoon-tea at the
South Australian, and all the 300 helpers
at polling booths rolled up, though the
temperature was over the century.
The Premier made a speech and every-
one wished him bon voyage.
TASMANIA.
Things social were quieter after Lord
Gowrie left, though the fleet remained an
excuse for gaieties. The posse of country
folk who filled the hotels for the big
week have gone back to the hayfields,
and many mainlanders, among them
Mungo MacCallum and his lady, have
said their farewells.
The Gov.-General has certainly worked
on his visit to the Speck. After his
country tour, in which he skipped no-
thing, the, week-end in Launceston held
for him a civic reception, the Queen
Vic. Hospital Ball (a dinner given by his
Ex. and Lady Clark preceding it), a race
meeting, a Chamber of Commerce
luncheon and a parade of returned
soldiers in Royal Park. Even these did
not entirely exhaust the programme. He
must have, welcomed his berth in the
Orama when he sailed from Burnie.
The Eustace Camerons entertained
Lord Gowrie and the Governor and his
lady at Mona Vale, which is one of the
Speck’s historic homes.
The Queen Victoria Hospital Ball at
the Albert Hall, Launceston, was fixed
to coincide with Lord Gowrie’s visit, and
the Governor and Lady Clark also went
north for the round of festivities which
filled the week-end. On the stage comfy
couches and chairs were set for members
of the v.-r. party, who were, received by
Mrs. Von Alwyn (president of the com-
mittee of the Q.V. Hospital), Mrs. T. K.
Robson (acting-sec.) and Mr. Von
Alwyn (organiser). Two debs. Jean
Crawford and Meg Armstrong—made
their bow.
The Geoff Walches’ sherry party was
intended as a farewell to Sybil Lyons j
before her flitting to England and wel-
come to Mrs. Walch’s brother-in-law
and sister, Lieut.-Com. and Mrs. Rosen-
thal, who were to have come to Hobart
with the fleet, but whose plans were
altered at the last minute, Lieut.-Com.
Rosenthal having been transferred to
Adelaide. About 60 guests enjoyed the
party, at which Sybil was sole guest of
honor.
The Ernest Sorells are home from
their European tour. The Lyceum Club
had a tea party to welcome Mrs. Sorell,
one of the most active members.
The Prime Minister had a little home-
job to do the other day when he visited
Devonport. He laid the foundation-stone
of the King George V. memorial hospi-
tal for the Child Welfare Association.
All the district turned out for the affair.
Archdeacon and Mrs. Blackwood and
Miss Blackwood sailed for England in
the Orion. They expect to be away about
nine months. . .
Lady Haig paid, literally, a flying visit
to the Speck, coming and going by air.
She stayed one night at the Ouse, with
Mrs. Walter Gellibrand, and one day in
Hobart.
“Selma”: Henry, our diminutive office
boy, travels to town by the same
suburban train as the accountant, and it
gets them both in at nine precisely when
it isn’t late. When it is, Henry signs the
time book immediately below the
accountant, and in the “reason” column
just puts “Ditto.” The other day the
accountant was ten minutes behind time,
but he had a fine excuse, and he proudly
wrote it in full: “Delayed at hospital;
daughter born this morning.” Henry
was delayed that same morning at the
G.P.O. His “Ditto” is still the joy of the
office.


THE POWERS BEHIND THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW OF 1937.
1.—COL. A.P. GRIRBEN (Chairman of Horse Committee).
2.—COL. J. McMAHON (Hon. Ringmaster).
3.—MR. F.A. MACKENZIE (Chairman of Cattle Committee).
4.-SIR SAMUEL HORDERN (President).
5.—MR. A. HORDERN (Chairman of Finance Committee).
6.-MR. H.W. WHIDDQN (Chairman of Works Committee).
7.—MR. G.S. STENING (Hon. Treasurer).
8.—MR. H.N. SARINA (Registrar).
9.-LT.-COL. G.C. SOMERVILLE (Secretary).
10.-MR. A.W. SKIDMORE (Assistant Secretary).


Dates Worth Remembering:
May 3 to May 8 f Inclusive,
when the 1937 Amateur and Short-
wave Radio Exhibition will be open
in the Sydney Town Hall (Lower
Hall).
This will not be a mere cabinet show,
but an interesting display of amateur
transmitter, short-wave listener con-
structor, and appropriate radio trade
technical radio apparatus.
Amateur stations will be in actual
telephonic and telegraphic communi-
cation on various bands, including
ultra-short waves, and many unusual
trade exhibits are planned.
The Exhibition is organised solely by
the Wireless Institute of Australia
(N.S.W. Division).
Trade exhibit organisers:
Don B. Knock. 87971.
J. Moyle. 80333.
RADIO KES
VIBRATOR
Uadiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Write to Radioices, Ltd., Sydney, jor free illustrated
literature NOW.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, AAV.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves;
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
9 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
“RADIO”
The world-wide technical authority of
amateur, short-wave and experimental
radio.
Subscriptions are now 16/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at The Bulleti.
office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yeai y,
eluding special annual number,
August and September issue , s(wh ' d
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direc
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep i
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all radio
magazines—on the bookstall to dy,
out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be suie of
your copy !
RADIO NEWS.
DON B . KNOCK ' S PAGES.
A Simple Two-channel Fader.
Most high-quality sound amplifiers
(such as in theatre and broadcasting
work) are fitted with complicated and
expensive fader systems whose job is to
provide means of varying input levels
from various sources and, if necessary, to
mix those levels without altering fre-
quency response of the network. The
familiar effect, noted in many home-
built amplifiers, of variation of volume
control causing variation in tone could
not be tolerated where tonal quality is a
selling point.
Some have resorted to costly T and H
pads and line-to-grid transformers to
obtain tonal fidelity at all volume levels.
Not everyone can afford £lO for such
equipment; but results almost as good
as those obtained from expensive gear
can be had at a cost of only a few shil-
lings.
Reference to Fig. 1 will convince that
the unit is simplicity itself. The faders
A and B, of 10,000 ohms each, are in
series with each other, and with a bal-
ancing rheostat (20,000 ohms) across the
primary of any standard audio
transformer. When both faders are at
minimum or “off,” the balancing rheostat
is set for maximum resistance in circuit.
As one or both faders are increased the
resistance of C is reduced proportion-
ately. In this way constant impedance
conditions prevail at all times in the cir-
cuit. There is no appreciable thinning
of tone as volume levels are reduced,
and the increase in volume, by working
the fader and C together (not at all
difficult after a while), is more gradual
than with the usual plain potentiometer.
Points About the Unit.
It is not necessary to adhere rigidly to
the values given, though they have been
found most suitable to the writer’s needs.
If, for example, it is desired to control
two gramophone pick-ups each of 5000
ohms impedance or one such pick-up and
a microphone also of the same imped-
ance it would merely be necessary to
make A and B of 5000 ohms and C of
10,000 ohms to achieve the correct con-
ditions. The value of R is very impor-
tant and is arrived at in the following
manner: To provide the transformer
with a definite load to work into (the
grid circuit of a valve operating Class A
presents practically no load to a gener-
ating source) it is necessary to provide a
parallel resistance which will ensure that
the constant impedance conditions pre-
sent in the primary circuit will be repro-
duced in the secondary circuit. Since im-
pedance ratios in transformers are equal
to the square of the voltage or turns
ratios, it is only necessary to multiply
the impedance in the primary circuit (in
the original case, 20,000 ohms) by the.
impedance ratio of the transformer to
arrive at the value of R. A 34-1 audio
transformer has an impedance ratio of
12.25-1, so that, with 20,000 ohms in the
mixer or primary circuit, R would be
equal to 245,000 ohms. A .25meg. 1-
wat't resistor will do nicely. With two
5000-ohm channels and the same trans-
former R would be equal to 122,500
ohms ; for this, a .15meg. resistor would
do.
it will be an ad-
vantage to use
shielded wire be-
tween the panel
and the trans-
former A.F.T. and
between A.F.T. and
the grid of the
amplifier, since
these points are
relatively sensitive
spots for the pick-
up of hum and
other extraneous
disturbances.
In the original
model the trans-
former was
mounted close to
the amplifier chassis with the panel
screwed to the playing desk some 3ft.
away; connection between panel and
transformer was made by means of lead-
covered wire. In the photograph of the
original two refinements can be seen
which are not really essential, but which
add materially to the appearance and
effectiveness of the fader unit. The first
of these is the inclusion of indicator lights
above the fader knobs. These light up
when the cam switches (the other “extra”)
are moved to the positions connecting the
respective channels. The indicators are
run from a small accumulator in the
original, but they may be easily run from
the filament windings on the main trans-
Fig. 2. —The completed panel seen from the front. The
faders A and B in the circuit are above the cam switches,
while C is placed between them. Output terminals are
immediately below C.
former, provided either the centre or
one side of the filament winding is prop-
erly earthed. It is best to use earthed
shielding on the wire carrying this light-
ing current to avoid the creation of stray
fields.
Many Applications.
This panel has many uses and will be
found particularly effective in such appli-
cations as amateur radio-telephony and
public-address work. For the latter, two
pick-ups or one pick-up and a mike may
be faded and mixed at will to suit a
variety of occasions. For ham work
the panel provides an excellent means of
controlling the gain on one or more
mikes or for fading away a record just
before calling CQ —a dodge much
favored by some transmitters! Other
uses will suggest themselves to the owner
once the unit is built up. Certainly it will
be found a useful and worth-while in-
vestment by anyone interested in cheap
yet effective sound reproduction.
Parts List.
One bakelite panel lOin. x Sin. (or other suit-
able size).
Two 10,000-ohm wire-wound enclosed type
potentiometers (Radiokes).
One 20,000-ohm wire-wound enclosed type
potentiometer (Radiokes).
One good-quality 34-1 audio transformer, metal
cased with earth terminal.
One ,25meg. 1-watt resistor.
Terminals (or jacks), wire, solder lugs, etc.
Lengths of braided twin wire (panel to trans-
former ; transformer to valve).
R.H.A.
Tests for Fixed Condensers.
Any present-day fixed condenser of
the receiving-set type will hardly ever
give trouble, provided that excessive
voltages are not applied across it, but
sometimes a radio worker may suspect
one or more older condensers of the
small fixed type to be the cause of bad
and noisy reception.
Naturally, the simplest method of
testing a suspected fixed condenser is
by taking it out of the circuit and sub-
stituting a new condenser of the same
type and capacity value, but everybody
doesn’t possess a varied assortment of
new condensers. In nearly every case,
therefore, a suspected fixed condenser is
best tested according to the following
scheme:
Test for Direct Electrical Contact Within
the Condenser.
Connect up in series with the con-
denser a flashlamp battery and a suitable
bulb. If on making the contact to the
lamp the latter does not light up, the
condenser is more or less good, in that
it does not permit direct electrical leak-
age.
Test for Dielectric Quality.
The dielectric, or the insulating
medium of the condenser, will hold a
charge for some
time provided that
the material is of
good quality. A
good way to test
the capabilities of
a condenser in this
direction is
momentarily t o
bring leads from
it into contact
with the terminals
of a six-volt accu-
mulator. Immedi-
ately after this
connect the con-
denser in series
with a pair of
headphones. On
completing the cir-
cuit to the con-
denser a distinct
click should be
heard in the
’phones, this repre-
senting the giving
up of the electrical
charge acquired by the condenser from
the battery.
Further Test for Dielectric Quality.
Touch the condenser with the leads
from a small battery as before ; but this
time allow about an hour to elapse be-
fore conducting the ’phone test. If the
click is heard this time it will prove the
condenser to have a good charge-
retaining quality.
Ex-G.
Amateur Chatter.
That DX is possible on five metres is
further proved by the well-known Eng-
lish amateur GSBY having on December
27 sent his signals across the Atlantic,
reception being confirmed by W2HXD,
of New York. British amateurs using
five metres have been heard in Morocco,
France and other countries. Australia is
more isolated than Britain, but that
should be all the more reason for in-
creased effort. It is not so long since the
idea of working England on 10 metres
was scorned, but the prediction made
here of its possibility was soon realised.
With the popularising of five metres
in U.S.A. a few years ago the band filled
up with “pirates.” Conditions became
so intolerable that American amateurs
in several centres organised successful
D.F. hunts. In Sydney the band is simi-
larly exploited. Before long action against
such offenders will be taken by mobile
Although radio is used extensively in
military signals, a most useful method
of communication under favorable con-
ditions is by the, well-proved heliograph.
One is shown here in action with a
duplex mirror.
unit's acting in conjunction with the
authorities.
Another trouble is the use of regular
broadcast programmes as a source of
modulation for testing purposes. In
view of the increasing interference in
metropolitan areas from badly-designed
receivers, a visit should be paid to all
stations using the band and an appeal
made for co-operation in using the cor-
rect kind of apparatus. It is no more
expensive to include a buffer R.F. valve
than to build any old kind of “squegger. ’
Most of the trouble comes from exces-
sive plate voltage on super-regenerators
capacity-coupled to aerials. They be-
come virtually transmitters and cause
havoc for miles around.
On 20 metres, apparently, there is dis-
cord. Amateur stations sometimes have
differences, but they usually don’t give
voice to them over the air—at least, not
abusively. So it was surprising to hear
a prominent West Coast, U.S.A., ’phone
and a Chicagoan engaged in a hot-tem-
pered barney regarding the splattering of
each other’s stations. Both stations are
around the ljkw. mark in power, and,
as they reach Australia much in the way
that DJA tears through on 19 metres,
listeners, hams included, must have been
entertained by this wordy battle. One
of the duellists insisted that the spread-
ing was due to conditions being at a
peak ; the other retorted, “Not so; you
should just see your wave form on my
oscilloscope! ” So there is some com-
pensation in the Australian 25-watt rat-
ing, after all!
As at this time last year, U.S.A.
’phones are strong most of the evening
up to 11.30 p.m. E.S.T., and the 14,150
to 14,250 kc. region is a bedlam.of loud
voices and heterodynes. Occasionally a
station stands in the clear while others
get a breather, and then puny 25-watt
VKs get in a few minutes’ chat, if they


Wlu* movi the
★ EVER-READY
BATTERIES
for Radio and Torch
are made in Australia
by the
EVER-READY CO.
(Australia) Ltd.
SYDNEY
Q
i
• lr
SSE-Ri
«I«It
/
E.G. I
don’t miss the
Fver Ready
STAND
(Hordern Pavilion)
& There you will see the complete range
of Australian-made Ever-Ready Batteries,
together with a comprehensive selection
of the newest torches, cycle lamps, elec-
tric candles, etc. Don't miss it when you
visit the Hordern Pavilion!
... and hear the
NEW Air-Cell
RADIO
Also see and hear the new Air-Cell operated
radio! Fitted with the recently introduced Ever-
Ready Air-Cell Battery, which opens up a new
era of trouble-free country radio.
Chief features of the new batteries are: (I)
over 1,000 hours of life; (2) no re-charging
whatever; and (3) constant voltage—no falling
off of power.
STANDS No. 74, 75, 76 & 77 !
are lucky. Americans express amaze-
ment at the consistency and strength of
Australians, and cannot believe that no-
body uses even as much as a quarter
kw.; that only a few have high (?)
power (100-watt) permits, and that most
are 25-watters. An American tells a
VK that his ’phone is “pouring in R 7
to 8,” and the VK reports the same on
the W. A thousand to one that at the
U.S.A. end the power is at least 500
watts, yet signals are equal. Does any-
one know the reason? Furthermore,
nearly all VK apparatus is “home-
grown.”
VK2NO.
Condensers in Series and
Parallel.
Separate Combination.
Capacities. Series. Parallel.
.0001 and .00025 000071 .00035
.0001 and .0005 000083 .0006
.0001 and .001 000093 .0011
.0001 and .002 000095 .0021
.0001 and .005 000098 .0051
.0001 and .006 000098 .0061
.00025 and .0005 00016 .00075
.00025 and .001 0002 .00125
.00025 and .002 00022 .00225
.00025 and .005 00023 .00525
.00025 and .006 00024 .00625
.00035 and .005 .00033 .00535
.00035 and .003 00036 .00335
.00035 and .0002 00013 .00055
.00035 and .0001 000075 .00045
.00035 and .0005 .00018 .00085
.0005 and .001 00033 .0015
.0005 and .002 0004 .0025
.0005 and .005 00045 .0055
.0005 and .006 .00046 .0065
.001 and .002 00066 .003
.001 and .005 00083 .006
.001 and .006 00085 .007
.002 and .005 0014 .007
.002 and .006 0015 .008
.005 and .006 0027 .011
All Round the Dial.
“Barangkali”: Though a stickler for
his traditional ceremonies, the Malay is
always willing to incorporate modern
ideas into them. The latest is loud-
speakers in the minarets of the mosque
in Singapore’s North Bridge-road ; thus
may the Holy Men call the faithful
more efficiently to prayer. The sum-
mons to devotion blares out over the
traffic an imperative command that can
be heard over half a mile away. Still,
good Moslems have so far balked at
ringing up and saying their prayers
through the telephone.
* >K *
“W.E.”: Mary was the boundary-
rider’s little daughter—curls, dimples, rosy
cheeks, sweet innocence and a general
favorite with all the station hands. The
overseer had a wireless, the working of
which Mary soon learned. On a trip to
the station I had given her an old mouth-
organ, and a couple of months later I
asked her if she could play if. “No,”
lisped Mary, “I can’t pway it. The
thing’s all static.”
“Querex”: Those interested in the
need for improving aviation radio ser-
vices should not fail to secure a copy of
the March issue of “Short Wave and
Television” (U.S.A.). A series of tech-
nical articles deals with “Landing ’Planes
Blind,” “Can Short Waves Prevent Lost
’Planes?” and “Ultra-short Waves and
Blind Landing in Europe.” This last is
an interesting description, with illustra-
tions, of how the much-discussed Lorenz
system operates. Such information comes
appositely after the unfortunate Stinson
crash on the Queensland-N.S.W. border.
* * * *
“C.H.F.”: A Maoriland B-class sta-
tion announced a competition for
women, each to give reasons why a
crocodile-skin bag, ’presented by a cer-
tain firm, should be given to her. The
prize-winning entries were read over the
air, but the most original entry was not.
This was very brief, and may even have
been true: “I should be given the croco-
dile handbag because since I have started
wearing scanties I have nowhere to put
my money.”
What's What in Radio.
The 8.8. C. mobile recording unit
some weeks ago took part in a broadcast
demonstrating the use of gas masks by
civilians. A microphone was placed in
the gas chamber of an experimental
laboratory in Notting Dale, London, and
connected by cable to the recording van.
A commentator, complete with gas mask,
described his sensations through the
microphone. Tear gas was used, but
the mask was so effective that the com-
mentator felt no inconvenience whatever
and could scarcely believe that he was
in a gas-filled chamber. Police also took
part in the experiment. As the gas was
invisible some of them seemed dubious
lii whether they really were in a gas-
filled chamber, but when they removed
their masks slightly for a few seconds
they were almost blinded by tears for
the next half-hour.
* * * *
It has been confirmed that fog has no
adverse effect on television signals. Dur-
ing a recent London fog good pictures
were obtained not only within the
normal range of 25 miles, but at
Coventry, ninety miles from Alexandra
Palace. Not only were the pictures clear,
but there were no secondary images such
as might be expected in long-distance
reception. What is perhaps even more
astonishing is that normally Coventry
does not receive the television signals at
sufficient strength to make a picture.
* * * *
Fashion parades by television are fore-
cast by a recent Alexander Palace,
London, transmission in which furs to
the value of some £lO,OOO were displayed
by mannequins for the edification of tele-
visioners. Several of the furs were speci-
ally designed for wearing over Corona-
tion dresses, giving women an idea in
advance of what will be worn for the big
occasion.
* * *
A French scientist states that the
various cells of the human body radiate
electro-magnetic waves very similar to
radio waves. Wave-length varies between
20 and 45 millimetres and is affected by
ill health. It is believed that these dis-
coveries will open up a new field in
radiotherapy.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
Useful to the short-wave listener is
the Radiotron world-wide mileage chart
just issued by A. W. Valve Co., 47 York-
street, Sydney. This chart shows quickly
the mileage between any two of a very
complete list of world cities. One sec-
tion deals with mileage between Austra-
lasian cities. The distances between
points are great-circle measurements and
therefore accurate. These charts, also
“Radiotronics,” are obtainable from the
co. for price of postage on application.
* * * *
February issue of “Radio” (U.S.A.)
contains many new and interesting ideas
for amateur transmitters. If a new type
of valve appears on the market, “Radio”
tries it in some amateur apparatus and
gives a genuine description. This issue
has articles on “A Truly Portable Re-
ceiver,” “Practical Low Cost Oscillo-
scope,” “Neon Bulb Overmodulation
Indicator,” “U.H.F. Concentric Line
Feeders,” “Multi-purpose Frequency
Meter,” “Measuring Audio Power,”
“Stabilising the S.S.
Superhet” (a Perrine
article), “Ten Cents
a Foot” (a cheaply-
constructed roof-
top tower), “A 10-,
20- and 40-metre
Kilowatt,” “Remote
Controlled Instan-
taneous QSY,”
“28mc. Ro t atable
Array for the City,”
“A Percentage
Modulation Meter,”
“Band spread 20-
metre ’Phone Re-
ceiver” and the
usual interesting DX and other sections,
There is also a review of R.C.A.’s latest
superhet, the ACR 155. Each month
“Radio” has a host of articles of value
to both professional and amateur radio
engineers. The principal agent for Aus-
.. i- ry' TTTT , r i' T a 1 :
tralia is The Bulletin, and subscrip-
tions, 16s. 6d. yearly, are accepted at this
office, 252 George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
~, ■ _ „
Anyone interested in the new Air-Cell
battery should obtain a copy of the
current' issue of “Australasian Radio
m-jji! a tjj
World (Is.), published by A. Earle Read,
B.Sc., at 214 George-street, Sydney. The
technical features of the Air-Cell are de-
scribed, together with the history of the
development of this battery in U.S.A., by
R. W. Erwin, of the National Carbon
Co. It is about the most interesting
story in the history of primary cells so
far told.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Operating a simple one-valve broadcast re-
ceiver of the Schnell kind, I have heard a large
number of stations. The valve is a Mullard
PM2DX. Having on hand a PM22A pentode,
1 wish to add it as an audio stage, and would
appreciate a diagram showing how to do so.
If switching could be arranged to use either
one valve or both, comparisons could be made.
—516.
Much better results will be obtained with the
two valves. The circuit diagram shows how the
switching can be done. The pentode is resist-
ance-coupled to the detector. A small knife
switch of the double-throw single-pole kind puts
the headphones over from one valve to the
other, and an extra filament switch cuts the
pentode filament off, saving A-battery drain.
(This is especially useful where dry cells provide
the filament current.) The audio choke in the
plate circuit of the pentode can be a small
30hy. type. The tuning condenser in this diagram
is shown as being .OOOlmfd. because such a re-
ceiver would be quite useful on short waves
with the values indicated.


PatatabiSify of Mineral
Supplement
“Tri-cal”: One chap who uses Tri-
cal-os told me of an amusing experience
he had which proved the palatability of
the stuff. After he had mixed a lot of
Tri-cal-os and salt he went to inspect his
young cattle, and after refilling their
boxes, which had been empty for a few
days, he was fairly mobbed by the herd
of youngsters ; they came from all round
to lick and jostle at his clothing, and he
quickly made a dive out of the paddock
for safety. There’s no doubt when stock
look for a mineral supplement they need
it, and he’s quite convinced that Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour supplies a long-felt
want.
-
i
I ,‘V
Davis Gelatine (Australia), Ltd., G.P.O.
give all information about Tri-cal-os.
Box 35835, Sydney, will
Old Farmer.
y
nm
JLxt to- yyuf&eM-
sMe B.V.D
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.*s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
NOW
THE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
r \/n rn INC.. NEW YORK.
Rtf*' 1
BlS'
j
ĵ
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Wool-marketing Reforms.
“Bungaree”: N.S.W. Graziers’ Con-
ference has wished some knotty prob-
lems on to politicians. The abolition of
the draft allowance is one, although its
difficulties are technical and can be
overcome. Co-operation of S’African
woolgrowers should be enlisted through
their delegates now visiting Australia.
If the old-established allowance of
lib. per hundredweight of wool bought
is discontinued, the entire, costing sys-
tem, of the wool industry will have to be
revised. It will be a good thing if it
comes off, as it will put the selling of
wool on a more straightforward basis
and eliminate one transaction in book-
keeping; but growers will not profit.
The buyer who pays £2O for a bale of
wool to-day will continue to pay £2O
if draft is abolished, though under the
revised costing scale the fractional dif-
ference in price per pound may not work
out exactly to the farthing. Growers
may be quite certain that that margin
will not raise the price of the bale over
£2O.
All the laws in the world, however,
will not prevent lot-splitting. Well over
a century ago, Wm. Macarthur in
London notified his wool-pioneer parent
that he had discovered a plot among
Yorkshire woolbuyers whereby one was
to buy, the requirements of the group
without local competition. Macarthur
countered by buying in his own wool
and keeping the price up. This item of
history is offered to modern graziers for
what it is worth.
Graziers’ objections to speculators’ lots
receiving favored treatment by being
offered out of rotation deserve atten-
tion, but the matter could be adjusted
between the association and the brokers.
The position is that a man may buy
wool in the country or at sales and offer
it, repacked or as it was, through the
broker. The broker, however, anxious
for more business, may advance the
buyer credit on his wool so that he may
continue buying, and there are all sorts
of ways by which a lot may be pushed
ahead. Many years ago a speculator
with several bales of cheap wool bought
in the country got rid of them on a
sudden rise in the market by repacking
the wool in bags, which were offered
immediately, bags not being forced to
take their place in the queue like bales.
The request that four-bale lots of
bellies be included in the Big Lots is
reasonable and should receive considera-
tion by the Buyers’ Association. Bellies
average approximately 600 to the bale,
so the owner of a nice even mob of
2300 sheep might get every bale into the
main catalogue except bellies and locks.
As things are, he may get the bellies in
by making light bales, but the extra
pack and brokers’ charges would offset
the advantage. That four-bale lot is
worthy of a place with the rest of the
clip.
Lamb Sickness in Ewes.
“Ghanam”: In lamb sickness the
mothers usually show signs of the trouble
from three weeks to a fortnight before
lambs are due to be dropped. The ewes
stand round looking as if they had just
received their income-tax returns, refuse
to drink or eat and eventually often die.
An old belief was that the. trouble was
caused by the “turning” of the lamb, but
the real cause is the drain on the ewe's
system from carrying the lamb ; hence
the special tendency of twin-bearers to
this sickness. The system becomes un-
able to get rid of poisons and the liver
is peculiarly affected. Trucking ewes for
“Whatter matter, Mary Ann ?”
“Plurry burglar bin break in an pinch all me joolry!"
long distances before 'lambing may pro-
duce serious outbreaks of the disease.
Adequate hand-feeding of prospective
mothers is the -best preventive. This
may be awkward in drought or dry con-
ditions, but wherever possible it is worth
while. When a breeding ewe is lost at
drop point, two sheep are lost.
Cowra Fat-lamb Trials.
“Granova”: In fat-lamb trials at
Cowra (N.S.W.) Experiment Farm best
results were obtained by mating South-
down rams with Border Leicester cross
merino ewes.
Southdown, Ryeland and Dorset Horn
rams were each mated with a flock of
B.L. cross merino ewes and a flock of
Romney Marsh cross merino ewes, 3.1
p.c. of rams being used.
The Southdown rams sired 100 p.c.
lambs, the Ryelands 92 p.c. and the
Dorset Horns 88 p.c. The. three flocks
of B.L. cross merino ewes averaged 103
p.c. of lambs, and the R.M. cross merino
flocks 83.4 p.c. The Southdown lambs
averaged 17s. 2d., the Ryelands 15s. sd.
and the Dorset Horns 17s. 2|d. The
lambs from the R.M. cross merino ewes
averaged 16s. 5d., those from the B.L.
cross merino 16s. lOd.
Gross returns from the various crosses
—wool returns being put down at 10s.
per head —were, per ewe:
Southdown rams and R.M. cross merinos,
225. 4d.
Southdown rams and B.L. cross merinos,
255. sd.
Ryeland rams and R.M. cross merinos,
20s. 9d.
Ryeland rams and B.L. cross merinos,
245.
Dorset Horn rams and R.M. cross
merinos, 21s. 9d.
Dorset Horn rams and B.L. cross
merinos, 225. 9d.
The lambs were dropped in May and
June. The good results obtained from
the. Southdown rams and the B.L. cross
ewes were due largely to'the high lamb-
ing percentages. i
Inexperienced Classers.
. “.Plain Brown” Last sfeason circum-
stances held up my regular classer, and
the contractor sent along J a young chap
to take his place. He did quite well
with the fleece lines, .but had little idea
of the duties that are a most important
part of a classer’s job.
He had no control whatever over the
shedhands. The result was overlapping
and work left undone. The board boys
arranged their work to suit themselves.
Bulky pieces of wool and dags were
swept indiscriminately into the locks.
Some stains were roughly removed from
the wether bellies, but a lot remained un-
touched. Fleeces piled up at the table
and the rollers ripped wool off, regard-
less of whether it was free or burry. For
want of directions, the piece-pickers
worked each on his own idea, and it
was difficult to tell one line from an-
other. As a result, I had to let. my own
work go for nearly a week, short-handed
though I was, to teach the classer how
to run his part of the shed.
When the clip was displayed for sale
I inspected it with the broker’s valuer.
The fleece lines were even in quality
and condition, but, instead of being free,
as in previous years, odd burry patches
advertised the slapdash skirting. The
broken, however, was the worst feature ;
fribs and stains had not been half-
removed and the bad work was reflected
in the price.
It should be more widely recognised
that a knowledge of spinning counts and
theory enough to pass exams, for a cer-
tificate do not make a classer.
S. Australia’s Great Season.
“H.A.L.”: S.A. has had a most un-
usual summer, with weather conditions
more like those of the tropics. The
spring was dry, and it seemed that the
wheat harvest would be poor, but oppor-
tune rain made a wonderful transforma-
tion. The champion wheat crop of the
State, grown at Wolseley, went 15 bags
to the acre, and 10- and 12-bag yields
were common.
Shortly after harvesting began sultry
conditions developed, and every week or
two has seen a few days of high
humidity with thunderstorms and rains
ranging from a few points to 7in. Un-
reaped wheat, however, suffered very
little damage, and there has been won-
derful growth of lucerne and other
summer fodders, with some of the best
tobacco crops ever seen.
The first unseasonable rain caused
sub. clover seed to sprout, and long
faces were the rule among sheepmen, but
as rain followed rain the clover kept
growing, and now many properties have
a sward which suggests spring growth.
Stands of Kikuyu have also gone
ahead astonishingly, and small experi-
mental plots established on bracken
country in the spring have spread for
yards, in spite of damage by rabbits. In
one place where a single root was
planted in August and enclosed with a
bit of old netting the grass-runners have
spread 11 feet out from the netting on
all sides, and bracken has been reduced
to a few sickly fronds.
The greatest blessing of all has come
to the outback pastoral areas, where
conditions are better than at any time in
the last 15 years. Much country which
was regarded as ruined has made a sur-
prising recovery.
Excellent results have been achieved
by, an experiment on Melton station,
where furrows were ploughed at chain
intervals across bare patches. Running
at.right angles to the prevailing wind,
these furrows caught and held all seeds
blown into them by the wind, and after
the first rain the course of the furrows
.was marked by lines of grass and herb-
age which are now spreading out. Drift
has been definitely checked wherever
.the furrows were run.
Not ; long ago it was proposed to
vermin-fence small patches of country
through inland areas, and keep these un-
stocked to act as reserves for the propa-
gation of native tre£s and bushes. The
present season provides a heaven-sent
opportunity to carry out this plan.
There can be no doubt of its ultimate
success. One has only to look at any


ss^f
S'
s'.
•r
s.
jx^rVv,
u
111
I ’
Truck'World gossip
OUR NEW INTERNATIONAL has
definitely improved our business
"Nothing but an out-and-out truck job would stand up
to our delivery work . . . our customers are spread
over a wide metropolitan area and far into the
country. We find this International Model C-15 one-
ton van is amazingly easy to handle in traffic, swift and reliable
on long runs, and a truly economical performer . under all
conditions . . . And its beautiful lines do us credit wherever
it goes. We are glad to have our business identified with
the reputation which International holds everywhere—it stands
for stability, good service and success."
j
THERE’S A TRUCK IN THE
INTERNATIONAL LINE FOR YOU.
The comprehensive International range includes the following
models :
Utilities and 5-ton vans (113 and 125-in. wheelbases).
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase. 30-cwt„ 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cwt„ 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
2-ton, 160-in. wheelbase. 3-ton, 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4-ton, 156, 170 and 185-in. wheelbases. 5-ton, 190-in. wheelbase.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton capacities in various wheelbases.
CHASSIS PRICES FROM £7ll
plus tax)
Call on us for full information on any truck in the International line.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
8.150
TheWorld’sßestTrucklnvestment
bush cemetery the rabbit fencing of
which is kept in order to see how well
vegetation can come back when it is
protected.
The only producers to whom the
season has proved disastrous are the
beekeepers. The frequent rains caused
honey-yielding trees to drop their flower
buds and put out new leaf growth, with
the result that S.A. has the lightest
honey crop for many years.
Regular Breeding for Cows.
“Silky Bag”: In maintaining high
average production of milk and butter-
fat nothing is more important than that
the cow should drop her calf regularly
each twelvemonth.
Most cows will build up fibrous tissue
and fat in the udder if given too long
a dry spell. Since 10 months of lacta-
tion is a fair limit and a cow on good
pasture will run to this udder fat if dry
for more than two months, a calf at
the. same time each year balances things
out nicely. This is a point to remember
when mating young heifers. It is best to
have them come in at a regular calving
season.
Udder fatness is a more serious prob-
lem than is realised. Calvings keep the
udder working with the minimum of rest,
but once an udder becomes fibrous and
fat it may take two, or even three, lac-
tations to restore it to full productivity.
If a cow develops the habit of return-
ing to the bull, a vet. should be called to
advise. Usually the remedy is a course
of vaginal irrigations, plus a starvation
ration to reduce fatness.
Pigs for Show.
“Pappamosca”: In preparing pigs for
show plenty of exercise is essential. Also,
plenty of parading practice. The-pig is
a shy animal, and if not properly trained
will exhibit himself (or herself) to bad
advantage. It takes infinite patience,
but, apart from their shyness, pigs are
as intelligent as dogs once you learn how
to handle them.
Show pigs should be kept apart from
the rooting gang-quietness, shade and
clean drinking water with green pasture
are necessary to keep them good tem-
pered, and good temper is one of the
most telling of show-pen assets.
Skin condition counts heavily. Wash
the prospective ribboner thoroughly with
warm water and soap. Dry off just as
thoroughly, and then oil according to
color. Old car sump oil is capital for
Berkshires. It should be massaged in
thoroughly to clean up scurf. For Tam-
worths and whites try: Benzine, \ part;
kerosene, \ part; fish oil, 6 parts.
There should be half a dozen wash-
ings and oilings. The job should be
done in the evening. Oiling on a warm
morning produces effects which are
pleasant to neither the appearance of the
pig nor the onlookers’ nostrils.
Immediately before judging, thinly coat
a clean brush with coconut oil, and give
the Pride of Porkville a good—not too
hard—rub over. Apart from having the
effect on him that a Turkish bath has
on a leading citizen it gives his coat a
wonderful gloss if done thoroughly,
Pasture Mixtures,
“Zedo”: Successful sowing, like suc-
cessfu| marriage, depends entirely on in-
dividual circumstances,
Central and South Gippsland (Vic.)
are heavy sowing districts. Where sow-
j n g j s ea rly light mixtures are the rule.
Generally, the wetter and more fertile
t he district, the more the soil will stand,
Also, the more weeds there are to be
choked out the greater the variety in
mixture and the thicker the seeding that
are necessary.
Medium-rainfall areas and moderate
so jj ca p f or cheap sowing and simple
mixtures. On Victorian 25in.-rainfall
] an d it is common to sow 101 b. perennial
(Continued on page 45.)


, .•///'/
M
r
m
■ ■ -
■
I
W|M|
:■■■
Ml
'■i
•c ’ j
■
■h~: ■,% ,
-
v : c
■I
an
»
i M
H
.4-
jsipspl
*ll
H
1111
.
■H
li
m
■
' I
rtgfre' w
Oi .
Local stations; interstate stations; short wave stations; you will
enjoy them all with equal clearness, yet with a new realism on
a Stromberg-Carlson. A turn of the dial and little-known over-
seas stations, the kind you hear enthusiastic amateurs talking of
with bated breath, come in well nigh as clear as locals. A radio
enthusiast’s set, logging station after station, amusing you night
after night; yet alternatively if you wish, sink into your armchair
and enjoy that perfect relaxation that only good music can give.
You can obtain typical Stromberg-Carlson quality from as low as 14 guineas.
ONLY STROMBERG-CARLSON HAS THE PATENTED ACOUSTICAL LABYRINTH


ffie'&'alleforL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
ĵ
Ease ...
in the saddle
with
a Riding Boot
built for wear.
Comfort means so much to the man who is in the saddle day
after day that it should be his main consideration when buying
a Riding Boot.
Some Boots look smart but are hard to wear ; this Abbey Boot
looks smart and fits with perfect ease.
Made in Brown Calf in full and half sizes.
Price, 27/6.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
You wouldn’t think moments were precious when
you see the average man brooding over bridge, or
loitering on the links, or lolling in the sun. Yet
he’s very keen to save time over shaving. Hence
the 'Valet’ Shaving Set. Razor designed to give
you a high-speed shave. Blade self-stropped to a
perfect edge in half-a-jiffy. Cleaned in a moment.
Nothing to unscrew. Nothing to take apart. The
whole shaving business is over in 60 seconds.
•wVi
m
s
VAL
■S Afr
fry
i 'i
*4lOO
fit
blade
•9>
C >T
°<4o
No. 99 Utility Set contains the essentials of a perfect "Valet**
Shave, self-stropping Model C Razor, three blades in plated sheath,
and a leather strop in container. The whole in serviceable
black leatherette case 4/6
Other sets from 9/- to 65/-. Of all Dealers. British made.
VALET
itut<ySti*op
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
It any illustration in ‘THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
rye and a couple of pounds of sub.
clover, or to sow oats for hay and broad-
cast sub. clover when the oats are in.
A certain amount of the sub. clover
seed comes up, making an impressive,
stand, but a goodly portion remains over
for next season’s sprouting. In the
second season, the oats having been taken
off, perennial rye goes in in drills across
the line of the oat sowing. In heavier-
rainfall country, the mixture may go as
high as 151b.-201b. rye and 51b. sub.
clover.
Phalaris tuberosa, if the best Hunter
seed is used, may be put down at about
51b. to 51b. sub. clover after a summer
crop of Sudan grass or other similar
feed. Autumn sowing of this mixture
should be. put in with light cultivation.
The mixture is most suitable for country
in the 20in. to 25in. rainfall pastoral
belt of southern Australia.
Cocksfoot likes a heavier rainfall and
suits land with 30in. or over. It should
be sown in a mixture of, say, 101 b.
cocksfoot, 41b. of one of the ryes —Italian
or perennial—and 41b. sub. clover. It
is a prolific producer of green in a
medium dry summer.
Where soils are moist and rainfall not
much over the 30in. or below the 25in.
level, white and strawberry clovers de-
serve a turn along with sub. clover.
Here rye should dominate them in the
proportion of two to one.
Hardy Winter Feeds.
“J.W.”: Tares and vetches do not pro-
vide so much feed as field peas, but
stand severe cold better.
Purple vetch is a good variety. It
stands repeated cutting and heavy graz-
ing and calls for only a relatively light
seeding.
Sow about 301 b. to the acre by itself,
or half that quantity with about two
bushels of other grain. Apart from its
feeding qualities, it is an excellent soil
improver.
Tobacco Seed-bed Hints.
‘ ! Pack-bag”: When making a tobacco
seed-bed choose a high spot, free, from
shade and well-drained. After burning
over with wood—to kill insects and
grass-seeds—rake all ashes off before re-
digging, as excessive, potash destroys
growing seedlings.
Eight kerosene-tins of horse-manure
that has been well boiled in bags should
go to the 100 square feet. It makes for
a saving in water, a better strike and a
good root system.
Sow seed —never more than two tea-
spoons to the 100 square feet —by plac-
ing one spoonful in a watering can, stir-
ring it well, and then watering it on to
the bed. Coat the surface afterwards
with a layer of sand if ants are likely
to carry off the seed; otherwise fine
horse-manure is best, and it prevents
drying out.
Cover the bed well with hessian, leav-
ing no holes to admit night moths.
Improving Maize Yields.
“Ambi”: Better seed selection would
undoubtedly improve Australia’s maize
yield, which stands at well under 30
bushels.
To some sowers, maize is just maize.
Split ears, discolored and streaky grains
go in indiscriminately along with rotted,
mouldy or soft-cored cobs. Some re-
move mould and put in the rest of the
cob, but this is bad practice, as there
may be internal infection.
There are plenty of rot funguses
which attack maize, the worst being the
three fusaria and dry rot, which starts
at the tip or butt of the cob and works
through it. Only biological examination
can detect these pests in early stages.
They are a serious problem. There are
N. S. Wales districts where infection has
been found in as much as 80 p.c. of
grain.
Early-sown crops are particularly
liable to trouble. A lot of work remains
to be done on germ-resistant types and
field sanitation—especially the burning
of old stalks—and careful study of the
effects of season on sowings in relation
to disease and crop rotation are
important.
’Hopper Destruction.
“Owen Linden”: Large grasshoppers
now appearing widely in north-west
N. S. Wales foreshadow another ’hopper
plague.
Last year, when the swarms were lay-
ing pasture lands waste in the north-
west, scattering poisoned bran about their
breeding beds gave unsatisfactory
results ; the method proved too slow for
coping with the pest over large areas of
country. Therefore R. J. Doolin, of
Myall Downs, tried a scheme of his own.
He mounted the engine of a jetting
plant on a motor-truck, and, as the
vehicle was driven round the swarms of
wingless ’hoppers or across the line of
their advance, an arsenical solution was
sprayed' over the grass or herbage on a
strip 16ft. to 20ft. wide. The mixture
was Hlb. soluble arsenic and a couple of
quarts of molasses to 50 gallons of
water.
A supply of water was carried, and, as
the truck was driven on second-gear, the
spraying was practically continuous, and
great areas were treated in a day. The
effect of the spray on the ’hoppers was
decisive.
The vile smell of the masses of
poisoned ’hoppers on these strips kept
the stock from touching anything left by
the pest. The grass was not destroyed
by the solution ; it browned off but came
again.
While some adjacent properties were
denuded of feed, Myall Downs suffered
only slight shortage.
Hints for the Farm.
“Zedo”: Watch the bran content of a
horse’s feed. Bran is rich in phosphate,
and horses fed to excess on it sometimes
suffer from lameness or rheumatism
due to lime deficiency, the lime being
drained from the system by the excess.
“Ek Dum”: Loss of lambs in N. S.
Wales from black or green scour caused
by hairworms is enormous. The prob-
lem is to be solved by proper nutrition.
111-fed ewes go off their milk, lambs be-
come virtually weaned while still suck-
ing, the hairworm rushes the weakened
lamb. The remedy is not plenty of
lucerne at the right time, as some'seem
to think. Trough feeding with good
chaff and oats is best.
“Lam”: The wool press is ideal for
baling lucerne or other hay when prop-
erly used. Place, a false bottom 7in.
high in the press, nail grooved pieces of
wood to the lid so that binding wire may
be passed through easily. Loop two
pieces of 14-gauge galvanised wire and
run them round inside the box, leaving
free ends long enough to tie. Tramp the
lucerne or other fodder into the boxes
and set the engine to work. Two minutes
should complete the job. Lucerne bales
weigh about 1601 b., sheaf oaten hay
1801 b. and loose oaten 1501 b.
“Hortus”: Using Bordeaux for citrus
blackspot, a strength of 4-3-80 gives best
results. Too strong a mixture may con-
trol trouble, but tends to increase scale-
insect pest, and doesn’t do the trees any
good.
“Motor”: In large dairies a good im-
plement for washing udders is a car
sponge attached to a hose ; it is incom-
parably better than disease-breeding
teat rags. And chains with a rubber leg-
collar are easier to keep clean than the
ordinary legrope.
“Saddle Massager”: Castor oil is ad-
mirable for keeping leather work in good
nick, but there are disadvantages in
using it on saddles. One application will
result in a rider’s pants being stained for
months afterwards. Also, girths plenti-
fully soaked in castor oil will scald a
horse and cause girth galls. A tin of
coachalene is a better investment.
“Owen Linden”: In north-west N. S.
Wales caterpillars are on the move —
the larvre of small cream-colored moths
which, a few months ago, were in great
numbers. As it happens they are doing
something to compensate for damage, to
herbage-—cleaning up dense patches of
Bathurst burrs in the early stage of
growth, at which stage burr destruction
is most effective.
“G.F.N.”: In Australia waste of farm
manure represents an immense sum
annually. On, say, a farm with 35 cows,
four horses and four pigs there should
be a weekly production of from five to
six tons, and, if only one-third of it
were collected, up to 100 tons of good
natural fertiliser would be obtained every
year. As an instance of the value of
such fertiliser and the kind of use to
which it can be put, the best patch of
pineapples I have ever seen was fer-
tilised solely by cow manure.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE. BRISBANE n .
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN. „ , and 97
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory) Syffi>ey
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S Wales, r this
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Austialasia ad, business
Bankoffers thefiiest tacilfties for the transaction of
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Sydney, wants job with market
gardener, anywhere; seven years’ exp. growing
vegetables.—4923.
Man (41), with two years’ Vic. Mallee exp.,
can ride, drive team and help with fencing,
sheep, etc., seeks work any State, amongst sheep
preferred .—4929.
Man (20), Sydney, physically handicapped but
mentally alert and willing, wants position with
small newspaper or magazine.—4940.
Youth (19), two years’ cane-cutting exp., two
years student at Gatton College, can milk,
wants employment anywhere.—494l.
Elderly gentleman, fairly active, good educa-
tion and knowledge of stock, wants home with
cultured people, do light stock work, accounts,
etc., N.S.W. preferred. —4920.
Single man (35), Sydney, general boatshed
hand, five years in last position, wants work. —
4969.
Wanted, for Riverina farm, gardener who
can milk and kill, with knowledge of sheep
work. Permanent job for right man.—4924.
By country woman, N.S.W., good cook,
position as caretaker or housekeeper; would
look after poultry. Refs. —4981.
To exchange blue field lupin seed for grass
seed. —4905.
To exchange collection of M.L. and Austra-
lian stamps, catalogue value about £l5 each,
for reflex camera and accessories.—4997.
To buy a few emu eggs carved by aborigines
before 1900, ss. each. —5002.
To buy Old Colonial Architecture in N. S.
Wales and Tasmania, by Hardy Wilson. —4962.
To buy, new or second-hand, Potter’s His-
torical Introduction to the English Law and
Adams and Stephens’s Select Documents of
English Constitutional Law. —4977.
Information Sought.
(1) What are the Test batting and bowling
averages of Tom Garrett, sole survivor of the
first Australian XI? (2) What is Garrett’s age?
—4991.
(1) Garrett had 33 innings, 6 not outs, high-
est score 51 not out, total runs 340, average
12.59; 677 overs, 297 maidens, 36 wickets for
970, average 26.90. (2) 78 on July 26 last
year.
:f: ❖ * sP
(1) When Marylebone C.C. team defeated
South Australia at Adelaide in 1935, what were
Bradman’s scores, and how was he dismissed ?
(2) During that tour, in what matches did
umpires. J. Scott and G. Borwick officiate? —-
5000.
(1) Bradman captained South Australia and
scored 15 (1.b.w., b. Sims) and 50 (1.b.w., b.
Parks). (2) Scott umpired in the matches v.
S. Australia and Queensland; Borwick in the
matches v. N.S.W. and an Australian XI at
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Ages of Hobbs and Bradman when their
first Test centuries were made ? (2) Between
what years have their Test centuries been made ?
(3) How many were made in Australia and in
England? (4) What are their averages in Test
matches ? —5OlO.
(1) Hobbs was 29 when he scored his first
century (126 not out) in the second innings
v. Australia, at Melbourne, on January 2-3,
1912; Bradman was 20 when he got his first
century (112) in the second innings v. England,
at Melbourne, on January 2-3, 1929. (2)
Hobbs between 1912 and 1929; Bradman be-
tween 1929 and 1937. (3) Hobbs made nine in
Australia, three in England; Bradman six each
in Australia and England. (4) Hobbs —71
innings, 4 not outs, 3636 runs, average 54.26;
Bradman —40 innings, 2 not outs, 3406 runs,
average 89.63.
* * * *
What were Bradman’s scores in Test matches
v. England prior to this season?— 496B.
In Australia, 1928-29—Brisbane, 18 and 1;
Melbourne, 79 and 112; Adelaide, 40 and 58;
Melbourne, 123 and 37 not out. In England,
1930—Nottingham, 8 and 131; Lord’s, 254 and
1 ; Leeds, 334; Manchester, 14; The Oval,
232. In Australia, 1932-33—Melbourne, 0 and
103 not out; Adelaide, 8 and 66; Brisbane, 76
and 24; Sydney, 48 and 71. In England, 1934
—Nottingham, 29 and 25; Lord’s, 36 and 13;
Manchester, 30; Leeds, 304; The Oval, 244
and 77.
* * * *
Is it a fact that all heavyweight boxing cham-
pions of the world, from John L. Sullivan to
the present title-holder, except Tommy Burns,
Jack Johnson and Max Schmeling, had a strain
of Irish blood in their veins ? —4955.
Sullivan was an Irish-American, as was James
J. Corbett, who won the title from him. Bob
Fitzsimmons, who conquered Corbett, was a
Cornish-Maorilander, and James J. Jeffries,
who defeated Fitzsimmons, claimed American
descent only. Jeffries retired, and Tommy
Burns, a French-Canadian who was baptised
Noah Brusso, received recognition as champion
until Jack Johnson, a Texas negro, beat him at
Rushcutter Bay on Boxing Day, 1908. Jess
Willard, an American cowboy born in Kansas,
defeated Johnson for the championship, and
Jack Dempsey, whose nationality was Irish-
Scotch-American, won over Willard. Gene
Tunney, an Irish-American, defeated Dempsey,
and Tunney retired, when German Max Schmel-
ing became world’s heavyweight champion.
Jack Sharkey, whose correct name was John
Coccoskey and nationality Lithuanian-American,
outpointed Schmeling, and Italian Primo Camera
knocked out Sharkey. Max Baer, a German-
Jewish-American, then knocked out Camera.
James J. Braddock, the present champion, who
outpointed Baer, is known to American boxing
enthusiasts as the “New Jersey Irishman.”
* * =t= *
Did Griffo win the world’s featherweight
championship from Billy Murphy when he de-
feated him at the Darlinghurst skating rink
in 1890/' This contest was advertised as for
the championship. —49BB.
A few months before Murphy returned to
Australia to fight Griffo, he defeated Ike Weir
in 14 rounds at San Francisco, the bout being
billed as for the world’s featherweight cham-
pionship, and Murphy was presented with the
Richard K. Fox diamond belt to signify that
he was featherweight champion of the world.
Shortly after Murphy left California, however,
the American boxing authorities relieved him
of this title because he was overweight and
could not defend it. Griffo received recognition
as world’s featherweight, champion only in
Australia when he defeated “Torpedo Billy.”
* * * *
(1) Has the Queen Mary officially broken the
Atlantic crossing record? If so, what time and
on what crossing? (2) Why is Dunkirk in-
cluded as a port of call on the crossing? (3)
Is there a direct railway service between London
and Paris? If so, give details? —4844.
(1) On August 19, 1936, the Queen Mary
created a westbound record of 4 days 7hr.
12min.; average speed, 30.01 knots. On
August 30 she created an eastbound record
from New York to Southampton of 3 days
23hr. 57min.; average speed, 30.63 knots. (2)
The Queen Mary does not call at Dunkirk, but
at Cherbourg, to embark and disembark Paris
passengers. (3) The connections between
Paris and London are: Train from Paris to
Calais, thence by ferry to Dover, thence by rail
from Dover to London. Alternatively, train
from Paris to Havre, thence ferry to Southamp-
ton, thence train to London.
* * * *
(1) Birthplace and present place of residence
of Will Lawson; also list of published works?
(2) Who wrote “Such Is Life,” and where is the
book obtainable ? —4726.
(1) Will Lawson, born at Newcastle-on-Tyne,
England, arrived in Queensland at an early age,
and was educated there. He spent some years
in M.L., and has latterly resided in Sydney,
where he may be communicated with care of
the Press Club, Hamilton-street. Published
works include Pacific Steamers (published in
Glasgow), a history of shipping in the Pacific
for 100 years; Steam in the Southern Pacific
(Gordon and Gotch, Wellington, M.L.); verse,
The Red West Road and The Three Kings;
novels, The Laughing Buccaneer (Angus and
Robertson, 1935), When Cobb and Co. Was
King (same, 1936) and Old Man Murray (1937).
(2) Such Is Life was written by Joseph Furphy
under the pen-name of “Tom Collins.” The
book is out of print, but is occasionally obtain-
able from second-hand bookshops.
* * * *
Information regarding Sarah Bernhardt’s visit
to Melbourne in the ’nineties ? —4966.
Arriving early in June, 1891, having travelled
overland from Sydney, where she had landed
a few days earlier, she began a season at the
Princess Theatre with “La Dame aux
Camelias,” and subsequently appeared in “La
Tosca” and a number of other plays by Sardou,
“Jeanne d’Arc,” “Frou-Frou,” “Adrienne
Lecouvreur” and the spectacular “Theodora,”
each performance of which lasted nearly five
hours. The entire season was in French. Sarah
lived in a villa she had taken at St. Kilda,
made numerous excursions, attended the open-
ing of Parliament, inspected art exhibitions, the
Women’s Hospital and other institutions, and
sat to Bertram Mackennal for a bust. At the
end of June she left by sea for Adelaide.
:p * ❖ *
If a country exports £lOOO worth of goods
more than it imports, does this constitute a
favorable trade balance? If so, suppose this
country continues to export each year more than
it imports, is the balance still a favorable bal-
ance? If it has sent away more goods than it
has got back, how can that be in its favor?
If it has received only some form of paper
money, with which it does riot intend to buy
goods from outside countries, how does it
benefit .''—4925.
A country which exports in value more than
it imports has a favorable balance of trade. A
succession of favorable balances results in an
accumulated favorable balance. The debtor
country is obliged to pay in gold if it has no
credits in the creditor country to pay with.
Paper-money does not enter into international
dealings. The fact that the world is off the
gold standard doesn’t mean that gold is not
used for international settlements.
* * * *
(1) When does N.S.W. general shearing
season begin ? (2) Likelihood of Maorilander
securing position as (a) picker-up, (b) wool-
roller? (3) Where to apply ? —4857.
(1) Early in July. (2) Depends on age and
experience. (a) Experience not essential in
picking-up, but would be in applicant’s favor.
Preference is given io youths under 21. (b)
Age does not affect position as wool-roller so
much, but you would have a better chance if
experienced. (3) Apply to Graziers’ Co-op.
Shearing Co., Ltd., Sirius House, 23 Macquarie-
place, Sydney, or any contractor registered with
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association (see their Hand-
book), stating age and experience and enclos-
ing copies of references. Immediate applica-
tion is advisable, as early sheds are filling.
Unless you have a definite engagement or you
can stay with friends in Sydney, you’d be wise
not to come till August, when there will be
more employment.
* * * *
(1) Where will stations on the new Sutherland-
Cronulla {N.S.W.) railway line be situated, and
what will be their names ? (2) From what end
has construction begun ? —4557.
(1) Anticipated that stations will be in the
vicinity of Oak-road, Gymea Bay-road, Miranda,
Caringbah, North Cronulla, and Cronulla.
Names have not yet been decided. (2) Suther-
land end.
* * * *
(1) What lizards discard their tails? (2)
How is this possible without injury to life?
(3) Where in Australia is the “water dragon”
lizard found? What size is it? Has it webbed
feet? Can it swim, and what does it eat?
(4) What is the length of Australia’s largest
monitor lizard?— 49lB.
(1) Gecko lizards can voluntarily discard
the end (which is the larger portion) of their
tails. Legless lizards, if roughly handled, might
break their tail into several pieces. In handling
small scink lizards the tail is often broken off.
(2) Most animals can lose their tails without
any danger to their life. (3) There are several
species of water dragons found in different
parts of Australia. The largest is the eastern,
which attains a length of about 30in. The
dragon has not webbed feet, but is a good
swimmer. Food consists of beetles, aquatic
insects and small lizards. (4) About Bft. from
snout to tip of tail.
* * * *
Particulars regarding the brolga ?— 4886.
The brolga, also known as the “native com-
panion,” chiefly inhabits the less-settled areas
of northern and eastern Australia. It is a
large, stately bird of a light-grey color, with
long legs, neck and bill and a red patch on the
back of its head. It lives chiefly on lizards,
snails, roots and bulbs. The birds congregate
in small flocks and perform curious dances,
spreading their wings and bowing to each
other; the movements have been used as the
basis of aboriginal corroboree dances, one of
which E. J. Banfield describes in Confessions
of a Beachcomber.
!i! * * *
(1) How to prepare charcoal for producer-
gas as used by suction-gas engines ? (2) Any
books on gas-producers? —4756.
(1) Remove tops of 44-gallon oildrums, cut
four holes in bottom of each drum, fill with
4ft. split timber, place drums over small trench
so as to cause a draught to pass up through
the wood and set wood alight. When wood is
burning freely turn drums upside down until
smoke clears off; then smother, and, when out,
riddle the charcoal. It is then ready for use.
(2) Gas Engines and Producers, by L. S. Marks
(American Technical Society, Chicago), price
about 20s.
* * * *
Quick method of curing and polishing sandal-
wood to obtain a dark finish? —4692.
There is no rapid method of seasoning
save by kiln drying, which requires rather
elaborate equipment. Simplest method is to
season the wood under cover, the ends being
painted to prevent checking. If seasoning
checks appear on the sides drying is too rapid,
and the timber should be placed where less
exposed to dry winds. The dark color in the
finished article is the natural color of the heart-
wood, and only French polish or clear lacquer
is used.
# * * *
Where do the words of Bach’s choral pre-
lude “Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring” come
from, and what are they? —4928.
The words of Bach’s cantatas and chorales,
of which he wrote a vast quantity, have, save
in the case of the most famous of Luther s
hymns, never been translated from the original
German. Possibly the w'ords of the chorale
referred to are in the hymnal of the Deutsche
Kirke, and might be obtained from a member
of that congregation.
* * * *
(1) Method of obtaining the super, feet
contents of a stack of sawn boards ? (2)
Method of obtaining the super, contents of a
log by diameter measure? —4907.
(1) Measure height, breadth and length ot
stack in feet, multiply together and then multiply
by 12. Result is contents in super, feet. (2)
Ascertain mean circumference (usually circum-
ference at half-way of length). Take quarter
the circumference in inches, multiply it by
quarter the circumference in feet, and again by
the length of the log in feet. Result is (approxi-
mately) content of millable timber in super,
feet.
* * * *
Method of drying figs? —4789.
Figs should be just ripe or slightly less than
ripe, but not soft or broken. Clip from the
tree, place in a wire drainer or lettuce rack and
immerse in very hot water containing one tea-
spoon (1 drachm) of caustic soda to every
gallon of water, or in hot water only it you
dislike the idea of the caustic: this acts as a
fungicide. Drain the figs and spread thern out
to dry on trays lined with white paper, lurn
frequently; when thoroughly dry, pack into
boxes lined with greaseproof paper and store in
a dry place. For drying on a commercial scale,
apply to your State’s Department of Agricul-
ture for leaflets on the subject, which will give
the best dimensions for racks for drying and
the proper method of covering at night.
% * * *
Can lemon-juice or vinegar cause a reduction
in weight? —4639. . ...
Although taken in the belief that it will pre-
vent excess food from “turning into tat,,
lemon-juice does not so act. Vinegar, which is
a dilute solution of acetic acid, may produce
loss of weight by causing digestive upset and
loss of appetite.
Brief Answers.
A.E.T.: (1) Hard to find an agency for £5OO.
(2) Not necessarily. (3) Very far from being a
general rule E.C.: A return should be made
to the Vic. Taxation Commissioner, including
all dividends from cos. registered in Vic. Full
particulars of the Vic. share transactions should
also be disclosed... .J.P.L.: Particulars not re-
corded. .. .H.W.: All mixtures containing oil
must be greasy, or their value is lost as an oil
dressing. There are hundreds of hair tonics
of very different materials —dry, oily or waxy.
A good dressing containing oil is made of four
parts olive oil, three parts glycerine and three
parts alcohol (meth. spirit), with perfume as de-
sired. Mix well and shake before using....
T.C.: (1) If you are using oil paint, apply it
thickly without any oil or megilp; if you must
use a thinner, use terebine, which is bad for
true painting, but a quick drier for odd jobs.
If using water-colors, add a strong solution of
gum arabic. (2) From “The Cingalee”
D.T.: The artist is unknown. It is unlikely
that the picture has any great value... .R.J.H.:
Sparke and Helmore, Newcastle (N.S.W.); H.
Morrissey, care Murphy and Moloney, Sydney.
. ...H.8.: Cannot find any reference to 13
Eliz. C.l amongst statutes at present in force.
Appears to have been repealed by Statute Law
Revision Act 1863. Cannot place case re-
quired, unless it is Marecco v. Richardson
(1908) 2 K.B. 584.... A. 8.: (1) Yes. (2) Actual
residence is necessary for the greater part of
each year. (3) No W.W.: Write Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Association, 43 Mar-
garet-street, Sydney... .W.F.W.M.: (1) J. E.
Cook, Croydon-avenue, Croydon Park; Misses
Perry and Robertson, 101 St. George’s-crescent,
Drummoyne; N. Hawkless, 1 Nichol-avenue,
Ryde—all Sydney. (2) Write “Dog World of
Australasia,” 16 Bridge-street, Sydney
A.M.G.: If the structure is built of hoop pine,
the furniture beetle is responsible for the
damage. Eradication is not easy; it calls for
complete saturation of the affected timber with
some deterrent solution, such as a mixture of coal-
tar and creosote, used in proportions of from
1-1 to 1-10, depending on whether staining of
the wood is to be avoided. If the wood has
been painted, the only treatment is to inject
the liquid with a fine syringe P.J.8.: (1)
Both. (2) Yes, provided the author’s permission
is also obtained and acknowledgment is made.
. ...F.W.D.: Edward Harrington has had pub-
lished a book of verse, Boundary Bend and
Other Ballads (Thomas C. Lothian, Melbourne,
3s. 6d.).... J.S.: (1) Yes. On present market
sheepskins with three-four weeks’ wool are
worth 3d. to 4d. per pound if in good condition.
Hard, sunbaked pelts and torn or damaged skins
are worth less. (2) Consign to Country Pro-
ducers’ Selling Co., Darling Harbor, and advise
co.’s city office, 16-20 Bridge-street, Sydney, or
consign to any ’well-known broker A.8.J.:
(1) and (4) After marriage it is essential that he
should make a new will. (2) He could make
such provision in the new will. The fact that
she is a minor would not affect the validity of
the will. (3) He should appoint an executor to
act with her....C.R.: There is no recognised
passenger service by water from Sydney to Gos-
ford (N.5.W.)... .A.R.D.: Harris in Principles
of the Criminal Law lays it down that where a
peace officer in the execution of his office,
whether in a civil or criminal case, kills one
who is resisting arrest the homicide is justifiable.
Much, however, depends on the circumstances.
F.W.M.: The old motion should have been
rescinded before the new one was put; how-
ever, since this was not done, the only course
is to rescind it E.N.T.: No history of the
25th Batt., A.1.F., has been published, and as
far as is known compilation has not been
attempted... .N.H.: Anthony Hordern and
Sons, Sydney; per ball. Procurable also
from most drapers. No. 5 cotton is meant, the
additional S being a manufacturer’s symbol
C.M.P.: Common at this time of the year to
have trouble during the moult. A little malt
extract —one of those containing halibut oil-
procurable from any chemist, might be included
in the diet. The bird should get plenty of
exercise... .H.G.: The book is worth about
10s. 6d. if in perfect condition.. . .D.M.R.:
Nothing can be done to cause the hair to grow
on the scalded parts, nor is there any way of
darkening T.J.L.: No progress, in the sense
of embodying the proposed reforms in the
divorce law of N. S. Wales, has been made since
the article was written. Some of the suggested
grounds for divorce, such as insanity, are
already recognised in other States... .N.H.N.C.:
A bondsman is a surety. Every person to whom
a grant of administration is made must execute
a bond to ensure collection and distribution of
assets of the estate, and failing to do so
is subject to a penalty equal to the amount of
the property. Two sureties are required. The
object is to enable persons interested in the
estate to obtain redress from the administrator
or sureties in the event of waste or wrongdoing.
The sureties are required to show that they
possess sufficient property to enable them, it
necessary, to recoup the estate. If you think
bondsmanship may complicate your estate in the
event of death you should decline the position.
... .W.R.T.: The sample of grass-tree resin has
been examined. It must be broken up and
freed from plant debris to make it suitable
for commercial purposes. Full particulars ot
methods of treatment, _ commercial value,
markets, etc., are given in Bulletin No. lb,
“Grass-tree Resin,” obtainable from the lecn-
nological Museum, Sydney (price, 6d.). Lon-
tinuity of supply and uniform quality ot resin
are essential for exploitation S.A.: It worn
not pay to send small lots to England, but it
trapper had large parcels he could consig
direct to such brokers as Anning and L odd,
London. This firm would be able to furnisn
London market prices G.L.H.: h lts j
years’ existence Melbourne “Star had m
editors. H. R. Gollan was managing editor
when the “Star” went on to the street for tn>-
first time in October, 1933; J. C. Waters
ceeded him as editor, and remained in tna
position until a few months before the p P
ceased publication in 1936. F. Davidson >
ceeded Waters when the latter resigne
return to Melbourne “Herald (Many o
mailed.)


1
91
•V
LEARN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINEERING
AT HOME
We teach you:—
• Aeroplane control.
• Construction.
• Rigging.
• Types of Engines.
• Engine Auxiliaries.
• Instruments.
• Aerial Navigation.
• Licences “A,” “B,”
“C” and “D.”
AUSTRALIAN Write for particulars+o-
AVIATION
SCHOOLS
Wembley House, Railway Sq., Sydney
E5t.1934 Phone MA4642
x ' - jj |
m %
m
%
%
%
P
/
j
ĵ
—and not only luck—judg-
ment too. "The fun of the
party" depends partly on the
luck of who’s there and who
isn't. It depends also on the
quality, flavour, tang, zip. of
the cocktails, and that isnt
luck, it’s judgment.
Choose your cocktails with
judgment. Choose the gin
with judgment. Choose
Vickers. When a cocktail
starts with Vickers it is
usually adjudged very good
indeed.
j
FAMOUS
SINCE 1750
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
March Issue Now on Sale.
ARMAMENTS AND MARKETS.
BANKING POSITION.
BASE-METAL POSITION.
WORTH-WHILE STOCKS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin .Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. . No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.G.: You ought to have done better with
M.L. Minister Semple’s assertion that one navvy
is a damn’ sight more useful to his country
than 10 bankers W.0.C.: “If these verses
are unsuitable, please destroy.” We wish every
budding poet were obliged so easily J.W.G.:
Too tame a rhyme for a theme like that....
G.C.: “I enclose stamp for return if this
should be its fate.” It is 1.W.G.: We
read all verse through to the (all-too-often)
bitter end. Your ending was quite sweet, but
it couldn’t carry the poem on its back
AJ.W.: A very long way below publication
standard. Why not give the local press a turn?
F.B.S.: “Doggerel” is right; still, with
improved craftsmanship, you may yet see print
N.S.: Quite meritorious, but far too long-
drawn-out J.S.C.: We haven’t a hundred
feet of line even for a Murray cod... .D.D.M.:
There must be well over 200 lines in it; that
alone knocks it....L.5.: Very nice sentiment,
but the poem’s a bumper... .K.G.W.: “To a
Lovely Lady” failed to move the ogre at the
cashbox Jabu: For “Smoke-oh” you need
to get to the point in less than half that length.
V^j re l ess:
to seek creation’s portals, unfathomed source of all
where imagination’s lightning, penetration’s stall
and reason, futile faltering, by nature’s law denied
recoils within its ambit.
No idea what it’s all about, but the title “No”
was prophetically chosen, and the pen-name
seems appropriate... .C.E.H.: Two poems full
of graves and death, indicating probably one
poet still very young and healthy... .C.8.C.:
Plenty of good single lines in the batch, but
plenty, also, that are pure prose and no com-
plete piece tempting to us. Try “North Coast”
and “Reef Song” on someone else... .G.S.;
Whoever told you that sort of stuff “might suit
The Bulletin” was in grievous error....
D.McT.: Sketch a trifle too prosy; verse too
prosaic P.H.: Good enough as verse, but
we haven’t a corner for what comes half-way
between the lightly topical and the serious....
V. (Burma): No children’s column here....
D. : Still don’t like that bagman yarn....
W. (S. Africa): No use for reprint, even if
the setting weren’t off our beat... .K.W.F.:
Doubt if you could unload that early Roman
story anywhere in Australia... .C.V.Q.: Too
slight Limbrebongie: An idea, but it could
have been treated better... .8.L.F.: Good story
spoilt by weak ending... .Yah: Something in
all of them, but they ramble too much....
P.C.: Good meaty stuff, but the unsolved
mystery spoilt it... .C.V.S.: Fair glimpses of
station life, but neither makes a story....
E. : Doesn’t quite get past... .Ferox: Only
a limited appeal... .F.M.H.: Barely one faint
smile to the page... .D.M.C.: The purple
patches match the Scottish heather, but that’s
all G.A.P.: Unsuitable... .A.M.: Neither
good nor bad G.McD.L.: Didn’t miss by
much... .C.F.J.: Not enough punch in the
humor... .J.M.: Dubious subject crudely
handled... .W.C.P.: The horror beats the logic
by a short neck L. 8.: Articles unsuitable;
short story came close... .D.A.: Can’t cage
your rat F.H.T.: Overstocked with the
death-in-the-desert motif C.A.8.: Couldn’t
stand another milkshake... .G.H.S.: Stodgy.
. ...H.G.L.: Not up....E.D.: “Masterpiece”
overrated R.M.: Good idea, but you make
it heavy going G.M.L.: You, too H.D.:
Aloysius didn’t even raise a titter C.W.:
It’s bumpy... .A.E.K.: Cracks up long before
the end....F.W.: R.1.P.; but it made a good
fight for life... .8.T.: “A Definite Answer.”
N0....V.W.: You can’t wish the body on us.
C.L.: “Cash or Terms.” Neither....
W.D.F.: Melodrammer... .E.Q.: Both close,
but neither close enough.
„
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
_ w „ r , „ .
C.M.K.: Jest so feeble that it collapsed on
arrival EJ.: You can t carry on with such
an utter disregard for all the rules.. ..D.R. .
Faint and sciatchy outlines and venerable
wheezes... .H.J.M.: Shocking, even tor a
novice... .A. 8.: Don’t want colored sketches
or worn jokes J.D.: You’re about as cheer-
ful as a mourner left behind in a cemetery on
a wet afternoon... .T.S.: Picture ot curate in
monkey-cage interested us, but there was no
letterpress to explain it.. ..1.G.: Four fearsome
drawings on the Yellow Peril bundled off the
premises... .R.D.: Sketches hopelessly imma-
ture.... W.G.: That boarding-house tooth-
brush gag always reaches us when Easter is
imminent....A.L.D.: Figures are too blurred
and the quip is dreadfully 01d....A.H.: Wash
drawing needs sharper contrast between tones
for successful reproduction... .G.F.8.: Put
more action into your pictures and give them
more relevant gags.... J.C.: More blots and
smudges to the square inch than we ve seen for
many a long day....W.R.: The gent, and the
maiden on the raft float into this office perpetu-
ally... .C.T.: Wooden sketch and yawn-pro-
voking jest... .E.N.H.:, Discovered no reason
for agreeing with your friends’ opinion that you
have “the makings of a first-class artist ....
M.M.: Lady with arms like Indian clubs and
gent, with huge head met with the fate they
deserved... .P.S.: The ornamental border is the
only artistic touch... .N.C.: Awkwardly-posed
figures, but otherwise quite promising....
R.J.P.: Don’t like to think what our readers
would say if they saw that staring at them....
W.S.: You’re only about 50 years behind Phil
May F.N.S.: Distorted figures, jagged line-
work and little or no knowledge of perspective.
... .8.M.: We sped it on its way with hearty
goodwill... .T.D.: We admire the man you
have drawn, but not your picture of him.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Golden Mile”: Death comes in un-
expected shapes to the miner. Reopen-
ing a long-idle mine a couple of Cool-
gardie miners found the oregon-pine
skids had been attacked by white-ants.
Someone suggested painting with a solu-
tion of cyanide. The job completed, and
a supposedly reasonable time having
been allowed for the fumes to clear, one
man went below to the 45ft. level —and
collapsed. Hours later a rescue party,
equipped with gas masks, succeeded in
recovering his remains.
* * * *
“Shanghai”: Recent pars, touching
the supersession of the two-watch sys-
tem at sea by the three-watch system,
which comes into operation this year on
vessels of substantial tonnage and re-
duces seamen’s daily work from
12 hours to eight, recalls that in
January, 1788, Bligh wrote in his
diary: “I now divided the people
into three watches I have always
considered this desirable.... unbroken
rest contributes towards health.... en-
ables men more readily to exert them-
selves in cases of sudden emergency.”
A century and a half later we find an
International Conference endorsing the
much-maligned Admiral’s views.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: If Germany gets into
another war it will probably have reason
to regret Hitler’s anti-Jewish policy. In
every country Jews were supposed to be
kingpins in the financial manipulations
which led to the Great War lasting so
long; but they probably did even better
work as chemists. A Jewish paper, pub-
lishing a list of Jewish scientists who
have been exiled from or imprisoned in
Germany, gives 57 names that were in-
cluded in the German Honor Book as
tho.se of chemists and scientists who had
done work of special distinction in dis-
covering means of feeding Germany
with synthetic materials when the good
stuff ran short. The Jewish brain has
a special flair for that sort of thing.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: The 37-ton ketch
Lady Jean, now on her way from Laun-
ceston (Tas.) to new ownership in New
Guinea, was one of the last sailing
vessels to carry mail and passengers
regularly in southern waters. For years
she traded to Flinders and other Bass
Strait islands, a homely craft wherein
passengers frequently took a turn at the
wheel and helped the crew land cargo
in boats on remote beaches and swim
cattle off to the ship’s side. Once, when
aboard her bound for Launceston, we
had to run for shelter under Waterhouse
Island, off the north coast, to save a deck
cargo of fat sheep from being washed
overboard. But, despite such contingen-
cies, ketches are more suitable than
steamers for the shallow-draught island
trade, poking in from beach to beach,
so much so that the Lady Jean has been
replaced by the Lady Flinders, a fine
100-ton auxiliary ketch, the largest
vessel built in Launceston this century.


STOMACH DISTRESS and
ACIDITY ENDED-THIS NEW WAY
Self-Poisoning (Autoxima)
ITS CAUSE AND EFFECTS
Civilized life guards against many dangers and
diseases. But it exposes us to hidden ones such
as self-poisoning. Devitalized modern foods give
insufficient exercise to the walls of the intestines.
They lose their power of normal movement and
are unable to get rid of the poisonous acid-form-
ing waste —which settles in their folds. Essential
Alkalizing minerals which maintain health are not
extracted from your food by the lifeless walls.
Your vigour and vitality are undermined. Mean-
while. the food waste lies stagnant and ferment-
ing in the colon, giving rise to gases which are
forced back into the stomach, thus souring the
food and causing sickness, heartburn, pain in the
chest, headaches, bad breath. Impurities are
created and enter the blood stream to attack and
weaken other vital parts or functions of your body.
"Stomach distress entirely due to seif-
poisoning/' says eminent Berlin
Physician Dr. C. Oppenheimer
Stomach distress does not primarily result from indi-
gestion, for this, too, is only a condition arising from
the real cause. As Dr. Oppenheimer, the celebrated
Berlin physician, points out, this complaint is entirely
due to self-poisoning (autoxima). That is why medi-
cines which act only on the stomach give no per-
manent relief. The clogged colon, where the primary
cause of autoxima begins, must first be cleared of fer-
menting acid debris before real relief from stomach
distress, indigestion, acidity, gastritis, belching, bloat-
edness, gas pains, and ulcers can be effected. So clean
your colon of this acid-developing waste.
HOW TO HAVE A HEALTHY STOMACH
Clogged Colon
The left illustration shows your colon clogged by
fermenting food waste. Your partial bowel move-
ments may be regular, but modern, devitalized food
waste has clogged your colon and autoxima is poison-
ing your system. You feel depressed, bloated. You are
troubled with constipation, burning pains in the
stomach, tenderness. You dread to eat yet you are
always hungry. Laxatives are useless —they only
act on the lower part of the bowels;
they do not clear away the gas-gener-
ating poisons from the colon walls. COLOSEPTIC,
however, cleans the entire colon of waste matter, as
shown in the right-hand illustration. It neutralizes all
acid conditions. It restores the body's alkaline reserve.
COLOSEPTIC also activates the three other elimina-
tive organs—the pores of the skin, the kidneys and
the respiratory system. Be free of stomach distress
for good, clear your colon with COLOSEPTIC now.
Unclogpod Colon
READ THIS 66 Delighted with Results ”
Tasman St., Wellington.
My husband and I are taking Coloseptic and are more than de-
lighted with results. We really feel we have at last secured the
article to ensure health, more especially in my husband’s case.
He has been suffering from Indigestion, Flatulency, etc., for many
years. He feels much better than he has done for years. I also
feel a very different person since taking Coloseptic. . . .
Mrs. A.H.
(The original of this letter may be seen at Head Office.)
AT ALL CHEMISTS—
INDIVIDUAL SIZE, 2/9; ECONOMY SIZE, 5/6.
LIBERAL SAMPLE OF COLOSEPTIC. Mail the coupon for a
I* JtiUjJLi sample of COLOSEPTIC. You’ll receive it by return mail and, ir
an interesting book, telling you more about the vital and intimate subject of
will be sent to you—FREE.
free trial
, addition,
autoxima,
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
1C
AIDS NUTRITION
CHECKS SELF —POISONING
BUILDS HEALTH
COM R ATS ACIDITY
1#
O'*
- V>*v
v'^v c 0 i r ■
/Vv/
“GRIFFO” IN AMERICA
No. 10 of a series of articles on the great Australian boxers.
The old Alameda bore “Griffo” to Cali-
fornia’s shores. He arrived at San Fran-
cisco in June, 1893. A Bulletin note
on the friends he left lamenting placed
it on record that “without it's ‘Griffo’
the Rocks push has become unbearable.
It seems that he provided it with a safety
valve.”
The Rocks push was never to see the
god of its idolatry again, nor to hear
from him directly, for he could neither
read nor write ; but it was to hear plenty
about him down the years. It must have
been a prey to mixed emotions when the
first “Griffo” anecdote arrived from
’Frisco.
“When ‘Griffo’ had been a week on the
free soil of America, and had laid in a
stock of gloves and hats and chaste ties,
and had got his feet into bright, tight
boots, and had visiting cards printed, he
hired a gorgeous vehicle and drove off to
interview Jim Corbett. He sent up the
new card and waited for an answer. It
came as follows: ‘Mr. Corbett is very
sorry but he really cannot find time to
see any Australian pugilist.’ The scene
closed with ‘Griffo’ making observations
on the sidewalk, and holding himself
back with both hands to prevent him
rushing upstairs and rending Pompadour
Jim as the Christians used to be rent by
the wild beasts at Ephesus.”
The abundance of Australian boxers
in the U.S.A. was then a sore point with
native-born bruisers, especially as, indi-
vidually and collectively, the invaders
were decidedly superior. This was frankly
admitted by American sporting writers,
and the admission did not improve the
temper of the home-grown thumper,
especially as columnists extracted humor
from the situation at his expense. One
wrote: “The Australian nation consists
of five million souls. Not more than
three million of these are prize-fighters ;
the rest are oarsmen.” Another scribe,
while acknowledging that “far and away
the best fighters ever seen in this country
are Australians,” pointed out plaintively
that so many of them had crossed the
Pacific that they were reduced to fighting
one another. He pleaded with Australia
not to send any more pugs to the U.S.A.
until demand had been brought within
measurable distance of supply.
He Shows His Skill.
So “Griffo” found opponents anything
but plentiful, especially after he had
dazzled the Chicagoans with his skill. At
Chicago he engaged in a series of six-
and eight-round bouts with some of the
best featherweights and lightweights that
could be found in those parts, among
them Tommy White, A 1 Jansen and Solly
Smith. None of them could put a glove
on the Australian hard enough to hurt
him. He, for his part, peppered their
faces and ribs in his unerring way, grin-
ning most of the time and drawing vast
roars of laughter from the spectators.
The Americans soon decided that the
combination of gamin and matchless ring
scientist that was “Griffo” made him “as
good as a play,” and that was to be his
reputation until he grew so dissipated
that he was past entertaining his public.
In 1894 “Griffo” had bouts with
Johnnie van Heest and Johnnie Griffin,
both lightweights of repute. With names
altered a description of the second affair
might pass for a description of the first:
“For eight rounds ‘Griffo’ played a tattoo
all over Griffin, almost without a return,
and the onlookers thought Griffin finished
the eight rounds on sufferance only.”
By this time “Griffo” had parted com-
pany with Alexander, who had taken him
to America, and placed himself in other
hands. But the news soon came to Syd-
ney that “ ‘Griffo’s’ American backer”
was “tired of the Australian John L.
Sullivan’s ways,” and had told him that
“unless he abjured ginger beer he could
look for backing elsewhere.”
“Griffo” had been matched with
George Dixon, still reckoned the best of
all colored featherweights. Warned that
he would lose the engagement if he didn’t
train, the young man from Sydney did
some perfunctory gymnasium and road
work and stepped into the ring half-fit
against the dangerous “Chocolate.” He
hit Dixon “times out of number” and
rode the few punches that Dixon landed
on him. At the end of the sixtieth
minute “Dixon’s lips were swollen, an
eye was in mourning and his nose was
bleeding, but he was strong on his feet.”
The referee declared it a draw.
Champion, But—
“Griffo” was to become the victim of
a worse decision when he met Jack
McAuliffe, the recognised lightweight
champion of the world. McAuliffe’s
ring career was drawing to a close, he
was bent on retiring as champion, and
the referee was bent on gratifying his
artless ambition. Though it was a case of
a lightweight meeting a featherweight,
“McAuliffe proved a regular punching-
ball. ‘Griffo’ hit him when and where he
liked without a return.” But “in the last
round, with an eye closed and blood
gushing, McAuliffe rushed about lunging
wickedly with right and left.” Although
his lunging ended in the atmosphere,
the demonstration was sufficient for the
third man, who pronounced McAuliffe.
the winner.
This staggered even the pro-McAuliffe
crowd, but “Griffo” only grinned. He
never seemed to care much how decisions
and titles went, or even how much he
got for his share of the purse as long
as there was enough for an immediate
jag. He had never learned to count,
and he. was generous to a fault. It
became a pleasant custom for promoters
to pay him in silver dollars, and for lug-
biters and deadbeats to line up when
this ceremony was about to be per-
formed. The telling of the silver was a
slow process, and as it went on “Griffo”
would grow thirstier and thirstier, until
finally he’d shout out a “Hey, that’s
enough,” and make a beeline for the
nearest bar. He rarely got' that far with-
out leaving most of his dollars in the
dirty paws of the queue..
“Griffo’s” easy conquest of McAuliffe
convinced the Americans that he was
a marvel, and in newspaper references
to the decision amusement and shame,
were oddly mingled. A letter to The
Bulletin said: “ ‘Griffo’s’ stock has
gone up higher in the States than if the
McAuliffe decision had been in his
favor. He has been rushed with offers
of engagements. If ‘Griffo’ keeps level-
headed—which it is a million to one he
won’t—he should put together a com-
petence at short notice.”
A fight to a finish with McAuliffe. was
proposed, but nothing came of it'. Never-
theless “Griffo” and the now-retired
champion were to meet again—“in a
Sixth-avenue saloon, after cocktails,
bluster and language. The Rocks boy
managed to locate, the right ear of
McAuliffe, who responded with one on
the belt', and then they clinched. On-
lookers took sides, and one drew a
pistol, but was floored and pitched out.
Others who had armed themselves with
salad bowls, spittoons and glasses
dropped them and cleared at the word
‘cops.’ ‘Griffo’ remained behind. He
hadn’t finished his whisky.”
“The Americans are trying to make an
actor of ‘Griffo,’ ” it was announced
about this time. The Bulletin suggested
as a suitable piece “A Hundred and Ten
Nights in a Bar-room.”
But “Griffo” never went on the stage.
He did considerable boxing between
benders. Among his opponents were
Ike Weir, Billy Murphy, “the Kentucky
Rosebud,” Jimmy Dime, Charlie
McKeever, Jack Everhardt, George
Lavigne and Joe Gans. Though John
Barleycorn aided them, none of them
could defeat him, and he defeated most
of them.
Lavigne and Gans.
Lavigne and Gans were the best men
“Griffo” ever fought. Both were light-
weights, and each was to hold the cham-
pionship, but not until the Australian
had knocked himself out. “Griffo’s”
fight with Lavigne was declared a draw,
but Lavigne candidly admitted that he
had been unable either to land on “Griffo”
or to get away from “Griffo’s” punches.
“I felt as if I were being pelted with
gloves,” he said with a rueful grin. And
Lavigne was the man who stopped Joe
Walcott, a welterweight who beat middle-
weights (Dan Creedon was one) and
even heavyweights (among them Choyn-
ski).
But “Griffo” couldn’t keep straight.
American papers told how he “gave the
mighty Jim Corbett his quietus with a
right-footer on the point of the jaw.
‘Griffo’ having annoyed Corbett in a bar.
Corbett knocked the little man down
with his open hand, and then sto °Pj; d
over him. Thereupon ‘Griffo’ landed the
heel of his boot on the jaw of Mf-
Corbett, who fell back and split his
head open against an iron pillar.
and his party then made tracks.” Ana
“ ‘Griffo,’ the miniature Tom Sayers, nas
been run in for drunkenness and his
friends had to raise the $2 fine, dis-
sipation and pending legal proceedings


o>' your holiday
Bn
m
A
f,
w./jm
mien
JVrWHKT
I
This land of countless attractions awaits you—
ancient temples beautiful scenery native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 79 0 I
Established
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES' ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E. ; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the world.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
m
9 i
\
VI
I
1
fSP^I
m
m
M
' V.
V
m
at .
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are made at
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from:—'
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
compelled him to refuse, an offer of
$4OOO to appear at a big Mexico boxing
carnival.”
On the Down Grade.
The life he led was now telling on
him, and he lost even the taste for box-
ing. He had a few fights in 1897, and
beat a fellow named Owen Ziegler, who
afterwards became one of the best light-
weights in the business, but before the
end of that year he was to know defeat.
Dragged out of a bar to fight Tommy
Ryan, who claimed the middleweight
championship, the “fedder” was unable
to continue after the third round. His
next opponent was fellow-Australian
Tommy Tracey, a welterweight from Vic-
toria. “Griffo” entered the ring so drunk
that he could barely stand. “Blime, Tom,
I’ve ’ad enough,” he hiccupped, after
a brief exchange. He reeled out of
the ring and out of the hall, savagely
hissed by the crowd, which hadn’t seen
one round for its money. A complete
wreck, and only 26!
A note written on November 26,
1898: “ ‘Griffo’s’ last little episode must
have resembled the rough-and-tumble we
used to see between the policeman and
the populace in pantomime. ‘Griffo’
was on the scoot in ’Frisco one night,
and without rhyme or reason started to
run amuck, upsetting all in his road.
Three policemen tried to grab him ; and
then the fun began. ‘Griffo’ dodged the
clubs and knocked the cops down like
ninepins. More, policemen appeared, but
he continued punching them down, all the
time cautioning them to ‘remember the
Maine’! Numbers prevailed in the end,
and our only ‘Griffo,’ with every stitch
of clothing torn off, was tied down in
the patrol wagon. And to think that he
is lost to the city of his birth!”
What happened to “Griffo” in 1899
may be judged from a paragraph printed
on Feb. 24, 1900. “ ‘Griffo’ has come
down with a crash again. After taking
him from the asylum, ‘Gentleman
George’ Dawson tended him like a
mother, and sent him away to the hot
springs in Indiana to build up. ‘Griffo’
met two crack lightweights, Lewis and
Kenny, in quick succession and gave
them no hope. Frequent flashes of the
Sydney Rocks wonder’s old-time bril-
liancy brought the house down. He
didn’t seem capable of landing a stiff
punch on the man he was fighting, but
the man he was fighting couldn’t land
any sort of punch on him. Later ‘Griffo’
got a fat screw for a week’s showing in
a Chicago theatre ; but the adulation of
the push settled him, and he was soon
reported in a chronic condition of drink,
and altogether beyond pulling round.”
At intervals, however, the Australian
sobered up and returned to the ring. In
one of these brief appearances he was
stopped in eight rounds by Joe Gans,
with whom he had fought a 10-round
draw five years before, and who was
presently to knock out Erne, the con-
queror of Lavigne ; he disposed of Erne
in a round. That same year, 1900,
“Griffo” bead one Kid Ashe twice and
fought a draw with Joe Bernstein, reck-
oned one of the best 12 lightweights in
the U.S.A.
Last Years.
But promoters were now chary of
matching him. A doctor had certified
that he had valvular disease of the heart.
He swore it wasn’t true ; but except for
occasional exhibition bouts at benefits —
one of them was with Lavigne and an-
other with “Young” Corbett, become
back-numbers like himself —the Game
knew him no more.
“Griffo” drifted to New York, and
got an occasional job as bouncer at a
cheap restaurant. From time to time
misguided attempts were made to bring
him back to Australia, but fortunately
they never came to anything. Down
on his uppers and deprived of the ap-
plause of the mob, he became a com-
paratively abstemious character ; ■ and
when he was no longer capable of being
even a chucker-out the New York
authorities let him live on the charity of
good-hearted “sports.”
On sunny days he would take up a
position on the steps of a public build-
ing and sit there till the shadows length-
ened, his poor wits perhaps wandering
back to “good ole Kidney Pie” and picnics
at Chowder and fights at Foley’s. Prosper-
ous-looking passers-by —Tammany men,
perhaps—would slip money into his
hands, and the cop on the beat would
point him out to strangers. “See that
old bum with the white hair? That’s
‘Griffo,’ the Australian. Yes, the fellow
Jim Corbett wrote about in the ‘Satur-
day Evening Post’ —said him an’ Gans
were the two greatest lightweights the
world ever saw. John L. Sullivan told
me when ‘Griffo’ was in his prime he was
so fast you couldn’t have hit him with
a revolver bullet.”
“Griffo” died at New York in March,
1927. To the surprise of those who knew
him best, he had saved up a few hundred
dollars, but his patrons buried him
handsomely at their own cost.
ELEGANT EXTRACTS
From Contemporary Writings and Speeches.
Legislative Council of Victoria: Pre-
paration of Voters’ Rolls. —If the person
to whom this is addressed is no longer
resident in the locality to which sent
and is received by any other person with
a knowledge of the position this office
will appreciate any information that can
be furnished. — Victorian Electoral De-
partment circular.
Referring to a motion in regard to
notifying members nominated for office
as to the reasons for their rejection, a
speaker asked why the executive was
reluctant to supply the information. Mr.
Fallon said he remembered a case where
a member achieved some popularity in
the district in which he was working.
He was refused endorsement. The
reason was that he had been arrested
several times for garrotting.— Report of
the A.W.U. conference in Hobart
“Mercury.”
To go to Russia is like going to visit a
poor relation... .Warsaw is far ahead of
Moscow and Leningrad in general
appearance and outlook. There is a
brightness in the countenance of the.
people of Warsaw that is definitely
absent in both of the other cities; the
populace of Leningrad and Moscow are
decidedly sullen. — Norman Makin, S.A.’s
one Federal Labor member, in the
“Australian National Review.”
4* F
Fleetwood-Smith was not getting
wickets. Mailey’s experienced head sug-
gested certain alterations in tactics, and
Fleetwood-Smith adopted them. From
the very first over Fleetwood-Smith be-
came a menace. For the rest of Eng-
land’s innings he had every batsman in
trouble.— Sydney “D.T.,” Mailey’s paper.
Details of the plan of action which
Arthur Mailey and Fleetwood-Smith
drew up for England’s undoing must re-
main, for the time being, a secret. It
would hardly be wise to disclose them
yet, Mailey said, when questioned. He
then imitated an oyster. — Same gentle-
man next day.
After the match I had a yarn with
Fleetwood-Smith, who said: “I am glad
for the sake of those who have stuck to
me, and particularly glad for the sake
of Clarrie Grimmett, who has been a
wonderful friend and adviser to me.” —
Representative of Sydney “Sun."
*l* >!* *2*
The travelled Englishman who has
visited Sydney’s surf beaches is well
aware that Australians are brown and
speak American. — Melbourne “Argus.”
4* 4* F
McCabe scores with a courtliness
that even the toiling bowlers must ap-
preciate ; he is never brutal, never a
plunderer of runs with a bludgeon, but
a sort of Claude Duval of the crease,
taking his booty with gallantry.— N.
Card us.
Leyland, with his tilted cap and well-
set chin, came in, determined to die for
England if necessary.— Mailey, in Sydney
“D.T.”
It requires an almost intolerable effort
of imagination to realise that such a bats-
man as Hammond is subject to mortality.
— D. Batchelor, in “S. M. Herald."
Wyatt juggled the ball twice before
clutching it in his right hand. Wyatt
is dark complexioned, but was almost
white at the conclusion of this episode.
— V. Richardson, in Melbourne “Age."
•i* 4* 4*
What is life without an occasional ice-
cream, when the temperature soars zero-
wards? — Melbourne “Age” contributor.


Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The number of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1931 are even brighter.
LET...
" The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market —you
just can’t afford to ignore it!
Further details can be had from
P. A. MESSENGER, A. G. PIKE,
Warwick Bldg., Newspaper House,
Sydney. Melbourne.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
V
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
cAembgr*
AUDIT
•BUREAU OF
.CIRCULATIONS.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North.
Full information conies and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth, ..
Western Australia-
It is something that does credit to them both. You
should be proud your father had such good taste.”
“Taste be damned! She’s nothing but a common
troll, dolled-up in a bit of finery, making a great show
of herself with the money she wheedled out of the old
man.”
“The scheming adventuress, eh? That is what I
have so often heard before. Your legacy, Neil, from
what you have read or seen at the pictures. You
talk from a fixed conception —not from any know-
ledge you have of her.”
“I’ve got all I want. All I intend to get. She’s
written to me once or twice and I didn’t answer: I
will now. It won’t be the sort of letter she’s looking
for. She’ll get something that’ll make her steer clear
of this boat in future —of any company I happen to
be in.”
Besanck gave an odd grimace, a movement of the
shoulders. “Oh, well, it’s your affair. Your little
private area of hostility. I say no more.”
Lie went on with his cooking as if recognising
that there was a difference between them never to be
bridged by reason.
WET he could not help bringing the matter up at
unexpected times in the days that followed, now
with a solemn face, now with a faint quirk of humor.
The way moral energy depleted the mind. The need
for the Puritan to have a devil to fight in the outside
world or within! His gradual absorption in his own
fantasies instead of in reality. It was the seriousness
beneath his gibes that made them rankle in Neil’s
mind. For some reason, mischievous or self-interested,
Besanck really seemed intent on bringing him and
the woman together, and that slight pressure increased
his loathing of her. To hell with her curiosity about
him! He saw her as a fleshy octopus, stretching out
tentacles at random, eager to get hold of people and
cling: he was revolted by the image of her. The
thought of her coming aboard the boat, penetrating
his privacies, roused deep, obscure passions that had
been sleeping for months.
Sleeping, yet never wholly submerged! Crawling
into port from the sea’s darkness, picking a careful
way between the beacons, it always exasperated him
to see the word “Cayley’s” standing out from the other
lights, clamoring for his attention, thrusting itself
forward to meet him. There was a mockery in that
twinkling sign. Frowsy in his salt-stiffened clothes,
tired with watching for patches of dangerous reef,
with sitting up long nights for little profit, he always
tried to turn his eyes away from it. Better forget all
the memories it roused in him.
He had been making a deliberate attempt to start
anew, adjust his inner life to the circumstances in
which he found himself. It was necessary, he told
himself in response to Leo’s gibes, to cut the umbilical
cord once and for all, to free himself from the muddy
emotions that had their source in his parents’ conflict.
No sense in carrying a grouch around with him.
Better abandon his private cave and live in the open
daylight. The world he had entered didn’t care a
tinker’s curse who a man was and where he came
from: when had anyone ever shown curiosity about
Besanck’s origins? It was a world where the per-
spectives closed up behind one, where every sunrise
brought anew day.
Sanderson’s son! The name meant nothing to
most of the men he met at his work: why indeed
should they remember an old pot who had died with-
out a bean? They belonged to the floating proletariat
who followed jobs from one place to another, changing
trades easily if conditions demanded it: cane-cutters
one year, wharf-lumpers or fishermen the next. It
rarely occurred to them to speculate on the history
of the town. They did not, for instance, stop to ask
what had led people to fix on the mangrove-fringed
bay for a port, who had built the first great road
up the ranges, or why the hotel on the esplanade that
had such a high reputation with tourists was called
Cayley’s. If their eyes were lifted from the day’s
happenings it was to the future they turned them, not
to the past. The coming commonwealth that would
deal out justice to all alike, taking back the wealth
and power from those who had it, those who had
merely happened to get in first.
BUT there were a few, like old Courtney, the one-
legged tobacconist at the front, who had the
whole town’s history at their finger-ends and took
pleasure in dates and pedigrees. With a handful of
other fishermen Neil was lounging one day in the
little hot cell talking about catches when a thick-set
man in white flannels entered briskly, bought a hand-
ful of cigars, slid them into his case and sped import-
antly up the street again in his high-powered car.
So abrupt were his movements that Neil hardly
noticed his face, but Courtney, after putting away the
cigar-box, turned to him with twinkling eyes. “That’s
the one and only Keith. Back again like the kingfish
now the trade-winds are in sight. I wonder he passed
out without a nod to you, Sandy. Your cousin, isn’t
he?”
Neil had a sudden sense of strangeness, of under-
ground quickening. “My cousin? Never heard of
him.”
“What?” roared one of the fishermen. “Listen
to that, now. Living north of Capricorn and never
heard of Mr. Keith Macready.”
“You’ve been lying up in a backwater,” said
Courtney with a chuckle. “You ought to come out
and take a look around. It might be well worth your
while. Keith’s a big joss in this town. Got his finger
in every enterprise that’s started here. He’s sugar,
timber, tobacco —other things as well. The very trees
along the esplanade know when he’s gone away south
and when he’s come back.”
There was a grunt from the explosive fisherman.
“Or he likes to believe they do. Chock-a-block with
a sense of his own importance. The fat swine thinks
every building in town shakes when he’s got an ache
in his belly.”
Neil said with feigned indifference “Of course
I’ve heard the name of Macready. It didn’t mean
anything to me, though. I haven’t any use for the
family racket —I’m out on my own.”
He was trying to call up the figure that had passed
so fiickeringly before his eyes. A heavily-built man,
buttoned softly into a suit of white flannel. Roundish
red face, eyeglasses. An air of peremptoriness,
of authority. The look of a fellow who had never
had to scrub the grease out of his own clothes or do
anything for himself but go over his chin with a
razor.
So this (he was drifting back to the boat) was
the fellow he had vaguely heard about, the object of
the waterfront’s ridicule, its envy. His cousin, Keith.
He had always been aware that the Macreadys were
connections of his, but the knowledge had lain lightly
on his mind, stirring no ripple of curiosity. Even
now the precise relationship was not clear. Had old
Macready married his father’s sister? That must be
the way of it, but he had no memory of either of
them, and his mother had never talked about them
when he was a boy. They were not her people, and,
anyhow, she took pride in living to herself. He had
been brought up in a world comfortably free from
family ties, for all his mothers’ connections were
overseas.
Yet that very fact made him the more easily
affected by this chance reminder that there were
people of his own blood living near him, liable to
cross his path at any moment. Were there threads
of character or common sympathies that linked him
to them? This Keith, for all his swagger, his air of
being a man of the world, couldn’t be many years
older than himself. To wflat extent had he built up
his own reputation, made his own way in the town?
“They don’t like him, but they feel he’s some-
body. Can’t help talking about him, recognising his
power.”
HE began, in spite of himself, to let his mind
play about the Macreadys, picking up pieces of
gossip from the older hands among the men he knew.
The people of the first generation, he found, were all
dead now, but there was the family house on a head-
land outside the town, a rambling place surrounded
by pine-trees filled with Indian doves, its front facing
a smooth strip of beach. A private observatory stood
on the hill behind, its glass catching the morning sun,
heliographing, like a broken bottle, messages of no
meaning. The old man had been a weather prophet,
they said, and had spent his last days at the end of a
telescope, studying the stars. A little mad, he had
worked out his own theories of storms and cyclones,
sending out signals to boats from the flagstaff on the
headland. But no one had taken any notice of them:
fancy trusting an old shark who had made a fortune
out of his fees as a surveyor! That he had a bad
conscience was proved when he was found in overcoat
and pyjamas one morning by the bathing-shed, a
revolver in his hand and the morning tide lapping
his feet.
The Macreadys of the second generation had
hushed up that story: they were mainly women,
married to professional and business men, yet identi-
fiable as Macreadys by a certain horsey length of
face and united by a spirit of clannishness that made
them gather with heads together and heels outward
when anything threatened one of the family. There
were the Duggans, the Mcllwraiths, the Heatherleys:
all of them well-established in the town, with houses
on the wooded outskirts, elaborate cars, natty launches
to take them on pleasure-cruises at the week-ends.
But the kingpin of the family was Keith. Keith the
youthful, Keith the paternal! As yet only in the
middle thirties, his natural flair for business combined
with his self-assertion to give him the lead of older
men: he was a director of various companies, a
councillor, a man of importance in the port’s affairs.
“Macready! He thinks every building in town
starts to shake whenever he gets an ache in his belly.”
And his frequent trips south by train, by boat,
by ’plane when one was available, suggested that his
interests extended far beyond the narrow range of
Port Cowrie.
How short a time had sufficed to create a privi-
leged caste in the town, a little group of people who
occupied the points of vantage, set the social stan-
dards, took for granted their inherent right to respect
and power!
Neil was pricked by the irony of it when old
Peter repeated, as he had a way of doing, “It was
your father who give them all their chance, boy.
Duggan, Cayley, Macready. Yes, he give them their
chance, one way or another. No one can say he let
down anyone who stick to him.”
HE did not speak often of Sanderson, for he was
vaguely aware of a coldness coming over Neil at
the mention of his father, a slow rising of the hackles.
Yet old Chris was too closely intertwined with his past
to be shut out of his stories. And it was a vital,
attractive figure he called up, not the shambling wreck
who had pottered about the hotel bedroom, holding
his pipe with shaky fingers, dropping ash on his
waistcoat.
There was his account of Yorkie Bligh’s rescue,
for instance: he was never tired of telling about
that,, though nearly fifty years had passed since it
happened. Yorkie was a pick-and-shovel man, a
cantankerous 1 old half-wit, and was continually trying
to put an end to himself. Yet chance or last-minute
clearness of head always kept him from succeeding.
Once he threw himself over the Alison Gorge, a sheer
thousand-foot drop, but was caught on an outcropping
ledge and hung there, sobered and screaming, in full
sight of the camp.
“Sanderson insist on being the one to go down
for him. Yes, he wouldn’t hear anything else. ‘It’s
on me, boys, this caper,’ he say; ‘He’s overdrawn his
wages.’ And he makes us slip a rope round him and
swing him over the edge. A big man he was then,
near fourteen stone stripped, heavy to hold, but active
like a flea. And when he get down to the ledge—hell!
what a struggle to get the rope round Yorkie. Scared
mad, the fool was, ready to claw at him, push him
over. A great fight they had down there, hanging
on toe and finger, till your father get the better of
him and call for him to be pulled up. ‘Next time
Yorkie want a rope,’ he say afterward, ‘I hope it’ll
be for his neck! ’ ”
A deep chuckle always accompanied his reminis-
cences of Sanderson, as if he found a perpetual source
of humor in that overwhelming figure of his youth.
He had already built a legend around him, a series of
legends, filling out his own memories by little stories
he was always coming across in the papers. Sander-
son the jester, Sanderson the man of giant strength
and endurance, generous to his friends, terrible to
his enemies. A hero, moving continuously against
the background of a glamorous past, never growing
older, never coming forward into the searchingly-
lighted present.
Neil’s mind was filled with confusion when he
listened to the old man. The complexity of life!
There must have been something in his father that
had quickened Peter’s imagination, roused his loyalty:
where had it all gone? Could the fine qualities a
young man started out with be frittered away in a
crude struggle for money and power? And if so
Uneasiness lurked in the speculation. But it was
a man’s business to find out where he was going, to
try to understand the social forces about him.
He invariably flinched away from thoughts of his
father’s youth, came back to the paunchy figure on
its long, thin legs padding about the hotel bedroom,
the bloodshot eyes with their slight leer: “But your
mother —threw herself at my head.”
That phrase had inexhaustible power to rouse
passion in him. Deep down the old leaven was work-
ing : he was moved by a feeling for his mother, vague,
self-induced, profound. Her fragile charm, her pluck,
the tragic droop of her mouth when he watched her
unawares, looking up from his book as she turned
over her music.
Damn Leo and his little jokes about the woman
at Cayley’s!
{To be continued next week.)


of
j
wait too long
ĵ
j
j
%
46
Nature warns
with bleeding gums
MEDICAL SCIENCE knows how
serious is the sign of bleeding gums.
For it knows that tender and bleeding
gums are the forerunners of Pyorrhea.
Has Nature warned you, with tender,
bleeding gums, of Pyorrhea’s presence or
coming?
Take heed immediately, before it is
too late, before the gums recede and the
loosened teeth must be extracted, before
the germ-laden pus-pockets form, before
infection spreads throughout the system,
causing rheumatism, nervous disorders,
anaemia and many other ills.
Better yet, play safe. Don’t Wait
for Nature’s warning. Four persons out
of every five over forty years of age, and
thousands younger, are afflicted with
4sss
ĵ
Give Your Dentist a chance
Too many wait until an aching tooth forces
them into the dentist’s chair. It is folly to suffer
this needless pain when all you have to do is tc
give your dentist a chance to prevent trouble in
your mouth by visiting him at least twice a
near for a thorough teeth and gum inspection.
Pyorrhea. This is the immutable law
of averages. Your dentist will tell you
that.
Go to him regularly, systematically, for
tooth and gum inspection. And brush
your teeth, twice daily at least, with
Forharis for the Gums. This dentifrice,
if used in time and used consistently, will
prevent Pyorrhea or check its deadly
advance. It will make your mouth clean
and healthful, preserve your priceless
teeth and safeguard your health.
Don’t Wait for bleeding gums to give
you a scare. Buy a tube of Forhan’s for
the Gums to-day. Brush your teeth with
it regularly. You will never regret this
safeguarding of your teeth and health.
Price, 2/-; extra-large tube, 3/-.
v-mm
V ;
mi WUHtlUg^
FORMQU-S=Q
=SNEWa!
sjrSpe'gial^teTtnsg
OISEASES:OE=JiHfeMOUIIi
p r z s c »rm d mfsejh:
AiiTHOsay^o
SONSE-S
e©:k&M3SSQ.
Australasian Agents—The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Forh an’s
for the gums
MORE THAN
A TOOTHPASTE
IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
ĵ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
I Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
V% V Ae C
rt> v .A'l
av
6»
.♦* S e< , A '
o ,v


mmm
ilillfl
: '
;xK#»
SSSKS
★
l M m
IS* 1
4e- W *
m
'/I : ■■''■•■ • .■iiiiiii:
II
'*»», s? Au^/n/
k *,? OAte: xs? os
for** C/
C 0 ,. We '^ ee
c^4;
»o* f ,. " e( </.
?«/
fcvV,
'Hc>^
,5V
**<** c V e
* W n . *»
S4««
«* ° S f °r
>P*
Cq .
S’-
Per.
«4 t, 'Co/y .
4>**4 ° * C '»f S>Ve,
*4xfS. >4, e <><«
'» y („„ •’’Oft
f"* C? S? <c.
.<&■*/ ,'.^L Sd 4: >-£*h&<
15:
°tf|
HP |P
ef .
%6* c f«i>
©Cfj
e >e
***£,
°Jij
«f/ c
' s ' ! o.
N 4“
v «/i
Exclusive-Yet Priced for the People
TASMA has still further increased its lead in Australian radio by
producing a series of receivers for city and country which are so far
ahead in distinction—exclusive features—and performance—that com-
petition is left in the background.
See a Tasma—listen to a Tasma, and your own sound judgment will
prompt you to buy a Tasma!
* TASMA MODEL “465”:
Here is the very latest 6-valve
(32-volt) Dual-wave Battery
Vibrator receiver for those
who live remote from power
lines. Does not need B bat-
tery. Housed in the beautiful
“Homestead” cabinet, which
is so treated that no climate
can affect it, this receiver is
available at the moderate
price of 38 Guineas.
* TASMA MODEL “475”:
This is a superb 5-valve Dual-
wave battery vibrator type re-
ceiver possessing all the new
and exclusive features starred
in this announcement', and
housed in the popular “Home-
stead” cabinet. No B batteries
needed. Price 38 Guineas.
4* TASMA MODEL “430”:
The new detail-built 5-valve
A.C. Broadcast de luxe re-
ceiver in the famous “Har-
vester” cabinet, which includes
the eight-inch speaker.
The price, including all ex-
clusive Tasma features, is
23 Guineas.
** TASMA MODEL “435":
A.C. Electric.
Tasma is justly proud of this
new detail-built' 5-valve Dual-
wave receiver in its artisti-
cally-designed “Homestead”
cabinet. The Tasma Model
“435” is an exceptionally fine
investment at 28 Guineas.
+•* TASMA MODEL “470":
A detail-built 4-valve Broad-
cast Battery-operated console
receiver, which so admirably
suits the requirements of
country listeners. The beauti-
ful “Harvester” cabinet is
complete with 8-inch speaker
and all batteries.
The price of the Tasma ”470”
(including all batteries) is
26 Guineas.
***TASMA MODEL “460”:
For value, the most remark-
able Detail-built 5-valve A.C.
Mantel Radio of the year,
presented in a gracefully
veneered cabinet with beauti-
fully-polished walnut front.
The cabinet stands only 13
inches high, yet only full-sixe
components are used in the
construction of this receiver.
The round dial is of the very
latest edgelit type with a
shadow indicator. It will play
every Australian station per-
fectly.
Price £l5/15/-
In Console Model, £l9/19/-.
(Milton Cabinet.)
DISTRIBUTORS
Vl< TO nr,Y: HARTLEYS I'TY.. LTD., 270
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
John Hallway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Oliver .1. Nilsen * Co., Ltd.,
I!) King William Street, Adelaide,
r isMAVi \ ; Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Ety., I td., " oil
Arjfyle Street, Hobart; and 50 George Street,
Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND: New Zealand Electric Equipment
W KSTKRN ACSTK VLI A: Thomsons, Ltd., 67* Ha,v
(Street. Perth; 5t Adelaide Street, Fremantle:
and at Kalgoorlie. Narrogin. Bunbury.
Carlyle & Co., 915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUKKNSLAND: C. J. Grice, Ltd,, 90 Queen Street
Brisbane, and Branches at Rockhampton
Townsville, Cairns and Mackay.
OAliLlJt'ii down's:: Rosen stengels Tty., Ltd.,
Rutiivcn street, Toowoomba.
Ltd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z.
A Product of THOM AND SMITH, LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot,
