

pi
"*«s
O
m
a-mm
O
Ss
m
iiiiiiifiHi
!
lllllPPrfl
„ v> \ \ • s' '
m
v>\\ • %’ "
a. ■
m
gag'
kmi
i/)
ts :
y's s
1111 1 \
888 l in> a
>
“O
f
I*
The Greek Philosopher lived long
before the days of Condor Lamps
hence he had to use but the feeble
light from his oil lamp.
Today Condor offers the utmost in
lighting efficiency the greatest pos-
sible amount of light for the lowest
possible current consumptions
The new Condor Coiled Coil lamp
offers yet greater economy in that it
gives up to 20% more light without
the slightest increase in cost.
There is a Condor Lamp for every
lighting need Wherever a lamp is
used use Condor.
YOU CANNOT BUY A BETTER LAMP
THAN CONDOR.
It is said of Diogenes—the Greek Philosopher of old —
that he discarded all his belongings other than his
cloak, his purse and a wooden bowl, declaring that the
more a man had the greater were his needs. Another
story tells of Diogenes walking the streets of Athens,
carrying a lamp, searching, he said, for truth and an
honest man.
m
i-gg;
. :
(ondSX
COILED COIL ELECTRIC
LAMPS
•extra light that costs vou nothing
Advertisement of Condor Lamps (Australasia) Ltd.
«C6.
The Bulletin
“Eight Per Cent. Greater” (Page 12)
Vol. 58. —No. 2971.
Wednesday, January 20, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
JL,earn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MALL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ....
Mil Address
5.15. 137
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels abe eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
Sam Any fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the fight to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount, of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
Mrs. Carmichael.
Mrs. Carmichael, as mild as a mouse,
Lives in a hollow in a little lost house:
The world goes on, and cares not a whit
That Mrs. Carmichael has a part in it—
The world goes on, and knows not nor cares
That Mrs. Carmichael is putting up prayers,
And working all day and into the night
To keep things white, to keep things white.
She limps to the well in the windlestraw —
Dom the well she has every drop to draw.
She washes and scrubs, and cannot stop
Till doorstep is fair as the table-top:
Her eyes are sharp, and her back is .bowed
To keep her hearth as the summer cloud:
Her linen ’neath her hands’ caress
Is wooed to lily loveliness—
For Mrs. Carmichael one thing is right—
To keep things white, to keep things white.
* * *
But Mrs. Carmichael has gone, for death
Came softly for her as a summer breath.
The stars look down on a cottage broken,
Of a love withdrawn the crumbling token...
The feckless cows go in at the doors,
And the birds bring quarrels to the drabbled floors,
And unclean things and litters crowd
The hearth that was white as the summer cloud...
And the world goes by, but never will know
That the little lost house where the great cows go
Held a hearth and a heart that shone as the snow.
J. R. Hervey, in “New Zealand Best Poems for 1936.”
A Novel from the "Left."
“Art,” writes Andre Malraux in the manifesto
that precedes his short novel Days of Contempt
(Victor Gollancz; translated from the French by
Haakon M. Chevalier ; 65.), is “an attempt to give
men a consciousness of their hidden greatness.” It is
for this attempt that his book is memorable—that and
its literary style, so closely fused with its subject-
matter, so lucid, passionate and economical. Andre
Malraux is a French author of the Left: he is much
more ; he is a writer of great distinction.
Days of Contempt is the story of ten days in
the life of Kassner, a man with “the look of a
broken-down thoroughbred, vaguely romantic,” a
Czech national engaged on Communist propaganda in
Germany. He is arrested on suspicion and thrown
into a Nazi concentration camp. For nine days he
is alone in the darkness of his cell. Life became a
vacuum, and in it Kassner’s spirit, stripped of all the
outer vestments of life, vibrated. He is haunted by
music, by memories building up into nightmare
visions, by a creeping madness (“Every thing that
resembled hope resembled madness”), and by death.
He had no means of death, but must wait till his nails
grew long enough to pierce his flesh and open a vein.
His courage assumed the form of death. And he
looked, with fascination, at that almost invisible flesh
which was his and on which the nail which would
enable him to kill himself was slowly to grow.
Once more he began to pace the floor. The hand
which was to be his death hung beside him like a
satchel. The hour that was approaching would be the
same as this, the thousand smothered sounds that teem
like lice beneath the silence of the prison would repeat
to infinity the pattern of their crushed life; and suffer-
ing, like dust, would cover the immutable domain of
nothingness.
He leaned back against the wall, and surrendered
himself to stagnant hours.
Kassner as an individual has reached his lowest
point: despair, madness, the hunger for death. Then
there begins a tapping on the wall. The man in the
next cell is trying to communicate with him. He has
just made out the meaning of the signs and has got
the one word “Comrade” when the guards come.
There are muffled sounds in the next cell; the man
is being beaten to death, but Kassner is saved. He
tries to send out a message of hope and courage to
those about him in the darkness, forcing it by miracle
from his mind to theirs.
Then he is released. His identity has not been
penetrated. Someone has given himself up as Kassner
to save him on account of his value to the “Party.”
He is free, but must leave Germany at once, A young
pilot, a member of the “Party,” is willing to take him
to Prague, although weather conditions have stopped
aviation. The ’plane is caught in a cyclone and
narrowly misses disaster. In their danger Kassner
and the pilot fumble towards an almost mystical
unity. Then it is over, they are safe, they shake hands
and part. They do not know each other’s name
and will not meet again. Kassner returns to his wife
and child. It is only for a pause ; presently he must
return to Germany. But they have their shared
moment of exaltation.
In Days of Contempt interest and hope move
from the individual to the social basis.
It is difficult to be a man. But it is not more difficult
to become one by enriching one’s fellowship with other
men than by cultivating one’s individual peculiarities.
The “hidden greatness” is not an individual posses-
sion ; it is something that can come into being only
when men unite and have a faith beyond themselves.
The technique of such a book is not and cannot
be the conventional technique of the novel. Malraux
is not a literary experimenter. In architecture we
have seen within recent years a revolution in design
brought about by new engineering methods and
materials. So in Malraux and a few others a new
attitude to life has created a new method of literary
expression. It is not to be confused with the doc-
trinaire literary experimentation of, say, Virginia
Woolf, which applies a new method to old subject-
matter, is largely a matter of the angle of vision, and
relies for its effect, perhaps subconsciously, on shock.
Men like Malraux have evolved a new relationship
to their work and to their readers. He is not an
author explaining something or telling a story to his
readers. He is a writer narrating a human experience.
The obvious and the explanatory are left out. The
experience described stands on its own feet, as it
must in real life. The ordinary conventions of the
novel are abandoned. The style is naked and eco-
nomical. Whatever is described is done with veracity
and lucidity; nothing beyond that is indicated or
explained. The subject-matter is its own explanation.
The prose, even in translation, is terse and passionate
without any of the ornaments of passion. It is almost
telegraphic.
There is no trace of sentiment in the book. It
is anti-romantic. Both in style and subject it is hard
and clear.
Just as Malraux is not an experimenter in literary
style, so Days of Contempt is not a propaganda novel.
The author points out:
It is not emotion that destroys a work of art, but the
desire to demonstrate something; the value of such a
work depends neither upon its emotion nor its detach-
ment, but upon the blending of its content with the
method of its expression.
Days of Contempt is not a tirade. It is a statement.
F. D. D.
To Conquer Literary London.
As twenty-year-old Joe Hammond lay in hospital
in Iceland, pondering the sagas, he discovered in him-
self the urge to write. He was himself a latter-day
Viking and had broken his arm carrying a mug of
tea to the skipper of the trawler in a storm. He longed
to record the brave anonymous lives and lonely incon-
sequent deaths of his fellow-fishermen. As his arm
mended Joe wrote a book of sea sketches in pencil
and embellished with many mistakes in spelling. A
publisher accepted it, and Joe, with £l5 advance
royalties, set out to conquer literary London.
That is the romantic prelude to Patrick Brand’s
novel Somewhere in Silence (Bles; 7s. 6d.). With
arrival in London it drops suddenly to another plane.
We are launched into a choppy sea of comedy, farce,
satire, burlesque and naivete. Joe strikes Bohemian
London with considerable impact. He meets bearded
artists, all faith and no works, equivocal young men
and unequivocal young women, and he is involved as
Exhibit Ain a would-be Workers’ Art Group. Its
fair (and fortyish) founder lucidly explains its aims.
“Yes,” she continued in a hurry, “the World League
of Working Youth. Just a few of us,, you know.
Every Sunday night at eight. Poetry readings, political
discussions, lectures on all kinds of things. Quite in-
formal. You must come along. Just the sort of person
we want: people talking about their work and their
reactions to their work. Of course,” she sank her voice
to a more confidential pitch, “what we’re really work-
ing for is Peace. Not Peace that passeth all Under-
standing, but Peace that springs from perfect Under-
standing, is our motto. People telling one another
what they think of Life, what they think of their Work,
what they think of God, Socialism, Money, Love,
America, Russia.”
Joe succeeds and has a fan mail. Then suddenly
the book changes its key and becomes a grimy tragedy,
and the still innocent hero retires once more to the
comparative safety of the North Sea.
Somewhere in Silence is a first novel, and so may
claim, like a maiden speech, a courteous hearing. It
is a very mixed book, a syncopated combination of
Dick Whittington, The Babes in the Wood and Martin
Eden, with a dash of sea chantey.
Seven Murderers.
Australia and Maoriland provide two in the
seven famous crimes critically considered by seven
writers in The Anatomy of Murder (Bodley Head ;
Bs. 6d.).
The M.L. case is that of Samuel Lakey and his
wife, for whose murder William Bayly was hanged
at Auckland in 1933. The case was remarkable for
the length of the court proceedings, the inquest taking
ten days and the trial 20. The murderer had sought
to cover up his tracks by incinerating Lakey’s body
and scattering the ashes over the long grass in the
farm paddock, while leaving Mrs. Lakey’s body at the
place of death, thus suggesting that Lakey had mur-
dered his wife and disappeared. Bayly put that to
the police, but they examined ashes on his shovel, and
the rest was a matter of detail, like a jigsaw puzzle.
This crime, retold by Freeman Crofts, has no fictional
value. f
Of more interest is “The Death of Henry Kinder,”
as related by Helen Simpson, author of Boomerang,
etc. Six weeks after the Sydney coroner’s jury had
decided that Kinder had committed suicide Louis
Bertrand and his wife were charged with murder, and
Helen Kinder, the dead man’s widow, was charged
with being an accessory. Both women were dis-
charged and Bertrand was tried alone. The first
jury disagreed, the second found him guilty, and of
this there was no doubt. The verdict was upset, how-
ever, because the Chief Justice had read notes of
evidence given at the first trial to save time. Before
Bertrand could be tried a third time he was declared
insane. Mrs. Kinder went to Maoriland as a bar-
maid, and almost immediately married again. The
main point of interest in the story is that several
persons knew of Bertrand’s criminal conduct before
and after the murder and made no effort to advise
the police until they were themselves questioned.
Helen Simpson’s assumpion is that Bertrand’s declara-
tions were so incredible that their imaginations were
stultified.
The other five cases dealt with are “Constance
Kent,” by John Rhode; “Adelaide Bartlett,” by
Margaret Cole ; the “Landru Case,” by E. R. Pun-
shon ; “The Murder of Julia Wallace,” by Dorothy
Sayers; and “The Rattenbury Case,” by Francis
Isles. Two novels have been already written on the
Julia Wallace case — The Jury Disagree, by Goodchild
and Roberts, and Skin for Skin, by Winifred Duke.
It was the perfect murder. No motive, no clues.
After the Judge summed-up in favor of the husband
the jury found him guilty. The public, which at first
convicted him, filled Liverpool Cathedral in a service
for Divine intercession. The Court of Criminal
Appeal, for the first time in English legal history,
quashed the conviction on the ground that there was
insufficient evidence to support it. Within two years
Wallace was dead, of cancer, leaving a diary naming
the suspected murderer.
Against England's Industrial Life.
Life is good and joy runs high
Between English earth and sky:
Death is death; but we shall die
To the song on your bugles blown,
England—
To the stars on your bugles blown.
Eric Knight quotes Henley’s lines in deep bitter-
ness of spirit as prelude to his Song on Your Bugles
(Boriswood ; 7s. 6d.). Against the flourish of the
verse he sets a picture of industrial England, a large
canvas drawn with fierce, abrupt strokes, with, in the
foreground, the story of a boy, Herrie Champion,
the illegitimate son of a millowner.
Herrie, unaware of his parentage, is between two
worlds. He grows up in the village, works in his
father’s mill, takes an active part in a strike. After
the strike, which proved futile, suffering without
benefit, he goes to London to work and to study art in
a free school at night. His painting opens a way of
escape fo>; him, but he cannot take it—or only for a
time. He* returns to the life that he knows and the
battle that he cannot desert. Unwittingly he comes
to love his half-sister. The episode is told in outline
with brevity and delicacy, but without evasion. Herrie
hears the truth about himself. It is not a thunderclap
of melodrama ; it is a fact-one of the many pitiless
facts that must be reckoned with. He goes on, he
marries disastrously a mill-lass, and he tries to turn
his painting into a weapon.
But this, too, is a lost cause. Everything is wrong,
but there is no one to blame. The millowners are
helpless ; they are crushed by world competition. It
is a helpless world with a broken spring. It moves
against the brave picture of England’s fabled great-
ness. Artists are still painting Britannia as “a hero-
female-athlete with a helmet on, sitting beside a con-
tented lion by the seashore, handing out tracts to the
people that the sun never sets on.”
In the' end Herrie tries to stop the hungry and
enraged men from burning the mill. They laugh at
him for being “on the other side.” He is thrown
carelessly, not with intent to murder, down the mill
area and his body is impaled on iron spikes. In
agony he pulls himself free to die by the roadside as
the flames of the mill paint the sky.
And all the sights were harsh and all the sounds
were gentle and there was nothing more for any one
to do.
The style of the book is bold and terse. There
is little comment. It is strong because the author
faces life as he sees it, without evasion. It is a full
picture, harsh and real, the work neither of an agi-
tator nor of a Utopian. There is no trace of rhodo-
montade. It is complete within itself'and it is balanced
{Continued on page 9.)


'THE SENIOR STORE.”
“TRUTH J N ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
OO
U I
I_L
<
J
HALF YEARLY GENUINE
Whatever your needs may be . . . anything for yourself, your farm, or your
home . . . you can rest assured that it will pay to come to Anthony
Horderns’. It means better values! For, during the Sale, merchandise of
all descriptions is offered at prices lower than our Famous Low Prices.
Use the D.P.S. during the Sale. A deposit of one-fifth of the purchase price
suffices and the goods can be paid for in monthly instalments.
iS
:■ " •
*v
m
WIARD No. 100 2-HORSE PLOUGH
8201-—A sturdy well-built Plough that will give years of satisfaction.
All-steel Channel Beam and Steel Mouldboard. All “Wiard” Ploughs
carry our unconditional recommendation.
Price £B/ l 5/-. Sale Price
£6
JOHN DEERE “RED JACKET” PLOUGH
8205 A sturdy All-steel Plough, with mouldboard of hardened, soft-
centre steel and shares of crucible steel. The beam is of special steel
with high curve.
Cut, inches ...: 9 10 12
Prices, each £B/7/6 £9 £lO/10/6
Sale Prices £7/17/6 £B/10/- £lO
604
55
No. 16 SINGLE WHEEL HOE
B2o2—Planet Junior No. 16 Single-wheel Hoe. A
well-made hoe that enables the gardener to give both
deep and shallow cultivation, open and close furrows,
hill up plants, etc. Complete with all equipment.
Price 60/-. Sale Price 55/-
6^6-
/ 515-
VtfIARD SPADING HARROW
B2o6—An ideal Harrow for deep and fine cultivation.
Frame is best wrought iron and steel and is arched
to pass over uneven ground.
Sizes, feet 3 5 6
Prices, each .... £l5/10/- £2O £23/10/-
Sale Prices £l4 £l5/17/6 £2l/10/-
WRITE OR CALL FOR
A COPY OF OUR
SALE CATALOGUE-
FREE!
STURDY BUFCO
POST DRILLS
524
At Right. .
8203 A Sturdy Ball-bearing Drill for
tbe farm workshop. Drills holes up to
fin. and drills to the centre of I 1 fin.
circle. Feed run, 3in.
Price .. 5 7/6. Sale Price , . 52/6
576
THE “ BUFCO” HAND
CRANK FORGE
At Left.
8204 —The “Bufco” Forge No. 061 is most
suitable for farm use. It is strongly constructed
with one-piece steel hearth. Pan is 1 Bin. in
diameter and 5 in. deep. Machine-cut gears
running in bronze bearings.
Price 62/6. Sale Price 5 7/6
PLANET JR. CULTIVATOR
8207—N0. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator com-
bined. This is one of the most' valuable time
and labour saving tools available for the use of
the farmer. Well constructed and complete
with all equipment.
Price £5/12/6. Sale Price
£5
554
77e
m
m
PLANET JR. HILL AND DRILL SEEDER
B2oB—Planet Jr. No. 25 Hill and Drill Seeder, Double- and Single-wheel Hoe
combined. A hoe that plants all vegetable seeds and is an ideal cultivator.
Complete with all equipment.
Price £6/2/6. Sale Price £5/15/-
PLANET JR. DOUBLE WHEEL HOE
B2o9—Planet Jr. No. 1 1 Double-wheel Hoe for the home or market gardener.
This hoe cultivates thoroughly and is one of the best weed killers known. Made
of high-grade parts and complete with necessary equipment.
Price 85/-. Sale Price
77/6
# Agricultural Department—Fourth Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery, City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS Ltd., SYDNEY


The Baron Von Big Again
OUR OF THE
PAST
J- H-M- ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
MORITURUS.
u I T is a strange and singular thing,” writes the
Baron Von Big in those “Memoirs” before
* referred to in these columns and under date of
October 8, 1843, “how strongly the circum-
stance of death affects the minds of a class of people
common enough everywhere, but perhaps even more
so in this colony of such unusual origins and excep-
tional early history. I refer to those who love to
attend funerals, to witness public executions, and to
find themselves somewhere in the neighborhood of
deathbeds —to whom the mournful ceremonies inci-
dental to the visits of the Reaper are more entertain-
ing than even the pleasantest of dissipations to
ordinary men.
“I am moved to discourse in this fashion by the
recent demise of my very good friend and quondam
boon companion, Captain William Occleton, of Alla-
rang Hall, near the locality formerly known as the
Green Hills, but now as the thriving and prosperous
township of Morpeth, on the Hunter River. Two
years ago, Death had very nearly gathered him into
the sweep of his sickle, and it was nothing but sheer
exasperation at the behavior of certain melancholy
folk of the description referred to above that brought
him back to life for a further short term, which,
indeed, might have been longer had he dealt more
cautiously with the bottle, for, being merry one even-
ing, he fell into the Paterson River and was drowned
whilst riding home from Morpeth,
“Bill Occleton came to New
South Wales in the year ’23 as
a captain in H.M. 3rd Foot, the
celebrated ‘Buffs,’ a regiment of
long and honorable tradition in
the British Army. Upon their
departure from these shores
four years later, he had sold out
of the army and had settled at
Allarang, upon a grant accorded
him by his Excellency Lieu-
tenant-General Darling. He
had been induced to make
choice of an estate in this rich
and fertile locality from the
knowledge he had obtained of
it whilst serving for a term in
command of the garrison at
Newcastle, together with the
fact that he came of a long line
of English landowners and was
very capable of recognising
good land when he saw it.
“\\/HILST he was serving at
Newcastle he had, of
course, many opportunities of
cultivating the acquaintance of
that remarkable man, Major
James Morisset, who was then
Commandant of the settlement
and district. There are some
who do not altogether approve
of the major’s methods of penal
discipline, and many, who had
to endure it, who would very
readily do him all the injury that
might lie in their power, even
to shooting him on sight; but
I must say that I have always
found him, in his unofficial
capacity at least, a very gentlemanly fellow. He
does not seem to have been of the opinion that a
prisoner had a soul that could be reached in any other
way than by the medium of the cat-o’-nine-tails, or
that the ordinary principles of justice might apply to
felons of any description, once they had come under
his control, but he was exceedingly hospitable to old
soldiers of my own sort, played a very good hand at
whist, could be polite enough in his intercourse with
ladies, and had an outstanding record of service dur-
ing his active military career with H.M. 48th Regi-
ment.
“Some have described him as a devil out of hell,
an unmitigated tyrant and a ruthless oppressor of the
worst sort —as a man who should never have had
control of the lives and destinies of even the very
worst of the convict population of the colony—but
I think that such description is a little severe upon
one who is, after all, an officer and a gentleman. He
is still with us, usefully serving her Majesty—or was
so doing until quite recently, though I have not met
him personally for some time, and have no present
knowledge of his activities.
“It was the Commandant who introduced Occle-
ton to the stretch of country known as Allarang, lying
in the angle formed by the junction of the Paterson
and the Hunter, on the eastern side of the first-
named stream. Major Morisset had invited the officer
commanding the garrison at Newcastle to accompany
him upon one of his periodic lours along the Hunter.
He had a barge of comfortable and roomy sort, with
a cabin in the stern for the accommodation of him-
self and anyone else whom he might choose to accom-
pany him, which was rowed by a crew of prisoners,
and could also accommodate a corporal’s guard of
soldiers. Rigged in the bows was a set of triangles,
“We were half-way to Newcastle before she tore herself from my embraces.”
and the flagellator, with the implements of his trade,
always accompanied the expedition.
“Captain Occleton, though used to the severe
discipline of the British Army, told me that he had
never before seen or heard of such an orgy of flog-
ging. It was the Commandant’s custom, on these
excursions, to call at the farms of settlers along the
rivers who had assigned servants in their employ-
ment, and to dispatch the corporal to announce his
arrival to the landholders, inviting them to send down
for trial any of their ‘Government men’ against whom
they might have reason for complaint. In his capa-
city of Chief Magistrate of the district, he would
try them on the bank, invariably find them ‘guilty.’
sentence them to so many lashes, and have the sen-
tence immediately carried out in the bows of the
barge.
“Between Newcastle and the junction of the
Hunter and the Williams, seventeen lashings took
place. Seven were punished on the Williams, five on
the Hunter between the junction and the mouth of
the Paterson, and nine on the latter river—making a
total of 38, even before they arrived at the Green
Hills. Here, during the three days of their stay,
twenty-seven prisoners were dealt with.
“Truly, my friend said, it was little to be won-
dered at that the major was hated and feared by all
the felonry of the Lower Hunter. Nevertheless, that
gentleman was in so good a humor with himself as a
result of these proceedings that he insisted on show-
ing Occleton a grant that had been forfeited to the
Crown—the Allarang lands —and promised to recom-
mend his application should he make one for it to
headquarters in Sydney.
“ ‘lt seemed to me, my dear Baron,’ said Bill
Occleton, when telling me the story, ‘that I had waded
through blood into the possession of the estate. How-
ever, the floggings were none of my business, so 1
made my application to his
Excellency and was successful.
But I shall never forget that
riparian tour with the cat-o’-
nine-tails! ’
“U/HEN I first visited Alla-
** rang Hall in the summer
of ’37, Captain Occleton had
done wonders with the place.
He had built a fine stone man-
sion in the colonial style, and
the whole of his rich lands had
been cleared and were under
cultivation. In addition to this,
he had erected a large stone
flourmill, equipped with a steam
boiler and the latest machinery,
close to the banks of the
Hunter, which had paid him
most handsomely. In the ten
years of his occupation he had,
by unremitting industry, made
the place into a veritable
example to every settler and
pioneer of his class in the
colony.
“From time to time I met
my friend in Sydney and occa-
sionally had the pleasure of
entertaining him here at Castle
Hill. We were fast friends and
old comrades, for he, too, had
served in Spain and Portugal in
the Duke’s armies. So it may
be gathered that when I received
a letter from his old soldier-
servant, Joseph Trevaskis a
somewhat over-religious Cor-
nishman—who was his over-
seer at Allarang Hall, which
informed me that my good
friend was at death’s door and
begged me to visit him before
he should die, I was not a little
perturbed and upset. Without
the loss of a moment I made
my preparations to attend the
deathbed of my old friend, full
of regret at such a necessity, but
determined to clasp his hand
once again before we should part to meet no more
in this existence.
“The same evening saw me embarking upon that
handsome little packet, belonging to the Hunter River
Steam Navigation Company, the Rose, at the com-
pany’s wharf in Sydney Cove. She was to sail at
nine o’clock, and would reach the Green Hills at some
time in the forenoon of the following day.
“It was a mild, moonlit July night in the year
1841 when the shapely little steamship swung round
North Head and was laid upon a course, somewhere
about nor’-east-by-east, for Newcastle. The Mac-
quarie Tower gleamed high above the cliffs of the
South Head astern of us, and presently we came


abeam of the few scattered lights, behind Cabbage-
tree Bay, of the tiny settlement known as Manly.
Well muffled up in a warm cloak, and with a com-
forter about my throat, I paced the flush deck of the
Rose, between stern-rail and paddle-boxes.
“Whilst thus engaged I was accosted amidships,
as I was about to turn aft, by an individual in a top-
hat and caped overcoat who addressed me with some
amount of deference.
“ ‘Excuse me, sir,’ he said, ‘but are you not the
Baron Von Big?’
“ ‘That is my name, sir,’ I replied, seeking to
make out his features in the elusive moonlight, for
I did not recognise the voice. ‘Pray, what service
may I render you?’
“ ‘I am Jeremiah Hawkins, Baron,’ he said, ‘of
Hawkins and Priestley, attorneys-at-law, who act in
a legal capacity for my poor friend Captain William
Occleton, and I am under the impression that the
same melancholy reason takes me to the Green Hills
as is accountable for your own presence upon this
packet. Is that not so, sir?’
“ ‘You are quite right, Mr. Hawkins,’ I told him.
‘Poor old Bill! A bad business —a bad business!’
“He sighed so deeply that I could hear his sus-
piration above the noise of the cascading waters from
the paddles, and removed his hat, casting his eyes up
at the moon in a solemn and somewhat ridiculous
fashion. I was able to make out his melancholic
features, and immediately experienced a strange sense
of depression, as though the worthy lawyer had
exhaled some vapor redolent of misery.
“ ‘Ah! ’ he said. ‘The Lord giveth and the Lord
taketh away—blessed be the name of the Lord. Man
that is born of woman, my dear Baron! In the
midst of life we are in death. Oh, dear me —’tis
indeed a melancholy occasion.’
“ ‘Sir,’ I said, ‘let us go below and seek out the
steward. Maybe a little hot toddy would do us both
good. Let us go to the cabin, Mr. Hawkins.’
“ ‘Oh, my dear Baron, I seldom partake,’ he said
with unmistakable eagerness, ‘but since a little stimu-
lant may do you good and help to assuage your very
natural and creditable grief, I will be glad to join
you.’
“We were north of Broken Bay when I put him
to bed in the gentlemen’s cabin, very drunk but weep-
ing lugubriously and making incoherent and mourn-
ful remarks upon the uncertainty of human life and
how man cometh up as a flower.
“I did not go to bed myself, for I had remarked
a pretty wench seated on a stool by the port paddle-
box, and felt it my duty to attend to her comfort.
Which I did so effectually that we were half-way to
Newcastle before she tore herself from my embraces
and retired below, much pleased with this particular
experience of maritime travel. She promised to come
and see me later in the year at Pampeluna. Then I
sought my own berth, and slept soundly until the
steward aroused me for breakfast, after we had left
the King’s Wharf at Newcastle and were steaming
up the river.
<‘| WILL pass over the sad meeting with my old
' friend when I was shown into the death chamber
in a few words. I fell on my knees by the bedside
and clasped the clammy hand he feebly extended,
tears streaming down my face.
“ ‘My dear Baron! ’ he whispered huskily.
“ ‘Oh, my poor Bill! ’ was all I could say.
“And then I heard that croaking villain, Joseph
Trevaskis, standing in the doorway just behind Mr.
Jeremiah Hawkins, both their glum countenances posi-
tively radiant with melancholy delight, remark to the
lawyer in a stage whisper: ‘Th’ Loard hath smitten
’un, Muster Hawkins, zur—he be ’pon th’ brink o’
’tarnity. Gawd be praised for ’un’s lovin’ marries!’
“ ‘Man that is born of woman, Joseph, hath but
a short time to live,’ said the sad Jeremiah. ‘He will
not last the day. His hours are numbered.’
“ ‘Hours, Muster Hawkins! His minutes be
allotted. But he’s a handsome man, an' w;ill make a
lovely carpse. Glory be to Gawd!’ returned the old
soldier.
“I was certain that poor Bill Occleton heard these
melancholy predictions, for a spasm of weak rage
twisted his features, his eyes closed and his head
sagged wearily to one side upon the pillow. I also
felt a little enraged. As my friend appeared to be
sleeping I stood up and signed to the others to leave
the room. They preceded me out of it.
“ ‘What the devil,’ 1 had just begun when the
housekeeper, Mrs. Mallarky, entered the room. A
most distressful-looking woman she was naturally,
but now, her eyes red with weeping, she looked posi-
tively frightful.
“.‘Oh,’ she said, ‘Baron! We’ve chose a most
loverly place for the poor dear to be buried, down by
the riverside, beneath a clump of willows, where he’ll
rest beautiful. Have you got them boards ready,
Joseph?’
“ ‘l’ th’ next room, Ann Maria Mallarky,’ replied
Trevaskis with alacrity. ‘l’ll go get ’un.’
“I gaped at the wretched trio in astonishment,
too indignant to make the protest that trembled on
my lips. These ghouls! Surely they might wait until
poor Bill had breathed his last before carrying on in
such a dismal fashion. Ere I could speak Joseph
staggered into the room, holding in front of him a
long arrangement made of planks nailed upon cross-
battens, which he rested on the floor and supported
with one hand in an upright position. My amaze-
ment at these proceedings must have shown in my
face, for the despondent blackguard hastened to
explain.
“‘For to lay out th’ carpse upon, y’r honor,’ he
said. ‘I got up arly for to knock ’un together, an’
Mistress Mallarky, she’ve been up arl night a-makin’
of a lovely shroud. He’ll be arl comf’able an’ snug,
th’ pore master, so soon as he do kick th’ bucket.
We’m arl ready for ’un.”
“ ‘Gracious God !’ was all I could mutter. Then
there came a barking of dogs at the front of the
house, and the female monster looked out of the
window.
“ ‘ ’Tis Doctor Hornibrook from Maitland,’ she
said in a hollow voice. ‘He’ll be here for the end, as
is right an’ proper. Go take his horse, Joseph, and
I’ll go and prepare the captain for him. O Lord,
ha’ mercy on us all!’
<‘""TREVASKIS hastened from the room, and the
I awful Anna Maria slid through the door of the
sick-room like a ghost. In a few moments she was
out again. Mr. Hawkins had seated himself upon a
chair, his head supported in his hands and elbows
resting on knees, whilst he wept dejectedly.
“ ‘Baron,’ the woman announced, reappearing in
the doorway, ‘the master wishes for to see you, sir,
before the doctor goes in. At once, if you please,
Baron. He do seem terribly set on seeing y’r honor
first.’
“I went in, closing the door behind me. To my
astonishment, poor Bill was sitting up in bed, his
face flushed and his eyes bright with angry excite-
ment. I hastened to his side and grasped his hand.
It might, I thought, be the final rally.
“ ‘ ’Gustus,’ he gasped. ‘That brandy-bottle —
quick! Over there on the table. Give it to me.’
“I saw where it was and got it, looking round
for a tumbler. With unexpected energy he snatched
the bottle from my hand and put it to his unshaven
lips. After a long pull at it he dropped it on the
floor. The spirit seemed to have put new life into
him. I picked up the running bottle and held it in
my hand.
“ ‘Look! ’ he gasped, but much more strongly
than he had spoken previously. ‘Get me the horse-
pistol you’ll find in the drawer of that table. That
damned woman. She just asked me which of the
two barbers in Morpeth should shave me when I’m
dead. These blasted gravediggers ; they love a death-
bed! But I’ll show ’em. They’ve been acting like
this this week past. Put the pistol by my hand, under
the bedclothes. I’ll show ’em! And I’ll show that
God-forsaken doctor, too!. I won’t die—damme if I
will! Now let ’em in, the blasted mob of ghouls!’
“In sheer amazement I did as he asked, and he
had just grasped the pistol and hidden it beneath the
counterpane when a knock came to the door.
“ ‘Come in! ’ cried Bill, weakly but distinctly.
The door opened and an even more cheerless person
than any of the others came into the room. They
followed on his heels. The newcomer, obviously the
doctor, carried a black bag in his hand, and his face
was the most doleful and miserable of any I have
ever seen.
“ ‘Ah, the end,’ he said mournfully. ‘I expected
it. A slight rally—what?’
“And then Bill Occleton astounded me.
“God damn the lot of you !” the dying man posi-
tively shouted. They stood paralysed with astonish-
ment.
“Slowly and tremblingly the dying man withdrew
the pistol from the bedclothes and rested it across
his knees. I could see that it had two barrels and
was cocked and capped. He steadied the muzzle
until it covered the shrinking group at the foot of the
bed.
“ ‘Now, you infernal sawbones,’ said Bill, ‘am 1
going to die? If you say “yes” I’ll send you to hell
ahead of me. Quick! Am I going to die?’
“ ‘Oh, no—ah —that is—well, no, Captain
Occleton.’
“‘Anna Maria?’
“ ‘Oh, no —master —oh, no! ’ wailed the woman.
“‘Mr. Hawkins?’
“ ‘Dear me, I think not, Captain Occleton. Pray,
be careful!’
“ ‘Joe Trevaskis, you blasted psalm-singing under-
taker, what do you say?’
“ ‘Glory be t’ Gawd, y’r honor—l—l—don’t
believe ye will, after all.’
“ ‘Then get to hell out of this, all of you. Stay
with me, Baron. You’ve brought me the gift of life.
Out of here, ye pack of death’s-heads!’
“He elevated the pistol-barrel and pulled both
triggers, one after the other. When the crashing ex-
plosion was over and the smoke had cleared a little
I saw that he was lying back on his pillows. The
others had fled and the door was shut. He pointed
to the bottle in my hand.
“ ‘Another pull, ’Gustus. By God,’ he said feebly
as I withdrew the bottle from his trembling lips, ‘l’ll
be damned if I die. These people are devoted to me,
“He steadied the muzzle until it covered the shrinking group at the foot of the bed."
but they’d love to be miserable at my funeral, and
I’ll disappoint ’em—for a time, at any rate. I’ll —r-
well recover now.’
< < A ND so he did —and might have been alive to-
day had he not ridden into the Paterson when
drunk. I can never think of that amazing scene
when Bill Occleton fired his pistol shots into the wall
of his death chamber above the heads of that shrink-
ing group of pessimists without saying to myself
‘Moriturus vos salutat!’ ”


FOR SHORT STORIES
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition:
January 31, 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
Tells of Strange Experimenting
A UERY ROUGH OUTSIDER
BY
THE REV. ARTHURFULLPIT
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
SOME people may regard my association with
Mr. Patchem with an unfavorable, even cen-
sorious, eye, holding that such was incompatible
with the profession of a clergyman. I must say,
therefore, not in extenuation, but in justification of
my actions, that profound meditation clearly demon-
strated that my duty, both as a missionary but lately
returned from darkest Africa and as an Australian
desirous of seeing his country in the forefront of
scientific advance, lay in the direction indicated by
Mr. Patchem. I still maintain that view, even though
the result to me is the reverse of what this world
would call happy.
Mr. Patchem, a little man with bow legs, came
to see me one morning. I was drawn to him from
the first. His disinterested sincerity in pursuing his
original and ill-requited line of research deeply im-
pressed me.
“I have sought this interview, Mr. Fullpit,” he
said, “because you are the man who can help me.
Before outlining the occasion which brings me here,
let me ask a question. In what way does Australia
suffer in comparison with the rest of the world? In
sport, politics, education, art, religion, journalism we
more than hold our own. Our mineral and agricul-
tural resources and the products of the seas adjacent
to our coasts match anything other countries can dis-
play. Yet we do fail in one respect. Can you tell
me what that is, Mr. Fullpit?”
I made a mental survey of the world and was
compelled to admit that I could not answer the
question.
“I will tell you, then,” Mr. Patchem said eagerly.
“Lycanthropy' ”
“Lycanthropy?” I repeated.
Mr. Patchem inclined his head and proceeded
to expand his statement.
“Let us take the continents and examine them
in order,” he said. “In Africa, as you probably know
from experience, there is the were-leopard and the
were-hyena; Europe possesses its were-wolf; Asia
confesses to the were-tiger ; North America has the
were-buffalo and the were-eagle, and South America
boasts the were-serpent. But what has Australia in
this connection? Nothing, Mr. Fullpit, and I ask
why is this so? Why should Australia be unportioned
in the matter of lycanthropists?”
“I really could not say,” I replied. “The ques-
tion has never before occurred to me.”
“That is the whole trouble,” Mr. Patchem
asserted emphatically. “Nobody has given thought
to it—except myself. And, up to the present, I have
been a voice crying in the wilderness.”
It required but little reflection to show that the
matter was one deserving of the deepest thought;
and I said so.
“I’m glad you think that,” Mr. Patchem re-
sponded, “for this is not a problem that can be solved
as simply as our need for petrol or toys, for instance.
For them we turn to America and lapan, not without
satisfaction. But consider the difficulties, if such a
course were desirable —and I don’t think it is—in
importing were-wolves. The immigration laws would
provide an impassable barrier. Not that that matters,
for, in lycanthropy, I am a staunch protectionist. If
Australia is to be a healthy lycanthropic State, we
must encourage our own internal resources.”
“The point is well taken,” I agreed. “But, how
are we to do that?”
“That,” said Mr. Patchem, “is the reason I am
here. You have been in Africa, Mr. Fullpit; you
must have encountered the leopard-men. You should
have first-hand knowledge of their methods. ’
His words awakened painful recollections.
“Yes,” I said somewhat hesitantly, “I did come
in contact with the phenomenon you mention. It
was during an expedition after big game. I came
face to face with a large leopard. I aimed my .450,
pulled the trigger, and, to my amazement, a native
fell mortally wounded. The District Commissioner,
on hearing the details of the affair, scouted the idea
of lycanthropy, and claimed that a jury would call
it manslaughter ; though, out of respect for the cloth,
he said he would let it go as misadventure. A rather
unpleasant man.”
“Evidently,” Mr. Patchem observed. He then
questioned me more closely about the methods
adopted by the leopard-men when assuming their
animal form.
o\/OU understand, Mr. Fullpit,” he said, “I am
i attacking this matter with all care. It is of no
use to produce a were-animal that does not represent
the Australian character. A were-kangaroo, for
instance, or a were-wombat. Of what value would
either be?” He looked keenly at me. “I am right,
I think, Mr. Fullpit, to open my heart to you as one
honorable man to another?”
I assured him that I was not a man to betray
his confidence. He took my hand in a warm grasp.
“I am about to reveal my dearest ambition,”
said Mr. Patchem. “All my life, Mr. Fullpit, I have
been associated with horses, as stableboy, as jockey
and, lately, as trainer. I love the horse, Mr. Fullpit.
It is my determination to improve upon the ancient
Greeks. They had the centaur, half-horse, half-man.
I shall have the were-horse, all man, alt horse. What
better aspiration would you have?”
Mr. Patchem went on to enlarge upon his theme.
Were-tigers, were-serpents and the like were abhor-
rent, the cause of pain and suffering ; the were-horse
would be of service to humanity. The horse, as rever-
enced by the Australian, would be apotheosised.
“Every man his own horse” was Mr. Patchem s
motto.
As he talked I caught his enthusiasm. I saw
the milkman pulling his own cart and nimbly chang-
ing into human form to deliver his wares ; the dairy-
farmer, after milking, assume the shape of a horse
to plough the maize paddock; the sturdy wood-
cutter drawing home the fruit of his day’s toil; the
hardy mallee settler metamorphosing himself, his
wife and his children into a team to pull the com-
bine around the block. What a boon to fox-hunters
and marine dealers! There was not a section of the
community that would not benefit. If the horse is the
noblest ally of man, then man would become his own
best friend.
“Do you think it worth while?” Mr. Patchem
asked.
“It is worth while,” I told him.
His eyes lit up at my commendation. Then a
shade crept across his countenance.
“The big problem still awaits us,” he said. h
is to discover a more simple and speedier modus
operandi than that used by the uncivilised natives of
Africa or Europe. If you are with me, Mr. Fullpit,
then we shall have to engage in remorseless research
till we overcome the difficulty.”
I WAS with him heart and soul, and we set to work.
I I shall not burden you with details of our excur-
sions into the secrets of metastasis, transmutation and
alternation. It suffices to say that what mere Ameri-
cans, Asians, Africans and Europeans had accom-
plished, two Australians accomplished also.
I shall not forget the day when first Mr. Patchem
and then I myself trotted and cantered in equine form
about the secluded field we had selected foi our
experiments.
As with all beginnings, we were conscious of
blemishes in our efforts. For example, Mr. Patchem
resembled a trunkless elephant, and I was rather too
much like a decrepit cabhorse. Nor was my color,
a kind of mousy, moth-eaten grey, that which I
should have chosen. However, the principal thing
was that we should have succeeded. The imperfec
tions would be removed as we improved our tec
nique.
We were delighted, as one would expect, but
sat down to discuss our future programme sober y
enough. As. Mr. Patchem said, there was a fortune
awaiting us if we cared to exhibit ourselves. Such
a thing was entirely repugnant to me, and, am
pleased to say, to Mr. Patchem as well. He merely
mentioned the possibility as an illustration o t
remarkable potentialities in our grasp.
“I’m not a self-seeker,” he said. “I have been
working for the good of humanity. Lycanthropy
the heritage of every man, woman and child. It snai
not be restricted to a privileged few. It is a P u y_
right. But”—and Mr. Patchem became thoughtful
“you as a clergyman, Mr. Fullpit, are well aware th
the public does not often perceive what is goo


it, and is apt to regard any movement towards its
uplift with hostility.”
“That is true, very true,” I answered sadly. “I
foresee some trouble here, Mr. Patchem.”
“But not insurmountable,” he rejoined. "After
much consideration, I believe we can overcome
people’s dislike in a simple manner.”
“And that?”
“By winning the Melbourne Cup,” the remark-
able man replied, and his eyes glowed with animation.
“The public,” he said, “will not accept lycan-
thropy unless we give them a practical demonstration
of its advantages. I am certain that you and I could
do it, Mr. Fullpit. If we can prove that, by means
of lycanthropy, we have won a great amount of
money, comprising the stake and money accruing as
the result of financial dealings with the bookmakers,
we would find that the public would listen to us.”
Continuing, Mr. Patchem said that, of course, the
money was of no personal interest to him ; and he
suggested that I might know of some worthy charit-
able causes to which it could be distributed.
“In fact,” said Mr. Patchem generously, “it’s
yours to do what you like with.”
He proceeded, after dismissing the matter of the
money, to give me some interesting information. Mr.
Patchem’s idea was that I should act as the candidate
for the Cup, because I possessed some prowess as a
runner, which, together with my experience in Africa,
was what had directed his attention to me.
It seemed, however, that to take part in the Mel-
bourne Cup event would not be as facile of accom-
plishment as I should have thought. One could not
simply approach the V.R.C., the body controlling
the great race, and enter the Rev. Arthur Fullpit as
a runner. Firstly, the V.R.C. would be sure to sug-
gest that, while it could not accept the
nomination, any lunatic asylum would.
Secondly, the V.R.C. would undoubtedly
be the strongest opponent of lycan-
thropy, and therefore it would not be
wise to apprise it of out undertaking
until after the event. Thirdly, the V.R.C.
required to know something about every
horse that raced under its jurisdiction,
its family history, color, sex, brands,
markings and so on.
As with all beginnings, we were conscious of blemishes in our efforts
“I have prepared for these eventualities,” Mr.
Patchem said, “by securing, in my brother’s name, a
promising two-year-old colt. It possesses the neces-
sary pedigree and has been registered under the name
Chamade. We shall entei Chamade for the Cup,
and during the months that must e apse you will
replica°” S * Uf WCre 56 15 18 eX3C
J AT once commenced my training, modelling my
t metamorphosis on Chamade with, eventually, un-
qualified success.
It was then that Mr. Patchem had the inspira-
tion that, to my mind, proved him one of the world’s
geniuses. It seems that the Melbourne Cup race, a
long and stern contest, had not yet been won by a
horse that went to the front at the start and remained
there. Chamade was to be the exception.
While Mr. Patchem did not doubt that I would
win the race alone, being, as he facetiously put it,
rather long-winded, his brilliant idea was that the two
of us should become equally expert at assuming
Chamade’s form in less than the tenth part of a
second, and that in the race he would be the rider.
When we had completed the first seven furlongs we
would make an instantaneous change, Mr. Patchem
becoming Chamade and I ascending to the saddle.
Mr. Patchem would maintain the headlong speed till
we were in the straight, when we would take up our
former positions, leaving me fresh for the sprint
home.
The beauty of this plan was its utter simplicity,
and Mr. Patchem said that no horse could live with
us over the distance. I may be permitted to remark
here that Chamade’s performance in the race proves
how ably we were to carry out this acrobatic feat.
I naturally left the necessary arrangements with
the V.R.C. in Mr. Patchem’s capable hands. In order
to allow the public to become familiar with the name
of Chamade Mr. Patchem raced him consistently prior
to the big engagement. From these trials the fact
emerged that Chamade was not really a champion,
for I do not recall one occasion on which he passed
the judge’s box lying better than in the penultimate
position.
On the other hand, when I, as Chamade, took
part in several races at Flemington in order that I
might learn the idiosyncrasies of the course, I felt I
could have won every time, but that Mr. Patchem
exerted considerable pressure on my -jaw by means
of the reins. He gave as a reason for this that he
wished me to develop a hard mouth for the Cup race,
a S th e first Tuesday in November approached, nine
A peo ple out of every ten spent much of their work-
in S t ' me and all their leisure in discussing what they
termed their Cup fancies, prospects, tips, good things,'
long shots, doubles, whispers and so on. In all these
prognostications, Chamade received but little atten-
tion
Cup Day dawned fine and bright. As Chamade.
I was conveyed to Flemington in a most luxurious
vehicle known, so I was informed, as a float. It was
all very exciting. Mr. Patchem, though exercising
strong self-control, was on tenterhooks, and I was
aware of a quickened pulse. Mr. Patchem’s brother
was quite worked up. During the progress of the
racing he rushed about the lawn, answering stentorian
yells emanating from perspiring gentlemen under um-
brellas and dashing back to us, making ejaculations
about a “marvellous roughie,” “thousands to five” and
other abstruse mathematical quotations.
Nibbling at Mr. Patchem’s brilliant green shirt
sleeves, I. asked him what it all portended.
“It means,” he whispered, “that we shall have the
pleasure of extracting £20,000 from the ring after the
race. With that sum, Mr. Fullpit, you will be able
to set up your orphaned widows quite comfortably.”
Naturally I did not have much opportunity for
looking around. All the same, the ring referred to
by Mr. Patchem must have been very small, for I
missed it completely. I would have liked to see it.
I shall not bore you with a description of the
race. I understand that all newspapers gave the affair
some prominence, so that you will already know how
Chamade shot to the front immediately the barrier
was raised, increased his lead to twenty lengths the
first time round, and came home the greatest outsider
in history by thirty lengths, to clip 3.7 seconds off
the record. Mr. Patchem’s brother duly received the
Cup in the midst of cheering multitudes.
Then occurred the event ffiat has left me in much
doubt and perplexity. Just as I was being coaxed back
into the float, an opulent-looking man hurried up and
addressed Mr. Patchem’s brother.
“Patchem,” he said, “I’ll give you 19,001 guineas
for Chamade right here, walk in, walk out.”
There ensued a consultation, the upshot of which
was that I became the property of a well-known racing
man for what constitutes a record price paid for any
horse in Australia.
“It will be only temporary,” Mr. Patchem told
me. “But we cannot miss such a windfall on behalf
of your orphaned widows, can we? I want you to
wait till we have collected the money before we make
our momentous announcement concerning lycan-
ihropy. But don’t spoil it by acting precipitately. Wait
till you hear from me, Mr. Fullpit.”
I assured him I would not think of acting until
I heard from him. So I was taken away by my new
owner, who stated his purpose was to put me out to
grass for a period and retire me for the manufacture
of studs. I am afraid Ido not yet see what is the
connection between lycanthropy and studs.
That was some months ago. I cannot under-
stand what is delaying Mr. Patchem, though I realise
there must be a strong reason for his silence. One
thing, however, buoys me up. It is that my orphaned
widows are richer by £49,951 Is., the result of our
lycanthropic experiment. They will be in clover for
the remainder of their lives, though, for that matter,
they cannot be more in clover than I am.


I) )Sh^i
?
%
m
m
m
m
wm
m
H
PS
m
m
m
ms
■
m
1
BMP. -
BSS
il
Bn
■Si
; '
a
R
II
■
m
ns
I
M
■
WEm
ftel
Ml
B.
m
ggjMS
ill!
Ww
AhHIRmsE:
mm.
H
2 -?
d
m
■
ra
«
IHI
Kg
i m
il i
Ural
Ks
mIRPII
: ■
11
maam
W^w
®yi
■
881 BHH9
: ' •■■■
-i
IlilKlv
IskHmhl
IH| r
&H|BK'
■ IMB
v
11
■
p
m ■
} .
1
H
m i
■v?.
11l
** #o *%, >' .«Sp§i
' - x s > Tg
"'■v. :••
&*; ■
RsP
>■4olo
Ip
'
r. -t' i
• -
t -. :
00 i
000^
f%
m
ESfiSiS^^H
Px
v
H
Lr*" :
SB
mm $
F
Delivered to your home /T J
for a first payment of %J / “
■
iisllsllll
j rft&i
WP
'W'
■•• < < ' a * ' , {mmi * t v
, , _ • '' s :
* - ~ . *• *• > /
8000 Pages—6oo Authors.
A Lifetime’s Entertainment.
The library is so compre-
hensive that it has 16 pages
of index to the stories and
authors.
AUSTRALIA’S
GREATEST
BOOK
BARGAIN
£lO/10/-
for
£5/5/-
A Library of 10
Double Volumes
lOOo'sHORT
STORIES
yuiwuHe £4itg/cfcu*uu£*tt'
jjot IjOU 4 iJOWC JjohuJL^
Journey into the story wonderlands of Africa, Asia and Europe—
the romance of Arabia and Persia, the mystery of China and the
East. French gaiety and the passionate romances of Italy, Spain
and Portugal await you. Russia, grim and forbidding—American
humor and thrills and the clean-cut adventure of the British Isles
are all there. Choose among the best German and Scandinavian
authors or in the brilliant modern creations of H. G. Wells, John
Galsworthy, Stephen McKenna, Frankau, Conan Doyle, Masefield
and Edgar Wallace. There is a special volume of War Stories, too.
In short, a magic carpet of 1000 tales—a lifetime’s entertainment.
1000 unique experiences and glimpses of real life presented by 600
of the world’s most gifted authors. Every book has an illustrated
frontispiece ... all are handsomely bound in dark blue Rexine.
It is Australia’s greatest book bargain . . . delivered on payment of
si small deposit. Fill in and send the form below.
The “Masterpiece Library” is edited by
Sir J. A. Hammerton and selected by
the International Board of Critics
below—
Sir William Robertson Nicoll,
LL.D.; Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch; Clement Shorter;
George Saintsbury, LL.D.;
Richard le Gallienne; Brander
Matthews, Litt.D.; Sir Frederick
Wedmore; Sir Edmund Gosse,
C. 8., LL.D.; W. P. Trent, LL.D.;
Carl Van Doren; Thomas
Seccombe,
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LESS THAN 4d. PER DAY
Ihe 10 Double Volumes are yours for 5/- down and 1 1
monthly payments of 10/ less than 4d. per day. In
England this series is valued at £lO/10/-. We offer it
for £5/5/- cash.
Each volume is Bin. high, wide, 1 fin. thick.
ORDER FORM.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me the “MASTERPIECE LIBRARY OF SHORT |
STORIES,” 10 volumes. I enclose the lirst instalment of 5/-,
and agree to make 11 further monthly payments of 10/-.
The price for cash within 30 days is £5/5/-.
NAME I
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS I
BUSINESS ADDRESS I
Freight is extra, but in no case will it exceed 3/6.
B. 20/1/’37. |


between the individual and the social elements. The
story of Herrie Champion is full of action and drama,
but it would be thin and meaningless by comparison
if it were not backed by the mass of life. This back-
ground of a people, toiling, suffering, enjoying itself,
is powerfully done. It is always concretely portrayed.
We are told exactly how bottles are blown, rivets set,
street brawls fought; how funerals are celebrated
and the August bank holiday enjoyed. The last two
are among the grimmest passages in the book.
The prose style is direct and bare. Its tempo
varies with its subject-matter but it is always eco-
nomical. It is a difficult style to sustain, but Knight
on the whole sustains it. It is not an easy book, but
there is a genuine passion behind it lighting it up from
within. i ,
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS (1).
[So much has been written about what is wrong
with Australian writers that everyone by now should
be aware of pretty well all their sins. The chief object
in this series is to show characteristic examples of
the best of these writers’ writing. The series will be
restricted to living writers, with general commentary
on each author’s work.]
Vance Palmer, born in Queensland in 1885,
mother Irish, father Australian, was educated at
Ipswich Grammar School. He left for London in
1906, and spent two years in Europe, doing special
articles on Siberia and the East. Returning to Aus-
tralia in 1908, he was occupied as teacher, tutor,
station-bookkeeper. He was in Mexico during the
1912 revolution, in France when the war broke out,
and in Spain at the beginning of the present revolt,
but has mostly lived quietly in various parts of Aus-
tralia. He is more intelligent-looking than Horner’s
drawing suggests, is near sft. llin. tall, has a fine
voice, inclining to drawl in conversation, and wears
his clothes as he pleases.
No literary reputation in Australia is more solid
than Vance Palmer’s. Living writers have written
more brilliantly and produced greater novels, but
none is a better craftsman, none has displayed greater
literary courage, few have proved themselves so self-
contained—written, that is, so wholly out of their own
experience and observation—none has better depicted
the Australian scene, few have better portrayed the
ordinary Australian character. He is an outstanding
representative Australian writer.
Careful inspection of his not very varied people
will prove them to be generally such ordinary human
men and women that his fiction tends to lack the
picturesque touch through the very faithfulness of
these depictions. In the carefulness of his craftsman-
ship he has no superior and perhaps no equal in Aus-
tralia. There is no great elemental fire or emotional
force let loose in his work to date—the control he has
attained over his craft seems to have extended there,
also—but there is magnificent writing in his books,
especially in The Sway tie Family, The Passage and
Sea and Spinifex, and a quietly defensive, sympathetic
humanity in them all —this undertone of all his work
is as clear in the early stories of The World of Men
as in his latest unpublished novel.
Up to the present The Swayne Family is his most
ambitious novel, and perhaps his most successful in
variety of character. Here, as elsewhere, Vance Palmer
displays his notable courage: he depicts the contem-
porary scene ; in a country with such meagre literary
tradition a relatively more difficult and more coura-
geous undertaking than past-period writing, however
much more effectively this last may chance to have
been done.
What has been said of his novels holds equally
well for his short stories—that is, the craftsmanship
is admirable, the characterisation limited in variety but
extraordinarily faithful to the Australian character,
and the scene is as clearly and unmistakably
Australia. Vance Palmer is both an accurate and an
honest observer. He can be criticised for a certain
flatness in his novels —they move on too even a level
—but this again is a fault arising from his particular
virtues, most especially from his artistic honesty, since
all the life with which he deals is even, casual; if
anything, less intellectualised than he has it.
On the ground of “story” his short stories are
better than his novels. Except for The Swayne Family
his novels are built on story material that would not
burst the short-story form ; take the story out and
look at it alone, and it is not of much account. In
the novels his worth is what goes with the stories—
the fidelity to the ordinary Australian character and
to the Australian scene and a grace that is in
the writing. Since these qualities are all to be found
in the short stories, and since, additionally, Vance
Palmer’s natural bent seems to be in noting the
episodic, of which many of the short stories, including
some of the earliest, hold brilliant evidence, his short
stories would seem to be the best of him. At any
rate, he gives in scores of instances in both short
stories and novels depictions of the Australia of his
time as true as actual experience. He is as true in
this respect as Lawson is of his time. It seems prob-
able that had he lived contemporaneously with Law-
son he would, like Lawson —to whose tradition he
belongs—have stuck to the brief and episodic.
Vance Palmer’s significance is his Australianism.
He does not powerfully dramatise, but he does syn-
thesise Australian character, scene and sentiment. It
is this he stands for. It is the staple of his novels, his
short stories and his verse: there is also at least one
play, and that is so, too, of it. The feeling for place
is strong in it all. His interests and sympathies are
with the ordinary run of mortals: most of his charac-
ters are normal men and women ; they have simple
sterling qualities, or are weak rather than vicious.
Vance Palmer’s small output of verse has won
enthusiastic praise, but is not comparable with his
prose. Most of it is simple, conventional rhymes: the
fierce, terrific intensity that fires poetry is not in him:
his is a quieter nature. The war moved him to the
strongest of it, in The Camp (1920); but the Austra-
lian scene is widely expressed in each of the small
books, and so is his own clean vitality.
Perhaps the most notable failing in the fiction
generally is a lack of variety in the speech of char-
acters ; they use words that peculiarly belong to them,
but many of them use too similarly literary sen-
tences. As the examples which follow amply demon-
strate, Vance Palmer is brilliant in sheer description ;
perhaps that is his greatest strength—his clear Aus-
tralian landscape.
DESCRIPTIVE WRITING.
The scene as well as the manner of this extract
from The Passage is frequently encountered in Vance
Palmer’s fiction. The setting is on the Queensland
coast, and he is never so happy as when thus writing
VANCE PALMER.
of places where sea and land meet. He is no casual
visitor to these places ; he has most of his life lived
in them, and lived them:
The mullet were coming in. For days a howling gale
had been blowing from the south, with a grey blanket
of a sky and heavy masses of darker cloud sweeping
up to break in downpours of cold rain. It was a rain
that was fierce and tumultuous. It blotted out the sand-
banks and the low hummocks of Rathbone Island,
while on the main beach it limited the horizon to the
foamy crests of the huge combers that came rolling in
so closely behind one another that there was nothing
visible but a mass of dirty white. The tea-tree gullies
poured their floods of stained water out upon the beach,
which was flattened down and strewn with mullet-weed,
driftwood, dead fish with their eyes picked out, and
islands of quaking, yellowish foam. In that sudden
convulsion it seemed as if the sea had vomited up most
of its refuse. Even with the salty winds blowing spray
far inland, there was a sourish smell in the air, and the
ruffled sea-birds, tossed from one gust to another, had
the look of crows.
But now the storm was well over, the sun putting
color into the sea again, clouds turning white. Lew
and the other fishermen, wandering about the sandy
cliffs in oilskins, kept their eyes fixed on a spot in the
south-east where the sea-birds were hovering in wide
circles, dropping to the surface now and again and
fluttering up with wet wings. The mullet were moving
with the slowness of an iceberg up the coast. Days
before the storm, the scouts had come ahead, poking
into creeks and passages and exploring the spawning-
grounds, and now the main army was approaching,
packed in close formation, with the birds circling over-
head, and the sharks moving on the outskirts in hordes,
glutting themselves on the helpless mass.
It was a time the fishermen looked forward to as a
recompense for the lean months. Yearly as the winter
set in, there was this migration of the mullet to bring
them full nets and easy money. They came from some
spot out at sea and moved in slow progress northward,
shoals of young fish coming down to meet them from
all the creeks and rivers, shoals of others moving off
to spawn in the quiet reaches.
Yet there was something exasperating in their deli-
beration as they hung about any particular spot. An
almost stationary mass, they lay packed in the deep
water, troubling the surface with their silvery leaping,
driving the birds to a frenzy of wild screaming; but
would they come in to where a man could shoot a net
around them? That was the question that teased the
fishermen’s minds each year as they waited. Every
comber that rose in a green curve showed thousands
in the moment before it broke, their outlines as clear
as if seen through the glass of an aquarium. It seemed
as if they would be tossed up, gaping and goggle-eyed,
on the beach. But, no! There they were in the next
wave, still and flattened against the transparent, greenish
curve. Meanwhile in the deep water, far out, the
sharks tacked to and fro like silent sheep-dogs, the
black triangles of their fins occasionally showing above
the surface.
That, with more in the same vein in the chapter
and book from which it is taken, is incomparably the
best description we have of the annual phenomenon
of these fish going north along the Australian east
coast. The migration occurs in summer and, as it
passes, the scene Vance Palmer describes is to be
observed at every estuary along this coast.
CHARACTER DEPICTION.
Scene also enters into the following paragraph
in which a leading character of The Swayne Family
is made visible to the reader. The setting is, of course,
Melbourne, and the novel—in which there seems such
a strong Galsworthian influence that one expects it to
burgeon out into a trilogy—contains further evidence
of the Palmer courage in his being one of the few to
face the task of getting our cities into books. A clear
picture of Melbourne emerges through this novel:
There was a touch of the buccaneer about old
Anthony when he came to town. Dapper, hawk-eyed,
light of foot in spite of his seventy-odd years, he cut
a figure as he swung along under the elms of Upper
Collins-street, his back erect to make the most of his
inches, his stick gleaming like a shaft of light, the
wings of his collar swung wide to leave room for his
jutting chin. He might have been treading the deck of
some ship he had just captured and was taking home to
port. The quick glance, the out-thrust chest, were those
of a man full of his own importance; yet full, too, of
a lively interest in what was going on around him, the
riveters dangling in little swings round the hundred-eyed
steel-and-concrete building that was springing up on
the corner, the gesture of a pretty woman hailing a taxi
on the kerb, the wild tang of boronia eddying in drifts
through the August air.
DIALOGUE.
This is from The Sway He Family :
Willie, sobered by the quiet of the still house, said
reminiscently;
“Eighty-six? I’d just finished my apprenticeship
then. Two paths ahead of me, and only two. A
country printer, keeping some little newspaper alive,
or a business of my own in town. My inclination at
the time was to stick to Jaffra. It was Digby who
persuaded me to come down.”
“Julia?” said Hugh, his hand to his ear.
“No, Digby. That was a couple of years before I
married.”
Firmly planted on the rug in front of the fire, his
hands under his bunched coat-tails, Anthony returned
to that last gathering in the old home at Jaffra.
“I couldn’t have been more than fifteen. A bit
young to go in off the deep end, even for those days.
No holding me, though, once I got the idea into my
head. Perky about the bit of money in my pocket,
full of romantic notions about life on one of the
northern stations. The old man made a solemn occa-
sion of that last evening at home. ‘Auld Lang Syne’
around the piano—atmosphere of the night before
Bannockburn . . . You wouldn’t remember, I suppose.’ 1
“1 remember,” said Hugh.
“The old man would have liked me to take a job
on one of his contracts,” Anthony went on, “but I was
bent on getting away. First the Lachlan, then Queens-
land. It was the fear of him shoving me into the busi-
ness that kept me away those four years. Digby had
left home by that time, and Moira was at some convent
or other. The second time 1 came back —but the old
man was in his grave by that time, and the home
broken up.”
He was silent awhile, held by the vision of a young,
travel-stained overlander jogging up in the dark to a
silent house, letting his horse go in the orchard, making
a perfunctory camp in a skillion at the back. A
chuckle suddenly sounded from his throat when he
recalled an encounter with the old Irish caretaker in
the morning. Of the three brothers he seemed least
overcome by the occasion. In spite of having spent
most of the night in a jolting car his eyes were bright
and animated as he burrowed among his memories of
those early days in Jaffra: perhaps it was a stubborn
impulse to affirm life, to deny the fact of death.
“No need to make too much of it,” he appeared to
be saying. “Not a tragedy, really. Part of life . . .
Digby’s here as long as we can talk about him.”
VERSE.
The title verse of The Forerunners, with its smack
of Housman, and its landscape:
Grey of the dawn and bitter weather,
To foamy ash the red coal burns,
The dogs rise from the dew-soaked grasses,
The white horse champs amongst the ferns.
Wind in the sky, rough hills before us,
No wayside folk will heed us now,
The drover dreams about his cattle,
The farmer turns him to the plough.
Yet fast behind us flushed with vision,
On peaks their feet were quick to climb,
They will chant songs and carry banners,
In the good time, the coming time.
Sowers of fire, the dawn’s forerunners,
We seek the bivouacs, of the young,
Our fealty pledged to unborn chieftains,
Our blood aflame with songs unsung.
This is a verse of war from The Camp:
The sunless days drag on with leaden feet,
Life moves to boasts and taunts and waving flags,
And every noble word is worn to rags
By sleek belligerents mouthing in the street.
Youth herds in camp and trench, the iron sleet
Hemming it round, crushing it in the mire,
While old men feast on battles by the fire,
And hucksters raise the price of bread and meat.
Yet when the world is faded like a breath
Our children’s children shall lament the dearth
Of wonder in the peace that folds them then,
And turn from trees, and flowers, and living men
To dream upon our ways of war and death,
When heroes, tall and marvellous, walked the earth.
There is nothing in the verse which, complete, is
better than that last, but fragments of Australian
scene flash out surprisingly from many of the rhym-
ings, sometimes in a graceful lyricism.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Vance Palmer has written chiefly of the Australian
coastal belt, especially the Queensland coast and the
canefields country, where his latest novel, Legend for
Sanderson, is set. This will be The Bulletin’s next
serial, the serial rights having been secured from' Mr.
Palmer though the novel was not an entry for the
S. H. Prior Prize.
His principal published works to date are:- —
Novels. — Hurricane (Angus and Robertson), The
Man Hamilton (Ward, Lock and Co.), Men Are Human
(Stanley Paul), The Passage (Stanley Paul), Daybreak
(Stanley Paul), The Swayne Family (Angus and Robert-
son).
Short Stories. — The World of Men (Euston Press),
Separate Lives (Stanley Paul), Sea and Spinifex (Shake-
speare Head Press).
Verse. — The Forerunners (Euston Press), The Camp
(Sydney J. Endacott).
The Passage won The Bulletin Novel Competi-
tion for 1929 ; Men Are Human won third prize in
that competition of a year earlier, and The Swayne
Family shared the Melbourne Centenary Novel Com-
petition prize (1934).
“Sassafras” : Canberra Alpine Club is building a
log hut for skiers on the summit of Mt. Franklin
Soon the tourist will stride on palings to the top of
that mountain, and, as hinted in All That Swagger,
may look across the view and see “the witching beauty
of the ranges wearing the ages down tenaciously.
He can choose for himself where across them was
the way of Danny Delacy.” If he explores the coun-
try well enough he may even find the place, where
Danny raised his first hut under the ranges.
It may be known by the abrupt gorge, like the cleft
keep of an ancient fortress, through which the river
winds. The spot was familiar to the blacks as Burra-
binga, or the jump, where a giant once leaped across
with thunder and lightning in his spears.
We haven’t many literary shrines, as yet, in this coun-
try, but I venture to say that the Canberra Tourist
Bureau will one day organise tours to the Miles
Franklin country, and when they reach the snow hut
about to be erected they won’t be far away.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■mini
.11wl il i I til tv ■ / lil 1
O
IVWVI itirVV
| I %
to ~ jt/ t *m
PL. jiff ' 4 ■
MMHI ____
iHI
■
II
fit
B &sss& Is
■ll I
1:1$
; .4 :
r n:.£l
i
!7 I
,
m
U I
n
■
■ mir
? ;v<4l| \ ff is in
”■ t fi? r-y i • 5
■ V U|ysX JHI
ill Ns
ifli fill in* ft!l
ilil’v / Mill B 1 IK! Jl IB IMM
II IM ti rtJ
nil /Wl Hi U« lIILIII ill
IBfmH tt 1m BH mi ail
J /{el il
lUJV*/ . ; --t%-S> ,W *
■:•— ■*■ pG£ rvv.-^V
M, // jsS * -4c if •*to - ?'•ml
1
I
• ;..
Hi
//
i/i/
/V
■
■H
■
mm
m
: H
1
| §Hj
■
.
;
t.
n
‘Vv
■
n
lit
B
H B
■
■
I
>f
■
I ■
(gl
m
.V-
-m.
■ ■.::.;
4
I
m
ill
■
H i
m ,~*m
| H
BH
'
■
;A
I
I
■
■Hi
ffil
H|
■
mm
V
m
m
Hi
■,
■
'1
m
o
r;7VV : iV
■m
: -' v: : - : : ;
■
■
I
•'
>'
■
■
:
m
m
H
ran
ft
H
■
apgg
■
H
/ A’/
■
■
Hi
11
lli
H
H
1 WK
1 *i
m
ill
i
H—
■
B
1
i I
m
v
.
£ I
'V
m
■
V
.
H
. ■ j
Further Interior View of One of the Numerous Storage Cellars.


The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2971.
January 20, 1937.
SURE TO GET “THE BIRD.”
“If this is the show they’re going to take round Australia”-


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,’’ 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
"EIGHT PER CENT. GREATER."
“The Revolution has no use for scientists,” said the
Paris mob-leader who consigned Lavoisier to the
guillotine. Anyone knowing a short and bloodless
way with scientists who shatter political superstitions,
or at least of shutting them up, may hear of some-
thing to his advantage by communicating with State
Premiers.
Australians have shown themselves increasingly
reluctant to subscribe to Government loans raised for
the construction of “works.” One of the State
Premiers suggests that the Governments —which, of
course, are united in a Loan Council —should “look
elsewhere for money,” “elsewhere” meaning London
or New York, or both. Another Premier who is
equally keen on “looking elsewhere” advises the
Commonwealth Bank at the same time to be “more
liberal,” saying that “Bank Board policy and Loan
Council policy must be co-ordinated in the interests
of Australia.” A third gentleman, more daring than
the others, orders the controllers of the Common-
wealth Bank to get money for the Governments some-
how, if they have to make it.
In calmer moments these politicians and others
by turns importunate and indignant assert that the
“works” for which they require the money which
investors are increasingly averse from lending are for
“development,” and that “development” is necessary to
land settlement, Australia being capable of accommo-
dating a huge additional population on the land. In
the same week three representative Australian scien-
tists have positively declared that this theory is all
wrong ; that the unsettled parts of Australia can never
be settled on any large scale, and that Australians
would do well to reject this politicians’ moonshine
and give serious attention to secondary industries.
Professor Richardson, director of the Waite
Agricultural Research Institute, began it. Referring
to his own State he said that “agriculturists, econo-
mists and statisticians,” all members of the S.A.
branch of the institute, had considered its capacity
to absorb rural population and had “reached the
broad conclusion that in regions with less than 15
inches of rainfall”—and “nearly 92 p.c. of South
Australia” falls into that category —“there is little
likelihood of any substantial expansion.” As for the
“so-called empty spaces on the map,” they are
“almost as fully occupied as they are ever likely to be.”
Surveying “the so-called vast empty spaces” of the
continent, the professor suggested'that underdevelop-
ment is by no means the problem—“there are signs
of overdevelopment, reflected in extensive soil erosion
in semi-arid pastoral country and marginal wheat
lands.”
“The prevailing ideas about the population-
capacity of Australia are grossly exaggerated,” said
Professor Richardson, summing up. He spoke in
Sydney on January 6, and at Auckland on January
12, in his presidential address to the Association for
the Advancement of Science, Dr. Rivett, of the C.S.
and 1.R., expressed identical conclusions in language
equally arresting:
Of the 3,000,000 square miles of continental Aus-
tralia, one-third has a rainfall averaging less than 10
inches, which may or may not fall when it can best serve
the interests of the settler. Tragic results have already
followed efforts to exploit such of this territory as it is
not utterly impossible to use: in erosion we are faced
with a problem which we do not know how to handle.
Another third of Australia receives between 10
and 20 inches; and here the settler is perforce a
gambler. There remains the million square miles upon
which more than 20 inches may be expected. This is
the third of the continent that the imaginative overseas
observer sees when he looks at the map.
So far from wondering, as borrowing politicians do,
that there are so few people on the land, the C.S. and
I.R. man wonders that there are so many.
I suspect that one reason for the number being as
large as it is is that so many of them are incompetent
—do not know of or do not use the weapons of agri-
cultural practice which scientific work has made avail-
able to them.
No politician with a country seat could say that
and keep his job, and it would go hard with a city
Premier if he even hinted at it; but scientists can
still be trusted to tell the truth, as they see it, and
shame the devil.
Dr. Madigan, who was brought up on a South
Australian farm, and who has made “geological
exploration” his hobby, said at Auckland that 28 p.c.
of Australia could be ruled out as useless, 485,000
square miles being desert and 363,500 square miles
arid and infertile. Of the rest, 57 p.c. (1,690,000
square miles) is pastoral country and 15 p.c. (436,000
square miles) suited for agriculture and closer settle-
ment. But “the pastoral industry is at present near
saturation,” and “agriculture can move forward but
slowly, controlled by the law of supply and demand.”
It is perhaps not so remarkable that these trained
observers, whose researches have taken them to many
parts of their native country, should agree as to the
limits which nature has set to what the politicians
call “primary production” as that all three should
recommend, as a way of securing more people and
greater stability, the development of factories and
workshops. Professor Richardson prefaced his
remarks on this head with glowing references to what
Australian inventors and workmen have done for
agriculture, mentioning Ridley and the stripper, Smith
and the stump-jump plough, and McKay and the
harvester and the auto-header. Then he said:
Australia can produce vast quantities of iron and
steel goods, coal, cellulose fabrics, etc., limited only by
the extent of our iron-ore deposits, forest resources and
black- and brown-coal deposits, and by our capacity to
consume within our own borders and sell outside them.
Said Dr. Rivett:
Inevitably and inexorably we are driven towards the
development of secondary industries, even though this
may, in some cases, mean apparent offence against
accepted economic canons.
Dr. Madigan went further:
Everything points to the necessity for concentration
on secondary industries in the immediate future, both
for purely economic reasons and from considerations
of national security.
On the day these words were spoken the Com-
monwealth Statistician came out with his Labor
Report for the December quarter. It showed, among
other things, that employment in factories is “now
about 8 p.c. greater than in the immediate pre-depres-
sion year.” Taking 100 as the index of employment
in factories for 1928-29, the Victorian figure in 1935-
36 was 115, the N. S. Wales 106, the all-Australian
108. In the reduction of unemployment from 29 p.c.
in 1932 to 10.7 p.c. in 1936 factories have been the
principal factor.
But although much has been done, much remains
to be done. As depression vanishes imports increase
in variety and volume, and our capacity to pay for
them in excess of exports is continually strained.
Increased production in Australian factories and
workshops would relieve, and eventually remove, this
strain. And in the process an improving home
market would be furnished for farmers who now have
to send their surplus abroad and sell it for what it will
fetch, and whose political representatives demand that
the Commonwealth Constitution be mutilated so that
the losses on these transactions may be charged up
to the Australian consumer by marketing boards.
The course recommended by the three scientists
calls for neither London loans (which would swell
imports) nor “community credits.” It would give
young Australians a great deal more than a bit of
donkey work now and again in municipalities which
are going bung. Nor would it be attended by appal-
ling personal tragedies such as have dogged the his-
tory of the group settlements in Westralia and of
Victoria’s Northern Mallee. You don’t really benefit
a man by putting him on a bit of sour or arid land
to grow things with which the world market is well
supplied, even if you give him seed, stores, fertilisers
and “stay orders” and wind up by floating a loan
to pay his debts.
Australia's New Aircraft.
One good point about Mr. Archdale Parkhill is his
respect for age. When a military notion looks as if
it might have been used in the Wars of the Roses Mr.
Parkhill is all for it. When a naval idea arrives
with an introduction from Noah Mr. Parkhill is
there waiting with open arms. If Icarus were to
turn up out of mythology with his patent wings Mr.
Parkhill would have them adopted by the R.A.A.F.
Mr. Parkhill’s record as a defender of his country
is equalled only by that of his predecessor, Mr. Pearce.
Mr. Pearce in 1933 stood godfather to a defence
scheme conceived in 1928. By 1934 Mr. Parkhill was
able to take over the Pearce plan—it was of a piece
with plans that had been swept into the dark ages in
Europe, which had gone in for feverish modernisa-
tion —and begin to put it into operation. He is still
beginning.
By 1936 Mr. Parkhill had given Australia a new
light cruiser—it has been in Sydney some months,
mainly tied up at Garden Island —one extra sloop
and one patrol boat for North Australia. The patrol
boat was evidently conceived and built after prolonged
study of moving-picture stories of the rum-runners.
In addition to the patrol boat there are a
few oil-tanks at Darwin and a garrison of 60 men
planted in the middle of a 3000-mile coastline. And
there are two 10,000-ton cruisers of a type which
the world ceased to build a decade ago ; and there Is
an aircraft-carrier (it cost £400,000) so slow that any
1914-vintage battleship could run rings round it—
it has 12,000 h.p. against the 120,000 h.p. which the
French are putting into their 10,000-ton cruisers.
But it is in the air that Mr. Parkhill is superb.
In the past two years every air force in the Northern
Hemisphere has been reconstituted and trebled, every
air-defence scheme heaved overboard to make way
for new principles and new inventions. But in Aus-
tralia Mr. Parkhill is still lumbering along to com-
plete the out-of-date arrangements which were sug-
gested in the Salmond report in 1928, and is not even
succeeding in doing that.
He and his predecessor set as their mark three
years ago the provision of a whole 200 modern
aeroplanes. By the time any of their orders had
been filled a number of the obsolete buses which
formed the existing “defence” of this country had
fallen out of their sky. Such machines as have since
been bought have been evidently acquired on the
principle that they should be at least 50 m.p.h. slower
than the best European machines.
While the Defence Department was rejoicing at
the arrival of new Hawker fighters last year, it
was announced that the R.A.F. had discarded the
fighter as the crucial unit and had turned to bombers.
The reason was that methods of construction had
been revolutionised with the advent of geodetic
and skin-friction principles, high speeds, rocket-like
rising and carriage of newly-invented heavy machine
guns having made it possible to build dual-purpose
machines capable of knocking anything like a 1935
fighter into matchwood in a few minutes.
Early in 1936 Sir Philip Sassoon, the British Air
Minister, announced the development of six types
of machines “novel and unique in methods of
construction” ; three land machines—one fighter and
two bombers —have come in for particular mention.
The pace had then been set by a new Hawker which
did “considerably over 300 m.p.h.,” and the new
fighter—Vickers Supermarine Spitfire I—“was faster
even than the Hawker the fastest war ’plane
in the world” ; unofficially, it was stated to have done
360 m.p.h. all out.
This did not deter the Parkhills from continuing
to order Hawker Demons with a speed 100 m.p.h.
slower. And when they heard about the new flying-
boats, with their surprising armament and breathless
velocity, they met the occasion by taking over from
Britain a batch of Avro Ansons which the new
developments had outdated.
About the same time as the Supermarine fighter
was built, geodetic principles were adopted which
enabled the construction of bombing aeroplanes of
unprecedented range. One of these, the Wellesley,
carrying only fuel and crew, was officially announced
to be able to fly 8000 miles non-stop. Australia has
not a military machine which can be trusted to fly
non-stop from Brisbane to Melbourne without
refuelling.
Since the beginning of last year several other
types of British bombers have been developed, some
armed with large-bore quick-firers. But Mr. Parkhill
has not even been able to persuade the British to
deliver already obsolescent machines.
Last July the Overseas Trade Department
announced that British aircraft firms were inundated
with orders. The Hawker company had accepted
commissions from Spain, and Hawker Ospreys were
being built in Madrid under British license, for
instance, and Greece was to buy British machines on
an extensive scale.
Mr. Parkhill turned to Australian manufacture
—a sensible move at last. But in his first order he
has gone to America for designs. He “explains” that
the type—an NAI6 —was decided on only after
receiving the expert advice of the Air Board. So
the choice is evidently his and not the company’s.
The Minister declares that the only other machine
proposed did not conform to Air Board requirements
or meet with the Air Commission’s approval. And
the Air Commission, he said, had visited the leading
aircraft factories of the world. But it visited those
factories before the new British machines were under
construction. Mr. Neville Chamberlain at the Con-
servative party conference held in October gave an
assurance that there were no foreign machines which
could hope to compete with the new R.A.F.
squadrons.
The machine which has been adopted by the
Government at Canberra is well known. It has been
well known since 1935. It has a cruising range of
460 miles, which is less than that of some of the types
already in use here, and it is a general-purpose
machine. It may have been improved out of
sight without a name-change, but if so the public
which is paying for it should be told. Its specifica-
tions should be published in full.
To say that the NAl6s are superior to Hawker
Demons is to say nothing. All British machines
now being turned out for the R.A.F. are superior to
Hawker Demons. And some of those which win
be in the air in two years when the Commonwealth’s
order is completed will certainly make existing types
of the American NAI6 look as if they came out
of the Ark.
The company which is to manufacture the new
’planes is backed by Australian manufacturing con-
cerns of proved enterprise and efficiency. No
doubt it is willing to manufacture anything the
Commonwealth needs. And what the Common-
wealth needs is the very latest and most efficient
type or types suitable for Australian conditions.
Some of the British ’planes, especially the new
geodetic long-range amphibians, seem to fill the bill
entirely. But Mr. Parkhill says that he has been
forced to turn to American ’planes because of in-
ability to obtain full facilities for manufacture of “a
satisfactory up-to-date type from England embodying
the latest methods of construction.” To wait for such
facilities would involve “considerable delay.”
Australia might well ask why. Surely Britain
does not refuse the Commonwealth the use of plans
for machines designed for the defence of the British
Commonwealth of Nations. If there has been any
such refusal it is a revolutionary departure from
British practice and Parliament should be tola
about it.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Only Another Furphy.
Exposed in The Bulletin a week ago for the non-
sense that it was, the furphy about Germany’s alleged
military penetration of Spanish Morocco prevailed in
Our Glorious Press up to last Thursday, after which
the silly fabrication was dropped.
The closing note in the cables was a pious hope
that Herr Hitler’s assurance that “there is no organ-
ised body of German troops” in Spanish Morocco
would “not be falsified by later events.” There was
no mention of the fact that London “Telegraph” had
sent a special correspondent to Morocco to investi-
gate the allegations, nor was his report, published in
that paper, included in the cables that inform Aus-
tralia with “veracity and breadth of vision” on cur-
rent world affairs. The “Telegraph’s” investigator
reported that though he had searched the country
from one end to the other he had not found a single
trace of evidence of any such German activity.
That was passed over by the cablecrammers ; it
was picked up in direct short-wave broadcast. Further,
it was broadcast that the whole of the Morocco
furphy had been traced home to a single newspaper
in Paris. There the fantastic story had its genesis.
From that beginning it spread out through the “news”
channels into hundreds of newspapers. Now, having
done its dirty work, it is dropped in favor of some
more pressing sensation.
Proposed Coßoniol Lottery.
Lord Elibank’s proposal for the return of the New
Guinea colonies to Germany has found one sup-
porter Mr. George Fitz Patrick, president of the
N. S. Wales Royal Society of St. George, but more
renowned locally for his association with the Golden
Jest.
Mr. Fitz Patrick from his official perch says that
Lord Elibank has “predicted something unpalatable
but inevitable”:
It cannot be denied that we took the colonies from
Germany by force....We cannot hope for an abiding
peace if we hold by force something that may be taken
from us by force.
There is a certain magnanimity in the use of
“we,” since Mr. Fitz Patrick took no part in the
capture of any German possession. A small matter,
perhaps, but somehow it suggests a solution which
should satisfy everybody.
Let the Royal Society of St. George arrange for
a lottery such as the grand old Golden Jest used to
run before the N.S.W. Charitable Collections Act was
passed. If Germany can buy the colonies out of the
profits let it have them ; if not, they remain with us
for ever.
Canberra for Jobs and Grants.
Canberra was desolated when a committee of busi-
nessmen, commissioned to report on the prospects
of increasing Australian exports to India, Burma and
Ceylon, reported that they were so bleak that there
was no warrant for setting up Trade Commissions
like those established—so far with inconsiderable
results—in Japan, China, Maoriland, Canada and the
Netherlands East Indies.
The Government was still down in the mouth
when a member of the War Graves Commission
arrived with the intelligence that a few more tins
of jam and meat or something might be sold in Egypt.
Straightway he was appointed an Australian Trade
Commissioner in Egypt at £l5OO a year, with “an
entertainment and living allowance” of £5OO a year,
and no doubt an Assistant Trade Commissioner, com-
plete with clerks and typists, will join him before long.
It is one more proof that the distribution of
Federal and State functions is such that Canberra has
more money than it knows what to do with, and hard
put to find ways of spending it.
Apropos, Canberra is making large grants (£lO,OOO
in ’35-’36 and £15,000 this year) to the National Travel
Association, which exists chiefly to attract tourists from
the U.S.A. The more tax-money this concern gets the
less the taxpayers seem to benefit; certainly the arrival
of luxury liners from U.S.A. had ceased before the
long shipping strikes settled the American tourist
business in the Pacific indefinitely.
The National Travel Association operates in a
field which shipping and aviation cos. and State Gov-
ernment Tourist Bureaux were already working. It
maintains a journalist and lecturer in the U.S.A., who
presumably has surrounded himself with a staff. For
a long time to come his eloquence will be a total
loss.
As for the British section of the tourist trade,
what’s the use of spending tax-money on encouraging
it when the Government has caused it to be known
that any woman travelling without her husband who
has been so indiscreet as to fall in love with an Aus-
tralian may be refused admission and stigmatised in
Parliament, on the strength of “confidential infor-
mation,” as an undesirable?
This National Travel Association puts out a
monthly magazine which competes with periodicals
whose owners have to rely upon their own resources.
The meeting of Parliament is apparently to be delayed
for as long as delay is deemed safe, but it will have
to happen some time. When it does, some member
should certainly ask whether this N.T.A. magazine is
nourished with tax-money, and, if so, to what extent
and why.
Rehabilitating General Gough.
A field-marshal’s baton has been demanded for
General Gough, who led the Fifth Army. Perhaps
the gift has been handed to worse generals ; but in
the effort to rehabilitate the general who was
deprived of his command in April, 1918, fantastic
rubbish is appearing.
General Maxse, described as “his only surviving
corps commander,” has come out with this:
The retreat from St. Quentin to Amiens was thought
out in advance. It relinquished to the exhausted
Germans the entire salient in which, four months later,
fresh Canadian and Australian divisions plunged with
tanks, causing Ludendorff to identify August 8 as Ger-
many’s blackest day. The retreat enabled the mounting
of the August attack, leading to the termination of the
war.
As a matter of fact, the retreat “thought out
in advance” very nearly resulted in the Germans
capturing Amiens and separating the British armies
from the French.
It was certainly unforeseen by Petain, who was
with difficulty restrained from withdrawing the troops
fighting alongside the British to cover Paris. The
suggestion that the leader of the Fifth Army so badly
knocked in March had the August offensive in mind
is childish. If Gough planned the retreat from St.
Quentin Napoleon planned the retreat from Waterloo.
The Amateur Reporter.
Trained daily newspapermen, even though still
employed, must often wonder dismally what the future
holds for them.
In the last seven or eight years newspaper amal-
gamations and burials (often the same thing) have
cost hundreds of fellow-scribes their jobs, and few
of them have found places on other journals; nor
have the gaps in the Press Directory been filled. Now
hordes of “amateurs” compete with professionals for
the restricted space available, and many unemployed
journalists are reduced to doing occasional publicity
work for business firms and political organisations.
Archbishops, bishops, Premiers, Cabinet Ministers,
minor politicians, tennis-players and retired cricketers
(at least enough to play a match for the has-been
championship) are conspicuous in the swelling army
of recruits to newspaper work. Every legislator who
goes abroad at the public expense seems to consider
his tour incomplete unless he perpetrates a series of
articles on his experiences and impressions. Rarely
do these lucubrations rise above the level of trash.
The latest returned tripper who has written yards
of “copy” for newspapers is a Federal Arbitration
Judge. His Honor went to Britain, where he found
“drabness and poverty the lot of many millions.”
There seems to be no place in the economic world
for some 2,000,000 working people ; and vast numbers
of those in work are on the barest .of bread lines.
Precise and detailed industrial reports are cabled
from time to time. They scarcely support this
dejected view of the British situation and outlook ;
but perhaps they are all wrong. The visitor had a
chat with “an industrial magnate of importance known
for his liberal gifts.”
He was munching a wholemeal biscuit while 1
dissected the wing of d bird.
What a comfort it is to think that we look after Arbi-
tration Judges so well that they can go abroad and
collect harrowing information without any dietary
sacrifice!
The more or less observant traveller crossed over
to Germany. There he became fed up “with the
eternal übiquitous Swastika, the insolent profusion
of red flags blazoned with this Oriental symbol.” But,
unlike the poor, deluded inhabitants, he took the
measure of the Nazis in about ten minutes.
Germany’s people do not realise that the result
of. the new regime so far has been the entrenchment of
the landed interests, the industrial and commercial
magnates and financiers at the expenses of the peasant,
the worker and the small proprietor.
He discovered also that “the German autocracy which
uses Adolf Hitler as a spearhead is really afraid of
Russia.”
Not afraid of a Muscovite invasion, but [afraid]
that the Union of Soviet Republics may succeed in its
great task of economic reconstruction.
Italy must be “afraid” too, for “Germany and
Italy are concentrating on the isolation of Russia and
an extension of Fascism which will make possible the
forcible suppression of Communism.” And
Communism is to them any scheme which aims at
the supplanting of Capitalism and Imperialism by co-
operative production and international agreement.
Neither Fascism nor Communism appeals to
Australians; but if this gentleman’s picture of resur-
gent Germany as a nation dominated by the tools of
predatory interests, themselves swayed by mean fears
and ambitions, is the right one, The Bulletin will
eat its pink cover.
Praise for Maoriland Labor.
A Maoriland delegate to the wool-publicity confer-
ence in Melbourne testifies that the Savage Govern-
ment has “won the goodwill of the people, and seems
certain of re-election.” He adds that the Govern-
ment got in without his vote.
Labor has certainly made some useful credit
entries in Maoriland’s political ledger. Wages that
were too low have been increased ; working condi-
tions—often bad—have been improved. Boards to
which excessive power was delegated have been
dismissed, the Public Works Department has been
revitalised, and pension anomalies have been rectified.
The public has the feeling that energy has been
liberated in fields where for years there was stag-
nation.
But the cost of social services for only a million
and a half people has jumped from £6,290,000 in
1928-29 to £10,300,000 in 1936-37. Taxation is up
to £l9 4s. a head. Banking, goldmining, deer-stalking,
house-building and commercial broadcasting have
been added to the list of State enterprises ; and the
Government will be in the butter-and-eggs business in
February. It plans universal insurance against old
age and sickness. To administer its multitude of
measures the public service is being expanded.
And there have been ructions among the Govern-
ment’s own supporters. First the miners and then the
frieezing-works’ employees kicked over the traces
because the 40-hour week and improved wages were
not extended to them as speedily as to other indus-
tries. The men in freezers introduced a stay-in
strike. A crazy business, and a worry unforeseen
by the Government, which has gone in for guaranteed
prices to farmers and is gambling against a drain on
the Reserve Bank’s dairy-produce account.
Moreover, the Government has yet to learn that
it is necessary for Ministers to say the same thing.
Finance Minister Nash is in Britain offering “all the
proceeds from our country’s sales to the United King-
dom for the purchase of British goods.” In Maori-
land Minister of Industries and Commerce Sullivan
is taxing his political ingenuity to bring this pledge
into line with the Prime Minister’s assurance that
local manufacturing industries will be “safeguarded.”
The wool-conference delegate believes that the
Government is composed of “clever, sincere men out
to do their best, but willing to acknowledge and
remedy their mistakes.” Maoriland, for its part, is
hoping, with Mr. Savage, that “1937 will not belie
its splendid promise.”
The Other Way Round.
The Bulletin has received a membership application
form from the Society for the Promotion of Cultural
Relations with the peoples of the Soviet Union, which
has bishops among its members. The subscription is
55., and the very existence of the body shows how
even bishops can think loosely. If we really need to
develop cultural relations with Russia, it must be
because the Russians are more cultured than we are.
And since Russia already has a vast and well-financed
organisation devoted to the spreading of Russian
culture, even a ss. annual subscription is wasted on
doing something on which the U.S.S.R. has so much
more money to spend.
The official Russian Culture Society is called the
Communist Internationale, and it has been working
hard for a couple of decades without much result other
than the establishing of Fascism in Italy and Ger-
many. Its leaders have been fast adopting the
culture and political and philosophical outlook of the
peoples whom they have been hoping to convert. All
the evidence of this can be found in their new Con-
stitution, in their reorganisation of industries and in
the recent changes in their educational system and
outlook.
The objectives of the Australian organisation are,
first, “to promote an understanding of the culture
of the Soviet Union through the medium of the col-
lection and reciprocal exchange of cultural material
and ideas.” But, since the Soviet authorities
have continually informed the world that a capitalist
culture is something to be destroyed, and since, in
any case, there is no such thing as Russian culture in
these days, it having been replaced by that imported
by immigrant Polish and German Jews and Georgians,
the new effort sounds like a battering of heads against
a stone wall.
It is also set out that the new society is to be
conducted on “a non-political basis” for the study
of the Russian arts. But, as everything from medicine
to literature has been politicalised in Russia, and every
objective openly made subservient to what is there
called “political revolution,” there again seems to be
weakness.
There is one centre in which the existence of the
society will, of course, cause delight—Moscow.
For “assistance” is promised to any society “desir-
ous of obtaining from the Soviet Union infor-
matiop and material of a cultural or scientific
value.” No intermediate body seems to be neces-
sary when organisations wish to obtain infor-
mation of that sort about the United States, Ger-
many, Italy, France or any other civilised country.
They apply to the learned societies of those countries
or to their Consulates. However, Russia, not being
civilised, has no Consulate in Australia —unless the
secretary of the Communist party can be called a
“Consul”—and its learned societies seem to be limited
to the Ogpu and the General Staff of the Red Army.
Premier Bufier Has a Grievance.
In the search for an aircraft factory site Adelaide
was passed by, and Premier Butler is - annoyed. “It
makes one hesitate to enlarge the powers of the
Commonwealth,” he said last week, with one eye on
the Lyons referendum and the other on the Defence
Department.
Mr. Butler blames Defence Department officials
for the selection of Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne.
Actually, they had nothing to do with it. Although the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has the backing
of the Canberra Government, its contributory com-
panies are Broken Hill Prop., Associated Smelters,
Imperial Chemical Industries, and General Motors-
Holden’s. It was reserved for their experts to decide
on the site most likely to suit manufacturing require-
ments, and the experts chose Fishermen’s Bend.
Premier Butler tried very energetically to get the
aeroplane factory for his State. Mr. Lyons and Mr.
Parkhill were kept informed of S. Australian advan-
tages. For once, they discovered that it was a
matter in which their Government could not meddle.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Are”: On Australian beaches men
must not have the upper part of the body
uncovered ; at Rabaul the other day 66
natives were dragged to the District
Court for covering that part of them-
selves! It being illegal for male natives
thus to clothe themselves, they were each
socked two bob and told to go home and
undress, otherwise there’d be seven days
in the calaboose.
* H= * *
“Plus Four”: It’s always dangerous to
swank. Take the case of Mrs. Robots-
bottom. Her husband is a K.C. and quite
a nice chap, but serious. When Mrs. R.
took up golf—she’s about 20 years his
junior—he raised no objections, but said
firmly that she could count him out.
She paid subs., bought clubs, disbursed
fees to instructors, bored her friends (and
her husband) stiff with stories of her
prowess. After about four years of it
Robotsbottom said mildly one day: “My
dear, all this is very interesting, but if
you are as good as you say you are how
is it that you haven’t won any prizes?”
That seemed reasonable to Mrs. R., so
she fossicked round in pawnshops for a
trophy. Not a single golf pot for sale.
But there was a dinky little cup with a
greyhound rampant and an inscription:
“J. Smith’s ‘Banshee,’ 1902.” She bought
it for eight bob, took it to a jeweller, had
the greyhound and the words erased and
a pair of crossed golf clubs substituted,
and stuck it up on the dining-room
mantelshelf, unostentatious-like. About
a week went by before Robotsbottom
spotted it. When he did, his eye kindled.
“Did you win that?” he asked. His
spouse nodded pridefully. But —a
lawyer! —he not only picked it up and
lifted it but scrutinised the bottom for
the hall-mark. He found that —one
anchor and E.P. —and also, in very neat
script, “For the Fastest Bitch on the
Course.”
* * * *
“M.C.”: Descriptions circulated in
hunts for wanted persons are likely
enough to fit almost anybody, but there
was one of limited application that pro-
vides one of the best private-circulation
stories of the present century’s generation
of Australian writers. Confident he’d
nabbed the bloke wanted for murder in
another State, the cop., refusing to listen
to vehement protest or explanation, had
escorted the writer as far as police head-
quarters when another writer emerged
from a near-by building and, in response
to the desperate bellow from the victim,
soon convinced the cop. that he’d bagged
the wrong bird. The description of the
murderer had mentioned that he was
bearded —and very dirty.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A man has just gone to
gaol for eight months in S.A. for a series
of valueless-cheque frauds, carried on
quite recklessly and in an almost con-
tinuous series. Evidence was given that
he had arrived from Melbourne less than
a month before and moved on to Broken
Hill in a car bought with worthless
paper. He admitted 56 previous convic-
tions in N.S.W., Queensland, England and
Ireland. The Court suggested that some-
thing must be wrong with a banking
system which can make so much easy
money possible to a stranger who pos-
sesses 2d. to buy a cheque form.
* * * *
“P.P.”: Bradman, according to Neville
Cardus, was a gravedigger, an architect-
turned-honest mason, a human dynamo,
a general in a war of attrition whose
cricket was, “in the term of Karl Marx,
congealed labor,” a fireman with
“banked fires” which were atdast “struck
into a blaze,” a dog who “could not un-
leash himself” (“his batting was tied to
the kennel for a long time”), and a
knight in armor —all in one day. In
the intervals between these impersona-
tions, it appears, Bradman played cricket.
A versatile chap, our Don.
“Sorry, lady—we didn't allow for the wind."
“Emsee”: In his book Return to
Malaya Bruce Lockhart describes what
must be the strangest golf course in the
world ; he saw it when visiting Singa-
pore gaol. Its nine holes are placed in
front of two mortuaries, a maternity hos-
pital, an infectious diseases hospital, a
lunatic asylum, a powder magazine, the
prison and a Chinese graveyard. Ac-
cording to legend there was once a scaf-
fold alongside the sixth tee. At a time
when there was an outcry against public
executions the Governor was one day
about to play off this sixth tee, when a
sudden loud hammering put him off the
stroke. The scaffold was being strength-
ened for a public execution next morn-
ing, and that golf stroke is given credit
for the Governor having forthwith
stopped public executions throughout the
colony.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Ten years of wandering round
the nor’-west of W.A. have convinced
me that the only difference between
native and white mothers is the color.
Native women are just as jealous of the
care of their offspring as whites, so I’m
wondering how it has been found that
“girl-children become chattels in a slave
market extending along three or four
thousand miles of coastline,” as set forth
in one of the weeklies. Though native
tribes come down to the foreshore and
barter their womenfolk to lugger crews
any young girls are carefully kept out
of sight. In Broome some years back
three Kimberley natives were brought
down from Wyndham for trial in con-
nection with a tribal murder. One of the
natives was a woman who had with her a
girl-child five years of age ; all efforts to
separate her from the child were unsuc-
cessful, and the police had to bring them
both over a thousand miles. We are
expected to believe that mothers of this
sort sell their young girls to Japanese
sampan crews.
* sfi * *
“Templar”: The latest American
horror—-the cold-blooded and brutal
murder of a kidnapped 10-year-old boy—
suggests that a draconic law, though it
may operate as a deterrent in some
cases, may be an incentive to worse
crime in others. As a result of the Lind-
bergh case kidnapping was made a
capital offence in the U.S., a salutary
enactment enough on the face of it. But
if a caught and convicted kidnapper faces
the prospect, or indeed the certainty, of
being punished with death, a desperate
criminal is unlikely to stick at the murder
of his victim when it gives him a better
chance, perhaps the only chance, of
escaping justice. If the penalty for kid-
napping is death it is obvious that the
penalty for kidnapping plus murder,
assuming that the ransom racket has mis-
carried, can be no heavier. It is a point
worth the consideration of lawmakers,
especially when laws are made hurriedly
in response to an overwhelming wave of
public indignation.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: During the past few
weeks the airliner Loongana has made
two hop-overs a day from Melbourne to
Hobart, constituting a new Australian
record for scheduled flying. It sets me
thinking of how, on New Year’s Day
13 years ago, from a Tasmanian-bound
yacht we gave two lonely lighthouse
keepers at Deal Island (Bass Strait) their
first news about the placed horses in the
Melbourne Cup. Now these men can
listen-in for all news, and can wave from
the highest lighthouse in the world to
this Douglas mail ’plane flying daily
overhead.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Sir Ivor Maxse, apologist for
General Gough at a dinner in London,
would have been more convincing (there
is quite a lot to be said for the almost
unreinforced Fifth Army) if he had not
said that “four months later fresh Cana-
dian and Australian divisions plunged
[into the abandoned area] with tanks,
causing Ludendorff to identify August 8
as Germany’s blackest day.” Anyone
who could have found a fresh Austra-
lian battalion at any time in 1918 would
have been a magician. Australians were
rushed down to Amiens when the crisis
came, and from there many of them were
rushed north to block the fresh hole that
had developed in the line. My own
platoon was never more than 24 strong
(normal strength 44) during 1918, which
would be the A.I.F. average. There was
about a month’s rest before the opera-
tions which ended the war ; it was mainly
spent in reconstruction, in which one bat-
talion in each brigade was broken up to
reinforce the other three. The Fifth
Army battalions were at least as fresh
as those “fresh Australian battalions,”
which had been the spearhead of every
big attack.
* * * *
“C. Mac”: Military cops, were chiefly
unpopular for the same reason that
many Australian civvy cops, are unpopu-
lar with ordinary law-abiding citizens —
they were apt to be flash and bumptious.
But there was more to it than that. The
front-line Digger had, naturally enough,
a downright contempt for base wallahs
of all kinds. This in newcomers to war
was a manifestation of bravado, the out-
come of the romantic notion of war still
being propagated by well-meaning arm-
chair patriots on such occasions as
Armistice Day and Anzac Day. When
the warrior had had a bellyful of it—
one real turn in the front line was plenty
—the bravado superiority complex turned
to the inferiority feeling of envy and a
strong sense of being the victim of in-
justice. When, your consciousness hav-
ing passed through this evolution, you
tumbled, mud all over you and several
weeks’ growth of bristles, into some
haven of a back-line village and were
instantly bumptiously informed by a
flash Jack that felt hats, not tin hats, had
to be worn there, your envy took an-
other twist and became hatred. Hate’s
a poor stayer and Digger memory of the
worst aspects of war is short, but even
at this remove mention of the military
police can still raise a curse.
* # * #
“Selma”: Members of circulating
libraries make some odd finds in the
books they borrow. Lithgow (N.S.W.) is
the scene of the latest thing in this line,
a woman reader having come upon a £65
diamond pendant, contained in a sachet,
in a novel she had selected. The owner
had, as so many readers do, used for a
bookmarker the first thing at hand. I
once shook out of a book obtained from
the Goulburn School of Arts a pound
note and sixpence, and on another occa-
sion I found coyly hiding in a large
volume taken from a city library the in-
come-tax returns of a well-known firm,
which was in the course of heated argu-
ment with a department which insisted
it had never received them!
* * * $
“Y.”: A “radium wedding” for a
seventieth anniversary has been an-
nounced again in Victoria. The term
seems to be superseding “ruby wedding,’
though the ocasions are. not
as rare as radium. One
authority says that wedding
anniversaries are named
from the nature of the gifts
suitable for the various cele-
brations, yet I don’t think
much radium is presented.
The standard list', partly of
American origin, includes
wooden wedding for the
fifth anniversary, tin for the
tenth, crystal for the fifteenth
and china for the twentieth,
with the familiar silver and
golden, followed in the six-
tieth year by the diamond
wedding (whence the title of
Queen Victoria’s diamond
jubilee). Those who observe
the earlier occasions make
variations now and then, and
I am thinking of regarding
the next anniversary in which I am in-
terested as the new-furniture wedding.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The naval men had one good
thing fairly thrown at them when visit-
ing Adelaide for the centenary. Present,
H.M.A.S. Yarra, of the Fleet. Starting
in a local race, Yarro, ridden by Fleet.
The tip simply couldn’t be disregarded,
and the good thing came off.
* * * *
“Y ”; V.’s” mention of the “head
shaped like a pineapple” of William IV.
of England (B. 30/12/’36) recalls an-
other fruit-shaped head of a century ago.
Louis Philippe, of France, who began
his reign in the same year as “Sailor
Bill,” 1830, was caricatured often as
having for a head a pear with the
narrow end up ; one of the caricaturists
was Thackeray, a Paris correspondent
and pioneer of the comic strip before
he did much as a novelist. Among
cidents of Lou Phil’s wandering earlier
life, when he was wise enough to keep
out of France, were a period as school-
teacher in Europe and a kind of Mrs.
Simpson affair with, a lady of New
Jersey while he was for three years a
market-gardening resident of the United
States. Louis Pearhead passed part of
his exile before monarchy in England,
and returned there in a hurry when the
French decided that 18 years of a “citi-
zen King” had been enough. He had
dodged eight attempts at assassination.
PERMS.
“The only reason he could offer for his insolvency
was that the charge for permanent waves had been
reduced.”— Beauty-parlor proprietor in Sydney
Bankruptcy Court.
This H.C.L., the world I’ll tell,
Is definitely trying;
It costs a chap, I’m positive,
More than it ever did to live
And just as much for dying.
Yet here’s one gleam to light the gloom:
Although the bill grows steeper
For all you’re clad in or consume
Between the cradle and the tomb
The charge for “perms.” is cheaper.
His post-war dues for mending shoes
He still collects, the cobbler;
No jovial Bung abates a jot
His tanner for the foaming pot,
His ninepence for the nobbier.
Though up or down our wool may go
The snip remains the reaper
Of just the same amount of dough,
So, at the worst, it’s good to know
That “perms.” at least are cheaper.
In bread and meat, and all you eat
Or drink or smoke or mention,
In all the goods a fellow buys
There’s ever and anon a rise
But never a declension.
A lone exception this, and hence
It cuts a trifle deeper
Than more imposing and intense
Financial intelligence—
The cost of “perms.” is cheaper.
Heart up, my lad! Nor look so sad
Or totter off your axis
When letters check your morning “brek”
For things like rates and taxes;
We’re fairly round the corner now,
We’ve wiped Depression’s peeper.
And should you doubt—well, anyhow,
Your wife (or sweetheart) will allow
The price of “perms.” is cheaper.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sixenate”: The, police court in one
of Sydney’s roughest centres was engaged
on the aftermath of a brawl in a parti-
cularly frowsy quarter. The solicitor for
the defence, endeavoring to show bias
in a woman witness, suggested that she
had never liked the accused. “1 never
regarded ’im as no gentleman,” she ad-
mitted. As it had been mentioned in
evidence that the accused had bashed his
wife, kicked another woman and used
shocking language, no further explana-
tion seemed necessary ; but the lady went
on to supply one. “’E always goes to
every party,” she added, “but ’e never
brings along no beer.”
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Our local temper-
ance lecturer had to put up one night
at an outback pub where a mob of
thirsty sawmill hands were enjoying a
holiday spree. . Waking next morning,
he found a hard-faced female hovering
near with a morning cup. “How many,
Buddy?” she demanded briskly. “Three
lumps, please,” answered the t.l. ; then,
noticing that the cup contained only cold
water, he inquired, “No morning tea,
miss?” “No,” retorted the lady; “there’s
no tea. I’m takin’ round th’ morning
asp’rins. How many?”
* # * *
“Petrie”: Quaint souvenirs? A Bris-
bane barber proudly exhibits a skipping-
rope which was used by Les Darcy in
his training work. It looks like any other
old skipping-rope, but it is enclosed in
a glass-covered frame, with a suitable
inscription, and customers are expected
to gaze upon it with reverence.
* * * *
“Fisher”: Franklin Dyall, the London
actor, puts failing church congregations
down to lack of “decent elocution”: no
actor could make a crust if he droned
through his nose like the average rev.
In an age when radio announcers make
an' effort to be pleasing to the ear, law-
yers strive to tickle the drums of sensi-
tive jurymen, spruikers endeavor to put
a little variety of tone into a top-pitch
bull-roar, flappers ape Marlene to fasci-
nate Woolloomooloo Yanks, cockies
speak soothingly to Strawberry and sales-
men are trained not to be raucous about
their product, it is strange that the
church doesn’t fall into line and throw
overboard the traditional sing-song deli-
very which dates back to the Puritans
and appeals solely to the aesthetic ear of
full-blooded wowsers.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A Sydney magistrate
stared hard when a witness, referring to
an appointment he had failed to keep,
said, “I went drunk on it.” “Do you
mean that you became intoxicated?”
queried the beak. The witness retorted
rather hotly that he never tasted liquor
-—he was a lifelong Rechabite. “But
you said you were drunk,” pursued the
S.M. testily. It was a police sergeant
who intervened with the suggestion that
the witness had probably meant that he
had been guilty of forgetfulness. Evi-
dently the magistrate had never before
heard “gone drunk on it” used in this
colloquial sense, though he showed that
he was sufficiently versed in slang to
accept “did his block” and “gave him a
king hit” without need of interpretation.
* * * *
“Selma”: Just as the boss was pre-
paring to rush off to his Saturday’s golf
the junior typist brought him the
“I maintain the reel trouble with the poor is that they re LAZY and sely-INDULGENT.”
monthly list of overdue accounts. Glanc-
ing at the names he said hastily, “Write
the usual letter to each, Miss Jones.
And add on Brown and Smith’s that if
we don’t hear from them soon we’ll have
to resort to the court to collect it.”
Brown and Smith sent along a much
overdue cheque three days later, and
added that they much resented the tone
of the letter they had received. In some
trepidation we looked it up. The damsel
had written: “We shall have to resort
to force to collect it.”
"Don't go floating on your back, dear, or you'll get your tummy burned.
And youd better not float on your tummy, either."
“Oxmead”: “G.A.” tells us (B.
13 /1 /’37) that after Queen Victoria had
been betrothed to Albert the Good the
latter gave offence to patriotic Germans
by appearing at some function in civilian
dress and thereby drew on himself a
public rebuke from Bismarck. The re-
minder that he was “still a German
prince and must behave as such, even
though he was going to marry an Eng-
lishwoman,” may have come from some
Teuton statesman of the period, but it
can’t have been Bismarck. The future
“Iron Chancellor” was only 22 in 1837.
«= * * *
• “Cent”: Not only is the musk-plant
not losing its scent, but, contrary also
to “Ike Hollar’s” suggestion (B. 6/1 /’37),
it is not used in the perfumery trade.
The purveyor of the valuable stuff is
the male musk deer. The musk —the
dried secretion from an abdominal gland
—is probably the most enduring of all
odors ; so long as the substance remains,
the odor suffers no diminution. When
newly extracted from the deer, however,
it is more repulsive than attractive.
* * * *
“Oquay Deauk”: Subject of a recent
Bulletin controversy, “0.K.” is rapidly
becoming demode in U.S.A., if Uncle
Sam’s movies and magazines can be be-
lieved. It is being supplanted by numer-
ous derivatives such as “okey,” “kayo,”
“okey-doke,” “okey-doker” and “okus-
kaybus.” In a few decades the original
will probably have been distorted out of
all recognition, for fashions in slang,
like movie stars’ husbands, change
quickly in Gahd’s Own Country.
“Spare Corp”: The best-advertised of
all army orders given by a junior officer
—Lieut. F. P. Bethune, in charge of the
3rd Australian Machine Gun Co. in
March, 1918 —has recently been resusci-
tated. It ran: “If the section cannot
remain here alive it will remain here
dead, but in any case it will remain
here.” I recall another memorable phrase
of the same sort. Casualties in an ad-
vanced post had left a corporal in
charge. Through the welter, to see if
the post could still be held, came an
adjutant, who suggested a way of retreat
if the handful of men were beaten. “If
we are. beaten we’ll be too dead to
retreat,” was the corp.’s comment. And
the post was held in the face of terrific
attacking odds, though the corp. him-
self was among those who were past
retreating.
*i» »!»
“Jesmond”: The Murray River friends
of “M.W.T.” (B. 30/12/’36) who wish
to hold a swimming carnival on a Sun-
day should use their grey matter. The
law says you must not charge for ad-
mission nor advertise any price, but
every Sunday scores of entertainments
for profit are held in Victoria. You can
give receipts for donations, such receipt
giving admission to the ground ; make it
an invitation day, selling programmes
which could have the. invitation attached ;
make it free for all and take a col-
lection ; form an association specially
for the purpose, membership fee being
the proposed price of admission. Per-
haps admission could not be refused
anyone, but if the district is interested
there would not be many gate-crashers.
Melbourne authorities take a broad view
of such things, and if local authorities
and churches are sympathetic there is ho
reason why the carnival should not be
most successful.
j|< v *V V
“Mullingar”: The death of Charles
James Moran (B. 6/1/’37) recalls the most
tempestuous election meeting I ever at-
tended. It was in the Miners’ Institute,
Kalgoorlie, in April, 1901, when Moran
was seeking a second term as M.L.A. This
was shortly after the alluvial troubles
on the goldfields, and bitter feeling had
been stirred up against the member by
the local press over the Ivanhoe Venture
business —he was accused of having
subordinated the interests of the miners
to his own as a part-owner of the claim.
The result was that he faced as savagely
hostile an audience as ever collected on
the goldfields. For three solid hours he
was hardly allowed to finish a sentence.
The hall became a pandemonium of
shouted abuse, howls, jeers and threats,
relieved now and then by a song of the
“Hang-old-someone-on-a-sour-apple-tree”
variety. Yet through it all Moran stuck
to his post gamely; if his detractors
wouldn’t let him speak, they couldn’t
claim to have intimidated him. The end
only came when some of the rioters
began to rip the legs off chairs and
benches, evidently projecting an assault
on the platform. At this stage somebody
judiciously turned off the lights, and
Moran and his adherents retired by a
back exit, still in good order. After
that demonstration the loss of the seat
was a foregone conclusion, but the un-
popular member continued to address
daytime meetings at street-corners to the
bitter end.
INTO BATTLE.
“Australia’s political delegation for the Coronation
will include, etc.”
When the banquet bugles blare
They’ll be there!
Oh, our nation’s delegation will be there!
With a fork in lieu of cartridge
And the enemy a partridge
They’ll prepare
To attack it, rend and hack it, rip and tear!
Roughing it, but looking pleasant
Though the foe be seasoned pheasant,
Or a hare
Be entrenched along the front line bill o’ fare,
Or a suckling,
Squab or duckling
Should assault there, grimly chuckling,
With their stainless bayonets bare,
Dripping gravy in their charges
Through the menu’s fierce barrages,
Oh, our nation’s delegation will be there!
Where the banquet Vereys flare
They’ll be there!
Oh, our nation’s delegation will be there!
When the Wedgwood heavies rattle,
In the vanguard of the battle
They will bear,
Like the Ghurka, of a turk. a lion’s share!
Through entanglements of trifle,
With a silver spoon for rifle,
They will dare!
Though a thousand others falter and despair—
Far too swelly
In the belly
To withstand the charging jelly—
Each the same old debonair,
Staunch and dauntless banquet fighter,
Be the belt however tighter,
Oh, our nation’s delegation will be there!
In the festive dugout’s glare
They’ll be there!
Yes, our nation’s delegation will be there!
Though the havoc be appalling,
Where the magnum bombs are falling,
Come whate’er
They will match it and dispatch it—rwill compare
With the bravest at the table!
Like the frog of ancient fable
Charged with air,
To the pressing invitation of the Chair,
When it reaches
Time for speeches
Each will stand athwart the breaches,
With a ton of wind to spare,
And his finger in the trigger
Of his waistcoat —what a Digger!
Oh, our nation’s delegation will be there!
N.S.W.
MACANN.


20fori &
10 for 9 a ,
WIBB4
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
&e4n&fH&di
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
%
Ujg
Ji
THIS
THE
CORK
CIGARETTE
GENE R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
“All this fuss over a very minor
appointment!” said Abbott, M.H.R., re-
ferring to the ocean of objections to his
being named Administrator at Darwin.
Lyons replied that it was “not a very
minor appointment” ; it was “an impor-
tant appointment.” The Government is
so wild with Abbott that it is not going
to name him Administrator for at least
a week.
“The Australian system of censor-
ship” has been upheld in principle by
Melbourne “Argus,” though some
“eccentricities” of administration are ad-
mitted. The “Argus” seems to have
completely forgotten the anti-censorship
drives conducted by its ill-fated sister the
“Star.”
Stay-in strikes, invented in France,
have spread to the U.S.A. and M.L.
Employees in trans-Tasman freezers
were refused a 40-hour week. Last week
the Auckland lot struck and took posses-
sion of the works —until they thought
better of it. Scouts reported them living
on meat-pies and trying to sleep on floors
and wooden benches. A freezer seems a
nasty place to have indigestion and in-
somnia in.
The official Yes pamphlet on the mar-
keting referendum asserts that “the pro-
posed constitutional amendment seeks
merely a restoration of power taken
away by the Privy Council.” No power
was taken away by the Privy Council.
Power was usurped by politicians sub-
servient to powerful interests in infrac-
tion of popular rights (“trade, commerce
and intercourse among the States shall
be absolutely free”), and a judicial com-
mittee of the Privy Council pronounced
it a usurpation. No power enjoyed by
the Australian people or delegated by
them to Parliament can be taken away
by the Privy Council.
The Sydney Government, which
promised to “balance the Budget this
year,” has had to admit that for the
first six months it spent nearly two mil-
lions more than it received. Revenue
(£24,144,908) was up £385,723, but ex-
penditure (£26,102,398) was up £857,491.
U.A.P. papers still insist that there will
be a surplus of £200,000 or so in June.
Of course, miracles can be worked by
charging ordinary expenditure to loans.
Genial observation printed in the “Aus-
tralian Country Party Monthly Journal”:
The result in Darling Downs shows that
the C.P., provided it has a good candidate,
can beat the U.A.P. in any country elec-
torate.
Yes, fellow-electors, the C.P. and the
U.A.P. are allied under the leadership
of those great U.A.P. statesmen Mr.
Lyons and Mr. Stevens!
J. J. Daly, the Adelaide lawyer who
was one of Scullin’s Ministers, is after
a Labor nomination again in S.A. In ex-
ceptionally trying times, Daly led the
Senate very ably, as the other side ac-
knowledged, but when Trades Hallers
went head-hunting in Adelaide Daly
was the first victim. For years he wasn’t
sure whether he was officially in or out
of the. party. Now he is definitely in,
but, with his former fellow-Senators
O’Halloran and Hoare, A.L.P. president
Dawes, A.L.P. secretary Ward and
A.W.U. organiser Murphy all after
Senate nominations, he has strong oppo-
sition in the ballot.
“Recovery,” wrote the “Saturday
Evening Post” recently, “came back to
this country in sixes and eights, driven
by the motor industry.” It has now been
arrested by tremendous strikes, concen-
trated on General Motors and its sub-
sidiaries —113,000 G.M. men alone are
idle, though only minorities are striking.
It seems a poor return for what Roose-
velt has done for the toilers.
Writing in the “Primary Producer,”
Eric Hitchins, who represents Westraha
on the Woolgrowers’ Council, made out
a little bill:
Messrs. Lyons and Co.
Dr. to The Wool Industry.
By Marketing Loss due to Government
Action, £10,000,000.
He reckons £10,000,000 “a conservative
estimate of the loss suffered by those
who have sold wool since the Adelaide
sale in June” —that is to say, the dif-
ference between actual prices and prices
that would have been got if the Gov-
ernment hadn’t meddled in its idiotic
way.
The Red gentlemen in Russia seem to
have a rooted conviction that John Bull
is a mug. Their latest demand on him
is that he should direct the Royal Navy
to protect Soviet ships carrying Russian
“The Duke of Windsor, who startled the people of Enzesfeld by bagpiping, is now
learning to play the piano-accordion, and is practising the ‘Blue Danube’ waltz.”
“Is dere noddings to be done aboud it? Can ve nod to de League abbeal?”
’planes, guns, ammunition, petrol and
coal to the Reds in Spain. The ulti-
matum or whatever it was coincided with
the dismissal of naval dockyard men as
a sequel to sabotage on British warships.
The Old Man’s refusal should be accom-
panied by a polite inquiry whether the
Red gentlemen know anything about
that.
The Lyons Government is reported to
be “alarmed at the evidence of malnu-
trition among school-children.” If it
goes looking for causes, and is honest
about it, it will find that the malnutrition
is an effect of unemployment, of which
it has washed its hands, although the
Roosevelt Government has shouldered
the. main responsibility as a national
Government could. An effect, too, of
“orderly” (i.e., bureaucratic) “market-
ing” of necessaries, to which it proposes
a vast extension by emasculating the vital
clause of the Constitution which was sup-
posed to have been transmitted to it as
a sacred heritage. But it is doubtful
whether the Government s concern tor
ill-nourished children will carry it that
far.
Trade returns for five months of
1936-37 show that value of exports ex-
ceeded value of imports by £4,813,000
sterling. The position is not so good
as it was at the end of November, 1935,
when the favorable balance was
£5,460,300 sterling ; but it is better than
the Government had any right to expect,
considering its crazy quarrels with Japan
and U.S.A. Actually a bad position was
made fairly good by increased exports
to the U.S.A., with which Canberra is
still officially on bad terms.
In his presidential address at the Auck-
land conference of the Association for
the Advancement of Science, Rivett, of
the C.S. and 1.R., had the courage to
assail “the most unwarranted assumption
that anyone can make a success of farm-
ing,” and to suggest that many land
men are “incompetent” and that “inevit-
ably and inexorably we are driven to-
wards the development of secondary in-
dustries.” Now every loan-drunk Pre-
mier and vote-catching politician will be
at him.
The well-informed writer of “S. M.
Herald’s” always-interesting Local Gov-
ernment column reports that “when
the depression started N.S.W. councils
immediately went off the loan market,
and the loan indebtedness to-day is less
than it was six years ago”: and a good
thing, too. Unfortunately a few councils
have yielded to the Sydney Govern-
ment’s persistent attempts, sweetened with
subsidies and what not, to induce them
to borrow, and are in danger of going
broke. Apart from these unfortunate
exceptions, N. S. Wales is well served by
its local-government authorities, which,
generally speaking, have shown them-
selves capable of shouldering still
greater responsibilities.
The naked and mutilated body of a
10-year-old boy kidnapped in Tacoma
(U.S.A.) has been found in the snow,
and a horrified President has undertaken
that “the search for the murderer will be
pursued relentlessly until he is caught.”
Every means at our command must be
enlisted to apprehend and punish the per-
petrator of this ghastly crime.
It shows how old-fashioned the Ameri-
cans are in these matters. If Mr. Roose-
velt were an Australian Premier, he
would be denounced as a barbarian, and
if the murderer were convicted a party
would immediately be formed to save
him from the gallows on the. ground
that he is the victim of a ruthless capital-
ist society, more sinned against than sin-
ning.
Stevens and co. are filling a vacancy
for a lecturer at Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College, Dr. Harrison, D.Sc.,
Agr., having got a better billet. The
successful applicant will be required to
“lecture and conduct examinations and
give practical instructions and demon-
strate in agricultural botany, entomology,
plant pathology, grasses, pasture plants,
principles of nursery work, etc.”; and
the screw is “£335 p.a., reduced under
the Public Service Salaries Act to £319
p.a.” If he makes good some other
country, in which agricultural scientists
are not sweated in cold blood, will hear
about him, so the duration of the appoint-
ment is expected to be six months.
The chairman of a shire council in the
Roma (Q.) district has been saying that
“local authorities look after their finances
much better than any Government does,
the Commonwealth Government perhaps
excepted.” This irrefutable statement
was added to a criticism of a Brisbane
measure which obliges country councils
to close their financial years on June 30,
as the Government does, and to balance
their budgets, as the. Government doesn’t.
If Stevens has his way there will be
three N.S.W. concerns borrowing for
“works” this year—his own show, the
Water Board and a new electricity board
or commission. The board or commis-
sion is to “implement” a grand new
scheme, “the largest of its kind ever
undertaken in Australia,” and, of course,
the costliest, for, among other things,
“electrification of the railways from Syd-
ney to Newcastle, Nowra, Lithgow and
Goulburn.” Naturally, a “great deal of
heavy plant will have to be imported,”
and Mr. Stevens is convinced that “the
British market will supply the capital
necessary.” If the Loan Council lets
itself be convinced, it will proclaim itself
a hollow fraud and fake.
Before another cent is spent on elec-
trification of N.S.W. railways, the public
ought to be told how the city railway
and the electrified suburban lines have
shaped financially. There is a con-
firmed suspicion that they have made
substantial contributions to the railway
deficit which is annually alleged to have
been “reduced,” though it never stops
growing. The taxpayers are not per-
mitted to learn the truth about these
electrified lines, and it looks suspicious.
Victoria’s useful Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion has a notice-board on which it posts
appropriate comments on current extra-
vagance. Two recent contributions:
Deakin Went to London Without Even
a Typist.
An Economy Ministry Would Abolish
Gold Passes.
A reference to the addition of Treasurer
Casey to the list of Ministers entitled to
ride free over Australia’s insolvent rail-
ways for the rest of their lives.
Three years’ Ministerial service
qualifies for a life pass good for any
Government railway, • and, as there
are always at least 73 Ministers in
Australia, someone qualifies every year
or so. This was the one substantive reso-
lution passed by the Premiers’ Con-
ference before the depression compelled
Premiers to arrive at decisions that might
really benefit the people.


THE FOUNTAIN OF BEAUTY.
“In countries I have visited an aid to beauty is a lotion distilled from donkeys’ tears.”— Rosita Forbes, in “S. M. Herald.”


■tern?
n
a
n
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
SYDNEY
£~ Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
JMcPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne,, Adelaide,. PertH*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane,
'MakeEastbourne
JburHeadquarters
\’for the Coronation
For golf, for horse riding on the famous
Sussex Downs, for tennis, cricket and
other sports in season, for good and safe
bathing, for leave or retirement, for the
education of your children —Eastbou rne,
the town of a thousand attractions and
with a climate more equable than that of
the Riviera. Next season, London will
be so crowded, and there’s
no place like Eastbourne.
Write for Official Handbook
to: Dept. 80,
Information Bureau,
Eastbourne.
sd
p
I
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 Xiittle Collins St., Melb. Cl.
• Melbourne’s largest, most modern hotel.
Central —next to Town Hall. Quiet —off tram
lines. Comfortable —luxurious appointments
throughout. Inexpensive—popular “Boom
Only” tariff: Singles, 4/- to 7/6 per day;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/- per day. Write Dept.
824 for catalogue.
AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST NON-LICENSED HOTt
PERSONAL ITEMS
Coventry conveys a good idea of the
contemplatively pursed lips and strong
face of Herbert Mayo, K.C., one of
S.A.’s leading commercial counsel. Mayo
HERBERT MAYO, K.C., of Adelaide.
takes an active interest in public legal
matters, has been president of the Law
Society of S.A. for three years and in
1933-34 was president of the Australian
Law Council. Made an honorary sti-
pendiary magistrate in 1927, he took silk
in 1930. In his spare moments he lec-
tures in jurisprudence and commercial
law at Adelaide University. His father
was an Adelaide civil engineer.
Colonel E. F. Lind, who is to com-
mand Australia’s military contingent to
the Coronation, is a soldier of traditional
clear-cut Digger countenance who does
not look his 48 years. He took his M.B.
at Melbourne University just in time to
get away to the war, in which he served
throughout, from Gallipoli to Belgium.
He was D.A.D.M.S. to the 4th Divvy
in 1918 and commanded the 2nd Field
Ambulance till 1919. On his return he
took command of the Melbourne Uni-
versity Rifles, in which he held his first
commission. Later he had the 29th Bat-
talion, and since 1934 he has been head
of the 4th Infantry Brigade. When not
soldiering he practises medicine at
Brighton (Vic.). His ribbons include
the D.S.O.
Jack Bradshaw, self-styled “The Last
of the Bushrangers,” has passed on at
84. The bushy-bearded veteran, who was
strong on the. point that Dan Kelly
escaped and lived an exemplary life in
Brisbane, wrote a book many years ago
in which he told of his experiences and
claimed many bushrangers among his
friends.
Bluff J. H. S. Angus passed out in Syd-
ney at 61 last week. Born in Invercargill
(M.L.), he was the son of a railway con-
tractor who came to Sydney in ’79 and
laid the first steam-tram rails in N. S.
Wales. J.H.S. was educated at Newing-
ton and Scots, and began his working
life on Pareora station (M.L.). Later he
joined his father in vine- and stock-grow-
ing at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.), and eventu-
ally owned the famous Minchinbury
winery. In 1903 he was elected to the
council of the R.A.S., and was its deputy-
president when the end came. An un-
talkative but genial sort, he had a busi-
ness acumen that piloted the R.A.S.
finance committee successfully through
the dark depression days. In addition
to his agricultural interests, he found
time to be chairman of Clyde Engineer-
ing, Vale of Clwydd, Clyde Brick,
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts and Mt. Frome Lime companies.
The death of Grafton Elliot Smith does
not leave Australia without a represen-
tative in the. field of archaeology. The
mantle falls on V. Gordon Childe, son
of a rector of St. Thomas’s Church,
North Sydney. Childe went to Shore
and Sydney University, and thence to
Oxford on a graduate scholarship in
classics ; graduated B.Litt. —first-class
honors, literce humaniores —and returned
to Australia. Here he found it hard to
find a job, but for two years was John
Storey’s private secretary. Then he re-
turned to Europe, travelled extensively
studying the movement of ancient
peoples, wrote a masterpiece on the dawn
of European civilisation, was appointed
librarian to the Royal Anthropological
Institute in 1925, and two years later, at
35, became professor of prehistoric
archaeology at Edinburgh. During his
Australian sojourn after the war he pro-
duced a work called How Labor Governs.
One of the darkest secrets The Bulle-
tin staff has been able to worm out of
Ted Scorfield is that in his younger days
he kept an autograph-book. These times
it reposes in a drawer among a motley
collection of old pencils, sketches by
Phil May, war decorations and cigarette
tins. The book came to light apropos
ROBEY BY ROBEY AND —
of a remark (B. 30/12/’36) that had
vaudeville not caught George Robey he
might have become a first-class cartoon-
ist. Scorfield produced Robey’s effort in
his book to prove it, and added Harry
Lauder’s self-visualisation to show that
he, too, might have done well with the
pen. Lauder is in Australia. Robey will
be here early this year.
Robin Tillyard, dead as the result of
a motor accident, was one of Aus-
tralia’s leading scientists and an entomo-
logist F.R.S. His interests were not con-
fined to insects —any science he cared to
tackle seemed to become at once an open
book to him. His earliest bent was
mathematics, and he was senior optime
in the Cambridge mathematical school in
1903. It was while he was mathematical
master at Sydney Grammar School that
he discovered a liking for zoology. At 32
he became a research scholar at Sydney
Uni., and within a couple of years he was
Linnaean Fellow and Lecturer in Zoology.
Three years more saw him director of
the biology department in the Cawthron
Institute, Nelson (M.L.), but in 1928 he
returned to Australia as chief Com-
monwealth Entomologist. The doctor’s
work, embodied in nearly 200 papers and
on all orders of insects, was regarded as
authoritative throughout the world. He
was a Muller Memorial Medallist. He
retired in 1934, but, always an active
man, continued to take a vigorous inter-
est in public affairs. One of his last in-
terests was the joint-editorship of “The
Australian National Review,” vol. 1. of
which is dated from Canberra, January 1.
Spiked his last copy in London in his
early forties, Howard Knapp, one of the
brightest of the young men who ran
Sydney “Evening News” in
early post-war years. His rise
on the staff was meteoric and
his energy was boundless. In
the dingy rooms of the A.P.A.
in Salisbury-square, London,
he was like a flash of Australian sun-
light, and he astonished London when
he first went there with his ardently Aus-
tralian phraseology and his conviction
that a wide-brimmed brown hat was the
proper headgear to go with full
dress. He was very popular with Lon-
don pressmen and politicians, and when
he left the A.P.A. offices it was to go to
a good job on London “Telegraph.”
Gone in his 69th year, Percy Milne
(“Brady’s Lookout”), of the. Apple Isle.
Of the third generation to farm the
family acres in the New Norfolk dis-
trict, he took a keen interest in all things
appertaining to the man on the land. A
letter from The Bulletin’s J. F. Archi-
bald telling him to “keep on firing”
was among his most treasured relics.
LAUDER BY LAUDER.
Passed out at Eidsvold Hospital (Q.),
C. E. K. McCord, son of a pastoral
family which has held stations in the dis-
trict since the ’sixties. After Brisbane
Grammar School C.E.K. retired quietly
to his properties, but found time for
public affairs. He was a member of the
Eidsvold Shire Council for 30 years and
chairman for many of them.
Trevor Lloyd, veteran cartoonist of
Auckland’s “Weekly News” who has
just retired owing to ill-health after 34
years on the paper, sandwiched in with
political sketches much clever delinea-
tion of Maoris and Ml. birds, native
symbols, trees and flowers. Auckland-
born and -bred Lloyd has spent prac-
tically all his life m that city. Two
clever daughters are well-known etchers,
q L. A. Abbott, mentioned almost
eV ery day for months as the likely Ad-
ministrator of the N.T., is an old King’s
School boy, son of a Sydney chief stipen-
diary magistrate. He was for many
years a grazier at Kootingal (N.S.W.),
enlisted in the ranks of the A.I.F. in
saw the Rabaul show through and
C. L. A. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
put in four years on Gallipoli and in
Egypt and Palestine with the 12th Light
Horse, returning as a captain. In 1925
he was elected as C.P. member for
Gwydir in the Reps., was Minister for
Home and Territories for a year, spent
three years in political exile after the
Bruce debacle in 1929, and then won
back his old seat. He is 50 and doesn’t
look it.
Harry Stening, H.D.A., chief N.S.W.
instructor in agriculture, has had his many
years of service as wheat and fodder
judge recognised by the Royal Agricul-
tural Society, which has made him a life
member. Few men have travelled the
agricultural areas of N. S. Wales so ex-
tensively, and his ability has much to do
with the fact that official N. S. Wales
agricultural field work is favorably
known not only through Australia but
elsewhere in the world.
From an old movie fan: —
The death of Alf West brings back memories
of the days when movies were just two-reelers
thrown on a wet sheet by “limelight” in any
cheap hall that happened to be available a
couple of nights a week. Alfred belonged to
the old guard of touring entrepreneurs, and he
looked it. He first turned up in Australia with
West’s Brescians 40 years ago, and in 1899
branched out with West’s Pictures, which helped
entertain Australians till after the war. He
moved somewhat faster than the times when he
introduced the first beauty competitions in Aus-
tralia to popularise the films. The surviving
mid-Victorians looked on the innovation as an
assault on maidenly modesty; some of the later
generation looked on it in a ribald spirit of mirth.
In one capital the wags nominated an old lady
who was the city’s leading character; she
claimed a title, and regularly went about in
a bedraggled riding habit and an ancient topper.
Immediately there was such a torrent of votes
for her that nobody else had a chance and the
competition had to be stopped. But that was
in the days before ideals became based on
Hollywood and before the flapper press had
broken out of its shell. Alfred West was born
before his proper era. He retired a couple of
decades ago to his England, and was 70 when
he died.


Baker’s Quality Steelware
Fire Brands Stencils and Tar Brands
made to order. made to order.
JlSi.lBm\ ' N
i
13'6
Baker’s 435 Improved Clam with brass guard, 13/6 each.
1937 Illustrated Catalogue Post Free
Hand-forged Steel Sheep Earmarks.
Compound Double
Swallow and Shamrock.
V
Sheep Edge Heart,
23/6.
Baker s Swanneck Copper Sheep Drenches with solid copper
tube at end. Half to three ounces, 6/6 each.
Postage 9d. extra.
W. JNO. BAKER LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE BEST CUTLERY SINCE 1888.
\V
CARS OR UTILITIES
For a limited period vve are making it possible
for every motorist to enjoy the ownership and
luxury of a Ford V-8. Special liberal allowances.
Special terms from as low as £lOO deposit and £lO
per month. Every possible assistance given to enable
you to take delivery of your Ford V-8 this month.
Aho SPECIAL 2-CROP PAYMENT PLAN for
THE MAN ON THE LAND
SEE YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
NOW!
C Announcement inserted on behalf of Australian Ford Dealers)
Ft 38. 16V
Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
m
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
The New
COOEY
RIFLES
Made Within the Empire
Every Model thoroughly tested for
Safety, Accuracy and Reliability!
COOEY .32 CALIBRE— BoIt action, for
short,. long, or long-rifle cartridges
beautifully finished walnut stock witl
Pistol grip. Steel butt plate. Adjust-
able rear sight and silver bead fronl
sight. Safety action.
A REAL RIFLE AT A MODERATE
PRICE.
Length overall, 41 inches. Barrel, 24
inches. Weight, <sl7 In
Price 07/0
(Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
COOEY “MOHAWK”— .22 calibre, single
shot, chambered for short, long or long-
rifle cartridges. THE LONGEST
BARREL .22 CALIBRE RIFLE ON
THE MARKET TO-DAY. Barrel 21
inches long, with crowned and
polished muzzle. Genuine walnut
stock and pistol grip. Formed steel
con vexed butt plate. Elevating rear
sight and silver bead front sight, both
sights in dovetail slot. Overal 1
length, 431 inches. Weight, 01b. 1
RIFLE THAT DEFIES ALL COM
PETITION. SUPERB Af\ /
QUALITY. Price
(Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
COOEY REPEATER— . 22 Calibre
bolt action, holds 10 long or 15
short cartridges. Double safetj
features. Smooth action. Beauti
fully finished walnut stock, pisto
grip and steel butt plate. Adjust-
able rear sight and bead fronl
sight. Length overall, 41 inches
Barrel, 24 inches. Weight
72/6
(Carriage Paid.)
COOEY MODEL 35 RE-
PEATER— I. 22 calibre Trom-
bone action Repeating Rifle,
with loading capacity of 14
- short or 10 long-rifle cartridges,
tubular magazine. Barrel 24 inches long,
Aim crowned and polished muzzle. Genuine
valnut stock and fore-end, beautifully
inished pistol grip. Formed steel butt plate.
Elevating rear sight and dovetail slot.
Overall length, 41 inches. Barrel, 24 inches.
Weight, 511 b. A BEAUTIFUL REPEATING
RIFLE AT A MODERATE PRICE. QQ J _
/rice
(Carriage Paid.)
Two High-grade
SHOT GUNS
Vo. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
i.8.8.L. GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
>2in. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
ocks, cross bolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
Tin. walnut stock. __ ... .
Price £l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 9—CASHMORE D.8.8.L. GUN, 13G.,
'olid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
.•lioke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
<
:'ore-end pistol grip, walnut
dock; weight, about 71b
Carriage Paid.
£l4/14/-
The New "LIGHTNING"
GamaoR I
Super Charge
12-Gauge Cartridges,
21/- per 100.
2Jin. shell with a
2fin. load!
Game results are
assured with
“Lightning.”
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free .
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
lIAYMAKKET, SYDNEY, & All Branches.
CRITIC TO AUTHOR.
BY ‘M.H.E"
So Albert Wetjen (B. 6/1 / ’37) thinks
it is quite enough that his “Saturday
Evening Post” story, “The Long Patrol,”
which I criticised (B. 7/10/’36), is a
frankly imaginative work. If it had been
wholly imaginative, or he had set its
locale in Antananarivo, I should have
no quarrel with him. But he did not —
he laid the plot in an actual town and
told his story about an actual police
force. And the success of a story which
does that depends on its air of veri-
similitude.
Mr. Wetjen made a sergeant of police
speculate in January about the winner of
November’s Melbourne Cup. He set a
gold prospector in the least likely spot in
which to find gold. He. had a native
outlaw kill that prospector and start to
walk to the Kimberleys, which would
be like a fugitive New Jersey burglar set-
ting out on a walk to Oakland (Cal.).
He made it appear that the escapee
would stir up rebellion in other States
—which, by his indicated course, he
would not visit. In 150 years there has
never been a native rebellion in Aus-
tralia, and in the period of the story
there were no wild natives and few tame
ones to rebel.
And Mr. Wetjen’s sergeant engaged in
the devastating adventures on a track
over which motor-cars run regularly. To
set out on a chase at all was ridiculous,
since he could have telephoned a few
other constables along the railway line,
who would have been sure to catch the
wanderer at the first water. Also, the
sergeant travelled on horseback when he
could have caught the next train.
But example is better than precept.
Let me recite to Mr. Wetjen the begin-
ning of a story which I have just written.
It begins:
It was night in Cicero (Mich.) —a cold
evening of mid-March, indeed of Thanks-
giving Day, 1921. The old sergeant sat
picking his teeth in the ante-room of the
hoosegovv, oblivious of the continual cry
of “Calling All Cars” which came over
the rad-ee-O.
A tall figure loomed in the doorway.
“Capone’s the name,” the tall stranger
said, “just in from Chatauqua camp in the
Adirondacks, wit’ me buddy, Aimee Mac-
Pherson. What’s eatin’ y’, sarge?”
“Nuttin’s eatin’ me, pal,” said the sarge
gravely, waving his night stick; “1 was just
chewin’ over this li’l old New Deal. Say,
that Alf Landon’s a fine President, an’
you’re tellin’ me.”
“I gotta tell y’, sarge,” said Capone
gravely, “that the braves is out in full paint
clutterin’ up the roads from Babinda to
Doodlakine. Say, can’t nothin’ be done
about it?. Dinkum and too right, it’s hot.”
“Now, fer cryin’ out loud,” said the ser-
geant. “Lan’s sake, y’re-not-tellin’-me-them-
guys-’as-got-Aimee? ”
Capone shook his head sadly, a great
tear running down his gaunt cheek.
“An’ how,” he said. Then he added,
trying to be brave, “An’ you ain’t got no
idea how bare she looks without that top-
knot o’ hern.”
My local color in this masterpiece is
quite as good as Mr. Wetjen’s Austra-
lian local color. My rendering of the
American lingo is slightly better than
his rendering of the Australian. But if
I took my story to the editor of the
“Saturday Evening Post,” would he pub-
lish it? Not on your NRA, he wouldn’t.
Mr. Giles’s evidence? Well, Mr. Giles
has had a large twinkle in his eye ever
since he was born. And, like myself, he
probably hopes that Mr. Wetjen will
write a lot more funny Australian stories.
There is so little you can get a hearty,
raucous laugh out of in this country with
the income-tax season coming on.
“Coot”: Undecipherable hand-writ-
ing? The managing director of a Mel -
bourne firm was accustomed to scribble
his draft letters and hand them to the
typist. One day a new girl tackled the
job. She managed all right until she
came to the two words underneath the
signature. Her batch of letters bore the
description “Mangy Director.”
****
A job on the League Secretariat,
Social Questions Section, is advertised.
Applicants should be between 28 and 40,
should have graduated preferably in law,
have a capacity for grasping social ques-
tions and problems and a perfect know-
ledge of English, plus a good working
knowledge of French, or vice versa. A
knowledge of other languages would be
useful, and experience in drawing up
reports is essential. Candidates may be
of either sex; the problems to be
dealt with are chiefly concerned with
child welfare, traffic in women and
children, execution of maintenance
orders abroad, prison and penitentiary
questions and the like. Applications
should reach the Personnel Office,
League of Nations Secretariat, Geneva,
by Feb. 27. Salary, not stated ; but the
money is good.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ochone”: I protest! Every bit of
Irish in me is in revolt! Agin the
Government? I’m agin everything when
I see the use your Aboliars make of that
fine old Irish patronym Kelly! There
were Kellys in Ireland when St. Patrick
bodylined the Joe Blakes—aye, be-
fore that. Who knows but that a Kelly
was Prime Minister to Brian Boru, and
likely as not it was a Kelly that twanged
“The harp that once through Tara’s
hall.” And they tack it on to a crow!
There is also Kelly the axe, but wasn’t a
misguided son of the Ould Sod guilty of
manufacturing those instruments of
torture? Have I not been many times
introduced to this particular “Kelly” by
some hard-headed swine too damn’ lazy
to chop his own wood? To Kelly the
axe, however, I bear no hard feelings ;
after all, he is in a manner a relative.
But the crow —hear me protest! In
the name of the clan of Kellys, their
aunts and uncles, their cousins and in-
laws, down to the most distant relative,
I protest!
“Western”: Compared with the mag-
pie the crow is merely a crude blockhead.
Consider how the magpie feigns attack,
swooping down and nearly striking the
intruder’s head —to drive him away from
it's nest is the popular idea. The object
is really to compel the intruder to look
up instead of down to the ground, where
a careful search will generally disclose a
young one, just being taught to fly, hiding
until danger is past. A tame maggie is
as efficient as a watchdog in looking
after its owner’s premises ; courageous,
too, in attacking intruders. It can be
taught the difference between right and
wrong ; will display a manifest sense of
guilt when accused of wrongdoing. Is
there any bird really more intelligent
than a magpie?
$ * *
“Wentilla”: For the most unusual
midnight intrusion my vote goes to the
experience of the Trueman family at
Unley (S.A.). Awakened by a horrific
din, they found a strange horse amok
inside their house. The prad, evidently
maddened by pain, whatever the cause
may have been, wrecked doors, walls,
chairs, mirrors and pictures before it
sank down to die on the floor.
* * *
“Groper”: Anyone who wants to see
not only Italians but also Yugoslavs win
success by toil should visit Spearwood,
near Fremantle (W.A.). Wild, tangled
bush, giant white gums and miscel-
laneous scrub first come off, leaving a
foot or so of yellow sand covering flinty
limestone. The cap of this stone comes
next —a couple of acres of it —and then
the soil is built up. In a surprisingly
short time the previous wilderness is
growing luxuriant vegetables of all sorts
for the metropolitan markets. Next
comes a good stone bungalow, built with
the excavated capstone. For irrigation
water is pumped from underground, and
that may be the secret of the wonderful
growth on apparently barren soil —the
water itself probably carries fertilising
properties. At growing vegetables
Southern Europeans long ago ousted
from around Perth the one-time world s
expert, the Chinaman.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Willis Island, the
lonely weather-reporting outpost on the
cyclone track 300 miles east of Cairns,
is a great breeding ground for turtles.
The hut of the two wireless operators
who are isolated there for months at a
time is often invaded by swarms of
them, newly hatched. To get rid of
them the men walk slowly to the beach
with an electric torch, and the turtles
follow the light. Now and again a big
one looks in, and gets jambed in the
doorway. The island is far from the
haunt of turtle-fishers, and, apart from
birds, the shellbacks are the only visitors.
V “I* * Hi
“O. W. Waireki”: When the boss
chanced to notice the new cook trying
to force a sticky mixture through a milk
strainer, he wanted to know what in
Hades the fellow was up to. “Well,” the
bab explained, “th’ recipe said ter sift
th’ flour, but I clean forgot until now.
Better late than ruin th’ whole duff,
ain’t it?”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The sugar season in this N.Q.
district is over and the canecutters have
had one last hilarious booze-up, settled
old scores behind the pub, bargained for
another “cut” and departed. Most of
them will be back next season, especially
those who swear that “if y’ ever see me
"The vicar told me to ask you specially to come to the harvest thanksgiving service."
“Wot, after me blasted wheat paddock's got burnt out?"
take on a blankety, blankety job like
this again”—etc. Canecutting is a job
that calls for plenty of brawn and no-
thing else. On their own playful admis-
sion, “you wanter be broad across the
shoulders an’ narrow across the fore-
head.” Fortnightly, when the stalwart
canecutter lands in town with his pay,
the hard yakka is forgotten—drowned
in rivers of beer. Hot that they all
drink, but those who do, do it like
experts. The foreigners are much the
same. Italians have largely forsaken
their native wine for “birra” and
lager, while Finns have an enviable
reputation for hard, steady drinking.
Until the troy schools and Chinese fan-
tan-troy joints closed down, the man
who cuts sugar bushes gambled freely.
Now all that is past, which is much to
the good—for the beer-pullers. If ever
the open-handed canecutter is replaced
by a machine it will be a poor look-
out for publicans and traders generally.
s*s ■ *
“Kali”: The. ant has an even money
chance of escaping from the ant-lion s
pit. I proved it by spending an hour
dropping ants into different pits. Seven
out of a dozen regained their freedom
by successfully evading the dangers of
landslides and snapping jaws as well as
the. sand thrown by the lion. The experi-
ment satisfied me that the vaunted
marksmanship of the ant-lion is a mylh.
Although he throws jets of sand contmu-
m slv at the struggling ant I didn’t see
one dtect hitfis often as not the. erup-
lion of sand hit the opposite side of the
nit from that up which the ant was
P . F
escaping. * * *
“Colon”- I have seen shearers barber
and butcher a jumbuck all in the one
oneration—unintentionally ; but “Nord-
bo’s” expert (B. 30/12/’36) who per-
formed both operations in their proper
sequence and cut off and sunk his teeth
in a chop all in five, minutes gave my
leg a nasty twinge. Allowing one minute
for the shearing, good going, he had
three minutes for the skinning and dress-
ing this being the generally accepted
minimum. As with the Indian rope trick,
most butchers know someone who has
seen it done. I doubt it; I have done it
in six minutes and cut myself in two
places. This leaves one minute for the
killing, draining the blood and cutting
off the chop and a minus time, for the
kicking and plunging that follows for
fully three minutes after the neck is
broken. He should have taken a pinch
of salt with that chop.
* « * *
“Dingo”; Fresh-water perch is king of
the table and monarch of sporting an-
tagonists under water. To meet him
in his unspoiled state, it is necessary to
go beyond the beaten paths of dyna-
miters to mountain headwaters, where
he hangs round the bottoms of rapids,
taking the cork deep in a single savage
bite. Being stuck for tackle need not
be an obstacle. I’ve supplied a camp of
drovers with three feeds a day using
binder twine and the corkscrew from a
patent medicine-bottle filed into a barb,
A few points are worth noting. The
big fellows that bite before a thunder-
storm are generally more of an orna-
ment than a feed, owing to coarseness ;
the one-pounder is the fish. Once the
perch cease to take the hook at every
cast, move to the next rapid. The chap
who can’t catch any is generally too lazy
to dig deep enough for the right kind
of earthworm, which is red, fat and
scintillating.
* * * *
“Badilla”: The chap who told “Plan-
tagenet” (B. 6/1/’37) that N.Q. cane-
workers wear silk scanties under their
working strides as protection against the
minute hairs of the cane had hold of
his leg. You’d have to go bare-legged
for “hairy Mary” to affect the thighs,
but cloth keeps it out—that’s why cane-
cutters wear long-sleeved shirts in green
cane Scanties are worn by those who
chafe between the legs. Also, the
“minute hairs” are in the “cabbage” at
the top-not on the cane stalks.
* * * *
“Marra”: Ever observed the peculiar
gait of animal life on beach sands?
Camped at McMasters Beach (N.S.W.)
I discovered a small whitish-colored crab
of nocturnal habits whose speed when
pursued was equal to my own, despite
my three-feet running paces against the
crusty s fraction o£ an inch In the
daytime the same remarkable running
speed was displayed by a small black
an,: with a stop-watch I timed one of
them to cover seven feet in three-
quarters of a second. In the sands of
the same beach there are little grey
beetles, too, that move amazingly fast
with the same darting gait. Also, the
sandpipers and the sand plovers move
across the sands m short swift flashes,
Any particular reason for this choice of
locomotion/
* * * *
“Liss”: Near the killing-pen, and
within reach of the gallows, stood an old
square 400-gallon tank, with its open-
ing on top. On this tank was often placed
the steel and sometimes the knife while
the pelt was being punched off the
wether. The whole family had been to
the Diggers’ races, and one of the boys
took the opportunity of an early lift home
in a neighbor’s car to kill a ration sheep
before it got too dark. On their arrival
home the family noticed a hurricane-
lamp still burning at the killing-pen, and
wondered. They found the butcher half
inside the tank and unable to get right
in or to get out. Reaching for the knife
in the dark he had knocked it into the
tank and had got head and shoulders
through the opening to retrieve it. He
had managed to pick it up, only to find
himself caught. He was able to support
himself by holding the knife-point down
to the floor, but rapidly weakened. He
was nearly a goner when rescued,
* * * *
“Osh”: “Kernki” (B. 30/12/ 36) is
right—dingo eyes are bad shooting,
probably for the same reason that any
light may be, small close at hand, but
large at some distance. I’ve had more
luck shooting by sound, having shot
dingoes by their howl and wallabies by
the bump of their tail (shotgun work,
this). One night I took out the rifle for
a blind fly at a howling dingo, and had
it at my shoulder waiting for the next
crescendo when I heard someone say
“Shut up, you fool! ” and a match
flared to light a cigarette. It was two
boys, brothers ; their “clever” approach
to my hut might have cost one of them
his life.
* . * *
“Goongarne : Damper goes down
best with plenty l an J> s ?
Ginger arrived back at the 45-mile ca jj
with four cases he, was gre
applause. Bought em off a blok
Coolgardie Bankrupt sale. Mixed jam,
he said. The first tm was t
melon, eaten with relish-
found Ginger again using
opener;: a ™/ her )?™ on e e lo n n ex f a £
morning still another JS nd s
other. Gripes Y, amt
there any other sort? there wasni
and we had sixteen dozen tins! Yes,
some of those old-time auctioneers were
slick sellers, but if wed caught hrt
fellow wed have treated him to J
and feathers. It stover 40 yean 8 -
but I still cant face a tin ot ie
and melon.
THE PARAGON OF PRUDENCE.
“You don't catch me,” said Syd the cook, as
zealously he plied his whisk,
“Tempt Providence like some blokes do and
take unnecessary risk.
My motto’s always Safety First. I’ve seen too
many come a thud
Along of flamin’ carelessness. I count such
blighters up to mud.
“There’s few mishaps y’ can’t prevent ... I
alwuz sez the goat deserves
To crash ’oo drives ’is car like hell when ’e’s
negotiatin’ curves.
(Yairs, right-o, Joe; you’ll find the salt in that
big jar. Not that one, son —
That’s cyanide. Y’ can’t mistake it, cause the
lid’s a dented one!)
“As I was say in’, carelessness is man’s reel
bane. Why, spare me days,
It kills nine outa ten, I bet. There’s not a
doubt that safety pays.
These railway jokers practise it, an’ look at
them! I never tire
Of dwellin’ on that sound advice we learnt as
kids —don’t play with fire!
“The timber-getter ’oo delays that extra second
gets squashed flat —
’ls own fault, like the fact’ry bloke that tries
t’ jump the boilin’ vat.
(Some vinegar? Sure! ’Elp yourself. Its
there . . . No, that’s the wrong one, Don —
Strike me, you oughter know by now th’ sheep-
dip’s got no label on!”)
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


THE BLOKE IN DUNGAREE.
“There is no reason why a man who wears
dungarees should not be a gentleman and be treated
as a gentleman, for he is engaged in most essential
work.”— M.L. Minister Semple, addressing construc-
tion workers.
Fifty years I bin a navvy, toilin’ in the muck
and dirt,
Wheelin', shovellin’, spreadin’ mullock, stripped
to trousers and a shirt.
Day by day the same old yakka, week by week
the same old pay,
Sweatin’, gruntin’, always grousin’, wishin’ for
a better lay.
And I never stopped to ponder on the value of
me work,
Though I’ve envied other fellers, earnin’ on a
sounder lurk.
If you’d offered somethin’ better, somethin’ safe
and clean and dry,
You’d’ve led me to it pronto; wish you’d only
had a try.
Now the years have crept upon me, and me
days are gettin’ few,
Comes a blindin’ revelation, showin’ things I’ve
never knew.
On the word of Mr. Semple (once we used to
call him Bob),
All the time I’ve bin a hero, with a high and
noble job.
Yes, he says that every grafter with the banjo
and the pick
Is his country’s benefactor, nation-buildin’
brick by brick;
And the blueys that we’re wearin’ are no sign
of low degree,
For the finest of the gentry is the bloke in
dungaree.
When I’m slingin’ in the towel, go to draw
me final pay,
When the bloke that’s shifted mountains is
returnin’ to the clay,
Lay me bowyangs on the coffin, wrap it round
with dungaree;
They’re the badges of me callin’, patents of
gentility.
MAORILAND. R. H. M.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: We were skiting about dogs
when Stumpy made a claim for the
Sleuth Stakes. “That dog I had at Pint-
pot when old Mrs. Skewer was cookin’
there was the one for trackin’,” he said.
“Nicky his name was. Wonderfully in-
telligent. He’d a dash of a dozen good
breeds in him. Well, one day Mrs.
Skewer lost a kitten that she thought
more of than she did of her old man, an’
I set Nicky to track it. I just meow’d
a bit, an’ he nods, sniffs about the wood-
heap an’ into the long grass, and
by-’n’-bye I hears him barkin’ down in
the gully. When I gets there he’s dancin’
round a big carpet snake that had a
bulge in the middle of it. That bulge
was the kitten.”
* * * $
“J.D.”: Our flock of bantam chickens
was being mysteriously depleted, and the
neighbor’s cats were suspected. After
Christmas dinner my two brothers and a
sister were mustering a brood of young
chicks when the pet lamb pranced into
the cheeping circle and gobbled up one
of the fluffy balls. As my brothers hold
their Christmas cheer very well and
my sister is a t'.t. the sceptical ones can
rest assured. “Billy” has been deported
to a greener pasture, where he’ll prob-
“ Don't Worry , mate —I was goin' t' pull it down , any'ow!"
ably be blamed for any scarcity of quail
in the coming season. The cats’ haloes
have been restored.
* * * *
“Yarfi”: There is a lot of misconcep-
tion about pituri, the valued narcotic
of the inland blacks. The peak time of
the harvest is about August, when the
plant is in flower. After picking, the
leaves are heated in hot sand until they
become brittle; then they are broken
into small pieces and masticated to a
pulp by the gins. This is mixed with the
ashes of another plant, and made into
small oblong rolls, ready for use. In a
camp one of the little rolls will be
passed round a circle of blacks, each of
whom has a chew at it. The plant grows
only in a few places, but it is so widely
known and desired that desert blacks
travel hundreds of miles to get a supply
of it by barter.
* * * *
“Historical Bloque”: Back in 1868 an
American whaler anchored off the Nor’-
Westralian coast in the vicinity of Tsein-
Tsein (later named Cossack), and sent a
party ashore for water. One of the
sailors decided he’d had enough of whal-
ing and took to the bush. Later
he joined up with host Sue-
bert, of the Ship Inn, and in-
troduced skin diving by the
natives to oust the old “dry-
shelling” method. That master-
piece of historical mirth
Kimberley’s History of W.A.
gives the name of this pioneer
as Taye and describes him as
“an American runaway sailor.”
He was an Australian, born at
Port Stephens (N.S.W.), named
Jack Tagg. Many of the old-
timers knew him well. The
late Tommy Clarke, who spent
50 years pearling on the nor’-
west coast of Groperland,
described him as one of the
strongest men he’d ever met,
despite the fact that he had a
gammy leg, the result of an
accident whilst whaling. Tagg’s
Inlet down the coast from
Cossack perpetuates his name.
* * * *
‘Ophir”: Snakes do dig their holes in
the ground. I’ve seen several—brown,
grass and diamond—on the job. They
use the bottom jaw as a trowel and
cheeks as a pouch, and cart the earth
away and dump it at some distance from
the future abode.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Though the handsome. Tas-
manian bluegum occurs abundantly in
the south and flourishes when planted
elsewhere, it is curiously absent from
the Speck’s northern virgin forests. It
is recognised by the British Pharmaco-
poeia as producing the finest eucalyptus
oil obtainable. Another tree peculiar to
the Speck is the deciduous myrtle, unique
in that it is the only deciduous tree in-
digenous to Australia.
* * * *
“Flight”: Admitted there are eagles
and eagles, but those of W.Q. don’t play
the abominable tricks of “Granova’s”
variety (B. 23/12/’36). If any predatory
creature does kill in a humane manner
it’s the eagle up this way. When dealing
with ’roos and other prey too big to
wrestle, it rests for a flick of a second
on the back of the shoulders, immedi-
ately sinking its talon into the spinal
cord, or some other known nerve centre
After that, which paralyses the prey, the
rest is quickly over. With anything’that
can be, borne to the ground the eagle
rides it till it falls, then onens up the
flank and strips the flesh from the thigh
An eagle’s kill is always known by
that manner of killing. Carney lizards
and the like are killed with one click
of the talons. The eagle doesn” worry
about small birds, ’hoppers and
things that don’t matter.
“Arboreas”: Owing to extensions and
shortage of space the exhaust well of the
new mill engine was placed right among
the main roots of a wide-spreading Cape
lilac tree. This well being of open brick-
work for soakage and its contents always
hot, sometimes nearly boiling, an early
arboreal death was predicted. But after
“Go and have your swim, darling—I just Want to sit here and
meditate."
a short shudder due to extensive lopping
and massacre of roots the tree recovered
and prospered exceedingly. That was
nine years ago, and it is still bursting
into flower at springtime.
* * * *
“Gidya George”: Permanent monu-
ments, is it? Long ago a carrier loaded
for Austral Downs got stuck in Gidyea
Creek, Barkly Tableland. During the
night, while the wagon was in the
bed of the creek, rain in the Cloncurry
Ranges brought the water down a
banker. When the carrier eventually
hauled the wagon out he dumped useless
cargo, including a cask of cement. The
wooden staves have long since rotted
away, but the cement block is there.
* * * *
“Kali”: “Legs’s” inventory of the
octopus nest (B. 6/1/’37) leaves out one
important item. Among the empty
shells and discarded bones there will
always be found the remains of a fish
or crab that' contains a decent lump of
meat. The octopus has an almost in-
satiable appetite, and it must require
some strength of will to knock off eat-
ing. But the repulsive-looking chap
knows the little lure will repay him
handsomely.
*‘* * *
“Are”: Is there a more brainless bird
than a fowl? A broody hen will sit
contentedly on a few potatoes for three
weeks, not knowing the difference be-
tween them and eggs. One I had tried
to hatch a bunch of carrots, and took
two weeks to wake
up to the difference.
If you place a
sheet of clear glass
in a patch over
which fowls must
walk to reach their
tucker, they will in
time learn to walk
round it, but if,
after a week, you
take away the glass, the hens will still
walk round the spot where it was placed.
Their powers of solving problems must
have been completely lost.
* * * *
“Yah Khan”: Will a rabbit fight? I
recently saw a large goanna dig out a
breeding burrow and swallow squealing
kittens one after the other. The doe,
rushing up, kicked, jumped on and bit
at the go., which continued its swallow-
ing without apparently noticing her.
* * *
“Creel”: In all its habits the “dingo-
fish” ( Sphyrcena obtusata ) of Great Bar-
rier Reef waters resembles its animal
namesake of the bush. A species of sea-
pike, attaining a length of 6ft., the fish is,
like the dingo, a killer ; it does not kill
solely for food, but when on a plunder-
ing raid kills everything it sees. The
fish’s jaws are equipped with a formid-
able array of big, sharp teeth, and, like
the worst dingo killers, it hunts alone. It
selects as a lookout some elevated posi-
tion—the summit of a rock or ledge of
a coral reef and from this vantage
point swoops on its victims. It has been
known to attack native divers.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: There’s only one
place to shoot a wounded horse, but not
one bushman in ten knows it. Take a
line from the offside ear to the near eye,
and another from the offside eye to the
near ear. Put the bullet where they
cross, in a direction parallel with the
crest of the neck. “Just above the eyes"’
may be all right in most cases, but oc*
casionally it misses. This method is
always sure.
% sfc ❖
“C.J.R.”: It was one of the worst
windstorms seen about Rhinefalls
(N.S.W.) for years. After it was over
old Steve put the mare in the sulky and
with the missus aboard set out for
Cooma. Two miles along was a tree,
fallen smack across the middle of the
road. Steve got out, walked up to it,
stepped over it, looked under it, and,
after one last lingering look at the wheel
tracks underneath the trunk, gave it up
and went back to the sulky. “Well,
Biddy me gurl,” he said, “I reckon the
fellers that druv their vehicles under
that there tree is better men than old
Steve Burgess—we’ll have to go round.”
$ $
“H.A.L.”: In a gun rack just inside
the passage of Bill’s home was an old
Martini carbine. The cartridges for it
were kept in a near-by cupboard, in
separate boxes ; one lot had the normal
loading of half a handful of black
powder, but the other lot held only a
small charge. Whenever strangers called
in, Bill’s great joke was to bring out this
blunderbuss and take a pot-shot at an
old tank across the valley, first loading
with one of the cartridges from which
more than half the powder had been
removed. Some mug among the visitors
was always sure to want to have a shot,
and Bill would load with a cartridge
taken from the other pocket, then watch
the visitor take aim, pull the trigger, and
come flying back with his shoulder badly
bruised and his head nearly jarred off
his shoulders. But someone took a
tumble and got in first by swapping the
packets in the cupboard. Now Bill is
going around with a swollen cheek and
a black eye, and winces every time he
has to move his right arm.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The assumption that a
wound sustained from a full-grown sting-
ray would be far more virulent than that
from a baby ’ray is not borne out by the
facts. The young of any noxious reptile
or fish secretes the more potent poison,
and with maturity the virulency is les-
sened progressively. The spines of the
stingray are of needle sharpness and as
tough as steel. I have seen the leather-
tough feet soles of Torres Strait abos.
pierced by them, causing a few hours
of excruciating agony. After Binghi had
applied mangrove sap there were no pro-
nounced after-effects. At no stage does
the abo. reckon them as deadly as the
stonefish.


Protect your Family by
regularly revising your Will
wo®
A learned judge, in giving judgment in a
case which involved the interpretation of
a will said: .. if the testator had really
directed his mind to it a very slight altera-
tion would have given effect to the bequest.”
The intentions of the testator were obvious,
but a strict interpretation of the phraseology of the will
defeated his object.
In fairness to your family, see that your will is properly
drawn. Have it revised by your solicitor, and avoid
expensive litigation and possible hardship.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us, we will
be glad to discuss with you and your solicitor, the
important aspects of practical administration of your
estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Fordyce, Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.,
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
The WILD CAT COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net
Busi- Profit on
ness Old De- Dividends. Written Re-
June, Profit, posits. 121 p.c. Off. serves.
£ £ ~£ £ £
1926 522,308 750 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 .. 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 295,313 95,000 2,926,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 .. 3,305,646
1928 588,769 63 376,000 148,500 3,370,978
1929 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
8 p.c.
1931 261,657 240,000 3,487,134
5 p.c.
1932 142,720 150,000 3,479,854
1933 214,327 150,000 50,000 3,494,181
1934 216,566 150,000 50,000 3,510,747
1935 238,586 150,000 50,000 3,549,327
1936 247,460 150,000 75,000 3,571,787
Judged by the size of its deposits, the
Scottish, whose headquarters are in
London, is fourth on the list of the
Associated banks in Australia. During
the post-war decade it adopted a vigor-
ous policy of expansion, by absorption
and otherwise—the London Bank of
Australia and Commercial of Tasmania
were bought in 1921, while the Royal
Bank of Australia was taken over in
1927 —and, with the help of satisfactory
seasons, a run of 121 p.c. divs. was paid
for the eight years to the close of ac-
counts in 1930. The rate dropped to 8
p.c. in ’3l, and then to 5 p.c. for the
following term, and has remained steady
since.
Now that economic conditions in Aus-
tralia are approaching a point of more or
less balanced relationships, and the
tendency of interest rates is to harden,
and the rise in export prices, especi-
ally for wheat, will make the need to
provide for contingencies less pressing,
further expansion of earnings can be
looked for. An early lift in the div.
appears to be due.
The 12 months covered by the latest
accounts was a period of expanding
turnover, both in the export (the co. does
a large exchange business in connection
with metals, dairy produce and wheat)
and local markets. After deducting in-
terest (£66,024) on £4,872,966 of per-
petual stock —a reminder of the ’nine-
ties—and setting aside whatever was
considered necessary for contingencies,
the board figured gross earnings £76,854
better than the previous year’s:
1930. 1935. 1936.
Gross earnings .. £1,587,758 £1,025,859 £1,102,713
Exes. . . . 827,941 717,578 748,709
Taxation . . . . 227,081 64,701 96,544
Net profit. . . . 542,736 243,580 257,460
Exes, were up £31,131, and the tax bill
was £31,843 heavier—it related to the
previous year’s net earnings, which were
visibly £22,020 better than those of the
one on whose heels it trod. Last year’s
net result sprang £13,880, reaching 8.2 p.c.
on the £3,000,000 of share capital, com-
pared with 7.9, 7.2, 7.1, 4.7, 8.7, 17.7
and 19.7 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was kept at 5 p.c., worth
p.c. in Australian currency with ex-
change as it is, £50,000 was openly sent
to the contingency reserve and £25,000
was written off premises (together
£75,000, shown as written off in the in-
troductory table). The £22,460 that re-
mained lifted reserves to £3,571,787.
The market prices the £5 shares paid
to £3 at £6 Is. as against £5 17s. a year
ago. Allowing for exchange, the return
at £6 Is. is 3.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 4.3 p.c. on
his money counts on a 7 p.c. distribution,
which was within reach last year. The
net tangible cover is 425. lOd. per pound
of paid capital.
When the books closed, the bank was
in a position to further extend its lend-
ing connections:
Liabilities.
1932. 1935. 1936.
Notes .. .. £1,028 £1,015 £1,012
Bills, etc. .. 1,878,911 1,868,670 2,030,948
Deposits at in-
terest . . 19,403,465 19,576,954 19,710,035
Free deposits.. 9,968,820 12,832,399 13,183,214
Total .. £31,252,224 £34,279,044 £34,931,209
Assets.
Liquids .. £14,190,155 £ 13,204,435 £13,089,954
Advances . . 24,762,786 28,813,047 29,112,249
Premises .. 711,103 753,855 733,760
Total . . £39,670,044 £42,831,337 £43,535,963
An expansion of £168,272 in bills pay-
able, etc., of £133,081 in interest-bearing
deposits, and of £350,815 in current ac-
counts was accompanied by a growth
of £425,519 in liquids and of £229,202
in advances (up £2,595,301 in the pre-
vious term). The ratio of cash
(£8,412,215) to deposit's was 25.6 p.c. ;
liquids amounted to 39.1 p.c. of the
liabilities to the public, and the bank was
holding only £4 2s. 9d. of the public's
money for every pound of its own, in-
cluding perpetual stocks.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs.' Prefs. Ord. To Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. serves. Deficit.
£r £, £, £>£*£>
1924.. 50,960 2100 4200 30,518 14,148 33,011
6 p.c.
1925.. 35.325 2100 4200 22,889 9,136 23,875
1926.. 45,491 2100 4200 22,888 10,303 7,572
7 p.c. Reserves.
1927.. 47,382 2100 4200 26,703 14,379 6,807
8 p.c.
1928.. 50,756 2100 4200 30,515 13,938 20,745
6 p.c.
1929.. 34,030 2100 4200 22,901 4,829 25,574
1930.. 7,156 2100 4200 Nil 856 26,430
Loss.
1931.. 25,203 Nil Nil Nil 1,227
Deficit.
1932.. 17,757 Nil Nil Nil 16,530
Profit.
1933.. 7,711 5434 4200 Nil 18,453
2J p.c.
1934.. 23,787 1627 9923 9,542 2,695 15,758
4 p.c.
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1627 3255 19,084 7,747 217
High-grade furniture, furnishing drapery
and china are difficult lines at any time,
as this co.’s irregular earnings during the
boom years show. For nine years follow-
ing the reconstruction of 1920 (31 ords.
were handed out for every 16 previously
held, and the pref. divs. were lifted a
point) the ords. averaged 6.3 p.c.; the
next four were dry ones. Meanwhile, old
high-priced stocks, which were respon-
sible for most of the trouble in ’3l and
’32, were cleared, a closer study was
made of family budgets, the range of
stocks was widened, more attention was
given to overhead, display and prices,
the shop was kept open on Friday nights,
and, as conditions generally improved,
the figures recovered, despite keener
competition.
Payments to the first prefs. were
brought up to date in ’33, and to the
seconds in ’34, when the ords. also got
into the picture again with 2\ p.c., fol-
lowed by 4 p.c. and then 5 p.c. for the
last term. After providing for contin-
gencies and setting aside £9290 for the
taxgatherer, last year’s net earnings
sprang £3769, reaching £31,713. That
was £5122 short of the amount re-
quired to pay the prefs. their full con-
tract rates and 8 p.c. to the ords.
The £464,187 of capital is in 30,000
first 7 p.c. and 52,500 second 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 381,687 ords. Under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act, the pref.
divs. have been lowered by p.c., re-
ducing them to 5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respec-
tively ; from these points they are en-
titled to advance with the ords. to their
original contract rates.
On the market the firsts are offered at
225., without attracting buyers. The
return at 225. is 4.9 p.c. on a 5.4 p.c.
div. basis. The seconds at 20s. 9d. are
worth consideration ; the return at that
price is 5.9 p.c. on a 6.2 p.c. div. basis.
The year’s net earnings were over six
times the minimum requirements of the
two lots of prefs. combined, and over
five times the amount their full contract
rates would call for. The ords. at 18s.
return 5.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover is £l5 9s. 3d. firsts,
£8 ss. 4d. seconds and slightly under
par for the ords.
During the 1935 term the co. bought
an adjoining freehold for £Bl,OOO, and
went outside for most of the money:
1930. 1933. 1934. 1935. 1936.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital . . 464,187 464,187 464,187 464,187 464,187
Liabilities 141,131 89,665 82,615 143,901 131,810
Premises.. 190,876 190,700 189,999 272,252 272,252
Plant, etc. 47,521 42,827 38,882 36,623 36,573
Stocks . . 304,992 212,620 214,868 209,013 207,890
Book debts 85,462 92,911 103,498 93,183 84,446
Cash, etc. 6,047 5,975 4,888 6,762 8,511
Liabilities (down £12,091 last year) in-
clude an unspecified amount of mort-
gage. The drop of £97,102 in stocks
since 1930 and of £19,052 in debtors’
balances since 1934 is a heartening
feature, especially when considered in
conjunction with expanding turnover.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities by £169,037,
an improvement of £3980 over the
twelvemonth.
Melbourne Co-op. Brewery
Net To Re-
Juh’, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 114,595 23.3 p.c. = 100,795 13,800 261,560
Unexplained addition to reserves, £19,163.. 280,723
1930.. 110,134 22.5 p.c. = 97,196 12,938 293,661
1931.. 74,585 17.0 „ „ 73,797 788 294,449
1932.. 58,565 13.3 „ „ 57,597 968 295,417
1933.. 60,241 13.3 ~.,,.57,597 2,644 298,061
1934.. 63,006 13.3 „ „ 57,597 5,409 303.470
1935.. 70,547 15.8 „ „ 68,397 2,150 305,620
1936.. 86,851 19.1 „ „ 82,796 4,055 309,675
This is one of the half-dozen holding
cos. through which the public is inter-
ested in Carlton and United Breweries,
the big operating concern which enjoys
a lion’s share of the trade in Vic. and
helps to quench part of the thirst in N.
Queensland and elsewhere as well. In
Dec., 1934, C.U.B. made a one-for-two
gift issue, raising the Co-op.’s holding to
975,000 shares, which figure at £650,000,
no account having been taken of the
gift in the books. At July 31 last other
assets consisted of hotel freeholds, etc.,
£36,022 ; Government securities, £51,480 ;
mortgages, £9105 ; cash, £16,980. The
only outside liability was £332 of un-
claimed divs. Paid capital is £431,981
in 10s. shares.
What the shareholdings and other
assets have turned in and the cost of
handling the income, etc., the next table
shows: - -
Income. Exes.* Income. Exes.*
1930. . £120,519 £10,385 | 1934. . £69,792 £6,786
1932.. 70,322 10,990 | 1935.. 76,583 6,036
1933.. 69,641 9,400 | 1936.. 93,124 6,273
* Including taxation.
The spring of £16,541 in income was due
to the lift in C.U.B.’s div. The £86,851
netted was 20.2 p.c. on capital, and the
div. was lifted from 15.8 p.c. to 19.1 p.c.,
the last three quarterly payments being
at the rate of 20 p.c. p.a.
The Co-op.’s income does not include
its interest in C.U.B.’s undistributed
profits ; also, each year’s figures do not
include the final div. paid by C.U.B. for
that year. For the 12 months to June 30
last the operating co. paid 10 p.c.
(£292,500). Allowing for the special 5
p.c. tax on income from property,
now abolished, and taking other income
and exes, on the basis of last year’s
figures, the Co-op.’s net earnings for the
current term promises to be approxi-
mately £lOO,OOO, or 23 p.c. on capital.
C.U.8., however, distributed little more
than three-quarters of its net earnings for
its last term, and the consumption of
beer is on the up-grade, so prospects of
the Co-op. paying a bit more than 19.1
p.c. are encouraging.
Sales and consumption of beer in Vic-
toria over the last five years have ad-
vanced in this way:
r -“ Consumption— ~
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,000,730 14,003,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,705 15,909,300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 10,958,500 9.3
193 G. . 23,409,853 19,538,800 10.0
Sales include inter-State business.
Within the State consumption has in-
creased from 7.8 gallons to 10.6 gallons
per head over the last three years, and
may advance a little further yet.
At 535. 6d. (41s. a year ago) the
Co-op.’s fully-paid 10s. shares return 3.7
p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis. A 23 p.c.
distribution would lift the return to 4.3
p.c. By pricing the Co-op.’s scrip at
535. 6d., the market values that co.’s
holding in the C.U.B. at 455. 6d. a share.
O. Gilpin, Ltd.
( Dividends
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 83,072 738 20 p.c. = 71,983 10,351 39,551
1927.. 93,003 4,028 15 „ „ 00,000 28,375 11,176
Reserves.
1928. .113,189 7,000 17J„ ~71,045 34,544 23,368
1929.. 33,040 7,000 5 „ „ 22,775 3,271 20,039
1930. . 35,459 7,000 5 „ ~26,555 1,904 28,543
1931.. 11,384 7,000 Nil 4,384 32,927
1932.. 13,482 7,000 21 p.c. =13,608 25,801
1933.. 39,223 7,000 6 „ „ 32,661 25,363
7 & 6 p.c.
1934.. 43,253 9,993 5 „ „ 27,469 5,791 31,154
1935.. 50,666 18,910 6 ~ „ 33,261 29,649
1936.. 73,282 19,000 10 ~ „ 55,435 28,496
This co., which is in the drapery busi-
ness, operates on the chain-store prin-
ciple. When it took over the business
in 1922, there were 50 stores in the
group ; now there are over 100, mostly
scattered throughout the country dis-
tricts in Vic., S. Aus., N. S. Wales and
Tas. Some juicy divs. were paid before
the slump, which hit country traders
harder than most others. The col-
lapse of the markets coincided with the
board’s policy of property purchases, and
the ords. were shown an empty basket
in 1931. However, the co. is now
doing a larger turnover on about two-
thirds (in value) of the stock carried in
1928.
As stocks were reduced more share
capital was got in, enabling the co. to
reduce the outside debt and buy free-
holds while real-estate values were low,
thus providing what ought to be a sound
capital investment, and at the same time
anchoring goodwill and avoiding the
problem of increasing rents. This com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows
what has happened:
1928. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Pref. capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital.. 420,705 536,350 554,350 554,350
Mortgage . . 25,251 149,502 88,310 79,109
Overdraft . . 98,117 188,875 23,817 41,261
Sundry creditors 65,305 49,432 21,149 28,243
Freeholds, etc. 132,681 458,624 429,101 459,189
Plant etc. . . 31,912 53,936 186,087 185,162
Stocks . . 632,016 519,849 402,708 411,493
Book debts, etc. 7,182 46,849 4,922 3,332
During the last term £30,088 net was
added to the book value of freeholds.
To meet the outlay and carry an extra
£8785 of stocks, the board went to its
bankers for an extra £17,444, and leant
upon sundry creditors for a further
£7094. Mortgages were reduced by
£9201, and the small amount of book
debts, etc., by £1590. The year’s shrink-
age in the more or less liquid surplus
(£266,212) was £8142.
Turnover has grown with the addition
of stores to the chain and the improve-
ment in conditions generally. Gross
earnings, which fell from £274,562 in
’2B to £180,292 in ’32, sprang £33,294
last year, reaching £280,189. After strik-
ing olf £12,746 for depreciation, the net
result (up £22,617) was sufficient to pay
the pref. divs. and show 9.7 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 5.7, 6, 5.9, 1.1, 0.8,
6.1, 5.7 and 27.1 p.c. back to 1928. The
div. was lifted from 6 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
which suggests that the board takes a
very bright view of the future.
The market prices the 7 p.c. first prefs.
at 265. 9d. and the 6 p.c. seconds at
20s. 9d. The return at these figures is
5.2 p.c. and 5.7 p.c. respectively. Last
year’s profit nearly four times covered
their combined annual div. requirements.
The net tangible cover is £8 16s. 7d.
firsts and £3 18s. 3d. seconds. The ords.,
covered by 21s. in net tangibles, are not
listed.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


A SOUND INVESTMENT IN AN ESTABLISHED TRADING COMPANY
(Abridged Prospectus)
STEAMSHIPS TRADING COMPANY LIMITED
(A Company registered under the provisions of the “Companies” Ordinance 1912-26 —Papua.)
Nominal Capital - - - - £lOO,OOO
divided into 100,000 Shares of £1 each, of which
29,811 —7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares, and
24,365 —Ordinary Shares have been subscribed and are fully paid.
DIRECTORS:
Captain Algernon Sydney Fitch
(Managing), Master Mariner and
Company Director, Port Moresby,
Papua.
Llewellyn Tracey, Accountant, Pore
Moresby, Papua.
Eric Vivian Crisp, Company Manager,
Samarai, Papua.
BANKERS:
Bank of New South Wales,
Melbourne and Port Moresby.
AUDITOR:
Ernest A. James,
Public Accountant,
Port Moresby, Papua.
SECRETARY IN PAPUA:
Llewellyn Tracey,
Port Moresby, Papua.
SOLICITOR.
W. Brian Molloy,
Port Moresby, Papua.
SECRETARY:
Miss E. W. Mumford,
396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Port Moresby,
Papua.
OBJECTS AND EXISTING BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
The Company conducts the business of Ship Owners. Carriers, Transport Agents, Stevedores, Storekeepers, Cocoanut and
Rubber Plantation Owners, Trochus Shell Fishing, Motor Engineering, Mail Contractors and General Agents.
In particular it acts as Agents for the Vacuum Oil Company Proprietary Limited, W. R. Carpenter and Company
Limited (Mail Planes), Royal Packet Navigation Company (Dutch Shipping Line), Yorkshire Insurance Company Limited,
Bankers and Traders Insurance Company Limited, Sawmillers and Traders Company Limited, Cosmopolitan Hotel and Sherwin-
Williams Company (Aust.) Limited, and as Mail Contractors to the Commonwealth Government, the Papuan Government and
the London Missionary Society.
THE UNDERMENTIONED SHARES ARE NOW OFFERED IN STEAMSHIPS TRADING COMPANY LIMITED.
BY
CHURCHILLS LIMITED
(A Company registered under the provisions of the “Companies Acts 1899-1918” New South Wales.)
HEAD OFFICE: Union House, 247 George St., Sydney. BRANCH: Brookman Building, 35 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
REPRESENTATIVES: Sidney Tricklebank Limited, Dilworth Building, Customs St., Auckland.
THE SHARES NOW OFFERED FOR SALE UNDER
THE REGISTERED PROSPECTUS ARE:—
20,189 —7% Cumulative Preference Shares (with further
participating rights as mentioned hereafter) at
28/- per share (premium of 8/- per share).
25,635 —Ordinary Shares at 30/- per share (premium of
10/- per share).
RIGHTS OF PREFERENCE SHARES
The Preference Shares confer upon the holders thereof
the right to a Cumulative Preferential Dividend at the rate
of 7% per annum, ranking equally with Ordinary Shares,
after a similar payment to the latter, up to 10 % per annum,
on the capital for the time being paid up on such shares, and
shall rank in a winding-up as regards return of capital and
payment of arrears of dividend down to the commencement
of the winding-up in priority to the Ordinary Shares.
TERMS OF PURCHASE
Preference Shares.
20,189 —7% Cumulative Preference Shares of a nominal
value of £l each are now offered at £l/8/- per
share upon the following instalments: —
7/- per share upon signing the form of direction to
allot.
7/- per share upon notice of allotment by Steamships
Trading Company Limited.
7/- per share within three months of the date of notice
of allotment.
7/- per share within six months of the date of notice
of allotment.
Ordinary Shares.
25,635 —Ordinary Shares of a nominal value of £1 each
are now offered at £l/10/- per share upon the
following instalments: —
7/6 per share upon signing the form of direction to
allot.
7/6 per share upon notice of allotment by Steamships
Trading Company Limited.
7/6 per share within three months of the date of
notice of allotment.
7/6 per share within six months of the date of notice
of allotment.
Any purchaser may pay in full for the above shares at
the time of application or other terms not less in amount or
period of time than that stated above.
PROFITS AND SHARE VALUES
The last completed term (30th June, 1936) profits were
equal to 18.8 per cent, on paid capital or 14.3 per cent,
on capital and loan moneys.
The Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1936, indicates
a net asset backing of £2/12/2 per £1 preference share.
Eliminating the asset value to an equivalent amount of
preference shares there remains a net asset value of £l/19/4
per ordinary share.
CHURCHILLS LIMITED—ADVISORY BOARD’S
REPORT RE STEAMSHIPS TRADING COMPANY
LIMITED.
The Advisory Board has carefully considered the Certificates,
Balance Sheets and Reports put before Churchills Limited as
the History, Progress and Results of the business of Steamships
Trading Company Limited, and basing their opinion upon such
results they recommend the proposed share issues as attractive
investments with a good prospect of regular dividends.
(Signed) R. WINDEYER,
THEODORE J. MARKS,
Sydney, 12th October, 1936. C. GODFREY HILL.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS OF
THE NEW SOUTH WALES “COMPANIES ACT 1936”
(1) All the requirements of Section 137 of the “Com-
panies Act 1936” (N.S.W.) have not been complied
with in this advertisement.
(2) Copies of the full Prospectus and forms of application
for shares may be obtained at the offices or represen-
tatives of Churchills Limited, whose addresses are
given in this advertisement, or at the offices of Steam-
ships Trading Company Limited.
(3) Applications for shares will be received only on one of
the forms of application referred to and endorsed upon
a printed copy of the Prospectus.
(4) This advertisement is an epitome of the Prospectus,
copies of which have been filed with the Registrar-
General for New South Wales, dated at Sydney the
sth day of November, 1936, the Registrar for South
Australia, dated at Adelaide the 26th day of
October, 1936, the Assistant-Registrar of Companies
at Wellington, dated at Wellington, New Zealand,
the 26th day of October, 1936.
THIS ADVERTISEMENT IS INSERTED BY CHURCHILLS
LIMITED, FROM WHOM COPIES OF THE REGISTERED
PROSPECTUS MAY BE OBTAINED UPON APPLICATION,
OR FROM SIDNEY TRICKLEBANK LIMITED, AUCKLAND,
OR STEAMSHIPS TRADING COMPANY LIMITED, PORT
MORESBY AND MELBOURNE.


NOBEC
I
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL!
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalsety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: It. N. Kirk A' Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Daljrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith A Company, Limited.
I)ARAVIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: AV. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEIIAN, TAS.: J. S. Jlunro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
AATGLLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Comimny, Limited.
INA r ERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUA r A and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Strap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * #
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR”
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Koad, Cami>crdown,
Sydney, N.S.TV.
Metals
The London spot price for lead, zinc,
copper and tin continues to strengthen,
as the following table shows:
Average,
12 Months,
1936. 6/l/’36. 15/l/’37.
Lead .. £l7 11 11 £26 8 9 £27 13 9
Silverf . . 18 1 9.2 1 8.8
Zinc . . 14 18 4 18 8 9 22 11 3
Copper* . . 42 17 8 '54 O' 0 57 17 6
Tin . . 204 12 8 229 0 0 232 7 6
t Standard. * Electrolytic.
In Australian currency, the metals are
worth 25 p.c. more than the figures
shown in the table, with exchange as it
is. Thus lead at £27 13s. 9d. a ton in
London is worth £34 12s. 2d. in Aus-
tralian notes ; it averaged £35 17s. 4d.
in 1925, when sterling and the Austra-
lian pound were at par or thereabouts.
Meanwhile, the big silver-lead-zinc pro-
ducers at the Barrier have, quickened
production and cut their costs almost in
half.
The market price of the scrip in the
producing cos. has kept in step with
the metal market:
June, Dec., Jan. 11, Jan. 15,
1936.* 1936.* 1937. 1937.
North D.H.t .. 172/6 75/6 79/6 81/
B.H. South! .. 111/- 42/4 48/9 49/3
Zinc Covp. (ord.) 82/ — 139/3 151/6
El. Zinc (ord.).. 38/9 50/- 54/3 57/9
Mt. Lyell . . 24/6 38/6 40/9 45/
* Mean price. 1 Each fully-paid £1 share was
converted into four fully-paid shares of ss. each
in November, 1936.
At Bls. per ss. share, the market prices
each pound of North’s share, capital at
£l6 4s. as against £8 12s. 6d. in June
last. In December the co. paid 4s. per
share on the old pound shares, equal to
80 p.c. p.a. The investor who pays 81s.
for the ss. shares, and looks for a shade
over 8 p.c. on his money, counts on divs.
averaging about 130 p.c. p.a. This appears
to be within the co.’s reach, with things
as they are, but whether divs. can be ex-
pected to average 130 p.c. p.a. for, say,
the next 15 to 20 years is another ques-
tion. The market appears to have
heavily discounted the future for all
Barrier stocks. London buying has been
a powerful factor in forcing up share
prices. Anticipations are that demand
from the U.S.A., especially in connec-
tion with the electrical cable business,
will send the London price of lead still
higher.
Mt. Lyell at 455. would return 6.6 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Electrolytic
copper at £57 17s. 6d. in London is
worth £72 6s. lOd. in Australian cur-
rency. For the 12 months to Sept. 30
last, Lyell turned out 12,707 tons of
copper, at an all-in cost of £42 14s. lOd.
a ton.
The rise in Electrolytic Zinc’s ords. is
due mainly to payment of an interim div.
at the rate of 12 p.c. p.a. At 575. 9d. the
return on a 12 p.c. div. basis is 4.1 p.c.
For the last quarter of 1936, Takuapa
Valley, Siam, turned over 850,000 c.y.
for 261 tons t. 0., valued at £34,000. All-
in costs were £12,495. This result was
obtained with Nos. 1 and 2 dredges, each
with a capacity of 200,000 c.y. monthly.
No. 3, at Ban Pru, remained idle, the
co.’s quota having been produced at
Takuapa. For the 12 months of 1936
the two dredges have turned over
4,256,000 c.y. for 905.75 tons t. 0., valued
at £108,702. Costs were £58,827, leav-
ing a profit of £49,875, subject to depre-
ciation (£16,747 in 1935). A 6d. (stg.)
div., payable Jan. 30, will make total dis-
tributions for 1936 2s. 6d. per share
as against 3s. for 1935. For the half-year
to June 30 next the Siamese Govern-
ment has increased the percentage of
assessment from 52.7 to 66.5. The quota
for Takuapa will therefore be 321.8 tons
and Ban Pru 81.7 tons, a total of 403.5
tons. In 1936 two additions were made
to the quota, one of 15 p.c. and another
of 17 p.c. At Takuapa the co. still has
about 16,500,000 c.y., varying from
.441 b. to .751 b.. per yard, to dredge. The
co.’s future will depend largely upon
whether it can successfully treat its Ban
Pru area of about 11,695,000 c.y., bored
to average ,821 b. Ban Pru is equipped
with a spud dredge (capacity 125,000
c.y. monthly), built in the U.S.A. to dig
to 50ft. in stony ground, and erected on
the site at a cost of £88,090, or £lB,OOO
more than the original estimate.
* * * *
Hetton Bellbird, one of the star per-
formers among the producers of gas-
making coal on the northern N. S.
Wales field, recorded a loss of £19,530
for the year to June 30 last, making the
aggregate loss for the last five years
£57,784, and leaving £33,135 of the
£449,964 of share capital unrepresented
by tangibles when the books closed. No
allowance was made for depreciation.
Including an unspecified amount of
mortgage, and something for contingen-
cies, the amount coming to outsiders was
£93,537, up £37,112. The mine, plant,
stocks, stores, debtors, investments and
cash, etc., were all lumped in one entry
at £510,366, up £17,582. Most of last
year’s loss occurred during the first half
of the term, when the forays of the sea-
men and other industrial troubles inter-
fered with output. The cost of spring-
buffering a number of wagons also con-
tributed to the adverse result. However,
the new coal-loading plant at Hexham
has reduced and, given free-
dom from industrial trouble, the board
says “recent losses can be considerably
reduced and ultimately eliminated.” The
trouble is that there are still too many
producers in the trade for the volume of
business available. Much depends upon
the outcome, of negotiations, now in pro-
gress, for the elimination of price-cut-
ting. The market prices the co.’s pound
shares at 9s. 4d. as against ss. in October
last.
* * * *
The Northern Australia Mineral Sur-
vey, sponsored by the Commonwealth,
Queensland and Westralian Govern-
ments, claims success for its geophysical
work on the Tennant Creek field,
Centralia. Here the geophysicists esti-
mated that the hematite body would
be encountered at 200 ft. ; it was met
with at 176 ft. The core of No. 3 bore,
put down on the Pekoe-Golden -Forty
line, on the south-eastern portion of
the field, assayed from 15gr. to 17dwt.
21gr. gold between 136 ft. and 176 ft.
Samples from the first bore, at a depth
of 223 ft. and thereabout, assayed from
traces to 16dwt., while No. 2 showed
traces between 420 ft. and 452 ft. No
definite conclusions as to quantities and
values can be formed from these bore
results. All that can be said definitely
is that ore-bodies exist to a depth of
at least 450 ft. Whether their size and
value in the sulphide zone, which begins
at a depth of 100 ft. or thereabouts, will
make them payable to work remains to
be proved by further boring, shaft-sink-
ing and driving. Some rich patches have
been met with in the oxidised zone.
* ❖ * #
Georgetown Gold Mines, on the
Etheridge field (N.Q.), has failed to meet
with anything approaching the luck at
first anticipated. T. R. Victor, who was
called in to overhaul the show, says the
lode is a quartz reef of varying width
in a dyke channel, 4ft. to sft. wide,
between granite walls. He recommends
that the winze from the 262 ft. level
should be continued to a depth of 100 ft.,
and that levels then be driven east and
west on the ore channel. This winze,
now down 50ft., has exposed a clean,
solid reef, up to sft. wide, carrying
values from 9.6dwt. to 32dwt., together
with some richer patches. The co.. s
success or otherwise will depend mainly
upon the length of the lode and values
met with when the sinking recommended
has been completed. To finance the
work and buy a bit more plant, another
3d. per share has been called, and the
Government has been asked to help.
* * * *
To meet the outlay on new equip-
ment and provide for further develop-
ment at depth, New Chum Syncline,
Bendigo (Vic.), will presently ask share-
holders for another £27,500, by raising
the face value of its 55,000 10s. shares
to 20s. each. The lode met with at
443 ft. was lost through faulting. It is
expected that the shaft (now down
608 ft.) will cut new gold-bearing forma-
tions between 700 ft. and 1000 ft,, and that
the reef now being worked with satisfac-
tory results on the adjoining Central Nell
Gwynne will be encountered at 1100 ft.
* * * *
A 1 Consolidated, Gaffney’s Creek
(Vic.), which has passed its last 10-p.c.-of-
gold-won to the vendor?, expects to make
a first distribution to shareholders at an
early date. After providing for creditors,
the co. has £5370 in the till. To the end
of November crushings averaged 6dwt.
Early in Dec. 900 tons was put through
for an average of 10.8dwt.; later an-
other 400 tons averaged 12dwt.
* * * *
To provide for the purchase of most
of B.H. Prop.’s interest in Kalgoorlie
Enterprise (W.A.), and for more work-
ing capital, Boulder Perseverance will
offer those on the register at January
18 1,500,000 new shilling shares at 2s. 6d.
(stg.) each, in the proportion of one for
two. Kalgoorlie Enterprise has an issued
capital of £275,000 in £1 shares, of which
B.H. Prop, controlled 247,500 paid to
Bs. 9d. each. Of the remaining 27,500,
which are fully-paid, Perseverance owns
one-fourth; under the new agreement
it will also hold 172,500 of the con-
tribs. To bring the mine to full produc-
tion, and provide for the treatment of
5000 tons of ore monthly, inside the next
15 months, it is figured that £lOO,OOO of
working capital will be required. Costs
are put at 365., leaving an estimated
mine profit of 20s. a ton. Proved and
possible ore to the 1600 ft. level is figured
at 450,000 tons, of which 180,000 tons,
averaging 7.4dwt., is proved. Persever-
ance’s profit-sharing notes have been re-
deemed, which means that all profits
will henceforth be available for share-
holders.
* * * *
At the annual roll-up of Gt. Boulder
Mining and Finance in London recently,
chairman Claude de Bernales said the
co. had in Westralia two mines—Gladia-
tor and Lochinvar—sufficiently devel-
oped to justify the opinion that they
will prove profitable. Two others—
Bindah and Woolgar—show encouraging
possibilities. Another two —Jupiter and
Crescent—deserve development. Yel-
lowdine looked better than ever, Comet
is increasing in brilliancy, Carmen Valley
(South America) has prospects. The co.
also had a large holding in Gt. Boulder
Prop, and other good share investments,
mostly with a ready market. At date of
balance, the co.’s ready financial re-
sources were put at £416,500.
* * * *
Swan Bitter claims better and more
profitable times ahead despite very low-
grade ore. A big “primary deposit,” of
which the shoot hitherto worked is a
“roll-over,” has been discovered. The
board considers the co. has a mine of
“considerable future importance, and
one which should eventually be a pro-
ducer on a large scale.” Others think
differently.
* * * *
Brilliant and Pomme d’Or, two West-
ralian show's which have not rendered
a very glowing account of themselves
to date, have made a deal. The former
finds the cash and the latter provides
an option on what has so far proved to
be an auriferous bag of tricks.
* * * *
Further raking of Coolgardie (W.A.)
is yielding a little gold here and there,
and the number of rakers is increasing.
Just before Christmas a batch of small
returns was announced, including one
from the old McPherson’s Reward, and
another from Glenloth. On Blackett’s
lease operated by the Kunanalling Co.,
installation of a fair-sized treatment
plant is talked of. Tindals, which a
London co. intends to work in a big
way, is being hurried to the producing
stage, which, however, is still some dis-
tance away.
* * * *
Star Explorations, Ltd., formed in
London in 1910 to take over Hannan’s
Star Consolidated and other Westralian
options, and re-treat Kalgoorlie tailings,
is now a financial and exploration con-
cern. Investments, mostly high-grade,
are valued at £130,956. The co. paid
10 p.c. for the year to Oct. 31 last, same
as for the previous term.
* * * *
First Hit, a near neighbor of Lady
Shenton, at Menzies (W.A.), claims a
profit of £8034 for 1936. Sands and
slimes estimated to be worth £10,909
were stacked alongside those from the
previous 12 months’ crushings. Value of
residues stacked to date is estimated at
£17,250. There is little ore developed or
on the surface, but the management is
confident that the rich 90ft. shoot
worked and lost by the vendors will be
picked up again.
* * * *
Prospects for Groundlark (W.A.) seem
down on the heel. Formerly known as
Burbanks, the co., formed in Adelaide,
changed its name to the present title
about the middle of 1934, and continued
to search for gold at Burbanks. It
failed, and moved to Larkinville, where
it failed again. Later it went to Yellow-
dine. Last year’s operations showed a
loss of £514.
* * * *
New Golconda, near Meekatharra
(W.A.), has had its first clean-up after
much delay. A parcel of 260 tons
yielded 550 z. over the plates. Head
values were 7dwt. to 7ydwt., with 3dwt.
in the sands.
* * * *
Rich patches still exist on W.A. gold-
fields. Prospectors working on the May
Queen area, Marvel Loch, recently
secured 6140 z. from 97 tons ; at Norse-
man, the Blue Bird crushed 72 tons for
180 fine ounces ; and a rich “dab” on
the old Gift lease, at Wannaway, gave
120 fine ounces to Johnson Brothers.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
mint
HI
111:
III
lilt
11
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates — unexcelled
cuisine — Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: BW2061 (9 lines)
B6363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Signature to a newspaper letter is ‘A Worker
Slowly Turning Red.’ ”
He should wear the regulation bathers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Too many jerry-built wireless sets,” com-
plains a maker.
And so many of them a howling
success.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In China, Japan is frequently depicted as
a wolf.”—“s. M. Herald.”
Ah Hoo’s afraid of the big, bad wolf!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When was Don Bradman born?” asks a
“Service” correspondent.
Many centuries ago.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“General Franco, who was to have been in
Madrid by Christmas, now says he will be there
by Easter.”
He doesn’t say which Easter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Sex Appeal for Cricket.
To ensure our winning the Ashes, I
suggest including a lady cricketer in our
team for the next Tests, preferably not
a little duck, but one we could depend on
to score frequent glances to leg, and so
demoralise the English attack.
She would be sure to be on a good
wicket; girls always are when there are
plenty of men about. She’d be well
worth a place if she could pull them to
leg as well as most girls can pull legs.
Even if she should hit them up a bit,
the fair sex, after all, is supposed to
have an uplifting influence.
It might also do a lot to upset the
Englishmen’s morale if she was caught
in slips. This might reopen the body-
line question, but the vice-captain could
keep an eye on that.
Of course, the girl should not be over-
bowled, and definitely should not be
over the fence. Otherwise the game
might not be worth the scandal.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“To meet the extra cost of the time-payment
system, goods sold under that system are in-
creased in price.”
It’s known as the higher purchase
system.
4. .j. .j.
One good feature of wireless is that a
sentimental contralto can safely sing
“Mighty Like a Rose” even when she
has been eating onions.
•J* *l*
Yes, money talks; of that fact I
Am quite convinced. I grit
My teeth and wonder with a sigh
What made me marry it!
M.
“Some cricketers are shy as girls.”
—J. B. Hobbs.
Where do you meet such girls?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Spanish influenza raging in Chicago.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
And a Chicago epidemic raging in
Spain.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Why all the fuss about somebody fir-
ing on a British ship? Stokers have
been doing it for ages.
“A recently-discovered flower in Central
Africa will be called ‘Niffiidolliphantissianthe-
mum.’ ”
By whom?
4* 4* 4* 4*
An Advantage.
“The Judge in Divorce said that some car-
riages seemed to him as bad as a sickness.”
Well, I have suffered sickness
And I have suffered mat.,
And give me influenza —
You can get over that!
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
At Bay.
“So, my friend,” sneered the tall figure
before me, “you’ve walked nicely into my
little trap. I’ve got you just where I
want you. What can you do? Nothing.
My men surround you on all sides.
Make a single move and I’ll immediately
finish you off. You’re a clever man —
yes, very clever —but how are you going
to get out of this little difficulty? He,
he, he! You’re trapped! Trapped!”
“And now if you'll undress I'll give you an overhaul."
“Take me clothes orf? Not me! W’y, I 'ad a pair of strides pinched
at St. Kilda on'y last Week."
My head sank dejectedly on to my
chest. I stared sullenly before me. Then
I uttered a cry of delight.
“No, Vicar,” I exclaimed, “you haven’t
got me! I can huff you for not taking
my king!”
Al.
»!• •%
“A Scot who is careless with money is a
weird person.”— Lauder.
In fact, he’s un-canny.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Among the definitions of ‘croon’ in a leading
dictionary are ‘to bellow as a bull; to make
moan.’ ”
Another definition: “To blither as a
goat; to make hearers moan.”
4* 4* 4* 4-
Punting Perhapses.
“Fortunes can be —and have been—won on
the racecourse from a sequence of lucky in-
vestments starting with quite a small amount.”
—Sporting paper.
It* was fortunate that Mugwump, which
I backed in the first race, should have
started at such a price as 14 to 1. It
gave me fifteen quid to get on at twenties
on the outsider Biff.
Three hundred and fifteen quid was a
real bank, and though Clipclop was
backed down to 5 to 4 I managed to get
on when its price was threes. My £1260
helped to make Comeoff a favorite, but
my first investments were at twelves and
the average sixes. After Camelshump
had won the next race and Knockthe-
books the last at fours and twos respec-
tively I had £132,300 to take home with
me. It took three taxis and a special
squad of guardians to shift it.
But for the fright I got when Hotshot
pipped my horse, Baggyknees, on the post
—fortunately it was disqualified on pro-
test—the next day ran just as swim-
mingly. Although my heavy betting stiff-
ened the odds, I put all the winnings of
the day before on all up, finishing the
day with £21,000,463,730. In fact, it was
rumored that my operations had made
some of the fielders shaky, though they
denied it.
Patriotically I paid off the National
Debt, provided a few thousand million
to enable the Douglas Creditors to see
if their scheme really would work and
gave, the rest of it to found an Indigent
Punters Fund.
But at any rate the dream ended with
a strong tip for Robbery to-day, and if
I can nip somebody for a couple of bob
on it goes.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A volcano in eruption is by this
millinery mode.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
Ditto by husband when he has to pay
the hat bill?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He had knocked down three pedestrians
altogether. In each case the victim was a girl.”
He’ll be equalling some of our
cricketers if he goes on with this miss-
hitting.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the best way to face misfortune?”
— “Sun.”
Many just gin and beer it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Inlanders.
Far from the congested cities the car
sped across vast inland plains.
Here its modernity seemed out of
place ; great mobs of kangaroos hopped
clear of its path, while the curious emus
turned to stare after a few startled strides.
Its two occupants would have looked
more natural on a bullock wagon. On
their faces was a look of expectancy as
they sat silent, listening intently. Sud-
dently it changed to dismay as a harsh
voice announced: “He’s out! Bradman
clean bowled for a duck!”
C. V. s.
4* 4* *!* •!•
The bonds of matrimony are not worth
much if the interest is not kept up.
•j*
She loved the co-respondent not wifely
but too well.
*l* -I* -I- 4*
Stop and let the train go by —
It takes less than a minute.
Your car starts out again intact;
And, better still, you’re in it.
The Rub.
Over my face you draw your fingertips,
Like Marlene Dietrich, in a gust of
passion.
You throw your head back, offer me
your lips
In Garbo fashion.
Like Ei-reen Dunne you heave a gentle
sigh
And hold my hand. Into your eyes
adoring
Comes magic, such as fills La Moore’s
when high
Her voice goes soaring.
Your loving art, my sweet, l can’t gain-
say ;
’Tis copied from the stars with pains
exacting.
But here’s the rub : I fear that you, as
they,
Are merely acting!
T. W. N.
Some Little-known Facts About
Switzerland.
ll.— lts History.
Switzerland was started in the thir-
teenth century, when the three Forest
Cantons united to form the Everlasting
League for “mutual defence against a
common foe.” The Hapsburgs, morti-
fied at being referred to as common, re-
taliated by attacking the League.
Frederick the Handsome, fighting with
Base Records, led the attack, and his
official chronicler, whom Fred promised
to behead if he wasn’t strictly accurate,
records that he covered himself with
glory (and, later, medals). But the
punitive expedition met with disaster,
mainly through the superior strategy of
the Swiss, who, in the bad visibility
among the swirling snowstorms, lured
the enemy, most of whom had never
even tasted an ice-block before, around
in a circle by means of a battalion of
yodelling ventriloquists.
Yodelling like mad (the only way to
do it) from three peaks away, they had
the Hapsburglars dashing over to the
next glacier, only to find it deserted.
Messages kept pouring into Fred back
at 8.R.: “All objectives taken accord-
ing to plan—enemy routed” ; while the
Hapsburg dailies featured screamer
headlines “Enormous Losses Inflicted on
Enemy.” But the final hop-over resulted
in fierce hand-to-hand fighting, and when
the blizzard cleared it was found that
the attacking party were fighting their
own Base Records.
When, after the fracas, Fred emerged
from the dugout blinking at the unaccus-
tomed light and well-sozzled on the
troops’ rum issue, his enraged soldiery
tied him to a crag and bribed the
Yodelling Battalion to go their hardest.
This first-hand knowledge of the horrors
of war broke Fred, and he was never the
same afterwards.
When the confederation of States was
formed they decided to call the new
country Schwyz (pronounced Schwyz) in
honor of the first Canton to rebel against
Austrian domination. But a printing-
contractor named Outsyzund Derpandtz
(the first-known bush lawyer), who had
cornered the market in vowel letters,
pointed out to the burghers that a coun-
try without a vowel in its name was in-
valid in international law. Thus the
name Switzerland was adopted.
To Nancy has been ascribed the de-
feat and death of Charles the Bold,
Duke of Burgundy. The actual fact
was that Chiller only thought it was
Nancy. A bit bolder than usual, he had,
on seeing a gorgeously arrayed figure,
topped with a dinkie little feathered hat,
sitting on a vacant alp, swept off his
own plumed headgear and began with
the usual formula: “Voulez vous prom-
enade avec moi ce soir ?” When the
figure turned round and a raucous voice
roared: “Nick orf, laad, or, bah goom,
Ah’ll bash thee acrorst the scone wi’
this yere alpenstock! ” sheer amazement
at having mistaken an English tourist in
the Swiss national outfit for a fraulein
caused the Duke to fall over backwards.
It took four minutes for him to hit the
bottom of the crevasse.
It was William Tell who started the
great Swiss watch and clock industry.
Determined to slay the Austrian tyrant,
Tell thought he might as well save time
by doing it while shooting the apple off
his son’s head, so he used a bent arrow
which, boomerang-like, came back and
got Gessler in the neck. The Zug
“Howler” demanded that the “new
revolutionary movement be wound up
forthwith.” Tell was struck by the
words, particularly in their relation to
time, and the great idea was born. When
he started the works he faced great diffi-
culties without skilled hands, but his
determination soon made it a key indus-
try. Tell himself, the true patriot, nobly set
an example by tirelessly doing the hard-
est work, that of watchmaker's striker.
S. W. K.


You can invest
in 20 “listed” Companies
for as little as £25
approx.
First Australian Unit Trust Certificates
give you an interest in 20 of Australia’s strongest and
soundest Companies. Your investment is realisable at
any time and is safeguarded by Independant Custodian
Trustees, UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON,
LTD., Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone or write for a free descriptive booklet to
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
’Phone: 85294.
AGE IS NO HANDICAP
—and Opportunity Depends on
YOU!
There is greater opportunity in Business to-day than
ever before —but you must know your job—you must
be fully trained. .
The man who sits and sighs and complains, that
“opportunity has passed him by” does so because lie
either does not realise the true facts or thinks he is
too old to study. No one is ever too old .to learn,
if they wish to do so. For 40 years H. & R. have
odven thorough training to men of your own age —and
older, as well as to the youth and younger men, and
eyery year high executive positions are filled by men
who, like yourself, thought that opportunity had
passed them by.
OPEN THIS DOOR TO SUCCESS.
Opportunity is here—it’s knocking* at your dooi
to-day, and if you do not take it; if a highei
position does not come your way ; if younger men
step into the shoes you coveted; if other organisa
tions reject your applications, you have only your-
self to blame. . „
We can fit you for the job. We do it for so many
others in so many different walks of life; why
shouldn’t we do it for you, too? It entirely depends
on yourself.
HOW EASY FOR YOU!
Just realise one thing! The man who succeeds
to-day is the man who is fully trained—who is up
to date in his business knowledge. Then decide for
yourself that with your experience, with your know-
ledge of life—its pitfalls and traps—how easy it
will be for you, by devoting a few short hours
each week, to show that you are alive to the require-
ments of to-day—and are not living m the past
Get out of the rut —post the coupon to-night fon our
“Guide to Business Careers.” It costs you nothing
and commits you to nothing. If it does not 11 b [!”f
you convincing proof that H. & R. can do all that
they claim, for you personally, you lose nothin,,
but you will have gained useful information.
Our 40th Year.
Personal-Individual Tuition.
Open until 8 p.m. Fridays.
Service Consultants Main Country Centres
Hemingway & Robertson,
Sydney: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
Newcastle: 38 A.M.F. Chambers, Hunter Street.
Offices in all Capital Cities.
POST TO-DAY.
Interested in Business. Please send me free
copy of the 1936 edition of “The Guide to Busmen
Careers.”
„ Age
Name
Address ..••••
3B/8.660
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Queensland Taxes
From information contained in the
latest “Quarterly Abstract of Australian
Statistics” may be learned such facts as
these: —
State Taxation Per Head of Population, 1935-36.
Queensland £7 10 8
Victoria 5 7 8
Difference £2 3 0
Savings Bank Deposits Per Head of Population,
September 30, 1936
Victoria £39 15 2
Queensland 27 16 1
Difference £ll 19 1
Queensland’s lead in taxation was 37.4
per cent. ; Victoria’s lead in savings, 43
per cent.
Calculating on the population of the
southern State for the periods mentioned,
Victorians benefited to the tune of
£3,409,983 through being taxed on lower
schedules than those operating in
Queensland and their deposits “under
the clock” were £20,343,356 more than
those of Queenslanders.
One result is that they have more to
spare for investment in factory enter-
prise and the like. So we find the Com-
monwealth Statistician reporting that in
Victoria employment in factories last year
was 15 p.c. above the 1928-29 figure ; in
Queensland, 2 p.c. below it.
Further support for Anthony Hor-
derns took the ords. to 21s. last week.
The market has been impressed by the
4 p.c. div., as well it might be.
* * * *
There has lately been more inquiry
for N. S. Wales coal shares. Since
October J. and A. Brown’s £1 ords.
have moved up from 6s. 6d. to 12s. 6d.,
Caledonian’s from 2s. lOd. to 4s. 2d.,
and Hetton’s from ss. to 9s. 4d. Nego-
tiations for the cessation of price-cut-
ting in the still overcrowded industry
are responsible for the improvement,
though no announcement has yet been
made by the cos. themselves that any
workable agreement has been arrived at.
For the 12 months of 1935 Caledonian
netted £10,415 on a capital of
£1,487,894 ; it paid it's last div. (5 p.c.)
in 1928. J. and A. Brown and Aber-
main-Seaham made its last distribution
(2y p.c.) in 1934. For the year to June
30, 1936, it netted £6168 on £1,900,007
of share capital. For the same period,
Hetton, paid capital £449,964, recorded a
loss of £19,530 ; it paid its last div. (5
p.c.) in 1929.
* * * *
Finney Isles, the Brisbane store, is re-
ported to have done a record Christmas
trade, and is expected to show more
profit for the 12 months to the end of
January than it did for the preceding
year, when the net result was 12.5 p.c.
on capital. The 1936 div. was kept at
7 p.c., money being wanted to stock and
equip the co.’s new premises, then going
up on adjoining land, bought from the.
Brisbane Permanent Building and Bank-
ing Co. for £45,000. There is nothing
to worry about in the finances. At 295.
the fully-paid pound shares return 4.8
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis; they are
worth consideration. Net tangible cover
is 235. 7d.
* * * *
The pound ords. in G. J. Coles, the
chain-store people, enjoyed the most
spectacular rise among industrials last
week. Buying pressure drove the price
from 91s. up to 100 s., the market clos-
ing at 985., at which figure the return is
a shade over 4 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div.
basis, with a one-for-five new share
issue in the offing—date, and terms of
“Better Wake up and buzz orf after the manager — Vs bolted With the
dough.”
the issue have yet to be announced.
Paid capital is now £950,775, of which
£150,000 is pref. money, carrying a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. For the quarter ended
September 30 last, the ord. div. was at
the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. ; for the December
quarter the rate was 20 p.c. p.a. If the
higher rate is maintained for the next
two quarters, £800,775 of ord. capital
will call for £140,135 (= 17| p.c.) for
the year to June 30 next. Pref. require-
ments will lift the figure to £152,135, or
£16,798 less than was netted for the
year to June 30, 1936. For the 12
months to that date 13 new stores were
added to the chain, six in Vic. and seven
in N.. S. Wales, making the total 47.
Most of the 13, opened during the last
half of the term, made no contribution
to the year’s net earnings. Since the
close of accounts the co. has opened or
arranged to open half a dozen more new
stores.
* * * *
“0.H.”: Mt. Isa having just_ an-
nounced a further yearly loss of £5OOO-
- bringing total deficiencies to over
£410,000, some of the employees threaten
to go out on strike unless they get a
rise of £1 a week and shorter hours.
Perhaps they think the company likes
to make annual losses, or is as indif-
ferent about them as the Government.
* * * *
Rains that began to fall 10 days be-
fore Christmas brightened the new year
for dairy-farmers on the N. S. Wales
North Coast. Norco, which operates 20
butter factories in the Richmond-Tweed
district, and is the largest butter pro-
ducer in Australia, already reports a 30
p.c. increase in cream supplies. Owing
to a dry spell, the co.’s output for the
last quarter of 1936 was about 2000 tons
lighter than for the corresponding period
of 1935. At lid. a pound that meant
a loss of over £200,000 to this co.’s sup-
pliers alone. Among other things, it also
meant that farmers had less produce to
pour into the holds of the N.C.S.N.
Co.’s ships, and that there was less back-
loading of goods for storekeepers and
others on the coast. Altogether, De-
cember and early January rains are ex-
pected to add £2,000,000 or more to the
aggregate income of dairy-farmers in the
N. S. Wales and Queensland coastal
areas by June 30 next. Since, the end of
November, North Coast Steam Co.’s
pound shares have advanced from
38s. 6d. to 425. in the market. At the
higher figure the return is 3.8 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The co. is very snug
financially ; it netted 9.2 p.c. on capi-
tal for the year to June 30 last.
* * * *
The interest that has lately been
shown by Japanese ore-buyers in iron-
ore deposits at Yampi Sound, on Aus-
tralia’s nor’-west coast, calls attention to
the recent quick expansion of Nippon’s
iron and steel industry. In metric tons
Japan’s output of pig-iron and ferro-
alloys advanced from 934,000 in 1931
to 1,930,000 in 1935. Over the same
period, production of steel ingots and
castings moved up from 1,914,000 to
approximately 4,500,000 metric tons.
Chief producer is the Japan Iron Manu-
facturing Co., of whose capital
(360,000,000 yen) the Government owns
approximately 80 p.c. It was formed
early in 1934 to amalgamate the Gov-
ernment works at Yawata with five
private concerns. The Toyo and Osaka
cos. were absorbed later. This organi-
sation controls 95 p.c. of the national
capacity to produce pig-iron, and 55 p.c.
of that to produce steel ingots. Divi-
dends are limited to 6 p.c. ; the balance
of annual profits (lately over 50 p.c. on
capital) has thus far been used mainly
to finance expansion of the industry and
new enterprises.
* * * *
“L.S.”: World stocks of wheat for
export, reckoned at 250,000,000 bushels
in 1935-36, will have shrunk to an esti-
mated 125,000,000 bushels in July next;
hence the sharp rise in the price. Exactly
what this means to the wheat-farmer,
and; incidentally, his creditors, is best
appreciated in terms of grain. With
wheat fetching 2s. 6d. a bushel, as in
1930-31, and costs at, say, 25., a mort-
gage of £lOOO would represent 40,000
bushels ; and interest at 5 p.c. a further
2000 bushels. With wheat at ss. 6d
bagged, it fluctuated within twopence of
that price last week —and no change in
costs and interest, the same debt would
equal approx. 5700 bushels and interest
280 bushels. Admittedly few growers
are producing at 2s. a bushel, but the
illustration has practical value.
*.* * *
The Midland Bank Review” has a
look at Maoriland Labor legislation:
Experience alone will show how far the
drastic banking changes will further the
economic recovery on stable monetary founda-
tions. Whatever may be said against the ambi-
tious maiketing plan, it should contribute to
orderly marketing if the world persists with
attempts to produce prosperity by bilateral trade
systems Appreciation of the pound in terms
or sterling will not be easy while the process
ot acuve reflation and expansion is pursued.
Indeed, hasty and over-ambitious attempts to
lemove the premium on sterling might place
the Governments programme in jeopardy.
Neither in N.Z. nor elsewhere is it possible to
walk backwards and forwards simultaneously.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Buyers continued to dominate the markets
for both industrial and mining stocks. In the
mining section the attention given to base-metal
compared with goldmining scrip became more
pronounced. Mt. Lyells rose from 41s. to 445.
9d., the London price of electrolytic having
advanced from £55 10s. to £5B 10s. Lead
went from £27 75..6d. to £2B 2s. 6d., then eased
a little as the week closed. Barrier stocks
remained fairly steady (Norths around 80s.
and Souths around 495.), the market being
previously propped up by London buying.
Electrolytic Zinc ords. went from 535. 9d.
to 575. 9d. The co.,
which paid 10 p.c. last
year, lifted its interim dis-
tribution for the current
term to 12 p.c. Myer
ords. gained 25., reaching
395. 3d.; the co. enjoyed
an exceptional Christmas
turnover, and trade has
been well maintained
since. Dunlop-Perdriaus
went from 18s. 2d. to
19s. 9d., and Younghus-
bands put on a shilling,
touching 425. 6d. The
ords. in George Farmer’s
ham and bacon business
rose from 12s. to 15s.
London underwriters
were left with 50 p.c. of
Melbourne and Metro-
politan Board of Works’
£724,000 conversion loan.
The securities, which were
offered at £99, carry
interest at the rate of 3| p.c. and mature in
1960, thus giving a yield of £3 16s. 3d. p.c.,
including redemption. The market has offered
£9B 15s. for the new stock.
The week closed with wheat for prompt de-
livery at ss. 4d. a bushel, the market having
failed to respond to a slight strengthening in
the price of overseas futures for grain—ltaly
and Germany bought more Argentine wheat for
future delivery; British buyers were less active.


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
William Reid Stakes: Studio;
next, Garrio.
Warrook Highweight: Double
Bard ; next, Rostrim.
Caldermeade Handiap: Iva;
next, Golden Promise.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Flying Handiap: Bulldozer;
next, Moonray.
Rosehill Handicap: Jovial Son ;
next, Mananui or Loud Applause.
Carlingford Mile: Verdun ; next,
Panrose or Mananui.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne punters hooted when
horses that figured in the Anniversary
Handicap at Caulfield were returning to
stale. You “paid your money and took
your choice” as to what this portended.
It may have been a demonstration of
annoyance over the even-money favorite,
Golden Promise, finishing only sixth in
a field of 10. More probably Aitchen-
gee’s reversal of form occasioned the
outburst.
Aitchengee had shared favoritism with
Villius for the Geelong Cup a week be-
fore, when the spoils went to Lord Car-
rington after a thrilling tussle with St.
Valorey and Nissa. Naturally there was
little support for Aitchengee at Caulfield,
12 to 1 being easily obtainable.
Repeating his Geelong behavior to
some extent, Aitchengee dwelt as the
barrier rose ; Cox—who had been sub-
stituted for Phillips as jockey—galvan-
ised him into activity. While Nissa and
In the Air set a fast pace from the mile,
Aitchengee gradually improved his posi-
tion. Fourth into the straight, he un-
wound a magnificent run and beat Iva
by a neck, with In the Air a close third,
and only a head in advance of Beau
Ham.
The downfall of Golden Promise may
have been due mainly to his fighting for
his head in the first few furlongs. With
9st. 41b. in the saddle Ashley Reed did
not want his mount to be at the head
of affairs so early. He eased Holt’s can-
didate into a desirable place at the back
of the course, but when the time came
for decisive action Golden Promise got
boxed up in the field.
To paraphrase a Biblical quotation
the perils that afflict Melbourne punters
in numbers many are. It wasn’t suffi-
cient for Aitchengee to win at Caulfield
after being near the tail of the Geelong
Cup procession ; Lord Carrington, victor
in the seaport event, ran last at “the
Heath”!
Frank Musgrave won two races at
Caulfield for a syndicate which consists
of E. L. Baillieu, A. W. Thompson and
“Mr. Constable.” He annexed the Holi-
day Stakes with Ajax and the second
division of the Koakaribb Trial with
Humorist. These thoroughbreds are
half-brothers, Ajax being by Heroic and
Humorist (a three-year-old) by Brazen.
Their dam, Medmenham, is at the stud
in N. S. Wales.
Ajax made his first appearance and
started at 12 to 1 in consequence. Finish-
ing at whirlwind speed wide out on the
track, he got up in time to defeat Aider-
shot (equal favorite with Vocal at 7 to
2) by nearly a length. Vocal, a half-
sister to Garrio, did not show her true
form, and beat only three in a field
of 17.
Because of his second to Dame
Chatter on the same course in the middle
of December, appreciable support was
accorded Humorist. He started at 6 to
1, with Mystic Kidder a 3-to-l favorite,
Hartigan at fours and Young Strib-
ling at 9 to 2. Young Stribling, who
belongs to a brother of Bob Lewis, the
veteran jockey, ruined his chance by a
slow beginning.
Mystic Kidder was brought down
from the country a few weeks ago by
H. F. Hoysted, the former trainer of
Northwind. He is by Mystic Peak
(M.L.), winner of the Cantala Stakes
of 1930. Mystic Peak was sold for stud
purposes to the late E. Y. Sheil; his
stock give promise of being more than
useful. Mystic Kidder has a lot of
pace. He led into the straight by four
lengths, but Humorist ran him down
from the furlong post and scored excit-
ingly by a neck, with the Beau Fils filly,
Geisha Girl, a rank outsider, a length
farther away.
Two of the horses that Lou Robert-
son trains for A. T. Creswick failed sig-
nally at Caulfield when in heavy com-
mission. Vocal was unsighted in the
Juvenile Handicap, and Dictator (Chival-
rous-Miss Neville) cut up badly in the
first division of the Koakaribb Trial for
apprentice riders. The latter event was
captured by Streamline (Dignity-Gulf
Stream), owned by A. G. Barlow, who
was in the limelight as an owner some
years ago with Frances Tressady, a Vic-
torian Derby winner. Second favorite
at 5 to 1, Streamline was followed home
by Dark Prince and Sinuoma, a brother
to Amounis.
Last autumn Belle Silhouette earned
fame as a sprinter by narrowly beating
Arachne in the Oakleigh Plate. The
Beau Fils mare is striking her best form
again if one may judge from the manner
in which she vanquished Hostile and
Press Gang in the Tooronga Handicap.
Belle Silhouette had only 7st. —exactly
what she carried in the 1936 Oakleigh
Plate —but more substantial burdens
await her.
Sarokos made the opposition look
cheap in the Hawthorn Hurdle at Caul-
field. Though weighted at list. 81b., he
went out a. red-hot favorite. This was
the solitary taste of success that bettors
enjoyed.
Pewter (14 to 1) beat the improving
Orford by half a head in the Rowena
Welter' for steeplechase jockeys. He
carries the colors of H. N. (“Bert”)
Leonard, and is trained by Joe Mulcahy,
who landed the Grand National of 1931
for Leonard with Cockcrow.
* * * *
El Senqrita’s performances subsequent
to the Summer Cup have confirmed the
impression that she was unlucky in that
race. The stable landed a substantial
consolation prize in the Canterbury Han-
dicap, for which she was solidly backed
at sixes, and Heather was seen to ad-
vantage on her. Heather let the mare
lob along till she hit the front, and then
slowed the field down. Turbulent looked
like bothering her at one stage, but he
fell back suddenly, and El Senorita
scored 1 by 1£ lengths from Jeanne D’Arc
and Fireman, who had pulled hard in the
first six furlongs. Evidently Fireman’s
apprentice rider was instructed not to
go to the front, and carried out his in-
structions too literally. El Senorita is
to run in the Anniversary Handicap, and
will then go to Melbourne.
Bulldozer was withdrawn from the
first division of the Flying Welter, for
which he would have been favorite.
Questionnaire’s price eased to twelves
when her rider drew 14. The mare trailed
Home Thrust into the straight and won
in a canter. Electron, who looked in
need of the race, was third. A protest
was lodged, Maxwell, the rider of Home
Thrust, alleging that his mount had been
squeezed at the turn. It made no differ-
ence, and the protest was rightly dis-
missed.
Moaenza (5 to 2) gave Darby Munro
an easy ride in the second division. She
was again flighty at the barrier, but
got away well, and in the end she beat
Beaupre and Heroina with ease. The
well-backed Bim Boy disappointed, bui
Water Wagon ran on in fourth place,
and his backers thought he was third.
Randwick trainer Jim Barden broke
a run of bad luck when his Bullhead filly
Accord (10 to 1) ran away from Wan-
galla and Picamar in the Nursery. Gold
Standard, having his first run, showed
pace from No. 15 position ; and Brae-
man also travelled well for a time.
Contrast (5 to 1) was suited by the
distance—nine furlongs—of the Park
Stakes. Badly placed early, she did not
get out of the ruck until they reached
the straight, but when she did she soon
settled Patwood and Grecian Art. The
favorite, Pat-a-Cake, was boxed up—
never out of trouble.
Backers were well on the mark in both
divisions of the Maiden Welter. In the
first division Mohican (7 to 4 on) car-
ried his ten stone like a good horse ; he
defeated Mort and the pony Salbury by
lengths. The grey colt Arabia (5 to 4)
had too much pace for his opponents
in the second division. Franklin recently
gave 900 guineas for the son of Heroic,
who may develop into a useful sprinter.
A failure at Pambula and Bega, The
Genius (8 to 1) did the bookies a good
turn when he downed Alan Verde and
Imbiber in the Campsie Handicap. Mul-
ligan rode a capital race on The Genius.
He waited for a run on the rails for
nearly half a mile, got it and downed
Alan Verde by half a neck. Gipsy Chief
was all the rage, but he would not stride
out, and beat only one home. Bonnie
Rion made the pace a cracker. Evidently
she can’t run nine furlongs, for she had
had enough at the end of a mile.
In B. 2/12/’36 the writer of “Picking
’Em” suggested that mares and fillies
would have successes above the aver-
age this year. Thus far the prediction
has been borne out' in more than one
State. At Canterbury Park the unusual
spectacle was witnessed of five female
horses winning “in a row”: Accord,
Contrast, Questionnaire, El Senorita and
Moaenza.
Cuddle has been nominated for the
Newmarket and the Australian Cup, the
Doncaster and the Sydney Cup. On
Australian form she hasn’t a ghost of a
show in any representative two-mile han-
dicap, but M.L. form proclaims her a
two-miler, and a good one.
* * * *
A.J.C. chairman Colin Stephen sus-
tained a severe loss when his bonny filly
Fidelity suffered a broken pelvis. The
fracture mended, and sea-bathing treat-
ment was tried, apparently with good
results, preparatory to putting Fidelity in
training again, but it has been thought
inadvisable to give her any fast work.
She has been taken out of the Adrian
Knox Stakes, and it seems unlikely that
she will be seen on a racecourse again.
However, Sal Volatile will race in the
Colin Stephen colors, and she is de-
cidedly a good second string. Valicare’s
daughter Siren, the Oaks winner, was
thought to be a certainty for the Adrian
Knox Stakes, but she struck herself in
a gallop and Payten had to go easy with
her. She is inclined to be gross, and the.
delay will not improve her chances if she
starts.
* * * . *
“L.”: Manolive, the Perth Cup winner,
gets most of his training on the beach at
Fremantle, as did Lilypond when he won
the Perth Cup. Horses trained at Fre-
mantle do not seem to require much
galloping and they get wonderfully fit.
By the way, Manolive is not the only son
of Manfred-Sister Olive who has distin-
guished himself ; another —Benevento —
has done well in India for Alec Higgins.
His latest achievement was the capture
of a £3OOO handicap.
* * * *
“Agar”: Two years ago it was pos-
sible to pick a reasonable number of
winners at Melbourne meetings by care-
ful study of the track gallops as reported
in the dailies. The sporting editor of
one of the sheets suddenly decided that
the best gallops of the week should be
selected and published in a “box” each
day. Other papers followed suit, and
now a diligent study of the featured gal-
lops is the quickest way to the Bank-
ruptcy Court I know. Maybe trainers
didn’t mind their nags’ efforts being
clocked and recorded in the regular track
reports, but featuring them is a different
story.
* * * *
Wot'an is in the Doncaster as well as
the two Gups. It will be interesting to
see what weight he will get in the long-
distance race. He had 7st. 111 b. in the
Melbourne Cup. Marabou, who won
with the same weight in 1935, was forth-
with placed among the nine-st'oners.
* * * *
W. J. Shean has come to Sydney with
a team of eight horses from Brisbane.
Heading it is High Speech, who has Bst.
21b. in the Challenge Stakes—King’s
Head is topweight with 9st.'slb. High
Speech has a good record as a sprinter ;
he was second to Capris in the Q.T.C.
Stradbroke Handicap last May, and the
mare who was to win the Epsom ran
the six furlongs in lmin. 12|sec. High
Speech was also runner-up in the Strad-
broke to Patrol Lager in 1935. He gave
Capris lib.
H: # * *
Gold Rod got 9st. in the A.J.C. Chal-
lenge Stakes, from which he was straight-
way withdrawn. He has been nominated
for the Oakleigh Plate, the Newmarket
and the Doncaster, but for none of the
long-distance races. Which means that
the attempt to make a stayer of him
has been abandoned.
Ins and Outs
The Englishmen inflicted a bad doing
on a Combined XI at Hobart, scoring
418 (Barnett 129, Hardstaff 110; Ward
3-145, Grimmett 2-114) and 1 for 111
(Wyatt 68 n. 0.) to 134 (Oldfield n.o. 60 ;
Fames 4-31, Copson 4-32). Rain ended
it then.
* * * *
Though Rigg, O’Brien (a duck) and
Darling scored only 57 among them
for Victoria v. Queensland at Brisbane,
Gregory (75), Hassett (93), Ledward(lls)
and Pearson (91) took the total to 497
(Rushbrook 3-109). Then Pearson got
a wicket (Rogers’s) with his first ball.
It was all out 177 (Brown 50, Cook 32
n.0.—F1.-Smith five for 75), and Queens-
land followed on.
il*
“Ibn el Issar”: The Indian Board of
Control committee inquiring into the
team’s domestic trouble in England and
the sending home of a member, Amar
Rath, finds that discipline was called for
but that the sentence was too severe. The
ban on the player is lifted, Major Nayudu
is blamed for refusing to mix with
others of the team —he is a Moslem —and.,
for insubordination towards the skipper,
the Maharajah of Vizianagram. The
latter also gets it in the neck for poor
captaincy and the formation of a special
coterie of his own in the team. The
whole trouble, as was the case with the
team of four years ago, was the antagon-
ism between Hindu and Moslem. A
good idea may be gained even from this
tinpot incident hoW deep that antagon-
ism lies and of what conditions are likely
to be when the new Indian Constitution
comes into being.
“Tenth Slip”: The Board of Control
may try to get the Marylebone C.C. to
agree to cover Test wickets completely.
This would provide one class of condi-
tions for county cricket and an entirely
different one for Tests. Again, the les-
son of the Melbourne Test remains a
grateful memory with many. This
country got more excitement and genuine
interest out of the vagaries caused by
the weather in that match than it has
from any Test match played in Aus-
tralia within the last 30 years.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The Queensland C.A.,
which refused a refund of admission-
money to a customer who could see
only half the Test match in Brisbane, is
hardening its heart still further. Re-
cently it ordered its umpires to wear
white boots as well as white coats.
Instead of giving an old pair of black
or tan daisy roots a coat of white lead,
as any economical lad would do these
days, the umps. laid out money in new
white boots, useless for any other pur-
pose than sport, in the confident hope
the Q.C.A. would refund the cost. That
body, however, says it will see the offi-
cials frying first, and there the matter
rests. (Continued on next page.)
In the race for the 220 yards Austra-
lian championship in the North Sydney
Olympic pool, Dorothy Green, the 17-
year-old Westralienne, put up the great-
est performance ever achieved by a
native-born girl swimmer. She won by
four yards from Evelyn de Lacy, another
Westralienne, cutting the record by
seven seconds —to 2min. 32 l-ssec. The
world time is 2min. 27 3-ssec.; it was
made in baths with 25-yard laps, as
against 55-yard laps in North Sydney.
In the men’s championship Noel Ryan
did the distance in 2min. 18 l-ssec.;
and in the N.S.W. country championship
the 15-year-old Newbiggin won in
2min. 22 4-ssec. He likewise is very
promising, but Miss Green’s feat was
outstanding. Victorian Ron Masters re-
tained his Australian highboard-diving
title.
* * * *
Since he was thrice defeated by Perry,
Vines has beaten the Englishman twice.
—in four sets at Pittsburg and in
straight sets at Detroit.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: His employers
weren’t long in getting Australian Rugby
League footballer Dave Brown into har-
ness. He reached London on a Wed-
nesday and played for the club that
owns him, Warrington, three days after,
scoring a try. Brown has an Australian
mate in the Warrington team, Shank-
land ; Wigan, the club he played against
contains Queenslanders Gee and Wilson.
Of such, with numerous Welshmen, a
Maori and a South African or two, do
the teams of sturdy Britons who uphold
the professional code in Lancashire and
Yorkshire consist.


«SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service •
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
Stay at Petty's in Sydney—the hotel of 102 years' service. Enjoy the
excellent service; the air of comfort; and the convenience of its position.
The best of everything at sensible prices.
New private dining room and lounge room at your service.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(2) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
ins and Outs
The touring Englishmen beat Tassie at
Hobart by an innings. The star of the
Apple Island side was Putnam, who
made 28 and 77 and took 5 for 87. In
the two Tassie innings Sims took 9 for
* * * *
The Englishmen sportingly took on a
Tassie team in an impromptu one-day
match at Launceston, with the result that
they had some useful batting practice.
Every man collected double figures save
Duckworth and Copson, Barnett and
Worthington topping with 41 each in a
total of 250. Thollar took 5 for 67
Tassie’s reply was 5 for 145, Thomas
(48) and Jeffrey (46) scoring. Hardstaff
was given time off to go fishing, this
being the first match of the tour he has
missed. No record is to hand as yet as
to the size of the fish he caught or of
those that got away.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Haying finished with the
Combined team in Tasmania, England
tackles South Australia at Adelaide this
week as a pipe-opener for the fourth
Test a week later. In their opening
match with S. Aus. on their way east
the Britons were already being regarded
as easy meat for the Australian dingoes,
but that attitude has somewhat changed
* * * *
“Byculla”: Bromley and Scaife, the
Australian cricketers, who have just com-
pleted . a pleasant six months’ engage-
ment in Hind as coaches of Patiala’s
private team, have returned full of praise
for the extraordinary enthusiasm for
cricket among all sorts and conditions of
men in that country. Parks and open
spaces are always thronged with players
of all sorts, sizes and colors, and attend-
ances at matches of all degrees of im-
poitance would astonish Australians, who
have to be dragged to anything short of
a Test. One pleasing custom prevalent
there might be adopted here. When a
batsman makes a century or a bowler
gets a bunch of wickets spectators rush
out with large wreaths of marigolds and
hang them round the hero’s neck. He
hands these to the umpire to mind, and
these officials at the end of a heavy scor-
ing day look more
like a float at a
flower carnival
than the public
enemies they are.
* *
“Hotham”: The
takings at the Mel-
bourne Test have
helped the total
Test receipts to
date to £50,200,
paid by 549,669
people to see three
matches. This will
put the local
finances £lO,OOO
lower than the previous season before this
match—high above all previous records.
Roughly the cash is cut into three slices.
The tourists take a third ; the State in
which the match is held gets another
third, and the other third goes to the
Board of Control, which, after deducting
its cut, returns the stuff to the States in
proportion to their representation on the
board. There are 13 shares, and, with
three reps., N.S.W. pouches the biggest
dividend.
* * * *
“Bo”: Two tattered fallacies emerge
from the third Test. One is the allegedly
vast superiority of English batsmen on
sticky wickets. Following Australia’s
two failures on gluepots, lounge critics
had been promising us a fine lesson
should the necessity arise for England
to bat on one. Faced with an attack
much inferior to their own (Australia
hasn’t a bowler to come within coo-ee of
Voce), only three of their batsmen could
reach double figures. If they could have
had their own Verity and Voce turned
against them, England wouldn’t have
made 30. The other one is the sup-
posedly adverse effect the captaincy has
on a man’s batting. Why the belief still
exists that the cares of captaincy should
cramp the stroke-making or confidence
of any batsman, particularly one
of Bradman’s nervelessness and easy-
going nature, is a mystery. Once a cap-
tain walks to the crease he concentrates
on batsmanship, using only the ordinary
strategy he would use as a batsman;
i.e., keeping newcomers away from hos-
tile bowlers, etc. The plain facts are
that the wickets In the earlier Tests
didn t suit Bradman, and that he was
also having that small run of outs which
comes at some time or other to the
greatest batsmen.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Reconditioned though the
Melbourne C.G. has been, the M.C.C.
is not satisfied, and is making additions
in time for the fifth Test. Meanwhile
the prayers of the faithful for an Aus-
tralian win in Adelaide, making the Mel-
bourne fixture the decider, are requested
by the committee, which sees in dreams
such wealth as Golconda never com-
manded.
The M.C.C.’s complacency over its re-
conditioned ground has received a rude
shock from the Health Department,
whose inspector roundly condemned the
congestion in the stands and the dan-
gerous inadequacy of the exits. He had
a special curse for the sanitary arrange-
ments.
“Pick up your stroke , number three!"
“Glenelg”: Standing room only is the
rule in Adelaide, where the man who can
hire space to lie down at bedtime is con-
sidered lucky. All South Australia seems
to have migrated to Adelaide, where Aus-
tralia has won seven of the 12 Tests
played there. Reserved seats, costing £2
each for the match, have been booked
up and stand at a handsome premium.
The Australians for once are to stay at
one pub, and the world-famous Oval is
a picture.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Good betting that Brad-
man’s joy at finding form again was tem-
pered by his failure to pass R. E. Foster’s
record score for England of 287, made
at Sydney for Warner’s first team in
1903-04. Similarly, Chipperfield will
probably inwardly sorrow all his life
over missing that extra run in his first
Test in England with Woodfull’s last lot
when he scored only 99. “The little
more, and how much it is,” as Mr.
Browning wrote.
“Fitzcray”: Quaint to read between
the lines the agony of mind endured by
Sydney newspapers over the tremendous
attendances in Melbourne. They should
have been prepared. Attendances at club
football matches in Melbourne any
Saturday would be wildly acclaimed at
any Rugby League “international.” Mel-
bourne pennant cricket matches draw
regularly a solid crowd of supporters;
the grade games in Sydney would be
hard put to it to muster an average of
50 spectators a week throughout the
season. Melbourne grounds are more
numerous and better appointed. This
applies to racing as to other sports.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Board of Control has
been very busy in Melbourne turning
out new laws. One provides that if a
captain complains that a bowler is dam-
aging the wicket with his hooves the
umpire may tell the offender to cease
from troubling. If he persists, he may
be stopped from bowling again in that
innings, being cut off in the middle of
his performance like a too-festive radio
announcer. One more responsibility for
the poor old ump. in a world already
full enough of threats of assault and
mayhem.
* _ * * *
“Mug Bowler”: One law of cricket
which could bear amendment is that
relating to overthrows. At present the
extra runs from the throw are debited
to the unfortunate bowler, who has no
control over the erratic fieldsman respon-
sible. His average is thus loaded up with
runs which are no fault of his, while byes
and leg byes, for which he may be in
measure responsible, are not debited
against him.
* * * *
“Mak”: Young Carson, the Auck-
lander who rattled up 290 in the Plunket
game against Otago, should be heard of
when Maoriland’s cricketers go to Eng-
land. Auckland had lost two for 25
when the 21-year-old Rugby Uqjon rep.
joined the experienced Whitelaw; his
first 100 was up in 136 minutes, but his
second century took only 64 minutes
and the remaining 90 just: two minutes
under the hour. Whitelaw gave him his
head and reached 195 by steady batting.
The 445 third-wicket partnership looks
hot when lined up with Australia’s record
389, England’s 375 and S’Africa’s 217 ;
but, after all, it was a provincial match.
If Carson is consistently good, it would
pay Maoriland to send him to England ;
but, of course, he might stay there, as
Dempster did.
* * * *
“Adsum”: England’s cricketers have
never objected to the delivery of Hal-
combe (B. 30/12/’36). Nearest approach
to an English player questioning his de-
livery was several years ago when Bow-
ley, with MacLaren’s XI, hesitated to
leave the pitch when Halcombe bowled
him first ball. Bowley explained that he
expected Halcombe to be no-balled. Vic-
toria is the only State in which Hal-
combe’s bowling has been questioned.
One English correspondent has urged
the young man to seek an engagement
with an English side.
Nineteenth Hole
“Cash Amateur”: It is now probable
that U.S.A. shipping troubles will pre-
vent our seeing Hagen and Kirkwood in
action. The first sailing from Vancouver
will be on February 13, and that would
mean coming late on the scene this side.
The American season starts in April, and
from then until the open in June all the
crack professionals in the States will be
chasing the elusive dahlar. Neither
Hagen nor Joe can afford to miss all that
for the sake of a speculative tour abroad.
* * * #
“Brassey”: For a. long time profes-
sional golfers have objected to open
handicaps being given their players when
meeting amateurs. A professional has
his living to make by his play, and it
does not add to his prestige when an
amateur is shown as giving him strokes
in handicap events. In Britain of late
a system of sealed handicaps has been
introduced to overcome this objection.
In all handicap events, professional and
mixed, each professional is secretly told
the handicap allotted him. This is de-
ducted by the officials in charge of the
show and only his net score is published.
* * * *
“Punter-Putter”: Golfers and odds-
layers will alike be interested in a Bir-
mingham (Eng.) happening. One Pars-
low did a 160-yards hole in one. His
opponent laid him 500 to 1 he wouldn’t
repeat the trick at the next hole, which
was a bit longer. Parslow didn’t take
the bet, but he again found the tin with
a single.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The practice of lingering
to consider the next shot has roused
British golfers to action, and steps are to
be taken to enforce the law compelling
lagging players to give way to faster folk
behind them. It is suggested that a
special official be appointed for big
tourneys. He would wear a uniform and
be empowered to move lingerers on after
due warning. Something of the sort is
needed. Dr. Fawcett, winner of an
English amateur title, was such a
curse that one opponent tried his
own way of hinting at increased pace.
When he met the doctor he took with
him a folding deck-chair and sat on it
while his opponent was considering and
playing one of his shots. It had no effect
on the medico, who won.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: The Davis Cup is
creeping upon us. The first round must
be completed by May 4 and the second
by the 16th of that month. Third and
fourth rounds must be over by June 8
and 17 respectively, and the European
final by July 12. July 17, 19 and 20 will
see the inter-zone final at Wimbledon,
and the “grand challenge” round will
also be played there on July 24, 26 and
27. As usual, very little time has been
allowed competitors between the inter-
zone final and the challenge round.
“Cut Shot”: Seedings for the Austra-
lian tennis championships which start in
Sydney this week show Quist leading in
the singles, with Crawford, McGrath,
Bromwich, Hopman, Turnbull, Kay and
Schwartz in that order. All are Davis
Cup “possibles,” though one or two will
need a favoring gale to blow them into
the team. Turnbull and Quist lead the
men’s doubles, with Crawford and
McGrath next. Among the girls, Miss
Hartigan is rated ahead of Miss Wynne
in singles, and the Misses Wynne and
Coyne are placed first in doubles.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: N.S.W. tennis ranking list
is chiefly remarkable for the placing of
McGrath above Bromwich. Of course,
Crawford is placed first, and no more
need be said about that. Many folk
think that of the two freak players


Legal Notices.
THOMAS and MARY ANN WATERS both
deceased. Children or other issue of:
Pursuant to a decretal order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in its Equitable
Jurisdiction dated the 18th September 1936
and made in a suit (No. 970 of 1936) intituled
“In the matter of the trusts of the Will of
Edward Constable late of Newtown in the State
of New South Wales Plumber deceased Between
The Permanent Trustee Company of New South
Wales Limited Plaintiff and Geoffrey Oscar
Llewellyn Davies Defendant” whereby the fol-
lowing enquiries were directed viz:
1. —Who were the children of Thomas Waters
and Mary Ann Waters in the Will of the
abovenamed Edward Constable deceased
mentioned.
2. —Whether the said children are respectively
living or dead.
3. —Who are the legal personal representatives
of such of the said children as have died
and what were the respective dates of death.
4. —Whether the said children respectively
have had and if any what issue.
5. —Whether such issue are respectively living
or dead and who are the legal personal
representatives of such issue as have died.
Notice is hereby given that all persons claiming
to be entitled under the said enquiries are to
send by post prepaid to Messrs. Vindin and
Littlejohn of 25 O’Connell Street Sydney Solici-
tors so as to reach them on or before the
24th March 1937 their full Christian and sur-
names addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims or in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit of the
said decretal order unless the Court or a Judge
thereof or the Master in Equity on application
otherwise orders. Claimants are to attend per-
sonally or by their Solicitor before the Master
in Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth Street
Sydney on the 31st March 1937 at 11 o’clock
in the forenoon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims or so soon there-
after as the course of business will permit.
Dated this 17th day of December, 1936.
VINDIN & LITTLEJOHN,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM ROBERT PURKIS WYNHALL
late of Kalbar near Ipswich Queensland Hotel-
keeper : Information is urgently required regard-
ing the whereabouts of the abovenamed if
living or regarding the date and circumstances
of his death if dead. He left Kalbar about
22nd September 1924 and was last heard of in
Ipswich Queensland. Any information regard-
ing him should be sent to the undersigned and
will be gratefully received by his wife. The
said William Robert Purkis Wynhall is hereby
notified that in default of information leading
to the assumption that he is still living being
received within one month from this date it
is the intention of his wife Nellie Lavinia
Wynhall to apply to the Supreme Court of
Queensland for a grant of Probate of a Will
in her possession upon presumption of his death
having occurred on or about 22nd September
1924 with the object of assuming control of his
property and affairs and in particular of claim-
ing the amount payable in the event of his
death under Policy No. 1113290 dated 17th
December 1900 issued by the New York Life
Insurance Company on his life. The National
Mutual Life Association of Australasia Limited
acting for and on behalf of the New York
Life Insurance Company notifies all persons
concerned that it intends upon production to it
of Probate of the Will of William Robert Purkis
Wynhall to pay to the person or persons to
whom such Probate is granted the proceeds of
Policy No. 1113290 issued by the New York
Life Insurance Coy. on the life of the said
William Robert Purkis Wynhall. 12th January
1937. Hobbs, Caine & McDonald, Solicitors,
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
YET THE TARIFF
HAS MADE IT THE
LOWEST-PRICED
TRUCK TO-DAY
BEDFORD is
STRONGER
Here’s why:
It you make a simple “bridge” between two supports
placed closely together, and place a weight in the
centre, the bridge will show no sign of sagging.
The strength of the short wheelbase Bedford is
partly due to tbis principle.
M
¥.
■■ On the other hand,
move the supports
further apart and the bridge will not
support the same weight without
k. sagging.
m
f ¥
There are half a dozen reasons why the new*
design Bedford outlasts other trucks :
1. Bedford carries the same weight on a
shorter wheelbase, which means a more
rigid frame.
2. Bedford’s lower frame level means a lower
loading height, and lower centre of gravity
means less body sway and wear-and-tear
on the truck at high speeds.
3. Bedford’s new weight distribution relieves
the back axle of 20% of the weight it had
to sustain in old type trucks.
4. Bedford’s side members are scientifically
proportioned to resist exceptional strains.
5. Bedford’s low-revving 6-cylinder overhead
valve engine develops its maximum pulling
power at only 1,000
revs, per minute.
6. Bedford’s big steel cab
is built to stand the
gaff. Built of steel, wide
field of vision, comfort-
able and weather sealed.
Chassis Prices
from
£272
(Plus Sales Tax)
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Y 21938
ENGLAND’S n. -Design BEDFORD
Consult your local authorised Bedford Dealer
Bromwich is now superior to McGrath,
Of the others, doubles-specialist Huxley
is sixth and Lindo, another of the youth-
ful possibles for the future, eleventh on
a list of 12.
; * * * *
“Top Spin”: Cessnock Rovers club
had Bruce’s spider gone a million when
it won the countrymen’s teams cham-
pionship in Sydney, beating West
Wyalong after appearing in the finals for
five consecutive years. It was a toss-up
until the last minute which would win on
this occasion—a stroke brought victory
to the persevering Cessnockers. The
women’s teams event went to Scone,
which rubbed the collective noses of
the Cessnock girls in the gravel, win-
ning eight sets to nil.
* * * *
“Novis”: I see that croquet has been
included among those sports some en-
thusiasts have been trying to play on
bicycles. To my mind it would im-
mensely improve tennis if a mounted
form of the game could be evolved. I
would prefer ponies to bikes, and if the
innovation took on it would solve the
problems of the blueblooded equines that
run at proprietary race-meetings, always
in a hare ot uncertainty as to how the
produce merchant is going to behave,
Hundreds of these would be needed, and
in addition to being used for playing they
could fake the place of the expensive
lawnmower which needs a wages man
to drive it. In the country, goats could
take the place of ponies, and a great
annual attraction would be a tourney
between the hairy goats of the wide open
spaces and those from Robbery Park
and kindred convincing grounds—they
have much in common.
Miscellaneous
Noel Ryan followed up his good
showing in the first of the Australian
championship carnivals by making a
one-man affair of the N.S.W. 880 yards
at North Sydney baths, which he won
in lOmin. 34 3-ssec. by 25 yards. Nan-
kivell, of Westralia, holder of the Aus-
tralian title, could finish only third.
Fleming, of Queensland, took the 110
yards event in Imin. 1 3-ssec., stalling
off Westralian P. Oliver by a second,
Fleming holds the Australian title for the
distance.
......
“Splash”; Westralia’s Evelyn de Lacy
pu t up a fine show in the N.S.W. section
of the Australian swimming champion-
ships by getting over 110 yards in free-
style at the North Sydney baths m
Imin. 9sec. The swim equals the Aus-
tralian record of Miss Mackay, who this
time swam third. Other winners in the
women’s section were Miss Dovey, of
N.S.W. (220 breast), and Pat Norton (110
back), the latter 1 l-ssec. outside her own
Australian record. Kitty Mackay, holder
of the title, was third. Victorienne Irene
Donnett made an easy thing of the high-
board diving championship,
* * * *
“Nark”- Whenever one Australian
State arranges for a visit from overseas
° , . ,
ath ; etes oth « s be S ln t 0 wran B le ovel
their share of the imported gate attrac-
tions. Medica, the swimmer, is the latest,
Queensland wants him for its section ot
the Australian championships, which
begin on January 25. He will reach
Sydney on January 23, and to get to
Brisbane in time must fly. N.S.W. wanted
Queensland to take Medica on after he
had appeared in Sydney and Melbourne,
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: D. A. Campbell,
The King’s School, who shone for
Cambridge in the match with Oxford, has
been capped for England as a breakaway
forward. Australian appearances with
England began as long ago as the early
’eighties, when Charles Wade, later Pre-
mier and C.J. of N.S.W., appeared for
Oxford and England.
* * * *
“Everton”: With the English amateur
Soccer team selected, officials on this
side are getting busy with the important
business of raising the brass, for £3OOO
will be needed. N.S.W. leads off the
State quotas with £l5OO. Queensland
has to find £7OO, Victoria £4OO. S.A. and
Westralia £2OO each. Eight games will
be played in four weeks in this country
and 10 during the five weeks’ spell in
M.L. The Australian Tests will be at
Sydney in July, Brisbane and Sydney
again. Melbourne will have an All-Aus-
tralian XI game. The touring team con-
tains nine amateur internationals.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The English amateur
Soccer team for Australia and M.L. is
composed of 18 players, mostly from
teams in the second and third Leagues.
One man, Pickering, comes from a
famous professional side, Sheffield
Wednesday. Of the others goalie Wool-
cott is a Cambridge blue, and Lance-
Corporal Eastham an Army player. The
Corinthian and Casual clubs are repre-
sented by Strasser, a full-back, Joy, a
half-back, and Riley, a forward. Experts
this end regard it as a weak side. How
the team’s amateur professions will fit in
with the fact that most of the players
they will meet are professionals is their
pidgin after all.
* * * *
“Blackheath”: One more Rugby
League attempt to establish its profes-
sional code in London has failed. The
two made-to-order clubs which were
formed there, mostly from Dominion
players, are to put the shutters up. Nepia
has been transferred to Halifax, one of
the leading Yorkshire clubs in the
Northern Union or English R.L.; others
will no doubt find a niche or walk back
to M.L. or Australia. The clubs were
formed by dog interests as a sideline to
their “sport.” The public preferred the
four-legged performers.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: It looks as if the at-
tempt to restore professional pedestrian-
ism to its old-time glory in Melbourne is
petering out. Arrangements for the
yearly “world’s championship” have
been cancelled. The promoters say that
local talent available is now past its best
or not up to moderate standard. Much
was hoped of a visit from Jesse Owens
and Metcalfe ; but there was too much
cash at home for the darkies.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: The polo side that left
these shores for Manila engaged the
powerful Tamaraos club —it consists of
the Elizalde brothers —and was beaten G- 5
after taking a three-goal handicap. There
was a record crowd and a fitting celebra-
tion after. Both sides were mounted on
Australian ponies. The Australians were
Bragg, Henderson, Finlay and Allison.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Another attempt is to
be made to lift the idiotic “manual-
labor” ban imposed by a small coterie
of English rowing men on oarsmen who
earn their living with their hands or in
allied fashion. This was passed in 1882,
but since then the National Amateur
R.A. wiped out the objectionable clauses
in the Amateur R.A. laws as to ama-
teurism. The national body controls
amateur rowing throughout Britain, but
at such meetings as Henley, where the
A.R.A. holds sway, the ban prevails.
Many will recollect the diplomacy which
had to be exercised before a policeman
was permitted to row in Fitzhardinge’s
crew which won the Grand Challenge
in 1912, a policeman being regarded as
a manual laborer by the A.R.A. exquis-
ites. A joint meeting of the two bodies
is discussing the matter, and if the super-
lilywhites are not wholly deaf and blind
to public opinion they will throw in with
the National body.


THE NEAR-CHAMPION
No Australian-born pugilist has ever
been recognised as heavyweight cham-
pion of the world, but in at least one
case it was because the opportunity was
lacking. The actor-manager Bill Brady,
who had Corbett under contract when
the Californian became champion, has
admitted in his memoirs published last
year that Francis Patrick Slavin, born
at Maitland (N.S.W.) in 1862, would
have taken the belt from John L. Sulli-
van if he had got the match given to
Corbett in 1892.
Sullivan was then prematurely old and
lull of beer. He had drawn the color
line against Jackson, who, as Brady
acknowledges, would likewise have dis-
posed of him in quick time; but he
toyed with the idea of fighting Slavin.
He finally decided in his muzzy way that
he would box Americans only, and he
LARRY FOLEY—the Master.
left for Australia —to freeze in “Honest
Hearts and Willing Hands” —while Slavin
was in the U.S.A. On returning home
John L. agreed to meet Corbett.
That young man had in May of the
previous year boxed a 61-round draw
with Jackson at San Francisco. A
sprained ankle prevented Jackson from
training thoroughly, and it went back
on him during the long fight; but for
that, he always maintained —and he was
never addicted to boasting—he would
have whipped Corbett. Be that as it
may, the former bank clerk wanted no
more of Peter and none of any other
black. He drew the color line as rigidly
as John L., nor was he keen on meeting
Slavin.
The Maitland man a month after the
Corbett-Jackson fight had knocked out
Jake Kilrain at Hoboken, New Jersey.
Corbett,, like Sullivan, knew by per-
sonal experience of Kilrain that a man
who could do that was capable of giv-
ing all sorts of trouble.
It was the failure of Jackson and
Slavin to get a date with John L. that
led to their accepting the engagement to
return to London and fight at the
National Sporting Club. A fortunate
fight for Corbett, for neither Australian
was ever the same again. In any case,
the defeat of Slavin removed him from
the danger-list. At his best Slavin was
at least equal to Sharkey at his best;
and when Jeffries was champion Sharkey
knocked the stuffing out of Corbett, who,
clever as he was, could never stand them
rugged.
Slavin in Sydney.
A tall, perfectly-proportioned fellow
in the middle twenties, looking as tough
and as game as they make them, Slavin
arrived in Sydney half a century ago. He
had come from Queensland, where he
had worked as a navvy and done a lot
of camp fighting. He was billed as
“Slaven, the Queenslander,” and he did
not trouble to put the matter right: he
was no stickler for forms and trifles
never bothered him.
His first match was an easy one. The
Bulletin of January 22, 1887, records
that “Foley’s hall was crammed on
Saturday night, the big attraction
of the evening being looked for
in the attempt of Slavin to knock out a
stout gentleman from Newcastle who re-
joiced in the sobriquet of Ivo Bligh. The
show was disappointing. Ivo, who boasts
a covering of some four inches of fat
round his ribs, was more winded than
hurt when he offered his hand to Slavin
in the middle of the second round.”
In the issue of March 5 there is men-
tion of “a light set-to between ex-cham-
pion Larry Foley and his pupil Slavin.”
The latter was then in training for his
first fight with Mick Dooley, who fought
the best big men of his time and out-
lived them all, dying in Westralia two
or three years ago.
It was a St. Patrick’s Day encounter.
Said The Bulletin : “Slavin and Dooley
looked as if they had made
the most of their six weeks’
training when they stepped
into the ring at Larry Foley’s.
The price of admission, half
a sovereign, was pretty well
prohibitive to the rough -ele-
ment, and all through the
fight the men received equal
encouragement from the
orderly, if demonstrative,
spectators. It was said that
Dooley scaled a couple of pounds over
12 stone, but he certainly did not look
the weight, in contrast to Slavin, whose
powerful and symmetrical frame looked
every ounce of the 13 stone with which
he was credited.
“Slavin made the first lead, but was
countered heavily in the mouth by
Dooley. Slavin had a bit the best of the
second round ; but in the third the men
came together, and when they broke
away after a heavy rally Slavin was
pretty well dead-beat. It was here that
Dooley, to appearances, threw away the
battle, for, although much the fresher
man of the two, he stood off and allowed
Slavin to spar for wind.
“Slavin came up shaky for the fourth
round, but, Dooley making no attempt
to go in and fight him off, the Queens-
lander’s strength and condition brought
him round. He dropped Dooley with a
happy-go-lucky round-armer with the
right.
“Dooley then proved receiver-general
till the seventh round, when he forced
the fighting and again took the lead. But
he felt too weak to follow up his ad-
vantage, and merely came up to receive
punishment to the tenth round, when
Slavin knocked him out.”
The pair had a return match at Syd-
ney. Again the price of admission was
half a sovereign ; but this time the Corin-
thians got no ten rounds for their money.
The affair was over in half a round;
Slavin knocked Dooley out with the very
first punch he delivered.
Fights with Costello.
Slavin was kept busy in 1887. Fights
to a finish were permitted in those days,
and “the champion of Queensland,” as
he was now called, was signed up for
one by Foley, his antagonist being Buf-
falo Costello, the American. The Bul-
letin man who reported it on April 14,
1887, found it “most disappointing.”
“So much had been heard of Costello’s
terrific right hand that the affair was
looked on as a foregone conclusion in
favor of the Yankee, and it came rather
as a surprise when 11 o’clock arrived
just in time to prevent Slavin from scor-
ing a win. In the first three rounds Cos-
tello certainly established a lead, but in
the fourth Slavin staggered him with a
right-hander to the jaw; and the re-
mainder of the 31 rounds resolved them-
selves into a mere walking match. When
Jackson and Lees fought they ran. The
two under notice walked, although Slavin
seemed willing and anxious to fight. He
repeatedly asked the Yankee to stand and
exchange a hit or two, but it was only
when Costello was jambed in a corner
and Slavin rushed him that blows were
exchanged.
“Excitement ran high when Foley
stated that the fight must finish
by 11 o’clock. As Costello was very
weak and went down on the slightest
provocation, his eyes fixed on the clock,
the hour struck just in time to prevent
Jack Thompson from losing his voice,
Foley his temper and Costello the fight.”
Exactly a month later Slavin failed
in an attempt at Foley’s to “knock out
Costello in six rounds. Costello must
have turned the scales at well on to 12
stone ; but he looked a mere lad along-
side the gigantic Queenslander. Slavin’s
science was not equal to his strength.”
Thus The Bulletin.
September of that year found Slavin
and Costello having their third fight “at
a spot about a mile from Albury.”
Gloves were discarded, Marquis of
Queensberry rules also ; the men fought
with the raw ’uns in the London Prize
Ring fashion. This time the Australian
left nothing to chance or to the clock ;
“Going straight for Costello from the
start, he knocked the American out in
nine rounds.” But the sports who had
lost their tin had an opportunity of get-
ting it back by backing Costello’s com-
patriot, Young Mitchell, against the Vic-
torian welterweight, Peter Boland. That
“was a desperate affair; it was not until
40 rounds had been disputed that a draw
was declared.”
Slavin and Jackson.
In the meantime it had been an-
nounced by Foley that he had matched
Peter Jackson with Slavin, black to
knock white out in eight rounds. A
date in May, 1887, was fixed, and the
meeting was advertised. According to the
chronicler, “Jackson was on hand but
not Slavin.” “The man from Alligator
Land” was praised for “his good sense.
Peter was on the job and would have
chewed him up.”
This is scarcely to be disputed. It
would have been a case of a champion
at the top of his form fighting a com-
parative novice. But it seems more likely
that Slavin backed out of the contract —
if there was a contract —because he was
dissatisfied with the terms than because
he mistrusted his ability to stand up to
Peter for eight rounds. Going on with the
match, if match there was, would have
meant his getting a hiding and suffering
a setback to his growing reputation ; and
perhaps he said as much to Foley and
wanted to be paid accordingly. Assur-
edly it was not fear that held the Mait-
land man back. He was afraid of no-
body.
In Victoria.
July, 1887, found Slavin in Melbourne
engaging in a four-round exhibition bout
PADDY SLAVIN—the Pupil.
in St. George’s Hall with “Professor”
Miller. Miller it was who had fought
Foley for the heavyweight championship
at Sydney in 1883. He was getting all
over the very much lighter Larry when the
ring was rushed. The referee, when dis-
covered, gave it a draw ; the timekeeper,
repairs having been effected, said it had
lasted 40 rounds, occupying 34 hours.
Boxer, Graeco-Roman wrestler, weight-
lifter, swordsman, walker and go-
as-you please man, Miller was the out-
standing all-round athlete of his day,
and a magnificent-looking man withal.
Born in Melbourne, he was of French
extraction. He paid several visits to
America, meeting there the best of the
American Grseco-Roman wrestlers and
vainly challenging John L. Sullivan and
McAuliffe, “the Mission Boy,” to fight.
On the last of these sojourns in the
U.S.A. he decided to settle there. A
year or two ago he was reported to be
living in New York, and if he is still on
deck he must be in the nineties.
From this time forward, Melbourne
was to see more of Slavin than Sydney,
but early in 1888 he crossed the Tasman
to box the champion of Maoriland, a
half-caste Maori named Harry Laing.
Not long before, Laing had knocked out
a fellow named Dick Matthews in Wan-
ganui. -Of Matthews someone wrote that
“the doctor in attendance thinks his
patient will be able to move shortly
without crutches, and considers that his
lamps are almost equal to new, and that
his nasal organ is now capable of discri-
minating between the smell of ordinary
store flathead and dried shark”; but
after he met Slavin Laing was as urgently
in need of renovation as Matthews had
been. The Australian settled him in six
rounds.
Laing, it should be said, was no dub.
A few years later he beat Joe Goddard.
It was planned to send him to America
but Fate took a hand ; he was killed in
a level-crossing accident.
Slavin had two bouts in Melbourne
with Jack Burke. Burke, who called
himself “the Irish Lad,” had come
to Australia alleging that he, had
gone five rounds with John L. Sullivan.
Not much of a fighter, he was a very
smart showman and took few chances of
getting hurt.
The Bulletin of July 14, 1888, wrote
genially: “That arch-humbug Jack Burke
has fought still another draw in Mel-
bourne. He was opposed for eight
rounds to Slavin, the Marquis of Queens-
berry acting as referee. Slavin did all
the work, and several times beat Burke
on to the ropes. Slavin and Burke
divided the gate-money, and we infer
that the men have an eye to a future
meeting at Exhibition time.”
The prophecy was fulfilled, and this
time the affair was not “one of those.”
Witness the report: “Slavin knocked out
Burke in three rounds. For a time the
Irish Lad managed to dodge Slavin’s
terrific blows, but once Slavin fairly
got on to him the battle was soon over.
Slavin was most savagely in earnest and
completely lost his temper.”
Voyage to England.
After polishing off the Irish Lad,
Slavin went to England. His first fight
there was with Chesterfield Goode.
Goode had had a couple of
scraps with the former Aus-
tralian champion Tom Lees,
conqueror of the blacksmith
Farnum, who stopped Jack-
son, then an ill-nourished
novice,' in three rounds.
Goode was a plucky fel-
low, rather light for a heavyweight (Lees
was really only a middleweight). Slavin
knocked him out of time in five rounds.
A chair was thoughtfully hurled at the
stranger as he sat victorious in his
corner.
A one-round victory over Frank
Young was the next step in the Austra-
lian’s progress. On December 23, 1889,
at Bruges came his notorious fight with
Jem Smith.
The match was for “£5OO a side and
the championship of England.” Within a
few rounds Slavin had made it plain
that “the champion of England” was not
in his class. The “champion” must have
had an inkling of this, for he went to
Belgium with extra-sharp spikes and a
choice lot of Birmingham roughs, and
when he was getting a hiding his
champions invaded the ring, using
knuckledusters.
As long as he could get at his man,
spikes and all, the Australian got at him
with both fists. He half-killed the “cham-
pion,” but he himself was in danger of
being killed by the roughs when the
fight was stopped.
It was the last of the recognised field
fights. With the interruptions, it had
gone 14 rounds. No decision was given
in Belgium, but when the parties re-
turned to London the Pelican Club,
which had made the match, declared
vSlavin the winner, and sympathisers sent
him substantial presents. In fact, he did
so well out of the brawl and the sequel
(Continued on page 39.)


These Men Started by
Reading this BOOK!
6 INCHES GAIN ON CHEST!
“I have now a 42in. chest, 6in. increase since
taking your course, and I have grown all over.”
J. KIRKWOOD, C., N.S.W.
COURSE THE FINEST AND BEST!
“Your course is the finest I have ever seen to
so quickly build up strength and muscle, and I
thank you again and again for what it has done
for me.”—J. McGOVERN, T.A., N.Z.
COURSE MARVELLOUS!
“I don’t think there is a more pleased man in
this State than myself,
and I am more than
proud of my body
every time I see its
reflection in the mir-
ror. I can only say
it is marvellous.”
—W. TI MB LETT,
P., W.A.
FAR SUPERIOR
TO OTHER
SYSTEMS!
“I am con-
vinced your sys-
tem is the pick
of them all.”
—J. T. HALL,
T., N.Z.
m
1
What Gives a GORILLA
Ihe STRENGTHo! H) Men?
READ the most sensational book on strength ever published. This book will amaze
you with its facts—startle you with its possibilities. You don’t know you’re alive until
you get this book in your own hands. Do you know what gives a gorilla the strength of
10 men? Do you know why strength and virility are connected? It will answer questions
you have hardly dared to ask yourself, and you can get a copy FREE—if you hurry. Fill
in the Coupon NOW, this minute, and post it TO-DAY 1
“The Secrets of Muscular
Strength’ ’ —FREE
750 Copies to be sent ONLY!
ou have never seen a book like this
before. No publisher has ever dared
publish such a book. Its truth is glaring, its
secrets are startling—it is the most amazing
book that has ever appeared in Australia.
The moment you turn over its pages you
will be enthralled, you won’t blink an eyelash
until you have read every word. It is
crammed full of startling pictures—true life
photographs—startling text—amazing facts,
and yet for a while you can get this wonder
book FREE, if you hurry! 750 Copies ONLY
will be sent in response to this advertisement.
If your enquiry arrives too late you may
never get an opportunity again. It is NOW
or never. Rip the coupon out and post
TO-DAY \
What This Amazing Book
Tells You!
9 How to Add Inches to Your Chest.
9 How to Strengthen Your Back.
9 How to Treble Your Strength.
9 How to Get Strong Nerves.
Q How to Get Great Strength.
0 How to Develop a Muscular Body.
9 How to Cultivate Personality.
9 How to Be Successful.
9 How to Attract Friends.
9 How to Do Feats of Strength.
# How to Be Always Well.
9 How to Get Endless Endurance.
Post
Coupon
Now!
TEST THIS COURSE FOR 30 DAYS
TOW you can test this famous course yourself try
* ’ this remarkable system in your own home—under
any condition you like, and if it doesn't add inches to
your chest, broaden your shoulders, develop your arms,
legs, neck and back within 30 days, it COSTS YOU
NOTHING. But you must hurry; this offer may never
be repeated. It places you under no obligation what-
soever; all you have to do is send the Coupon NOW!
fs
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L.
107 PiTT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
G. SMITH,
R., N.Z.
- ■
r. O’CONNOR,
N.j S.A.
W. WIIiKES, S., N.S.AV.
<H |S OFFER EXPIRES
TP SHORTLY ||m|f .
RUSH COUPONALONC NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send
me, absolutely FREE, a
copy of your latest book,
“The Secrets of Muscular
Strength—And How to Acquire It.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
20/1/’37
Free
Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Belo^v!
HURRY
COUPON
ALONG
AT
ONCE.
Become an EXPERT ARTIST, Quickly!
Brodie Mack’s Amazing FREE BOOK Offer to all “Bulletin”
Readers with the Inclination to Learn Sketching.
Let BRODIE MACK
Teach You At Home.
This Book will amaze you with its
possibilities and the vast held if
opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the
black-and-white art under the
supervision of Brodie Mack. This
amazing short-cut method simplifies
art. You learn at home. If you
have an inclination for drawing, an
inclination that many of us possess,
then why compete with the crowd
in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for
this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illus-
trations, advertising catalogues,
pamphlets, books, comic strips,
cartoons, etc. Many have developed
this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, em-
bracing magnificent opportunities
to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the
bundy-punching ruck of mediocrity
and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop or office routine; in
addition to its lucrative achieve-
ments, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of
importance in the public life of the
community.
Make Money in Your Spare Time.
FOR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-and-white artist, is offer-
ing, absolutely FREE, a copy of his new book, How Xo Be An Artist, to all
readers of “Xhe Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means
of this remarkable course for you to earn
money in your spare hours. He shows you
how to “cash in” on his experience. He
teaches you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact
of you reading this announcement points to
you having a desire to be an artist—then
send for this amazing book and let us prove
that we can make you a skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy, Rapid Way.
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men
and women how to draw by easy natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished
drawing—the drawings that bring in good
£s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw
by post successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives daily are ample proof of this. Many
famous illustrators learnt this way they were
not born famous. This is your opportunity
to become a real artist capable of making
faithful sketches that will surprise your
friends, delight yourself, and take you out of
the small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR
opportunity—are you going to pass it by?
FREE!
MM
till
A ‘V
V JM he an Ar****
fey
ITiM t-truct*"* ;
• »
Then get that coupon into the mail—this moment. NOW!
What This FREE Book
Tells You!
• How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make Money in Your Spare Time.
• How to Develop Latent Ability.
• How to Cartoon.
• How to Caricature.
• How to Sell Your Work.
• How to Illustrate for the Papers.
• How to Sketch and Draw.
• Send for this FREE Book TO-DAY!
“HOW TO BE AN FREE BOOK COUPON—POST NOW!
ARTIST” IS FREE!
Never before has a book of this
nature been offered free; that is why
you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you
how to draw' —develop your talent —
how' to cartoon, the • secret of illus-
trating, and how T money can be
made even while learning. Fill in
your coupon and get it into the post
now —at once, before you forget.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School
DESK 43, LOMBARD CHAMBERS, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me FREE and without
obligation my copy of your famous book, “How To
Be An Artist.” I enclose 2d. in stamps to defray
postage.
Name
Address
20/ 1 /’37


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“East Meets West.”
SULTAN OF SLAM .. George Arliss
GOVERNOR OF BLAM, Godfrey Tearle
LADY Lucie Mannheim
This picture was given a theatrette
screening in Sydney two months or so
ago, and was briefly reviewed on this
page (4/11/ ’36). However, it hasn’t
yet got on to a full-sized screen in Aus-
tralia, and in the meantime the world at
large has been invited to look at a some-
what similar situation on that very big
screen which is made up daily by news-
papers.
The Sultan of Slam, a Machiavellian
old person who is as subtle as Richelieu,
as money-wise as Rothschild 11. and as
adroit as Disraeli, has the good
fortune to arrest, for rum-running, the
Collector of Customs of the adjoining
British colony of Blam. He announces
William Powell casts a fly in “Libelled
Lady,” at Sydney St. James.
his intention to hang this gentleman as
high as Haman, and erects an impres-
sive gallows-tree for the purpose. This
for two good reasons —firstly, he reckons
the British will pay a big fat ransom to
avoid such a blow to prestige ; secondly,
his son, heir to the sultanate, loves the
rum-running Englishman’s wife and
would marry her out of hand if she were
free. Both issues, he considers, may be
forced with profit. Britain and a nation
represented by a gentleman who talks
like a Japanese and garbs himself like a
Russian desire to negotiate with him
treaties which would make his little sul-
tanate a protectorate. In the Richelieu-
Rothschild-Disraeli manner he plays one
Power against the other, and is delighted
when the Russo-Japanese envoy engi-
neers a rebellion the object of which is
to get the Englishman hanged and put
the sultan’s son on the throne.
The British Government comes to
light with the ransom, the sultan coun-
termands the execution, and the rebel-
lion gets under way. Great opportunity
for sultan, who mounts scaffold and ad-
dresses mutinous Mohammedan popula-
tion. “All this bother,” he says in effect,
“is because my son wants to marry an
infidel. Is that your wish?” So the re-
bellion ends as abruptly as it started,
the lady is reconciled to her husband, the
sultan tells his son that with all his fat-
headedness he has proved himself a chip
of the old block, and Britain and
Japrussia sign treaties guaranteeing the
independence of Slam.
Arliss is as happy as a stroked cat in
the role of sultan; Godfrey Tearle
couldn’t' be bettered as a much-worried
but very shrewd diplomat and Miss
Mannheim’s foreign accent helps to ex-
plain her inconsequential changes of
mood. But the most interesting spots
are those scraps of dialogue in which
Sultan Arliss discourses on the duty of
royal persons when desire conflicts with
policy. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Dusty Ermine.”
REFORMED FORGER, Ronald Squire
SCOTLAND YARD FATHEAD,
Anthony Bushell
BRAINY GIRL Jane Baxter
The three actors mentioned are all
pillars of the London stage, and, though
all three have had some years of screen-
acting experience, the stage clings to
them. The story reeks with improbabili-
ties. Mr. Squire’s specialty as a forger
seems to have been the reproduction of
Bank of England notes by penmanship.
There isn’t anything on earth easier to
reproduce photographically than the plain
black-and-white of the B. of E. promise
to pay ; the pitfalls for the forger lie in
the paper, the watermarking and the
chemical make-up of the ink.
However, the forger represented by
Mr. Squire drew them, and, as might
be expected, did a term in quod
in consequence. When he came
out' he found that his young
nephew, entangled in the toils of
scoundrels, had taken up the
same silly line of industry, and
was the. tool of a gang which
printed the reproductions in
France, using as their head-
quarters a hotel near the Swiss border.
Lots of good ski-ing country in this
vicinity, and the guides and the guests
frequently skied right over the border.
One of the guides, a member of the gang,
took wads of forged notes with him, and
left them in a hut on the Swiss side,
where they could be picked up by
agents.
One of the Oxford-accent silly-ass lads
that the English stage has adopted as
the symbol of latter-day Scotland Yard
is on the trail of the forgers, and benevo-
lent uncle, to save nephew, takes the
blame when the latter is in danger of
arrest. The S.Y. sleuth, being in love
with nephew’s beautiful sister (who
steered sleuth to all the clues), is pre-
vailed upon to make things easy for the
heroic oldster, who this time gets a very
Clark Gable being impolite to Mabel in
“Cain and Mabel,” at Sydney Regent.
short sentence. When he comes out he
reciprocates by forging letter from
sleuth to girl and another from girl to
sleuth, thus reuniting two loving hearts.
In the earlier part of the film the
photography is bad —about the worst
that ever came out of Elstree —and the
sound-synchronisation is astray. Later
there is some splendid snow-scene photo-
graphy, and a wild chase on skis is bril-
liantly done. But two-thirds of the pro-
ceedings are purely boresome. At Syd-
ney Lyceum.
“Polo Joe.”
NITWIT SKITE Joe E. Brown
Joe is as delectable a clown as the
screen can boast, but in this, as in many
more of his recent films, the plot is dis-
closed in the first five minutes. He’s a
wealthy playboy, just returned from a
tourist-trip to China, where he has picked
up some Cantonese coolie lingo, memo-
rised one or two songs in that vernacu-
lar, and learned something about
juggling with chopsticks and spoons.
Gets in with a polo-playing crowd, falls
Roscoe Karns receiving a setback in
“Cain and Mabel.”
for a goil who reckons a good horse-
man is creation’s crown, and, having
ascertained that there isn’t a chance in
the world that he will be allowed to
play in this very select circle, lets him-
self go in imaginary accounts of his
prowess on ponies in Hong Kong and
Shanghai. As a matter of fact he has
never ridden a horse, and the very smell
of the beasts gives him hay-fever.
The inevitable happens. A player is
outed in a practice game, and Joe must
take his place in the great match. With
a rubber cushion in his pants he flukes
a miraculous performance, scoring a
goal from a well-nigh impossible posi-
tion. Accepted by the goil he tells her
firmly that he will never play polo again
—no game for a married man. Brown
is as funny as ever in his characteristic
half-silly-half-shrewd way, and the piece
is fair entertainment. Previewed at
Warner Bros. Theatrette, Sydney.
“Too Many Parents.”
LITERARY CADET .. George Ernest
ANOTHER JUVENILE . Buster Phelps
STILL ANOTHER Billy Lee
GIRL WHO UNDERSTANDS,
Frances Farmer
Pictures starring child actors are
usually pretty hard to suffer, save by
those who get fun out of heaving senti-
mental sighs over the little pets. This
one is above average; acting is good
and story credible right up to the last
reel or two. Theme is the hero-worship
of a boy for his engineer father. The
youngster is in a military academy, dis-
regarded by his old man for the classic
reason that an adored wife died in giv-
ing birth to the lad. In this situation
Phillip (said cadet) writes hmself letters
purporting to come from his father —the
kind of adventure-stuffed letters he’d
like to receive. This leads to a climax
which comes close to tragedy.
All the juveniles in this piece are ex-
cellent. The same can’t be said of the
film’s ending, in which Phil not only
wins back his father, but snares a mother
as well. Seeing that Stewart, senior (the
father), and Sally Colman, the new
mother, have only met twice during the
story, to find them in the final scene as
man and wife comes as something of a
shock. Still, these world-roving engi-
neers are notoriously quick workers. At
Sydney Civic.
“Spendthrift.”
SPENDTHRIFT Henry Fonda
GOOD ANGEL Pat Paterson
BAD ANGEL Mary Brian
COMEDY OFFSIDER, Edward Brophy
This film-chewer lives in hope of one
day meeting a generous spender a la
Towney Middleton, who tosses to his
friends sports cars, polo ponies and
thousand-dollar bills. Once this pleas-
ing trait of the hero is accepted the rest
is fair entertainment.
The expansive Towney is shown broke,
being angled for and caught by a snide
Southern damsel after his supposed
riches, awakening to the fact that he
really loves the daughter of his late
horse-trainer, becoming a radio sports
commentator, watching one of his own
horses win the Big Race, and finally fad-
ing out in a clinch with the lass who has
loved him all the time, through good for-
tune and bad.
Fonda does a good enough job, and
so do the girls. Some acceptable comedy
touches are added by Mr. Brophy. This
object-lesson to the stingy is on show
at Sydney Civic.
“Land Without Music.”
GOLDEN-VOICED TENOR,
Richard Tauber
HAUGHTY PRINCESS, Diana Napier
BURLESQUE AMURRICAN,
Schnozzle Durante
GOIL June Clyde
Even Herr Tauber’s voice, raised
lustily over Oscar Straus’s melodies, fails
to carry this picture. It makes sections
supportable, but there are long stretches
when the audience is left with nothing
to do but gaze on the German songbird
and follow the course of a C 3 musical-
comedy story.
Trouble arises when Mario Carlini,
world-famous tenor, returns to his native
land to find that music has been for-
bidden. Incensed, the singer, aided and
abetted by Jonah B. Whistler, U.S. citi-
zen, organises a secret concert, to be
held in a robbers’ cave in the forest.
Ted Perry, ringmaster, schools a pony.
This done, he discloses the whole plan
to the Princess Regent, being unaware,
of course, of this lady’s identity. Re-
sult: the breaking-up of the concert and
gaol for Mario.
But the intrepid tenor recks nothing of
this. He escapes, serenades the prin-
cess, takes part in a bloodless revolu-
tion, in which citizenry and soldiers are
armed with musical instruments, and
when last seen is a hundred-to-one bet
for the position of Prince Consort and
Chief Warbler to the Duchy.
This is one of those films to which
Tauber enthusiasts will go, of course.
They’ll hear the voice, but won’t get


For Sale.
WEDNESDAY, 10th FEBRUARY,
FOB AUCTION
A BEAUTIFUL WESTERN
DISTRICT HOME.
At 3 p.m. At Scott’s Hotel,
444 Collins Street, Melbourne.
By Order of A. S. Austin, Esq.,
(Who has purchased a Home in Melbourne.)
“GREEN VALE,” Willaura,
878 ACRES,
WITH FINE RIVER FRONTAGE.
“Green Vale,” situated four miles from Wil-
laura Railway Station, between Ararat and
Hamilton, is the original Pre-emptive Right in
this district, watered by the Hopkins River,
which traverses the property from end to end.
170 acres of Rich River Flats, balance undu-
lating Parklike Country all under pasture,
FINE 21-ROOMED RESIDENCE, also
STAFF COTTAGES and OUTBUILDINGS.
THE IDEAL COUNTRY HOME.
700 sheep, about 15 cattle and four horses
given in.
Easy terms: £5OOO deposit, £lOOO at first and
second years, balance at three years. Interest
5 p.c. p.a., payable half-yearly. Possession
31st March.
Solicitors : Messrs. Aitken, Walker and Strachan,
123 William Street, Melbourne.
AUCTIONEERS:
EDWARD HAUGHTON AND CO.,
370 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND
AND FINANCE CO., LTD.,
TVS William Street, Melbourne.
air
WLferi
L/OUT holiday
This land of countless attractions awaits you—
ancient temples beautiful scenery native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY—T E L E P H O N E B 79 0 I
7
people
in 10
m
NORMAL.GUM LINE
[sensitive spots]
have “Skunlumj sgxm
at 35!
Qums may start to shrink back (recede) as early as 20. By 35
most mouths show 3 to 4 “recession" spots at gum line. These
spots are highly sensitive when brushed.
Three common mistakes hasten “shrinking," according to
modem dentists. Three things to do if you want to retard a
premature “ageing” process.
As gums grow old they naturally
recede. Your first warning is
that certain teeth are sensitive to
brushing.
To harsh, abrasive dentifrices, to
ineffective cleansing and to wrong
ways of brushing are laid the
prematurely receding gums of
modern times. Thus, to retard
unnatural "shrinking” of the
gums, follow these three simple
rules.
1. BRUSH PROPERLY
Brush away from the gums,
upwards on the lower teeth and
downwards from above.
2. USE A PROTECTIVE TOOTH PASTE
—When gums recede, the part
exposed (cementum) is much
softer than enamel. Thus, your
cleansing material must be softer
than "cementum.” Of the leading
brands only Pepsodent is softer
than this more delicate portion of
the tooth.
3. YOU MUST REMOVE FILM
—it contains germs associated
with decay.
Film also combines with lime
salts to form tartar, whose sharp
edges may irritate the gums,
cause bleeding and make gums
recede much faster.
Pepsodent Removes Film
Pepsodent is a special film-remov-
ing tooth paste. Scientists devel-
oped a new softer, safer cleansing
and polishing material. This
special film-removing material is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively.
PEPSODENT
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING
TOOTH PASTE
NEW 10%
LARGER TUBE
MORE TOOTH PASTE
FOR YOUR MONEY
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
much else. Diana Napier makes as much
of her role as the story allows ; Durante
is comic enough at times; June Clyde
does a good comedy-ingenue job o’
work. Interested parties will be wel-
comed at Sydney Mayfair.
“Keep Your Seats, Please.”
CODFISH-FACED LUNATIC,
George Formby
GIRL Florence Desmond
One of those English farce-comedies
which make fun of the feeble-minded.
Formby’s maiden aunt wills all her
fortune to charities, but leaves him
a note instructing him to buy the dining-
room chairs at auction —one of them
contains £90,000 in bonds and jools.
Follows a long chase after the chairs,
which were sold separately. A goat ate
the stuffing out of one, and the creature,
disguised as a dog, is taken to a tail-
waggers’ clinic to be X-rayed. It con-
tains two corkscrews and a small tooth-
comb. At long "last the valuable chair
is found in a pawnbrokers’ shop. These
delectable proceedings are punctuated by
comic songs, sung by Mr. Formby, who
accompanies himself on a banjo-mando-
lin. Poor entertainment. At Sydney
Mayfair.
“Career Woman.”
LADY LAWYER Claire Trevor
MALE LAWYER .... Michael Whalen
THEIR CLIENT Isabel Jewell
Whatever the intention may have
been, this film belongs to Isabel Jewell.
She’s the small-town girl accused of
murdering her pa because she gave him
a smack with a hairbrush and knocked
him downstairs after he had belted her
full sore with a very heavy leather belt.
This he did in the interests of morality,
she having been discovered in the com-
pany of a young man.
The scenario is almost entirely made
up of courtroom stuff —small-town court,
a Judge who is short on law and long
on prejudice, girl-graduate lawyer doing
her best in a court run on Rafferty’s
rules. Case is in a hopeless mess when
the young Portia’s sweetheart, the slickest
jury-pleader in Noo Yoick, comes on the
scene, accompanied by about a score of
reporters and newspaper photographers.
He takes over the defence, insults Judge
and jury, gets himself gaoled for con-
tempt and then engineers a lynching
with himself as the victim. Comes into
court next morning one sweet mess of
sticking-plaster and bandages. Girl
lawyer indignantly repudiates his help,
makes a good speech to the jury herself
and elicits that the accused’s sweetheart
is the son of the District Attorney.
Triumphant acquittal, and fadeout of
lady lawyer and Noo Yoick pleader in
clinch. Vigorous melodrama, with all
the best acting done by the pathetic,
hopeless, stubborn little defendant. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Fugitive in the Sky.”
REPORTER Warren Hull
AIR-LINER HOSTESS .... Jean Muir
PUBLIC ENEMY NO. 1,
Howard Phillips
G-MAN John Litel
MURDERESS Nedda Harrigan
“Petrified Forest” and “Absolute
Quiet” were the dramatic forerunners
of this thriller. A man is murdered
while travelling in air-liner. Public
Enemy No. 1 had nothing to do with
it, but when G-man gets into action and
insists on searching all passengers he
takes charge, terrorising the pilots. Miss
Muir tries to dope his cawfy with
“Dewar’s Sleeping Potion,” but P.E.
No. 1 is cagy and switches the cups.
One pilot drinks the potion ; the other
makes an ill-advised wisecrack and is
woodened out. Heroic goil has to pilot
’plane in duststorm. They get down all
right, and all hands assemble in lonely
farmhouse. There the reporter shows
his mettle and overpowers the gunman.
The murderess is unmasked, and every-
thing ends happily for everyone save
the villains. At Sydney Capitol.
“Three Men on a Horse.”
INFALLIBLE AMATEUR PUNTER,
Frank McHugh
PROFESSIONAL GAMBLERS,
Sam Levene, Al Jenkins and Teddie Hart
TOUGH GOIL Joan Blondell
VERSE-FACTORY PROPRIETOR,
Guy Kibbee
A simple story of a trio of pool-room
habitues who get hold of a miraculous
innocent who could write down the 1,2,
3 of horserace placings the day before
the event. On the stage the opus was
effective more by reason of the naughti-
ness of the dialogue than because the
thing was well done. Will Hays and
Cress well O’Reilly have put their respec-
tive vacuum-cleaners over the script, but
the comedy survives the ordeal. It is
stage stuff, and the few outdoor shots
don’t help it in the least. Acting puts it
over. Levene’s Bowery accent is the
juiciest ever heard from a screen mike ;
McHugh’s version of the henpecked little
quatrain-writer who goes on a bender has
just the right proportions of abandon and
restraint, and Miss Blondell’s notion of
a bad-but-not-too-bad goil fits nicely into
the picture. Kibbee has a small part,
but makes it live. Previewed at the
Plaza Theatrette, Sydney.
STAGE SHOWS.
A Benefit.
Adelaide Tivoli has seen a crowded
house as coming-of-age benefit for Cora
Whitwell, who was badly injured in a
stage accident in Brisbane last year.
Bert Lennon lent some artists from the
Majestic, Bob Carter ran the show, and
Gordon Chennell was conductor.
* * -i- *
An Adelaide Rep. Show.
Amateur drama in Adelaide is grow-
ing ambitious. The Repertory (which
was the earliest of its kind founded in
Australia) has boldly moved to the
Tivoli, and will in that large house put
on a play a month from February to
November. Lonsdale’s. “On Approval”
is to be the first. The Reps, have also
engaged a full-time secretary, Cyril
Riley, lately of Perth. Meanwhile, the
Independent Group, led by Agnes Dob-
son (of long experience), has announced
a year’s classical programme, from
Tischylus, by way of Shakspeare and
Moliere, to Pirandello.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Portrait Painters’ Blue Ribbon.
The Archibald Prize Competition for
1936 brought in 137 entries. Most' of
the well-known Australian portrait
painters had a go, and the award went
to Bill Mclnnes, who must by now have
more notches on his palette in respect
to this award than any other painter.
The judges had a harder job, one would
think, than in any year in the last de-
cade, not because good work was abun-
dant but because what was good was so
level in quality. Mclnnes’s winning
painting has as its subject Dr. Julian
Smith, and it writes a very complete
essay on the theme. This critic never
saw Dr. Smith, but will never fail to
recognise him in future. The portrait
is as full of character as a Dickens de-
scription.
Ernest Buckmaster was at his best
when he limned his own mother, a good,
sincere bit of painting. In a lesh happy
mood he produced “Private W. Cutten,”
a life-size full-length of a man in High-
land regimentals. It bellows.
Hanke’s offering is a self-portrait,
very well done, but beaten for effect
by Melville R. Haysom’s prolonged
study before a mirror. An almost dead-
white background gives emphasis to
an uncannily realistic bit of portraiture.
Max Meldrum demonstrates the
virtues of his style in a portrait of a
painter—the best-composed picture in the
show. Will Rowell excels himself in
his painting of Dr. Price, and scores an-
other hit very near the centre of the
bull’s-eye with “The Airman.” W. A.
Dargie’s portraits, particularly the one
of himself, have an old-fashioned
romantic quality that is very charming.
* * * *
Wynne’s Landscape Prize.
For the Wynne Prize the 84 entries
are mostly disappointing. Elioth Griiner
wins with a posterishly flat landscape.
Hans Heysen, J. R. Jackson, Robert
Johnson and John and Will Rowell show
good characteristic work, but they are
all at their second-best. This critic liked
most A. Zimmerman’s “Palm Beach”
panorama, a faithful bit of painting that
Conrad Martens would have appre-
ciated.
•F *F *F
Adelaide’s Travelling Scholarship.
Adelaide has a striking art-show in the
10 groups that competed for S.A.’s first
travelling scholarship ; for which about
£6OO was raised by an art-union pro-
moted by “Mail” and “News,” the prizes
being pictures by everybody from Hey-
sen onwards. The idea being to encour-
age figure composition only (in which
S.A. has always been weak), three draw-
ings and three oils —at least two of them
to be nude—were required as a test
from each competitor. Ten young com-
petitors seized the. chance, and the result
is not mere nudity but the naked-and-
unashamed. Adelaide has never before
seen anything approaching it.
The judges, Heysen, McCubbin and
the visiting Quinn (substituting for
McNally, ill) have placed three—all men.
The winner is J. D. D. Welsh, 26, of
Glenelg, School of Arts student and
commercial artist by profession. The
judges must have found it difficult not to
bracket with him Geoffrey Mainwaring,
whose draughtsmanship they admit, but
Welsh’s color gained him the award.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
a
m
swell
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Enjoy your trip
Mothersills
SIASICK ‘ HIM COY
lakes'Oeck Activities*
And Tea a Welcome Event]
k'
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Ranged alongside Circular Quay the
H.M.S. Danae provided easy access
for the usual cohorts of citizenry who
like to get a close-up of a Jack-tar’s
home. Her officers were a gift of
Providence for the persistent hostess dur-
ing a week when most Sydney butter-
flies are at the beaches or golfing in
the Mountains. The really large affair
given in honor of the visitors was Fri-
day night’s dance on H.M.A.S. Can-
berra. There were dinner parties first
at Tresco, in the Moresby, and in the
Sydney, and then from all points the pin-
naces made for the Canberra. Here
Admiral Lane-Poole and daughter Anne
(mother was not well enough to be
present) received the guests.
Anne Lane-Poole’s cosmos-pink taf-
feta was made with a little pleated
basque, and the dropped shoulder line
was edged with brown velvet. From
Tresco came Mrs. G. A. Scott, Mrs.
J. U. P. Fitz Gerald, Mrs. Forster, Joan
Forster and Philippa Fitz Gerald. Cap-
tain Maund, of the Danae, and Com-
mander Carne were, among the male sup-
ports. Mrs. Cox Cox, an English visitor,
was graceful in white organza that had
its fulness swept backwards. Mrs. Eric
Sheller, as usual, attracted the gaze. Her
frock was of black marquisette, very
long and full. Pamela Laidley Dowling
swirled pleated white chiffon. Philippa
Fitz Gerald’s net frock was of grotto
green. Sprinkle with the Port Jackson
navy entities, white mess jackets, decora-
tions, tubs of pink roses and flags, spice
with the, band from H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia, and you get the flavor of the mid-
summer night’s brew.
Public delight in grace and vigor of
movement, of poetic conception, of
colorful costume and background, con-
tinues to fill the Royal nightly to capa-
city. Students of the dance are up in
the gallery three and four times for
each programme. By ferry, train and
car the different groups, rich, poor, fat,
lean, arrive, and by eight o’clock are
welded into that important body the
audience. Mrs. Crawford Vaughan,
arriving on Saturday night with her tall
husband and a niece whose coat was
collared in lush and blowing roseate
feather fronds, confessed to six visits
already in Sydney and eight in Adelaide.
Mrs. A. C. Godhard turned up yet once
again, this time in the crispness of
taffeta.
In the vestibule of the dress circle,
talk turned on the picnic planned for the
company on Sunday. E. J. Tait had
arranged originally for about 30 or 40,
but so many said they’d like to go that
the party became 150 strong. Moon-
bara, the Arthur Allen home at Port
Hacking, was the place where the billy
boiled. Arnold Haskell, who departs
within a few days, was the reason for
the day in the open. The Philipoffs
have discovered a Russian cook, and
have been serving the dishes of Lenin-
grad, so to speak, to delighted com-
patriots. There’s to be a samovar tea at
the Trocadero in February, and mem-
bers of the Ballet will be there in great
numbers. After all this, feeling that it
is almost straight from the steppes, the
audience rustles back to its places, ready
for “Prince Igor.”
Noppy Wilkinson’s wedding put a
dash of the pictorial into a week that
was mostly uneventful. Noppy was a
very young bride, and she was radiant
in fine and stiffened white lace and a
tulle veil over a coronet of mother-of-
pearl. She was married from her home,
and with her four ’maids in their long
and billowy organza frocks she arrived
at St. Anne’s, Strathfield, in a burst of
brilliant sunshine. Here amid the pink
and blue flower composition waited
’groom Dr. Rex Money and best man
Dr. Peter Braddon. There was a line of
silver in the frocks of the four ’maids.
Two wore pink, two blue. The skirts
were cut on full and flowing lines, the
bodices were crossover and had fichu
necklines. The large hats were of match-
ing organza.
The reception was at Radstoke, the
home of the bride’s parents, the A. C.
Wilkinsons. The breakfast was set in a
marquee in the gardens. Mrs. Wilkin-
son received in a flower-patterned frock
and a straw hat large and blue. The
bridegroom’s mother chose black and
silver. The just-twenties were well repre-
sented at this party, many of the girls
having been at Frensham with the bride.
This Letter has heard a bit about ex-
pensive travel, but even its eyebrows
threaten to remain permanently sky-
ward over the nonchalance with which
knight Laurence Philipps hired a Dutch
air-liner to carry himself, his wife and
daughter Gwenllian from Java to Syd-
ney. Seven thousand pounds that little
fly is said to have cost, yet the knight
drank his cup of tea on his arrival at
Mascot with a steady hand and a serene
eye. The flight was taken in the cause
of health. The Girl in the Flat Oppo-
site says it’s much better to spend money
buying health than to finance your heirs
by saving it.
General manager of the Royal Packet
Navigation Company A. Bakker and his
daughter Jean flew to Brisbane to link
up with the travellers. Gwenllian has
the height and fine clear skin typical of
the English girl. The family looked a
happy trio as they left the ’plane, arms
filled with books and flowers.
Lady Philipps is fond of sport, fish-
ing and racing being her amusements.
She is proud of daughter-in-law, novel-
ist Rosamund Lehman, whose Weather
in the Street is now being read in Aus-
tralia. Maoriland is not to see these
travellers on their homeward way. They
will catch the Mooltan at Adelaide or
Melbourne.
Maorilanders seem to take kindly to
the flight from England. Last week Una
Herrick and her father, of Tautane,
Hawke’s Bay, arrived in Sydney by aero-
plane, as they were in too great a hurry
to come by ocean ways. The special
hurry in Una’s case was the wedding
of sister Hester, for whom she is to be
bridesmaid. This will happen early in
February at Napier, the bridegroom
being John Elworthy, one of the Can-
terbury clan. A long ’plane flight will
probably be one of the cures for neives
in the future, for the Enzedder says the
hum of the engines made her so drowsy
she slept a good deal of the time.
Dorothy Welding photo.
Already some of the poorer peeresses
and duchesses of England must be sav-
ing up the money from the eggs and
empties to help foot the bill for the
Coronation robes. Those who see in the
Abbey the brave display of silver and
gold brocade, ermine, miniver and rich
red velvet can estimate, on the most eco-
nomical basis, that each minor peeress
is carrying about £l5O worth; each
duchess about £5OO. It will take anything
from 12 to 20 yards of material for the
men’s gauds, and as the velvet is about
six guineas a yard (being hand woven)
it looks as though the men of the family
will have to use constraint in their con-
tribution to the empties.
Mercia Gregori—in real life Mrs.
Pollock ; her husband, of London “Daily
Express,” is here to write about cricket,
which he will follow up with the inevit-
able book about Australia—talked cos-
metics at the Pickwick Club last week.
The art of make-up was the lady’s sub-
ject. She should know something of it,
for she acts for the U.F.A. films in
Berlin, and alternates with appearances
on the English stage. She has given up
wearing stockings, and claims thereby to
have saved hundreds of pounds. Mercia
is small and very slim, and makes-up
her slender legs in sun-tan. She spoke
at length on this grooming of the legs,
averring that she takes longer over
making-up from knee to ankle than from
brow to chin.
Other hints, such as the pencil mark
to elongate the eye, the touch of red to
make it lustrous, were absorbed by ladies
with their vegetable and fruit salads.
Miss Gregori’s frock was black, her hat
a black satin flower-pot. Its facade was
a high threefold pleat of the satin.
Although the day was hot, she wore a
fur, softest fawn in shade. Mrs. Beyan,
from Melbourne, Mrs. Charles Pfeiffer
(her white frock finished off with a
drooping white felt hat), the grey-eyed
and grey-frocked Mrs. Aldridge, Mrs.
Gordon Johnson, Mrs. L. Dare, the fresh-
cheeked Mrs. MacKinnon, from Canada,
Doris Hill and the Australia’s new
manager Smuts and his wife were among
those whose eyes saw the red roses on
the table, and whose ears heard the dis-
course on how to give Nature a helping
hand.
One. of the most attractive of Russian
Ballet first-nighters is Mrs. C. V. Walker.
With her fragile charm it would be easy
to imagine her one of the white-clad,
fluent ballerinas she watches. There is
knowledge in her gaze, for before her
marriage, when Mrs. Walker was Joan
Woden, fresh from Frensham, she studied
the classic ballet with the Lightfoot-
Burlakov school. The portrait comes
from Dayne.
Olga Philipoff’s bright red frock and
blue organdie coat were a Bakst-like touch
in a box at the Royal on Saturday night;
Mrs. George Ellwood’s chiffons were also
lacquer-red. Nan Garvan’s composition
of blue and silver was true harmony.
Miss Macdonald, of the Isles, was there ;
so was Mrs. Ellis Feilding-Jones, all
white gleaming satin and ostrich
feathers. Pamela Laidley Dowling had
her sapphire moires brightened with
organdie.
A returned voyager has much to say
about “The King’s House,” presented by
the Royal Warrant Holders’ Association
to the late King George in honor of his
silver jubilee. This house, which was
granted by ex-King Edward to Admiral
Sir Reginald G. O. Tupper (he was in
the Navy from 1873 to 1921), is at Bur-
hill, Surrey. In construction and equip-
ment it has everything of the most
modern. It cost £50,000, and Lord
Iveagh gave the land. The architect was
Sir Giles Gilbert Scott. The traveller
who waxed enthusiastic about this domi-
cile unfolds a frock of black taffeta
which, together with its just-below-the-
hips jacket, has all its fulness at the back.
Jacket is of jade velvet, with black velvet
collar and cuffs; sleeves are modified leg
o’ mutton.
Oswald Cheeke, climbing daily back to
health at the Pacific Hotel, Manly, got
word the other day of a pleasant little
windfall. In 1863 his paternal grand-
father deposited the sum of £l5 in one
of the English banks for the benefit of
his son Oswald. Then apparently he
lost interest in that particular bank ac-
count, or maybe he forgot all about it.
Anyway, through the years the £l5 has
been growing, and now the bank is pre-
paring to pour the heaped-up treasure at
the present Oswald Cheeke’s feet.
Oswald’s mother and John Dailey’s
mother were sisters. What with the
Countess de Vismes’s unexpected jack-
pot and all, it looks as though there’s
been somebody named Elijah among the
antecedents. And if you live at Cape
York and haven’t heard of the Countess,
she’s a daughter of barrister Bill Dailey,
and under a settlement in the William
Bede Dailey estate (made when she must
have been a babe) she now inherits a
small competency. When word reached
the Countess the other day in London
she was working in one of the. milk
bars run by Sydney’s old friend Hugh
D. Mclntosh.
If the A.B.C. intends to introduce its
artists to Sydney by way of sherry par-
ties, as it did last year (and the notion
was a very popular one), isn’t it time the
Commission laid down a cellar? There’s
to be quite a procession of worth-whiles
and famed crossing the ocean tracks for
the benefit of A.B.C. listeners. Late
February and early March will see the
first arrivals. Lotte Lehmann comes a
little later. Admirers of this artist are
hoping for the chance to hear her in
“Rosenkavalier.” Three guest con-
ductors, Count Patti, the Finnish baton-
wielder Schneevoigt and Dr. Sargent, will
lead the Symphony. Orchestra. Old
favorites, the Budapest quartet, will
make more music for Australia.
Whenever the Navy makes a gesture
of hospitality it does so with its feet.
Dinner and a ball to follow is the cere-
monial entertaining, cocktails and danc-
ing the informal. True to tradition the
Danae mixed its cocktail of farewell
with jazz. It enclosed itself coyly in the
awning of rejoicing, smoothed down the
black cat, Jupiter, its mascot, and did
the thing in proper style. Most of those
at the Admiral’s Ball the night before
turned up again, and the gay vibrations
caused quite a list to port on passing
ferries.
At least 2000 women in Sydney appre-
ciate the help of electric appliances in the
home. There are 2000 members of the
Electrical Association for Women, of
which Mrs. F. V. McKenzie, fully-
fledged electrical engineer, is director. In
Sydney it’s an unpaid job, but in Eng-
land it carries £lOOO a year. This Letter
went along to have a cup of tea at the
association’s rooms one afternoon last
week. The address is 9 Clarence-street,
and here there is a thoroughly uncom-
mercial atmosphere, as no sales are
made, and there are no profits or com-
missions. Behind the showroom, with
its display window, there are a library,
a bridgeroom and a kitchen.
The kitchen, the pride of the estab-
lishment, is lined with bright and smooth
lacquer cupboards from floor to ceil-
ing. Some are for moderate-sized
bottles, others for tall ones, such as those
that hold vinegar. Low corner cup-
boards automatically light up as doors
are opened. The latest ideas in pastry
boards, ironing boards and electric
stoves insist that housekeeping need no
longer be regarded as the white woman’s
burden. Not only women but quite
young girls are finding how sweet are
the uses of electricity. Some of the girls
dropped into the rooms at Christmas-
time, and baked Christmas cakes. A few
days later came a party to try the cakes.
What the girls did not eat they took
home in slices. The director seems to
have the right idea.
If there was a silverfish taking har-
borage in the Australian Encyclopaedia at
the letter M he must have scuttled many
a time last week. The marriage of grand-
son Kenneth Alan de Miklouho-Maclay
caused much looking up of his scientist
and explorer ancestor’s biography. That
active person was born in the Ukraine,
went from the St. Petersburg to the
Heidelberg University, became a scien-
tist, and came to the Pacific seeking ad-
venture and further knowledge. It is
told of him that when the islanders
where he had been put ashore from a
Russian warship sent arrows and darts
whizzing within a few inches of his head
he never flinched. He was in Sydney
in 1878, the guest of William Macleay,
and gave an address to the Linnean
Society. In 1883 he returned to -Sydney,
and later married the daughter of Sir
John Robertson.
Last week’s ’groom is eldest son of
the V. A. de Miklouho-Maclays, of Artar-
mon, and his bride the eldest daughter
of the Colin B. Robins, of Bondi. They
were married at St. Jude’s, Randwick, by
Canon Cakebread. The wedding dress
was of magnolia satin and very long.
A tulle veil cascaded like a mist from a
pearl coronet. The bride’s attendants
were charming in taffeta and Chantilly
lace. The reception was at the Oceanic
Hotel, Coogee.


mm
. ’
111 i
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITAL, London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thames,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas’s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession. The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferers.
World's Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
Proves best for both Stomach and Intestines
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. H. MACLEAN -
of the Great ST. THOMAS' HOSPITAL, LONDON
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
AND ENJOY IT!
No More Digestive Pain
Prof. H. MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiological
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including “Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part of the
scientific work performed in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder Is
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most
effective ever devised as a remedy for
HARRISON-MACLEAN a
Complete Remedy . . .
Indigestion, Sour Stomach, Gastritis,
Dyspepsia, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Palpitation, Nausea, Acidity, Stomach
Ulceration, intestinal Disorder, etc.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital 100 %
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion, while it shields the bowels from attack,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed, a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress.
NO HARSH DRUGS-NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite returns.
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE . . .
If you suffer from menacing stomach disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief—the moat worth-while
benefit—you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Failsl You may be offered
something said to be “just as good”.
Be on your guard. See the full name
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this
“H.M.” device on the package. Take
no excuse accept no substitute.
m
Genuine Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder Is sold only In White Pack-
ages with Black - and • Red Printing.
I Every doctor, the World over recognises the
I pre-eminence of Prof- Maclean, In modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders, This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
srs'v'xs. tm.-stsS ;:r sgi
Your Digestive Troubles are
over if you make sure you get
HARRIS Ojy,
MACLEAN
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Rights ara claimed to the
name Harrison-Maelean, but none what-
ever in eonneetion with the name Maclean
There is nothing to equal HARRISON-MACLEAN
Stomach Powder for Digestive, Intestinal and Stomach
upset accompanied by Acid, Gas, “Burning Sensation,”
Fermentation, Distention or Nausea.
See the name HARRISON on the package for your protection.
■< r- jj ; . . • : ,
If supplies of HARRISON-MACLEAN STOMACH POWDER not available locally, post order
(adding 4d. postage) to Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House, Sydney,


For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. BOSE & CO. LTD.. King St„ Sydney
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton,
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
dfs
WILCOX; SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Eist Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
When in Sydney Visit ,
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The <J\daclcod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
Melbourne
Chatter
It looks as if Melbourne will be very
quiet during the Coronation; at least
there is no talk of any big social func-
tions or spectacular displays. Lady
Huntingfield is leaving for England in
February with her daughter, the Hon.
Anne Vanneck, whom she will present at
Court. Lord Huntingfield expects to join
his family abroad later in the year. As
the Lord Mayor and the Lady Mayoress
will also be absent, it is unlikely that
there will be a civic ball to mark the
time of Empire ceremonials.
The French community foregathered
on several occasions in honor of the
captain and officers of the visiting
French sloop Rigault de Genouilly. One
party was given in the late afternoon
by the Consul and Madame Claudon,
who decorated their maisonette in Ken-
sington-road with flowers in France’s
colors. Most of the guests were due at
Grosvenor for the Alliance
dinner-dance the same evening. Next
night Dr. and Madame Marcel Crivelli
entertained a group of their naval coun-
trymen at a dance at their home in
South Yarra. A cocktail party given by
Admiral Hyde and his lady was another
function at which the visitors were made
welcome.
The generation which remembers Mel-
bourne in the days before and during
the war has recollections of Lady Wilkins
as a young woman with auburn hair and
flawless complexion. About seven years
ago she married Hubert Wilkins. She has
never so far found fault with his un-
fashionable beard, but has complained of
his long absences in inaccessible coun-
tries. She was game enough to have
accompanied him at any time on the
Nautilus 1., but the opportunity did not
arise, and she had to make the best of
the other extreme, air travel and a voy-
age to America in the German Zeppelin
Hindenburg. She must be an excellent
sailor or she would never have volun-
teered to cook for her husband’s next
submarine expedition.
Cape Dutch is the nationality of
blonde visitor to Melbourne Mrs. M. J.
Joubert, who has been making the ac-
quaintance of Australians in their own
homes while her husband, as chairman
of the S’African Wool Council, took
part in the conference arranged by the
Wool Board. Mrs. Joubert comes from
Pretoria, where she takes an interest in
public movements, charity work, good
housekeeping and several of the arts,
particularly music. So far she is en-
thusiastic about Australian people,
scenery and cities. This week she and
her husband (his hardest work over)
expect to continue their journey to
Sydney.
The Ralph Picot couple are back in
Ballarat getting their breath after much
dancing, several theatres, many miles of
motoring and occasionally standing on
the seashore making up their minds that
it was too cold to bathe. The Norman
Picots helped to give the visitors a good
time. Both families hope in the future
to welcome to Australia their brother,
Captain George Wimble Picot, a roving
bachelor whose home is the family
stronghold in Jersey. The Picots possess
romantic-looking documents and pic-
torial maps of the doings of their ances-
tors, one of whom sailed from the Chan-
nel Islands to England with William the
Conqueror.
From Greece letters come regularly
for Mrs. George Nankivell, of Mor-
dialloc, from her daughter, Mrs. Sydney
Loch, whose home for part of the year
is at Pyrgos, in the shadow of Mount
Athos. She and her husband are at
present at the American Farm School at
Salonika, which district they describe as
being the reverse of prosperous. Owing
to failures of crops there are food re-
strictions, no fresh bread, and meat only
twice a week. Even the farm school
milk is rationed, and the only oil procur-
able is a by-product of cotton-seed.
Mrs. Loch’s pets are two peacocks
and an owl. Fearing for his life, for
he was a confirmed thief, she had to
give her hooded crow to a monastery.
He stole all her brandy glasses and an
ikon from the village church; this he
was induced to bring back from the
steeple only by the bribery of a bright
coin. Also, he flew into a village meet-
ing and seized the Government repre-
sentative’s cup of coffee, stole 70
drachmas, filled an important person-
age’s pocket with macaroni and broke
up a tea-party through disgorging his
pouch of a toothpick, two berries and a
long splinter of glass.
In the Broothorn portrait is Madame
Claudon, wife of the Consul for France.
When the couple came to Australia
about six months ago from their last
official position in Shanghai, Madame
spoke only a word or two of English.
Since then she has discovered that our
language is not nearly so difficult as she
had always imagined it to be. Her
accent is as attractive as her French
clothes-sense.
Natalie Wood always longed to live
in a thatched cottage., and now she is to
have her wish, for the home her bride-
groom, George Denton, will give her in
England is to be three cottages made
over into one. The wedding, a social
event of a quiet week, was at St. John’s,
with relatives only invited and recep-
tion at Menzies to follow. There were
no feminine attendants, but the bride’s
brother-in-law Jim Dodds was best man
and nobly carried out all duties, even to
replying to the toast for the non-existent
bridesmaids.
During the afternoon other brother-
in-law Bill Irvine received so many
solicitous inquiries as to the reason for
his hand being in plaster of Paris that
he made a speech about it, working up
to a highly colorful climax of hitting a
tadpole in the Olympic pool. That ex-
planation concluded, he spoke of the
high standard of sons-in-law which are
always acquired by “Old Bob,” for thus
is R. Ellis Wood known to two genera-
tions of relatives.
The bride wore a severely-cut gown
of dull-surfaced satin, and under her
veil her golden hair was arranged in a
roll and a becoming circlet of soft curls
over the crown of her head. Her envi-
able coat of suntan is a result of long
days on the Lido and on board ship a
few weeks ago. Among distinctively
dressed women present' were Mrs. Ellis
Wood, who wore beige and nut-brown,
Mrs. Bill Irvine in black, and Mrs. Jim
Dodds in oatmeal crepe with an original
hat drapery of chiffon veiling, which
swept over the brim and down to the
shoulders. Mrs. Norman Barrett wore
black with cunning white accessories,
and Mrs. Andy Manifold, also in black,
had a clever little hat of tulle and lace
trimmed with iridescent flowers. To her
black lace gown Mrs. Mcßoberts intro-
duced an unusual shoulder drapery of
cream-lined green satin which knotted at
the throat with a jade ornament. The
Norton Grimwade couple were there,
and nobody guessed that Mrs. Grim-
wade’s 'orchid was artificial and im-
ported from Paris. Only a bee would
have recognised the difference.
Air Vice-Marshal H. R. Nicholl is
receiving hearty congratulations on his
new rank ; he was elevated from Air-
Commodore early in January. The new
Air Vice-Marshal is a much-travelled
Englishman of short and powerful build,
wind-blown complexion and blue eyes as
keen as his sense of humor. He belongs
to the R.A.F. and is in Australia on ex-
change duty with Air-Commodore
Goble. He is a widower, and is popular
in the Services and at the Melbourne
Club, which he has made his home while
in Victoria.
Phonsie St. Ledger, who is a daughter
of the late Senator St. Ledger, of
Queensland, will see the Coronation
from a background of naval engage-
ments. She is leaving this week in the
Viminale, and hopes to meet her sister,
Mrs. Dauglas Watson, in Paris. Com-
mander Watson’s ship is the Ross, and
he and his wife have a home among the
roses of Kent. Eldest sister of the
family, Letty St. Ledger, is a nurse
attached to the Repatriation Department
in Melbourne.
Herewith a Dickinson-Monleath photo,
of Wendy, younger daughter of the A.
G. Outhwaites, who is leaving for Paris
and London in the Mongolia on January
26. Her elder sister Anne has already
been some time in France, and likes it
very well, except for “the agony of wait-
ing for Sunday bath night.” Wendy
will study art, for she inherits talent
from her mother (Ida Rentoul Outh-
waite).
,
A Letter from Perth:
The stern sex’s uniforms and gold
braid outnumbered magpie effects at the
Lawson-Stapledon wedding in St. Mary’s,
West Perth. The-groom was supported
by four trim fellow-officers, and after the
ceremony scores of colleagues formed an
archwav of swords for the bridal proces-
magnolia satins were
slightly draped on the bodice,
simply cuL slign y wling in m
tSdel
orange-blossom. The ’maids, Pauline
philips, Joan Pead, Nancy Ward-Hughes
and p a ufi n e Woodroffe played their parts
duck-egg-blue moire taffeta and puff-
s|eeve( j redingote coats of hail-spot blue
net
T hi won during the inter-State
Jewish'carnival held pride of place, in
front of the dais at the Embassy when
the Zionist Athletic Club farewelled
visitors. Meyer Breckler, with his other
half’s moon-blue striped silks at elbow,
and Mr. Joseph handed the prizes to cap-
tains of victorious teams, and Mena
Harris, on behalf of the Ajax team, pre-
sented bouquets to Mrs. Breckler and
Mrs. Sol Bercove.
Grace Baker, fourth daughter of the
H. Bakers, of Tranby Park, the Penin-
sula, kept her matrimonial date with
Frederick Williams, of Melbourne, at
St. Mary’s, West Perth. The bride’s lovely
hand-made lace frothed over a founda-
tion of blush-rose triple chiffon which
merged into a long train with the help
of shirred taffeta. Tiny pink pearls were
embroidered on the edge of the square
neckline, appeared again on the wrists of
the tight-fitting sleeves and mingled with
the pink leaves holding in place her float-
ing tulle veil. Muriel Baker followed,
swishing blush-pink taffetas surmounted
with triple chiffon, all sunray pleated and
finished with a buttoned panel and Peter
Pan collar. The bride’s small niece, Helen
Chambers, was in attendance in puffed
tulle and taffeta and a short misty-pink
veil to match the ’maid’s headgear.
While the University is officially in
vacation its dignified appearance has
taken a holiday, too. Students of the
adult summer courses have pitched tents
on the grounds, the aroma of open-air
cooking is wafted on the breeze and a
picnic atmosphere prevails. The roof of
the refectory is lined with stretchers
where students sleep.
To welcome their daughter and son-in-
law, Lieut, and Mrs. Robert Hodge,
Canon and Mrs. P. U. Henn had a sun-
down party at their home in South Perth.
Mrs. Henn sported Richelieu worked to
match the lace draped on her navy georg-
ettes, and the guest of honor spilled white
flowers on her smart black satins. An-
other daughter, Mrs. Alan Kopke, and
daughter-in-law Mrs. Wilfred Henn
assisted with the doings.
Lawyer Joan McKenna is running the
gamut of bride-elect parties prior to her
marriage to Eric Heenan, M.L.C. Mrs.
W. A. Summers, set about with corn-
flower-blue matt crepes and navy acces-
sories, gave a linen tea at the June Eliza-
beth, where Joan received her gifts in
coin-spotted blue silks. Bernie O’Dea’s
miscellaneous party was held at her home
in West Perth, and Janet Johnson, in
cool blue-and-white patterned georgettes,
welcomed the red-, white- and blue-
flowered guest of honor at the Hotel
Esplanade.
Fruits of the P.P.A. women’s section
work are being gratefully devoured by the
50 children who are being given a holiday
at the seaside under the Joybells scheme.
The deaf-and-dumb school at Buckland
Hill houses the little folk from the wheat-
belt, and theatre managers and the like
have been generous with invitations.
The Primate, Archbishop Le Fanu, was
one of the few Westralian passengers in
the Orford who had the Coronation cele-
brations in view. Mrs. Robert Bunning’s
trip to England was ordered by her
medical adviser and arranged to coincide
with daughter Flora’s return from
musical studies abroad. A spoke was put
in the wheel of the Geoffrey Everetts’
projected six months on the French
Riviera by small son Peter, who had
enteritis on the way to the ship, with the
result that car and trunks were hastily
dragged from the hold a few moments
before the vessel sailed.
Deborah Ambrose’s engagement to
Brian Carson has added a third name to
the list of members of her family with
wedding dates in January. This couple
will be married at the end of the month
and set sail the same day for Sydney,
where the ’groom-elect is returning to
practise law.


Extra Wear from the
Strong and Serviceable
“STRONGHOLD”
Work Shirt
Made from particularly strong Man-
chester shirting, with collar attached and
two pleated breast pockets, with button
flaps. Available, ready to wear, in plain
Blue and plain Fawn, also in Blue with
White or Black stripes. All guaranteed
fast colours.
Please state Collar size when ordering.
Write to-day for full range of patterns.
Price 10/6 each or 3 for 30/-
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
January Issue Now on Sale.
WHAT WILL 1937 BRING?
SECURITY AND COMMODITY MARKETS
REVIEWED.
SURVEY OF BASE METALS.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS.
p hrf 2/, ‘ PER COPY > OR £ 11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
übhshed by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD
OFFICE: Australia House.
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Japanese attempts to enlarge
their supplies of iron from Australian
sources do not end with those men-
tioned in B. 13/1/’37. An expedition
from Japan arrived in Broome last
November to investigate the possibility
of finding further deposits north of
Yampi Sound. The party took a Euro-
pean engineer with them and travelled
over 500 miles along the coast to Van-
sittart Bay. They have come back con-
vinced that there is no payable ore there.
I suggest that Australians now send a few
prospecting expeditions to Japan—say, to
explore the coast of some of the islands
of the Carolines for pearlshell. It
would be interesting to see how they were
treated by a country whose official
motto—quite rightly—is “Japan for the
Japanese.”
* * * *
“East Point”: Arrived in Darwin the
other day with a petition from Marraki,
the original of the heroine of Mrs. Emeas
Gunn’s The Little Black Princess. She is
now 65, a broken old woman very dif-
ferent from the carefree young person of
the book. Her job, like that of many an-
other old lubra, has been salting buffalo
hides—back-breaking and hand-chafing
work. She came to the northern capital
to petition the local member to get her
a pension. All who know her as one of
the most engaging heroines of Australian
literature must hope that she will get it
when Blain moves in the matter, as he
has promised to do.
* * * *
Bris”: Brisbane people do not have
much choice in newspapers nowadays.
Years ago there were five dailies, ex-
pressing a wide variety of news ; now
there are only two, and they’re much
of a muchness. Lately, the. “Week”
(the weekly offshoot of the “Telegraph”)
faded out.
* * * $
“C 02”: The discovery of traces of oil
in bore water in the N.T. is not to be
taken as seriously as it has lately been
by some people, official and otherwise.
Throughout Europe, even including
Britain and Spain, oil is sometimes found
in this way, but all attempts to discover
a gusher have failed. Oil on the waters
in the North is no new thing. Around
Nutwood, near the Roper, I know springs
where it has been a known feature since
the first gold-seeking Chinaman landed
thereabouts. I have collected enough for
lighting a fire on a wet day, but insuffi-
cient to prove it was not a surface dis-
tillate.
* * * *
“Zaro Agha ’: Queensland has one
family which doesn’t seem likely to die
out name of Lawrence. A member
E.J., celebrated his 84th birthday last
week. His father had passed on at 97,
and his paternal grandmother at
Three living sisters of the existing ancient
range from 89 down to 75. There are
two baby brothers. One of them—he’s
82—has been Mayor of the Hub of the
Empire, Westminster. The other has
shared with him the honor of having
been president of the London Master
Tailors’ Association. The one who had
the birthday party served with a French
ambulance in the Franco-Prussian War
* * * *
“Moreton Bay”: I’ve lost all sorts of
things in my time—wives, money, trains
“me block” ; in fact, everything loseable—
but, strike me, this is the first time I’ve
ever mislaid my future home. A few
years ago I used to have quite a bit of
land on the southern end of Stradbroke
Island in Moreton Bay. Of late years
I’ve thought about that allotment. Every
time the horse failed to come in, or the
income-tax assessment didn’t fail to come
in, or the wife got lost, or the s.p. man
got pinched, I’ve always been able to say,
“Ah, well. There’s always me bloomin’
Stradbroke allotment and the pension.”
And now what do I find? The flamin’
thing has been washed away by the
Pacific Ocean with 65 other allotments.
* * *
“Carrar”: The maxims of the copy-
book proved themselves in the life of
A. J. B. Mac Master, lately dead in
Queensland. Starting with a capital of
grim determination, frugality, sobriety,
perseverance and industry, A.J.B. made
good. He may have had other hobbies
and pleasures apart from work, but, if
so, he concealed them well. Taking
his brothers with him, he started a tank-
sinking plant. (The Mac Master scoop
and the Mac Master patent rope brake
show his versatility.) Then he became a
"You suppose to be lifesaver —why you not doin' somethin' about that
crocodile?”
“I am doin' somethin'—goin' to save this pfeller's life!”
squatter; the 1902 drought gave him and
his brothers one below the belt that
would surely have outed lesser men.
About that time A.J.B.’s mechanical
mind saw there was money in scouring
plants, and he interested himself in a
chain of scours, all the time adding to
his pastoral interests. When, eventu-
ally, things boomed, he took a hand in
matters outside the family circle and was
chairman of the Winton Shire and a big
figure in the United Graziers’ Associa-
tion. Towards the end, he had almost
reached the stage where it was no trouble
to him to stand up and make a speech.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Time was when the most
romantic thing that could happen to an
Innisfail resident was that somebody
might call him by an Australian adjective
or he might have three pints over the
eleven and fall into the Johnstone. It’s
good-bye to all that. There has been
an epidemic of Latin feuds, Black Hand
murders or something. Knives flash.
The cry of “Maladetta!” “Sporcone!” or
something of that sort rings through the
night. Sinister-looking persons slink
home in the early hours. The very
notes of “O Sole Mio” and “Santa
Lucia” acquire a belligerent ring. And
the Queensland Commissioner of Police
arrives on the spot accompanied by
a mysterious-looking Commonwealth
official. There is talk of deportations.
But under our glorious laws, though you
can keep out an Englishwoman by dic-
tating Italian to her, you cannot get rid
of a stiletto-swinging Italian.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Pat Raff, son of the late George Raff,
of Kingsthorpe, and grandson of the late
Alexander Raff, has gone to Sydney to
wed Helen Rolfe, of Hunter’s Hill. A
large consignment of Raffs and Camp-
bells will be present at the wedding.
Alexander Raff and his brother George
came frae Ayrshire in the early days,
and began experiments in sugarcane
growing. Then Fairymead rum had a
name for potency among the early
Queenslanders. Most of New Farm,
now the haven of flat-dwellers, was the
brothers’ horse-paddock for years. George
Raff, who with a twin political soul
once made history by acting for a brief
term as half the Premier of Queensland
—there were two of them in dual con-
trol—left 12 sons and one daughter.
Alexander’s family totalled 11. All the
original families are dead, with the ex-
ception of Harry Raff, youngest son of
George, and Jim, a son of Alexander.
But there are descendants scattered all
over the southern States.
Joan Anderson, daughter of Dr. A. G.
Anderson, is soon to be a bride, and
Mrs. S. W. Bird gave a party for her at
Rowe’s cafe. Stepmother Mrs. A. G.
Anderson and aunt Mrs. Penleigh
Boyd, of Victoria, were among the
guests.
Presswoman Audrey Herring is off to
London for the Coronation. Brisbane’s
Inky sisters farewelled her at a tea organ-
ised by Winifred Moore, of the “Courier-
Mail.”
Toowoomba was thrilled to the wish-
bone over the wedding of Evelyn Horn,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. David Horn’
to Moresley Propsting, of Ilfracombe
(C.Q.), in the Horn drawing-room at
Hamewith, gay with roses in shades of
red, pink and gold. The bride wore a
pussy-willow frock of ash-pink made in
shirtmaker style, and a coat of woven
cloque with a flared basque. Her balli-
buntal hat had a flowerpot crown, and
she carried roses, sprigs of heather and
spikes of lavender. Mrs. David Horn,
jun., was matron of honor, and Donald
Propsting best man. The lads are sons
of the H. P. Propstings, Acton Downs,
Richmond (N.Q.). Tartan ribbons and
sprays of heather sent out from Scotland
brightened the table where the wedding
breakfast was served. The bride sliced
the cake with her father’s dirk.
Ailsa Tait no sooner unpacks her
suitcases after one trip than she straps
them up for another. She leaves for
China with her mother, Mrs. C. S. Tait,
on Feb. 15, and will be away for three
months.
Betty Molphy, an Education Depart-
ment teacher, who lives in Warwick, has
been striving for months to put in
enough time aloft to get her “A” pilot’s
certificate. She has succeeded, and now
can take to the air whenever the fancy
strikes her.
Mrs. A. M. King,
who went off with a
party of Queensland
girls on a Y.A.L. tour
to Hobart, is a daugh-
ter of Dame Mary
Cook. She has already
made five similar trips.
Ruth Parker, of Ayr,
and Eleanor Carter
were the assistant chap-
erons. The former has
been a member of
every trip for the girls
since 1932. Cairns,
Innisfail, Town sville
and Rockhampton pro-
vided the 50 girls in
this batch.
The Spenser Hopkins
couple, of Townsville,
have gone to Adelaide
for the wedding of
their son Harry, who
lives there, and whose
% marriage to Joan Cue, science mistress of
St. Peter’s College, fakes place at the
end of the month.
Orme Bell is off to England next
month, with Vebe Gardiner as travelling
companion. Orme’s brother is over
there, and recently wrote that he had
been down to see Ann and John Paget
at Addlestone, and that Neaera and
Charles Bassett had been his train com-
panions.
Joyce Helsdon (now Mrs. D. Nash) had
an all-green wedding. Not only was her
own gown green—the sort of green that
makes the sea lovely on a sandbank—
but ’maids and wedding-cake also re-
peated the hue. There were shamrocks
and little green slippers on the cake.
E. Hynes, CJ. of Tonga, has been
staying in Brisbane with his wife, renew-
ing old friendships. They go on to
Sydney, and will take ship for the return
journey on Jan. 25.
Mrs. J. Broothorn, en route to Heron
Island, stayed in Brisbane long enough
to attend a cocktail party given in her
honor by Mrs. L. Harris at the National.
Mrs. Arthur Pierson, who has been ill,
went up to Toowoomba to convalesce’
and as soon as she was well enough
Mrs. Philip Hoskins gave a tea party for
her at Vacy, the lovely old Cory home.
The Vacy gardens were ablaze with
flowers, and the reception-rooms massed
with floral loveliness, too.
Mrs. W. H. Flamsteed, down from
Bowen for the wedding of her sister
Lyons, gave a pre-wedding tea
at Rowe’s, at a huge table gay with red
carnations and hibiscus, rose-colored
place-cards, and mist-blue tulle. Hostess
wore, a tailored frock of floral georg-
ette ; guest of honor chose brown-and-
white figured silk, with a white hat.


M
m
mmm
mm
0
*Ss\
m
m
■uSp ~**' w<
IliPii ,;
.
iiMil
MSI
R
RIED AND
ROVED
OidUmo^iU
' A GENERAL MOTORS-l
HOLDENS VALUE J
The 1937 6-Valve
“Air Chief” car radio,
designed for Olds-
mobile, includes a
special remote control
to match the fittings
on the instrument
panel. Speaker fits in
header bar flush with
roof lining, giving
ear-level reception to
all passengers. Ask
for a demonstration.
TH E Oldsmobile models, both 6 and 8, have been tried and
proved on Australian roads by thousands of motorists. The
present models have stood the test of millions of miles of
Australian travel. . . ,
Every feature in Oldsmobile s engine, chassis and body, has been
subjected to unremitting tests in laboratories, testing grounds and
on the road. Every feature is found in higher-priced cars ; every
feature is essential.
Without ALL Oldsmobile’s features no car is modern. You get
Cadillac-type knee action, super hydraulic brakes, an independent
hand brake operating on the rear drums, no-draught ventilation,
centre-control and self-centering steering, and ride stabilizers.
Without any one of these you cannot hope to get Oldsmobile’s
performance. • . , c ,
Drive an Oldsmobile for only a few miles and you 11 never be satisfied
with less than Oldsmobile standards.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
si
ELEGANT EXTRACTS
From Contemporary Writings and Speeches.
Many residents of Bathurst object to
the curtailment of activities at Bathurst
Gaol. It is feared that the gradual elim-
ination of the gaol’s activities may re-
sult eventually in the closing of the es-
tablishment. — ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
3* $ $
S.’s estate has been sequestrated in
respect of a judgment debt for £733
10s. 5d., damages to N.’s eye, caused by
S. shooting at him. Wood on S.’s prop-
erty could be profitably used for work
on the Goolwa barrage. A man has
offered to take it, provided he can go
on the property without the possibility
of S. shooting at him. I want S. here to
get his consent. — Official Receiver in
Bankruptcy Court {S.A.).
$ *
An “English classics” lunch was given.
A feature of the occasion was the
assembly of the descendants of classic
writers. Among the scions of the great
who accepted invitations were, descen-
dants of Shakspeare, Bacon, Pepys,
Sheridan, Wordsworth, De Quincey, Jane
Austen, Shelley, Byron, Coleridge,
Tennyson, Tolstoi and Charles Reade. —
Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun’s” London corre-
spondent.
$ * $
Sievers gave a display which should
convince the selectors that he is not an
all-round Test cricketer O’Reilly,
Fleetwood-Smith and Ward should be
sufficient to get the Englishmen out
for a moderate total. O’Reilly and
Grimmett got practically all the wickets
in England in 1934, while Grim-
mett and 1 obtained nearly all the
wickets during the 1926 tour. — Arthur
Mailey.
$ its 3t5
The 1926 Australian XI played 40
matches: 12 were won, one lost and 27
drawn. It lost “the ashes.” Hendry’s
illness (he played in only nine matches)
weakened the bowling; of 515 wickets
taken Mailey got 141 at 18.70, Grim-
mett 120 at 17.12.—' ‘Cricket Year-
Book.”
$ $ $
Emerging from his retirement, the Duke
of Windsor took a Turkish bath and
then, accompanied by the British Ambas-
sador, visited Austria’s largest foodstuffs
factory.— Sydney “D.T.”
* s*
Just as the citizens of Western Aus-
tralia, with 9,170,000 square miles of
land carrying under half a person to the
square mile, dredge up mud from the
Swan River and reclaim bits of land at
great expense, so many acres are pain-
fully reclaimed from the River Plate and
added to the area of Buenos Ayres. —
Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun's” South American
correspondent.
% *
The whole world will see the Corona-
tion of King Edward VIII. next May.
However, the world will not hear and see.
the Laborites debate the new Budget oc-
casioned by the Coronation. At Bel-
grade they will toss out that debate and,
instead, run a rally by Miss Kay
Stammers, in entrancing kilts, at
Wimbledon. — Laurence Stallings, the
photographer, in the ‘‘Saturday Evening
Post.” Mr. Stallings still has a chance
with the second barrel.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Before leaving Adelaide the com-
mander and officers of the French sloop
Le Rigault de Genouilly gave a cocktail
party on board. At Birkenhead, wheie
the ship was berthed, the deck was on
the level of the wharf, and a gathered
crowd saw all that was going on. Consul
for France Arnold Moulden received the
guests with Commander Moran. Gov-
ernment House was represented by Mrs.
J. O. Haselden, the Governor’s sister,
whose pale-grey frisca ensemble went
with a three-quarter coat and black
straw hat with a touch of white. Mrs.
Moulden’s powder-blue georgette was
knife-pleated from neck to hem, and
worn beneath a navy wool georgette
coat. Her small hat was a navy straw.
The Navy was represented by Com-
mander S. R. Symonds and his wife,
Mrs. Symonds wearing a frock, coat and
hat of the color favored by the Service.
The marriage of Dr. John Steele. Scott
to Kathleen, daughter of Commander
and Mrs. P. Muers, of Berkhamstead,
Hertfordshire (Eng.), was the outcome, of
a romance that bloomed when the bride-
groom was at Cambridge. The bride’s
parents accompanied her to Australia.
The wedding was at St. Andrew’s,
Walkerville, where Canon R. P. Hewgill
tied the knot. Cream satin beaute clad
the bride, whose bodice had long
sleeves. Her tulle veil was embroidered
in frue-lovers’-knots and held in place by
a coronet of pearls. Miss M. Love,
cousin of the bridegroom, was brides-
maid in a mist-blue chiffon frock and a
wreath of blue and silver flowers.
Women in South Australia may resign
themselves to the fact that wide-brimmed
hats for race, meetings are impossible:
wind is the chief trouble ; and at the
S.AJ.C. Morphettville meeting several
girls were reduced to carrying their head-
wear in their hands. The frocking was
a mixture of winter and summer. Vice-
regals were received by chairman Whit-
more Carn and his wife. Premier
Butler’s wife chose a black ensemble.
Her hat was a black straw with a touch
of white, and her furs (this is South
Australia’s centenary midsummer) were
silver fox.
Doreen, elder daughter of Mrs. J.
Pryor, Fullarton, and the late James
Pryor, and Lieut. H. B. Murn, elder son
of the A. J. Murns, of Murray Bridge,
were married in the library at Wesley
College by the principal, the Rev. F.
Lade. The bride, who was given away
by her uncle, Oswald Pryor (The Bulle-
tin knows him well), wore magnolia
satin cut on princess lines and carried a
sheaf of crimson gladioli. Her brides-
maids were Marjorie Pryor in scarlet
and Ethel Murn in flame-color.
The engagement of Judith von Zuli-
com to Robert, eldest son of Justice
Napier and Mrs. Mellis Napier, of
Mount Lofty, has been responsible for
two cocktail parties. The first, at which
the announcement of the engagement
was made, was at the Napiers’ home in
the hills, and the second at the residence
of Mrs. von Zulicom at Glenelg.
TASMANIA.
A ceremony with a flavor of the early
days clinging to it was the Governor’s
laying of the foundation stone of the
memorial gateway to the Lady Frank-
lin Museum at Lenah Valley. The date
was the centenary of the Franklin land-
ing in 1837. His Ex. read a short extract
from the diary of Boyes in 1842, relat-
ing to the laying of the first stone of the
museum. The lovely little building,
Greek in style, has been taken over by
the City Council, so perhaps some better
if less fragrant use may be made of it
than as a storehouse for apples.
Consul for the Netherlands D. C.
McLaren and his better half gave a late-
afternoon party at Hadley’s in honor
of Princess Juliana’s marriage. Mrs.
McLaren’s smart black tailored suit was
highly becoming. Lady Clark was among
the guests, who totalled about 150. Pro-
ceedings closed with the singing of both
Dutch and British national anthems.
Brighton races were held in drizzling
rain, which made most of the patrons
seek the shelter of their cars and hide
their summer frocks under coats and
mackintoshes. Chairman John Swan had
his daughter Phyllis with him.
Mrs. A. Fenn-Smith welcomed a big
crowd of friends at a party at the Queen
Mary Club. Daughter Esther Parsons
helped. Mrs. Fenn-Smith’s frock of
black-and-white floral crepe was topped
by a wide black-and-white hat. Mrs.
Parsons was in black with wide beige
collar and deep cuffs, and she wore a
little velvet “jockey” hat.
Star turn of the Victoria League’s con-
gress was Gertrude Drayton, London sec.
of the league, and very interestingly she
sparkled in her speeches. Other visiting
delegates were Mrs. Stanley Addison
(Vic.), Mrs. Kyffin Thomas (S.A.), Miss
Beulah Bolton (N.S.W.), Mrs. Fyvie Watt
(Sydney), Miss Cochrane and Mrs.
Hawkes (Q.), Miss E. K. White (Too-
woomba) and Mrs. Quale (M.L.).
The league’s conference week was set
rolling by the Tas. executive’s luncheon
at Hadley’s in honor of the visiting dele-
gates, followed by a civic reception at
the Town Hall. In the evening, three
hostesses —the Lewis lady, Mrs. Arndell
Lewis and Mrs. A. Raymond Barker-
entertained delegates at the Lewis home.
Werndee. Marie Helen George arranged
a musical programme at this function,
and Dr. Arndell Lewis showed lantern
slides of Tas. scenery.
The week finished with a morning
drive up the Pinnacle-road (which en-
tranced the visitors), tea at the C. W
Grants’, High Peak, on the return drive,
and a reception at G.H. in the after-
noon. Lady Clark, in black georgette
and lace, received about 60 delegates
and members. His Ex. came in at the
finish.
Mrs. Arndell Lewis gave her mother >
friends a chance of welcoming her home
from abroad at a big shivoo at Abernauj
House. Mrs. Lewis was in brown and
gold shades, with a lovely golden
stole. Mrs. Hungerford had one of the
new full-skirted, high-sleeved redingotes
over her narrow satin frock. Lady Clark
in blue lace and georgette, was amonr
the guests. The MacCallum lady sn-
and knight Mungo are at Ferntree aga*-
—was also there.


that he married in February, 1890, and
set up an English home. In 15 months
he had only two fights, both two-round
affairs in London: the victims were
Mitchell (Joe, not Charlie, who in these
years stoushed policemen only) and Ellis.
Followed his first visit to the U.S.A.
in vain pursuit of Sullivan. It was on
May 30, 1892, that Slavin was defeated
by Jackson, in what, though his colors
were lowered for the first time, must
be accounted his greatest fight. The
late “Smiler” Hales’s description has
been republished in The Bulletin. No
fighting man ever strove more valiantly
for victory or took greater punishment
when the tide was running against him
than Slavin did that night. Opposed to
a heavier, faster, cleverer boxer he en-
dured all that it was in mortal to endure
until nature deserted him and he could
neither raise his gloves nor stand.
In Slavin’s corner was Tom Burrows,
the club-swinger, who helped to make
many a Tommy fit before the war and
many a Digger while the great struggle
was in progress. “When counted out,”
said Burrows long afterwards, “Paddy was
absolutely done —spent in mind and
body. We carried him upstairs to a bed
which the club had provided, and he lay
there for hours, conscious, but saying
nothing. At last he spoke ; and what do
you think he said? Just four words, ‘My
poor little boy!’ Then he groaned
and turned over on his side ; and when
I looked at him again he was asleep.”
For nearly three years after the Jack-
son fight, Slavin remained in England,
but engaged in no contests. He came
out of his retirement to meet a black
named Frank Craig, known as “the
Coffee Cooler,” who had been knock-
ing over all the English middleweights
and heavyweights. Slavin cooled “the
Coffee Cooler” in one round. But it
was only a flash of his old form; a
couple of months later he was knocked
out in seven rounds by his fellow-Aus-
tralian Jim Hall.
Back to America.
In 1896 Slavin went to the U.S.A.
again, and disposed of old Kilrain in
a round, but he was stopped in four
rounds by a colored man, Bob Arm-
strong, who was afterwards to go 10
rounds with Jeffries.
Now satisfied that he could no longer
tackle champions, Slavin gave up fight-
ing to join the rush to the Yukon, and
for many years the Klondyke swallowed
him up. At long intervals he emerged
from darkness to have a scrap at Dawson
City. On one of these occasions his
opponent was the much-travelled Tom
Lees, whom he beat in 20 rounds.
The Great War came. “My poor
little boy,” now a strapping fellow in
the early twenties, went to France with
the Canadians. His father, though half-
way through the fifties, followed him
and fought in the King's uniform with
the indomitable courage he had ex-
hibited in the ring.
On leave in London, he was taken to
the National Sporting Club by old boys
who had seen him fight Jackson. They
showed him a full-length portrait of the
black hung in an honored place. The
old warrior gazed long at it without
speaking; then he said, turning away,
“Well, Peter was a man.”
“My poor little boy” fell fighting in
France. His father returned to Canada
a casualty. When he was going down
the hill the thought came to him that
he would like to end his days in his own
sunny land, but his military pension
would not run to passage-money for the
family, and the men he had known in
Australia were all dead or—like Dooley
—old and broke.
Francis Patrick Slavin died at Van-
couver seven years ago. Though never a
recognised champion, he was assuredly
the best man in Australia in 1888 and
1889 and the best man in England till
Jackson beat him. And no gamer man
ever ducked through the ropes.
The Long White Cloud
“Kiwit”: Australians who have done
Milford Sound (M.L.) cruises know the
mountains that surround Big Bay, where
a Southland ’plane crashed in the surf
during the holidays. Thirty miles north
of Milford and still a good way south
of the terminus of Hewett’s south West-
land air service, Big Bay’s beaches are
frequently used by machines flying
trampers, deer-stalkers and gold pros-
pectors in from Invercargill. Landings
call for local knowledge as well as skill.
One man died in the holiday crash, and
but for a farmer-bushman and a nurse
in the shore party at Big Bay the in-
jured would have had slender survival
chances. To reach the nearest telephone
the farmer covered 40 miles of lake and
mountain in record time, and the nurse
looked after the injured until doctor
and “ambulance” ’planes arrived from
Invercargill, 90 air minutes away.
* * * *
“Mak”: Maoris and their language
are taking the air. Union Airways
machines flying the Palmerston North-
Dunedin service have native names, and
the three American ’planes for the daily
Wellington-Auckland run are being
christened Kereru, Kotare and Kuaka,
Maori for the native wood-pigeon, king-
fisher and godwit. The modern Maori
himself is not far behind. The Potakas
who walked out of the Kaimanawa
hills after a forced landing on
a flight from Wanganui to Palmerston
North come of a well-known west coast
native family whose sons have figured
in North Island Rugby Union football
history. The youthful Dr.
Potaka, who recently died at
Nelson, after having gone to
the Antarctic with Byrd in 1934,
was another of the family. But
the Potakas are by no means
the first flying Maoris; one of
the younger Hawke’s Bay
Bennetts was flying at North
Island pageants back in 1932.
* * *
“Korero”: An additional
Maoriland air service (B.
13/l/’37) planned for Feb-
ruary extension to Westland is
the Cook Strait Airways Wel-
lington-Blenheim-Nelson run.
This will link the present South
Westland service with the
North Island; overseas tourists
sightseeing against time will then
be able to travel by air from
Auckland to New Plymouth,
Wanganui, Palmerston North, Welling-
ton and on to the Franz Josef
country in the Southern Alps. Palmer-
ston North, which McGregor chose as
the Union Airways base, will then be
the main internal air junction, and pas-
sengers will be able to transfer there for
the Christchurch-Dunedin service. Cook
Strait Airways’ first year was most suc-
cessful ; passengers numbered just on
13,000 and its machines, which crossed
Cook Strait nearly 3000 times without
one serious crash, shifted about 15,0001 b.
of mail and 19,0001 b. of freight.
* * * *
“Oakura”: When Minister of Agricul-
ture Martin told Maoriland in November
that farm labor shortages had been
largely overcome everywhere but in the
Waikato—where his own electorate is—
he was talking through his privileged hat.
Dairy-farmers in Auckland and Welling-
ton provinces raised a holiday wail when
they found they could neither engage
nor retain farm labor ; Canterbury joined
in the chorus. Many of the farmers
went without the holiday they had post-
poned during depression years; one
Waikato man, with an eye on Auckland
race reports, said there might have been
a lot of country money on city totali-
sators, but it was “farmhands’ money,
not farmers’.” In this instance, the ill
wind is providing some vacation pay
for numbers of university students.
* * * *
“Motu”: Political parties come and
go but vote-culture remains a common
principle. Some weeks ago the South
Island Motor Union suggested that
cycles should be registered in the same
way as motor vehicles ; cyclists increas-
ing road dangers by a careless disregard
for traffic rules could then be traced
more easily. At that time Minister
Semple, busy on his vigorous verbal
campaign against irresponsible motor-
ists, was in Christchurch, city of cyclists.
The position called for tact —and got
it. Cycle registration, he commented
naively, was a good idea, but it would
have to wait for a while. There are
“ There's a bloke here says he's come to repossess the furnicher."
“ Right-o, son—tell 'im t' come an take this chair first."
hordes of cyclists in both islands, and
it will probably wait a long, long time.
* * * *
“M.”: Toheroa soup gives Maoriland
a restaurant publicity heard in every
Australian capital. The touring aider-
man from suburban Sydney who com-
plained of its M.L. scarcity is not the
first visitor to touch on this trans-Tas-
man mystery. His party couldn’t get a
plate of toheroa in Auckland! Maori-
landers don’t' seem to appreciate the
toheroa until they get away from home.
The average hotel doesn’t serve it regu-
larly—and many visitors are as dis-
appointed as those who expect Sydney
surf and sunshine in Melbourne. An-
other M.L. peculiarity that wins a sur-
prised grin from tourists is the custom
of referring to the Wellington-Lyttelton
boats as “ferries” ; they are 6000-tonners
with 13,000 horse-power engines!
* * * *
“Waitot”: Woollen manufacturing
costs in Maoriland have soared in the
same way as dairy-factory expenses (B.
6/1/’37), but Labor’s industrial legis-
lation is not entirely to blame. Local
manufacturers have met spirited com-
petition at this season’s wool sales, and
the increased cost of their raw material
contributed largely to the latest 10 p.c.
woollen clothing and piece-goods price
rise. Some retailers anticipated the
market trend and bought heavily against
the rise ; but it will be only a few weeks
at the most before all Maoriland is pay-
ing more for its winter woollies.
* * * *
“Xo”: Two years after Sydney’s 1938
celebrations comes Maoriland’s one-hun-
dredth birthday. Wellington is to have
a centennial exhibition. Three Govern-
ment representatives are among the
directors of the company formed to
finance the venture, and the Govern-
ment is contributing £25,000 free of
interest as well as providing a £-for-£
subsidy on £50,000 of the £150,000 the
company is seeking from the public.
With £225,000 to oil the wheels, the ex-
hibition should be worthy of Maori-
land’s birthday.
* * H=
“Xo”: Murchison can blame an 1825
gale for its recent plague of mice (B.
25/11/’36). Contrary to general belief,
history says the rodents are not indigen-
ous, but made their Maoriland landing
from the brig Elizabeth Henrietta, which,
after crossing from Sydney for native
flax and timber, went aground in a blow
off Ruapuke Island. Ropes to trees at
the edge of the water held the brig until
an engineer brought from Sydney re-
floated it months later. Before then the
crew saw hundreds of mice scampering
along the mooring ropes ; Maoris on the
beach shook them into the water and
caught dozens. Persuaded by the white
men that the rodents were not good eat-
ing, the natives let them go and chased
them into the bush.
* # * *
“Waitot”: Canterbury should have
better opportunities for tracking down
the real facts of its early settlement than
most' other Maoriland provinces (B.
16/12/’36). On its 86th birthday in
December eight of the pilgrims brought
by the First Four Ships were still living ;
among them was a survivor of each of
the ships. Before the 717 Englishmen
and Englishwomen representing Edward
Gibbon Wakefield’s “slice of English
society cut from top to bottom” arrived
in 1850 to found their Christchurch, the
province had provided a home for other
settlers. Of these “antediluvians,” as the
Canterbury Pilgrims and Early Settlers’
Association calls them, five were still liv-
ing in December. A woman born in
Akaroa in 1842 is the oldest Canterbury-
born member of the association.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Sales of Maori land are
carefully watched by the Native Depart-
ment and the different Maori Land
Boards, with the result that Maoris still
own about 4,000,000 acres of the North
Island. For the year ending March last
not quite 20,000 acres of native land
changed hands, and of this nearly 1000
acres went to the Crown. As in the
case of the Tuwharetoa block recently
sold to a sawmilling firm (B. 6/1/’37)
nearly all this land is tribally owned. So
if there is any tangle for Native Land
Court experts to unravel it will just keep
them in practice for the squabbles likely
to follow future land sales. The longer
the Maoris hang on to their land, the
more involved become the claims for
participation in the proceeds of any sale.
* * * *
“Hutiwai”: Otago meds. are not the
only graduates who stay overseas (B.
13 /1 / ’37). Fewer Rhodes scholars re-
turn to Maoriland than to any other
country, and Prof. Denham, of Canter-
bury University College, came back from
a recent English visit convinced that
M.L. would have to increase its open-
ings for highly-trained university men
if the country were to benefit from the
better facilities for higher education.
P.M. Savage and his Labor men seem
to be. more interested in the position
than previous Government's, and, judg-
ing by their efforts to persuade Love-
lock that his future lay in Maoriland,
the outlook is better for good univer-
sity men. Whether doctors, scientists
and educationists who look like doing
well overseas will regard as satisfactory
the salaries and research opportunities
offering in Maoriland is altogether an-
other matter.
* * * *
“Kohi”: The infantile-paralysis epi-
demic of 1924-25 which delayed the
opening of Maoriland schools (B.
13 /1 / ’37) gave neither upper-school
children nor their teachers much of an
additional holiday. Staffs reassembled
as usual early in the February and began
to teach by correspondence ; thousands
of first-year pupils didn’t meet their
teachers until the term was well ad-
vanced. At that time the “school” that
is now Maoriland’s largest was only two
years old, but mailmen in different parts
of the. country have helped it to grow.
Fifty-one teachers and a large clerical
staff last year taught 1600 primary and
800 upper-school pupils by correspon-
dence ; isolation and illness swell the
roll.


m
m i
mm
Mm
i
*Z
■ n
THE ULTIMATE
6*Vaive “BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
Cnr. Wharf & Queen Sts., Brisbane.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; OAT. 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
THE BEST AT
ANY PRICE
IMPEX
OXYGENATED
DRY BATTERIES
§
pV I
«
Oxygen
Reserve gives
these Batteries
extra life. 'let
they are no
dearer than
ordinary bat-
teries.
IJIPEX, LTD.,
Abbotsford, Vic.;
and 181 Clarence
Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
American visitor to Australia C. Hart-
ley Grattan in a capital talk from 2BL
Sydney last Thursday night, explaining
his country’s prevailing attack of the
jitters and indicating the course it’s fol-
lowing to overcome this complaint, with
Roosevelt as physician in charge of the
case. The speaker very interesting in his
explanation of peculiar aspects of the
American social structure ; such, for in-
stance, as the way the inhabitants are,
in many things, split up into watertight
compartments, so that many matters that
we here have served up to us from time
to time as characteristically American
are. really localised in an extraordinary
way, not easy to grasp, perhaps, by a
people so generally all-of-a-piece as
Australians. Very interesting also in ex-
planation of that peculiarly American
manifestation the Presidential election,
and in showing how the outsider might
at these times get an utterly wrong im-
pression owing to the amount of noise
that a relatively small section can then
make, over the privately-owned radio and
through the press.
In America even the President can talk
over the air only by paying for the privi-
lege. The speaker may have been enjoy-
ing the situation of not only not having
to pay to broadcast but doubtless getting
paid for doing so. At any rate, he
crowded good value into his 14 minutes.
He talks just a shade too fast for his
own comfort, though he can be. heard
comfortably enough. There is—as he
probably knows as well as anybody—a
sort of American voice that is pleasur-
able to listen to, and a sort that jars the
alien, unaccustomed ear excruciatingly.
His is the pleasurable sort, and that sort
is as good hearing as any human voice
going. It has a robust masculinity, pre-
cision and admirable clarity.
Also from 2BL the same evening Mrs.
Sterling Levis, who writes poems, giving
the vandals who destroy trees what-oh.
Mrs. Levis speaks very poetically, so
much so that she addresses the tree-
chopper over the air as “O wielder of the
axe!” But she made out a good case
against the wanton and ruthless destruc-
tion of trees and a strong plea for general
action towards preserving “our wonderful
heritage of flora.” Mentioned, among
other things, that she has a free in her
garden which matches a kind of tree
found in China in fossil form —a state-
ment calculated to start bushologists off
on a perfect orgy of fanciful speculation.
Further the same night from the same
station a remarkably competent gentle-
man operating over the pseudonym
“Wings” and conducting a model-aero-
plane session. The fraternity his remarks
catered for are enthusiasts who spend
their spare time fabricating models of
’planes that will go into the air and stay
there for so many seconds. The longer
the pretty thing stays aloft the more,
honor to its maker; and if it should go
up and up and out of sight and by-and-
bye be discerned descending into an im-
penetrable forest' in the distance—well,
that’s glory. One chap has lost two
’planes in this way within the past
month, and is more enthusiastic than
ever. Among them, these enthusiasts
contribute to the general knowledge of
flying and designing ’planes of the prac-
tical sort. The talker held the attention
of one whose interest in model ’planes
is lamentably weak by packing his talk
tight with some thoroughly good avia-
tion history.
From Germany on the short wave the
information that some chap in that coun-
try had invented a music typewriter—not
one that plays tunes, but one that writes
music. The Fritz announcer quite ex-
cited about it.
In spite of having heard the first
“episode” of a broadcast serial a week
earlier, at the same bait again on a Mon-
day night, though the piece—“As Ye
Sow,” from 2FC—is not, as done, as
good a thing as it might be.
The A.B.C.’s industrious playwright,
Edmund Barclay, here serves up early-
Australian history. Color is splashed on
in broad romantic fashion—a conven-
tional but an effective picturing of the
times, with swashbuckling doings, the
picturesque uniforms of the military easy
to imagine, a few officers taking leading
“Reckon that's Wot's been causin' all that splutterin',
Ma — usin' barb' wire f'r a aerial."
parts, a comic non-com., and rattle of
trumpets and musketry for effects.
Then, of course, the woman —a lag
who appears to have a remarkable free-
dom of movement; as it happens, just as
well for the play’s sake. This part is
doubtless no better than several of the
other parts, but the one who’s acting it
performs like a lady Phar Lap among
hacks. So far, she has taken the play
in her teeth and run away with it. While
she is on—which, happily, is mostly—the
thing has reality. It’s thoroughly well
worth noting and sampling on her ac-
count. Apart from being about the only
one who doesn’t overact, she’s word per-
fect, completely convincing.
To say a radio-actor is word perfect
might —and should —sound absurd: all
the worse, then, the performance, of the
ones in this piece who jumble their lines.
Surely in a broadcast play there’s no pos-
sible. excuse for that! Radio actors can
—probably do —stand and spout from the
scrip. No ; there seems no excuse for
them.
The woman in this case uses the
words as acting words should be used —
as if they were her own utterances. The
amount of feeling and the depth of it
that she manages to get over the air is
something to remember. She has, in ad-
dition to evident intelligence, the singu-
lar advantage of a just about perfect
broadcasting voice, which is something
mighty few women possess. Her expres-
sion has a dry quality, a complete final-
ity. The voice comes through full of
character, one of the very best broad-
casting voices this listener has ever
heard —and he had never expected to
ever pay that compliment to a lady.
This Edmund Barclay is certainly in-
dustrious. His name seems to be at the
foot of two or three A.B.C. plays a week
—he must turn out hundreds in a year!
Recent serialised efforts of his have
ranged from Khyber frontiersmen to
Canadian Mounties, and there was a
good one placed in China. “As Ye
Sow” shapes towards being a caval-
cade of romanticised Australian history
(though if that’s what it’s to be it will
last for months at its rate of progress so
far). Another good notion of Barclay s
is converting Chesterton’s Father Brown
sleuth stories into radio piays. 1 hese
from Melbourne on Saturday nights—are
as effective as any of the mort of thriller
stuff on the air. On the whole, the Mel-
bourne players are. acting the things
better than the Sydney crowd are the
serial, though there isn’t one among em
a patch on the lady who’s the pick of
the Harborsiders.
A Forecast of Television.
In an extraordinarily brief time broad-
casting has taken up its present position ;
what its future
trend is likely to
be is indicated in
the following in-
teresting forecast
by Gerald Cock,
8.8. C. director of
television:
That television
will come to pro-
foundly affe c t
broadcasting as
we understand it
to-day is, I think,
quite, certain. Let
us then look for-
ward into time,
when homes will
have their tele-
vision screens of
not less than
24in. by 18in.
P r o gramme
hours would still
be few perhaps
four a day—and
would be con-
fined to events of
outstanding in-
terest and enter-
tainment value,
for television
will, I think,
mean the end of
“background”
listening. I anti-
pate some such
arrangement as
three, fixed hourly
periods, with a
“floating” period
for important out-
door events taking
place outside the regular service pro-
gramme hours.
Television is essentially a medium for
topicalities. It seems likely, then, that
there would be an elaborate daily news
service, freely illustrated by films, “still”
pictures and personalities, supplemented
by an explanatory news commentary.
For the latter, charts, plans and diagrams
would be used by speakers with a talent
for clear and concise interpretation and
description. A main “Topic of the
Week” would be selected for special
treatment. As subsidiaries to the main
news, there would be such items as
“People in the News,” the direct tele-
vising of important ceremonial and
sporting events, and a daily television film
news-reel.
There would be great scope for illus-
trated talks. Long before the stage I am
envisaging, they would, I hope and be-
lieve, have proved of considerable edu-
cational value —an integral part, per-
haps, of an “education without tears.”
Vitalised by the personality of the
speaker and by illustration, innumerable
subjects of general and specialised in-
terest, which might be difficult to follow
from the spoken word alone, could hold
and even excite the attention through
the medium of television.
An original play or specially-devised
television production might be a weekly
feature. If a national theatre were in
being, close co-operation with it might
have solved an extremely difficult prob-
lem —that of original dramatic work.
Excerpts from plays during their
normal runs, televised from the studio
or direct from the stage, with perhaps a
complete play at the end of its run,
would have attractive possibilities as part
of a review of the nation’s entertainment
activities. But, in my view, television is
more suitable for the dissemination of
all kinds of information than for enter-
tainment as such, since it can scarcely be
expected to compete successfully with
films in that respect. Nevertheless, the
lighter forms of entertainment will cer-
tainly have their place.
Cabaret-variety (whatever shape it may
eventually assume), opera, ballet, circus,
“personality” artists and show bands
all lend themselves appropriately to the
medium. Directly televised day and
night scenes in the streets, theatrical
premieres and so on would help to in-
troduce the unexpected and “actuality”
elements. There are innumerable diver-
sions possible. A woman’s hour would
be available for the display of fashions
in clothes, hair-dressing, domestic fur-
nishing, etc.
It is to be hoped that a satisfactory
way of presenting serious music, such
as symphonies, will be developed. I think
it may be left for listeners to switch the
scene in and out as desired, and that
listening would still be regarded as the
main objective.
1 Much, I think, would have been done
to develop short and documentary films
along new lines. Of the use of com-
mercial “feature” films I am personally
less confident. Obviously, the film pro-
vides the newest and most varied form
of entertainment, ready “canned” for
television purposes. From the practical
point of view, in saving rehearsal time,
studio space, and production difficulties,
films ought to be of great value to a
pioneer entertainment service such as
television.
But televised programmes should be
personal to the viewer, and there is
something impersonal about films. It
may be because they are meant to be
shown on a large screen, or because the
person who is intended to see them is
envisaged as one of a large audience, or
there may be some other subtle psycholo-
gical distinction; but I suggest that
feature films are not really suitable pro-
gramme ammunition. As an extreme
case, I believe viewers would rather see
an actual scene of a rush hour at Oxford
Circus directly transmitted to them than
the latest in film musicals.
The cost of a service of this kind
would be formidable, the practical diffi-
culties enormous. But I am confident
that something like it will be achieved.
“C. Mac”: Touching on “Old-
Timer’s” leader-page article “The Re-
nascence of Superstition” (B. 13/l/’37),
this is from a B station’s publicity
splurge:
Do you really know yourself—your
strong and weak points—the things which
influence you to act? Did you know that
character analysis can be given from your
birthdate, which will assist you in making
your decisions? From , interesting
facts are revealed by in his talks on
Numerology. He invites you to learn your
number of destiny by sending him the date
of your birth. Numerology is of special
interest to mothers, who can give their chil-
dren the guidance best suited for the in-
fluences governing them, according to the
month of their birth.
Sundry of the B stations are doing this
in one form or another, and, maybe sup-
porting the idea that these are hard-
headed and sophisticated times, the line
is very popular.


RADIO-
at wholesale prices.
VAEVES—Battery valves 2-volt 232
S.G 5/-.
8406, 8605, C 603 power. 5/- 201A..4/6.
All 100% tested on “Palec” tester.
AERO DlAES—Radiokes No. 7/14..3/6.
MICA condensers "Impex” .01 1/-.
CRYSTALS —Mighty Atom lOd.
LEARN MORSE —Complete key, buzzer,
battery and Morse cliart 4/-.
KEYS only 15/-, 19/6, 25/- each.
HEADPHONES—4OOO ohms light-
weight 7/6.
Price list of parts posted on request.
BATTERY STJPERHET. —Six stage
4-valve, complete in floor cabinet,
Amplion speaker, latest valves,
100 amp. battery, 3 H.D. Batteries.
Aerial and Earth £l3/2/6.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Radio. 'Phone: FX5494.
RADIO KES
VIBRATOR
Radi ok es PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to iustal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on • batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Write to Radiates, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature NOW.
\>
Radio Constructors ,
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
Amplion
fiENEMOTOR
THE STANDARD
M B M ELIMINATOR
111
MODEL 180 GENEMOTOR.
INPUT: OUTPUT:
6v. 2.2 amps. 180 v. 30ma.
PRICE, £6/10/-.
Also available for public address ampli-
fiers. transmitters, etc., with outputs
ranging up to 1000 -
MODEL XI FILTER.
For use with Model 180 Genemotor.
PRICE, 30/-.
Write for Bulletin No. 42.
AMPLION (A/SIA), Limited
66 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE
A 53-Type Mixer.
For use in the amateur radiophone
or in public-address system, a mixer for
two audio sources, such as microphone
and pick-up, is of great value. The vari-
ous transformers used in commercial
mixing systems are rather cumbersome,
especially for the radio-’phone, where,
although a mixer is a useful thing, it is
seldom used.
Since the inception of the dual triode
type amplifier tube, considerable interest
has been shown in the use of this tube as
a mixing amplifier. Lack of general in-
formation regarding the application of the
tube (53 class in this service) has
prompted the writer to make a few re-
marks concerning its use. The 53 (or
6A6) is probably the most flexible tube
available at the present time, and its
use in this case is only one of many
applications. When used as an audio
voltage amplifier it possesses an ampli-
fication factor of 35, an actual gain of
25 per stage being quite easily realised.
Construction.
The potentiometer, which is used as
the mixing fader, should preferably be
of a fairly low value—so,ooo ohms has
been found satisfactory. Larger values
than this are not suitable because rota-
tion of the control causes volume to
increase too rapidly, with a consequent
uneven mixing characteristic, full volume
being obtained from both input sections
at one time with the fader only partly
advanced.
Separate gain controls should, of
course, be used on the two sources of
audio input in order that the outputs of
each may be balanced. The mixer will
not be a satisfactory one if changing
from one source to the other produces
a marked change in volume, necessitat-
ing a further adjustment to prevent under-
or over-modulation. These two balanc-
ing controls also serve to prevent over-
loading of the mixer tube—a necessary
consideration.
The builder of this fading assembly
must use a good-type control for the
mixing fader. Noise created by a badly-
designed control is not a very good ad-
vertisement for station efficiency.
Circuit.
Referring to the circuit shown, it will
be noticed that decoupling of the plate
circuit is used. This is a necessary pre-
caution, and 25,000 ohms and a .smf.
condenser will be satisfactory at the
plate voltage of 250. Satisfactory bass
response is assured by a lOmf. by-pass
electrolytic condenser in the cathode
circuit.
With the component values shown and
reasonable care in construction, no
trouble will be experienced, and it will
be found that, with the fader control
half advanced, each input circuit will
modulate the 53 plate circuit at about
two-thirds full volume.
ZL3KR.
T.R.F. Communications
Receiver.
The difference between a straight-out
design in receivers for covering the ama-
teur bands and a “communications” type
is that the latter gives a complete cover-
age of all the short-wave channels. It
takes in aircraft, marine, international
broadcast, amateur and experimental.
The circuit of “G5ZJ’s” design for a modern battery T.R.F. communications
receiver. Suitable for telephony and C.W. over all useful channels.
The American-produced communications
receiver invariably includes the. regular
broadcast range between 200 and 600
metres, and in Europe a commercial
communications receiver may include
everything up to 2000 metres. The. com-
munications receiver is therefore, in its
commercial form, very attractive to the
transmitting amateur. He gets his band-
spread and possibly a crystal gate for
acute selectivity, and he can swiftly
search over any channel in a few seconds.
If the amateur should be called upon to
co-operate with commercial services the
communications receiver will be excep-
tionally useful.
Communications-type receivers in re-
cent years have been a luxurious and
elaborate form of superhet, but there, is
now a swing toward the tuned R.F. type.
In covering frequencies higher than
500 kc. to 1500 kc. selectivity is not so
vital (except for amateur transmissions)
and a T.R.F. design has advantages. It
is simpler to construct and put into
operation and quieter in action than a
big superhet, and it doesn’t suffer from
image interference. An interesting design
for home construction, with a particular
appeal to the amateur, is one by “GSZJ”
in “Television,” England. The diagram
is given here with a few details.
The circuit is that of a tuned R.F.
model, with the first stage tuned, the
second untuned, regenerative triode de-
tector with R strength meter, and single
pentode audio stage. The valves indi-
cated are of the two-volt battery type
(the make is not available in Australia,
but this presents no difficulty, as there,
are many similar types available that
can be used).
With the exception of coil data, all
circuit values are indicated. Band-set
condensers are used in conjunction with
a main bandspreader, the latter con-
sisting of two ganged 20mmfd. types.
As in the Ideal Amateur Superhet (B.
13 /1 / ’37), the band-set condensers are
lOOmmfd. types, individually controlled.
The best arrangement for swift coverage
of all bands would be to use good ver-
nier dials on these band-setters in addi-
tion to the one controlling the band-
spreading, but if amateur band work is
the only consideration they could be
used with plain indicator dials and
pointer knobs in the usual Way.
An interesting point about the design
is the inclusion of a series variable aerial
condenser of .00015mfd. capacity. This
has an outer rotor plate bent over so
that when at full capacity the condenser
shorts itself out of circuit. A more
direct aerial coupling is beneficial at
the. lower frequencies, and this simple
treatment of the condenser obviates the
use of a switch. The R.F. valve is an
R.F. pentode type, and the Philips KF3
or KF4 is suggested for this position. A
similar valve can be used in the second
stage, with a two-volt general purpose
triode as detector. A possible improve-
ment would be the use of a screen grid
detector. There are several valves to
chose fsom in the audio pentode class ;
Radiotron ID4 would be a good choice.
The R meter is a refinement, but one
worth incorporation; a 0 to 5 D.C. mil-
liameter will serve the purpose. Note
that regeneration in the detector is con-
trolled by the popular series capacity
method, that there is a volume control in
the grid of the audio pentode, and that
a tone control is fitted in the output.
With suitable coils working on the usual
coil chart data (see B. 30/11 / ’36) this
receiver should make up an excellent all-
wave battery model for country use, and
there, would be no trouble about it work-
ing well from 10 metres upward. Re-
ceivers of somewhat similar design are
used (with automatic coil changing) for
all radio communication on the Zeppelin
airship Hindenburg.
D. B. K.
What's What in Radio.
Some scientists support the notion that
radio signals go on for ever, never dy-
ing away completely. There have even
been attempts in a European laboratory
to distinguish between present signals
and those of the past.
* * * *
Nearly a million and a quarter dollars
is to be spent by the U.S. War Depart-
ment on radio equipment during 1937.
America is also to spend half a million
dollars on radio beacon equipment. In
view of this large expenditure on radio
it is interesting to note that during last
year America spent only 20,000 dollars
on foreign radio apparatus, over half of
this going to Germany.
* * * *
Britain seems such a small country
that it may come as a surprise to many
that 100,000 wire miles of line were
specially set up for 8.8. C. broadcasts
during 1936. This figure only applies to
what are known as outside broadcasts,
of which there are about 2000 a year.
The length of line provided varies from
a few hundred yards to 100 miles. In
addition to the outside broadcasts, the
permanent land lines of the 8.8. C. re-
quire thousands of miles of cables and
wires. With the development of the
regional scheme of broadcasting it be-
came necessary to link the various trans-
mitting stations together. For this pur-
pose the Post Office set up a network of
nearly 10,000 miles of high-quality,
specially-designed underground cables.
Amateur Chatter.
In wandering over the various bands
wherein Australian radio “hams” make
active use of their licenses one hears
reference to QRM engendered by
thoughtless or careless operation, and
criticism of ideas or even persons. Then,
perhaps, a keen DX ’phone man may be-
moan the fact that VKs are mixed up, in
some instances, with American ’phones
between 14,150 kc. and 14,250 kc. What
becomes obvious in listening to all these
apparent rights and wrongs is how much
more certain they would be of intelligent
attention if all Australian amateurs were
actively interested members of the
W.I.A.
The institute has to-day a big mem-
bership throughout Australia, but there
are yet hundreds of licensed amateurs
outside the ranks. The reason in most
cases appears to be apathy. The W.I.A.
exists in the interests of Australian ama-
teurs as a whole. It is the official mouth-
piece of amateur radio in the Common-
wealth, and duly recognised as such by
the Federal Government and P.M.G.’s
Department. If the amateur wants any-
thing individually he is entitled at general
meetings and, through his delegate, at
annual conventions to speak his mind.
If he is outside the. institute he is deny-
ing himself and the rest of his fellows
his vote. Votes count, and majority votes
are taken notice of. A guinea a year
and 10s. 6d. for associates and country
members are not excessive for member-
ship. The secretary for the N.S.W. divi-
sion can be reached through Box 1734JJ,
G.P.0., Sydney. The Federal Conven-
tion will be held in Sydney from January
30 to February 1, with the annual dinner
at the Dungowan Cafe, Martin-place.
Tickets are on tap at 4s. 6d. each.
This writer’s criticism of the wrong
kind of ’phone operation and his plea
for better telegraphic standards of operat-
ing do not mean that VK2NO is biased
against 20-metre ’phone. He is just as
keen on 20-metre ’phone as anybody else,
as a pile of SWL and QSL reports about
2ft. high over the last 12 months bears
witness. But' it is distressing to hear an
overseas fellow asking a VK to “carry
on with C.W.” owing to failing signal
strength, and the VK unable to comply
because he can’t punch a key.
Interesting things have been happening
on “five” around Sydney, and-a surprise
on the night of 3/1 / ’37 was the unex-
pected return of VK2BP, of Hazelbrook.
Working under temporary arrangements,
his signal was R 7 in Waverley (N.S.W.),
and he tied up at once with VK2NO,
VK2XK and VK2AZ. After a week he
erected a Bruce aerial with surprising
o Continued on page 50.)


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued • .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking- business transacted.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
VBE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
M
II
II
II
Beh/eciere km ESelveoeke
X
i *
C'% I
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
B'Et-VEOEKE BELVEpEKE i>l
"... V/. tyt'iW/.'/M////
National
Advertisers:
LET • • J
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from 1\ A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Bike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, Neivs, Adelaide.
50
M£ND/DF£Am£S
' £V£fir H££lC
Of/SALE~JILSTATES~PK/CE&.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Classing Rams.
“Murrawong”: In influence on pro-
geny, it is generally admitted that the
ewe is mainly the foundation, while the
ram is responsible for the edifice.
For that reason it is advisable to class
the ewes first, so that the classer may
learn exactly what material he has to
build on, what general faults they pos-
sess and what weaknesses must be cor-
rected and bred out by corresponding
strength and virtue in the sire. Where
rams have been haphazardly mated, the
classer will find it extremely difficult to
trace the authors of faults in the pro-
geny.
A ram may not show all his deficien-
cies or merits on even a detailed check-
up on constitution and covering. He
may be quite presentable, but, because
of his breeding, may not nick with the
flock. Some hidden fault of ancestry
may keep cropping out in his lambs. In
one known instance an outcrop of black
lambs was traced to a high-priced and
fine-looking ram purchased from a well-
known flock; although there was not a
black spot on him the sins of his
fathers were in him.
Rams should be classed individually
and carefully, with consideration of age
and of type being aimed at. Sound con-
stitutions are essential. Reject animals
showing signs of weakness and outstand-
ing faults in conformation. Aim at a
level topline with low-set square body
and well-sprung ribs. Be particular
about hindquarters, legs and feet. Hind
legs should be straight, viewed from be-
hind,. with no signs of cow-hock ; pas-
terns should be strong and hoofs sound
and free from malformation.
Head should be masculine and well
set on ; face broad and free from any
frostiness ; jaws neither over- nor under-
shot. Horns should be massive and curv-
ing freely, leaving ample room between
horn and jaw for shearing.
Flock rams should be free of body
wrinkles. Above all, avoid saucer tails
and britch wrinkles. Neck folds should
be symmetrical and well developed and
covered with wool, not hair.
No matter what the type of sheep,
rams should be as even in quality of
fleece as possible. The merino is pri-
marily a woolgrower, and defects in cov-
ering are of more consequence than
poor conf rmation. The average spin-
ning quality of the ram’s fleece should
be slightly stronger than that aimed at
in the progeny. Length of staple, den-
sity and well-defined character are essen-
tial. Get rid of short-wooiled rams and
those with fleeces of bad color, stariness
or showing signs of kemp or dogginess.
It is unwise to attempt any sudden
drastic change in wool quality or type.
If the wool is becoming too fine—say
70’s-66’s —the mating of strong-woolled
rams will not give 64’s in the progeny ;
it will more likely be a woeful mixture
- of everything from 60’s to 70’s that will
defy the woolclasser at shearing-time.
Such changes must be worked up to
gradually and by careful mating. The
most common fault in wool is straight-
ness, lack of character—due to careless
breeding—and this can only be corrected
by using rams with well-defined crimp.
Exporting Stud Sheep.
“Onehunga”: Every now and then
Maoriland papers run exultant para-
graphs about the promising export trade
in stud sheep. There was* one the other
day about a ship that sailed with 92
head, rams and breeding ewes hand-
picked from the studs of Wellington and
Otago. A month earlier a nice little
lot of 21 from the Wairarapa and Can-
terbury was shipped—Corriedales, Lin-
colns, Romneys and Southdowns. Nearly
every one had caught the judge’s eye in
some show-pen or other.
Both lots were, consigned to Buenos
Ayres. A good trade, profitable to those
who breed and those who buy on com-
mission ! for the Argentino. Presently,
when fat lambs from the River Plate
begin to jostle, prime Canterbury at the
“Hold on, now —I think I can extract it”
“That no good to me. Pall the plurry thing out!”
top of the Smithfield price list, it mightn't
look so rosy.
It is an old story being acted over
again. When the Argentino starts to
breed he goes for the foundation stock
he wants and doesn’t care, what he pays
for it. Then he climbs to the top of the.
market with his output; at least, that’s
what he did in the chilled-beef trade.
Between 1932 and 1934 he bought 154
sheep in Maoriland and paid £6020 for
them. In the same period Chile took
868 head for £19,808. When the results
of these investments begin to appear,
Maoriland sheepbreeders will rub their
eyes and realise that the S. American re-
publics exist. At present they don t
seem to know it, but the folks over there
know a good bit about the lambs ripened
for market in Aotearoa.
Mulga and Wheat.
“Jamwood”: Mulga is a great asset to
the Westralian pastoralist, on the Mur-
chison particularly.
During the. long drought, now happily
broken, the Minister of, Agriculture ex-
pressed the fear that the conditions would
be fatal to the saltbush that used to be
another splendid .standby on the Mur-
chison ; but mulga has a way of sur-
viving drought and voracious feeding.
While the drought was raging, the
W.A. University’s agricultural branch
conducted “mulga trials” on Boolardy
station, which is partly Murchison and
partly De Grey River. For nine weeks
the sheep selected for the test were fed on
mulga alone. Average increase in weight
was 11.71b.—16.5 p.c. “During the first
fortnight, average consumption of mulga
per head per day was 31b. and average
increase. in weight 4.51 b.,” the investi-
gators report.
“At the end of the trials two sheep
were killed and examined. No evi-
dence of compaction was found.
“From Sept. 13 to 27 five sheep received
a supplement of quarter of a pound of
wheat per head per day. The sheep on
the mulga alone consumed on the aver-
age 3.31 b. of mulga per head per day,
and the average increase o.f weight dur-
ing the period was 2.21 b. The indi-
viduals receiving the wheat supplement
consumed 3.11 b. of mulga per head per
day and their average gain in weight was
3.81 b.,” and “wool growth showed in-
crease, while the health and general
appearance of the sheep continually
improved.”
It is admitted that “under free-ranging
conditions”—the sheep tested were kept
in confinement “especially during
drought periods, a considerable propor-
tion of the nutritive value obtained from
the dry feed would be dissipated in the
continual movement of the sheep be-
tween one bite and another and between
feed and water.” Hence conservation
of the energy of sheep, by cutting top
feed in concentrated areas, is important,
as well as conservation of the top feed.
“Where supplies of top feed are rela-
tively good,” conservation “by using a
supplement of grain”, is strongly recom-
mended.
Taking a Blood Sample.
“Silky Bag”: When epidemics of
pleuro-pneumonia and contagious abor-
tion. crop up, it is useful to know a
simple method for securing blood to
send to a research institute.
There are two spots in a cow’s
anatomy where, veins are superficial—tip
of tail and back of ear. Animals cause
less trouble if the tail is tapped, but the
blood flow is restricted compared with
that from the ear.
The selected spot —under-surface of
tail-tip or-middle vein on ear —must be
clipped over closely. Curved scissors
are best for this. Bathe the cleaned
patch with a clean rag dipped in 70 p.c.
alcohol, and use a sterilised knife to
make the cut.
On the tail a slightly spiral cut' about
|in. deep is best. The vein runs long-
wise up the tail, and the spiral ensures
that it is severed in the one cut. With
the ear a cut l-16in. deep usually suf-
fices ; it is made straight across the vein
half-way on- the head side. A short,
sharp stroke will do the job.
Let |oz. of blood drain into loz. flat
bottles (sterilised, with corks, before-
hand). Stand bottles for a day in a
warm, shady room, resting at an angle
of 20 to 30 degrees. After this a clear
serum may be. decanted off into
sterilised bottles. This is the material
to send away.
If the weather is warm, the serum
should be stored in a freezer if possible.
It is also best stacked in a tin with ice-
cubes to cool it in transit.'
Dehorned Dairy Herds.
“5.8.”: Whether they realise it or
not, dairy-stock show societies are
retarding salutary dehorning. So long
as an animal minus horns is penalised in
a show-ring, we shall have fewer polled
cows than horned.
Dehorned animals aren’t as showy as
horned, but what of it? The only thing
that can be said for horns is that they
do contribute towards the signs of con-
stitution.
Dairy, stock are. only useful as pro-
ducers of milk and butterfat; dehorning
tends to increase the total yields of
both.' Cows in a herd of horned animals
are always restless in a yard, and sub-
ject to' the peculiar “ca'ste” trouble
known as bossing. Polled herds, on the
contrary, are usually quiet, with bossing
greatly modified. Cows come into the
yard without fear, and even the weak-
est is not' afraid to lie down and cud
contentedly.
Rice Meal for Pigs.
“Large White”: At McGill University,
Quebec (Can.), experiments have been con-
ducted to determine the quantity of rice-
meal which may safely be fed to Dennis


M'tORMItK-DEERINy
IP
MM
■
ill
m
"rrTPii
WK-40 — the new 6-cylinder
tractor replacing the 22-36.
FOR EVERY
FARM/
Prices from
£199
' MiMI
up
VVD-40—Drawbar rating, 27.99
h.p.; belt, 44.04 h.p.
tea
B
E BD
TD-40—Drawbar rating, 33.51
h.p.; belt, 43.12 h.p.
10-20 Drawbar rating, 13.5
h.p.; belt, 21.6 h.p.
W-30 Drawbar rating, 19.69
h.p.; belt, 31.31 h.p.
A Tractor for YOUR Farm
OUT of its vast experience extending over 105 years,
International Harvester—the World's largest tractor
builder—has succeeded in developing a line of tractors
that makes possible the successful utilization of low-cost
power on farms of all sizes. This comprehensive line of
tractors brings,to all farmers—the small farmer as well as
the man with the large acreage—the benefits and the
conveniences of modern power delivered with a certainty
and economy' which makes farming more profitable.
There's a tractor in the McCormick-Deering line that will fit exactly
into .your farming operations. Write its for' catalogues or call on
your McCormick-Deering agent and talk the matter over with him.
He will be pleased to tell you about the McCormick-Deering tractor
that will suit-you. .
BIG POWER FOR BIG FARMS
Where plenty of power is needed—power that will speed up big-scale
operations on large properties—lnternational Harvester offers you the
McCormick-Deering Diesel-powered WD-40 tractor, the WK-40 tractor
which operates on kerosene and-the TD-40 Diesel-powered TracTracTor.
What more can you want in the way of big power?
MEDIUM POWER FOR MEDIUM FARMS
Represented by the 10-20 and the W-30 tractors and the T-20
TracTracTor, the McCormick-Deering range of medium-sized tractors
includes a size and type that will exactjy meet the needs of.tjie man
with the medium-sized farm and which will serve him well and faithfully
on a wide variety of jobs. All of these models operate on power
kerosene.
SMALL POWER FOR SMALL FARMS
The versatile McCormick-Deering 12 Series tractors—the W-12, 0-12,
and F-12 ; —are International Harvester's answer to the demand for
economical power for the small farm. Operating on low-cost kerosene,
these wonderful little tractors are a splendid proposition for mixed
farms, orchards, vineyards, and other small properties.
STEEL WHEELS OR PNEUMATIC TYRES
Do you prefer pneumatic tyres or steel wheels on your tractor? All
McCormick-Deering wheel tractors can be furnished with steel wheels
or pneumatic, tyres. .* ~
14 DIFFERENT MODELS
In addition to farm tractors, the McCormick-Deering line also includes
a complete range of tractors for all kinds of industrial and municipal
work—l 4 different models in all.
T-20 Drawbar rating, 18.33
h.p.; belt,. 25.31 h.p.
amt
W-12 Drawbar rating, 9.55
h.p.; belt, 13.88 h.p.
0-12 Drawbar rating, 9.44
h.p.; belt,. 13.45 h.p. ( .
F-12 Drawbar rating, 9.4*»
h.p.; belt, 13.45 h.p.
dfs
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
COMPANY
PERTH
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
2386
TEiSSSS
nunpHn
■fv
jmtoaam
i i i i m, it*,
ll ? ;' '' '•««
■ v■ ~< '
lUKlii
without deterioration of carcass quality,
The maximum amount fixed was 25 p.c.
of the total ration. The rice-meal supple-
ments barley better than it does oats. An
excessive proportion was found to pro-
long the fattening period unduly and
yield soft carcasses. ...
Another experiment in which rice was
used is reported from Spain, the object
being to compare it with maize and
barley. Rations comprising onei of these
f he lard stage (2001 b.) until they were
slaughtered at the high weight of 5001 b.
Rice and maize proved of equal value,
definitely superior to barley. The .
appetites of the pigs tended to diminish
after the 4001 b.-mark was passed, but this
was less obvious in the rice than the
other groups.
"" c a
Sprouted Gram for Stock.
“Molecule”: The Royal London Vet-
erinary College has been looking into
what is known as the Spangenberg pro-
cess of forcing seeds until the plants are
lOin. to 15in. high (which takes about
14 days.), then feeding the whole to live-
stock.
The process has been used by poultry-
farmers for a long time. The grain is
soa k e( i f or 24 hours in water (sometimes
chemicals are added), spread out on
ra y S a depth of about Jin. and the
r kept jn £ warm room and waterea
dai| y-. W™" f to « days .he
nutritive yield of the increased quantity
1S claimed to be just double that ol the
original grain.
At the, Veterinary College maize was
found to be the most suitable grain to
use, though wheat, barley (malting) and
D ats are also recommended. For horses
71b. to 101 b. were fed daily, heifers 151 b„
sheep 51b. The forage is most suitable
for young growing stock, and puts an
excellent bloom on stud and show
animals.
Brown Lucerne Hay.
“Ecco”: Brown lucerne hay is a fine
adjunct to other feeds; indeed, some
cows seem to prefer it to the dry, green
variety, over which it certainly has one
advantage—it is less prone to go to dust.
Moreover, it can be turned out in
seasonal conditions which preclude the
making of green, dry hay.
Lucerne, for brown hay should not be
allowed to dry off quite so much in the
field as when making green.
Brown hay differs from lucerne silage
only in the amount of moisture it con-
tains. If lucerne is cut before bottom
leaves fall or when in bud or only
slightly in flower, it will, in the stack,
form a green or pale brown silage. But
by allowing about three parts of the
moisture to dry out a product is turned
off in which, after stacking, the plants
will remain separated and be suitable
for dry hay curing.
In making brown hay there is one
thing that must be watched: the addi-
tional moisture, not present when other
kinds of hay are made, is apt to add
to the risk of spontaneous combustion
in the stack.
Why Not More Onions?
“Hortus”: With brown onions *at £24
and local white at £2B, the crop deserves
more attention.
Choose a soil well-drained and loose,
with a good even mixture of sandy and
black or sandy and red volcanic. Onions
keep best when grown on soils not too
light. - -
Weed growth is the main stumbling-
block ; therefore the ground needs work-
ing for two or three months. Plough
deeply. Onions are deep-rooters. It is
best to go as far as subsoil allows, but
it’s asking for serious trouble to interfere
with subsoil, especially if at all heavy.
Roll after harrowing and cross-har-
rowing, if too lumpy. Get as fine a tilth
(Continued on page 44.)


PUMPS
FOR ALL
PURPOSES
~M acson, ,
Double-
Acting
Piston
Pump
dfs
Send now for your
copy of our illustrated
Pump Catalogue. This
useful book will be
sent to you free, and
post free.
"Ajax"
Double-
Acting
Hand
Pump
AJAX
• PipprieUnj limited
51 Bathurst Street Sydney
546 Collins Street .... Melbourne
And at Adelaide and Perth.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
FOR EASE IN
THE SADDLE
Try this Soft-uppered
Abbey Riding Boot and
feel the difference.
There’s an Abbey Boot for
every purpose, each made
with different qualities which
especially suit their certain
kind of work. The Abbey
Riding Boot, with its soft,
supple upper and tough but
pliant sole, is no exception to
the Abbey rule. It certainly
has everything to give its
owner —perfect comfort and
lasting wear in the saddle.
Price: BLACK CALF - - - 27/6
BROWN CALF - - - 27/6
Write for a catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
k Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots/’ Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Seethe / #
CANADIAN Afefe
On YOUR Way to
EUROPE
Mm
1
m
AND
LAKE LOUISE
Go via Canada to Europe. See the
majestic Rockies . . . 600 miles of
towering peaks and scenic wonders.
See Banff . . . famed for its castle-like
Hotel, outdoor sports and social attrac-
tions. Also see lovely Lake Louise and
Emerald Lake . . . scenic gems of the
Rockies. Rates very low.
Illustrated literature and all details
from any Tourist Booking Agency or
The World’s Greatest Travel System
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET - SYDNEY
23.6,7
Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
Incorporated in Canada.
The Centre of Tas
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
Cflombmp
■audit*
*6 U R EAU OF-
CIRCULATIONS.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspape-
published in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agri-
cultural, Commercial and Tourist Centre of Tas-
mania. “THE EXAMINER” has been published
in Launceston for 93 years, and is the News-
paper read by Northern Tasmania to-day.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
77^fyxxlleiz/nL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
as possible. Keep going till there’s three
or four inches of soil that slips through
the hands easily on top of a solid, well-
worked foundation.
Drainage is most important'. Dig a
few test holes. They will fill to the
height of the water-table. This will
naturally rise after heavy rain, but if it
stands at within two to three feet from
the surface for several days that land
will be benefited by drainage. In
any case, in districts of fairly heavy
rainfall leave a deep furrow at regular
intervals to carry off surplus water.
As for the best time to sow onions,
fix on the hottest part of the year, and
work back seven months. This will
prove a good average seedtime in most
cases.
Just before sowing, harrow and roll
well. Onions do not thrive unless they
have a firm bed to start in.
Oats Take Their Place.
“Agro”: In Britain oats are most im-
portant in stock development, as well as
representing the heaviest farming acre-
age and the largest production. The
yield of wheat of the U.K. in 1935 was
7,834,000 quarters; of oats, 12,602,000
quarters. A large proportion of the oats
went into stock-producing.
The British acreage under the crop
was 2,246,000; in the same year, the
Australian acreage was 1,562,000,
though we have additional stock needs.
Every year, however, sees substantial in-
crease. On the western slopes of N. S.
Wales the oats acreage advanced from
100,000 in 1914 to 500,000 last year. As
the fat-lamb trade grows the acreage
must still expand. For grazing, oats has
no peer among grain plants.
Much of the trouble in popularising
oats has come from the late cropping
of Algerian, to which many farmers have
clung. Latterly a lot has been done in
the blending of other varieties. In the
N. S. Wales wheat areas, Belar (1920)
is becoming the most popular all-round
type, since it is equally suitable for hay
and for grain and milling. Also, it resists
smut.
Burke is another variety doing well.
It has the advantage of being a very
early maturer and of turning out a good
feed grain, but it is not nearly as good
as Belar for milling, the grain being
too small.
Much remains to be done before the
perfect Australian oat plant is produced.
When the good qualities of several
varieties are brought out, and straw
weakness (as in Algerian and Fulgrum)
and smallness of grain (as in Burke) have
been cured, we should get an all-purpose
oat that will widen usage tremendously.
Sugarcaine for Cows.
“Titre”: Dairy-farmers in the sub-
tropical region would find it paid hand-
somely to go in a little more for sugar-
cane. There is usually a corner on any
farm where it could be grown.
It has considerable fodder value, and
on the North Coast of N.S.W. and in
southern Queensland it is available in
autumn, when maize and winter cereals
are not to be had.
The variety should be one that will
give about four cuts. Broadwater No. 1
is suitable. It has only one troublesome
disease —mosaic. Its ratoons are very
soft, and it is a high yielder.
Pasture Improvement without
Implements.
“Bogaduck”: This can be quoted as
an example of what can be done. Bill
Smith’s home stands on a 500-acre block
of scrub land, mostly sandy soil carrying
timber, bracken and banksia. Annual
rainfall, 22 inches. Bill does casual work
about the district, mainly fencing, road
work and shearing. He determined to
see if his block could be made to carry,
in his own words, “something besides
rabbits and crows.”
As a first step, all trees except an
average of a healthy one per acre, on a
40-acre patch were poisoned with arsenic
and caustic soda —31b. arsenic and lib.
caustic dissolved in four gallons of hot
water. Half a pint settled the biggest
tree. In the autumn bracken and low
scrub were burned off. All fallen timber
was heaped and burned. When the top-
dressing was done on a near-by station,
the contractor brought his truck along
and did Bill’s little patch at the usual
rate of 6d. per acre. The super, cost £B,
and Bill broadcast the clover seed by
hand. He went over the whole area
with a hoe and a bag of Kikuyu roots,
planting the roots 6ft. apart.
The fence posts had been erected
before the burn. Before shearing began,
Bill had time to put up the wires and
netting, as well as dig out the rabbit
burrows.
In the spring he went over the ground
again with a hoe, cutting out wattle,
banksia and gum seedlings which had
sprung up. Although the seed had not
been harrowed in or covered in any way,
a good germination of clover had taken
place and the growth had been vigor-
ous. The Kikuyu was running, too, some
runners being 6ft. long. The bracken
was starting to look sick.
Last autumn, another half-bag of
super, was applied per acre, and all the
dead trees were burned. The clover
made an even more vigorous growth ; the
Kikuyu was everywhere, not affecting
the clover, but strangling the bracken.
In the first year no stock went into the
paddock, resulting in a wonderful lot of
fodder going to waste, and only four-
cows ran on it last year. But Bill, who
has started on another 40 acres, is going
to get a few ewes as soon as the second
paddock is ready. He talks of being
able to run 300 sheep by the time that
120 acres has been cleared, and he is
not over-optimistic.
The striking part of the business is
that, without any implements or culti-
vation, sandy, bracken country worth
at best 3s. an acre in its virgin state has
been turned into country which can
carry more than two sheep per acre at
a cost of less than £1 per acre, includ-
ing fencing. Bill, of course, is not
counting his own time and work as part
of the cost.
Poisoning Foxes.
“Horsetailer”: To poison foxes in
thick undergrowth and be sure of find-
ing them, drag your trail close to and
about all tree-trunks. Then go round
with a auger and bore a hole of
that measurement deep on protruding
tree roots hard on the trail. Into these
holes pour a mixture made by dissolving
|oz. of strychnine in hydrocyanic acid,
and mixing with 21b. melted butter and
a teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda.
Don’t quite fill the cavity, and take
great care not to finger either the root
or the poison. In winter a blowlamp
is handy to keep the butter liquid, though
small fires will do.
With this method there won’t be quite
so many baits taken as with other
methods, but every bait that is touched
will claim a victim at the hole.
Hints for the Farm.
“Karaway”: The bush remedy—learnt
from the blacks —for the sting of the
bull-ant and its relatives is the juice or
sap of the bracken fern. This is nearly
always handy, for where, it grows abun-
dantly is where the bull-ant dwells.
“Gumblegubbin”: To mend a crack
in an underground cement water-tank,
mix Portland cement with liquid silicate
of soda and press into the crack imme-
diately. It dries quickly, and sets very
hard. For a big break, or where a chunk
has broken out, mix cement into a
smooth batter, and work into it some
chopped horsehair to act as binder.
“Walliew”: To scare off flying-foxes
tie loose newspaper sheets to the orchard
boughs. While the paper flaps in the
breeze flying-foxes won’t settle in the
trees, or if they do won’t stay there long.
“O. I. Saye”: According to the daily-
press the C.S. and I.R. is sending some-
body to Maoriland to investigate the pos-
sibilities of growing N.Z. hemp (Phor-
mium tenax ) in Australia. It n ee d
send no further than the Dandenong
Mountains, 20 miles from Melbourne,
where, in full view from the railway at
Nobelius, there is quite an acreage of
the hemp and a scutching mill.


iiill
m
ill
IF
i i.
11
■
.
| 1 | | U
■■MUBM
ft . I
II
t
■
" ' ' IP
m
■ I
~ . n
■
Vb & fflPB
*llll
§1!
Mi
3 ■
WMi
'
m
a
lllllilili
’
■HHHIHIhMH
IS
..v' •
-'■•v'-' g v |F fi
-i: mm
jk m nnp
■ :
■ • 3,; ■: 3 , '
• -
■tl
’ •■ - x
'3 3:
" 1
*■'• • ■■■<■■: £* vA; O ¥
..
V>> > •<
> * -i
Km
ii
;ii i||lßl|
1
* *
s
MHH
'.iiii
5#
■ -«s
HI
v ; ’' • ,f - '•' •
%
g
LSSSI*
; :3 . ' ' :.
< ••>;■; • .. >
• ;•• : \
4
'JZ% H
"' >r~
*y
IiPP
\ !
IF
■P
111
m
■4:wshs
1111
IPii«
fell
mm
, ;€l»* - i
s@§B;:
# I
5K53®
Ji; I
.
ii
' F? <1 3 ' "'1
'
wb f
§w 1M
Biu&F
Kill
PCI
K '
xjaltr vs
;: F :
4,
F
, f -
-/ .:' ' .■ -w y
'.s' 5
m
WiM
\f\ • . 3,33-3 3,., 3
' %:.3 .. ;V-.'
f?, , . ft aW _ • % .
# :F.' >-%d ;*• *
JHK
v ; ';
na -
S
F-
; ; »
l ii
■
333:;
4 /F : ,
1
FF’ F.F..
' F'. '/ W®B
11:
IMBKiMW
’isi'H 'F’F V -- .
-
w—
-3
* .
3'F
* ■
m
■
&
His
n
■' ' : vV
■ ■
-.3
ii. M
\ -jm 3
p
H
a
1
AH
a
H
■
33 ' !
:-f:;f;I : -: F
-
,;:-3,,
33F.3 3 ; :';: v-:3
mm
m
HI
j&k
. .
m
m •-
BS
-3
mm
•:-- . ‘ ...
F-3 < v .
viXFF
m
m
TOOHEYS,
LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
AGEXTS —
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DiBECTORS-James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. 0.M.6.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory) Melbourne Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, a ~°,
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, > this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Wanted partner on 50-50 basis for goldmining
lease that has produced 7634 fine oz. from
6386 tons stone to a depth of 160 ft., 30dwt.
stone under foot at deepest level. Five thou-
sand tons available at surface, assay value
4.5dwt.—4329.
To buy old Australian and M.L. military
badges.—4334.
To buy, second-hand, 1936 edition Stanley
Gibbons’s Simplified Stamp Catalogue .■ —4314.
Words of recitation “To Be Continued in
Our Next.” —4301.
Information Sought.
In cricket, when is a ball “dead” ? —4339.
A batsman being out from any cause, the
ball shall be “dead” (Law 33a). If the ball,
whether struck with the bat or not, lodges in
the batsman’s clothing, the ball shall be “dead”
(Law 33b). If a ball cannot be found or
recovered any fieldsman may call “lost ball,”
when the ball shall be “dead” (law 34). After
the ball shall have been finally settled in the
wicketkeeper’s or bowler’s hand it shall be
“dead” (Law 35). If a fieldsman wilfully stops
the ball otherwise than with any part of his
person the ball shall be “dead” and five runs
added to the run or runs already made; if
no run has been made five runs shall be added
to the score (Law 41). After the umpire has
called “over” the ball is “dead.”
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
What are the averages of Leyland, Ham-
mond and Bradman (1) in Australia to the end
of the third Test this season; (2) in all Test
matches? (3) What were their individual scores
this season ? (4) Whom would you regard as
the most consistent batsman of the trio on
present form ? (5) Times taken by Bradman in
scoring 270 and Hammond 231 not out; and
how many fours did each make? —4328.
(1) In Australia:
Highest Aver-
Ings. N.O. Score. Total. age.
Hammond .. 5 X 231* 339 84.75
Leyland ..5 1 126 329 82.25
Bradman . . 6 0 270 403 67.16
(2) In all Tests:
Hammond . . 40 3 251 2152 58.10
Leyland . . 29 4 153 1406 56.24
Bradman . . 37 2 334 2999 85.64
* Not out.
(3) Hammond’s innings were 0, 25, 231*, 32,
51; Leyland’s, 126, 33, 42, 17, 111*; Brad-
man’s, 38, 0,0, 82, 13, 270. (4) On these
figures Lelyand is the most consistent batsman.
(5) Bradman, 270 in 458 min., 22 fours; Ham-
mond, 231 in 460 min., 27 fours.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
A reply on this page (B. 30/12/’36) says “100
p.c. profit accrues when cost of selling and
expenses are nil.” How can profit be stated in
terms of percentage when there is no cost or
basic figure to work on, and why is the per-
centage stated as 100? Why not 1000 or
10,000?—4318.
The answer referred to commercial parlance.
Admittedly the term “100 p.c. profit” as ap-
plied to a transaction in which outlay is nil
is loose and mathematically incorrect, but it
is a trade way of saying that the income is all
profit. The mathematical symbol that means
infinity hasn’t yet gained currency in cashbooks
and ledgers.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
(1) Have the affairs of the British Australian
Wool Realisation Association been absolutely
wound up? (2) If so, when? (3) If not,
where can 1 address the body for the purpose
of recovering some scrip value which, through
an oversight, has never been presented for
payment ? —4164.
(1) Yes. (2) The association was finally dis-
solved on March 22, 1933. The surplus of
£8196 9s. Id. was paid into the funds of the
Australian Pastoral Research Trust. (3) Too
late for any such recovery, but further details
could possibly be obtained from John Higgins,
349 Collins-street, Melbourne, C.l, who was
one of the association’s two liquidators.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Since the Vic. Closer Settlement Commis-
sion came into office, what has it paid out for
wire and iron, farm implements, superphos-
phates, oil co. products, bags, timber, posts,
etc. ? —4152.
To obtain exact expenditure totals on these
items would mean analysing nearly 12,000
farmers’ accounts in the commission’s books.
The following figures from the commission’s
last report (covering the year ending June 30,
1935) comprise the only available analysis that
in any way approximates your inquiry: Ad-
vances for improvements £76,023 ; living allow-
ances, £115,847; horses, £20,262; machinery
and implements, £32,788; chaff, £33,343 ;
manure, £49,421; cornsacks, £15,304; dupli-
cates, oil and twine, £15,713 ; other harvesting
expenses, £41,551; miscellaneous, £19,552.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Rates of pay of members of the Northern
Territory police force ? —4lBl.
Nominal rates are: Constable, commencing
salary £312 p.a., rising by increments to a
maximum of £4OB p.a. after 11 years’ service;
senior constable, £420-£432 p.a. (one increment
of £12); and sergeant, £444-£456 p.a. (one in-
crement of £l2). At present, as a consequence
of cost of living adjustments, the salaries paid
are, in each case, £3O p.a. below the rates
quoted. Police are entitled to free unfurnished
quarters. Unmarried officers stationed at Dar-
win reside in the police barracks. A member
of the force who submits evidence that he is
supporting his wife is paid an allowance at
the rate of £2O p.a. in addition to salary. Child
endowment at the rate of £l3 p.a. is paid in
respect of each dependent child under 14.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Details of Princess Marina’s ancestry and
nationality ? —4202.
Born at Athens, the daughter of Prince
Nicholas of Greece and a great-granddaughter
of King George I. of the Hellenes, who, as
Crown Prince of Denmark (son of King Chris-
tian IX. and brother of Queen Alexandra), had
renounced all claim to the Danish throne on
accepting the crown of Greece. He married
the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia, and on his
assassination in 1913 was succeeded by his son,
Constantine, the father of Prince Nicholas. The
present occupant of the Greek throne, King
George 11., is Princess Marina’s uncle.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
(1) When, where and by whom was the first
zoo opened in Australia ? (2) Who ran the.
zoo at Watson’s Bay, Sydney, in the early
days? (3) What happened to the Watson’s
Bay animals when the place was closed? —4341.
(1) In 1854 at Botany, Sydney, by William
Beaumont, licensed victualler. Contemporary
illustrations show that it included elephants,
emus, kangaroos and a dingo. (2) Billing,
licensee of a hotel at Watson’s Bay, who
bought Beaumont’s menagerie. (3) Billing’s
widow offered the collection to the N. S. Wales
Government, and, when the offer was refused,
poisoned the animals.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
What was the route of the first electric tram
run in the Sydney metropolitan area? What
was the route of the first electric tram in the
city ? —4083.
The first electric tramcar ran between Waver-
ley and Randwick on November 9, 1890. On
September 20, 1893, an electric tram service was
inaugurated between Falcon-street Junction,
North Sydney, and Spit-road, Mosman, and on
October 4, 1898, between Ocean-street and Rose
Bay. The electric tram service in the city
proper was introduced on December 8, 1899,
on the section between Circular Quay and Pyr-
mont, via George-street. A car fitted with
electric motors, driven by accumulators, ran
between Bridge-street and Central Railway sta-
tion, commencing on December 1, 1895, but
was discontinued after running for a few
months.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Some particulars of Dr. Halloran and his
school ?—• 4024.
Lawrence Henry Halloran, D.D., late in the
18th century conducted a grammar school at
Alphington (Eng.), and from 1807 to 1811 was
Hall Chaplain at Cape Town, but quarrelled
with Lord Caledon, the Governor, and was
sent back to England. In October, 1818, he
was sentenced to transportation for seven years
for having forged a frank to a letter, and
reached Port Jackson in the Baring, June 26,
1819. Here he met an old friend, Macquarie’s
secretary, J. T. Campbell, and was granted
ticket of leave; but this was cancelled owing
to charges he ■ made against the Baring’s cap-
tain. Assigned as a servant to Simeon Lord
—also a friend —he obtained his second ticket
of leave and opened a school which Macquarie
admired. In 1825 he was chosen as head mas-
ter of the new free grammar school, but the
scheme failed, and Governor Darling refused
to allow him to start another school of his
own. In April, 1829, he started a newspaper,
the “Gleaner,” which had a brief life. Later
he became coroner, an appointment which was
cancelled after a few months. In 1830 he
opened a “memorial office,” wherein persons
having grievances against the Government
might have their case persuasively set forth for
forwarding to London. He died March 7,
1831.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Who was Atreus, who was concerned in the
Trojan War? —4062.
The son of Pelops and Hippodamia and
grandson of Tantalus, and by blood and mar-
riage connected with Theseus. He married
Aerope, granddaughter of Minos 11., King of
Crete, and by her had two sons, Agamemnon,
the general of the Grecian army in the Trojan
War, and Menelaiis, at whose solicitation the
war was undertaken. Atreus on one occasion
wreaked vengeance on a brother, Thyestes, by
causing him to eat the flesh of two of his own
children.
¥ ¥ , ¥ ¥
(1) What is the process known as “boning”
shoes? (2) Method?— 4lo3.
(1) Trees or lasts used to bring shoes back
into shape. (2) Use smooth iron or wood and
slick or iron shoe when shoe is on tree or
last.
% % % :*c
Did Nelson at any time serve under Captain
Cook ?— 4230.
No. Nelson did not enter the navy until 1770
(at the age of 12), when he joined his uncle’s
ship the Raisonnable, later transferring with his
relative to the Triumph. He then made a
voyage to the West Indies in a merchant ship,
served in an Arctic expedition in 1773, visited
the East Indies (in the Seahorse), and, after a
term in the Lowestoft frigate, was promoted to
command the Badger (1778), six months later
being posted to the Hinchingbrook. During
this entire period Cook was engaged on his
South Seas expeditions in the Endeavour and the
Resolution, his death occurring in 1779, while
in command of the latter vessel.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Economical material for building a shed, the
essential features being insulation from heat
and cold ? —4178.
Use for studs and sills 2x4 Oregon, spaced
18in. or 24in. centres, lined externally with
3-16 fibrolite and internally with 5-32 fibrolite;
cavity between walls should be filled with Arctic
packing and the roof constructed of corrugated
fibrolite. For further particulars and cost, write
James Hardie and Co., York and Barrack
streets, Sydney, enclosing dimensions.
* * * *
(1) How are lantern slides made? (2)
Apparatus required? (3) Where procurable? —
4191.
(1) From negatives, either by contact, reduc-
tion or enlarging to suit the lantern slide’s size,
3|in. by When making slides by contact
negative and lantern plate are placed in a print-
ing frame, exposed under artificial light, de-
veloped, fixed, washed, dried and mounted. (2)
Lantern plates 2s. Bd. per doz., cover glasses
Is. per doz., binding strips 3s. 2d. a box; also
the usual developing apparatus and printing
frame. (3) Kodak (A’asia), 379 George-street,
Sydney, or Harrington’s, Ltd., George-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Meaning of term “magnification” as ap-
plied to optics? (2) An object is magnified,
say, 10 diameters; what does this mean ? (3)
How is the magnifying power of a telescope
determined ? —4274.
(1) It is the ratio of the linear dimensions of
the image to those of the object. (2) An object
is said to be magnified 10 diameters when its
apparent linear dimensions are increased ten-
fold. This is the usual mode of specifying
magnifying power. (3) By comparing the angle
under which a distant object is seen in the
telescope with the angle under which it is seen
under the naked eye. It is approximately equal
to the focal length of the objective divided by
the focal length of the ocular.
* * * *
Particulars of John W. Keely and his per-
petual-motion motor ? —4279.
Born in Philadelphia in 1837 and died there
in 1898. He was a good mechanic and a
clever talker, though not highly educated. In
1872 he induced some engineers and capitalists
to organise a co. and subscribe 10,000 dollars
to produce a machine which was called a
hydro-pneumatic-pulsatory-vacu-engine. This
appeared to work wonders on water fuel. A
pint of water poured into a cylinder caused
iron bars to be broken and stout ropes torn
apart. Keely declared that with a pint of water
he could send a train from New York to
Philadelphia, or, with a gallon, a steamship
from New York to Liverpool. The fraudulent
character of his “invention” was not revealed
until after his death, when it was discovered
that his model was driven from a source of
power located in a cellar. The means em-
ployed was not actually identified, but the pipes
and connections indicated compressed air.
* ¥ * *
(1) What sort of soil suits bouvardias ? (2)
Should the ground be manured at the time of
planting ? —4084.
(1) A moderately light, properly-drained,
friable, well-dug, loamy soil. If ground is
heavy it should be lightened by adding lime,
well-decayed manure and sand. It is essen-
tial that the ground should be porous. (2)
A liberal quantity of well-decayed cow-manure
should be worked into the soil.
* * ¥ ¥
(1) Cause of Christmas-bush blossoms being
lighter in color than usual? How to ensure
true color? (2) When should they be pruned,
and should manure be used? —4257.
(1) The dry weather would explain the blos-
soms being lighter in color this season in some
districts, but in many parts of Sydney they
have been as deep in hue as ever. Position
has a lot to do with it. The plants prefer a
north-easterly aspect. Water them well from
September on, and to help color (provided
ground is not already strong in iron) use one
tablespoon of sulphate of iron to four gallons
of water, well mixed, and given just as bush
is coming into bud. (2) Pruning should be
done just after flowering. Water well then, to
assist new growth. Fowl manure can be used
when new growth is well started, but must be
well watered in. This will greatly improve the
flower.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Some details concerning porcupine fish? —
4347.
Members of the family Diodontidae and re-
lated to the well-known toadoes or puffers,
which they resemble in form and habits. They
differ principally in the many strong spines
that cover their skin, forming an effective arma-
ment against enemies and making them unsafe
to touch. Their flesh is often highly poison-
ous. Porcupine fish occur in all seas, and
there are many species in Australian waters.
A common species in Port Jackson, Dicoty-
lichthys punctulatus, is white, with numerous
black, round spots. In the tropics some are
marked with large ocelli; others have broad,
blackish bands crossing the back.
¥ x * *
(1) Any authentic record of the speed of
the Black Mamba? (2) Would its fangs be
visible at 10 yards ? (3) Does it travel with half
its length raised from the ground ? (4) Average
length of this snake? (5) Is it classed as the
most venomous snake ? (6) How would it com-
pare with the Taipan of the Gulf country for
venom? (7) Color of the Mamba? —4090.
(1) So far as records go, it is not as fast as
a horse or man running. (2) Fangs are very
large, so it is quite possible they might be
seen ten yards away. (3) Only the front portion
of the body is raised when moving. (4) Average
length of a fully grown adult is about Bft. (5)
Regarded by African authorities as having no
equal for aggressiveness and deadliness. (6)
There are no records regarding the Taipan, but
apparently the Mamba is the more venomous
of the two. (7) Olive or brownish black,
though it is thought that the Green Mamba is
only a color variety of the Black.
Brief Answers.
G.H.8.: Acidosis Powder or that known
as Cal-Bis-Nate, procurable at all chemists,
often affords relief. Dose, one teaspoonful in
a little water after every meal P.A.D.:
Money received for shares and not applied in
their allotment should be returned as soon as
practicable after the closing of the list. You
might get a solicitor to write demanding refund
of balance of money. It is not “a clear case
of fraud,” and you may have difficulty in
establishing it... .J. 8.: (1) An agent is a person
appointed to transact the business of another.
When he transacts business on his own account
without reference to anyone else, he acts as
principal and not as agent, and consequently
requires no registration. (2) In such a case
conclusive proof would be required that the
mailman was an accessory to the breach of the
law before any action could be taken by the
police. (3) The case would be heard in the
court out of which the warrant issued, and
granting of bail would rest with the presiding
magistrate. An offender could be followed into
any State of the Commonwealth. (4) AV
depends on terms of lease. Notice should be
put up if so required, and stone may be sold
off land if lease so allows. (5) Copies of
Commonwealth and State electoral roll are open
to public inspection usually at the local post
office... .S.E.: (1) Under the Vic. Workers’
Compensation Act, compensation is payable
during total disability of the worker and con-
tinued until the incapacity ceases or the total
compensation provided under the Act is paid—
£7oo or £750 with dependent children under 14.
(2) Maximum liability, £750. (3) Consult a
solicitor S.D.E.: (1) Delivery in one case
and shop sales only for sub-agency. (2) No.
The sub-agent works on half profit. (3) Repre-
sentatives of the daily newspaper offices. (4)
Matter for the board. (5) Yes C.R.T.: Civil
Aviation Dept., Defence Dept., St. Kilda-road,
Melbourne... .E.8.L.: Lt.-Col. Sir Edward
Grigg’s address is 113 Eaton-square, London,
S.W.I H.H.M.: Write direct Division of In-
vestigation, U.S. Dept, of Justice, Washington,
D.C T.H.: J. A. Mollison married Amy
Johnson in London on March 28, 1932
0.H.: Brandt and Brandt, 101 Park-avenue;
Curtis Brown, Ltd., 18 East 48th-street; Hughes
Massie and Co., 40 East 49th-street; Sydney A.
Sanders, 522 Fifth-avenue —all New York, N.Y.,
U.S.A P.H.S.: (1) Wolseley Sheep Shearing
Machine Co., Argyle-street, Sydney. (2) A
full course of three months should enable a
student with any mechanical knowledge to
become proficient. (3) £5. (4) Students can
be taken only from February 1 to June 30 ; full
course must be completed within that period.
. ...TJ.: The population of Broken Hill at
December 31, 1935, was 26,820; Goulburn,
15,120; Cessnock, 14,620; Lithgow, 13,550;
Maitland (East and West), 12,500; and Lis-
more, 12,490... .E.S.: N.S.W. Family Endow-
ment Act provides for endowment at a maxi-
mum rate of ss. per week for each dependent
child under 14 years, except one, provided
the family income shall not be increased thereby
beyond amount of living wage for a man, wife
and one child, and £l3 per annum for each
child except one. Residential qualification is
two years in N. S. Wales in respect of mothers
and children, except children under two years
born in N. S. Wales R.D.: The Black
Watch, originally the 43rd Regiment, later the
42nd, and now the Ist Battalion Royal High-
landers, was first formed into a regiment in
1739, being the pioneer in Highland regiments.
The motto is “Nemo me impune lacessit” —
“No one assails me with impunity”—which is
the motto of the Order of the Thistle. The
Royal Scots Greys (2nd Dragoons) was raised
in 1678, the motto being “Nulli secundus” —
“Second to none” J.N.H.: Get in touch
with the Metropolitan Meat Industry Com-
missioner, Homebush, Sydney... .T.C.: A. V.
Fitzgerald, 34 Erskine-street, Sydney A.L.C.:
Sime, Darby and Co., 5 Malacca-street; Straits
Java Trading Co., 132 Robinson-road; and
United Engineers, Ltd., River Valley-road —all
Singapore G.W.H.: “Sapper” is the pen-
name of Major H. C. McNeile, and
“Evoe” of E. V. Knox W.H.D.: The
big-length axis of the Sydney Cricket Ground
is small-length axis 162yds., and
circumference 529yds L.M.W.: Qualifi-
cation for invalid pension is total and
permanent incapacity for work or blindness.
Partial incapacity, even though permanent, is
not sufficient. Application should be made on
prescribed forms, obtainable at any post office,
to Registrar of Pensions, Court House, Kurri
Kurri, together with medical certificate setting
out nature and permanency of incapacity. A
person capable of earning is disqualified from
receiving this pension C.F.S.; Philip Gibbs’s
address is Little House, D’Oyley-street, London,
S.W.I J.P.O’R.: Address of the Legacy
Club is 188 George-street, Sydney. It might be
better for you to get in touch with Col. Mac-
Kenzie, R.S.S.I.L.A. Employment Bureau, 540
George-street, Sydney L. 8.: “Show Boat"
commenced its season at the Liberty Theatre,
Sydney, on Friday, June 12, 1936. Up to the
end of the 29th week the total paid admissions
were 284,435. “One Night of Love” ran 39-1
weeks at the same theatre and paid admissions
totalled 323,696 K.T.: Winners of the Derby
(England) for the last five years were: 1936,
Mahmoud; 1935, Bahram; 1934, Windsor Lad;
1933, Hyperion; 1932, April the Fifth S.S.:
Franchise was extended to women in Victoria
by the Adult Suffrage Act, 1908. Voting at
Legislative Assembly elections was made com-
pulsory in 1926 R.J.: Broadcast listeners’
licenses in force at June 30, 1936, in Australia
were: N.S.W., 314,426; Vic., 263,414; Q’land,
83,025; S.A., 87,251; W.A., 49,987; Tas.,
24,118; N.T., 84; F.C.T., 1305; total, 823,610.
A.F.: Connewarre means “the black
swan”; Kingpaniel, “the head of a hill”;
Moleagul, “a wooded hill”; and Tallygaroopna,
“a large tree”—all are Vic. abo. place-names.
W.A.: Gold guineas of James 11. in good
condition are obtainable from Spink and Son,
Ltd., 5, 6 and 7 King-street, St. James’s, Lon-
don, S.W.I, price ranging from £1 15s. to
£2 (Many others mailed).


BEVERLY LONGWOTH LEE,
Authority on book and story writing:.
I sell my W'ork and I’ll show you how.
-/- per thousand words, plus postage.
Books by arrangement.
ti.P.O. 3751 S.S., Sydney, N.S.W.
LEARN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINEERING
AT HOME
We teach you:—
• Aeroplane control.
• Construction.
• Rigging.
• Types of Engines.
• Engine Auxiliaries.
• Instruments.
• Aerial Navigation.
• Eicences “A,” “R/>
“C” and “D.”
TRALIAN Write for particulars to -
AVIATION
SCHOOLS
embley House, Railway S<j, Sydney
E5t.1934 Phone MA4642
NEW, UNUSUAL WAY TO STRENGTHEN
WEAK NERVES ENTIRELY SUPERSEDES
m
m
m
H
New Nerve Strength
with COLOSEPTIC
COLOSEPTIC cleanses the colon of all fer-
menting food-refuse and passes it out of the
system in a smooth, natural manner. It enables
the body to obtain full nourishment from the
food you eat and so arrests malnutrition, the
cause of weakened and irritated nerves.
COLOSEPTIC checks acidity of the nerve fluids
and the blood stream by stimulating the action
of the other eliminative organs—the kidneys,
skin-pores and respiratory organs. This un-
usual drug-free remedy has helped thousands
of men and women to regain lost nervous
energy. Commence taking COLOSEPTIC to-
day and build up strong, vigorous nerves and
thus master the trouble that is ruining your
health, happiness and prosperity.
FREE LIBERAL SAMPLE AND
COLOSEPTIC BOOK
Send the coupon to-day for a free sample jar
of COLOSEPTIC, and you will receive by
return mail an absorbing book telling you all
about "Autoxima," an intimate and highly im-
portant subject. Prove, at our expense, how
much better COLOSEPTIC is than nerve tonics.
In a few days your head will feel clearer,
your nerves steadier—you'll not feel so "peev-
ish"—you'll sleep better. You'll then realise
what a full treatment will do for you. The
book and sample are absolutely free —so fill
in and mail the coupon now.
TONICS AND DRUGS - - -
At last Medical Science discovers
real cause of
NEURITIS
SLEEPLESSNESS . . . EXHAUSTION
NERVOUSNESS
NEURALGIA FEARS
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN and other
complaints due to Exhausted Nerves.
"NERVES" kill. You may be the next victim. Many a
promising career and many a happy home has been
ruined by "nerves." Many a social success has been
lost by some trifling indiscretion, "flare-up" or error
of judgment—due entirely to unstable nerves. When
a man loses his temper or flares up in excitement;
when a woman begins to nag, fret, worry and have
weeping fits; when a child becomes cross, unruly,
shy it's definitely a case of unbalanced nerves.
WHY RUIN YOUR LIFE?
Clogged Colon
Science has now discovered that it is as
easy to have sound, healthy nerves as
it is to have vigorous muscles—without
drugs, palliatives, tonics or "nerve" foods.
Due to modem cooking methods and the
lack of vital food essentials in present-day
diets, the muscles of the large intestine
(colon) become flaccid and fail to expel from the
body all the waste matter left over from digestion.
This food-refuse accumulates and clings to the walls
of the colon ar.-d toxins are eventually absorbed
into the blood stream, giving rise to acidosis. Acid
conditions or acidosis of the system quickly develop
when the nerves are irritated. Nervousness, neuritis,
fretfulness, irritability, hysteria, neuralgia, neuras-
thenia, tears, worry, sleeplessness and hosts of
mm;
Unclogged
Colon .
other nerve complaints result. Drugs and nerve foods merely
"whip up" the already irritated nerves and thus actually hasten
nerve exhaustion and breakdown.
If unobtainable locally, write to COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney. .4V
At all Chemists: Individual Size, 2 X 9 . . Economy Size, 5 7 6
iv°* «< e
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
tV*'
CHECKS SELF- POISONING J|ft|DS NUTRITION
COMBATS ACIDITY BUILDS HEALTH
v*'
o°
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.A.H.: Should find a buyer elsewhere
M. Thriller became muddled and
incredible towards the finish L.T.: The cat
was let out of the bag much too early
L.P.L.: Neat plot, but characters are only
names on paper J.E.G.: Mildly interesting
paragraph spun out to a yarn A.H.M.:
Send it to a paper that prints that type of
story C.D.: Reveals patient observation, but
tediously told L. 0.8.: A variation of the
poisoned-damper plot H.M.: Ah! if only
Ted Sorenson or Steele Rudd had had the
telling K.C.: Tale of triple-crossing lacks
suspense and not sufficiently ingenious
N. : Could foresee every step of hero during
his dull career L.F.P.: A delightful plot
crippled by uninspired presentation... .0.P.:
You have a lot to learn about Sydney coppers.
W.K.: Too long and amateurish
F.S.F.: “The Old Fool” didn’t please A.V.:
Intentions good, execution clumsy W.D.F.:
Kind-hearted burglar couldn’t force an entry at
252 George-street... .R.R.: Under weight....
A.Q.: You plead a strong case, but it hardly
makes a gripping yarn H.H.: Sent to
Chinese greengrocer for an extra opinion; he
thought, as we did, that you .were writing
through your hat T.V.S.: Got to within a
mile of the border-line... .M.L.8.: Writing not
powerful enough to carry the plot J.E.D.:
Hopeless E.P.J.: Calls for greater artistry.
E.G.: Not for us A.M.: Very nearly.
E.C.: Yours, t 00... .E.L.F.: Thanks for
the wishes, but we can’t place the yarn....
L.T.: N 0... .R.G.H.: Not strong enough....
E.D.: Too sickly sentimental L.H.P.: No
idea of story-telling T.S.: Horse is out of his
class L.A.: Write about mothers-in-law if
you must, but it’ll have to be staggeringly good
to get by.. .A.E.S.: Didn’t get to the finish, but
willing to bet she chose the “immaculately-
groomed man, no longer young, with a slight
tinge of grey showing above the temple”—the
one with the “gleaming, silver-grey roadster, its
long lines redolent of power”... .A.A.:
Young man steals £5OO from his employer to
send a sick wife for a sea voyage, then wins
the lottery. No S.F.: “This idea has been
used before, but I think I’ve given it a new
turn.” It took an old turn from here L.R.:
Story received. Directions as regards “w.p.b.
in the event of its being unsuitable” complied
with W.F.C.: Might make a par E.D.:
Don’t like stories which refer to “the first
young man” and “the second young man”....
Joe H.: It reads murderously:
NOCTURNE.
I grasped my Colt’s revolver bright,
Resolved to perforate the wight,
Who thus disturbed the midnight air with loud
unearthly screams.
I tiptoed softly to the door,
And tripped o’er something on the floor
Which made me curse and rave and yell and rub my
bruised shins.
And then 1 saw a sight which raised my hair,
For on the floor a ghastly corse was there,
I saw its throat was slit from ear to ear,
So hied me back to bed in trembling fear.
D.J.: Gave it up after five pages, com-
pletely bewildered as to which of the seven
brothers was Harry and which Jim N.G.:
We'd rather put our coin into a Lasseter’s Reef
show than into your yarn’s prospecting co
1.A.Y.: And your gold-diggers aren’t convinc-
ing, either... .8.H.: “Prepossessing blonde
giant of a man, a man who should have been
cast as a Viking,’l is an old acquaintance
T.P.: No refuge here for your demented child-
murderer D.F.: “Who could witness so
terrific a struggle without being overcome at
the thought of the never-ending conflict between
black and white?” Dunno. Ask one of the
whisky travellers... .P.L.N.: Out, Swaggie!
... .E.H.: The next person who sends us a
“Trip to the Zoo’ sketch will be thrown
into the bear-pit... .E.M.C.: Not keen
on laughs at the expense of a lunatic; any-
how the idea is old E.W.: It never
really got started A.F.C.: Might pass
with some pruning and polishing J.C.M.:
See reply to E.M.C D.A.: Rewritten,
and with a bit more humor, it might
sneak into print G.M.R.: A literary squib.
F.G.N.: Wins this week’s Melodrama
Stakes E.D.: Grew weary of following it on
its rambling tour A.J.P.: Keep your bush-
ranger’s skeleton in your own cupboard
C.C.: Among the misses R.R.S.: Aeroplane
story never left the ground D.N.L.: .Yarn of
unjustified jealousy might suit a flapper’s paper.
... .M.S.: Can’t exercise Frisky in these pages.
AJ.B.: Couldn’t stomach your wholesale
slaughter of characters P.T.: Windy intro-
duction and mechanical ending L.S.: No
tears for the widow’s plight P.L.: Sydney
traffic cop. detailed to catch a gang of inter-
national smugglers. Tell it to Mackay
W.M.H.: Chap commits suicide with winning
lottery ticket in his pocket— Out! friend!
. ...C.M.: Too many loopholes J.S.:
Would take a “Kodak” to handle that
drunk E.S.M.A.: Might do for a school
magazine... .H.McE.: It’s not a poem or
anything remotely resembling 0ne....H.8.:
And that’s a very lop-sided pastoral
E. : If it is your farewell it doesn’t leave
us inconsolable M.8.G.E.: “Milestones”
miles off our beat P.H.: Even with a glos-
sary it would have a poor chance of getting
past E.D.: At least it’s more intelligible
than most free verse, but it remains jerky
prose... .A.P.: Below the mark.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.J.C.: From what graveyard did you dig
up those gags? N.F.: Can’t tell whether
the swagman is legless or caught in a b0g....
F. Scratchy linework, plus a 50-year-old
wheeze T.H.: Neat drawings, but gags are
pointless J.M.N.: A quick count tallied
about 20 artistic errors... .C.D.: The sight of
that bullock team would make any bullocky
break all past records in profanity... .J.S.:
Don’t attempt to draw, merely send the gags
in; we accept them separately L.W.: An
artist living at Dorrigo should at least be able
to draw a butter-box... .H.F.: Your one-
legged kangaroo, two-legged dingo and
aboriginal dwarf are on the road back
west.... S.C.: No cheers for that chest-
nut... .G.M.C.: Use stouter paper and
pay more attention to anatomical details
P.A.: Slapdash sketches and superannuated
gags J.L.: Would like to know why the
two unidentifiable persons are taking pot-shots
at each other from opposite ends of Sydney
Harbor Bridge... ,A.M.: Coronation cartoon
one of many that have fallen by the wayside,
....L.F.: Promising student’s work; persevere.
P.T.R.: Sketches gave us eyestrain and
jokes produced yawning.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Corporal Wanst”: The War Office is
so satisfied that voluntary enlistment
under the present system is a failure that
it is drawing up a scheme to make sol-
diering more attractive. Conditions have
improved materially since the days before
the Boer War when Tommy’s pay was
a shilling a day (2d. deferred and stop-
pages) and discipline was only a trifle
lighter than in the time of Waterloo,
Nowadays the British soldier is given a
decent walking-out uniform, annual leave
to visit his home and the right to don
the “civvies” in circumstances that
would formerly have earned a prompt
arrest for desertion. But there are still
rigorous duties, and with the dole avail-
able the man who once joined the army
for food and shelter scoffs at the notion
to-day.
*,* * *
A J.C.W. man remarked as he
saw the crowds streaming into Syd-
ney Royal, “We simply must have
another theatre,” While the Firm
is toying with the idea, it might
go one further, doing what Clifford
Fischer has done in American cities and
in London, and build a theatre-restau-
rant. Sydney suburbs are an important
factor in box-office takings, but for the
businessman or -woman the journey
from many a suburb after dinner to get
to a show by eight o’clock is too long.
Fischer met the same troubles in U.S.A,
with buildings fitted with tables (dinner
or supper) rising in tiers, the stage ex-
tending to the middle. During the inter-
val and after the performance patrons
can dance on the vast stage to the music
of a good band. An inclusive fee covers
the night’s fun and food,
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: As was the case with
the Australian Universities lads’ tour
of Japan, the visit of a King’s School
(N.S.W.) XV to Britain to play a pro-
gramme against English Rugby schools
seems to have made the very best impres-
sion on the usually unimpressionable
Briton. G.P.S. football is famous in its
own land for the high tone of the game,
and the Britons seem to be well aware
of this. The very “county” “Morning
Post” says in farewell: “This has been
far more than a Rugby tour. It has been
the visit of youthful ambassadors—they
leave us, more’s the pity, with a very live
gratitude for the wide hospitality and
pleasant reception that has been their lot
over here.”
* * * *
“Sale”; Looking down the list of
school Rugby matches in the weekly
edition of the “Times,” I saw the name
of “The King’s School, Parramatta.” It
recalled a yarn by a friend fresh from
England when the universities match
used to be played at Queen’s Park. My
friend was sitting behind a dreamy sort
of person who was studying the “card”
which gave the names of the Oxford and
Cambridge players, each with his school
after his name. “Forsayth, Parramattah,”
suddenly said the dreamy one in a high
and piercing voice. “Parramattah?
Will anyone tell me where on earth is
Parramattah?”


RELAXATION!
Modern comfort and service are assured when travelling by
vessels of the Canadian-Australasian Line (inc. in Canada).
•o EUROPE ™
NEW ZEALAND—FIJI—HONOLULU and VANCOUVER
Enjoy the wonders of the Canadian Rockies!
Fares, Itineraries and all Particulars on application to:— / INC IN \
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD., \ )
247 George Street, Sydney, 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Reliable Power for Pumping Water
BILLABONG WINDMILLS
\ •
AUSTRALIA'S BEST
AUTO-OILED
ENCASED
GEAR
315
tUsU.
m
«5
\v* '.)
s- '~^n
T^mrSsjgSKr.M^S-
We have been making the most reliable pumping equipment for
77 years —we SPECIALISE in everything needed for pumping
water for the farm, station, or country home.
If you need POWER for pumping water the “BILLABONG is the
most reliable windmill at a remarkably moderate cost.
The improved “Billabong” is made of the very best materials, in
the best-equipped windmill factory in Australia.
YOU CAN DEPEND ON "BILLABONG."
Scientifically designed wheel—sensitive to the slightest breeze—
pumps steadily in strong winds; takes care of itself in heavy storms.
POWERFUL, DEPENDABLE, EFFICIENT.
“BILLABONG” IS THE MILL FOR YOU.
’Phone: CB3BO.
391-403 Bourke Street,, Melbourne.
’Phone: M 6505.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
There is a “Billabong” Pump for every purpose.
Write at once for our Free Illustrated Catalogue.
If you are contemplating Building a New Home, write for our Free Book,
“Design for Living.”
If any illustration in "‘THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
We’re IN THE MIDDLE
...and Like It!
6AM’s unique position
gives it State-wide cover-
age. And our new power
of 1000 watts means a
million opportunities for
the advertiser.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
“Tune-in to Britain!”
This is the slogan of Australian poli-
ticians when the Old Man backs the
bunch of old women known as the
League or exhibits a tendency to push
his nose into the current European hor-
net’s nest. It is never on any account
raised by the same politicians when
people burdened with seven Government
Houses, Governments and Parliaments
with “concurrent powers” consider the
simplicity and effectiveness of the Brit-
ish system, or when J. Bull goes in for
a commonsense reform regardless of
votes.
For years Britain has been doing its
utmost by sound legislation to reduce
the toll of the road. Two potent causes
of accidents are dangerously-conditioned
tyres and faulty brakes, and the law gov-
erning them has been considerably tight-
ened up.
The British motorist who uses a car
shod with smooth tyres stops a heavy
fine. Road tests have proved that a car
doing 45 m.p.h. takes approx. 80ft. to
pull up if fitted with tyres having a full
tread ; 110 ft. if the tread is half worn;
and 140 ft. with smooth tyres. In wet
weather the risk of skidding with smooth
tyres is also much greater.
In almost any Australian city and
town cars can be seen tearing along with
tyres worn down to the canvas base,
thereby inviting dangerous blowouts in
heavy traffic. An Australian motorist
might be unlucky enough to be fined for
faulty brakes, but unless he knocks a
traffic cop over he is never likely to be
found out. Practically no supervision is
exercised over this important phase.
Our political half-wits have been grop-
ing around in a mental fog for years,
but apparently even the most piercing
siren going off beside their ears will fail
to penetrate the solid bone. And they
naturally would fail to see that only the
irresponsible motorist would cavil at the
introduction of legislation to make things
safer for everybody.—B. Blode (N.S.W.).
An Army of Motor-cyclists.
In B. 6/1 /’37 appears the best sug-
gestion for the internal defence of Aus-
tralia I have seen. The 76,000 motor-
cyclists could, each have a mate and a
suitable quick-firer. I place Melbourne
as the most vulnerable spot ; and the
absence of mobile anti-aircraft guns
leaves it as defenceless as a baby. Yal-
lourn should also be guarded. Do not
let your plan die—J.C. (Vic.).
Neglected Albany.
It is not only in the matter of its har-
bor that Albany (B. 23/12/’36) has been
neglected. When it was decided to open
up the wheat area east of the Perth-
Albany railway by means of spur lines
out of York, Narrogin, Wagin and
Katanning Railways Commissioner
George and Traffic Manager Short op-
posed the proposal on the ground that
it would necessitate the construction of
many miles of unproductive lines, expen-
sive to operate and maintain, and entail
extra haulage costs by diverting the wheat
from its shortest route to the seaboard.
They suggested two railways from
Albany to junction with the Kalgoorlie
line at points east of Kellerberrin paral-
lel to the Great Southern line and spaced
about 20 miles apart.
The political pull of Perth and Fre-
mantle proved superior to economic con-
siderations. The spur lines were built
and the traffic diverted to Fremantle. To
prevent Albany from getting even the
crumbs of the wheat traffic a line was
then built through the Darling Range
from Katanning to Bunbury. Little
wonder that Albany is a deserted port.
—L. Topai (W.A.).
The Plight of Pearling.
Australian pearlers will have only
themselves to blame if they lose the
pearlshell and pearl-market to Japan.
Fourteen years ago a group of young
pearlers, returned soldiers,called the atten-
tion of the pearlers’ association to two
new developments in the business: (1)
The cultured pearl was rivalling the
gem ; (2) unless Australian pearlers con-
solidated their output and made a more
economical business of fishing, lay-up and
transport the men in a comparatively
smaller way would be obliged to get
out. They were not listened to.
Newcomers went in for trepang fish-
ing and suggested a proper factory-
export system. Again the conservatives
did nothing ; they were not going to let
their association descend to “/zs/z-hawk-
ing.”
Two energetic returned soldiers lost
caste altogether because they. corre-
sponded with Chinese firms about the
export of crabs. A Chinese firm of
standing in Java and in Singapore en-
tered eagerly into the project, but the
enterprising young men were refused
association support, though even now
such a trade between Australia and
China would yield big returns.
Now Japan has got ahead of us, fish-
ing outside the three-mile limit.—
Kunasarta (N.S.W.).
Good Iron!
An unsuccessful attempt to roast a
goanna, the unsuccessful roasters being five
boys between nine and 11 years of age,
resulted in the Koorda tennis club's shelter
shed and other property being totally
destroyed by fire.
That’s how our local newspaper put
it, but it did not report the sequel.
There is a dam-sinking job going on
in the district, the employees being 70
or 80 city workers on half-time. One went
along to the secretary of the tennis club
and said: “We have no money to help,
but if you can get some timber and iron
a crowd of our chaps will put it up for
you.” The secretary was able to get some
old iron and some timber, and these
sustenance chaps put it up, not even ask-
ing for thanks. —H. IC. (W.A.).
The Northern Mallee Sink
Significant facts, chased through the
accumulated statistics of 15 years by the
four-year-old commission, are emerging
from the tangle of Victoria’s £33,000,000
investment in closer settlement. In
the northern Mallee the commission is
continuing its reversal of original policy
by transferring settlers to larger hold-
ings capable of carrying sheep as well
as growing wheat.
Northern Mallee settlers have buried
the hopelessly-erroneous production esti-
mates originally responsible for selec-
tion of the area for smaller-settlement
experiments. Poor market prices and
varying seasons resulted in the extrac-
tion of millions from closer-settlement
funds in .attempts to carry farmers through
to better times. Nearly £4,000,000 went
into the northern Mallee sink in 15 years.
Total repayments, £1,194,000, were in-
sufficient to meet working expenses of
£1,600,000, let alone provide for depre-
ciation, interest or capital repayments.
To 1765 settlers in the whole Mallee
£280,390 was advanced in 1934-35, while
10,240 settlers in the rest of Victoria
needed only £139,406. Over 15 years
northern Mallee advances absorbed hai
as much again as the “old” Mallee. rof
the same period, northern Mallee repay-
ments were about £450,000 less than
those in the “old” Mallee.
The average wheat price received
Victoria for the last 35 years has been


The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of "The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use "The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that "The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Established
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES’ ASHTON (Chairman) ; EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E. ; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank Limited; Barclays Bank, Ltd.,
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria Queensland South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the woild.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
YOUTH COMPETITIONS
There are two ; and both close at the end of February.
In one case Fifty Pounds {£so) will be paid by The Bulletin
Newspaper Company, at its discretion, to furthei the winner a advance-
ment in the study, business or calling of his choice.
In the other case the prize will be a literary cadetship—a job on
The Bulletin.
Competitors for the £5O prize are required
to give in writing plain accounts of themselves,
their circumstances and aspirations, and the £5O
will go to the youth who, considered as a
citizen in the making, will, in the editor’s judg-
ment, put it to the best use.
It will not be expected of any entrant for
Youth Competition No. 1 that he must be a
practised writer. If he makes out what is
adjudged the best claim to the £5O it won’t
matter a bit if his grammar is rocky and he
can’t spell.
In the other competition, however, literary
merit or aptitude will necessarily be a deciding
factor.
The Bulletin wants a lad who may be
trained to become a responsible member of its
staff, and naturally preference will go to the
boy who, on the evidence of the writing sub-
mitted, will seem most likely to supply the
requirements.
Youth Competition No. 1 is open to youths
in the 17-22 age group living anywhere in the
Australian Commonwealth or Territories or in
New Zealand.
Youth Competition No. 2 is also for lads
living anywhere in Australia or its Territories
or New Zealand, but they must be aged 17, 18
or 19.
In each case youths living remote from
Sydney will start equal with residents of Sydney
as regards chances of landing the prize.
A.J.A. (Australian Journalists’ Association)
rates for cadets are £2 a week the first year,
£2 15s. the second year and £3 15s. the third
year; then the cadet qualifies as a junior at
£6 12s. 6d.
If the editor’s choice falls on a stranger to
Sydney, the first year’s salary will be made up
to £2 10s., and the lad will have opportunities
of earning more. This will apply also to the
second and third years of his cadetship.
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 1
WHAT I WOULD DO WITH FIFTY
POUNDS.
Set out in plain language what you would
do with the money. Lead up to it by giving a
short account of yourself and your experiences,
stating your age, condition, whether living at
home or out in the world; if no longer at
school, how old you were when you left it, and
so forth.
There is no word-limit for your essay, but
try not to make it too long. Facts are the
essential things. And write on one side of the
paper only.
Set down your name and address on this cut-
ting in the places specified and get one of the
responsible parties mentioned below to certify
to your bona fides. Then pin the cutting to
your essay and address both to Editor, The
Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or
minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without
assistance and that the facts are as he has
stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS
YOUTH COMPETITION No. 2
WHY I WANT TO BECOME A
WRITER.
Give reasons in a“n essay of, say, 600 to
1200 words —though there will be no hard-
and-fast rule as to length.
In writing it, state your age, the course
your reading has taken, your favorite poet
(and why), the prose-writer you prefer (and
why), what sort of memory you possess, and
whether you have had anything printed in
your school paper or in some other publication.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Sign this cutting, get it certified by one of
the responsible persons mentioned below, pin
it to your essay and post to Editor, The
Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or
minister of religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without
assistance and that the facts are as he has
stated them.
NAME
! ADDRESS
approximately 3s. 9d. a bushel. In the
Kooloonong-Annuello, Carwarp-No w-
inga and Millewa districts of the northern
Mallee. the wheat' yield for 15 years has
averaged just over five bushels to the
acre. An average yield of 10 bushels
would have been necessary before the
settlers could have met working expenses.
The Closer Settlement Commission is
hurrying forward its revaluation work,
and if Victoria saves anything from the
wreck it will be by way of larger and
more diverse holdings. There is a hint
that about £20,000,000 of the total closer-
settlement outlay will be “written off.”
Interest will, of course, remain, and the
general taxpayers will have to meet it.
Let Australia take a long farewell of
the fool-policy of putting farmers on
small blocks in poor-rainfall areas!
McL. (Vic.).
Hoots, Shrieks and Sonnets
If the daily press is any criterion, the
reporting of Test matches is infinitely
more important than the rising price of
wool.
One group of newspapers has requisi-
tioned the services of Mr. Neville Cardus,
from Manchester, who wants England
“to win without delay.” Mr. Cardus
has discovered that Australian crowds
seem always to be “waiting for blood
and thunder,” wherefore there is a police-
man at the gate “ready to arrest the
beast who disturbs the peace.” To this
gentleman women who attend cricket
matches are “daughters of hysteria” who
“shriek continuously” when they are not
“screaming at the tops of their voices”
or “dreadfully clutching one another.”
The male Australian when he is enjoying
himself “howls.”
“S. M. Herald” has a young man to
whom the sky surmounting cricket fields
is “delicately blue as a hedge-sparrow’s
egg”; the pageant is “heroic.” On Mr.
Voce, “the capricious gods frowned all
day into the stratosphere.” Mr. Brad-
man is magical and, “had he lived in the
brave days when language was worthy
of epic adventure, Elizabethan poets
would have vied with each other in cele-
brating him in sonnets.” Actually, the
Elizabethans were still in that curious
stage of savagery when it was believed
that cricket and football interfered with
the practice of arms. It is much more
likely that Mr. Bradman would have
been fined fifty groats, in default the
stocks.
However, we are being taught that
cricket writing may become literature as
practised by the tenderer lady novelists,
as witness that,
In the last, lovely hour of the day, when
the alchemy of the westering sun made
the green field golden and the shadows of
the players stealthily lengthened over the
grass, the greatest sixth-wicket partnership
ever played in a Test match came to an
end in a bitter moment for England.
After that I should not have been sur-
prised to hear that Leyland walked over
to the fence and kissed a Footscray bar-
racker.
There is a lot to be said for the old-
time cricket reporter who was not
above writing in a Brisbane paper :
“Cotter opened out like a whirlwind and
socked for six. That got the English
bowling where the alderman keeps his
dinner.” —El V. (N.S.W.).
For Universal Training
Parkhill’s in his office, all’s right with
the army! But is it? Of the “full peace
establishment” of 35,000 men no more
than 2000 are trained even to the sketchy
standard required for volunteers. And it
is hopeless to oppose an improvised
militia to trained and disciplined troops.
Modern warfare is extremely mobile, as
can be seen from Japan’s efforts in Man-
chukuo, and Italy’s in Abyssinia. When
men are disposed on a wide front, with
gaps between units, only training and
discipline can prevent utter confusion.
This is what the Australian militiaman
clearly lacks, and what the present sys-
tem of ridiculous voluntary parades and
camps cannot give him.
We need a universally-trained army
which does two fortnightly camps a year ;
an army fully equipped with tanks and
mechanical transport, heavy machine-
and anti-tank guns and gas respirators
P.L.S. (N.S.W.).
A MIXED GRILL.
“Sounder”: Perhaps the greatest
“have-stakes” is ambergris. It’s a safe
bet that for every bit of the dinkum
stuff found on Australasian beaches hun-
dreds of hopes have been blasted by
worthless jetsam. The biggest ambergris
fraud is fat, the stuff itself being greasy.
Anyone looking for it should not oe
misled by the name amber. It isn’t.
Anything washed up by the sea with a
greasy, ashy appearance and a musky
smell is worth analysing. If in addition
there are cuttlefish bills embedded in it,
the finder can begin to shake hands
with himself.
# * * *
“Fergus”: Descriptions of missing
people are often so vague that they could
fit one or more of any average man’s
acquaintances; even trained police ob-
servers sometimes fail to recognise in the
flesh a missing person whose description
they have already seen in the routine list.
Melbourne had a good example of this
when a young woman was charged in
a suburban court with having stolen
articles from a boarding-house. She
gave her age as 17, and said she was a
Sydney orphan. Police suspicion was
aroused when she refused to give any in-
formation concerning friends or rela-
tives. The case was adjourned for
further inquiry, and next day it was dis-
covered she was the 15-year-old daughter
of a Melbourne man and had disappeared
in December. Before police took her
into court they had actually seen her
—‘description” in the missing friends’ list
at the adjoining watch-house!
* ❖ ❖ *
“Mak”: Not even policemen can play
fcavaliers to damsels in distress if it en-
tails entering private houses without
authority. A Melbourne P.M. recently
tossed out assault charges brought by
one such cop against two men who had
strenuously objected to his Christmas
Day intrusion. A sister of one defen-
dant had asked the policeman to order
her brother’s visitors out of her parents’
living-room. The P.M. curtly declared
that the obliging cop was “illegally on
premises” at the time he was undoubt-
edly assaulted; only in extreme cases,
such as murder or an appeal for help
could anyone enter premises without the
proper authority. “Let this be a lesson
to you,” he told the constable; “you
should not have been there to be as-
saulted!” So it was a bad Christmas
for one Vic. policeman: a tough scrap
with two men and a subsequent court
tongue-lashing. These women!
* * * *
“Tasma, Jun.”: Has any State a more
extraordinary collection of place-names
than Tasmania? They include Bagdad,
Jericho and Dromedary, a Lake Tiberias
and a Mount Ararat, and, of course,
Paradise. A few others are Detention,
Plenty, Needles, Snug, Tunnel, Eagle-
hawk Neck and Christmas Hills; also
Henrietta, Linda, Roland, Stanley and
Nicholas ; and Abysinnia and the River
Jordan may both be found somewhere
about the centre of the Speck. The
recently-formed Tasmanian Society will
have as one of its jobs the recording of
place-name origins; it will have its
work cut out placing some of them.


IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide's Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION: —Adelaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London —F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily. Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what" volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this ; publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates, in - every corner, of the
State, is the-only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily. /
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F, L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
a
THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending up
its news columns for the accuratemfonna
which day by day covers the broadest possibl
survey of the world’s happenings, and up
its advertising columns to bring- to the
attention that which is required in tneir
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will And “The Age” a congemalnews-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal ’ appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application tothepnncipal
Advertising Service Agents in all »tat
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
results, and has worked a large number
of stations. Considering that the first
aerial was a vertical rod in between two
houses and badly screened, the covering
of this distance of around 60 miles is
noteworthy. The first actual five-metre
communication between the Blue Moun-
tains and Sydney was between VK2BP
and VK2NO on 10/1 /’35. Remarkable
results are being obtained on the Bruce
beams by the writer and VK2AZ,
Kogarah. A new station on five metres
is that of A. F. Sutton, VK2EM,. who
has a good key. signal. His location is
poor, being on water level at Darling
Point, Sydney, but he is able to work
with Waverley, Kogarah and North
Sydney. VK2EM and VK2ADW _are
to be commended for starting into
amateur radio in the right way by pound-
ing a key on “five” for the probationary
period. The beginner can learn much
from the ultra-shorts, and can be sure
of finding ready co-operation.
VK2NO.
Curing Modulation Hum.
One of the most annoying troubles in
an A.C.-powered receiver is that known
as modulation hum, a form of power-
supply interference which rises when a
signal is tuned in and falls to a negli-
Fig. 1. —Condensers across rectifier
plates.
gible level when the receiver is tuned off
any- signal. The impression is that the
station being received is the offender ;
that something is wrong at that end.
Actually, the hum is the A.C. frequency
superimposed on the incoming earner
Fig. 2.— Condensers across the power
transformer primary.
wave of the station tuned in. The re-
ceiver is responsible. It can be put in
order with little trouble.
The main causes of modulation hum
are: (1) Insufficient filtering of plate or
screen grid in detector or R.F. ampli-
fier stages. (2) Valve trouble, in the
form of leaky cathodes. (The obvious
cure here is to change the valves.) (3)
R.F. path to earth through the power
supply.
Fig. 1 shows a popular method of
overcoming the difficulty. Two con-
densers of suitable size, usually around
.lmfd., are connected across the plates
Fig. 3. —The most effective cure. The
“line filter,” which can be purchased as
a complete unit.
of the full-wave rectifier to earth. It
is not always an effective cure, but it is
simple enough to try. A better way is
to connect the two condensers in series
across the primary (the mains side) of
the power transformer, and to earth the
junction. It should be needless to re-
mind readers that the condensers must
have a safe A.C. working voltage. - Fig.
2 shows the connections. There will be
no increase in load on the power supply,
as the current passing through the con-
densers will be out of phase.
In Fig. 3 is shown an expedient often
effective in reducing or eliminating inter-
ference from the power supply.. This is
the well-known “line filter,” of which
there are now many commercial varieties.
They are inexpensive enough, and rather
than make one. up experimentally,
especially if technical knowledge is
limited, the reader is advised'to purchase
the ready-made article. The .chok.es must
be of a heavy duty type, as they have,
to carry the constant load of the le-
ceiver. Generally .lmfd. condensers aie
suitable.
Modulation hum is seldom encoun-
tered in the modern commercial re-
ceiver (apart from valve trouble), as
power transformers are carefully de-
signed to guard against it. No trans-
former should be built into a construc-
tional receiver, unless it is fitted with an
electrostatic earth shield between pri-
mary and secondary windings.
D. B. K.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
“Radiotronics” technical bulletin No.
7, issued by A.W.A. Valve Co., con-
tains information. on . applications of
types 42 and 6F6 valves for five watts
output, inverse feedback with resistance
coupling, a five-valve A.C. circuit for
fidelity, radiotron 25L6 beam amplifier
valve for A.C.-D.C. sets, interchangeable
valves, Radiotron cathode ray tubes and
details of the new Radiotron 807 for
experimental transmission. The latter is
a ceramic base valve modelled on the
popular 6L6. As an oscillator or class-C
telegraphy amplifier, the 807 gives a
power output of 25 watts from a plate
voltage of 400 volts.
* * * *
Radio constructors and experimenters
are inveterate bargain-hunters. A happy
hunting-ground is Price’s Radio Service
establishment in Angel-place, Sydney.
Proprietor Mclntyre has been breaking
down traded-in receivers and has also
been buying at auctions. The result is
.a most comprehensive stock of really
useful second-hand material. There are
perfectly good valves of the 6C6 and
6D6 type at Is. each, and also a host ot
other types. Used electrolytic filter con-
densers of well-known makes are offered
at ,6d. Everything is tested. For 25.-a
constructor can '.buy: a big. cardboard
box of all kinds of odds and ends, old
I.F. transformers, metal-case filter and
by-pass condensers, valve sockets, dials,
coils, switches, etc. There are also a few
dozen steel chassis of all shapes and
sizes, and many with valve sockets in
place at 6d. each.
* * ... * *
Early in 1936 “Australasian Radio
World,” devoted to the DX listener,
amateur constructor and experimenter,
made an appearance, being published in
Sydney by A. Earl Read, B.Sc., formerly
of M.L.’s “Radio Times,” and succes-
The B.B.C. control-room at Broadcasting
House, London, enters into the Christmas
spirit! The notice above the control
desk in the foreground reads, “A Merry
Christmas from. a room that never
sleeps!”
sive issues have contained much useful
and interesting material. The current
issue includes an article on “Five Metres,
Past, Present and Future,” by Don B.
Knock, and one on “Amateur Radio in
the Soviet Union.” Broadcast and short-
wave receiver construction is well
covered in this monthly, which is avail-
able'on bookstalls at one shilling.
The Question Box.
What is your opinion of the named six-
valve mantel model, priced at 29 guineas? 483.
Has not been submitted for test, so no report
can be given.
* * * *
(1) Address of Ducon Condensers, Ltd. ?
(2) How would Sirufer cores go on short
waves? (3) Details for coils and I.F. trans-
formers using these cores ? (4) Can you give
circuit of a vibrator eliminator using an in-
directly-heated rectifier? (5) Cost of Ever-
Ready air cell ? —484.
(1) • 73-83 Bourke-street, Waterloo, Sydney.
(2) Excellently. (3) Ducon Condenser Co.
would supply this information. (4) See B
15/1/’36, copy available from this office. (5)
Not yet announced. Ever-Ready Co. may be
able to advise.
* * * *
(1) My set is a six-valve, two-volt superhet
with Amplion 01 permag. speaker. A six-volt
battery is used with cells in parallel, nine-volt
C, and three Ever-Ready 45-volt B batteries.
Reproduction went tinny lately, and I had the
Bs tested. Each showed only 30 volts. To
balance things I put in a 4 \-volt C battery and
everything went well for a while. New B
batteries were then fitted and the nine-volt C
battery reinstalled. Tone was again normal.
After about a week’s running it’s going tinny
again. I intend to reduce the C bias to restore
the reproduction. Will this do any harm ?
(2) How can I reduce the drain on the B
batteries? (3 ) Does speaker take its drain from
theX 4 or B battery? —-482. <
(!) and (2) As the output from the B batteries
drops, it is in order to decrease the bias voltage
slightly, but this must not be overdone or the
batteries will go quickly. Apparently something
is causing a drain on the B batteries. A com-
mon source of such trouble is a leaky by-pass
condenser somewhere in the plate feed circuits.
Each suspected condenser should be unsoldered
in turn and tested on a capacity bridge, but a
simple ohmmeter test will show if the con-
denser is leaking badly. There should be no
indicated reading at all with a good condenser
when the ohmmeter leads are placed across it.
(3) The. Amplion 01 speaker has a field per-
manently energised by a powerful magnet. This
is. independent of A or B supply. The input
to the voice coil is through a small transformer
in the plate circuit of the output valve, and the
primary of this is fed from the B batteries.
The drain therefore is a B battery drain.
* * * *
(1) Power lines run along two sides of my
house. Recently 1 erected a 35 ft. high aerial
with a transposed lead-in, in an effort to sup-
press radio interference, but with no success.
The aerial runs parallel with one of the power
lines, above it, and about eight yards away.
The other power line is at right angles to the
aerial. Would it improve matters to run the
aerial diagonally, making it 45 deg. to each
line? The aerial would then run over the
house ? (2) Is an aerial system using a shielded
lead-in effective in noise elimination ? (3)
Would an aerial of greater height be more
effective ? —4BO.
Diagonal placing is worth a trial, but the
main thing in using a transposed feeder aerial
system is to get well above the interference area,
the higher the better. The shielded lead-in
may prove more effective; this can be deter-
mined only by trial. No receiver is mentioned,
but if this is an electric type, operated on
power from A.C. or D.C. mains, a line filter
should be included. Try removing the aerial
from the receiver. If the noise stops, the aerial
is the pick-up source; if it persists, the noise
is getting in through the power supply and a
line filter will help.
* * * *
Being interested in hearing five-metre
amateurs, I made up a two-valve super-regenera-
tor, but so far have had no success. My loca-
tion is in a Sydney suburb, at a fairly clear
elevation. The receiver is not at fault, as it was
tested by an amateur on signals. My aerial is
a horizontal wire B ft. long, indoors. What
can be done to get signals? —4Bl.
The aerial is at fault. Practically all experi-
mental transmitters in the Sydney district
operating on five metres are using vertical
aerials. A vertical aerial would, therefore, be
more effective for reception of such signals.
It should be erected outside if possible; the
sketch shows a simple way ot doing this, the
two parts of the aerial are each 4ft. long, ot
brass or copper rod; the pair line is made up
by twisting together No. 18 or 16 v -»- r -
The line can be any length. Do not use lighting
flex; it will perish quickly when exposed to
weather, and, in any case, it is inefficient at
ultra-high frequencies.


&
Vi
$ Tn- X
k
a \
L
l
£Wx
r
>
% '*7/ y
/, \
checks
4 out of $
YV7HY take chances with dread
Pyorrhea? Through carelessness,
four out of five suffer with it after the
age of forty, and many younger. These
are your dentist’s statistics.
How Long Since _
You Saw Your Dentist?
Don’t wait until your dentist has to treat ant
aching tooth. Visit him regularly at least twice
a year for a thorough teeth and gum inspection.
He will keep your teeth and gums healthy , pre-
vent decay and forestall serious illness that
•often has its beginnings in a diseased mouth.
Tender bleeding gums are the danger
signal. If unchecked, the teeth loosen in
their sockets and the poison seeps through-
out the system, frequently producing
rheumatism, neuritis and other serious
troubles.
If Pyorrhea has set in go to your
dentist immediately for treatment. He
can help you. To prevent Pyorrhea
consult him at least twice a year, and
brush your teeth night and morning with
Forhan’s for the Gums.
This pleasant dentifrice contains
Forhan’s Pyorrhea Astringent, which has
been used by dentists for the last 25 years
in the treatment of Pyorrhea. If used
regularly and in time it checks or prevents
the ravages of this mouth scourge.
Start brushing your teeth with Forhan’s
to-day. It not only gives your teeth a
perfect cleansing, but keeps you safe
from dread Pyorrhea’s tolls.
Price 2/-; extra-large tube 3/-,
n-HE
BRUSH YOUFPEEEffI
pin vviT.Hinrfes
FORMUL.~AWF
: a i
DISEASES OHHEtMOUIH
=? PREPARED
Ev PRES C R J PTIO N . GF-=:TK L-=
b©:r-:ki®&ssje>
a uss a
—N K W V'C
Australasian Agents The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Forhan’s
for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE Of YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
mjw^
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 301-.)
X
* \2v %<V 0 \ ft
X' ~•• ,••
>\ .r
.0
V
<•>*
,p
,0
u J$
V v ‘ o'S'lr.VO 0 .e 9 ’ 6 ’ .-• ..
,ofX 5 a 1^ e ~-' ~
#L -- .••••• ..- • J 4J
i£»>
1^
A?
w
€»
V s
, V°
o' . • ‘ « * A 1
o'
A' 6
s e<^ c e A>
> o
S
i . *. .A'o 0
.0
o' .*■ .•• , 6 :
# v ..•*’ .••■*« °f %o^n
y
#•’
o'V


no matter
where you live what
you do...what you earn
c /citma
. ( . • .
OFFERS IDEAL RADIO
In the country home-—in the most remote shack- in city flat-—in
mansion—or in your car —you can enjoy the most realistic, trouble-
free radio reception of modern times.
The TASMA series of over 36 different types of receivers contains
one for every locality, every income—no matter how small—and
every purpose.
Each of these receivers is housed in cabinets which are artistically
executed in flawless veneers and selected woods which have been
fully seasoned to withstand all climatic conditions; all vital parts
have been carefully impregnated for protection against humidity
and changing weather. That new and revolutionary discovery—
the FERRO-COIL (exclusive to TASMA)—which automatically
shuts out all sounds except those you want to hear, and which
prevents overlapping, interference, noise and hiss, is embodied m
every TASMA receiver.
We promise you that when you hear and see any of these out-
standing receivers at the showrooms of your nearest TASMA
dealer or—if you prefer—in your own home, you will be
amazed at the tremendous steps which have been taken by radio
science and skilfully applied by TASMA.
£27/10/-
MODEL, 375
(GILBERT CABINET).
4-Valve Broadcast Battery
Receiver specially designed
for country listeners to give
nation-wide coverage. Price,
including Batteries, £27/10/-.
£29/15/-
ACTO RADIO.
6-Valve Auto Radio Receiver with the
exclusive Tasma tone chamber. The
most efficient Auto Receiver sold
to-day, and the only Auto Receiver
specially built for local conditions.
Supplied complete, ready for instal-
lation, £29/15/-.
£37/10/-
MODEL 325
(MASEEIEED CABINET)
6-valve A.C. Dual-Wave
Receiver for broadcast recep-
tion ( 200-550 metres ) or
world-wide A.C. reception
(18-50 metres).
Price, £B7/10/-.
DISTRI B U T 0 R S
VICTORIA; HARTLEYS PTY., LTD,, 270
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
John Hallway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Oliver J. Nilsen & Co., Ltd.,
49 King William Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND; New Zealand Electric Equipment
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Thomsons, Ltd.; 674 Hay
Street; Perth; 51 Adelaide Street, Fremantle;
and at Kalgoorlie, Narrogin, Bunbury.
Carlyle & Co., 915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Griee, Ltd., 90 Queen Street,
Brisbane, and Branches at Gympie, Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mackay.
DARLING DOWNS: Rosenstengels Pty., Ltd.,
Ruthvcn Street, Toowoomba.
Ltd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z.
mm
mm
\: iwgigs H P
iijs Ipljl j
mm
Zmfmmß
mm
•■yyi
1 ~
■
m
fmm
.
£ 29/15/-
MOUEE 365
(LAWRENCE CABINET).
5-Valve Dual-Wave A.C.
Receiver. Price, £29/15/-.
MODEL S5O for A.0./D.O. recep-
tion, em/ploying 6 valves.
Price, £3ll/5/-.
■MI
, t 4,
■v;
'
III; 11 i
if,®
11
£2l/17/6
MODEL, 360
(GILBERT CABINET).
i-Valve A.C. Broadcast Receiver.
Price, £2l/11/6.
MODEL 370 for A.C./D.C.
-eception, employing 6 valves.
Price, £2311716.
• ,
CORONATION CABINET.
1 new tvve of cabinet to house
he famous TASMA models. Tamo
Coronation Hcoeivers are off
penally for people
iaby set is too matt avA the
insole too Wge. J he Cor(y J im
\ween” size of tne a,pliable
Vis their requirements. Avaitaoi'
the following ■**#*• >
350, 360, 530, 310, 375.
X'ASMA RADIOGRAM.
The Dual-Purpose Receiver of
outstanding beauty. A grace-
ful combination of dual-wave
receiver and oil-electric phono-
graph.
The following well-known Tasma Models are now available
as Tasma “Radiogram” Combination:—
360 5-Valve A.C. Broadcast Receiver Guineas
370 6-Valve A.C./D.C. Broadcast Receiver Guineas
365 5-Valve A.C. Dual-Wave Receiver Guineas
310 5-Valve Battery Dual-Wave Receiver Guineas
350 6-Valve A.C./D.C. Dual-W T ave Receiver ••••••• Guinea§
325 6-Valve A.C. Dual-Wave Receiver ° Guineas
335 6-Valve Battery Dual-Wave Receiver 22 Guineas
330 7-Valve A.C./D.C. Dual-Wave Receiver ° Guineas
380 8-Valve A.C. Dual-Wave Receiver
