

A
-~z\
PHOriT
r r (JR
AUSTRALIA
A Safe Investment for
your savings offering
attractive interest pay-
ments twice a year for
14 years.
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
The Loan is issued at £99/15/ and bears interest at the rate
of 3J per cent, per annum. It is repayable on 15th November,
1951. The average annual yield is £3/15/6 per cent.
Subscriptions may be paid in full when lodging application, or
by instalments up to 2nd March, 1938.
Applications may be lodged with any bank, savings bank, money
order post office, or member of a recognised stock exchange.
Bonds will be issued in five denominations, commencing at £lO,
and Stock inscribed for £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO.
Banks in Australia Will not charge exchange on cheques for pay-
ment into the Loan, nor on interest payable on stock or bonds of
the Loan.
Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
Loan closes not later than 13th December,
1937, but the Treasurer reserves the right
to close at any earlier date.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3017.
Wednesday, December 8, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
ARTHUR PHILLIP.
Seen at a distance of 150 years, with all passion, all
faction, all misconception, cleared away, the final impression
ol him produced by an examination of the details of his
career that have come down to us is that of a plain man,
a quiet man, a thoroughly efficient man, a man of more than
ordinary vision, who, set a task requiring precision, activity,
courage and judgment, did it and did it well.”
Thus George Mackaness, summing up on the
founder of the Australian Commonwealth in his
Admiral Arthur Phillip (Angus and Robertson). With-
out any doubt it is the last word on Phillip.
The earliest years of this country were peculiarly
fortunate in their chroniclers. David Collins, Captain
Watkin Tench, Surgeon-General John White, Captains
Hunter and King, Lieutenant Bradley and Phillip him-
self left comprehensive accounts. But most of us did
not know much of Phillip before he came to New
South Wales, and after he went home again.
From his earliest days in the school at Greenwich
Hospital and his entry into the Royal Navy at the age
of 17 in 1755, through his service with the Portuguees
Navy between 1775 and 1778, to his attainment of
post-captain’s rank in 1781 Mackaness tells all that is
known about him. His naval career, after his return to
England, up to 1796, his nine years’ command of the
Sea Fencibles—the Naval Reserve of the period—and
his final years in retirement at Bath, between 1805
and his death in 1814, are dealt with in the same
fashion.
We are even introduced to his ghost, when haunt-
ing No. 19 Bennett-street—his house in Bath—where
he is still supposed occasionally to “walk.” And we
are given one of the few intimate descriptions of
Phillip that have come down to us, when he was taking
Mrs. Phillip and a couple of friends aboard his ship,
H.M.S. Swiftsure, in Cawsand Bay, as passengers in
a lugger on a rough and windy day. “Well I remem-
ber,” wrote one of the friends long aferwards, “his
little figure smothered up in his brown camlet cloak
lined with green baize, his face shrivelled, and thin
aquiline nose, under a large cocked hat, gathered up
in a heap, his chin between his knees, sitting under
the lee of the mainmast, with his sharp and powerful
voice exclaiming, ‘I cannot bear this, I am as sick as
a dog.’ ”
The book is excellently illustrated with reproduc-
tions of contemporary pictures, sketches and maps,
several portraits of Phillip, one of his first wife, and a
facsimile of the entry relating to his birth in the parish
register of Allhallows Church in London.
J.H.M.A.
BEST WRITERS STAY.
In saying, in a recent press interview, that until
better financial conditions were offering here most
Australian writers would continue to go abroad and
write about other countries, a visiting novelist over-
looked the achievement of those writers who are
apparently wedded to the Australian scene for good
or ill.
Anything stimulating local literary effort and
tending to stop the undoubted leakage of talent would
be to the good, but the fact remains that, with one
outstanding exception, the best contributions to litera-
ture —in the absolute as well as the parochial sense—
have been made by those who have stayed here.
LITERARY SOCIETY MEDAL .
The Australian Literature Society’s gold medal for
the best novel of the year goes, for 1936, to Return
to Coolami, by Eleanor Dark.
The award has been current since 1928. Its
value necessarily rests upon the literary value of the
books that have received it—in effect, on the extent
to which critical-reader opinion endorses the opinion
of the judges.
The following list —the first to be published, as
far as the Red Page is aware —recalls for the Aus-
tralian novel-reader the serious fiction of the period
involved. In each paragraph the winner is mentioned
first, followed by other notable novels of the same
year.
1928. — The Montfords, Martin Boyd; Up the
Country, Brent of Bin Bin ; No Armour, John Dailey ;
The Man Hamilton, Vance Palmer.
1929. — Ultima Thule, Henry Handel Richardson ;
The Desolate House, Helen Simpson ; A House Is
Built, M. Barnard Eldershaw; The Singing Gold,
Dorothy Cottrell; Max Flambard, John Dailey;
Strabane of the Mulberry Hills, William Gosse Hay ;
Coonardoo, Katharine Susannah Prichard ; Men Are
Human, Vance Palmer.
1930. — The Passage, Vance Palmer ; Ten Creeks
Run, Brent of Bin Bin; Earth Battle, Dorothy Cottrell,
Only the Morning, John Dailey ; Redheap, Norman
Lindsay; Haxby’s Circus, Katharine Susannah
Prichard.
193 1. Man-Shy, Frank Dalby Davison; Back to
800 l 8001, Brent of Bin Bin ; Green Memory, M.
Barnard Eldershaw ; Tybal Men, Louis Kaye; Sheep-
mates, William Hatfield.
1932. Flesh in Armour, Leonard Mann;
Miracles by Arrangement, Norman Lindsay; Slow
Dawning, Eleanor Dark; Daybreak, Vance Palmer;
Boomerang, Helen Simpson ; No Escape, Velia
Ercole ; Old Blast us of Bandicoot, Miles Franklin.
1933. — Pageant, G. B. Lancaster ; The Woman
on the Beast, Helen Simpson; Among the Reeds,
Jane Laker ; The Doughman, R. D. Tate.
1934. — Prelude to Christopher, Eleanor Dark;
Landtakers, Brian Penton ; Seven Poor Men of
Sydney, Christina Stead ; The Swayne Family, Vance
Palmer ; Dark Windows,. Velia Ercole ; Scandal of
Spring, Martin Boyd ; Burnt Sugar, F. E. Baume ;
Karangi, F. S. Hibble ; Salzburg Tales, Christina
Stead.
1935. — Earth’s Quality, Winifred Birkett ; Human
Drift, Leonard Mann ; Tiburon, Kylie Tennant ; No
More Reality, S. Blunden ; The Lemon Farm, Martin
Boyd ; The Female Felon, Helen Simpson ; The Half-
Way Sun, T. Inglis Moore ; Saraband for Dead
Lovers, Helen Simpson,
1936. — Return to Coolami, Eleanor Dark ; The
Beauties and the Furies, Christina Stead ; Inheritors,
Brian Penton ; All That Swagger, Miles Franklin ;
Jungfrau, Dymphna Cusack ; Sugar Heaven, Jean
Devanny ; The Glasshouse, M. Barnard Eldershaw.
NEW FICTION.
Debunking the novel of crime and violence seems
to be the initial intention of Ernest Hemingway’s
To Have and Have Not (Cape); but as the book
goes on it bursts its original shell. It begins as a dot
and ends as a universe.
It tells of the picaresque career of Harry Morgan,
of Cuba, who owns a boat and makes a living taking
tourists fishing, rum-running and helping fugitives out
of the country. These occupations involve risk and
occasionally murder. It is all in the day’s work.
Harry is at first sucessful. He is sharper and
tougher than the other guys. It is a racket, but then
everything is a racket, even big-game fishing, and a
sporting attitude is essential. It compliments his man-
hood, and he feels quite debonair about it.
Then things go wrong; the depression comes, he
loses his arm, he loses his boat; desperation creeps
up like a tide. More violence and greater risks are his
only answer. His life ends in a holocaust, but he has
found wisdom. The sordid tragedy has reverberations
far and wide, till it would seem that a hurricane had
passed over Cuba. There is nothing empirical about
all this violence. It is bound up with a pitiless primi-
tive logic: “What the hell worse trouble is there than
starving?”
This is the picture of a sick world told laconi-
cally, in dialogue and image, without comment. The
average length of Hemingway’s sentences is six
words. It is the bare bones of a novel without any
fat, padding, gilding, palliation or sugar. It is as stark
as prose and event can be. But anyone who took this
as evidence that Hemingway lacked subtlety would
be quite wrong. His book has as many twists as a
corkscrew, and it sticks in the mind like a burr—-a
mixed metaphor, but quite justified.
If Paul Hervey Fox, author of The Antagonists
(Michael Joseph), could have held to his first estimate
of human values he would have written a really first-
rate book. His story tells of a middle-aged college
professor, a distinguished exponent of the higher
mathematics, who falls violently and romantically in
love with a woman whose amorous appetite is both
insatiable and indiscriminate.
It is made entirely credible. Joseph Sheppard is
introduced first, living in his world of mathematical
abstractions, pausing before a meal to jot down a
few notes about a Principle on which he is at work,
and returning to consciousness of the world about him
only when breakfast is brought in next morning.
Then, for the first time in his life, a woman
catches his eye. Without experience, he takes a heavy
toss. The workings of his mind—highly honorable,
fantastically romantic—are clearly seen. The woman
—amused, flattered, but incapable of appreciation—
plays with him at her own level.
They elope to Bermuda from a husband who
didn’t want her and who accepts consolation in cash.
There follows the story of their life together, her
sordid infidelities, his discovery, his pangs, his indif-
ference, the recurrence of his pangs. He can’t let her
go and she can’t escape from him. The situation
threatens to drag its length to the end of their days.
The story has the elements of high tragedy, but
fails to reach that level. The professor had noble
qualities. In the end they must have still been with
him or have been devoured by his passion. In either
their existence or absence they affect the conclusion
—the writer scarcely takes them into account.
The Wild Goose Chase, by Rex Warner (Boris-
wood), ;is a social allegory. Three young brothers leave
their native village in search of the Wild Goose. There
is a fabulous frontier to be crossed and a hostile city
to be met. The man of action is satirised in the eldest
brother’s adventures. His experiences run to desperate
aeroplane flights, encounters with savage tribes and
nick-of-time escapes, due —as he indicates —to his own
great resourcefulness. He ends by having his eyes
put out by the people of the city.
In the experiences of the second brother scholar-
ship of the sterile kind and extreme literary aestheticism
are held up to ridicule. He makes friends with the
inhabitants of the city, submits to a compulsory opera-
tion that results in him not knowing to which sex
he belongs, and enters a literary and scholastic insti-
tute.
The third brother learns, after many tribulations
and trials, that if he is to find the Wild Goose he must
first strip himself of selfish aims ; he can reach his
goal only if he seeks it for his fellow-men. He sub-
dues the hostile city.
The allegory is very elaborate and moves rather
ponderously, but it seems valid, and it undoubtedly
has its moments, such as the lively description of
the halls of learning and literature and the men-
women who inhabit them. These people claim to have
caught and tamed the Wild Goose. The youngest
brother, at some risk, penetrates to their inner temple
to inspect it —and discovers it to be a stuffed one.
In Morwyn, or The Vengeance of God (Gfcjsell)
John Cowper Powys has written a new version the
Inferno. It is a vast and gloomy book, but it would
seem as if Powys’s narrative genius is more at home
in an entirely imaginary landscape than in the real
world. It is a confession from father to son, a tale of
strange and terrible happenings.
The narrator, his dog Black Peter, Morwyn, a
young girl whom he loved, and her father, a vivi-
sectionist, went for a midwinter walk up a mountain ;
a thunderbolt struck the mountain, breaking the earth’s
crust and carrying the section on which the four stood
down into the mysterious centre. The vivisector was
killed, the others were unharmed. Dead and living
alike found themselves in hell. Presently they were
met by Torquemada and the Marquis de Sade, and
shown the sights.
In imaging hell Powys is at a greater disadvan-
tage than Dante or Milton. He has no concrete tra-
dition to build on. He gives us an entirely new hell
inhabited only by the cruel —principally inquisitors
and vivisectors. “People don’t come here for such
crude reasons as war, robbery or murder ; those activi-
ties are in line with the ordinary struggle for exist-
ence,” the Marquis explains. It is not a place of
punishment; it is something invented by those who
inhabit it for the satisfaction of their lust for cruelty.
All modern inventions are at their command; hell is
a “city of insatiable television” where, in shiny
mirrors, the inhabitants watch all the cruelties that
take place in the world in the names of science and
religion.
In the book horror is piled on horror in gigantic
compression; definition is sacrificed to stature, but
the general effect is, as Powys no doubt wished, over-
whelming. He drives home his point that cruelty is
life’s chief enemy a thousand times in images and
in dialectic. He uses any material to hand. With the
voyagers we meet many people, including Socrates,
Nero, Calvin and Merlin —and escape from hell into
the between-world where Saturn sleeps and whence,
when the time is ripe, he will bring back the Golden
Age to the earth. The prose of Morwyn has a
smouldering splendor.
REVIEWED BRIEFLY.
In Banner at Daybreak (Heinemann) Edward
Lanham has a young American artist emptying a lot
of bottles, having a lot of love affairs and covering
a little canvas with paint in Paris and Mexico. A
girl of the sensible, managing kind gets him in the
end... .If Ibanez, a top-notcher, hadn’t covered much
the same ground in Blood and Sand more might have
been thought of Joseph Pyre’s A Matador Dies (Bles),
which records the tragic decline of a bull-sticker who
is past his prime when the story opens. Still, it’s a
readable and apparently authentic yarn Spain’s
war comes in for the rather curious treatment of being
burlesqued in Edward Hope’s Spanish Omelette
(Chapman and Hall), wherein Bill, breezy young sub-
ordinate left in charge of an American consulate in
the fighting zone, finds himself in charge of a batch
of tourists of both sexes. The bill-of-fare is thrills,
slapstick and lurv.... The problems-of-present-day-
youth theme is handled in romantic vein in Elizabeth
Sprigge’s The Son of the House (Collins), with David,
a scion of rural gentry, saved by love from retreating
spiritually into the past In Some New Planet
(Bodley Head). Pamela Frankau has a man in sick-
bed re-living his past life, particularly the part where
he fell in love with another man’s wife. The strain
of thinking up that sort of thing must be terrific.
The traffic in murder includes Peter Storme’s The
Thing in the Brook (Hale), wherein a reign of terror
upsets an English village when a murder is committed
almost nightly by someone —or something—that
approaches via the village brook ; in The Case of the
Seven of Calvary (Hamilton), Anthony Boucher pur-
ports to have everything done in plain sight of the
reader, even to mentioning the pages on which the
clues appear. A second murder by the same hand
and all the pieces fall neatly into place.
Carl Warburton, who, with W. Robertson, wrote
a book of open-air adventure among N.T. buffalo-
shooters, now weighs in on his own with White
Poppies (Angus and Robertson), a yarn of the light
romantic kind, also set in the N.T. The main business
in it is an illicit venture in growing poppies for opium,
and the hero gets his girl. As far as this reviewer can
judge, Mr. Warburton knows his local scene well.
Three whose authors at least seem to know what
they’re writing about: No Turning Back, by W. F.
Morris (Michael Joseph), is mystery and adventure in
the Caribbean Sea ; with a British naval ship involved.
A solid job. The author knows his field, respects the
probabilities and writes we 11.... The tales of adventure
on the S’African veldt in Old Mcßein, by William
Westrup (Michael Joseph; Angus and Robertson),
have an authentic ring.... Romance of the sort that’s
backed up by a lot of solid study, Their Ships Were
Broken, by Constance Wright (Dent), has to do with
an American firm in the China opium trade, early
nineteenth century, when the “foreign devils” were
limited to prescribed areas around Canton. There’s
a deliberate touch of the fantastic in the characters.
“Groper”: The stock pattern Australian in over-
seas fiction has altered with the years. First he was
an uncle—happily deceased —at Botany Bay who left
an unexpected fortune to deserving English heirs at
a moment when they were desperately in need of it.
He then became a low-comedy character from The
Antipodes who fraternised with the butler, made mis-
takes with his cutlery but nevertheless had a heart of
rough gold. The post-war figure is tall, loose-limbed
and mentally almost human ; the female of the species,
pretty, capable and very good at marrying into the
peerage.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Always
“THE SENIOR STORE:
M \o
i
Aa4'/ s
a
srk
Six items of winking silver to delight the feminine
heart. No table at Christmas time is complete
without the rich, friendly glow of silverware.
These items are superb in quality.
m
m
A
CAKE or FRUIT COMPORT
She will greet this with joy—admiring the
plain, fluted design. Silver-plated on
nickel-silver. sin. high x Bin. diameter.
At Anthony Horderns’ 15/-
<sl NUT DISH AND CRACKER
And this, piled with nuts and festive food,
will take its part in the Christmas fun.
Silver-plated on nickel-silver. Plain
octagon shape, with beaded edge.
At Anthony Horderns’ 17/6
Silver-plated Fruit Spoons
Fruit Spoons and Serving Spoon will be
no less admired. Silver-plated on nickel-
silver of attractive design. Contained in
a handsome, lined case.
At Anthony Horderns’ • • • • 18/6
CAKE SERVER in Gift Box
And the choicest cake she will serve
always with this gift. Silver-plated on
nickel-silver. In a gift box.
At Anthony Horderns’ 3/6
<Js{ Silver-plated CHILD’S SET
Despite age, feminine joy runs high—and
even the babe will t'hank you gleefully
for this set —Silver-plated Spoon and
Fork. Stainless Knife with xylonite
handle, in case with a nursery rhyme—
no less!
At Anthony Horderns’ 11/6
A? HANDSOME FISH EATERS
“Between the Soup and the Savoury
comes fish. She will be delighted to use
these handsome Fish Eaters at the next
dinner. Silver-plated on nickel-silver
blades and xylonite handles. In lined
case.
At Anthony Horderns’
30/-
59$
:
: §1
m
;
1
CAKE OR FRUIT COMPORT, 15/-
;,' |g if 1 fpSff
i!'' *''* '"'"
m
NUT DISH AND CRACKER, 17/6.
-
' '•
mm
Mm
SILVER-PLATED FRUIT SPOONS, 18/6.
r«o
fwif
sm
MM
■'!■_ :•
m
:.. . ■ :
CAKE SERVER IN GIFT BOX, 3/6.
m
■MI
SILVER-PLATED CHILD’S SET, 11/6.
« M
■
is'fe '
HANDSOME FISH EATERS, 30/-.
£ Silverware—New Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery city and suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Phone: M 2401, Day or Night. FAMOUS LOW PRICES Box 2712C ’ G P °'’ Sydney ‘


A Woman —and Two Men
The
TURNINE Tide
Illustrated
by
JOHN MILLS
BY
E. DITHMACK
A GUST of salt wind blew in from the sea, and
the cadence of the incoming tide filled Nick
with nostalgic unrest. No cloud marked the
far horizon where sky met sea. The day was
brand-new, patently fair, with crinkles of sunlight fall-
ing into a gleaming tracery of sea.
Nick felt a sudden distaste for the warm bed in
the room beyond, for the ease and softness that had
been his since marriage. He marvelled now, with
that splash of sea and sky calling, that he could ever
have been so completely submerged in the unruffled
superficialities that made life’s total for Irene.
Old Jerry, in salt-stiffened sweater and dungaree
trousers rolled to the knees, was already down on the ,
beach getting ready for the day’s fishing. Nick could j
see him working with swift hands, trotting from bank* ’
to boat, from boat to bank, intent on details, and •;
remembered the many times they had set out together.
He went back to the room where Irene lay, her
creamy arms rising from the lure of lace and bewil-
dered ribbons, her sleep-ridden eyes watching him
languidly.
“Another nice day?” she asked, and there was a
hint of mockery in her voice, as though she recognised
in the glory of the morning a rival to be easily flouted.
“Gosh!” Nick stretched to his full height, huge
arms stiff above his tousled head. “It’s heaven-born.
Pop out of bed and have a look at the water.”
“I can see it from here.” She snuggled back
among the pillows, her mocking eyes still on his face.
“Why don’t you get a boat and
go out fishing, Nick?”
He tried to curb his exul-
tation, and knew that his voice
lacked its usual normality as
he said with assumed indiffer-
ence “It mightn’t be bad, but
I’d hate leaving you all. day.”
“Why worry about me? I’ll be quite all right.
You go, Nick.”
He felt himself a traitor as he suggested half-
heartedly that she should go too.
“You go,” she insisted. “I don’t mind being
alone.”
“I see Jerry down on the beach already. He’ll
be glad to have a mate. We might be away all day.”
“Then don’t worry. I can fill in the time quite
easily.”
j T seemed to Nick that shackles dropped from him
1 as he got into his old swimming togs and worn sand-
shoes. He ate the hasty breakfast old Louie
grumblingly prepared, then, as Jerry fastened on the
outboard motor and launched the boat, they tumbled
in and steered for the line of waves marking the reef.
The inaction of months seemed like a long-past
dream. It wasn’t possible, Nick thought, that any
woman could hold a man in such thrall. Yet there
it was. Irene’s fragility had been the invisible
thread drawing him to her. Perhaps the fact that
his cousin Miles waited in the background had pre-
cipitated matters ; perhaps his utter contrast to Miles
had swung Irene to him.
For long enough Miles had wanted her. The
only wonder to Nick was that she’d ever withstood
him. They were mates in every way. Miles had the
same fastidiousness, the same finicking ideas of life
as Irene. Yet it was the very contrast in Nick —his
brutality almost —that had swept her off her feet.
In the months following the swift marriage Nick
had kept tight within himself knowledge of his true
nature. This ‘ tame submission to an empty life —
dancing attendance on her at a round of balls and
social occasions—was, he had felt, worth while for the
sake of her smile. He had ignored the possibility of
ever retrieving his old ways, of the present mode of
life ever becoming irksome ; yet miraculously, with
the breaking of dawn over peaceful waters, it had
come.
Water rippled with a hint of music as it rushed
alongside the boat; gulls like milk-froth wheeled and
dipped, shattering the silence with their calls. Nick
forgot Irene, Miles—everything but the sparkling
points of light jewelling the wave-crests, the
v flecked furrow in the boat’s wake.
If was only when at last they turned for
home, with the red sky turning the water to
a blood hue, that he remembered his thrown
invitation to Miles. Miles might be up
any day now. Funny if he should be
already here, if this good-comradeship
between them should have resulted in
an unannounced visit, as it had done
for years past.
They turned the boat towards
the shore and, shutting off the
« engine, swept in on a line of
breakers. It did not surprise Nick
to see Miles materialise out


of the gloom nor to hear his cheerful greeting. He
called back, slipping into the shallow water to guide
the boat, his bulk dark against the sunset sky. “Hullo,
Miles, old chap.”
He wiped a wet hand on the seat of his togs and
held it out to his cousin. “I’d forgotten you might
come, to be quite honest.”
“Evidently. I didn’t expect to find you back at
your old ways.”
There was the old friendliness from Miles, the
same old flash of white overlapping teeth, and
laughter in the flinty grey eyes. The words were
indifferently spoken, yet Nick felt they held a hint of
reproach.
“I hope Irene’s been looking after you,” he said
hospitably.
“Yes, thanks. She gave me lunch, not knowing
when you’d be home.” He broke off to admire the
fish that old Jerry was taking from the boat. “By
Jove, that’s a beauty!”
“Yes.” Nick held up another. “We’ll be able
to play Santa Claus to a few of the neighbors to-
night.”
“Another of your old capers!”
Miles stood looking on, hands in the pockets of
his cream flannel trousers, silk shirt open at the throat,
and brown knitted sweater. He was a very striking
contrast to Nick, who squatted on the beach cleaning
the catch. It was sheer malice of Fate that sent Irene
down, a dainty, fragile wisp, to feel repugnance at
sight and smell of her husband.
“Yes, twenty-five of them,” he echoed Jerry,
scraping assiduously with his knife to make the scales
fly. He slit the fish cleanly, pulled out the insides
and sent them seawards in the back-washing waves.
J N the days that followed Nick sensed, or thought he
* sensed, a change in Irene. There was so much that
she and Miles had to talk about, so much of her past
life that Miles had part in. Nick felt shut out from
her and her thoughts. They were worlds apart; he’d
known that, but, knowing, he should have kept on
as he’d begun ignoring the sweep of waves, the
brown furrowed soil.
Miles and Irene! He’d been a fool to ask the
fellow up, knowing that finer streak in her. Their
sense of ownership in each other drove him out to the
sea and the boat and all that was part of him, leaving
his wife and cousin to play their golf and idle over
cups of tea. He would look across the sweep of water
to where the green fields of cane gave him a living.
He would see the red roof of the house resting like
a huge poinsettia bloom on the edge of green, the
thin curling column of smoke the only sign of life.
There were times when he’d hope that Irene would
be in the garden or perhaps in the kitchen pottering
about with her frail cakes and batters and worrying
the good-natured Louie. But the only faithful picture
he could conjure up was of an Irene stretched out in
comfort on the stone-flagged verandah, gaily-colored
cushions enhancing her comfort, and Miles sitting at
her feet.
Miles and Irene! The thought beat at his brain
until he felt the desperation of a cornered animal and
be stuck at home.
“How about a foursome this afternoon?” he
asked as they sat at the sun-flecked breakfast-table.
“Oh, Nick” Her glance flew to Miles.
“Couldn’t you make it to-morrow? We’d arranged
with the Wildons this afternoon.”
“It doesn’t matter,” he said, looking fixedly
at the paper in his hands. He licked the gummed
edge and passed the makings across the table to
Miles, his cold eyes holding the grey ones relentlessly.
“There’s to be a haul with the nets to-night, Miles.
All the men will be helping. Care to come?”
Miles felt a flush mount his thin face. There
was an underlying emphasis on the words “all the
men.” Irene’s amused laugh was a taunt.
“Oh, rather,” he accepted. “It’ll be like old times
again. Remember when we were nippers how we
used to watch the men haul in the nets and wait for
our share of the catch?”
They frittered away the morning in the idleness
that Nick so hated ; then, while Irene and Miles went
across to the links, bags slung across their shoulders,
he walked out to the canefields and hoed between the
rows with his men. The smell of the clean earth, the
rustle of young cane in the inland breeze, seemed to
lift a weight from his mind.
He didn’t know what devil’s urge had made him
taunt Miles into to-night’s acceptance. He’d have
been better at home with Irene and her towny crowd.
Miles hated the sea at night—always had —and Nick
knew it. There was something evil, sinister and terri-
fying about the tumbling mountains of water when
one could see no farther than the shore. Years ago
he’d admitted it. Nick closed his mind hard on pity.
Let him come out and be a man.
ONLY stars lit the sky when Irene stood at the
gate to watch the two men go. The creak of
a dray and a hushed babel of voices came over
the humped hill and round a bend to the farther
beach. Irene followed defiantly with a grumbling
Louie.
She halted on the fringe of the crowd as the
dinghy was taken from the dray and launched and
the net played out. The sea was quiet, the tide near
the full. The men gathered along the edge of the net
while Nick got into the boat and pulled out to a
margin. Lanterns cast yellow beams of light on the
moving water, now and again a torch was flashed
along the beach. Everything was quiet save the mur-
murous voices of the watchers and the swish of feet
moving through the water. Now there was a stir of
excitement as the men began to haul in the net, the
slow crowded movement forward as eager faces peered
through the gloom.
Keep the lead line low,” someone called. “Keep
it low.”
There was activity, quick breaths cutting the
silence, the mad splash of escaping fish.
Keep the lead line low. Keep it low.”
Miles, merging with the others in the darkness,
felt a wild repulsion, a desire to cut and run before
the terror of the sea and night.
The net was tightened. In the light of the upheld
lanterns the yellow sands shifted and changed to a
soft lambency playing over the gasping mouths arid
writhing bodies as the horde was gathered by eager
hands and thrust into sacks. “Twenty, thirty—Gosh!
What a haul! —fifty Will we try here again,
Nick?”
He was standing a little apart with Miles, uncon-
cerned with the catch. Miles shivered in the lifting
breeze. His shaking hands cupped a light for a
cigarette ; his tense jaws were a revelation to Nick.
“How about coming out with me in the boat?”
Nick asked with studied casualness. “This’ll be the
last haul from here.”
Miles made a show of smoking before replying.
“I wouldn’t be much good, Nick. Get one of the
chaps that know.”
Nick’s mouth lifted in an unfamiliar sneer.
“Frightened?” he asked.
“If you must know —yes. You haven’t forgotten,
surely.”
“I thought you might have outgrown such
childishness.”
“Well, I haven’t. But if you insist”
“Why should I? There’s no one here for you
to play the gallant knight to.”
He moved forward to the boat, a little ashamed
of his taunt until his mind swung back to Irene. That
must be how things happened, then. Just a drifting
apart, riding down different channels of life, with the
distance ever widening and increasing.
He loved Irene —ached for her with an intensity
that was pain. To live without her now would be
like going out into that unknown darkness to be for
ever shut out from happiness. She and Miles
“Right-oh, Nick. Let her go.”
He took up the oars and edged out beyond the
rim of light. Everything seemed unreal —the upheld
lanterns, dark figures playing out the net, the low
murmur of voices. These were men.
“Haul in, chaps.”
They were at it again—bodies bent, hands quick
on the net.
“Keep the lead line low,” then the thud of leaping
fish, the exultant voices.
“Come along to the next basin when you’ve
finished,” Nick called. “I’ll row along and wait.”
He pulled with long, swinging strokes towards
the next tiny bay beyond the rocky point, the rowlocks
making a rhythmic complaint at each pull. He gloried
in the sea, loved the sound and smell of it, the beat
of the waves. He sprang out shoulder-high in the
water and threw the anchor on to the beach, then
stood again in the boat, and drove it into an oncoming
wave, feeling an exultant joy in pitting his strength
against its might.
'"THE dray began to creak forward, the cries of
* children playing along the beach echoed back
from the tree-covered dunes. Miles, walking on
ahead of the others, heard a wild cry come from the
sea. He stood staring at the incessant tumble of
water. For a second silence followed the sound, as
if the whole world had crystallised ; then the waters
washed in again, lifting the dinghy with their motion.
God! It must be Nick! Out there in that
swirling spate of darkness something must have hap-
pened ! His tortured mind flew to horrors. He
shuddered and turned to run, the nightmare of fear
like a blanket over him. But instead he shouted in
sweating agony and ran towards the water, blas-
pheming.
He dashed into the waves that sprang at him
like beasts of prey clutching at him with starving
arms. The darkness pressed down to the sea like spilt
ink, obliterating all vision. Something hit at him
and he fell across the anchored dinghy. Now lights
were racing along the beach ; the cries of men and
women, with one voice rising clear above the rest:
“Nick! Nick! Oh. God! What’s happened?”
Torchlights played over the water; his own
form was shown up like that of some insect; then
close at hand above the waste of water he saw a white
blob that was a face, an arm flung out as though in
defeat. He plunged towards the sinking form, for-
getting his hatred and terror of the night, of what
might seize him out of the waste.
Nick caught at him with frantic hands. “It’s
cramp,” he said through stiff lips. “Help me out, old
chap.”
Now the others were with them, hard, helping
hands dragging them out to the beach into the warm
lantern-rays, where Irene’s white face bent above
Nick like a halo. Her crazed cry rose above all other
sounds. “Nick, Nick! Oh, whatever’s happened,
Nick?”
Her words, her utter abandonment of all reserve
in the face of her fear, was a revelation to Miles. He
turned and ran across the sand, scaling the dunes
with a flurry of scattered shells that echoed his mood.
Ernest Junior
By G.C.B.
THE first payday after Ernest Junior ’ad been
appointed assistant ratcatcher I got a nasty shock
—there wasn’t a penny extra in me envelope for
all the trouble I’d ’ave teachin’ ’im ’is profession.
Thinkin’ that Mr. Quirk, the assistant town clerk,
might be in a good mood on account of ’im goin’ to
be married to Miss Pomfrey, and that he might use
’is influence with Alderman Pomfrey on my behalf,
I slips into ’is office and puts the case to ’im.
“Wot!” he ses, starin’. “Extra pay for teachin’
your son ratcatchin’! Are you serious, Raggles?”
“Of course, Mr. Quirk,” I ses. “Everyone knows
that rats is the cunningest of all animals. I’ll ’ave to
give Ernest Junior lessons on where to look for ’oles,
and ’ow to set traps so the baits can’t be pinched, and
lots of other things too many to mention. It’ll mean
a lot of extra work for me, Mr. Quirk.”
“I never ’eard such ridikerlous nonsense in me
life,” snaps Mr. Quirk.
“You wouldn’t say that if you knew anythin’
about ratcatchin’,” I ses, shakin’ my ’ead at ’im.
But after we ’ad been arguin’ a bit and I ’ad
pointed out a few times ’ow iggerant he was
on the subject he got quite ’eated and said that he
could show any fool all there was to know about rat-
catchin’ in five minutes; so naturally when Ernest
Junior asks me for a lesson that night I advises ’im
to wait till the mornin’ and ’ave five minutes with Mr.
Quirk instead.
Unfortunately the next day ’appened to be a
busy one for Mr. Quirk, because as soon as
Ernest Junior went into ’is office with a trap and asked
for a lesson on ratcatchin’ he was ordered out again ;
and after the same thing ’ad ’appened three times he
give up in disgust. I didn’t blame ’im neither if ’art
of wot he told me was true about the way Mr. Quirk
behaved, specially the third 'time, when old Mrs.
Pomfrey was in the office with ’im chattin’ about the
cornin’ weddin’.
“Mr. Quirk seems to be a busier man than wot
I thought, Ernest Junior,” I ses thoughtful. “ ’Owever,
you’ll ’ave to catch ’im before he goes away on ’is
’oneymoon next Saturday, so you’d better see ’im after
workin’ hours.” And I mentions one or two places
where he might be found.
But findin’ Mr. Quirk and gettin’ ’im to talk was
two very different things. He wouldn’t even look at
pore Ernest Junior and ’is rat-trap outside the picture-
show: he just stared straight ahead, very red in the
face, and ’urried Miss Pomfrey into the show.
’Owever, it took more than that to discourage
Ernest Junior. No sooner ’ad Mr. Quirk and Miss
Pomfrey got settled in Taranto’s Sundae Shop after
the show than Ernest Junior, who ’ad been waitin’
outside patient, comes in and puts ’is trap on the
table and asks Mr. Quirk if the bait’s in right.
Well, even allowin’ for Ernest Junior to exag-
gerate a bit there must ’ave been a lively few minutes
in Taranto’s that night. Wot with the fuss Mr. Quirk
made when he pushed the trap away and got ’is hand
caught in it, and the screamin’ of Miss Pomfrey when
’er malted milk spoilt ’er dress, and Joe Taranto doin’
a songandance around the table, wot ’ad got turned
over, and the glasses, wot ’ad got broke, it must ’ave
been quite interestin’.
I was sorry to ’ear about Mr. Quirk gettin’ ’is
hand ’urt, and I was goin’ to apologise for Ernest
Junior’s carelessness next day, but as it ’appened I got
word first thing next mornin’ to go straight to Mr.
Quirk’s office. I was surprised to find Alderman
Pomfrey with ’im.
“Very sorry to ’ear about your little accident,
Mr. Quirk,” I ses, lookin’ at ’is bandaged ’and. “But
it just shows you the risks of a ratcatcher’s profession
and wot a lot he ’as to learn to”
Mr. Quirk broke in with a chokin’ noise and
grabbed a ’eavy black ruler from ’is desk.
“I’ll ’andle this, Quirk,” ses Mr. Pomfrey, wavin’
’is arm at ’im. “Raggles,” he ses, “wot’s the meanin’
of this persecution of Mr. Quirk?”
“Persecution!” I gasps.
“Yes,” he snaps. “You’ve been eggin’ that con-
founded boy of yours on to chase Mr. Quirk about
with rat-traps and make a fool of ’im. And, wot’s more
important to me,” he ses, puffin’ out ’is cheeks, “you’re
makin’ a fool of my daughter as well.”
“No one could make a fool of a daughter of
yours, Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses polite. “All I’ve done is
to mention to Ernest Junior that Mr. Quirk ’ad told
me he could teach anyone all there is to know about
ratcatchin’; and all Ernest Junior’s been doin’ is tryin’
to get a few tips from ’im. Now that I’ve stopped givin’
Ernest Junior lessons in me own time—on account of
not gettin’ paid for it —he’s determined to learn some-
thin’ from Mr. Quirk ; and knowin’ that Mr. Quirk
is goin’ away after the weddin’ to-morrer” ——
I stops sudden, and Mr. Pomfrey asks me wot’s up.
“I’ll have to keep a sharp eye on Ernest Junior to-
morrer, Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses. “It won’t be easy, because
he’s slippery as an eel and likely to slip through the
crowd wot’s sure to be watchin’- the weddin’.”
“W-wot!” stammers Mr. Pomfrey.
“He’s very enthusiastic,” I ses, shakin’ my ’ead ;
“but I only ’ope he’ll understand that there’s times
when he shouldn’t butt in and ask for lessons on rat-
catchin’.”
DUT Ernest Junior didn’t even see the weddin’.
He was busy at ’ome havin’ a lesson in ratcatchin’,
which I didn’t mind givin’ ’im, because I was gettin’
paid a bit extra for it, thanks to Mr. Pomfrey.


More Station-Abo. Sketches by
MARY and ELIZABETH DURACK
SON OF DJARO
‘ < OSS want you;,” Nubbudah announced, hreath-
I \ less with excitement, as she thrust her head
I J 'unceremoniously through the doorway of
Polly’s paper-bark humpy. “Somethin’ about
you little girl. ’lm got a letter from mission station.
I think ’im must be dead. Las’ night I bin have a
funny dream ’bout dat girl. I bin see ’im lyin’ here
in de camp, gotta spear longa ’im heart.”
Polly disentangled herself from the midst of her
dogs and cats and dusty blankets and crawled out
into the sunlight. She stood for a few moments with
a dazed expression on her heavy countenance, then
she sank heavily to the ground
and sat there, moaning and
swaying and clutching tearfully
at Nubbudah for support.
Nubbudah,
entering thor-
. oughly into this
play of mater-
nal grief, cried
in unison, and said how she had
always had a premonition that
something of the sort would
come to pass.
Nelly, stretched out in
characteristic attitude under a
coolibah near by, spat contemptuously. “Go on, old
woman!” she said. “You know she ain’t dead. You
two-pfeller only like to make a fuss!”
Polly looked at her daughter-in-law and blinked
resentfully. She had always disliked Nelly for her
habit of throwing cold water on any little excitement
that occurred in the camp, and now, on top of this,
there was the grudge Polly bore her over the affair
of her son. The old woman failed to appreciate the
fact of Jacko’s rise in the social scale, nor did she
concede to the general tendency to drop the last
syllable from his name, leaving it at “Jack.”
It did not seem right to Polly
that his wife should set his knife
and fork at the table with the
white men outside the kitchen and
put his meal before him and go off
to the shady side of the woodheap
with her own bread and beef.
Polly knew that to Nelly the situa-
tion, satisfactory though she found
it, was not without its humor, that
it amused her to see Jacko eating
his food off a plate with a knife
and fork, and putting on a clean
shirt for dinner and talking about
the “Government.”
Often the old woman had seen
Nelly regarding him quietly, her tobacco turning
thoughtfully round and round in her mouth.
Polly knew quite well that her daughter was not
dead, and that Nubbudah also knew that she was not,
but she saw in that no reason why she should be
deprived of her little scene.
Nubbudah turned her back on the spoil-sport
with an expression of superior loathing. Solicitous but
dignified, she led the grumbling, lumbering Polly
towards the house.
Polly had realised through long experience that
her theatrical tendencies, however much appreciated
in the camp, were inclined to leave the white com-
munity rather cold. She was considerably calmer as
she came through the garden gate and plodded up
the broken flagged path to the house.
“Your Daffodil wants to marry a young half-
caste at the mission,” the boss
explained. “They want me to let
you know so you can tell them
it’s all right.”
The obtaining of Polly’s per-
mission to the match had been a
more or less formal gesture on the
part of the mission authorities, in
accordance with a promise made
many years ago that Daffodil
would not be permitted to marry
without her mother’s consent. It
had hardly occurred to any of
them that the old woman’s posses-
sive feeling towards her daughter
would remain unchanged, or that
she would have any very strong
sentiments on the subject of her
marriage. But they
were wrong.
Polly regarded the
white man for a
moment as though she
was about to smite him to
the ground.
“No! ” she said, every
inch of her tremendous
bulk vibrating with indig-
nation. “No fear, I don’t
reckon ’im all right! My
girl can’t get married ober
dere like .dat. Might be
dis boy wrong skin. My
Daffodil ‘Nowela,’ ’im
gotta marry ‘Chunuma.’ ”
She turned to her
companions, who by this
time had gathered about
in an interested group.
“Dat not right, ain’t
it?” she demanded. “I
gotta see dis boy first
time.”
Everyone nodded ap-
provingly, with the exception of Nelly, who went on
turning her tobacco round and round in her mouth.
The boss selected Charlie from the assembly.
“What’s wrong with it?” he asked.
Charlie raised a perplexed hand and scratched
his head underneath his hat.
“Well, Polly right in a way, sir,” he said. He
did not go into any further details and explanations,
however, for he never expected a white man to see
eye to eye with him on tribal matters.
The boss dismissed the gathering and replied to
the mission authorities that Polly, on some ethical
standards of her own, had declared her daughter’s
proposed marriage to be “wrong.” He suggested
that a meeting might be arranged between mother
and daughter through which some satisfactory agree-
ment could be reached. This was if they considered
the maiden in question could stand the shock of be-
holding at this date the maternal rock whence she was
hewn.
CT TILL heaving and muttering with disapproval,
Polly made her way back to the camp. Every-
one employed on a job from which they
could escape unobserved followed her.
This was a matter that would afford food
for conversation and controversy for
many weeks to come.
Nubbudah declared that she would yet live to
see her dream out —that Daffodil would run away
with this boy, maternal disapproval or no, and would
be punished eventually by some stickler for tribal
law.
Polly dissolved in anxious tears.
“Poor little girl!” she wailed, swaying to and
fro in accompaniment. “My poor little Daffodil!”
The camp wailed with her.
Polly paused for breath at last and looked about
her with sorrowful satisfaction until her eyes lit upon
•Nelly, who, as her daughter-in-law, should have been
sympathising louder than
any. The old woman’s
features set in an expression
of resentment and indig-
nation, for Nelly, sprawled
comfortably in the shade of
her mia, was turning her to-
bacco round in her mouth
and shaking with scornful
laughter.
Polly’s chant stopped abruptly. She rose to her
feet, regarding Nelly with all the concentrated venom
of past and present grievances. Polly had been un-
rivalled as a fighting woman in her day. Being
married to a young man had called for prowess on
frequent occasions, and many were the flirtatious
heads she had laid temporarily low beneath the power
of her carved fighting-stick. There was nothing Polly
loved more than a good battle in the presence of an
appreciative audience.
She did not pause now to consider whether in
Nelly she had met more than her match, nor did
Nelly hesitate on any chivalrous qualm of conscience
regarding Polly’s age and position in the community.
A space was cleared for them as each grasped
her nulla-nulla and stood ready for the fray. Nobody
took sides except Nubbudah, who barracked for
Polly until she was hoarse.
By the time old Charlie, the peacemaker, came
panting to the scene the damage was done. Nelly
was nursing a split head, while Polly moaned, this
time in genuine agony, over a broken leg.
Some time later, when
Polly’s limb had been set
and things had calmed
down again, the old man
observed with satisfaction
that Nelly—a rather for-
lorn Nelly, with a bandaged head and a limp—paid a
visit to her mother-in-law.
She gave her a dress of a particularly startling
design that might have had some hope of fitting the
stout old lubra when the sleeves had been cut out
and a large strip of calico or turkey twill inserted
down the front. Polly presented in return a soiled
woollen headband with which a kitten had been play-
ing in the dust a few minutes before. Both gifts were
undoubtedly of
little value, but
they were ac-
cepted graciously,
for they were the
tokens of peace.
Charlie was
relieved that this
matter had been
cleared up, for
he knew that a
lubra seldom car-
ried on a griev-
ance after she had fought it out, but there were other
things that continued to trouble him.
The walkabout season would soon be upon them,
and already the wet-weather clouds were massing up
in a promising way towards the south. It looked as
though his prediction regarding the permanent cessa-
tion of all rain would fail.
Something must be done as quickly as possible
to extricate himself and Daylight from the imputa-
tion of false prophecy.
He himself was surprised that worse had not
already befallen the sons and daughters of the Mireo
tribe. Something had obviously happened to pro-
pitiate the anger of the evil ones. It lay
now with himself and Daylight to discover
what this had been.
IT was from one of those mysterious nocturnal
visitors that came occasionally into the station
camp, exchanged news and stole away again
before daylight, that further word of Norah and
Duncan reached the ears of their erstwhile associates.
The visitor told how he had come upon Duncan, a
forlorn and solitary figure, in an outlaw blacks’ camp
in the Territory.
It had been against all Duncan’s instincts to
cross the borders of his own country. A Western
native generally dislikes the Territory further east.
He finds it strange and unfamiliar and rather frighten-


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for its fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
wants stories suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both
sections. In addition to the prizes, all entries
published will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500
words is the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpub-
lished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will
attend to that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any
entry considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
ing—the flat-
topped hills
that cut the
skyline with
razor edge, the
wild sandstone
gorges and the
enc ampments
of semi-civil-
ised blacks.
Norah had been born in the Territory, and was
old enough to remember it when she had come over
to the West with her parents. Once back among the
familiar scenes of her early childhood, Norah de-
veloped the wanderlust and urged the unwilling Duncan
further and further on into the wilderness.
They came at last upon an outlaw camp among
the wild sandstone ranges that fringe the Victoria, and
here Norah insisted on staying for a while on the
ground of having found a “little bit mother and
father.” Duncan regarded the excuse as reasonable
enough, despite the fact that Norah had never set
eyes on these two alleged relatives before. Anyone
belonging to the same “skin” division as her own
mother and father became automatically her “little
bit” parents.
But even the easygoing Dun-
can could not regard it as reason-
able that she also discovered in the
camp a “little bit husband.” The
latter was a powerful young buck
who, although married to another
lubra, displayed an untoward in-
terest in the newcomer.
Duncan awoke on morning to find that Norah
and her “little bit husband” had quietly eloped during
the night.
No one, with the possible exception of the
deserted wife, was in the least scandalised over the
affair, and poor Duncan found himself exiled in a
strange country with no redress. It was he, they
pointed out, who had done wrong. This other boy,
belonging to the right “husband skin” designated to
Norah, had committed the comparatively slight human
fault of unfaithfulness.
Duncan, fearing to face the anger of Daylight
and the old king, dared not now return home. He
had taken up unwillingly with the life of the outlaw
community in a country he disliked and feared. He
might have spared himself this trepidation, however,
for Charlie and Daylight, on
hearing the news, were jubi-
lant. This, they declared,
accounted for the fact that
the rainclouds continued to
gather promisingly. Norah’s
second elopement with a boy
of the right “skin” had saved
them all from a very uncom-
fortable situation.
The two elders of the
camp were grateful to have
been relieved of the very arduous duty of tracking,
down the delinquents and at least making an honest
attempt to sing them dead. Daylight now stated,
with commendable cautiousness, that the rain would
almost certainly be permitted to fall, though it would
probably be a little late. As the rain was usually
declared by popular consent to be late, his reputation
as a prophet stood a very good chance of gaining in
strength.
When the walkabout time came at last, being
happily spared the performance of tribal duties they
were free to enjoy themselves as they pleased.
HILE preparations for departure were in progress
* * Jacko sat on a greenhide stretcher in the corner
of his own room and assumed a deep interest in
an ancient newspaper. The boss was teaching him to
read a little, though he had not so far displayed much
enthusiasm for this white man’s pastime. He con-
tented himself now with a careful perusual of the
advertisements.
The picture of a Mexican sombrero and another
of a loud-check shirt had attracted him very strongly,
and he was wondering whether he would get some-
one to order them for him.
He enjoyed ordering things and
receiving parcels addresssed in
his name, even though the con-
tents, as usually happened, were
for his wife. Nelly now
rejoiced in underclothes and
perfume. Jacko had put his
foot down over the matter
of the face - powder and
the lipstick, although some
of the lubras married to
half-castes used these things..
Jacko thought this was “silly,”
and said so in no uncertain
terms.
In the corner of his room he had made a little
shelf for his shaving mirror and hair-brushes, and
on a table beneath had placed his gramophone.
From outside came the sounds of laughter and
merrymaking as his former companions discussed
plans and received their walkabout ration of stores.
He caught himself listening to them and thinking back
on all the other walkabouts they had had together.
Something exciting always happened at this time. Old
scores were paid off. Romance and scandal and
jollity were rife. Young boys were initiated, young
girls given in marriage to their long-promised hus-
bands.
Jacko put down his paper impatiently, selected
his favorite record and started up his gramophone.
The high, fluting notes of Gracie Fields
declaiming to the world that this was
her “lucky day” brought Nelly to the
scene. She propped her lank, lazy form
against the doorway and yawned.
“I s’pose we fetch’m gramophone
longa walkabout, eh?” she asked when
the record was finished.
Jacko’s face clouded.
“Me an’ you don’t walkabout now,”
he said.
Nelly uttered her throaty laugh and
gave her tobacco a few contemptuous
turns.
“I s’pose you reckon you properly white man
now,” she said scornfully.
Jacko cast a quick look round the little room
that he endeavored to keep neat and respectable, at
his mirror, his gramophone and the pile of papers
on his bunk.
“Yes,” he said. “I’m a white man now.”
“All right,” Nelly agreed.
“You can stop. Me go meself.
Me no more white woman.” She
laughed again.
Jacko regarded her steadily.
He was fond of Nelly. There had
‘been a time when he was a little
afraid of her. Physically she was,
if anything, stronger than himself,
but it was not her strength that
he had feared. It was her scorn.
She had goaded hirminto giving up
his carefree life in the camp. She had wanted
him to be a white man so that he could buy
her things the other lubras did not have, and now
she wanted him to be black again so that he could
go on the walkabout with her and bring his gramo-
phone.
“All right.
You can go
walkabout,” he
said. “On’y
that the finish
with me an’
you. You can’t
Jiave it ebery
way.”
Nelly was
so taken back
that she swal-
lowed her to-
bacco, and was convulsed for the next few minutes
in a violent coughing fit. This was a new departure.
“Go on! ” she said when she had recovered suffi-
ciently to speak. “I bin make’m you white man. I
can make’m you blackfellow agen.”
Jacko thought over this for a while. Perhaps
Nelly was right. She had made him white, and she
could make him black again. It would be
easy to go back to the camp and the old
life he had renounced, particularly now
that the hot wet-weather days had come
round again. They were days that the
black man loved and the white man felt
oppressive and uncomfortable.
Then it came to Jacko that he had
never really been like his associates. In
him there had been thoughts and instincts
that were strange to his dark half-brothers. Nelly
had not made him white. She had merely given him
the strength and the courage he had needed to break
away from the easy, carefree life of the camp. Now
he did not need her strength any more. He was not
frightened of anything—even of her scorn.
“You never made me a white man,” he said. “I
been born like that.”
Nelly shrugged.
“I go walkabout then,” she said. “I find another
boy, might be.”
Jacko did not go out to see
Nelly setting off with the others.
He put on his gramophone at its
loudest pitch and sat on his bunk
with a newspaper propped reso-
lutely in front of him. But the
sombrero and the check shirt
made no appeal to him now. He
wanted to strip off his clothes and
take up a bundle of spears and
follow Nelly and her dogs into he
wilderness.
After two of the unhappiest hours he had ever
endured, he went outside and looked down the road
in the direction they had gone off. A solitary lank
figure in a faded red dress was making its way slowly
back across the plain.
It was Nelly.
{More station-abo. sketches next week.)
Unchained.
Thinking to-night of you,
It seems to me that in those days of old
I gave you more good things than, haply, you could
hold ;
In weary scorn you watched the songs unfold.
And then —■/ scorned them too.
It was not scorn, perhaps;
We wearied of glory growing commonplace,
You of my constant songs, I of your constant grace;
Our arduous cozenry, the pledge, the pace
Seemed longing to elapse.
We went our different ways;
I made some difficult songs from different things;
You know, and I know now, if that song truly sings
It is because forgotten wonder brings
A murmur of those days.
Are you still watching me?
1 pride myself you may be watching still,
Just whimsically curious, for good, for ill
In my designs. Watch my song slowly fill
With passion you set free !
You’d be the last to praise,
The last to understand my sudden fall
From you to those fresh purposes that 1 heard call ;
What you scorn most is yours, though, most of all,
For those were wondrous days!
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
■>'
If w .
Jgn HI
Vw«Wl*»hW!S
A ustralia s Leading
Specialists in Travel Goods
Gents’ Zipp Dressing
Sets, as illustrated,
70'-
Others from
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
ĸ
K
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
M* 1 BELVEDERE
BitvrbißC- «■» BtLvtotßt pso BcLVtotßt
ROUND ABOUT
Ahoy!
The invitation came in the shape of a large folded
card in silver and white, with an anchor and a harp
on it, and we boarded Orcades where she was consider-
ably lassoed to a wharf at the ’Loo, in which setting,
some ribald voice suggested, she looked like a bird
of paradise roosting in a fowlhouse. Not that the
’Loo has more in common with fowlhouses than any
other waterfront, but simply that Orcades in any
setting would be a prettier spectacle than it is the lot
of most of us to see when sober.
Not the Orcades, you will kindly note. Ships, it
seems, aren’t styled that way any more. At least, not
these ships. Just Orcades, without the the. And very
personal and intimate it is, if you’ll try it over.
Oppy V. Orcades.
Also from the same source of information—
i.e., some beautiful trade literature kindly donated by
Orient people ; we mean, the Orient people—it can
be stated with authority that “the second syllable of
Orcades is soft, as in Cingalese.”
„ r ., a „ , , , _
We might as well also state here that Orcades is
from stem to stern-or rather we should say, porch
to back door-from boatdeck to cabms-we mean
rooms, of course—from scuppers to portholes—we
, ,i • , . , „ , . , ,
beg their pardon . . . windows—Orcades is throughout
absolutely the last remove from all such Cutty Sarkian
reminiscences of seafaring life as cockroaches, hard-
lack and weevils in the biscuits.
*+ H ,
At all events, we never caught sight of a weevil
, , -r * , .
all the time we were aboard. Not even a track of
one. Sighted a few pressmen, but no actual weevils.
Rely on their occupants for color.
As for hardtack ...
But let us take our scuppers as we come to them.
The arrival of Orcades, as you may remember,
had been neatly timed by Orient people —the Orient
people—to coincide, for the sake of contrast, with 1
castiron Mr. Opperman blowing in per pushbike from
Perth, lowering by something like 27 corns and a
half the record for travelling from that city to Sydney
in the absolute maximum of discomfort.
It was Oppy, by the way, who was really respon-
sible for the most momentous decision reached by
Sydney’s city fathers for 37 years. They took him
along to Town'Hall —the Town Hall —and tried one
of the famous chairs under him.
He couldn’t take it.
Leather chairs ordered to be installed instanter.
As compensation for
this gruelling civic service
we thought they might at
least have sent him along
to sit a while with us in
one of the chairs of
Orcades lounge, where
(vide Orient people’s
literature, which we found surprisingly accurate,
especially as printed matter goes these days) “the
windows stretch in an uninterrupted range of nearly
a hundred feet, and color is boldly used in the curtains
and chair coverings to enliven the massed effects of
maroon and cedar.”
A very different color plan, as we discovered
turning over the booklet’s pages—and were to see for
ourselves presently—from the furnishing arrangements
in the dining-saloon, where “the cushioned sycamore
chairs of mole-grey piped with yellow rely on their
occupants for color.” A little touch of pale-green
about the gills, for instance?
In this dining-saloon, too, “the highly-original
composition on the wall shows Neptune watching over
the course of the ship.” The effect (vide booklet) “is
subtle, giving the saloon’s occupants something to
talk about when they first meet at table”—which is
certainly one way of looking at modernist art.
There are modern—as more or less
widely distinct from modernist —art touches
elsewhere about, including four brilliant paint-
ings of Australian wildflowers by Margaret
Preston in the Cafe. Timber in the furni-
ture here—among other things, Orcades
is a floating showhouse of beautiful polished woods
—is “rosewood, bamboo and birch.” Oh, and Cafe
has verandah: “The verandah is a, perfect suntrap
in the winter.”
Then there are such places as the 12 Staterooms,
“done in different woods, among them those of the
English fruit-trees—pear, apple and cherry.” A bit
hard, perhaps, on those whose favorite fruit is the
banana, but they should find something familiar to
take the eye, at least, in the Library, where “a lovely
color scheme of blue, grey, pale yellow and white
strikes the same peaceful note” as the panelling, which
“is nothing more nor less than London plane (from
Hampstead),” whatever that may mean to the initiated.
The purser, for his place of business, has put his
faith in Australian maple, and the surround of the
blue-tiled swimming-pool is teak ; but the Tavern—
they run to a Tavern, with darts and shove-ha’penny
—is done out in stainless steel and leather.
And then there are the Flats, air-conditioned.
“A landmark in the development of comfort in sea
travel; bathroom and lavatory, entrance hall, box-
room, living-room and pantry (complete with ice-
chest and breakfast heater).” As for timber: furni-
niture and doors of “No. 1 Flat, Port side,” are made
of “elm from the foundations of the original Waterloo
Bridge. A century in the Thames has turned this wood
a cool silver-grey.”
Also, of course, such simple essentials to the
crude seafaring life of these days as the ballroom,
where “the talkies are shown” when the sorely-tried
seafarers give out in the
tootsies, and where by
day “daylight, and by
night an efficient substi-
tute, pours in from the
circular windows
above” ; the “miniature
Bond-street” to “fasci-
nate the woman
traveller”; the hair-
dressing saloon, “air-
conditioned,” where a
trim is “a pleasure in-
We’ve backed horses like
those.
stead of a pain”; and—above all, perhaps—the
children’s playrooms, complete with hostesses and
stewardesses to help amuse the children “where they
will not disturb their elders.”
Without any question, a beautiful ship—by
Modern Design out of English Tradition.
A fairish step, to say the least, from the begin-
ning of the century, when “alleyways and public
rooms on the luxury liners were lit by candles, offi-
cially extinguished at a suitable hour.” When, too,
the leading items of the menu walked aboard with
the passengers.
Which brings us to dinner, 1937 version.
Trials of seafaring life.
It began in the lounge with a trayful of cocktails,
after which there was a trayful of cocktails, and then
there was a trayful of cocktails.
After that there was a trayful of cocktails, and
then a trayful of cocktails.
When that relay was over there was a trayful of
cocktails.
It is the ancient mariner,
And he stoppeth one or two.
Cocktail? Thank you.
The piano in the lounge is not an oblong or a
triangle, in the usual manner of pianos. It’s a round
piano. The music goes round and round full fathoms
five there was a ship quoth he.
Cocktail? Well, yes, that is an idea.
Yes, it’s a hard life.
Savories? The fish
on this one might have
been a sardine. Or it
might have been a por-
poise. Or was it a tor-
pedo? An Italian tor-
pedo? That’s what it
was. Done in oil.
Would we care for
a cocktail? Well, per-
haps one wouldn’t do
any harm.
The modernist
painting at the end of
the lounge is a lot of
horses. Have we ever
seen horses like those? Yes, we have certainly seen
horses like those. We’ve backed horses like those.
Cocktail? Well, just one.
Beautiful stairway down to the dining-room.
Lace-wood.
With deft touch of steward, dove-grey chair
rather surprisingly comes in behind knees. Helps one
to sit down.
Yes, this is the dining-room, all right, according
to the sailing directions. There’s Neptune over there
on the end wall, steering the ship. Family resemblance
to the late John Forrest.
What’s this we’ve drawn in the bun-rush? Spider’s
eggs? Oh, iced caviare. Splendid. Sherry, Mantilla,
Trower and Sons’ fine old Amontillado. Good,
Supreme of sole: Gallieni. Graves: Hanappier,
Peyrelongue and Co.: Imperial Dry, 1929. We’ve
struck worse places than this. Roast grouse: Chester-
field. Saratoga potatoes. Salad. Champagne: G. H.
Mumm and Co., Cordon Rouge, 1928. Pouding
Glace Princesse.
Marvellous stairway up to the lounge. Georgette-
wood.
Yes, this is the lounge, we remember. Horses.
Cognac: Courvoisier fine champagne, 1884.
Kummel: Baczewski.
Taxi.


CWi c John,
It was just like you...
m m m 1 4*/ send me the nicest of all
cigarettes. And what a beautiful Christ-
mas box ! (I suppose the knights are a
symbol of gallantry. Most appropriate!).
Ever since that evening when we first
found out how the filter tip brings out
the Virginia flavour, Fve been faithful
to du Maurier. I’ve you to thank for
learning that smoke refined is smoke
improved and made luxurious. Thank
you, dear John, a hundred times over—
once for each cigarette. I’m going to
smoke them slowly like the spoiled
girl I am.
K
du MAURIER
THE EXCLUSIVE FILTER TIP CIGARETTES
Special Christmas Packings containing
Box of 50 3/9
• 2 boxes of 50 Jl 6 • Box of 100 7' 6
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND: ST. JAMES TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS LTD., 185 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES, 217, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.I
M.C.6.


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
mm
■Mi
wm
W
i! §ll
■
MMMIB
m
11111 l
Wmm
\ ■:
m
IH
a
.:■ -
n
%/).. i V
m
in i
»
■■mm
:
I
B
11
i
■
1
■
mmm
■ -i
H
• stm
:
• I
, ‘ fa
wM
i-a*
1
", ';' ■' - ■"■ " '
mmmmmmm
.
HHHH
f I ;
.
4MMhm
•■■;;■ .! ;-|;: v ;.:■•;.:;•■••• V. |j-ii::!..;■ V
JPSIL ..
„ a-t -- i
Exterior View of Huge Storage Tanks at Seppeltsfield.
&
v me


“THE WORLD IS WAITING FOR THE SUNRISE”—BUT EDEN ISN’T.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ai/s.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via Francot
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
IN THE NEW PARLIAMENT.
An unusual amount of backing and filling attended
the reconstruction of the Ministry at Canberra. With
three vacancies to fill, two parties to provide for and
State jealousies, as well as personal ambitions, to be
reckoned with, reconstruction was no easy task; but
it could surely have been accomplished without letting
.worthy gentlemen go to bed persuaded that they were
in the Ministry, only to learn next morning that they
were out of it. However, Mr. Prowse was consoled
with re-election as Chairman of Committees, and
Senator McLeay with an appointment as Government
Whip; and Mr. Lyons and Dr. Page are convinced
that all is for the best in what they are pleased to
consider the best oLall Ministries.
Some of the offices are certainly in stronger
hands. Mr. Hughes, who was strangely out of place
as Minister of Health, and who had little to do as
Minister of Repatriation (the Repat. Commission
does most of the work), moves into the External
Affairs Department, which he is better qualified to
administer than any other man in Parliament, and
becomes Minister in Charge of Territories and Vice-
President of the Executive Council as well. Mr.
Paterson will blunder no more in the Department of
«the Interior; he is succeeded by Mr. McEwen, who
has given some evidence of the possession of a
twentieth-century mind, and will add to the debating
strength of the Front Bench. Mr. Cameron has also
well deserved his promotion as Dr. Page’s assistant
in the Commerce Department (the doctor is to be
Minister of Health as well), and Diggers have likewise
cause to be pleased at the elevation of Senators Foil
and MacDonald, though the Parliamentary duties
that will fall to Mr. Foil in the House in which, after
the end of June, the Ministerial majority will be
reduced from 33 to 4, the President included, are
probably considered more important than his work
in the departments assigned to him, Repatriation and
War Service Homes.
But the retention of Senator A. J. McLachlan
as P.M.G. and the appointment of Mr. Thorby as
Minister for Defence give no occasion for joy. The
country would infinitely prefer a Defence Minister
who has learned at first hand what modern war is, and
who would not have to lean heavily on his depart-
mental advisers, as Mr. Parkhill did and Mr. Thorby
will have to do —for example, Mr. Cameron or Mr.
Street. Nor has the return to the Ministry of Mr.
Perkins delighted anyone except Mr. Perkins and his
Eden-Monaro friends. If room had to be found for
another N. S. Wales member, a younger and more
active man like Mr. Lawson would have been prefer-
able to the stodgy Perkins.
Labor’s shadow Cabinet, or whatever it is, has
also been undergoing reconstruction of a sort. Mr.
Beasley and Mr. Rosevear were on the executive
committee in the last Parliament; their places have
been taken by Mr. Lazzarini and Mr. Ward. It is
asserted that they did not nominate for election, but
their disappearance was promptly hailed by the U.A.P.
press as a blow to the Lang group, and for once Mr.
Lang’s newspaper, usually so tempestuous in these
matters, was silent. Admittedly, Mr. Ward has not
hitherto been regarded as anti-Lang; but the Federal
brother of the Lazzarini who, in the course of 10
years, has been twice banished from Mr. Lang’s com-
pany—dismissed in 1927 from his first Ministry, and
expelled last year from the “reunited” party —can
scarcely retain any enthusiasm for “the Big Fellow.”
Mr. Curtin has promised the Government his co-
operation in promoting the nation’s business. It will
need his co-operation, and the Labor leader, for his
part, should extend the list of non-party matters to
include, above all, defence. Australia has entered
upon a new and very difficult age almost totally un-
prepared. It is ill-defended and yet overtaxed. It
has too many politicians and Parliaments and Govern-
ments, and, yet, because of defects in the Constitution,
it is without effective government in certain essential
fields, such as trade and commerce. It will have to
put its house in order if the house is to endure. And
the task will call for statesmanship of a higher quality
than has yet been shown.
The Slaughter Goes On.
Every State becomes more and more worried by the
increase of road accidents. In N. S. Wales and S.
Australia the motor-traffic laws are under review. In
Victoria the Government is being pressed to introduce
speed limits.
S. Australia has no driving test, yet has a low
ratio of accidents. Since most road mishaps are metro-
politan, this is probably due largely to the confor-
mation of Adelaide streets, their width and the room
and visibility they provide in proportion to the flow
of traffic. London, where licenses were issued by the
County Council, had no police lest till a few years
ago, and its proportion of accidents was small, chiefly
because of outstanding police control, the responsible
attitude of sellers of cars, the excellence and thorough-
ness of British motor schools, the wonderful course
of training given to the London bus-driver and the
rigid punishment of offenders against the traffic code.
England has abandoned the old go-as-you-please
method. Learners have their cars specially branded.
They are compelled to undergo a thorough driving
test, and are “failed” freely.
There is no uniformity about Australian motor-
road law. Queensland, S.A. and W.A. have speed
limits, which are applied when drivers do something
which the police consider unsafe. Almost every week
somebody is fined in Brisbane for proceeding along
a main road at more than 12 miles p.h. or crossing
an intersection at more than four m.p.h. That kind
of speed limit is a farce. It is often as dangerous
to cross an intersection at four m.p.h. as at 20 m.p.h.
The average driver of a modern car has diffi-
culty, anyway, at travelling more than a few yards at
so low a speed.
The N.S.W. Government favors a 30 m.p.h. limit
in built-up areas and a 50 m.p.h. limit outside. The
scheme, however, will not necessarily permit the
maximum speed. Drivers may still be prosecuted for
dangerous driving at lower or higher speeds if thought
dangerous. The law, also, is to be tightened up
regarding drunks in control of cars, and fines of up
to £lOO, with the alternative of gaol for a year, are
provided for hit-run drivers. All street accidents are
made compulsorily reportable.
The modern car, the modern road and modern
traffic being what they are, no arbitrary speed limit
spells safety. To limit speed to 30 m.p.h. in streets in
which there are trams would mean congestion, since
trams can be passed only at speeds greater than 30
m.h.p. Moreover, buses must logically come within the
limit. To clear the traffic and keep their schedules,
many public vehicles around Sydney travel at more
than 30 m.p.h. during part of their runs.
There is something illogical in this change of
attitude on the part of a Government which has
built most of its highways as speedways, with curves
basined to allow any modern car to round them at
40 m.p.h., and which has made its near-suburban
roads a temptation to speedsters. An arbitrary limit
will not be observed by the section of the community
which causes accidents unless the roads in dangerous
areas are thoroughly policed.
N. S. Wales is the worst State from a traffic point
of view. It has 294,000 registered motor vehicles—
some of them in such a condition that they would be
• better called murder-machines. There are 406,000
licensed drivers —one N.S.W. person in seven, all ages
—and 81.2 per cent, of reported accidents are attri-
buted to faults of driver, passenger or pedestrian.
Last year 27,960 N.S.W. persons were carpeted
for motor offences, 7858 being reported by the
public - safety patrol which operates within 60
miles of Sydney. Of these latter, 1954 were
prosecuted for driving at a speed or in a
manner dangerous to the public, 22 for driving
under the influence of liquor, 42 for negligent driving,
and 700 for not turning corners in a proper manner,
not keeping to the left, not having proper control of
the car or overtaking on bridges. For the whole State
3603 were reported for driving to the danger of the
public. Drunken drivers were involved in 169 acci-
dents, resulting in 18 deaths and 243 cases of injury;
and convictions of drunken drivers reached 546.
The total number of reported road accidents was
11,460; in 10,552 motor-cars were involved, and in
7662 they were responsible; 543 persons were killed
and 11,460 injured.
Safety measures should aim in the first place at
the thorough teaching of drivers. How many of
them learn is a mystery. It is surely a fair thing that
anybody who can afford to spend from £2OO upwards
on a car should be obliged to spend sufficient to
learn to drive it safely. With such large proportions
of the population licensed, the time seems to have
come when the elements of driving and road safety
should be taught in schools. Bodies such as the
N.R.M.A. in N. S. Wales and the insurance com-
panies might do something in the organising of teach-
ing. Full licenses should not be issued to persons who
have not shown themselves competent to drive in
traffic.
The eyesight test badly needs revision, especially
in N. S. Wales, where prospective drivers are asked
to read a number-plate at 25 yards. Few novice
drivers can be trusted to bring a car to a standstill
in 25 yards from 40 m.p.h.; and the length of eye-
focus in normal drivers varies as much as from 300 ft.
ahead of the car at 30 m.p.h. to 500 yards at over 60
m.p.h. Any irregularity in sight at speed makes for
danger. Reactions of different nervous systems to
different speeds are erratic: a man safe and careful at
15 m.p.h. may be a public danger at 40 m.p.h.
Just as insistence on initial competence and experi-
ence before drivers take the open road would help to
keep down the slaughter, so would insistence on giving
and acknowledging signals. Introduction of a rule
compelling traffic turning from a side street into a busy
main road to come to a standstill would also help.
Thirty-five per cent, of N. S. Wales accidents occur
at intersections.
Sniping at the Police.
Since the s.p. cases —mostly brought about by the
police having wished on to them the impossible job
of administering a bad and generally unpopular law-
some N.S.W. newspapers and politicians have made it
a regular business to “rock it into the cops.”
Through this cause chiefly it is certain that the
public standing of the N.S.W. police is lower than it
was as recently as two years ago. There is plenty of
indication of this, some of the worst of it in the courts.
Even many decent law-abiding people have lately
tended to regard the police as oppressors, persecuting
in pin-pricking ways for the fun of it, or for worse
ends. Most of this is the outcome —like the s.p. cases
—of laws which the bulk of people resent, among
them the stupid licensing laws. But the continued
sniping at the police does most damage, and it will
do more still—making the big job of the police more
and more difficult —if people become still more
antagonistic, or even more unsympathetic.
It is a tremendously big job the police are doing.
In this N. S. Wales is fairly characteristic of the rest
of Australia, and the record set out in the latest
N.S.W. annual report can be proportionately multi-
plied to represent the whole.
In the last 35 years the population of the State
has gone reasonably close to doubling itself; the
working strength of the police has meanwhile in-
creased from 2444 (1906) to 3764 (1936), but their
responsibilities have been greatly enlarged by a host
of acts and regulations. As an instance, last year there
was an increase of offences under the heading “obtain-
ing goods or money by false pretences” of 4316 over
the previous year, brought about by the police having
to take on the evidently necessary job of investigating
relief claims. “The police inquiries brought to light
many cases of imposition” ; it had, in fact, been some-
thing of a racket.
During the year, of 26,726 serious crimes reported,
the police cleared up 21,754—a1m05t 80.5 p.c. Their
campaign against the drug traffic is illustrated in the
report: “In this State a stop has been put to cocaine
peddling.” A few years back this was rife and threat-
ening to get right out of hand; not one case was
recorded in 1936. Still “opium continues to be
smuggled in by the crews of vessels arriving from
China.”
One matter that has come in for a lot of pub-
licity—the “consorting” part of the Vagrancy Act —is
held by the police to be “of great assistance.” It has
led to many hundreds of offenders being caught and
convicted under sundry headings. In shoplifting—
to the tune of £1965 12s. 2d. in small lots —720 out
of 734 cases reported were cleared up: women beat
men both to the counter and to the dock by 2 to 1.
Of 19,111 cases of property reported stolen in Sydney
the police cleared up 16,779 cases (87.7 p.c.), involving
£134,742 worth reported stolen and £123,147 (91 p.c.)
accounted for.
The police squad which has an eye to the interests
of investors made 75 arrests and preferred 173
charges, concerning property valued at £105,000. “One
outstanding case dealt with was that of a bogus com-
pany which attempted to work a swindle by which
numerous residents of New Zealand would have been
defrauded to the extent of £100,000.” The squad’s
baggings among defaulting solicitors included one
whose misappropriations totalled £27,000.
Nowhere in the report is the work of the police
better demonstrated than in sections dealing with road-
hoggery. One merely typical case: —•
Four youths in a car were pursued in Prince’s High-
way, Tempe, on a wet Saturday night. They drove
at speeds as high as 65 miles an hour, and after
traversing several streets went down a side street and
over an Bft. to 10ft. embankment and through a park.
They then crossed Prince’s Highway into Terry-street,
and whilst the driver was endeavoring to negotiate a
bend at 60 miles an hour he lost control of the vehicle,
which capsized. The four youths had to be extri-
cated by the police.
Other chase speeds roared up to 88 miles an hour.
One citizen, allegedly taken by pursuit, and convicted,
countered with an information charging the constable
with “driving in a manner dangerous to the public.”
The magistrate found the case proved, but dismissed
it and commended the constable.
Altogether the performance of the police for the
year reported on was excellent; comparable in conduct
and results with the best in the world. Another aspect
worth holding in mind is the general conduct of the
police as citizens, which has never been higher.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Chamberlain's Good Work.
In six months as P.M. Mr. Chamberlain has achieved
fine results. He is restoring British prestige and the
confidence of doubting nations in the honesty of
Britain’s intentions. Wrangle-house diplomacy is being
replaced by friendly, understanding missions and dis-
cussions seeking ways to solve problems, instead of
blocking the way or allowing it to be blocked. As
a result, 1937 gets towards its end with the general
will for peace well in the ascendant and a new hope-
ful outlook in international affairs.
An extraordinary amount of that settlement has
been crowded into the last few weeks, beginning with
Lord Halifax’s visit to Berlin and his talks with Herr
Hitler. The usual section of the British press weighed
in with its bit towards ensuring international upset
by splurges of provocative misrepresentation. Mr.
Chamberlain described the whole mass of guesswork
as “not only irresponsible, but highly inaccurate.” The
rebuke was well-merited; more importantly, it has
had some effect. Except for papers which nobody
takes any notice of now —though they continue to
supply a huge amount of the foreign-affairs rubbish
cabled to Australia —the British press last week turned
helpful.
The Anglo-French talks held in London as a
sequel to the Berlin preliminary were also well re-
moved from the risks of provoked misunderstandings
inescapable when sensational journalism has an open
go with wrangle-house diplomacy. They were de-
scribed as “indicating to the world that there is no
immediate danger of war” and as “an antidote for
international alarms,” and were officially stated in
London to have been the “most successful ever held,”
opening up “new opportunity for diplomacy to achieve
fruitful work.”
It is a triumph of ordinary commonsense —sound-
ness in that is Mr. Chamberlain’s main strength—over
such fantastic unreality as Geneva represented. But-
tressing these steps in Europe, Britain and America
have meanwhile been getting on with a trade pact
and general mutual agreement that represent an
equally important contribution towards helping a need-
lessly jittery world to settle down. All round the
board there has been effort in the most sincere and
most encouraging attempt in many years to make
peace not a fanciful idea but a common purpose.
Patience, understanding and commonsense have come
in in the place of general wrangle. Instead of a war
for peace, which was an aim of many of the more
voluble League of Nations upholders and the only
achievement in international affairs that the League
ever approached accomplishing, we are well on the
way to peace without war.
That commonsense step is largely an outcome of
one most important realisation —that the people of
Germany and Italy stand solidly behind their forms
of government; that their forms of government are
wholly their own affair, as our form of government
is wholly our own affair, and that Germany and Italy
must be treated, not as outcasts, but as members of
the family of nations. Mr. Chamberlain has brought
that realisation into British foreign policy, which he
now practically controls. So much mischief had been
done by the weakness of his predecessors and those
who mishandled foreign policy for them that there is
still a huge job ahead. Mr. Chamberlain’s achieve-
ment up to date, especially in this last couple of
months, is good reason for complete confidence.
Will Japan Buy Wool?
The problem of whether Japan will or will not buy
Australian wool should be settled within the next six
weeks. Meanwhile the Woolgrowers’ Council has
recommended a 20 p.c. reduction in offerings at the
sales.
The early part of the year is the normal Japanese
import season for all goods. Japan’s wool stocks are
down, but its adverse trade balance, always a serious
matter, has increased in consequence of the war.
The unfavorable balance for the period from January
to mid-October, 1936, was the equivalent of
£14,000,000 Australian. This year for the same period
it was £56,000,000 on the wrong side.
Japan does not find it easy to raise foreign loans
to meet emergencies, and the Government is restricting
imports. Cotton imports for domestic consumption
are due for reduction of 25 p.c.; for export business,
10 p.c. Wool imports are to be reduced 30 p.c.
Last year, despite the embargo, Australia supplied
73 p.c. of Japan’s wool requirements. A 30 p.c. reduc-
tion would, on last year’s prices, amount to £3,200,000,
apart from the loss which Australian growers have
suffered through the absence of Japanese buyers early
in the season and the consequent weakness of the
market.
However, a reduction in imports of Australian
wool cuts against, as well as for, Japan since, under
the trade agreement, Japan’s exports to Australia
would be reduced in proportion to its imports. It
was declared by the Japanese Department of Com-
merce when the prohibition list was issued that Aus-
tralia would be exempt.
Thus, if Japanese imports of wool from the coun-
tries which filled the blank period of the deadlock
last year are to be kept down, it is almost certain that
Japan will buy heavily from Australia. If it does
not, it will have to buy normal requirements of
domestic woollens from other countries, and those
other countries will have to buy raw wool from
Australia.
The probabilities are that Japan will decide to
keep its own wheels moving rather than help other
countries to keep theirs moving.
One Control for New Guinea.
Having been advised by Dr. Stehn and Dr. Wool-
nough that Rabaul is definitely unsafe, the Common-
wealth Government has decided on its abandonment
as administrative centre of the Mandated Territory.
Presumably the Government will now dispatch a
royal commission in search of a substitute. There
is no necessity to go beyond Port Moresby.
The Bulletin’s advocacy of one capital and one
control for Papua and New Guinea has struck a
responsive chord in the hearts of Island people. A
New Guinea surveyor writes endorsing it, and sets
out a case which shows how divided control works
against the interests of white settlers.
A pearler in Papua wants to compete with the
Japanese in waters which are just a mile or two across
an imaginary line in Mandated New Guinea. The
Japanese don’t have to worry about formalities; they
bank on a three-mile limit and bring their own crews.
But this is the procedure for the Australian pearler.
First, he takes his lugger to the port of discharge
in his own territory and puts up £lOO per head as a
guarantee that he will return the native crew to their
hearths and homes. Then he crosses the line, makes
for the port of entry in the territory in which he
wishes to operate, declares his stores and pays duty.
Then he slips his ship for survey and pays for it.
The Government gives him a survey certificate —
he pays for it. He gets a new local master’s ticket —
and pays for it. Pays also for light dues and new
registration of his ship. After that the extraction of
new shelling licenses for himself, mate, ship and every
dinghy is almost painless.
When these formalities have been completed and
six months have passed since he crossed the imaginary
line from his original territory, his experienced
crew must go home, or he loses his £lOO-a-head
deposits on them. He may console himself with the
reflection that he can probably recruit untrained local
boys at £lO per head, and that it will take him two
years to train them.
After that he is at liberty to take whatever shell
the Japanese have not carted off to Palau —so long
as he pays royalty.
The same sort of relationships that exist between
Papua and next-door New Guinea exist also between
New Guinea and the Solomons. They make plenty
of work for civil servants and allow three bureau-
cracies to flourish where only one need bloom. But
they help nobody but the alien poacher when it comes *
to the shell business. When trouble threatens him he
merely draws across a line as imaginary as that
between Papua and New Guinea into waters in which
Australian territory police have no hope of catching him.
Chasing People Away.
In a moment snatched from his long wrangle with
the Upper House, Premier Dunstan replied to a ques-
tion touching the grievance of overseas pensioners,
largely British Army officers, who have recently been
taxed by his Government on their modest incomes,
already taxable in the country of origin. He said, in
effect, that as those pensioners “enjoyed all the facili-
ties of citizenship enjoyed by other residents of the
State” he would keep on taxing them.
A very stupid reply, and it will be the means of
Victoria losing a very useful sort of sojourner or
settler, who pays all manner of taxes, and going with-
out a helpful addition to its taxable income.
At the Federal conference of taxpayers’ asso-
ciations, Mr. McKellar White, a Sydney delegate,
mentioned cases in which “persons of independent
means had changed their minds about taking up resi-
dence in Australia when acquainted with the pro-
visions of local” ( i.e ., State) “Income Tax Acts”:
I refer in particular to those sections of the State
Acts which seek to tax ex-Australian income in the
hands of residents notwithstanding that such income is
usually taxed in the country from which it is derived.
The British and Commonwealth Governments
have for years had an arrangement designed to
prevent double tax on income of Britons residing in
Australia and Australians residing in Britain. For
example, Australians residing in Britain may, accord-
ing to the prescribed formula, “claim an allowance of
tax at half the British rate or at the Dominion rate,
whichever is the lower.” Mr. Dunstan’s tax on
Imperial pensions and other income from Imperial
sources has been imposed in impudent disregard of
the old arrangement between the Governments at
London and Canberra. British immigrants subjected
to it must feel just as Australians in, say, Devonshire
would feel if, having paid income tax according to
that fair arrangement, they were bled for another
income tax by the County Council.
Twilight of the Stone-Age Man.
“Nakhoda” rebukes a professor:
Professor Wood-Jones, the anatomist, has told us on the
eve of his departure for England that we have the brand of
Cain on us, referring to our treatment of the aboriginal.
The aboriginal was one of Nature’s experiments which
was successful for far longer than most similar experiments.
When the circumstances changed with the arrival of the
white man the experiment became a failure. The white man
saw it was a failure and struggled to prevent it, but every-
thing he has done has tended to accelerate the process.
When Nature ceases to need a thing it has to change or
perish. Being an anatomist, the professor ought to know this
better even than the people he calls murderers. In all
humanity efforts were made to shelter the abo. from the
necessity to change, when the necessity to change was the only
thing that could preserve him. As soon as we began to
shelter the abo. he lost his belief in himself and felt hopeless.
When people have lost hope they no longer want to live, and
that is all that is the matter with the aboriginal.
When he began to lose hope we tried to help him by
shutting him up in a compound and giving him food and
shelter. As he had everything given him he did not have to
make an effort, and he lost hope altogether. Then he pro-
ceeded to die off as rapidly as possible. But the professor
would hardly maintain that our shutting him up in a com-
pound was a conscious attempt at murder.
The only conditions that would preserve the abo. are the
same conditions which made him. Would the professor and
his fellow-scientists be prepared to give him those conditions?
They would be so severe that they would probably kill off
nine-tenths of the remaining native population before the
remainder became sufficiently inventive to surmount them. Let
the authorities at Darwin turn the abos. out of their com-
pound and send them into the bush to struggle with their
environment and each other for survival. Every humanitarian
in the land, including the professors, would call them
murderers.
Nobody wants to kill off the abo. What possible reason
would we have for doing so? As a matter of fact, the
efforts of the scientific fraternity, from the solemn findings
of university professors to the appointment of Dr. Thomson,
the young anthropological expert, to a sort of spiritual
dictatorship over Arnhem Land, have not affected the posi-
tion one iota. What is left of the blackfellow is slowly being
absorbed into the rest of the population, and that is the
only possible fate that could overtake him. Absorption by
and with their conquerors has been the fate of all such
minorities.
Mr. Litvinov Is Shocked.
Mr. Litvinov, nowadays one of the two curled
darlings of the League, is shocked to find that “there
are three States which shamelessly proclaim their
intention to ignore all international laws and agree-
ments.”
Mr. Litvinov and his friends were daisies at
ignoring “all international laws and agreements” when
it suited them. And they had disciples in Australia
who rejoiced at “the mutiny of the Royal Gahrwal
Rifles” and bespoke the support of “all class-conscious
workers, to the limit of their fighting ability, for the
masses of India who are arising against the same
tyranny that oppresses us all.” The disciples called
also for the destruction of the “shameful White Aus-
tralia policy,” and demanded “that any worker,
regardless of color or nationality, that desires to enter
Australia should be permitted to do so.” Turning to
Mr. Litvinov’s country they warmly approved of “the
policy of liquidating the kulaks as a class, of ruth-
lessly suppressing all the counter - revolutionary
intrigues.”
“The policy of liquidating the kulaks as a class”
was an outcome of the Five-Year Plan. But it had
another outcome:
The mobilisation in the service of imperialism of
the very scum of the earth, the filthy crew of religion-
ists under the leadership of the Pope of Rome, the British
archbishops, the Protestant hell-peddlers, the Jewish
rabbis, the Salvation Army, the holy rollers, jumpers and
crawlers in a campaign on behalf of the kulaks inside
the Soviet Union.
The quoted extracts are taken from “Australia’s
Part in the World Revolution,” published “by the
Communist party of Australia, 1930.” Presumably it
is never shown to the bishops who are shining lights
in the Society for the Promotion of Cultural Relations
with Soviet Russia. If it is, the bishops magnani-
mously overlook it.
Australian Road-Planning.
Ever since there has been a Commonwealth defence
system authorities have pointed out the dangers of
running railways along the coast in positions in which
they could easily be cut by raiding enemies. But the
same policy has been repeated in road-construction.
Splendid highways, cambered and curved for high
speeds, have been constructed between mainland
capitals. Thereupon Acts have been passed and
boards set up to stifle commercial motor transport.
Some short tourist roads on a modern scale
radiate from State capitals. A few moderately good
roads which tail off into an earth surface a hundred
miles or so from Sydney and Melbourne run into the
country, giving communication to the larger towns.
But even within easy reach of the cities there is still
an immense amount of road-building to be done.
To get to some of Australia’s finest beauty spots
is a difficult undertaking. The Kangaroo Valley,
about 100 miles from Sydney, unsurpassed for loveli-
ness, can be reached only by a narrow, winding, pot-
holed track, with steep grades and hairpin bends, and
so narrow that in places cars can barely pass each
other on it.
The route along the upper reaches of the Hawkes-
bury, within 60 miles of Sydney, provides a drive of
breathtaking beauty. The road is a washed-out track
full of gullies, bends and stretches which hang over
the edges of precipices. Here again two cars of
normal size cannot pass without danger.
Good roads to such places are needed, and
so are main internal national highways. A league
has been formed in central-western N. S. Wales to
promote the construction of a road from Longreach
to Sydney, via Walgett and Mudgee. There is no
all-weather track at the present time. While the
highway from Sydney to Melbourne (569 miles) is
such that drivers can cover it in one day in daylight,
the journey to Longreach from Sydney (1200 miles)
cannot be compassed in less than five days by good
drivers, and it is gruelling to cars. From northern
N. S. Wales onwards, the “road” is merely a rutted
blacksoil track for most of the distance.
From a defence point of view, an all-weather
road over this route would be valuable. Beyond
Longreach, tracks are good, except for a hundred
miles or so across the Selwyns, and a highway from
Longreach to Sydney would mean that ordinary
drivers starting from Longreach could reach Sydney
in three days and Barkly Tableland residents in five
days. Linkage with roads already running to the
coast would be made easier. In case of war, the new
highway would provide a means whereby organisation
of transport could be safely carried well back from
points of attack on the east coast.
Such a road need not be expensive. Built on the
lines of the Indian Grand Trunk-road, it would meet
all requirements and greatly facilitate inter-station
and inter-town traffic.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“T.”: The costliest wedding of the
season in an Australian city has pro-
duced a crop of stories, some of which
are incredible. For example, it is alleged
that the bride’s father began his speech
to the multitudinous guests with “When
Bert started payin’ attentions to Mary
I ’ad inquiries made”; and that the
beaming bridegroom opened his remarks
with “This is scarcely the place to flaunt
the jolly old school tie.” But a man wh j
ought to be fully conscious of the sanc-
tity of an oath swears that this is din-
kum. One of the waiters, an obvious
new hand, was replenishing fizz glasses
while the wife of a Worthy Knight was
enlarging on her London experiences to
her next-door neighbor. She heard the
wine trickle into her tumbler, and,' with-
out looking round, said “Plenty, plenty.”
“It’s all right, Missus,” said the waiter,
breaking in on her narrative. “I’ll see
you get plenty.”
* * * *
“Lux”: Daylight saving can hardly
be dismissed with the assertion (B.
24/11 / ’37) that it is an advantage “only
in countries where the days are short and
the nights long and dreary.” Some sunny
lands in southern Europe, including Por-
tugal and Greece, whose isles “eternal
summer gilds,” have adopted the system
and stuck to it. In South America its
vogue is even wider. Reference books list
Brazil, Argentina, Chile and British Hon-
duras among the daylight-savers.
“Qo”: Daylight saving was introduced
to Mt. Isa (n.-w. Q.) a few years ago by
the late Chas. Mitke, M.l.M.’s general
manager. It was a boon to miners com-
ing off night shift, for it enabled them to
get back to their camps before the heat
of the day. It applied to the mines settle-
men only, the township and the railway
still working on E.S. time. Hotel bars,
cafes and shops all had two clocks, one
headed “Mines Time” and the other
“Town Time,” the former leading by 55
minutes.
* * * *
“Say 99”: To the gouty man (B.
24/11/’37) what he drinks is still import-
ant—there’s been no change in medical
opinion on that point. Alcohol in any
form is harmful in liberal helpings.
Whisky, well diluted —not more than one
or two nips a day—is pretty safe, but
all the stronger wines are dangerous.
Unfortunately, there’s always the in-
fluence of gouty ancestors. The heredi-
tary taint got Nelson, though to over-
come it he cut out animal food for two
years, and lived at all times mostly on
milk, vegetables and water; he drank
practically no wine, and was generally
in bed by nine o’clock. And the worst
case I’ve seen was that of a teetotaller.
Still, overfeeding and good tippling have
a lot to answer for, and have had since
Greek and Roman days.
* * * *
“Flathoof”: A young woman was
found strangled with her own stockings
in the grounds of the Broughton C. of E.
School for Boys, Newcastle, at which she
was a domestic, and, according to now-
established custom, the Press and the
C.I.D. set to work to trace the murderer.
Two days later an afternoon paper was
able to announce positively that “The
police now have perfect descriptions of
four men among whom they hope to find
the sadist.”
They deny a report that they have nar-
rowed down their investigations to one
man. There are four suspects They are
most optimistic. In spite of a careful
search, they were unable to find at the
scene of the murder the slightest clue to the
man’s identity. “Because of that,” one
said, “we must renew our appeal to the
public to bring forward even the slightest
information that might help to identify
the murderer.”
It seemed rather incoherent, and people
wise in the ways of our Glorious Press
were not surprised to read in the after-
“That Was LOVELY, Ernie. Now play us Mendelssohn's ‘Spring Song .’”
noon paper a couple of days later that
“all the clues which gave promise of an
arrest” had “proved worthless.” But by
this time newspaper interest had shifted
to another poor creature whose body
had been found in a chaffbag near
Lovers’ Lane, Parramatta. In this case
also our Glorious Press decided that (1)
the cause of death was strangulation;
(2) the strangler must have committed
murder ; (3) he must have come from a
suburb in which there is a racecourse,
they being the only suburbs in which
chaff bags are used. Pity Edgar Allan Poe
and Conan Doyle perished without being
privileged to marvel at these methods
of crime detection.
# -v * *
“Mab”: “Hamer” errs when he says
(B. 17/11 / ’37) that Byron Moore was the
possessor of No. 1 in the Melbourne tele-
phone area. For more years than I can
remember Robinson Bros, and Co., of
South Melbourne, had No. 1, and their
right has been perpetuated in the modern
revision—Ml 111 now.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A Vic. Health Department
analysis of the infantile-paralysis epi-
demic annihilates popular theories about
its incidence. One belief was that females
were far less susceptible than males, but
the ratio—sB.9 males to 41.1 females —
suggests no more than an accidental dif-
ference. Another popular superstition
was that the scourge was making alarm-
ing inroads into the ranks of the
elders. Adult cases are 29, child cases
971. However, the adults have had
five times less chance of survival,
there being seven adult deaths as against
50 among children. The incidence rises
steadily from up to one year until it
reaches the peak at six years ; then it de-
clines more or less regularly until 17 ;
the adolescent of 18 has had an almost
equal chance of catching it with all the
other ages up to 67. The municipal in-
cidence is pretty well parallel with each
suburb’s population and its distance from
the metropolis.
* * * *
“Dolly Pot”: Raeside’s Golden Days
lists J. J. Brown (B. 1/12/’37) as the
discoverer of Woolgar (known as the
Four Mile). Another authority, in re-
counting the discovery of Menzies (by
L. R. Menzie and J. E. McDonald) in
September, 1894, says: “It is alleged
that other prospectors —Browne and
party-had already discovered a reef in
this neighborhood.” That may be “Ring
Four’s” J. J. Brown.
* * * *
“Fong Tsz”: If “Fisher” (B. 1/12/’37)
can produce evidence that the popula-
tion of ancient Rome was ever 1,000,000
I promise to give him the Fascist salute.
Practically the whole of the Imperial city
and suburbs, which Augustus divided
into 14 wards, was enclosed within the
Aurelian wall—in places 60ft. high,
about 12 miles long and enclosing not
more than nine square miles. Inside
also were the Forum, huge thermae and
theatres, the Colosseum, temples, hun-
dreds of gardened private houses and
palaces, public buildings, streets and
squares, monuments, the Tiber and
several other trifles. The population at
a million would have been 180 to the
acre. Few of the most crowded parts of
London, almost devoid of public build-
ings and open spaces and housing
many families six to a room, could
manage 100 to the acre in their most con-
gested age. Lambeth, across the Thames
with 4083 acres, and Paddington,
London, together about the size of Im-
perial Rome, carried only 450,000 after
the war. Sydney’s million and a quarter
are spread over about 30 times the area
of Rome.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Australia’s most beautiful
street? Cowan-street, South Grafton
(N.S.W.), in October, when the jaca-
randas are in bloom. There is a Jaca-
randa-avenue across the river in Grafton
itself, but the Cowan-street trees extend
for nearly half a mile, three times as far
as the other dream of beauty. It is well
worth the while of anyone who loves
color to make a pilgrimage there from
anywhere, to view the unending vista
of shapely trunks springing from a soft
blue carpet to a softer blue roof. For a
month in every year it is one of the
world’s wonders. If environment goes for
anything in the making of great color-
artists, one will surely come some day
from the twin towns on Clarenceside.
* * * *
“Buzfuz”: A mild controversy about
the desirability or otherwise of barristers
continuing to wear wigs has been run-
ning in Sydney. The only argument in
favor of the headgear is that it adds dig-
nity and impressiveness to court proceed-
ings, and one disputant asserted that a
witness would be less likely to commit
perjury if cross-examined by a jurist with
horsehair on his head. A childish theory
about a thing that is nothing but an un-
hygienic anachronism, and in a hot
climate a stupid infliction. Australia
might very well take example from South
Africa in this regard. When I was in
Cape Colony over 40 years ago I found
that only in Cape Town were counsel re-
quired to wear wigs in court; up country
the gown was all that was necessary.
* * * *
“Pawang”: It has for long been a
popular belief that if all the stops in
Melbourne’s Town Hall organ were
pulled out and the notes struck simul-
taneously the edifice would collapse on
the impious perpetrator of the outrage.
I was. reminded of it the other day when
I met in Collins-street a man who chal-
lenged the superstition. It was William
McKie, the city organist.
* * # *
“241”: Being “in smoke” is not such
a difficult or unpleasant experience. My
trouble isn’t a hanging matter; but it
must be regarded as* more serious than
garrotting, since a garrotter, if given
the option of a fine, would work his
penalty off at' ten bob a day. My
offence being a matrimonial debt, I would
only “work it out” at four bob a day.
So I am dodging the warrant. I collect
my papers every morning at the news-
agents, and even go into the city to
attend picture-shows. At a cricket match
I found by a remark of a bystander that
I had been talking cricket for some time
with an off-duty member of the local
force. I never thought being in smoke
was quite so easy.
* * * *
“Mata Mata”: Two men have been
charged in Melbourne with the murder
of truck-driver Demsey after one of the
most remarkable manhunts in Vic. his-
tory. In the course of the inquiry the
detectives interviewed a thousand persons,
read 600 letters and answered 2000 tele-
phone calls from people who professed
to be prepared to give them the low-
down. They worked on the theory that
the wild area round Kinglake West,
where Demsey’s body was found, had
been used for years as a stolen-car dump
by a gang. Bodies of employees be-
longing to the motor transport in-
dustry ploughed their way through the
dense forest and aeroplanes conducted
reconnaissances over it. Public feeling
rose so high over the atrocity, incident-
ally, that the victim received what was
almost a State funeral.
* * * *
“Aileron”: One Australian airman
who was great in the days before Mol-
lison visited Australia (B. 10/11/’37)
—Norman Brearley of the West. Back
from the war with a small Avro ’plane
as his means of livelihood, Brearley ex-
plored every Westralian air route, flying
hundreds of miles over vast forest country
where there wasn’t the barest chance
of surviving a forced landing. He never
had even a mishap—this when the rest of
Australia was merely thinking about
flying. He established Australia’s first
commercial airline in the nor’-west of the
State, and later the east-west line. But he
never made the scare headlines. It was
Brearley who gave “Smithy” his first
chance to earn a crust twiddling the joy-
stick in his own country.
A NEW EXPLETIVE.
“The stock lament for a mis-timed shot by Donald
Budge, the world’s No. 1 tennis amateur, is merely
‘Oh, baby!’” —Sydney “D.T.”
Some players in White City competitions
When they have smashed a ball into the net
Indulge themselves in verbal ebullitions
Smacking of something more than mild
regret.
Times are you catch, in accents far from gentle
Or hushed, unquestionably naughty words
Suggesting that the charge of “temp’ramental”
Applies to quite a lot of tennis birds.
It’s obvious, though, there’s no such ugly
smudge
Upon the shining shield of Donald Budge.
Girls have I known who, in the rush and pother
Of rallies that they found a bit severe,
Employed a less innocuous word than
“Bother!”
Or the supremely feminine “Oh, dear!”
One views these lingual lapses lightly, maybe,
Yet peerless Suzanne would have found, I’ll
bet,
Some phrase a bit more pungent than “Oh,
baby!”
To signalise the fact she’d lost a set.
But not the dourest Puritan would grudge
His form of chipping at his luck to Budge.
What though you’ve been unfairly double-
faulted,
Or found some sideline placement out of
reach,
You shouldn’t vent your spleen in spiced and
salted
Comments or “sabre-cuts of Saxon speech.”
When at some blunder of your own you’re
raging,
And feel that only prompt release of steam
Will help your ruffled feelings in assuaging,
You needn’t necessarily blaspheme.
Scrap such ideas as fiddlestick and fudge,
And take a leaf, my son, from Donald Budge.
What odds to him if some explosive gaby
Drops into d ns, by angry passions rent,
Those softly-rippling syllables “Oh, baby!”
Remain the champion’s sole (and stock)
lament—
An invocation that in times of ruckus
Is clearly used to comfort and console
A Yank who’s had a brick against his duck-
house
Or felt a sudden stress upon his soul.
And of its virtue who is there may judge
Except the countrymen of Donald Budge?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Colonel Bungstarter”: Launceston’s
panic-patrol against infantile paralysis
recalls another Tasmanian example of
official tact when smallpox was in the
capital of the North in 1903. Mayor
Storrer was standing for the Federal
seat, and, as an election-move, sum-
moned the citizens to a mass meeting in
protest against the outrageous conduct
of Hobart Tories in placing a single
guard on the city boundary. A thousand
citizens, headed by his Worship, the city
band and the fire brigade, with torches,
marched out in defiance. The guard,
very wisely, joined their ranks, and
cheered with the best. Long after, I
reminded the downy old Irish police
super, of the event, and suggested that
it might have been a serious matter for
Storrer had the Government taken it up.
“Sure,” he replied. “None av them at
all broke any law at all. I guessed they
wouldn’t know where the boundary was,
an’ moved the guard a quarther-moile in-
side it, so they niver went out. But it
satisfied thim.”
* * * *
“Windich”: The periodical controversy
in England about the way Australia
treats its abos. has brought a couple of
Agents-General into the field. Hal Cole-
“Got a loan of it t' mix the Christmas puddens !”
batch, Westralia’s spokesman, contends
that Binghi was already on the down-
grade when he had the country to him-
self—“the number of aborigines in Aus-
tralia when colonisation was begun,
300,000, is consistent with the probability
that they were already a decaying race.”
Nevertheless, even the approximate popu-
lation when Captain Cook arrived must
remain a matter of pure speculation.
The estimates of early-day explorers
differ widely. There may have been no
more than the figure Colebatch suggests
—the Aust. Encyc. puts it even lower—
but nobody can say definitely. The
rapidity with which they appeared at
various points on the coast when the first
Europeans of whom we have record
came on the scene suggests that the con-
tinent was less sparsely populated than
is assumed nowadays.
* * * *
“El V.”: The recent case in Sydney
of an old-age pensioner who was dis-
covered to have a few thousands tucked
away, and whose will
left a crucial name
illegible through a
blot, recalls the visit
to The Bulletin of
a Spaniard with a
shakily-written letter
from a relative in
his homeland. Half
of it had been wiped
out in one great blot
by the censor.
Visions of slaugh-
tered relatives and
friends shot at
dawn obsessed him.
Almost the last
desperate resource
was applied to make
the writing legible:
infra-red photo-
graphy, soft X-rays,
magnification all
had their turn. The in-
vestigator sat up at
nights, woke in the
early morning and
thought up new ex-
pedients. Eventu-
ally, the letter yielded
its secrets to prove
that censors are the
same wherever they
may be. “Every-
thing is very dear here,” wrote the Span-
ish communicant, “potatoes, tomatoes,
fruit —all those things which nourish the
body—are almost unobtainable.” And
I can’t decide whether the laugh was
with the censor or against him.
Jfc * * *
“Centurion”: One more awful example
has been added to London’s statues (B.
1/12/’37) —that of Earl Haig recently
unveiled by the King. When the model
was shown some years ago artists and
soldiers joined in condemning the dread-
ful horse on which the undistinguished
portrait-statue was mounted. The artist
submitted altered designs, each worse
than the first, and then the matter seems
to have been forgotten. A Bulletin
paragraphist said of the first design that
it needed only the spots and rockers to
be a perfect representation of a rocking
horse. The completed nag invites simi-
lar comparison. The poise of the head
and neck in particular is exactly that
which has for many years been conven-
tionalised in nursery remounts,
* * * *
“James W.”: That “new offence” (B.
17/11/’37)—wearing naval uniform in
undignified circumstances—was old when
Nelson was a boy. Further, the King’s
Regs. proclaim it a crime for anyone
not sworn in to the particular rank and
service to which the trappings worn
belong to wear “any part or colorable
imitation of any part of the King’s uni-
form” in any circumstances whatever.
In view of the severity of the pre-
scribed penalties it is just as well the rule
is not rigidly enforced. Theatre com-
missionaires’ Sam Browne belts and
“This heat cant last, sir!”
tunics, amateur yachtsmen’s caps and in-
numerable ballet and chorus costumes
must be admitted as “colorable imita-
tions.” By the same rule, it is a serious
offence anywhere in the Empire for
anyone but a genuine copper to don a
police uniform or any part of it.
* * * *
“Double Express”: The shades of old-
time big-game hunters from Baker to
Selous must be howling in Tartarus. A
Nairobi (Kenya) firm advertises its
“Safari Service” —not only will it take
the mug hunter in hand, find him camp
equipment, porters, rifles, tucker, etc.,
but it guarantees that he will also be sup-
plied with a specified bag, according to
the fee he pays. For instance, £4OO down
will ensure his getting 15 different kinds
of game, including four lions, three
buffaloes and an ostrich. If he pays
more the bag increases in size, the dear-
est including elephants. No doubt the
management’s representative also does
the actual killing of the game, though
this is kept in the background. Aus-
tralia may or may not take pride in the
fact that a countryman of theirs named
Tarleton —he came to the usual end of
professional hunters —was one of the
founders of the “service” safari. He was
one of Roosevelt’s guides when that
toothy expert in publicity toured East
Africa, and was quick to see the advan-
tages which lay in exploiting the war-
profiteer sportsman from Britain and his
brother moneybag from Oshkosh and
Kalamazoo.
4:
“Hech Sirs”: In a message to the
Australian Burns Society the Duke of
Athol said he would be with the Society
in the spirit and would drink its health
on Burns’s Nicht in another kind of
spirit—Athol Brose. Athol Brose can
hardly be called a spirit; it is really a
health food once much in vogue among
Scots who could persuade someone else
to shout it. It is composed of a pint of
oatmeal stirred into a pint of whisky to
which has been added a pint of honey.
A pint of cream completes the ambrosia,
which should be eaten with a wooden
spoon. “In stuff like this auld Scotia’s
grandeur dwells,” as some poet has said.
* * * *
“Passenger”: Australia is to have an-
other s.s. Kooringa (which is the official
name of the old S.A. copper-mining
town, Burra). It is being built in Glas-
gow for the Mcllwraith, McEacharn Co.,
which had a 3000-tonner of that name,
but sold it to foreign buyers after 30
years of service round our coasts. The
new one is 5500 tons. There used to be
another little Kooringa, owned by the
Holyman firm of Launceston; but, mis-
handling somehow a cargo of kerosene,
she went down in flames between Mel-
bourne and Tasmania in 1926.
* * * *
“Cape Blackwood”: I fancy “Colonel
Bungstarter’s” memory fails him (B.
1/12/’37). Last time writer was in the
Tower armory, pre-Tudor bows were to
be seen by the dozen and should still be
there. Also there is room for correc-
tion when he says William Macgregor
told him that against the raiding Tugeri
from Dutch New Guinea “arrow casual-
ties occurred among his force at over
450 yards.” I have Macgregor’s report
of that affair before me, and he men-
tions no casualties among his men. The
Tugeri, driven up one of the far western
river mouths, abandoned their canoes
and cleared out after a perfunctory stand
on the bank. As a matter of fact, the
Tugeri preferred the stone club to the
bow, though they used the latter. A
feature of Western Papuan archery as
writer saw it was that aimed fire was
attempted only at short ranges. For a
long shot the archer threw himself back
on his haunches, putting the body weight
behind the pull, and released his arrow
high in the air. Dropping at long range
on an enemy in what musketry in-
structors call “the beaten zone” casual-
ties might well occur.
THE NEW PENOLOGY.
“Three hundred convicts in Maidstone Gaol
listened appreciatively to the first jazz band to
play in an English prison, and roared with laughter
when a crooner sang into a microphone ‘The Greatest
Mistake of My Life.’ ” — Cable.
Iron bars, it’s more than vague poetic rumor,
Don’t make a cage, much less deprive a bloke
Immured behind them for some lache or
bloomer
He’s perpetrated or some law he’s broke
Of that most precious gift, the sense of humor
And the capacity to see a joke.
It hit them where they lived, that cooped-up
throng,
The apt appropriateness of the song.
The crooner gave his item out, and after
A moment’s pause, while memories backward
went,
The grim, grey building rang, from floor to
rafter,
The gloomy prison atmosphere was rent
With peals of inextinguishable laughter
And gust on gust of honest merriment.
Grim warders whistled dourness down the wind,
And even melancholy lifers grinned.
The crooner crooned on errors grave and so
on;
His eerie music, as it rose and dropped,
A peg to hang “ha-ha” and eke “ho-ho” on,
Had all the programme definitely topped.
The crowd had only their own views to go on.
Whether it’s going wrong or getting copped
Is life’s worst break. But what the hit was
worth
Was amply demonstrated by the mirth.
Some men you may have met are ultra-chary
Of finding fun and quick to feel offence
In any quip or jape that seems to carry
A hint of personal impertinence;
However much they relish thrust and parry,
They jib at jests launched at their own ex-
pense.
But there, in quod, they laughed till ribs
might ache
At sly allusions to a Great Mistake.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


10 f(
9 a
or
20/,
16
or
W»83
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke — |
CRAVENA
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
CIGARETTE
THIS
CORK
TIPPED
GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Since the Commonwealth Government
weakly allowed Stevens to borrow
£2,000,000 at 4 p.c. in London “for the
Water Board,” two Bruce conversion
loans at lower rates of interest have been
failures, as far as public subscriptions
went. Australia is, of course, the suf-
ferer. All the parties to that transaction
let it down.
Cold as the London investor has shown
himself, Casey is going to try to bite his
ear for £2,500,000 “for urgent defence
equipment.” He alleges that “it is an
emergency measure, and does not repre-
sent a return to the policy of overseas
borrowing.” That was also the yarn
when Stevens got his £2,000,000 “for the
Water Board.”
Curtin has warned the Government to
prepare for another depression. Italy, he
says, isn’t buying our wheat, Japan
isn’t buying our wool, commodity prices
are falling and “the common income” is
threatened. “Cheap money and public
works” are the preparations he suggests
—yes, and another £5O a year for Federal
members.
The Cockies at Canberra are far from
being a happy family. There was a
rumpus over the election of Thorby as
Deputy-Leader, and suggestions that
Hunter had resigned from the Ministry
knowing that he was certain to be left
out were sharply resented. As a matter
of fact the P.M. and Page were well
aware, having been thrice notified at
different times, that the Maranoa man in-
tended giving up his Ministerial position
before the new Parliament met.
The argument as to whether the nomi-
nated Marwick or the elected Cunning-
ham should sit for the remainder of
the late Senator Carroll’s term was
decided in favor of Cunningham. He
took his seat on Tuesday of last week,
and on Thursday he was granted leave
of absence for two months on account
of sickness in the family. It is a very
unusual situation altogether.
In his first speech as a Senator, Mc-
Bride, who was member for Grey (S.A.),
intimated that he wasn’t going to be
as submissive as other U.A.P. Senators
have been. Johnston, the C.P. man, re-
called that at the last Parliament’s last
sitting “20 bills were received from the
House and passed by the Senate without
adjournment.” Superior observations of
U.A.P. members and newspapers not-
withstanding, “the ignorance of the
voters” which ended the party predomi-
nance that made that sort of thing pos-
sible looks rather like the working of
retributive justice.
A Perth man who has been inspecting
his State’s London agency reported to the
“Sunday Times” that he could find only
two members of the staff with even, a dis-
tant knowledge of Westralia, and that the
clerks “have nothing to do but twiddle
their thumbs and gaze at the ceiling.”
Well, what else is there for them to do
now that loans are Commonwealth
matters? They can’t be always cadging
tickets for deadheads.
Westralia has had bitter recent ex-
periences of losses on railways built for
the convenience of mining companies,
but such experiences are wasted on Gov-
ernments like Stevens’s. Stevens’s Gov-
ernment has introduced, and the alleged
Parliament in Sydney has humbly ac-
cepted, a bill for a railway from Bungen-
dore to Captain’s Flat, “at a cost of
approximately £192,400” (and the rest).
The excuse is that a company is pre-
pared to mine “lead-zinc deposits which
at to-day’s prices are richer than those
of Broken Hill.” If so, the company
should be in a position to guarantee pait
of the cost of construction and all the
annual losses, which are reckoned by
the department at £B5OO a year. But the
public is to be the mug, as always.
Little has been heard of the Society
for the Promotion of Cultural Relations
with Soviet Russia since Stalin began
“liquidating” thousands of his old pals,
but Bishop Burgmann still bobs up occa-
sionally. In Sydney the other night he
spoke a piece on “the strain of present
world-tensions” or something of the sort,
and was introduced by a Presbyterian,
the Rev. McVittie.
The Bishop belongs to us all. Even in
Communist and other extremist circles in
which I move a great deal he is known
not as the Bishop of Goulbum but as
Burgie.
So they don’t even call him Tovarisch
or Comrade—just Burgie!
“Mr. W.M. Hughes made his debut as Minister for External Affairs.”
“S. M. Herald ."
“Debut, be damned! Why, it’s sixteen years since I began starring in this
part, girlie; and the season lasted nearly fourteen months."
Budd, M.L.A. for Byron (N.S.W.), has
been goaded into saying that “there are
members who haven’t been in the House
half an hour during the session,” which
began on August 4. He added bitterly
that “they always hold out their hands
for their salaries at the end of the
month.”
Members have told me that I may stay
here late at night if I am silly enough,
but they are going home; and home they go.
Before long these loafers will be holding
out their hands for more, especially if
Federal members set the example.
The most unpopular man in the world
with the ruling gang in Russia, and with
cocksure and arrogant Left Wing writers
everywhere, is Chamberlain, of the
“Christian Science Monitor.” Going to
Russia well disposed to Communism,
Chamberlain stayed there long enough
to find it revolting. He secured first-
hand evidence of the “man-made Soviet
famine,” and left the country convinced
that the Massacre of St. Bartholomew
was a trifle by comparison. No doubt
the gang would “liquidate” him if it
could, but Democracy can still protect
its fearless sons.
The taxpayer was not represented at
the discussions which preceded the re-
construction of the Ministry, so nobody
suggested that Lyons should become his
own Treasurer or Minister of External
Affairs. Nearly all his predecessors were
one thing or the other, and Hughes was
his own Attorney-General. Certainly
Deakin dropped External Affairs in 1909-
1910, when his powers were failing;
but there were then only»nine Min-
isters of State and an honorary. Now
there are 10 Ministers of State and four
“Assistant Ministers.”
Bob Ballantyne, who stood for River-
ina in October, has since nominated for
the Corowa Assembly by-election, giving
his address as Melbourne. It is now
declared that, if elected, he won’t be
eligible to sit, and that if one of the
three other candidates goes in on Ballan-
tyne’s preferences the thing will be in-
valid without special legislation. In at
least one other State non-enrolment as
an elector does not disqualify for mem-
bership. The late J. L. Nanson, return-
ing to Westralia after some years’
absence abroad, nominated for his old
electorate, Greenough, without having
any Westralian voting qualification, got
in, took his seat, and even landed a
portfolio—the Attorney-Generalship.
Beasley must feel that the world has
turned against him. In the course of a
few days he was left off his party’s execu-
tive committee, asked to give up his sepa-
rate room at Parliament House —it was
placed at his disposal when he became
leader of the Lang faction—and spurned
by the municipal electors of Glebe when
he told them to hoof out a dozen “un-
endorsed” Labs., eight of them retiring
aldermen, and elect a Lang ticket, in-
cluding four retiring aldermen. The
12 rebs. won hands down. And Glebe is
in Beasley’s own electorate of West
Sydney.
The almighty Q.C.E. has been busy
endorsing and refusing endorsement to
Labor candidates for the Assembly elec-
tions. All sitting members were en-
dorsed, though W. J Copley’s right to
sport the party label again in Bulimba
was vigorously challenged. As it is, he
will have to go to a ballot as one of
eight. Another comrade is after Minister
Cooper’s scalp in Bremer, and still an-
other thinks he ought to be the man for
Carpentaria instead of Minister Mullen.
A trade-union conference in Brisbane
has demanded that politicians shall be
retired at 65. Billy Demaine, the mem-
ber for Maryborough, and Randolph
Bedford, who was M.L.A. for Warrego
till he resigned to have a cut at Hunter
in Maranoa, are well beyond that age.
Billy is giving up politics, though not
because of the trade-union resolution;
but Randolph is coming back. He has
been awarded the party nomination for
Warrego again, another applicant hav-
ing been ruled out.
The C.P.’s publicity man claims a
unique distinction for Page.
He was unanimously elected leader for
the 17th year in succession—easily an Aus-
tralian record for political leadership.
But surely Parkes is not forgotten alto-
gether. A more pertinent reference to
Hunter:
His commonsense and sound financial
advice will be missed. The increasing de-
mands of the accountancy business and
other interests prevented his accepting the
full portfolio offered.
That should scotch the story that Hunter
left the Ministry so that he wouldn’t
be pushed out.
Fadden, M.H.R., is “exceedingly dis-
appointed that Queensland will, probably
for the first time since Federation, be
without Ministerial representation in the
Lower House.” Actually it was without
such representation in the Barton, first
Deakin and Reid-McLean Ministries;
also for nearly four years of Bruce-Page
(1925-29). Then, as now, it was never
without a Minister in the Senate (first
Drake, then Crawford and Glasgow),
and it got’ along pretty well. Perhaps
Fadden should have been picked by
Lyons, but his time will come. After
all, he is just entering upon his second
year as a Federal member.
“S. M. Herald” has been publishing
post-election articles on national defence,
and, by way of rounding them off, the
editor presented “this for reflection”:
The Defence Act makes all males be-
tween ages of 18 and 60 liable for service
in time of war... .A citizen army so mobil-
ised would invite the heaviest toll upon
our manhood for neglect of training.
The Bulletin said as much before the
election. Granny’s story then was
(October 22): “The people of Australia
have given their decision as to conscrip-
tion—it is foolish to think even of its
being revived.”
During a Malvern (Vic.) municipal
discussion of the senseless ban on cattle
from the Board of Works sewage farm,
a councillor declared that it had resulted
in Melbourne people paying a penny to
threepence a pound more for beef. And
that’s not the only result, for the board
is losing so heavily on cattle transac-
tions that sooner or later it will have to
raise the rates. A loss of “at least
£25,000” on this year’s cattle deals was
mentioned at the Malvern meeting, and
for the year to June 30, 1936, the Gov-
ernment Statistician chronicled a loss of
£7300. Before Dunstan came down with
his embargo—in fact, before Dunstan,
the politician, was thought of —annual
cattle profits were known to exceed
£37,000.


w "SSSSb
The
Makes loveliest
husband \m the world "
" He IS STROM <3, AND
HeeU_THV."
“ Domesticaj&o "
if >\
TOLER4.WT
v ' K.IMDL.V ,"
ft *
A. GOOD SPORT
CONS\DERME
" PA.MU-'V- LOV\MG\"
n i
But HEt&MOT
HE GETS THE NO. 1 VOTE."
“A woman of discernment. Mrs. Pauline Budge, founder of the Australian Women’s party, has been goaded into encomiums on the Australian husband. Sydney


Ķ
Newington
COLLEGE
STANMORE, N.S.W. EST. 1863.
THE basis of a successful career is a sound
grounding in the principles of education and
good citizenship, with the inculcation of a capacity to play one’s part
in the varied life of a Great School.
Newington fills all these requirements, and the record of the successes
achieved by old Newingtonians, in commerce and the professions, is
the surest evidence of the fact.
Education - - - Recreation - - - Character-building
Write for prospectus and all particulars to
P. R. LE COUTEUR, M.A. (Oxon.), Headmaster.
3Jii injisn isiONOi
The life of a tyre gauge ends when its accuracy is
gone. Comparing useful life with cost, a Kismet
tyre gauge gives you best value. It is made with
precision—tested repeatedly during manufac-
ture, to give exact readings every time
and for always.
Get a. Kismet—the extra cost
comes back to you in longer
useful service.
96
<p
pVM
ftA
fiHin
1
OEEEO33
5©
va
J-.jw'
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD. P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
Calibrated
0-50 pounds,
clearly marked
on wide flat sur-
faces in single
oounds; in neat leather
wallet.
.A.* 1 ! ••
Manvfnctvren: VV I.' ' A VI TI’RNKR fr '■'RO.. rTD . Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
PERSONAL ITEMS
With the end of Rear-Admiral R. H. O.
Lane-Poole’s term, command of the Aus-
tralian Navy will fall to Rear-Admiral
Wilfrid N. Custance, a gunnery expert
who has been 38 years in the R.N. He
comes fresh from the command of one
of the two greatest battleships in the
world, H.M.S. Rodney, and before that
was head of the Devonport gunnery
school. He led the Naval Brigade in
London during the Coronation festivities.
Just finishing an extensive tour of
Australasia, Bunshiro Suzuki is one of
Japan’s mosts distinguished journalists
and a director of its most widely-read
newspaper, “Asahi Shimbun,” which
BUNSHIRO SUZUKI, of “Asahi
Shimbun."
boasts a circulation of 3,000,000. He
graduated at the Tokio School of Foreign
languages, and for many years travelled
the world representing his paper, for
which he reported on both the Versailles
and Washington conferences.
This year’s Westralian Rhodes scholar,
Harry Ross Anderson, leans to educa-
tional rather than sporting brilliance. A
law student, he has won 11 distinctions in
12 subjects in three years at the Uni.
Dead in Adelaide, at 92, Walter How-
chin, one of Australia’s foremost geolo-
gists. He came to S.A. in 1881, and was
long secretary to Adelaide Children’s Hos-
pital, but his boyhood’s love for palaeon-
tdlogy came to the front, and he surpris-
ingly argued a glacial origin of some of
S.A.’s rocks —now generally admitted.
He became lecturer and then professor
at the Adelaide Uni.; chairman of the
Museum; editor of the Royal Society’s
proceedings, and gained the Clark, Von
Mueller, Lyall and Verco medals.
Samuel Dart, dead in Brisbane, leaves
behind a useful Australian family, in-
cluding a Baptist minister, a veterinary
surgeon and the dean of the faculty of
medicine at Witwatersrand University,
Johannesburg. The last-named, one of
the first batch of science graduates from
Queensland Uni., took an honors medi-
cal degree at Sydney, became a senior
lecturer at London University, came into
prominence through his study of a miss-
ing-link skull in S’Africa, and has writ-
ten prolifically on many phases of pre-
historic Africa.
The Adelaide Public Library Board has
elected as its president The Bulletin’s
old friend and art-and-dramatic critic in
Adelaide for many years S. Talbot Smith.
The chair is not likely to be an easy one,
as a much-discussed bill is before Parlia-
ment (but shelved for this session) to
abolish the board in its present form,
and make Library, Art Gallery and
Museum, now all under one management,
into separate bodies.
The deaths of G. W. Merriman, of Vale
View, Yass (N.S.W.), and his son Frank
as the result of a motor accident on the
Hume Highway are a severe loss to the
woolbreeding industry. Both had been
in the stud business all their lives. G.W.’s
father started on 40 acres at Ravens-
worth in 1865, and G.W. himself became
one of the world’s best-known merino
stud breeders. He acquired a number of
properties, took a leading part in the
public affairs of his district, was presi-
dent of the Yass Agricultural Society
and numbered friends from one end of
Australia to the other.
Clarence Moody, just dead in Sydney,
was at his best in the days before it was
supposed a writer on cricket need be a
cricketer himself. He accompanied the
1893 XI to England, and was always
understood to have written most of
George Giffen’s classic, With Bat and
Ball. Moody wrote of cricket for the old
Adelaide “Register” while his brother
Hadrian was sporting editor. He left to
help found Adelaide’s Sunday paper,
the “Mail,” and moved to Sydney after
the war. Incidentally, he was among
those who introduced bowls to S.A. at
the end of the century.
A. J. Turner, childhood’s greatest
friend in Brisbane, retires from his job
as Child Welfare Director. Arriving
from London in 1899 he became first
medical officer at the Children’s Hos-
pital, and maintained a place on the staff
for a generation. In private, for many
years he had the bulk of chil-
dren’s-specialist work, and he
was largely instrumental in the
development of the baby clinics
which are a feature of the
Queensland Health Depart-
ment’s organisation.
E. A. Le Soeuf, dead in Perth, be-
longed to a family which made zoologi-
cal history. His father, the first director
of Melbourne Zoo, was succeeded by a
son, Dudley. Albert was Dudley’s assis-
tant for some years, then left for Sydnev
as first curator of Taronga Park. E.A.
founded South Perth Zoo, and remained
its director till 1932. For a time he was
chief vet. to the Commonwealth Military
Forces, and served both in S’Africa and
in the Great War.
The Tasmanian Turf will miss W. S.
Hallett, of Hollow Tree, Bothwell (Tas.),
who has weighed in for the last time. He
raced many horses, though with little
luck, Panoply, narrowly beaten in the
1928 Hobart Cup, the best of them.
No previous chief of the British Im-
perial General Staff could boast the
record of Viscount Gort, who takes over
at 51. He won the M.C. in 1915, the
T.S.O. and two bars and the V.C. in the
last two years of the war and was men-
tioned in dispatches nine times. He rose
to command his regiment, the Grenadiers,
at 40, became director of military train-
ing five years ago and last year was given
the headship of the Camberley Military
Staff College.
Jurors locked up for the night at the
Melbourne Law Courts considered them-
selves lucky when their vigils were diver-
sified by the character impersonations of
Jock Whitburn, who has just retired
from the post of court crier. He is a
one-time actor who appeared as lead in
many an ancient melodrama. He was
in “Man to Man,” the first piece staged
at the King’s Theatre.
R. B. Curd, retiring from the collec-
torship in Brisbane, has been in the
Customs all his working life, serving in
every State, in New Guinea for a year
and for seven years at Australia House.
In a younger day he was one of Bris-
bane’s best-known cricketers and row-
ing men, and the old Brisbane Lieder-
tafel owed a great deal to his musical
and organising ability.
Donald Thomson, the Melbourne an-
thropologist whom the Federal Gov-
ernment gave a vague authority in a
large part of Arnhem Land, is off to
Cambridge University to continue his
researches under the Rockefeller Foun-
dation. Among the results of his 15
months’ ministry were an enormous mass
of data and several tons of specimens.
N.S.W. Premier Stevens’s father-in-
law, H. M. Anderson, is retiring from
local-government activities at 77 years,
31 of which have been devoted to the
interests of Camperdown (N.S.W.), Moss
Vale and Wingecarribee. He “mayored”
Moss Vale four times.
Reg Powell, pictured here, is a
Maorilander who turned to banking as a
career. The war found his six-feet-odd
leaning over a teller’s counter in Perth
(W.A.), where he enlisted. He returned
a captain with an M.C., deserted bank-
ing to become advertising manager of
Perdriaus, then went into private practice.
REG POWELL, the Man from
Invercargill.
He now has his own advertising busi-
ness in Sydney, specialising in bank pub-
licity, in which he has created a nevs
Australian technique. He gives much oi
his spare time to Legacy Club affairs.
W. L. Payne, having -completed a
monumental report on the Northern Ter-
ritory, is relinquishing his position as
chairman of the Queensland Land Ad-
ministration Board to become president
of the Land Appeal Court: He should
know Queensland land law —he is
W.L. PAYNE, new president of the
Queensland Land Appeal Court.
father of most of it, has administered it
since 1928, and before that had experi-
ence as Crown counsel to the Land Court
and was a member for two years.
“M.G.S.” on a pianist:
Edward Goll, mentioned recently, is one of
the best-liked of Melbourne’s musicians. His
house at Mont Albert abuts the street, and his
rehearsals in his study on summer evenings
used to be attended by audiences which clus-
tered outside the hedge around his garden and
listened as intently and applauded as reveren-
tially as if they were in a concert hall. Goll
won the Beethoven prize as a youth against
the same Rubinstein who visited Australia re-
cently. He is a Czech with a wide experience
of the world, gained on playing tours, an
expert on cooking and Australian wines (for
which he barracks), and is a collector of rare
old books and manuscripts. One of his most
treasured possessions is an original copy, made
by a process now forgotten, direct from
Beethoven’s final draft of the Appassionata.
It says much for the modern spirit of
China that its authorities thought it worth
while to tempt Professor A. F. Barker,
now visiting Australia, to take the Chair
of Textile Industries at Chiao-Tung Uni-
versity, Shanghai. First head of the
Textile Department at the Sal-
taire Technical Schools, Leeds
(Eng.), in 1892 Barker at 24
became professor of textile
industries at Leeds Technical
College, and afterwards at
Leeds University, which made him an
emeritus professor when he went to China
in 1933. Besides his works on sheep and
wool and textiles he has a number of
travel books to his credit.
W. B. Propsting, dead in Tasmania at
76, had a curious political career.
Already well known in the law, he was
elected M.H.A. in 1899. After three
years he became leader of the Opposi-
tion, the job merging into a short-lived
Premiership which ended in 1904. The
next year saw him an M.L.C., and he con-
tinued to sit in the Council till his death
—for 10 years as Attorney-General and
the last 11 as President.


.Vk.'- •
SShMII
i»w.''
a
"' :..}■ ’•:■■ > :;
-
W§P
sai
HM
g®
■■■Y,j
: . : * ! :<
#* * -
rj
' ■ —m—.
.
■H
mam
~l: • ■ '-■
PH
'3?
■
gyr US
V
w* If
*aj
i -■ t
p£S
teijljtjlp
Greetings . . . formal congratulations ... a
simple “goodbye” or “welcome home”—
so easy to say by telegram.
Jean engaged—hear the news and ....
send a telegram. A son and heir at “The
Pines”. . . . send a telegram.
And, by Jove, yes—it’s Peter’s birthday—
and you haven’t .... send a telegram!
Christmas, Mothers’ Day and Easter, too
. . . send a telegram!
Bright forms and envelopes—ornamental
telegrams—are the very thing for your
messages. They mean so much to the
recipients and they cost so little ....
the usual low telegraph charges apply.
■IMIf > >:
■ : •-
m§irk. : *
Ills
-m.
.
>x
7A ™
■■■ ■ -■'«'• -. • ' ' ’ , ,
■■P
He '
[dtt
dim
*K
'
i m
M
m
:: kA~m
m
is«*
:/:
::zrzr:
|3£s2sBB&W®|
4
pp
. f l
*- ■ •
■lri
■Bl 0p I
b. ywj \
* ■ ill
1 f~ I
.............................. 5i A •
msmsm
■
II
I’m:
W>* ■
< ******* ««c 'ww* r<*«. s#*s<«>* *«* Mw»« v
ran »•:■>. ■■'.■.
SillliiiP■ v. •
• •
: MS®
' •■:?y
• v ’ f\
j


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Tom Willie”: “A pure-bred dingo,”
he told me it was, with that pride
which a man displays only when he
is declaring his ownership of the
best dog in the world. It was with
him on the seat of his truck in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Got
it, he did, as a pup down at Wol-
longong, and it was four years old. A
more faithful animal a man never had—
the best of all dogs. It was as tame as
a cat and never bit anybody, though it
had learned to bark in a kind of way by
imitating the dogs which were its con-
stant companions. “It’s a pity,” he said,
“the way they persecute the poor things.
They don’t know they are doing wrong ;
they only behave naturally.” With
touching tenderness he caressed the dingo
affectionately. Then he explained the
phenomenon to the crowd which had
gathered and blocked the footpath. '
* * * *
“Alpha”: Struck a swagman on the
road who mourned the passing of the
square iron ship’s tank, now supplanted
by the round galvanised-iron job. “They
always rusted round the taps,” he told
me, “and a bloke could pick up a bob
or two anywhere as long as he had a
soldering-iron and acid. Never met a
cocky yet that could solder, and as soon i
as you made a job of the first tank in /
a district they passed you right round.” |
“Soon cut yourself out of a job,” I I
suggested. He grinned. “A bloke could \
put in a couple of seasons somewhere
else, and next time he came round there v
was plenty more work at the same places,
The tip was to patch up the front all
right, and then start the flakes on the
back or bottom with a cold chisel and
spill a drop of acid into the break. The
water never came through for 12 or
18 months, so they didn’t think of blam-
ing a bloke for it. Can’t do much with
these galvanised contraptions, though.
Every scratch shows up!”
* * * *
“Texel”: There he clung, 40 feet or
more from terra firma; an instant’s
lessening of his grip would mean a
stunning fall into a pile of jagged
boulders where he would lie crushed
and bleeding. And now, to add to his
torture, strong wings brushed him, and
cruel beaks tore at his spine. The end
was not long in coming. A concerted
attack tore him down to his death —the
common fate of a goanna caught trying
to rifle a kookaburra’s nest.
* * * *
“Boong”: Hereabouts (Thallon, Q.)
you don’t catch us chasing grasshoppers
with cans of poison. No, sir! Mathe-
matical science is what we depend on.
We dig trenches sft. every way except
in length, and five miles that way, hav-
ing proven that no ’hopper can hop more
than 4ft. llin. When they come to the
brink of the abyss they attempt to bridge
the gap with an extra-good leap.
Those that don’t rick their backs or die
of a broken heart over their humiliating
failure fall and break the main leaf in
their spring—and the garage is much too
far away.
“Williami”: Twenty-three Muscovy
ducklings lost in one go (B. 17/11/’37)?
Most distressing, with Christmas coming
on; but if Dad had had as much sense
as he gets credit for he’d have lifted
those ’covies up by the feet and drained
the water out of their crops. The hardest
part of the job is to find the feet, be-
cause a duckling when picked up draws
them into the down and buries them. But
they can be got hold of, and then a
gentle swing to and fro will dislodge all
the water and save the bird to fulfil a
grand destiny.
* * * *
. “Dungeness”: Ecclesiastical “rats” to
“Curate’s Egg’’ (B. 17/11/’37) about
alleged doubling of T.S. island popula-
tion since the white man came. Where
are the 2000 who lived on now aban-
doned Tute (Warrior Island) and manned
the formidable navy which attacked
Bligh’s ships in 1792? Where the 3000
and more who covered Murray Island
“In conclusion, my lord bishop, I have to inform you that undernourished
incumbents with absurdly small feet are positively no good to this
parish.”
with their gardens a century ago, by
testimony of the Charles Eaton rescue
expedition which brought back young
Willy D’Oyley to Sydney? Could the
present population of Murray, Darnley
and Yorke build the immense stone fish-
traps still on their shores? Where are
those who made the “two large villages
with much pearlshell,” and who wisely
hooked it to the top of Mt. Ernest when
Torres and his rascally, murdering cre\vs
hove in sight of Nagheer in 1606? His-
tory and native tradition alike indicate
that T.S. native population has been
decimated, not doubled, by the coming
of the white man.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: When in dire agony
some sea creatures universally recognised
as being dumb will become vocal. The
female humpback whale when struck
with the dynamite harpoon will occasion-
ally scream —with the volume of 50
anguished women —which brings the bull
tearing to her rescue, himself to fall a
victim. Experienced harpooners during
the mating season always shoot the cow
first. But the latest to be added to the
list of the vocal is the stingaree. Land-
ing a large specimen, about 4ft. across
from tip to tip and weighing probably
1001 b., a W.A. fisherman left it lying
alongside his camp to expire. Presently
he was aroused by a noise not unlike
the blatting of a calf, and, on investigat-
ing, found that it came from his capture,
giving birth to young: three baby stinga-
rees, each about 9in. across. The female
’ray’s prematurely bringing forth her
young before expiring on land has often
been recorded, but this seems the first
time that the species has ever demon-
strated the possession of vocal organs.
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: Camped in a N.Q.
shelter-shed with about a hundred other
wanderers, I soon found out that,
although it was safe to leave tucker and
other gear unattended, soap of any kind
disappeared as soon as you took your
eyes off it. I couldn’t understand this
soap-hunger until an old battler ex-
plained that “while a bloke don’t mind
putting the acid on a cocky for a bit
of tucker he draws the line at bottin’ for
soap. Sounds as if a feller needs a bath
or something.”
* * * , *
“Centre”: Pass the word to “Sand-
patch” (B. 24/11/’37) that mushrooms
are on the menu card of certain of the
abos. These epicures also know the
worth of puffballs, shaggy-caps and the
brown-topped boletus, all of which', by
the way, are sold in European markets
just as carrots and onions are sold here.
I’ve watched a couple of abo. kids
gathering edible fungi, and noticed that,
while they missed none of the above-
mentioned varieties, they passed by
everything in the way of lemon-yellow'
amanita, fly-mushroom, amanita phai-
loides and a purple variety (I don’t know
the name) without a second glance. It
rather struck me that they knew quite
as much about edible fungi as I did, and
probably a bit more, and I include a
round dozen different kinds of so-called
toadstools in my bill of fare—when I
can get them.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Drift-bottles make some
remarkable voyages at times. One, sent
afloat south of Cape Horn, travelled to
the coast of Victoria at an average speed
of nine sea miles per day. Another,
from a German barque half-way between
Kerguelen and Tasmania, was found
2447 days later near Bunbury (W.A.). It
must have gone round the world and
more, 16,600 miles, at an average speed
of just under 6| sea-miles daily, and
kept between about 33deg. S. to 47deg.
S. Another drifted from off the coast
of Portugal to Cuba, 4670 miles, in 626
days. Three put out together 600 miles
n.-e. of Newfoundland were found at
the Orkneys, close together and within a
week of each other. Others have
travelled from Cape Cod (U.S.A.) to
Cornwall, and from Cape Hatteras to
Ireland. The British Ministry of
Fisheries and the U.S. Hydrographic
Office encourage such work for current-
research in connection with fisheries. So
should our State and Federal fishery
officials.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Among the more
idiotic suggestions for protecting surfers
from sharks, the prize example advo-
cates lifesavers patrolling the outer break
on surf-skis. Frank Venning, that
veteran Queensland lifesaver, swimmer
and deep-sea fisherman, summed up the
matter by saying that even a rod-and-
line size in sharks would only make one
bite of both patrolman and ski. Those
gallant lads would tackle it, but a hungry
shark is not to be scared off in that way.
I’ve seen one grab the bow of a net-boat
full of mullet, and hang on to it until
belted off with oars, leaving deep teeth
marks in the planking. Another, a 10ft.
tiger, brought alongside a dinghy on a
heavy line, tore two feet of the gunwale
away, with the top plank, in one snap
and twist. Luckily she was highwooded
enough to keep afloat, but we didn’t seem
to want that shark any more.
* . * * *
“Dungeness”: Some five miles north
of Townsville (N.Q.) is the largest private
bird-sanctuary in Australia. Many acres
of former mudflats along the Bohle
River have been walled and dammed
into pools and lakelets in which thou-
sands of wildfowl swim, bask and feed
under protection of St. John Robinson,
of Townsville. And the protection is no
sinecure, on account of moonlight raids
by alleged sportsmen. At a recent visit,
14 specimens of the now rare wild goose,
which Robinson, at much trouble and ex-
pense, has succeeded in inducing to
breed, were under treatment for shot in-
juries. Some interesting experimental
work on crossing these big, well-flavored
birds with Asiatic species of goose is
under way. A private zoo is another
feature of the establishment.
“Quercus” : “Kerriki” (B. 3/11/’37)
asks which end of a bulldog-ant does
the dirty work. When one got me his
jaws were closed tight on a skin fold
behind my little finger, and he was
stabbing furiously with the tip of his
abdomen. It was fascinating to watch,
because I was wearing doeskin gloves.
Incidentally, the bull-ant’s acid-tank is
behind his differential.
“Ermine ? ’ (Cumberland, Eng.):
In a county newspaper which
prints a column of items from
its files of 50 years ago, I
came across a statement that
a certain Mr. Allbones, of
Brigg, Cumberland, had col-
lected and dispatched upwards
of 250 stoats and weasels to Aus-
tralia, that he had orders for 1000
more and that they were being exported
for the purpose of destroying rabbits. In
a 25-years acquaintance with Australia I
cannot recall ever having seen a stoat or
a weasel there, nor do I ever remember
any Abo.-scribes mentioning them in The
Bulletin. What happened to the 1250?
* * * *
“Dolgelly”: Spider weddings are not
as inevitably fatal for the bridegroom as
“Atrax” (B. 17/11/’37) suggests. True,
Mrs. Arachnida can’t be trusted not to go
all temperamental just after marriage,
but I have seen matings end without
murder. In one instance, Hubby, making
his departure, actually strolled over Wife’s
back. He didn’t hurry, but he certainly
did keep going until well away from the
love-nest. On the other hand, the female
of a species of grey garden-spider
common in Africa always tries to kill her
mate. But her two-inch body is stout
and heavy, while his is only about house-
fly size and weight—and he is so much
quicker on his pins that he generally gets
away. Only time I saw one caught was
on a windy day. Part of the web had
blown loose and she managed to get him
in a corner.
PICNIC WELCOME.
He mightn’t have been a Darby or another
Jimmy Pike,
But he rode to win, an’ it looked a sin,
When he an’ th’ mare comes amblin’ in, reel
professional-like.
To see her owner, Paspalum Brown,
Rush out to meet ’em, an’ pull him down
An’ soak him a biff on the blasted ear
That’d easy have flattened a flamin’ steer,
With langwidge even th’ bookies’ howls hadn’t
a chance to drown.
An’ when y’ remember Paspalum’s weight was
all out fifteen stone
Y’ can understand it looked underhand,
To say th’ least; which was why it fanned the
Irish in Bill Malone,
An’ why Bill swings with intent to kill,
An’ why Paspalum’s mate tackles Bill,
An’ why Bill’s mate gets into it, too,
Until, in a jiff, it’s th’ whole damn’ crew,
Ev’ry man-jack at th’ flamin’ course hoppin’ in
for his fill.
There was stirrup-irons an’ bridles swung;
there was black eyes in galore;
There was twists and leaks in a score of
beaks.
Before, as it were, an Inner Voice squeaks:
“What th’ hell are we fightin’ for?”
So they knocks off then, and none of them’s in
Th’ know as to what had started th’ din,
Until Paspalum, over a shout
He’s havin’ with Bill, gives th’ bar a clout,
An’ “Strike me!” he says, “I know he won—
th’ blankety-blank-blank son of a gun!”
An’ Bill agrees it was only fair if the cow
wasn’t told to win.
N.S.W.
BOB PUNTER.


“Gryllus”: I knew those two big, arro-
gant, black-and-orange wasps who zoom
about the gums where the cicadas sing
for Exeirus, the Great Australian Cicada-
hunters, but yesterday I had the luck to
find their nest. It is a foot-high, wide
mound of freshly-turned clay with half
a dozen entrances. From each runs
down a deep-dug passage, ending in a
shelved catacomb, an amazing work for
two insects. One boomed across, picked
its cicada,' hovered a while, dropped on
the victim’s back as it shrilled its appre-
ciation of a sappy twig, and drove its
sting into a nerve centre. The song
faltered and stopped, the victim rolled
off to the ground, alive but paralysed.
The hunter turned it on its back,
straddled it like a jockey, and began to
drag the quarry, many times larger than
itself, straight to the nest, 50 yards away,
clear across all obstacles. Tipped into an
entrance, it was dragged below, there to
serve as incubator and food-supply for
an egg and grub. It may be two years
hence before a full-grown insect emerges
from the nest.
* * * *
“Mako”: An interesting Maori relic
came to light unexpectedly the other day
when a woman noticed in the cowyard
of a Taranaki (M.L.) farm a unique
drinking trough. It was an old-time
Maori canoe 25ft. long, hollowed from a
totara tree, the burned stump of which
was near by. The canoe is estimated to
be more than a century old, and was
promptly removed as a valuable addi-
tion to the Dominion’s stock of Maori
curios, the farmer accepting with satis-
faction a modern concrete trough in
place of the relic.
* * * *
“Quercus”: “C.V.S.” (B. 3/11/’37)
fired a shot across a narrow gorge, heard
the hammer click, the whine of the
bullet and then the report. He wonders
why. Well, the echbes from the three
different sounds travelled back to him at
You go an draw yer time an get back to the ’amburger-
joint were you Was trained .”
different speeds. The click has the high-
est-frequency vibration. That reached
his lugs first, and the others followed in
the order of their relative frequencies.
* ¥ * *
“Tawa”: For 20 years our small
suburban orchard harbored a huge pear-
tree which had never been known to
bear fruit, though each spring local
poets rushed into print over its glory of
bloom. It was decreed that, owing to
lack of space, the unfruitful tree must
fall. It almost immediately set a huge
crop of what proved to be delicious fruit,
of a variety long out of fashion on ac-
count of their size and tendency to drop
and bruise badly. That season over and
a new lease of life assured, it hasn’t
borne again. Experts, of course, talked
of lack of fertilisation, there being no
other pear-tree within miles; but what
induced it to make that one impressive
display still has the family orchardist
puzzled.
* • * * *
“Ploki”: Fire-spears were certainly
used by raiding abos. in the early days
(B. 17/11 / ’37). In ’59, not long after
a party of them murdered the Frazer
“Pull up, Mustapha—we want a rest!”
family at Hornet Bank on the Dawson
(Q.), the Balonne blacks made a night
attack on St. George township. A par-
ticipant in the scrap—in which 70-odd
abos. were killed —told me that fire-
spears were thrown on to the roofs and
through the partly-barricaded windows
of several homesteads, but, except in one
case, were successfully extinguished. The
fire-spears were made by tying on, close
to the points, bundles of grease-soaked
bark wrapped in dried grass.
“James W.”: Apparently “W.,” who
took “J.” to task about corn-cutting (B.
10/11 /’37), hasn’t seen many cocky
farms. A very small percentage of Aus-
tralia’s maize crop is grown for grain. It
is usually cut while still green, and the
stalks fed to stock whole or converted
into “chop-chop,” cobs and all. Most
of what isn’t cut for immediate use as
fodder is stored in silos for winter feed.
Pulling corn from the tallest stalks
wouldn’t worry the shortest man. Rarely
is a cob more than six feet up, even
among freak crops, and a five-footer
could reach that. Even if the cobs are
out of reach a child could bend the
toughest stalk over and yank off the cob.
*„* . * *
iJasyure : Up till lately it was be-
lieved by many naturalists that the extra-
ordinary “Tasmanian Tiger” was extinct.
The Tassie Animal and Bird Protection
Board has recently completed a search
which has revealed that the beast, one
of the very few marsupial carnivores,
still exists in some parts of the Speck. In
the uninhabited and hardly-explored
country of the West Coast about the
Raglan Ranges many tracks have been
seen. The area is to be charted and de-
clared a sanctuary by the Government.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: The deadliness of the hawk
tribe is not “all tosh” (B. 27/10/’37). If
“Stralia” had watched the black-cheeked
falcon instead of the goshawk he might
have seen some spectacular aerobatics.
These birds cause such heavy mortality
among fast-flying homing-
pigeons that many flying
clubs offer attractive
bonuses for their heads.
The ancient sport of fal-
conry is another proof of
the hawk’s deadliness.
* * *
“Nordbo”: How’s this
for intelligence, you
superior white - pfellers?
An old abo. cobber, hav-
ing speared a bandicoot,
cuts its throat and hangs it
over his fishtrap in t|he
creek (near Cairns, N.Q.).
The dripping blood, car-
ried up or down accord-
ing to the tide, makes a
trail which few fish can
resist following, and a per-
centage is always caught.
Bled white, the bandicoot
forms the piece de resist-
ance on his menu —with
fish to follow.
* * *
“Groper”: No, the race
isn’t always to the swift,
nor the battle to the
strong. William Wag-
tail’s little wife was doing
her duty to the com-
munity when a greedy-
eyed magpie happened along. W.A.
maggies are demons on eggs and newly-
hatched nestlings, but Mr. Wagtail
knew his business. Weight for weight
the magpie could have stood him up 10
times. But soon the pied murderer was
scuttling for his life, with William get-
ting in a few pecks from above to help
things along. Having seen the visitor
well off the premises he returned to his
sentry duty on the fence, ready for the
next comer. By the wag of his tail one
could see that he felt virtue triumphant.
* * * *
“Formic”: Passing a few minutes
with the ants to-day I saw one struggling
up a loose mound. Fully loaded, he was
scratching gravel for the lick of his life.
Just as he got to the top a gust of wind
blew him off his perch and sent him roll-
ing to the bottom. He picked himself up,
dusted the seat of his pants and started
up the hill again. I took particular note
of that cove; the wind had strengthened
and was coming in irregular puffs. I ex-
pected to see him blown away again ; he
wasn’t. Every so often he would stop
scratching gravel, hug the earth, catch
hold of his monkey strap and hang tight.
Every time that grip preceded a sudden
blow by about a second! I took note of
the other fellows wandering about the
top of the nest. Each was doing the
same. I couldn’t find any sentry in the
distance who was banging a big drum to
give them warning of a gas attack. How
the blazes did they know the blow was
coming so as to prepare for it just be-
fore it hit them?
* * * *
“K.S.”: At Mountain Creek, near
Avoca (Vic.) Farmer Jones hand-fed
for three weeks six orphaned lambs.
Then he had a brainwave. He tethered
a cow close to the lambs’ pen twice a
day. The orphans took Blossom’s milk
for a week, and then followed her to pas-
ture, where they have stayed staunchly
by the foster-mother. In the five months
that Blossom has mothered them the
sextet has achieved the glorious weight of
901 b. Fact!
* * * #
“Dougal”: Ever notice the different
manner of bearing between the sour and
sweet citrus fruits? The lemon grows
out anywhere along the main spikes like
so many pieces of plasticene stuck round
a lead pencil; the orange grows only
at the tip of the branch or the extremity
of twigs attached thereto. Unlike other
fruit trees, the roots of which strike
downwards towards the nearest moisture,
the roots of the citrus family come up-
wards for heat. Consequently digging
round the orange- or lemon-tree means
severing these roots and hindering the
tree’s progress. The best thing to do is
to pull up the grass around the tree and
leave it on the surface to rot. This sup-
plies necessary humus and doesn’t inter-
fere with the vital roots.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Leaving his mattock stuck
in the ground where he was digging out
a rabbit burrow a South Coast (N.S.W.)
man went to shelter in his tent from
a storm. When it had passed he found
his pick about 15 yards from where he
had left it and the burrow ripped open
for another six yards. He appreciated
Nature’s labor-saving electrical device,
but wondered what would have happened
if he’d kept on working.
* * * *
“Stralia”: Drastic measures are adopted
by mutton-birds to get rid of their off-
spring. They begin their annual flight to
the North Pacific and leave their young
totally helpless in the nesting burrows.
After a few days of living solely upon
the layer of fat surrounding their bodies,
the young fowls hurl themselves over
the nearest cliff—not to commit suicide,
but as a means of getting into the air
for their first flight—and soon after those
that survive follow in the wake of their
parents to various reaches of the Pacific.
This long migration by young and inex-
perienced birds is one of the greatest
marvels of bird life.
OUTBACK.
All the unhallowed beauty I have found,
All free-discordant shrills
And form-defying wonders above ground,
Like writhen trees with draggled foliage, .
Straggling along the courses of wayback creeks,
Scarlet-and-green , , . ,
Sky-streaking parrot-fires, with parrot shrieks
Echo-shattering the shoulders of the hilts,
And desert-sunset rage:
Rage for my mind, be clamant, do not cease,
You are my holiest habitat of peace.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.


Are you a PERSON of
INDEPENDENT MEANS?
If so, then you may wish to travel, or to lead
your life free from the care and responsibility
of attending to your investments. By appoint-
ing The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited as Attorney or Agent, you can
be relieved of this worry. The Company safe-
guards its clients’ interests, remits income
and dividends regularly, collects rents, pre-
pares land and income tax returns, advises
upon and attends to the investment of money
and the payment of rates, taxes, etc.
Call upon or write the Company for full de-
tails as to how it can serve you.
§542$
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudencll White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926. 1,099,559 12$ p.c.= 750,000 349,559 4,880,314
Bank of Western Australia absorbed.
Net reserves taken over, £600,851.. 5,481.165
1927. 1,226,247 12* p.c.= 886,797 339,150 5,820,615
1928. 1,184,943 12$ „ „ 936,905 248,038 6.068,653
1929.. 994,825 10 „ „ 750,000 244,825 6,313,478
1930.. 734,699 9} „ „ 731,250 3,449 6,316,927
1931.. 565,236 8 „ „ 619,200 6.262.963
1932.. 462,967 5J „ ~460,950 2,017 6,264.980
1933.. 439,616 5 „ „ 439,000 616 6,265,596
1934.. 439,739 5 „ „ 439,000 739 6.266.335
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 5$ „ „ 460,950 9,504 6,279,499
1937.. 543,242 6 „ „ 626,800 16,442 6,295,941
The chairman’s general note of warning
against the dangers of overtrading and
his urge to merchants and others to
strengthen their financial shock-absorb-
ers are, speaking generally, sound and
timely pieces of advice. But many will
hesitate to give the same verdict on the
following perplexing statement:
You will recall that the Banking Com-
mission considered that our exchange ad-
justment in 1931 was a potent factor in
assisting our recovery. In June of this
year the French franc was further devalued,
and, while it is yet too early confidently
to assert what the effects of this action will
be, there is good reason to believe that
it will expedite France’s recovery and in-
cidentally contribute to European stability.
This might be taken to mean that Aus-
tralia could with advantage further de-
preciate its currency. At the moment
it is doubtful whether any step more dis-
turbing to internal conditions could be
taken. It would certainly spur “a typi-
cally inflationary situation requiring con-
tinued monetary expansion,” against the
dangers of which the president' subse-
quently utters a caution.
Of particular interest to shareholders
is the chairman’s explanation why the
div. has been kept down and large sums
put to inner reserves:
It is almost unnecessary for me to re-
mind you of the efforts that this bank put
forth in the years of difficulty and stress
to assist both its own customers and the
community at large. As that was the
proper policy for those days, so it is essen-
tial that we should take the first years of
prosperous conditions to gain that position
of liquidity and strength that would enable
us to face with certainty and calm a de-
pression even of the severity of that
recently past. I am glad to inform you
that the attainment of this great objec-
tive is in sight.
Exactly what allowance has been made
for contingencies of one kind and an-
other is not ascertainable from the pub-
lished figures, but there are good reasons
for believing that it has been very sub-
stantial. However, if the chairman’s re-
marks mean anything, shareholders can,
subject to unexpected developments, of
course, look for a bit more in the future.
At what rate distributions are likely to
be stepped up, and where the halting
places will be, it is impossible to say at
the moment. It is unlikely that the board
will abandon its very cautious policy ;
much, therefore, will depend upon the
trend of economic developments, both
locally and overseas.
During the last term a sharp increase in
export prices and growth of imports
helped the co.’s earnings in the exchange
market, and business locally continued
to expand, too. In Maoriland, where
the co. has 73 branches, the Govern-
ment has strewn many difficulties in the
path of the banker. After making what-
ever allowances were considered neces-
sary for contingencies, and paying the tax
bill (hitherto but not now disclosed),
the board called £543,242 (up £72,788)
of the year’s takings net profit. It was
3.6 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined), or 6.1 p.c. on
the £8,780,000 of capital alone, compared
with 5.3, 5,5, 5, 5.3, 7.5, 9.8, 13.3, 15.8
and 17.3 p.c. back to 1927. The div.
was lifted from 5i p.c. to 6 p.c.; for
80 years to the close of accounts in 1930
the lowest annual rate was 9 p.c.
The market for the £4O shares paid to
£20 —the other £2O is callable only in the
event of liquidation—has fluctuated
widely. The figure advanced from £33
17s. 6d. a year ago to £3B 7s. 6d. in
April, then steadily dropped back to
£32 10s., and strengthened a little to
£33 or thereabouts last week-end. The
return at £33 is 3.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution.
Visibly the net tangible cover is £34
6s. Bd.
The year’s bigger export income and
brisker local trading are reflected in an
all-round increase in balance-sheet
figures:
1931. 1936. 1937.
Notes .. .. £481,455 £81,449 £81,416
Bills, etc. . . 4,264,758 7,139,651 8,322,177
Deposits . . 69,388,093 89,145,169 95,958,164
Liquids . . 31,119,729 32,023,239 35,636,614
Advances . . 55,109,240 76,592,248 80,577,457
Premises . 1,800,000 2,600,000 2,900,000
Deposit* . . 341,983 373,911
* Statutory deposit with Reserve Bank of N.Z.
A growth of £6,812,995 in deposits and
of £1,182,526 in bills receivable was
accompanied by an expansion of
£3,613,375 in liquids and of £3,985,209
in advances. The net growth of £300,000
in the premises item reflects the pur-
chase of three Sydney properties—the
Trust building, at the corner of King and
Castlereagh streets ; Stanway House, ad-
joining the old A.B.C. headquarters at
the corner of George and King streets ;
and a freehold to house the O’Connell-
street branch. When the books closed
depositors and others could see 34.2 p.c.
of their money in liquids, and the bank
was holding £6 18s. 2d. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own.
Advances amounted to 83.9 p.c. of de-
posits. The ratios indicate strength and
favor a better rate of earning than was
disclosed last term. But costs are on the
up-grade, and there has been a sharp fall
in export prices. Still, these prices are at
payable levels, seasonal prospects are
good, and so is local trade.
Tooth and Cos. (Sydney)
I Dividends
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 509,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
Ordinary.
£
1928.. 690,134 12$ p.c.= 485,622 104,512 740,817
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised .. .. 740,817
1929.. 634,054 12$ p.c. =539,860 94,194 835,011
1930.. 686,392 ll| ~,, 632,317 54,075 889,086
1931.. 480,829 8 ~,. 449 648 )
Employees’ Fund,' £7OOO J 24 > 181 913 > 267
1932. . 467,474 8 p.c. =449,648 ) „ q 9 o npq
Employees’ Fund, £9OOO j 9^’U9B
1933.. 482,204 8$ p.c. =477,751 j _
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO j 919,040
1934. . 567,119 9$ p.c. =533,957 j Q 47 7ns
Employees’ Fund, £SOOO j 947,768
1935.. 628,699 12$ p.c. =702,575* 873,832
1936.. 696,028 10 „„ 589,017 ). ofi 01 - q7q
To Staff Fund, £IOOO .. j 10C ’ 011 979,843
1937.. 774,695 10$ p.c. =649,179 125,516 1,105,359
* Including special centenary bonus of 6d. per share.
It was a good year for the breweries,
and, between them, Tooths and Tooheys
share all' but a fraction of the trade in
N. S. Wales, Tooths taking the lion’s
portion. A good rise in export prices
during the first half of the term led to
maintenance of easy-money conditions,
while continued growth of employment
and lift of the basic wage were conducive
to freer spending, the special Federal tax
on income from property (5 p.c. in 1935-
36) was abolished, thus giving the net
return from hotel rentals a nice lift, and
the £562,059 of fresh capital the co.
gathered in the previous term (it was
largely invested in hotel freeholds) got a
chance to show what it could do.
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for bad and doubt-
ful debts and other contingencies, and
striking £91,236 off the book value of
plant, etc., the year's gross earnings (up
£137,654) reached the peak figure of
£1,642,657:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept., Earnings. Excise, etc. Gross. Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 670,783 499,594 74.4 171,189
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1930.. 1,593,798 907,406 56.9 686,392
1932.. 1,092,345 624,871 57.3 467,474
1933.. 1,078,981 596,777 55.3 482,204
1934.. 1,237,497 670,378 54.1 567,119
1935.. 1,383,891 755,192 54.5 628,699
1936.. 1,505,003 808,975 53.7 696,028
1937.. 1,642,657 867,962 52.8 774,695
Another heartening feature is that exes.,
though they took £58,987 of the increase,
made off with 18s. less of each £IOO of
gross earnings, making the gain in this
respect £9 2s. p.c. since 1931. The de-
clared net result (up £78,667) was 12.5
p.c. on capital, as against 11.8, 11.1, 10,
8.5, 8.3, 8.5, 12.2, 14.7 and 15.2 p.c. back
to 1928, The div. was lifted from 10
p.c. to 10| p.c., the final being at the
rate of 11 p.c. p.a. The rate dropped
from \2\ p.c. in 1929 to 8 p.c. for 1931
and 1932, and has continued to climb
steadily since, a 2\ p.c. cash bonus being
sent out in 1935 to celebrate the cen-
tenary of the business. And bonus scrip
(£2,150,097, of which £1,262,597 has been
scattered during the last 11 years) makes
11 p.c. worth a lot more to old holders.
Influenced by the buoyant condition
of world markets generally, the price of
the pound shares advanced from 535. 6d.
a year ago to 58s. 3d. in March. The
figure had dropped to 555. 6d. early in
November, and then, following publica-
tion of the accounts, eased to 525. 6d. last
week-end. The return at the lower figure,
which appears to be a reasonable valua-
tion at the moment, is 4.2 p.c. on an
11 p.c. div. basis, or 4.5 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
distribution. Visibly, the net tangible
cover is 235. 75., which suggests that
assets are very conservatively valued in
the books.
As for the current term, earnings
should receive a little help from Sydney’s
sesquicentenary celebrations, and from
the additional outlay on hotels, etc.
The outstanding features of balance-
sheet figures are financial strength and
continued expansion of the. business:
Assets:— 1925. 1936. 1937
Breweries, etc.. . £2,426.241 £6,028,588 £6,231 631
Book debts . . 1,172,258 1,110,198 1 207’831
Stock . . . . 409,451 253,193 265’390
Liquid . . . . 182,522 891,596 793,902
£4,190,472 £8,283,575 £8,498,754
Sundry creditors.. 424,740 733,096 790,307
Net assets .. £3,765,732 £7,550,479 £7,708 347
Paid Capital . . £3,100,493 £6,182,657 £6,182’,657
To add £203,043 to breweries, etc. —the
etcetera is mostly hotel freeholds—
£97,633 to debtors’ balances and £12,197
to stocks, cash and investments were
drawn upon for £97,694 and £57,211 was
tacked on to the amount coming to
sundry creditors. The year’s contrac-
tion in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,476,816) was £45,075, due to the out-
lay on the chief earning assets.
Queensland Insurance Cos., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves
£ £ £ £
1927. . 140,526 12$ p.c. = 62,500 78,026 588 047
1928.. 125.869 12* „ „ 62,500 63,369 651,410
1929.. 102,508 12$ „ „ 62,500 40,008 691,424
1930.. 62,299 10 „ ~ 50,000 12,299 703,723
Payment to reinsure American
risks, £75,000 .. .. .. 628 723
1931.. 75,467 10 p.c. = 50,000 25,467 654,’190
. 1932.. 89,353 10 „ „ 50,000 39,353 693 643
1933.. 103,358 10 „ „ 60,000 53,308 74e’901
1934.. 105,067 10 „ „ 50,000 55,067 801 968
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 551’,968
Prom hidden reserves, £50,000 ~ 601’968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644 805
1936.. 130,648 10 „ „ 76,000 ) rn
Staff bonus, £SOOO { 50 ’ C4B 695,453
1937.. 126,284 8* p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
The contraction of £4364 in last year’s
net earnings was due to a less favorable
underwriting result, owing to a heavier
crop of claims, which was the general
experience. Unsatisfactory marine busi-
ness and motor-car insurance, under both
comprehensive policies and third-party
covers, were mainly responsible. How-
ever, in Australia there has been a re-
adjustment of premiums for motor-car
insurance. The business kept on expand-
ing, the growth in net premium income
being £69,243:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate.
1895.. £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58.2 „ 35.1 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1925.. 656,191 289,791 219,851 52.1 „ 39.5 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1931.. 516,397 295,828 217,492 57.3 „ 42.1 „
1932.. 435,649 223,587 190,021 51.3 „ 43.6 „
1933.. 435,679 208,207 188,643 47.8 „ 43.3 „
1934.. 453,718 221,893 189,818 48.9 „ 41.8 „
1935.. 497,893 245,325 203,809* 49.2 „ 40.9 „
1936.. 541,736 268,948 200,908* 49.6 „ 37.1 „
1937.. 610,979 324,500 221,573* 53.1 ~ 36.2 ~
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£10,577, 1935 ; £BO9B, 1936; £8593, 1937.
t Including contributions to staff fund.
Losses (up £55,552) took an extra £3 10s.
of each £IOO of net premiums. In the
aggregate exes, were up £20,665, but they
took 18s. p.c. less of the year’s net pre-
mium income, so there was no slackening
there. The underwriting surplus (£64,906)
was £6974 lighter at 8.6 p.c. on capital.
After deducting taxes (£8593, up £495),
the net return from investments was
£2610 better at £61,378, equal to 8.2 p.c.
on capital. The net return on capital
from all sources was thus 16.8 p.c. as
against 17.3 p.c. and 13.7 p.c. for the
two preceding terms.
The cautious board added half a point
to the div., making it 8| p.c. for the year,
the final being at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a.
The 10 p.c. distribution in 1936 included
a special 2 p.c. bonus to celebrate the
co.’s jubilee. However, the 8£ p.c. called
for £13,750 more than 10 p.c. did in
1934. That was because £250,000 of
bonus scrip was scattered in December,
1934, raising paid capital to its present
figure (£750,000), of which £675,000 has
come from surplus earnings.
The market notes this and the wide
margin between earnings and distribu-
tions, and prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 575. 6d. or thereabouts. The
figure has fluctuated between 625. and
50s. over the last 12 months. At 575. 6d.
the return is 3.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.2 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distribution. The
net tangible cover is 40s. 2d. (book
value), and assets are well worth the
figures at which they appear.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
r 1936 , 1937 v
p.c. P- c -
Gov. securities ..£1,039,976 56.0 £1,037,445 53.0
Municipal sec’ties.. 89,542 4.8 77,620 4.0
Deposits, cash, sundry
debtors, etc. .. 593,571 31.9 701,924 37.8
Premises . . . . 136,125 7.3 140,060 7.2
Last year’s surplus earnings and most
other money that became available were
0 Continued on page 24.)


T. and Gr.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDING 30th SEPTEMBER, 1937,
SHOWS THE FOLLOWING RECORD OF PROGRESS
INCOME
1917
1927
1937
£771,529
£3,023,678
- £5,424,878
1917
1927
1937
NEW BUSINESS
(Excluding Accident Department)
£3,501,431
—— £11,483,563
£16,929,046
ASSETS
1917
1927
1937
£2,640,618
£11,682,956
£27,970,987
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
(Excluding Accident Department)
1917 £11,485,015
1927 '■ £45,337,309
1937 — £80,351,044
The T. and G. Mutual Life Society is one of the Strongest and one
of the most Progressive Life Offices in the British Empire
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
J. T. THOMPSON, Esq., Chairman.
r. McDonald, Esq.
DIRECTORS:
P. R. SUTHERLAND, Esq.
W. FORSTER WOODS, Esq.
A. R. STEWART, Esq.
Col. SIR CHARLES E. MERRETT, Kt., C.B.E., V.D.


ENJOY THIS XMAS TO THE UTMOST BY MAKING
YOUR RESERVATIONS FOR THE
12/6 SPECIAL XMAS DINNER 12/6
> 12.30 till 2.30 p.m.
AT
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Adams’ have been fortunate in again
securing the services of their Special
Xmas Entertainers.
Special Decorations, Delightful
Novelties and an Atmosphere of
friendliness and goodwill.
For Reservations Call, Write or
’Phone M 4601.
S. C. SHORT, Manager.
XMAS TEA—A la Carte—
-5.30 p.m, to 7.30 p.m.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
5U
V
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed —and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia—it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
* POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
SAM. b. bagley,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelr/abj” Melbourne.
If you have ores for sale write:—
NORMAN HILL & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
FERROD0R (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
ELECTRO DEPOSITION OF ZINC.
The attention of Metallurgists and others is
invited to the invention subject matter of Aus-
tralian Letters Patent No. 9114/32 granted to
Georg Von Giesches Erben for the Electro
deposition of zinc.
The Letters Patent will be sold outright or
License granted for the whole of Australia or
for any State. Particulars from H. H. RAY-
WARD, Patent Attorney, 18 Martin Place,
Sydney.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
K
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. UMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
put into deposits, etc., up £108,353.
When the books closed, net tangibles
were equal to 246 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. So policy-holders
need have no concern.
West Australian Newspapers, Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
. Tune, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1928.. 90,213 8000 121 p.c. 55,025 ) rK o ao oia
Written off prelim, exes., £10,525 } 4^>914
1929.. 97,940 8000 15 p.c. 64,550 j 99 r , co-
written off prelim, exes., £10,525 J 1 oo,iao
1930.. 86,739 8000 15 p.c. 64,550 ) „ ~Q
Written off prelim, exes., £10,525 ) 77,449
Loss sale Government bonds, £5125 .. 72,324
Special depreciation, £17,000 .. .. 55,324
1931.. 57,196 8000 8 p.c. 38,160 19,036 74,360
Specific reserves written back, £13,636.. 87,996
1932.. 61,369 8000 8 p.c. 38,160 23,209 111,205
1933.. 47,515 8000 8 „ 38,160 9,355 120,560
1934.. 52,979 8000 8 „ 38,160 14,819 135,379
1935.. 68.616 8000 10$ „ 47,585 21,031 156,410
1936.. 69,884 8000 10* „ 47,585 ), a 9Rn 17 . fiQ .
Prelim, exes, written off, £4019 j 174,690
1937.. 74,177 8000 10* p.c. 57,387 16,790 183,981
With acquisition of the issued shares in
Perth Newspapers, publishers of the
evening “Daily News,” at an unstated
figure in 1936 (shares in subsidiaries
moved up £91,501) this co. gained a
monopoly of the Perth daily field. Apart
from the “News,” the stable now houses
the “West Australian” (morning daily
with beginnings in the thirties of last
century), the “Broadcaster” and the
“Western Mail” (both weeklies), while a
half-interest in W.A. Broadcasters has
helped take some of the sting out of
radio competition, which has eaten into
newspaper-advertising revenue.
The present co. took over in 1926 for
£565,000 (£298,983 was for goodwill),
payable £416,000 cash and £150,000 in 6?
p.c. debenture stock. Ord. divs. averaged
13.1 p.c. for the first four years. Over
the same period £42,100 of preliminary
exes, was wiped out from earnings and
£77,449 of reserves accumulated. Then
came a building programme and slump,
and the div. fell from 15 p.c. in 1930 to
8 p.c. for 1931-34 inclusive. For the
three years since the rate has been steady
at 10y p.c., 2\ p.c. of it labelled bonus,
which a cautious board says should not
be regarded as permanent owing to rising
costs.
Higher wage, newsprint and other bills
largely offset improved advertising
revenue, etc., last term. After making
provision for contingencies and depre-
ciation, the board wrote gross earnings
£373 lower at £lOB,Oll. After earmark-
ing £19,500 (up £4500) for the tax-
gatherer, exes. (£74,177) were cut back
£4365, thanks to redemption of the de-
benture debt. Including £14,414 (up
£301) gathered in interest and rents, the
net result was £4293 better, or enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 14 p.c. on
average ord. capital. Reserves are
labelled nominal in the introductory
table because they are subject to
£298,931 of goodwill.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it compares as follows:
Paid capital— 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Pref. .. £100,009 £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Ord. .. 377,000 377,000 377,000 527,800
Debentures . . 152,251 152,251 152,251
Overdraft ..
Other liabilities 12,111 5,845 7,385 62,728
Premises, etc. 301,283 299,033 299,033 294,646
Plant, etc. .. 103,771 97,861 107,385 94,413
Stock .. .. 26,474 25,549 27,159 50,526
Shares other cos. 5,253 6,253 96,754 97,554
Sundry debtors 36,118 40,001 42,004 43,776
Consols, cash, etc. 43,289 74,216 60,125 63,816
Last term the book value of fixed assets
showed a net reduction of £17,359. This,
an issue of 158,500 new ords., one for
two at par, and an extra £55,343 (largely
deposits) from outsiders enabled the de-
benture debt and an overdraft (£71,002
at previous balance) raised in connection
with the purchase of the “News” to be
wiped out and an additional £23,367 of
stocks to be carried. Leaving shares in
other cos. and debentures out of the
reckoning, the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£95,390) improved £44,489. The
board intends disposing of its old free-
hold premises, now let as offices, when
it can see its price.
Subject to unforeseen developments,
the immediate outlook favors mainten-
ance of satisfactory earnings. Though
rain is needed in parts of the State, pros-
pects are for an average wool and wheat
yield, gold production continues on the
up-grade, the “News” has started to earn
profits, and circulation of the co.’s other
publications has reached record figures.
The market prices the £1 ords. at 455., at
which figure the yield is 4.6 p.c. on a
10| p.c. div. basis. The 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
show a 5 p.c. return at 325. Visible net
tangible backing is 15s. Bd. ords., £5 2s.
7d. prefs.
Commonwealth Loan
By the latest loan operation the Com-
monwealth and States are borrowing at
the lowest rate for two years. Last year’s
splendid export season is still influencing
interest rates, which have shown an all-
round tendency to drop during the past
two months. The only exception to this
rule has been as regards ordinary shares,
on which returns have lengthened as
international, particularly American, un-
certainty increased.
The Loan Council asks for £8,000,000,
term 14 years, price £99 155., rate £3 15s.
p.c. flat, £3 15s. 6d. p.c. including re-
demption. How conditions of the latest
float compare with other operations back
to 1932 is shown in this table:
Term, Issue Interest, Return,
Date. Amount. Years. Price. P.c. P.c.*
7/11/’32 £8,000,000 10 Par 3$ £B/15/-
22/6/’33 8,461,000 9 Par 3$ £3/15/-
16/11/’33 10,316,000 10 £99 3* £3/12/5
5/6/’34 12,234,000 14 £9B/10/- 3i £3/7/8
20/11/’34 15,042,000 14 £99/15/- 3 £3/0/5
11/6/’35 12,600,000 14 £99/10/- 3£ £3/8/5
26/11/’35 7,500,000 14 £99/15/- 3$ £3/15/5
2/6/’36 9,000,000 15 £9B/10/- 3£ £3/17/6
26/11/’36 7,500,000 15 £97/10/- 3| £3/19/4
27/4/’37 7,500,000 11 £99/5/- 35 £3/19/1
30/11/’37 8,000,000 14 £99/15/- 3§ £3/15/0
* Including redemption.
Interest rates at the moment are probably
at the most favorable rate to borrowers
that will be seen for some time. The
trade balance isn’t as good so far fojr
1937-38, and the slower wool sales may
tax bank-credit resources later in the
season. There will be very likely a return
to ord. shares later by some of the in-
vestors who rushed to Consols, mort-
gages and pref. shares during the recent
uncertainty.
After a lapse of six years, ord.-holders
in Imperial Smelting Corp. (London) are
to get back on the div. list with a 5 p.c.
distribution (£121,248). Net earnings for
the period to June 30 sprang £87,256 to
£247,092. With Electrolytic Zinc (Tas.),
the co. does the refining of zinc concen-
trates for the Barrier cos. It operates in
England through a chain of 17 associated
and subsidiary cos., chief of which are
the National Smelting Cos., Ltd., and
Non-Ferrous Metal Products, Ltd. Apart
from production of zinc, principal manu-
factures include sulphuric acid, sulphate
of alumina, lithopone, zinc alloys and
sulphides and titanium products. Paid
capital is £4,494,766 in £1 shares,
2,069,809 of them 6| p.c. cum. prefs.
* * * *
Sluicing 261,472 c.y. for 4409 gross
ounces of gold, which realised £27,058 net
(2s. per c.y.), Sunshine Gold, New
Guinea, earned £14,124 for the 14 months
to June 30 last after providing for de-
preciation. Interim div. of 6d. per share
absorbed £SOOO, and £l3lß is to be written
off preliminary exes. Operations were
confined to the Consolidated claims,
where original drilling had indicated
over 2,000,000 c.y., estimated to be worth
something above £400,000 (gold at £8 10s.
an ounce). Costs varied, owing to the
difficulty of maintaining continuous run-
ning of the plant, but for the period
March-April an overall figure of lOd. per
c.y. was achieved, which it is hoped may
be bettered, given a clear run. Values
to date, though confirming bore esti-
mates, have been below the average of
the whole property, so that last year’s
results aren’t a true indication of potential
earning capacity, granted trouble-free
operation. With the acquisition of the
balance of the Widubosh area, Sunshine
has increased its claims to 300 acres,
while testing of the Rectangle leases, of
460 acres, over which an option is held,
is proceeding. The Undaunted area has
been let on tribute. At 10s. 9d. per fully-
paid 10s. share, market valuation of the
show is £207,500.
* * * *
Before providing for depreciation,
Mataki Junction Gold Dredging, the
Burma Malay float operating at Murchi-
son (M.L.), cleared £3738 for the 12
months to July 31 last, and is to pay a
maiden dividend of 5 p.c. (£2500). Dur-
ing the term the dredge dug 880,100 c.y.
for bullion worth £19,121, after provid-
ing for gold duty; recoveries averaged
1.39 gr. per c.y. (.Mining Trust test-
bored the sector to average 5.6 gr.),
and working costs 3.69 and. Monthly
yardage has since been stepped up
from 67,500 c.y. to 85,000 c.y., and
on the bigger turnover the board
now figures on an annual working sur-
plus of £B9OO, assuming I.sgr. recoveries
and costs at 3.5 and. per c.y. At flotation
in 1934, annual profits of £19,500 were
mentioned with gold at £6 17s. 6d. per
ounce.
* * * *
From one in a position to know:
Commonwealth Mining and Finance’s
Westralian prospects are brighter than
some shareholders think. Yellowdine, in
which the co. holds a substantial interest,
has just declared a div., which, with other
distributions made during the year, is
equivalent to the total capital advanced
by London three years ago for the pur-
chase and equipment of the property.
The net monthly profit, which varies
from £IB,OOO to £20,000, should enable
another div. to be paid within six
months. The Comet, in which the co.
has a two-ninths share, is opening up
well in the sulphide zone on the 130 ft.
level. So far ore assaying 22dwt. over
an exposed width of sft. has been driven
on east for a length of 63ft. North and
south crosscuts show the full width of
the lode to be 30ft. and the average value
12.3dwt. The rich oxidised ore crushed
has paid the cost of developing the sul-
phide zone and enabled the co. to bank
£4OOO to £SOOO profit a month. Already
£17,000 has been accumulated in this
way. Old Bayley’s Reward, now known
as the Phoenix, another of the co.’s hold-
ings, is not doing too badly. A lode
averaging 6.6dwt. for a width of 62in.
has been driven on for a length of nearly
600 ft. at No. 10 level, and a winze from
this level shows the lode to be maintain-
ing its width and value. By the begin-
ning of 1938 sufficient ore to justify in-
stallation of a treatment plant is ex-
pected to be developed. True, all the
co’s interests in the West have not
proved prize packets, but the two first-
mentioned have, and there are indi-
cations of more to follow.
* * * :f:
Lake View and Star’s latest esti-
mate of golden wealth in sight ap-
proximates £A8,200,000, contained in
roughly 3,415,000 tons of ore. In addi-
tion there is the big pile of old residues
awaiting treatment. Ore reserves in-
creased by nearly a quarter of a million
tons last year, despite extraction of
593,000 tons. The co.’s group of mines
thus continues to forge further ahead of
the mill, which is now treating over
50,000 tons a month. Development work
during the past 12 months comprised
25,000 ft. of driving, crosscutting, winz-
ing, etc., and 16,500 ft. of diamond-
drilling. Big figures.
r # * #
Golden Horse Shoe, which is re-treat-
ing Great Boulder’s slime dumps by
hydraulic sluicing on a profit-sharing
basis, is paying a div. of 2d. per share
sterling on January 5. For the two
previous terms, when the co. was re-treat-
ing the old Golden Horse Shoe Estates
tailings, the distributions were 3d. and
6d. respectively. According to monthly
returns, 523,480 tons of dump material
was sluiced for the year ended Sept. 20
at an average working cost per ton of
2s. 7d. Taking gold at £7 an ounce,
£116,494 worth of the yellow metal was
won, working profit on joint account
being £41,295 (Aust.).
* * * *
At Gold Exploration's London meet-
ing, chairman L. C. Amery said Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie had paid a maiden
dividend within three years of forma-
tion, and appeared to be well set on a
profitable career. Central Norseman,
after an extensive programme of explora-
tion, had given results justifying its de-
velopment and equipment as a major
producer. Triton, in which a. large in-
terest was held, was a good mine, and
Cox’s Find was yielding satisfactory pro-
fits, while Evanston and' Waverley had
definite chances, and anew find held
under option at Mt v Ida looked promis-
ing. Western Mining Corp., in which
Gold Exploration held a 95 per cent, in-
terest, owns 81 p.c. of Central Norse-
man and 75 p.c. of Cox’s Find.
* * * *
Accounts of Hampton Gold Mining
Areas, Ltd., a .third reconstruction of
Hampton Plains Estate, Ltd., disclose a
loss of £353 for 12 months to March 31
last. Current assets exceed liabilities by
£13,935, excluding 150,000 45.-paid shares
in Consolidated Gold Areas, now nomi-
nally valued at 3jd. each. A few pros-
pectors are working on the co.’s blocks
on Hampton Plains, but no finds of im-
portance were made during the year.
Some diamond-drilling is being done on
areas selected by a geologist. Since the
close of the accounts the co. has re-
ceived £3500 sterling from sale of the
Golden Hope North lease ; the balance
(£1500) is payable by instalments.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Options (W.A.) has
made a fresh start by letting a contract
to break and raise 150 tons of ore. This
and claimholders’ ore are expected to
keep the battery working full time.


iajimaj Grammar
orl|ool I §mm
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927, conducted
under the direction of the Trustees by a School House Board.
Early application for 193 8 is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY .
SMOKE-OH!
“A beauty expert says that red-haired women,
though usually particular about their coiffure,
rarely have their eyebrows attended to.”
Then ginger isn’t for pluck!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Married When in a Trance.” —
— “Sun” heading.
Aren’t we all?
4* 4* 4* 4*
At least you’ve got to hand it to the
Communist army in North China —
they’re putting up a great flight.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One member of the board criticised the
calling of benders for the work at this stage.”
— “Age."
The nark!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Everything seemed topsy-turvy that night.
To add to Wendy’s difficulties, Gerald had a
sore throat and was grumpy when he took her
to dinner.” —Magazine story.
Even the waiter put the a la carte
before the hoarse.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Stables are usually kept by gentlemen of
florid complexion, hasty temper and thick
speech,” says a writer.
Hence the term “Livery Stable.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A correspondent asks where a man-eating
shark can be seen.”
The safest place is a fish-shop. Order
snapper.
•f*
“Alice Marble’s shorts are very short, but
she has lovely legs.”
—Dorothy Bundy, in Melbourne “Age.”
The “but” is redundant.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Benny Bear is of opinion that dusky Ron
Richards’s challenge for the championship adds
color to it.”
Precisely.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Comet Deeps, No Lia.”
— “S. M. Herald” mining notes.
“The truth of Nature lies hid in deep
mines.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
Crisis.
“Grave-diggers threatened to march in the
London streets with their shovels at the slope
unless their wages were increased.”
— “Herald.”
That is nothing to what Lord Bung-
emup referred to as England’s Blackest
Hour when the Grand Association of
Austere and Superior Butlers decided on
direct action.
The G.A.A.S.B. did nothing so ghastly
as parading before the vulgar with card-
trays at the slope. The entire aristocracy
became the victims of that withering
scorn that can become a terrible instru-
ment of torture in the eyes of an English
butler. Within a week their frigid
“M’Lud’s” had reduced them to a gibber-
ing mob howling for mercy. The
G.A.A.S.B. came out of it with flying
colors and more snooty than ever. They
were conceded:
Recognition by the College of
Heralds.
Solid gold card-trays.
Their personal wines to be of a
vintage no later than the ’fifties.
All menials beneath them to be
classified as Untouchables.
No bowing to other than peers.
As Mr. Alfred Crabapple, the presi-
dent, said, “Them blinkin’ lords couldn’t
take it.”
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Prisoner in Parramatta (N.S.W.) Gaol goes
on hunger strike.
Doubtless because he was fed up.
“By the way , are you two gents, acquainted ?”
“During a dispute over a game of bridge one
man punched another, knocking him out.
— “Sun.”
Grand slam!
4* 4* 4*
“He wanted to see if she cared for him, so
he kissed her.” — Woman’s paper.
What might be called a fishing smack.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sydney suburban ratepayer has written to
the council asking that his small farm should
be removed from a list of properties liable to
a betterment tax.”
It is not often a man asks for his
block to be knocked off.
•j* 4* 4* 4*
“To-day’s special: One 30oz. tin preserved
pears, one 30oz. tin preserved preacher for
Is. 7d.” —The Pyramid Hill “Advertiser.”
Must be one of those canons of good
taste we hear so much about.
“Books mean a lot to most people. Ask any
person which book means most to them and
almost invariably the answer comes readily.”
—Magazine article.
True. Mother would certainly answer
that father’s cheque-book means most to
her; the punter would plump for his
race-book, but the cop would produce his
little notebook, and if you were to park
your car for 31 minutes he’d book you.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was delirious when picked up after the
accident; later he sat up weakly, but refused
an offered nip of whisky.”— “Sun."
Still delirious, poor chap.
Customs, Inhabitants and Industries
of Our Great Outback.
Among most Australians that penchant
for gambling which is deplored by many
clerics and blessed by all bookies, lot-
tery directors and State Treasurers
is strongly entrenched, but in none is it
more highly developed than in the pros-
pector. It goes hand in hand with an
unquenchable optimism.
The beauty of prospecting as a pro-
fession is that so little is needed to
pursue it. Beyond a knowledge of
mineralogy, metallurgy, physics, map-
reading, navigation and bushcraft, one
need know absolutely nothing. Nor is
much gear necessary. Just a matter of
a few picks, a couple of shovels, a cradle,
a tent, a folding table, a portable bed,
cooking utensils, a set of graduated
sieves, a 45-gallon drum in which to keep
the nuggets and a jar of testing acid and
a man is ready for the track. -
As the total area of our known gold-
producing land is very restricted—at
most no more than half a million square
miles—prospectors must seek the elusive
metal in the more unlikely places. Of
these the most popular are the “lost
reefs,” i.e., rich veins which were dis-
covered years ago by hardy pioneer
’weight-chasers and mislaid.
The way these lost reefs came to be
mislaid has never been made clear.
Sometimes a prospector, after having
polished off his third bottle of rum neat,
would run round in circles trying to
dodge an enormous nugget, surmounted
by a cerise water buffalo, that pursued
him relentlessly. He would then spend
the next 40 years looking for the outsize
chunk of gold.
It is an axiom among prospectors that
gold may be searched for only on a
sandy, rock-strewn desert where the last
water-hole dried up in ’SB, where only
camels and prospectors can exist, and
where the way is liberally strewn with
white-bleached bones. Anyone who looks
for gold in a district averaging more
than one tree to every 150 miles and
containing sufficient water to enable the
searcher to wash his feet more than
once in 18 months is regarded among the
fraternity as being soft, almost degraded.
Gold is found in divers ways and
forms. Sometimes streaks of it can be
traced through a huge boulder, which is
blasted and the gold chiselled out. If
he has forgotten to bring his dynamite
with him and the boulder is sufficiently
auriferous to justify it the prospector
shapes it so that it will roll and pushes
it in to the nearest assayer. As this official
may sometimes be 80 miles away the
reason hilly country is avoided by pros-
pectors is obvious. Mug prospectors
have been known to push a large boulder
for 50 miles and then learn that it was
only pyrites. Occasionally such a setback
has even been known to discourage them.
Nuggets are, of course, most sought
after, as they give less trouble, except
to find. They are usually found in beds
of dried-up watercourses. The pro-
cedure is to arrange the set of sieves in
tiers, the largest mesh being on top and
the smallest at the bottom. The bed of
the river is then put through the top
sieve a spadeful at a time; it is then
washed and violently shaken. The large
nuggets are trapped in the top one, the
smaller nuggets falling through each
sieve until the “pinheads” are caught in
the bottom one. Should the prospector’s
luck be out the entire river bed may yield
only a few grains, but if Fortune gives
him a lavish smile he might click for as
much as several pennyweights.
Jn very desiccated country water for
washing the sand becomes an acute prob-
lem for the thin prospector. The fat
fellow, of course, is on velvet. Working
in the sun with the temperature showing
130deg. in the shade, he can wring a
bucketful of perspiration out of his silk
shirt at will.
Gold dust, though fiddling stuff to pick
up, especially for those prospectors who
chew their fingernails, is by no means
despised. It entails much work and more
patience, but carelessness in handling it
often leads to disastrous consequences,
as witness the case of Big Mike O’Ginty.
Mike had been for three years work-
ing solo out in the Centre, and had
amassed just on a kerosene-tin full of
“dust.” He had opened the tin and was
about to put in his last day’s winnings,
prior to departing for civilisation and a
prolonged bender, when he felt a tre-
mendous sneeze working up behind his
face. Before he could get his finger under
his nose to stop it it burst out straight
into the open tin of “dust.” The result
of his years of lonesome toil shot out of
the tin, and a sudden gust of wind
whisked his fortune into the infinite. All
he recovered was a few grains that clung
to his whiskers.
The term “dryblower” as applied to
prospectors has often intrigued laymen,
most of whom labor under the mistaken
impression that it is some method of
getting gold. Actually it refers to ex-
prospecting booze artists who, eternally
parched, regale prospective “bites” with
harrowing tales of how their picks
missed the “Welcome Stranger” by a
fraction of an inch.
S. W. K.
Epitaph.
Hereunder lies the body of a dead
unlucky chap
Who had for years a high ambition
nursed.
An amateur photographer, he tried to get
a snap
Of a crocodile with jaws agape, but met
with a mishap,
For the subject of his study snapped
him first.
BO.
The Target.
“His wife frequently threw articles when in
a temper. Living in furnished flats, he had had
to pay for breakages time after time.”
—Divorce report.
A woman’s aim is seldom straight,
But man’s a fool to mock it.
She heaves a teapot at her mate;
It hurtles through the door (glass, plate )
But, still, she hits his pocket.
H.M.


Generally Better.
* Ex rights.
At your request we
shall be pleased to
forward Folder No. 61.
Ķ
* I £\ Xf £\
X*J V / mmm \
Plan now for your Christmas vacation —a
delightful tour of the East. To enable you
to fully appreciate your holiday, we take
you by way of interesting ports along a
smootn water route. You will enjoy
delightful days of cruising on sheltered
waters inside the Great Barrier Reef,
calls at Thursday Island and Darwin and
the trip across the Timor Sea to Java, the
"Garden of the East."
Complete with every modern conveni-
ence, the m.v. "Merkur" and t.s.s.
"Marella" sail regularly from Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane to Java and
Singapore.
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 7901
128 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE. 312 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
31 GRENFELL ST., ADELAIDE. 332 LAMBTON QUAY, WEL'GTON, N.Z.
Australasian Paper.
The ords. in this kraft-paper and
cardboard holding co. could be
bought, as mentioned in the Mel-
bourne notes, at 30s. 9d. last week,
yielding 5.2 p.c. It represents a
good yield from an established
industry that won’t be affected by
the Tasmanian fine-paper mills.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Touched Bottom?
The Christmas season approaches with
indications of a quiet steadiness in
markets and prices. Last week opened
with a sharp rally in most Australian
stocks, thus reversing the weekly experi-
ence of months. Mondays, Tuesdays
and Wednesdays have for a long time
been hard on sellers. Overseas condi-
tions were much the same as in the
Commonwealth, and most people inclined
towards a philosophic view as these pages
went to press. Though modern “con-
trol” of finance through central banks
and exchange equalisation funds is
puzzling to most people—so much de-
pends on the attitude of perhaps one
man, such as Roosevelt in America—the
conviction is growing that what was a
good kind of investment in the gold-
standard era may still be a good one in
the absence of specially adverse develop-
ments. If any basic changes have come
to pass they are thought to have perhaps
favored ordinary or “equity” shares, and
possibly to have taken a little of the gilt
off gilt-edged bonds.
The investor and the speculator cer-
tainly have plenty to exercise their
brains about these days. Gambling
appears to have become more unprofit-
able than ever; there is world-wide ten-
dency to “outlaw” gamblers whose ac-
tivities influence booms and slumps and
create industrial difficulties. Thus, though
endless squealing has been emanating
from the world’s share- and commodity-
markets lately, there has been much less
complaint from actual industry. In the
U.S.A. things seem difficult all round, but
in a number of countries business ac-
tivity is kicking along very heartily.
Wool sold in Sydney during November
averaged 13.2 d., and in that centre this
season 14.4 d. was the mean price realised
for greasy and scoured during the first
five months. For the whole of 1936-37
the figure was about 16|d. Brisbane
auctions last week showed an improving
state of affairs, the first real steadying
since the opening of the season. Clear-
ances, about 10 p.c. behind the slow rate
of early 1936-37 to the end of October,
are quickening a bit, but offerings are to
be cut by 20 p.c. and the season extended.
The wheat harvest promises to be a
good deal better right through the con-
tinent’s growing areas, and this may off-
set a fair part of the drop in prices,
which has been substantial —about 20
p.c. in some cases. The price of the
grain is still quite profitable to growers
as a body.
Metals have a special interest to one
section of the sharemarket. Barrier
stocks probably beat all other Australian
issues for turnover. London metal prices,
which reached a post-depression peak in
1936-37, have still averaged about those
rates for the first five months of 1937-
38, but November quotes were down
heavily. They are still profitable, how-
ever, and there is hope in the fact that
latest rates are better in most cases than
the November average:
5 Mos., Nov.,
1936-37. 1937-38. 1937.
El. copper .. £55/8/11 £56/14/6 £44/18/7
Lead .. 23/2/8 20/10/- 16/14/2
Zinc .. 20/2/11 20/7/2 15/19/5
Tin .. .. 228/14/2 240/9/2 190/13/8
Prophecies aren’t worth much over short
periods these days, but bottom does seem
to have been just about reached now.
Broken Hill Prop.’s published steel-
production figures aren’t quite as high as
they were two months ag®. but that
seems to be due to no slackening in
demand. The A.I. and S. plant at Pori
Kembla may now be helping more. In
any case, B.H.P.’s Newcastle steel pro-
duction for the first 24 weeks of the
present term at 368,732 tons is up 12.2
p.c. on the corresponding figure for
1936-37, which was a year of remark-
able construction activity. If such acti-
vity can only be maintained, let alone
increased, things won’t be so bad.'
British Tobacco shareholders have had
a bountiful year. In all, 13f p.c. has gone
out for 1936-37, compared with 7 p.c. in
the preceding term. Of the later dis-
tribution, 3i p.c. came from accumu-
lated profits of subsidiary cos., and the
2 p.c. final is not guaranteed by the
directors to be permanent. It seems that
8 p.c. can be looked for with confidence
during the current term, and an extra
1 p.c. or 2 p.c. is on the cards, according
to the state of smokers’ pockets. The
market seems to think “10 to 1 it’s a
Capstan,” and pays 50s. for the ords.
* * * *
In B. 24/11/’37 the investor’s diffi-
culty in calculating Golden Plateau’s
probable and possible ore values was
mentioned. On statements attributed to
acting-chairman T. R. Victor it was
shown that overall values down to the
444 ft. level might be 5.3dwt., Bdwt. or
7.3dwt. That doesn’t exhaust the pos-
sible permutations and combinations.
Down to No. 2 level (294 ft.) ore reserves
were stated in the annual report to be
237,300 tons containing 76,9120 z. The
“Argus” reported Mr. Victor as stating
that “the next 150 ft. to the 444 ft. level
should produce a further 150,000 tons
of ore.” This ore was expected to yield
“an additional 50,0000 z. of gold at least.”
From these figures the following calcula-
tion may be made:
237,300 tons containing 76,9120 z. posi-
tive (7/10/’37), plus 150,000 tons con-
taining 50,0000 z. possible, gives an indi-
cated total of 387,300 tons containing
126,9120 z.
That average works out at 6.56dwt., sub-
ject to ore milled since the manager’s
estimate was made. It all represents
a headache that aspirins won’t relieve,
but there may be consolation for some
in the statement that “at the next meet-
ing your board expects to present a much
more satisfactory statement in regard to
developed ore reserves than as shown at
this meeting.”
* ❖ * H«
Melbourne investors are going strongly
for Australian Cement shares. Perhaps
the new rotary kiln at the operating co.’s
Geelong works (B. l/12/’37) has some-
thing to do with it. Still, that was no
reason why 335. should be paid for Aus-
tralian Cement £1 shares and only
235. 3d. for Kandos 16s. scrip. The
market seemed to be slowly appreciating
this as last week advanced, and 245. was
paid for Kandos eventually. Both cos.
will benefit equally from improved
results earned by the operating co. If
335. is right for A.C.’s £1 shares on ah
immediate, income basis, Kandos 16s.
scrip is worth 265. 9d.
jf * * ❖
Holders of shares in Howards, Ltd.,
Brisbane, find the income forthcoming
after each balance day an encouragement
towards keeping the scrip locked up. Ode
of the few sales of 1937' took place last,
week—£l shares at 365. The yield on
the present 10 p.c. div. basis is £5 11s.
per cent. During the slump 8 p.c. was
paid ; the rise to 10 p.c. came along last
term. Net tangible assets are valued at
50s. 9d. a share, 40s. or thereabouts being
in liquids or semi-liquids. The Morris
and Nash car and a couple of electrical
agencies turn in that part of the annual
profits (over 20 p.c. on capital last year)
that investments don’t.
* * * *
After touching the seemingly ridicu-
lous figure of 31s. a few days earlier,
Myer ords. came up to 345. again
last week. The infantile-paralysis scare
and what appears to be a fairly large
parcel of scrip on the market are prin-
cipally responsible. Both these factors
are of a passing nature. Earlier this
year 395. 6d. was paid for the shares.
* * * *
Rothsay new shares, on which an extra
6d. has been paid (3s. coughed up to
date), were valued at 6d. in last week’s
Adelaide market. The new plant, now
under management of Bewick, Moreing,
is tipped to start early in 1938. A hash
was made of things at the beginning ;
copper in the ore (its presence was men-
tioned in The Bulletin at the co. s
flotation) seemed to have been over-
looked or something, and the first plant
(cyanide) failed to “give a satisfactory
extraction of gold.” A new plant was
designed, but funds ran short. Now,
after 3£ years, shareholders are waiting
to see what 8., M. and Co. (who took
over a few months back) can do with the
show. The ore position at present isn’t
clearly defined.
* * * in
Merger negotiations between Coles and
Woolworths are “off.” Basis of valuation
of each co.’s shareholders’ interest was
the rock on which the split occurred ;
Coles directors said asset values and
earning power should both count, the
Woolworths people would consider only
earning power.
* * * *
A surprise for a lot of Sydneyites came
along last week when Luna Park (N.S.W.)
Ltd., reported a profit of £12,128 after
allowing for taxation and £11,485 for
depreciation, and declared a 1\ p.c. div.
The scintillating city of amusement on the
Harbor-shore is valued in the books at
£114,901, less £30,091 depreciation
reserve. Cash items amount to over
£50,000. A creditable performance
altogether, considering Sydney’s natural
counter-attractions.
* % * *
In Melbourne last week:
Davies, Coop ords. strengthened to 235., re-
turning 5.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Last
year’s earnings amounted to 9.9 p.c. on ord.
capital. The co. is a promising manufacturer
of cotton textiles.
Associated Pulp ords. recovered strongly,
reaching 21s.
King Island Scheelite scrip sold at Is. 3d.
Montana Western Extended (Zeehan) con-
tinued active around ss. 6d.
Buyers offered 18s. for George Farmer
prefs. after sales' at 19s. United Provisions
ords. were weaker at. 6s. 9d.
.Holeproof, ords, kept depressed around 275.
Pessimism here seems to be overdone.
Sellers offered Australasian Paper ords.
at 30s. 9d., the lowest quote for a long time.
Yield offering is 5.2. p.c., and .it seems, as well
set as most div. rates.


Crossings are Dangerous
m
I
.....
*
m
M - •
especially those in Tyres
There are no crossing cords (wefts)
to cause dangerous wear
from friction and heat in
to cause dangerous wear
from friction and heat in
DUNLOP
Weftless cord tyres
Weitless Cord is exclusive to Dunlop interests in Australia.
Dunlop Perdriau invites you to listen to “DUNLOP
PRESENTS”—Radio’s finest entertainment. Consult your
local broadcasting programmes for stations and times.
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD., (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Casing construction of or-
dinary tyres. Notice how
threads (wefts) cross casing
cords.
m
Weftless Cord Casing: All
Cords run parallel, completely
encased in rubber.
K
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1186 of 1937.
BETWEEN JAMES AMBROSE MONT-
GOMERY Petitioner
And MINNIE LABATO MONTGOMERY
Respondent.
TO MINNIE LABATO MONTGOMERY late
of Perth in the State of West Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES
AMBROSE MONTGOMERY has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Eleventh day of February next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of Novem-
ber, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1294 of 1937.
BETWEEN GLADYS MAY WESTLEY Peti-
tioner
And OWEN CHARLES VERDI WEST-
LEY Respondent.
TO OWEN CHARLES VERDI WESTLEY
formerly of Coogee in the State of New
South Wales but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
MAY WESTLEY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is praying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
your desertion of her for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-fourth day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-eight and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proced and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitors free
of charge.
DATED this Second day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1907 of 1937.
BETWEEN EDITH MAY TAYLOR Petitioner
And FRANK TAYLOR Respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH MAY
TAYLOR has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixteenth day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-eight and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Second day of December, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
HENRY N. REID, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TO LESLIE CHARLES TOMLIN formerly of
1 Avondale Avenue Chelsea in the State
of Victoria Engineer but now of parts un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife PHILLIPA
MAGGIE TOMLIN has instituted proceedings
against you for a divorce on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne
within 21 days from the date of this advertise-
ment and file an answer within 31 days from
the date of this advertisement the case may
proceed in your absence.
K. P. REES, 8.A., LL.B., 361 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1458 of 1936.
BETWEEN OLIVE ROSA STORIE Petitioner
And JAMES STORIE Respondent.
TO JAMES STORIE late of Picton in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said OLIVE ROSA
STORIE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Seventeenth
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-eight and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 23rd day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S. ELLITT, Esq., Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Victorian Parliament is considering its
Stock and Share Brokers Bill, “the direct
outcome of unfortunate events which are
still fresh in the minds, not only of mem-
bers of the House, but also of most
members of the public.” Principal pro-
visions of the bill lelate to compulsory
keeping of trust accounts by Stock
Exchange members and brokers gener-
ally, the making of a detailed audit once
a year, and the keeping of specified
books and accounts. Under new regu-
lations introduced by Melbourne Change
ifcett an audit has already been con-
ducted of every members books. Ine
new bill empowers the Attorney-General
to make an independent audit of a
broker’s accounts upon the receipt of
an adverse report or complaint.
_ * A ’ ’ a • ’
The N. S. Wales Government is con-
templating legislation to regulate within
touts the activities of Sydney Stoc
Exchange. Trust and guarantee funds
and compulsory audits are chief points
to be dealt with. *
The first four months of 1937-38
showed a favorable Australian trade
balance, including gold shipments, of
£641,000 sterling. Preliminary figures
for five months to the end of November
showed the credit balance at £3,024,000,
a slip of £2,225,000 compared with the
corresponding period of 1936-37. Though
export values rose by £6,324,000 (despite
slower wool sales), imports expanded by
£8,549,000. The cutting-down of wool
offerings by 20 p.c. will hardly have any
further adverse effect than that already
experienced owing to slow sales.
If imports continue to grow there may
be a number of reactions before the cur-
rent financial year closes. Restrictive
duties always result in criticism over-
seas, and politicians as a rule much pre-
fer to patch things up with our London
bankers “by a little overseas borrowing.”
British investors are alive to the sense-
lessness of that, even if British manufac-
turers aren’t. Unless demand for wool
suddenly improves tariff action is almost
sure to be indicated before this fiscal
year closes.
* * * *
The j n jti a l returns of Normanby Tin
( B . 20/10/ ’37), operating near Cooktown
. , 0 . ,
ka y e dlsa PP°mted the market. Up
*° 2s. 6d. not so long ago (and above 3s.
before that), some recent sales of the
shilling shares have been as low as Is. 9d.
—a bi § fall in a small-denomination
stoc j c> Ground going better than 41b. to
the yard was mentioned in the pros _
pectus bu t up to date sluicing has aver-
aged under 2 f b It may be t * king tim£j
coursej open up the area properly,
The j atest throughput, however—it was
No. 4-was of 5000 yards, and yielded
tbree lons, average 1.321 b.
* * * *
About the time J. Woolcott-Forbes’s
resignation from the board was an-
nounced, the ords. shares in Producers’
, G , Finance rcvdnevl «n 1 d at
d \ ydney ' sold at
14s - The y stuck * ere for a w s lle on a
smad turnover, then stumbled errati-
cally down to 12s -> lls -> and last week
10s. 6d. There is no buying backbone to
the market for this stock. The dailies
still show the div. rate as 14 p.c. p.a.,
yield over 26 p.c. An interim is due next
month. It is awaited with interest by
many holders. #
Among those stocks to rally sharply
in the early part of last week Yarra Falls
was a notable case. Sales had been re-
corded down to 38s. in Melbourne; Syd-
ney paid 395. 3d. for latest turnover. A
long-standing favorite of this page, the
shares were pointed out when at 38s. 6d.
three weeks ago.
* * . . * *
The rise to 245. 6d. in the ords. of
Associated News about accounts time
was short-lived; sales were made at
235. 3d. last week, then 235. 7d. A
slightly higher div. was among the things
expected by the sharemarket. On a
7 p.c. basis present yield is something
over 6 p.c.
* * * *
In The Bulletin of 23/6/’37 it was
said, after a lengthy review of the co.’s
affairs, that “North Kalgurli looks as
good a buy as any gold or base-metal
mine offering in Australia to-day.” When
that was published the scrip could be
picked up under 17s. Now it is above
20s. Very few other Australian mines
have had a market rise in the same time.
$ * * *
Gordon and Gotch ords., after coming
back to 525. for a short spell, lifted to
545. again in Melbourne following the
announcement of a record half-year and
a div. maintained at 12 p.c. p.a. Immedi-
ate yield at that price was £4 Bs. lOd.
per cent. Towards last week-end quotes
were again more in buyers’ favor.
* * * *
Wolfram, down to 68s. 9d. per unit
last week in London, was about 60s.
below the peak reached a few weeks back.


FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Mallacoota Handicap: Sun Beau
or Dazzling Star ; next, Barham.
Lincolnshire Handicap: Great
Legend; next, Sun Beau or Win-
byie.
Berkeley Welter: Namakia ; next,
Fabric.
Ascot Handicap: Iva ; next, Gay
Circle.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Dundas Handicap: Arabia; next,
St. Constant. .
December Handicap: Country
Party; next, Bobby.
Corinthian Cup: Panaster; next,
Duke Caledon.
Apprentices’ Handicap: Tucker-
box ; next, Beaupre.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Two more Cups were run in Victoria
last week. That at Ballarat went to old
Aitchengee, who shared favoritism with
Maluno at 4 to 1. Revelling in the heavy
going, Aitchengee left his rivals stand-
ing and scored by eight lengths from
Maluno, with Conandale a poor third.
Lilirene (Trivalve-Celosia) had some
support in the Ballarat Cup, but she ran
fourth only. The field for the Epsom
Cup on Saturday being stronger—it in-
cluded horses like Balkan Prince, Sir
Simper and Red Manfred—few inquiries
were made for Lilirene; but she won.
She started at 25 to 1 in the Ring; the
tote (55.) paid £9 3s. 6d. and £2 3s.
• • • t .
The circumstances in which Lilirene
won were highly remarkable. Six fur-
longs from home she led from Lady
Kooringal and Dunloe. Two furlongs
farther on Dunloe went to the head of
affairs, and she was three lengths in ad-
vance of Lilirene at the entrance to the
straight.
Dunloe then was travelling so smoothly
that it appeared to be a case of “pay out,”
but half a furlong from the post she sud-
denly lost her balance and almost fell.
Perhaps it was because she had had
enough ; anyway, Lilirene soon closed the
gap, and the Great Star mare was beaten
by three-quarters of a length. Showing
his best form for many months, Boon-
garry finished only a neck behind Dunloe.
Bob Lewis, the veteran jockey, bought
Lilirene as a yearling on behalf of Dr.
Rountree, his sister-in-law. The mare
now is owned by “S. Thomas.” Always
she has been trained by F. H. (“Son”)
Lewis, whose nephew, Williamson, a
novice apprentice, was given the mount on
Saturday and did his part well.
The Bulletin tipped Lilirene. It
mightn’t have done so if it had seen her
race at Ballarat; but it reflected that the
Trivalve mare is trained at Epsom, that
this has been an uncommonly good year
for her sex, and that she runs at least
one capital race in a season. Also, a mile
and a quarter is her favorite distance.
Balkan Prince, a 7-to-4 favorite for
the Epsom Cup, was squeezed back to
nearly last as the field swept past the
stand for the first time. He had a rocky
passage at other stages of the race, and
did well to finish sixth of a dozen run-
ners. This Westralian-owned stallion has
stood up splendidly to spring racing. He
is to race for the King’s Cup in Tasmania,
where Jack Holt won the trophy a few
years ago for Ernest Lee-Steere with
Second Wind.
Harry Gabell has handled many
notable jumpers during his career as a
trainer. In Sea Scout (Clan Fingon-
Bounding Wave) he possesses a timber-
topper of more than average quality. Sea
Scout was backed down to 5 to 4 for the
Cheltenham Hurdle at Epsom. He made
a spectacular leap over the last obstacle
and romped home in advance of Wallace
Drake. Boomberry finished eight lengths
farther off; nevertheless, his third was
suggestive of an early victory.
Spectators could not comprehend why
a protest was entered against Sea Scout,
who obviously won on his merits. The
rider of Wallace Drake alleged that he
had been interfered with at the penulti-
mate hurdle. His objection was dis-
missed. Fullarton, who rode Sea Scout,
isn’t a boy who shows points to his
mates. Sea Scout hung out of his own
accord, but this did not affect the result.
Percy Foster won the Murray Handi-
cap for A. Campbell with Gay Dell, an
11-to-8 pop. This filly is one of the
fastest juveniles in training on Mel-
bourne courses. She scored with a lot
in hand, and equalled the course record
(59Jsec.) for four furlongs and nine
chains. Gay Dell is by Gay Lothario
from Delicious, and was bred at St.
Albans.
Sir Rona (second favorite) and Doris-
cus (backed from 33 to 1 down to
sevens) filled the minor places. The start
was straggling, and Sir Rona was one
of the chief sufferers, but in no case
would he have been nearer than second.
Spectators on the flat hooted the starter
on his way back to the enclosure.
Lou Robertson misfired with Doriscus,
but the brother to Damalis will be heard
of later. Robertson made a second
plunge on Rill (Chivalrous-Miss Yarrien)
in the Manumbar Handicap for three-
year-olds. Firming from twenties to
eights, the filly won, all out, from Bar-
ham, with Beaustone third.
Having been beaten out of a place at
Ballarat three days before, Great Legend
(Great Star-Belgian Myth) was allowed
to go out at 25 to 1 for the Tanti Han-
dicap. To the annoyance of many
punters, he won by a substantial margin
from Spearflash, the favorite. Ted
Temby, the owner-trainer of Great
Legend, has not found the stallion a
reliable galloper. Winbyie, who ran
third, is due for a win soon. She for-
merly raced in Westralia.
Weight will not stop a good horse.
Beau Spear had list. 51b. in the Park-
dale Welter. Viator led him into the
straight on sufferance; as soon as H. J.
Thompson called on him for a serious
effort Beau Spear put the issue beyond
doubt. Threes could be had about the
winner. Don Miguel, favorite at 7 to 4,
missed a place.
* * * *
Jovial Son’s burst of successes came
to an end in the Warwick Farm De-
cember Handicap; he was beaten into
third place by Bourbon and Billy Boy.
Had he been ridden more patiently he
would probably have been second.
Despite his 9st. lib., McMenamin took
him to the front early, and kept driv-
ing him along. Passing the five-furlongs
post, Jovial Son was six lengths in front,
but turning for home Billy Boy, who had
been chasing him throughout, ranged
alongside. Then Bourbon, who had
begun slowly, put in his claim. Outstay-
ing the others Bourbon scored easily.
A three-year-old colt by Tippler-Spear-
foot, Bourbon is raced by Sydney sports-
man A. H. Freedman, who is in America,
and by W. H. McLachlan, jun. He was
backed from fives to 7 to 2. He was
this Page’s choice, Country Party being
scratched.
F. W. Hughes (no relation to “Billy,”
but a close friend) was present to see his
handsome Veilmond colt Kooba run
in the Kirkham Stakes, and was a grati-
fied man after the race. Royal Prince
and Pandava cut at one another, and
when the latter took charge turning for
home his supporters cheered. But he had
settled himself, and Kooba, admirably
ridden by Darby Munro, disposed of
him easily, June beating Pandava for
second place. Royal Prince was a poor
fourth, and Normal, Aeolus and
Napoleon were outclassed.
Backers of favorites hit the target in
each division of the Camden Handicap.
In the first, Mangoola (5 to 2), who car-
ries the colors of A.J.C. committeeman
Walter Brunton, dwelt slightly at the bar-
rier, but a run on the rails helped
him to victory. St. Constant and
Bulldozer got place-money for their
owners, and Jocular ran fourth with 9st.
111 b. He has Bst. lib. in the Villiers.
Heritor, now owned by a Tamworth pas-
toralist, J. Cameron, was flat out to beat
Troy and Misnomer in the second divi-
sion. Misnomer had made the running
with Heritor, and took some shaking off.
Hammerhead, swinging wide at the turn,
was fifth, just behind Might Not, whose
fourth was impressive. Heritor went out
at 5 to 2.
Adios (2 to 1), having his second start,
made his opponents in a division of the
Maiden Nursery look like a mob of
brumbies. A stablemate of Pandava,
Adios is raced by “W. Staplemore,” a
Sydney woolbuyer, and cost 500 guineas.
He is a well-grown chestnut by Excite-
ment from Tinkledell. Edna Star, a 20-
to-1 chance, was second, and Miltiades,
who can go—and stop—fast, was third.
Princess, by John Buchan out of the
flying Valicare, had been burning the
tracks in trials, and was the favorite for
the other division of the Maiden Nur-
sery. She got mixed up at the start and
was last on settling down. Making a
fast move at the four she again ran into
trouble, and finished seventh. Creditor
(20 to 1), another John Buchan, raced on
lease by W. McCulloch, won easily from
Kooba’s stablemate Conundrum and Dis-
raeli, trained by Jack Kelso.
Glenora Boy (4 to 1) donkeylicked his
opponents in die Farm Novice. They in-
cluded Talking’s sister High Class, who
was favorite. She ran third, Captain
Rose being second.
* * * *
Clem Hill has been appointed handi-
capper to the V.A.T.C. at £lOOO a year.
He has been handicapping in Adelaide
for years and was a stipendiary steward
before he turned adjuster of weights.
Clem has been interested in racing since
boyhood, though he found the time to
become perhaps the greatest of all left-
handed batsmen—“ Lucky” Collins was
another who combined cricket and rac-
ing. Leaving Adelaide will be a wrench
for Clem, since he has lived there all his
life, though the change should be for his
benefit in more than one respect. Visit-
ing Sydney recently to attend a Board
of Control meeting, he didn’t look his
old robust self.
* * * j{e
Cathartes has been talked of for the
Summer Cup, in which he has 7st. He
has won a couple of races lately in
capital style; at Kensington on Wednes-
day he came right away from his oppo-
nents in the Progressive Handicap, run-
ning the mile and a quarter in 2min.
lOsec., which is reckoned good time for
Kensington. He was bred in Queens-
land, being by The Buzzard-Idamere;
Bustard is his brother, and his dam was
a half-sister to Syce Knight. Poitrel
won the Summer Cup as a three-year-old
(he got it on protest; Chantemerle had
been placed first by the judge), and the
experience did him no harm. But since
his time, for some reason or other, few
three-year-olds have figured in Summer
Cup fields.
Bourbon, who shaped like a stayer at
Warwick Farm, wasn’t nominated for the
Summer Cup, but he is- in Tatt.’s Club
Cup, with 7st. 51b. A nice weight for a
young horse that is obviously improving.
* * * *
The next Sydney Cup, to be run on
April 18, is to be worth £7OOO exclusive
of the trophy (£200), an increase of
£lOOO. Somebody came out with the
bright idea that the A.J.C. should put
up another £14,000; but it couldn’t, and
nobody else would.
* * * *
McCarten is “resting” again. He was
suspended for two months for “careless
riding” in a division of the Maiden Han-
dicap at Victoria Park, Sydney, so he
will miss the summer meetings at Rand-
wick, as he missed the V.R.C. spring
meeting. McCarten rode Parthenon at
the Park, and “came across Alice Springs,
forcing the latter on the fence,” with the
result that McMenamin, rider of Alice
Springs, got a nasty spill.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Racing Bill illustrates the
Stevens Government’s weakness for half-
measures. Racing is in a bad way and
requires drastic medicine ; but instead of
abolishing the admission and turnover
taxes the Government is merely reducing
them. Also it is taking only 2\ p.c. off
the \2\ p.c. plus fractions now deducted
from tote receipts, which deduction has
prevented machine-betting from becom-
ing popular ; and, while Government and
clubs catering for gallopers are to divide
10 p.c., trotting clubs are to get 8 p.c.
and the Government 2 p.c. A board is to
be set up to consider the conversion of
Sydney proprietary clubs, apparently with
no definite instructions except to report
within six months; meanwhile seven
racing days are to be taken from those
clubs and given to Warwick Farm (five
days) and Hawkesbury (two days). There
is warrant for this change, but there is
none for depriving the proprietary clubs
of compensation such as their Melbourne
congeners receive under the Victorian
law. If that is in the minds of Gov-
ernment supporters, they will have to
think again.
•t= * * *
The death of T. M. Daskein in a Mel-
bourne private hospital has raised an
almost unprecedented issue with regard
to a V.R.C. election. A vacancy on the
committee had been caused by the death
of J. A. MacLeod. Four nominations were
received, including that of Daskein, who
died three days before the ballot closed.
Those who voted for him by post have,
of course, been disfranchised. In some
quarters it was urged that the ballot
should be declared void and a fresh one
taken.
Ins and Outs
Against South Aus. the Westralians
got the bare 100 ; then they saw Bradman
make 101, the S.A. total reaching 264
(Mueller 56; Eyres 5 for 58). Stumper
Lovelock, who showed himself a bats-
man in the Eastern States, caught three
and stumped three.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The Marylebone club
has replied to the agitation for five-day
Tests by shortening the hours for four-
days Tests. The matches with Australia
next season will begin at 11.30 each day
and end at 6.30 p.m. Before the change
the first day’s play began at 11.30 and
on the other three days starting time
was 11. In view of the general desire to
avoid drawn games the club’s attitude is
hard to understand.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: Now that Australia has
given a lead, English cricket writers are
discussing the webbed gloves affected by
some wicketkeepers and suggesting that
the Marylebone club take the matter up.
These gloves have been used in England
for some time, and no one until the
present had thought of objecting to them.
The general opinion is that this type of
glove gives the ’keeper no unfair ad-
vantage, while it does add to finger pro-
tection.
o Continued on page 30.)
The Kangaroos trod a rocky path in
England last week, when they had to
play four matches. They beat Wigan
and St. Helens, 25-23 and 15-7, but were
down to Leeds and Barrow, 21-8 and
12-8. Gates are dropping.
* * * *
N.S.W. representatives won seven of
the nine events on the first day of the
Australian athletic meeting in Brisbane;
the other two went to Victoria. Yates
did 9.Bsec. in the 100 yards—he gave
Victoria its first win in the event since
1901 —but Best, another Victorian, who
finished third, did the same time in his
heat, and should improve on it. Met-
calfe (N.S.W.) had his first title wins in
the hop-step-and-jump and the javelin-
throw, and was second to Shetliffe (6ft.
4|in.) in the high jump.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: The exploits of a golfer
with two artificial legs are being dis-
cussed by British golf pundits. He is
on a 12 handicap, and is a frequent
winner in club events. He uses neither
stick nor crutch, and gets great length
in his drive in spite of the fact that he
can employ neither leg nor hip action in
his swing, two things alleged by the ex-
perts to be indispensable. In fact, this
player seems to afford a welcome illus-
tration of the frightful lot of mumbo-
jumbo with which golf addicts surround
their alleged mystery. Three-quarters of
the addlepated conventions which the
golfer is supposed to observe when pre-
paring to hit the ball and actually doing
so are so much guff. Every great golfer
has his own particular way of doing
things and achieves success in spite of
the witch doctors preaching correct style,
swing, etc. At times even they fall to
the level of the most incompetent ex-
ponents of the game and find then, as
thousands of the rank and file do, that
the conventions are as shifting sand,
bruised reeds and watered whisky.


m
¥
m
mm m
m
m
m
m
i
m
»1 Mfs
'/
V
I
i
/////A
/
.- - •
T 5
tan
wm
■
s*ssTj
mm
m
MB
Sir&rr
S .
;®SIB
.: .
sgp|
i m
M'Mnmi
mmmm
;'. : ; :
1
mmm
tfagSsfikaiXj!'■
15' :'■ j it
8P
n
il
■
5
'
;>
ifaM
Ifi
- ■
li&ti'hiiL
nm
m
mm
m ‘
mi
miir
■.&
iisi
•-
i# 7
I
•tboi
>■"■■■■:
m
Cash 4% I™ Easy
Price *3 GNS. Terms
Without special battery
23 Guineas
"The tlm
AIBZONE
PORTABLE
iJ here
U ERE it is ... a REAL portable. Smart as
““ paint . . . Can be taken anywhere . . . used
anywhere ... in the car, not for installation,
but whilst the ear is running, is operated from
its own battery ... at the club ... in caravan or
trailer... picnicking ... fishing ... at the beach
... on yacht or launch ... in the sick room, the
children's party . . . anywhere—everywhere.
Yes, here's real modern entertainment . . .
spelled with a capital "E" ... and well it should
be, for Airzone have lavished their mechanical
and constructional genius to give listeners this
long-awaited portable so that folks "can have
music wherever they go."
You'll be thrilled with this wonderful Airzone
Portable . . . you'll take it everywhere you go,
and never be wanting for entertainment, no
matter where you may be. See it, at any Radio
or Music House or Department Store. Buy one
to-day, and be in the fashion ... because every-
body that is anybody will soon have one. Well
may Airzone boast of this portable . . . "The
first word in portables is the last word in radio."
Sydney, IS .S. W .
Manufactured by Air zone (19 31) Limited, Camperdoicn,
WBJ 37.45.
AI R 10 N E
R A


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ENGINE RELIABILITY
OtPIBOS OB SPARKING PUGS
•YOU CAN DEPEND ON
Champions
To keep your car lively 'j 'fj'j'/ .
To keep your car lively
in good.and bad weather
... to help it to be your
reliable servant... install
new Champions once
every year. They reduce
carbon formation. They
save money!
An Empire Product
made in Windsor, Canada
L
tH
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: The last two days of the
Grimmett-Richardson testimonial match
in Adelaide were washed out by rain.
Grimmett made the tactical error of
bowling Bradman on the first day before
he got going ; nevertheless the gate for
the two days was £619. Subscriptions
are solid and still coming in at time of
writing, and it is expected that each
beneficiary will net £lOOO.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Victor Richardson an-
nounces his retirement from big cricket
as from the Richardson-Grimmett testi-
monial match, which rain brought to an
indefinite conclusion. This comes as a sur-
prise, for he was expected to help his State
through this season’s Sheffields. A great
player in his prime, Richardson has the
added distinction of being one of the
few South Australians left in the South
Australian team. He won a place on
two Australian tours abroad, to England
in 1930 and to South Africa in 1935-36.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: The Westralians were
beaten by five wickets in their second
match against Victoria. The young
fellows made 137 and 245 (O’Shea 110).
Victoria replied with 207 (Zimbulis 5 for
80) and 5 for 198. The ex-Queensland
left-hander Sides made 75 and 99. With
196 to get in two hours Victoria lost 3
for 38 before Sides arrived on the scene.
Pearson helped with 53 n.o.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Sheffield tourney,
interrupted by the tours of the All-
Blacks and Westralians, begins in earnest
on December 17, when South Australia
tackles N.S.W. in Adelaide and Queens-
land Victoria at Melbourne. Play will be
confined to the two southern States
until the New Year, when the meeting
of N.S.W. and Queensland in Sydney
begins on January 1. After that, Vic-
toria and South Australia play in Bris-
bane and Sydney until the last match
between and the Cabbage Gardeners,
January 21-25.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Queensland cricket
side to take on the Southern Sheffield
tour includes only two new hands to
the Shield tourney, Loxton, an all-
rounder, and Coates, a batsman. The
side opens against Victoria in Melbourne
on December 17, and will need to im-
prove on its recent performances if its
continuance in the Sheffield ring is not
to degenerate into a farce. The fielding
especially has been shocking. The heavy
rain which interfered with the match
against N.S.W. earlier in the season is
ascribed to the angels weeping at the
awful exhibition.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Westralians are
suggesting a competition between the
first teams of that State and Tasmania
and the second Elevens of the Sheffield
ring. N.S.W., South Australia and Vic-
toria have been sounded, and only the
Croweaters are against the suggestion.
There are difficulties in the way. Only
players who are practically professionals
can now afford the time for the first-
class games, which take up an entire
season.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Though their decision to
keep all outsiders out of the players’
dressing-rooms roused visiting sides to
fury in Brisbane last year, the Queens-
land cricket heads have resolved to ex-
tend the ban to the Sheffield tour of
N.S.W., Victoria and South Australia.
Rigid orders have been given manager
Lax not to live up to his moniker in this
respect. It is asserted that in Sydney
especially all sorts of persons find their
way into the holy of holies, but there is
to be no more of this. Rumors that the
players will be marched to the ground in
gas masks and in crocodile formation,
and will be locked in the dressing-rooms
when not on the field, lack confirmation.
Tenth Slip”: Sydney Smith’s well-
considered plan for a cricketers’ super-
annuation fund, handled by an insurance
company and supported by deductions
from payments made to cricketers, plus
grants from controlling bodies, was
scornfully rejected in Australia. In Eng-
land it is the subject of much favorable
comment. The need for something of
the sort there is greater than in Aus-
tralia. The professional gets a salary
which varies greatly according to the
financial standing of his county, and a
benefit, so-called. In the case of a player
for a county like Yorkshire, this may
bring in a very large sum if wet weather
or a poor match does not interfere. With
some of the less important counties a
beneficiary counts himself lucky if the
gate comes to three figures, and sub-
scriptions to as much. And he pays all
expenses.
Nineteenth Hole
E>. G. Soutar, a great figure in Aus-
tralian golf, has holed out in Sydney at
55. A Scot from Carnoustie, Soutai
came to Australia 35 years ago, and for
a long time played as an amateur. He
won the Australian amateur title in 1903
and the open two years later, besides
being runner-up on several occasions.
He turned professional, and in partner-
“ I’ve got a feeling We’re goin' t’ be right among the big ones to-day, Charlie!”
ship with a fellow-Carnoustian, Carnegie
Clark, set up in business as a clubmaker.
As a professional he was attached to
several Sydney clubs, notably Manly and
Moore Park, and turned out many a
class player, amateur or professional
Joe Kirkwood was a pupil.
* * * #
The Australian Golf Union is. holding
its 1938 open, amateur and professional
championships at Royal Adelaide’s Sea-
ton course from August 13 to August
25. The Australian team which is to
tour Britain will probably be out of the
hunt, for, though it returns to Australia
some time in August, it is not expected
that its members will be keen to play
after a month at sea.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Henry Cotton is tak-
ing a job of consultant to an English
sports goods firm at £2OOO a year. This
will not interfere with the champion’s
tournament activities, and he will also
carry on with his gilded job as chief
professional at the Ashridge club. Alto-
gether, Henry must be knocking out
close on £5OOO a year —the use of his
name on golf goods brings him a hand-
some income.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The English golfing
brothers Wooller, seven in number, are
in the limelight. Their handicaps range
from plus two to four, averaging two
and only one of the seven, Frank, is a
professional acting in that capacity at
the Eastbourne Downs club. The
Woollers are willing to play abroad.
Here seems a fine chance for the people
running the 150th anniversary show who
have made a sad mess of inducing over-
seas golfers to come this way. A team
with an average two handicap should be
good enough for any Australian oppo-
sition.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: After the Victorian cham-
pionships Budge and Mako will be seen
in action at Sydney ; Von Cramm and
Henkel will play in Brisbane at the same
time. In Sydney Quist and Bromwich
will be the Australian team against the
Americans, and McGrath and Crawford
will shape up in Brisbane. The dates
for Sydney are December 16, 17, 18,
and for Brisbane December 17, 18.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Hollywood has en-
gaged Mako, now in Australia with
Budge, as an actor. He is not to do
any tennis stunts —tennis stunts would
make him a professional, which would
never do. Whether the young man
would have received what is styled a
lucrative contract in one of the most
crowded trades in the world if he had
not been a tennis star is matter for argu-
ment.
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: There was surprise when the
publication of the Australian crews for
the Empire Games rowing showed that
John Burrell, of Mosman, one of Aus-
tralia’s most noted strokes, had been
omitted. Selector Keary has explained
that he has purposely selected a tall,
lathy type of oarsman averaging about
6ft. and weighing about \2\ stone, as
he considers men of this type most
likely to blend into an ideal crew.
Burrell does not measure up to Keary's
requirements.
* * * *
“Shell ’: When H. J. Turner, of
N.S.W., won the challenge sculls at
Henley-on-Yarra, defeating the Austra-
lian champion, Cecil Pearce, the fact
that the latter was disqualified for tak-
ing a wrong course in the final evidently
weighed with selector Keary, who asked
the men to row again in N.S.W. on
December 11. But the Sydney club’s
regatta will be held on the Parramatta on
that date, when the N.S.W. 2000-metres
scratch sculling race is to be rowed, so
the meeting between Pearce and Turner
has now been postponed until December
18. It will take place on the Nepean.
* * * *
“Poppet”: Bobby Pearce having de-
clined to row in Australia, it has been
decided to invade Canada in search of
his scalp. In February Evans Paddon,
Australian champion, and George Cook
will race on the Richmond River
(N.S.W.) to determine who shall make
the trip. The race against Pearce will be
rowed at Toronto during the Canadian
National Exhibition, the promoters of
which have arranged the match.
* * * *
“Spike”: The Empire Games Council
announces that the 1000 season tickets it
issued for the Games have all been taken
and that money is being returned. This
indicates dashed bad management on the
Council’s part. Five thousand tickets
could have been printed as easily as a
thousand, and even if they were not all
taken there would only be the cost of
the waste paper. As it is, seeing the
tickets cost a guinea each, the chance of
making a very large sum from their sale
has been chucked over the Gap.
* * * *
“Cinders”: The British athletes for the
Empire Games left London last week
for Sydney, and are said to be bound by
“very severe restrictions,” including the
signing of an acknowledgment that
they are taking the trip at their own
risk. Probably this amounts to a sort


'lve/
th/ulls the' nvodeAm/ voycujsA/jai&i
os' it/ did' the/ ea/ili^/acvvicj-ccLcfi'.
lvey Havels' ae'urss' live
urotld/ cAs daises'im/ ills' (
hyyis, jv'ty Itiense-lff,
cweXeA/ otslaxuu
dbud, cm/ (J)AienH i
also disecroens' tlvo nvosi/ ocmjdete
I'boaA.d'
THE WORLD’S BEST GUNS
NEW —MODERN —F AMOU S
BY CHURCHILL—JEFFERY—HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON LALOUX
Actually in stock at 560 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, where you can shoot on our range and be certain that you get a gun that really suits
you. This new department is in the care of Mr. J. Harrison, one of Australia s Leading T rap and Field Shots. As we as emg a
champion shot, Mr. Harrison has made a lifelong study of ballistics and technique of shotguns. He and other expert mem ers o our s a
place themselves at your disposal.
} V W N— v .V>_
E. J. CHURCHILL, OF LONDON,
Prices from £35 to £175
' •
msm
W. J. JEFFERY & CO., LTD., LONDON,
Prices from £32/10/- to £l5O
As is well known to all shooters
London-made guns represent the high-
water mark of the gun-making world.
Both the above London makers
specialise in producing long-range guns
specially suitable for Duck and Fox
shooting. These are the guns we recom-
mend for the man in the back country.
Holloway & Naughton are makers of
a good range of trap and field guns.
Many guns of this make are already in
use in Australia and give extreme satis-
faction to their owners.
For the popular priced gun Laloux has
been a leading Belgian maker for many
years, and the guns he is sending us, both
hammer and hammerless, in 12 down to
.410 bore, are strongly built and of good
weight. The twelves weigh not less than
71bs. and run up to 7flbs. These are not
frail weapons built down to a price, but
guns you can produce in the best com-
pany, without fear of criticism. Stocked
in both ejector and non-ejector.
ill
HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON, BIRMINGHAM,
Prices from £lB/7/6 to £3l
Ķ
GEORGES LALOUX, BELGIUM,
Prices from £2/17/6 to £l5
SEND FOR OUR
BEAUTIFULLY
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
POST FREE.
HahCe u (yhaw
* (D. & W. Chandler, Ltd.)
560-566 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE
TELEPHONES: CENTRAL 187-188.
SOLE
AUSTRALIAN
LOADERS OF THE
WORLD FAMOUS
"RHENWEST"
CARTRIDGES.
of third-party insurance in case they are
carried off by kangaroos or devoured by
crocodiles while surfing in Tennant’s
Creek. As a further safeguard, wives
are to accompany them.
* * * *
“Puck”: Because the Britons cannot
agree to the dates desired by the Austra-
lian hockey girls the invitation to them
to tour this country next year has been
withdrawn. Instead a side from the
United States is to be asked if it can
make a start in Australia on April 23, it
being desired to make the Sydney
matches a feature of the anniversary
whoopee.
* * * *
“Spare Strangler”: Spectators at a
U.S. wrestling match were suddenly
roused from their bored inattention by
unmistakeable signs of activity in the
ring, supplemented by shrill yelps and
mutual recriminations. Roused to real
fury, each mat-merchant accused the
other of felonious tactics, and acted ac-
cordingly. Some interfering policeman
discovered the reason for the welcome
interlude. A sportsman in the gallery
was firing tintacks from a catapult at
the wrestlers and their mat, with the edi-
fying results described. The innovator,
like most of his kind, was misunderstood
—and gaoled. #
“ Ca r k ” t : A , ustralia " s . li " d ; heirwa j;
few years°ago°h SnolfedTha. t
one-time leading Australian Rules player
from Melbourne was coaching Notre
Dame in the American brand of foot-
ball which the Victorian had somehow
contrived to understand. Now we hear
that one Christensen, a Queensland Uni.
Rugby Union player of other days, is
coaching the R.U. team at Toronto Uni-
versitv 5
* * * *
•‘1896”: The Australian Rugby League
team now performing in England has
obtained the melancholy distinction of
having done worse (up to date) than any
previous contingent of football or cricket
invaders from this country. Which re-
calls that over 40 years ago Joe Darling’s
Eleven, which had opened its tour a trifle
discouragingly, received a brutally un-
kind and unmannerly cable from their
own land which ran “For God’s sake
knock off and come home! ” The narks
were a few citizens of Kalgoorlie. I
remember their cablegram particularly
well because it was followed by another
cable from a brother of Darling, a
resident of Geraldton, dissociating all
good sportsmen from the uncalled-toi
insult and bidding the team keep up
heart and be assured of best wishes from
overseas. Darling’s side finished credit-
ably enough, though not brilliantly, losing
a u three Tests, the first by four wickets,
t h e other two by an innings in eaeh case,
•••• • . '
“Gate”: The most devastating esti-
mate of the footballers now in England,
the more devastating because it seems to
be unconscious, comes from Sullivan, the
fullback, who visited Australia with
English professional teams. The Kan-
garoo management started a suggestion
that for the last Test match on December
jg the best of the many Australians play-
j ng w j t h the North of England clubs be
j nc l u ded in the Kangaroo side. Sullivan
agreeSj an d picks what he considers the
ideal team j t includes only three of
Prigg’s men.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The Australian
Rugby League press occasionally pub-
glowing accounts of the vogue of
the League game i n the land of the
u ag oulards, but these are not confirmed
official information. The French
p oot b a ll Association says that since the
Um on upheaval, Soccer has taken the
French public by the lugs. The 1937-38
embracingf play^rsfof'whom'sOC
- Pf-onals, mUy foreigners.
* „ T • .Kot
Scrummager : I imagine t a _
football, in some crude torm ’ , f
older game than Rugger. E i
this may be found in th^ f r ‘T°‘ s
R u §Jy School, the home of t •
In 1827 it is chronicled that a lad n
Ellis, in some house match or similar
contest, picked up the ball and ran with
it—a thing nobody had ever done before.
One can well imagine the scene—the
wild howls of remonstrance, the frenzied
appeals to the umpire (if there was one)
against such an audacious innovation,
and the general hullabaloo. But after
the first excitement had died down it
seems to have occurred to a lot of people
that if handling the ball made a better
game it might well be permitted. In
short, Ellis was hailed as a reformer, a
worthy pioneer—and Rugby football
came into established existence. A few
years ago, to mark the centenary of
Ellis’s brainwave, a tablet to his memory
was erected on a wall that faces the
School Close.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Prince and the Pauper.”
Montagu Love, Errol Flynn, Claude Rains,
Henry Stephenson, Mauch Twins, etc.
Making an expansive job of the Mark
Twain fantasy of a son of Henry VIII.
who got mixed up with a pauper double
and was forced into low-life thievery and
crude living in rags, what time the pauper
double, equally against his will, got
within a split second of being crowned
King of England, this film at Sydney
Embassy is topnotch entertainment.
It shows what can be done in film
when there’s a sufficient basis of story to
work on. The bane of film production
—to judge by the bulk of films produced
—is the necessity for making films to suit
the requirements of cinema programmes.
Almost everywhere programmes require
a long main picture for the second half,
and the result is that nine-tenths, at the
very least, of such films are not less than
half pure padding to eke out stories of
insufficient body to make pictures of half
the length.
Mark Twain left no need for that sort
of thing when he penned this pleasant
romantic fantasy. There is plenty of
story body to keep action swift all the
way, while the film is prevented from
ever getting in the slightest degree mono-
tonous by the variety of the changing
scene —from the birth of Henry’s son
over to the birth of that son’s double
in slumdom; Henry’s son at about
12 living the life of prince to
pauper’s son playing prince in rags in
Offal Court; pauper getting to palace
(most convincingly arranged) and prince
getting into low life (equally feasible);
pauper being brought along, protestingly,
to be King, and prince, insisting he is
King, being made to live the low life,
with a soldier of fortune taking him
under his wing and getting him, by the
sword, eventually back for the corona-
tion.
Direction is so good that the frequent
transitions from the one plane of living
to the other never jolt; there are always
leading links which make them come in
naturally with flowing narrative effect.
It would be a good film if for nothing
else but the acting of Montagu Love as
Henry VIII. It was a tough job to tackle
after Laughton, but Love is more than
equal to it. His is superb acting; every
second of it carries conviction.
Claude Rains manages a convincingly
acted and splendidly sustained stretch of
sinister villainy, and to apreciate how
good Flynn is in the bravado part of
the soldier of fortune it’s only neces-
sary to compare him with the
younger Fairbanks, doing the same
sort of part crudely in another current
offering. Flynn is vigorous and yet re-
strained. He has plenty to do looking
after the pauper-king and does it all
admirably.
The Mauch Twins would be extremely
hard to better in the double parts. They
are extraordinarily alike, good little actors
already and a pretty human pair of boys
to boot.
It hardly needs saying that support is
excellent. Curiously, for such a picture,
there’s scarcely any woman interest. A
few make brief, telling appearances; yet
the fact that the film is practically all
male isn’t at all noticeable at the time.
Spectacle is very attractive, especially
the splendid coronation scenes.
“Double or Nothing”
Bing Crosby.
This, at Sydney Prince Edward, is
Bing ; you must like Bing if you’re to
think much of it.
Additional attractions are some not at
at all bad American comedy and clut-
tered night-club scenes of the lavish
Hollywooden whoopee order. Its much-
publicised “Sing Band” is merely a leggy
bunch of harmonisers, and it’s hard to
work up enthuisasm over a mere talkied
moment or two of that sort of thing after
the Cossacks and Comedy Harmonists in
person.
It’s all hung on the Brewsterish idea
of an eccentric’s will, whereunder several
people, including Bing, have a chance to
inherit a million dollars if they can
demonstrate their “intelligence” by doub-
ling five thousand or so dollars in a
couple of months. A spoke in their
wheel is eccentric’s brother, who’ll bene-
fit if they don’t.
One does his roll on gold stock, an-
other on a hole-in-one golf stunt, an-
other (female) on a Venice, with sirens,
to attract sailors. But Bing is the super
“intelligence”: he starts the night club.
It all rattles along breezily enough,
helped by such bright thoughts as a lady
who always sheds her clothes when a
certain piece of music is played.
To present film-taster one of its most
interesting bits is an early scene in which
Bing in a hamburger shop croons to the
outsize Italian chef, who responds with
a burst of operatic singing which carries
its own comment on crooning.
“Keep Fit.”
George Formby.
As “Double or Nothing” is all Bing,
this English comedy at Sydney Mayfair
is all Formby, and you’ll certainly need
to like Formby to agree with this show-
Errol Flynn taking one of the Mauch Twins under his wing, with Claude Rains
(the sinister bloke in background), in “The Prince and the Pauper,” at
Sydney Embassy.
man that both George and the doings
generally are engagingly funny.
There are two scenes in it that lay the
Mayfair people open to action over
damaged ribs: one in which George’s
very-young-English helper is staging a
stunt on a high wooden bridge to con-
vince George’s girl that George is a
courageous lifesaver, and crashes through
the railings; the other, soon after, when
George, in headlong, dripping-wet flight
over the landscape, takes a low hedge in
his stride and lands on the back of a re-
cumbent young bull.
Others may give their preference to
other bits; certainly there are plenty of
them to pick from.
The story —much stronger than in
most comedies —is inspired by England’s
recent Keep Fit campaign to improve the
nation’s physique, with George evolving
in the course of it into the winner of the
boxing contest. • On the way he sings
with both humor and good-humor, and
demonstrates that he’s a past master of
the glad-eye, in which line present film-
taster can’t recall ever having seen any-
one in the same street.
Formby on this showing pans out an
excellent light comedian of the promi-
nent'-toothed English variety, somewhat
reminiscent of Alfred Frith at his top.
He has quite good support; direction
does not run up dead-ends; and the
film altogether is an amusing English
comedy.
“Alcatraz Island.”
With this and “Borneo” Sydney Capitol
has a bill in striking contrast to the pre-
tentious pictures showing in most other
Sydney film houses. It was a treat to
come across pictures whose makers have
something real to say and get straight
down to the job of saying it as well as
they know how.
“Alcatraz Island” is an outstanding
prison-drama film, dealing in authentic
human feelings naturally. Its story may
seem nothing out of the way, but it car-
ries conviction.
It concerns a New York racketeer —
not a bad sort really, with good qualities
offsetting his dealings. He goes to gaol
for five years for defrauding the taxation
collectors, and an enemy, through trying
to work off a vengeance by kidnapping
the gaoled man’s daughter, follows him
there, set on provoking him into further
trouble. This succeeds, with removal to
the severe prison of Alcatraz Island as
punishment, and the plot there taking
another twist through a vengeance
settled among the prisoners.
In clearing this matter up there is resort
to fictional devices, but, though intro-
ducing an artificial note, even these place
no great strain on credibility, and a
sound anti-climax restores the drama to
the naturalness which had been its
strength throughout.
It avoids both the violence and the
melodrama usual in American crime
films while remaining a strong picture,
the prison scenes especially effective.
Casting, which has all-round excel-
lence, includes Australian Mary Maguire
in the part of the racketeer’s daughter.
“Borneo”
Support in the sound current bill at
Sydney Capitol, this is a Mr. and Mrs.
Martin Johnson nature-in-the-wilds film,
up to their usual high standard.
It takes the audience most interestingly
away up a river in Borneo, its chief busi-
ness depicting the monkeys of various
sorts that chatter in the trees there,
especially the Proboscis monkeys, amus-
ing customers with long, bibulous noses
after the Snozzle Durante pattern.
There are also the life of tree-climbing
fish and a remarkable sequence showing
the capturing of an enormous orang-
outang which takes to the treetops and
rages in terrific, branch - stripping
violence until he’s at last got down and
netted.
The film has humor, and as a look
into interesting places it leaves the gen-
eral run of travel pictures standing at
the starting post.
“Make a Wish.”
Bobby Breen and Basil Rathbone.
No end of pains has been taken to
provide the boy tenor, complete with
perm, and smirk, with the sort of set-
ting in which he can shine. He is the
life and soul of a boys’ camping party,
to which he sings on any or no provo-
cation.
In real life he’d have the living day-
lights whaled out of him inside five
minutes, but this fillum doesn’t deal with
realities as understood by boys. Its mis-
sion is to provide goofy sentiment for
adults of the mental age of six.
Rathbone’s role, when he isn’t sparking
Marion Claire (a successful radio singer,
but with no other claim to screen emi-
nence), is to gaze wistfully and soulfully
at young Robert, who inspires him to
write an operetta quite as good as any by
Oscar Straus —as a matter of fact Straus
did write such parts as are performed.
Henry Armetta and Donald Meek pro-
vide welcome interludes of comedy—
welcome, however, chiefly because they
keep the angel child off the screen for a
second or two. Master Breen and his
radio celebrity momma are at Sydney
State.
“The Street Singer J s Return.”
Arthur Tracey.
In this one at Sydney Lyceum you’ll
need to like Tracey, for there’s not much
else to it.
Top-liner in a West End show, Tracey
walks out in stage-vagabond clobber after a
rehearsal row with a temperamental lead-
ing lady, and is taken for a down-and-out
by a lass from a part of London where
they live in attics and dress remarkably
well.
From then till he gets back just in time
to let the show go on, with suspicion
that he’s a thief —he’s been burgling his
own sumptuous apartments —and all else
cleared up and the girl his, Tracey uses
a pleasant voice on a number of not very
remarkable songs, and touches of
comedy help to make the padding bear-
able.
“Midnight Menace”
Support at Sydney Mayfair, this is a
good shot at turning England’s war-jitters
to profit, with a shrewd jolt, too, for
conference diplomacy.
One of the leading peace upholders at a
big disarmament conference is working
behind the scenes to provoke another
European war. A London journalist gets
on the right track, but is chased off the
earth by American gangsters kept in
England to do such jobs for the ring of
international plotters. Journalist’s place
is taken by the paper’s cartoonist, who
sees the job through to a satisfactory
conclusion.
An air raid on London is among the
excitements. It might easily have been
made a thousand times more effective,
but there are novel features about it; it’s
done, for one thing, by radio-controlled
’planes, attack on the control-room of
which makes a brisk finale.
There’s some rather sketchy lurv-inter-
est, and the Fleet-street brand of news-
paper life depicted makes interesting
contrast with the American variety in
“Exclusive.” Australian journalists, at
least, will vote the “Midnight Menace”
sort far the more authentic.
Charles Farrell and Fritz Kortner act
creditably and the direction recognises
that in such films the briskest of action is
called for. Suspense is admirably con-
trived.
“Exclusive.”
Another insight into the hectic business
of running a newspaper in U.S.A., this
support at Sydney Prince Edward makes
pretty good entertainment of the ex-
citement-a-minute order.
There’s a good ration of comedy in it,
mainly provided by Charles Ruggles;
and Frederick MacMurray as a youthful
livewire news-editor does his forceful
part well and his embracing not so badly
at all.
Between them, too, this pair manage
a convincing representation of what some
may believe to be a rather old-fashioned
idea of ethical conduct in journalism.
They’re on a paper which is opposed
to the town’s bad eggs, said eggs, among
other activities, getting control of the
opposition rag. The goil of the piece is
Ruggles’s daughter and MacMurray’s
sweetie, and she mucks things up prop-
erly by going in with the corrupt googs
as a goil reporter. While she’s “learning
a lesson” there’s some foul work at the
crossroads, but after her journalistic
activities have been directly responsible
for the deaths of a decent citizen, a


PICT u R C
T
S
T
Llv I U
n o
G
£
n
$
ĸ
O<J S
f* w V \£
Beryl Mavis
Cummins.
oh Urins tie D
rt:rr ha %* ******
Ar no(t . s fr °* ' he O' 40,000
’ ave been l " 01 ' 8 Wot °f si * tton!l' Wren
' n °o>e fs (o y?f *ith t est :£ now r°ot D S ° n
' ' ij, aui irn °nia/ s fc fijs cuit s
° f ’ limited Sreite fal
Age
1 3 months.
Messrs, ff/.-n.
/°^^o„ Pty
°ear 0,-
He 4fer n .
Dear Sirs,
aged /j Z nding th e oh
b : n h g
"lend ti hriv ?d Qn :r °y her nl ° Z ' Wet
thef n to J? the *n. r ~p h° to. hn
t 0 QU Others 1 rec h O Z
° UrS l aithful b,
' Cunif ni ns
lift-load of people and her poor old
father she’s considered “cured,” and
Mr. MacMurray takes her to his manly
chest.
“A Fight to the Finish,” at Sydney
Lyric, has the muscular Mr. Don Terry-
conducting a vendetta against the almost
equally muscular Mr. Ward Bond They
are both taxi-company executives, and
there’s no limit to the dirty tricks they
play on each other. But when it comes
to murder Mr. Terry takes really drastic
action. Rosalind Keeth is in the fillum
to supply romance, and a little sensible
advice to the hero, which he sadly needs.
“The Romance of Bobby Burns,” part
of the support at Sydney Embassy, is a
preposterous stretch of sentimentality, in
which Burns is depicted as a sentimental
actor addicted to elocuting his poetry on
the slightest provocation.
“Make Up,” at Sydney Lyceum, is a
lightly entertaining film of circus life,
with Continental clown as hero, Austra-
lian Judy Kelly as smitten London
sassiety girl and a particularly unpleasant
villain, who gets it in the end because
an elephant never forgets.
“Wings Over Honolulu,” at Sydney
State, is the story, on hackneyed lines, of
the first few weeks of married life of
a U.S.A. Navy airman (Ray Milland)
and his bride (Wendy Barrie), with Kent
Taylor as an apple of discord. Despite
Miss Barrie’s perpetual “Soul’s Awaken-
ing” expression and Mr. Milland’s smug
appreciation of his own pulchritude the
fillum has moments in which it rises far
above its general pedestrian level.
“Bad Guy,” at Sydney Civic, deals
with the life of the electric linesman.
Central figure (Bruce Cabot) is an un-
balanced scamp who drags his faithful
friend into trouble and philanders with
same friend’s girl (Virginia Grey). But
he is no out-and-out bad ’un, and has
many engaging streaks. Action is brisk,
and interest is well sustained.
Greg an McMahon Shows.
Gregan McMahon and his corps of
players ably aided and abetted ex-Mel-
bourne playwright W. J. Turner on
Saturday when “The Man Who Ate the
Popomack” was presented to a packed
house at Melb. Comedy.
Turner has couched his ideas concern-
ing the love relationship in the shape of
fantasy, but in such moving terms that
his audience was conscious of no
absurdity.
Lord Belvoir had the benefit of John
Darcy’s sincere and astute acting. Gwen
Izzard, as the girl, and J. Clifford Dodd,
as her father, were next in order of
artistic importance. Patricia Isles,
Phyllis Bones, Lance Nicholls and John
Law were assorted members of English
society. The rest of the cast were up to
their job, and the production could
scarcely be faulted.
John Drinkwater’s “A Man’s House,”
put on by McMahon a week earlier, is
written round the text from St.
Matthew: “And a man’s foes shall be
they of his own household.”
Drinkwater has done no more than
dramatise his text. He has not told us
anything we did not already know about
it. The drama is effective and the situa-
tions live ; but it would require a larger
canvas and possibly a profounder thinker
to develop the theme into something
more than an evening’s entertainment.
The production was handsomely
staged and furnished, and few of the
characters fell below the McMahon stan-
dard. Thomas Skewes could not hide
behind white whiskers the admirable
actor he is, and Leonard Butler, David
Reid and Bonita Freeman also acted
most effectively. Gordon Campbell erred
slightly on the side of restraint, and John
Cairns was a Roman officer sentimental-
ised a trifle out of focus. The excellent
Collins Hilton raised the play almost to
Shavian heights as Barnabas, represented
as a public official concerned about his
son’s disreputable conduct.
Kathleen Castles.
Edward Goll’s protegde, Kathleen
Castles, made an appearance under vice-
regal patronage at the Assembly Hall,
Melbourne, on Saturday and displayed
her budding lyric talent in a programme
of songs of classical purity and distinc-
tion.
She sang Schubert, Schumann, Brahms,
Robert Franz and Hugo Wolf with a
voice which suggests that her projected
expedition to Vienna will not be wasted
effort.
Pianist . Goll played Bach and Chopin
as if Bach and Chopin had been present.
Ursula Malkin.
Canadian pianist Ursula Malkin, en-
gaged by the A.B.C. without any notice-
able flourish of trumpets, was on the
air last week and made a good impres-
sion.
She plays Scarlatti with all the neces-
sary agility and plenty of pedal, prov-
ing she’s no pedant. Breezes through
Chopin etudes in vigorous style, phrases
the Sibelius “Romance” most beautifully
and makes child’s play of the Dohnanyi
“Gavotte,” technically a very hard nut.
Such a firm masculine style has not been
heard from a woman since Carreno was
in Australia.
Villon in Adelaide.
Adelaide Musical Comedy Co. (ama-
teur) switches into romantic opera with
“The Vagabond King.” Produced by
Alan Chapman at the Royal, it is quite
sumptuously costumed and staged.
Singing qualities are high, with
Howard Pfitzner and Felicia Francis in
the lead, and a vigorous chorus —in the
mob scenes especially. Conductor,
Norman Sellick.
Add fine acting by Frank Gunnell,
Margery Crosbie and Kenneth Fraser.
The humor is mainly in the hands of
that born comedian John Duncan.
Power’s Adelaide Show.
H. S. Power, exhibiting again at the
Society of Arts Gallery, Adelaide, which
city long ago gave him his first commis-
sion, shows amazing versatility.
Horses remain his chief love, but some
smaller things are among the best he has
to show. His pencilled dogs recall Cecil
Aldin, his ploughing horses a less-known
aspect of Heysen, his studio interior —
except that the ladies are fully clothed —
Bernard Hall.
There are, too, exquisite portraits and
landscapes. In fact, the landscape with
figures on horseback is probably not only
his best work, but what he most enjoys
doing.
T h e show is great —and so are some
of the prices.
Self-made Artists.
John A. Gardner, who is holding a
show of pictures at Melb. Athenaeum, is
proof that an artist can turn any condi-
tions to his advantage.
Ten years ago he and his friend Battar-
bee set out to get a footing in the art
world with no money and no training.
They bought a T-model Ford truck and,
looking for unusual subject-matter, have
travelled 40,000 miles, and have painted
the red cliffs of the Macdonnell Ranges,
the desert gums of North Queensland and
the gorges of the Finke River, where
petrol is five shillings a gallon. When
they could push their caravan no farther
they hired camels and native boys for
one and six a week from the Hermanns-
burg missionaries.
They painted assiduously through
summers when the mercury stood at
115 in the daytime and no lower than
100 in the night-time and found it no
detriment to their inspiration. In between
they have held metropolitan exhibitions,
and when they could not sell their pic-
tures they took to commercial art. Find-
ing that not to his liking, Gardner now
supplements his income by anything that
turns up, from roadmaking to sleeper-
cutting.
Gardner’s interest in the weird and
spectral subject-matter of the "interior has
gradually lessened, and the most artistic
impression in his present exhibition is a
charming little seascape in the vicinity
of Melbourne. A study of two ghostly
Illumba trees painted near the Finke has
been earmarked for the National Gallery.
Beatrice Kelly’s Show.
Plenty of facility of expression and a
good command over both mediums are
features of Beatrice Kelly’s show of oils
and water-colors at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, Sydney.
A flower study in oils, “Country
Bunch,” is an entirely satisfactory deco-
rative splash, and “Terrace, Mount
Tamar,” in water-color is a model of
graceful simplicity; but more compli-
cated studies, in which foliage painted
with a very wet brush on absorbent
paper has a spongelike aspect, or where
branches painted with a very dry brush
look like scratches, give this com-
mentator a feeling of unrest. Three
Tongan figure studies are not well drawn.


PRO (JDS — Something worth-while
Is the new 80-page Christmas Gifts Catalogue. It illustrates the newest fashions in Jewellery, Watches
and Engagement Rings, besides a host of inexpensive novelties suitable for Christmas Presents. Send
your name and address and receive a copy post
free by return.
A neat small model with reliable 15-jewelled movement and
bangle. In Oct. Gold, 85/-. In Chrome, 42/--
PROUDS PTY., LTD.,
KING and PITT STREETS.
SYDNEY.
Man’s High-grade 15-jewelled Watch with link wristlet
in Oct. gold, 90/-. Rolled gold, 45/-. Chrome, 30/-.
£17/10/-
i
\
'mm®
£15
FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS IN PURE PLATINUM SETTINGS,
18ct. Yellow or White Gold Shanks, as customer prefers.
In All Pure Platinum, Two Pounds Extra.
£15
-/01/Ol?
K
Ķ
ĸ
*■-$ v-
£13/10/.
-/OT/gT?
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Everybody was merry and bright at
the first meeting for the Pioneers’ Ball.
The Pioneers, as is right, are the impor-
tant people of the 150th celebrations,
and their big reception in Elizabeth Bay
House and the ball in the Town Hall
are the two big social functions of the
first week. The Australia buzzed with
excitement the other morning when,
Kelso King and Mrs. Lingham presiding,
the scheme for the ball was outlined.
Jeanie Ranken is devising the metamor-
phosis of the civic fastness, and is being
mistress of ceremonies generally. Maori-
lander Ethelwyn Kirk, who has an in-
stinct for costume that even Cochran
could not despise, is arranging “the his-
toric spectacle.”
A clutch of debs., early settlers’ de-
scendants, dressed as young ladies of
Governor Phillip’s day, will be presented
to the vice-regals. Governors will
abound; there’s to be one from each
State, excepting Westralia, but he will
be represented. Looking around the
meeting you realised the early arrivals
brought good looks as well as courage
with them to Sydney Cove. Ticket-
secretary Nina Flood is going to look
quite a belle in her powder-blue pan-
niered frock, her head circled with pink
rosebuds. There’ll be a sigh for the
Hunter period, too, when Carlotta Doyle
swishes past in rose taffeta over ivory
lace skirts. Muriel Higman’s carriage
parasol (the pride of one of her ances-
tors), brown taffeta, fringed with gold
and ivory-handled, will be another
charming detail.
Margaret Preston is back at Berowia
amid a riot of the native bush and flower
her brush loves to paint. The artist is
very pleased over the silver medal
awarded by the French authorities to the
paintings in oils which she exhibited
in the Australian pavilion at the Paris
Exposition. She is very pleased, too,
over the journey in South America which
she and her husband have just com-
pleted. First, the Australians went to
New York and then took ship to Rio
At La Paz they were struck by the vivid
coloring, and they found the journey by
the Peruvian Lakes one of almost magic
beauty.
Altitude had no effect on Mrs, Pres-
ton, and at Cuzco, where the IncdS trod
in pride before the Spanish conquest.
Mrs. Preston had her hair washed —in
the open street. There did not seem to
be room enough in the hairdresser’s little
shop, so out into the open client and cus-
tomer went. Indians passing by turned
the stoic heads above their colorful
blankets, and allowed themselves a smile.
Anyway, Mrs. Preston says the hair was
beautifully washed. Orchids growing
wild in the jungle, and magnificent
Spanish buildings looking the same as
they did 300 and more years ago, are
among the artist’s memories. There is
only one drawback. This is not a cheap
holiday; and as at each border the
money is apt to vary, the exchange be-
comes quite a problem. Four paintings
of Australian wildflowers in the Orcades
are by Margaret Preston.
The girls having led the way with their
Hawaiian Beach party and suchlike, the
bachelors of the city have decided to
show what they can do to help the In-
dustrial Blind Appeal. On Thursday,
the 23rd of the month, at the Trocadero,
21 of Sydney’s popular eligibles will fling
the doors wide on their “Lovers and
Luggers” Ball. Only men are on the
committee, and an unusual entertain-
ment is promised. Consett Stephen is
president of a group which includes
Vincent Fairfax, Jock Pagan, Bruce
Mmell, Monte Hicks, Claude Healey and
others equally handsome and brave. Ken
Hall and Cinesound are giving a hand,
and, with studio cunning, will turn the
Troc. into a South Sea Island Paradise
for the night—Eves, Adams, no serpents,
but probably a crooner or two.
Very dignified and correct was the re-
ception given by the Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor Street couple. This was in honor
of the Governor and Lady Wakehurst,
and Mrs. Geoffrey Lubbock, who is the
latter’s mother. Liverynga, the Elizabeth
Bay home of the Streets, was massed
with lilies and hydrangeas, and the
hostess was a graceful little figure in
black satin. Lady Wakehurst was not
well enough to go to the party, but Mrs.
Lubbock was handsome in black lace
and orchids. Catriona Maclean came
with the G.H. party, and Belinda Street,
in spreading white and blue organza, was
picturesque. The Alexander MacCor-
micks, returned to Australia for a few
months, were among the much-greeted.
The Chief Justice Lathams, and the
State’s C.J. Jordans were both present.
Distinguished citizens were thick as bees
in clover. Pianist Winifred Burston sup-
plied good music.
Still another stocking at Government
House for Santa to fill! Or, rather, it’s a
sock this time, and the owner is Sir Giles
Loder, bart. cousin of the Governor.
The young man is an engineer, is just
through Cambridge, and plans to fill in
his holiday when he is not sailing or
riding or swimming with seeing what
engineering is like in Australia.
Thelma Thomas, the Adelaide girl who
is designing the costumes for the sesqui-
centenary pageant, is no novice at the
game. She has already proved her mettle
in South Australia and Victoria. Thelma
is even prettier in real life than in this
Peter Pan picture. Dress- and costume-
designing have always been a passion with
her, so she spent some years as an art
student to strengthen her natural talent
for line and color. Already the work-
rooms at the Town Hall are blooming
with costumes grandiose and symbolic
that had their birth in this clever girl’s
brain.
Lute Drummond is already busy with
her new A.B.C. appointment. She is
to coach the cast of the light-opera
company of which Dino Borgioli will be
the bright star. Lute will also have the
job of arranging and making suitable
cuts in the libretto, as a broadcast opera
cannot be given as much time as a stage
performance. The tenor, whose wife was
one of the Morts, of Sydney, appears
regularly in Rome and at Covent Garden.
He was here with one of the Melba
Opera cos., and in Florence this writer,
who stayed at the friendly pension
owned by a relation of Dino, heard him
in “Don Giovanni.”
Mrs. John McPhillamy, who before
her marriage, as Beatrice Kelly fresh
from study in Italy, held an exhibition
of her paintings at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, held a second one at the same
address last week. This is the first since
her marriage, and in it Mrs. McPhillamy
has caught the color and openness of the
Bathurst country. The galleries were
crowded, and there were more men than
women. That in itself is quite a record.
Among early buyers were the Charles
Lloyd Jones couple. He opened the
show, and she collected a bouquet of red,
red roses. They looked just right against
the dark sheer of her redingote. Red-
ingotes were the favored style, Mrs. Mc-
Phillamy’s being in a deep rose shade.
The Bertie Kellys were there, very
proud of their gifted daughter. Mrs.
Kelly was receiving sympathy over being
booked for a stay in hospital. She goes into
St, Vincent’s a day or two after Christ-
mas. John Pye was there, limping, as
the result of getting his foot into the
sheep-dip. A cherry hat topped Lady
Poynter’s patterned silk suit. Mrs. Philip
Parkinson was kept busy answering in-
quiries about her mother, Mrs. Tom
Rolin. Oswald Cheeke was there. Miss
Fairfax bought a landscape. The really
lovely flowerpiece bought by the Lloyd
Joneses will hang in Summerlees, their
new home at Moss Vale.
This is Kathleen Horne, whose soprano
voice is often heard over national
stations. Before coming to the city
Kathleen lived at Dunedoo, and she is
a niece of H. E. Horne, M.L.C. She has
sung leading parts in the Mosman and
the Roseville amateur musical societies,
and a few weeks ago she presented at
St. James’s Hall a musical play. This
was called “A Family Interlude,” and
book and music were from Kathleen’s
pen. Photograph from Sydney Fox.
The new Consul-General for the United
States was welcomed by fellow-subjects
of Uncle Sam at a reception which filled
the ballroom of the Australia. The new
representative’s name is Wilson, and he
has a direct glance and word that are
very likeable. The president of the
American Society, Walter Gledhill, and
Mrs. Gledhill, U.S.A. Consul Albert
Doyle and his wife, and the Vice-Con-
sular Mathews couple were at the party.
So was the attractive Mrs. Von Schilling,
who wore a frock and hat in terra-cotta
tonings. This was one of the smartly-
dressed functions of the week, and a
special word goes to Mrs. Dan Kelly’s
small white toque which topped a
sleekly-cut black frock.
Mrs. Littlejohn, who left Australia
nearly three years ago to go to Istan-
bul and has since had a look at Pales-
tine, Spain, Germany, Switzerland and
Russia,' c&me home last week. Except
when the minarets glowed like gold
moths against the velvet of its night,
Istanbul had nothing more of beauty
to offer her than Sydney has. In Russia
she found the only queues are those
waiting for the newspapers. There’s
still a shortage of newsprint, and the
Russian has an appetite equal to the
Australian’s for newspapers.
The Kindergarten Union Training Col-
lege in Perth is getting the competent
and popular Dorothy Colley as acting-
principal for a year. Dorothy was for
some time one of this city’s presswomen.
Then she decided that kindergarten work
called her, and commenced study at the
Sydney Training College. The new
appointment commences in January.
The writer of this Letter, who has
always been addicted to verse-writing, has
brought out a collection of her verse in
book form. The book is called The Song
Maker and it is signed Nora McAuliffe.
It will be on sale at Angus and Robert-
son’s, the Roycroft, David Jones’s,
Dymock’s and other city bookshops.
This Letter was travelling per tram
one day last week when two bright-faced
and upright young sailors from a man-o’ •
war swung aboard. In the opposite
corner sat a mother with her offspring.
“Oh, look, Johnnie, Popeye! There’s
Popeye!” Johnnie goggled and pointed
a finger: “Popeye! Popeye!” The
sailors grinned, and got off at the next
stop.
Margaret, younger daughter of Mrs.
Fred Merewether, of Edgecliff, married
her Francis Webster Thompson at All
Saints’, Woollahra, on a breathless night
of last week. The country was well to
the fore among the guests, and, of course,
there were Merewethers from Newcastle,
that having been for years one of the
family headquarters. ’Groom’s father is
A. W. Thompson, of Widden, Muswell-
brook, and Cremorne, and the homestead
to which Frank takes his bride is over
100 years old. There were Osbornes,
Lethbridges, Hills, Horderns, McMasters
and Laidleys at this wedding. Peggy
Halloran, another bride of the week, was
among the guests. Bride, all silver lame
and tulle, was followed by a posy of
jacaranda-blue ’maids. After the church’s
blessing, the wedding meats were served
at the Royal Sydney Golf Club. With
her platinum laces, Mrs. Merewether
carried a blue bouquet. ’Groom’s mother
Mrs. Thompson wore graceful black
chiffons. Her flowers were yellow roses.
The Show Boat, the pleasure ferry that
slips goldenly about Port Jackson, is
becoming popular as a floating ballroom.
The W. A. Mackays have booked it for
their Christmas Eve party—a fancy-dress
one. Another unusual setting for festivi-
ties was designed by Joan Waterhouse,
who held her twenty-first birthday in an
Austrian wine cellar. This was really the
garage of Joan’s Neutral Bay home.
There were attendants in Austria’s
national dress and a gipsy orchestra.
Father and mother (the Leslie Water-
house couple) helped jtheir daughter in
her entertaining. Joan’s frock was a
soft shade of blue satin belted in silver.
Suzanne Kater was a bride of the week
whose wedding got into the headlines. She
became Mrs. Gordon Sinclair Dixon at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point. Suzanne is the
youngest daughter of the E. D. Katers,
of Illabunda, Nyngan. The ’groom’s
home is at Cooma. His parents are the
Gordon Dixons, of Point Piper. Night
weddings seem swinging back to favor.
The Halloran-Laidley nuptials, which
were the week-end’s big doings, were
timed for Saturday night. The Church
was All Saints’, Woollahra, and the Rose
Bay Golf Club housed the reception,
which was crowded with both town and
country guests. The Dr. John Laidleys
(she was Peggy Halloran) went off to
Europe and the ski-ing at St. Moritz in
the Orcades.


MODERN FARMERS DO
SETTER, FASTER WORK
WITH GOODYEARS!
ft 0! I 1 T
%
L
V
86 %
mmm
*
EMm?-*
m
*
lislllil
*"p. liljjvijjji yu£
Si
*s»w
sgs
ft
SfS!
■smii
m
r*»
Sv:
Wi
TERMS! Goodyear Tractor Tyres and
Wheels are available on Hire Purchase Terms. For
particulars write the Goodyear Branch (all capital
cities).
On all types of work and in all kinds of soils,
farmers have found that their tractors
equipped with Goodyears do more acres
of BETTER WORK in a day compared with
steel wheel equipment! That the fuel sav-
ing ALONE averages 25%! That savings
on tractor repairs and parts mount up to
50%. That drawbar pull is increased up to
50%. That road haulage is a quick and
simple matter —without delay for wheel
changes. Labor costs and backache are
saved.
All these advantages total up to LOWER
OPERATING COSTS AND GREATER
FARM PROFITS!
And there is one underlying reason —the
remarkable traction and ground-grip of
the Goodyear All-Way-Traction Tractor
Tyre. Its specially designed tread pattern
makes it the only tractor tyre that gives
maximum grip and pulling power in all
directions forwards, backwards AND
sideways.
SEND FOR INTERESTING LITERATURE
on the advantages of pneumatic tyres for
tractors and farm machinery. Goodyear
Tyre & Rubber Co. (all Capital Cities).
NAME
ADDRESS
8127
good/year
ALL-WAY-TRACTION
TRACTOR TYRES
10-E52-37


jr
a
When
Woman
tells you:
that people often tafce
her for years younger
than she is owing to
her white teeth,
that she’s used nothing
but Calvert’s since she
left school—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
t
d}.Zn<
K, 13
XfCU/L
vi&yct ifzlfL .tc
Smarter, lighter, more con-
venient, a glossy, weather-
proof Globite is the ideal
travel case. Sold at local
stores.
TRAVEI7TASE
( WYc\Aji m. 3
The Rieharrlson Chain Hotel
i
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .. • • from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Melbourne
Chatter
The good road to Lilydale was anni-
hilated by swift cars from town on the
evening of the John Plantes’ cocktail
party. Many guests saw for the first
time the old house reconditioned for com-
fort and Mrs. Plante’s attractive hook-
work rugs, for this was the largest party
given by this host and hostess since their
marriage several months ago. As a pre-
caution against casualties, the paddock
used as a car park was emptied of its
sheep before anyone arrived. The main
body of the festivity took place on the
verandah, where the twinkling lights of
Melbourne were seen in the distance.
Among those present were Mrs. Plante’s
parents, the Walter Hiscock couple, Mr.
Hiscock being sought after for discus-
sions on Border Leicester sheep. Sec.
of Croydon Golf Links Major Gamble
came along with wife —he, being in good
form for talking about his visits to
Lhassa, was popular conversationally.
The John Hewisons, the Jock White-
heads, Florence and Tom Mitchell,
Norma Derham and Chock McNaughton
were there; also Dr. John Bolton, who
went afterwards to a bacon-and-eggs
supper in the township of Lilydale. Very
attractive pair Margaret Swinburne and
Helen Macrae got their heads together,
with the result that they think they will
form a club for girls-who-have-been-to-
the-Orient-and-come-home-unengaged.
When Mrs. Ethel Barnes gives a
Christmas party everyone knows that it
will be original and as packed with
comedy as a Christmas-dinner plum-pud-
ding is with currants and raisins. The
star turn of the gathering in her flat
last week was an “Art Show” for which
the “pictures,” executed by the hostess,
were in crayon, paint and bits of any-
thing at all from the kitchen-oddments
box.
Mrs. Barnes’s art is unfettered by
any training, but she gets uncanny like-
nesses in caricature, such as in her action
piece “Ballet Australie,” danced by Joe
Lyons and Billy Hughes. In “The
Powers That Be” (Trustees of the
National Gallery) director Jim Mac-
Donald was easily picked out, but some
of the trustees had, instead of faces,
heads made from pieces of cork.. The
profile of Harold Brockhoff on skis was
easily recognised in “Parad-Ice.” A
melee of cricket in much green paint
was entitled “Australia’s Defence by
Bradman.” A piece of timber gummed
into the foreground among Henry VIII.
and his wives formed the nucleus of
“Six Appeal.” “Sinflowers” sun-
flowers but for pert faces in their centres
—was a clever little bit in chalks.
Among guests present were the Alan
Brockhoffs, the George Lomases, the
Theo Troedels, whose baby slept u.ndis-
turbed upstairs, Gil Ward, Cyril Power
and Val anc * Yvonne Cohen, Yvonne
wearing flowers in her hair to match the
multicolored floral patterning upon her
slimly-cut navy-blue gown.
Wing-Commander and Mrs. Frank
Lukis postponed their housewarming at
Laverton for so long that by the time it
p i ace there was already word in the
a j r G f t h e j r transfer to Point Cook—a
moV e brought about by the departure of
Group-Captain Cole from Richmond to
England (to the Imperial Defence Col-
iege) South Kensington) and of Group-
Captain de la Rue from Point Cook to
Richmond. Though an air station isn’t
t h e eas j es t place in which to hold a party
(f or shops and quick deliveries are far
awayj an d in this particular case the bat-
man to go to his brother’s wed-
ding) the function went with a swing,
starting early and finishing late. Two
strange batmen were requisitioned, and
“Luke” helped by driving to town in the
morning and in the afternoon dissect-
ing crayfish and keeping several babies’
bathtubs filled with ice and bottles,
Among guests were the Dermot Con-
nellys, who were the first to leave, for
they had to be in town by eight o’clock,
Dermot having a date with the Magi-
cians’ Club. Senator and Mrs. J. W.
Leckie were also there on the eve of
their departure for the high jinks of the
week in Canberra. Mrs. Leckie and son
Jack, who has just completed three years’
Law with no sups., are now enjoying
a tour by car along the coast of N.S.W.
j n t h e Spencer Shier portrait is Mrs.
H G Trace, who doesn’t mind the fore-
cast of a hot summe r, for she and her
husband arrived from Brisbane in the
midst of last winter, which gave them
mental as well as physical chilblains.
While in Queensland Mrs. Trace took a
prominent part acting in and producing
plays. She’s to make her debut on Mel-
bourne boards next Saturday with the
Gregan McMahon Players. Her part of
Amuri Brandon is the only feminine
character in Mrs. Frank Andrew’s "‘The
Chinese Robe,” a fantasy of fate and a
curtain-raiser to Drinkwater’s “Bird in
Hand.” Mrs. Trace, who before her
marriage was Patricia Connolly, spent
her childhood in Adelaide and for
several years was in the same dancing
class as Bobbie Helpman and Nancy
Atkins (afterwards Mrs. Leon Gordon).
Bobbie, who is now the famous dancer
Robert Helpmann (having added another
“n” to his surname), was always the star
of the dancing school. He had a good
sense of comedy and loved to dress up
in girls’ clothes and wigs.
There was no squeezing and a billiard-
room left over when Chartres, the
Lansell-road home of the R. L. Webb
couple, sheltered 150 guests for cock-
tails in honor of Theo Gibb and Tom
Sanger, who were married last week. The
■overflow from dining-room and lounges
drifted on to the verandah, a very popu-
lar spot on such a warm evening. Nancy
Webb and the Tom Mackays gave the
party, and the hostesses’ brother Jock
Webb was present with his bride, who by
now has just about become acquainted
with all her husband’s relatives. Among
those present who were cousins or
cousins of cousins were Mrs. John Doble,
who used to be Nan Holgate, Margaret
Lewis (who is expecting her brother
Lewis Lewis to arrive in Australia within
the next few weeks with his blonde bride,
who is half-German and half-Swedish),
the Frank Faulkners and the Doug
Faulkners.
The American Dorothys are among
the chief attractions at Kooyong this
week. Dorothy Workman, or “Do,” is
tall and graceful. Dorothy Bundy, or
“Do-Do,” is small and sturdy and a
beautiful shade of coffee-brown. “Do-
Do” is an amazingly good mixer; her
faculty for making friends easily ensures
her popularity wherever she goes. Her
practice opponent for the first few days
before the commencement of the impor-
tant tennis matches was Alison Hatters-
ley, who this year is not with the N.S.W.
women’s team, but has come to Mel-
bourne to compete as a freelance. An-
other Alison, Alison Howse, was “Do-
Do’s” aquatic sparring partner on board
the Mariposa coming from the U.S.A.;
both neat divers, being capable of keep-
ing on indefinitely at salvaging plates
during competitions held in the ship’s
swimming pool.
Mrs. Adrian McKay and her daughter-
in-law-to-be, Win Thompson, are home
again from their holiday in New Guinea,
which they enjoyed in spite of a cycle
of illnesses. Soon after the visitors’
arrival in Wau, Win was rushed off to
hospital with appendicitis, and while she
was recuperating her fiance, John
McKay, followed suit also with appen-
dicitis. Knowing that Mrs. McKay had
lost her appendix some years ago was
some consolation to her husband and the
rest of the family when they heard the
disquieting news by radio. Win and
John, who is a solicitor in Wau, hope to
be married next year.
Jean Robertson, who has been doing
publicity for Hutchinson’s publishing co.,
tossed in her job and left this week for
England in the Orcades, reasons for het
decision being joy of travel, broadening
of the mind and joining the family
already in London. Jean’s father, Dr.
Edward Robertson, was a predecessor of
Dr. Featonby, present chairman of the
Health Commission. Dr. and Mrs.
Robertson have not so far made any
plans for returning to Australia; neither
has Betty, who says that she is writing
a book, nor Alan, who is an architect
and is finding plenty to interest him pro-
fessionally in London.
In the Ronald Esler photograph is
Marli Sherwin, who shared with Helen
Sage and Vaire Wilkinson the responsi-
bilities of ticket-secretaries for the
Orcades Ball in aid of the Women’s
Hospital and the Free Kindergarten
Union. Marli was also one of the many
before-the-ball hostesses when she enter-
tained about 20 young folk at a dinner
party at her home in Glenferrie-road.
She is the daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Arthur Sherwin, went abroad for the
Coronation festivities, and was presented
at Court.
Members of the McPherson family are
maintaining the standard of generosity
set by William McPherson, who by dona-
tions, trusts and endowments perpetuated
the name of his wife in the Emily Mc-
Pherson Institute of Domestic Economy
and of his mother in the Jessie McPher-
son Hospital, the adjoining private block
of the Queen Victoria Hospital. Son
of this philanthropist, W. P. McPherson,
made a gift of the family mansion, Inver-
gowrie, and its acreage of native scrub
and lawn garden surmounting the hill
in Coppin Grove, Hawthorn, for the
Homecraft Hostel run by the Head-
mistresses’ Association as a domestic-
training centre for secondary schoolgirls.
It has proved a popular choice in girls’
careers. Accommodation has been so
taxed recently that the overflow of
students is living “out” in near-by private
homes. Last week a further McPherson
gift for women was announced when
W. P. McPherson’s sisters, Mrs. A. B.
Shaw, of Grassdale, and Mrs. Alan
Taylor, of Sydney, agreed to relieve con-
gestion at the hostel with the gift of a
cottage to be built in the grounds, Alan
Taylor, who is an architect, has come
over from Sydney to discuss plans.
Captain and Mrs. H. P. Robertson,
who spent a few days in Melbourne last
week, keep among easy accessibilities in
their suitcases several photographs of the
beautiful Anna Neagle, to whom they
are devoted. Anna in real life is Mar-
jorie Robertson, Captain Robertson’s
daughter. Her mother’s maiden name
was Neagle. She is 25, unmarried, and
Stuart Robertson, the singer, is her
brother. In September Anna’s last film,
“Victoria the Great,” was released in
England. As a preliminary for such im-
portant work, Anna took out a reader’s
ticket at the British Museum, where she
went almost every day for three months
to study the history of the Victorian era
and the Queen’s letters. For checking
up on costumes she visited the London
Museum and the Victoria and Albert, in
Kensington. Captain and Mrs. Robert-
son are travelling westwards round the
world. They came through Panama, and
are now en route for South Africa. Cap-
tain Robertson, who is a Scot, was for
many years in command of ships on the
Sydney-Maoriland run.
Though many Australian girls have
swum happily through London seasons
and finally married into titles and society
comparatively few have entered the peer-
age. Of particular interest therefore is
last week’s cable that the Hon. Jestyn
Reginald Austen Plantagenet Phillips,
heir to a viscounty, four baronies and a
baronetcy, and who will be 21 in Feb-
ruary, is engaged to Doreen Guinness
Jowett, of Melbourne. Doreen, an old
girl of Clyde, is an undergrad, at Oxford.
She’s the daughter of Captain and Mrs.
A. C. Jowett, of Kooyong-road, a grand-
daughter of the late Edmund Jowett and
a grand-niece on her mother’s side of the
portrait-painter Phillip de Laszlo, who
died a few weeks ago. Edmund Jowett,
who owned stations in N. S. Wales and
Queensland, was in Commonwealth
politics for a time.
Modern flats with their central heat-
ing, air-conditioning, labor-saving de-
vices and architects’ space-savers have
not come too soon. The woman who
runs a home must be prepared to run it
alone, with the daily help wanting more
and more time to herself, the cook giv-
ing notice as Christmas is coming and
no parlormaids to be had —they all went
into factories years ago. The cook-
general is becoming as rare as a hansom
cab.
Mrs. John Downing, of the House-
wives’ Association, suggests that a
women’s branch of the Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation should be formed. Her reasons
are that women as housewives are more
frugal over the pennies than are politi-
cians, who talk carelessly in thousands
and don’t have to make ends meet, over
a national debt and 45 millions a year
interest. As housewives’ tours abroad
were so successful last year it is pro-
posed to arrange more tours, with sailing
dates in April.


tiikiL
Curjard
AVhiteSt&r
Make Your Trip
to England a
Round-the-
World Tour
SPECIAIdLY reduced rates enable you to
make your trip to England a Round-the-
World tour, including a crossing of the
Atlantic in one of the giant luxury liners of
the Cunard White Star Fleet, such as the
R.M.S. “QUEEN MARY” . . 81,235 tons
R.M.S. “BERENGARIA” . . 52,100 tons
R.M.S. “AQUITANIA” . . . 45,647 tons
Enquire also regarding the low rates obtain-
able on the Britannic, Franconia, Samaria
types of vessels.
FREE, a folder, detailing the routes and fares,
showing you the savings. Write or call anti
consult us before you complete any arrange-
ments.
JOINT PASSENGER AGENTS:
PORT LINE, LIMITED, DALGETY & GO., LTD.,
1-7 Bent St., Sydney. 2 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Incorporated in England.)
Cunard
While Star
yOB SECURfry
OVER 6%
ANNUAL YIELD
WITH SAFETY
An investment in
FIRST
AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
gives you the above, because
your money is “spread” over
the shares of 20 of Aus-
tralia’s leading undertakings.
In addition,
UNION INSURANCE
SOCIETY OF CANTON,
LTD.,
Union Building,
Bond Street, Sydney,
act as Custodian Trustees of
the securities backing the
Certificates.
Write for FREE descriptive
booklet No. 1 to the Managers
of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED
TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
'Phone: 85294.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Mataranka”: Though the N.T. has
only about 3000 potential voters, it gets
plenty of ’excitement out of an election.
Polling-day this year was a week later
than in other electorates. The four
candidates —Labor, Independent Labor
and two Independents, one of whom was
the sitting member —had covered the
whole 523,000 square miles of their elec-
torate in clouds of dust. The counting
of votes —there are only two booths at
Darwin and Alice Springs, the rest of the
votes being postal—was something like a
Test match. At the first count Toupein
(Labor) had 345 votes to Blain’s 335,
the other two candidates sharing 200
votes. Wild bursts of cheering. Then
the Parap —Vestey’s suburb —votes came
in. Toupein forged ahead to 477, with
Blain well back at 418. But Alice
Springs sent down Toupein almost for
the count. Blain got 206 Alice votes,
Labor 37, and 101 went to the other two
candidates. Toupein rose gallantly from
the mat when Tennant’s Creek returns
arrived. They brought figures to: Tou-
pein, 807, Blain 786, Hughes-Jones 224,
Nelson 178, and left 800 votes to come
in. The next count, a fortnight later,
made the figures: Blain 960, Toupein
917, Hughes-Jones 333, Nelson 305.
Blain is exchanging preferences with
Hughes-Jones, and Labor, having ex-
pelled its old torch-bearer Nelson for
having opposed a Labor candidate, has
paired with him. As most of the balance
of the votes, which will take some time
to arrive are bush votes, the odds are on
Blain. The poll is easily a record —only
1898 voted last election and 1518 the
poll before. Last time Blain won by
67 on the second count.
* * * $
“Puffinus”: Southport (Q.) is rapidly
on the way to becoming an inland town
instead of a seaside one. It began 40
years ago when the sea broke through
Stradbroke Island at Jumpinpin and
diverted the ebb-tide scour which used to
keep the passage clear at the south end
of the island. Since then the flood-tide
race has cut more than two miles off the
point and thinned it from nearly half a
mile to a few chains. The debris of
sand and trees has gone to filling up the
Broadwater and building an extensive
spit. During the big blow and high tides
last February, the Pacific took 70ft. of
foreshore in one bite. Houses are being
hastily removed to the mainland, and
present indications are that the whole
south end of the island will be gone by
Christmas, particularly if a big blow
should coincide with the high seasonal
tides. Any definitely effective remedy is
ruled out by high cost.
* * * *
“Nunatarra”: Is Australia becoming
permanently drier? Once on a time
rivers out of Western Queensland used
to rush in flood to fill Lake Eyre: now
it is necessary to seek out the oldest in-
habitant to hear of the last time the
Cooper and the Diamantina came down.
Right through the Centre the same
“Wish you'd use somethin else fr prunin' yr corns , Ada me razors
startin' t' pull a bit."
aridity prevails. In the west, the Mur-
chison, Gascoyne and Ashburton sheep
country, all within the same latitudes as
the abovementioned rivers, consistently
becomes drier; the last drought even
killed big trees that must have braved
weather conditions of the previous 50 or
100 years. Moderate rains have since
fallen, but not enough to restore to the
country the lush appearance that it once
knew. The standing tragedy of this
country is that copious rains send the
rivers a mile wide to the sea, to be
dry again within a few weeks. Some
system of dams that would retain a few
millions of these billions of gallons
would go far towards resisting the march
of desiccation.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Fernberg, Brisbane’s
Government House, has seen many
changes since I. C. Heussler 72
years ago built the first house of that
name on his 57-acre block. Its rubble-
and-concrete foundations and walls still
remain a solid and enduring part
of the much-altered structure of
to-day. Seven years later, the property
was bought by Arthur Palmer. From
him it passed successively to Cohen,
manager of Elliot Bros., the chemists,
and to Stennet, of Stennet’s Corner. In
1884 it was bought by Stevenson, direc-
tor of the Q.N. and a Mt. Morgan mag-
nate, who added the present ornate
front, and, by reason of owning the ad-
joining land, was able to improve access
with a new road. The house remained
unaltered until it was acquired by the
Government in 1910, when the original
Government House in the Domain
became the first home of the Queens-
land University. William MacGregor
of New Guinea fame was the first Gov-
ernor to occupy it. Successive altera-
tions and additions have made it an
extremely comfortable and modern
residence.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Brisbane went gay to welcome back
Governor Leslie Wilson and his lady.
Cheering crowds in the streets; flags
and what not. Son Peter, who recently
bought himself an aeroplane, tore from
Archerfield in time to meet the boat.
The welcome-home Parliamentary
dinner was a Christmassy affair —dwarf
palms in copper stands, and small Christ-
mas-trees, huge bowls of Christmas bells,
and blue delphiniums and yellow
broom on the tables. Colonel G. F.
Bunbury, the new private sec., and Cap-
tain J. Richards, A.D.C., were in attend-
ance. They both served under the Gov-
ernor in the war, and Colonel Bunbury
was with him in India. Mrs. Forgan
Smith helped her husband to receive
wearing black lace.
The Bush Children’s Health Scheme
is one of the worthwhile things in which
his Ex. is interested, and he and Lady
Wilson attended a meeting of the corn-
mittee working for the fete to be held
at Government House next year to bring
in some needed funds. They were also
in the audience at the Princess Theatre
when amateurs staged a show to assist
the funds of the Blair lady’s stall at the
fete.
Our girls are becoming more and more
air-minded. Nellie Chellingworth, a
Winton lass, has her A certificate, and
spends a lot of time in Townsville, learn-
ing to loop the loop and other circus
tricks.
The State final of the Australian ama-
teur dancing championship was won by
G. McAllister and his partner, who will
visit Melbourne for the grand final. R.
Lambert and Miss V. Cassidy we.e the
runners-up. The championship dancing
every Wednesday night at the Trocadero
for the past several weeks has drawn
packed houses.
Louise Grimes is the first Queensland
woman to earn her degree as Bachelor
of Music at Adelaide University. This
year she began her arts course at Q’land
Uni., and recently she was appointed
to the music committee organised by
the Dept, of Public Instruction to work
with 4QG in connection with the broad-
casts to schools. Her job brings her into
close touch with 1100 youngsters, whose
musical directress she is. There are three
choirs, and an orchestra of 25 violinists.
The orchestra was heard over the air
recently and surprised Brisbaneites, who
did not know that their city possessed
such a body.
Westerners arrived in droves to attend
the wedding of Alma, daughter of Albert
Simpson, Bymont, Surat, to Jim, son of
the late E. C. McCormack, Merino
Downs, Surat. The nuns of St. Rita’s
Convent decorated St. Agatha’s Church
for the ceremony, and Father O’Connell
tied the knot. A trained gown of ivory
lace was worn by the bride, whose veil
was worn with a coronet of camellias.
Gwen Simpson and Molly McCormack,
wearing picture-frocks of ivory organza,
’maided. Reception was at the Belle Vue
Hotel, and the moon is shining in Sydney
and Melbourne.
Archbishop Wand unveiled the memo-
rial to J. K. Westray, one of the victims
of the Stinson ’plane smash, which now
stands at the border gates in the New
England highway. Westray’s mother,
Mrs. George Bryant, and her husband,
who were passengers in the Orcades,
were present at the unveiling.
When Dawn Gripp married Cyril Bode
she carried a lovely lace handkerchief
that her grandmother, Mrs. F. R. Sharpe,
brought back from Mexico 10 years ago.
There were three ’maids, Constance
Jessup, Dorothy Hailey and Noela Moor-
house.
Two graduates of Q’land Uni., Betty
Cowell and Ross Fardon, had a pretty
and unusual wedding. Betty, a Bachelor
of Science, wore cloudy amber draperies,
and her ’maids, Evelyn Cowell and
Margaret Fardon, were in aquatint.
Ross, also a B.Sc., is town engineer at
Southport, which is where the new home
will be.
The historic All Saints Church, Yan-
dilla, which was consecrated 50 years
ago, was in use long before that as a
private chapel for the Gores, of Yan-
dilla station. Archbishop Wand preached
the golden-jubilee sermon, and after-
wards there was a picnic lunch for the
worshippers.
Dr. T. V. Stubbs Brown was best man
for his pal, Dr. George Wallace Allen,
who married Freda Blight at St. John’s
Cathedral. The bride, who wore eggshell
satin and carried stephanotis and frangi-
panni, had two gold-clad ’maids, Mardi-
Duncan and Alys Nell Blight, to attend
her. The newlyweds are honeymooning
in N. S. Wales in their car
Prior to Kitty Wylie’s marriage to
S. H. Blake on Dec. 3, sister Isa Wylie
gave a supper dance at the Belle Vue
cottage. Bowls of gladioli were on the
supper tables, and bowls of red and
cream gerberas in odd corners about
the rooms. Isa wore black satin and
Kitty hydrangea-blue chiffon velvet,
made on Empire lines.
George, youngest son of Mr. and Mrs.
James Mitchell, formerly of Bangate
station, Walgett (N.S.W.), and Florence,
only daughter of Mrs. Lethbridge and
the late J. C. K. Lethbridge, Warren
Point, Mitchell, were married in St.
Paul’s, Roma. There was no ’maid, and
the bride, given away by her brother,
was frocked in powder-blue crepe georg-
ette, with hat to match, and carried
pink roses and carnations. Mitchells
and Lethbridges were among the
pioneers of the pastoral industry, the
former in N.S.W., the latter in Q’land.
Daphne Mayo sailed from Sydney in
the Romolo, and will be away for about
a year. First stop is Genoa, and then
a tour of Europe, including Denmark,
which, as the home of Thorwaldsen,
would prove an attraction to any sculp-
tress.


SIS
LU
m®
W'/'
WtM
SlfiL m
w*>m
*-"■ \ ; C . . M
iii =•:=
ss®S
111
mm' ;
“Mf- r®*
;*a*a-
W.V"
K
House For Sale.
PYMBLE, SYDNEY'S SELECT SUBURB.
TWO STOREY BRICK RESIDENCE.
Containing wide entrance hall, 8 fine rooms,
billiard or ballroom, tennis court, sewered, all
offices,
2 GARAGES. 3 EOOSE BOXES.
PRICE, £5OOO.
Standing in 2 acres of land, with two frontages
and commanding excellent views, this property
should appeal to the Country Gentleman or
horse-lover, being only 12 minutes to Pymble
Station and within i-hour of City. Inspection
by appointment with O’SULLIVAN & CO.,
PYMBLE— JX2422.
Personal and Missing Friends.
STEVENS—JOHN TOWLER STEVENS, be-
lieved to have come to Australia from Derby-
shire about 1877, died in South Melbourne in
1885. He left children surviving him, named
Walter Hugh, Charles Leonard, Harold Leslie
and Arthur John. Anyone knowing any of these
or their descendants, who are entitled to share
in a relative’s estate, are requested to communi-
cate with the undermentioned solicitors.
LAWSON & JARDINE,
123 William Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
cean„
HTsyonct
00^5
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
To raise £750 by means of an after-
noon fete is quite an achievement, but
Adelaide Children’s Hospital can boast
that it did it. The bazaar was staged in
the grounds, and those of the small in-
mates who were well enough had their,
beds brought on the wide balcony so that
they could see the fun. To the sweet
stall had been given a wonderful gal-
leon which carried a cargo of sweets and
was sold at auction.
The marriage of Mrs. G. Krantz’s
daughter Marjorie to Allan C. Oliver
was celebrated at St. Peter’s, Glenelg, and
followed by a champagne supper at the
St. Vincent. The bride wore white French
ninon over satin, cut on princess lines
and merging into a train, and the V-neck-
line was outlined with pearls. The long
tulle veil was held in place by a halo.
Bride’s sister, Mrs. Niel Nielsen, matron
of honor, and Joan Geekie, bridesmaid,
were frocked alike in primrose taffeta,
with redingotes of a deeper tone in stiff-
ened silk net, trimmed with wide bands
of taffeta, and finished at the neck with
posies of yellow velvet roses. Their halo
taffeta hats were worn with tulle veils
to match, reaching to the shoulder.
Invitations have been sent out by Mrs.
S. E. Beach, of Wood-street, Millswood,
for the marriage of her only daughter
Elizabeth Mary (Betty) to John G.
McKinna at Stow Memorial Church on
December 18.
For the cocktail party given by the
Base Commandant (Brigadier Martyn)
and Mrs. Martyn at their home at Kes-
wick Barracks, floral decorations were car-
ried out in rhododendrons, delphiniums
and lupins. Mrs. Martyn and daughter
Joan had made all sorts of wonderful
savories. The guests numbered about 50.
“The Vagabond King,” after surviving
a humid heat wave, finished to capacity
houses. On one especially hot night,
during the duel scene in the tavern,
Howard Pfitzner and his opponent be-
came so realistic that Howard had a slit
in a finger and a doctor had to be called
in to put in six stitches. Two or three
of the players had bleeding noses due to
the heat.
The Mexican Cabaret at the Univer-
sity proved a big success. Multicolored
balloons and fairy lights transmogrified
the cloisters, and cactus, presumably a
Mexican feature, was prominent in the
decorations. A Mexican dance by six
girl members of the Uni. Footlights Club
was followed by a burlesque dance by
several men students. Besides the floor
space in the Refectory a special dance
floor had been laid on the lawn. The
secretaries of the Uni. Union, Helen
Wighton and F. Pilgrim, were assisted by
a large committee.
WESTRALIA.
After watching the opening-day races
of the Royal Perth Yacht Club from the
decks of the cruising Zephyr and imbib-
ing refreshers at the clubhouse after-
wards, feminine guests of the Commo-
dore and members did a hasty change
for the dance in the evening. Commo-
dore George Gwynne was at the helm,
and guests of honor included some of
the navy from the Yarra. Tynka Salom
wound a crimson drapery round her
ensign-blue crepes, Pauline Woodroffe
struck a nautical note with her navy
and white satin girdings, and Dorothy
Howe hoisted tricolor trimmings on
smoky-brown ninons. Nancy Waldie-
Forbes tucked a spray of white roses in
her auburn locks above eddies of black
net, and Joan Pead pinned violets at the
waist of her sky-blue spotted net red-
ingote.
Meaty fare was enjoyed by members
of the Alliance Fran?aise at the conclud-
ing meeting of the year. M. Rend Levy,
newly arrived from abroad, described the
French Exposition and a tour of Russia
he made, Madame Levy chatted amus-
ingly of their European wanderings and
M. Pierre Bouvier journeyed over several
continents in his talk. Dr. and Madame
Gelle did the welcoming, and Zoe Lene-
gan and Tossi Fraenkel made music in
the intervals.
Padre John Bell tied the matrimonial
knot at Christ Church, Claremont, for
the Reg Hamiltons’ only lass Gwen and
Noel Renouf, of Carnamah. Iridescent
pink-tinged oyster satin sheathed the
bridal figure, over which foamed tulle
veilings, lent by Mrs. Jack Smart. ’Maid
Betty Dures matched the blue del-
phiniums of her bouquet with bouffant
jacquard organza, puffed of sleeve and
sashed with deeper blue faille. Masse*
of roses and delphiniums decked the
Hamilton home in Peppermint Grove,
which housed the after-rejoicings.
Smooth lawns and masses of blooms
in the rose gardens, with the creeper-
covered college as a background, made
an ideal setting for the garden party
given by the council of St. Georges
College. The hall and wide verandahs
were banked with tall gladioli and holly-
hocks, and bowls of delphiniums deco-
rated the tea-tables. Canon Law and
Rev. C. E. Storrs received Acting-Gover-
nor Mitchell and his lady and the hun-
dreds of guests who later filled the chapel
for an organ recital by A. J. Leckie.
The McGibbon home in Bellevue-
terrace was thrown open at the cocktail
hour in honor of visiting councillors ot
the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Mrs. McGibbon, in brilliantly patterned
brown French crepe, had daughters
Molly and Rita to help in the entertain-
ing. Dinner and theatre parties, a launch
picnic and a golfing day for the presi-
dent’s trophy were other social oases in
the week of serious conferring.
The J. A. Collisters, of South Perth,
complete with car and twin daughters
Joan and Joyce, have departed for a
leisurely four months’ tour of the Eastern
States. Before they sailed, Mrs. Ernest
Lee-Steere poured morning-tea in their
honor, Barbara Pretty shook farewell
cocktails and Isla Saw gathered friends
of the twins round the bridge tables at
her home in Bellevue-terrace.
The latest offering of the Rep. Soc.
was Noel Coward’s “Private Lives.”
Nancy Lee, Joy Ruse, Brian Curlewis
and Harold Harvey wove the skeins of
the tangled story into an amusing whole
under the guiding hand of Beryl Seward.
The popularity of the effort was ap-
parent in the complete booking-out of
the Rep. Theatre for the four-night
season.
Anne Paton, Oxford academic honors
still fresh upon her, hostessed a tea-
drinking at the Karrakatta Club for two
young travellers, Dorothy Temperlev
and Margaret Sandover. Dorothy has
just returned from foreign climes, and
Margaret is here with family on a short
visit from London. The Sandover clan
rallied in force to welcome the English
branch.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark ran
up north, where his Ex. invested the
northern capital’s Mayor, F. Warland
Browne, with the 0.8. E. Following this,
Sir Ernest bestowed the Imperial Long
Service Medal on J. L. Torrents and
F. A. Weaver, railway employees.
The committee of the Aero Club Ball
at the Continental made the affair some-
thing different from the ordinary brand.
A miniature silver aeroplane hovered
over the heads of the dancers, of whom
there were over 300. The club badge and
colors, model aeroplanes, sketches of an
“airy” type round the mirrors, a dummy
pilot on the dais and other contraptions
helped to create an air-minded atmo-
sphere. His Ex. and Lady Clark at-
tended. M. Roche was secretary to a
long committee, and Don Wilson’s
orchestra made the music.
Miss Leake, The Grange, Campbell
Town, and her niece Dorothy Foster
gave a garden party, and were lucky
enough to have a perfect day for it. A
big crowd of guesis rolled up, among
them several carloads from Launceston.
Tennis and bridge were played, and the
grounds were looking their best.
Launceston’s Mayoress (Mrs. F. War-
land Browne) gave two parties in suc-
cession at the Brisbane Hotel. The first
was for bridge, the second for solo whist.
Decorations were chiefly of Christmas
lilies, delphiniums and gladioli in masses.
Tea-tables were done with sweet-peas.
On the first day the Mayoress’s frock of
navy and white had a little coatee, and
was worn with a wide-brimmed hat, and
on the second her dress of plain navy
georgette had a deep white collar.
Claremont Golf Club’s dance at the
Belvedere served as a wind-up to its
winter season. Bridge was arranged for
non-dancers. Mrs. V. C. Wise and H. A.
Wilkinson were joint secs., and did their
job well. Members of other golf clubs
swelled the ranks of the guests, who
numbered nearly 300.
Hostesses for Mrs. Thos. Lyons and
Sybil, the Ashbolt lady and Mrs. Colin
Perkins have been busy of late, and the
returned travellers have had their work
cut out to fit in all engagements. Bridge
parties, luncheons and teas have been
showered on them, and Mrs. Stanley
Barnett and Mrs. Claude Boag enter-
tained Sybil Lyons and a number of her
friends at an all-day party at Mrs.
Barnett’s, with a tennis tournament and
buffet luncheon as chief features.
The Friends of the Museum ran a
conversazione before the formal opening
of the loan exhibition of Dutch paintings.
The Art Gallery, softly lighted and with
these masterpieces on the wall, made an
attractive setting. The Governor made a
short speech, as also did Dr. Pearson,
Dr. Crowther and Mr. Unwin. Refresh-
ments were served in the lower room.
Young Dr. A. K. Mclntyre, son of Dr.
and Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre (Launceston),
has been awarded the Liston Wilson re-
search fellowship in neurology at Sydney
University for 1938.
Dorothy (Billee) Hogarth, elder of the
J. R. Hogarth girls, Elphin-road, Laun-
ceston, and Rod Scott, only son of the
Tulloch Scotts, Dunedin, St. Leonard’s,
announce their engagement.


For something new in
travel service and days
packed with thrills go to
Europe and return via
9.47 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly• Co., Inc. in Canada
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 George Street, Sydney
(Near Bridge Street).
The leading Exhibition of
Australian Art—latest works
by the most prominent
Australian Artists always on
view and for sale.
OPEN DAILY,
ADMISSION FREE.
Telephone: 87971.
SS
mj/ra/rfl
K*
—^£>2:- *+ % \*+w+*jr
0?
VM'*** S
Ķ
TOAST Your Friends at
Christmas in this FINE
Whisky
THE BASIS OF PERFECT COCKTAILS
Agents:
John Woods & Co.,
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
Distilled by
Hiram Walker &
Sons, Ltd.,
Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada
Since 1858.
The mellowness and softness of Canadian Club
whisky will instantly appeal to the discerning
palate.
Canadian Club has won, and retains, inter-
national repute; it is matured for years in
old oak casks; is bottled in bond and, although
pre-war strength, is sold at the same price as
standard Scotch brands. Toast your friends
in Canadian Club; intrigue your guests with
perfect cocktails made with this perfect base.
Write to the agents for an attractive, free,
cocktail recipe book.
The Long White Cloud
Shorter Hours—and More Imports
Maoriland’s 40-hour week, now preva-
lent in most manufacturing industries, has
necessarily increased manufacturing
costs, for wages, where they have not
risen, have certainly not decreased. Re-
duction of hours from 44 to 40 has there-
fore meant an increase of 10 p.c. in
wages costs. This might have been made
up by a little brisker production (confi-
dently prophesied by the 40-hour advo-
cates) or by an increase in production
scale induced by greater demand, but
matters aren’t working that way. Demand
is not increasing. Production is not
brisker.
On the other hand, importations of
manufactured goods that compete with
the Dominion product are rapidly in-
creasing. The total of imports for the
last recorded 12 months (up to August)
was £13,000,000 in excess of that for the
previous 12 months, and a great deal
of that increase went into manufactured
articles of a sort produced in the
Dominion. Usually at this period of the
year the manufacturing trades of the
Dominion are at their peak of produc-
tion. Instead, this year, they report
slackness. Hands are being put off, and
even the 40-hour week is too long for
the work in hand.
The manufacturers, not unreasonably,
claim that Government policy should
be consistent. If a State ukase compels
them to pay more for labor and use
their plants for only 23 p.c. of the week,
they are entitled to adequate protection
against the products of countries where
such benevolent conditions do not
operate. But, as the president of the
Auckland Manufacturers’ Assoc, recently
remarked, “No Government in this coun-
try has been bold enough to protect
adequately its secondary industries.”
That is true, but there is also the para-
dox that the M.L. inhabitant contributes
more to Customs revenue than the deni-
zen of any high-tariff country. The
M.L. tariff is a tariff-for-revenue. If
wage-raising and hour-reducing is to be
the policy of the country the long-
awaited tariff revision will have to be
undertaken soon, and tackled in a very
drastic fashion.
“Catswhisker”: If miracles were ex-
pected of “Uncle Scrim,” imported from
Australia to run the M.L. Government’s
commercial broadcasting service, they
haven’t happened. The first six months
of the new regime has cost the tax-
payers exactly £4566 13s. 9d. During the
same period the profits of the national
broadcasting service were approximately
£63,000. It is pleaded that the figures
don’t do the commercial branch justice.
It gets no license fees, and its initial
period has been handicapped by the
necessity of building up business and
improving stations.
* * * *
“Poddy”: Some joker started a rumor
that a scientist in Patagonia or Czecho-
slovakia or somewhere had invented a
synthetic or artificial beef which could
be produced from sawdust or sugar-
cane refuse or something. The Meat
Board cabled frantically to all its foreign
representatives for further details of the
disaster. None came. The Canadian
Agriculture Department hadn’t heard a
whisper of the furphy. The U.S.A. knew
it not. London hadn’t any information,
and Europe at large returned a bill of
“not guilty.” So the Dominion’s cow
guardians are making up for many sleep-
less nights.
* * * *
“Nux Vom”: The shadow of Boots has
been hanging over Maoriland chemists’
shops as well as over Australian ditto,
and there has in consequence, just as in
Australia, been a rumpus over the High
Cost of Medicine. The Government
didn’t refer the matter to a royal com-
mission. It evolved a plan all its own
which Minister Dan Sullivan claims will
safeguard drug quality, keep prices
reasonable, ensure expert dispensing and
exclude “wholesale druggists, manufac-
turing chemists, indentors and overseas
representatives.” The main points of the
Sullivan plan, which is being submitted to
a plebiscite of the chemists, is a control
board headed by a Director of Phar-
macy, refusal of licenses to firms whose
principal business is not pharmacy, and
limitation of licenses to chain companies
in such a way as.to “preserve the exist-
"Well, if you re the Admiral, you’re out of a job— your ship’s gone.”
ence of individual pharmacy.” The con-
trol board will have three Government-
appointed and four elected members, and
its first job will be to standardise pre-
scription charges. The plan was evolved
in consultation with the industries con-
cerned, it was claimed.
**■ * *
“Avon”: Now that Labor is in the
Parliamentary saddle in M.L. a change
has come over its temper. Heresy-hunts
are commencing, a feature from which,
during the whole of its previous history
the movement had been remarkably free.
First notable expulsion has just occurred,
the victim being Hiram Hunter, of
Christchurch. His record is as imposing
as his offence was trivial. A foundation
member of the party, first president of
the “Red Fed.,” former vice-president of
Trades and Labor Council, Arbitration
Court member, M.P. for 11 years, secre-
tary of various sectional federations, and
one of the most active and efficient
organisers Labor possessed, he dared to
write to a newspaper suggesting that
many of the elderly trades-union secre-
taries in his district were filling too many
public positions, and that it would be
“prudent to bring out young men of
ability.” He was asked to retract and
apologise, and his reply was to offer his
resignation. It wasn’t accepted. Instead
he was officially expelled from the party.
* * * *
“Rata”: With the idea, apparently,
that you can’t have too much of a good
thing, Maoriland in future will enjoy the
services of two Arbitration Courts. The
innovation has been made to relieve the
original court of overheavy pressure, and
the only criticism levelled at it has been
that the decisions of the two courts may
conflict. If they do, of course, the Court
of Appeal, as proved in recent litigation,
has jurisdiction. But there isn’t much
risk of the second court going astray on
industrial law. W. J. Hunter, of Christ-
church, its first president, is, like P. J.
O’Regan, now president of the original
court, a lawyer who has specialised in
industrial cases. Of Scottish extraction,
but a Maorilander by birth, Hunter
started earning his living as a school-
teacher, and climbed to a headmastership.
In law he was equally successful, being a
lecturer at Canterbury College and later
an examiner for N.Z. Uni. Linking him
with Australia is his appointment as
M.L. Commissioner for Affidavits in the
High Court of the Commonwealth. A
square-jawed, placid man with a huge
fund of patient tenacity at his disposal,
he should feel very much at home in his
new atmosphere.
* * * *
“Powelka”: Rising rents, natural
sequel to heavy expenditure of loan
money and the Government’s invasion
of the home-building business, which has
squeezed out competitors, are causing
apprehension in the Savage Islands. The
private landlord is under legislation that
prohibits him raising the rent on a
tenant, but he gets under that by evict-
ing the tenant, and re-letting at a higher
figure to someone else. To counter this
base subterfuge a new law is being en-
acted which enables any eviction order
to be brought under magisterial review.
The Beak has to be satisfied (a) that the
landlord requires the premises for his
own use or for a purchaser, and ( b) that
“suitable alternative accommodation” is
available for the tenant. That ought to
tighten the clamps on the landlord, but it
can’t compel him to go on landlording,
and that’s where the next pinch seems
to be*due.
* * * «
“Tuahiwi”: An old rancor that bubbles
up in Maoriland perennially, the rivalry
between the North and South Islands,
was stirred by the allegation of that
globe-trotting American lady that the
Tourist Bureau in Wellington attempted
to discourage a visit by her to the lower
half of the Dominion. For 30 or 40
years past (say the Southerns) the Cabinet
has had a preponderance of North Island
members, and public loan money has
been allocated in the
proportion of three
parts to the North and
one to the South.
Naturally the North,
being the place where
most money was in cir-
culation, has attracted
population and steadily
gained a still larger and
larger share of repre-
sentation. The South
Island built most of its
railways in the old Pro-
vincial days, out of its
own revenue, and still
lacks a main trunk line
from Bluff to Picton.
The North has had
naturally-built railways
connecting Wellington
with Kaipara (well
north of Auckland),
Napier on the far east,
and New Plymouth on
the far west, for the
last 30 years. Also,
under the rural quota
system, it takes 380 fewer votes to elect a
member in the North Island than it does
in the South. Priminister Savage has put
joy in every southern heart by declaring
that it’s all a shame, and that he’s going
to give the South a fair deal.
“Noo Zee”: The Union Co.’s Maun-
ganui has been chartered by the Maori-
land R.S.A. to take the goodwill con-
tingent of Diggers to next year’s Anzac
Day parade in Sydney. It’s a happy
choice —the Maunganui was one of the
transports of the Main Body in 1914 —
but she can take only 690 passengers in
all (and 200 of those berthing in ham-
mocks). One thousand were invited and
1300 wanted to go. The selection was
made by branches from applicants with
front-line service. The contingent puls
off from Wellington on April 19, leaving
Sydney for the return on April 28.


THE ONLY RECEIVER
** msCWMINRTINC
LISTENER. . .
ĸ
K
Ķ
ĸ
Listeners who demand the most exacting
quality in their Radio quicltiy discern and
appreciate the perfection of the Ultimate
Receiver.
Ultimate Receivers are designed for your
enjoyment. Their unusual power makes
them unrivalled for world-wide reception.
You can tour the world at will, delight in
music and entertainment from numerous
foreign countries, with the same smooth
reception as your local stations.
Other features that make Ultimate the
perfect Radio are the increased sensitivity,
absolute accuracy in tuning, and the
glorious tonal realism.
DO YOU KNOW THAT NO
FEWER THAN 798 VERI-
FIED STATIONS HAVE
BEEN FOGGED ON A
STANDARD ULTIMATE
RECEIVER?
PRICES
FROM
£29/15/
ULTIMATE
SOLE AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES,
GEO. BROWN & CO..PTYJ.TD
Electrical and Industral Engince. s
Write for full particulars:
267 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone: M 2544 (2 lines).
Advanced Ultra-short •
wave Receiver.
This receiver, designed and used by
Don B. Knock ( VK2N0), will be
described fully in next week’s issue.
It is a tuned R.F. type, with
“acorn” valves in R.F. and detector
stages, and in many ways is pre-
ferable to a superhet for use on
ultra-short waves. For those in-
terested in development of ultra-
short waves, this design represents
the stepping-stone between average
and very good reception.
Country Hams !!
BUILD THE
RADIOTRON 7-
VALVE BATTERY
AMATEUR RECEIVER
Described in Radiotronics No.
81 and Bulletin 24/111’37.
Complete Kit of Parts
including Valves, Speaker and
Wound Coils,
£l5
WRITE FOR DETAILS.
FREE S RADIO SERVICE
(D. G. MCINTYRE),
5 and 6 Angel Place, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK’S PAGES.
"Death Ray."
Scarcely a month goes by without
publication of the claim that a fay has
been discovered capable of destroying
men and machines at a distance. In some
of these developments, ultra-short and
micro-wave radio play an important part.
The Englishman Grindell-Mathews is
prominent among “death-ray” investi-
gators, and his work is closely watched
by official circles in London. He states
that he has the means of “arresting aero-
planes in mid-flight, and stopping motors
and internal-combustion engines in their
tracks,” but his ray would cost a great
deal to operate over long distances. He
has already developed a radio-controlled
torpedo and airship, and during the war
he produced a motor-boat which he con
trolled to a range of five miles by a
searchlight. Britain paid £25,000 for the
invention.
Another experimenter, R. C. Chad-
field, of Leicester Technical College, de-
clares that he has developed a machine
that will kill painlessly at a distance of
a few hundred yards. His claim is that
the nervous impulses of all living things
are of electrical origin, and that they
can be killed with rays of different fre-
quencies. A human being standing in
the path of the ray, it is said, would not
feel death, only “a pleasant warm feel-
ing.” The British Post Office has
granted him a permit to construct a ray
machine of enormously high power.
A few years ago there were rumors
of work done by Marconi with ultra-
short waves. Numerous cars on the road
between Ostia and Rome stopped for no
apparent reason. A line of cars blocked
the roadway, and all efforts of the drivers
to get them started failed. After half
an hour the engines started without
trouble and the cars moved on. It was
never satisfactorily explained.
In Germany a scientist has demon-
strated a radio ray which disables the
ignition system of petrol engines. It is
said that if a car is in the path of this
ray for more than a few minutes the
entire magneto melts. Even with very
low power, the ray, which is directed
by a beam system as in radio communi-
tion, is stated to have an effective range
of two miles.
A Danish engineer, E. H. Raon, has
also appeared with the claim that he has
the means of detonating by ray the
This portable therapy outfit (B. 10 /11/ ’37), manufactured
in Melbourne, Vic., by Kingsley Teleradio Constructions,
is easily carried about for use in operating theatres.
bombs carried by aircraft. This, again,
is an ultra-short-wave application of
some nature, and he states that it can
be made effective up to 200 kilometres.
His demonstrations with low power have
been so effective that British military
authorities have invited him to work on
his project in England.
In France experts are claiming dis-
covery of a mechanism in the form of a
“pistol” which sends out rays of intense
blinding light. It is stated that 3,000,000
candle-power is generated, and that if
the eyes of an airman flying over a city
were struck by this beam of light he
would be blinded for two or three
minutes.
It is known that the British Air Min-
istry has been experimenting with rays
of some kind to form an invisible bar-
rier against raiding aircraft. It is asserted
that if experiments continue as success-
fully as they have done to date it would
be possible to form a barrier around
Britain which would totally incapacitate
bombers flying as high as 30,000 feet.
. There are many other claims to
“death-ray” efficiency, and they sound
even more fantastic to the radio engi-
neer than the man in the street. Even
so, high up in the scale of frequencies
there is a region about which little is
known. It has not yet been developed,
and many scientists believe that any
future large-scale war will see “death-
rays” in action.
D.B.K.
Ideal Battery T.R.F. Four.
There are occasions when a well-
designed tuned R.F. type receiver for
short-wave and broadcast coverage can
give a better account of itself than even
the best of battery superhets. The
reasons have been outlined in several
constructional articles during the last
three years. Whilst not intended for
metropolitan use, the T.R.F. receiver has
advantages of simplicity in tuned circuits,
and if constructed with good components
it will stand up to its work in the worst
of tropical climates. It rarely goes out
of action, and if it does the straightfor-
ward nature of the design enables even
a “bush-mechanic” to locate trouble.
A good example of a T.R.F. receiver
described by this Page is the Ideal Bat-
tery T.R.F. Four, a design combining
short-wave and broadcast reception y
changing plug-in coils. The original is
used by a constant short-wave observer,
Dr. K. B. Gaden, of Queensland. His
latest report comes from Hughenden:
“The receiver is doing its stuff to some
purpose. We couldn’t do without station
VK3LR, and it is worth the 21s. we pay
for a license, even if we hear nothing
else. The three
A.W.A. stations are
also invaluable.
“Daventry occupies
most of my time ; the
talks, foreign affairs,
long-distance listen-
ing, London log, ‘At
the Black Dog’ and
‘As I See It’ are great
fare. These are my
favorites from GSD.
In the mornings and
afternoons just now,
GSD is magnificent,
but GSB runs it close.
Later GSG and GSO
are at good volume.
GSG is heard well in
the early morning. At
night GSG or GSO
are the best and
sometimes GSJ comes
up strongly.
“Of the German
stations DJE is about
the best during after-
noons and nights, but
DJB is also very good.
Berlin now has
stations DJE, DJR,
DJQ, DJB, DJL, DJA
and DJN on the air,
and they are all very
good, except - DJL.
DJN is outstanding
with the news in Eng-
lish at midnight.
“The Moscow
station RNE, on 25
metres, is now excel-
lent for consistent re-
ception, morning and
night. The programmes are varied and
entertaining. On 31/10/’37 the night
session was particularly interesting, deal-
ing with the 20th anniversary of the
Bolshevik revolution.
“The Danish station on 31.51 metres is
also excellent. It is a tie for reception
honors between it and OLR3A, GSD,
RNE, JZJ and TPA3. Reception weakens
toward 8 a.m., but GSD has been quite
good up to 8.20 a.m. here. At 8 a.m.
W3XAL on 16 metres is very fine.
“At night the short waves offer as
much entertainment to choose from as
the broadcast band. The 31-metre band
is very good, with stations strong, plenti-
ful and varied. KZRM in the Philip-
pines is the best. The 19-metre band is
also good, with GSO the best. The higher
wave-lengths are often too noisy now as
summer advances, but on a clear night
there is plenty to be had. The best
American I get is WBXAL on 49.5 metres
and VK9MI (the Kanimbla) is very good.
PMH on 44.6 metres is very strong, and
PMY on 58 metres also good. The
Siberian RVIS is only fair.
“On the night of 4/11/*37 I fluked a
new Siamese station on 31.5 metres.
French was spoken, and I identified it as
HS7PJ. At 10.30 p.m. XGOX gives
Chinese views of the war, and at 10.45
p.m. JDY gives the Japanese version.
Both these stations are heard very well.
“Owing to the overlapping of bands
on the coil ranges, I find that I get many
stations better by using the appropriate
coil to put the band at the lowest dial
reading. [The result of a more favorable
inductance-capacity combination. The
lower the capacity the better. —D.B.K.]
“If short-wave listeners want to hear
a very good station they should try the
80-metre band on a quiet night. The
station does not appear to be an ama-
teur. Power is not great but clarity and
sweetness of tone are remarkable. It is
a foreigner.
“One night recently I heard a very
strong Chinese or Japanese station on
the broadcast band near 2FC. It was
much stronger than 6WA when using
only the 12ft. indoor aerial. On GSG I
listened to G. B. Shaw in a talk, and later
there was for 'the first time a children’s
session, ‘The Fire Brigade.’ After in-
forming listeners of the direction of
aerials, the Daventry announcer advised
Australian listeners to concentrate on
GSJ or GSG.
“At 12.30 a.m., Rome can be found
on 25 metres with a lady announcer. One
night recently the theme was the signing
of the protocol by Italy, Germany and
Japan. A talk on China took the place
of the usual Hindustani bulletin and was
followed by music with some excellent
vocal duets. Reception from Rome is as
good as it is possible to get from any
station, and the lady announcer has
plenty of ‘pep.’
“Since I began to use this receiver the
following stations have been logged and
identified on the speaker. All give good
entertainment: 13 metres, England two.
U.S.A. two. 16 metres, England, U.S.A.,
Holland, Germany, one each. XBWS
Hong Kong testing once only, also
Czechoslovakia once. 19 metres, Eng-
land four, Germany four, Russia two,
U.S.A. three, Hong Kong, Japan, Java,
Czechoslovakia, Holland, France, one
each. 25 metres, U.S.A. three, France
two, England, Germany, Holland,
Czechoslovakia, Japan, Italy, Russia,
Philippines, Sweden, one each. 31 metres,
Australia four, U.S.A. four, Spain two,
Cuba two, Colombia two, Germany two,
Italy, Portugal, Java, Japan, Hong Kong,
Fiji, Czechoslovakia, Costa Rica, Nor-
way, Denmark, China, Philippines, one
each. 49 metres, U.S.A. two, Czecho-
slovakia two, England, Germany, Austria,
Ceylon, Malay States, one each. VK9MI,
Mexico, Russia, South Africa, also one
each. Others, HBO Geneva, COCA,
JVN, PLP, PMN, PMY, PMH, RVIS,
three Spaniards on 41-42 metres. San
Domingo on 46 metres and several South
Americans between 47 and 49 metres.
There.have been additionally many lesser
stations at headphone strength, and, of
course, a host of amateurs.”
D.B.K.
Radio Comment.
The Romer portable praised B.
17 /11/ ’37 was designed by A. Earl Read,
B.Sc., the Maorilander who edits the in-
creasingly popular “Australasian Radio
World.”
* * * *
Following the adoption of GM for
the prefix to callsigns of experimental
stations in Scotland, the prefix GW has
been allocated to Welsh stations.
* * * *
“E.M.F.”: An interesting use of a
milliameter is in place of a hydrometer
for testing accumulators. Technically, it
is the insertion of a short column of
the acid to be tested into a low-voltage
circuit containing the ammeter. The
milliamps. shown will vary inversely with
the density of the electrolyte, thus indi-
cating the state of the accumulator. Prac-
tically, it can be done in several ways.
The cheapest and easiest method is to
use a short piece of round wood with
two metal prongs driven through it. This


Australian World Radio
Convention.
In conjunction with the 150th
anniversary celebrations the Insti-
tution of Radio Engineers (Aus-
tralia) will conduct a world radio
convention beginning in Sydney
(N.S.W.) on April 4, 1938, and
continuing until April 14.
Among the official guests will be
the Marchesa Marconi and her son
Giulio, David Sarnoff, president of
the Radio Corporation of America,
and Sir Noel Ashbridge, chief
engineer of the British Broadcast-
ing Corporation.
r
Somebody's got
a Better Radio
Now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Price# front £l2 19 0.
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
n AO f °
. )-~>4
13a
M
I 1)
m
Va/
M
Cl
Radio licences cost the
same, no matter how your set
works. To get your money's
worth . . .
iie-vaive win.
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN'
GENERAL ® ELECTRICS
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
two nroneed fork should be dipped
a I wavs to the same depth and cleaned in
water when the job is finished. For cur-
rent the writer uses a lf-volt dry cell,
To make the device as small as possible
DOC ket-torch cell will do. Calibration
can be done by calculation if the ama-
teur understands specific resistance
figures, or by trial and error. A 10 p.c.
fall in acid density gives a 20 p.c. rise
in milliamps., so the device is sensitive
enoueh The distance between the
prongs of the fork should suit the filler
hole in the accumulator. The battery
and meter are, of course, in series with
the two prongs.
* * * *
“E.M.F.”: To get enough energy for
accumulator-charging from a voltaic
“pile” <B 10/11 /’37) it would have to be
so large that it would push the dinner
riaht off the stove. The “potential num-
bers” in any good textbook of inor-
ganic chemistry will show anyone think-
ing of experimenting that aluminium and
silver are a more powerful pair than
zinc and copper.
Amateur Chatter.
The 56mc. test day (28 /11 / ’37)
organised by the N.S.W. Division of
W.I.A. between Eastern Australian States
and M.L. went off without, at this writ-
ing, any record of success. Stations
operating in the Sydney area were VKs
2AZ, 2EM, 2MQ, 2ABZ, 2HZ and 2NO.
These used C.W. telegraphy through the
scheduled periods, and VKs 2AZ, 2EM
and 2NO were on the job as early as 5
a.m. Sydney time. In Canberra VK2GLJ
used a new transmitter with crystal con-
trol and a vertically-polarised directive
The five-metre transmitter used by VK2NO. It
put telephony signals through to North Wales and
telegraphy to ZL. It has four stages, consisting
of a 6L6 electron-coupled oscillator (ten to five
metres) capacity coupled to an RK2S. This ex-
citer (at five metres) is linked to a buffer stage
with two 80l’s in push-pull, and this in turn
is linked to the final, using two Eimac 35Ts in
push-pull with 150 watts input.
array. In Sydney weather conditions
were harrassing. High wind jazzed guy-
wires and clothes-lines around, and re-
ceivers collected plenty of noise from
unbonded metal surfaces in intermittent
contact. A good tip for anyone seeking
weak signals at 56mc. would be to bond
to earth everything metal within sight.
A radio message received previously
from a ZL said that, according to G6CL,
the whole of the English 56mc. section
would be on the lookout for signals.
VK2GU had also arranged with W9CLH
to have his high-power crystal-controlled
signal on the band between 9 a.m. and
3 p.m. Sydney time.
It was a disappointing day, but that is
no reason why the DX quest should be
given up. The same schedule will be
repeated on 19/12/’37. If the summer
months in Australia are non-produc-
tive, there is a hope during May and
June, when 56mc. DX opens up
over most of U.S.A. Such conditions
may not be entirely local. Meanwhile,
something needs to be done to stimulate
constant interest in the band locally, and
a few of the once-popular mobile field
days would not be amiss.
For those who prefer making things
work well to hours yarning away on 20-
metre DX ’phone, 56mc. offers ample
scope. If all stations had apparatus cap-
able of performing as efficiently at 56mc.
as at lower frequencies, this band would
be as thickly populated as the others.
Throughout the test day, the band had
that “dead” sound that often sets in on
20, and more often on 10 metres. But for
all that, signals may have been travelling
afield, as they have done before. The
only thirig Jheard by VK2NO
that might have been DX was
a weak bubbly D.C. carrier at
10.55 a.m., just inside the high-
frequency half of the band.
This was also noticed by
VK2AZ. No modulation was
evident and the signal faded
between R2/3. It may have
been a harmonic from an-
other band, but it certainly had
long-distance characteristics.
VK2NO.
What's What in Radio.
The American police are to
experiment with televising
“line-ups.” It is considered
that it will increase the possi-
bility of suspects being identi-
fied, owing to the large number
of people who will be able to
“look-in.”
* * *
The current issue of “Radio”
(U.S.A.) contains several inter-
esting features. In the techni-
cal section, W6DHG deals with
“Peak Compression Applied to
the Speech Amplifier,” this
being of interest to broadcast
engineers as well as amateur
telephonists. A simple method
of changing antenna directivity
is described as “The Flopover
Beam,” and W6VR gives full
details of the “10-20” final, in
which two 100 T.H. valves will
handle a kilowatt, or two
35Ts 500 watts —not applicable
to Australian practice, but in-
teresting as a sidelight on the
capabilities of modern valves.
R. H. Beverage, a prominent
American engineer, reviews
U.-H.-F. propagation thor-
oughly and throws much light
on 56mc. DX. George Merri-
man, of VS6AH (Hong Kong),
outlines the essentials for the
design of a 10-metre superhet.
For those faced with the ever-
present problem of how to
erect tall masts, there is a description by
W9MIQ of a 70-footer. “Radio” may be
subscribed to, 18s. 6d. annually, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George-street,
Sydney.
Chart for Radiotron G
Valves.
A new chart giving reference to the
complete series of G valves now obtain-
able in the Radiotron range has been
published by A.W. Valve Co. There are
details of the base, socket connection, the
equivalent type in the ordinary
glass series, and in certain
cases also an approximate
equivalent. In cases where the
types are not exact equivalents,
the difference is defined.
A diagram of sockets con-
nections is given for each type,
including the three standard
electron-ray tuning indicators
—6ES, 6G5 and 6U5, which,
although not octal based, are
used as standard equipment.
For the electrical character-
istics reference may be made
to the data available on the
exact equivalent types. In
cases where exact equivalent
types are given, the character-
istics may be treated for all
practical purposes as being
identical, although there will
be slight differences —such as
in inter-electrode capacitances
—due to the different base.
The G-type valves are l-16in. shorter
overall than the equivalent glass types.
There are 49 G types included in the
chart, which is available from the sales-
engineering service of A.W. Valve Co.,
York-street, Sydney.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Airzone Model 585.
Portable receivers vary considerably in
design and in the results obtained. They
must necessarily be compact, light, and
self-contained, and in the past they have
invariably been designed around two-volt
battery valves for operation from light-
duty B batteries and a small capacity two-
volt accumulator. Consequently the ap-
plication of the vibrator principle to the
portable is of outstanding interest.
Airzone, Ltd., of Camperdown, N.S.W.,
have had considerable experience with
portables, and several of their old 1927
four-volt portables are still in use. The
Airzone portable of 1937 is, however,
something entirely different. It is a five-
valve superhet, surprisingly light to carry,
powered by a six-volt accumulator. The
performance is the same as that of a five-
valve A.C. powered mantel-model broad-
cast receiver.
This receiver will appeal to the motorist
requiring a receiver to use both in
the car and out. It would be an easy
matter to make provision for a six-volt
outlet from the car accumulator on the
instrument board. With such provision,
all that is necessary is to connect the
battery leads from the Airzone 585. It is
supplied, however, with a special metal-
cased six-volt accumulator carrying a
three-year guarantee.
The model submitted for test has an
outer covering of brown-grained leather
cloth. The wide-vision dial has four
controls —one for tuning, a dial lamp
switch to conserve battery current, and
volume and tone controls. Tested in
The Bulletin office with screening all
round, the receiver pulled in all the local
stations with ease with the aerial wire
still coiled on the reel provided. In any
normal location it will tune in every
signal on the broadcast band like any
other five-valve superhet.
The vibrator unit is absolutely silent in
action, and the writer lifted the chassis
out for examination. The valves are all
of the latest octal-based types, and the
vibrator unit —a new Airzone product—
is mounted on rubber suspension. The
speaker is completely dust-proof, and, for
a small job, gives an excellent degree of
tone quality and all the volume ever likely
to be wanted. In the lid is a compart-
ment for storage of the battery cable,
aerial reel, and earthing spike.
The receiver takes less than one ampere
from the accumulator, and this works
out at 30 hours or more of operation for
every charge. It has been sensibly
designed and extremely well engineered.
The price with the special battery is 25
guineas, and 23 guineas without. Further
particulars can be obtained from the
maker.
The Question Box.
Where w.as the paraphase or phase-splitting
system of audio amplification developed? —6l6
The system is American, and was first de-
scribed in “Electronics” (U.S.A.) in May, 1933.
* * * *
(1) Enclosed is a circuit diagram of a test
oscillator from a U.S.A. publication, employing
two-type 30 valves. What size coils would be
needed to cover all bands? (2) I wish to make
a small headphone portable to cover short
waves and broadcast, with a maximum plate
voltage of 22 j. Can this be done? —617.
(1) As values of tuning condensers, etc., are
not given, it is impossible to say definitely.
Assuming that the variable condenser tuning the
grid of the oscillator is not larger than
.0005mfd., the coil chart given for the Hi
Gain T.R.F. Receiver (B. 27/10/’37) will serve
for the short-wave ranges. (2) Yes; and quite
simply by using two-type 49 valves in space-
charge connection. Follow the usual regenera-
tive circuit connections, but reverse the screen
and control grids of detector and audio stages.
Use about nine volts on the control grids and
the 22£ volts on the plates.
*****
What requirements are necessary and what
prospects has a boy who wishes to become a
wirless operator? —6lB. *
Firstly, a knowledge of the fundamental
principles of electricity, magnetism and radio
theory. This can be learnt in spare-time study.
After this, a course in Morse code operating
should follow, and practice in handling radio
apparatus. The Radio Amateur’s Handbook
and the Jones Radio Handbook, 7s. 6d.
each, from Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
should help. Prospects of employment are at
present better than for many years. Guides to
wireless careers can be obtained from the
Marconi School of Wireless, York-street, or
the Australian Radio College, Broadway and
City-road—both Sydney. \


VITA-LICK
for
OUTSTANDING FLEECES
Mr. F. Bur bury, Parattah, Tas.,
writes, 15/10/’2B:
“The effect is that sheep taking
Vita-Lick are stronger and
appear to fatten readily, whilst
it certainly has a beneficial
effect on the wool.”
VITA-LICK LTD.,
107 - 109 Kent Street, Sydney
PALATABLE MINERALS.
“Tri-cal”: One chap who uses Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour told me of an amusing
experience he had which proved the
palatability of the stuff. After he mixed
a lot of, Tri-cal-os and salt he went to
inspect’ his young cattle, and after refill-
ing their boxes, which had been empty
for a few days, he was fairly mobbed
by the herd ; they came from all around
to lick and jostle at his clothing, and he
quickly made a dive out of the paddock
for safety. He’s quite convinced that Tri-
cal-os supplies a long-felt want.
\Z2f4
KM
m
m
iilW I >. i' N
S Wm u <><*>•»-
Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box
all information about Tri-cal-os.
35835, Sydney, will
Old Farmer.
TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
m
m
J
Obtainable
from, your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
1± pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYIiEX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EXI All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19 in.
Price, 50/-
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO.. LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Footrot.
“Agamemnon”: The C.S. and I.R. has
been working on footrot in sheep recently.
The disease is localised mainly on the
N.S.W. southern slopes, although it may
spread westward after wet seasons. It
is rarely seen on the Tablelands —pos-
sibly because of soil acidity.
Autumn and spring are the worst
periods, when pastures are moist, produc-
ing maceration of the hoof and partial
separation. Scald develops between the
toes and allows the organism to enter.
This may be associated with worm larvae
(Strongyloides spp .) burrowing through
the skin or by damage to the skin be-
tween the toes by grass-seeds. Merinos
are more susceptible than longwools or
crossbreds.
Affected sheep show lameness and the
hoof flakes off in irregular pieces, but
the disease yields readily to treatment.
Usually only slight pus areas are seen,
but complicated footrot may extend into
the tendons and cause abscesses at the
coronet.
All dead horn must be cut away before
dressing. Footbaths are effective, but
should be repeated within a few days in
serious cases. A saturated solution of
bluestone in a bath 6in. deep is sufficient.
Old sheepskins in the bottom of the
bath will prevent the bluestone splash-
ing on to the wall. Run the sheep out on
battens after the bath so that the blue-
stone is not scraped off by mud.
Since the disease is transmitted only
by infected sheep it is suggested that
cases be treated in summer, when the
disease is at its lowest, or if possible that
affected sheep be disposed of altogether.
It has been found that infection does not
remain in the ground for more than a
week.
Rugged Sheep.
“C.V.S.”: A typical Mallee clip re-
ceived recently at a Vic. warehouse con-
tained one fleece from a rugged sheep.
The fleece was* superior to the unrugged
wool in very way. Though dust had pene-
trated on the back, it was confined to the
tip, whereas some fleeces showed dust to
the butt. Many unrugged fleeces were
dry, harsh and mushy, and tender on the
back ; the rugged fleece was well-con-
ditioned and sound all over, with a well-
grown, deep staple.
Altogether it was more of a spinners
type than the average topmaking Mallee
wool. At 101 b. skirted the rugged fleece
was about 21b. heavier than the average
for the clip, and was worth approxi-
mately 2d. per pound more at 14d.
The Mallee grows some fine wool, but
at recent sales values of very dusty and
burry types have been irregular. The
encouraging result indicates that these
types may be largely eliminated, though
rugging presents difficulties in scrub
country.
Woolpacks.
“Sheepo”: Paper- or linen-lined packs
will not prevent jute fibres from getting
mixed with wool (B. 17 /117 ’37). Nor
do buyers appreciate the use of these
more expensive packs. They base their
valuations on wool and ignore the con-
tainers. Difference in price isn’t always
in favor of the lot baled in super packs.
Experiments by the English Wool In-
dustries Research Association in which
packs were impregnated with rubber
latex and others treated with cellulose,
did not give the desired results. And
the Indian Jute Assoc, has been trying
for years to turn out a pack that will
overcome fibre troubles, without suc-
cess.
It is after wool is dumped for shipment
and during transit that jute fibres begin
to stray, and until a pack other than
jute is evolved fibre troubles will con-
tinue.
Inferior Wools.
“C.V.S.”: The decline in prices has
been most marked in the case of inferior
wools, which in recent years have been
selling ridiculously well compared with
finer and stylish wools. Finer wools*
particularly of super type, are compara-
tively firm.
The market for ordinary types and
crossbred is irregular. Actually these
wools have reverted to their natural
relative position, and again there is an
“Let's drive past O'Regan's place so as to show 'em We ve got a new car."
incentive to grow stylish wool. A slight
rise in good to average merino and
comeback would complete the readjust-
ment.
Fat-lamb raising on improved pastures
is partly the cause of increased quanti-
ties of ordinary types, but Polwarths
and Corriedales have shown what can
be done in sound wool production on
heavy pasture.
Manure on Dairy Farms.
“Silky Bag”: Few farmers capitalise
the manurial value of dairy-cow drop-
pings. Yet 30 average cows on fair
pasture give in one year 2| tons of super-
phosphate, 4\ tons of sulphate of potash
and nine tons of sulphate of ammonia.
This is worth roughly £l7O, but under
ordinary conditions, much of it is lost as
ammonia into the air or lies idle in
dried-up manure piles.
If pasture plots are regularly harrowed
as soon as the cows are taken off them
practically all the manure goes back into
the. soil at the cost of a few pence per
acre. Modern tripod and chain harrows
do the work effectively, and under rota-
tional grazing manure only a few days
to a week old wil! be treated. It is still
fresh and soft at this stage.
Any cowyard manure should be re-
distributed over the pastures also.
Another thing to consider is the value
of the residues from bought feeds. Bran
costs £6 to £7 a ton, but the manure from
that ton is worth 145., from linseed meal
18s., from ground maize only 65., and
lucerne hay 12s. a ton. Ground oats
have a manurial value of only 7s. a ton,
which means they cost 7s. more per ton
compared with bran, both at set market
prices.
’Hopper Destruction.
“K.Mc.”: The recent campaign against
the ’hoppers in N.S.W. has considerably
reduced the number that would other-
wise have reached the wing stage, and
even if infested districts are eventually
eaten bare it is going to take the sur-
vivors nearly twice as long to complete
their dirty work.
The crops saved have compensated
owners for their efforts, but the most
helpful result has been in proving the
efficacy of various methods of destruc-
tion. Previously, fully nine-tenths of
the landholders were sceptics.
A concerted and determined effort by
all landholders would reduce the pest to
negligible proportions. Owners who
were persistent in their efforts say they
can obtain from 80 to 100 p.c. kill with
bran bait. But it is no good if they are
afterwards to be eaten out by ’hoppers
bred by a casual neighbor who merely
scattered a couple, of bags to escape a
fine. Some districts are being ravaged
by the pest for the fourth successive
year, and if any means of eradication
are to succeed they will have to be more
rigidly enforced.
Departmental entomologists advise
using the bran bait .mixed, but
several of my neighbors obtained their
best results using bait a week old. Them
were failures ; perhaps, due to faulty
Se? investigated!’ *
A MOI Prnnheev Comes True
A M.U.L. rropnecy Hornes irue.
“Nabawa”: About three years ago the
MOL page tipped Bencubbin, a West-
rnlian wheat to make eood in the NS W
rattan wneat, to maite gooa m ineiN.d.w.
grain belt. Grown by Hughes Bros., of
Baldry, a 50-acre plot of it has just won
the R.A.S. championship in the central-
west division. A splendid, healthy stand,
it will yield close to 15 bags to the acre.
Nineteen districts took part in an
area roughly bounded by a line from
Mudgee to Binnaway, thence southward
through Wellington to Parkes and Quan-
dialla, east to Cowra, thence north
through Molong to Mudgee. Less than
five years ago the majority of winning
crops in this zone were Nabawa. There
were only two this year (well down the
list), Ford taking the lead. Bencubbin
has Nabawa as a parent, but has better
straw and stooling ability, two things
sought by western growers.
Except in the north, the season has
been a fairly good one. Few failures
were noted, and the average yield of the
winners should be round about 37 bushels
to the acre. The crops derived full
benefit from spring rains after a doubtful
autumn and winter. Black oats were
light, but the saffron thistle was too
prominent, largely because many of the
crops were grown on paddocks that had
been out to grass for a couple of years.
Western Wheat.
“C.S.”: The N.S.W. wheat belt is steadily
pushing westward. The N.S.W.R.A.S.
championships in the western division
went to Albert, 30 miles west of Tulla-
more, to a crop grown on virgin land
with hardly enough rain to lay the dust.
This division embraces a belt of
country from Gilgandra in the east to
Hillston in the west, and astonishingly
good yields are being harvested con-
sidering that few of the crops received
more than 6in. of rain during the grow-
ing period.
The average of the 10 best crops seen
in the area is estimated at 31 bushels an
acre ; some went more than 36 bushels,
The medium-strong variety, Dundee, did
well, with Nabawa and Bencubbin
prominent.
Millers and Wheat,
.. Nabawa ... N . s .w. flourmillers don’t
with -Hortus” that Ford, Dundee
d g ar j nga are tbe best wheats (B.
)7; ,, 1-37)“ Recently ,hc glisters’ ofTiaai
«- “*
My members note with regret the per-
sistence with which an officer of the Depart-
men(. of Agriculture advo cates Nabawa,
Ford, Dundee and Baringa as wheats of
improved milling and baking qualities when
{t has been clearly and P° sitively Proved
t h at j ast t h ree must be condemned
either for milling or baking or both....
jj e g oes on to say that Baringa
(“Man bn Land” continued on page 44.)


LEADING IMPLEM
FOR
TS
THE
ER
*
m
M:
m
s &
■■ asaw
m
WBM
pasa
¥-: -
m
is
m
a
v "
■ • ■
M
mm
••••
- -•
■
S2<*«
I
sS*g2
m
m
9s I
k'm i - xrim&
’v: . ‘
#
I
. ..
a
- V
§
: : V .
H
SUNDERCUT
STUMP-JUMP DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
The Disc
Implement
with the
Largest
Bale in
Australia
lOdisc, sft. cut; 12 disc,
6ft. cut; 14 disc, 7ft. cut.
Discs 20in. and 18in. or
22in. and 20in.
The DISC FALLOWING IMPLEMENT
SUPREME! Deals effectively with heavy
weed growth, paddy melon, stinkwort,
skeleton weed, etc. EXCELLENT FOR
CULTIVATING STUMPY LANDS. The
Sundercut is the original stump-jump culti-
vating plough of its type. A success from
the start, it has been constantly improved,
and to-day it stands unparalleled as the
FINEST DISC CULTIVATOR BUILT. Gives
an ideal lumpy tilth, which ensures maximum
conservation of moisture.
The alternate discs of different diameter on
each jump arm cut to the same depth, making
a level bottom. They are set with consider-
able undercut, which gives them a slicing
action and thereby reduces draught. The
Sundercut • cultivates more soil per horse-
power used than does any other disc imple-
ment.
The differential cog jump permits a high
jump without increase of draught. Because
of the scientific leverage, pressure on the
discs actually lessens as the jump arm rises
higher, minimising strain and jar on the
team and tractor.
These and many other advantages are ex-
plained in the special Sundercut leaflet. Ask
your local agent for a free copy, or write
direct.
With levers for team
work, or forward levers
for tractor work.
10-disc "Sunaercut”
with team levers.
SUNDUKE
STUMP JUMP SCARIFIER
Combines
Exceptional
Clearance
with
Lightness
of Draught
With levers and hitch
for team work, or with
forward levers and
tractor hitch. Screw-
lift for the rear lift is
available.
These 14 features tell why it has attained
tremendous popularity:—
1. —Scarifies hardest ground.
2. —Cuts all weeds.
3. —Leaves a level bottom.
4. —Lines of cultivation 6ins. apart.
5. —Depth of cultivation easily regulated.
6. —Patented overhead release gear.
7. —Vertical clearance of 18ins. from ground
to frame, with no intervening obstruc-
tions.
8. —Draught gear is ABOVE the frame,
30ins. from ground—away from dust
and easily adjusted.
9. —Light weight, short wheelbase, and per-
fect balance mean lightest draught
possible.
10. —Strong one-piece tynes of heat-treated
steel contribute greatly to efficient
working, accessibility and low upkeep
cost.
11. —Many tynes can jump at once.
12. —Pivotally mounted front wheels ride
smoothly over rough ground.
13. —Can turn in its own length.
14. —Suntow Smoothing Harrows can be
pulled behind it.
14-tyne . . 7ft. cut
16-tyne . . Bft. cut
18-tyne . . 9ft. cut
16-tyne “Sunduke”
equipped for team work.
full details of each implement. Ask your local Agent, or write direct.
Special FREE catalogues give
H.V.
HASSEV HARRIS PTV. LTD.
C lncorporated in Victoria .)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, W. 20, Victoria.
AGENTS IN ALL COUNTRY CENTRES. BRANCHES AT SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’ld.) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane


&
4408.
IF YOU’RE WANTING COMFORT.
Not just good fitting, but soft, roomy, cushionlike comfort. Try this new Abbey
Capless Boot.
When you feel the soft wallaby-skin upper mould around your foot, and your toes
spread naturally in their easy-fitting fronts, you realize what comfort really is.
An Abbey model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in full and half sizes, and also in wide
and extra-wide fittings. Price 37/6
“IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE IT’S A GOOD SHOE.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
-THINK OF
BIT Bio
m
f
ik
is
m
M
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
QUICK FACTS
ABOUT
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
To pay by cheque saves time and
expense. It also avoids risk oi loss
of money which you may otherwise
keep in your home or carry about
with you. Moreover, paying by
cheque stamps you as bein'g "busi-
ness-like" in the conduct of your
affairs.
It is easy to open an account.
Ask at any branch of this Bank.
About 90% of Australian busi-
ness transactions are settled by
cheque.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
BEEBE
ALL STEEL
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
For use where Power is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity, weight .. 6Glb.
5-ton capacity, weight .. 1101 b.
Illustiatcd folder with full particulars
obtainable from:—
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC. INNOCUOUS.
mm
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Hundreds
in use. Sliell Oil
Co., 53 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools. Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks' are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
5Es
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. Kinn St.. Sydney
7%^sZzZ/j?fi/7L
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
is a danger to milling machinery—too
hard—and is unsuitable in the bakery ;
Dundee has too many mottled grains ;
and “the much overrated” Ford has an
absorptive capacity in the bakehouse of
54, compared with the 64 of ordinary
f.a.q. sample—“the drop in output of
bread per sack, of flour would be ruinous
to any bakery.”
The millowners claim they should be
consulted before farmers are advised to
grow any variety, “unless N.S.W. wheats
are to lose their reputation overseas.”
But Kent Jones, a leading English cereal
chemist, reported that “N.S.W. f.a.q.
wheat is now superior in flour quality to
that of any other State.”
As Ford headed the acreage table last
year, with Nabawa next, and Dundee and
Baringa high up, we may safely assume
that these constitute the bulk of our
f.a.q. wheats to-day. Moreover, the
millers’ argument is hard to follow when
it is remembered that less than five years
ago they paid up to 9d. a bushel pre-
mium for both Ford and Baringa.
The wheatgrower isn’t greatly con-
cerned with the baking, milling, etc.,
qualities. What he wants is something
that will fill the bags in dry seasons as
well as good seasons, will withstand rust,
and will make the f.a.q. standard. So
far, the proven varieties are Ford,
Nabawa, Baringa, Dundee, Bencubbin,
Geeralying (in the nor’-west), Ranee (in
the far south-west); and unless the
millers are prepared to pay fancy prices
for fancy wheats they cannot expect
growers to make doubtful experiments.
A season such as the present was a
pretty good test. Except in the south,
N.S.W. crops had to grow this year on
little more than 6in. of rain for the most
part, and the wheats that stood up to it
best were those mentioned.
Why Not More Barley?
“Hortus”: Grain consumption, parti-
cularly for malting, is increasing, yet the
area under barley has hardly altered dur-
ing the last 10 years. Large quantities
are imported.
The standard required by brewers is
very high, and, further, farmers don’t
appreciate the high nutritive value of the
grain as stock feed. Barley lies between
oats and maize in protein and carbo-
hydrates, and has less oil than either.
Other points are against barley, too. It
is susceptible to disease, footrot among
others. It is handicapped by straw weak-
ness, and its coarse barbed awns. Rain
at harvest-time discolors the seed. Some-
times it “lodges” badly. Nevertheless ex-
cellent malting barley can be grown here.
The most suitable areas are the N. S.
Wales s.-w. slopes, S. Riverina, and the
more favored parts of the n.-w. slopes.
Barley is a “finicky” plant. It won’t
stand rich soil. Undrained or badly-
drained land is useless.
Any wheat soil will grow good barley,
but it must be worked more than for
wheat. The root-growth is much shorter
and much thinner than in wheat and
oats.
Make soil as friable as possible.
Barley is an early-ripening cereal, so
don’t have a firm seed-bed as for wheat.
The best plan is to sow after wheat cut
for hay. Turn sheep on to stubble, and
plough under as soon as possible—the
liquid and solid excrement of sheep is an
asset. Then leave fallow for a few
months before sowing in May.
Pasture Improvement.
“Albarmount”: The sheep under test
by W. T. Merriman, Merryville, Yass
(N.S.W.), and the C.S. and I.R. to deter-
mine the comparative value of dressed
and undressed pastures and the effect of
the latter on wool quality have been
shorn for the second time.
Although the season had been excep-
tionally dry, the improved pasture car-
ried three sheep per acre —as it did last
year—compared with one on the unim-
proved land. Wool cut per head was
1 lib. 7oz. on improved pastures ; but the
controls cut only 91b. 14oz. Wool pro-
duction per acre was, therefore, 341 b.
soz. as against 91b. 14oz. Last season
the wool cut per acre realised £3 10s. 6d.
and 19s. \\d. respectively.
Another of Mr. Merriman’s properties,
at Boorowa, 1545 acres, was stocked with
3500 rams and 250 head of young cattle.
Two hundred of the cattle were sold as
fats, averaging £8 per head, and 1000
rams sold averaged over lOgns. per head.
The wool produced brought £3OOO. Some
paddocks have now been closed to stock
and will later be cut with a mower.
Dealing With Codlin Moth.
“L. de F.”: “Zebu” (B. 3/11/’37) is
an optimist if he supposes that a couple
of calyx sprays will banish codlin from
f / uit . T |? c emerging period of the first
brood ot moths may straggle over a
period of two months. Here, in Victoria,
there is a second, and in some seasons
even a third, batch of the pest.
To be effective, every portion of every
apple must be covered with the poison
spray from its earliest formation.
Orchardists try to do this, but after
spraying it wjll be unusual if there are
not vulnerable spots,
With the rapid growth of fruit and ex-
posure to the weather protection soon
disappears. In Mornington Peninsula
(Vic.) a double calyx spray and further
spraying at 21-day intervals is the rule.
In addition, chemical bandages are put
on trees to trap descending larvte and
attacked fruit is destroyed early,
Even then there is damage, and a per-
centage of fruit is discarded at packing
A lso, there is always a carry^ ver ° f
codlin to provide a nex J season
Some assert that a b resistant to
arsenate poisoning is being evolved
Americans have experimented in
des troying the moth by fumigation of
trees before the eg g-laying stage, thus
carrying prevention further back in the
codlin’s life le Some deV elopment
in treatment is still to be looked for Our
present de f en ces are imperfect and add
enormously to production costs
“Stump Jump”: For a suppurating
open wound put clean salt-crystals in a
gauze bag of several thicknesses and
p i ace j t we n into the cut. Change in
one or two days, but see that the bag
j s always firmly tied in contact with the
wound.
t(C . , Tn _
, Sandpatch : When pulling maize
? urlng . dam .P , we J lh ! r the stalk some-
times gives instead of capping off. Try
a pair of good, sharp secateurs. But
carry a file ; maize stalks are severe on
blades.
“Gumblegubbin”: Green peas fed to
pigs increase the proportion of lean meat,
give a sweet flavor to the bacon, and
make for firm and white fat. They are
particularly valuable when used in rota-
tion with grain. The whole plant makes
nutritious fodder, and the roots, when
ploughed in, assist to improve the soil.
They should be cut when well podded,
and while the stalks are still succulent.
“Rom Ney”: A good deal of blather
is being written about rugging of sheep.
The N.S.W. sheep and wool expert, E. A.
Elliott is urging sheepmen not to be
stampeded into laying out money on
rugs just yet. Elliott says he wants to
see more definite results before recom-
mending the practice. His department is
conducting experiments.
“Bull-ant Bill”: A Darling Downs (Q.)
farmer, deciding recently that his land
could do with a bit of fertiliser after
long-continued cropping, tried 54 pounds
of superphosphate to the acre in one
paddock. Just before starting, a cog in
the distributing gear of the spreading
machine was found to be broken, but it
was considered that the super, would
work across all right. Now that the crop
is up, every trip of the machine across
the paddock can be plainly traced in
tracks of stunted wheat plants, with heads
carrying only a fraction of the grain
yielded by those in the fertilised soil on
each side. The twofold moral is that
overworking land does not pay, and that
keeping farm machinery in good work-
ing order does.
“5.8.”: Victorian dairymen have long
been aware of the value of peanut meal
(B. 10/11 /’37). It has 42 p.c. protein,
20 p.c. carbohydrate and 5 p.c. fat. At
£9 to £lO a ton, the demand outstrips
the supply for eight months of the year
in Vic. The nutritive ratio is less than
one to one ; a pound added to 51b. of
oaten chaff lowers the n.r. of the latter —
1 to 9.3 —to 1 to 7. Two pounds a day
for a three-gallon cow is a fair addi-
tional ration. The meal is laxative and
palatable, and, like bran, it aids milk pro-
duction first and foremost. In the south
there is much regret that supplies are
not more freely available all the year.


11hum t m l
iiiiiim j/m I
mum ‘JT
mum l/\
lIIIIIM 7 \
lIIIIIM
lIIIIIM Jflg
■Mlllll s^™
n Mum»»ii»
SM»ll Mill
WMlillMl
lllllllllil
111 11 11 1 l
Mill
iiiii
lllltM
I 111 I» I
111 l I I I
mint
mill 1
ft
ii n it ii M
Hit I''
ii in
i 111 ii
it in
in i“
i 111
i ii ii
ii ii ii
iiiiiiiinii
iiiiiiiiiiii
|Tll« •••••••
uni in
iiiiiiiiiiii
iiiii in* l,l
12R-1A
*•
I vll I 1 |
111111
n ii ii n
H Ii li ll
1111
ii n 1111
11111111
11111 M I
lIIIIIM
1111 I I I *
111 l I I I I
I I LUtfrid
1.1 IMJLJ-J
ll II tl II
II II U H
ll ll ll H
11 ll ll n
II II tl n
II II ii H
ll il It ft
ii ii t uM
Li U .11 U
11 1 I 1 JJLi
inllll
HI I Ml
it i i 111
11111 i- i-i
■ 111
Pfl
ffl
■
CENTRAL PARK
IN THE HEART OF
i»'V
NEW YORK CITY
i»C‘*
eg
i
t'M
Pi
AMUGMCA
' Land of Mighty Cities t
From the electric dazzle of New York’s Broadway to
Hollywood’s movie Klieg-lights ... from Boston’s old
historic shrines to Salt Lake City’s Mormon Tabernacle . . .
from Chicago’s lakefront. boulevards to San Francisco’s
far-flung bridges . . . from the Southern languor of New
Orleans to Seattle’s snow-capped mountain-views . . .
America’s cities are gay, busy, beautiful, alive with fasci-
nation and with fun! Theaters, brilliant night-life, and
spectacles of sport... sky-piercing towers, spacious parks
and priceless works of art... here are the miracles of Man
. . . spaced by miracles of Nature. Mountains, deserts,
plains, stupendous National Parks, and roads of steel to
join them all. For America’s railway systems unite the en-
tire nation, swiftly, safely and luxuriously!
From coast to coast, any route you choose, in 75 hours or
less, 3,000 miles with only one change of cars. Stopover
privileges without extra charge. Low fares and incidental
traveling expenses. Superior service which has kept pace
with new, modern “streamline” equipment. Train travel
in America is hotel-and-club-life in smooth and rapid mo-
tion! You sleep in ideal comfort, dine with distinction,
enjoy the varied diversions of smart club and observation
cars,' the radio, the library, a courteous staff to cater to
your requirements.
Travel to America is likewise easy and delightful. During
the 18-day voyage to California you have the palatial lux-
ury of the Matson-Oceanic liners Mariposa or Monterey
... superb South Sea sailing, with fascinating calls in New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii. From either San Fran-
cisco or Los Angeles you may choose from a wide range
of routes acxoss the continent.
Details in our illustrated booklet, ' 'England Across America, " free upon request.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
12 Bridge Street Sydney Phone: B-7981-3
Give him a
WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZOR!
r
HOV-l-OW
OROOH
buaOW
Made in England.
E7 —Self-stropping Razor, complete
with strop and two hollow-ground
blades in neat oak case . . . . 14/6
El2 —Self-stropping Razor, complete
with strop and two hollow-ground
blades in nickel-plat'ed case . . 18/6
Elo —Same as E 7, but with five
hollow-ground blades . 18/6
E 21 —Highly-finished Silver-plated
self-stropping razor with seven
hollow-ground blades, one for each
day of the week, and shell horse-
hide strop, complete in chased
chromium-plated case . 37/6
Obtainable from all Stores
Wholesale Distributors :
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
103 York Street, Sydney.
Mick Simmons
Service to
Sportsmen
: ■
Let Lionel Bibby, famous Crack-shot and
Australia’s best-known authority on Fire-
arms and Ballistics, who is attached to
Mick Simons’ Shooting Department, guide
you in making your selection. Fully avail
yourself of his advice on any matter per-
taining to the sport of shooting.
Stevens No
Medium-priced
Popular
Sporting Rifles
No. 1A—THE MAINE DE
LUXE RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt
action similar to No. 1, 24in.
barrel, pistol grip, adjustable
tangent rear siglit; weight,
about 4Jlb. ,
Price 36/"
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 8—STEVENS’ SPRING-
FIELD S.S. RIFLE, MODEL
52, 22-cal., bolt action. 22in.
round barrel, gold bead front
and ladder rear sight; weight,
about 4Jib. .
Price 50 / -
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 27—REMINGTON BOLT
ACTION REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 341A, 22-cal. Magazine
holds 22 short. 17 long, 15
long-rifle cartridges; 24in.
round barrel, bead front and
ladder rear sight: weight,
about 5Jlb. /_ .
Price £5/5/-
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING
CATALOGUE!
No keen sportsman can be
without this comprehensive
publication. Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And All Branches.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
advt
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
Our Service Department
3Part for the service of Bulletin
The -service is entirely free. All you have to do is
Bulletin toU”" from ,he inside back <* ■«>
mus t T te a Snlin?d” f ro i o"„e i " ü bjj’cf ““ Search ' CTery inquiry
.o sSr Ler'notiS's Tt?
Wants.
Domesticated woman, N.S.W., wants country
holiday m cool climate. Light services in return
for board. Refs.—7826.
Mechanic with U.S.A. tractor and Diesel
experience wants steady job.—7895.
Wireless operator (25), Vic., 2nd commercial
broadcast, amateur certificates, I.C.S. Dip.
Radio Engineering, five years’ operating exp ,
wants position. Refs.—7898.
Jackeroo, N.S.W., exp. all classes of station
work, holds diploma for station bookkeeping,
wants job at beginning of next year.—7821.
Words of poem “Hans Breitman’s Party.”—
7818.
Words of poem “The Trusty Servant.”—
7819.
Words of song or poem beginning “Oh,
£L?, t . her ’ bri °g the shovel—there’s some dirt in
Willie’s ear.”—7901.
Information Sought.
How many ways is it possible for a bats-
man to be given "out” at cricket? What are
they ?—7879.
Eleven: Bowled, stumped, caught, hit wicket,
run out, obstructing the field, off no-ball, off
wide, hitting the ball twice and leg-before-
wicket.
* * * *
When the ball hits the stumps and the bail
is disturbed but does not fall is the umpire
justified in giving the batsman ‘‘out”?— 7874.
Yes, the umpire is justified in giving the
batsman out. The instruction to umpires states
that “should a bail or any part of it be dis-
turbed from its normal position in the groove
of the stump the wicket shall be regarded as
‘broken.’ For this purpose it is not necessary
that the bail fall to the ground or even remain
out of position provided the umpire has seen
the disturbance.”
* * * *
(1) What are the bowling figures of Trumble
and Turner with Australian XIs in England?
(2) The last Test match in which each played?
(3) Their ages ? —7880.
Trumble.
(1)
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets.
1890 .. 497.4 175 1138 53
1893 .. 977.1 336 2016 123
1896 .. 1140.1 380 2340 148
1899 .. 1249.1 431 2618 142
1902 .. 948.0 305 1998 140
Turner.
1888 .. 2589.3 1222 3492 314
1890 .. 1651.1 724 2725 215
1893 .. 1148 450 2202 160
(2) Trumble’s last Test match was at Mel-
bourne, March 5-8, 1904; Turner’s at Sydney,
February 1-4, 1895. (3) Trumble was 70 on
May 12; Turner 75 on November 16.
* * * *
What Australian or English players have
bowled unchanged in a completed innings in
Test cricket? —7877.
For Australia—Palmer (7 for 68) and Evans
(3 for 64) at Sydney, Feb. 17-20, 1882; Palmer
(4 for 32) and Spofforth (5 for 30) at Sydney,
March 14-17, 1885; Turner (6 for 15) and
Ferris (4 for 27) at Sydney, Jan. 28-31, 1887;
Turner (5 for 36) and Ferris (5 for 26) at Lord’s
July 16-17, 1888; Turner (4 for 33) and Giffen
(5 Jor 26) at Sydney, Feb. 1-4, 1895; Trumble
(3 for 38) and Noble (7 for 17) at Melbourne,
Jan. 1-4, 1902; Noble (5 for 54) and Saunders
(5 for 43) at Sydney, Feb. 14-18, 1902. For
England—Morley (2 for 34) and Barlow (7 for
40) at Sydney, Jan. 26-30, 1883 ; Lohmann (7 for
36) and Briggs (3 for 28) at Kennington Oval,
Aug. 12-14, 1886; Peel (5 for 18) and Lohmann
(5 for 17) at Sydney, Feb. 10-15, 1888; Briggs
(6 for 49) and Lohmann (3 for 46) at Adel-
aide, March 24-28, 1892; Richardson (6 for
39) and Lohmann (3 for 13) at Lord’s, June
22-24, 1896; Barnes (6 for 42) and Blythe (4
for 64) at Melbourne, Jan. 1-4, 1902; Hirst (4
for 28) and Blythe (6 for 42) at Birmingham,
May 27-29, 1909.
* * * *
(1) Total tonnage of copper produced in
Australia in 1934, ’35 and ’36? (2) Amount
exported? (3) Amount imported? (4) Import
duty on manufactured copper articles? —7774.
(1) 1934, 7940 tons; 1935, 11,168; 1936,
13,313; representing actual metal produced in
Australia and not including metal contained in
ores, etc., exported overseas, estimated metallic
contents of which were, 1934, 1122 tons; 1935,
1361; 1936, 2770. (2) Exported copper con-
centrates for 1936-37, 213,363cwt., valued at
£A378,928, and copper ores, 34,084cwt.
valued at £A16,566. (3) 1936-37: Angle bars,
rods, etc., 4558cwt., £stgl6,502; blocks, ingots
and pig, 431, £944; pipes and tubes, 3362,
£21,213; plates and sheets, 10,049, £46,986;
and wire, 7959, £33,065. (4) Copper ingots and
pigs per ton, Brit. pref. rate £4, intermediate
rate £4, general rate £4; copper ingots and
pigs, ad valorem, nil, 10 p.c., 10 p.c.; scrap,
ad valorem, free, 15 p.c., 15 p.c.; angles, bars,
?!P es ii übes ’ plates > wires, etc., per pound, nil,
6d., 6d., and ad valorem, 50 p.c., 50 p.c., 62£
P-c.
* * * *
did the term “pigeon-English” origi-
nate ? —7908.
Business-English” was the name given by
the Chinese to the Anglo-Chinese lingua
franca; but they pronounced business pidgin,
which has been confused with pigeon
*** ' *
How to prevent stain coming out of the
leather backs and seats of a motor-car? In
hot weather clothes are stained brown, and
a^ wa^s a ce, 'i a ltt amount of stickiness.
The leather is of inferior quality or has
been treated with a sticky, non-drying prepara-
tion, best treatment is to remove it or make
loose washable covers of thick brown linen.
Ihe following might be tried before removal:
Remove all dust with a brush, and wash leather
with a soft cloth wrung out of very hot soapy
water containing a strong dash of ammonia—
about half-breakfast-cup to the gallon. Wipe
dry and then polish well with equal parts of
raw linseed oil, vinegar and methylated spirit
thoroughly shaken together before application.
It the leather looks dry or dingy after this
apply a good white shoe-cream and polish with
a woollen cloth.
* * * *
How to prevent chromium-plated motor
fittings from rusting? —7B29.
~ If work has been properly carried out
the fittings should not rust. In a well-executed
job the metal is first covered with a deposit of
nickel, followed, in sucession, by deposits of
copper, nickel, and chromium. The only
remedy is to have the fittings properly replated.
Surfaces may be protected against rust by occa-
sionally wiping them over with a cloth smeared
with vaseline and then wiping dry.
* * * *
(1) Who dicovered X-rays ? (2) Particulars
of his career? —7B67.
Konrad von Rontgen (1845-
i 923 J. (2) Born at Lennep, he received his early
education in Holland and Zurich. In 1875 he
became professor of mathematics and physics
at A® ri ? ultural Academy of Hohenheim,
and m 1876 he went to Strasbourg as extraordi-
nary P r °f. essor - In 1879 he became Director of
the Physical Institute of Gissen, whence, in
1885, he removed in the same capacity to
Wurzburg, where he discovered the Rontgen-
or X-rays. For this discovery he received
i oL R ur Qford Medal of the Royal Society in
1896. Rontgen also conducted researches in
various other, branches of physics, including
elasticity, capillarity, piezo-electricity, the elec-
tromagnetic rotation of polarised light, etc.
ion, rec eived the Nobel Prize for physics in
1901. Died at Munich on Feb. 10, 1923.
*** * '
(1) Original price in England of a 1926-27
Sports Sunbeam car? (2) Crankshaft r.p.m.?
(5) Inlet- and exhaust-valve timing? (4) lnlet-
and exhaust-valve tappet clearances? (5) Maxi-
inum road speed with rear-axle ratio and
5.00 x 23 in. tyres?— 7B33.
<!> S PO!;t s £950, Super Sports (1927 model)
i. 1125. (2) Depends upon the extent of the
tuning; should rev. up to 3000-4000 r.p.m., and
may do more with special tuning. (3) Inlet
opens eight degrees before top centre and closes
46 degrees after lower centre. Exhaust opens
49.5 degrees before lower centre and closes
14 degrees after top centre. (4) Inlet .Olin.,
exhaust .015 in., with hot engine. (5) 70-75
m.p.h.
* * * *
(1) How are the dates of the moon’s phases
reckoned for calendars and handbooks? (2)
°o the phases affect plant growth?— 7Bo3.
(1) They are calculated by the difference in
the celestial longitude of the sun and moon.
When this difference is Odeg. the moon is new,
when 90deg. first quarter, 180 deg. full, 270 deg.
third quarter. (2) Since heat is one of the
primary factors of plant growth and the heat
derived from the moon is infinitesimal, as-
tronomers can find no reason why the moon
should have any effect on plants.
* * * *
(1) How to estimate the percentage of butter
in a given amount of butter-fat? (2) On what
basis is the calculation made for the percentage
of butter-fat shown on a factory voucher? (3)
What proportion does the test bear to the actual
weight of butter-fat ? —7785.
(1) Multiply the weight of butter-fat by 100
and divide by 82. The test percentage is used
only to calculate the total weight of fat. Quality
is not taken into consideration in estimating
quantity. (2) Percentage of butter-fat shown
on butter-factory returns to suppliers in N.S.W.
represents results obtained by testing cream for
butter-fat by the Babcock method. In NS W
butter-computing tables have been compiled
by the Director of Dairying and published in
book form by the department of Agriculture.
xt o S «, tables are used in all butter factories in
N.S.W. for converting percentages of fat in
amount of cream. Obtainable from the Gov-
ernment printer; price 10s., plus postage. (3)
Figures represent the percentage of fat in the
cream.
* * * *
How to prepare ox gall for photos ?— 7875.
There are two chief uses. For preparing the
surface of prints for painting the fresh gall
is purified and evaporated to suitable consis-
tency, or it may be bought as a sticky, offen-
sive-smelling mass from an artists’ supplier.
For glazing photographs a gallon of gall is
mixed with 2oz. of formalin, then filtered through
several thicknesses of butter-muslin and bottled.
It will keep for some time. Gall bladders may
be obtained from a butcher or from a slaughter-
house.
* * * *
Brief biography of author Maurice Walsh?
—7825.
Maurice Walsh is a retired officer of the
Customs and Excise of the Irish Free State.
He was born in Ballydonohue, County Kerry,
son of John Walsh, a farmer and Land
Leaguer, and his wife, nee Elizabeth Buckley.
He was educated at Lisselton, Ballybunion,
St. Michael’s College, Listowel, entered the
British Civil Service 1901, and was transferred
to the Irish Free State Service in 1922. Presi-
dent, Comaltas Cana, 1929-30. He married
Caroline Begg in 1908 and had three sons.
Address, Ardna-Glaise, Stillorgan Park, County
Dublin. Publications include Eudmon Blake
(1909), The Key Above the Door (1923), While
Rivers Run (1926), The Small Dark Man
(1929), Blackcock’s Feather (1932), The Road
to Nowhere (1934), Green Rushes (1935) and
And No Quarter (1937).
* * * *
Is there a demand for one-act plays in Eng-
land, and where could I obtain particuars of
markets in London and provincial centres ?
7906.
The professional theatre, apart from isolated
cases, has no use for the one-act play, but in
recent years a demand has developed, largely
owing to the festivals arranged by the British
Drama League and others. Details of the festi-
vals, and often of societies seeking new one-
act plays will be found in the league’s
magazine “Drama.” “The Amateur Theatre
and Playwright’s Journal” will also be found
to be useful. Also get in touch with the Inter-
national One-act Play Theatre, 9 Wardour-
street, London, W.l.
* . * * *
What is the ethic dative in grammar? —7910.
In Latin and Greek a person indirectly or
vaguely concerned in the matter stated, etc.,
is sometimes introduced into the sentence in
the dative; thus in Quid mihi Celsus agit?
the word mihi (literally, “to me, or “for me”)
amounts to a parenthetic “I wonder.” Me in
Elizabethan English was often so used, as:
See how this river comes me cranking in
And cuts me from the best of all my land
A huge half-moon, a monstrous eantle out.
* * * *
A method of dehorning cattle? —7802.
There are two practical methods, one by the
use of a sharp secateur-like instrument and
one by treating the horn bud in such a manner
that no growth results. Horn-cutters are
placed close to the base of the horn and pres-
sure applied, and the cavity of the horn is
then packed with- a swab soaked with disin-
fectant. When used on cattle under six
months a small area of the surrounding skin is
removed and the wound treated antiseptically.
At this age there is usually no horn cavity.
For calves, treatment of small horn buds is
generally practised at four to nine days old.
The hair is clipped from the site and vaseline
rubbed lightly into the skin to prevent burn-
ing. Caustic is then applied to the horn bud,
taking care that the skin is not injured. Method
suggested in your letter is not efficient and un-
necessarily cruel.
* * * *
Last year I had heavy losses from grubs
which ate the centre growth from aster plants.
How can l treat them to combat the trouble?
—7871.
After setting out the plants spray them once
a week with arsenate of lead (trade strength),
or dust with derris-root powder. The trouble
is caused by grubs which hatch from eggs laid
by moths, mostly at night. Avoid overhead
watering as much as possible while either treat-
ment is being applied.
* * * *
Some information concerning blue panic
grass and where obtainable? —7841.
Botanical name is Panicum antidotale. It is
a free-seeding perennial, making its main
growth in summer.' Being drought-resistant, it
is well adapted to areas of restricted rainfall,
where summer storms are experienced, such as
northern N.S.W. and inland Q’land. Stock
apparently like the grass, and it should be tried
in all districts of low rainfall where usual
grasses will not do, and particularly in shallow
country unsuitable for lucerne. Generally the
seeds should be sown in spring, about 41b. per
acre on well-prepared country, but small quan-
tities could be sown with other grasses, if
thought wise, in autumn. The seed is usually
expensive, however, and at present it is best to
sow only on cultivated areas. Seed obtainable
from Arthur Yates, 184 Sussex-street, Sydney,
7s. 6d. per lb., f.0.r., Sydney.
* * * *
How can I produce deep shades of color in
hydrangeas? —7B47.
Where pink and red shades of hydrangeas
are wanted mulch the soil about the stems with
rotted cow manure and later give dressings of
lime. To accentuate blue flowers add iron to
the soil (rusted tins, nails or pieces of alu-
minium) as well as manure. Alum well mixed
into the soil is also a decided help towards im-
proving deep-blue shades. Regular watering
is essential.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for a potato salad? (2) Fly
spray ? —7846.
(1) Boil new potatoes, preferably small ones;
skin and slice into a dish. Add thinly-sliced
white onions, raw or boiled, or pickled onions.
Mix the following dressing: Put 1 breakfast-
cup of milk into a saucepan, beat 1 egg and
stir into it, thicken with a large teaspoon of
cornflour blended with a little cold milk or
water, and cook slowly until it bubbles slightly;
when cold add to the dressing-mixture 1 table-
spoon sugar, mustard, pepper and
salt to taste, 1 teaspoon lemon-juice,
salad oil and about one-third as much vinegar
as the quantity of dressing made; stir all
gently together. (Lemon and oil may be
omitted; condiments may be increased if liked.)
Pour the dressing over the potatoes and onions
and garnish thickly with finely-chopped parsley
1 part and mint 2 parts. (2) Mix thoroughly 2
quarts kerosene, 4oz. turpentine, oil
of pennyroyal and oil of wintergreen.
Quantities may be doubled for large amount.
Information Supplied.
7750.—Coarse casein glue: Mix together 12
parts by weight of finely-powdered casein, 50
parts freshly-slaked lime, 50 parts fine sand,
and sufficient water to make a thick mush.
Fine casein glue, to withstand moderate heat:
Mix together 1 part by weight of finely-
powdered casein with 3 parts silicate of soda;
should be well rubbed together.
* * * *
7587. —Craps is played with two dice. The
caster throws or shoots the dice, and wins if
the throw is 7 or 11 (called a nick or natural),
but loses if it is 2,3 or 12 (called a c rap).
If 4,5, 6,8, 9 or 10 is thrown, it becomes
the caster’s “point,” and the caster continues
to throw until he wins by again throwing his
point or loses by throwing 7. The odds are
251 to 244 against the caster.
Brief Answers.
S.L.H.: Call Public Library of N. S. Wales,
Bent and Macquarie streets, Sydney R.T.N.:
The Bulletin Reciter, Is. 3d., obtainable from
N. S. Wales Bookstall Cos., Sydney D.L.M.:
Try Angus and Robertson, or Dymock’s Book
Arcade —both Sydney 8.L.C.: Write Agri-
cultural Dept., Bridge-street, Sydney J.P.:
Write Q’land Government Tourist Bureau, Adel-
aide-street, Brisbane W.W.: (1) Anything
in excess of 65 p.c. (2) Yes, Australian ore-
buyers such as Francis H. Snow, Adelaide;
O. T. Lempriere and Cos., Norman Hill and Cos.,
and Frank Hambridge, of Sydney. (3) Cost
depends upon market conditions, and time
taken in disposing of the ore; 5 p.c. is about
the average under normal conditions J.T.M.:
Write to any of the patent attorneys adver-
tising on the “Wild Cat” page of The Bulle-
tin. .. .E.H.P.: No license is necessary....
R.S.H.P.: It is named after Tutuila, one of
the chief islands of Samoa D.i.: Leslie
Charteris is his correct name. He was born in
1907. For further particulars write Ward,
Lock and Cos., Melbourne A.F.A.: This is
an odd volume and has no particular value.
....0.H.M.: (1) Model “N,” 1916. (2) From
Horsfield and Vaughan, 169 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney; 275. 6d M.H.: Get in touch with
H. James, P.O. Box 20, Hornsby, for informa-
tion as to goat-breeding A.T.8.: A wash
of cement mortar is made up to the consistency
of paint. To this mixture is then added slowly
and with constant stirring boiled linseed oil
in the proportion of not more than of
oil to each gallon of the wash. This should
be applied immediately with a fairly heavy
brush similar to that employed for a lime wash.
A.B.C.: The Australian Bowling Council
laws provide that a rink shall be no longer
than 125 ft. or shorter than 110 ft., and not wider
than 20ft. or narrower than 17ft H.S.C.:
(1) “Finalised” has received recognition in the
latest editions of standard dictionaries be-
cause of its widespread use, but it doesn’t
express anything more or less than “com-
pleted,” and the older word is preferable. (2)
A “proprietary” co., as defined by the N. S.
Wales Companies Act 1936, is one which re-
stricts the right to transfer its shares, limits
the number of its shareholders to 50, and does
not invite the public to subscribe for its shares
or debentures... .J.T.0.N.: Suggest that you
approach leading shipping cos W.H.: De-
pends upon term of engagement. Get into
touch with the Commercial Travellers’ Assoc.,
Martin-place, Sydney....J.S.: No T.D.:
Cannot undertake to make the man pay. If
you cannot employ a solicitor to act for you it
would be better to cut the loss and be done
with it. It is not at all certain you would
succeed in any action, and to go further would
involve additional expense A.F.D.: Cannot
recommend any particular concern. Where the
only security offered is personal, the risk is
great and the rate of interest high... .D. 8.:
Personal inquiries of a private nature such as
you desire cannot be made, but a form of
application for a copy of the registration of
the birth referred to has been posted
A.W.D.: (1) This will depend upon the hus-
band’s earnings. The Act provides that in the
case of husband and wife the income of each
must be deemed to be posessed by both in equal
shares, and that a pensioner’s income, including
pension, must not exceed £B4 10s. per annum.
(2) If the pensioner has no income other than
the pension the husband may earn £65 per
annum before the pension rate will be affected
by income. The value of board and lodging
supplied is income within the meaning of the
Act C.J.0.: (1) and (2) No necessity for
treating. Such steels are put on the market
ready for use. (3) To clean clogged pores,
apply Bath brick... .J. 8.: Tom Cringle’s Log
is of collector value only if in the original two-
vol. (1833) edition... .A.A.: Engine speed of
the motors is 3200 r.p.m. when road-wheel speed
is 2600 r.p.m. No figures of fuel consump-
tion have be_en published... .A.K.: (1) T. S.
Eliot, 24 Russell-square, London, W.C.I;
Havelock Ellis, 24 Holmdene-avenue, Herne
Hill, London, 5.E.24; John Van Druten, c/o
A. P. Peters, 4 Adam-street, Adelphi, London,
W.C. (2) Photographs are not obtainable
locally... .M.F.S.: Any interference with the
watercourse which would have the effect of
injuring a public road would be actionable.
Before making your dam you should consult
the shire road council and come to a definite
understanding as to the proposed new road.
J.S.G.: You do not say what form of
insurance—life, fire, marine or accident —but,
assuming it to be life, the best source of in-
formation would probably be the Australian
Mutual Provident Insurance Society, 87 Pitt-
street, Sydney, the oldest life-insurance society
in Australia C.8.C.: System of drawing is
fair in both cases and doesn’t affect odds,
which are 99,999 to 1 against in the case you
mention... .W.J.M.: Can trace no reference to
such a bureau... .C.W.T.; Under the N. S.
Wales Lotteries and Art Unions Act a paper
published in N. S. Wales is prohibited from
publishing the particulars required... .C.T.M.:
Copy of award is obtainable from N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Printer, Sydney (Many others
mailed.)


DIRECT FROM AMERICA.
PURE WHITE TOMATO. “White Beauty,”
100 per cent. NON-ACID. Sow now, 2/6 pkt.
posted. EVER-BEARING CLIMBING
TOMATO. Bears for 12 months. Grows to
I2ft., yielding two bushels per plant: Sow now,
2/6 pkt. posted. NEW FRAGRANT PANSY.
Mammoth size, gorgeous colours. A few
blooms will perfume an entire room, 1/6 pkt.
posted. BIG BOSTON LETTUCE. Large solid
heads lOin to 12in. across, 1/3 pkt. posted.
—N.S.W. SEED CO., \la PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. G.P.O. BOX 4109WW.
TELEPHONE, BW6994.
BBBnHgQgjntlllllgfi w
A MAN'S A MAN
IN AERTEX
r . x «*, : ,w** ** *$
******
£* «M*o
" ** * ♦ '**
**«*.
sm*
”#3 :#
H#*|‘
Mi# *4
H* ISiISMF* >#*S
<; *§M§6
Your Garment is not
Aertex unless it bears
this label.
#« «M*
;* **;
i**:*:*;
* **
:*•♦ **
I **
s*<* **
** **
*'«»•**
** ♦)>
* * *•*
*•* #
* * #*
... ***#
*••#*►•* «*
,»: #**
P < :** «►*
**<****
•*:•»?
V Ilf Im
Aertex and energy go together. The man who
wears Aertex lets his body breathe. Wear Aertex
always, but see that it is Aertex. Look for the
trade mark and be sure. Underwear in varying
gauge of weave, day shirts in white or coloured
tones, and a most attractive and wide array of
sports garments in the modern style are all in the
Aertex range.
Stocked by all good Men’s Stores and Drapers.
mm**
m
MMMWi:
mssssma
i
mi
k
«><*
m
The New PEPSODENT
■
alone contains IRIUM which
fhrillingly steps-up lustre on teeth
C AUse I
1,5 to • •
fywent JL°f 'HlUbj
eaL
*■
DOUBLE THE THRILL
DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK
If Pepsodent doesn’t show up any other tooth paste you ever used... bar none!
The new Pepsodent alone con-
tains IRIUM, the spectacular new
lustre discovery. It works on a
totally new principle. It FLOATS-
AWAY film on teeth with a won-
derfully swift and gentle action.
The new Pepsodent, because it con-
tains IRIUM, thrillingly steps-up
lustre on teeth, yet is doubly safe
because it contains no pumice, no
gritl Doubly delightful because it
contains no chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM is the secret of its amazing
polishing power, its phenomenal
cleansing action, and the reason why
it gives teeth double lustre with
double safety.
Double Your Money Baclc
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill.
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used—bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd.,'Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
&
PEPSODENT
'The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA!
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Dept. No. 4, . Bo*
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
Name
Address..
City
ATJ7374P
.State.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
D.C.: That time machine not for us, though
you might place it elsewhere... .K.E.: Rather
too sensational to get in here... .F.R.F.: The
“Country Storekeeper” is a dull sort of chap,
....M.8.: Nothing new there E.W.: Write
more simply and use some short words
M.D.T.: It may be a “Plea for Liberty,” but
you’ve taken it too far for it to be regarded
as verse T.S.: You’re merely echoing
Tennyson A.R.J.: Something in it; but
it needs polishing—and, anyway, it’s off our
beat... .M.E.E.: You haven’t got hold of
anything new... .F.L.M.: Still wondering
what “Disloyalties” is all about 8.G.: Pity
you couldn’t have arranged an accidental death
for the detective, too; that would have got
rid of all of them ...A.H : Another prospector
dying in sight of a fortune! P.L.W.: If
this is no good it’s the last thing I shall ever
write.” Far be it from us to dissuade any
m y ' uVa' TANARUS» T t “ bUF ?n arS a "
old, old friend.... T.R.: There s nothing in
“Primordial Paean” that hasn’t been said be-
fore D.G.H.: “The clarion call of the
dawn” merely grated on our ears... .J.J.: They
don’t make the grade... .M.J.N.: We couldn’t
keep “Secrets”.... R. 8.5.: Dragged wearily
through hackneyed situations... .W.D.R.: As
you said, “in three inflictions” F.S.: Told
differently it might stand a chance D.W.:
Terrific cvclones and 40ft sharks srenenllv
terrinc cyclones ana 4Uit. snarKs generally
land in the w.p.b P.C. and, E.G.D.:
Right off our beat R.8.R.: “The Amateur
Kidnapper” is on his way home C.C.:
Style aimless and yarn vague F.N.N.,
N. and E.F.: All too late... .R.W.W.:
Good old coincidence.... S.C.: Cut out some
of the rambling and try a, daily... .H.L.H.:
O. Henry made a much better job of that
WS • Well we liked the oink naner
, R I, , ... , p . p ’ ‘I,”
L.R.H.. Might land it elsewhere E.A.S.:
Bombs have come home to roost too often to
make a yarn... .5.8.8.: Weak.... A.R.: We’ve
no use for that style of thing R.C.D.:
You don’t strike the right atmosphere, and it’s
“station,” not “ranch” J.W.H.: Morbid
C.8.T.: “A Telegram from Martha” is old
stuff....G.S.D.: “Stolen Death” is being re-
turned. MA: intoned m
mg in the Stiatosphere . ...1.A.N.. Priscilla
Makes for a Princess,” but she doesn’t get far.
. ...R.S.: Might work elsewhere... .A. GJ.:
In Darkest Cookernup” should have remained
there C.H.: Not up E.R.: Try a daily.
••••PS.: We’re not interested in what the devil
said L.H.: Too many platitudes
L.R.M.H.: Rewired, “Fences” might find a
home, but not here... Well what
about “Water Diviners Amalgamated”?
M R.: “Redemption” has a very familiar ring.
. . . .J.P.: Victorian flapper stuff T.E.M.:
“Miserable Joe” was too mournful G.R.:
Drop the satire and you’ll stand a better
chance G.H.S.: “Blackpeller Pashion” is
off A.F.F.: “The Midas Touch” might
persuade someone else to fork out G.P.D.:
“Swank, Is Is Worth It?” No!
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.D.: The week’s weakest gag and muddiest
drawing.... R.S.M.: Another election-result
cartoon!... .B.McC.: So a haggis looks like
that collection of scratches in the corner!
D. You’ll get nowhere by copying an-
other man’s style... .D.C.: Who owns the pair
of legs hiding behind the blot? M.O.: We
thought that jest had been forgotten F.L.D.:
The drawing’s neat enough, but the gag’s
hoary.. . .P.B.: You’ve a lot to learn yet
E. : Picture of, we presume, the three Graces,
still has us puzzled... .K.M.T.: If you want
our advice we’d say poster drawing seems to be
your mark T.E.G. : The decorated border is
very neat and the signature quite plain; now
try to illustrate a joke C.L.: Afraid a cari-
cature of your town doctor wouldn’t suit a
national newspaper S.I.: You might
find it a place in an autograph book T.M.:
Where did you see women with legs like
those? ... .P.D.: Hopeless... .W.R.: So you’re
an impressionist, and you think it “time these
ideas were introduced into the field of news-
paper illustrating.” We don’t D.A.V.:
Sending that weird collection of schoolboys
back.... J.G.: Make your blacks blacker and
your whites whiter L.S.: What does the
picture of the eagle pecking at the lion while
two bears, a kangaroo and a rhinoceros gambol
in the background represent? J.J.: Doubt if
a car like that has ever been seen, either on
earth or in heaven E.M.N.: Try taking
lessons—for about 10 years... .P.T.: Scratchy
drawing and a tame gag K.H.K.: We
laughed at that when our last batch of
American magazines arrived.
A MIXED GRILL.
In 10 years, according to the National
Safety Council, 10,030 Australians have
been killed and 166,432 injured in road
accidents, of which 97.3 p.c. were avoid-
able.
* * * *
“A.J.8.”: I’ll give you in the Archibald
Fountain, the Cenotaph and the Shrine,
and still say that the most beautiful piece
of art work in Sydney is the George
Lambert memorial in the crypt of St.
Mary’s Cathedral. Viewed over the rail-
ing of the enclosure the head of the re-
cumbent figure is bathed in golden light
from a chapel window.
* * * *
From the Hudson’s Bay Company,
Vancouver (British Columbia):
Dear Bulletin, —We are writing to ask per-
mision to make quotations from your publica-
tion for our daily radio commentary on human
affairs —current events, history, literature,
sociology, the arts, etc. Our 15-minute pro-
gramme is entitled “Skipper Scans the News.”
Granted, of course. The Hudson’s Bay
Co. must now be the oldest in the
world. The “governor and company of
adventurers of England trading to
Hudson’s Bay” were given a charter by
Charles 11.
* * * *
At Russia’s “free” elections, there will
be only one candidate per electorate —
Stalin’s man. One tribune is conducting
his campaign—on safety-first principles—
from a polar iceberg ; in another elec-
torate a difficulty has arisen because the
candidate and his agent have been
“liquidated.” This record is from the
London “Times,” which laughs at “those
people who are only too happy to believe
everything they are told from Moscow.”
There are no more credulous mugs in
the world, and many of them have
literary reputations.
* * * *
It seems unlikely that Alan Mac-
Donald will ever be as lucky in politics
as Pearce, who has had 36 years in the
Senate and 26 years in Cabinets ; but
he is shaping well. Three years ago the
Westralian Nats, were short of a candi-
date for the Senate. “What about
MacDonald?” someone said, the young
man being then secretary of the Nat.
Fed. Nobody was keen about it, not
even MacDonald ; but he was nominated
and elected. Now he is in the Ministry
and Pearce is out of it, and going out of
Parliament.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The M.L.-N.S.W. match
was responsible for an interesting de-
cision. Playing a stroke Chipperfield
broke his wicket, but the umpire appealed
to gave him not out on the ground that
he had completed his stroke before
knocking his wicket over. Law 25 says
that a batsman who, playing at the ball,
knocks over his wicket with any part of
his person or dress or his bat is out. The
point is a fine one, but is apparently
covered by law 43, which provides that
in case of doubt the actual state of things
shall continue.
* * * *
A link with the pioneering days is
broken with the death of Miss Emily
Gibson, of Burrumbuttock station, near
Albury. Born nearly 78 years ago at
Tirranna, Goulburn,. Emily Gibson was
the eldest child of T. J. F. Gibson and
lived practically all her life at Burrum-
buttock. She was an interesting and cul-
tured woman, whose chief interest was
in gardening, especially the cultivation
of Australian plants. The sundowner
was always sure of a welcome at Bur-
rumbuttock, and besides the usual
rations any needy wanderer would be
sent on his way with a new bush rug
and boots. Miss Gibson will be long
remembered in the Riverina for her
generosity and charity.


May we Suggest
, |g
: ■
lilil
■
:
Mm
111
itt
■
SSffivWiW
II
: : si
v-Si
Hi
The gift hell like best
MEN'S GENUINE PIG SKIN FITTED TOILET CASE.
Containing natural ebony pure bristle hair brush, mixed
badger shaving brush, Kent “Super” shaving soap, in
bakelite containers, steel mirror, nail file, safety razor
and comb. Price 757-
REAL PIG SKIN ZIPP FASTENER CASE. With
chromium fittings, containing natural ebony hair brush,
cloth brush, mixed badger shaving brush, tooth brush,
shaving soap container, toilet soap container, steel
mirror, nail file, scissors and cpmb, and Gillette type
razor in box. Price ----- £5/17/6
Pike Brothers
liIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Roma.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa,
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
=
\
S.JK-
g.i
' 1 : :
Otto Cribb in Sydney and 'Frisco
Arthur Simpson writes from St. Louis,
Missouri:
The Bulletin, from the Red Page to the
end page, is as interesting as it was 37 years
ago, when I made the trip to San Francisco
to be with my brother, “Otto Cribb,” on his
venture to this country.
My sister, who lives in Bondi, sends me
copies frequently, and I pass them along to
friends. Americans whose idea of Australia
was that it is somewhere in Siberia, or who, if
they know their geography, could scarcely be-
lieve it was a civilised country, get the surprise
of their lives when they read The Bulletin.
My business for the past 25 years has been
manufacturing and selling straw harvest hats.
When kids in Christchurch we used to wear
such hats in the rough; they were known as
Zulu hats. Our American Harvest Hat Com-
pany hats are woven in Mexico, and also in
China and Java.
To me boxing is still the most interesting
sport to watch. A few champions and near-
champions show in St. Louis, but two-fisted
fighters are few and far between. The best I
have seen since Jack Dempsey is a Spaniard,
Gastanaga. In Detroit lately he gave John
Henry Louis, the colored light-heavyweight
champion, a beating. Gastanaga has been fight-
ing for years, but he likes feasting, and is too
lazy to get into condition. If he can over-
come these habits you will hear more of him.
Arthur Simpson’s letter awakens
memories of one of the toughest and
gamest fighters that ever fought in Aus-
tralian rings. Martin Taylor, a Maori-
land bookmaker and coursing man of
the period, brought the lad to Sydney in
the autumn of 1899, and Mick Dunn
and Wally Weekes, two of the cleverest
Australian boxers available, put on the
gloves with him, with Larry Foley look-
ing on. “That cove’s a fighter to the
core,” .said the Old Master.
A public trial was decided upon, and
this is how it was described in The Bul-
letin of May 27, 1899:
“The Alhambra people tried out a
wild and woolly sort of bruiser, with
hands like hams and a typical fighter’s
head, which, judging by the manner in
which its owner crawled all over his man
(Wilson), must carry a big bump of com-
bativeness. He was introduced as Otto
Cribb, and shaped in as crude a fashion
as most of the short-haired must have
done in the days of Tom of that ilk.
Otto, young, strong and vigorous, and
going into the fray as if it were the
breath of life to him, banged, bashed,
biffed, elbowed, gouged, ’rastled and
roughed his stone-or-more-heavier oppo-
nent, while those looking on roared again
in the intensity of their excitement. Pos-
sessing but a modicum of science, this
lOst. 41b. lad from the land of fish-fed
bacon battered down stiff stops and
guards as if they were feathers. Smashes
on the solar-plexus failed to check him.
He never troubled about blows aimed at
the point, the kidneys or the liver, but
simply hurled himself in and thumped
and lunged out promiscuously, landing
on the seat of the pants or the back of
the head as often as anywhere else, and
with pile-driving force, too. The general
CRIBB.
verdict of the Fancy was: ‘He’ll go
through all the welters and middle-
weights if Foley can be induced to take
him in hand.’ ”
In July, 1899, the newcomer was given
a fight with Paddy Martin at the Golden
Gate. When he >was introduced as Cribb,
ringsiders, commenting broadly on his
Jewish appearance, suggested that it was
a mistake for Isaac, Jacobs or Cohen,
and they said more facetious things at
the end of the first round, Martin —a
strong fellow who was rather clever —
having had the better of it. But in the
second and subsequent rounds, Otto was
on top from the sound of the bell. He
wired in with both hands, landing any-
where and everywhere and frequently
nowhere. Twice he missed his man and
punched the ring-posts. When the
science had been pummelled out of him,
Martin also made things hum. His plan
of campaign consisted chiefly of head-
long rushes, and once when the object
of attack managed to avoid these Martin
shot fair through the hempen boundary
on to the boards below. Ducking from
a mad rush, Cribb caught him on the
shoulder and rose with him like a
butcher carrying a carcass of beef. The
referee had to drag the load off. Seven
hundred people alternated howls of ex-
citement and shrieks of laughter during
11 of the hottest and funniest rounds
ever fought in a roped square; then
Martin, as limp as a dead snake, skied the
towel.
In August, Cribb had a match with
another Martin Frank Martin. It
lasted 185 seconds, Francis being then
out on his feet.
Joe Dunn was the next victim.
Joseph’s sprinting capabilities stood him
in good stead for three rounds ; but in
the fourth his name was Done, and he
admitted it.
By this time Otto had become known
as a fellow who would fight anyone,
anywhere, at any time and weight; but
the knowledge was not universal. One
day in George Seale’s Gymnastic Club,
a heavyweight from Albury was knock-
ing a lighter man about, accompanying
every punch with a gloating remark such
as “How do you like that?” The
slaughter was stopped, and the big fellow
offered to belt the soul-case out of any-
one in the room. “Have a go at this
chap,” someone said, pointing to Cribb.
“What, that boy?” retorted the biffer
from Albury, full of contempt and tem-
porary valor. Small gloves were pro-
vided and a referee named, the length of
the rounds being left to his caprice. The
first round lasted five minutes, and
Albury sat down with a mound of flesh
over one eye. Another three minutes of
fierce biffing convinced him he had had
sufficient. When the news reached
Albury that town disowned him, a local
patriot protesting that the place had at
least 12 domestics who could beat him
with dishcloths.
After that it was Jack Tuckwell’s turn.
Jack came from the Riverstone meat-
works, where, friends explained, he “et
raw meat to make him fight savage.”
He was a sawn-off Hercules, only a five-
footer, but a mass of muscle, and his
chest was magnificent. When he came
out of his corner he got down so low,
spread his legs so wide apart and shaped
up in such a way as to recall those queer
old engravings of the pugs of Broughton’s
day. He was very game withal; but
Cribb knocked him kicking in four
rounds.
Harry Dawson was highly thought of
when he and Cribb shook hands for the
first time at the Golden Gate on
January 16, 1900; and there was a
packed house at double the ordinary
tariff. Harry was down four times in the
first round ; and the next was the last.
After a rally, Dawson backed away;
Cribb feinted, and Dawson, falling into
the trap, took delivery of left and right
on the jaw. Forthwith he became a
peaceful and horizontal bruiser, dead to
the world.
Cribb found Tot Higgins, a Victorian
welter, more difficult. Higgins had been
trained in a hard school and knew all
the tricks. He often operated well with
both fists, and once or twice had Cribb
swaying in his tracks; but the hard-
headed and tough-hided Maorilarider could
have endured twice as much and lived.
The Victorian was down eight times and
failed to come up for the fourteenth
round. There were 2300 excited spec-
tators at 10s., ss. and 2s. 6d.
But, for excitement, Cribb v. Higgins
was not a patch on Cribb v. Sturgeon.
Sturgeon was a beautifully-built, flaxen-
haired fellow who had run away from
home early in life to join a circus, and
had afterwards travelled with his own
boxing booth —the sort of education that
made a first-rate bruiser of Tommy Farr.
Really a middleweight, he had trained
down to lOst. 2jlb. for Cribb (Otto
weighed lOst. 21b.). He was a two-
fisted puncher, very fast and resolute,
and brother-pugs thought the world of
him ; an old-timer, Charlie Dunn, put up
his side-wager, £25. Still Cribb was
favorite at 2 to 1 on, and the ever-
confident Otto laid £5O to £2O on himself.
It was the grimmest and bitterest mill
fought in Australia since Joe Goddard’s
epic contests with Choynski. Hurricane
work characterised every round. In the
first three minutes, Sturgeon was on the
boards for nine seconds, and again for
seven seconds. But he pulled himself
together and in the second round sent
in lefts and rights with pounds of powder
behind them. Cribb sagged at the knees,
rocked in his tracks and looked on the
verge of collapsing. Thrice he went
down, but was up again without taking
a count. Then it was Sturgeon’s turn to
fly signals of distress.
Fierce was the fighting, and unflinch-
ing the demeanor of each man. They
stood toe to toe and punched as if their
very lives depended on the speed,
number and weight of the blows they
delivered. During one of these rallies
Cribb stopped a wicked one on the
mouth, and his head went back as if it
were leaving his shoulders.
It could not last* 20 rounds at such a
gait, and the end came in the eighth,
when each had fought the other to a
standstill. Summoning up all the strength
he had left, Cribb threw a left swing at
the jaw. Almost at the same instant
Sturgeon put everything he had into a
right over the heart. Cribb staggered
back, the whites of his eyes showing, and
supported himself on the ropes; without
their aid he would have fallen. Sturgeon
went down and his head struck the
boards hard. He lay there many seconds
after the referee declared Cribb the
winner.
The return match, which took place a
couple of months later, wasn’t nearly so
thrilling. In fact, it wasn’t thrilling at
all until the eleventh round ; then Cribb
grew wild at Sturgeon’s clinching and
roughing and waded in with blood in his
eye. In the twelfth, Sturgeon crossed


ONCE ASHAMED OF
HER FIGURE
Kruschen Made Her Slim,
Healthy and More Active.
Overweight and rheumatism often go to-
gether, because they frequently arise from the
same cause. It follows, therefore, that the
remedy which cures the one complaint will
also cure the other. That was what happened
in the case of this woman.
“A year ago,” she writes, “I was racked
with pain from rheumatism and other com-
plaints. I also put on so much weight that I
was ashamed of my figure. I used to feel so
miserable, until I was persuaded by my hus-
band to take Kruschen Salts. After taking
Kruschen for a short time the rheumatism grew
less painful, my nerves got stronger, and I
lost a lot of fat. I am not boasting when I
say that I feel younger and more active every
day. I have a much better figure and am much
healthier than I have been for some years.”—
(Mrs.) J.S.
Kruschen is an ideal blend of mineral salts
found in the waters of those European Spas
which have been resorted to from time imme-
morial for the relief of various ailments, in-
cluding rheumatism and obesity.
5 YEARS’
GUARANTEE
Ķ
“iy VINCIBLE”
SINCE
im
INVINCIBLE ENGINES,
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
w
mt
W
Model 2269. Chromium-plated
2-cell Focussing Torch, as illus-
trated; ideal for hip pocket or
pocket of your car. Price, —j *
complete © O
ĸ
Model 1654. Electric Candle, in
dull nickel, and 3-way switch—for
continuous light, off, and switches
on automatically when
lifted. Price complete, J W
mm
M
m
mm
Model 2569. Chromium-plated
2-cell Spotlight; focusses by screw
adjustment of the head.
Price, complete
7'6
Ever Ready
BRITISH MADE
TORCHES
Gslie
Sber^ojmlar
Model 1169. Junior Torch;
engraved ribbed metal
body, chromium-plated, I \
inch reflector, m *
Price, complete .... "fr *
Model 2247. Electric
Gaslighter; clean, reliable;
instantaneous; with mj
2 year battery O m
Refills 2/3 each.
II
vii
niiTTini
Model 2036. Electric Cycle
Lamp; stove black finish, nickel fit-
tings; fitted with spring bracket,
screw switch; carrying handle and
"Long Lyfe" Battery, mjm
Price, complete "r O
IF you are looking for a
Xmas gift that is both useful and
inexpensive—look at these bril-
liant EVER READY suggestions.
Made by the makers of the
world-famous Ever Ready Bat-
teries, they answer many a
man's unspoken need. If un-
able to obtain from your usual
dealer, write direct to The Ever
Ready Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Harcourt Parade, Rosebery,
Sydney.
4
m
§§§
Model 3863. 3-cell Searchlight,
specially designed for maximum
range; chromium-plated, ribbed
body; 3 inch reflector. ML
Price, complete II W
beautifully with a right on the point, and
Cribb went down. He rose at once,
though shaken, and when the bell came
to his relief he was sorely pressed. In the
thirteenth Sturgeon was floored, and took
nine seconds. He sank to the boards
again before the fury of Cribb’s on-
slaught, and after that boxed wholly on
the defensive. The referee said that the
decision would be Cribb’s if the articles
permitted him to give one, but they pro-
vided for a draw if both were on their
feet at the end of the 20 rounds. An old
swindle which has passed with 20-round
fights.
The return match with Tot Higgins
was much briefer. Higgins tried to make
a slugging match of it. He was slugged
out in four minutes.
Cribb’s fight with Mick Dunn also
developed into a slugging match. Dunn
was middleweight champion, and had
boxed some of the best men in the
world; according to the New York
“Police Gazette” he had made such a
mess of the great Joe Walcott that Wal-
cott, though given the decision, was a
cot case for two days. Against Cribb,
Dunn, now a well-preserved man in the
early thirties, tried to rely on weight
instead of skill.
It was one of the roughest struggles
imaginable, a bumping, rushing, wrestling
affair, with Cribb forcing and Mick
standing up to the lighter man’s attacks.
Each let go rights and lefts for seconds
at a stretch. Both went weak, so much
so that they did little more than claw at
one another. On one occasion Dunn
slipped and did the “splits,” and Cribb
tumbled clean over his head. It was any-
one’s fight at least a dozen times, and
it became a question of who would nang
out the longest. In the eighth they were
floundering and mauling when the
dreadfully-fagged Dunn fell. He was in
the act of rising when George Seale
counted him out.
Close observers noticed a deteriora-
tion in Cribb’s milling after his first fight
with Sturgeon. They put it down to his
having trained too much with clever
men, notably “Cocker” Tweedie, who
was as clever as they make them, though
too fond of beer and of playing to the
gallery to become a champion. The
sequel was to prove tragically that Cribb’s
physical powers were on the decline.
He heard San Francisco calling and
arrived there towards the end of the
year, travelling under the wing of chief-
steward James of the Mariposa, who
had brought Choynski to Australia. In
those days ’Frisco was boxing mad.
Jeffries, a Californian, had become heavy-
weight champion; Corbett, another
native son, was challenging, and fighters
of all divisions abounded on the Pacific
Slope. The city was full of lads looking
for lash and anyone bent on private
fights could be accommodated anywhere.
But the great reputation of Australian
boxing had vanished, and although a
match was made for him two days after
he landed, Cribb found himself regarded
by the newspapers as an unknown. The
man whom he signed to meet was Frank
McConnell, who claimed a decision over
Griffo. The ’Frisco “Chronicle” pro-
tested that “the Cribb-McConnell fight is
a poor card. McConnell is all right, but
Cribb may or may not be a fighter. He
came here practically unheard of, and
for a club to force such a person on the
public is virtually to express the opinion
that followers of the game are easy.”
These disparaging remarks and others
of the kind led to McConnell being
favorite at 2 to 1 on on the night of the
fight, which took place on December 20,
1900. Cribb walked up for the first
round in his slouching easy-going style ;
and the crowd laughed. At the opening
of the third round he brushed his hair
back, as was his wont when he meant
trouble, spat over a shoulder —another
of his odd habits —and hurled himself at
the Yankee. It was a good fight while it
lasted, but it lasted only four rounds, the
American being knocked out.
Cribb got a thousand dollars for his
15 minutes’ ring exertions, and before
he left the hall he had signed to meet
Young Thurston for a 2000-dollar purse.
Next morning one of the papers which
had suggested that he was an impostor
described him as a “revelation —a force-
ful, relentless, instinctive fighter with
every claim to be matched against the
best welterweights this continent owns.”
It had a still higher opinion of Thurston :
“for fierce onslaughts, terrific batter-
ings and gameness, Thurston has no equai
in the business.”
Thurston and Cribb fought on January
18. From start to finish, the battle was a
fistic whirlwind, a pugilistic cyclone.
The opposing forces clashed and clashed
again in a manner that shook both from
neck to heel, while loud “Oohs” came
from the dense mass of manhood in the
building. Cribb more than held his own
till the sixteenth round, when Thurston
crossed him on the point and went within
an ace of outing him. Cribb was on the
floor five times. He gave an object
lesson to the crowd of how a fighter in
dire extremity can save himself by duck-
ing and clinching, but though he was
still erect at the end of the twentieth
round, and stronger than Thurston, those
knockdowns deprived him of the decision.
For days afterwards Thurston was in
the doctor’s hands. Cribb spent the rest
of that night and all next day in the
STURGEON.
Turkish baths ; then he went to see a
doctor on his own account. The medico
told him that he would imperil his life if
he fought again inside 12 months ; but
this did not come out until it was too late.
Cribb insisted on fighting Thurston
again, the winner to get all the money,
$2OOO. March 29 was the date and
Thurston had the words “Winner Take
All” painted on a punching ball, which
was held up by a second when things
went against him ; and they did often. The
Californian had to endure fearful bangs
on the jaw and steam-hammer thumps
over the heart; but he never wilted. His
strength and fierceness were remarkable.
He fought Cribb to his knees in the
third round, and Otto was tottering badly
just before “corners.” He recovered and
looked a winner in the sixth round, but
Thurston weathered the storm. And so
it went on, victory inclining to one and
then the other till the fifteenth round,
when Cribb was badly broken up. After
that he could do nothing except dodge
his opponent’s tiger-rushes, and although
Thurston could not knock him out, the
verdict went to the Californian.
The match created such extraordinary
interest that the “Examiner” and the
“Chronicle” had special reports of the
happenings in each round telephoned
from the ringside and recorded on big
sheets outside their offices, while thou-
sands watched and cheered as one or
other bruiser scored an advantage. But
those 40 rounds of furious fighting left
their mark on both men, and Thurston
was never any good again.
A greatly changed Cribb returned to
Sydney. He concealed his condition, and
signed up to meet Mick Dunn again on
July 22. For four rounds he had the better
of the exchanges. Then he fell away, and
in the ninth round he was down and out.
That night Otto was found dead in
his bed at a Bondi hotel.
Cerebral haemorrhage was the cause
of death. The blood-vessels at the base
of the brain were in such a condition
that slight concussion was sufficient to
kill. In other words, Cribb’s magnificent
constitution had been sapped by too
much love of living and of fighting when
he was not fit to fight. He was only 23.
World-beater? He might have beeii
if he had looked after himself and had
had the benefit of Foley’s teaching and
guidance. From Mendoza to Benny
Leonard, and from Leonard to Barney
Ross, the Jews have contributed an en-
trancing chapter to the history of
pugilism, and a secure place in it was
earned by the fearless Otto Cribb.


An Eyewitness in Abyssinia
ONLY a matter of days before the fall of Addis
Ababa an itinerant official of the League of
Nations dropped in to assure The Bulletin
that Italy could never take Abyssinia. It
sounds foolish now, and The Bulletin thought it
sounded foolish at the time, but that earnest Leaguer
was quite sincere, and he was not the only one appar-
ently in a position to have known better who was thus
duped.
Into that general duping went a certain amount
of self-deception. The Italian campaign was unpopu-
lar ; people wanted the Abyssinians to win, and simply
believed what they wanted to believe.
Still the delusion could never have grown if the
Abyssinian affair had not been so stupidly misreported
from beginning to end. As far as Australia was
concerned, a lot of what was cabled here as
“news” was nothing more nor less than propaganda,
produced in the Negus’s propaganda factory at Addis
Ababa.
Before it was all over that campaign of false-
assurance and make-believe did immeasurable harm
to the cause it was intended to serve ; but the most
extraordinary aspect of it is that it was all evidently
accepted on its face value by the representatives of
a couple of score nations at Geneva. Canberra, of
course, swallowed it all whole.
This curious phenomenon of deception and delu-
sion is taken up as a main theme by Herbert Mat-
thews in his arresting book, Eyewitness in Abyssinia.
As representative of the New York “Times” behind
the Italian lines Matthews was able on April 10,
1936, to give his paper the accurate forecast that the
war would be over “within a month.” By May 5 all
over it was. Yet:
Just about that time Mr. Eden was earnestly insist-
ing on the necessity of reaching a peaceful solution in
conformity with the Covenant of the League of Nations,
and without granting Italy any territorial conquests.
That meant that the British Were still being misinformed
of the true state of affairs in Africa. Why should that
have been so? Why should the Emperor, who might
still have been left a small part of his territory, have
been fooled and abandoned to his
fate? I have often wondered; and it
seems to me that thoughtful people
ought still to wonder at it.
That was within a month of
the end of the war, and, as thought-
ful people should readily recall,
what territory might then have been
left to Haile Silassie was small to
what he could have had if daily
journalism and political ineptitude
had not sabotaged the Hoare-Laval
proposals.
With it all now in historical
perspective, the simple truth
emerges that Geneva led its host of
dupes into a world of pure make-
believe ; a fairy-tale place for
grownups, complete with Musso-
lini in the role of big, bad bogey.
It was a temporary triumph of false
faith over reality—faith in a politi-
cal fiction ; in the idea that a crowd
of politicians, nine-tenths of them
representing sprat and tiddler
nations, could achieve diplomatic
results by joining their shrill voices
in a chorus of insults and declarations. Australia is
still paying upwards of £60,000 a year to support the
pretence that it and the British Commonwealth still
have faith in that fiction.
There was, however, no pretence about that faith
at the time the Abyssinian kingdom was crumbling.
People then v/ere completely hoodwinked. By press,
broadcast and filmed “news” the idea that any coun-
try —and least of all Italy—could triumph over both
the all-powerful League and such ferocious fighters
as the “creeping Danakils” and “famous Gofas” was
scouted to the end. Matthews gives a host of illumi-
nating instances of the hoodwinking that upheld that
deluded belief. Once, when he and fellow-correspon-
dents, some time after the fall of Dessye, were com-
fortably settled down in a captured locality and the
front line was already considerably further on, some-
one got London on their wireless set:
It was the news broadcast. It had been reported,
it seems, that Dessye was occupied by the Italians,
but the Ethiopian Government in Addis Ababa denied
it, so all listeners were cautioned to reserve their judg-
ment. It was true, however, that the Abyssinian position
seemed “rather difficult.” Then came an account of a
battle which had taken place, it appeared, just north of
Quoram, where a large force of Ethiopians had gallantly
attacked the Italian army.
We did some quick figuring. There was no doubt of
it. The location of the fighting was exactly where we
were, and without having the vaguest notion of it, there
we sat, in the midst of a sanguinary battle, on the way
towards a city which the Italians had not captured yet!
Oh, the folly of it! As a newspaperman I felt rather
ashamed of my profession. And that unctuous voice,
with its pseudo “Oxford accent,” half-feminine, half-
masculine, was inexpressibly irritating. Poor England!
It seems to me there should have been many accounts
to settle when that war ended.
Matthews “feels rather keenly” on the subject
because “journalism, on the whole, failed its public
in the African campaign.”
The Italian victory was not an overnight miracle.
It was a foregone conclusion as early as February
[1936], the only doubt beiijg whether it could be con-
summated before the rainy season, and even that doubt
was dissipated early in April. Why, then, should an
apparently large majority of the reading public through-
out the world, and particularly in England, have seemed
so surprised to see the Italians gallop through by
May 5, and have to seek explanations in such palpable
untruths as that it was accomplished by the use of gas?
Australia, of course, shared with England in that
sorry mass of misreporting. This, for instance, rings
familiarly enough:
One important London newspaper told of how the
“Ethiopian Legions of Death, each 300 strong, invaded
Eritrea on the night of October 7 11935] and took
Adi Kaieh,” which showed a sublime disregard for
facts and geography. In the first place there were no
“Ethiopian Legions of Death,” and in the second place
neither they nor any other Ethiopians came within
many miles of Adi Kaieh, which is well inside the
Eritrean frontier.
In giving a string of such examples, Matthews
drily comments that “it is an old axiom of the news-
paper game that the best stories can always be written
by those who are least trammelled by the real facts.”
Such stories made the staple of cabled “news”
served out by Australian dailies, and nowhere, evi-
dently, were they swallowed so avidly as at Canberra.
Certainly it never occurred to Australian statesman-
ship that a lesson of the highest military importance,
having regard to Australian defence, could have been
had merely by sending a few key staff officers to be,
like Matthews, eyewitnesses to what really was going
on in Abyssinia. - .
One of the most important lessons, in the opinion
of Matthews, was that “the Ethiopians were smashed
by sheer force of arms and not (as so many still seem
to suppose) by the extensive use of gas.” After de-
scribing the three battles which brought the war to an
end, he sums up:
I doubt very much whether gas played any part
whatever in those three battles; certainly, except for one
tear-gas battery, none of us saw any of it being used,
or any effects of it, or even heard of it being used.
1 witnessed the Amba Aradam fight, some of the others
“I insist—let ME open the next gate!”
saw part of the battle of Scire, and all of us were on the
battlefields directly after the fights and in close contact
with the officers and men who fought, so it seems
strange that we could have missed seeing or hearing
something about the use of poison gas if any had been
used.
Matthews insists that one of the oustanding les-
sons of the whole campaign was the importance of
leadership. The Abyssinians, he found, had lament-
able leaders. Early in his description of the cam-
paign he mentions one “brave Dedjasmatch,” who was
taking no chances. Through glasses this leader was
espied some seven or eight miles to the rear of the
front line, prancing about on a rock “gesticulating
vehemently.”
Instead of leading his men into battle, he stayed
far away, setting an example that was to be followed
by Ethiopian commanders from Haile Silassie down,
throughout the whole war. And lots of good people
wonder why the Ethiopians did not do better.
Nor was it only a matter of superior force of
arms and superior leadership. There was, for in-
stance,
nothing cerebral or mechanical about the battle of Ende
Gorge; it was fought as the good old battles were
fought, and the best men won—not with mechanical or
numerical superiority, but with guts and sheer fighting
spirit.
Matthews credits the Abyssinians with being good
soldiers when bravely led; still, he has to record,
too, that our old friends the “creeping Danakils” —
it should be recalled how in the cabled nonsense these
‘ferocious warriors” were among the most formidable of
all —were not only the best runners from a flying start
but were painfully easily bought. He mentions from
his own personal experience the purchase of 10,000
of them in a batch at “a thaler a head, the thalers
locally manufactured for the purpose. There can
be no doubt in my mind,” Matthews adds, “that we
must relieve the Danakil of much of his glorious
reputation,” and “what was true of the Danakils was
“also true in lesser measure of all the other Ethiopians.
They were not nearly such ferocious fighters as
everyone had supposed froni their historical record.
The Danakils, for instance, were ferocious and terrible
when they considerably outnumbered their victims, and
could safely attack them. But faced by even a small
force of 2000 determined men their courage melted away.
On another matter on which we had dished out
to us, per cable, a far more dangerous brand of mis-
reporting Matthews is equally illuminating.
The Italian aviators in Africa were frequently inex-
perienced youngsters, but, even so, fliers who in practice
can unfailingly hit targets, in the excitement of battle
and fire of anti-aircraft guns will lose their accuracy.
The Italians are an excitable race, and their bravery is
frequently an emotional exaltation which is not con-
ducive to the state of mind needed to use correctly such
delicate instruments as modern bombing sights. After the
near-disaster of Mai Mescik in November, when Ciano’s
squadron was ambushed and every ’plane riddled with
bullets, they had their orders to fly at safe heights when
possible, which made aiming all the more difficult.
Red Cross tents were more often than not next to, or
surrounded by, legitimate military targets, and in aiming
at the one the Italians had the infallible knack of hitting
the other as well —much to the joy of the Ethiopians.
That the latter abused the use of the Red Cross was, of
course, common knowledge.
From the commander of the Italian Aviation
Corps Matthews had this account of one of these
bombings:
“I sent a squadron of ’planes down to Quoram that
day for bombing operations. They saw a group of
tents with red crosses on them, and swept low to verify
the fact that it was a genuine unit, since the Abyssinians
were always abusing the emblem. As they arrived over
the tents they were greeted with a burst of fire, and a
number of the ’planes were hit. They did not reply at
the time, but returned to camp and I was told about it.
The next day I sent them back again to investigate
further, and the same thing happened. So I sent a radio
message to the Ethiopian headquarters telling them that
I was going to send my squadron to Quoram the next
day' and that if it was fired upon from the Red Cross
enclosure it would answer with bombs. And that was
what happened.”
It may be recalled that when the Addis Ababa
version of that bombing came
per cable to Australia leading
dailies that had taken it upon
themselves to be pillars of the
League of Nations fairly frothed
at the mouth demanding
“action.” It may also be re-
called that the International
Red Cross investigated the
bombing, after which we heard
no more about it. It is taking
history some time to catch up with invention,
but it is managing to do so at last.
Here and there in his book Matthews
gives pictures of the Abyssinian savages which
ought to make corrective reading for the
pretty numerous armchair fire-eaters who were
eager to see Britain and Australia going into
action a year or two ago.
To be considered a real he-man, particularly in the
Galla provinces, you must kill other men, mutilate them,
and lay your horrible trophy at the foot of your wife
or girl-friend. ,
His account of an Abyssinian attack on an
Italian workmen’s camp, in which there was a woman,
the wife of the engineer, is too horrible to be lifted
out and given here. A paragraph will give some idea
of it: the camp of about 150 strong was attacked by
about 600 Abyssinians at night:
Among all the men there were no more than six
rifles, but the workers fought desperately with picks
and shovels, with their bare hands, but, of course, in
vain. About 80 managed to escape in the darkness.
Sixty-eight met a dreadful fate. Ras Immeru, in his
report to the Negus, described the feat as a military
action [it was, of course, duly served up as such in
cables to Australia] in which 1000 Italians were killed
and only 38 Ethiopians. It was to this report that
Badoglio was referring in his bitter remarks about “a
defenceless group of Italian road workers.” The fact
that they killed 38 Ethiopians under the circumstances
was evidence of what a terrific fight they must have
made.
It should be added that “the engineer had merci-
fully put his revolver to his wife’s temple and killed
her before the Ethiopians could lay hands upon her,
but what they could not do in her life they perpe-
trated on her dead body.”
So much for the allies beside whom Diggers would
have fought if all the shrill, misguided and misin-
formed fire-eaters and League of Nations supporters
had had their way a couple of years ago. Even now,
says Matthews, few people realise how near the world
was to war in October, 1935. That danger passed,
but this book still has significance as an exposure of
the sort of misreporting and propaganda served up
as news that is with us still.
Another of the well-established principles of pro-
paganda reporting is to represent the other side as
being cowardly and worthless fighters. Thus, in the
“reporting” on the Abyssinian affair the Italians were
frequently represented as bolting before the Abys-
sinian “Amazon battalions,” just as in the Spanish war
the same sort of reporting has had them trounced by
unarmed fishwives. Matthews has many descriptions
of them in action ; this one is fairly typical:
Before sunset that day the Italians had worked out
a plan of remarkable boldness. From the Alpinis and
Blackshirts there was made up a picked battalion of
mountain-climbers —youths who had spent their lives in
the Italian Alps and Dolomites, and who alone could
be entrusted with the dangerous and difficult task set
for them in the pitch darkness of that night. The
little force was divided into two parts, one being sent
along the outer edge of the western peak of Amba
Uork, and the other along the eastern edge. With the
sentinels guarding what they thought was the only
approach—the northern declivity—the Italian soldiers
toiled slowly but surely up the precipitous sides of the
amba. Just before dawn they had reached the summits
of the two peaks above the Ethiopian force without
the enemy having perceived them. It was a manoeuvre
taken out of Abyssinia’s own book, and accomplished
with a catlike precision that the natives themselves
could not have surpassed.
Then a determined charge and the important posi-
tion was taken.
As Matthews sums it up:
It was a young, vigorous, enthusiastic army, animated
»by a new spirit, and directed with extraordinary bril-
liance. The soldiers fought and worked and marched
magnificently throughout —and it was they who won the
war, not gas.


In addition to the criticisms of MSS.
mentioned in this column by Mr. Cronin
he conducts a Story Writing Course
and a Course in Writing for the Radio,
both of which have been prepared and
are conducted personally by Mr. Cronin.
They embody a lifetime’s experience of
writing for publication.
The leading recording company of
Australia has offered to give a free re-
cording to any radio play written by a
pupil of Mr. Cronin and recommended
by him.
Things and People
in 1938
p
'Sharp Eyes"
Sees A Tic-Bit.
The illustration is published be-
cause of its decorative value.
Further, a small, quick-moving bird
is a universal symbol of brightness,
cheerfulness and happiness, the gifts
we specially ask for ourselves and
others at this time of the year.
In addition, the illustration sym-
bolises the qualities of quick per-
ception and prompt action which,
with others, Pelmanism develops in
the individual.
Pelmanism is an all-round training.
It develops agreeably, smoothly, and
without apparent effort all the
qualities implied in the term, “effec-
tive personality.” Of these, the fol-
lowing are outstanding: —
Observation
Concentration
Decisiveness
Will-Power
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Initiative
Social Ease
and a good memory for faces,
figures,. names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The Pelman Institute is a world-
wide organization of 40 years’ stand-
ing. Its headquarters are in London.
The institute in Melbourne has been
established for 30 years. There are
over half a million world Pelmanists,
of whom over 35,000 have enrolled
with the Institute in Melbourne.
Pelmanism has been granted a
number of International Awards, in-
cluding—
Liege . . 1930 Nancy . . 1932
Geneva. 1933 Paris . . . 1933
AS in the years that have gone,
so in 1938 most of our con-
cerns will be with things and
people ; with the instruments, appli-
ances and materials peculiar to our
callings, our sports and our hobbies ;
with the houses we live in and the
furniture we live with; with objects
of nature or of art; with some of
the innumerable things that are
bought, sold and used for profit or
for pleasure; with peopl<? in our
homes and in our immediate social
groups ; with our associates at work
and at play, with casual acquain-
tances, and with strangers met in
trams, trains, buses and boats.
Gather and Store.
If, in 1938, we can gather and store
for profitable use more and more de-
tailed information about things; if
we can make better use of them; if,
in short, we know more and are
better skilled, then 1938 is likely to
be a more successful year for us. How
can this be done? There is one way
—by quickening our natural percep-
tions, particularly observation, by
strengthening our powers of concen-
tration, and by enlarging and giving
point to the inherent faculties in-
volved in sound judgment and prompt
decision.
Parallel Motives.
But, whilst material success gener-
ally follows extended and exact
acquaintance with things and the
proper use of them, real happiness
comes only from easy and comfort-
able relations with people. Accom-
plishment, however great it may be,
is not quite complete until someone
has listened kindly and sympatheti-
cally to our often long-winded story
of how it was done. The law of
parallel motives sees to that, and this
law operates continuously from child-
hood to old age. Side by side with the
urge to win, to profit, paces another
motive —the desire for the commenda-
tion of one individual or the ap-
plause of a group of individuals.
This motive colours, and should
colour, our relations with all the
people we meet, acquaintances and
strangers, as well ' as intimates.
Although each of us is an individual,
we all live in a world of people be-
tween whom and us is interdepen-
dence. If we meet others pleasantly
and comfortably it is easier for others
to be pleasant and comfortable with
us, and what faculties we have are
given opportunity of exercise and so
are strengthened and enlarged.
Thus, there is interaction between
our power to master things or to do
things and our ability to get on well
with people. Each is necessary to
complete success. In some under-
takings and walks of life one is exer-
cised more than the other, but in all
circumstances and conditions they
are, in some degree, complementary.
Knowledge a Personal
Possession.
Pelmanism emphasises more and
more every day this aspect of success-
ful and happy living. In the Mel-
bourne Institute we very quickly
make it clear that knowledge or skill
is not a personal possession until
practical use has been made of it,
and that it can be used thus only in
conjunction with other people.
A desire to see more and learn
more about things and people in 1938
is a sufficient reason for inquiring
into Pelman methods and practice.
If you have read so far with interest
we urge you to get a copy of “The
Efficient Mind,” which describes in
detail the Pelman Course of scientific
training of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality.
Full particulars of the Pelman Course
are given in “The Efficient Mind>”
copies of which are posted free.
Write the Pelman Institute, 3 Glou-
cester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, or call for one. Your
inquiry will be regarded as confiden-
tial. We have no outdoor representa-
tives.
The Pelman Institute
for the Scientific Development of Mind,
Memory and "Personality.
3 GLOUCESTER HOUSE, 396 Flinders Lane (Corner of Market Street),
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephone: MU2355.
CUT OUT OR COPY, and POST TO-DAY.
650,000
World Pelmanists.
35,000
Australian and New Zealand
To the Secretary, THE TELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Tlinrlers Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your free book, “Tbe Efficient Mind.” In asking for it, I incur no
obligation.
Name
Postal Address , '.
474 .
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
K
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of Bulletin every
week for one year so tnat I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regulai
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
• ••••
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
x
,< !l e b L#S<
v «^\^
VY
0°^
\ -\f» de
11 se * e? ,---".
e %*y .\\ e ,-• ..••• ,
»r, •••- ..-••■ ..•
'*
•-
..•• V°
,** A\V S -tS ... / a'o 0
money and a mental
tonic in the pen
By Bernard Cronin
An engrossing interest for some readers
of “The Bulletin” in 1938 can be found
in writing for publication.
Writing can be made a material source
of income if seriously undertaken on the
basis of a sound professional training.
Ability to turn one’s pen to profitable use
is perhaps the most certain of all correc-
tives against worry and anxiety. It is
money on fixed deposit in the bank of
creative effort, a reserve which can be
drawn upon in times of financial stress
at short notice.
Moreover, writing is among the very
best of mental tonics. It develops initi-
ative, stimulates learning and provides
scope for the intellectual and creative
faculties. It is the ideal medium for the
urge towards self expression which is
inherent in mankind. It brings money-
earning power and a sense of fulfilment.
Potential writers abound everywhere.
Writing is not limited to a few fortunates;
it is at the command of ordinary men
and women, in all ranks of life, provided
that a definite urge to write is brought
under discipline and training on right
lines. Writing, unlike most professions,
calls for no special surroundings or cir-
cumstances, no expensive equipment, no
formal hours of work; for effort, yes, but
the unrestricted effort that is the joy of
the creative mind. In its performance,
as in its essence, writing is spontaneous
and unfettered. Once the knack of it is
mastered, once the habit is formed, the
writer with something to say is articulate
at will. He is not tied down by time,
place or even environment and immediate
circumstances.
Reading, Bacon says, maketh the full
man. Writing, to vary Bacon, maketh
the fulfilled man. A command of effec-
tive expression safeguards us from medio-
crity. It guarantees that we shall be
listened to with respect. From the writer’s
point of view it is therefore an indispens-
able necessity.
The inexperienced writer has need of
guide, philosopher and friend, for what-
ever his natural qualifications they can
only find full expression by careful
development. Advice and training cannot
make good a lack of natural ability, but
they can develop it if it is there. That
ability often exists where it is not at first
expected has been exemplified in the case
of thousands of men and women who have
won their way from modest beginnings
to marked success.
Good training will create quickly and
pleasantly the correct habit of writing. It
is easy to perpetuate faults. An expert
opinion on a manuscript will often point
out the way to removal of faults. This,
however, though valuable, is the negative
side of criticism. To be completely
helpful, criticism should be constructive;
it should be positive, not only pointing out
errors and faults, but also showing ways
by which the writer’s object can be
attained more speedily and effectively.
It is with these considerations in mind
that I approach the criticism of any manu-
scripts—short story, novel, article, stage
play or radio play-—submitted to me.
Many new and promising writers are
certain to appear in 1938. To be
numbered among them is an achievement
to which many will aspire. Young writers
who are’ discouraged, from watever
reason, are invited to write to me freely
and fully.
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


THRILLING TIMES
AHEAD
if you own a
Sa4ma
150th Anniversary Celebrations!’ . . . Visit of Richard
Tauber! . . . Empire Sports and Games . . . Special Race
Meetings! . . . Galas and Thrilling Events day after day ,
and night after night! 1938 is going to be a milestone in the
history of Australian broadcasting!
No matter where you live—in the country home—in remote
shack—city flat—tent, mansion or motor-car—you can enjoy
ALL the exciting events of 1938, be present at EVERY
function, if you own a Tasma.
The TASMA series of over 36 different types of receivers
contains one for every locality, every income—no matter
how small—and every purpose.
Each of these receivers is housed in cabinets which are
artistically executed in flawless veneers and selected woods
which have been fully \ seasoned to withstand all climatic
conditions; all vital parts have been fully impregnated for
protection against humidity and changing weather. That
new and revolutionary discovery—the FERRO-COIL (ex-
clusive to TASMA) —which automatically shuts out all
sounds except those you want to hear, and which prevents
overlapping, interference, noise and hiss, is embodied in
every TASMA receiver.
We promise you that when you hear and see any of these
outstanding receivers at the showrooms of your nearest
Tasma dealer or—-if you prefer—in your own home, you will
be amazed at the tremendous steps which have been taken
by radio science and skilfully applied by Tasma.
VVNVT'vc
!;| s | | gif!
a
gs mm
. •>*
THE TASMA “TIGER.”
Small in size, but a “tiger” for
power, range and performance.
The price of the Tasma
“Tiger” is only 15 Guineas.
The ideal set for those who like
to move the radio from room
to room. Ask for a demon-
stration.
TASMA AUTO RADIO.
As supplied to N.S.W. Police
Department. 6-valve Auto
Receiver supplied complete for
installation in any type of car.
Price 26 Guineas plus tax.
(Under-car or over-car aerials
are available.)
K
THE TASMA "GUMNUT.”
All the Tasma models illustrated on
this page are available in this attrac-
tive and essentially modern cabinet,
Model 435, Price .. . 22 Guineas
Model 475. Price .. . 32 Guineas
Model 470. Price ... 22 Guineas
Model 430. Price ... 19 Guineas
Model 485. Price .. . 29 Guineas
Model 480. Price .. . 28 Guineas
Model 445. Price .. . 22 Guineas
Ķ
' .
r 'l
«>::
mm
' V,
•
ft- vSft;
* ' '
"ft V
"
•: •• .. ••• -
■
■
■-.ft::' • ' : :; . ft. :
wmm
■nn
THE TASMA “CARMEN.”
Model “475” 5-valve Batteryl ess Vibrator
Operated Receiver. Price .... 38 Guineas
Model “45 5” 7-valve Universal A.C.-D.C.
Receiver. Price 38 Guineas
Model “415” 7-valve Battery
Receiver.
Price . . 43 Guineas complete
THE TASMA
“HOMESTEAD.”
Model “435” 5-valve
Dual Wave A.C.
Receiver.
Price 28 Guineas.
Model “440” 7-valve
Electric All -wave
Receiver.
Price 40 Guineas.
ĸ
THETASMA “RONSARD.”
Model “430” 5-valve Broad-
cast A.C. Receiver.
Price 23 Guineas.
Model “470” 4-valve Bat-
tery Broadcast Receiver.
Price 26 Guineas.
Model “485” 5-valve Bat-
teryless Vibrator Operated
Broadcast Receiver.
Price 33 Guineas.
Model “445” 6-valve A.C.-
D.C. Universal Broadcast
Receiver.
Price 27 Guineas.
K
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 270
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.')
SOUTH AUST.: OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 49 King William Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and S 9
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND; NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY),
LTD., 197 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
(Wholesale Distributors.)
G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen Street,
Brisbane; Rockhampton and Cairns.
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
A Product of THOM AND SMITH PTY., LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road. Mascot.
